
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). Morton House .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8070
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Morton House 
            
               K!I

#111

I,

'ii

.9

MR. ANNESLEY POUND IT WAS 'ItME TO GO.

CHAP. VIII.

fl~ ~%)  N
I'
MORTON lOU

A NOVEL.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF-"VALERIE AYLMER."

WITH ILLSTRATIOiS.

NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,
549 &amp; 551 BROADWAY,
187T2.

luonthaplhe.


E1MElRED, according to ACt of Congress, In the year 1871, by
D. APPLETON &amp; CO.,
In the OIlce of the Librarian of' Congress, at Washington.

CONTENTS.

OILAP.
1.-OUT OF THE DUSK .

U.-MR. WARWICK'S GHOST .
1U.-PAULINE MORTON ..
IV.-WHAT MRS. ANNESLEY DID .
V.-AFTER TWENTY YEARS .
VI.-WHAT MORTON SAID  .  .

PAGE
. 1
7
. 11
14
. 19
20

VII.-HOW A PALADIN STORMED A
CASTLE   .   .   .    .
VIII.-THE' ADELAIDE  . .    .
IX.-MR. WARWICK MAKES AN OFFER
1.-THE GORDON PLAID . . .
XI.-AT MORTON HOUSE   .   .
X1.-THE TUG OF WAR  .   .   .
XIU.-MISS TRESHAM - ASKS ADVICE
IV.-R. G.   .   .   .   .    .
XV.-MERRY CHRISTMAS    .   .
XVL.-ST. CECILIA  .  ..   .   .
XVL.-THlE APPLE OF DISCORD -.
XV1H.-ST. JOHN   .   .    .   .
X1X.-YOU CANNOT LET ME HELP YOU
XX.-MR.' WARWICK S NEW CLIENT .
XXI.-MISS TRESHAM KEEPS HER WORD
XXIL-SPITFIRE PLAYS AT HIDE-AND-
SEEK........... .
XX11H.-A MORNING-CALL.  .    .

30
37
42
49
53
58
062
69
74
80
85
91
97
103
110
115
122

CHAP.
XXIV.-OLD FOES .-.

XX V.-MORTOI.NS~ VOIOE ..
XXVI.-MR. MARKS ASSERTS HIMSELF
XXVII.-MRS. GORDON'S SUGGESTION
XXVII.-ON GUARD . ..    .   .
XIXI.-THE SICK LADY ..
XXX.-AN OLD FRIEND,.   .   .
1XX1.-FATHER MARTIN   .   .
IXXII.-LIFE AND DEATH        .
IXXUL-MRS. GODNS SUSPICION
XXIVY.-MR. WARWICK'S INVESTIGA-
TION......... .
XXXV.-TWO AND TWO MAKE FOUR
XXXVL.-HEKMATED    .   .   .
XXXVI.-TO WIN OR LOSE IT ,ALL .
XXXVUL-.-MEA CULPA.   .   .    .
XXXIX.-gMlSS TRiESHAM'S REPLY .
XL.-GOOD SAMARITANS  .    .
XLI.-THE LAST DEFIANCE .
XLU.-ON THE THRESHOLD OF MOR-
TON HOUSE    .   ....
-XLIH.-THE -VALLEY O0F THE STHAD.
.  OW OF DEATH    .   .
.XLIV.-IN THE DAWN   .   .   .
XLY.-A TURN OF FORTUNE'S WHEEL

PAGU
126
133
188
142
149
153
161
168
173
180
184
191
200
206
218
221
22'T
234
241

24
252
259

.

.


MORTON HOUSE.
-.4.---

CHAPTER I.
OUT or THE DU5L
IT was drawing toward the close of a soft
November day, some thirty years ago, when the
sound of children's merry laughter burst sud-
denly into the quiet garden of a quiet house,
situated on the outskirts of the moderately-sized
village of Tallahoma, in the populous and wealthy
county of Lagrange. The sun had gone down,
leaving behind him broken masses of gorgeously.
tinted clouds, which were forming themselves into
fanciful shapes of mountains and castles, while
over the distant landscape the brooding haze of
the Indian summer began to melt into the deeper
purple of the gloaming; and the peculiar cool-
ness that betokens coming frost, to make itself
'     perceptibly felt in the pearly atmosphere. It
only the llrst of the month, and as yet but
few of the trees had shed their leaves. The
russet of the oaks, the pale yellow of the elms,
the burning scarlet of the maples, and the vivid
gold of the chestnuts, were all in their glory, and
formed a bright -autumnal background for the
sober house which overshadowed the blooming
garden, and the noisy groups that were scamper-
ing up and down its paths.
Very noisy groups they were; and yet their
noise did not seem at all disturbing to a young
girl who had followed them out, and stood lean-
ing over the low garden-gate, while they played
hide-and-seek among the rose-bushes, Perhaps
this noise had grown an accustomed thing to her
ears, as a great deal of it was her daily portion;
or, perhaps, she liked children well enough to
like even this their most disagreeable attribute

-a conclusion devoutly to be wished by all in.
terested in her welfare, since Fate had made of
her that much-tried being, a governess. At all
events she did not heed it in the least. The
worse than Mohawk yells of uproarious Dick,
the squabbling of Jack and Katy, the indignant
remonstrances of elder Sara, and even the lifting
up of baby Nelly's voice in injured weeping,
were all unnoticed by their young teacher, who
kept her eyes steadily fastened on the distant
horizon, where the line of dark woods melted
into the hazy atmosphere, an&amp; the pale-blue ~
smoke curled upward from several unseen chim-
neys. Not that Miss Tresham did not hear the
various disturbances, But, even in the school.
room, she ignored a great deal, for pea~e' sake~~
and, once out of that durauce vile, she left the
children much to themselves-giving $~hem, in
unimportant matters, that blessed freed~~~4f
conduct and speech which no humai~ cre4~ti*o
is too younger ~oo ignorant to appreciate.
~he was a stately creature, thip Katharine
Tresham; and one of the women who possess *
power of attraction quite apart from personal
gifts. her face was not S beautiful one, by any
means; yet few beautiful faces pleased either so
well or so long as this, notwithstan4ing Its faults~
The gray eyes wer~e very clear and honest in their
glance, but there was none of the a~1uny~gleam
of violet orbs, or the dusky splendor which lwells~
in dark ones; the coniplerion was very~n4
pure, but rather pale, unless some quIck e~.tips~
or pleasurable excitement, sent a olear earn~x*
glow to the cheeks; the i~ose was .traigI~t anti
delicate, but not in the least classical; and, it~
the mouth was all that a mouth coul~l or should
be, the unusual squareness of the kihii~ gave a

4'' -


2                         MORTON HOUSE.                                                             OUT OF THE DUSK*                       3

finish to the face that was far from adding to its
symmetry. Still, no one could deny that Miss
Tresham was handsome-handsome in a very
striking and aristocratic style-that her hands
and feet were irreproachable in size and shape,
that her lithe, sIendei~ figure was so well devel-
oped that not even an artist could have wished
for it around of flesh either more or less; and
that she carried herself with a very distinguished
manner. Most women, looking in their mirror
at a face so fair and a form so noble, would have
beefl tempted to murmur at the fate which had
dealt with them so hardly; but this was the one
point wherein Katharine Tresham proved her-
self something more than mediocre. She did not
indulge any vain regrets, or still more vain. aspi.
rations; she did not mourn any withered hopes,
or bewail any blighted' existence: but she took
life as she found it, and bore its burden with a
courage as cheerful as it was patient. Her em-
ployers were always kind and considerate, the
children were warmly attached to her, she was
beyond the reach of storms that had on~e beat
very roughly on her head; and as her disposition
-a disposition more to be prized than gold or
precious stones-was eminently one of content,
she furled her sails, and rested quietly in the
pleasant haven into which she had drifted, where
'the sea was smooth beneath, and the sky was
bright above her. No genius, the reader will
perceive; no unsatisfied yearning being, full of
repressed passion and morbid longings; only a
brave; bright young gentlewoman, who was
Christian enough to be satisfied that God knew
what was best for her; who took the good He
gave, with grateful heart, and rarely murmured
at the ill.
She was leaning over the gate now, softly
singing' to herself a verse of song, and gazing
over the scene before her, with eyes that took in
and enjoyed all its beauty. But, after a while,
t1~e children began a game very near, and sent
their shouts ringing through the clear autumn
air, with such hearty good-will, that the young
governess was fain to put wider space between
herself and their merriment. So she turned
itway, and began pacing' up and down a sh~l-'
tered walk-a walk bounded on one side by the
garden-fanee and a hedge of Cherokee rosO, on
the other by tall gooseberry-bushes. A bright-
red glow of the flaming western sky fell over
her as she moved to and fro, lighting up her
rich brown hair, her clear, bright eyes, and her
tall, slender figure, and making a very attractive
picture of youth and grace, in the midst of the

lovely autumn scene. At length, she drew a
small volume from her 'pocket and began to read.
Thirty years ago. Tennyson's fame was yet young
-not so young, however, but that , even in the
backwoods of America, men had heard his
name; and the girl who paced up and down the
garden on that soft Indian summer evening, was
steeping her soul in the beauty and music of
those early poems which no after-efforts can
ever supplant in our hearts. Enthralled in the
sweeping rhythm, it was rather hard to be sud-
denly recalled to commonplace reality by a
child's eager, uplifted voice.
"Miss Tresham, Miss Tresham!" sounded the
cry, "Look, oh, look, what a pretty horse Mr.
Annesley's on! May I-please-may I ask him
to give me a ride?"
"Certainly not," answered Miss Tresham,
speaking with great decision, but without look-
ing up from her book. "Katy, you know your
mother forbade your ever again asking Mr.
Annesley for a ride."
"But she did not forbid her taking a ride if
Mr. Annesley asked kes-, did she?" said a gay
voice; and the next moment there appeared at
the end of Katharine's walk, between the Chero-
kee hedge and ~he gooseherry-bushes, a slender,
handsome young cavalier, in riding-boots and
spurs, who stood with Katy mounted triumph-
antly on his shoulder, one tiny hand clutching
nervously at his coat-collar, and her blond ring-
lets falling in a golden shower upon his crisp
dark curls.
"No, I don't think she forbade that," Katha-
rine replied, looking up with a smile, whether
merely of recognition, or of welcome also, it was
hard to say. "But indeed you are spoiling that
child dreadfully, Mr. Annesley! She never sees
you that she does not expect some marked atten-
tion, and almost breaks her heart when you do
not notice her."
"And d~ I ever fail to notice her-when I
see her?" asked he, swinging Katy to the
ground, and coming nearer to Katharine-seem-
ing, at the tame time, to bring sunshine with
him in his hazel eyes and brilliant smile. "I
am sure I am always very attentive-am 1 not,
my little coquette?"
The little coquette said "Yes," very prompt.
ly; but Miss Tresham shook her head.
"It seems I must refresh Katy's memory,"
she said. "You would scarcely believe that the
other afternoon-last week some timO, I believe
it was-she cried all the way home because you
passed her without notice, when you were accom-

paying two ladies down the village street.. It
was vain to reason with her-both her mother
and myself tried argument unavailingly-and
she sobbed herself to sleep that night in pro-
found disdain of bread and milk, or even bread
and jam, for supper."
"I remember the afternoon," said the young
cavalier, a little confusedly. "I was riding with
my sister and a friend of hers. But Katy cannot
say that I did not speak to her."
"Ah, but you didn't!" said Katy, eagerly,
forgetting her contrary assertion of the moment
before. "You spoke to Miss Tresham, but not
like you always do-and you didn't notice me at
all."
"You shall have a ride this evening to pay
for it, then," said he; "and I will be more
careful in future. Miss Vernon's horse wan
rather unmanageable, and occupied all my atten-
tion. She does not know how to ride as well as
you will when you are grown."
"Is she 'fraid?" asked Katy, with great in-
terest.
"Very much afraid," he answered.
Then he turned to Miss Tresham, and asked
if she would not come and look at his new horse.
"So you have another new horse?" she said,
smiling. "Of course, I will come and look at
him. You know horses are my weakness, and
-oh! heisabeauty!"
"Is he not?" responded her companion,
pleased with her burst of enthusiasm. "I was
sure you would admire him.-Soli! Donald!-
Steady, boy!"
They had approached the gate, and were
leaning over it together, while the horse, which
was fastened outside, began to move a little
restlessly at sight of his master.
"Look at him!" said that master, eagerly.
"Did you ever see a more symmetrical form?
And his head-is it not superbly set on the
shoulders?"
"He is a paragon," said Katharine, playfully.
"And-he is not dangerous, is he, Mr. Annes-
icy ?-I must go and speak to him."
"He is as gentle as a greyhound," said An-
nesley, opening the gate for her to pass out. "I
only wish-"
Bet what he wished was left in doubt; for
he paused abruptly, while Katharine went up to
the paragon, and patted his straight nose and hi~
glossy, satin neck, calling him many pet-names
in her clear, young voice.
"What an intelligent eye he has !" she cried,
suddenly. "I really believe he understands all

I am saying to him. Mr. Annesley, what is his
name?"
"Donald is his name; but I do not like it."
"Donald? No; it is not good at all; it is
not suggestive in the least; and it is not pretty
either. He deserves a beautiful name."
"Give him one, then," said Annesley, quick-
ly. "He will be only too proud to own you as a~
sponsor. I have no aptitude whatever for such
things, and my horses are usually 'the bay' and
'the sorrel' to their dying-day."
"I thought you were more imaginative," said
Katharine, absently. "Is he fleet?" she went
on, still looking at the horse.
"Tie is like the wind, or the lightning."
"Is he? Then I will give you a name for
him at once. Call him Ilderim."
"Ilderim? You mean-"
"The sobriquet of Bajazet, of course. It
signifies 'The Lightning,' you know. Will it
do?"
"It is excellent,'~ he answered, as, indeed, he
would have answered to any thing whatever of
her suggestion. "From this moment, Donald
dies, and Ilderizn rises like a phoenix from his
ashes.-Soh! Steady, sir!"
For, arching his handsome neck like a bow,
the new-made Ilderim began pawing the earth so
energetically with his fore-foot that he made Ka-
tharine beat a hasty retreat.
"What a racer he would make!" she cried,
suddenly. "Is that what you intend him for?"
"Why, no; I had not thought of it," he re-
plied. "I was merely attracted by his beauty,
and thought myself lucky to get him."
"Lucky!" she repeated, looking up at him
with a smile. "Most people are lucky when
Fortune has never said them nay in any one de-
sire of their hearts. I suppose you never wished
for any thing in your life without obtaining it."
* Standing there in the soft, purple dusk, with
one arm thrown over his horse's arched neck,
with an unconscious grace in the careless atti-
tude, a suppressed eagerness in the handsome
face, and a chivalric deference in the uncovered
head, it was not hard to believe this-not hard,
indeed, to tell that here was one of those to
whom had fallen the purple and fine linen of a
world which gives to others only serge; one of
those to whom its wealth and fame, its love and
pleasure, came, as it were, by right divine, and
who now and then flash across the path of our
work-day lives, and make our twilight seem more
dun by contrast with their own radiant sunshine.
"Yes, I have been very fortunate all my life,"


4                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                            OT OF THll DUSK.                    5

he answered, more gravely than Katharine's gay
tone seemed to warrant; "but the future may
overbalance the past, and you may give me my
ftrst lesson in denial this very afternoon. 1? mean
to ask a thvor of yen after a while."
"I hope it is one that I may be able to
grant," she said, quietly. "But you know my
opinion on that subject."
"That friendship is best ~rept free from fa-
vors ?-yes. But I should like to convince you
how wrong that is, I should like to make you
believe that real friencl~hip never hesitates either
to give or accept a favor."
"Don't try," she said, lightly; "you might
fail, and that would not be. pleasant to one who
has never known failure. I will grant you this
much, however-that, where friendship exists be-
tween two people of equal position, they may
afford to meet each other half-way in the matter
of favors; but, where one occupies the worldly
vantage-ground, it is not well for the other to
accept benefits which may assume the weight of
obligations."
She spoke very calmly; hut a hot, red flush
mounted swiftly to the brow of her listener. He
'made one hasty step forward, and then fell hack
again, irritating Ilderim very much by the unin-
tentional jerk of his rein.
"Why do you say such things? why do you
take such a tone about yourself?" he cried, with
a sharp accent of reproach in his voice. "You
of all women! It is grievously wrong to your-
self! It is even more grievously wrong to
me!"
"And why should I not look truth in the
face?" she asked, gravely. "To say that I am
not your social equal means nothing that either
you or I need blush to acknowledge. It is merely
a conventional accident, and does not even touch
the other ground, the personal ground on which
we meet-.-meet, I am glad to think, as friends.
That you are Mr. Annesley of Annesdale, of gen-
tle blood and almost princely estate, is a mere
chance of fortune; and that I am Katharine
Tresham, governess, who teaches Mr. Marks's
children for six hundred dollars a year, is equally
a chance. I am of the Old World, you know.
Perhaps that is the reason why these things seem
to me at once a matter of course and a matter of
small moment."
The young republican by name, the young
aristocrat by race and nature, looked at her in
wistful silence for a moment.
"Yet you think of them far more than we
do," he said, at length,

"Because I have been trained to do so," she
answered, moving toward the half-open gate,
"and1 perhaps I ought al~~ tQ add, because 1
am unfortunately very proud-much 'too proud
to care whence I came.' You see I have not
forgotten that apprenticeship to the convention-
alities which I served when I spent a year as
governess in England-a year I would not live
over again for untold wealth."
"But that was in England. You are in Amer-
ica now, thank God!"
Yes," she answered, with an arch gleam in
her eyes, "I am in America now-America,
where I am theoretically supposed to be the
equal in all points of any among your county
gentry-we will say, for instance, that lovely
Miss Vernon. What would she think, do you
suppose, if you suggested that she should call
on Mrs. Marks's governess ?-But poor little
Katy! See how downcast she is looking! She
evidently thinks you have forgotten all about
her ride."
"I have not, though," said Annesley, half
absently; and, looking up, he beckoned Katy to
come to him.
The little'girl gladly obeyed. She had left her
companions to their play, and had been leaning
wistfully against the gate, pushing~ back her
bright curls, so as to see what was going on
outside, and longing for the signal that was so
slow in coming. When, at last, it did come, she
bounded forward, and stood impatiently beside
the horse, while Annesley gathered up the reins
and sprang into the saddle. He bent down and
lifted her from the ground to a seat before him,
made her kiss her hand to the governess, and
they were ofl the child's short dress fluttering
in the evening breeze as they cantered down the
road and out of sight.
Katharine watched them, with a strange sort
of yearning in her eyes. Perhaps she was think-
ing how pleasant it would be to ride down that
road, under its crimson and golden woods, in the
lovely autumn dusk, with a crescent moon faintly
gleaming above the still tinted west and such
a stately and gallant escort by her side as he
* who had just passed from her sight. Perhaps
she thought of those to whom such pleasure was
common, and-even the best-disciplined of us
will sometimes do such things-contrasted her
own life with theirs, I'erhaps she remembered
that scene of last week, to which she had allud-
cd-the two elegant ladies in their sweeping
habits and waving plumes, the curvetting horses,
the flashing bits and jewelled whips, the young

cavalier, and the golden sunshine streaming over
all, while she plodt~ed by in the dust and shadow.
Perhaps she wondered if this dust and shadow
were henceforth to be her portion; or perhaps
she thought of a time when the sunshine had
slept on her path too, when kind eyes and loving
tones had followed her, when life had seemed fbr
a short while the fair and pleasant thing which
it never seems to any long, when a young girl
who bore her name had smiled and talked and
jested- beneath the waving palms of a distant
tropic island, and when-but her thoughts went
no further than this. It was only Mrs. Marks's
governess who turned abruptly from the gate,
and, with a resolute compression of the lips,
that brought lines too hard for so young a face,
b~gan the same pacing up and down the walk
that had been interrupted half an hour before.
It was not long before she was interrupted again,
for Mr. Annesley did not give Katy a very ex-
tended ride. Ilderim was brought up before
the garden-gate once more, and Katy, flushed,
smiling, yet regretful, lowered to the ground.
Then Mr. Annesley sprang off also; but this
time he did not fasten his horse to the iron
staple so conveniently placed in a large elm-tree
near by'. Probably something in Katharine's
face warned him not to do so-he was very
quickly sensitive to any change in that fare.
At ~ll events, he kept the rein over his arm,
and, uncovering as he advanced, spoke, half
apologetically:
"I am going in a moment, Miss Tresham,
but-you know I told you I had a favor to ask
of you. The evening is so lovely, I am sure you
will not mind a few minutes longer in the open
air."
"Yes, the evening is very lovely, but rather
cool," answered Katharine, in a tone which was
cool also; "and I cannot promise to make it
more than a few minutes, Mr. Annesley, for Mrs.
Marks expects me to see that the children come
in before nightfall."
"I did not know that you were the ehil-
dren's nurse as well as their governess," he
said, somewhat hastily.
"There you are right," she answered, quiet-
ly. "But they don't obey their nurse very well,
and they do obey me. So this duty has de-
volved upon me-and it is not a very irksome
one. I wish 1 had none that pressed more hea-
The young man leaned forward over the
closed gate which divided the~n.
"And I wish to Heaven," he said, passionate-

ly, "that I could make your life what it should
be!"
She shrugged her shoulders slightly.
"Now, ~hnt is very kiud~ hut not ver~' wiae~
There is One who knows what is best for us;
and you might spoil the whole aim and inten-
tion of my life, if you went to work to improve
it after your own device. Really, I am very
well content with it as it is. You must not let
that foolish speech make you think otherwise."
"Content I How can you possibly be con-
tent with such occupation, such surroundings,
such compan-"
"Hush!" she said, quickly; for several small
listeners had grown tired of their game, and drawn
near. "It is all very pleasant-sometimes I
think too pleasant, to last long. But you said
you had something you wished to ask me."
"Yes," he answered. "I wish to ask you
-well, for one thing, why you will never let r~e
do any thing to make your life more endure.
ble?"
"You do a great deal," she replied, a sudden
cordial light springing into her eyes and making
them beautiful. "You do more than any one
has ever done before in-oh, such a long time!
Do you think I am ungrateful for the books and
papers, the flowers and music that brighten my
life so much? Can you imagine I do not see
how much more generous you would be if I
could allow it? Surely, Mr. Annesley, you do
not think that I have so many friends, or receive
so much kindness, but that I feel this in ~ny
heart of hearts."
"Then grant me one favor," he said, im-
pulsively. "Promise to give me one pleasure,
which will be the greatest I have ever known."
"I cannot promise in the dark. What is
it?"
"It is not much-to you, that is. Only that
you honor Ilderim by riding him."
Katharine drew back a step in her surprise.
"Mr. Annesley, you are surely jesting! Ride
Ilderim I"
"Yes," he answered, with a desperate attempt
at nonchalance; "ride Ilderim-why not? You
cannot say you would not like it; and I only
bought him because I thought how well he would
suit you. And-Miss Tresham, pray do not re~
fuse me this my first request!"
Katharine was silent for a moment. Not
that she had a thought of yielding to any thing
so inadmissible as what he asked; but simply.
bee~use she was touched by the desire to give
her pleasure, which was so delicately veiled.


0                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                            MR. WARWICK'S GHOST.                    7

"How kind he is!" she thought, "and yet, poor
fellow, how foolish!" Aunesley, who had be-
gun to feel uncomfortable at her long silence,
was certainly relieved, but yet more surprised,
when she suddenly held out her hand to him.
"Thank you so much," she said. "You are
so good-so kind I But, then, you know it is
impossible."
The action was only one of frank gratitude;
but the next instant she was sorry for having
given way to it. Very sorry indeed, when, glan-
cing up, she saw that a carriage had approached
unperceived by them, and was passing by, while
several pairs of eyes looked curiously from the
windows at this way-side scene. Katharine
drew back her hand hastily, and a shying move-
ment of Ilderim made Annesley turn at the' same
moment. Thus they both looked full at the
equipage, which, truth to tell, was rather a
strange one for that road, at that' hour.
Not that the equipage in itself was at all
remarkable - only a dusty travelling-carriage,
with two worn-out horses, a cross-looking driver,
a large trunk behind, and numerous boxes on
the driver's seat and under his legs. But the
fact that it was leaving the village at such an
hour, that the road was a retired one, only lead-
ing to several country-houses, and to a town
distant some forty miles, and that the faces
which looked forth from it were totally unknown,
conspired to make its unexpected advent surpris-
ing. ;Strangera did not often come to Tallahoma;
and ~ihen they did, it was generally in the stage-
coach, and they ordered supper at the "Tallaho-
mallotel," and went to bed like orderly and ordi-
nary mortals. These travellers plainly intended
to do neither; and they certainly did not seem
very ordinary. The only outside passengers were
the driver, who, as before mentioned, looked very
cross, and ~ small spaniel, who looked very tired
and patient. But three faces were gazing from
the inside, when Katharine with haste drew back
her hand, and Annesley turned round. The first
that attracted their notice was one which would
have claimed attention anywhere, or from any.
body. A hollow, attenuated face, with features
so finely marked that they stood out like pure
Greek chiselling, and eyes so large and dark that
they seemed shedding a flood of light over every
thing on which they rested, was partially revealed
under a black bonnet and heavy crape veil, and
showed itself for a minute only-sinking back
out of sight immediately. The two others kept
their positions, and were hardly less remarkable
-.hardly less remarkable, that is, to Tallahoma

sight; for one was a beautiful bold-eyed boy
who was staring with all his might, and hugging
closely a small monkey; the other a woman
whom Katharine at once recognized as a French
bonne, in the usual dress ~if her class. It was a
very brief gaze that the two parties interchanged
aS the carriage moved by, and rumbled away in
the dusk. An it disappeared, the eager little
voices of the children standing around Katharine
found utterance.
"0 Miss Tresham, did you see the monkey?"
"Miss Tresham, did you see the little boy?"
"Miss Tresham, wasn't that a pretty lady?"
"Miss Tresham, how funny the little dog
looked!"
"Dog! you're crazy! It was a monkey!"
"It wasn't no such thing I It was a dog!
Didn't I see it?"
"And didn't I see the monkey? Silly!"
"You're a silly yourself, sir I Miss Tresham,
wasn't it a dog?"
"Hush, children," said Miss Tresham, in her
governess tone. "There were a dog and mon-
key both." Then she turned to Annesley.
"Who can they possibly be.?'~
He shook his head. "I have no idea.
Strangers, evidently; but where they can be
coming from, or where going, at this hour, I
can't tell."
"And such strangers! They would not be
extraordinary objects on a French or Italian high-
way; but in this remote corner of the world,
they are rather astonishing. Don't you think
so?"
"Yes," he answered, "rather astonishing."
But it was obvious that they had made but a
momentary impression on him, for he turned at
once to the subject that had been interrupted by
their appearance. "Miss Tresham, seriously, is
there any reason why you should not give me
this great pleasure?"
"There are many reasons, Mr. Annesley," an-
swered Miss Tresham, gravely. "But I have
only time to give you one at present, and with
that you must be content-by doing as you wish,
I should make myself the object of countless
remarks; and I might probably in the end lose
my situation. That would be paying rather
dearly for a ride, even on Ilderim. ~fhank you
again, though; and now, good-by."
The young man looked at her in the waning
light with a passion of resolvein his eyes. "You
will not think of this?" he asked. "You will
not even give me time to try and change your
resolution?"

"I am sorry to say that I can do neither,"
she answered, a little coldly. "It is late, and I
must really go-and so ought you, for that mat-
ter, since Annesdale is five miles off. Here! let
me return your 'Tennyson.' I have enjoyed it I
so much."
He received the volume, and thrust it care-
lessly into his pocket; then, while drawing on
his gloves, he said:
"I have received a packet of new books to-
day; may I bring you some, when I come again?
There are one or two I am sure you will like."
"Then bring me one or two-not ~ she
said, laughing. "Poor Mrs. Marks must not be
frightened by another such imposing sight as,
those dozen volumes you sent the other day.
Bring some poetry, please. Formerly I did not
care much for poetry; now I like it-I suppose
because my life is so very prosaic. Once more,
good-by."
"Good-by," he echpcd.
He vaulted on Ilderim, rode away a few steps
wheeled suddenly, came back, and leaned out of
his saddle toward the gate where Katharine was
still standing.
"Perhaps I ought to tell you," he said, "that
I am not at all discouraged. You may yet ride
Ilderim, and I may yet thank you for my first 'de-
nial."
With this, and before she could answer, he~
was gone.
CHAPTER II.
Mit. wAnwIcu's GHOST.
Miss TRESITAM remained standing in the place
where Mr. Annesley $~ad left her, for a minute or
two, gazing with slightly-knitted brows after his
vanishing figure; then she turned, and told the
children that it was time to go in.
"It is cold," she said, with a little shiver;
"and I don't think there is any use in looking
for your father. Since he has not come already,
he is not likely to be here for an hour yet."
"We'll have to wait a long time for supper,
then," remarked one small murmurer; but that
was all.
The legion knew better than to offer any
open signS of disobedience to their chief; and,
although discontent was rife among them, they
followed her to the house.
A flight of steps led from a side-piazza down
to the garden, and across this piazza a flood of

cheerful light was already streaming from two
windows and a glass door which opened upon it.
"Why, papa's here already!" cried Katy,
who had bounded up the steps before any one
else and taken an observation through the win-
dow. "Papa's here already! Where did be
come from?"
Then the door flew open with a sudden burst,
and the merry little crowd rushed pell-mell into
the room.
A very pleasant room it was, with a spark-
ling, light-wood fire on the hearth, and a well-
set table in the middle of the floor-a room
abounding in comfort but lacking in luxury, and
with little or no evidence of what are called re-
fined tastes. That is, there were few books visi-
ble, and theywere chiefly of an unused kind. No
pictures excepting some ugly daubs supposed to
be family portraits, and not even a vase to hold
the royal flowers blooming by in such prodigal
profusion. The aspect of the place proclaimed
substantial ease, nothing more1 There were
comfortable chairs, and one or two chintz..
cushioned couches; there were various tables,
with carved legs and bright-red covers; there
was a glowering mahogany sideboard, 'there
was a pretty little work-stand that stood in a
niche near the fireplace, and there was a clock
on the mantel that told the quak~ters with re-
morseless exactitude. But the proprietors of
the apartment were plain people, of no fashion-
able pretension, and still less fashionable ambi-
tion-people who were "in business," and were
not ashamed of the fact; who were well-to-do in~
the world now, but who had knowmi a hard strug-
gle before becoming so; who were of the best
morals, but of moderate culture; and who, while
they were always glad of social advancement and
social recognition, never went out of their way
to seek either-people, in short, who were types
of the best portion of the middle class-.'-the'por-
tion that is neither hopelessly vulgar nor absurd-
ly aspiring-and who, in consequence of sturdily
respecting their own dignity, were universally
respected by those above as by those below
them on Fortune's ladder.
The head of the household, Richard Marks,
had begun life as a very small tradesman, ~nd
it may readily be conceived that the mau who
sold coffee by the pound, and calico by the yard,
across a village counter, was scarcely Mdc to
command, or even hope for, any very exalted
social elevation. Yet social elevation of a cer-
tain sort came with time-as it comes to all men
who trust less to fortune than to their own en-


8                          MORTON ROUSE.                                                              MR. WARWICK'S GHOST.                    9

deavor. To his diligence and energy, and to the
scrupulous honesty which made all men recognize
his word to be as good as his bond, Richard
Marks owed at last an assured competency and
an honorable, even an enviable, position among
his fellow-townsmen. To these things he owed
it that the most aristocratic gentlemen of his
native county were proud to hold out the hand
of friendship, not patronage, to him; and that,
after many years of hard labor, he was now rest-
ing on his oars as cashier and virtual controller
of the oxie bank which did all the monetary busi-
ness of Lagrange County.
His wife, although the daughter of a gentle-
man-if a spendthrift insolvent deserves the
name-~-had sunk so easily to' the social level of
her husband that those among her friends and
acquaintances who still spoke of her as "Bessie
Warwick,~~ were forced to explain the obvious
fact as best they could.
"She never had much sense," they would
say, ~ and certainly no great amount of refine-
ment-though she was so pretty-pretty in a
certain style, that is; and then she inherited low
tastes, ~io doubt. Her mother was shockingly
commop,'if you remember. It was his marriage
that ruined Arnold Warwick-at least his friends
always said so"
But, notwithsta~ing this unflattering opin-
ion, Mrs. Marks certainly proved that she had
found hei# right place in the world as helper of a
good man's upward career1 The best of wives
and mothers-yet, like most best of wives and
mothers, apt at times to become a little tire-
SOtn~ especially if she once began the circum-
stantial history of Dick's dreadful accident when
he fell and broke his collar-bone, or how little
Katy whooped through an entire summer with
whooping-cough. But a sensible and kind-
hearted woman with all that; one of the large
class of women of whom the world knows little,
and hears nothing; who are not remarkable
either for beauty or mental capaCity; but who
1111 their own position in the world better than
a Lady Blessington or a Madame de Sta~l could
do it for them; who live a life all pure and
blameless in the domestic relations, and who at
~last go down to the grave leaving in the hearts
of their children a good example and a fragrant
memory.
In her own way, too, Mrs. Marks was a good
business-woman; and the only time in her life
that she had acted without due foresight and
deliberation was in the matter of engaging a
governess for her children. She had accom-

panied her husband on a short business-visit to
Charleston some two years previous -to this
autumn evening, aiA while there met Katharine
Tresham.
ed, The young foreigner, who had but lately land-
was entirely alone in the strange city; and
something in her refined, ladylike appearance,
together with her deep-mourning dress, touched
the kind heart of the elder woman. They were
boarders in the same house, and, when she
heard that Katharine was anxious to procure a
situation as teacher; that she could give good
English and West-Indian references, and that
she would much prefer the country to any city as
a residence, Mrs. Marks's mind was at once made
up. She did not even wait to consult her hus-
~band; she made her an offer on the spot, and it
was gratefully accepted.
"Indeed, my dear, 1 could not help it l" she
afterward humbly confided to her lord. "It
seemed so pitiful to see such a pretty young
thing entirely along; and then, you know, the
children learn nothing at all at school. You
said yourself that Mr. Watson was good for
nothing but to drink whiskey and pay attention
to Lucy Smith."
"I did say so," Mr. Marks replied, "but are
you sure, Bessie, that your new friend will be
worth much more? I don't mean, of course,
that she will drink whiskey or pay attention to
Lucy Smith; but, after all, there may be worse
things than that. What does she engage to
teach the children, and what are her terms?"
"She engages to teach the children-well,
every thing that is usually taught, I suppose,"
answered Mrs. Marks, a little vaguely; "and,
as to her terms, she does not seem to know very
much about them herself. She taught one year
in England, and received forty pounds-that is
all she knows." -
"Why, that is a little less than two hundred
dollars," said Mr. Marks, opening his honest
eyes. "Teachers must be plenty over there at
that rate. Poor thing! I'll tell you what we'll
do, Bessie. She is a nice-looking girl, and
there'll be no h~rm in trying her. We will
offer her four hundred dollars, and take her for
one year."
So it was settled; and so Katharine Tresham
came to Lagrange.
At the end of the year her employers re-
quested her to remain, and Mr. Marks voluntarily
raised her salary. The children had improved
so rapidly that Mr. Watson would not have
recognized his quondam pupils; and the bright,

even temper of the young governess made her
presence in the house a kind of moral sunshine.
Altogether, as Mrs. Marks was accustomed to
declare, she could not have been so exactly
suited by anybody else in the world; and she
weuld have had no possible fault to find with
~mss Tresham if-there is an if to every thing
earthly-she had been an orthodox member of
that religious denomination to which Mrs. Marks
herself belonged. But, dreadful to relate, Miss
Tresham was that strange off-shoot of iniquity,
in the eyes of Tallahoma, a blind and bigoted
Papist. She had given Mrs. Marks fair warning
of that fact before their engagement was con-
cluded.
"There is one thing I must mention," she
said. "I am a Catholic. 1 know that most
Protestants are very much prejudiced against
the faith, and don't care to admit Catholics into
their households. If this is the case with your-
self, we will not say any thing more about the
proposed engagement."
But Mrs. Marks, although very much stag-
gered by the information, replied:
"My dear, I don't see that it makes any dif-
ference. You will be uncomfortable, I am afraid,
for there is no Romish church in Tallahoma;
but, as far as I am concerned, I-I suppose we
are all Christians."
When the young governess followed her noisy
charges into the sitting-room, a pleasant-looking
woman glanced up and smiled from her seat by
the work-table, while a much older man, with
gray hair and frank blue eyes, gave her a hearty
greeting.
"Good-evening, Miss Tresham. How do you
and the little ones come on ?-Well, Kelly, can
you spell 'ab,' yet?"
Spell it, Nelly, for your father," said Miss
Tresham, smiling. "She knew it to-day, sir;
but I am afraid that hanging head doesn't say
much for her 'recollection of it now."
"Speak up, little woman," said her father,.
lifting the shame-faced scholar to a place on his
knee. "Speak up-and I'l~ive you a six.
pence."
But bashfulness or ignorance continuing to
hold the little woman's tongue, Jack and Katy,
tempted by the promise of the sixpence, burst
out with the spelling of the word desired, and
were rewarded by being informed that the offer
was not intended for irregular claimants.
"I tell you what I will do, though," said the
indulgent father, seeing the disappointment legi-
ble on their faces. "Kelly must have her six-

pence-but another shall be found fbr the first
one who brings me the mail from your Uncle
John's coat-pocket."
"Is this mail-day?" asked Katharine, look-
ing up. - "Then why did you not bring It your-
self, sir?"
"Because I have been in the country on busi-
ness, and didn't come through town on my way
home," answered Mr. Marks, good-humoredly.
"I wish Warwick would come along! I want my
papers-and I expect you want your letters, Miss
Kate."
"Letters 1" the governess repeated. "I
thought you knew that I never receive any let-
ters. There is nobo,~ly that I care to hear from.
Indeed, the worst luck that could befall me would
be a letter-unless it came from Father Martin."
Father Martin was the priest of Saxford, a
somewhat larger town than Tallahoma, boasting
a small Catholic chapel, to which she went occa-
sionally for ghostly shriving-and it was cer-
tainly true that his rare letters were the only
ones that had ever come to Katharine Tresham,
since she first set foot on the soil of America.
Nor did she ever write any that were not ad-
dressed to him. She seemed to have severed
every link that bound her to her former lif~,
and, save in a few general particulars, her pres-
ent friends knew no more of that life than if
she had not broken their bread for the period of
two years.
"John is very late to-night," said Mrs. Marks,
glancing up at the clock, as if itwas its fault that
the waffles were burning in the kitchen. "I
really think we need net wait for him any longer.
Some troublesome man has kept him, and he at.
ways begs me not to wait.-Sara, go to the door
and tell Judy to send in supper.
Sara obeyed; and, the next minute, two mu-
latto boys began bringing in plates of biscuit and
waffles. Then came some broiled partridges, the
tempting odor of which caused Mr. Marks to look
round with interest.
"By George! that is delightful to a hungry
man! Where did you get such fine birds, Des-
sic?"
"They were brought this morning, with Mr.
Annesley's compliments," answered Mrs. Marks,
rising and going to the head of the f able "~ent
to me, the boy said-you have forgotten the
cream, Tom - but I expect Miss Katharine
knows more about them than I dos"
Miss Katharine smiled slightly, but without
the least tincture of embarrassment. "How
could I possibly know about them I"' she


MORTON HOUSE.

PAULINE MORTON.

asked. "I saw Mr. Annesley this afternoon-
did I tell you that he gave Katy a ride ?-but
I assure you he did not hint that even one of
the partridges was intended for me. You will
spare me one, though-won't you, Mr. Marks?"
In the clatter of plates and knives which fol-
lowed, a step crossing the piazza outside was un-
heard; and when the door suddenly opened, Katy
was the first one to observe it. Sha sprang for-
ward with a cry of "Uncle John! "-a cry the
eagerness of which was more for the letters in
Uncle John's pocket, and the promised sixpence
from her father, than for the everyday presence
of Uncle John himself.
The new-coiner surrendered the letters to the
quick little fingers that dived at once into his
pocket, watched the payment of the sixpence,
with a smile, and then walked to the fireplace
and sat down, while Mrs. Marks sent out a requi-
sition for hot coffee.
"Never mind about that, Bessie," he said, in
rather a tired tone. "What is on the table will
do well enough. I only want to get a little warm
before moving again-it is quite cool to-night."
"What on earth made you so late?" asked
his sister.
"Business," answered Mr. Warwick, briefly.
Then he sank back into his chair, and into
Bilence~
It was not an ordinary face, by any means,
across which the fire-light played so fitfully-no
more an ordinary face than John Warwick was
an ordinary man. There was little beauty in it;
and that little was more the beauty of expression
than of feature; not much grace of outline or
delicacy of coloring. But there was force of
will and power of thought; there was a keen
habit of observation, and sometimes there was
an almost womanly gentleness-the latter not
habitual nor often to be seen, but coming occa-
sienally to melt the eyes and soften the mouth,
around which someJiard lines lay dormant. Take
It all in all, a face so full of moral and intellectual
strength that the wonder grew how this man could
possibly be brother to the pretty commonplace
womafl who sat at the head of Richard Marks's
table. Yet her brother he undoubtedly was;
and, if Mrs. Marks loved her husband with all
her heart, she certainly reverenced her brother
with all her soul-~--for in him all the gentleman-
hood of the father stood confessed, without the
father's weakness or the father's vice. He it
was who had raised their name from the mire
where it had fallen, and given it once more an
honorable rank. He it was who had claimed his

birthright of social position, and placed his foot,
when that foot was yet young, upon the place his
father~ had forfeited. Men already forgot the
poor drunkard who had ruined others as well as
himself, and only remembered that "Mr. War-
wick is decidedly our most rising hwyer." In-
deed, they had long since begun to be very proud
of him in Lagrange, to put him forward on all
public occasions, and prophesy great future ad-
vancement for him.
The hot coffee came, and Mrs. Marks an-
nounced its arrival to her brother; but he did
not move. He seemed, indeed, so deeply sunk
in thought as not to hear her; and it was Mr.
Marks's brisk tones that roused him at last.
"What's the matter, Warwiuk, that you sit
there staring in the fire, instead of coming to
supper? I hope you haven't heard bad news of
*any kind?"
"Bad news!" repeated Mr. Warwick, look-
ing up with a start. "Why, of course not.-
Did you say the coffee was ready, Bessie? I beg
your pardon, but I did not hear you."
He rose as he spoke and came to the table.
The light thus falling for the first time upon his
face, some change there attracted the attention
even of the children.
"Unky, you've got a bad headache, haven't
you?" inquired womanly little Sara, by whom he
sat down.
"Unky, Jack says you've seen a ghost!"
cried Katy, with her mouth full, despite an
angry "You hush!" and a push under the table
from Jack.
And Mrs. Marks herself said, "What is the
matter, John? You look pale."
"Nothing is the matter, excepting that I have
had a hard day's work, and am tired," he an-
swered. Then, catching the gaze of a pair of
eyes opposite him, he added, "Do I look so
shockingly, Miss Treshham, as to merit all
this?"
"You look as if your day's work had been
a very hard one," said Miss Treaham. "That is
allI think."
"I don't kn6~r," said his sister, doubtfully.
"John, are you certain that is all?"
"Not quim," he answered, with a flitting
smile. "Jack was right in his conjecture-I
have seen a ghost."
"A ghost!"
"A ghost, Bessie. As veritable a ghgst as
ever came out of a church-yard."
"My dear John, please recollect that I don't
like such things talked of before the children."

"Oh, there is no rawbead and bloody bones
in this," said Mr. Warwick, glancing round at the
various pairs of eyes that stared at him from over
various mugs of bread and milk. "The ghost
was not even dressed in white, Katy.-what do
you think of that?"
"Oh, it wasn't a real ghost, then," said Katy,
reathiessly.
"Yes it was, though.-Come, Marks, put
down your paper, and guess whose ghost I saw
this afternoon."
Mr. Marks laid down his paper as requested;
but confessed himself unable to imagine, unless
(with a sly glance at the children) it was that
of old Mrs. Packham, who was buried about a
fortnight before.
But Mr. Warwick shook his head. It was
not old Mrs. Packham, he said; but somebody
who had gone away at least twenty years be.
fore; somebody whom they all had known.
And then he told his sister to guess. Where'
upon, after much consideration, Mrs. Marks in.
quired if it could possibly have been that wild
son of old Joe Williams, who ran away ever so
many years ago, and had never been heard of
since. At which Mr. Warwick shook his head
yet more impatiently.
"Then tell us who it was," said she.
And Katharine was struck by a husky tone
in the lawyer's voice, as he answered-
"I have seen Pauline Morton 3"
-4-
CHAPTER III.
PAULINE MORTON.
Ir Mr. Warwick had announced the entire
destruction of Tallahoma and all its inhabitants
by an earthquake, there scarcely could have en.~
sued a more astonished pause than followed the
utterance of that name. For the full space of a
minute, an entire silence reigned around the
~table-.--a silence which Mrs. Marks was, of
course, the first to break.
"You have seen Pauline Morton, John?"
'EYes," answered he, laconically.
"Is she ~
"She was in town, or else I could not have
seen her."
"But, bless my soul!" cried Mr. Marks,
"where did she come from, Warwick ?-~-when
did you see her?"
"Of course she came from Europe. I saw her

as she passed through ~allahoma, this afternoon,
late."
"Well, tell us all about it," cried his sister,
a little impatient at these brief replies. "What
is the use of doling out news llk~ this? Tell us
how she looked, and what she said, and where she
is going, and what she means by coming back
here?"
"Did you happen to see a travelling.carriage
pass here abeut dusk, laden with trunks, dogs,
and monkeys?"
At this question there rose a shout from
the children-the eager little pitchers, whose
eyes and et~rs were open to all that was going
on.
"We did! Uncle John, we did! And a pret-
ty lady, and a little boy in it, too."
"Yes," said Uncle John, quietly. "That
was Pauline Morton, on her way to Morton
House."
"To Morton House?" repeated Mr. Marks.
"Then Shields, at least, must have known that
she was coming."
Again Mr. Warwick shook his head. ~'No.
Shields was in my office this morning about that
business of a trespass on the land; and I will
answer for it that he had as Uttle idea of seeing
the owner of the land as you or I might have
had. Besides, she told me that she had no.t afl.
bounced her coming to any one."
"And yet you say she went to Morton
House?"
"Straight to Morton House.-Heaven help
poor Shields's brain this night!"
"Surely you must have mistaken," urged Mr.
Marks. "Surely she went to Annesdale-her
own first cousin's, yoit know."
Mr. Warwick shrugged his shoulders. "1
should think you would remember how little
love there was between her and her first cousin,
of old."
"I remember," cried Mrs. Marks, "and I am
sure that Pauline Morton would never ge unin.
vited to Mrs. Annesley's house. But oh, John,
she could not have gone to Morton House to stay
to-night I-why, think of those beds tht* nobody
has slept in for twenty years!"
"Twenty years or not, she meant.~ to do it;
and I don't think there's a doubt buV that she
has done it. Twenty years! Can it be really
twenty years since she went awayBesaie?"
"Twenty years this past suiimcwi'saId'Mrs.
Marks, decidedly. "I remember the v~y~ d~t~
Did her brother come back, John ?-~-ani~ st*rely
her husband is with her?"'

10

I

11


PAULLNE MORTON.

MORTON HOUSE.

"Her brother, she tells mc, is dead. She did
not mention her husband; but I judge that she
is a 'widow."
"And she caine alone?"
"With the exception of a child and a ser-
vant, quite alone."
" Her brother dead!" repeated Mr. Marks,
whose somewhat~ slow ears this last item had
1.,
~j7    just reached. ~ There must be some mistake
about that, Johu-youmust have misunderstood
her, or his death has happened very lately. It
is not more than a few weeks since Shields
showed me a let~r he had just received from
him."
"I only know that she is in deep mourning,"
"Mr. Warwick answered; "and that, when I
glanced at her dress, she said-or, if she didn't
say, she intimated-that it was for~her brother
she was wearing it."
"It is very strange," said Mr. Marks, reflect-
ively. "He must have dropped off like his Uncle
Paul; for all the rest of the Mortons that ever
I heard of were very long-lived people. She did
not mention his complaint, did she?"
"'No. She said very little-in fact, I saw
her for a few minutes only."
"But her Jooks, John 1" cried Mrs. Marks,
with a woman's curiosity on this important sub-
ject. "Is she as handsome as ever?"
"How do most women look, Bessie, when
n ~ap of twenty years separates them from
youth?"
"'~hy,,rather the worse for wear," answered
Mrs Ma4~&amp; with a glance toward her own face,'~
as i~fieot~lin the burnished coffee-pot. "But.
I ean~~imagine Pauline Morton any less beau-
tiful than w~ien I saw her last."
"You had better not see her again, then."
she changed so dret~dfully?
"She is the wreck-the ghost, as I told the
children-.-of her former self."
"I~ear, d&amp;tr! to think of it! But she kas
been married, ha~ she not?"
"Certainly. I told you she had a-child with
"And whom d.id she marry? You know there
weroall sorts of reports at the time-people said
she had ~iairied a count, or some such person."
"'Whtch was as true as reports generally are.
\Paullne Mortonhas come back as Mrs. Gordon."
"Mrsiokat?"
"Gordon. - IMd you ever hear the name be-
2 fore-4nponnect~On with her, Imean?"
"Never!" cried Mrs. Msrks, with a decision
whIch rather surprised the governess, sitting by

in profound ignorance of the subject under dis-
cussion. "I heard that she had married some
nobleman, and that she lived in Europe in grand
style; and-and-for her to come back like this,
to a place she always hated! Oh, John, I don't
believe it!"
"That's just as you please," Mr. Warwick
answered, rising and walking to the fire. "I
assure you, I have the name on her own author-
ity; and, as for those ridiculous stories of counts
and the like, of course no sensible person ever
credited them. I remember hearing that she
had married an officer in the English army; and,
no doubt, this is, or was, the man.-Miss Tresh-
am, did you see the carriage this afternoon?"
"Yes; and the lady also," Katharine an-
swered. "I had only a glimpse of her face, but
it struck me very much, Does she belong to the
Morton House where the children and I go to
walk almost every evening?"
"Morton U~use belongs to her," Mr. Marks
answered, dryly. "I am afraid, if she has come
back for good, your walks are at an end, Miss
Kate."
"Oh ! " cried the children, in chorus. '~ Can't
we go to ?~Iorton House any more, and make
Ponto chase rabbits in the garden? Oh, papa,
whynot?" ,
"Don't you ~iear why not?" asked Mrs.
Marks, a little sh~rply-" don't you hear that
the person who owns Morton House has come
back to live in it? Now hush-or I will call Letty
and send you straight to bed !-John, dear, you
haven't told us yet where you met-Mrs. Gor-
"Haven't I?" said Mr. Warwick, a44littlc
wearily-he was evidently tired of the subject
that was still so absorbing to his sister. "Well,
it is not much to tell, Bessie. I left my office
at dusk, this evening, and was on my way to the
post-office to get the mail, wh~n the carriage of
which I spoke came down th~.street. I glanced
at it a little euriousW, wondering where it was
going at that time 6f day, when a face, that :X
should haverecogn~zed among thousandd' looked
out, and made a aig1'j~9~the driver to stop. Be-
fore I knew what:! 'was about, I was~s~iaking
hands with P~iuline Morton." ( /
He paused, with a half smile at the~xl~ession
of eager interest on his' sister's fac~; b~ut? not-
withstanding ~the smile,1 more than one of his
hearers noti~d That it cost him an effort to re~
in~ie.
"The first thing I remember was her saying,
How changed you are I' And I looked at her,

K

and answered, 'I am sure I cannot be mor4
changed than you are."'
"Why, John!" cried Mrs. Marks, reproach
fully.
"You think that was rather plain speaking
I thought so myself when it was too late to recal
the words. But she did not seem offended by m~
candor. She only smiled a little, and said, 'Yes~
I am very much changed-you will believe that
when I tell you that I have come back to Morton
to live.' I don't know what I said-something
about my surprise, probably ; for I was sur-
prised, as you may well imagine-but she re-
peated the statement, and then, noticing that I
looked at her black dress, she added: 'My poor
brother !-you see I am all alone in the world.'
'Excepting,' said I, glancing at the child oppo-
site. 'Yes,' she answered, quietly, 'excepting
him.' Then she told him to shake hands with
V
one of his mother's old friends; and the boy, who
is a splendid-looking little fellow, held out his
hand at once, and spoke to me-no hanging of
the head, and putting the finger in the mouth,
Dick. After a few more words, his mother said
they must go on, as she wished to reach Morton
House before night. So she held out her hand,
saying she would be glad to see me; and you will
be shocked to hear, Bessic, that, in responding
to the invitation, I called her Miss Morton."
"Good gracious!~~
"It was very thoughtless, and, of course, I
began a hasty aPology, being more annoyed at
my awkward mistake from perceiving the effect
which it produced upon her. First she flushed,
and then she turned so pale that for a minute I
thought she was going to faint. But she only
gasped &amp;~r breath a little, and cut short my ~tpol-
ogy by saying: 'There is nothing to excuse. I
am very foolish; but it has been a loi~g time
since I heard that name, and it brought back
so many recollections-just here. I am Mrs.
Gordon now.' Then she drove off, And now
that you have heard all that I know myself,
Bessie, I hope you have no objection to my going
out on the ~iazza to smoke a cigar."
Mrs. M~rks would willingly have detained
him for th~ purpose of further questioning; but
she had an~hi~tinct that it would be useless. 56
/
she only w~~t~~ed him as he left the roQm, and
then turned\~kcr husband.
"You laughed at me several years ago, Rich-
ard, when I said that I did not believe John
would ever forget Pauline Morton. .Pray what
do you say now?"
"Why, exactly what I said then," answe~d
2

Mr. Marks, looking up from the paper which he
thought he shoulcj never be left to read ~in peace.
- "I say that Warwick is much too sensible a m~n
to be hankering after a woman he was in loire
with more than twci~t~ years ago; and that-"
"Oh, my dear, hush a moment !-Miss Tresh-
am, will you touch the bell for Letty ?-Now,
children, say good-night to yogr father, and go
to bed; it is after eight o'clock."
The children were evidently well drilled.
They were dying to hear what was next 1to be
said; but they went through the good-night cere-
m~V and filed off obediently, when a tall negro-
woman, in a bright red-and-yellow turban, ap-
peared at the door. It is true, there was a riot
in the nursery that night; .but no sound of it
reached the precincts from which the young i~-
surgents had been banished, for Letty. was, quite
equal to the emergency herself, without~hlveking
aid from the higher powers.
Meanwhile Mr. Marks obst~inate1yAe~lined to
canvass any further either the arrival of Pauline
Morton or the state of Mr. Warwick's affections
-at least until he had finished that article from
whi~,h he had several times. been so ruthlessly

"Those subjects will keep for some night
when I haven't got any papers, Bessie," .he ~ail~
to his wife's infinite indignatiQx~-an indignation
which she forthwith manife~ed 'by.taI~ing h~rsclf
and her sewing over to Miss ~Tr~sham'~ sid~
"You never heard much about the Mortons,
did you, my dear?" she asked, after admiring
the pretty braiding that Katharine was pt~tting
an apron for N'elly.
"I never heard any thing," the young gove~n-
ess answered, "excepting that they owned ~M1or-
ton house and lived abroad~" ' ' 4
"Ah l" said' Mrs. Marl~,-with som~thii~4fa
aigh; "people don't talk m~zcli abo'~t tk~in4that
happened twenty years ago. But oh, ~*il~ if
you could only hava seen Morton IIoAse~heIi
~the Mortons' lived' there, and when. I~a~ilii1~ was
~in her prime! Such troops1 of- scrvaat~ a~they
had! such splendid horses! such furniture~ and
such grounds! Why, you ~ea1i see for ~'our-
self; even now, how magnificent the grounds
were!''
'i~hey must h~ve been very beautiful when
they were kept up," said ~atharine, "and~liey
are certainly very extensive."
"I should think so, indeed! Why, 1~iere
used to be fifteen acres in gardens alone! j~ re-
member, when I was a girl, going to a 'camp.
meeting once, where one of ~be preachers ~aid
I.:
'4

3'

I
*1
/,

13


MORTON HOUSE.

WHAT MRS. ANNESLEY DID.

that the best idea of heaven he could give was
that it would be even more beautiful than the
groutads of' Morton House."
"did its owners leave it?"
"Ab, you may well ask! But it was all Pau-
line's fault She was so beautiful and so proud
that she scorned everybody and every thing here.
She was never satisfied unless the house was
full of strange company from the cities, and at
last she told her parents that she would rather
die than live in the backwoods. So her parents,
who would have tried to get the stars for her
if she had wanted them, loft their beautiful home
and went *0 Europe-never to come back, as it
turned out."
"Did none of them ever come back?" asked
Katharine, becoming rather interested.
"None of them ever came back-until to.
day. There was a young brother-only one-
who grew 'up in Europe; and I have 'hcard that
he laughed at the idea of returning to America
to live. He must have spent money at a dreadful
rate after his father's death; for Mr. Shields told
John th&amp;t the crops were always mortgaged be-
fore they went into market, and we heard, not
long ago, that the house itself was to be ~old.
If that had 'been the case, I expect Mr. Annes-
Icy would have bought it."
"Why? Is he-"
"A relation? Oh, yes. His mother was a
Morton, and as handsome and proud as all the
rest of them. She was poor, though, for her
father squandered every cent he had. But her
unele always treated her exactly as his own
daughter, and people say he settled a very good
sum on her when she married. She and Pauline
were raised together like sisters; but they never
liked each other. I don't know which was in
fault; but they made no secret of the matter.
For my part, I rather took Pauline's side, though
most people were on Elinor's; but Pauline was
very generous, with all her pride, and I don't~
think she ever made her cousin feel her depend-
once. They even' say that Mr. Annesley was
Pauline's admirer, and only went over to Elinor
after he was rejected. Then there's-O John,
how you startled me!"
"I am very sorry," said Mr. Warwick, who
had come in upon them unawares; "but I have
been waiting some time for a chance to speak,
and, as you seemed determined iiot to give me
cue, I was obliged to take it.-Miss Tresham, I
wonder if you will excuse me when I tell you
that I have just found a letter of yours in my
pocket, which was left there through the joint

carelessness of Katy and myself; and might have
been lost?"
The girl looked up at him wonderingly.
"A letter for me, Mr. Warwick? You must
be mistaken."
"How often am I to hear that to-night?" he
asked, smiling. "I think, if you will look at this
address, you will acknowledge that, with all my
stupidity, I have hardly made a mistake."
He laid a letter down on the table before
Katharine, who either would not or could not
hold out her hand to receive it-a letter written
on thin foreign paper, stamped with a foreign
post-mark, and bearing her own name in clear,
legible address.
Not so clear and legible, however, but that
it swam before her eyes as she heilt over it; and
John Warwick was startled by the pallor of the
face that raised itself, and by the anguish-stricken
tone of the voice that cried out, as if unconscious-
ly:
"Ohif you had but lost it! if you had but
lost it!"
CHAPTER IV.
WhAT MRS. ANNESLEY DID.
* Ir would be difficult to exaggerate the excite-
ment prevailing in Tallahoma-Tallahoma, which
was very s4gnant just at that time, for want of
something to talk about, and which was blessed
beyond its most sanguine expectations in the ar-
rival of Mrs. Gordon. The news of that arrival
spread rapidly through the village; and, while
Mr. Warwick was telling his story at the Marks's
tea-table, it would be hard to say how many
other tea-tables were entertained by different
renditions of the same facts. True, there was
a very general and unsatisfactory haziness con-
cerning the why and wherefore that had brought
back the wanderer's steps, concerning her inten-..
tions, or even her appearance. But, then, these
things promised an abundant harvest of gossip
for the future; and all-absorbing for to~n!ght
was the simple fact that Pauline Mbrton had re-
turned.
But on the morrow, after there was time for
reflection, after the news had spread through the
county, after the first shock of surprise was over,
and people looked each other gravelyin the face,
they began to ask, How had she returned?
The answer was not long in coming. She,
had gone away in the flush of her youth and

beauty,' guarded by her parents, and with all the
pomp of style and attendance which wealth could
secure. She returned alone and unattended,
with no husband to guard, no brother to pro-
tect, no friend to vouch for her-no word of
'warninG' no single order of preparation! She
came to her childhood's home and her child-
hood's friends with no pleasant stir and bustle
of happy arrival, but silently and unexpectedly,
more like an outcast seeking shelter than a
daughter claiming her rightful heritage. Other
people besides Mrs. Marks remembered when the
Morons had gone away, and, contrasting that
departure with this return, almost involuntarily
shook their heads. The first impulse of the
world is always to distrust mystery. "Some-
thing is wro4" they said; and many of them
said it the more readily because Pauline Morton
had been one of those shining marks which
envy loves, and because in her proud youth she
had rather provoked then conciliated such a
feeling.
It is exceedingly doubtful whether any state
of society has ever existed since "Adam delved
and Eve span," when those who were subordi.
nate in the scale of worldly advantage have not
felt a sort of carping dislike, and at timc~s a bit-
ter enmity, toward the few whom chance or for-
tune has elevated above them. We can imagine
how the rabble of Athens spoke of Pericles and
-Alcibiades; we can conceive that hatred which
from first to last the Roman plebeinna bore
their patrician masters; we can guess how bit-
terly the serfs and retainers, the scorned burgh-
ers, and oppressed Jews, spoke in bated whis-
pers of the great feudal lords; we can read how
often and how fiercely the great unknown have
lashed themselves into fury against some class,
some order, or some individual that birth, me-
rit, or circumstance, rendered illustrious; and
we can well believe that the same envy which
we see manifested in a dozen petty instances
every day, the same envy which was tired of
hearing Aristides called the Just-has been the
great moving spring of many of earth's revolu-
tions, and is equally the moving spring of half
the ill-nature and more than half the ill-speaking
of the world. To make a small application of a
wide truism, it was certainly the moving spring
of most of the ebullitions of spiteful spleen in
which for many years Lagrange had permitted
itself to indulge regarding the Mortons. People
more generous, more frank, or more hospitable,
than these Mortons, it would be hard to find;
but they were of good blood, and very proud of

their descent; they were immensely wealthy, and
spent their wealth liberally. These tWo facts
were amply sufficient to excite that alloy of
popular dislike which otherwise their many good
qualities-qualities that even envy could not deny
-might have disarmed. Not that they were un-
popular in the general sense of the term; not
that men denied their genial uprightness of char-
acter, or failed to respect them as only the honor-
able are respected. But they were too prosper-
ous l The world and the things of the world
went well with them; Fortune favored them in
all their undertakings, while those who were
less lucky could only look en and wonder why
and how it was. They kept great state, and,
although some of the best blood of the country
was to be found in Lagrange, 'still there was
no family that quite ranked with the Mortons,
to whose wealth and enterprise Lagrange was
indebted for mue~i of its prosperity. The old-
est and by far the most stately residence of the
county was the house which had been built by
the representative man of the line-one Hugh -
Morton of three generations back. The village,
of Tallahoma had begun its existence merely as
the post-office of this house; and the same
house had been for many years the centre of
such a lavish and refined hospitality that its
reputation spread far and wide throughout the
entire State.
Considering their social importance, then, it
was no wonder that all Lagrange was thrown
into a commotion when it was announced that
Mr. and Mrs. Morton were going to Europe,
- ostensibly for iheir son's education, but really
to gratify their daughter's whim-the daughter
who was accustomed to say that life in America
was worse than death, who panted for the rush
and fever of the Old World as ambitious men
.pant for fame, and to whom it was solely due
that her indulgent parents went abroad, leaving
their noble home to pass into decay while they
dwelt in Parisian hotels and Neapolitan villas. -
She had the more easily compassed her point be-
cause there was no one of sufficient moral force
to resist her. Some men-most men, in fact-
would have been utterly lost in the dilettante
existence thus forced upon them; but her father
was just the exceptionalman who enjoyed it. If
he had been born among the lower classes in
Spain or Italy, he would have spent his life on a
door-step basking in the sun; and, as it was, he -'
spent it in morally doing the same thing. He
was frank and generous to a fault; but he was
intensely indolent, pleasure-loving when the pur-

V


16                        MORTON HOUSE.

suit of pleasure did not involve too much trouble,
and fond df ease and luxury to an almost wom-
anly degree. Mrs. Morton, for her part, was
bound up in her daughter's wishes and her daugh-
ter's triumphs, with a groat sympathy for both,
and &amp; great liking herself for the things that
were so-attractive to Pauline. The only son was
a mere ehuld. So, with none to put an obstacle
in her path, Pai~iline's impetuous will carried the
day. The desire of her heart was granted her,
as the desires of our hearts are rarely granted
to us here on earth; and, when she took her life
in her own hands and went her way, it was as
some gallant ship sails away from a familiar har-
bor to cruise hI unknown seas, where happiness
and fortune may be attainable, but where ship.
wreck and disaster are much more likely to be
encountered.
F4 some time after the departure of the
voluntary exiles, fragmentary news came back
of their wanderings; of their cordial recognition
by the English relatives they had partly gone to
seek; of Pauline's fresh triumphs; and of their
glittering life in foreign cities. ~ut all this
was very vaguely told, and soon ceased alto.
gether-~-fifty years ago the country-districtsof
America were farther removed from such scenes
than is the interior of China to-day. Soon all
tidings of the Mortons ceased, and before long
the Mortons themselves might have been for-
gotten, had not the house which bore their name
sand seemed gloomily mourning them, stood as a
pei~petual reminder of their existence. Only at
long inte vals certain items of intelligence still
grated t e gossips of Lagrange. First came
the tidi ga Mr. Morton's death; then news of
~ 'a ma riage to some one, who was van-
eusly represe~nt~d of every imaginable national-
ity and rank; and, lastly, the announcement of
her mother's death. Then silence fell, silence
complete and unbroken, although the county
leader of fashion, handsome Mrs. Annesley, was
first cousin to the surviving brother and sister,
ha4 been reared in their father's house, and-
mairied frbmit. But everybody knew that Pau-
line had i~ever liked her cousin, and that it was
a happy day for both when Edgar Ann~sley (who
was killed in a duel a few years later) took his
bride prom the door of Morton House.
I~emembering all these things, a thrill of ju-
te~e interest and surprise ran through the couii-
ty~hen Lagrange heard of Pauline Morton's
retUrn. There was not a family of good rank
within its borders that did not own some con-
neotion of blood or ancient friendship with Mor-

ton; and not a family, therefore, which was not
personally interested in this unexpected arrival.
Still even these people paused and looked at
each other full of doubt. If Pauline Morton
had come back among them with the state
which, to their imagination, was always asso-
ciated with the name; if she had thrown open
the old hospitable doors, and lighted up once
more the old hospitable rooms; if she had bid-
den her friends around her, and asked their wel-
come with the matchless grace they still remem-
bered-they would have been the last people in
the world to question whence she came, or why
she chose tq shroud her past life in mystery.
But the singularity of her course awakened in
them the first chill of suspicion. Why come
back in this way to her own house? Why
write no letters? Why give no warning to the
friends who had a right to know of her inten-
tion? Why ask no aid from their support, she
coming back so strangely alone to claim her old
position? Why ofter no explanation of her mar-
riage and widowhood? Why think that her old
acquaintances would take for granted the twenty
years passed away from them-the twenty years
in which she might have climbed any height, or
plunged into any depth; unknown to them?
~Truly it was no wonder that the elders among
them shook their heads'; and truly it did not
look as if Pauline Morton had come back to win
any very warnvweleome fron~ her kinsfolk and
friends.
Yetamong the former class was one person
at least to whom no neutral position was possi-
ble, one person on whom the burden of positive
action was incumbent, and from whom every
obligation of gratitude that the world counts
binding commanded a speedy and cordial wel-
come to the returned wanderer. This person
was Mrs. Annesley; and yet her worst enemy
-if, indeed, the handsome, charming lady owned
any enemies-could not have contrived for her a
more disagreeable surprise than the news of her
cousin's arrival proved. When she heard the
particulars of this arrival, she turned very pale;
~and then-went to bed with one of those bad
nervous attacks which always stood her in such
good stead when an unpleasant exertion was
demanded, or an unpleasant duty was to be per-
formed. She deplored this necessity very pathet-
ically; andassured the friends who came to see
her that she was especially sorry because she
could not go at once to meet ~nd welcome "dear
Pauline." -But these fnie~ds were by no means
obtuse; they understood the matter pert~eetIy,

3I

i


WHAT MRS. ANNESLEY DID.

and told each other when they went out that it
was evident Mrs. Annesley felt very awkwardly
about meeting her cousin, and that they did not
wonder at it.
"It is unfortunate that I should be ill just at
this time," Mrs. Annesley said to her daughter,
Mrs. French-a pretty, fashionable-looking girl
two or three years younger than her brother
Morton, and lately married-on the evening of
the day when these visits had been paid. "I
certainly ought to see Pauline at once, and it is
quite impossible for me .to do so* Yet people
will be sure to think it very strange."
"Mrs. Raynor told me to-day that everybody
is waiting to see what you mean to do," Mrs.
French answered. "If I were you, mamma, I
would let them wait. A woman who comes
back like this does not deserve any considera-
tion."
"I am not thinking of her," said Mrs.
Annesley, truthfully enough.
It was a little before dark, and the mother
and daughter were quite alone in the chamber
of the former. With the outside world it was
still daylight, but here the shades of twilight
had already gathered, deepening in all the nooks
and corners of the room, and only dissipated by
the ruddy glow which a bright wood-fire cast
over the polished furniture and the softly-tinted
walls. On one side of the hearth sat Mrs. An-
nesley in a deep arm-chair. Her cashmere dress-
ing-gown, her dainty lace cap, and her velvet
slippers, were all perfect; for she had made a
tasteful invalid toilet in expectation of those
compassionate visitors who had just departed.
Opposite, and if pos~e in a still more luxuri-
ous attitude, Mrs. French was sitting-the fire-
light flickering over her silk dress, and glancing
back from her gold els4tdaine. She had been
busy with some net~i~g; but the rose-colored
web had dropped in her lap, her bands were
loosely folded over it,. and her eyes were roving
absently from the fire to her mother, and from
he~ mother to the heavily-draped windows that
comn~nded a view of the lawn before the house,
and the belt of dark shrubbery beyond. Finally,
she stdd, languidly:
It is a good thing that Morton is away.~,
"It is a most fortunate thing," answered
Mrs. Ani~esley, with energy. "Morton is so
Quixotic in his ideas that there really is no
counting on him, and he is so unfortunately
straightforward that he cannot understand the
delicate management which some things require.
I nut sure he would give me trouble if he were

I

17

I
I

here; so I agree with you, Adela-it is a good
thing that Mr. French wrote for him just now."
"It will be at least a fortnight before he can,
get back,", said Adela, who had been making
some calculation of time and distance while her
mother spoke. "Perhaps it may be longer, if
Frank deckics to coxuewith him, as I hope he
will. Then I shall keep' him here until I am
ready to go back to Mobile."
"It is very provoking 'that. you should need
to go back," said Mrs. Annesley, pettishly. "I
shall never be satisfied until you are settled in
Lagrange. If I could only carry out my plans!
If you could only live here ?'
"Frank would never consent to it, mamma,"
interrupted Adela, placidly. "He sags, very
truly, that Morton will be marrying some day,
and, of course, bringing his, wife here; and,'
then, the arrangement would tever do."
"Of course, there could 'be no question of it
under those circumstances-that is, If Morton
decided to make this place his home," said Mrs.
Annesley. "But that was not my:plan, Adds,
as you very well know."
"I know you thought of Morton Rouse for'
him, and Anneadale for us. That would certain-
ly be very 'nice. But I suppose we nuist'give up
all hope of it now."
"That remains, 'to be seen," answered Mrs.
Annesley, quickly. "It is~ almost beyond pa-
tience," she went on, "that this. iVonraA should
come back now to defeat all my. pl4~ns~' Every
thing wa~ so well arranged. 'Alfr~d4!~rton was
perfectly willing to sell the hoflse, and Moxton
could well afford to give even the exorbita~,
price he asked. It is true ~hitt for tl~e same
amount he could have bought the finest planta-
tion in the State; but then' no other p~Iaee could
be to him like that- his 'great.grai~dfather's
house. Nobody knows how my heart has al-
ways been set on this. ever' since Morton was
a child, I have counted on seeing him owner of
Morton House. ' It seemed' to. rue it'1~wb1ld even
make amends for 'all I ~nce euduredAn that
house, to ~ow that my sort was~ maSter thei'e~
And now this kind~ ~e~~i~ic~ ~ho. always hated
me, has, come back-simply to disappoint my
wishes."
"It would be very nice," said: Adela, whose
'mind was still bent on the arrangement, as 'it
affected her own comfort. "Frank and I could
settle here, and I need nQt trouble myself any
more about his disagreeable relations in Mobile.
Morton could marry Irene Vernon, and live in'
that tumble-down old barn that you have such


18                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                            AFTER TWENTY YEARS.                     19

a fancy for; and you could have your rooms at
both places, and visit between us, just as you
liked, It is a pity that one of your cousins took
it into his head to die, and the other one to come
back just now."
"Gordon 1" said Mrs. Annesley, slowly;
"Gordon! I am confident that I once heard
the name of the man Pauline Morton married
and, if I could recall it now, it might be worth
remembering. I am almost sure-as sure as I
can be of any thing which did not dwell posi-
tively on my mind-that it was not Gordon."
"Goodness, mamma! Has she come back
under a false name?"
"I am not certain, of course; hut my- own
impression is that she has. Don't mention it,
though, Adela. People are talking enough
about her already, and we need not circulate a
fact which undoubtedly looks very badly."
"You may be sure, mamma, that nobody ever
acts as she is acting without some reason for
it."
"There is no doubt of that," answered Mrs.
Annesley, with a sudden flash of something like
triumph in her eyes. "But it does not surprise
me in the least-nothing that I could hear of
her would surprise mc. Her pride and insolence
were so great that they paved a fall for them-
selves. Times have changed, Adela; you don't
know how strangely it makes me feel to realize
that twenty-five years ago Pauline Morton was
the queen of Lagrange, and to-day it is doubtful
whether there is a single person of good position
in the county who will move an inch to welcome
her."
"It all depends on you," said Adela, in her
languid way. "Mrs. Raynor told me that. She
says that everybody is in doubt what to do, and
they mean to wait and see how you will act."
"There, again, times have changed," said
Mrs. Annesley, gazing into the fire. "Twenty-
five years ago I was the dependent cousin whom
Pauline Morton barely tolerated; and to-day it
seems that here, in her own home, the question
of her social recognition depends on inc."
"It depends on you how people will receive
her," said the matter-of-fact Adela. "If I were
you, mamma, 1 would let her see this, and then
-you might perhaps make your own terms, and I
get Morton House after all."
Mrs. Annesley gave her daughter a glance, I
and laughed a little.
"You are tolerably quiek-witted, Adela, and t
would make a pretty good diplomatist. Certain-
ly, I don't owe Pauline muchin the way ofaf

good turn; and certainly, also, the advantages
of the situation are on my side now. If Morton
is not the owner of Morton House yet, you may
be sure that it will not be my fault. By-the-by,
did Mrs. Ray-nor tell you any thing of those
reports we heard about Pauline several years
ago?"
"Nothing at all, mamma, for she did not
seem to know any thing. She said there had
been reports, but that they were very vague,
and she had never been able to make much out
of them. She said, also, that you would not
speak of them; but she was sure you knew
more about the matter than anybody else."
"She is mistaken," said Mrs. Annesley; LL
know nothing about it. How or with whom the
reports originated, I cannot tell; and, simply be-
cause I did not choose to contradict them, peo-
ple took it for granted that I believed them
and was well acquainted with all the particu-
lars."
"I expect you looked as if you believed them.
That is a way you have, mamma."
"I certainly could not look n~ if I did not be-
lieve them, when they were so entirely in keeping
with Pauline Morton's character," answered Mrs.
Annesley, a little coldly. "She was always im-
prudent and reckless to the last degree. If she
has learned wisdom, it has been since she left
Lagrange.-Will you ring the bell there, Adela?
I must order some chocolate for my supper;
coffee keeps me awake, and is bad for my
nerves."
The hell was rung; the chocolate was or-
dered; the servant who received the order deliv-
ered a message to Mrs. Fr~h about some house-
hold matter which demanded her presence down-
stairs; and, with the regretful sigh of an indolent
person, the lady tore herself from her comforta-
ble lounging-place, and departed. The door had
scarcely closed on her, when Mrs. Annesley rose
and walked to the window. The dusk had fallen
by this time, and she could not do more than dis-
tinguish the outlines of the familiar objects be-
rore her-the piazzas and wings of the house,
bhc graceful trees and well-trimmed shrubs that
were scattered over the gently-sloping lawn.
~very thing at Anneadale was in the mast per-
~eet taste; but every thing was undisguisedly
icw, and just now Mrs. Annesley's heart was
ongoing for something which was old. Her hus-
mnd had began, and she herself had completed,
he house in which she stood; yet, charming as
was in every appliance of luxury and com-
ort, her perverse fancy went back to the stately

rooms, dark and mellow with age, where her
youth had been passed. She looked steadfastly
out of the window, over the trees and shrubbery
which her own hand had planted, beyond the
dark woods and broad fields, until she saw-ia
imagination-the noble oaks of Morton House,
and the tall chimneys, from which, for the first
time in twenty years, the smoke of household
fires was curling upward. Then her brows con-
tracted in a slight frown-a frown not sufficiently
marked to darken the handsome face, or give a
severe aspect to its smooth lines. "Times arc
changed," she said, once more, but this time
only half aloud. "Will she recognize that as
plainly as I do, I wonder? Will she see that,
indeed, the advantage is with me now, and that
it is f6r me to decide whether Pauline Morton-
the beauty, the heiress, the belle of Lagrange,
twenty-five years ago-shall not be a social out-
law in Lagrange to-day? whether, six months
hence, Morton House shall not be in my Morton's
hands?"
Before long, Mrs. French came back, and
found her mother sitting as quietly as ever be-
side the hearth, in the dim, fire-lighted apartment.
The two ladies spent the evening together, and,
when they separated for the night, the lasti thing
Mrs. Annesley told her daughter was that her in-
convenient illness would at least serve one good
purpose, in enabling her to see what other peo-
ple meant to do in the ease of her cousin.
Several days elapsed. Then she found that
Mrs. Raynor was right, and that other people
had made up their minds to the same masterly
policy of inaction which she herself had been
practising. So, urge~partly by this fact, and
partly by a growing fear of her son's return, she
became suddenly convalescent, thought a drive
might benefit her, and ordered the carriage.
"I won't ask you to accompany me, Adds,"
she said to Mrs. French. "If I should go to
Morton House, the meeting would, of course, be
very painful on both sides, and had better be as
private as possible. Besides, I don't care to
draw you into a connection that may prove a
very awkward one. Frank might object to it."
"Frank is not of any importance," said
Frank's wife, carelessly. "But I wouldn't think
of such a thing as going-not for the world! I
hate disagreeable people, and this Pauline Mor-
ton must be very disagreeable. Don't tell her I
am here, mamma-I beg you, don't do that!"
"I am not sure that I shall go to Morton
House," said Mrs. Annesley. "It depends on
how I feel,", she added, gravely, as she went

down the piazza-steps and entered the carriage
which was drawn up before them. "Mrs. Tay-
lor's, John," she said to the coachman, who
stood waiting his orders. And, as the carriage
drove off, Adds, who was still on the piazza,
saw her lean back and put her vinai~vette to her
nostrils.
Her point of destination was not more than
two or three miles from Annesdale; so she had
not time to feel her nerves in any unpleasant
degree before the mottled horses swept up to
a red-brick house, set in the midst of a bright-
green lawn, with a brilliant hedge on either side,
and an ornate fence in front. here the languid
invalid was warmly welcomed by Mrs. Taylor aad
some half-dozen daughters, whose ages ranged
from fifteen to thirty, and whose ugliness was
from comparative to superlative degree. Mrs.
Taylor was a widow; her daughters were all un-
married; and, since country-life is stagnant at
best, and a large household composed exclusive-
ly of women must certainly bestow itS energies
upon some employment, the Taylors, mother and
daughters, were widely famed for devoting them-
selves, like the Athenians of old, to "telling and
hearing something new." Their house was the
headquarters of all news (reliable or otherwise)
which was afloat in Lagrange, and the mint where
all reports were stamped for current circulation.
If Mrs. Annesley had wished to put her finger on
the public pulse, and feel how strong or how
feeble were its beats on the Morton question,
she could not have chosen a better place for
the purpose.
Perhaps this had been her intention. At all
events, when she left the red-brick mansion be-
hind, and was on the high-road, she gave the
order, "Morton House."
-4---
CHAPTER V.
irma TWENTY ysins.
HAIr an hour later, Mrs. Annesley's footman
was unfastening a large, rusty iron-gate, and.
holding it open while the flashing carriage rolled
majestically-through. Then he let. the wings fall
together with a loud clang, and Mrs. A'inesley
felt that she was within the domain of Morton
House.
It was rather a dreary-looking place into
which .she had entered; and none the less dreary
because showing evident signs of much by-gone
beauty and care-dreary with a forsaken air


20                        MORTON HOUSE.

of neglect under the soft November sky, at
with the mellow glory of the November su
shine streaming upon it. In all Indian-summi
weather, there is a pathos of intangible sadne~
-even on the bright road, and under its glorior
golden woods this was sensibly to be felt; bi
here it deepened into something almost approach
ing pain, something which even a nature a
wholly prosaic as Mrs. Annesley's could not bu
feeL "One might believe it was a graveyard,
she thought to herself; as her eye swept over th
broad, park-like extent around her. A sudde:
break in the closely-planted trees of the avenu
spread a fair picture before her eyes-a picture
fair in its decay. True, the noble lawn wa,
thickly strewed with the fallen and moulderin1
leaves of many autumns, and the once magnifi
cent shrubbery, which on the south side stretehe
away into far-reaching gardens, was now little
more than an Overgrown wilderness. But ther(
was an almost regal air of space spread over nIl
and even neglect could not entirely destroy th
matchless landscape gardening that had once
been displayed here-the artistic grouping of
trees and shrubs, the forest vistas, and the en.
chanting vicissitudes of light and shadow so skil-
fully blent and arranged. The avenue was at
least a mile in length, and led almost directly
to a broad, green terrace, which extended around
the house, and from which stone steps descended
to the drive below. The house itself was now in
sight-old, large, brown, and weather-beaten.
Yet, notwithstanding all the dreariness of fall-
ing shutters and rotting roof, there was some-
thing about it which made it not difficult to
believe that it had once been the gaye~t and
most hospitable dwelling in the county-a some-
thing which had survived all the long twenty
years when no feet had crossed its threshold
save those of the servants, who once every six
months opened the windows and let God's sun-
shine stream for a brief space into the darkened
chambers I-the twenty years when no house-
hold-fires had blazcd on the cold hearths, when
no masters voice or mistress's laughter, or chil-
dren's merry tones, had sounded along its gal-
leries, or broken the silence of its deserted
rooms.
"There only need a few repairs to make it
again the most beautiful place in all the county,"
Mrs. Anuesley said to herself, as she leaned for-
ward for a better view of the house, which she
was now rapidly approaching-the house that
had sheltered her childhood and youth, and from
which her husband had taken her a bride. And,

AFTER TWENTY YEARS.                     21

as she bent forward in the bright sunshine, and
a- looked at the dark old front, with its lofty stone
~r portico, a sudden vision seemed to rise before
is her-a vision of a royal-looking girl, with a face
is that was brilliant as an oleander blossom, with
it hair that seemed to have caught the sunshine on
i- every thread, with eyes of matchless splendor,
.s w~th the profile of a Greek cameo; and the bear-
it ing of a Oreek goddess. She saw this lovely
~' vision standing where Pauline Morton so often
e had stood, just within the shadow of the arched
a door-way, wearing the fresh-flowing muslin that
e Pauline Morton so often had worn, and turning
e as if to greet her with the winning smile she had
s seen so often on Pauline Morton's lip. It was
~ only a moment that this picture of the past stood
- framed there; but so vivid was it that Mrs. An-
I nesley almost seemed to look through the open
doors behind, and see the sunshine of long ago
falling on the tessellated floor of the widecool
hall-almost seemed to see the servants passing
up and down the broad staircase7 the gay faces
at the drawing-room windows, and all the life,
the stir, the bustle, so long since fled forever.
* It was only for one moment; the next, the yel-
* low sunshine slept as peacefully as before on the
closed door and vacant step.
But the past had not come back in vain even
to this woman's selfish heart, and, for a few min-
utes, she wavered in the purpose which had
brought her there. For a few minutes, she re-
membered how long that roof had sheltered her,
how constant had been the kindness, how lavish
the generosity she had received there; she re-
membered the dead who had befriended her, and,
for once, the ingratitude s$ was meditating rose
up to reproach her. Then her son's handsome
face and gallant presence seemed also to appear
on that threshold where she had so long hoped
to see him master; and the mother's heart
steeled itself again. "It is for him," she mur-
mured; "and I should not hesitate at any thing,
however painful, to serve his interest. Besides,
it will depend upon herself-that is the only
light in which to look at it. It will depend upon
herself; and any one else in my place would act
as I must do."
As~ if to give emphasis to her concluding
words, the carriage at that moment drew up
before the terrace-steps, and the footman was
on the ground lowering the steps, and ready to
guard his mistress's dress from any contact with
the dusty wheels. It was too late to retreat,
even if Mrs. Annesley had felt inclined for any
thing so recreant. But she alighted at once;

ascended the steps and crossed the terrace, her
ample skirts sweeping grandly over the neglect-
ed walks; entered the portico, and, finding the
door-bell gone, gave a summons with her para-
sol on the panel. She was forced to repeat it
more than once before the door opened, creaking
a sullen protest on its rusty hinges, and a gray-
haired servant appeared. He looked a little
doubtfully at the lady standing before him, shad-
ing his eyes with one hand, for the sunlight
streamed full in his face; but she smiled at
once in cordial recognition.
"Why, Harrison, is it you?" she said.
"And so you arc back in the old place. How
are you?"
"Oh, it's Miss Elinor! I beg your pardon,
ma'am, but I didn't know you at first," the old
man answered, as he took the delicately-gloved
hand she extended, in the momentary clasp of
his horny black one. "Yes'm, I'm back. Miss
Pauline said as how she would rather see the old
faces about her than any new enes, Miss Eli-
nor."
Miss Elmer! Yes, she was "Miss Elinor"
yet, to these old servants of her uncle's house-
hold; and, although she often met them, and
heard the name, it had never brought back the
memory of her youth as it did now, when she
was standing at the door of Morton House, and
heard it from the lips that had repeated to her
the messages of friends and admirers in the days
gone by.
"And Pauline?" she said, eagerly. "I have
been sick, Harrison, or I should have been to see
her before this. How is she?"
Harrison shook his~Jiead.
"You'll see for yourself; Miss Elmer," he.
answered; "and i'm afraid you'll be shocked,
ma'am. But Pat glad you've come-mebbe
you'll cheer her up a little."
"Does she need cheering? Is she sick?"
"Oh, no, ma'am, not sick, but so changed
like. It was an awful shock to me, masam. Pd
never a-known Miss Pauline."
"I am changed too, Harrison. We all
change in twenty years."
Harrison shook his head again. "Not like
her,'~ he said-" netlike her."
Then he led the way across the hall, threw
open the drawing-room door, with something of
his old formality; said, "Walk in, ma'am," quite
grandly, and, after Mrs. Annesley had walked in,
shut the door, and left her alone with the chill
and the darkness-for 'it was both chill and
dark after the glowing softness of the outer air.

Standing where she had been left, the lady
looked round and shivered, as if with a sudden
ague. This was one of the suite of reception-
rooms, which she well remembered-the first one
looking to thefront-but the curtains were looped
back from the arch that divided it from the ad-
joining apartment; and, when her eyes grew ac-
customed to the dim light, she gazed straight into
the room where she had been married-straight
at the very table near which she had stood, and
at the very pattern of the carpet which she had
traced with her downcast eyes while the cere-
mony proceeded. Nay, not more than a few
steps from her, was the sofa upon which she
sat when Edgar Annesley asked her to be his
wife, and told her, in his frank, honorable way,
that, although he could never love her as he had
once loved her cousin, yet he would be to her a
true and tender husband. There was the piano
on which she had so often played duets with
Pauline-there was her aunt's favorite chair;
and there her uncle's whist-table. Turn where
she would, some memory of the past assailed
her; and exclaiming impatiently, "It is worse
than meeting a procession of ghosts!" she sud-
denly crossed the room, and threw open an end
window. The sunshine streamed in as if glad
of an entrance; and then she perceived the rav-
ages of time-the mildewed walls, the moth-
eaten furniture, the faded curtains. "Repairs
are needed worse than I thought," she said, half
aloud; and, as she said it, she fell to thinking
how well these lofty rooms would look newly
fitted; how admirably a rich deep green would
do for the one in which she stood; and how well
green became the blond beauty of Irene Vernon
-the girl of all others whom she most wished to
see her son's wife. She was so engrossed by
these fancies, that the opening of the door did
not rouse her, standing as she was with her
back to it; neither did a quiet step which crossed
the apartment; and it was not until a light touch
fell on her arm, that she started, turned, and
stood face to face with the cousin from whom
she had parted twenty years before.
They stood and looked at each Qther-neither
speaking for a moment. They had lived together
in the past as intimately as sisters; but neither
of them had ever entertained a sister's regard for
the other. Therefore, they felt no affectionate
impulse to rush into each other's arms; and,
honest in the present as in the past, they did not
feign it. They did not break into any noisy
greetings, or take refuge in the commoiiplaces
of ordinary welcome; they did not even shake


22                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                           AFTER TWENTY YEARS.                     23

hands-they only stood and looked at the faces
over which twenty years had passed.
A greater contrast than these two faces pre-
sented it would be hard to imagine-one so hand-
some and well preserved, so smooth of skin, so
clear of outline, so suave and smiling of aspect,
with aot a. silver thread in the shining black
hair, or even an incipient crow's-foot around
the cold ~Aack eyes; the other so worn and hag-
gard, so deeply lined and darkened over, so be-
reft of all beauty save the Would of feature and
the magitv~kf glance, so s~iinped with the dreary
stamp pi~suffering, so marked with the bitter
signet of anguish, so utterly lost to all the bright
bravery of the world, that, save for a proud no-
bility which still dwelt in, and redeemed it-save
for the lovely pathos of the eyes, and the haughty
curve of the lips-there was no depth of tragedy
in which it was not possible to fancy that this
woman might have played a part.
This, at least, was the first tangible idea which
came to Mrs. Annesley's mind, as she saw that
not even Harrison's dismal prophecy had pre-
pared her for the extent of the change, and as
she recognized how far below the surface that
change had struck. This her cousin! This Pau-
line Morton! This the girl who had gone away
in the spring-tide splendor of her youth and
beauty! "Good God! 1 can believe any thing
of her now!" she thought, as she gazed in mute
dismay on that world-worn face.
It was Mrs. Gordon who first broke the
silence.
"How little changed you are, Elmer!" she
said, in a rich, sweet voice; "and how it brings
,back the old time to see you again-here!"
"But you!" cried Mrs. Annesley, thrown for
once entirely beyond the range of her usual con-
ventionalities-" you! ?auline, for Heaven's
sake, what have you been doing to yourself that
you look like this?"
"Am I so very much changed, then?" asked
her cousin, with~a smile-oh, st different from
the smile that eha~wy beauty had worn who
stood in the door-way and greeted Mrs. Annes.
icy half an hour before!
"Changed!" She stopped, abruptly; but
the tone that said that much had said enough.
There was a moment's silence. Then the
other, taking her hand, leaned forward, and
lightly kissed her cheek.
"Yours is the first kindred face I have seen,"
she said, gently, yet with a certain diguit~. "Let
inc bid you welcome to Morton House."
And in the to~e, the action, there was that

which took the ground from beneath sirs. Annes-
icy's feet. She had come, meaning to patronize
with all the grandiloquent patronage of her
changed position; and one second seemed to
place her back on the old level, to which Pau-
line Morton had once bent with this same stately
grace, but never succeeded in making her cousin
forget that she did bend. For an instant, Mrs.
Annesley caught her breath; for an instant, she
almost forgot that she was not again the penni-
less relation who was bidden welcome to a home
she might share, but never inherit. Then she
recovered herself, and returned her cousin s
caress with more effusion than that cousin's
manner seemed to warrant.
~~My dear Pauline, those words are more mine
than yours. Welcome, indeed-welcome to your
old home and your old friends!"
"Thank you, Elmer," her cousin replied,
quietly. "Pray sit down."
"Of course, I should have come. to you at
once, if lb ad not been ill-really ill. I am here
to-day in defiance of the doctor."
"Indeed! I should not think you looking
badly. But it was one of your old nervous at-
tacks, I suppose?"
"Yes, one of my old nervous attacks," re-
plied Mrs. Annesley, unblushingly. "They seem
to grow worse as I grow older."
"I am sorry to hear that.-.-You must be
tired by your drive. I will order some refresh-
ment."
She moved away a few steps to ring a bell,
and Mrs. Annesley bad a good opportunity for
observing how straight and rigid was the dress
she wore, how hideous tl* cap that covered all
save a little of the hair so thickly sown with
gray, and how every harmless beautifier of the
toilet seemed sternly banished fron~the costume.
When she returned, the latter said, wonder-
ingly:
"Have you turned Romanist, Pauline, and
acre you going to establish a nunnery, that you
dress in such a style as this? You look like a
nun, I assure you."
"If you had ever seen a nun, Ehinor, you
would not think so," the other answered, with a
faint smile. "A nun's face is always sweet and
serene-not world-battered and world-worn, like
mine."
"ThenFwhat do you mean by this?" and the
gloved hand touched the black fabric near it.
"1 only mean that I have renounced the
world as much as if I had cone into a clois-
ter."

"My dear Pauline!"
"Does that surprise you, Elinor? Ah! you
have not drunk the dregs of life, as I have."
"Surprise me? Of course, it surprises me.
But I don't understand."
"No, I don't suppose~ you do. I hope there
are not many people who would fully understand.
-Do you know what I have come back here
How should 1?
"True, how should you! Well, I will tell
you; for I want to make my intention clear to
all whom it may concern, and you are one of
those whom it does concern. I have come back
to bury myself."
" Pauline 1"
"Is there any thing~ strange in that?" said
Mrs. Gordon, with another faint, flitting smile.
*   "Women have done such things before-the
nuns of whom we spoke, for instance."
Mrs. Annesley did not answer. She gazed
at her cousin with blank amazement, and yet
re blank apprehension, which might in time
have found expression, if the door had not been
suddenly burst open, and a boy of eight or nine
years old-a magnificent incarnation of blooming
health and beauty-rushed into the room, ex-
claiming, "Mamma!" and did not pause until
he stood by his mother's side, staring with un-
abashed eyes at the elegant stranger.
"Oh, what a handsome child!" cried Mrs.
Annesley, surprised for once into an enthusiastic
~     truth. "Pauline, is this your boy?  How like
youhe is! and yet, howunlike!"
"He is not like me at all," Mrs. Gordon an-
swered, in a hard voice. Then it softened sud-
ly, as she turned to the child. "Felix, go
and speak to that lady; sbe is your cousin."
Felix did as he was told-extending a hand
no means v~ry clean, but given with the grace
of' a young pri~ice.
"I am glad to see you, my cousin," he said,
f~     quite loftily.
And, while ~Mrs. Annesley surreptitiously
wiped her fingers on her handkerchief, she
turned again to her companion:
"What charming manners he has! If he
does not ~escmble your~elf~-and I can see now
that he does not-I suppose he looks like his
2     father."
"Yes," was the brief reply.
"Poor child! How young to be fatherless!
I presume he cannot even remember-Mr. Gor-
"Yes, he remembers hin," said Mrs. Gordon,

quietly.-" Felix, go and ask Harrison if he did
not hear the bell."
"He heard it, mamma," said Felix, prompt-
ly. "He's, cutting the cake; and I came to ask
you if I rnayn't have some wine-he won't give
me any.
"Certainly not. You can have cake-not
wine.
"I don't care about cake, mamma."
"There is no necessity for you to eat it,
then7 my dear. But we shall see if your resolu-
tion lasts when it comes-and here it is."
As she spoke, Harrison made his ~appear-
ance, bearing a salver on which were set forth
the orthodox cake and wine of country hospital-
ity-the former in rich silver baskets, and the
latter in slender, old-fashioned wine-glasses.
While Mrs. Annesley refreshed herself with a
glass of the golden sherry that had been mel-
lowing in the cellars of Morton House for forty
years, exchanging with her cousin a few matter-
of-course remarks about the weather, expatiat-
ing on the beauty of the child, who was still
present, and even upon the becoming costume
he wore, she was revolving in her mind the
altered aspect which the last few minutes bad
given to the hopes she had so long and so san-
guinely entertained.
How easy it is to arrange mentally a supposi-
titious scene and conversation! But when was
such scene or conversation ever enacted as ar-
ranged? From the moment in which she heard
of her cousin's return, Mrs. Annesley's busy
fancy had been going over and over again a re-
hearsal of the present interview; and each time
she had acquitted herself to her own entire satis~
faction. She had spoken-suavely patronizing,
but uncompromising in her demands; her 'cousin
had answered-gratefully submissive. Not a
shade of doubt or distrust of' her own powers
had crossed her mind; she had believed herself
to be absolute mistress of the situation. And,
alas! the very first tone of ,her cousins voice,
and glance at her cousin's fn~-changed. so in-
conceivably though that ftce was-showed her
the mistake she had made, the self-delusion with
which she had been pleasing herself. Memory
had played her false-memory, and the vanity
that had been fostered by years of uncheckered
prosperity. At the first glance, she recognized
the fact that the Pauline with whom she had
been holding her imaginary conversations was
but a la~-flgure, an automaton of her own crea-
tion, which' had moved, breathed, trembled, yield-
ed, as her own inclination pulled the wires upon


24                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                          AFTER TWENTY YEARS.                     25

which she had suspended it. The Pauline be-
fore her-.ah! how could she have forgotten that
haughty nature so strangely as to dream of gain-
ing a moment's ascendency over it? She felt
that she was defeatednven before she had struck
one bldw in furtherance of her "plan." This
resolution of retirement from the world-why, it
destroyed every vestige, even to the very founda-
tions, of the fabric she had so remorselessly
reared! The old, bitter hate and envy-the old,
ptill more rankling sense of impotence to harm,
even to' move, this woman, who had always
seemed so unconscious, if not contemptuous, of
her enmity-rushed over her soul in a tide of
almost suffocating passion. Baffled..-.defeated-
now, as ever' before! She could have gnashed
her teeth ia fury I Baffled-just when she
thought success certain! And must she sub-
mit unresistingl~? Might she not sting, wound,
If she could not subdue, this proud nature? She
would see.
." Felix, my dear, you make too much noise.
Go to Babette, now," said Mrs. Garden, as the
boy began a romp with the little spaniel which
had followed him into the room. "Go!"
"Yes, mamma." And he obediently departed.
Mrs. Annesley cleared her throat nervously,
rose, and set down the wine-glass from which she
had been sipping, and,, returning to her chair,
drew it a little nearer to her cousin's before she
again seated herself. Then, laying her hand on
the sleeve of the close black dress, she said, con-
fidnutially:
"My dear Pauline, you quite took away my
breath by what you said just now. I am glad
you sent the child out, so that we can talk freely.
Surely, you do not mean that you intend re-
siouneing society altogether?"
."That is what I mean."
"Impossible! impossible!" cried Mrs. An.
uiesley, assuming an expression of grave reman.
stance. '"Why, what would the world say 1'"
"The world of Lagrange, do you mean?"
"Yes. Your own old friends, and those of
your parents."
"If the subject interests them sufficiently
for them to say any thing, I suppose it will be
some of the good-natured things which they
used to say of me in the old times. But what
does it matter?"
"It matters every thing !.-if you do not wish
to lose, your reputation."
Mrs. Gordon regarded her cousin's face for an
instant in astonishment. Then her brows con-
tracted slightly, and a haughty light came into

her eyes. "My reputation!" she repeated.
"And pray, Elinor, will you tell, inc what pos.
sible connection there is, or can be made, be-
tween my voluntary seclusion and the loss of my
reputation?"
Mrs. Annesley paused a moment, partly be-
cause she was a little doubtful as to what her next
words should be-partly with an affectation of re-
luctance to speak. She looked down at the carpet,
thoughtfully-then lifted her eyes to her cousin s
countenance, hoping to find there signs of alarm
and perturbation. She was disappointed. Mrs.
Gordon was waiting quietly for her to proceed.
"Your question places mc in a very embar-
rassing, a very painful position, Pauline," she
began, with well-acted hesitation. "But-I
think you will agree with inc that plain speaking
is always best; particularly in a case of this
kind, and between friends and relatives."
"Undoubtedly. Plain speaking is always
best between people who have a right to speak
plainly to each other; and friends and relatives
do possess this right," answered Mrs. Gordon,
with the dignified simplicity of manner which,
to her cousin's elaborate mannerism of dignity,
seemed, as it always had seemed, like virgin
gold to pinchbeck.
Mrs. Anaesley cleared her throat again, and,
lifting the top of her vinaigrette, bent her head
and inhaled the salts before she replied, slowly~
"My dear Pauflne, I do not know whether
you are aware that, to the eyes of the world,
your life is veiled in profound mystery; that,
until your return, your friends were ignorant of
th~ veryname of the man you married; that,
even now, the name itself is all that is known.
Under these circumstances, is it much to be
wondered at that some very unpleasant reports
have crept into circulation ?-rcports which you
would be shocked to hear, my dear, I assure
you! And, if you take this strange step. of
secluding yourself from the world, I cannot
answer for the consequences."
Mrs. Gordon had listened unmoved to her
cousin s words, until Mrs. Annesley came to the
last sentence. She smiled then-not scornfully,
but with a sort of half-sad amusement.
"Human nature i~the same all the world
/
over!" she said. "In the little stagnant pool,
as in the great ocean of life, impertinent curios.
ity and gratuitous ill-nature arc the most marked
features of ' society.' But, my dear Elinor, I am
surprised that you should have forgotten all
about my character so entirely as to imagine~*
that the 'opinion of the world' could move mc,

or give me a moment's uneasiness. Don't you
remember how I used to shock you with my dis-
regard for the ideas and dicta of this narrow
world around us? And do you think it likely
that a cosmopolitan life of twenty years has
taught me to rate its importance more highly?"
"Good Heavens, Pauline! You do not know,
you do not realize what you are disregarding !-
what the reports are-" began Mrs. Annesley,
with a consternation which was perfectly genu-
ine-for more and more did she realize that her
anticipated power over her cousin had been a
chimera of self-flattery. But Mrs. Gordon inter-
posed, quietly:
"I have no more curiosity now than formerly
about Lagrange gossip. If it amuses people to
t~lk about me, I have no objection to their en-
joying that gratification."
"But, surely, you object to setting a stain on
your good name I-on the Morton honor!" cried
Mrs. Annesley, driven beyond all self-control by
the careless indifference with which the other
spoke.
Mrs. Gordon's lip curled in a disdain so con-
temptuous that her cousin shrank abashed with
that consciousness of utter discomfiture in all
endeavor to annoy, which had been so familiar
and so galling to her in the old days, while the
former said, sternly:
"I have returned to my old home, soul-weary
and grief-stricken-to seek the shelter of my
father's roof as people sometimes quit the
world for a cloister. You tell me that the' old
friends' of my parents and myself are bandying
about 'reports' conccrning'me; that they 'know
nothing of my life,' and yet are slandering it!
Well, I answer that their gossip and slander are
less to me than the hum of the insects around
him to the anchorite of the desert; that, for the
people who disseminate or believe slanders so
false, so malicious, so unprovoked-.who dare to
suspect my father's daughter of any act unworthy
of his name and honor-I entertain a contempt
too profound for it to be any thing but passive."
Mrs. Annesley was effectually silenced; but
her countenance showed so plainly the dismay,
mortification, and chagrin, by which she was lit-
erally overwhelmed, that Mrs. Gordon, reading
the expression (though not, of course, its cause),
and attributing it to a fear of being personally
compromised, said gravely, but kindly:
"I know, my dear Elinor, that your ideas
and mine do not agree as to the value of the
world'~ opinion. And, if you fear that, you may
yourself incur the censure of this opinion-"

"Pauline, how can you wrong me by imagin-
ing that I am thinking of myself in the matter!
It was alarm for you which, ill as I felt this morn-
ing, urged me to the exertion of showing the
world at once my position toward you-my esti-
mate of the reports that are in circulation-by
coming to offer you the support and advice of a
kinswoman."
A smile of irrepressible amusement swept
over Mrs. Gordon's face, brightening it into a
stronger likeness to its former self than Mrs.
Annesley could have believed it possible it would
ever again wear. "And have these good people
of Lagrange really proceeded so far in their amia-
ble canvassing of my affairs, that you thought it
necessary to extend a hand to save me?" she
said, with almost a laugh. "I am afraid they
would be disappointed, if they knew how much
unnecessary trouble they have given themselves.
My first order to Harrison, on my arrival, was,
that no one but yourself; your children, and one
or two of my oldest and dearest friends, were to
be admitted. To all others he was to say tat,
being in deep mourning, and in deep grief-"
her lip quivered with anguish as she spoke the
last words-" I must decline society. You see,
therefore, that it was premature, to say the least,
in the social authorities of Lagrange, to . decree
ostracism to one who, for reasons entirely apart
from any consideration of their existence, had no
intention of accepting, far less of asking, their
suffrage. It was kind of you, ~ she added,
with a perfect good faith that made Mrs., Annes-
icy wince, "to wish to throw yourself into the
breach in my defence."
"It was useless, I perceive," answered Mrs.
Anneslcy, endeavoring to regain her usual man-
ner, "if you persist in this strange resolution you
have expressed. Nothing, which I could say or
do would have any effect in righting the public
sentiment, so long as you maintain the mystery
which was the cause of these dreadful reports.
If you would only authorize me to contradict
them-to-"
"Excuse me," interposed Mrs. Gordon, quiet-
ly. "It is a matter of perfect indifference to
me."
"But for my sake!" urged Mrs. Ann~sley,
who remembered well that she had many a time
gained concessions from Pauline's generosity,
which Pauline's pride would never have made-
"for my sake, Pauline! Think what an* embar.
raising position I am placed in. Pray, recon-
sider your rcsolutioii 1"
"My dear Elinor, I cannot do that," answered


26                       MORTON HOUSE.                                                          WHAT MORTON SAID.                     27

her cousin. "I came here, as I told you, to seek
rest. I married very unhappily, and have suf-
fered much-have suffered so terribly that, but
for the sake of my child, I think I could not have
lived through all 1 have endured. This explana-
tion I make to yourself-not for the benefit of
the gossips who, it seems, are busying them-
selves with my name. Yourself, and the few old
friends who, I think, have a right to that con-
sideration from me, shall be always welcome
here, if-" she smiled-" you and they are not
afraid to brave public opinion by ~omin~"
"You do me injustice by the doubt you im-
ply," said Mrs. Annesley, quickly. "But, for
that matter, you always did me injustice."
"Did I?" said her cousin, with a softer light
coming into her eyes, and a softer tone into her
voice. "Perhaps I did; for I was very prone to
rash judgment in those wilful early days. I
sometimes think that all I have endured since
has only been a just punishment for the faults I
cherished then. I am glad to believe I did you
injustice, and to beg your pardon for it. Forgive
me; Elinor-and let us be friends."
She held out her hand, and Mrs. Annesley
could not decline to take it. But she hesitated
- a moment before doing so, and paled slightly,
as she said:
"We won't talk of the past, Pauline, for I
dare say the fault of our misunderstandings was
as much mine as yours. Tell me about poor,
dear Alfred. I was so shocked to hear of his-"
"Death," she would have said, had not the
sudden ghastly change that came over her cous-
in's face stopped the word, It was not the acute
grief which cannot bear any mention of its be-
reavement from careless lips, but the presence
of an unutterable horror, which blanched the
cheek, and gave so deep an agony to the eye,
that Mrs. Annesley saw she had made a great
mistake, and stammered hastily:
"Pardon me; I did not mean-~-"
Then Mrs. Gordon seemed to rally with an
almost convulsive effort; and, after a minute,
spoke hoarsely:
* "It does not matter. I-I only have not
learned to bear the mention of his name. Yes,
he is dead. Be kind, Elinor-do not ask me any
more."
Mrs. Annesley could not disregard such a re-
quest. She was silent for some time; half from
astonishment, half from offended pride at her
cousin's reserve. Then she gathered her wrap-
pings round her, and rose with that motion
which indicates departure.

"I am sorry I cannot stay longer," she said,
"but I dare not risk over-fatiguing myself~ 1
will come soon again, however."
"Pray do" said Mr~ Gordon, cordially.
"Give my love to Morton and Adela. Are they
not with you now?"
"Morton lives with me, but he is not at home
just now. He has been absent for a week or
two. Adela is married, and lives in Mobile,".
replied Mrs Annesley, telling the truth-but
not the whole truth. "Do you remember your
old admirer, Colonel French? Well, one of his
sons died, and Adela married the other-a very
good match indeed."
"Colonel French-the wealthy widower, as
you used to call him? How strangely such
news makes me feel. To think that Adela
should be married-and to one of those little
boys!"
"I ought to feel old, ought I not? And
yet-"
"And yet you feel young, looking at me. Is
it not so?"
"I did not mean to say that, I assure you;
but you do look shockingly. I hope you will
seem more like yourself when I see you again.
Good-by. I cannot tempt you even to Annes-
dale?"
"Not even to Annesdale."
They shook hands, parted-if any thing more
coldly than they had met-and, ten minutes after.
ward, the Annesley carriage was rolling out of
the Morton gates.
CHAPTER VI.
WHAT MORTON SAiD.
"Jr is a good thing that Morton is not at
home," Mrs. Annesley had again remarked to
her daughter, when she finally made up her
mind to action in the case of her cousin; and
the event well justified that self-congratulation.
A fortnight after the visit in which she had been
so signally worsted, Morton returned, and, for
the first time in his life, asserted his right of
interference as head of the house.
"Mother," he said, when they were at break
fast on the morning after his arrival, and the ser-
vants had left the room-" Mother, is it true, as
I hear, that our cousin, Pauline Morton, has re-
turned among us?"
There was something unusually grave and
formal in the tone of this inquiry, something

which made AdelaFrench look up and open her
eyes; but Mrs. Annesley answered with admira-
ble nonchalance -
es, my dear boy, she has really returned.
I forgot that we heard the news the very day you
left. How it must have astonished you! It
was quite a shock to me; but say nerves are
so easily afl'eeted I can stand very little. I sup-
pose you heard it in Tallahoma, as you came
through?"
"Yes, I heard it in Tallahoma," the young
man answered, "and, mother, I also heard some-
thing else, which cannot be true."
"It is a very sad affair altogether, my dear
Morton," said Mrs. Annesley, quietly; "but
there is nothing more likely than that you heard.
some exaggeration of the matter. What was
it?"
She asked the question with honest indiffer-
ence, for, since her visit to Mrs. Gordon, she had
felt, so far as herself was concerned, upon safe
ground. She knew that she had always been to
Morton a sort of enthroned divinity, who could
do no wrong; and it was evident that he hesi-
tated now before saying any thing which might
seem even the mildest censure on her conduct.
At last, however, he spoke.
"I heard in Tallahoma that our cousin "-he
uttere&amp; ~he last two words with emphasis-" has
come back to her old home, without having re-
ceived any welcome from her old friends; and
that even you, mother, have failed to give her
one."
"I should think you would know by this time
how much reliance is to be placed in Tallahoma
gossip," said Mrs. Anneslcy. "As usual they
have told you something entirely without foun-
dation; and "-with gentle reproach-" I cannot
help thinking it strange that you should credit
such a thing of me."
"I did not credit it!" said the young man,
eagerly. "I was only afraid that it might be so,
because public opinion seems dealing so hardly
with this poor woman. And you kare been to
see her, then?"
"Of course I have," answered she, promptly.
"How could I possibly neglect such a duty?
We were raised together as sisters, you remem-
ber."
"And has she been here? Mother, she
ought to be here now."
"Morton !-what do you mean?"
"1 mean," answered Morton, quickly, "that
when a woman is slandered is the time, of all
others, for her kindred to close around her; and

that Pauline Morton's proper place now is under
this roof."
"But, good Heavens! why?"
"Why?" he repeated in surprise. "Dear
mother, don't you know why? Don't you know
that she is doubted, suspected, slandered, if you
will have a plain word; and that it is only thus
we can pay the debt of gratitude we owe to those
whose roof once sheltered you ?"
He looked like a young paladin, with the
kindling fire on his handsome face, and the shin.
ing light in his dark eyes; and even his mother's
heart was touched as he lowered his voice over
the last words.
"My son, you do not understand," she said,
in a grave, troubled voice-for it was never her
policy to conic to an issue with Morton," you do
not understand-and you should trust to me in
this matter."
"You know how much I trust to you," he
answered. "But in this matter-"
"Why do you think it necessary to take up
your cousin's cause with so much zeal?" said
Mrs. Annesley, as he hesitated in his sentence.
"I thought I ~aad already explained what
really does not seem to require any explanation.
Seeing any woman in a position of social difficul-
ty, I should not feel myself a gentleman if, be-
lieving her injured, I did not make at least an
effort in her defence. And when I see my own
kinswoman, one to whom I am bound both by
ties of blood and obligations of gratitude-
mother, can you ask me why I should take up
her cause with all the zeal of which I am capa-
ble?"
"One word, Morton," said Mrs. Annesley, who
had been watching him during the last speech,
and knew to a nicety how far it was prudent to
carry open opposition-" one word, if you please.
Has it never occurred to you that Pauline Mor-
ton may not be the injured victim you seem to
consider her?"
If she had sent a rifle-shot into her son's
plate, she could not have taken him more com-
pletely by surprise. He looked for one moment
in mute amazement at her face, then a crimson
flood shot over his brow, and was visible even
beneath the black curls that rested on it.
"Mother!"
"Don't misunderstand me," said Mrs. Annes-
Icy, quietly. "Don't think that I mean any thing
more than I say. I only repeat my question-
has it never occurred to you that Pauline Mor-
ton may not be that injured victim which you
seem to consider ~

26

MORTON HOUSE.

27


28                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                            WHAT MORTON SAID.                      29

"No," answered he. "Is she not a Mor-
ton?"
"She is, indeed. But, in short, asltold you
before, you had better trust to me in this mat-
ter."
"And, as I told you before, that is impossi-
ble," he replied. "Tell me what you meant by
such a question."
But, what Mrs. Annesley meant, it was very
hard-indeed, impossible-for her to explain in
Morton's. straightforward fashion; for her only
real meaning had been to impress him with a
belief that the matter was too delicate for his
management. She hesitated before answering;
and then said more than she had perhaps in.
tended to say.
"I only meant, Morton, that I am sure you
would not like to force me into giving counte-
nance to a woman who may not deserve it."
"God forbid I" said Morton, hastily. "But,
mother, surely you consider what you arc say-
ing?"
"Is it likely I would not consider?" asked
Mrs. Annesley, dreadfully conscious that the exi-
gence of the occasion was forcing her into doing
just the opposite. But then it was so necessary
to quiet Morton by saying something.-" Is it
likely I would not consider? Ah, you don't
know hew I have suffered about this, or you
would never reproach me for not doing more."
"Reproach you I My dear mother, I must
have expressed myself very badly if you think I
meant to reproach you. Pray forgive me, if I
have been hasty or disrespectful-but I feel this
matter so deeply."
"You cannot feel it more deeply than I do,"
said Mrs. Annesley, putting her handkerchief to
her eyes. "My poor aunt, and my dear uncle,
what a blessed thing it is that they did not live
to see this day! You may think me unfeeling,
Morton, but Adela there could tell you that I
have been really ill, and about nothing else but
this affair."
"I could as soon suspect a saint of being un-
feeling," said Morton, much concerned, but smil-
ing a little.
"Selfish, then, when I had only your welfare
at heart."
"You could not be selfish if you tried. But
I really don't see what my welfare had to do
with the matter."
No, he did not see in the least, and, what was
more~ Mrs. Annesley dared not enlighten him.
She knew how much he desired to own Morton
House, but she also knew that Morton House

would be worse than valueless to him if he once
suspected that it had been won by such means
as those she had not scrupled to propose to her-
self.
"I only mean," she hastily corrected, "that
neither you nor I can h~lp a woman who is so
utterly reckless that she will not help herself."
"And Pauline Morton?"
"Pauline Morton refuses absolutely to accept
any aid that we can give her."
"Refuses! How? Pray be more explicit, if
only in consideration of my stupidity."
"I don't see how I can be moreexplicit, Mor-
ton. She distinctly declines to give any explana-
tion of her singular appearance among us, of the
death of her brother, or of the absence of her
husband-indeed, whether he is alive or dead,
nobody knows. She looks as if she might have
walked through a furnace of fire, or been buried
alive and dug up again, or lived in garrets on
crusts of bread, or-or done any thing! And
she will neither receive her friends nor accept
any hospitality they offer."
Morton, who had risen from the table, was
now standing with one hand on the back of his
chair, and he did not speak for several minutes.
Then he said, slowly:
"Well, all this only proves that she has suf-
fered, nothing more. Surely we may respect this
suffering sufficiently to refrain from prying into
it. Can the gossips say nothing more of her
than this?"
"You can best answer that question," said
Mrs. Annesley, stiffly. "I am not likely to hear
what gossips say of my own cousin. But I think
it is more than ought to be said of anywoman."
"Mother, that does not sound like you,"
said her son, gently. "Remember how often
you have agreed with me that misfortune should
never be confounded with fault. We have no
right to suspect more than misfortune here."
"Not if Pauline had come back as her posi-
tion demanded she should come-with some guar-
antee for her past, and some regard for appear-
ances in the present.. Not if she-"
"In one word, if she had not needed your
friendship. Oh, mother, that I should hear such
social cant from yourj~,s! Her old associates,
then, would have been willing to extend their
hands to her, if she had not needed them; as
she does need them, they consider that a suf-
ficient reason for holding aloof. What a pitiful
world it is!" said the young man, with a sudden
scorn flashing into his face; "and how much It
is alike in every place and condition o~ life!

Aj

Mother, one more question, and I have done.
I am sure I need not beg you to answer me
frankly. Do you, or do you not, believe that
I;
Pauline Morton deserves the suspicion that
seems to have fallen upon her?"
Was ever diplomacy placed in a more trying
position than this? Reply in the affirmative
Mrs. Annesley could not, without a more daring
violation of truth than even her conscience
would allow; and, to answer in the negative,
would be to undo all her previous work. Clear-
ly, then, the only resource left was that of eva-
sion, and this she employed with commendable
quickness.
"Good leavens, Morton! How can you ask
inc to decide such a question, and about my own
cousin, too? You should be more considerate
of my-my feelings I"
"I am asking you to be considerate of the
honor of your name, mother," said Morton, half-
sternly. "Do you know what people will say if
you do not face that question and answer it bold.
"I must consult my own conscience, and not
what people will say," answered she, with dig.
nity.
Morton took his hand from the chair, and
made a quick turn up and down the room before
he spoke again. He stopped abruptly then, and
fastened his eyes on her face:
'Thea, mother, you, too, doubt this poor
woman?"
"Doubt her?" She hesitated a moment, but,
saw her way to no othcr answer than the truth.
"No, Morton, I do not."
"In that case, you consider her unjustly sus-
pected-do you, mother?"
There ~vas something truth-compelling in the
direct question, in the earnest eyes, and still more
earnest voice. Before Mrs. Annesley knew what
she was about, she had uttered a reluctant
"Yes."
But, even after this, she was not prepared for
what followed. She was a~tonishcd when Mor-
ton crossed the floor, rang the bell, and said to
the servant who answered it:
'The carriage."
The door had hardly closed before Mrs. An-
nesley cried:
'Morton, what does this mean?"
'It means," said Morton, "that I am going
cc our cousin, and that I hope you will ac-
pany me to urge her return with us to An.
nesdale."
His mother looked at him in silent exaspera-
4                 3

tion. If she had given way to her first impulse,
it would certainly have been one of fierce re-
proach, since anger was burning hotly enough in
her heart against this ungrateful return for all
her exertion. But one thing which she had
learned in life was the folly of paSsion. So she
curbed herself with the steady curb which long
habit had rendered easy, and answered quietly:
"I am afraid you must excuse me. Dr. Rey-
nolds expressly forbade my leaving the house
until he saw me again. Besides, Morton, since
you absolutely refuse to be guided by me in this
matter, I cannot think that I am called upon to
expose myself to another repulse for your sake."
"Another repulse :~"
"Yes, another repulse. I thought I told you
that Pauline has already declined the visit which
you wish me to urge on her a second time."
"Did you really urge it the first time, moth.
er?"
"Did you ever know me lacking in hospital-
ity? But, since you distrust me, go your own
way, and find who is right."
She spoke gravely, but without any touch of
pettishness; and Morton hesitated. Perhaps,
after all, she was right-perhaps, after all, he
was wrong. Who was so likely to be wrong as
himself, thought the young man, with the humil-
ity which was his most prominent characteristic.
Surely his mother was better able to judge of her
cousin than he who had never seen that cousin.
In trying to act up to the standard of his chivalric
creed, he began to fear that he had not only been
very obstinate, but also very foolish. So, after a
pause, he spoke quite humbly:
"I have never done such a~thing as distrust
you in all my life, mother; and I am sure I have
no desire to go my own way pimply because it is
my own way. If you think the invitation had
better not be given just at present, I am perfect-
ly willing to defer it. But that is noreason for
deferring my visit. Since you Cannot accompany
me, I am sure Adela will."
He looked at his sister as he spoke; and
Mrs. French shrugged her shoulders, as she an-
swered carelessly:
"Indeed, I would not advise you to be too
sure, Morton, for I have not an idea of doing any
thing of the kind."
"Why not?"
"Simply because I don't choose to."
"Adela 1" This was Mrs. Annesicy who
broke in with a tone half-warning, half-reproach-
ful.
"Well, mamma," w~is the saucy reply, "you


30                  MORTON HOUSE.

HOW A PALADIN STORMED A CASTLE.                31

surely don't think I am going to let Morton tyr-
annize over me as he does over you? When one
doesn't mind one's husband, one isn't likely to
mind one's brother-do you think so? He must
get him a wife, if he wants somebody to go with
him whenever he takes a fancy to visit super-
annuated beauties."
"I did not ask you to go as a favor to my-
self; Adela," said her brother, a little haughtily.
"So much the better," answered she. And,
at that moment, a servant opened the door and
announced the carriage.
"I was wrong," said Morton, turning to her.
"I do ask it as a favor to myself. Will you
go?"

"Not on any account," said the young lady,
with emphasis. "Nothing would induce me to
go. I hate disagreeable people-besides, the
Raynors and Irene Vernon will be here to din-
ner to-day, and I would not tire myself out for
the world. Ifyou will go, that is no reason.why
1 should be so silly."
U Have the car taken back, and my horse
brought out," said Mr. Annesley to the servant.
After this, there was ten minutes' rather un-
comfortable silence in the room. It was broken
at last by Adela, who had sauntered to the win-
dow, and, with admirable nonchalance, announced
the appearance of the hors~adding the gratui-
tous information that he did not look quite as
well groomed as usual.
"Probably not; those scamps grow careless
if I am~away from home a week," said her broth.
er. He turned to leave the room, saying to his
mother, "1 shalL not be back until dinner."
"But you must be back in iime for dinner-
don't forget that, Morton," she said, anxiously.
~ shall not forget it," he answered.
When the door closed on him1 Mrs. Annesley
drew a deep breath of relief; and looked at her
daughter, who was still standing by the window.
Their eyes met, and Mrs. French laughed.
"?oor Morton, how simple he is 1" she said
"I wondered you had patience to fence with him
so long, mamma. Do you think he means to
spend the morning at Morton House?"
Mrs. Annesley shook her head. "I wish he
did," she answered. "He means to spend it in
Tallahoma.
"Mamma," said Mrs. French, setting her teeth I
sharply, "I would make an end of that business,
if I were you."
"Suppose you could not, Adela?"
"As if you could not always do any thing you
waat to,"

"Morton is terribly obstinate."
"Morton is like wax in your hands."
There was a moment's silence. Then, not
very relevantly, as it seemed, Mrs. Annesley said,
"When does Irene Vernon leave'?"
"Not before New Year. You know she is en~
gaged to spend Christmas here."
"Yes, I know."
They said nothing further-but, after another
minute or two, Mrs. French kissed her hand, and
gayly waved it to some one outside the window.
"It is only Morton," she said, as her mother
came forward and looked over her shoulder. "I
am wishing him good luck."
They both watched the graceful rider out of
sight; and Mrs. Annesley, as she turned away
from the window, said, with a low and somewhat
bitter laugh, "Let him go. He will not be ad-
mitted farther than the door of Morton House."
-4--
CHAPTER VIr.
110W A PALADIN STORMED A CASTLE.
In all the sweet South there never was a softer
or more beautiful morning-robed in gorgeous
autumnal dress, and glorying in a lavish affluence
of balmy air, and golden sunshine, and draping
haze-than that on which the young owner of
Annesdale rode forth to try his fortune at Morton
House.
Shortly after leaving his own gates, he over-
took an open carriage full of ladies, who were
chattering gayly, and who burst into a chorus of
welcome when llderim's handsome head appeared
beside them.
"Mr. Apnesley! What a surprise!"
"Why, Mr. Annesley, where did you come
prom?"
"When did you come back, and how are
rou?"
Only one of the fair bevy-the fairest among
hem-said nothing; but she smiled and held
ut her hand; and neither the smile nor the
etion left any thing to be desired.
Mr. Annesley answered all the inquiries, and
changed all the civilities of the occasion; and
hen rode along by the side of the carriage, rest-
i~ one hand lightly on the door, while with the
ther he restrained Ilderim's eager impatience;
nd the stream of conversation flowed on in easy
ad lively current.
"You have been to Mobile, Mr. Annesley?"
sked the gay young chaperon of the party-

pretty Mrs. George Raynor, who had been a Miss
Vernon and a Mobile belle before she married,
and came to dazzle Lagrange with her beauty and
her fashion. "Oh, do tell us something about it,
for we are almost dying-irene and I-for news
of all our friends."
"With all my heart," said Morton, smiling;
"but where shall I begin? I was only in Mobile
foi a few days, and I scarcely saw any thing of
the people you would care to hear about."
"Ah, I care to hear about anybody," cried
she, with fervor. "And, if you did not see any-
body, just tell me what they are talking about in
the city. I wish I had known you were going,
I would have asked you to take a package to
Aunt Lucy-and, perhaps-to bring me a bon-
net back."
"You are glad she did not know, are you
not, Mr. Annesley?" said Miss Vernon, laugh-
ing.
Morton smiled only, in reply to the last ques-
tion, preferring, it seemed, to answer Mrs. Ray-
nor's remark "If I had not left home so hur-
riedly, you should have known," he said. "But
I did manage to 'see year aunt, and she charged
me with a great many messages to yourself and
Miss Vernon-the chief of which," he added,
turning to the latter, "I feel tempted not to
deliver."
"Is it so very disagreeable, then?" asked
she.
"It will not be at all disagreeable to you, I
am afraid; but she urges your speedy return to
Mobile, and that will be very disagreeable to
Lagrange."
"Lagrange will have to support the desola-
tion as best it can, and I have no doubt will be
able to endure it," said Miss Vernon, a little
coolly-thinking, no doubt, that the compliment
would have gained point and strength by a more
personal application.
Then a cry broke from the other two young
ladies, who were both Misses Raynor, plain in
looks, plain in manners, and therefore blindly
admiring the Vernon beauty, and emulous of the
Vernon style.
"Oh, Irene, you surely will not think of leav-
ing us!"
"Irene, that is VOV~J mean of your aunt, for
she knows you promised to stay until after
Christmas."
"Nonsense l" said Mrs. Raynor. "Irene
knows she is not going until I am ready to go
with her; and only George can say when that
will be-he is so provoking! Mr. Anuesley, I

do hope that when you are married, you will
treat your wife with some consideration."
"1 shall endeavor to do so, Mrs. Raynor,"
answered Morton, with mock-gravity-for all
Lagrange knew that George Raynor waS the
most thoroughly hen-pecked husband in the
county-" I shall come to you for instructions
how to act. But you have not told me what has
heen going on here since 1 left."
Nothing has been going on in any way,~~
said Mrs. Ilaynor.-" Irene, what have we been
doing ?-any thing at all?"
"Vegetating and yawning, I believe," an-
swered Miss Vernon. "But these principal
occupations have been varied by much gossip,
and a little scandal, lately."
"Oh, yes l" burst in Mrs. Raynor, with the
greatest animation. "Lagrange has been in a
perfect ferment of gossip for the last three
weeks, Mr. Annesley, about that curious Miss
Morton, or Mrs. Gordon, or whatever her name
may be, who has come back like a ghost, and
set everybody talking themselves hoarse. Qf
course you have heard of her?" (She did not
give him time to reply.) "For my part, I be-
lieve that she murdered both her husband and
her brother, and that she has come here to bury
her remorse, and give Lagrange a standing topic
of conversation. I am sure- Good gracious,
Lonisa, what is the matter? Is there a cater-
pillar on my bonnet?"
The inquiry was not entirely without reason,
for the elder Miss Raynor had been making
signals of silence and distress for the last five
seconds, without being able to at~raet her heed-
less sister-in.law's attention.
"No, indeed, Flora," she said, blushing with
that ever.ready and not always becoming blush
of eighteen. "But you surely forget-Mr. An-
nesley is related to-"
"To my murderess?" cried-Mrs. Raynor, ex-
tricating herself from the difficulty with the mer-
riest laugh in the world. "A thousand pardons,
Mr. Annesley! But you know how heedless I
am! I am sure I need not apologize for mere
jesting."
Mr. Annesley's face had taken an expression
which few people had ever seen upon it before.
A stern coldness transformed it so entirely that
the ladies exchanged glances of surprise and dis-
may. He bowed quite haughtily, as he said, with
gravity:
"Personally, I could not of course be of-
fended by what was not meant to touch my-
self. But I must confess that my ideas of

30

31


32                                MORT
'jesting' do not agree with those of Mrs. Th
nor."
"I am very, very sorry," cried that lad
eagerly, coloring a little, and slightly disco
scored by his manner aad words. "You mu
really forgive me, Mr. Annesley! I did not r
member at the moment your connection wii
Mrs. Gordon. Indeed, it never occurred to a
that you would care. Adela talks just as ever~
body else does."
"1 am sorry to hear it," said Mr. Annesle'
in the same tone as before.
"And, really," continued Mrs. Raynor, rall:
ing from her momentary embarrassment, and r~
covering her usual nonchalant gayety-" rcall~
Mr. Annesley, you are very unreasonable.
only repeated what everybody is saying. Pra
don't hold me accountable for the reports!"
Mr. Annesley's face relaxed into a smile-
rather grave, it is true-as he answered: "Yo
are right, Mrs. Raynor. It was unreasonabh
nay, it was folly in me 'to resent what is in it
self. so trifling a matter as these reports. Gos
sipsinust have something to talk about, of course
It is I who must beg your pardon for having for
gotten this."
"Why, Mr. Anneslcy, I don't know you!'
exclaimed Mrs. Raynor, astonished, annoyed, an~
amused, all at once. "I always thought you s
model of amiability; but you are not amiable at
present, I assure you. I did not know that you
had laid lance in rest, in Mrs. Gordon's defence,
or I should not have said a word. And, by-the.
way, don't flatter yourself that you are her only
champion. Irene has been doing battle in her
defence from the first."
"Have you?" said Morton, turning quickly
to Miss Vernon. "I hope you will let me ad-
mire and thank you for it."
"Pray don't," answered she. "I only heard
a woman assailed, and felt for her-that was
all."
Before the gentleman could reply, Mrs. Ray-
nor s light tones broke in again:
"I positively victimized myself by going to
church last Sunday in order to catch a glimpse
of this ghostly lady; and would you believe it,
Mr. 4nnesley, she did not come! I wonder if
she i~ver means to come? But somebody said
that a splendid-looking child, who sat in a pew
next the pulpit, was hers."
"Oh, yes," chorused the Misses Raynor,
"and zucli a woman with him! 1f you could
have aeca her bonnet! And, what do you think,
Mr. Annesley ?-she actually sat up and said her

ON HOUSE.

~y- beads all the time Mr. Norwood was preaching--
and that under his very eyes!"
ly, "She is evidently a Frenchwoman," said Miss
a- Vernon, "and of course a Catholic. No doubt
st she took that means to avoid joining in what she
'e- considered heretical worship.-Are you going,
~h Mr. Annesley?"
ic "1 am reluctantly compelled to do so," said
y~ Mr. Annesley, who had drawn Ildenim from the
carriage.dooi~, and himself from that soft contact
y, of silk and lace; that near neighborhood of a
slender, well-gloved hand; that faint, dainty fra-
~- grace of fresh millinery; that capricious parasol
i. fringe which was never still, and which would
~, persist in sweeping his face, and that subtle, in-
I tangible charm which, like an aroma, seems con-
y stantly exhaling from a lovely and well-dressed
woman-" I am compelled to do so-for here is
- Morton House, a~d to it I am bound. You dine
u at Anneadale today? Then you may expect a
~, full account of the wonders and mysteries within
these gates. Good-morning."
He lifted his hat-the ladies bent their heads
with a general flutter of plumes and ribbons--
the carriage swept on in a yellow cloud of dust,
and the young man found himself alone before
the gates of Morton House.
I Like his mother, he too felt, when those gates
closed behind him, as if he had entered an en-
chanted domain-a domain over the neglected
beauty of which there rested a mournful still.
ness, deeper and more pathetic than mere soli-
t~ide; where brooded a solemn air of repose,
and a subtle power of awaking thought and as-
sociation which we have most of us observed in
those places where life once ran riot, and from
which it has long since departed forever.
The young man involuntarily bared his head
as he rode slowly along beneath the drooping
trees; and patches of golden sunshine, flicker-
ing softly down, fell on the rich black curls and
the face that was subdued almost to mournful-
ness. There was to him an indescribable pathos
in the stately quiet around him. He thought of
the by-gone voices that had once sounded along
this avenue, of the gay hearts that had gone
their way brimful of life and joy, and the sad
hearts that had found even the beauty of~Kature
a weariness and a mockery-well, they were all
equally at rest now. He thought of the bright
children who had played beneath those trees;
and of the fair ladies who had dreamed sweet
fancies under their shade, or-who knows ?-.-
dropped bitter tears upon their mossy roots.
The sod lay het~vily enough over those Jorely

HOW A PALADIN STORMED A CASTLE.

faces now; and it mattered little whether they
had known most of the smiles or of the tears.
Then he thought how often his father had passed
here, with all manhood's brightest hopes stirring
at his heart, and all manhood's proudest resolve
in his breast-yet how little either the hope or
the resolve had availed to change his fate. Mor-
ton felt a bitter pang at the reeollecti~n of that
father who had gone so early out of his life, but
whose memory had ever remained with him as a
vision of all that was most noble in simple chiv-
alry-a lesson which had done more to mould the
boy's character than all the precepts of living
teachers. And he was going now to see the
woman whose fatal beauty had wrecked the hap.
piness of that father's life! He knew-every-
body knew-that Edgar Annesley had poured
out his love like water at Pauline Morton's feet,
and that she had scorned 'him as she scorned all
others in that proud heyday of her youth and
power. And now there seemed a retribution in
the fact that Edgar Annesley's son came forward
as her sole defender against the fickle world that
had once fawned at her feet. "It is the only
revenge he would have wished," thought the son,
placing, as he always did, the father in his posi.
tion. "But he would never, for one moment,
have considered it revenge, lie would have re-
garded it as a duty, and thought himself happy
in performing it. Ah, I shall never master the
whole essence of his knightly creed and practice
-he who was a very Bayard, and yet thought
that he only fulfilled the common duties of a
gentleman." And here, after all, had been the
great secret of that resolution which so much
surprised Mrs. Annesley. The young man had
set out in life feeling himself his father's repre.
sentative, and he had never felt this more than
when slander' set its mark on the woman his
father had loved. He had spoken to his mother
as a Morton; but his warmest interest in Mrs.
Gordon's cause rose from the fact that he was
an Annesley. There, indeed, rose his true ani-
mating impulse; and there was an anchor to hold
him steadfast through any opposition.
Suddenly, when he was ahout half-way to the
house, a sound broke on the stillness-a shrill,
childish voice that caused Ilderim to start and
prick up his satin cars with ominous haste.
When he had been brought to order, Annesley
was able to comprehend that words of alternate
entreaty and command. were apparently being
addressed to himself by some unseen person.
"Hol~! Monsieur! monsieur, come here!"
cried the voice, in a strange mixture of French

33

and English. "Pardonnez-moi, but that nasty
Babette-"
The rest was lost in consequence of a sudden
movement on Ilderini's part, which demanded all
his rider's attention. When this exigence was
passed, Morton stared about him in utter bewil-
derment, for "the silence was unbroken, and the
stillness gave no token" of any human presence
beside his own.
"Who is there?" he demanded at last--
sending his own voice in the direction from
which the other had proceeded. "Holloa !-
who is there?"
Thea the same childish tones replied, impa.
tiently:
"It is me-Felix Gordon. I wish you would
make haste, monsieur, for my arm is very tired"
Guided by the voice, Annesley now saw in
the grove on his right a small figure clinging
half to the trunk and half to the lower limb of a
large tree, and thus suspended fully fifteen feet
above the ground.
"Good Heavens!" he cried. Then, spring.
ing from his horse, one or two quick bounds car.
ned him at once to the foot of the tree, where
he perceived the peril of the child's position
more clearly. The limb had evidently broken
under him, and left him clinging with one hand
to a fragment of it while he braced his feet
against a gnarled knot of the tree, and thus par-
tially relieved himself of his own weight. But it
was only partially; and relief from the preca-
rious position was impossible without the aid
which bad so opportunely and so accidentally
arrived.
Morton did not waste any time in words. He
saw that the face which looked down upon him
was very self-possessed; but he also saw that it
was very pale, and marked the painful rigidity
of the attitude. He threw his gloves near a
small velvet cap that lay on the grass, and the
next moment was climbing the tree with the agil-
ity of a school-boy.
But when he began to approach the child,
he saw that caution was necessary, or he 'would
dislodge the boy's foot and send him crashing to
the ground, for he could do little more than steady
himself by his hand. Therefore, the rescuer crept
carefully on the opposite side of the trunk, hardly
allowing himself more than the merest clasp of
it, and, when he was once safe among the bou~hs,
ascended to a considerable height befor&amp; he
paused. Then, with extreme care, he descended
from limb to limb until he reached the one im-
mediately above the boy. There he seated him-


34                         MORTON HOUSE.                                                    HOW A PALADIN STORMED A CASTLE.                35

self~ and finding it secure spoke for the fin
time.
"Now I am going to draw you up to m
When I take hold of your collar, you must h
go the clasp both of your feet and your hnnc
Don't be afraid; for I shall not let you falL"
"Ma foil I am not likely to be afraid," sai
the boy, half-scornfully. "But, if you are goin~
to do it, you had better make haste."
Bending over, Annesley took a firm grasp ol
the clothing that encircled the soft young neck
and with one vigorous lift placed the child be
fore him.
His eyes were closed, and he was white t
the lips, so that at first Anneslcy thought h
had fainted. But the next Instant the fringe
lids lifted, and a smile of triumph came over th(
pale face.
"Babette said I could not do it; but I have
done it," he cried. "It was not my fault thai
the limb broke."
"It was not your fault," said Morton, kindly;
"but it was an accident which is likely to happen
at any time, and yea must not risk your neck in
this way again. I may not be within call next
time."
"No," said the boy. He glanced rapidly and
somewhat wonderingly over the face and form of
his deliverer. "I am very much obliged to you,
monsieur," he added, with the grand manner which
had impressed -even Mrs. Annesley. "But, je ne
vous connais pas-that is, I do not know you."
"I am your cousin," answered Morton, smil-
ing; " and my name is Anneslcy."
"Ahi" said the boy; and as he strove to
steady himself by altering his position, he gave a
faint cry of pain. "It is nothing," he said, quick-
ly, in answer to his companion's look of inquiry,
"only my arm-I hurt it."
"How?"
"When the limb broke. Ah, I should have
got down ifI could have used it-but I couldn't,
you know.~~
~' tet me see if it is much hurt," said Annes-
ley; and, after the child had unflinchingly borne
an examination, he pronounced it only sprained.
"The bone is all right," he said; "but you were
a brave fellow to hold on with one arm when the
other was in this condition."
"I'd have hurt both, if I had fallen," said hi~s
new acquaintance, with a half-comh grimace-
adding quickly, "but, monsieur, let us go
down."
"I have been thinking how we shall manage
that, and I don't see very clearly yet. This is

~t the first thing to~ be done." He drew a small
flask from his pocket, and held it to his com-
~. panion's lips. "1I$rink, my boy-it will burn
~t your throat, but never mind that-~you need
I. it."
The boy drank eagerly-far too eagerly, An-
cI nesley thought; for he soon drew the flask
~ away.
"That is enough-I don't want to unsteady
your head for the descent."
"Bah!" said the child, in the scornful tone
- which came so strangely from his childish lips.
"Bab, monsieur! Do you think I could not
drink twice that much, and be steady yet?"
"I should be sorry if you could," said An-
I n~sley, gravely.
The dark eyes flashed upon him suddenly.
"Pourquoi, monsieur?"
"Because it would show that you must have
had very bad training," said Morton, quietly.
"No child of your age ought to know the taste
of brandy-much less, drink it as you did just
* now. Who gives it to you?"
"Alas! no one now," answered the boy, with
candid regret. "Papa gave it to me sometimes
-but that was only to worry mamma-and St.
John gave it to mc very often."
"But surely your mother does not like it to
be given to you?"
The small shoulders achieved a Gallic shrug
which was simply perfect. "I should think not,
indeed, monsieur! Mamma will not even let me
drink a glass of wine-and IJabette, nasty thing!
always tells her if I do."
"Then, if I had been in your place," saidMor-
ton, impressively, "I would not haVe taken that
brandy, unless your mother had given it to you
herself."
The boy gazed at him wonderingly. "Mon-
sieur, why not?"
"Because I should have felt bound by her
wishes, especially as she was absent," said Mor-
ton, as gravely as befitted the character of Men-
tor, with which the occasion had invested him.
"A trust, my boy, is a thing which cannot he
held too sacred. Come, I see you are very sen-
sible, and I need not talk to you as I would to
most children-I can speak to you almost as if
you were a man. You mean to be a gentleman,
do you not?"
"I am a gentleman," was the quick reply.
"I am glad to hear you say so. Ilut do
you know what is the chief thing that makes a
gentleman? Not blood, not birth-they are good
in their way, but they won't do by themselves-

not any one thing so much as the capability of
being trusted."
"Mamma says so-but she is a woman."
"Well, I am a man, and I tell you the same
thing. What is more, I tell you that nobody who
bore the Morton name was ever lacking in this
capability. Look round! do you see all this,
which will be yours some day-these noble trees,
and those broad fields yonder? Well, the men
who owned all this before you were men who, if
a trust had been given them, would have held it
till they died-held it as you held that limb a
little while ago. You are a Morton in courage,
why not be a Morton in honor as well?"
The sudden question took his listener en-
tirely by surprise. He looked up-still with'
wonder-into the earnest face which bent over
him, as he said, slowly, "I am a Gordon, mon-
sieur."
"I know. But you are a Morton also; and,
whatever the Gordons were, the Mortons, at
least, have always been brave and loyal gentle-
men. I could tell you many a story about the
men of your name-and then, perhaps, you would
think that such a name was worth ~~aring.~~
"Tell me," said the boy, eagerly. "St. John
used to tell me about the Gordons; and I liked
to hear how they killed men and ran away with
women, and drank wine and brandy."
"Then I am afraid you would not like my
stories," said Morton, "for I have nothing of the
sort to tell you. The men of whom I 4eak never
did any of those things. They were simple, hon-
orable gentlemen, who lived quiet lives, but who
knew how to be true to their friends, to honor
their God, and to serve their country; but not
one of them would have put that flask of brandy
to his lips!"
Felix's large eyes opened widely. "Mon-
sieur! Did none of them drink brandy?"
"Oh, yes," said Morton, "I suppose all of
them drank brandy, and sometimes more than
was good for them. But none of them would
have done so if they had been put on their honor
not to do it by somebody who had a right to
exact such a promise."
Felix looked thoughtful. It was evident that
a new light had dawned on his mind-a light
very different, when presented by this handsome
young cavalier, to that which had been urged by
his mother. At last, as he did not speak, Annes-
ley broke the silence.
"Now, we must get down, or your mother will
be uneasy about you. Were you alone when you
climbed up here?"

"No; Babette was with me. She said I
should not do it, and I said I would--and I did!
~he tried to hold me; but she isn't strong,
though her arms are so big; and, when I kicked
her, she had to let me go."
"Who is Babette?"
"My bonne," answered the boy, with a gri-
mace. "St. John says I am too old-I shouldn't
have a bonne."
"But, as you have got one, you ought to treat
her properly. I am sorry to hear of your having
acted asyou did. Horses kick-not gentlemen."
"st. John says I ought to torment the life out
of her, and then she will go ~
~C And then your mother would get another,
perhaps a worse one. Who is this St. John?
He seems to have given you very bad advice."
"He was papa's secretary, and I liked him;
but mamma hated him."
"Then you certainly ought not to obey him
so well. Now let us move forward. How does
your arm feel 2-well enough to bear a weight?"
"N-.o," said Felix, regretfully. "What do
you want me to do
"I wanted you to clasp your arms round my
neck, while I go down the tree. But we must
compromise with yourf feet. Do you think you
can hold on with them? '~
The boy laughed. "It will be funny," he
said, "but I think I can."
"This way-let me lift you to my shoulder.
Are you firmly seated? Now, hold tight-take a
grasp of my collar."
"I'll do it."
And he did do it, with a vigor which threat-
ened strangulation unless their descent was very
speedy.
"Here we go!" said Mox~ton, gayly. "Pity
we haven't got an audience for this feat in gym.
nasties." And, lightly swinging loose from the
bough on which they had been perched, he clam-
bered down the trunk, without in the least seem-
ing to feel his burdened condition.
In less than a inmate they were standing on
the ground laughing together in friendly good-
fellowship. Ilderim had taken his departure
some time before, so the sylvan solitude was all
their own.
"Now for this arm of yours," said Morton.
"It must be attended to at once; and your
clothes are considerably the worse for, your mis-
hap. What will your mother say?"
The boy shrugged his shoulders. "She wiir
think of this,?' he said, touching his arm.
bette will scold about the clothes."'


86                        MORTON HOUSE.

THE ADELAIDE.                     37

"Oh, J'dare say you can hold your cv
against Babette. Is the avenue the short
way to the house?"
"No; I'll take you a shorter one."
They set forward amicably, talking as th
went. And, as they talked, it would be hard 1
say which of them conceived the most cordi
liking for the other. On Morton's side it wr
more than half pity, for he perceived the mon
perversion of the child's nature, and read plain
his reckless rebellion against the curb held ove
him by feminine hands. But he saw the element
of much nobility, together with the proofs of muc
bravery, and the latter in itself delighted him
The boy's face kindled when he spoke of heroism
and, if it did not kindle when he spoke of chiv
al~'y, it was because the principles of ehiva1r~
were foreign teachings to his mind-not be
cause the nature was incapable of holding them
Some sinister influence had plainly been at won
with him-some influence like that which ha~
marred many another gallant nature-and had
indissolubly associated valor with evil, and weak.
ness with good, in the~ boy's apprehension. Pride
of a certain sort had been duly instilled, but it
was very far from being pride of a right sort-if
indeed, there be a right sort. Annesley was
puzzled by the strange contradictions that un-
folded themselves before him. But he was more
interested than repelled, and he could not help
thinking how pleasant it would be to draw these
warped conceptions straight. Perhaps he was
something of a Quixote in those early days-too
prone to amateur philanthropy. But there was
that about him which caused most people to for.
give the failing; and, considering how soon such
inipulsive 'generosity is cooled and cured by later
y~ars, they could well afford to do so. His heart
yearned now over this fatherless boy-this boy
who was his own kinsman-an~jl even while he
talked to him of sports, and dogs; and horses,
and on all the topics most dear to a boy's fancy,~
he was mentally considering how he could gain a
sort~of4ght of tutelage over him. It all depended
on that unknown woman whom he was going to
meet-that woman whose sworn defender he had
already constituted himself; and he began to
feel more anxiety about her reception of him,
than he had suffered himself to entertain before.
This anxiety was soon set at rest; for, as they
came in sight of the Felix uttered an exela-
mation.
"There is mamma now, and Babette, too-the
horrid thing! They are coming after me."
"Go and speak to them, then," said Morton,

rn quickly. "They do not see you yet. Go at
st once."
The boy hesitated a minute; but, at the sec-
ond bidding, he went-speeding like an arrow
~y straight to the terrace-steps, which his mother
~o was hastily descending, accompanied by Babette
ii -the latter talking eagerly, with many gestien-
L5 lations-while a group of servants followed be-
d hind.
y Annesley advanced deliberately, an amused
r spectator of the scene which ensued of Babette's
s stormy outcries and reproaches, of the mother's
b passionate caresses, of the half-defiant, half-
L. triumphant story of Felix, of the interested ser-
, vants who brought their dusky faces near and
- nearer-and of the final moment when all eyes
~ turned toward himself.
-     Then he came forward more quickly, very
gallant and handsome in presence, very easy and
graceful in bearing, yet with a slight tincture of
embarrassment at the semi-heroism of his posi-
I tion.
*    Mrs. Gordon met him with outstretched hand,
and so warm a light in her eyes that he marked
none of the ravages of time, but only saw'that
they had spoken truly who called Pauline Mor-
ton's beauty without peer. "Oh, thank you,
thank you!" she cried in that soft and melo-
dious voice which had never yet failed to fasci-
nate an~onc who listened to it. "I owe my dar-
ling's safety to you! How can I thank you
enough!~~
"You must not thank me at all," said An-
nesley, bending to kiss the fragile-looking hands
that had grasped his own-and there was some.
thing very courtly in the action, though it was
one of unstudied impulse-" or you will make
me fear that you forget I have a kinsman's right
to serve you and yours."
She read his face all over with one glance of
her eyes, then spoke impulsively: "Ah, my kins-
man, indeed-for I see you are Edgar Annes-
Icy's son.~~
There was something in the tone which pro-
nounced his father's name that touched Morton's
heart to the quick-won it, indeed, for this
woman who had wrecked that father's happi-
ness. It seemed to him that in her voice there
was an echo of the admiring reverence, the re-
gretful tenderness, which always thrilled his own
soul when he thought of. that brief life and pre-
mature death-an echo he had never before heard
on any lip-not even his mother's. He feW that
one other beside himself appreciated the spirit
which had passed from earth without itS due

nieed of lasting honor; and an emotion of almost
passionate gratitude sprung up within him. Per-
haps Mrs. Gordon read the meaning of the swift
&amp;     change that came over the frank young face; for
she smiled kindly, and, laying' her hand on his
arm, said:
"Come. Let me welcome my kinsman to
Morton House."
And then Annesley found himself led forward
into the castle which had been declared impregna-
ble-a paladin, invested for the time being with a
sort of chivalric triumph, and quite the master
of the situation.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE ADELAIDE.
"Now, Katy," said Miss Tresham, in a tone
of authority, "you must say this lesson, my dear
-and you must not mumble the words so that
I cannot bear them, either. Take your finger
out of your mouth, and hold up your head. Now
begin-' A ~
"'A verb,"' drawled Katy, "'is a word
which signifies to be, to do, or '-to do-or-or
-is that all a verb signifies, Miss Tresham?"
"'To suffer,"' prompted Jack, in a loud
whisper, with his eyes fastened on the pages of
his arithmetic.
"Jack," said the governess, severely, "take
your book and go and stand up in the corner, at
the other end of the room. In a few minii~es I
shall see if you know your own lesson well
enough to be prompting Katy with hers. You
will have to learn a French verb after school,
for breaking rules.-Now, Katy, I will give you
one more trial. 'A verb is a word which signi-
fies to be, to do, or to suffer.' What~ next?"
Very well. Go on." For Katy, having de-
livered this much in a very loud voice, came to
a sudden, dead stop.
"'Verbs are-are of two kinds '-ain't they
of two kinds, Miss Tresham?"
"Go on, my dear," said Miss Tresham, with
severe patience.
"'Verbs are of two kinds,'" repeated Katy,
dubiously, as it' the statement was, in her own
opinion, a very doubtful one; and there she
paused, and fell to twisting the corner of her
apron.
"Hold your hands still, and go on, Katy,"
said the much-tried governess.

"'Verbs are of two kinds,"' repeated Katy,
once more, and apparently in a state of despair.
"'Verbs are of two kinds-positive, compara-
tive, and super-'"
Here an audible titter from the other scholars
was silenced by a look from the teacher, and a
well-thumbed grammar was held out to its owner.
"Take your book, my dear, and put it aside.
After school, you will have to learn this lesson.
Now, children, get your slates and let me see
your sums.~~
A slamming of desks and shuffling of books
ensued, followed by the appearance of various
slates, more or less covered with cipherings, all
of which were submitted to Miss Tresham. She'
took the one nearest her, and began casting up
the column of figures.
There was a temporary silence in the school-
room, for all eyes were anxiously following the
movements of the governess's pencil, and the
only sounds were her strokes on the slate, as
sh~ made her firm, round numerals, and the
swaying to and fro of some boughs before the
open window-boughs that wc faintly stirred
by a soft, southern breeze, and between which
the golden sunshine streamed across the school-
room floor, across Katharine's dark-blue dress
and bright brown head, across Jacl~'s darned
jacket, and Sara's neat check apron, and smooth
little tails of plaited hair. Unfortunately, how-
ever, this window was directly over the front-
door; and when a quick tread was heard advan~
cIng up the walk, and into the piazza, followed by
a knock which echoed through the house, there
'was an instantaneous end both of silence and at.~
tension.
"Hallo! who can that be?" cried Jack. "I
bet it's Tom Ford, come aft* his gun, Dick! I
told you you'd no business "
"Hush, Jack!" said Miss Tresham.-" Here,
Sara-here is the mistake in your sum. When
you added up this line of figures, you forgot to
carry there-"
"Miss Tresham, if it's Tom, mayn't I go and
give him his gun?" asked Dick, anxiously. He
had been listening with all his ears to the muffled
sounds below, but had failed to distinguish any
thing to set his mind at rest.
"I'll 'go and look over the banisters, an~ see
who it is," said Jack, briskly, and he made a
dart toward the door, but waa promptly arrested
by the governess.
"Come back this instant to your seat, Jack!
It does not concern you to know who iS down-
stairs.-Dick, if it is Tom Ford, your mother can

V

/ "'

M s


ii
f

p
T
01
ax

MORTON HOUSE.
have the gun given to him. Now, be quiet and "I did 'in. But mistis come out, and asked
attend to me. Five into thirty-eight goes how him to walk in, and told me to come up and tell
often?  I am asking you, Dick."            you he was here anyhow."
"Five into thirty-eight," repeated Dick, re-  "He must excuse me. I never see any one
moving his eyes hastily from the door, upon in the morning," Katharine said again, and re-
which they were fixed. "Five into thirty-eight turned to the lessonshe was engaged with.
goes '~
"It's Mr. Annesley," announced Katy, in a  The servant disappeared, and blank dismay,
loud voice,                                seasoned with discontent, settled over the ehil-
"flow do you know?" demanded Jack, ca. dren. They had been unusually trying during
gerly.                                     the whole morning, and this interruption left
"I heard him," she answered joyfully; and them almost unmanageable. They felt that Miss
she jayiped down from her seat, and ran to the Tresham's refusal to see Mr. Annesley was an
window. "Yes, it's Mr. Annesley-.-I see his outrage on themselves; and the perversity and
horse I-Oh, Miss Tresham, please let me go stupidity with which they revenged themselves
down I"                                    would have exhausted any patience less long-
"Take your seat," said Miss Tresham, briefly, suffering than hers. Perhaps it exhausted even
"and don't let me hear another word." hers; but, if so, she did not afford them the
"But he will go!" cried the child, turning gratification of seeing it. On the contrary, she
first red and then pale, "and I won't get to see sat, a model of quiet authority, and held them
him at all. Miss Tresham, please let me-."  unflinchingly to the task in hand; but is was of
"Katy, did you hear me tell you to take your so little effect that, when at last the welcome
seat?"                                     stroke of twelve told their release from  the
"But he will go!" repeated she, half-pas. school-room, only Sara. was able to close her
sionately, half-entreatingly.              looks and take her departure.
"Ba-a!    Now, cry like a baby about it,"  "The rest of you are kept in," said Miss
said Jack.                                 Tresham, looking at her watch, "and it, will
"I'll cry if I want to!" was the angry re- depend on yourselves whether you get through
tort,                                      in time for dinner. If not, I shall leave you
"I don't think you will," said Miss Tresham, here, and send some bread-and-water up to you.
quietly. "If you don't come this instant to your -Jack, take Levizac there, and study 'moudre'
seat, I will lock you up in the closet." for recitation; Katy, go to your grammar; now,
Katy gave a great gulp; but she knew the Dick, let me see if you are still unable to cipher
battle was an unequal one. ~he remembered out this sum."
sow often she had got the worst of similar en- The threat of bread.and.water was not with-
~ounters, and she moved slowly and sullenly tow- out effect on Dick's hitherto obtuse brain, giving
srd her chair. When she was fairly seated, Miss to it a sudden insight into multiplication and
rresham turned ag~n to the arithmetic, division which it had lacked before. With little
~tDick, you have not yet told me how often further trouble the sum was worked out to Miss
lye goes into thirty.eight."               Tresham's patisfaction; and, when he had seized
"seven times, and three over," responded his cap and scampered off, she was able to turn
)iek, who had, meanwhile, been ascertaining the her attention to the other delinquents, who still
act by the aid of isis fingers. sulked in different corners over their respective
"And how often does-"                   grammars.
"Tap, tap, tap," at the door-which was They found the struggle which they had pro-
romptly thrown open b~ Jack, before Miss yoked a very hard one; for the young governess
~esham could utter a word. A servant stood stood steadfastly at her post, and never flagged
ataide. "Mr. Annesley's down-stairs, ma'am," in word or sign all through the weary hour which
e said, addressing Katharine. followed. A very weary hour it was, and, when
She looked up and frowned 'a little, the dinner-bell pealed through the house, she was
"Whom did he ask for?" looking pale and exhausted, though the battle
"For you and mistis both, ma'am." was fought and won. The two valiant chain.
"Tell him he must excuse me. I never ~ee pions had just finished their recitations, and
sy one in the morning. You know this, Tom. were looking quite crestfallen as they put away
rhy diiln't you tell him so at once?" their books and closed their desks. Katharine

THE ADELAIDE.

did not even have time to smooth her hair, or s
add a single adorning touch to her plain morning- I
costume. Mrs. Marks was very punctual herself;
and liked punctuality in other people, especially I
with regard to meals; so, with one deprecating
glance at the little school-room mirror, Miss ~
Tresham ran down-Stairs.
As she saw Ilderim still standing beside the
front gate, she did not need the sound of a cer- I
tam ringing laugh, which came through the open
door, to tell her that Ilderim's master was in the I
dining-room. The next minute she was shaking
hands with him.
"See how forgiving I am," he said, with a
smile. "You refused to see me, and I not only
wait your pleasure, but I encroach on Mrs.
Marks's hospitality without the least remorse.
Have you been victimizing those poor children
forth last hour on my account?"
"The matter lies just the other way," she
answered. "It is they who have been victimiz-
ing me on your account, until I wished that yon
had timed your visit better. I make no apolo-
gies for not seeing you. I believe you know my
school-hours."
"I do know them; but I thought you
might relax your rule for once, since I have
been away so long. However, Mrs. Marks
was kind enough to see me, and has enter-
tained me so well that I did not find the time
long."
"Indeed, then, Mr. Annesley, you must be
fond of hearing about children and chickens,"
said Mrs. Marks, with a good.humQred laugh;
"for I don't remember talking about any thing
else. I felt sorry for you, but I knew there was
no use in going after Miss Katharine. She never
will come down in her school-hours."
"And you're quite right, Miss Kate," said
Mr. Marks. "Work is work, and play is play,
and, in my opinion, the two should never be
mixed up together.-Mr. Annesley, Let me help
you to a piece of this duck.-Bessie, what is
that you have before you?"
"Some beef of my own corning," answered
Mrs. Marks, with all a housekeeper's pride.-
"Mr. Annesley, you must take some, and tell me
what you think of it."
Mr. Annesley accepted a mammoth slice, and,
with commendable industry, ate a considerable
portion of it, praising it the while highly; it is to
be hoped, sincerely.
Then the conversation turned upon the dif-
ferent methods of corning beef, and a grave dis-
cussion ensued, in which Morton acquitted him-

89

elf with credit, and much pleased his host and
hostess.
These good people, though even to their own
hearts they would not have acknowledged such a
hing, were not a little flattered by the attention
vhich it had lately pleased the young owner of
~nnesdale to show them-attentions the source
~f which they were shrewd enough to suspect,
ut which in themselves were no slight tokens
)f distinction, as distinction was reckoned by
~he Tallahoma world. Already more than one
mvious friend had said to Mrs. Marks:
"How often Mr. Annesley comes ~to see
foul"
To which Mrs. Marks replied, quite indiffer-
ently:
"Yes, he is so fond of the children, and
Richard likes him very much."
Therefore, although she sometimes had seri-
ous doubts concerning what was to be the end
of his evident fancy for Miss Tresham, she could
not find it in her heart to discourage his visits.
"He is such a gentleman-there can be no
harm in it," she once said to her husband, when
she felt an unusual qualm on the subject; where-
upon honest Mr. Marks answered in his way:
"Harm, indeed I What harm could there
be? I'll warrant him for a gentleman-Edgav
Annesley's son couldn't well be any thing else-
but, even if he wasn't, I should think Miss Tres-
ham was old enough, and had sense enough, to
take care of herself."
On the understanding, therefore, that Miss
Tresham was old enough, and had sense enough,
to take care of herself, Mr. Annesley's visits had
not been discouraged. Indeed, he was so bright
a visitor that it would have been hard for any,
either gentle or simple, to close their doors to
him.
As he sat at the table now, it was wonderful
how he managed to adapt himself to the tone
of his entertainers. Often gay, always pleasant,
and invariably courteous, he talked household
economy to Mrs. Marks, polities to her husband,
and nonsense to the children, with an ease that
amused Katharine. There was none of that
offensive air of "You see I put myself on your
level," which some people assume when they at-
tempt this kind of thing; but, on the contrary,
such a frank charm, such an art, or rather such
a gift of throwing', not a pretence, but a reality
of interest into every thing he touched, and such
a happy power of enlivening the dullest subjects,
that the most sensitive person could not have
found a shade of patronage to resent. He proved
4


40                                MORTON HOUSE.
so entertaining that even Mr. Marks lingered over the passage and entered that gloomy solitude
the meal, which was usually a very business-like known in the Marks household as "the par.
ceremony; and, when at last he rose to go, apol- br."
ogized for his departure.                     A very gloomy solitude it was, for the chil-
"I am sorry to say that I must be going," he dren were strictly forbidden to eater it, and,
remarked, with genuine regret. "But I leave being used only on state occasions, it had none
you to the ladies, Mr. Annesley, and I don't cx- of that air of comfort which pervaded the rest
poet you'll miss me much." of the house. The stiff horse-hair chairs were
He knew perfectly well that his young guest ranged with regular uniformity against the walls,
had not come to see him; but he could not rid while a long sofa, with hard back and harder
himself of an idea that it was "impolite" to seat, occupied a position on one side of the lire-
leave him in this way. place, where a brass fender, polished to the ex-
But Morton replied that, though he was sorry treme of brightness, enshrined two equally bright
to lose Mr. Marks's company, he had no doubt andirons and a paper screen of wonderful device.
the ladies would manage to take care of him. Over the mantel there was a bouquet of flowers,
And, as the bank was in need of its cashier, which bloomed all the year round (under a glass
Mr. Marks said good-day, and departed.     shade), a pair of silver candlesticks, a pair of
Immediately thereupon Annesley turned and empty vases, and various similar articles, ar-
looked at Katharine, who was still seated at ranged with due attention to mathematical pre-
- /        table, showing Nelly how to eat rice~pmid~ng  vision. A round table occupied the centre of
without sharing it between her dress and the the floor; and on this reposed various books in
table-cloth:                               gorgeous bindings-chiefly standard devotional
"What do you say?" he asked, with a smile, works. In a corner stood the piano, and near it
"Will you accept the responsibility?"      a stand on which lay a music portfolio hearing
"Is it a very heavy-one?" she inquired. "I Katharine's name.
expect-nh, Nelly, see how you have spilled that  The owner of this name gave a slight shiver
spoonful !-I expect to be equal to. it, Mr. Annes- as she entered the sacred apartment, and, in-
icy, if you won't ask too much in the way of en- stead of proceeding directly to the piano, she
tertainment."                              walked across the floor, and opened one of the
"fr will only ask one thing," said he-for closed windows. "No, no; not that one," she
they and Nelly had all that end of the table to said, as Annesley moved toward another, with
themselves, as Mrs. Marks was at the moment the manifest intention of following her example.
giving some order to one of the servants at the "If you open that, it will let in the sunshine; and
ether, while Jack and Dick squabbled Over a Mrs. Marks will not allow such a thing, for fear
custard in the middle,                     of fading the carpet. Though, I am sure," added
"Well, and what is it?"                 she, with a comical glance at the vivid hues
"That you will let this child alone, and come spread under her feet, "I think the carpet
*        and sing something for me. I have not heard  would be much improved by a little fading.
any good music in auch a long time. Not However, that is all a matter of taste. Now,
since-.'                                   what shall I sing?"
"Since when?" she asked, as he paused.     "My old favorite," said Morton, lifting the lid
"Since I heard you last," he answered, with of the piano. "You know what that is."
grave sincerity.                              She smiled, sat down to the instrument, and,
Katharine laughed, and made him a little softly touching the keys, began to sing the "Ade-
bow.                                       laide" of Beethoven~that most pure, most ten-
"After such a compliment, I should be very der' most spirit-like strain that ever breathed in
ungrateful if I could refuse.-Mrs. Marks, will immortal tones the common story of our coni-
you come with us to the parlor?"           mon human love! And as she sang it-as the
"After a while, my dear," said Mrs. Marks. glorious notes of the great master soared aloft in
*       "But don't wait for me.-You, Jack I - you, her rich young voice, as all the sordid things of
Dick !-.Tom, take that custard from both of life seemed fo fade away, and all earth to grow
them."                                     more lovely in the divine glory of that tide of
A stormy scene ensued, in the midst of which sound-it was not strange that the passion which
~A~ncsley and Katharine made an escape, shrug- is ever fed by such strains' as these deepened o~
ging their shoulders in sympathy as they crossed the mobile face beside her until one glance would

THE ADII

have told her the story of his heart, without
any need of words.
But she did not give that glance. When
the song ceased, when her voice fell into silence,
and the last vibration of those mournfully pas-
sionate cadences had died away, she made an
effort to speak lightly; and, without taking her
eyes from the keyboard, said, "Will you please
look in that portfolio and find me the Ave verum?
I will sing it for you to-day, though I could not
do so the last time you asked me."
Half.mechanically, he obeyed-glad 'of a mo-
ment's time in which to collect himself before
the words were uttered that he now felt impelled
to speak. Temptation had gone so far, that he
could resist no longer. Whatever might be the
result, he must lay his heart at this woman's
feet, and tell her that it was hers to accept or
reject. That magic song had stolen away all ha
most steadfast resolves; for he had never intend-
ed to declare himself thus prematurely. He al-
ways had meant to make a formal demand for
his mother's consent, and then to woo the girl
he loved as if ske had been the one whom Fortune
placed so far above the other! It was always the
way of the gallant gentlemen who had borne his
name-if poor and humble the maiden whom
they loved, they sought her with more state than
if ~he had been the highest in the land. So,
Morton had meant to come, when he offered his
hand to Mr. Marks's governess; but the sudden
force of passion was too strong for him. Words
suddenly rushed to his lips, and in another mo-
ment Annesdale and all its belongings would
have lain at Katharine Tresham's feet, if Fate
had not intervened.
But, turning over, with absent mind and
careless hand, the sheets of music, he came to
a copy of the song he had just heard, the song
which had stirred every fibre of his heart-the
sad, passionate, beautiful "Adelaide." As he
took it up, there fell from between the leaves an
open letter. He caught it, as it was fluttering
to the floor, and almost unconsciously his eyes
fell on the first lines. They were written in a
man's hand, and stood out black and clear on
the white paper.
"Mv DEAREST KATUAnINE: I am terribly un-
certain whether this letter will reach you, but at
* least-.-"
This much Mortoxi could not avoid seeing-
more than this, he did' not read. Indeed, the
hot, sharp pang which shot through his heart

LAIDE.                               41
sent a mist to his eyes which jvould have pre-
vented his doing so, if he had felt such a thing
possible. Then he strove to steady himself.
Might not Katharine, for aught 'he knew, have
brothers, uncles, cousins, a dozen relations, from
whom such an address might naturally be per-
mitt~d? What a jealous fool he was! He
would speak to her immediately, and her first
look would show him his folly. So he did speak
-with just a slight quiver in his voice to betray
his anxiety.
"Miss Tresham."
Katharine turned quickly, and,' as her glance
fell from his face to the open letter in his hand,
Morton's heart gave a great bound-then sud-
denly stood still.
For she did not smile in recognition of a
friend's epistle, nor blush that rosy red which
greets a lover's missive; she did not hold out
her hand or utter one word-she only turned
ashen pale, and shivered from head to foot as if
with a sudden chill. There was an instant's
pause: then Morton spoke hastily, as if eager
to relieve a possible fear.
"I found this a moment ago, Miss Tresham.
Do you leave your letters where any one might
find and read them?"
She did not answer-only held out her hand
toward him.
"It may not be of importance," he went on;
"but still "
"It is ofimportance," she broke in, passion-
ately. "To think that I should have left it here!
I must have been mad I"
She took the letter, and, walking to the fire~
place, struck a match, set it on fire, and watched
it burn until the last fragment was ashes. Then
she shivered once more from head to foot. "I
must have been mad!" she repeated.
And there was something in the tone and
action which settled like ice upon the man who
loved her-the man who, a moment before, had
wellnigh asked her to be ha wife. He could
sooner have put his hand into the fire she had
kindled than ask that question now. Not that
any suspicion of any kind had entered his mind
against her, but simply that he felt chilled to'the
very heart. The women who had always made
his ideals of the sex werO women mntct 'whose
stainless lives there entered no pages that all
the world might not read; and not a 'worldling
of the world held more firmly than this chivalric
but most fastidious gentleman the great maxim
of the world, "Distrust secrecy.~~
So, when Mrs. Marks bustled in a few mm-


42                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                    M. WARWICK MAKES AN OFFER.                 43

utes later, her advent was a relief to him as ii
as to Katharine, and, for the half-hour which
sued, that good woman had all the burden of c~
versation on her own shoulders.
Then Mr. Annesley found it was time to g
so he made his adieux and took his departure
riding very slowly from the gate where lider
had stood so long, and unmindful of the wisti
glances sent after him by poor little Katy, who
heart had been set upon a ride..
When Katharine was left alone in the park
her first act was to go and toss over the litt
~feathery heap of ashes on the hearth, to see th
no end of paper remained. Then she raised h
face with a weary sigh, half of relief; half
pain.
"All gone!" she said, aloud. "But Gc
only knows when that may come to me which
can never, never cast from me, as I now ca~
these ashes!"
-4--
CHAPTER IX.
MR. WARWXc~ MAKES AN OFFER.
Az.rxn that day~ the Marks household saw n~
more 9? Mr. Annesley for some time. Even i
the walks which Katharine regularly took witi
the children, they ceased to meet him, as ofter
before; and they might have thought hirnabseni
from home, if'they had not seen him occasionally~
ride past on his way to and from the village~
Katy mournedd this sudden desertion faithfully
but even for Katy's heart there proved at last to
be a balm in Gilead, and it came in this way.
Between the well-cultivated fields which Mr.
Marks called his own, and the stately Morton
woods that stretched to meet them, and bore the
Morton name for many a long aiiile, there lay a
strip of land belonging to the latter, which, hav-
ing been "thrown out" for years, had made that
place dear to every child's heart-an old field
where broom-straw and young pines disputed
possession with blackberry-bushes and wild fruil~.
trees; where strawberries by bushels were to be
found in spring, and sweet, delicate wild-flowers
bloemed in profusion; where the boys of Talla.
hom~ came when they wanted to arrange strictly
px*ate'racing or shooting matches; where there
wasaiways a ring ready for amateur circus per-
fo~tue~~s; where there was a " branch"' in Which
minnows and crawfish abounded (not to speak
of the best p~ssib~e mud for mud.pies), and
where the Marks children spent as much time,~

4
0
1

reIl the whole year round, as was left at their own
en- disposal.
)n- One day they came home from this favorite
resort full' of momentous intelligence-they had
o; made a new acquaintance. When the name of
- this new acquaintance was heard, the interest of
mm the elders was scarcely inferior to that of the
hi children; for it was Felix Gordon-the little
se prince, as people began to call him, on account
of his proud young beauty and grand young man-
ir, ners.
Ic "And he's downright jolly, mamma," cried
at Jack, in his vociferous way. "I thought he was
er a baby, you know-having a great big nurse
f following him about all the time; but he isn't
a hit of a one. And he says he hates her; and
d he says she ain't going to mind him any more."
I "But he's got a boy that follows him now,"
~t said Dick; "and he orders him about just as if
he was a man."
"But' I thought his mother kept him so
close, he was never allowed to see anybody?"
said Mrs. Marks. "lie must have been there
without her knowledge."
"He says he can go anywhere he pleases
now, provided this boy goes along with him,"
) answered Jack, whosevolubilitymade him spokes.
man for the party, whether the others would or
1 no. "He says Mr. Annesley talked his mother
into 'lowing it; and he says he's going to have
a pony soon as ever Mr. Annesley can find one
for his mother to buy."
"And he says I may ride it!" broke in Katy,
determined to have an utterance on this point at
least.
"My daughter!" said her mother, reproving.
ly. "I hope you were not such a forward little
girl as to ask him."
"Oh, no, mamma; he promised me his own
self."
"Oh, did he?" cried Jack, sarcastically.
"Well, I reckon he did-after you'd been hint.
ing like forty! She told him she liked riding,
mamma, and she kep' a-telling 'him so, till he
was 'Wgecf to ask her. Yes, missy, you know
that's so!"
"I don't," retorted the little lady, angrily.
-"' 'Tain't so, either, mamma; he asked me his
own self."
"Why didn't he ask Sara, too, then?" in-
quired provoking Jack. "She's a great deal
prettier than you are-you stuck.up, forward
thing!"
"He did ask me," said Sara's quiet little
voice.-" He turned round and asked me just

after he asked Katy, mamma; and just like he
was a grown-up gentleman. But 1 told hina no,
I was much obliged to him, but I was afraid of
horses."
"And that was what Katy ought to have
told him," said Jack, looking severe reproof at
Katy.
"But I ain't afraid of horses," cried she,
indignantly; "and I oughtn't to have told a
story.-Mamma, he is so nice. Mayn't we
please go to see him ?-he asked us."
"Yes, mamma, he asked us-mayn't we 1"'
chorussed all the rest.
But of this, Mrs. Marks would not hear.
"You may go to see him, if he comes to see
you," she said; "but otherwise-Certainly not."
With this condition, the children were obliged
to be content-trusting to their new acquaint-
ance for its fulfilment. But their new acquaint-
ance either would not or could not fulfil it. He
met the little Markses every day in their favorite
place of resort; and every day they brought
home more wonderful accounts of Felix's say-
ings and doings; but Felix himself never a~-
peared.
And so the Indian summer came gradually
to an end; the soft, blue haze faded from the
landscape; a few fierce storms tore all the
bright leaves from the trees; and Winter-at
least as much of winter as the fair South ever
knows-was seated on his throne. His first act
of power was a nipping frost, accompanied by
such a "freeze" as had not been known in that
region of country for a fabulous number of years
-a freeze which, to the amazement of every.
body, spread a sheet of ice over a small mill-pond
near the town, and put all the boys of Tallahoma
figuratively on their heads, and literally on their
backs.
In the new field of amusement thus opened,
neither Jack nor Dick were behiadhand; and one
day they joined in begging Miss Tresham to
come and witness their prowess. "Sara and
Katy want to see some skating," said the boys,
who were not bad brothers as boys go; "and
mamma says they can't come out to the pond,
'less you'll come too, Miss Tresham. Please,
do- it's such fun."
go~d
"Is it?" said Miss Tresham. "But it is
cold fun, too, for people who don't skate. Have
you got a fire out there?"
[ "Oh, the biggest sort," cried both boys,-in a
~ breath. "And we'll make it up splendid, if
1you'll come, Miss Tresham."
sa Tresham looked doubtfully out, of the

window. It was certainly cold; but the boys
rere anxiOuS; Katy and Sara looked unutterable
hings; she herself felt that she needed exer-
~ise; and, then~-the wind was not blowing!
Phat is such a great point in a climate where
itill cold can never be very dreadful.
"Do you want to g~ very badly?" she asked,
rith a smile, of the two little girls.
And they-who knew by that smile how
bheir cause was won-answered, eagerly: "Oh,
ycs'm; oh, Miss Tresham, indeed we do!,,
"Very well, then; we will walk out after
Elinner. And as for you "-she shook her finger
at the two young skaters-" if you deceive mo
about the fire, I will never trust either ~f you
again."
They made the most effusive promises, the
two young scamps, who were secretly burning
to be oiL "Never mind, Miss Tresham, I'll
see about it," said Jack, grandly. "I'll make
them bring heaps of pine-knots, and they shall
all be put on when you come.-But, I say, Dick,
look sharp-it's time we were off."
"Off!" echoed the governess. "Are you
not going to wait for dinner?"
"We can't," said both in a breath. "But
Mom Judy promised to have us a basket ready,
and we'll eat it on the road." (Theydid not
mean the basket, but its contents.) "Don't
change your mind, Miss Tresham.-we'll look
for you."
"You shall see me," answered she. "I hope
you will enjoy yourselves."
They had the grace to thank h~ir; and then
were off, running down the passage, leaping down
the staircase, as if the fate of a nation depended
on their speed; and filling the house with that
stir and clatter, that healthful noise and pervad-
ing sense of vitality, which only the presence of
boys can diffuse.
After they were gone, Miss Tresham and her
two young charges drew near the school-room
fire, and waited for the sound of the dinner-bell.
It came at last, breaking in upon the oft-told
story of the "Fair One with~ the Golden Locks;"
and they went down together, the children claim-
ing each a hand of their young teacher, and mak-
ing quite a pretty picture when they entered the
dining-room.
At least, so a gentleman thought who was
standing before the fire with a paper in his hand,
and at sight of whom Katy burst into an ercia.
nation.
"Why, unky! I thought you never came to
dinner."


44                                MORTON HOUSE.
"I have come to-day, at any rate," said he. dinner-table," said Katharine; "but the poor
"Do you mean to say you are not glad to see bushes are melancholy sights now. Did you
me?"                                        notice them as you came through the garden, Mr.
"Oh, yes, so glad-ain't we, Sara? But, Warwick?"
unky-"   Here a sudden pause, and a tiptoe     "Yes," answered Mr. Warwick.     "Your
peeping into "unky's" coat-pocket.          cloth-of-gold buds, especially.  The frost did
"Well?" said he, apparently unconscious not spare you even one."
of this fact.                                   Mr. Annesley'll send her some prettier how-
*        But Katy was too busy for speech. She had  ers," remarked Katy. "He always does; and I
detected a brown-paper parcel in that receptacle, like them better than ours."
and she was bow intent on an abstraction of the  "No doubt of that, you true daughter of
same-a design very well favored by Mr. War- Eve!" said Mr. Warwick, who had sufficient dis-
wick's deep interest in politics. Then came a creation to remove his eyes from Katharine's face,
shout.                                      and transfer them to the saucy little speaker.
"Oh, Sara, look! Mamma-Miss Tresham-. "It would be all the same, too, if we had the
look!"                                      japonicas, and Mr. Annesley sent the roses.-.-
"French candy, I declare!" said Mrs. Marks. What is it, Bessie?"
"John, you really ought not to be so extrava-  "Do come to dinner," said Mrs. Marks, who
~ant. You ruin these children."             had finished piling the ham  before her with
*             "Oh, mamma, it's so nice!" said Katy, with  well-cut slices, and was at leisure to observe
a crystallized fig in one hand, and a rose-flavored thftt the leg of mutton, at the other end of the
triumph of confectionery in the other.      table, had ceased to steam. "Richard, you are
"So nice, is it?" said her mother, severely, surely warm by this time?"
"And pray, where arc your manners? Have "Moderately," said Mr. Marks, as he left the
you offered Miss Tresham any ?-or even your fire with a regretful sigh and went round to his
uncle? No; you need not do it now". (as Katy seat, which had two comfortable sluices of( air
penitently gathered up the paper in her two little blowing upon it from two ill-fitting windows.
hands), "I hear your father's step on the piazza, After his short grace was finished, and he be-
and dinner is ready.-Tom, put that candy on the gan to carve the leg of mutton, he observed the
mantel-piece."                              absence of Jack and Dick.
"May I have it as soon as dinner's over, "So those young scamps are off to the pond
mamma?" asked Katy, watching, with regretful again!" he said. "I wonder they don't kill
eyes, the elevation of the candy.           themselves. Everybody seems pond-crazy! All
'~ Yes, you may have it; and I hope you will Tallahoma has gone out on a general jollifica-
offer the rest of us some," said Mrs. Marks, tak- tion."
ing her seat at the head of the table. "I am   "We are going, too, papa," cried Katy, eag-
fond of candy myself.-Well, my dear, it is cold erly. "Miss Tresham is going to take us this
*         out-is it not?"                   -         evening "
This was addressed to Mr. Marks, wIlo, com-  "Is she?  Well, I'm sorry for Miss Tresham,
ing in from the outer world with the state of the then. I know you little ones have tormented her
thermOmeter written legibly on his nose, made into it."
straight for the fireplace.                    "No," said Miss Tresham, speaking for her-
"Cold! I should think so, indeed," he an- self, "I shall really enjoy the walk. How far is
sw~ered, "Almost cold enough to nip a man's it to the pond?"
ears. I never saw such a spell of weather but  "A  good two miles," said Mr. Warwick
once before in my life."                    "Rough miles, too; so I would advise thick
"And that was not in December, 1 am sure," shoes and warm wrappings,"
said Mr. Warwick, surrendering possession of the  Dinner went off in short order; and, when
hearth-rug.                                 it was over, the children ran for their cloaks and
"No; I never saw any thing like it in Decem- hoods without demanding the candy, which Mrs.
her before," answered Mr. Marks, standing with Marks suggested should be taken along and
hi~ back to the firO, and critically sCanning the feasted on beside the pond.
table over his wife's head. "Our mild weather  "Wrap up your best," said Mr. Warwick,
always lasts until after New-Year."         with a smile, as the young governess rose to
"Last Christmas we had garden rosea~m the follow. "I shall stay here to see-and admire,"

MR. WARWICK MAXE~ AN OFFER.                45

he added, when the door had closed on her.-
"What a pretty creature she is, Bessie!"
"And as good as she ~s pretty," said Mrs.
Marks. ~nthusiastieally. "The children love the
very ground she walks on; and, if ever I had
a lucky day in my lire, it was the day I met
Katharine Tresham."
The table was cleared oft; draped with its
bright-crimson cover, and wheeled into its ac-
customed corner; the last plate and goblet
whisked away to the pantry, the fire replen-
ished, the hearth swept, the cheery dining-room
looking the cheeriest, when Katharine came in
again.
She found Mr. Warwick the only occupant
of the room-Mr. Marks having gone into town,
and Mrs. Marks into the kitchen. It was that
important era in housekeeping known as "hog.
killing time," and the lard and the sausages ab-
sorbed Mrs. Marks almost as much as the pig-
tails and the roasting thereof distracted the chil-
dren. Katharine uas not surprised to find her
gone, but she was surprised to see Mr. Warwick,
who looked up from his newspaper as she en-
tered.
"Ready?" said he. "I gave you thirty min-
utes, and you have only taken fifteen. Well-"
with an amused glance from her bontiet to her
shoes-" I think you can safely defy the weath-
er."
"I think I am ridiculously wrapped up," an-
swered she; "but panics are infectious. You
have all been talking about the cold till I de-
luded myself into a belief that it must be Sibe-
ria; while the truth is, that I opened my window
just before I came down, and it is absolutely
pleasant."
"So much the better for your walk, then.
But I think you'll change your mind when you
are once out-of-doors."
Just here there was a rush. in the passage
outside; and the two little girls flashed into the
room in their warm cloaks and bright-crimson
hoods. Then came an outcry.
"Why, Miss Tresham's all ready, and we
don't have to wait-how nice!"
"Katy, don't forget about the candy."
"Unky, please hand me down the candy."
"Do it up tight."
"Miss Tresham, please tie this knot. I can't
get my gloves off."
"You little torment!" said Miss Tresham.
"flow can I do it when I have my own gloves
on? Ask Mr. Warwick."
"Unky, please."
4

"I suspect Miss Tresham could do it better
with gloves than I can without," said "unky."
But he tied the knot very deftly, neverthe-
less; and then slipped the package into his
pocket, much to the astonishment of Katy and
Sara, who raised a frightened cry of expostula-
tion.
"Unky 1"
"Oh, that's Indian-gift!"
But the Indian-giver turned quietly to the
governess.
"May I go along, if I promise to show you
the best road, and not to promote any disturb-
ances?"
Katharine looked surprised.
"Are you in earnest, Mr. Warwick?"
"To be sure I ama in earnest," said Mr. War-
wick.- "I came home for the purpose of taking
these little ones out; but they will enjoy yo)ar
company more than mine. Only, as I don't like
to break up my day for nothing, may I go
too?"
"Of course, you may. - Children, do you
hear? Your uncle is going with us."
The afternoon was dazzlingly bright when
they went out into it; and Mr. Warwick was
soon forced to acknowledge that Katharine's
judgment of the temperature was better than
his own. Being bright and still, the atmosphere
had softened very much, and seemed~ to them
almost mild as' they walked in the full glow of
the winter sun.
"This will be the last day of skating," said
Mr. Warwick. "Indeed, I doubt if the ice is
safe now. I think I shall stop Jack and Dick
as soon as we get there."
"Even if the ice broke, is the water deep
enough to drown anybody?" asked Katharine,
to whom a mill-pond did not suggest any thing
much to be feared.
"It is not less than twelve or fifteen feel in
depth," said her companion. "I used to swim
in it when I was a boy, and I know it well-be-
sides, the waters are very full just now. On the
whole, I think those young gentlemen had better
rest on their laurels."
"If there Is any danger, yes, indeed. But
we can't stop themanow; so please don't let us
talk about It and make ourselves uncomforta-
ble."
They did not. On the contrary, they talked
of other things much more agreeable. Mr. War.
wick could not help feeling that many a man
might have envied him his position, and that
there l~iid seldom been a lighter form or a


46

MORTON HOUSE.

brighter face than the one now walking beside self-love which-let us disguise it as we may, is,
and smiling upon him; while Katharine, for her after all, the root of most of our discontent. We
part, had never been one of-the girls who can think too highly of ourselves and our own deserts.
find little or nothing to say to a man who is not If we would only try to recognize ourselves as we
young enough or foolish enough to be converted really are, we should feel so ashamed of our re-
into an admirer. indeed, these two had been pining that I think we would be content ever
friends in a certain reserved but sincere fashion afterward to take whatever God is good enough
ever since the young governess entered the Marks to give us,' and leave the choice of good or bad
household. She was often more nearly approach. fortune to Him."
ing the confidential with him than with any one "Do you speak from experience?"
else; and they fell into something of n personal She smiled a little.
strain now as they walked along the rough foot. "Can't you tell that? One reads such things
path, and tri ulAed thetneelvcs rio more about hi books, hut one only leams them in one's own
the children than just to keep their crimson heart. It seems to me it is always easy to tell
hoods in sght. whether it has been read or learned."
"Yes, I pity you," Mr. Warwick was saying, Mr. Warwick did not reply; and they walked
"and all the more because you don't seem to on silently for some time, no sound breaking the
pity yourself. If you were discontented, prob. stillness save the echo of their own tread and the
ably I should not trouble myself to sympathize children's merry tones floating back through the
with you. But, as it is, I 'think very often that clear air. Just here their road was through a
you have a hard lot for such a young person." pine-fcrest; the tall, straight trunks rose on
"~anypeople younger than I am have a every side; the deep, sombre green stretched
much harder one," said Katharine, quietly. away far as the eye could view; the ~oldeu sun-
"Does that never occur to you? It always does shine streamed with a mellow brightness through
to me." the stately arcades; and, although there was
"But not people who seem so essentially born only a slight breeze stirring the tree-tops, the
and fitted for other things."              sound above their heads was like the distant
"What sort of things do you mean?"       murmur of the sea. It put Katharine strangely
"I think you know. Wealthluxury, the in mind of the ocean; and, together with the
appliances of refinement, the power of being soft carpet of pine-straw under their feet, and
generous-for I think you would be generous the aromatic fragrance of the forest around,
if you had the power-and of putting your tal- came back to her afterward-recalling that after.
ents ~o some better use than their present one." noon, and giving its events a picture-like distinct-
A flush came over the girl's fac~ as he spoke, ness in her memory. At last Mr. Warwick said,
but died away before he finished., thoughtfully:
"That is the way my own vanity speaks to "It is not even as if you had been born to
me sometimes,'1 she said; "but I never listen to this sort of thing."
such suggestions. I go and get Dick's sum, or "But I was born to it," she answered, quickly.
Sara's exercise, and drum away the phantom with "All my life I knew that some day I must earn
the rule of three or the evocative case.'1 my 'own bread. That was the reason why my
"But it comes back?"                     aunt-my dear, kind aunt-was so careful to
"Yes, sometimes. Then there is nothing to educate me thoroughly. She could give me noth-
be done but to face it boldly, and ask myself if I ing besides an education."
am really so weak and vain as to think myself Almost before he had time to' consider the
better than the millions who have toiled to their incivility of the question, Mr. Warwick' had
lives' ends, more humble and more unknown asked "Why?"
than I am~ if better talents than any of mine "Because she was an officer's widow, and her
have not gone dowu into the dust soundless; pension ended with her life," Katharine answered.
and if".-her voice sank slightly here-" I am "But, while she lived, I had a very happy time
wiser than He who orders our lives for us from -and, after that, it did not matter."
their beginning even to their end."           Her voice choked, as she uttered the last
"And then?" words; and her companion did not need to
".4Lhd' then I think that I cannot be suf- glance at her,'to know why she drew down her
flei~tly grateful for all the blessings my life has veil so hastily. He gave her time to recover
kn~a; and I try to crush down the vanity and herself, and then said, kindly:

'I

"Courage. ilemember how young you are.
Happiness may come to you yet, in the form you
like best."
"And what is that form?"
He shrugged his shoulders slightly, as he had
a habit of doing over any knotty point of legal
evidence.
"I may be mistaken, but it seems to me you
would like best the happiness that could give
you all those things of which you have so keen
an appreciation - pictures, music, amusement,
and the admiration which all women value so
highly.t'
"I certainly like all those things," said Kath-
arine, with a little sigh; "but I assure you, I
can live without them and be happy too. No,
Mr. Warwick, you have not hit upon the one great
gift which Happiness must bring in her hand
when she comes to me-or else not be happiness
at alL"
Mr. Warwick looked at her intently. Did
she mean Morton Annesley's love, he wondered.
If so, why did she speak of it thus frankly to
him? It was not like Katharine Tresham to
do so. "Tell me what it is?" he asked.
The clear, gray eyes-pure and truthful as
God's noonday-met his own, as she answered,
quietly: "It is the gift of peace."
After that, nothing was said for several min-
utes. Katy came dancing back with a spray of
holly which was duly admired, and which, at
her request, Katharine fastened in her brooch.
Then, after she ran forward again, Mr. Warwick
spoke:
"Miss Tresham, I am going to say some-
thing which may seem impertinent, but which, I
trust, you will take as it is meant-in simple
kindness. I have noticed, for some time past,
that you have not been quite yourself, that you
have grown thin, that your spirits are less even
than heretofore, and that some trouble is evi-
dently preying upon you. Is not this so?"
Katharine caught her breath, paling percep-
tibly. "I hoped no one had noticed it," she
said.
"I am sure I may safely say that no one but
myself has done so," he answered. "I atn a
very close observer-Nature gave me the habit,
and my profession has taught me its importance
-but you are a very good dissembler. The trifles
in which you have betrayed yourself were light
as air; but the driftwood shows the direction of
the current, you know. I did not need to hear
what you said a moment ago, to convince me
that something is wrong with you. If it is any

47

thing ideal, I can do nothing for you; but if it
is any practical trouble, such as comes to 'us all
sooner or later, why, I trust you believe me to
be your friend."
"Yes," she said, simply; "I am glad to be-
lieve it."
"And I am glad to hear you say so; for
I have watched you closely, ever since you
entered my sister's house, and I have never yet
known you to trifle with truth. That, first, made,
me like you, I think-for, of all virtues, it is at
once the greatest and the rarest. If you believe
me to be your friend, there is not much more t~
add. A woman-even a woman as brave as 'you
are-is such a helpless creature in the world, that
she is often made to suffer acutely through her
weakness and her ignorance. In any emergency,
therefore, I hope you will remember that my ser-
vices are at your command."
"Thank you," said Katharine, lifting her face'
toward him, with a grateful light shining over
it. "You are very kind, and there is no one to
whom I would as soon go. But-" she paused a
moment, and added, slowly-" I must bear my
burden alone."
He turned and looked at her. The light had
faded, and the young face seemed to have hard-
ened into a self-contained power of endurance.
The mouth was set, the eyes were resolute, and,
as she met his glance, she repeated her words in
the same tone:
"I must bear my burden alone."
"I cannot help you?"
"No. You are very good; but only He who
laid it on me can take it away."
Again they walked on silently; and the'law~
yer felt half inclined to indulge in his quiet,
cynical shrug. "It is Annesley, after all," he'
thought. "What a fool I was to suppose it could
be any thing else-and a still greater fool to
make such an offer! The very pine-trees might
afford to laugh at the idea of my playing confidant
and console~ in a love-affair!"
Then he glanced at the face beside him, and
felt again a sudden conviction that itwas not An-
ne~Iey-not any cross in love, or ordinary heart-
disaster-which brought such a look of suffering
and resolve to those earnest eyes. An impulse
hardly to be accounted for, and not at all to be
analyzed, made him suddenly extend his hand,
and place it on Katharine's arm.
"One word more," he said. "You are en-
tirely unprotected byany friend or relative; this~
fact must excuse the request I am about tomake.
Will you promise to come to me if you ever stand'

4

MTh WARWICIC MARES AN OFFETh


48                                MORTON HOUSE.
in greater need than you do at present of service bright shawls were laid over the roots of trees
or advice?" to form impromptu easy-chairs, gay, scarfs and
Katharine paused and looked at him wi~t. hoods dangled from the boughs, the golden sun.
fully. "Mr. Warwick," she said at last, "I can. shine streamed over all with a glory and beauty
nQt promise what I am never likely to per. entirely its own, ai~d the majestic forest stretched
form." around in its solemn grandeur.
"You mean-?"                               Katy and Sara darted forward, while Miss
"I mean what I said before-that I can only Tresham and Mr. Warwick followed more slowly
carry my burden to God, and He only can release ~toward the nearest tire. As they approached,
me from it."                               two ladies and two gentlemen, who were stand-
The keen lawyer-glance regarded her earn. ing directly in front of it, drew back, and Ka.
estly-searching, perhaps, for some shadow of tharine found herself facing Mrs. French, Miss
shame or fear-but it only found a steady dig. Vernon, Mr. Annesley, and a stranger whom she
nity on the pale face, and an open candor in the had never seen. Neither of the ladies noticed
eyes that looked brave enough to face death it. her, excepting by a stare-well-bred on Miss
selfiunflinehingly. Vernon's part, ill-bred on Mrs. French's-but
"You are strong-for a woman," he said, Morton bowed as if to a grands-dame, and the
after a while; "but your hour of weakness may other gentleman gave a glance of the most un-
come. I hope you will remember, then, that my disguised admiration.
offer still holds good."                       "What a pretty woman, Annesley!" Katha.
"Yes," she answered, quietly, "I will remem- rine heard him say, after she had passed. "It
ber it with gratitude." can't possibly be one of the Tallahoma belles."
There was nothing more to be said. They Annesley's reply was inaudil3le; but its tenor
resumed their walk, and, after a minute, fell into was easily to be surmised, from the long
other topics-talking until they caught a glimpse "Whew!" which' was his companion's com.
of frozen water shining through the trees, and ment, and which, evidently, would not have
Katy called out, joyfully: been the only one if Mrs. French had not
"Here we are I here's the pond!"         broken in.
"Here is the pond, certainly; but here are "Quite a nice person, too, I have heard-
not the skaters," said Mr. Warwick, glancing that is, for her position. She has something of
over the sheet of water which lay all silent and good style about her, don't you think so, Irene?
glittering before them. "They must be. lower I wonder where she got that pelisse-the cut of
down-nh I yes, I see them now. This way, Miss it is excellent. But look at the fur on it-rca!
sable, my dear, as sure as you live. What very
He led the way around a small headland, for bad taste-for her!"
the outline of the pond was very irregular, and "Why for her, Adela?" asked the blnff
a picturesque scene burst suddenly upon them- frank tones that were certainly not Morton's.
a scenevivid with color, and bright with animated "Why shouldn't she wear a pretty thing as
motion, 'set in the midst of the winter landscape. well as other women? I suspect she needs all
This p~rt~on of the -pond was alive with skaters the consolation that pelisses and furs can give
in every. stage of proficiency and non-proficiency, her."
One or tWo seemed at home on their skates, a "Don't talk so loud, Frank, and don't be so
fewmauaged to keep their feet andinove with a silly," was the unceremonious reply. "Pedple
tolerable degree of ease; but the vast majority ought to dress according to their rank inlife, or
were hopelessly sliding about, and ignominiously else what's the good of there being ranks in
falling down every other minute, to their own dis- life? 'For my part, when I see anybody dressed
cozetiture and the immense amusement of the so absurdly, I feel as if I never wanted to put
spectators on the shore. These spectators were on a handsome thing again."
not by any means contemptible in point of num- "I wish you would stay of that mind,"
bers, for three large fires were blazing as only laughed the gentleman. And Katharine felt
lightwood can blaze, and grouped around and certain that he was the legal possessor of all
about each were knots of young people, chil. Mrs. French's pretty toilets, and all Mrs. French's
dren, and servants. In the background stood long bills I
several empty carriages, and quite a goodly array "Shall we go over to the next fire?" asked
of horses. Camp-stools and baskets abounded, Mr. Warwick, whose face looked amused and

THE GORDON PLAID.                   49

contemptuous both at once "I think it is bet-
ter than this."
Katharine assented, and they moved away,
just as Miss Vernon's clear tones sounded with
quite a bell-like distinctness.
"I think a pretty woman has a right to
adorn her beauty to the utmost of her power,
wherever she may be placed. That is one right
of the sex for which I shall always be an advo-
cate, Adela."                          I'
"But the working-classes, Irene-"
"We are not speaking of the working-
classes," interrupted the other, with a very cool
disdain in her voice. "We are speaking of a
member of a liberal profession, I thought. I
hear that Miss Tresham is very charming, and
for a long time I have had a fancy to know her.
-Mr. Annesley, you are a friend of hers; will
you introduce me?"
"With pleasure, Miss Vernon," said Morton,
coloring quickly "I shall be very glad to do
so, if you are in earnest."
"Of course I am in earncst.-Adcla, won't
you come also?"
"I?" Mrs. French drew back in astonish-
ment. "Irene, you are surely jesting-you are
surely not going to be introduced to Mrs.
Marks's governess ~
"You will see," said Irene, with a slight
nod and a merry laugh. "Carry her to the car-
riage if she faints, Frank.-Mr. Annesley, may
I take your arm?"
CHAPTER X.
TUE GOUDOK rLAID.
Tns latter part of this conversation Katharine
had not heard. She had moved away to the
other fire, and was talking to Mr. Warwick about
~Jack's skating. So her surprise was entirely un-
affected when Annesley's voice spoke her name,
and, turning, she saw him standhg close beside
her, with a beautiful, golden-haired vision lean-
ing on his arm.
"Miss Tresham," he said, hurriedly, "allow
me to present Miss Vernon. She is anxious to
make your acquaintance, and-"
"Hopes you do not object to having it
taken by storm," interrupted Miss Vernon, offer-
ing her hand. "You must excuse me, if this
is an unceremonious proceeding, Miss Tresham;
but I am very anxious to know you, and I hope
you do not object to knowing me."

It would have been hard to do so under the
influence of that gracious smile-for Irene Ver.
non could be very gracious when she chose-and
Katharine answered, with her usual simplicity
of word and tone:
"You do me too much honor, Miss Vernon.
I am very glad to know you"
"Are you?" asked Miss Vernon. "Is not
that speech a mere effort of courtesy?"
"It may be an effort of courtesy," answered
Katharine, smiling; "but it is true, also."
"Then I may congratulate myself upon mak-
ing a favorable impression for once in my life,"
said the young lady. "People don't usually~ike
me when they first know me; in fact; some of
them don't ever like me at all."
"Don't they?" said Katharine, amused at
'this frank confesaion~ "That is strange; for I
should think you would always be liked."
"Are you always liked?"
"Well-really, I don't know. But I think I
am rather popular-at least with these." And
she laid her hand on Katy's curly head.
" Their good-will is not worth ~ said
Miss Vernon, carelessly. "It is so cheap-a few
sugar-plums will buy it."
"And won't different sugar-plums buy the
good-will of older people just as easily?" asked
Morton, abruptly.
"So you have turned cynic!" said Miss Ver-
non, glancing round at him. "I thought you
left 'that to mc."
"Doh't slander my favorite objects of trust,
then," answered he, laughing. "I must be-
lieve in children, or in nobody.-Katy, don't
you mean to come and kiss me?"
While Katy, nowiBe loath, went to bestow this
favor, Miss Vernon turned with a shrug to her
new acquaintance.
"I wonder if he thinks that child would like
him if he were poor and ugly?"
"She likes me," said Katharine, smiling,
"and I am neither rich nor beautiful."
"You are lovable, though, and that is bet-
ter than either," said Miss Vernon, with a slight
sigh.
Katharine looked up in surprise; but, be-
fore she could answer this unexpected conipli-
mont, the young lady had turned to MTr War-
wick, and was asking him if he meant to skate.
"I?" he said, laughing. "What hat'o I
done, Miss Vernon, that you should suspect me
of such an indiscretion?"
"You have worn a pair of skates, Mr. Wae.
wick; for t heard Mrs. Raynor say this morning


THE GORDON PLAID.                    51

50                               MORTON HOUSE.
that John:Warwick-isn't your name John ?- so slenderly fashioned, and every movement of
was the only person she ever saw who seemed at every limb was so harmonious with the spirit
home on the ic?2'                         of the whole, that, aided by the floating curls
"Twenty-five years ago, the compliment may and waving scarf; it almost looked as if the
have been merited; hut I hardly think I need wind wafted him over the ice. He soon be.
blush for it now."                        came fully aware of his own skill, and began to
"Have you forgotten how to skate?"     indulge in vagaries quite impossible to the novice
"I don't know. I have not attempted it in this slippery amusement. He made wide cir
since I was a boy."                       des, then swooped suddenly upon some knot of
"Ah, pray try [" said the young lady, with inexperienced amateurs, scattering them to the
the air of one who was not accustomed to ask right and left out of his path, and generally
favors in yam, "I never saw skating before, leaving two or three prostrate behind him; he
and I am so anxious to see at least one good seized the hand of some unlucky trembler, and
skater 1"                                 carried him forward at a rate which soon left him
"You would see a very poor one, if I were so breathless in a waste of ice, with no hope of re-
foolish as to expose my awkwardness," said Mr. turn, his malicious guide having taken flight to
Warwick, smiling,                         another quarter; he snatched some half-dozen
"Who can skate, then? None of those peo. hats, and made for the centre of the pond, scat-
plc out yonder can, unless skating
thing."                     g is a very ugly tearing them broadcast on his way; he indulged
in solitary waltzes and ballet-like pirouettes; he
"Annesley ought to," said Mr. Warwick, played a thousand antics for his own amusement
glancing at that gentleman, who had drawn and that of the many eyes watching him; and
near andwas talking to Katharine. "He spent then he suddenly darted away down the pond.
four years at a German university, and they  "Oh, I hope he is not going out of sight l"
learn skating as well ~s metaphysics there."  aaid Miss Vernon, with a very genuine tone of
Miss Vernon turned to Morton, as if intend- regret. "I never saw any thing more beautiful.
ing to speak, and then as hastily turned back Do, somebody, make him come back. Mr. An-
again.                                    nesley, I believe he is under your charge-please
"He would not thank us for disturbing him speak to him."
now," she said. "Look at those people out yon-  "Speak-to whom?" asked Mr. .A.nnesley,
der, and tell me who you think gives most prom- turning. "I beg your pardon, Miss Vernon, but
iso of learning to skate."                I did not hear - has Felix been doing any
Her companion looked as she directed, and at thing?"
once singled out a child with floating, blond  Miss Vernon replied by pointing to the slen-
curls and a plaid scarf, the fringed ends of which der figure and floating scarf which were already*
fluttered in the wind as he skimmed along the vanishing round the headland. "You are the
ice,                                      only person whom he has not been entertaining,"
"I cannot tell from here who it is, but there she said.
is no one else to compare with him," answered  "Good Heavens!" cried .Annesley, "and I
Mr. Warwick. "He skates as if he had been promised his mother th~t he should not venture
boi'n in Russia."                         on the ice! How could I have been so careless;
.&amp;nd don't you know who he is?" cried his -Felix, come back! Felix [-don't you hear?" -
companion, eagerly. "Why, I thought every-   Felix paused a moment, as the clear voice
body*-Iuiew him! That is the little Gordon- came ringing oyer the ice; showed that he heard,
4on't yen see? He looks as if he might have by waving his hand with a gesture of gay de-
been bor~i rn the purple."                fiance, and then showed that he did not mean to
Mr. W~rwiok said, "Indeed!" And then heed, by coolly continuing his onward course.
they both watched the elfin skater, who only a In another moment he had vanished from sight
few minutes before had, made 'his appearance on around the jutting point of land.
the ice. He was, indeed, without peer; the very  Miss Vernon laughed---.she evidently sym-
spirit of grace seemed to animate his motions, pathized with the bravery of this open rebellion
and his skating was such as is never seen out - while Mrs. French, who was standing by,
of a northern latitude, and of whichthe inhabit- shrugged her shoulders significantly.
ants of southern latitudes can f9rm, at best, but "People can't manage to conduct a flirtation
a fanit conception. The lithe young figure was and take care of a child at the same time," aba

said to her husband, in a tone sufficiently audible
for Morton to hear.
But Morton took no notice of the remark.
He only turned round to the by-standers, and
asked if anybody could lend him a pair of
skates.
Unfortunately, nobody was able to do so.
Skates were very scarce articles, and whoever
was so fortunate as to own a pair1 lent them to
his friends by turns-an arrangement which re-
sulted in the temporary possessor being worried
out of all his enjoyment by two or three impa-
tient candidates who wanted to know "if he
meant to keep going all day, or if he didn't
mean to give anybody else a chance to do some
skating?" Therefore, all shook their heads
when Morton made his request, and several
voices replied that Tom Jones had a pair of
skates, but that Frank Smith was using them.
"What do you want to do, Mr. Annesley?"
Katharine asked.
"I want to go after the little scamp," Annes-
Icy replied. "I ought to have paid more atten-
tion to him; but how could I think of his play-
ing me such a trick, when he knew, too, that
only my persuasion induced his mother to let
him come?"
"This is very ungrateful conduct, then."
"Is it not ?-Katy, run yonder to that knoll,
and see if he is coming back."
Katy obeyed, bounding up on the rising
ground at the headland, where a stately group
of young pines stood like sentinels; and, in a
few minutes, returned with the intelligence that
he was coming back.
"You will not need to go, after all," said
Miss Vernon to Annesley.
"That remains to he seen," he answered.
"I don't much think he will come to shore of
his own accord.-Thank you, Price." This to
a young man who handed him a pair of sluites
over two or three intervening shoulders. Then,
while he sat down to buckle them on, Felix came
bearing back into sight-a more beautiful pie.
ture than ever, all alone in his childish grace on
the glittering expanse of ice.
"Oh, the little darling!" cried several enthu-
siastic young ladies; while the boys of all ages
stared in open-mouthed, admiring wonder of his
skilL
"Is he coming to shore?" asked Morton, who
could not see, partly because he was sitting on the
ground, and partly because several people were
standing before him. Two or three voices an-
swered the question-not very satisfactorily.

"I think so."
"No, he isn't."
"There he goes-he's oft' again."
"That's splendid! That is skating!"
"He's bound up the pond this time."
"Yes," said Katharine, to whom Morton
looked inquiringly. "He certainly has no inten-
tion of coming to the shore. He is going up
the pond at a rapid rate."
"lt's a pity somebody' can't make him come
back," said a man's voice near. "All skating is
something of a risk to-day; but the ice is very
unsafe in that direction."
"Are you sure of that, Mr. Mills?" asked
Morton, starting to his feet.
"Very sure, sir," answered Mr. Mills, grave-
ly. "My wagon was hauling ice from there this
morning, and I don't think it would have borne
the weight of a man then."
Morton made no answer, but Katharine saw
that he changed color, and immediately swung
himself down the bank, which happened to be
quite high just there. The next minute he was
gliding over the ice with a swift, steady case of
movement which proved his own proficiency
quite equal to that of Felix. A chorus of ad-
miration followed him; but the young man evi-
dently heard none of it. He was bending every
nerve in pursuit of the gay little will.o'.the-wisp
who fleeted forward all the faster when he per.
ceived that a chase had been instituted. Away
went the two figures up the pond, the pursuer
steadily gaining on the pursued, and both near-
ing fast the dangerous ice of which Mr. Mills had
spoken. Once Annesley paused and uttered
something half-warning, half-command; but the
young insurgent paid no attention to it, and the
only result was that it lost Morton several yards -
of distance. When he started again, however,
he seemed scarcely to totich the ice, and the in-
terest of the spectators had reached a very ex-
citing point when a cry of mingled dismay and
triumph rose from a knot of boys on the water's
edge.
"He's got him!"
"No, he hasn't!"
"Hurrah! He's slipped away!"
"Well done, little one!"
And Katharine looked in time to see Felix
dart out of the grasp Morton laid on him, and,
shooting under the outstretched arm, skate away
faster than ever, leaving only his scarf as trophy
in the disappointed captor's hands.
"Well done, indeed i" cried Mips Vernon,
with a ringing laugh of enjoyment. "I am so


52                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                          AT MORTON HOUSE.                       58

glad he got away. I should be so sorry if
ended. It is better than horse-racing, and
adore that! Who will make a bet ?.-Adela, wi
you?"
"Certainly not," replied Mrs. French, severe
ly. "I think it is disgusting. Morton ought t
have more dignity than to make such an exhibit
tion of himself. I really think-"
But Miss Vernon was already speaking ti
Katharine.
"Miss Treshamn, will you? As many pairs ol
gloycs as you please on the Gordon plaid."
"Do you mean Mr. Annesley?" asked Katha
rine, laughing. "He has the Gordon plaid ni
present."
"No, indeed; I mean on the rightful ownei
of the Gordon plaid. Bless his brave little
heart? Where is he now I"'
"Yonder he is," said Mr. Warwick, who wam
standing by, a quiet and much-interested specta.
tor. "ilut Almesley is gaining very fast upon
him; so perhaps you had better not register
your bet just at present. See! he almost laid
hold of him. There, now he has doubled again.
After .J), you may-my God!"
A sudden wild cry from Mrs. French-a mur-
mur of horrorfrom the erowd-and out on the ice,
where there had been two figures a moment be-
fore, only-one.
This was a terror-stricken child, while, where
the ice had broken through, there still floated
one fringed end of the Gordon plaid. On the
shore, a rush, a commotion, a sound of many
voices, and a lady in violent hysterics.
Katharine never knew much of what ensued.
She heard Mr. Warwick's tones take the lend,
and bring aome quiet out of the uproar; she
saw a confused mass of men and boys dash
across the ice with a reckless disregard of dan-
ger, and she sat down sick and shuddering to
await the result.
Miss Vernon sat down by her, Neither said
any thing, yet there is no doubt that each was
conseibus of the presence of the other. Mr.
French, meanwhile, had left his wife to get out
of her hysterics as best she could, and had gone
to the rescue with the rest; so, finding nobody
to take any notice of her, she somewhat sub.
sided, and stood sobbing and asking questions
which it was impossible for any one to answer
yet.
To those watchers on the shore it seemed
hours, but it was in reality only a short time be-
fore the many strong arms which broke up the
ice and buffeted the water so bravely, gained

t their reward-before they raised to the surfitee
I and bore shoreward, with a rush of triumph,
11 that which seemed so awfully still and white
when they laid it down at Katharine Treshaza's
feet.
o     They said it was not Deatb, but she could
scarcely believe it was Life, when she looked at
the pale face with the wet hair clinging round
' it,'and at those rigid hands which still grasped
the silken scarf.
But, even while she looked, there came a
long, gurgling sigh through the half.parted lips
- -the lids slowly lifted-the dark eyes gazed up
at her pitying countenance as if in a bewildered
dream-and her name was spoken with that ten-
der, yearning accent which would make any name
of earth beautiful.
"Katharine!"
Then, before sh~ could utter one word, they
closed again, and Mr. Warwick said:
"He has fainted!"
A little while later, after Mr. Annesley was
sufficiently recovered to thai~k his rescuers,
to answer all the inquiries of his friends, to
enter his carriage, and be driven home, Mr.
Warwick came up to Katharine, and asked
her if she felt inclined to perform a deed of
charity.
"It depends a good deal upon the amount of
exertion required," she answered, with a smile.
"Iam a little tired. But let me hear what it
Is.
He pointed to Felix, who stood at a little dis-
tance the centre of an admiring group, and quite
as nonchalant as ever~
"I promised Morton to take that young gen-
tleman home, and to give as mild a rendering of
his exploit as is at all consistent with truth. Rut
I begin to doubt my diplomatic ability. I think
you could do him more service than I; and, in
short, I want you to take the matter off my
hands. Will you?"
Katharine looked slightly aghast.
"Mr. Warwick, Iwould be glad to oblige you,
but-but I am a mere stranger---and Morton.
House!"
"That is the very reason why I ask you,"
said Mr. Warwick, coolly. "Considering all
things, I think a mere stranger might be more
welcome in Morton House than an old aoqu~dnt.
ance like myself. Will you go?"
She hesitated a minute longer. Then, re-
membering what might be his reason for wishing
to avoid Mrs. Gordon, answered quickly: -

"Yes, if you think I can do any good, I will
go."
"If you cannot, I am sure it will be for the
first time," he answered, smiling. "Yonder
comes the carriage which Annesley promised to
send back, so you see you have no time to
change your jnind. Let me put you in, and see
you oil'. Then I will take the children home."
He put her in, called Felix and presented
him, closed the door, watched them drive away,
and never thought, until long afterward, that he
was the direct means of first bringing Katharine
Tresham under the roof of Morton House.
CHAPTER XL
AT MORTON HOUSE.
THE whole of that afternoon, which looked so
bright to the gay loiterers beside the pond, Mrs.
Gordon had spent in the silence and shadow of
the Morton-House library, deep in dusty and
tedious accounts which had been submitted to
her inspection by Mr. Shields, the agent of the
Morton estate. It was not a pleasant occupa-
tion, hut it was one to which she had courageous-
ly set herself immediately on her arrival, and in
which she had not flagged even when the terri-
bly-involved condition of affairs had been brought
plainly to her perception. Debt, difficulty, mort-
gage, ruinous sacrifice! That was the sum-tolal
of the heritage to which she had returned; and,
what the old agent unhesitatingly called '~the
most tangled business in the country," was what
she took in her woman's hands to attempt to
make straight again. She succeeded better than
might have been expected-succeeded sufficiently
to rouse Mr. Shields's honest admiration, and
make him tell Lawyer Worruck that he had never
seen such business capacity in any woman be-
fore. But it was weary work at all times, and
never more weery than on this afternoon. So
weary that, when she came to the end of a long
column of figures, she dropped her pen with a
tired sigh, and, leaning her head against the
back of her chair, sat motionless for some
time. -
On this repose, however, Babette broke in
suddenly and unceremoniously, just as the last
rays of the setting sun flashed a gleam of vivid
light across the pale, tired face.
"Madame, pardorrnez-moi," she began, hur-
riedly, as her mistress's eyes opened wide in some-
what haughty astonishment. "But madame al-

ways said that if any thing~happened to M'sieur
Felix, she must be disturbed, and I dared not-"
"Felix!" cried the)nother, with a sudden
start of alarm. "Felix! Is any thing the mat-
ter with him?"
"Indeed, madame, it was not my fault; but
that stupid-"
"Babette! Is any thing the matter?"
"Non, madame, non," cried the maid, startled
by the tone of her mistress's voice. "M'sieur
Felix is all safe-but that stupid Harrison has let
in a. lady."
Mrs. Gordon gave a deep sigh of relief.
"You frightened me very much," she said,
rebukingly. "You should not talk so much at
random. What has Felix to do with a lady?
He is at the pond with Mr. Annesley."
"But, madame, the lady has brought him
home."
"The lady! You must be mistaken."
"Indeed, no, madame. I saw them; and
that stupid "
"Then it is Mrs. Annesley?"
Babette shook her head. "C'est une demoi-
sells," she said decidedly. "I saw her myself,
madame; and M'sieur Felix-"
"Hold your tongue?" cried a shrill, indig-
nant voice at the door. And the next moment,
"M'sieur Felix" himself had rushed into the
room, and thrown his arms round his mother.
"Mamma, don't listen to h~r! i'll tell you
all about it-but promise first you won't be
angry."
"That depends on whether there is good
cause for being angry," said his mother, push-
ing back the bright curls from the glowing face,
and looking anxiously into it. "But I can
promise not to be very much displeased if you
will tell me the exact truth."
"That's what 1 mean to do, mamma. But
lilsa me first, and-go away!" he added, with a
sudden stamp at Babette.
The Frenchwoman looked unutterable things
at him, tossed her head, and held her ground
firmly, until Mrs. Gordon herself bade hem~ go.
"But the lady, madame?"
"I will see her in a minute-you need, not
wait."
Babette gave another glanceat Felix, and then
retired, with offended dignity rustling in every
garment. Her only solace was to go and rate
Harrison, and this she immediately proceeded to
do.
Katharine, meanwhile, left alone in the large
empty drawing-room, began to revolve the awk-


54;                       MORTON HOUSE.                                                           AT MORTON RoUSE.                       55

warduess of her position. She was sorry noiv
that she had acceded to Mr. Warwick's request.
It seemed so much like forcing an entrance into
Morton House. As for mediation or explanation
-Felix's impetuosity had spared her all ques-
tion of that. Was nobody ever coming? Would
it be very wrong to go away without having
seen the lady of the house? Perhaps, after all,
that might be best. She would wait ten min-
utes longer, and, if by that time Mrs. Gordon
had not made her appearance, why-she would
go. She had hardly arrived at this determina-
tion, when the ~door opened, and a pale, stately
woman stood on the threshold.
Katharine rose, but before she could utter
one of the words of apology trembling on her
tongue, Mrs. Gordon crossed the floor, and ex-
tended her hand with a warm and cordial ges-
ture.
~ Miss Tresham, I owe you many thanks. It
was kind of you to take charge of my wilful boy.
Pray forgive me that I have kept you waiting;
but he has been giving me an account of his ad-
ventured"
This, or something like it, was what she said;
but no words can embody the gracious and ex-
quisite charm of manner which at once set Kath-
arine at ease-at once made her feel that, instead
of being an intruder, she was a welcome guest.
A few words told why the duty had devolved
upon herself-a few more gave the leading facts
of the matter; after which, she rose to take her
departure. But this Mrs. Gordon would not per-
mit.
"You are cold, and you must be tired," she
said. "It is a point of hbnorwith Morton House
that no guest has ever left its door in either of
those conditions. This room is my aversion, it
is so cheerless. Let me take you to my sitting.
"You are very kind," said Katharine, over-
come with wonder; "but the carriage is waiting
for me, and-"
"If you will allow me, I will have it dis-
missed, and take the responsibility of sending
you home."
"I am afraid Mrs. Marks will be uneasy."
"I am sure she will be able to spare you,"
said the lady, with a slight smile. "Come, Miss
Treshas~, I am not accustomed to pressing hos-
pitality~ but in this instance I really cannot con-
sent to let you go. Shall I put my request on
another ground? Shall I tell yew that I am
lonely this evening, and that a strange face is a
great relief to me? I have not felt~this desire

for companionship before in many a long day.
Will you have the heart to disappoint it now?"
"No,"said Katharine, with her frank, bright
smile. "If my society can gratify your desire, I
shall be very glad to stay. But-"
"But I regard the matter as settled," said
Mrs. Gordon. Then, after ringing the bell, and
sending an order of dismissal to the waiting car-
riage, she led the way across a large, cold hall,
into one of the most thoroughly-charming rooms,
Katharine thought, she had ever seen.
A first glance only gave the impression of rich
color and luxurious comfort. It was some time
before the eye recognized the different elements
that went to make up such an attractive whole
-the heavy curtains, the velvet carpet, the deep,
inviting chairs and touches, the many appoint-
ments where taste of the most rare and judicious
kind had presided. When Katharine entered, it
was empty, but a faint fragrance of flowers came
over her as the door opened, and a soft moonlight
seemed to fill the room-the glow of two large
lamps being toned by tinted shades. Dusk had
fallen by this time; and the lamp-light and ruddy
firelight made a pleasant contrast to the cold,
frosty night gathering outside the open hall-
door, and melting into indistinctness the out-
lines of the rolling hills.
"Oh, what a beautiful room!" cried Kath-
arine, so involuntarily that Mrs. Gordon smiled.
"I am glad you like it,". she said. "It is
th~e oviy room I have refurnished; but I cannot
endure the stiff' old-fashioned furniture which
reigns paramount in the rest of the house. Ex-
cepting my cousin, Mr. Annesley, you are the only
person who has been admitted here."
"It is beautiful I" Katharine repeated, as
she sat down by the glowing fire, sunning her-
self like a tropical flower in its heat. "I have
never seen any thing more luxurious-and I love
luxury.)~
Mrs. Gordon smiled again, perhaps at this
candid confession, perhaps at the undisguised
enjoyment which prompted it Then she drew
forward a large chair, and seating herself, leaned
back in its soft depths. The firelight played
quiveringly over her face, and Katharine had
time to mark every furrow which marred its
beauty before Mrs. Gordon spoke again. At last
she turned to look at the young girl, and said,
rather abruptly:
"Miss Tresham, my desire to keep you was
not entirely without reason. I have heard Mor-
ton Annesley speak of you very often, audi was
sure of one thing-either that I must like you,

or that~ he exaggerated as even a lover has no
right to exaggerate."
Katharine started. This was plain speaking,
indeed. She started, and, if she also blushed, it
might have been surprise as much as any thing
else that caused the emotion.
" Excuse me," said Mrs. Gordon, who noticed
both the start and the blush. "Perhaps I have
not paid sufficient regard to the proprieties of
expression; but when one grows a little old,
they seem so useless. Why should we hesitate
to call a thing by its right name?"
"Why, indeed," answered Katharine, quick-
ly, "if it be a right name?"
"We won't argue that point," said Mrs.
Gordon, with a slight laugh. "I don't think a
lover's tale is worth telling, excepting by him-
self. And here comes tea."
The door opened as she spoke, and Harri-
son brought in a tray. No other servant ap-
peared; but in a few minutes-without even so
much noise as the rattling of a plate-a small
round table stood between the two ladies, bear-
ing a glittering equipage.
"Are you still English enough to prefer tea,
Miss Tresham, or will y~u let Harrison give you
a cup of coffee?" asked Mrs. Gordon, as she
poured out a cup of the first, which was strong
enough and black enough to have satisfied even
Dc Quincey. "For my part, I always take this.
Will you join n~e 7"
"Not since you have given me my choice,"
said Katharine, with a smile. "I have never
yet learned to endure tea-though 1 have tri~d
heroically, in compliment to other people's
taste."
"Not people here, surely?"
"Oh, no. Everybody here drinks coffee. I
meant the people in England."
"And yet you are an Englishwoman?"
"No; I am a West-Indian-and very proud
of it. I love my dear island, with its brilliant
skies and tropical palms, as much as I hate the
mists and fogs of England."
"You have been in England, then?"
Katharine shrugged her shoulders ruefully.
"To my cost, yes."
"In what part? I ask because I am very
familiar with it, and perhaps you saw the coun-
try to disadvantage."
"1 was in the north, near the Scottish border.
I saw the Scottish shore from my window every
time the fog lifted, and did not enjoy it nearly as
much as I should have done if I could have
stopped shivering even for one day."

"But was there no summer while you were
there?"
"There was a time they called summer-a
time when the trees had leaves, and the sun
shone with tolerable brightness. But our winter.
days in Porte Rico are much more balmy."
"Porte Rico! But I thought-that is-"
You thought I was a British West-Indian.
Well, so I am. I was born in Jamaica; but I
scarcely remember it at all. When I Was very
young, my aunt moved to Porte Rico, and took
me with her. We lived there entirely, and I
never was in England until I went to an old
friend of hers, who obtained a situation as gov-
erness at Donthorne Place for me. It was a
very-"
She stopped-uncontrollable surprise forcing
her to do so. Mrs. Gordon had suddenly turned
so pale that even the dim light failed to conceal
it, and her hand shook until she was obliged to
put down untasted a cup of tea which she had
been in the act of raising to her lips. There
was a moment's silence; then she looked up,
white as a sheet, but forcing herself into a sort
of rigid calm.
"Pardon me, Miss Tresham; and pray don't
look so much alarmed. It is only an old pain
that came back to me just then. My nerves are
shattered, and I show it-that is all.-Harrison,
you will find my case on the side-table there.
Give me two spoonfuls of the bottle on the right
as you open it."
Harrison obeyed. Mrs. Gordon drank eager-
ly the dark liquid which he brought her in a
slender wineglass; and a faint, subtle odor
rushed over Katharine, which told her at once
what the draught had been. After that she
needed one explanation the leSs for the lines
on her hostess's face.
It was the latter who, after a short silence,
spoke first-quietly, but with a certain sup-
pressed anxiety which Katharine's ear was quick
to detect.
"You surprised me very much by the men-
tion of Donthorne Place, Miss Tresham. I was
once in the neighborhood, and I remember~ it
quite well. How long were you there?"
"A year," answered Katharine, concisely,
having her own reasons for reticence on the
subject; "a year-oae of the most disagreeable
of my life, and one that I would not live over
again to win a crown. I cannot bear to talk of
it, and, of course, it does not interest you."
"On the contrary, if you will pardon me, it
interests me very much. Do you "-she leaned


55                                MORTON HOUSE.
forward with an eagerness which startled Kath&amp;. Gordon, smiling-..." you seem so little like a gov.
rifle-" do you ever hear from them-the Don- erness. What a disagreeable life you must find
thorns 1'"                                it, especially in your present situation!"
"Never. To judge by their unConsciousness "No; very much the reverse," said Katha.
of my existence whem I lived, in their house, I rine, quickly. "Mr. and Mrs. Marks are both
should say that they would not even remember kind to me; and I shall never forget how gen-
my name now." erously they took me into their service when I
"From ~io friends-no one that you left in was an entire stranger to them."
the neighborhood?"                             "It was like J3essie Warwick~" said Mrs.
Katharine drew back. She was not only 5cr- Gordon, quietly. "I remember her in the old
priced; but she looked-even her preoccupied time as very warm-hearted and very impulsive,
questioner noticed that-as if awakened to some but rather silly. She was pretty, but so decided.
sudden fea'. ly underbred that nobody wondered when she
* "No," she said, slowly; "I have no friends married much beneath her."
-there or elsewhere. I had not even an ac- "She seems to have found her right place in
quaintance in the neighborhood. No one ever the world, however~"
writes to me. Why do you ask?"                 "Most women do, or else have sufficient sense
"I might truly answer, because I am very to seem as if they do. It is seldom you find one
uncivil," replied Mrs. Gordon. "Solitude fos- weak enough, or strong enough, to beat against
ters many bad habits, and I must beg you to the bars. Then, what are we most inclined to
exanse me on that' score. I will not offend in do-pity or seorn her? Either, God knows, is
the same way again. Indeed, there is nothing I hard enough to bear." She paused a moment,
so mueh detest as ouriosity.-..-Harrison, you may then changed the subject abruptly. "Do you
take othe tray; we have finished." see much of John Warwick? Is he often at his
Harrison and the tray made an exit as noise- sister's house?"                   /
less as th4ir entrance, and, after the door had "He lives there," Katharine answered; "and
closed, Mrs. Gordon was again the first to speak yet I cannot say that I see much of him. He is
-very pleasantly and graciously.            absorbed in his profession, and seems to take
"'Miss Tresham, I see that coincidences have very little pleasure in society."
left its no option but to think that we are meant "But you like him-do you not?"
to be friends; and one must never gainsay Fate, "I like him extremely. He is very quiet;
you. know. Do you think you have Christian but no one could live under the same roof with
charity enough to come to see me sometimes, him and fail to see that he is one of the most
without exacting the ceremony of visits in re- thorough gentlemen, as well as one of the kind.
tu~rn I' I am such a recluse that I cannot think eat of men. I have heard that he can be very
of leaving ~n.y cell to encounter daylight." hard sometimes; but I can scarcely believe it,
"Katharine looked up with an astonishment when I remeixiher how gentle he is to 'his sister
which showed itself in every line of her face, and the children."
She could scarcely believe that these cordial Mrs. Gordon looked at her with a smile.
words of invitation were addressed to herself "You are his friend, I perceive," she said.
by the saree lips that had declined the visits of "I ought to be," the girl answered, quickly,
all' the old hereditary friends who had a right to with the remembrance of what he had said to her
entein~ Morton House. The cordiality was in Mrs. that afternoon stirring warmly at her heart. "In.
Gordon's eyes as well as in Mrs. Gordon's tones, gratitude has never been one, of my many faults."
however. So, after a short pause, she answered, "I hoped he would have married long before
with the frank grace that all her life had won this," said the other, with a wistful light in her
for her ~o much liking: eyes, that Katharine was not slow to interpret.
"Indeed, you are very kind, and I shall be "I do not know any one whom I should better
very glad to come. I have few acquaintances like to see happy.-.any one whom I would sooner
-none who consider my society of any import- exert myself to help along the road to happi.
ance so it would be strange if I were not ness."
flattered by your invitation. It will be a great "Mr. Warwick is not ounbappy, I am sure,"
pleasure to me to see you again when I can.0 said Katharine, almost resentfully. "He is not
But my time is not my own, you know." one of the ziten who have no life it' they have no
"I cannot help forgetting that," said Mrs. fireside. I thiitk a wife would decidedly bore

AT MORTON HOUSE.

him. He has his clients and his law-books-
that is all he wants. No one need pity him for
imaginary loneliness."
Mrs. Gordon enclosed her lips, as if to reply;
hut, before she could do so, the door opened,
and Harrison startled them by the announce-
ment that Mr. Warwick had come for Miss Tresh-
am.
Katharine started up at once, full of self-
reproach.
"How very inconsiderate of me to have
stayed!" she cried, eagerly. "I might have
known they would be uneasy; and it is such
a long walk to have given Mr. Warwick! How
very, very inconsiderate of me!"
She repeated the last expression several
times, for her vexation was not least in the
thought that she had forced upon Mr. Warwick
the very thing he wished to avoid, and brought
him to the very house he least desired to enter.
"Don't look so distressed and penitent," said
Mrs. Gordon. "It was my fault, not yours; and
I am sure he will not mind the walk, especially
as he need .nnt repeat it.-Harrison, order the
carriage, and show Mr. Warwick in here."
"No! no!" cried Katharine, hastily. "He
has had so much trouble about mc, pray let me
go to him at once, and-and not keep him wait.
ing. I shall not mind the walk at all."
She was drawing her wrappings around her
as she spoke, and evidently meant to go at once,
if Mrs. Gordon had not interfered very decidedly.
"I will not hear of such a thing," she said.
"You must wait for the carriage, and I must
send for Mr. Warwick.-Harrison, show him in
at once."
Evidently, Mrs. Gordon had been accustomed
to the habit of command. Her quiet tones had
so much authority in them that Katharine found
herself yielding without a word. She sank into
her seat, and the next minute Mr. Warwick en-
tered the room.
Whatever he felt, he certainly showed nothing
beyond gentlemanly self.posscssion, as he came
forward, meeting Mrs. Gordon's cordially-extend-
ed hand with his own, and answering her words
of welcome so easily that Katharine felt relieved.
What she expected, she could not have told; but
certainly something unlike this. Not any falter.
ing, or trembling, or turning pale-she knew the
grave, reserved lawyer too well to fear that-but
at least some token that his pulses were beating
as fast as they surely must beat in presence of
the woman who, for twenty-five years (if his
Sister spoke truth), had stood between him and

all thought of other women-some token differ-
ent from the quiet presence of every day, from
the cool glance that saw so much, and the terse
speech that said so little-yet they were all
there, and as mnch unchanged as if Pauline
Morton's eyes were not looking into his face
from the grave of the past.
Presently he crossed over to Katherine and
stopped at once the words of penitence with
which she was prepared to greet him.
"No," he said, "you must not. think any
thing of thekind. I came because I wanted to
-and a little because Bessie has been uneasy.
You know how highly developed her nervous
system is. Well, she has been arranging the
programme of a very tragic entertainment-Mr.
Annesley's horses running away, and leaving you
senseless and bleeding in some wayside ditch."
"I am very sorry," said Katharine, toomuch
disturbed to laugh. "It is very kind of Mrs*
Marks to take the trouble to be uneasy about
me-I am very sorry. I ought to have thought,
Mr. Warwick; and then you nee4 not have had
all this trouble."
"I told you a minute ago that it wasno trou-
ble," he said, a little shortly. Andy as Mrs. Gor-
don advanced, he turned and began 'speaking
about Felix.
"He is quite the hero of the hour," he said.
"In fact, he has taken Tallahoma so entirely by
storm, that I hope, for the sake of example, you
will not let him enter the town to-morrow-he
would certainly receive a popular ovation."
"He is not likely to leave the grounds of the
House for some time to come," answered his
mother, gravely. "I have had a lesson by which
I shall profit. Felix's management has been a
point at issue between Morton and myself, and
the occurrence of this afternoon has showed me
that I am right and he is wrong."
"May I not. intercede on the side of mercy?"
said Mr. Warwick, half jestingly, half in earliest.
"You will not think me presumptuous, I 'am sure,
when I tell you that nothing so much shames,
or so soon cures untrustworthiness.-even the
slight, childish form of it which Felix showed
this afternoon-.-.as the sense of being trusted."
She looked up .at him, with a deep flush on
her pale cheeks, and a sudden light in her eyes,
that startled both Katharine and himself.
"You speak of what you l~now," she said, In
a low voice. "You speak of those' in whom'the
sense of honor, and the power of being shamed,
is born. But you don't speak of, you don't
know, the blood that child has in his veins. I


58                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                           THE TUG OF WAR.                       59

know-and, believe me, I can best deal with
it."
"Excuse me," he said, hastily. "1 did not
mean-"
She interrupted him., "Any thing but kind-
ness, I know-only you don't understand. Now
tell me if you have heard from' Morton. I sent
to inquire, and the answer Was very satisfactory
-but I fear he may have sent it merely to quiet
my uneasiness."
"Hardly. No doubt he is well by this tim6,
and probably will make his appearance to answer
for himself to-morrow..---Miss Tresham, I am at
your service whenever you feel inclined for the
walk before us."
"The carriage-" began Mrs. Gordon.
But, at that moment, Harrison once more
opened the door, and announced that the car-
riage was waiting.
"You will come to see me, will you not?"
asked the lady, as Katharine bade her good-
night. "I don't like to see you go, without an
assurance that you will return."
"I will certainly come," said Katharine, with
a smile even more bright than usual.
After a few words they took leave, and Miss
Tresham found herself xolliug rapidly along the
road to Tallahoma, and assuring Mr. Warwick
that she felt much less tired than excited by her
unusual adventures.
-4--
CHAPTER XII.
THE TUG or WAit.
Tes morning after his escape from drown-
ing, Morton Annesley woke with that uncom-
fortable' *eight on his mind-that pense of some-
thing disagreeable, either past or impending-
with which every one is familiar who has ever
sought sleep rather as a refuge from tormenting
thou~t, than as that "sweet restorer" which
Nature intended it should be.
For the space of several minutes he could not
think what had occurred; then suddenly a throng
of recollections rushed over him; he recalled
every thing that had happened. He remembered
the adventure at the pond, and the scene thnt
followed his rescue; he remembered the looks
and tones of the people who had addressed him;
and, above all, he remembered the expression of
Katharine Tresham's eyes, when, for one brief
second, he glanced up into them! With a sharp,
impatient exclamation he sprang up and began

to dress. Some reminiscences prick worse than
needles, and to him there could scarcely have
been a more disagreeable reminiscence than this.
Not even Katharine's eyes could take the sting
out of it! There was such a mock heroism about
the whole affair, that he fairly ground his teeth
over it. Some people would have enjoyed the
.iclat thus conferred upon them, while others,
recognizing the ludicrous aspect of the adven-
ture, would have laughed it off with that genial
good-nature which it is the best policy in the
world to affect, if it be not really possessed. But
Morton, poor fellow, did not possess, and could
not affect it. Which aspect of the matter-the
heroic or the ridiculous-was most distasteful to
him, it would be hard to say, or against which he
chafed most impatiently. It provoked him to
think how Lagrange had gossipped and would
yet gossip over the occurrence; and it is to be
feared that, in his irritation, he was not so lenient
in his feelings toward Felix, as Felix's quixotic
protector ought to have been. But there was a
good deal of disappointment mingled with this
irritation. He had taken so much interest in the
boy, he had striven so har~l to make him compre-
hend the moral obligation of a trust, and the
chivalric standard of honor, that he was chilled
and disappointed by his failure; and felt, if the
truth must be told, not a little out of patience
with the ungrateful wilfulness which had placed
him in his present position. What this position
was with regard to Miss Tresham, he had only a
faint idea. He knew that he had said something
-that he had committed himself in some way-
out there beside the pond, before all those peo-
ple (in his own mind, he was ungrateful enough
to call them those confounded people); but what
it was he did not know, and certainly had no in-
tention of inquiring. Only it made one thing
certain-he could not l~gsitate any longer. The
tug of war-did any misgiving of his heart tell
him what a tug it would be ?-must come with
his 'mother, and, one way or another, his fate
must be decided as only Katharine could decide
it.
With his mind full of these thoughts he went
down-stairs, across the hail, and out of the open
front-door. The morning was very bright, for the
atmosphere had capriciously changed; the ther-
mometer had risen from its unwanted depression
of the few preceding days, and the air that greet.
ed him was soft, as if the dead Indian summer
had returned, or the spring was about: to burst.
The sunshine was pouring in a dazzling flood
over the lawn and piazzas; the grarelled sweep'

before the house sparkled as if its stones had all
been precious gems; the evergreens, dotted about
in every direction, seemed to have put on a bright.-
er emerald hue; and a bird that was perched on
a magnolia hear by, was pouring forth its whole
heart in glad rejoicing that the cold was over and
gone; that the blue skies, and the soft air, and
the golden sunshine, had returned. We are all
more or less susceptible to such influences as
these; and Annesley, as it chanced, was keenly
alive to them. At the first sight of the bright
outer world, and the first note of that trilling
lay, his depression suddenly vanished, and his
spirits rose like mercury. Almost unconsciously
he caught up the notes of the little feathered
songster, and, as he went down the steps and
turned toward the stables, he was whistling to
himself almost gayly.
He found Mr. French talking to the head
groom, while one or two subordinate stablemen
were rubbing down a large, black horse, that
stood patiently undergoing the operation.
"Good-morning, Frankr" said Annesley, com-
ing up. "What brings you out so early? Noth-
ing the matter with the Captain, I hope?"
"I am sorry to say there is something the
matter with his shoulder," said Mr. French, look-
ing round. "He fell lame while I was riding
home, yesterday afternoon. By-the-way, how do
you feel after your ducking?"
"lam well, of course,~~ said Morton, a little
ungraciously, resuming his usual manner as he
went on:" I am concerned about the Captain.-
Lead him out there, Jim, and let me see how.he
walks."
The Captain was led out, and the Captain
walked very badly. Some accident had plainly
befallen his right shoulder; and the two gentle-
men were soon in deep discussion and examina-
tion, aided by Isaac the groom, and John the
coachman. Various remedies were suggested,
and one or two were tried. It was some time
before the poor Captain was remanded to his
stall, and the two gentlemen bethought them-
selves of breakfast. "You can take him to the
stable, Isaac," said Mr. French, at last. "I'll
l)e out again after breakfast and look at him.-
Morton, are you coming?"
Niorton said "Yes," rather carelessly; and
'they turned into a broad walk which led to the
house. With the Captain dismissed from his
'mind, Mr. French remembered something he
'wished-or, rather, had promised-to say to his
brother-in-law. "A man's opinion always has
~so much weight with a man," his wife had re-

marked to him. "You must be sure and tell
Morton what you think of this nonsense." Mr.
French had promised that he would; but now he
began to wish that he had not been so rash. Sup.
pose Morton were to be offended? "Hang it 1"
thought the other, candidly, "I should be of-
fended myself if anybody were to meddle in my
private affairs. I wish I had not promised Adela.
It is none of my business if he chooses to make a
fool of himself." Then he cleared his throat and
looked at the abstracted face beside him.
"Are you sure you don't feel any the worse
for your exploit yesterday?" he asked, by way
of introduction to what he meant to say. "I
should think you would, Morton."
"Why the deuce should I?" asked Morton,
pettishly. "I'm neither a child nor a woman.
Confound the exploit, Frank! can't you let it
alone?',
"Oh, of course," said Mr. French, a little
surprised "I didn't know you were sensitive
about it. I'm sure it made you rather a hero-
at least in the eyes of the ladies. Some of them
were exceedingly interested, I can tell you."
Then, after a pause-" Morton, I suppose you
know what you're about, but don't you think
you may be going a little too far with-with one
of them?"
"With one e~ them!" repeated Morton, giv-
ing a start. "Whom do you mean?" he asked,
more quietly than his companion had expected.
"I don't understand."
"I mean that Miss Tresham who lives in
Tallahoma, and is a teacher, or something of the
sort," answered Mr. French, who, as he had once
begun, was determined to blunder through. "Of
course, you know your own affairs best, and I
hope you won't think me interfering; but I
thought I would give you a hint. Young women's
heads are so easily turned, and old women's
tongues are so confoundedly long, that one is
obliged to be careful."
"I am much obliged to you," said Annesley,
in a tone which contradicted the words, for he
was more angry than he would have liked to con-
fess; "but I believe I can manage my own af-
fairs-and I prefer to do so."
"I beg your pardon," said Mr. French, begin.
ning to be a little offended in turn. "I didn't
mean to be impertinent. I'm an older man than
you are, and I thought I would give you a little'
friendly advice. It's a devilish disagreeable
thing to be talked about as people wilt talk
in ~these country places; and of course I never
supposed you were in earnest about the girl.


THE TUG OF WALl.                       61

60                       MOIITON HOUSE.

I'm eonf~dent, I need not tell you, Morton, tha
such a thing would nearly kill your mother."
"You must allow me to be the best judge o~
that," said Morton, stiffly.. And there the con
versation cnded~
Mr. French shrugged his shoulders, auc
thought to himself that he had known how ii
would be, but that at least he could tell Adek
he had done his best; while Morton walked on
with his breast fairly in a flame. So he hai
made such a fool of himself as that! He ha~
betrayed every thing so plainly that his brother.
in4aw felt obliged to come and force his advice
upon him! Ikideed, it was time that he spoke
if only for Katharine's sake, since ha had com~
mitted himself, and involved her to such an ex-
tent as this. Foor Morton! In his single-
minded sincerity, it never occurred to him that
Mr. French htd been prompted to the unusual
character which he had assumed. He took it
simply as the consequence of his own unguarded
conduct; and it confirmed rather than shook his
resolution. It would have gone hard with Adela
if she could have known the result of her hus.
band's interibrence.
Breakfast passed oft' quietly, but rather silent-
ly. .Adela did not make her appearance, and,
although the three others talked at intervals,
there was a sense of constraint hanging over
them, and theydid not remain very long at table.
Mr. French was the first person to leave the
room, taking out his cigar-case as he did so.
Then Morton rose and walked round to his
mother,.
"Will you come to the library?" he asked.
"I have something to say to you."
She linked up at him, and, in a moment divin-
ing his purpose, her heart sank. But she had
sullicient presence of mind to smile into the
grave, earnest eyes regarding her.
"certainly I will ~come," she answered, "but
I must first see Adela, and give orders about din-
ner-.~that is, if you are not in a hurry."
~I a~sn not at all in a hurry," he replied.
"If you w111 come when you are at leisure, that
will do. You will find me In the library," he
added, as he took up a paper and left the room.
lIe ~went to the library, but he soon found
that he could notread. It is one thing to hold
a paper open before the eyes, and quite another
to ~ay Intelligent heed to its contents. Morton
did th~ ~rst iliuigently'.~ but, with all his efforts,
he conid not achie#e the second. He dreaded
the intefrylew with his mother so much that he
eagerly c~esiied It to be over * and Ito caught

t himself listening to every footstep in the hall
outside the door, hoping it might be hers. At
last he threw down the paper, and, rising, walked
- restlessly across the floor.
There was not a pleasanter room at Annes-
dale than this library, nor one that he liked bet.
ter; but today it might have been an irksome
cage, to judge by his impatient movements to
* and fro. From the fireplace to the windows, and
I from the windows to the fireplace, he paced; until
I finally lie paused before the latter, and, leaning
one arm on the mantel, gazed steadily at an en-
graving which hung above it-a "St. Cecilia"
he had brought from Dresden. Something in
* the outline of the uplifted face reminded him
* of Katharine. It was not so much a resem-
blance as the suggestion of a resemblance. But
it had struck him often before, and now it
brought her face vividly to his mind. By some
strange perversity of association, it also brought
to his recollection that day when she sang the
"Adelaide" for him, when he had chanced upon
the open letter, and when her strange conduct
had so chilled and repulsed him.
He was still thinking of these things, and his
face looked unusually grave and troubled, when
the door opened and his mother entered. She
crossed the room, and, as he did not turn, she
laid her hand on his arm.
"You wished to speak to me, Morton?" she
said. "Here I am."
"My dear mother, thank you," he answered,
turning quickly. "1 did ~iot hear you come in-
how quiet you are!" -
"1 was afraid you would be tired of~wait-
ing for me," she said, sitting down in a deep
arm-chair. "Adela is quite unwell, and I stayed
with her some times I thought that, if you
wanted to see me about any thing of importance,
you would have told n~e so."
"I wanted to see you about my own affairs,"
said Morton, plunging headlong into the subject
he now felt tempted to avoid. "I want to ask
your advice about a very important matter-
to me at least," he went on, faintly smiling.
"Mother, I have lately thought of marrying."
The room suddenly went round and grew
black before Mrs. Annesley's eyes. She extend-
ed her hand almost unconsciously, and clutched
the corner of a table near by to steady herself.
Her worst fears were realized; but she had suf-
ficient self-control to look up quietly, and say-'
"Well?"
"Well," he answered, knowing that tate worst
could not be too quickly told, "I fear that lank

going to disappoint you. I fear that the woman
I Jove, the woman I wish to marry, is not the
woman whom you would have chosen for me.
But in this matter, no human being, not even
the nearest and dearest, can judge 1~or us," he
said, gently taking the hand which she had laid
on the table. "We can only judge for ourselves,
and abide by our choice through good or through
ill. Mother, will you not give your sanction to~
my choice?"
She suffered her hand to remain in his; but
hereycs looked cold, and her voice sounded hard
when she asked-
"What is her name?"
"Her *name" he answered, "is Katharine
Tresham. My dear mother,"' he continued,
eagerly, "don't judge her by her surroundings,
don't think of the position in which Fortune
has placed her. Only judge, only think of her
as you will see and love her for herself, as you
will-"
He was stopped by a gesture from his moth-
er, as she drew back her hand.
"Go P' she said, bitterly. "I have heard
enough. If you had the heart to come and stab
me like this, you will not heed any thing I can
say to you. Go! Only remember that, if you
do degra do yourself in this way, you will cut
yourself off from me forever. I will never re-
ceive that woman as my daughter; I will never,
as long as 1 live, suffer her to cross the threshold
of this house!"
"Mother!"
It was a cry of astonished, grieved reproach,
which at any other time would have gone to her
heart5, but she had now so entirely lost command
of herself, and of the emotion which seemed suf-
focating her, that it rather provoked than allayed
her anger. She had feared and in a measure an-
ticipated this for a long time; but it did not make
the disappointment any less poignant when it
came-it did not teach her any better how to
bear it.
"Mother," said Morton, gravely, "you can-
not be yourself-you cannot be in earnest when
you utter such words as these."
"Go!" she repeated, once more, in a voice
choked with tears.
And, as there was nothing else to be done,
he walked sadly across the floor, and stood silent-
ly at one of the windows, waiting for what would
come next-waiting to see whether his mother
would recall him, or whether she would leave the
~roomwithonlythoselastbitterwords.
A long time passed-an hour it seemed to
5

the young man, and it was in reality many min-
utes-before any sound broke the stillness of
the room. Then Mrs. Annesley said:
"Morton!"
He came to her side.
"1 am here," he answered, gravely but gent-
ly.
She lifted a face that was white even to the
lips, and held out her hand.
"My son," she said, "forgive me. I did not
mean to pain you; but the shock was so sudden,
and very hard to blar."
"My mother, my dearest mother!" he said.
It ~vas all that he did say, but he bent down
and kissed the hand she gave him, and peace-
or at least a semblance of it-was once more
established. After a while it was Mrs. Annesley
who spoke first.
"Morton," she said, "have you considered
this well?"
"I have considered it well," he answered.
"Your mind is made up?"
" My mind is entirely made ~
"You are determined to inflict this distress
upon mc, and to ruin your own life by such a
misalliance?"
"I am determined to ask Miss Tresham to
be my wife," said the young man, looking pale
but unshaken. "I would have asked her long
ago if it had not been that I hesitated on your
account. But now it is not possible for me to
hesitate longer."
"Do you mean that you have committed
yourself?" she asked, hastily.
"In absolute words-no. Dear mother, don't~
pain me by combating my resolution," he said,
with his eyes full of appeal. " Only tell me that,
if she consents to marry me, you will welcome
and try to love her."
"Tell me one thing, Morton," said Mrs. An-
nesley-" what do you know of this woman
whom you ask me to receive as your wife?
When a man marries he should know all the
previous history and all the connections of the
woman he chooses. Tell me, my son, what do
you know of hers?" ~
She touched his cause in its weakest point,
* and he knew it. The thoughts he had been
revolving when she entered the room - the
thoughts that had sealed his lips ever since the
day he saw Katharine last--rushed upon him
suddenly with overwhelming force, and for sev-
oral minutes he could not reply. Then the truth
came in one word-
"Nothing."

4


62                  MORTON HOUSE.

"Nothing!" his mother echoed, in a ton
of grieved astonishment. "Nothing, Morton
And yet you ask me to welcome her as a daugh
ter? My son, my dear son, what can you b(
thinking of? Where is your sense of what ir
due to yourself aud to your name?"
"I know nothing about her," he said, "but]
can trust her. She is too pure and noble ever to
have done any thing that she need blush for."
"But, good Reavens! her relations, her
friends-what may they not be?"
"I do not think she has any. I have never
heard ,her speak of them."
"And you think that a good sign? Oh, Mor-
ton, Morton!"
"It is not a bad sign, mother," said Morton,
beginning to look a little less patient. "Many
a girl is friendless, many a girl is obliged to earn
her bread as Miss Tresham is doing. It would
be cruel to doubt her because Fate has dealt
hardly with her. It is true that she has never
mentioned her past history or her family cir.
ournatances to me; but I have never been in a
position to receive such a confidence."
"And you will ask her to marry you without
knowing more than this?"
"I should be a cur, not a gentleman, if I in-
quired into her affairs before asking her."
"Oh, my son, what madness!"
"Mother dear, be patient with me," he said,
gently. "Don't you see-can't you tell how hard
I am trying to do right? If I had only myself
to consider," he went on, wal~ring again from
the fireplace-to the window, and from the window
to the fireplace, "I would sacrifice my wishes to
yours. But-but I am afraid it is too late as far
as she is concerned."
"You put her before me, then?"
"I put my honor before every thing."
"Your honor should lead you just the other
way," she said, lapsing from self-restraint into
anger again. "A gentleman's first duty is to his
name. What will you be doing with yours when
marry thus?"
"I will not be degrading it," answered he,
firmly. I' Mother, you do not know Katharine
Tresham. If you did know her-if you would
know her-you could never speak 01 her in this
manner."
"She has, taken you from mc, Morton. She
has steeled your heart against all my entreaties;
she has made you forget what is due to yourself
-how can I do other than hate her? flow can
I stand by silently and see you marry an adven-
turess'?'"

MISS TRESHAM ASKS ADVICE.

"Mother!"
The exclamation was so stern that for a mo-
ment Mrs. Annesley shrank. But, before she
could speak, Morton gave a great gulp, and hur-
ried on:
"Forgive me, but this had better end. There
is no good in prolonging a useless discussion,
and I see now that this is useless. I only pro-
voke you, and am pained myself. So I will go.
Don't forget that I am very sorry to have
grieved you, and, if possible, still more sorry
to act against your wishes for the first time in
my life."
She let him go-as far as the door; but, when
his hand was on the knob, her voice called him
back. lIe rcturncd at once, and, rising, she met
him half.wav.
"My son, forgive me," she said. "You have
never in your life before grieved or disappointed
me; you have often given up your will to mine;
you have never once failed in respect or duty to
me. It is only just, therefore, that my turn for
sacrifice should come. I never thought it would
be so hard; I never thought you would desire to
throw away your happiness in this way. But, as
you will do it-why, take my consent, and God
bless you!"
The young man caught her in his arms with
something that was almost a sob.
"Mother, my dear, kind mother!" he said.
"You don't know how much I longed to hear
those words. Thank God, they have come at
last!"
He thought the tug of war was over; hut, as
he clasped his mother in his arms, it would have
been strange if he could have known-if he
could even faintly have imagined-how corn
pletely she had out-witted him, and how the
worst struggle was yet to come!

-'---4--

day? Oh, Miss Tresham, that's so good of
you!"
"Why, we'll have two long weeks! Thank
you, ma'am, so much."
"Don't thank me," said the governess, with
a smile. "I should have kept you hard at work
till Christmas-Eve. Your mother told me to dis-
miss school to-day, and that it will not be re-
sumed till the Monday after New-Year. So, you
see, you have two good weeks."
"Oh, haven't we!"
"Well, show your gratitude by giving me no
trouble to-day~ I will hear the geography first."
For the next fifteen minutes they were all
busy locating capitals, settling boundaries, and
describing countries. The children were so ani-
mated by the holiday prospect before them that
they did remarkably well; and the class was
about to be dismissed, when the door opened
without any preparatory knock, and, instead of a
servant, Mrs. Marks entered, with every sign of
surprise and discomposure in her manner.
"Good Gracious, Miss Katharine, what'stobe
done! To think of such a thing just now of all
times, and me deep in the mince-meat!"
Katharine looked up in astonishment. It was
not often that Mrs. Marks used such a tone of
supreme vexation, or appeared so red and wor-
ried-not often that she gave a glance so full
of chagrin at her befioured dress an4 large do-
mestic apron.
"What on earth is to be done?" she re-
peated, as Katharine's eyes met her own. "I
never was so taken by surprise in all my life!
To think of !rer--"
"What is the matter? Who is it?" asked
the young governess. "I don't understand."
She understood the next moment, when Mrs.
Marks pushed two cards across the table toward
her-two cards exactly alike in appearance~ and
both bearing tire same name:

CHAPTER XIII.

MISS TRESHAM A5H5 ADvIcE.
Two weeks went by very quietly, and brought
Miss Tresham's happy scholars to the beginning
of their Christmas-holidays.
"Do your lessons well to-day, children," she
said, as she entered the school-room on a certain
Friday morning, and found them gathering about
the blazing fire. "This is the last of school
until after New-Year."
They all looked up delighted.
"To-day! And Christmas not till Thura-

Katharine was too well bred to show exactly
Low much surprise she really felt. So, after one
repressiblee exclamation, she hurried off at once
Ito sympathy.
"Indeed, dear Mrs. Marks, this is very in-

63

convenient! I hardly wonder you are vexed.
Wouldn't it be possible to excuse yourself?"
"Excuse myself-to Mrs. Annesley!" Evi-
dently that was not to be thought of.
"Well," said Katharine, with quite a prac-
tical inquiry, "why don't you go and dress?
It will not take you many minutes to smooth
your hair and put on your black silk. ShallI
help you?"
"You! Why, I came to tell you that you
must go down at once."
Was Mrs. Marks distracted? Katharine eer~
tainly thought so, as she drew back and gazed
at her in sheer amazement.
"I go down to- see Mrs. Annesley! Mrs.
Marks, what can you be thinking of?"
"How are you~ going to help yourself?" de-
manded Mrs. Marks, impatiently. "She came
to see you just' as much as she did to see me-
indeed a great deal more, I expect, if the truth
was known. Tom said that she gave him one of
those cards for Mi8s Tresham."
"He must have ben mistaken."
"How could he be?"
"I don't know," answered Katharine; "but
he must have been."
"My dear," cried Mrs. Marks, almost angrily,
"what is the use of this? If you don't believe
Tom, I can tell you that I listened through ~
crack of the pantry door, and that I heard Mrs.
Annesley ask for you. Of course she came to
see you; and of course you must go down as
soon as you have dressed. Come-quick 1"
She laid her hand on Katharine's arm and
strove to lead her forward; but the girl drew
back with a decided motion.
"No," she said. "If I go down at all-if
you are sure she asked for me-I will go down
exactly as I am."
Mrs. Marks looked aghast.
"In tlrat old dress! Oh, my dear, consider
how important it is that you should make a good~
impression. Mrs. Annesley is so elegant-you
have no idea! What would Mr.-"
A glance from Katharine stopped her short.
"I am breaking my ~rsual rule in leaving the
school-room to go down at all," she said; and
since I do it prineipr~y to give you time to
change your dress, I certainly shall not make
anyalteration in my own.-Children, look over
your sums; I will be back soon to attend tt
them."
Before Mrs. Marks could utter another word
of expostulation, she left the room and was de-'
scending the staircase.

62


64                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                    MISS TRESHAM ASKS ADVICE.

She would scarcely have been a woman, how-
ever, if she had not stopped a moment outside
the parlor door, partly to be sure of her self.
possession, and partly to glance over her dress
-the same dark-blue merino which she had
worn the last day Morton was there.
When she opened the door, the room looked
as rigid and cold as ever-perhaps a little more
so, considering that the day was gloomy-but
on the stifi; black sofa sat a figure, the grace
and elegance of which would have brightened
even a duller scene, and which rising, with a
soft rustle of silk and velvet, met Katharine in
the middle of the floor.
If Mrs. Annesley had expected some timid,
blushing girl whom she could awe or patronize
into reverence, ~he must have been greatly sur-
prised at sight of the calm, stately young lady
-unmistakably a young lady-who met her with
such quiet ease.
"Miss Tresham, I presume?" she said, in-
quiringly-for despite all that Morton had told
her, she could not believe that this was Mrs.
Marks's governess.
And Katharine answered with Katharine's
own straightforward dignity:
"Yes, I am Miss Tresham. Pray sit down,
madam. Mrs. Marks will be bere in a minute.
She desired me to apologize for her delay, and
say that she was very much occupied when you
came."
"I am sorry to have disturbed her," said
Mrs. Annesley, hardly conscious of what she did
say, and only noting with a sharp pang every
separate charm of this girl's appearance and
manner. Then they sat down, and when the
lady spoke again it was with a perceptible effort.
"I have heard a great deal about you-Miss
Tresham-" she did not say from whom-" and
it has been a regret to me that I have not been
able to pay this visit sooner; but I am a very
great invalid-so much of an inValid, that my
friends are kind enough to excuse a great deal
of social neglect from me."
Katharine thought there were very few traces
of illness apparent in the smooth, handsome face
before her; but she had enough of tim habitude
of society to accept the apology, and answer it
with a few words of conventional sympathy-
wondering the w~ile, why it had been at all
necessary to offer it.
"Thanks-you are very kind," said Mrs. An-
nesley, in acknowledgment of her condolence.
"Yes, sickness is a dreadful thing-more be-
cause it is apt to make one neglect one's duties,

than for any other reason, 1 think. Some peo-
ple don't allow it to interfere, I know; but I
have never been strong-minded. If I feel badly,
I am sure in lie on my sofa, even with the con-
sciousness of something that ought to be done."
"We are all of us prone to do that, I think,"
said Katharine; "and 1, for one, real cannot
admire the people who treat their bodies as cruel
drivers treat their horses, and goad them into
exertion whether they feel like it or not."
Mrs. Annesley smiled faintly. "You are very
good to say so, when I see plainly that you have
no personal knowledge-no personal experience,
that is-of the malady to which I allude. Do
you sing much, Miss Tresham? I see the piano
open, and surely your pupils have not yet ad-
vanced as far as Mozart."
The conversation rather flagged during the
"minute," which unaccountably lengthened into
ten or fifteen, before Mrs. Marks entered; Katha-
rine began to grow a little impatient, and to'won-
der what could possibly be the motive of this
visit. Had Mrs. Annesley merely come to gratify
her curiosity, or what other meaning was hidden
under her cold civility, her languid common-
places, her keen though not ill-bred scrutiny?
The young governess felt that she was under-
going a sort of examination; that she was on
trial, as it were, before this fine lady; and, feeling
it, almost unconsciously she resented it. . She
who was usually so frank and cordial in her
manner, was now reserved, almost haughty;
while Mrs. Annesley made matters worse by a
shade of patronage-half unconscious, half it is
to be feared, intended-which did not please the
girl who had once told Morton that she was "un-
fortunately very proud." It was a relief to both
of them when the door at last opened, and Mrs.
Marks came bustling in, looking as if she had
been hastily squeezed into her black silk, and
had not yet recovered from the process.
Katharine watched the greeting between the
two ladies-Mrs. Marks's hearty cordiality, a little
tempered by awkwardness'mi the one side, and
Mrs. Annesley's condesce~ding suavity on the
other-with quiet amuse~t~ben she kept
her seat for a few minutes longer, thinking that,
after they were fairly launched into conversation,
she would go back to her waiting pupils; but, as
it chanced, this intention was frustrated. Just
as she had decided on leaving the room, Mrs. An-
nesley turned to her.
"I waited until Mrs. Marks was here, Miss.
Tresham, before I made a request ~Whieh is
partly the reason of my visit this morning. A

few young people are coming next week to spend
Christmas at Anaesdale, and if you will be kind
enough to waive ceremony, I should be very glad
for you to make one of the party. Will you
come?"
With all her self-possession-and it was even
more than people gave her credit for-Katharine
started. Was it possible that it was Mrs. Annes-
Icy who gave this gracious invitation? -who
asked her to meet a party of young people
(which was a modest way of saying the Wie of
Lagrange) at Anneadale, which was the head-
quarters of gay hospitality? For a second she
could not answer from absolute surprise; but
she suddenly caught a glimpse of the ludicrous
astonishment on Mrs. Marks's face, and it piqued
her into an immediate reply.
"You are very kind," she said, looking, with
her clear gray eyes, into the languid, handsome
face; "I do not think much of ceremony, as a
gcniu-al rule, and I should be glad to accept your
invitation, if it were possible. But it is not pos-
sible. 1 never leave home."
"You never have left home, perhaps,~~ said
the lady, smiling a little. "But, if you will par-
don me that is no reason why you should not
begin to. do so Are you fond of gayety? I
think Auiesdale might tempt you a little in that
way. Adela and Morton always manage to get
up something amusing at Christmas. But I will
not urge you-i will leave the matter to Mrs.
Marks, and let her say whether or not you shall
go."
She looked at Mrs. Marks, and Ydrs. Marks,
who had recovered her powers of speech by this
time, was ready in a moment to take her cue.
"Indeed, I am sure Miss. Katharine knows
how glad I would be to see her go," she said.
"It's very kind of you, Mrs. Annesley, to ask
her. She has a very dull time, shut up here
with Richard, and me, and the children; and I
hope she won't let any of us stand in the way of
her taking a little pleasure when there is such a
good chance for it as this."
"I take charge of the children out of school,
as well as in," said Katharine to Mrs. Annesley.
"Mrs. Marks is anxious to give me pleasure,
but my going would cause her a great deal of in-
convenience; so I hope you will excuse me for
declining your invitation."
"As for taking care of the children," said
Mrs. Marks, before Mrs. Annesley could speak,
"that's Letty's business, my dear, ai~d not yours,
as you know. You've spoiled her to death by
looking after theta yourself, and the sooner she

learns to do it again, the better.-I hope you
don't think we work her to death," said the good
woman, turning her attention to Mrs. Annesley,
with startling rapidity. "She took it all on her-
self, and I begged her again and again not to
worry about ~thcm, though it's true they're so
much improved-especially in their manners-
that you'd hardly know them for the same chil-
dren."
"Surcly their manners would not suffer if you
left them for the short space of a fortnight," said
Mrs. Annesley to Katharine.
"For the matter of that," said Mrs. Marks, "I
promised their Aunt Lucy that Katy and Sara
should pay her a visit this Christmas; and you
know, my dear, you don't have much to do with
the boys."
"Mrs. Marks is evidently determined to get
rid of me," said Katharine, with a smile, to Mrs.
Annesley; "but I flatter myself she would miss
me after I was gone. And so I think I shall
abide by my resolution and remain.
"My dear," said Mrs. Marks, solemnly, "if
you take my advice, you'll go."
"Take her advice by all means, Miss Tresh-
am," said Mrs. Annesley, "or else give me one
good reason for your refusal."
But one good reason, as society reckons good
reasons, Katharine could not give. In our arti-
ficial condition of life, it is not considered a valid
or even a courteous excuse to say that you have
no desire to perform a certain action, or to go to
a certain place. It is hard to imagine what could,
be a better reason for ordinary social refusals
than the simple statement of disinclination; but,
according to the rules of a certain arbitrary but
very ill-defined code, it will not answer at all. If
a man asks you to his house, you must not say
that you don't want to come, but that you "have
pressing business," or "a previous engagement,"
or a sick wife, or a dead uncle, or any other lie
that may be convenient. If he finds you out, he
will not be offended, he will take the pious fraud
as it was intended. But if you.had simply told
the truth, and said that you felt unwilling to
come, he would have had good right to be in-
suIted. Knowing this as well as Mrs. Annesley,
Katharine hesitated. She did not want to go to
Anneadale, and she did not meamj to go if she
could help it; but still, social usages had a cer-
tain power over her, and, hemmedd in by Mr~.
Marks on one side, and her visitor on the ether,
she hardly knew what to say. Mrs. Annesley saw
her embarrassment, and came to her relief.
"I am sure you think me very rude te press

64

MORTON HOUSE


66                          MORTON hOUSE.                                                          MISS TRESLIAM ASKS ADVICE.                     67

you in this way, Miss Tresham; but I am reall;
very anxious that you should make one of ow
Christmas party, and that anxiety must plea
my excuse. I see that you are half persuaded
and I am sure that, when you think the matte
over, you will find there is no reason why yot
should not oblige us. My son you know already.
and my daughter will be very glad to meet you.
If I give you until tomorrow to consider, will yea
promise to say 'yes' then?"
"I am sure it is quite impossible," Katharin
began.
But the lady had already risen, and was hold.
ing out her hand in parting salute.
"I shall either come or send for your answer
tomorroww" she said; "and I b~g you most
sincerely to let it be favorable.-Mrs. Marks, I
leave the cause in your hands. Promise me
that you will make her come!"
"I'll do my best," said Mrs. Marks, dubious-
ly; "but Miss Katharine's very hard-headed, and
I'm afraid she'll go her own way."
"So much the better, if that way lies toward
Annesdale," said the mistress of Anneadale, gra-
ciously. Then she shook hands with both of
them, gave Mrs. Marks an invitation to Annes-
dale in that vague, general way which means
"good-morning," told Katharine she was sure
she would not disappoint her, and finally swept
out, leaving behind her a faint fragrance and
a vivid impression of affable smiles and soft
speeches, and shining silk and rich velvet.
"Bless my soul, how she was dressed!" said
Mrs. Marks, as soon as she was safely out of ear-
shot. "Did you notice the quality of that silk?
I never saw any thing half as heavy in my life.
It must have cost three dollars a yard, if it cost
a cent; and what an elegant bonnet! Well !"
-with a long breath-" I am sure I never was
more surprised in my life! I thought she would
have been just the other way. But there's no
telling what people will do for their children;
and~ after all, she mayn't be as proud as people
Bay. ~obody could have been more polite than
she wal this morning. I was astonished you did
not agree to go," she went on, addressing Katha-
ripe, with mild expostulation. "Of course you
know 'your own affairs best; and I don't mean
to intrude my advice upon you-for advice is a
thing that everyhodyis ifnxious to give, and no-
body's thankful to get-but you know what she
came for, my dear, snd I can tell you that she has
done a great deal for ker~; and, if you want my
opinion, you'll be a great foo-simpleton, if you
don't go to Annesdale."

"Then you will certainly consider me a great
simpleton," said Katharine, coolly, "for I don't
I mean to ~o to Annesdale."
With this ultimatum, she walked off to the
waiting arithmeticians, and left Mrs. Marks to
return to her mince-meat with what degree of
interest she could muster.
Dinner was over, and the short winter after-
noon was more than half gone when Katharine
opened Mrs. Marks's door, and, showing herself
in her bonnet and cloak, asked if the former had
any objection to her taking the children to Mor-
tOn House. "They are anxious to return Felix's
visit," she said (Felix had, a fortnight before,
made his long-promised call), "and Mrs. Gordon
was kind enough to ask me to come to see her;
so, if you have no objection, we will walk out
there."
"I haven't the least objection," said Mrs.
Marks, looking up from her work, and wonder-
ing not a little at the grand acquaintances tier
governess was making. "I am glad you are
going to take the children yourself; Miss Kath-
arine, for you can see that they don't behave
badly, or make themselves troublesome to Mrs.
Gordon. Isn't it rather a long walk, though? "
"Not for me," said Katharine, and shut the
iloor.
The day had been overcast from its dawn, and
the afternoon was very gray and gloomy when
the governess and her merry troop went out into
it. Every thing looked sombre and tintless, the
bare trees stood out against a dull, leaden sky,
the distant hills seemed desolate and brown, the
broad fields were perhaps the most cheerless ele-
ment of the s~ene, with their dun-colored hedges,
their wide expanse of sere plants, and their frag-
ments of unpicked cotton hanging in melancholy
shreds from the withered stalks. All around the
horizon was a broad band of pale-yellow light,
and this, together with the singular softness of
the aj~mosphere, made Katharine sure that there
would soon be a change in the weather. "It will
rain to-morrow," said Jack, looking up at the
sky. "Miss Tresham, don't you feel the wind?
Papa sdys that when it blows this way, it always
brings.rain. There, Ponto !-there goes a rabbit,
sir!"
Ponto, who was a large Newfoundland dog,
had been brought along for the purpose of chas-
ing rabbits, and was not at all averse to the
amusement. In fact, he saw the poor, little
furry wanderer before Jack did, and was off at
a mad gallop, followed headlong by all the chil-
dren. A turn in the road soon hid them from

the sight of the governess., and she gave a high
of relief. She liked them, and their bright ani-
mal spirits never jarred on her as the spirits of
grown people sometimes did; but just now she
was glad to have the sombre winter scene all to
herself, and much obliged to Ponto and the rab-
bit who had secured this solitude. To her, as to
a great many other people, there was a singular
charm in the leaden sky, the bare woods, and
brown hills, the dun neutral tints which went to
make up the scene. Afar off; between some
fields, there was a clump of trees, and a small
house from which a column of blue smoke rose
against the sky. Katharine looked at it wist-
fully. "I wonder if the people who live there
are bappy?" she thought. "I wonder if they
look for any thing, expect any thing, dread any
thing! Oh, me! I am sorry for them if they
do!" As she went her way, between the zigzag
rail fences and sear hedges, this train of not very
cheerful thought colored the whole scene. She
thought that she liked it because it agreed with
her mood; but, in truth, if her mood had been
different, every thing would have borne a different
seeming to her eyes. So it is with us. If our
hearts are heavy, the most beautiful landscape
that ever smiled grows dark and dreary; while,
if they are light, the sunshine from them over-
flows and colors with its own tints all the world
around us. Katharine's world was made up of
dull neutral hues just now, leaden grays, and cold
browns, and dun, dark purples. We have no
right to put the earth in mourning for our own
troubles, but many of us do it nevertheless.
Morton House was farther off than she had
remembered, and the afternoon was very nearly
spent when she and her noisy charges walked
up the avenue, and came in sight of the circular
terrace and the brown old house set in the midst
of it. This was Katharine's first fulfilment of the
promise she had given Mrs. Gordon, and she could
not help feeling a little nervous with regard to
what her reception might be. Would the lady
be kind and gracious, as she had been before? or
would she think that, for a stranger, Miss Tresh-
am was presuming too speedily on her invita-
tion? "She is said to be very eccentric," Kath-
arine thought to herself, with a slight feeling of
dismay-" one of the people who can be charm-
ing one day, and freezing the next, Mrs. Marks
says. Will she be charming or freezing to-day,
I wonder? I almost wish I had not come." It
was too late for retreat, however. At that mo-
ment, from some quarter or other, Felix espied
them, and bore down with a shout of pleasure.

Five minutes later, they were entering the
hall.
Felix left them in the drawing-room, while
he went to announce their arrival to his mother,
and in a moment returned, accompanied by Har-
rison. "Mrs. Gordon's compliments; would the
children please go with Mass Felix to the nursery;
and she would be glad to see Miss Tresham in her
own room." This was the substance of the mes-
sage delivered by the servant; and, while Felix
led off his visitors, with eager assurances that
the place where he was going to take them was
not a nursery at all, but a good, big room, where
his playthings were kept, Miss Tresham followed
Harrison across the hall, and was ushered into the
pleasant sitting-room where she had been intro-
duced before.
Mrs. Gordon was lying on a couch by the fire,
and looked very ill, her visitor thought. She
raised herself; however, and, extending her hand,
smiled with pleasant cordiality.
"So you are really as good as your ~vord,
Miss Tresham, and have come to see me. I need
not say you are heartily welcome. Sit down. Is
it not very cold and gloomy out-of-doors?"
Evidently, if Mrs. Gordon, was "eccentric,"
and had different moods for different days, this
was one of her most gracious moods, and one
of her brightest days ~At least, so Katharine
thought, as she felt that her instinct about the
visit had not misled her, and as, obeying the
motion of her hostess'~ hand, she sat down by
the fire. She did not know whether to allude td
the traces of suffering so plainly marked on her
companion's face; but the latter relieved her
uncertainty on this point at once.
"I have been quite ill," she said, "and I
am sure you think that I am still, in looks at
least, the worse for it. At my age, one shows.
so plainly things which pass unnoticed in youth.
If you had come a day or two ago, I could not
have seen you; but to-day I am grateful for the
presence of such a bright face."
The bright face smiled and blushed a ~ttle at
this, but soon recovered its usual composure.
"I am glad I came, then," said Katharine.
"I was a little doubtful, thinking I might trouble
you. But I always mean what I say myself,
and I gave you credit for meaning what you
.said when you asked me to come."
"You were quite right," said Mrs. Gordon,
smiling; "I meant exactlywhat I said, and' per-
haps a little more. I have lived a long, time in
the hottest fever of the world," she went on,
"and this stagnant life is almost too much for


68                          MORTON HOUSE.                                                                     R. G.                             69

me. In a measure, it was pure selfishness which
made me press you to return. I cannot ask the
people of Lagrange to come here. I have gone
out of their life and their world forever. But
you are different. The first moment I saw you, I
knew that you were different; and I knew, or
thought I knew, that you would be a person
worth knowing, and a companion worth having."
"You flatter me," said Katharine, with her
breath a little taken away.
"I never flatter anybody," answered Mrs.
Gordon, coolly. "You l~now as well as I do
that, although you are not particularly pretty,
and, for aught I know, may not be particularly
clever, you are particularly attractive. I don't
wonder-" she paused, with a smile; then added,
"Won't you take off your bonnet, and spend the
evening with me?"
"I should be very glad to do so; but I have
the children under my care, and I must take
them home before dark"
"Can't they go home by themselves? can't
Babette take them? Well" - as Katharine
shook her head in reply to both propositions-
"I won't press you. But leave the children at
home another day, and come prepared to spend
the evening. Surely, your holidays begin very
soon now?"
"They have begun already. Today was my
last of school."
"I am glad to hear that. I can hope, then,
to see you often in the course of the next two'
weeks?"
"I-don't-know," said Katharine, doubt-
fully. The moment afterward she caught a look
of surprise on Mrs. Gordon's face, and went on,
hastily: "I mean that I may not be at Mrs.
Marks's during the holidays. I received a
Christmas invitation today, and I have' been
doubting whether or not I should accept it.
Would "-a pause ..-" would you think me very
impertinent, Mrs. Gordon, if I asked your advice
abo~it doing so?"
"I should not think you impertinent at all,
Miss Tresham; and I should be very glad to ad-
vise you to the best of my abilit~ieaving selfish-
ness out of the question."
Katharine sat still and looked in the fire for
a minute, puckering' her brow into a slight frown
as she' did so. Then she turned round and
smiled at her hostess.
"Don't think me very vacillating and irreso-
lute," she said; "but the fact is, I declined the
invitation this morning, and I told Mrs. Marks at
diuae~' that I positively would not accept it; yet

such is the perversity of human nature that I am
half inclined to retract my own words now, and
go. If one or two doubts could be solved for
me, I think I should."
"And can I solve those doubts?"
"If you choose, I am sure you can. Of
course, you know enough of your cousin to
tell-"
She stopped short, for Mrs. Gordon raised up
and looked at her with astonished eyes.
"My cousin?" she repeated. "You surely
don't mean Mrs. Annesley?"
"Yes, I do," said Katharine, laughing a lit-
tle. "You can't be more surprised than I was.
I had never seen Mrs. Annesley before; and this
morning she called on me, and absolutely asked
me to spend Christmas at Anneadale-more than
that, she would not accept a refusal; but, when
I declined the invitation, said that she would
give me until to-morrow to consider, and would
send for my final answer then. Now, if I am
not impertinent, pray tell me what she means by
it, and what I ought to do."
Mrs. Gordon sank bacon her cushions, and
smiled. Instead of answering Katharine's ques-
tion, she asked another:
"You say that you would like to go?"
"Yes," said the girl, frankly. "I like pleas.
ure very much-more than is right, I am afraid
-and I should like very much to go. It has
been four years since I danced the last time,"
said she, looking at Mrs. Gordon gravely; "and
I should like to go to another ball. There is al-
ways a Christmas ball at Annesdale, Mrs. Marks
says. If I knew why Mrs. Annesley asked me,
and if I could be sure that she really wants me,
I should certainly take the goods the gods pro.
vide, and go."
"Go, then," said Mrs. Gordon. "Take the
goods the gods provide, and enjoy them while
you can. I am able to set your mind at rest on
both those points. I think I know why Mrs.
Annesley asked you; and, as she asked you, I
am sure she wants you to go."
"This is your advice?"
"This is certainly, my advice."
"Not given because I was foolish enoughto
say that I liked pleasure, but honestly and sin-
cerely?"
"Honestly and sincerely," answered Mrs.
Gordon, smiling. "You don't suppose I would
think you worth much if you had not youth
enough in you to like pleasure? The loveof it
is born in us, and is the strongest cord that
draws us heavenward; as well as the heaviest

fetter that binds us to the earth. Don't grudge
your youth its natural impulses and pleasures.
Believe me, the apathy and the distaste of later
life will come on you soon enough."
"But Annesdale-" said Katharine.
"Go to Anneadale, by all means. I don't
simply advise; I am bold enough to urge you to
do so. Shall I tell you why? You are not a
simpering, foolish young lady; so I think I may.
It is evident that Mrs. Annesley, from personal
reasons-don't blush, my dear, for I don't mean
to be as plain-spoken as I was before-is anxious.
to see and know you. She has taken a better
way of doing this than I should have given her
credit for-a more delicate way, that is. Don't
deny yourself a pleasure, and repulse her at the
same time. If you have any liking, any cordial
friendship, for Morton, meet his mother's ad-
vances frankly, and go to Annesdale."
"But," said Katharine, blushing deeply, de-
spite her companion's admonition to the con-
trary, "that is exactly why I hesitate. Mr.
Annesley has been very kind to me - if we
were on the same social level, I might almost
say very attentive-and I don't know what con-.
struction might be placed upon this visit."
" My dear," said Mrs. Gordon quietly, "society
is a state of hollow but very useful forms. We
all know that they are hollow, but still, we all
observe them. Mrs. Annesley has asked you to
spend Christmas at Anneadale, and you are not
supposed to know any thing of the motive for
this invitation. If any motive is concealed
beneath it, what difference does that make? 'If
she asks you for one reason, and you go for
another, what matter of that? Have you not
lived long enough in the world to know that life
-this outside, social life-is merely a game of
chance and skill? This visit will bind you to
nothing. The day after you come away, or the
day before, for that matter, you will be at per-
fect liberty to reject Morton if he asks you to
marry him. I hope you won't do any thing half
so foolish, though," she added, with a smile. "I
knew his father well; and Morton is Edgar An-
nesley over again. No girl could ever do bet-
ter than to accept him."
"I am sure of that," said Katharine, kindly
and cordially. Bum she did not say it as if she
had any personal interest in the question of
accepting or rejecting the young owner of An.
neadale. She spoke with~ her eyes fastened
thoughtfully on the fire; and when she looked
up, she added suddenly, "Then, once for all, you
advise mete go?

"Once for all, I do. Will you prove an en.
caption to most adviceasking people, and take
my advice?"
"Yes, I will," said the girl, rising and stand-
ing before the fire, with the ruddy light flicker-
ing over her bright face and graceful figure. 1
am very much obliged to you for giving it," she
went on; 't aiid I should be very ungrateful if I
did not take it after you have been so frank with
me. I shall write to Mrs. Annesley to-morrow,
and tell her that I accept her invitation. May I
come to see you when I return, and tell you how
much I have enjoyed myself?" -
"Come to see me certainly, and tell me all
about it. I shall be very glad to hear every
thing. But must you go now?"
"Yes, it is growing late, and we have ~ 'long
walk from here home. Neither the children nor
myself mind it, though," she added, as the word
"carriage" formed on Mrs. Gordon's lips. "I
must bid you good-evening, and I hope you will
be well when I come again.
With a sudden impulse which, if she had
stopped a minute to consider, would certainly
have been repressed, she bent down and laid
her lips on Mrs. Gordon's cheek. It was a very
light caress, but the latter felt it and started.
Then she looked up with a smile.
"You are certainly very charming," she said.
"I don't wonder that others, besides myself~ have
found it out."
-4--
CHAPTER xiv.
n. a.
WHEN Mrs. Annesley reached home, she found
that the whole family of Taylors, mother and
daughters, had arrived at Annesdale during her
absence, and were established to "spend the
day," according to the irksome custom which
then prevailed, and for that matter still prevails,
in country districts. Their bonnets were laid
aside, their work was brought out, and the draw.
ing-room was full of the sound of their chatter
and laughter, when the lady of the house entered.
Poor Adela was on duty, and gave a glance corn.
pounded ludicrously of resignation and disgust
to her mother. Mrs. Annesley telegraphed a
reply in much the same spirit, then swept for-
ward and greeted her guests with effusion.
"Dear Mrs. Taylor, what a pleasant surprise 1
How kind of you to come!" etc., etc.-" Maria,
how well you are looking ! - Fanny, has your.


70                         MORTON HOUSE.                                                                     R G.                              71

neuralgia quite gone ?-Augusta, I need not as]
how yos are-I never saw you more blooming
Of course you have come to spend the day.
cannot think of letting you off1" etc.
They all spent the day with religious exact
tude. It was nightfall before the last item o~
news was discussed, the knitting-needles am
worsted-work put away, the bonnets resumed
and the carriage ordered. Mrs. Annesley gav
a heart-felt sigh as she stood at the window anc
watched them drive away. "What a relief P
she said. "It is dreadful to think what bore~
those people are!" ~
"The night is going to be dark, and the roadt
are very heavy," said Adds. "I shouldn't b
surprised if they had a bad time getting home-
and serve them right, tool for staying so late
Now, mamma, what news? I have been dying
to hear, ever since you came; and I thought they
never were going."
"Nothing very satisfactory," her mother an-
swered, without turnin'r round. "She declines
to come, ~
"What!" said Adela; and~ even in the soft
mingling of firelight and twilight, it was evident
that her face felL "It can't be possible that
she declines to come, mamma!"
"She does, though. She refused the invita-
tion absolutely and mit very courteously."
"Then what will you do?"
"What I will do is yet to bedecided-what I
did do was to decline to accept her refusal. I in-
sisted on her taking a day to consider the mat-
ter, and said 1 would send for her answer to-
morrow."
"That is snore than I should have done,"
said Adela, flushing. "She will think she has
~gairted every thing."
"She is welcome to think so,";was the quiet
response.
"It is nothing but insolence!" cried Mrs.
Freneb. "I wish I had her in my power, I'd-
Pd stinngle her! Mamma, I don't see how you
ever submitted to it!"
"We must submit to a great deal, Adds, if
we want to carry our points."
* "And do you think you will carry this one?"
"I thinkehe will come."
"But if she don't?"
"Then I shall be disappointed, but not seri-
ously so. All I need is time; and time, I think,
I can induce Morton to grant me. Since I have
given a conditional consent, he has promised that
he will not speak until I have seen and judged
of.-.--of this governess."

"I should make that a long process."
"No; for I hope it will not be long before I
I have proofs concerning her which not even Mor-
ton can disregard.'t,
"And meanwhile?"
"And meanwhile, she cannot fail to suffer by
I close contrast with Irene Vernon. She is not
pretty, Adela."
"N-o, mamma, not prett~r, perhaps-but
I handsome in a certain style that men like. If
you could have seen her talking to Morton at
the pond that day! It was all her fault that he
lost sight of that hateful child, and had such a
frightful accident. Of course, Irene is a beauty
-but I wouldn't trust to this girl's not being
- pretty, if I were you."
"Trust to it! You don't suppose I have
lived to my age, without learning that there are
many things besides a pretty face that make a
fool of a man. It certainly is not this girl's face
* which has turned that poor boy's head. Let mc
see-what is the day of the month?"
"The nineteenth," answered Adela, wonder-
ing a little at the question.
Mrs. Annesley walked to the fire, making
some calculation as she went. Mrs. French, who
had meanwhile taken a seat, watched her with
languid interest, She did not pretend to under.
stand all her mother's schemes; but her reliance
was, in a different way, quite as complete as
Morton's. She had the m6st profound admira-
tion for her mother's diplomatic abilities; and
did not honestly believe that any cause was hope.
less as long as she retained the management of it.
"Well, mamma," she said, at last, "what are
you thinking about?"
"I am thinking," answered Mrs. Annesley,
absently, "how long it takes a letter to go to
London, and an answer to return."
"A- letter ?-to go?-" Adela sat up and
stared at her mother. "A letter to go to Lon-
don! Mamma, what do you mean?"
"I mean," said Mrs. Annesley, glancing
round at the closed door, as if to make sure
that nobody was within hearing-" I mean that
I have no idea that my son shall marry an adv~n-
turess; and that I have been making inquiries
about Miss Tresham for some time."
Mrs. French' gave a little scream, half of
excitement, half of slightly comic alarm. "Good
gracious, you don't say so! Why, this is becom-
ing quite interesting. Wouldn't Morton be vexed
if he knew? Tell me all about it, mamma-how
long ago did you begin, and what have you found
out?"

"I can't tplk about it here," said Mrs. Annes-
ley, a little nervously. "Morton might come in
any minute; and I would not let him know for
the world. When I have found out what I want
to know, I shall lay the matter before him~ but,
until then, he would not listen to any thing I
could urge. His scruples on the subject are ab-
surd."
"Most of his ideas are," said Mrs. French,
coolly. "Dear me, there iz his step in the hail!
May I come to your room tonight, mamma, and
hear all about it? Say yes, please."
"I suppose you may, though I am half-afraid
to trust you.
"Never fear about trusting me. I'm not like
some foolish women, who tell every thing to their
husbands. Frank is a good fellow, and tells me
all his secrets; but he doesn't hear any of mine.
-Do you, Frank?"
"Do I what, Adela?" asked Frank, who en-
tered at the moment in a very splashed and dis-
reputable cOndition. "1 don't mean to stop a
minute," he said, hastily, as he was transfixed
by his wife's glance. "I only came in to tell
you what splendid luck we've had. I never saw
the pond so flush of ducks before. Morton's a
better shot than I am, and he bagged no less
than-"
"Frank, if you don't go up-stairs this minute
and take off that abominable corduroy, I will
never speak to you again!~~ cried Mrs. French,
in a high-treble key. "It smells horribly! Who
cares about your miserable ducks? I don't!"
"You'll care about eating them, 1 expect,"
said the good-natured Frank, as he left the room
rather crestfallen, and went to change the objec-
tionable corduroy, which, being thoroughly wet,
had, in fact, a: very fs~r from agreeable odor.
A few minutes afterward Morton entered, and,
having had the discretion to e~nnge his dress,
was welcomed more cordially than his fellow-
sportsman had been.
In answer to his mother's inquiries, he said
that they had had a very good day's sport; that
the ducks were plenty, and, by no means hard to
approach; and that their game-bag wasfull.
"Frank enjoyed it extremely," he said, in a
tone that was rather tired. "For my part, I am
not as fond of sport as I used to be."
"I suppose it takes a fox-chase to rouse
you," said Mrs. Annesley. "By-the-way, there
will be so~ne fox-hunting next week, will there
not?"
"To be sure," answered Morton. "French
was talking about it to-day. Langdon, and Tal-

cott, and half a dozen more, will be here, who~
care for little besides fox-hunting. I wrote t6
Godfrey Seymour and told him to bring his
hounds with him when he came."
"Isn't your own pack a good one?"
"The more the merrier, you know; and no
hounds are like Seymour's. He has the best-
trained pack in the country."
"I hope he will come."
"I hope so, indeed, for his own sake as well
as on account of his dogs. There isn't a better
fellow living than Godfrey. Is your party quite
made up, mother?" he went on. "If there is
anybody else to be invited, you know you ought
to be attending to it. Almost everybody has
made engagements for Christmas by this time.~~
"There is nobody else to be invited," said
Mrs. Annesley. She paused a moment, then
added, c~uietly: "I gave the last invitation in
Tallahoma to-day."
"In Tallahoma!" echoed her son. "Whom
did you ask in Tallahoma? John Warwick?"
"No, quite a different person. Miss Tresh-
am."
The young man started. That name was the
last he had expected to hear, and looked at his
mother for a moment in surprise. Then he went
round to the back of her chair, and, bending
down, kissed her brow just where the hair was
parted.
"My dear mother, thank you," he said, sim-
ply.
"Don't thank me," said Mrs. Annesley, in
rather a hard voice. "I need not tell you that it
cost me a struggle, Morton. But I promised you
tO see and know her, and I thought this oppor-
tunity the best for the purpose. People will
wonder, no doubt; but we must submit to that."
"Let them wonder," said he, a little haught-
ily; but his tone softened, as he added: "You
were quite right; this will be the best opportu-
nity for seeing and knowing her. Is there noth-
ing that I can do for you, mother?" he went on.
"Is there nothing you could ask of rile? I
should like to show you in some way how much
I appreciate the sacrifice you have nmade.~v
"Yes, there is one thing," said Mrs. Annes-
icy, perceiving her advantage, and seizing it
without an instant's hesitation. "You can cer-
tainly do one thing for me, Morton. I have
asked this girl here for your sake. For my
sake promise me that while she is here you will
refrain from' paying her any marked attention,
that you will not give people any opportunity to
couple your name and hers together."


72                         MORTON HOUSE.                                                                    R. G.                             73

Morton's brow contracted a little. He
thought his mother had taken an unfair advan-
tage of his offer, but he did not say so; indeed,
after a moment, he saw that he had no alterna-
tive but to consent. He had rashly laid himself
open to this, and he must abide by his own
words.
* "I promise," he said, a little coldly, "but I
did not think you would have asked such a thing
of me."
His mother rose and laid her hand on his
shoulder.
"Why, my dear son? Why should I not
ask it of you? You know where all my hopes
for you are fixed. Can you wonder that 1 do not
wish you to put an impassable barrier between
yourself and their fulfilment?"
He knew what she meant-he knew she was
thinking of Irene Vernon-so he did not answer.
He had very sensitive ideas of his own, and he
showed them in nothing more than in the reti-
cence he always observed with regard to topics
like these. Nothing would have induced him to
mention Miss Vernon's name in a connection of
this sort. After a while, he sighed a little, and
put his arm round his mother.
"You must bear with me," he said. "Moth.
er, dear, it is hard that at this late day I should
begin to be a trouble to you; but be patient, be
hopeful, and perhaps in time we may live it
down."
Mrs. Annesley went to her own room early
that night. She was tired, she said her drive
to town and the Taylors together had quite cx-
hansted her, and her only chance of being mod-
erately well the next day was to retire at an hour
that Adela was fond of calling uncivilized-Ade-
la's pet idea of civilization being to go to bed
at one o'clock and rise at twelve. To-night,
however, Mrs. French made no demur at the
move. She yawned and said the Taylors had
done for her, too; then bade her brother good-
nigh~, and followed her mother up-stairs.
"You are going to smeke?" sh~ said to her
husband, who muttered something of the sort in
the hall below. "Oh, very well; take your time
about it; I am going to mamma's room for a
while."
Her face vanished from over the balustrade,
and the minute afterward the two gentlemen
heard her dress rustling along the upper pas.
sage, a~md the opening and closing of Mrs. An-
nesley's door.
"They are good for a two-hours' gossip at
least," said Mr. French, on hearing this. "That's

their notion of 'going to bed early and getting a
long rest!' Come, Morto~, we'll have a smoke.
Do you know where the papers are that came
this morning" ~"
In Mrs. Annesley's chamber a large fire was
blazing brightly and making the whole room
radiant with that beautiful glow which a judi-
cious mixture of pine, and oak, and hickory, can
alone diffuse, when Adela entered. It rendered
any other light almost unnecessary; but a lamp
burned with quiet, steady lustre on the table at
Mrs. Annesley's side, and, scattered around its
base, were several letters and a newspaper.
She looked up from the pages of one of the
former when the door opened and she saw her
daughter.
"I thought your curiosity would not let you
remain downstairs long," she said. "Come in,
bnt be sure and close the door securely."
"Well, mamma, I'm all impatience," said
Adela, after she had waited some time, and her
mother took no further notice of her, but went
on reading the letter she held.
"Look at that, then," said her mother, push-
ing the newspaper across the table and pointing
with her finger to a particular paragraph.
Adela took it up wonderingly. The sheet
was mammoth, and proved to be a copy of the
London Times, in date five or six months old.
Following the direction of the finger, her eye fell
at once on the following advertisement:
"If the friends or relations of Katharine
Tresham, formerly of the British West indies,
and lately of Cumberland, England, are desirous
of knowing her present whereabouts' and ad-
dress, they can obtain this information by ad-
dressing R. G., box 1084, Mobile, Alabama."
Adela first stared, then caught her breath,
and looked up at her mother.
"is it possible you wrote this, mamma?"
"Yes, I wrote it," Mrs. Annesley answered.
"I could not let matters go on as they had been
doing for months past. I felt, and i still feel
sure there is something wrong about the girl.
Being confident of this, and seeing Morton's
growing infatuation, i knew that to lift the cur-
tain from her life was the only hope of saving
him, if i have done her harm, she has only
herself and her ambitious schemes to thank for
it. Any parent would hold me more than justi~
fled in the means i have used."
"Oh, as for that," said Adela, "i think the
means are excellent. But i wonder how you

ever thought of them, and how did you get this
inserted"'"
"I sent it to Mr. Russell when he was in
England last summer, lie is thoroughly trust-
worthy, and will neither mention the fact nor
ask any questions. it was inserted in the Timas
for a month, and he sent me this copy."
"Did any thing come of it?"
"Something came of it sooner than 1 had
ventured to hope. Before the advertisement
had appeared a week, a letter was written, and
reached me in due time."
She handed a letter across the table, and
Adela received it eagerly. Her curiosity was
fairly in a flame, and, although she tore open
the folded sheet very hastily~ she had still time
enough to observe that the paper, writing, and
whole style of the missive, were unexceptionable.
It was evidently written by a man, and was quite
terse:
"If H. G. can give any accurate information
concerning the present whereabouts and address
of Katharine Tresham, formerly of Porto Rico, in
the West Indies, and lately of Dornthorne Place,
Cumberland, England, he will be entitled to the
thanks of her friends, and can obtain a liberal
reward by addressing Messrs. Rich &amp; Little,
Lincoln's Inn, London."
After Adela read the last words twice over,
she looked up at her mother, and shrugged
her shoulders. "I don't think the reply gives
much more information than the advertisement,"
she said.
"'When that came," answered Mrs. Annesley,
"I saw in a moment that I had gone to work
wrong-that instead of offering to give informa-
tion, I should have asked for it. I saw there
was a secret to keep; and this friend who offers
me a liberal reward, and refers me to a couple
of lawyers, was as much interested as the girl
herself in keeping it. I felt sure, however, that
he did not know her whereabouts, that he was
honestly anxious to be enlightened. In that
case, I thought I saw my way, and this is what
I wrote.
Again she pushed a letter across the table,
and again Adela took it up and read:
"If the gentleman who referred R. G. to
Messrs. Rich &amp; Little will communicate his own
address to box 1084, Mobile, Alabama, he can
obtain the information he desires, and be spared
the payment of a reward."

"Well! and what was the answer to
tkis?"
"The answer to this came very shortly, and
puzzled me not a little. Here it is."
The second missive, in the same writing, and
on the same paper as the first, was in turn handed
across the table and read:
"Mr. St. John has received H. G.'s letter. If
R. G. possesses any real knowledge of Miss Tresh-
am's place of abode, and objects to communicate.
ing that knowledge through Mr. St. John's law-
yers, he can address directly-
"HENRY ST. Jous, EsQ.,
"Peste Restante,
"Mr. St. John !-Mr. St. John's lawyers!" re-
peated Adela. "Well, Miss Tresham certainly
seems to have a grand sort of person interested
*in her! Dear me, mamma, suppose she has run
away from her friends, and is really a lady, after
all? "
"She is much more likely to be an adventure~
ess," said Mrs. Annesley, bitterly. "That high.
sounding name did not deceive me for a minute.
By return mail, I forwarded her address to Mr.
Henry St. John, and requested some information
concerning her, for personal and family reasons.
No answer whatever came to that letter. After
waiting some time, and finding that none was
likely to come, and that evidently nothing had
occurred to call Miss Tresham away from La-
grange, I wrote to the lawyer in Mobile, through
~vhom I received these letters, and requested him
to make inquiries in London about this Mr. St.
John. He did so at once, and I am now waiting
to hear the result. It may be some time before
I obtain the facts I want, but every thing is pos-
sible to patience and money, and I shall obtain
them in the end. if it takes my whole fortune,"
she went on, passionately, "I will obtain them,
sooner than let my son wreck his life by marry-
ing this woman."
"I am inclined to think that Mr. St. John is
a nice person," said Adela, gravely regarding the
two letters that lay open on the table before
her.
" I am sure he is a sharper," her mother re-
torted, "and probably in league with Miss Tresh-
am. Why he should have noticed my advertise.
ment at all, puzzles me."
"Perhaps because he was afraidd somebody
else would," said Adela, too lazy to do battle for
her own "nice-person" theory. "Well, main-


74                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                           MERRY CHRISTMAS!                      75

ma, when do you expect to hear something
definite about him?"
"I wrote to Mr. Burns the other day, taking
the inquiry," her mother answered. "I was
looking over his reply when you came in.
There it is-you can sec it if you choose."
"Of course i choose," said Adela; and
suiting the action to the word, she took the
indicated letter and opened it. Mr. Burns was
thb Mobile lawyer of whom Mrs. Annesley had
spoken, and this was what he said:
"DzAn MADAM: Your favor of the 3d ultimo
came safely to hand. In reply to your inquiries,
I am able to say that I hope soon to hear from
my agent in London, with regard to the infor-
mation you auc anxious to receive. I anticipate
little difficulty in obtaining this information, if
the addresses which you have furnished me are
at all correct. The solicitors at Lincoln's Inn
will certainly be able to satisfy you concerning.
the real character and standing of Mr. St. John.
If we should meet with any difficulty there, it
will be a little more troublesome, but quite as
practicable to make these inquiries through
other channels. In either case, you ~nay be
sure of receiving reliable information in a com-
paratively short time. I have also forwarded to
myagent your copy of Mr. St. John's letter, giv-
ing the name of the place where Miss Tresham
resided in Cumberland. By prosecuting his in-
quiries there, he may be able to learn something
of this lady. I hope to receive a letter by the
middle of the month, and will forward it to you
immediately.
"Assuring you of my continued secrecy, and
acknowledging your desire that I will not spare
expense, I remain,
"Very rcspectfi~lly,
"WILLIAM F. Buass."
Adela philosophically folded up the letter,
and returned it to her mother.
"1 see now why you gave your consent," she
said. "You wanted to make Morton defer mat-
ters, and so gain time~"
"it was my only hope," said her mother.
"I knew that if once Morton spoke to the girl,
he would hold fast to his word through every
thing. Now 1 may stave oil' a declaration, until
1 can show hint who and what she is."
"if that is your hope, I should think you
were very unwise to ask her to spend a week in
the same house with him."
"And you don't know that by this very thing

I took the surest means of binding him to his
promise. He would do any thing sooner than
* break it now, that I have, as he thinks, made
such a sacrifice for him. But that was not my
only reason for asking her. I wanted her here
-in my power, under my hand. When the let-
ter from London comes, I want to give her a
choice between open exposure, or leaving La-
grange. Then I do not believe that, once con-
trasted with Irene Vernon, she could continue to
attract Morton."
Adela shook her head.
"That's your mistake, mamma," she said.
"Morton has known Irene Vernon as long or
longer than he han known this girl, and do you
suppose he never contrasted them in his mind?
I am as anxious as you can be that he should
fall in love with her; but I don't think it is like-
ly just now."
- "We shall see."
"Yes, we shall see. But, for my part, I
don't believe Miss Tresham will come. I am
sure she has sense enough to distrust an invite~
tion to Annesdale."
"That may be; but, nevertheless, I think
she will accept it."
The event fully justified this belief. The next
day was cloudy and stormy in the extreme, but
Mrs. Annesley dispatched a messenger to Talla-
homa, and waited anxiously for his return. In
an hour or two, a damp note, woefully limp, and
odorous of wet linsey, was brought to her. She
opened it with two fingers, read the few lines
which it contained, and looked up at her daugh-
ter with a smile.
"it is all right, Adds," she said. "She will
come."
CHAPTER XV.
~nnnt CI{RISTMASl
Wxnxzsnxv was Christmas eve; and on Wed-
nesday the Annesley equipage rolled majestically
up to Mr. Marks's gate, and the children rushed
pantingly in with the intelligence that the car-
riage had come for Miss Tresham, and the driver
said would she please be as quick as possible, for
his horses were impatient, and didn't like to
stand.
Miss Tresham did not- keep the impatient
horses, or their more impatient driver, waiting
very long. Her trunk was packed, and her ben.

net had been on for an hour at least; se--there
was nothing to do but say good-by-which, how.
ever, was very far from being a short ceremony.
There was Mrs. Marks and Mr. Marks, and Mr.
Warwick (it was immediately after dinner, which
accounted for the presence at home of these two
gentlemen) and all the children, and most of the
servants, to exchange farewells and good wishes
with. Mrs. Marks kissed the young governess as
if she had been her own daughter, and bade her
take care of herself and look her prettiest, and
enjoy herself her best; Mr. Marks shook hands
heartily, and hoped she would have a very merry
Christmas, and they would all miss her, and keep
her Christmas-gifts till she came back, and the
children pressed round tumultuously, and list-
ened distractedly, while she told Mrs. Marks
that if she would look in the top drawer of her
bureau the next morning, she would perhaps find
that St. Nicholas had visited it; and the servants
bobbed up and down in the background, and
thrust forward their ebony hands with many
" Christmas gift, missis I Wish you merry
Christmas, ma'am 1" while Mr. Warwick stood
by, and looked with his quiet smile at the whole
of it.
"I'll take you to the carriage, and bid you
good-by there," he said, when Katharine at last
turned and extended her hand to him. "You'll
never get oil', at this rate. Has the trunk gone
out?"
"Done strapped on, sir," said Tom, appearing
at the open door, and speaking ovcr Judy's yellow
turban. "Done strapped on, sir; and John says
the horses-"
"Tell John to hold his tongue about the
horses.-Miss Tresham, when you are ready, I
am at your service.~~
"I am ready now, Mr. Warwick," said Katha-
rine; and wiih a last bright glance around, and a
last "Good-by all 1" she went out of the open
door, across the piazza, and down the front walk,
attended by Mr. Warwick, and followed by all the
children and servants. Mr. and Mrs. Marks went
no farther than the piazza, but they stood there
and watched the departure. "if ever I thought
that suck a thing would be!" said the good wom-
an to her husband, as she saw Katharine enter
the carriage, and bend forward ever the closed
door to shake hands with Mr. Warwick and give
Nelly a last kiss. Then a touch was given the ins-
patient horses, the carriage disappeared, like a
glittering vision, round a turn of the road, and
the group at the gate returned slowly to the
house-all excepting Mr. Warwick, who went

on to town, and, although it was Christmas Eve,
and high and low, and rich and poor, were all
alike rejoicing and taking a holiday, sat himself
do~vn to his grim law-books, and seemed to find
the same interest in them that he found there
every day. -
Meanwhile, Katharine was driving at a rapid
and easy pace over the country road that led past
the gates of Morton House on to Annesdale. The
short December afternoon was more than half
gone, the shadows were long, and the yellow sun-
shine streamed with bright but sad pathos over
the distant hills and leafless woods, as the car-
riage swept along; the driver and footman talked
on the box, and the girl inside, leaning back on
the soft cushions and :watching the fields and
clumps of trees fly past, asked herself if she was
awake or dreaming, if she would really arrive at
Annesdale after a while, or if she would rouse
up in her own room in Mr. Marks's house.
On the whole, she came to the conclusion that
she was awake, when the Annesdale gates flew
open at the approach of the carriage, and, sweep-
ing round the carefully-kept circle, Katharine
found herself before a handsome house of soft
gray color, built in the Italian style, and spread-
ing over a great deal of space, with large wings
and many piazzas. The doors of the haIl were
wide open, and three or four gentlemen were
standing in the front portico. One of them
came forward when the carriage stopped, and,
putting aside the footman, began opening the
door himself. He was a frank, pleasant-looking
person, whom Katharine recognized as Mr.
French. "I hope you have not found it cold,
Miss Tresham," he said, as, after fumbling at the
handle for some time, he at last wrenched open
the dooi~ "They ought to have put the win-
dows up to protect you better. Let me bid you
welcome to Anneidale. I hope you will have a
merry Christmas with us. Did you ever spend
Christmas in the country before?"
His voice and his smile were both very genial.
Katharine felt glad that her first welcome had
been from him, instead of from her formal host-
ess. It seemed somehow to promise better, to be
a better omen of that merry Christmas which
everybody just then was wishing everybody else.
She answered him, as they went up the steps to-
gether, and, when they entered the door, the first
thing that met her eye was the greeting-
MERRY CHRISTMAS!
in enormous letters of evergreen fronting the en.


76                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                            MERRY CHRISTMAS!                       77

trance, and running along the gallery that was
part of the noble winding staircase which swept
around the large octagon hail. On every side of
this hail swung heavy garlands in which the deep
glossy green of a dozen different perennials con-
trasted with the crimson berries of the holly and
the glistening pearls of the mistletoe. Every
picture gazed from a frame elaborately decked;
and the large chandelier that swung in mid-space
looked like a massive hanging basket, with its
many wreaths and long drooping sprays of ivy
"How beautiful 1" said Katharine, standing
still to admire. "How very beautiful 1"
"Yes, it's pretty," said Mr. French, smiling.
"But wait until you see the drawing-rooms. The
hail was rather slighted this year, and-Ah,
here's Mrs. Anucaley.",
He broke off thus, as a door on one side
opened, and two ladies came out. One was a
young and tolerably pretty girl, who ran forward
and button-holed Mr. French without ceremony,
while Mrs. Annesley welcomed Katharine with
more cordiality than the latter had expected.
"Have you seen Spitfire? Oh, Mr. French,
do tell n~o if you have seen Spitfire?" cried the
first, in a tone of deep distress.
"My dear Miss Tresham, I am very glad to
welcome you to Anneadale," said Mrs. Annesley,
with pleasant courtesy.
"I am sure that some of your horrid hounds
have got hold of him!" cried the anxious in-
quirer.
"I am afraid you were detained, and must
have found it cold,~' said Mrs. Annesley
Katharine was rather confused between the
two; but she managed to leave the Spitfire re-
plies to Mr. French, and assure Mrs. Annesley
that she had not been detained, that she was not
cold, and, that she hoped she had arrived in time
for dinner-it having been understood that she
should dine at Annesdale on Christmas Eve.
" In very good time," answered Mrs. Annes-
Icy. ~' It has not been ten minutes since the
ladies went np-stairs to dress. These holiday
tiniest the servants are entirely upset," she added,
"and, with all my efforts, I cannot get dinner be-
fore five o'clock. It is not so much fashion as
necessity which decides my hours. Will you go
to your room now ?-Maggie, I suppose you will
come when you find your dog?"
"I am just going with Mr. French to look for
him," answered the young lady, to whom this
last question had been addressed. "I don't trust
a word these miserable servants say, Mrs. Annes-
icy. They all have a spite against Spitfire, and I

believe they would be glad to see those hateful
hounds worry him to death. I'll be up-stairs
when I find him, but not l~fore."
She walked out of the front door, followed by
Mr. French, while Mrs. Annesley drew Katharine
toward the staircase. "This way, my dear," she
said, quietly. "That is Miss Lester," she went
on, as they mounted the steps together. "She is
a nice girl, but rather spoiled, and quite eccen-
tric. We can hardly wonder, though, for she is a
great heiress, and an only child, se-here-this
is your room."
It was a charging apartment, large and airy,
with deep, broad windows looking to the south,
two canopied and curtained beds, and richly-
carved rosewood furniture. A bright fire was
burning on the hearth, the toilet-table was glit-
tering with crystal essence-bottles and the like,
while two maids stood before it, one engaged in
holding and the other in plaiting a long braid of
rich, red hair. "This is Miss Tresham, Becky,"
said Mrs. Annesley, addressing the former, who
at once dropped a deep courtesy. "Is every
thing in order?"
"Yes'm," said Becky, staring with all her
might at the new-coiner.
"Then, Miss Tresham, I trust you will be
comfortable, and I will leave you to your toilet.
I hope, by-the-way, you don't object to sharing
your room. The house is so crowded, that I am
obliged to quarter Miss Lester and yourself to.
gather, as you perceive. You don't mind it? I
am so glad; for many persons do, and in that
case a hostess is rather embarrassed. Dinner
at five.-Becky, be sure you attend to Miss
Tresham well."
"Won't you take a seat, ma'am ?" said
Becky, wheeling a chair to the fire, after her
mistress had left the room. And, as Katharine
took the seat, she knelt down on the hearth-rug
and began unlacing her shoes.
"Never mind that," said Miss Tresham, smil-
ing. "Don't let me take you from your work."
"Mistiss told me I was to wait on you," said
Becky, looking up from the shoes. "That's my
business, ma'~im, as long as you stays here."
"Indeed! I hope we shall get on well to-
gether, then. And does that girl wait on Miss
Lester?"
"I belongs to Miss Lester," said the girl in-
dicated. "I'se waited on her all my life.-
Becky, where'd you put the curling-tongs?"
"You'll find 'em behind the looking-glass,"
said Beeky.-Then she glanced up at Katl*$ue
and added, with a negro's honest admMQ~

"You're the prettiest lady I've seen yet,
ma'am."
"Hush 1" said the pretty lady, laughing.
"You must not flatter me, or we shall not get
on at all. If you want to begin your duties, you
may take these keys and open my trunk. I must
dress as soon as I get warm."
Before the process of getting warm was fin-
ished, or the process of dressing had begun, the
door opened, and the young lady whom Katha-
rine had seen below catered the room, followed
by a shaggy little Scotch terrier, who inconti-
nently rushed at Miss Tresham, with a vicious
snarl.
"Spitfire, Spitfire 1-behave yourself~ sir ~"
cried his mistress, with a stamp. of the foot, which
Spitfire minded about as much as if she had bade
him go on. "Don't be afraid of him," she said
to Katharine, as Spitfire danced round and
round, barking vehemently. "He is the best
fellow you ever saw, and he wouldn't bite you
for the world."
"I don't trust him, ma'am 1" cried Becky,
who had retreated into a corner and was valiant-
ly defending herself with Katharine's shoes,
while Spitfire, who had deserted Miss Tresham,
devoted his energies entirely to her. " Oh,
ma'am, please call him away! Oh, Lord, he's
sure to bite me 1-Get off; sir 1-get off!"
"Hush, you silly thing!" cried Miss Lester,
with another stamp of her foot, which Becky
obeyed better than Spitfire had done. "Come
here to me, pet-come hcre.-Cynthy, catch him
and make him stop."
Cynthy put down the curling-tongs and made
a lunge at Spitfire, who rewarded her exertions
by turning his snapping and snarling against
her. Katharine fully expected to see the maid
badly bitten; but it seemed that Spitfire's fury
was, after all, mere sound. lie submitted to be
captured, and, with a last futile bark at Becky,
lay dowli on the hearth-rug and growled to him-
self.
"There, now 1-are you not ashamed of your-
self?" said his mistress, addressing him in an
expostulating tone.-" Don't you ever be foolish
enough to threaten him with any thing again,"
added she, turning severely to Becky. "If you
do, he certainly will bite you; for nothing makes
him so angry as to be threatened.-Miss Tresh-
am, since we are to be room-mates, we might as
well make friends. What do you think of Spit-
fire?"
"I think he is very well named," said Kath-
arine, who had shared the panic.
8

"Cousin Tom named him," said the young
lady. "lie thought it was an appropriate name,
and I kept it because it was unusual. In fact,
Spitfire is a very unusual dog."
In ill-nature, do you mean?"
"No, in sense. Look how intelligent his eyes
are-I really believe he could talk if he chose.
Then 1 like him all the better for his temper-it
is such a contrast to those insipid poodles that
most girls fancy. I have a bull-dog at home-
a great, splendid fellow, named Bulger-but papa
would not let me bring him abner"
Katharine mentally applauded "papa's~~ wis-
dom as she looked at Spitfire triumphantly estab-
lished on the hearth-rug, and thought that it
might have been her unlucky chance to have
been also domiciled with a great, splendid fellow
of a bull-dog. She soon found that her new ac-
quaintance was very pleasant and very easy to
get on wfth-a little spoiled, perhaps, as Mrs.
Annesley had said, and decidedly a little eccen-
tric, but exceedingly unaffected and good-natured.
Contrasting her with many common specimens
of the genus young lady, Katharine concluded
that she was fortunate in her companion; and
she listened with amusement while Miss Lester's
tongue ran glibly on, now to the maid, now to
herself~
"Get out my purple silk, Cynthy, and the
ribbons to match. Did you quill the point lace
in the neck, as I told you? A pair of satin
boots, while ycu are in the trunk.-Miss Tresh-
am, did you ever spend Christmas at Annesdalo
before? No? Then I am sure you will be de-
lighted-every thing is so charming. For my
part, I am always glad to get away from home
at Christmas. The servants have holiday, you
know; and there is so much trouble about get-
ting any thing done. They spend their whole
tlme dancing in the cabins; and if you want the
fire made up, even, you have to ring half a dozen
times before anybody comes. I always go away
from home Christmas; and, if I can, I always
come to Anneadale. Adela and I went to school
together. Don't you like her very much?"
She stopped after this question, and Katharine
replied that she had not the pleasure of knowing
Mrs. French, at which Miss Lester's face cx.
pressed the liveliest surprise.
"Why, I thought she stayed in Lagrange a
great deal. I don't live in Lagrange, you see. I
live in Apalatka. But you know Morton, don't
you ?-and oh, isn't he nice?"
"I know Mr. Annesley, and I think him very
pleasant."


78                        MORTON HOUSE.

"He's delightful, that's what he is" said
Miss, Lester, a little indignantly~ "Cousin Tom
Langdon, and Godfrey Seymour, and Frank
French, and a dozen more, are 'pleasant,' but
Morton is simply delightful. I could fall in love
with him," said the young lady, with startling
candor.
"Then, why don't you?" s~sked Katharine,
who began to think that her new acquaintance
was more eccentric than she had at first sup-
posed.
"Because there would be no use in it," an-
swered the other, with a sigh of frank regret.
"Everybody has settled that he's to marry
Irene Vernon, and no doubt he will, after a
while. She's pretty enough, as far as that goes;
but, dear me, looks are not every thing-are they,
Spitfire ?-Cynthy, come here ~nd take down my
hair. I positively won't be dressed for dinner at
this rate."
With the efficient aid of Becky, Katharine's
toilet was soon completed, and, when the~ lest
touches were given, fully deserved the enthu-
siastic compliments of the maid. "You looks
as pretty as a picture, ma'am," said Becky,
smoothing down the dress of some soft, blue
fabric, that was cut in a style which really made
the girl resemble an old picture.
"If you only had your hair rolled up and
powdered, you'd look for all the world like my
great grandmother!" cried Miss Lester, turning
round and much inconveniencing Cynthy, who
was busy fastening the body of the purple silk.
"Is that the first dinner-bell? Good gracious,
Cynthy, make haste !-t[erc, Beeky, come and
help her.-Miss Tresham, would you mind look-
ing in the tray of that trunk and handing me my
jewelry-box?"
In the midst of the commotion which ensued,
a knock at the door passed quite unnoticed, and,
after one or two vain repetitions, they all started
when it opened and Mrs. French appeared.
"Oh, Adela, you are just in time!" cried
Miss Lester, lifting up her hands. "I'm only
half dressed, an~ hurried almost to death. Do,
there's a dear! come and help Miss Tresham put
these ornaments in my hair."
"Indeed, I have not time, Maggie," said A de.
Ia, very coolly. "On the contrary, I have come
to earry off Miss Tresham. I knew that of
course you would not be ready, so I thought I
w9uld pilot her down-stairs.-I am Mrs. French.
You'll let me introduce myself~, won't you?"
she said, turning and offering her hand to Katha-
zine,

This was very pleasant and in five minutes
Miss Lester was left to the tender mercies of
Cynthy and Becky, and Katharine was going
down-stairs in amicable companionship with
Mrs. French. She had time now to see the
grand scale on which Annesdale was built; to
admire the hall paved in black and white marble,
and the staircase that swept round and round
until it ended in an observatory on the roof.
"It is very handsome," the governess thought to
herself; but she was of the Old World, and had
seen too many noble residences to be impressed
by the splendors of Annesdale. "On the whole,
I think I like Morton House better. It is not so
new."
"Our party is not very large," Mrs. French
was saying. "Not more than thirty people in
all, and more gentlemen than ladies. I always
like for them to be in the majority. This way,
Miss ~resham.-.this is the drawing-room."
She opened the door, Katharine entered, and
for a minute was quite dazzled. It had been a
long time since she had mingled in society, and
even under ordinary circumstances this large,
richly-hued room, all ablaze with wax-lights and
full of well-dressed people, would have made a
startling contrast to the gray twilight that filled
the hall. Then, no amount of social usage can
make it a pleasant ordeal to face a number of
absolute strangers just at the time when they
have nothing to do and little to talk of, and so
are at leisure for criticisms and remarks more
agreeable to themselves than to the objec iere-
of. Katharine's courage sank down to zero, but
nobody would have imagined it. On the con-
trary, she looked so stately and self-possessed-
so full of that rare, graceful ease which only the
highest social culture can give-as she followed
Mrs. French across the room, that everybody
was immediately afflicted with an inordinate
curiosity to learn who she was. All of the
Lagrange people knew her by sight; but most
of the present company were strangers in La-
grange; and a sort of thrill of inquiry ran round
the room. "What a splendid-looking woman 1"
said the gentlemen. "Dear me, what an elegant
girl!" cried the ladies. "Who is she ?" both
parties demanded in a breath.
When it was known who she was, the inter-
est decidedly subsided. A governess who lived
in the family of Mr. Marks ~at Tallahoma, was by
no means a very important person in Lagrange
estimation, and after a short time the only feel-
ing that remained was one of curiosity to know
why she should have been invited to loin the

78


RE STOOD QUITE SILEFJ', WATCHING THE GRACEFUL FIGURE AND FAIR FACE.
Cx~r. XV~

I

MERRY CHRISTMAS!

party. Thanks to Katharine's own prudence,
there had never been much gossip about Mr. An.
nesley's attentions; and although some few peo-
pie shrugged their shoulders significantly, and
said that it would be as well to be civil, since
no one could tell how soon Mr. Marks's governess
might be transformed into the mistress of An-
nesdale, the majority passed the matter over as
a whim of their hostess, and thought no more of
it.
The young host was standing by the fire-
place, talking to Mrs. George Raynor, when a
gentleman near him said, "Who is that hand-
some girl who has just come in with your sister,
Aunesley?" And, turning quickly, he saw
Katharine. She did not see him, fQr to her
eyes the scene was one confused mingling of
light, and color, and strange faces. But she had
not been sitting down more than a minute when
a well-known voice said:
"Won't you speak to me, Miss Tresham, and
let me tell you how glad I am to see you here~?"
She glanced quickly round, and the bright,
handsome face she knew so well was looking
down at her. With a smile, her hand went out
to meet his.
"Thank you, Mr. Annesley," she said. "Of
course, I know to whom I am indebted for being
here. You must believe that I am very much
obliged for the pleasure."
" You are mistaken," he answered. "You
need not think that I hayc any share in the
matter. I need not tell you that I am delighted,
that I am happy to see you at Annesdale, but
the I1~casurebecame twice a pleasure when my
mother asked you, without the slightest knowl-
edge, on. my part"
Katharine opened her eyes a little; and, if
it had been anybody but Annesley who spoke,
would certainly have doubted the assertion.
But, before she had time to reply, Mrs. French
broke in-Mrs. French; whose ears were gQod,
and who had no such implicit reliance on Mor-
ton's promise as that which her mother had ex-
pressed.
"Miss Tresham, is Morton asking you to help
us~ in our Christmas-Eve arrangements? He
said he thought perhaps you would."
"I said I was sure you would," said Mor-
ton. "Adela has arranged some tableaux and
music for the edification of our friends; and I
felt sure you would aid, if need be."
"Morton describes very badly," said Mrs.
French. "Some tableaux and music are very in-
definite. In the first place, it is no tableaux at

79

all, but only a little scenic effect; and, in the
second place, we have arranged the musical pro-
gramme, with the exception of one part. We
want a Christmas anthem-solo. Will you sing
one for us ?
"What sort of an anthem?"
"Any that you can orwill sing."
"Would the 'Gloria' from Mozart's Twelfth
Mass answer?"
"It would be charming! Will . you sing
that?"
"With pleasure-.but-no. I cannot. My
music is not here."
"I will send for it," said Morton, before his
sister could speak. "A messenger shall go in-
stantly."
He started up, and was about to leave the
room, when Katharine called him back. "1
must send a message to Mrs. Marks," she said.
"She would not kno~r where to find the music
else. Please tell the servant to. ask her to
look-"
''Had you not better come to the library
and write a note? It would be much inoje cer-
"Don't carry Miss Tresham off, Morton," said
his sister. "Dinner will be ready in a
"I won't keep her a minute," he answered ;
and, without giving Katharine any optioa~in the
matter, he drew her hand within h~s arrn,~a~xd led
her from the room. The chandelier was li~hted
by this time, and the hall looked brillian~inafl
its guise of holly and mistletoe. To* Katharine,
~it suggested a large mystic temple; end Miss
Lester, who was just then descendin~ the stair.
case, might have passed for its priestess, in her
rich purple silk and pearl ornaments. She stared
a little, but Morton gave her no time to speak;
he led his companion hastilyfoi~ward, and opened
the library-dior.
"You will find pen, ink, and paper, on that
table," he said. "I will go to finda niessenger,
and be back for your note in a second."
Almost in a second he was back, and, closing
the door behind him, came and stood by the
table, while Katharine da#bed elf a few lines to
Mrs. Marks.,
"Tell her to send all your music," he said.
That was the only suggestion he made.
lie stood. ~iiita silent, watching the graceful
figure and fair face that made such a pretty pic-
ture, seated by the table with its shaded lamp,
and the dark book-lined walls behind. It looked
so home-like to see her there-there under his
own roof, in his own especial room-that the

*


81

80                  ~~MORTON HOUSE.                                                                 S.CILA

young man had hard work to keep his lips sealed
But in that very spot he ~ad promised his mothe
not to speak without giving her warning, and h4
would hold fast to that promise through an~
temptation. When Katharine looked up, he wa~
gazing, not at her, but at the St. Cecilia over th~
xnante1-pieee~ and, when she extended her note
he took it and put it into his pocket. "I will de
liver it to the messenger as soon as I have seer
you to the drawing-room," he said, "I had bet.
ter take you back at once, or Adela will be impa.
tient."
Katharine felt sure of this, and rose to go
but at the door he stopped-stQpped as if h
must say something, however little, before lcttin~
her go.
"One word, Miss Tresbam," he said, hurried.
ly. "You don't know how very, very happy ii
makes me to see you here."
-4---.-
CHAPTER XVI,
sr. CEciLIA.
AFTER dinner, Miss Tresham was sitting alone
in a corner of the drawing-room. But let no one
suppose from this statement that she was feeling
snubbed or neglected, and, consequently, misan-
thropical or cynical, in even the least degree.
She had been taken in to dinner by Mr. Langdon
-the "cousin Tom" of whom Miss Lester made
frequent mention-and she had found him ex-
ceedingly pleasant, while he, for his part, had
been decidedly charmed. Nevertheless, after
dinner he drifted away; but there were others
ready to fill his place, and if, instead of being
entertained, Miss Tresham was sitting alone, it
was as much a voluntary withdrawal on her part,
as any thing else.
In fact, the young governess soon found that
she was among, but not of, these people, who
laughed find talked in Mrs. Annesley's drawing-
room. They were all of the best school of breed-
ing, and, meeting her on neutral ground, they
never dreamed of showing that, under other cir-
cumstances, they would *not have considered
her an equal. Vulgar incivility, and more vul-
gar patronage, were simply impossible to them;
and when they accosted her there was no shade
of manner to show that it was a condescension
on their parts, and an honor on hers. But they
had their world, and she had hers. They knew~
each other, and each other's friends and affairs,
and had a hundred topics in common; while she

might have dropped from a cloud, or been trans-
r ported from the Sandwich Islandsfor all she
knew of these matters. One or two ladies had
tried to talk to her, but somehow there was not
much to be said on either side. Did she like
Lagrange ?-had she lived there long ?-did she
riot think Anaesdale a beautiful place ?-were
- not the rooms prettily decorated ?-Adela French
had exquisite taste, and had cut out all the let-
- ters herself. Did Miss Tresham like German
* text?
After some disjointed efforts of this descrip-
tion, it amused Katharine to hear the same per-
son turn to a group of her friends and launch
into conversation of the most animated kind.
She would grow eloquent on Laurie Singleton's
* marriage, and who his wife was, and what her
grandfather's name had been,~rilrid-~hi what de-
gree they were related to the Churehillsiind how
Judge Churchill had sent the bride a diamond
necklace, and how elegant were the dresses, that
hail been ordered direct from Paris. "After all,
it is no wonder that these people find it difficult
to talk to me," thought Katharine to herself. As
is generally the case, she got on better with the
gentlemen. Even the ordinary man inhabits a
less narrow and conventional world than the ordi-
nary woman, his very position as man giving him
a wider field of knowledge and a freer scope of
thought. Thea, few men are not stirred into
conversational effort by a fair face and a pair of
bright eyes; and, where two strangers of the
same sex would sit and stare at each other, two
strangers of different sexes will soon find topics
on which to grow sociable. "The governess is
really charming," Mr. Langdon had told his,
friends; and few of them felt disposed to doubt
the assertion. But still, they were engrossed with
pretty girls, whom they knew very well, and to
whom it was no effort to talk, and the charm-
ing governess, by degrees, wandered away into
the corner already mentioned.
There she sat, like the historic little Jack
Homer, with whom we are all acquainted; but
lacking the Christmas pie with which that hero
solaced his retreat. Instead, she opened a book
of engravings, and tried to appear interested in
its contents. A ripple of talk was sounding all
round her, a pretty dark-eyed girl was singing at
the piano, a glorious fire roared on the hearth,
the wax-lights burned with that steady lustre
which no brilliance of gas will ever rival, the
pictures gazed, the mirrors gleamed out of green-
wreathed frames; people eame and went eontixiu.
ally, and the whole bright scene was, to Katha-

rine, like a play-a picture-something scenic
and unreal, but yet very attractive. She liked it
better than her book, which was full of portraits
of dead-and-gone beauties-as if the earth was
not as rich in loveliness now as ever, or as if any
one in his senses would give one face where life
still brightens the eye and colors the tints, for
all the cold silent beauty that ever mocked decay
on canvas. "There is no one here half as pretty
as Miss Vernon,". thought Katharine; and, as
she thought it, Miss Vernon crossed the room,
and came up to her.
"A penny for your thoughts, Miss Tresham,"
she said, smiling. "I have been watching you
for some time, and I am sure you were thinking
how foolish and frivolous we all are."
"On the contrary, I was thinking how pretty
you all look," answered Katharine, smiling in
turn. "Why should 1 think you fQolish or friv-
olous? lt is only people of very superior wis-
dom who can afford to do that sort of thing, and,
for my part, 1 must confess I always rather
doubt their sincerity. You may be sure Dioge-
nes would never have been able to make a suc-
cess in society, or else he would not have taken
up his residence in a tub, or gone about with a
lantern searching for what he could easily have
found by God's own day-light."
"I am glad to hear you say so, for indeed I
think there is more good in the world-even in
the fashionable world-than cynics give it credit
for. We look too much at codes, and not enough
at individuals-that is all."
"And we are too prone to judge hastily fi'om
the outside, to decide from mere appearances,"
said Katharine, making a personal application
of her truism, and thinking how little she had
expected to find this young beauty so full of the
frank, sweet grace of true womanhood.
"Adela tells me that you are going to sing a
Christmas anthem for us," said Miss Vernon,
changing the subject. "1 am so glad, for I want
to hear your voice."
"I am afraid you will not hear very much."
"Will I not? Then Mr. Annesley has cer-
tainly lost all sense of truth. If you will excuse
mc, however, I will take the evidence of his
word until I have that of my own ear. When
will your music come?"
"Mr. Annesley sent for it before dinner, and
it ought to be here now."
"Surely yes-since it is eight o'clock. But,
na doubt, the messenger went on into town, and
guns, and fire-crackers, and every description of
noise, reign there to-night. No creature is so

young or so old, so careless or so indhl'erent, as
not to remember and rejoice that this is Christ-
mas Eve."
"I know what it was last year," said Katha-
rine, with a slight shrug. "I never saw people
throw themselves with such abendoa into rejol-
cing. I like to see it; yet I cannot help won-
dering how many have any remembrance of the
cause which draws it forth."
"If you mean devout remembrance-thought
of Who came to-night, and why He came-I am
afraid there are but few. But still, at least they
do not forget Him, and is it not better that Christ-
mas should be celebrated thus, than passed over
in cold silence?"
"Oh, a thousand times better! Don't mis-
take me enough to suppose that I think other-
wise. But I wish the two could be united."
"Yes) so do I," said Miss Vernon, slightly
sighing.
It was just at this moment that a servant en-
tered the room with a large parcel, which he took
to Mrs. French. She was talking eagerly, and
opened it without thinking-whereupon a music-
portfolio tumbled out.
"Oh, it is Miss Tresham's music!" cried
she; and, while the gentlemen picked up the
scattered sheets that strewed the carpet, she
carried the half-emptied portfolio over to its
owner.
"Miss Tresham, your music is come," she
said, with a smile. "And you must really ex-
cuse me for opening it. I was not thinking,
and Guy handed it to me without saying a
word. Here is a note-I have not opened tkat,
too. Do look and see if the 'Gloria' is all
right''
While Katharine was looking for the "Glo-
ria," and failing to find it, Mr. Langdon came up
with several pieces of music in his hand, from
one of which he was humming a few liars.
"Miss Tresham, do you sing this?" he cried.
"It is a lovely thing, and I have never found
any young lady who l~new it. 1 heard Malibran
sing it wheui I was in Europe. Won't you sing
it for me ~
"Not if you heard Malibran sing it last,
Mr. Langdon.-Mrs. French, the 'Gloria' is not
here. It must-"
"Here is some more music, Mrs. French,"
said a gentleman, coming up.
"Oh, thank you, Mr. Talvott.-Miss Tresham,
here is the 'Gloria' now. Miss Tresham, Mr.
Talcott I introduce this gentleman partly be-
cause he is worth knowing, and partly because I

ST. CECILIA.

80


82                  ~~~MORTON HOUSE..                                                          STEII.8

~1
V
33
ii
a
g
b
Ce
w
ri
al
cv
ar
Wi
gli
all
dr
of

seefrom his face that lie has something he wants sanctuaries, and yearned to make one of tho
you to sing."                                happy multitudes who, like the Magi of old, bent
Mr. Talcott, who was young and rather dif- before their hidden Lord. But something whis-
fident, bowed and blushed.                   pored "Pence l"  She stepped to one of the
"If Miss Tresham would not mind," he said. Windows,? and drew back the curtains. The
"I see a song her c-a little ballad-that my night was clear starlight, and the great dome
another used to sing; and that I would like to of heaven seemed fairly quivering with radiance
hear."                                       -fairly ablaze with the splendor of myriad con-
" Your mother is not half so terrifying as stallations set on a field of deepest steel.blue. In
Malibran," said Miss Vernon, laughing. "I am the east, one great planet glowed like a lesser
sure Miss Tresham won't refuse."             moon. All the frosty night lay sparkling and
But Miss Tresham did refuse, or rather Mrs. still before her, but she knew that, over yonder,
French refused for her.                      Tallahoma was ringing with merry uproar, and
"I won't hear qf such a thing," said the lat.. that, beyond Tallahoma, towns, and cities, and
ter. "Miss Tresham can sing for you all to. villages, echoed the same mirth.
morrow; but to-night I don't want anybody to As she turned her gaze to a hill on her left,
hear her voice until he hears it at twelve o'clock. a broad red glow met her eyes-the light from
-Irene, will you come with me a minute. I the negro.cabins, in which was seen the shifting
want to consult you about-" of many forms, and from which, if the window
What was not audible,                     had been lifted, she could have heard the well-
The two ladies walked away talking, while loved sound of ~he fiddle and the banjo, and the
the two gentlemen lingered to look over Miss sound of dancing feet. And it was all because
Tresham's music, and show her what they wanted of Bethlehem that for a short space the world
her to sing the next day. forgot its feverish strife, and lapsed into these
Katharine had the rare art of being able to childlike pleasures! 0 Christian heart, rejoice
nake herself agreeable to several people at once; and take hope! Better to honor ignorantly than
:o neither of them felt do It-op, and both of them not to honor at all, and, while you gaze forth sigh-
srere so well entertained that they felt no inch- mg, wider and wider spreads the light of that star
nation to change their quarters. In fact, they which once shone above the Child of Nazareth.
cinained so long, that a lady on the other side While she was still at the window, and Mr.
C the room gave it as her decided opinion that Talcott still talked unheeded commonplaces, there
Bss Tresham was a flirt, was a stir in the room which attracted her atten-
"Look how she keeps both those men pinned tion. The door opened, and a servant entered
o her side!" stid this astute observer. "I carrying an enormous silver bowl filled with egg-
ever saw a girl who wasn't a flirt succeed in nog, made after a receipt which was the secret of
omg that. Of course, there's nothing in keep- certain Southern households under the old regime.
ig one man, for the poor cres4ure may be in Another followed with a, salver, bearing glittering
ach a position that he simply can't get away. goblets and baskets heaped with cake of every
at, when there are two, either one of them can order and degree. These refreshments were the
o at any time, and, if they stay, it is certainly regulation "Christmas cheer,~' and thirty, twen-
ecause they are well entertained." ty, nay, ten years ago, Christmas Eve would
Hour after hour the night slipped away-gay scarcely have seemed Christmas Eve if they had
dk, laughter, and music, wade it speed fast, and been lacking. After the bowl was deposited in
w of theBe heedless people remembered that, state on the centre-table, the bearer turned and
bile they jested, the minutes rolled on to the addressed his young master, who was standing
~rge of the great Feast of the Nativity. Ratha- by.
no alone thon~ht of the mystical sacrifice which "The Kris-Kingles is out here, Mas'r Mor-
1 through this night circles the world, as, wher. ton, and they heard as how some of the ladies
er the ancient Church has planted her stand- said they would like to see 'em."
d, the midnight-mass is offered, the altar blazes "Isaid so!" cried Miss Lester, starting from
th starry lights, the fragrant incense rises, the a sofa, where she had been ttte-d-t.~te with an irre-
id voices break forth, and with their triumph. sistible.looking gentleman-.~..that is, a gentleman
t .strains echo those who sung, eighteen hun- who thought himself irresistible-" Isaid so, Mr.
ed years ago, to the shepherds on the plains Annesley. Do let them come in! I am so fond
Judoa. She alone thought of the crowded of Kris.Kingles!"

82

"Certainly, Miss Maggie," said Morton, laugh-
ing. Then to the servant: "Tell them they may
come in, Victor."
Victor said "Yes, sir," and, apparently much
gratified, retired with his grinning associate.
After a short interval, which the company in
the drawing-room devoted to the egg-nog, there
was a shuffling of many feet outside the door, a
subdued tittering, a touch or two of the strings
of a banjo, then a chorus of voices broke into
the wild refrain of some negro.ditty, and, when
the door was thrown open, the redoubtable Kris-
Kingles-the mingled terror and fascination of
every Southern child-appeared drawn up in the
hail.
To Katharine alone it was a novel sight, the
fantastically-dressed and masked group in the
foreground, and the dusky faces, beaming with
pride and delight, that made a semicircle round
the wall, and peered in at the open door.
"What are they for? what do they do?" she
asked of Miss Lester, who chanced to be stand-
ing by her.
"Oh, don't you know about Kris.Kingles 2"
cried that young lady, with surprise. "Why, on
Christmas Eve some of the negroes always dress
up in this way, and go round to all the cabins,
and sometimes scare the others nearly to death.
t can remember when I was a child I used to be
awfully afraid of them. When they come in the
house this way, it is 'for Christmas-gifts. I wish
they could dance for you-you would like to see
that.-Mr. Annesley, would it hurt the floor very
much if they danced one dance for us? Miss
Tresham never saw any Kris-Kingles before."
"It would not hurt it at all," said Morton.
"Boys, give us a dance before you go."
The "Kris-Kiagles" were not at all bashful,
and needed no second invitation. In a minute,
the measure of the music changed, and, still ac-
companyilig it with their voices, they broke into
a wild, uncouth dance, impossible to imagine,
and equally impossible to describe.
"I don't wonder children are afraid of them,"
thought Katharine, as she watched the hideous
pasteboard masks bending backward and for-
ward, the agile feet that kept such well-marked
time, and the fantastic figures threading in and
out of what seemed inextricable mazes. Some
of the steps were most remarkable, and various
double.shuffles and pigeon-wings elicited the
liveliest applause from tha audience. But the
performance was soon~ over.
"Dat's 'nuff, boys," said the leader, coming
to a pause. "Don't let the white folks git tired

of you. Make your bes' bow now, and tell de
ladies and gentlemen you wishes 'em a merry
Christmas and a happy New-Year."
"Merry Christmas and happy New-Year to
you all!" echoed the ladies and gentlemen afore-
said; and most-of them went out into the hall
to bestow that Christmas-gift which the Kris-
Kingles had delicately refrained from asking.
After this, the gay pageant filed out, and went
its way over the hill to the quarters, the united
voices swelling into fuller song as they receded,
and waking all the echoes of the silent night.
"It is eleven o'clock," said Mrs. French, as
she went back into the drawing-room, where Mrs.
Annesley and a few elderly ladies had the fire all
to themselves. "It is time to arrange ourtableaux,
as Morton calls them-Irene, Maggie, Flora-all
of you-come 1"
Most of the young ladies rose at this sum-
mons, and left the room. The gentlemen fell
into knots, and talked principally to each other,
during thc half.hour which followed. Moi~ton
snatched a few minutes with Katharine; but his
mother soon managed to call him away. At the
end of the half-hour, a messenger came from
Mrs. French for Miss Tresham. At a quarter to*
twelve, a servant entered, and put out all the
lights. The hush of the next fifteen minutes was
very impressive. Such an idea had never entered
Adela French's head; but to more than one pros..
ent unconsciously solemn thoughts came, and
this darkness seemed to typify the shadow which
rested over the world before the blessed light of
Christmas dawned. In the midst of profound
~silence, the clocks began to strike twelve. At
the first stroke, the folding-doors which divided
the two drawing-rooms, and which had been
rigidly closed all evening, moved noiselessly
apart; into the darkness flashed a dazzling
flood of light, a scene so brilliant that it almost
blinded the vision, and a chorus of~silvery voices,
breaking into the "glad tidings of great joy."
Not being very well used to scenic effects, the
spectators held their breath In astonished adini-
ration. The room into which they gazed was
wreathed with garlands, and blazing with lights
until it lost its semblance of a room, and looked
rather like some enchanted palace. At the far-
ther end, an arch of green was thrown, and
above, in illuminated letters, ran the insorip.~
tion, "Unto you is born this day a Saviour.'~
Under the centre of this arch stood the Christ..
mas-trec, glittering from the lowest limb tG the
highest summit with countless tapers and colored
lights. Behind was a stage, arranged in careful

a

I

83

ST. CECILIA.


84                                MORTO]
perspective. Gazing from the darkened toom,
the full glory of the abounding radiance seemed
to centre here, giving an effect beyond descrip.
tion to the figures upon it. In the foreground
was an Oriental group-the Judean shepherds,
as they watched their flocks-while beyond and
around were slender forms clad in pure white,
whose voices rose in one united chorus as they
sang an anthem exultant enough to tell the
world Who had entered it on that December
night.
As the chorus died away, the tones of a cabi-
net-organ fell on the ear, and in the midst of a
hush, so deep that it could almost be felt, one
pure, liquid voice rose and soared aloft in the
sublime "Gloria" of Mozart. In all the great
world of tones, there is hardly a strain which,
* for triumphant majesty and noble worship, can
equal this. There is scarcely more than an alloy
of earth and earth's supplication in it. We for-
get that we are still "poor banished children of
Eve," that we are yet "weeping and mourning in
this valley of tears;" we catch the spirit of the
angelic hosts, and our hearts are borne upward
by the tones in which the master's genius and
devotion live forever. "Gloria in excelsis Deo!"
sang the ineffable sweetness of that silver voice,
and few were so cold or so careless as not to
echo the cry. In the breathless silence, every
word of the grand old Latin was audible, and
every word stirred those listening hearts. How
full of glorious triumph rang the voice in the
"Domine Deus! Agnus Dci! Films Patris!"
Flow it seemed smote with a sudden remem-
~rance of humanity, a sudden yearning sense of
need in the "Qui tollis peceata mundi! misc-
rere nobis 1" FLow grandly it rose again to
the very gates of heaven in the "Quoniam tu
solus Sanetus!" and, after one great burst of
inspired praise, sunk at last into silence.
When the solo ended, people remembered
where they were, and, turning, stared at each
other. Who was it? What voice had carried
them so far out of themselves, and out of the
world in which they lived-the smooth, conven-
tional, easy world, in which Christmas was only
a pleasant occasion of friendly meeting and con-
vivial sport? All these lights and wreaths, this
ta&amp;eazc arrangement, and chorus of pretty girls,
were a very agreeable entertainment to the eye;
but here - here was something which seized
them unawares, and, wrenching them cut of
their ordinary life, made theni realize what it
was they had met to celebrate, forcing upon
them thoughts which to the common worldly

B'T HOUSE.

mind are any thing but agreeable. It was the
greatest proof of Katharine's triumph that her
* earnestness~ had so far communicated itself to
* them that they thought of her and her voice
only as a secondary consideration.
"How beautiful!" they cried, when it was
over; but they waited until it was over to do so.
There was no time to say much, for the chorus
broke into the noble strains of Milton's "Hymn
on the Nativity," and the last verse was still
echoing when the folding-doors closed on the
scene.
The company found that, while they were en-
grossed, servants had entered and relighted the
candles; so the drawing-room looked quite like
itself when they turned round-only very, very
commonplace, after that glowing world of sight
and sound. Mrs. Anneslcy was imin~liately
overwhelmed with congratulations, and soon, to
her great annoyance, beset with inquiries con-
cerning the singer of the "Gloria." Gopd Heav-
ens! what a beautiful voice! Was it r~tally that
girl who is said to be a governess in Tallahoma?
Where could she possibly have learned to sing
so divinely?
"For all we know, she may have been an
opera-singer before she came to Lagrange," said
Mrs. Annesley, striving hard to conceal her vexa-
tion, and to speak in a careless tone. "Adela
was very anxious to secure her voice, which is,
as you say, really beautiful; so I asked her here.
But I should not like for any one to think that
she is a friend of ours."
"By George! who would have thought the
pretty governess could sing like that?" said Mr.
Langdon to Morton Annesley
To which Morton replied, stiffly enough, that
he always knew Miss Tresham had an exquisite
voice, for he had often heard her sing.
"It did not astonish me at all, ~ he said.
"The pretty governess!" he repeated to him-
self; as he walked off. "And that is the way
they talk of her 1 I wonder how I shall ever
contrive to iiold my tongue during this week
which is to come?"
When the folding - doors were once more
opened, and the company were bidden to ad-
mire and inspect the Christmas-tree, which was
loaded with gifts, Annesley went up to Katha-
rine and held out his hand, without in the least
regarding the people standing near.
"Let mc thank you for a pleasure which I
shall always remember," lie said. "You have
given me my best Christmas~gift. I shall never
again think of St. Ceiling without thinking of

THE APPLE OF DISCORD.

~joss. Don't Catholics always have a patron-
saint? She ought to be yours."
It was verging close upon two o'clock when
the party finally separated, and Katharine went
up to her chamber. On opening the door, she
found that Miss Lester had preceded her, and
was sitting on the hearth-rug, engaged in petting
and soothing Spitfire.
"Cynthy left him up here by himself all the
evening," said the young lady, indignantly, when
Miss Tresham appeared. "I can't imagine what
she meant by it. Of course, she knew that she
ought to have brought him down to the drawing-
room to me. The poor fellow can't bear to be
left alone. Miss Tresham, wasn't it all charm-
ing? There's no place like Annesdale, I think.
The Christmas-tree was beautiful, and all the
presents ~so elegant! Oh, dear! "-with a tre-
mendous yawn-" I am terribly sleepy. I am
sure I shall not get up till dinner to-morrow."
CHAPTER XVIL
TIlE APPLE OF DIscoaD.
Miss LESTER fulfilled her own prophecy, and
remained in bed the better. part of the next
morning; but Katharine rose at a reasonable
hour, and went below. As she paused at the
foot of the stairs, debating in her own mind
which one of the numerous doors around was
likely to lead into the breakfast-room, a step
sounded behind her, and a pleasant voice said:
"Good-morning, Miss Treshain. Merry Christ-
mastoyou!"
"Good-morning, Miss Vernon," answered
Katharine, turning to face the speaker, who
had come down the staircase in her rear, and
- was close at hand. "Merry Christmas to ~jou I
Is it not a beautiful day?"
"Delightful I" said Miss Vernon. "Let us
go to the front door, and look at it."
To the front door they went, accordingly, and
met the full brilliance of the sparkling winter
morning-the floods of dazzling sunshine,- the
refraction of light from the gravel sweep, and
the frost-gemmed trees and shrubs that stood
out clearly in the transparent atmosphere.
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth
peace to men of good will !" sang Miss Vernon,
softly, as she stood and looked out, shading her
eyes with one hand, while the sunbeams turned
her hair to shining gold.
"I ~Mk~ your translation better than ours,

85

Miss Tresham; and, oh, I wish you would teach
me to sing the Latin as you sang it last night!
It seemed to me I never heard a language half so
beautifuL You don't pronounce it as our uni-
versity men do."
"No, indeed, I do not," said Katharine,
smiling. "I call their pronunciation barbar-
ous, and so does anybody who has ever heard
the other. I'll teach you the 'Gloria' with
pleasure, Miss Vernon."
"Thank you; I shall remember the promise.
Do you know that, like Lord Byron, you have
waked up this morning and found yourself
famous-as far as it is in the power of Annes-
dale to bestow fame?"
"Not I."
"Well, it is true, nevertheless. Everybody
is talking about your voice. Here come two of
your audience now. Ask them if it is not so."
Katharine, whom the sunlight was nearly
blinding, looked in the direction indicated, and
perceived two gentlemen advancing along a side-
path to the house. As they came near her, she
saw that one of them was Morton Annesley, and
the other a tall, stalwart, sunburnt person, who
had been presented to her on the preceding even-
ing as Mr. Seymour. Before she could answer
her companion, they came up the steps, and, all
smiling and slightly purple from the cold, were
making their Christmas greetings. They had
been to the stable to look at their horses; had
found the morning charming, but rather cool;
and were on their way back for breakfast-had
the ladies been to breakfast?
"Not yet," said Miss Vernon. "We will take
you in and give you some hot coffee as a reward
for your exertions. What can there be so inter-
esting in horses, I wonder, that men should go
out and stand in the cold for the pleasure of leek.
ing at them? Mr. Seymour, I heard those hounds
of yours making a terrible noise this morning.
When are you going on a fox-hunt?"
"To-morrow morning at three o'clock, ac-
cording to our present arrangement," said Mr.
Seymour, smiling; and to Katharine, standing
by, it was evident that this stout Nimrod was
like wax in Irene Vernon's dainty hands, and
before the glance of her sunny violet eyes.
"And may I go too ?-Miss Tresham, did
you ever go fox-hunting? It is the most delight-
ful thing in the world.-Mr. Seymour, may I go
too?"
"I am afraid it is impossible, Miss Irene."
"But why? Don't I often go, when I'm
down in Apalatka?"

Im

I


86                                MORTON
"Certainly you do. But it is different here.
This is a rougher country, and we may have to
ride eight or ten miles before we start a fon-at
least, A.nnesley says so."
"I think there is very little doubt of it,"
said Annesley. "Miss Irene, I am afraid there
is no hope of your going; but I am sure Sey-
mour will bring you the brush of the first fox
that dies, and you can hang it at the side of
your bridle.-By-the-way," he added, turning
suddenly to Miss Tresham, "won't you try
Ilderim, now that you are here? I should like
it very much, and, if you would like it too, there
is no possible reason to be urged against it."
"Mr. Annesley, I "-here she broke down,
and laughed-" I really think you ought not to
tempt me so. If I would like one thing more
than another, it would be to ride ilderini."
"Then, for Heaven's sake, why do you hesi-
tate to do it?"
"Don't be profane, and I will tell you .after
a while. Now, we must go in to breakfast."
They went in, and found the breakfast-room
bright and cheery, and full of the sound of chit-
tering dishes and pleasant voices, it was on the
east side of the house, and the bright sunlight
was pouring across it in long lines of level light.
Half n dozen round tables took the place of one
long, solemn board, and at five, out of the six,
sociable groups were drinking their coffee and
eating their steak with healthy appetites. The
four who came in now took their seats at the
unoccupied table, and smiled and nodded in
answer to the greetings given from all sides.
Miss Veraun, in particular, came in for a large
share of these.
"Irene, here are some oysters!" cried one
young lady. "Do you know they came from
Mobile packed in ice, and Mr. French says they
were brought specially for you? Take some;
they are very good."
"You are very good," said Irene, looking at
Mr. French. "Is it possible they are fresh?"
"Taste them, and see," said Morton, setting
a dish before her. "The cold weather stood
our friend.-Miss Tresham, do you like oys-
ters?"
"Who does not like oysters, Mr. Annes-
ley?"
"A great many people here in the back-
woods, I assure you. Ask Mrs. Dargan over
there what she thinks of them."
"I think they are abominable, and not fit for
a Christian to look ~ said Mrs. Dargan, with a
shudder. "I would just as soon eat frogs."

HOUSE.
"There is nothing better than a good fricas-
see of frogs," said Mr. Langdon, who prided
himself on being cosmopolitan in tastes and
ideas. "You are right, too, Mrs~ Dargan -
there is something in the flavor not unlike oys-
ters."
"I said nothing about the flavor!" cried
Mrs. Dargan. "Goodness, Mr. Langdon! you
don't suppose I ever tasted onc of the things?"
"If you went to France, my dear madam-"
began Mr. Langdon.
"I should be afraid to open my mouth after
I got in the country, for fear I might be made to
eat some of their dreadful concoctions without
knowing it," interrupted the lady.
"Then let me advise you not to go to the
co~rntry, for a fasting.tour would be any thing
but plensant.-Annesley, my good fellow, what
is the best way to eat an oyster?"
"Each to his taste," answered Annesley, with
a smile.
"Not by any mean5," said Mr. Langdon.
"The best way, in fact, the only civilized way,
is-raw. in that case, they only need a little
pepper and salt."
In this vein the conversation flowed back
and forth - trivial,. but very easy and unre-
strained, and occasionally sparkling with a
touch of humor or pleasantry. Katharine liked
it, as she liked soft fabrics, and rich rooms, and
delicate perfumes; for, alas I Mr. Warwick was
right, and she was by nature cursed with that
sensitive appreciation of refinement and the ap.
plianees of refinement which makes life in the
lower grades of society nothing more nor less
than a positive torture. After a while, Mrs. An-
nesley came over and sat down by her.
"I suppose I must not include you, Miss
Tresham, in the parties made up for church this
morning?" she said, by way of excuse for her
advent.
"No, I shall not go," answered Katharine,
who thought the question quite unnecessary.
"Fortunately - should one say fortunately
about such a thing ?-gentlemen are not very de-
vout," said the lady. "If they were, I hardly
know how all these good people would be con-
veyed to hear Mr. Norwood preach.--Irene, I be-
lieve i heard you promise Morton that he should
drive you?"
"You heard me promise Mr. Seymour," said
irene, who saw Mrs. Annesley's schemes for
throwing Morton and herself together, and al-
ways quietly managed to defeat them. "He
asked me-or, no, I believe i asked him -, but,

THE APPLE OF DISCORD.

87?

whichever it was, I am to have the pleasure of that she had a whole set of disreputable rela.
going behind those beautiful grays of his." lions who came and lived with him."
"Miss irene, you are utterly faithless," said "A drunken father," said Mrs. Dargan, sol.
Morton, laughing. "I shall ask Mrs. Raynor to emnly. "Poor Harry at last had to order him
console me for your desertion." out of the house. Do you know any thing
"She will tell you that George is afraid to about Miss Tresham's family, Mrs. Annesley?"
trust her with your horses." "My dear Mrs. Dargan, how should I?"
-   "I shall not ask George any thing about it. asked Mrs. Annesley, becoming less and less
Yonder she is now." amused. "I don't vouch for Miss Tresham in
He rose hastily, and went up to Mrs. Raynor, any way. I am civil to her because she is
who entered the room at the moment. Mrs. An. under my own roof; but she is here in-well, I
nesloy watched him ~with a smile, then quietly may almost say in a professional capacity."
took the vacant seat by Katharine. She was "We know that," said another lady-the
very gracious, and talked so pleasantly that the mother of the Mr. Talcott who had been atten-
girl was half beguiled out of her unconscious tive to Katharine the evening before. "But,
distrust and dislike. But she noticed-even a then, is it right to throw temptation in the way
duller woman would have noticed-how cleverly of the young? It seems to me that tAa~ is the
her hostess contrived that, in leaving the break- light in which to look at it. The girl is certain-
fast-room, she should be separated from Morton. ly pretty, and, what with her looks and her sing-
it was only what Katharine herself had intend- ing, she might easily turn the heads of-of some
ed; but, notwithstanding this intention, she could of these young men. I am not thinking of my
not help resenting Mrs. Annesley's interference, own son," said the poor woman, who was think-
However conscious we may be of our social draw- ing of nobody else; "but there are plenty others
backs, it is not pleasant to have the perception here, and-and i can see that they find her very
of them thrust remorselessly upon us. More attractive."
annoyed than she would have thought possible "She is an atrocious flirt, that is very clear,"
by such a ti-ifling evidence of what she already said Mrs. Dargan, sharply. "I read her at once,
knew very well, Katharine went upstairs; and like a book; and I really wonder, Mrs. Annesley,
while she was assisting at Miss Lester's toilet, that you did not see what efforts she has made
and cultivating Spitfire's acquaintance, her name, to attract your son."
if she had only known it, was the topic of con- "Morton paid her some attention at my re-
versation with two different groups below-stairs, quest," said Mrs. Annesley, with her heart sink-
Most of the young ladies were engaged in ing lower every minute. She carried it off very
putting on their wrappings for the drive to hravely; but really a terrible distrust seized upon
church; but in the drawing-room a council of her. had she really done mischief', after all? In
elderly ladies was convened around the fire, and the effort to bring Katharine fairly within the
Mrs. Annesley found herself courteously but de. scope of her power, had she thrown a firebrand
cidedly on trial, into her party, and made Morton's infatuation
"My dear Mrs. Annesley, I can understand the subject of the observation which it had hith-
why you wished to gratify Adela in bringing her erto escaped? Almost all who deal in schemes
here," said one of the vigilance-committee; "but, and stratagems, must sometimes know the dread
if i had been in your place, i really would have of having overreached their own end-and, hay-
thought twice about it. She is a dangerous girl ing once known it, they must be aware that few
- I can see that - and with all these young dreads are more terrible. "Good Heavens!
men-" what do they find in her so attractive?" she
"The young men can take care of them- said at last, almost impatiently. "She seems
selves, i suppose," said Mrs. Annesley, smiling, commonplace enough to me."
but in her heart feeling any thing but amused.  "Well, do you know, I think she is very
"indeed, i think they are twice as foolish as pleasant," said a mild voice from the sofa, where
girls," said the first speaker, hastily. "You the senior Mrs. Raynor sat-a gentle, pensive
hardly ever hear of' girls acting as many of lady, all bundled up in a cashmere shawl,
them do. There was poor Harry Anderson-lie "She is a pretty creature, and her manners are
married a governess, and she was so extravagant so nice. She talked to me for some time last
that she nearly ruined him, lie did not know night, and I took quite a fancy to her. She told
any thing about her family, either; and I hear me a great deal about the West indices, and t

]


88

MORTON ROUSE'.

think the climate would certainly suit me. If
George is able to leave home, I shall try it next
winter."
The other ladies exchanged significant glan.
ces. Mrs. Raynor could afford to take a fancy
to this girl, for both of Mrs. Raynor's sons were
safely tied in the bonds of matrimony, and there-
fore not in a position to make fools of them.
selves. While,~ as for them-there was hardly
one of them who had not some young man,
some son, or nephew, or prospective son-in.law,
for whose safety of head and heart she was at
that moment quaking.
Meanwhile, the objects of all this solicitude,
the young men aforesaid, were smoking their
cigars in and around the front piazza, and, in
their free-and-easy fashion, canvassing the gov-
erness, who, to them, simply stood on her merits
as a woman. It may be as well to state that
Morton was absent, for, if he had been present,
the conversation would certainly have received a
summary cheek.
"I believe I will send up and ask Miss Tresh-
am to go to church with me," said Mr. Langdon,
watching meditatively the elegant equipages
which, one after another, swept up before the
door. "My horses arc not quite as fine as Sey-
mour's, and my buggy isn't half as new as An-
nesley's; but, still, I think I'll ask her.-Here,
Sam-go up to Miss Tresham's room, and give
her my compliments - Mr. Langdon's oomph.
ments-and say-."
"You may spare yourself that trouble, Tom,"
said Talcott, who was. standing near. "Miss
Tresham isn't going to church."
"Did she tell you so?"
"No; I didn't ask her-but she told Mrs.
Annesley so. I'd have asked her myself; if it
hadn't been for that. But3 then, I remembered
-she is a Romanist, you know."
"How the deuce should I know?"
"You might haveheard her say so-as I did.
I asked hey something about that song last night,
and she told me she was a Catholic. I suppose
that's how she came to know Latin. She must be
amazingly clever."
"She is certainly amazingly pretty," said Sey.
mour, laughing, while Langdon gravely smoked
his pipe, and regarded the horses. "My test
of beauty is, whether a woman will make any
showing by the side of Irene Vernon. I saw
them both together this morning, and Miss
Treshain not only made a showing, but a very
good one. Who is she? Where does she come
from, anyhow?"

"You know Marks-the man who is cashier
of the bank in Tallahoma?" said George Ray.
nor. "Well, this girl is a teacher in his family.
He picked her up somewhere, and they do say"
-here the speaker looked significantly myste-
rious-" that one of our friends, not a thousand
miles away, is seriously smitten."
"Who ?-Talcott?" asked Langdon, looking
round.
"I smitten!" cried Talcott, reddening up in
a minute. "Why, good Heavens! I never
thought of such a thing. She's very nice; and
I got on very well with her last night-but I
don't see how you could say such a thing as
that, Ray~or~~
"There's something in a guilty conscience,
Fred," said Raynor, laughing. "I was not even
thinking of you. I was thinking of-well, it
don't matter who. She i~ a pretty girl, there's
no doubt of that," added he, candidly. "Flora
tells me that Irene has taken quite a fancy to
her, and that is remarkable, for Irene doesn't
often take fancies-especially to women."
"She is too nice for a governess," said an.
other smoker. "Talcott, you'd better go in for
the prize. She wouldn't cost you much trouble,
and that's a consideration."
"Stop that, Hal," said Seymour, gravely. "I
can't bear to hear a woman talked of in such a
strain. Governess or no governess, Miss Tresh.
am is a lady, and should be treated as one. Now,
I would sooner insult her to her face than behind
her back."
"Who thought about insulting her!" de-
manded the other, flushing, and looking offended.
"You didn't, I suppose; but it is a badhabit
to talk in that way, and, if I were you, I would
break myself of it."
What the recipient of this frank advice would
have replied, was a matter open to conjecture.
He frowned, and his answer would probably not
have been very amiable, if a group of brightly-
dressed girls had not at that moment come down
the staircase, and crossed the hail into the piazza.
Immediately all the bustle of departure be-
gan, and, before long, carriage after carriage
rolled out of the open gates, and down the
bright, sunlit road. Mrs. Annesley's was the
last to leave, and, when her foot was on the
step, she turned suddenly to one of the servants
standing near.
"To-day is mail-day," she said. "Has any-
body been to the post-office, Joe?"
It was at once evident from Joe's face-a
good deal blank, and a little foolish-that such

I

an idea as mail-day or post-office had never
entered his Christmas-beset mind. Holding his
cap between two fingers, he scratched his head
with the others, as he replied: "I don't believe
anybody have thought about it, mistiss."
" Take a horse and go at once, then, ~ said
his mistress. "Don't forget i~ now-for I shall
expect to find the mail when I get back."
"I sha'n't forget it, ina'amn."
And, as Mrs. Annesley drove oil; she had the
satisfaction of seeing him take his way to the
stable with laudable haste.
An hour later Katharine was crossing the
hail, when a servant entered with a large and
well-filled mail-bag slung acro's his shoulder.
"Letters, ma'am?" he said, touching his cap, as
if the announcement must necessarily interest
the young lady. But she shook her head with
a smile. "I am not expecting any thing," she
said; and with that was passing on, when,
through the open drawing-room door, Miss Les-
ter's voice sounded.
"Did I hear something a bout letters, Miss
Tresham? Oh, yes, there they arc. Would you
mind looking over them, and getting mine for
me? I know mamma must have written, and
I hate to move-Spitfire is comfortable, that
I can't bear to disturb him."
To prevent Spitfire's being obliged to relin-
quish his position on his mistress's dress, Kath-
arine made the messenger empty the mail-bag
on a table near at hand, and began looking over
the different letters. There were some for al. 1
most everybody, and she soon found Miss Lea-
ter's. As she was turning away with them, she 1
noticed that one missive had dropped to the 1
floor, where it lay face downward. Stooping to
pick it up, she saw that, although it was a large, I
heavy letter, the address was to Mrs. Annesley I
-and, seeing this, she cOuld not help looking at
it a little curiously. There could be no mistake
in the character, it was "business" all over,
from the seal to the very post-mark, and did a
'C
not Seem like Christmas," Katharine said to a
herself. Such a letter should not be opened a
until the great festival was over, she thought; a
but still she laid it on top of the pile, and, leav. a
lag it with its great broad face upward, went I
into the drawing-room to Miss Lester.
When the party came back from church, and "
filled the house with the gay sound of their
voices, Morton chanced to be the first person a
to go up to the hall table and examine the mail. &amp;
The large, double letter seemed to puzzle him n
too. He took it up and looked at it, much as J

THE APPLE

I

OF DISCORD                              89
Katharine had done, then laid it on one side as
if for further examination, and tossed over the
others.
"Here, Seymour Langdon - Talcott," he
cried, "here are letters for nil of you, and for
the ladies, too. Where have they all vanished
to ?-Miss Irene, don't you want to hear from
home? Here are two letters with the Mobile
post-mark on then~-Miss Alice, here is one for
you.-Yes, Miss Mary, I am sure I saw your
name a minute ago."
He was soon surrounded by an eager group,
for it is surprising how everybody-excepting,
perhaps, a jaded business man-is excited by the
prospect of letters, how fond everybody is of re-
ceiving them, and how shamefully remiss about
answering them. Those who had got letters, were
sitting on the chairs nearest around, reading
them, and those who had not, were standing
about, looking very discontented, when Mrs. An-
nesley entered and walked up to her son, who
was opening his own.
"Any thing for me, Morton?" she asked,
as carelessly as possible.
Her son looked up with a start, and held the
large missive toward her.
"A letter from Burns," he said. "I wonder
what he is writing to you about? He ought to
know that I don't like you to be troubled with
business matters."
"I wrote to him, and this is merely a reply,"
Mrs. Annesley answered. "It is about my own
business, Morton-you need not be afraid that I
~.rill meddle in yours," she added, a little bit-
terly; and before he could reply, she had taken
the letter and passed on upstairs.
As soon as she was safely within her own
oom, she tore open the sheet of paper that in
;h6se days did duty for an envelope, and, with-
)ut glancing at the lawyer's letter, drew forth
he enclosure which it contained. She spread it
n the table before her, but her excitement was
0 great that for a moment she could scarcely
ec-then a mist seemed suddenly to clear away,
nd, though she still trembled with eagerness,
he was able to read the lines on which depended
o much. The letter was addressed to Mr.
inras, by his agent in London, and ran thus:
WM. F. BURNS, EsQ.
"DEAR SIR: In reply to your favor, I am en-
bled to say that I have called on Messrs. Rich
Little, and found them quite ready to afford
10 any information regarding Mr. Henry St.
ohn. He is known to them as the friend and


90

MORTON HOUSE.

secretary of one of their clients-a wealthy
Scotch gentleman; and, although. they have
never done business on his own account, they
speak highly of him from personal acquaintance.
With regard to the lady, however, they were de-
cidcdly reticent. When I pressed my inquiries
on this score, I was checked very shortly, and
reminded that a matter of private business could
not be discussed with any but the person or per-
sons immediately concerned, and that, if I wished
information about Miss Tresham, 1 had better
apply to'Mr. St. John. I took the hint, and Mr.
St. John's address, and went to Scotland to see
him. When I reaQhed the house to which I had
been directed, I found it closed and deserted.
The servants informed me that both the pro.
prietor and his secretary were absent, and, it
was supposed, had left the country. Being near
Cumberland, I then went to Donthorne Place,
and made my inquiries. Here I met with more
success. The lady whom I saw answered my
questions without any hesitations Miss Tresham
had been in her family for a year, and had given
entire satisfaction. She had not been discharged,
but had resigned the situation of her own free.
will, and against the wishes of her employers.
The lady knew nothing of Miss Tresham's ante.
cedents, except that she was a West Indian, and
had come to her very well recommended. She
seemed much surprised when I asked her if she
knew any thing of her after her departure from
Cumberland, and replied at once in the negative.
From none of the servants or hangers-on about
the place could I obtain any more definite infor-
mation. Miss Treshamn seems to have been very
well liked while she was in Cumberland, and to
have left a g'ood name behind her when she went
away, but nobody considered her of sufficient
importance to inquire about or take interest in
after she passed out of their lives.
"1 am very sorry that this information is so
meagre, and that I have not been able to give
you more satisfaction, but 1 have been stopped
at every turn-first by the solicitors, then by
Mr. St. John's absence, and finally by the com-
plete manner in which all trace of Miss Tresham
had vanished from Donthorne Place. If you
wish any further ihquirics prosecuted, let me
hear from you without loss of time.
"Respectfully, etc.,
"T. W. WAnD."
Mrs. Annesley read the letter to its end-r-.her
lips parted, and her breath coming more quickly,
with every minute. When she finished she

stopped a second-in blank astonishment, as it
were-then let her face drop on her hands, while
something like a dry sob rose in her throat.
This was all l She had steadily worked herself
into the belief that some terrible disclosure was
to reward her exertions, some disclosure that
would at once open Morton's eyes, and place
Katharine in her power; and now this cruel let-
ter came, and, after all the hope, all the expec-
tation, left the mystery as complete as ever!
Surely it was bitter! Surely it was hard! She
paid no heed to the lawyer's letter lying unread
before her. She knew so well what he said,
that the mere thought of reading the curt, busi-
ness-like sentences filled her with disgust. For
a time she felt as if her whole plan, and, with
her plan, the whole tissue of herlife, had suddenly
come to an end. if she could show him nothing
worse than this, Morton would marry the girl,
and then-
But she was not a woman to remain long in
such a mood as this. Soon she came to herself;
and the first proof which she gave of it was to
take up the lawyer's letter and read it. "I will
see what he has to say," she muttered. This was
what Mr. Burns had to say:
"DEAn MADAM: Herewith you will find en-
closed the letter from London of which I spoke
in my last. I am sorry to say that my agent has
not justified my opinion of him. The informa-
tion which he sends, any child, who had been
told to make the inquiries, could easily have ac-
quired. lie tells us no more than we knew be.
fore, and does not throw ~ single ray of light on
Mr. St. John or Miss Tresham. I am very sorry,
and a little ashamed to think that at my age I
should have employed a man who could do no
better than this.
"You ask for my opinio~i of the matter. I
know too little yet to form or express an opinion,
but if you decide to prosecute your inquiries, I
would advise you to do so through certain chan-
nels of secret inquiry which are now established
in all large cities, and employ agents so well
trained in the work, that for a consideration-
and, generally, it must be confessed, a very large
consideration-it is possible to learn any thing
about anybody. This mode would be expensive
but secure; and if you wish to track the secret
down, in the shortest possible time, I would
counsel you to let Miss Tresham alone, and fol-
low Mr. St. John and his employer. It is evident
to me that there is some close connection be-
tween them, and what you desire to know. May

ST. JOHN.

91

not Mr. St. John be acting for his employer in
the matter? I merely throw out the suggestion.
Trusting that you will let me hear from you on
the subject, 1 am,
"Very respectfully,
"WM. F. BuaNs."
When Mrs. Annesley put down this letter,
she felt that her face was burning. It was the
cool proposition of the lawyer, the coQI words,
"certain channels of secret inquiry," which had
suddenly showed her where she was standing,
and what she was doing. She said "Good
Heavens C" all at once, as if she had received
an unexpected blow; and then she was silent,
and tried to look the situation in the face.
She was a selfish woman, and a woman whose
whole heart was bound up in her children and
their interests-bound up~ not with the tender
devotion that would make some women martyrs,
but with a steady force that would have sacri-
ficed all the rest of the world to them-but she
was not at all the scheming intrigan~e of ro-
mance. If she proved merciless in the ease of
her cousin, it was not so much from that desire
for Morton House which long indulgence had fos-
tered, as from the rankling dislike born of early
envy. With regard to these inquiries about Kath-
arine, she had begun them, and from the first
looked upon them as the purest matter of
duty. As she told Adela, she had made up
her mind that the girl was an unprincipled
adventuress, and she would have thought it
wrong to hesitate at any means which would
remove her from Morton's life. To-day, for the
first time, a feeling of dismay came over her.
What was she doing? Was this indeed a thing
which no man or woman of even the merest
worldly honor should be guilty of? She was
coolly advised to prosecute secret inquiries into
the private life of people she had never seen,
and the advice s'!ruck her with a sudden sense
of shame and humiliation. "It is for him-for
Morton," she said, as she had often said before;
but somehow the words did not bring theirusual
reassurance and consolation.
This, however, was not the time for consider-
ations like these. She remembered with a feeling
of impatience that it was Christmas Day, that
her houge was full of guests, and that her own
place was down-stairs. She put the letters into
her secretary, and rang sharply for her maid.
But while she changed her dress, she was think-
ing of the great solemn dinner before her-the
Christmas dinner par excellence, like which there

I

was no other throughout the entire year-think
ing of Katharine, thinking of the expostulating
remarks she had heard that morning, thinking
also of the letters she had read, thinking of the
entire failure of her scheme, and wishing that
she had not so uselessly thrown this apple of
'discord into the midst of her well-ordered party,
but had left it in peace in Mr. Marks's garden.
"What on earth will come of it all?" she
said to herself; as she slowly went down-stairs,
and the sound of Katharine's voice rose from the
back drawing-room, mingled with the rich, deep
tones of the organ. Mrs. Annesley knew what
sort of faces the ladies in the front drawing.
room were wearing, and she actually felt cow-
ardly about going down to meet them. It would
have been strange, and consoling, too, perhaps,
if she had only known that, when she laid down
her weapons, Fate took them up, and from that
time forth ceased not to fight for her.
CHAPTER XVIII.
ST. JOHN.
As time went on, matters, from the ladies'
point of view, grew decidedly worse instead of
better. Perversely enough, the gentlemen per-
sisted in paying attention to Miss Tresham, in
stoutly maintaining that she was pretty, and in
finding her very entertaining. No girl of the
party could gather a larger circle of admirers
teund her, or keep them amused for a longer
space of time-not even Irene Vernon, with all
her beauty. How Miss Tresham managed it,
nobody was able to explain; but that she did
manage it was, to say the least, amply proved.
"She must necessarily suffer by a comparison
with Ircad Vernon," Mrs. Annesley had said,
with profound confidence in her own assertion.
What words, then, can describe her dismay when
she found that there were others besides Morton
who had sufficiently bad taste to find a charm In
those gray eyes and that pretty mouth, which
Irene Vernon's regular features lacked?
"There is no use denying the fact," Miss Les-
ter said, with a little play of the eyebrows, pecu-
liar to herself; "Miss Tresham throws us all in
the shade; and for my part I should like to know
how she does it."~
Mrs. French, to whom this speech was made,
shrugged her shoulders with considerable impa-
tience.
"She does it simply on the strength of being

I


92

MORTON HOUSE.

something new," she answered. "Men are such
fools about a new face! They talk of the fickle-
ness of women, when the fact is, that ekey would
grow tired of Venus herself."
Whether or not this was a correct solution
of the matter, it was at least certain that Miss
Tresham made a sensation-a sensation not 4o
be doi~bted, and which took herself as much by
surprise as it could possibly have taken anybody
else; She enjoyed it, and entered into it with
great zest. As she had told Mrs. Gordon she
was fon4 of pleasure, and here was pleasure of
the best kind, mingled with that elixir of ad-
miration which is the sweetest draught that can
be put to the lips of youth. Mrs. Marks would
hardly have recognized her quiet governess in
the bright, handsome girl who laughed, and
talked, and sang at Annesdale, and who, all of
a sudden, developed a power of attraction that
quite carried the young men out of their senses.
The young ladies were piqued and puzzled, but
they managed to console themselves with their
own sworn admirers; while the elders looked
on in amazement and indignation, too deep for
words. roor Katharine! If they had only
known it, they need not have grudged her this
short holiday of natural,, youthful enjoyment.
Even while her heart was lightest and her spir-
its at their best, a sudden dark cloud arose, and
the sunshine went out of her sky for many a
long day.
Rapidly and pleasantly the time flew by.
Anybody who has ever been in a country-house
of this description, knows how rapidly and how
pleasantly time can fly on such occasions, yet
how impossible it is to give any exacL descrip-
tion of the enjoyment that helps its flight. Pee-
plc, as it seems, are doing a dozen things at
once, and they all go to make up an harmonious
whole. There are flirting couples behind the
'curtains of the bay-windows, in the shady re-
cesses of the library, in the hall, on the piazzas,
walking over the grounds-in fact, flirting is the
chief amusement and grand order of the day.
Then, there are groups around the piano, and
small card-tables, and billiard-players, and peo-
pie continually driving up in carriages, and riding
off on horseback; and servants coming and go.
ing, and dogs everywhere, and a perfect tide of
life flowing here and there, and centering every
day around the dinner-table. Usually in the
morning, about three or four o'clock, there was
an uproar of hounds, and horns, and horses,
that roused every sleeper in the house, when all
the gentlemen, with the exception of one or two

who were considered hopeless sybarites, went
fox-hunting-dropping in again, about mId-day,
either flushed with success or dispirited by fail-
ure, but in either case quite ready to take up
their respective flirtations just at the point
where they had been left off.
On such a morning as this-.a morning when
the hunters werd out and had not yet returned,
and the ladies were wandering about aimlessly
or yawning in each other's faces-Katharine sat
by one of the drawing-room windows trifling
over some needlework, when Irene Vernon came
up to her.
"Are you busy?" asked the young lady, ab-
ruptly. "If you don't mind leaving that work,
suppose we take a walk? it is a lovely
day."
Katharine did not mind leaving the work at
all; so she put it down, got her bonnet and
shawl, and in a few minutes was walking by Miss
Vernon's side out of the front door. They went
down the piazza steps together and turned into a
path to the right, that, winding down among the
shrubbery, soon led them out of sight of the
house. Irene gave a sigh of relief when the last
glimpse of the chimneys was shut out, and they
had a wall of green on one side, and a fair out-
look of rolling country on the other.
iy. "~ am so glad to get away," she said, frank.
I lose all patience with those girls; they
don't seem to have an idea what to do with them-
selves when the gentlemen are absent. They
mope about, and are ennuyc~es and stupid to the
last degree, and all because they are thrown on
their own resources for a few hours. It is disgust-
ing 1" said the young lady, with an expression
of face that quite suited her words. "It is
really enough to make one ashamed of being a
woman!"
"It is natural, I suppose," said Katharine.
"Why should it be natural ?" retorted Miss
Vernon, indignantly. "It is not natural at all-
it is the way they are taught and trained. Men
are not so," she went on, with an impatience
that amused her listener. "You never hear of
their pining and moping because there are no
women about. They like each other's society a
great deal the best; and. they always take it
when they can get it. It is only women who are
so absurdly and disgustingly dependent-who
can find no zest or amusement whatever in the
society of other women. Heaven only knows
why! I am sure I would rather be talking to
you than to any man of all the party."
"Thank you," said Katharine, smiling. Then

ST. JOHN.

she added, archly, "Won't you even make an
exception in favor of Mr. Seymour?"
"Why should I?" asked the young lady,
carelessly. "He is a good fellow-dear, old
Godfrey!-and I have known him all my life;
but, excepting for that, he is no more to me than
any other man. Is there anybody sioa would
prefer as a companion?"
"Nobody at all," answered Katharine, still
smiling. "Indeed, I sjiould be at a loss to think
of anybody, unless I chose Mr. Langdon, or Mr.
Talcott, or that very singular Mr Hallam, who
makes me afraid he is going to snap mybend off
every time he begins to talk."
"Or Morton Annesley," said her companion.
Katharine started, and gave a keen glance at
the face beside her, but failed to read any thing
there. Miss Vernon was walking along tearing
a geranium-leaf to pieces, and did not even raise
her eyes.
"I don't know why I should make an excep-
tion of Mr. Annesley," said Miss Tresham, a little
distantly.
"I thought he was a friend of yours," an-
swered Miss Vernon. "If I had a friend, I
would not speak of him in such a tone as that."
"If you had a friend!" repeated Katharine,
a little surprised. "Have you no friend, then?"
"Of my own making, independently of family
liking and hereditary connection, and all that
sort of thing? Not one. All my life I have
wished that I might stand on my own merits and
see if I could gain a friend who would like me
for myself. But I have never done so, and, in-
deed, it would be quite useless, for, if I cannot
attract people with so many aids to win their re-
gard, what would I do without these aids? I
should be simply hated-that is all."
"You are one of the last persons in the
world I could possibly have expected to hear
talk in this way."
"Because I am pretty and rich? Neither
of those facts make me less unamiable or less
unpopular. Not that I care for the unpopular-
ity, but I should like to have one or two friends,
and I have none."
She made the statement in a quiet, decided
tone, and Katharine was astonished, and puzzled,
and sorry all at once.
"Miss Vernon," she said, "I am sure you do
many people great injustice."
"Of course I am not talking of my own fain-
ily,"said Miss Vernon, "They are fond of me,
as one will be fond of one's own flesh and blood,
let it be ever so disagreeable. And I am very
7

93

disagreeable," she added, looldng the young gov-
erness straight in the face.
"I have really been considering you very
charming," said the other, trying to preserve an
appearance of gravity.
"Then you are the first woman who ever did
so," answered her companion. "The most of
them think me detestable, and, indeed) I don't
wonder-my temper is so easily upset, and my
tongue is so sharp. I try to keep it under con-
trol1 but somehow I can't. I don't ever hear you
make ill-natured remarks, Miss Tresham; and
yet you are not silly either. How do you man-
age it?"
"I don't know that I often feel inclined to
make ill-natured remarks; but, whenldoI
don't give way to the inclination."
"And I always give way. Then, people
think, 'How hateful she is!' ~and, honestly
speaking, I don't blame them. As for my ad-
mirers, some of- them like me for my face, and
some for my fortune; but, if I were to try for-
ever, I could not secure half as much genuine
admiration as you have obtained, without trying,
during the last few days."
"Miss Vernon, you do yourself as much in-
justice as you do other people. Yon are clever,
and frank, and unaffected-what more could a
woman wish to be?"
"I am sharp, and haughty, and ill-natured,"
said Miss Vernon, summing up her bad qualities
with an utter disregard of this attempt at con-
solation. "If you knew me long enough, you
would be repelled like everybody else. I really
l;elieve Godfrey Seymour is the only person who
knows all my faults and likes me in spite of
them; while I like him-poor, dear fellow 1-as
if-as if he was a great Newfoundland dog."
"No better?"
"Not a bit better."
She spoke decidedly, and Miss Treshans could
not help feeling a little sorry for the gentleman
who was liked in this canine fashion. "He de-
serves something better," she thought; but it
was none of her business to say so, and they
walked on silently, the bright winter day lying in
still beauty all around them, birds singing over
their heads, and a faint, purple mist softening
the distant hills like a harbinger of spring.
Again it was Miss Vernon who spoke first, and
spoke abruptly:
"Miss Tresham, do you know it is a plan ~f
our respective relations to marry Morton Mines-
Icy and myself to each other?"
"I-" Katharine was quite taken aback by

Ii


94                                 MORT(
'thisunexpected question. "Yes, I have heard
something of the kind."
"A nice idea, isn't it?" said the young lady,
with a smile that was rather too bright to be
natural. "I don't think I ever heard any thing
more absurd. Frank French is my cousin, you
know, and so Adela and Flora took it into their
wise heads that Morton and I would make a good
match, without any regard to the triffing fact that
neither of us ever had any fancy-any special
fancy, that is-for the other. Of course, he
was repelled by my temper, as everybody is,
while I-well, I never thought of him at all. I
should have been a fool if I had, considering
that he never was~ more than civil to me. He is
a charming gentleman, though," she said, look-
ing at Katharine, "and any woman whom he
loved would do well to marry him."
They were almost the same words that Mrs.
Gordon had spoken, little more than a week be.
fore, and, hearing them thus the second time,
they filled Katharine with a sudden sense of sur-
prise and amusement, which it is impossible to
describe. She understood perfectly what assur~
ance it was that Miss Vernon wished to convey
to her, and the humor of the situation overpow-
ered for the moment every other consideration.
It was strange enough that his own cousin, a
woman steeped to the lips in the traditions
of her class and the pride of blood, should have
advised her to marry Morton; but for this young
beauty, this girl, who, according to the vulgar
melodramatic idea, should have been her "ri-
val," to echo such advice! A comic vision of
Mrs. Annesley's horror rose before Katharine,
and almost made her laugh.
"I suite agree with you," she answered, as
quietly as she had answered Mrs. Gordon. "Th&amp;
woman whom h~ loved, and who loved him,
would do well to marry Mn Anneslcy.~ But how
is this? We have come round to the gates."
"By a longer route than the carriage-drive,
but one just as sure," said Miss Vernon, smiling.
"See! there is some one coming in. Shall we
turn and go back the way we came?"
Before Katharine could reply, Spitfire, who
had lately taken quite a fancy to her, and had
condescended to follow her out, made a' wild
rush at the figure just entering the gate, barking
with a degree of fury almost incomprehensible,
considering the size of the body from which the
sound proceeded. Notwithstanding his insigni-
ficant appearance, he quite startled and over-
powered the newcomer. This person-a tall,
slender, well-dressed man-backed against the

)N HOUSE.ST. JOHN.                                                                              9

gate, and began kicking at his assailant with
one foot, which proceeding, of course, irritated
Spitfire to the extreme of canine wrath.
"Call him off! call him off!" cried Miss
Vernon to Katharine. "He will bite the man,
or the man will hurt him, and that would make
Maggie furious, you know. Do call him off!"
Katharine called and called again; but Spit.
fire, who did not obey his mistress, was certainly
not likely to obey her. He danced round the
stranger like a dog that was possessed, and gave
no sign of heeding. So Katharine went forward
and addressed the other combatant, who kicked
quite as furiously as Spitfire barked.
"Fray don't do that!" she cried. "He
won't bite, I assure you, and-"
She stopped short. Miss Vernon, standing
at a little distance, looking on, saw her suddenly
put her hands to her face, and utter a low cry.
The kicker dropped his foot, and, disregarding
Spitfire, made a quick step forward.~
"Katharine 1" he said, eagerly-" my dear
Katharine!"
But at the sound of his voice the girl raised
her face, all white and drawn, and held out her
hands, not to welcome, but to keep him back.
"You!" she said, hoarsely; "you!"
"Yes, I," he said, so much the more self-
possessed of the two that it was evident this
meeting was not entirely unexpected on his part.
"I ~thought you would not be~unprepared. I
wrote to you not long ago. Did you not receive
my letter?"
She made an effort to speak before she suc-
ceeded; then, with a sort of dry.gasp, the words
were articulated
"Yes, I received it; but I thought-I hoped
-that is, I was fool enough to think-to hope-
that you might care for me sufficiently to leave
me alone."
"To 'leave you alone, my dear Katharine?"
His face expressed the liveliest surprise. "Am
I not your natural protector, your-"
"Hush!', 'she said, so fiercely that he abso-
lutely started back. "Let me hear none of that
cant! What do you want with me, now that you
have come?"
"I must see and speak to you," he said, a
little sulkily. "Will you take me to the
house?"
"To the house? to be asked who and what
you are? My God, no! Wait here a moment;
I will speak-"
She left him, and hastily followed Miss Ver-
non, who, with well-bred consideration, had

walked out of ear-8hot of the conversation.
Hearing Katharine's step behind her, she paused
and turned.
"'So you found an acquaintance, Miss Tresh-
am?" she began, with a smile, when the terri-
ble pallor of the girl's face startled her. "Good
Heavens! what is the matter?" she cried, in
sudden alarm.
"Nothing - nothing," answered Katharine,
striving to force a smile that only made her look
more ghastly; "only I-lam obliged to ask you
to return to the house without me. This gentle-
man is an-an acquaintance of mine, and I must
stop to speak to him. You will excuse me, I
am sure.
"Certainly I will excuse you," said Miss Ver-
non, trying hard to keep her surprise out of her
voice. "But, if you will pardon mc, had you
not better take your friend to the house? I am
sure Mrs. Annesley-"
"I cannot do that," said Katharine, nervous-
ly. "I could not think of taking such a lib-
erty. Then, no privacy is possible in the house,
and I must see this gentleman privately. My
dear Miss Vernon, if you will only be kind
enough not to say any thing-"
"Of course, I shall not say any thing," inter-
rupted Miss Vernon, hastily.
Then she called Spitfire, and, without a sin-
gle backward glance, disappeared down the
path.
When the last flutter of her dress vanished
from sight, Katharine turned and beckoned to
the man, who was still standing where she had
left him. He obeyed the signal with alacrity;
and, as he walked quickly forward, she moved
on in front of him~ and did not pause until she
had reached the most secluded part of' the
grounds - a deep, bosky dell, where a little
brook ran, and where they were entirely safe
from observation. There she turned and fhccd
him-white, but by this time composed and
rigidly braced, as it seemed, for any thing.'
"Well," she said, with icy coldness, "what
isit?"
"By Jove! my dear Katharine, your Amer-
ican sojourn seems to have improved the warmth
of your affections," said her companion, with
a smile. "Is this the only greeting you have
for me - me, who have come so far to see
you?"
"St. John," she cried, passionately, "let me
hear no more of this! I cannot, will not,' bear
it! You have already worked me all the harm'
'that it is 'in the power of one person to inflict

upon another. You are here now, in. defiance of
your most solemn obligations, to injure me fur-
ther; and yet-and yet you dare' to talk like
this! For Heaven's sake, let me hear no more
of it!"
"That is just as you please," said he, with
a relapse into sulkiness.
Nothing was said after this for several min-
utes. The two figures 'stood silently facing each
other-the leafless trees and dark evergreens all
around them, and the limpid stream flowing at
their feet. Katharine's bright winter costume
made a beautiful "bit" of color on the some-
what sombre landscape-her companion being,
in appearance at least, less interesting. Yet he
was not an ill-looking man; on the contrary,
many people would have called him handsome,
and been justified in doing so. He was, in age,
somewhere between twenty-five and thirty-cer-
tainly not younger than the one or older than
the other - he had a slender, elegant figure
and a dark, well-modelled face-a face with a
good complexion, dark eyes, thin lips, and a
painfully-narrow forehead. The man was not a
sensualist-no man with that mouth could have
been-but a physiognomist, looking at him,
would have said that he was selfish and unscru-
pulous, and in so saying would not have gone
very far wide of the truth. It was Katharine
who spoke first.
"You asked me if I received your letter.
Did you get my reply?"
"It was impossible for me to have done so,"
he answered. "I left England Immediately after
writing that letter. Was there any thing of im-
portance in yours?"
"Nothing," she answered, drearily. "I asked
you to let mealone-that was all, I mighthave
known how useless that was - I. might have
known that you never did, nor ever will cousid~r
any one but yourself. 'How did you find ~ut
where I was?" she added; turning upon him
suddenly. "You gave me no explanation of
that, and I don't understand how it was"
"There are a great many things you don't,
understand, 'm~iy dear Katharine,", said he, in a
patronizing tone. "This must remain one of
them. I found out where 'you were just as 'I
should find it out if you were foolish enough to
go and bury yourself and all your fine talent in
the South Sea Islands. I have ways and means
-believe me it is useless to attempt tG hide
from me. I thought I should never reach this
place," he went on, with a shrug of the shoul-
ders, "and when I at last, arrived, and thought

DN HOUSE-

95


96                        MORTON HOUSE.

YOU CANNOT LET ME HELP YOU?                 97

all my difficulties were over, I went to the worn.
an with whom you lF~e, and she told me-"
"What!" cried Katharine, starting. "You
have Seen Mrs. Marks?"
"Certainly I have," answered he, coolly,
"and a dozen or so children, besides. It was
she who told me you were here. Did you think
I found it out by instinct?"
"And what did youtell her to account for
your inquiries?" asked Katharine, almost wring-
ing her hands. "Oh, St. John, you surely have
not told her-"
"Not'hlng at all," said he, roughly. "Don't
make a fool of yourself! Am I the devil, or do
I look like him, thttt you should be so afraid of.
claiming connection with me? I told the woman
-she looks like a respectable cook, by-the-way
-that I was a friend of yours, from England.
She was evidently very curious, but I thought
that was enough for her."
"And what am I to tell her when I go back,
and she speaks of you, as she is sure to do?"
"Tell her that I am your brother."*
"I will not," cried she, indignantly.
"Wellwhatever lie may be convenient, then.
I~an~ ready to play any part. We might com-
promise on uncle, since you objeCt to brother,
for I am afraid ~ am rather young to attempt the
rdls of father."
"St. John, be serious," she cried, with some-
tiring like a sob in her throat. "Don't you see
that I cannot bear such wretched trifling. Oh!
if you had ever cared for me in the least degree,
you would never embitter my life like this!"
"If you had a grain of common-sense, you
would not make such a fuss over nothing," said
he, in4atiently. "Have I not a right to see you
when and where I choose? I will go up yonder
among your new associates and assert it, if you
say so."
"Jif you date!" said she, blazing out upon
him, *ith sudden indignation. "Yes, if you
dare! You have tracked me down, and I am
willing to buy my peace of life at any price you
oboes. to ask-short of this. St. John," she
said, sitting down on a rustic seat near by,
"this is too much for me. Tell me at once
wha~t you want-and----and let me go."
He walked away from her for a short dis-
tance, biting his under lip abnost savagely; then
he turnedabruptly, and can
"You know what I want~' he said. "Itis
* always the same thing-the cursed need of
money. Can you let me have any?"
"I can let you have the most of my two

* years' salary, which is in Mr. Marks's hands, if
you will go away then, and leave me in peace."
"So you only care to buy my absence," he
said, with a dark cloud coming over his face.
"Ask yourself how I can care for any thing
else," she answered, sadly. "But such as the
money is, you are welcome to it. I saved it for
you, and meant to send it to you-so you are
welcome to it."
He moved away, and took another turn--
came bac~t again and caught her arm.
"I would not touch a penny of it, if ruin was
not staring me in the face," he said. "But, as
it is, I see no other chance-not one."
"Has that man-that Fraser-thrown you
oft; then?"
"Curse him, yes-completely!"
"And you have only me?"
"I have only you, or you may be sure that I
would not have come for any such greeting as
this has been."
She rose suddenly and held out her hands to
him.
"Forgive me, St. John," she cried, with a
sudden pathos in her voice. "I did not under-
stand. I thought you had come merely to dis-
turb and make me wretched., I will do any
thing in the world for you that I can-you know
that. If you say so, I will go away with you,
and we will try to live together, and to begin a
new life, in some new place."
"And drag each other down, like a couple
of millstones. That would be wise, indeed!
No, I will only be cur enough to rob you of all
your s~ivings, and then I will go away and leave
you in the peace you talk so much about. When
can you let inc have the money?"
"To-morrow-I cannot see Mr. Marks to-day.
I will meet you in Tallahoma, Or else you can
come back here. I will show you a private way
to enter the grounds, and this is a very retired
place. I shall have to write a note. I suppose
you are at the hotel?"
"Yes-registered as Mr. Johns. Don't for-
get that."
Katharine flushed. She had an instinctive
horror of an alias and this one seemed to her so
unnecessary. "Who would have known the
other name here?" she asked.
"Nobody, probably; but I believe in precau-
tionary measures, always. Well, I shall look for
a note to-morrow, appointing a place where I can
see you again. I can tell you, by-the-way, that
you are putting yirnrself in a very bad position by
this assignation business. It would be much bet.

ter, and much safer, to take me to the house
yonder, and present me as a foreign fricud."
"I cannot--I will not!" she cried. "It
might be better, perhaps, but I would rather
run more risk, and meet you where nobody has
a right to question who and what you are."
"Just as you please. It is your own affair,"
said he, carelessly. "Are you coming to show
me the private entrance you spoke of? I am
sure to meet somebody about those large gates."
She went and showed it to him-quaking as
she did so, lest some one should meet them; and
when he was once safely beyond the boundary
of the grounds, she gave a deep sigh of relief;
and sped like an arrow toward the house.
-4--
CHAPTER XIX.
YOU CANNOT LET ME HELP von?
WHEN Katharine entered the hall, the sounds
which proceeded from the drawing-room assured
her at once that the vigil of the ladies was over,
and the fox-hunters had returned. On the stair-
case the first person she met was Annesley, who
was descending as she went up. He stopped
and held out his hand.
"Good.morninc~ Miss Tresham," he said,
with a smile. "We are back again in a most
dispirited aud luckless condition-dogs and all
fairly outwitted by a fox. Won't you come and
take a game of billiards, and help me to forget
it?"
"Not just now," said Katharine, hardly
knowing what she was saying. "I-I am just
going to my room."
He started a little, and still holding her hand,
gazed earnestly into her face.
"Something is the matter," he said, quickly.
"I never saw you so pale before. Katharine-
Miss Tresham, has anybody done any thing to
annoy you?"
"Nothing," she answered, eagerly. "Why
should you think so? Everybody is very kind.
There !-~.please let me pass. I am not well."
"Something is the matter," repeated he, still
oblivious of courtesy, and keeping his place be-
fore her. "If you would only tell me-if it is
any thing I could. set straight-"
"It is not any thing you could set straight,"
interrupted Katharine, almost wild to get away.
"Mr. Annesley, will you-'will you please let me
pass? I have told you I am not well."
He moved aside, and, disregarding the pained

look on hia face, she fiewby, and the next mo-
ment he heard her chamber door open and shut.
The young man stood for a minute where
she had left him-pain gradually giving way to
surprise on his face. Then he went down, and,
as he crossed the hall, his mother came out of
the library and joined him.
"Are you going out, Morton?" she said.
"Iwill walkwith you a little way. I have some-
thing to say to you."
"I was not going out," he answered; "but I
can go, if you wish to speak to me."
Without any further words, they passed out,
and took the same path which Katharine and
Miss Vernon had taken an hour or two before.
After they had gone a short distance, Mrs. An-
nesley was the first to break the silence.
"Was tha Miss Treshain you met on the
staircase, Mor
"Yes, it was Miss ~3.1resham," he answered,
and in a moment it flashed across his mind that
somebody had been guilty of slighting or annoy-
ing Katharine, and that his mother knew of it.
"Something was the matter with her," he said.
"I never saw her look so before. She did not
seem like herself at all. Somebody must hate
offended ~ continued the young man, with
suppressed anger in his voice. "Mother, if you
know who it is, if any-"
"Stop a moment, Morton," said Mrs. Annes-
Icy, with dignity. "You forget that you are
speaking of your own guests-of ladies and gen-
tlemen who are incapable of being rude to any
one. Nobody inside the doors of Anneadale has
done any thing to wound or annoy Miss Tresharn;
but what has occurred outside of them," she
added, significantly, "it is quite beyond my
power to say."
"What do you mean ~ asked Morton, to
whom this distinction was quite unintelligible.
"I mean that something has happened which
I think you ought to know. I was in the obser-
vatory an hour or two ago, showing the view to
Mrs. Dancey, when I happened to have myatten-
tion directed toward the entrance gates. I Saw
two figures which I easily Identified as Miss
Tresham and Irene Vernon emerge from the
shrubbery just as a man was entering the gates.
Of course, at such a distance the action was
rather confused to my sight, but I could distin-
guish very plainly that a recognition took place
between the man and Miss Tresham, and that,
after Irene Vernon had first gone on alone, he
and she entered the shrubbery together. I
thought it singular; but nothing more, until I


went down-stairs, and, after a while, Irene came warned you. Since you will not heed the warn-
in-still alone. I asked her what had become ing, you must pay the penalty of your obstinacy
of Miss Tresham, and ~he evaded the question. and folly, but my heart sinks when I consider
It was only when I told her what I had seen, what a penalty it-will be. We had better go
that she acknowledged she bad 'left Miss Tresh- back to the house now-I have a great deal to
am in the grounds with this stranger. She had do." -
evidently been requested to keep the matter They went back to the house, and did not
secret, for she begged me not to mention it, and, speak of the subject again; but, though Morton
of course, I shall not do so-excepting to your. had so summarily silenced his mother, he could
self; who certainly have a right to know. When not silence the thoughts of his own mind, or the
you met Miss Tresham, she was just coming in; throbs of his own heart. "What did it mean?"
and all this happened I should be afraid to say he asked himself again and again, with the same
how long before." feeling which had overpowered him when that
"Did Miss Irene know the man?" said Mor- letter, which had been the direct consequence of
ton, speaking very grimly, his mother's act, had dropped from the pages of
"No, she had never seen him before. He the "Adelaide." His perplexity was not ended,
was a stranger, she said-and young and hand- nor his anxiety stilled, by the fact that Miss
some." Tresham did not appear agidn that day. She
"And what explanation did Miss Tresham was lying down-she had a headache, he was
give to her?" told, when he inquh~ed about her; and, with this
"She did not tell me. She was very reticent, mnst unsatisfactory information, he was obliged
and evidently disliked to mention the matter att to be content, and make, or try to make, himself
all. I asked her why she had not urged Miss agreeable to a score or more of people. It was
Tresham to bring her friend to the house. She fine social training, no doubt, but very unpleas-
replied she had done so; ~but that she-Miss ant in the process. Any thing that teaches you
Tresham-had declined." to conceal your feelings, and smile in the face
"And there is no doubt of this?" said Mor- of the world when your heart is breaking-if
ton at last, after a pause. ~hearts ever do break 1-is considered a benefit;
"There is not the least doubt of it," answered and, certainly, Morton made great strides in this
his mother. Then1 after 'a minute: "Morton, is branch of social art that day. He had to hear a
it not all as I told you? Can such a woman as great many remarks from other people, too; for
this be trusted?"                           Langdon, Talcott and Co., were quite concerned
"What has this to do with the question of for Miss Tresham's indisposition, and kept say-
her being trusted?" he asked. "Do you think ing how very unlucky it was, and the ball that
I will donut the wom~tn who is every thing to night, too I "There is no danger but that she
me, because some man-some friend or relation, will be well enough for th~ ball," said Miss Les-
perhaps, of whom we know nothing-comes to ter, who heard some remark of this description.
see her, and she, meeting him in the open air, "What 1 any girl in her senses stay away from
keeps him there, instead of taking him into a the ball-and such a bull, too? I'll believe it
house full of people like that yonder?"' when I see it, and if you care to wager, Cousin
"'But why should she ask Irene Vernon to Tom, I'll bet you a new collar for Spitfire, that
keep the matter secret, if it was only some friend she comes down!"
or some relation, as you say?"                 "I'll wager, certainly, Maggie," said Cousin
"Did Miss Vernon say that she had asked Tom. "A new collar for Spitfire, is it ?-against
her?" -      '                              what?"
"No; but I saw very plainly-"               "Oh, any thing you choose.  Shall we say a
"You are determined to see every thing purse? I wouldn't, if I was not sure that I
against and nothing for her, mother," he said, shall not have the trouble of making it."
a little wearily. "Can't you put the matter as "A purse, then," said he, taking out his
if it 4~ol1eerned somebody else ?-can't you see note-book, and entering an imposing register
that if it did concern somebody else, you would of the wager.
not think it t~f any importance?"              Dinner was early that day, for the ball was to
"I see that you are wilfully blind, and wil- come off in the evening, and it was necessary
fully determined to go your' ow~i way," she an. that the whole force of the establishment should
sw~red. "Well, I have done my duty-I have be employed in preparation. This was the ball

of which Katharine had spoken to Mrs. Gordon,
of which she had thought as the first and great-
est item in her Christmas 'enjoyment; and now
it was with a sick heart and ~ throbbing head
that she faced the prospect of it, and the neces-
sity of rising to dress. As she lay on her bed
with the room darkened, the fire burning with a
soft, crackling content, a wet handkerchief over
her aching eyes, and a bottle of cologne-water
in her hand, some despairing thoughts on the
perversity of human circumstances occurred to
her. She had come to Annesdale meaning to
leave her weight of anxiety behind, and to en-
joy herself for a short time with the natural en-
joyment of youth; and all of a sudden every
thing was dashed with bitterness! Poor Katha-
rine! Very stern troubles were staring her in
the face, but still she had time to give a sigh to
her murdered pleasure. "If it had only been
the day after the ball I" she thought to herself
-and it is to be hoped that she will not be ac-
counted utterly frivolous for doing so!
She had at last risen languidly, and was look-
ing with critical attention in the mirror, regard-
ing her pale cheeks, her red eyes, and her swollen
nose, wondering if it would be possible to bring
all these features into order, or if she had net
better make a virtue of necessity, and resign the
ball, when the door ope~ied and Miss Lester en-
tered.            -
"So you are up!" cried this young lady, in
her liveliest tone. "I am glad of that-glad
because you are better, and because I have a
wager on your going to the balL You are going,
are you not?"
"I was just considering about it," said
Katharine, doubtfully, "Come and tell me
what you think. I am looking frightfully, you
see."

"I don't see any thing of the kind," said
Miss Lester, whose opix~ion was rather biased
by personal interest. "Your eyes are red and
-your-nose-a little. But that is because
you have been crying. If you don't cry any
more, by the time, you are dressed they will be
all right. Then you are pale; but a little rouge
.-.do you ever use rouge?"
"You don't think it a sin, do you?"
"I don't think any thing about it. As a
matter of persoi~al taste, I don't like, and don't
use it.-...that is all. I confess, however, that the
sight of it affects me very much in the same
way that a coarse perfume does. The two things
always seem to me to go together."

"I don't use it myself," said Miss Lester,
philosophically, "but0a great many girls do. I
have a cousin who paints dreadfully. However,
paleness is becoming to you-.-you are generally
pale-and I think you might go down. Dancing
will soon give you a color, if any personal ar-
guments are needed, Cousin Tom is half crazy to
see you, and Spitfire will get a new collar if you
go."
Katharine thought of the unwelcome visitor
whom Spitfire had forced upon her notice that
morning, and felt very little of the grateful
esteem which would have made her anxibus to
secure a new collar for him. But still she suf.
fered herself to be persuaded-especially as she
did not need very much persuasion-and, after
a short gossip in the fading twilight, the serious
business of the toilet began.
The ballroom at Anneadale formed a wing
of the main building, and had been built by
Morton since affairs came into his hands. It
was a large, and (for a ballroom), decidedly
tasteful apartment-ornamented sufficiently to
avoid the look of disagreeable bareness, yet not
overloaded by any means, and with every facility
for light and warmth. It was a beautiful apart.
ment, Katharine thoughts as she entered it for
the first time that evening, and saw the lofty
ceiling painted in brilliant.fresco, the double line
of columns down the sides, the heavy green gar-
lands that swung in festoons from one to ax~other,
and the lights glittering in every direction, shin.
ing on the scarlet holly-berries, and reflected
back from the smoothly-waxed floor. Qn a
raised stand at the upper end of the room the
band was pealing forth a march, and the, guests,
who had been lingering in the drawing.room~, in
the green-house, in the library, in every place
that was thrown open to the public, began .to
pour in. A few couples were promenading in
time to those strains, but with the majority there
was an exciting rush to make engagements, and
secure a desirable position in certain desirable
ball-books.-" Are you engaged for the third set,
Miss Josephine? "-"May I have the fifth, on
your list, Miss Annie..? "-" Stand back, Tom, I
have a word or two to say-Miss Mary, mayW~ I
have the second?"-" BelIa, I wish you wquld
remember that mamma don't llke you to waIts."
"Certainly, Mr. Ford, you can have the pleas-
urepf-the tenth set, did you say? "-"Pancey,
who is your partner for the first cotillon?-Get
one, man, in a hurry, and be our vie4.vi&amp;-Miss
NeIly's and mine."-" Stop there, George, step
-come here and help us to make up a set,"-

98                         MORTON HOUSE.                                                            YOU CANNOT LET ME HELP YOU?                   99

99

98

MORTON HOUSK


100                               MORTON
"A polka, did you say, Mr. Anderson? I never
dance the round dances."
All this was sounding at once in Katharine's
ears, as she stood near a large pillar, looking
very pale and pretty in her white dress, wreathed
with blue convolvulus, when Annesley came up
to her.
"I have been looking for you everywhere,"
he said, hastily, "and I have only time for a
word. Will you give me the second set, and
save two or three more for me?"
"I cannot give you the second set," she an.
swerved. "It is Mr. Talcott's."
"The third, then?"
"That belongs to Mr. Hallam."
"The fourth-fifth-sixth---.any thing I Per-
x!iit me-" he suddenly leaned forward, and,
taking the little ivory toy that hung at her
waist, ran his eye rapidly over the list of en-
gagements, scribbled his initials in two or three
vacant places, then, with a smile and a "Thank
you," was gone. A moment later, Mr. Langdon
left the side of a young lady with whom he was
negotiating for a waltz, and claimed Katharine's
hand for the dance about to commence. The
measure of the music changed, the confused mass
of figures formed into magical squares, the wall-
flowers of both sexes fell back and clustered
around or beyond the columns, and the amuse-
ment of the evening began in earnest. To Kath-
anne it would have been like enchantment, at
another time; but now, above the sound of the
music, the tread of dancing feet, the shifting
to-and-fro of brightly-clad forms, she saw one
face and hbard one voice that banished all gayety
from her heart, and took all lightness from her
step. Despite her efforts to the contrary, she
seemed so unlike herself that her appearance
struck a gentleman standing near the set in
which she was dancing, a gentleman whose tall
head towered somewhat above the throng of
lookers-on-for all La Grange was in force there
that nght, the county people thinking nothing
of a ten-miles' drive to Mrs. Annesley's Christ-
mas-balL His intent gaze caught Katharine's
attention at last. In the course of cIwss~ing
back and forth, she looked up, saw him, and
smiled. "Oh, Mr. Warwick 1" she said, in a
tone that surprised her partner.
"Mr...-tsko?" he asked, looking round.
"Mr. Warwick," answered Katharine, still
smiling, and nodding to Mr. Warwick across the
set. "I am so glad to see him," she went on.
"It is like a home-face in the midst of strangers.
I must speak to him as soon as the cotillon is

over. I want to ask about Mrs. Marks, and the
children, and all of them. I feel-"
She stopped suddenly, and her face changed
so much that her. companion absolutely stared.
A sharp recollection came to her of the differ-
ence that these few days had made in her life, of
the man who had seen Mrs. Marks, and the in-
quiries which~ would meet her when she returned
to the familiar house in Tallahoma. Of course
Mr. Langdon understood none of this, and, seeing
her hesitate and turn pale, he at once conceived
a suspicion of Mr. Warwick, and glanced across
the room at that gentleman. Being somewhat
reassured by his sedate, middle-aged appearance,
he took up Katharine's sentence.
"You feel-what? Not home-sick, I trust?"
"I feel as if it had been such a long time
since I left home," she answered, absently.
"That is always the ease, you know, when one
has been among new scenes and new people..-
First gentleman and lady, did they say? You
are the first gentleman, Mr. Langdon."
Meanwhile, Morton was dancing with Miss
Vernon, in quite another set, at the upper end
of the room. He thought, and so did a great
many other people, that Irene had never looked
more lovely than on that night. Fashions
change very much in thirty years, and to de-
scribe her costume would probably be to bring
a dreadful picture before the eyes of to-day; but
everybody said how charmingly she was dressed,
and certainly the shining pink silk that she
wore, with rich point lace falling from her shoul-
ders, was as becoming as possible. Then her
cheeks were flushed, and her eyes were bright,
and her hair looked like spun gold, as it
gleamed about her graceful head. Morton, who
had never thought very much about her beauty,
suddenly opened his eyes, and achnired it with
quite a fervor of enthusiasm. "I never saw you
look so well," he could not help telling her more
than once - though the remark strictly inter-
preted was any thing but a compliment.
"Perhaps you never looked at me before,"
she said, though she hated herself for ~aying it.
"Nobody else seems to think that I am looking
unusually well to-night."
"Shall we take a vote on the question, for I
don't fancy the imputation of being a mole or a
bat?"
"No, thank you. I'll take the fact of my
unusual good looks or your unusual good-nature,
for granted, in preference to that. A propose of
appearance, don't you think Miss Tresham is
looking very well ?"

r HOUSE.

"Very pretty, but not very well. She is too
pale."
"YeS, but she is one of the few people to
whom pallor is becoming. And those morning-
glories-are they not beautiful?"
"Yes," said Morton, catching a glimpse of
the morning-glories in question, as their wearer
moved forward in the dance. Then he saw his
way to a sudden inquiry, and made it without
loss of time.
"I met Miss Tresham on the staircase this
morning, just after my return, and she seemed
very much distressed and agitated. I hope
nothing unpleasant occurred while you and she
were in the grounds 1"'
"Nothing," answered Miss Vernon, with a
reticence that did not escape his observation.
"How did you know that I was in the grounds
with her?" she added, with a keen glance at him.
"My mother told me," he answered. "Don't
think that I was busying myself with matters
which did not concern me," he added, with a
quick flush coming over his face; "but when
I met Miss Tresham, I saw at once that some-
thing had annoyed her, and I thought it might
be something I could remedy, so I went to my
mother "-at the moment, Morton really forgot
that his mother had gone to him-" and she told
me that you had been with Miss Tresham, and
mentioned that she met some one-"
"I did not mention it at all," interrupted
Miss Vernon, bluntly. "Miss Tresham asked
me-that is, I thought it likely she would not
care for me to speak of the matter, so I wa~
sorry Mrs. Aunesley had seen the-the person
come in the gate. I answered her questions,
that was alL I shall not s~nswer yours, Mr. An.
nesley, so I beg you won't ask any~~
"I am not going to ask any," said Morton, a
little amused. "I would not think of such a
thing as meddling with Miss Tresham's afl'airB.
But she seemed so much agitated.-"
"Things agitate at one time, that would have
no effect at another," said Miss Vernon, coolly.
"I should probably be agitated if I was living
in Russia and you suddenly appeared before me
-though there is nothing at all agitating in see.
ing you here, you know."
"I understand. But Miss Ti~csham I am sure
ca'ii have no reason for concealing.-"
Miss Vernon interrupted him again, remorse.
lessly.
"Miss Tresham did not ask me to conceal any
thing, Mr. Annesley; but I have learned by expe-
rience that silence is golden, and speech is silver

HOUSE.                                                       YOU CANNOT LET ME HELP YOU?               101

101

-or base copper, rather, when it takes the form
of silly tattling. I do as I would be done by.
There are many reasons which might make me
wish to conceal-that's a hateful word I-the
visit of some embarrassing friend or relation,
from people who had no right of espionage
over my conduct, and so I am not quick to
suspect other people for doing the same thing."
"Thank you," said Morton, before he knew
what he was about. Then he added, with a
blush: "You don't know how much I admire
and respect such sentiments.  rhere are not
many women like you, Miss Vernon."
"There are thousands much better," said
Miss Vernon, with a sharpness that quite took
him by surprise.
While this conversation was going on, the
cotillon ended, the last bows were made, and,
as Mr. Langdon was leading Katharine away,
Mr. Warwick came up to her.
"Shall we go into the drawing-room and get
an ice ?"the obliging Cousin Tom was saying,
when he found himself summarily put aside.
"Mr. Warwick [-I am so glad to see you,"
Katharine cried; and Mr. Warwick 'looked at
her companion, as he said: "I have a great
many messages for you, from Bessie and the
children. Do you care about hearing them?"
"Of course I ~ answered she, warmly; and
upon this, she withdrew her hand from Mr. Lang.
don's arm, and took instead the one Mr. Warwick
offered.
"I will see you again, when the fourth set
comes round," she said, with a smile, to the
former gentleman, and in this way he found
himself deserted, just as he had flattered him-
self with the expectation of a pleasantly unin-
terrupted ~ftc4tlte.
"So Anncsdale and all its gayety has not
made you forget Tallahoma and the school-
room?" said Mr. Warwick, as they walked
away. "I could hardly realize that you were
yourself when I saw you dancing a little while
ago."
"'If I am I, as I do think I be,' '~ said Kath-
arine, with a laugh, "I have certainlynot for-
gotten the school-room, or anybody connected
with it, Mr. Warwick. How is Mrs. Marks, and
how are the children ?-did Sara and Katy go
to see their aunt ?-and has Nelly's cough given
any more trouble?"
"Bessie and all the children are well, and
sent you m6re love than I could carry-Katy
and Sara did not go to their aunt's, and Nelly's
cough iS quite well, I believe."


102                       MORTON HOUSE.

"Has nothing happened since I went away?
I feel as ifa~r~tdeal ought to have happened."
"I think e ~t~lng has gone on exactly as
usual, excepting 1~t ~t ziiay conipliinent you to
hear that you have be~u ~rery much missed by
everybody. When Dick cut his hand the other
day, he disgraced his manhood by crying because
you were not there to bandage it up."
"Has Dick cut his hand? I am so sorry.
How did he do it?"
"I was foolish enough to give him a box of
tools as / a Christmas.gift, and the result was
three accidents in the course of as many days.
Katy was very ai~ious to come with me to.
night."
"I wish you could have brought her," said
Katharine, sincerely.
They bad left the ballroom by this time, and
were in the drawing.room, which was thronged
with people laughing, talking, eating ices, mak-
ing picture-like groups everywhere.
"Is there a quiet spot to be found any.
where?" asked Mr. Warwick, looking round.
"Twenty years ago, I might have liked this
kind of thing; but now I find that I am very
much out of my element. You know those mes-
sages I told you about. Is there a quiet place in
which I could deliver them?"
"Suppose we try the library," said Kath-
arine.
They crossed the hall to the library, and
found only one or two whist-parties in posses-
sion of it. At the farther end, a sofa was fitted
into a sort of alcove between two bookcases,
and to this Katharine led the way. She sat
down first, and looked up at her companion out
of the soft gloom-her white dress and the
blue flowers in her hair showing in bright re-
lief against the dark background.
"Will not this do?" said she, smiling; and
somehow the little scene came back to John
Warwick long afterward, touching him again as
it touched h~m then.
"Yes, it will do very well," he said, sitting
down by her. Then he added, suddenly, "You
are looking very badly. ilave you been sick?"
"Not at all," answered she, growing a little
paler. "I have been quito well, and enjoying
myself very much. Do you know.thatyou have
terribly keen eyes?" she added, trying to laugh,
aud not succeeding very well. . -
"I hope I 'have serviceable eyes,". he an.
pitered ; "but it would not ~require very. keen
ones to see that something is the matter with
you. If you have not been sick, you have been

worried-and that is worse. I may be blt~nder-
tug in speaking of it," he went on, "and, if so,
you must forgive me, but I was struck by the
change in your appearance when I saw you
dancing."
"I have been sick all day," said Katharine,
forgetting her contrary assertion of a moment
back. "That is, I have had a headache and
been in bed with it One does not look very
well after a thing of that kind."
"No," said Mr. Warwick, regarding her with
a pair of eyes which, for the first time, she found
uncomfortably penetrating. "If you have been
in bed all day," he added, "I suppose you did
not see a visitor, who called at lassie'ss this
morning, and whom shedirected here?"
Dim as the light was, he noticed-he could
not avoid noticing-the crimson tide which in a
moment spread over her face and neck.
"Yes, I saw him," she answered; and, as
she spoke, she gave a piteous, imploring glance,
that reminded him of the look sometimes seen
in an animal's eyes before the knife of the
butcher descends and strikes home to the heart.
Its unconscious pathos touched him; but the
lawyer in his composition enabled him to perse-
vere.
"Bessie's curiosity was quite excited," he
said. "You know it takes very little to excite
her, and it seems that the gentleman-whom she
described as young and handsome-asked many
questions about you. That was enough to form
the groundwork of a romance, which she has
'building ever since. Her only fear is, that
you may be induced to leave her, and that, she
says, would break her heart."
"Mrs. Marks is very good," etild Katharine,
forcing a~smile. "But she, need not fear. I am
not likely to go away. The gentleman who
called to see me was "-a pause, and. w. great
gulp of rage and self.contempt-" was. ~ ~ersen
whom I knew in England."
"So he said," remarked Mr. Warwick, rather
dryly.
"I hope he did not annoy Mrs. Marks in any
way?" said Katharine, catching the intonation
of his voice. "I-I do not think she is likely
to see him again. He will leave Tallahoma in a
few days-to-morrow, perhaps."
"He did not annoy her at all," Mr. Warwick
answered. "I hope I have not said any thing to
make you think so."
There was a pause after this. Katharine
felt faint and sick, but she kept her seat.-.-what-
ever he should say next, she must be ready to

I

answer. Mr. Warwick, meanwhile, said nothing
-this face looked somewhat severe, as he gazed
past her; but that was its'usual expression wheu
at rest. In this lull, the voices of the whist-
players sounded.
"Three by cards, and two by honors, sets us
five, and four before, is nine."
"You should have returned my lead of
spades, Mr. Barry, and we might have-"
"If you had led out trumps, as you ought to
have done," cried an excited voice from the other
table, "they could not have made a trick. I
held every high diamond, sir, and every one of
them trumped U'
"We threw away the game by that play of
hearts, Mrs. Dargan. It gave them the lead, and
then-"
This was the kind of talk which came in and
bridged over Katharine's suspense. It is aston-
ishing how oddly conscious people are of such
things at such times. When the last great
struggle comes, and the soul is about to go
forth, shall we, even then, hear and notice the
bird that sings at our window, and the child
who laughs in the street beloW?
"Miss Tresham," said Mr. W~rwick, turning
*       round abruptly, "do you remember the day we
walked out to the pond, and I told you that some-
thing was preying on your health and spirits?"
"Yes," Katharine answered, "I remember
it."
"And do you also remember that I asked
you if I could do any thing to relieve you?"
"Yes, Mr. Warwick, I remember that also-~
very gratefully."
"Well, I don't wish to force your confidence,
but one glance at your face to-night told me that
the anxiety which I saw then had made greater
strides-had, in fact, been realized. As I told
you before, if it is any thing relating to ideal
troubles, I can do nothing for you; but if it is
real-if it is practical-Miss Tresham, remember
that I am both a man and a lawyer, and that~
in either character, I am ready to serve you."
"Mr.War$ick, you are very good-you are
more than good," said Katharine, almost ready
to give way to the childish relief of tears.
"Don't-please don't think me ungrateful. I
feel your kindness in my very heart, and-and
thank you for it. But I cannot do anything
else."
"You cannot let me help you?"
That ended the matter. After a minute, Mr.
Warwick rose and offered his arm. "Your part-

ners will be looking for you," he said. "I must
not monopolize you so long. Have you any
message for Bessie?"
"My best love, and tell her I will see her to-
morrow."
"What, are you coming back to Tallaho-
ma?"
"bTot to stay-I promised to rei~iain here
until after New-Year-but ~n business. There
is Mr. Talcott coming for me now."
"I have been looking for you everywhere,
Miss Tresham," said Mr. Talcott, quite breath-
less. "The dancing began some time ago, and
I am afraid we shall not get a place unless we
make haste."
"Don't let me detain you," said Mr. War-
wick. "Good-night."
"Shall I not see you again?"
"No, I only looked in to be able to tqll Bessie
how you are getting on. I am going 'back to
town now."
lIe was as good as his word, and Katharine
had no further glimpse of him that night; but
amid all the music and dancing, the gay voices
and bright smiles, his voice sounded, and she
heard again and again the words, "You cannot
let me help you?" Her heart gave back an an~
swer, for every now and then she caught herself
murmuring, "If I only could 1-ab, if I only
could!"
CHAPTER XX.
ML WAawrcn's ~iW cLiE&amp;T.
AnOUT the time that Katharine threw herself
down on the bed, and was foolish enough to cry
until she made her head aebeBabette was tramp-
ing along the road which led from Tallahoma to
Morton House. She had been sent on an errand
by her mistress, and was returning with two or
three large parcels under her arm, dis4aint'ully
regardless of the fact that she was the object of
much attention and remark on the part of sev-
eral em all boys in her rear. They ktiew better
than to come within reach of her hand, of which
more than one of them had felt the weight ;but,.
taking care to keep at a respectful distance, they
followed her beyond the corporate limits, In-
deed, Bahette was a sufficiently remarkable ~gure
to excite attention in a place much more used to
'remarkable figures than quiet Tallahoma. Be~
sides her usual foreign costume, she had, in con-
sideration of the muddy state of the roads,

MR. WARWICK'S NEW CLIENT.                  103


104                       MORTON HOUSE.

mounted a pair of sabots, and in them she went
boldly clattering along, with her dress tucked
up even shorter than the walking-skirt of a
fashionable girl 9f the present day. "Good
gracious, aunty,-where'd you get your shoes?"
more than one audacious boy inquired; but
aunty's short nose only went a little higher in
the air, and her keen black eyes only gave a lit.
tie quicker gleam by way of reply. Her fierce
appearance quite awed the good folk of the vii.
Iage. They had an idea that she was a sort of
drager*eas, whom Mrs. Gordon bad imported fez
special guard and defence. Poor Babette, whose
temper was irascible, but who was really of an
excellent disposition, and whose appearance only
was against her, had no idea that when she
walked into a shop, with her large gold ear-rings
bobbing on each side of her swarthy, stern-look-
ing face, the clerks fairly quaked, and would
have given any thing to avoid the perilous duty
of serving her.
She was well served, however; and sbe had
made her purchases and was finally on her way
home-tramping along the narrow foot-path that
ran by the side of the muddy road, close under
the zigzag rail-fences, humming to herself in
French a sort of jingling refrain, and now and
then casting looks of defiance behind to see if
any of her troublesome train were in sight.
They had given up the pursuit, she found at
last, and the gates of Morton House were al-
most in sight when a man's figure appeared,
advancing with quick strides along the foot-path
toward her. Babette hardly noticed him, her
head being full of other things, for she was mak-
ing a rough calculation mentally of the money
she had spent, and deciding that she had been
cheated beyond that point where forbearance is
said to be a virtue. It was all her mistress's
fault, however. She had bidden her buy the
things, and never mind about the price. "Eh
bien) if people will be extravagant 3" Babette
said to herself with a shrug. Meanwhile, the
gentleman was thinking just as little of this
strangely-clad figure clattering along the road to
meet him. In fact, he did not notice her at all.
He was thinking of other things, too, and gnaw-
ing his u~ider lij~ as he had gnawed itin speaking
of the snone~ a little while before. It would be
hard to tell which of them was thrilled with the
strangest shock of surprise when they came sud-
denly face to face, and, looking up, recognized
each other. 1" gasped Babette, and the par.
"Mou Dieu
eels absolutely rolled out of her arms into the

* mud, as she stood helpless and aghast before
* him.
"What !-Babette!" cried the other, in as-
tbnishment evidently as great and uncontrollable
as her own. He put out his hand and grasped
her arm, as if to make sure of the fact of her
bodily presence. But Babette rudely pushed
him away. Evidently she had no more desire
than Katharine had mani~sted to salute him
cordially.
~' Keep your hands to yourself, Monsieur St.
Jean," she exclaimed, sharply. "Mon Dien I-
what are you doing here ?-as if madame, poor
lady, has not suffered enough for you to leave
her in peace"         -
"So your mistress is here!" said he, quick-
ly. "Good Heavens! how near I was to going
away without knowing it! Where-where is
she, Babette?"
But the very question betrayed him. Ba-
bette saw that this encounter had been acci-
dental, and that whatever reason had brought
him here, the presence of Mrs. Gordon had no
share in it. "How near I was to going away
without knowing it!" he had unwittingly said,
and Babette's ears were quick. So were her wits
for that matter, and in a moment her reply was
ready. She had no time for cunning subterfuge
or evasion. The plain road to mislead hint was
in downright falsehood, and in downright false-
hood she unhesitatingly took refuge.
"Madame is not where you are likely to find
her, M'sieu St. Jean," she said, with ill-simulated
triumph. "Thanks to Ic boa Dieu, she is far
enough away, and it is not I who is going to tell
you where she is. Ma.foi! I would tell the devil
sooner!" she added, bitterly.
"You are telling a lie," said the gentleman,
coolly, "and that is not what 1 expected of a
good Catholic like you, Babette. I wonder what
the priest will say to this when you go to confes-
sion.
Babette's face fell for an instant; but xhe
remembered what was at stake, plucked up
courage, and answered boldly and volubly: "It
is not for a scoffing heretic like you, l5'sieu St.
Jean, to tell Christian people that they are liars.
I say that madame is not here, nor anywhere
that you are likely to find her. And I'll thank
you," she went on, raising her voice, "to stand~
out of the path and let me go on."
"Where have you be~n, and where are you
going, and with whom do you ljve, if your mis-
tress is not here? "asked St. John, coolly keep-
lug his position in front of her.

"Mon Dicul what business is It of yours?"
demanded she, bursting kite One of the sudden
furies to which the servants of Morton House
were well accustomed. "I shall tell you nothing,"
she continued, tremblingwith passion. "Madame
is not here. I am staying with u~w arnie-I have
been to town to make purchases. If you will not
let me pass, I shall go round you."
"Pass, by all meanS," said he, moving aside
with a peculiar smile.
She carefully gathered her parcels out of the
mud, and, hugging them close in her arms,
marched stolidly by him-grateful for, yet halt'
incredulous of, this welcome release. She had
not gone five paces before she heard his step be-
hind, and knew that he was following her. In-
stantly she faced round upon him, her black eyes
gleaming, and her swarthy face all aglow.
"Comment, M'sieu St. Jean!" she cried, in-
dignantly. "You say I may pass, and, after I
pass, you follow-you dog me! Call you this
conduct of a gentleman?"
"If you won't give me any information, Ba-
bette, I must simply find it out," said he, laugh.
ing at her anger. "You needn't excite yourself.
I am only going with you to your friend's.
There is no harm in that, I am sure."
"My friend does not wish to see you," said
Babette, almost out of her senses, with indigna-
tion. "She would sprinkle holy water if you
came in sight of the door.".
"1 have no doubt of that," said he, still smil.
ing so provokingly that she felt inclined to throw
her muddy parcels in his face; "but still, I must
accompany you."
"Eh bien! then I shall not go," said she;
and, to his great surprise, she wrapped her
shawl around her more comfortably, and sat
down deliberately on a large stone that lay in
the fence corner. Once seated, she looked up at
him triumphantly. "I can stay here as long as
you can, M'sieu St. ~ she said, "and per-
haps a little longer"
For the first time sh~ had the best of the
situation, and, for the first time also, St. John
lost his temper.
"Confound you!" he said, savagely. "Do
you. suppose I am such a fool as not to know
that your mistress is near at hand somewhere,
and that you are lying like the father of lies him.
self? Do you suppose I can't find out without
any help from you? I have only to walk into
the village yonder, and ask a few questions, to
learn all that I want to know. I shall ask them,
too; and you may tell your mistress, with my

MR. WARWICK'S NEW CLIENT.                  105

compliments, that 1 shall do myself the honor
of calling on her before the day is over.~~
With this, he turned on his heel, and walked
off toward the town. Babette eagerly watched
him out of sight; she even followed him to a
bend of the road, and saw his figure 'vanish in
the distance, before she could.believe that he was
really gone, and that he might not return and dog
her steps. Then, as fast as the sabots would al-
low, she hurried to the house, making no pause
until she had burst in upon Mrs. Gordon with
the news which she knew would be to her the
most unwelcome that could be told.
"Madame!', she cried, as the startled lady
looked up from her cushions in astonishment;
"madame 3-Ahi what a misfortune! It is ter-
rible 1-it is enough to break one's heart," said
the excitable Frenchwoman, almost sobbing;
"but, as I~was coming back from town, madame,
I met- out here - in the road - Monsieur St.
Jean!"
Mrs. Gordon, who had not done more than
languidly cross the room for weeks, gave one
cbnvulsive bound from the sofa, and stood erect
on the fleer.
"Babette!" she gasped. More than that she
could not say.
"Monsieur St. Jean!" repeated Babette, lift-
ing her arm with a tragic gesture, as if she
called upon Heaven to witness the truth of the
fact she asserted. "'I met him in the road, ma-
dame, not farther from the gate than you could
throw a stone; and ah, mon Dien!" said she,
shaking her head," what shall I have to suffer
for all the lies I told!"
"St. John!" said Mrs. Gordon; and she had
hardly said it when she grew white as a sheet,
and sat down suddenly. "Yonder 1-that phial
on the table," she panted, brokenly, as Babette
hurried to her. Well used as she was to these
attacks, the maid was frightened-she had never
before seen her mistress look like this; she had
never known her face so ghastly, or her breath'so
painfully short. The seves-lt~ of the paroxysm
did not last more than a minute; but, when it
was over, Mrs.' Gordon sank back on the sofa Ut-
terly exhausted. "Wait..nwait a little," she
said, when Babette began to speak, a~sd the lat-
ter had discretion enough to hold her toilgue.
She bathed her mistress's face for some time in
silence, and it was not until Mrs. GQrdon opened
her eyesand said, "Well, Dabette?" that sh~
broke into a voluble history of her encounter,
and of all that had been said on both sides. By
the time she finished, she had worked herself Into


106

MORTON HOUSE.

such a state of emotion, that she was fairly weep-
ing and'wringing her hands.
"Madame, let us go!" she exclaimed. "Let
us not stay here. He will eome.-M'sieu will
come - and he will take you and make you
wretched. Madame, let us go !-Mon Dien! let
us go!"
"Soycs tranquille!" said Mrs. Gordon, faint-
ly. ."We must bear what we must' bear, my poor
Babette. But younecd not fear-he will not take
us again.. Go and order the carriage."
"To leave here, madame?"
"No-only to drive me into town. Don't
waste time, Babette.-g'o!"
Babette went, 'and, when she returned, she
found her mistress dressing with trembling haste.
"My bonnet, ]3abette," she said; and, as Ba-
bette ran to seek the bonnet, which had not
been used since her mistress entered Morton'
House, two months before, she could not help~
wondering vaguely what this sudden movement~
meant Whatever it was, Mrs. Gordon certainly
looked more like herself than she had done in
many a long day before. Her eyes were bright,
her cheeks were flushed, and, as she tied the
strings of her bonnet, and drew the long crape
veil over her face, she, felt with a strange, wild
thrill, that stagnation was over, and the breath
of life and combat bad come to her again. It
made another woman of her. It gave her
strength, and will, and purpose, that no one
would have dreamed of her possessing as she lay
languidly on her sofa, and watched one dull day
after another 'go by. Before she entered the
carriage, she had all the windows put' up, and
all the curtains put down. Then she bade the
coachman drive to Mr. Warwick's office in Talla-
homa.
To Mr. Warwick's office in Tallah~ma the
lumbering old carriage ae~ordingly proceeded,
rousing a good deal of interest in the quiet
streets of the little village, and startling a group
of loungers who were sinking their pipes in the
bright sunshine outside Mr. Warwick's door.
The lawyer himself was not of the number. A
man had called on business, and he had taken
him into the office about ten minutes before the
carriage appeared. His astonishment, therefore,
waS great when two or three men came tumbling
into his door without any warning, and all at
once, "'Warwick, here's the Morton carriage!"
they 'cricd, excitedly. "What the deuce does it
mean 1' Can ~frs.-Mrs. Gordon be coining here
to see
'~ The Morton carriage!" repeated Mr. War-

wick, startled, despite himself. "I don't know,
I have no idea what it means," he added.
"Are you sure it is coming here?"
Before the others could reply, the carriage
drew up before the~ curb-stone; and, the next
moment, a half-grown negro boy apjearcd at the
office door, cap in hand.
"Mr. Warruck, mistiss says she would like fur
to see you on pa'tic'lar business, sir, if you is at
leisure. If you ain't, she say she will come back
when you is."
"Where is your mistress?" asked Mr. War-
wick.
"ln the carriage, sir."
"Tell her I will be there in a minute." He
turned to his client, who was listening with open
eyes and mouth. "Mr. Sloan, I am sure you will
excuse me for deferring this business at present.
Mrs. Gordon has come in from the country, and I
can't put her oil'. Just leave the deed, and I will
look over it, and you can call to-morrow."
Mr. Sloan was burning with curiosity, but the
lawyer's quiet manner left him no room for ap-
peal. He put down the deed, and made his exit,
followed by the smokers. "Warwick won't want
'us, either," they said, and filed off without wait-
ing for a hint to that effect.. No sooner was the
coast clear, than Mr. Warwick; who certainly
would not have hesitated to say that he did' not
want them, went out to the carriage and opened
the door.
"How are you, Mrs. Gordon?" he said, cour-
teously, shaking hands with the black-draped and
closely-veiled figure inside. "I am quite at leis-
ure to attend to your commands. Will you come
into my office, and let me hear what I can do for
you?"
"Arc they all gone?" inquired Mrs. Gordon,
who had taken an observation through the car-
riage-window. "I wish to see you alone."
"They arc all gone," he answered, extend-
ing his hand again, to assist her from the car-
riage.
She descended rather feebly, as he observed,
and, feeling the worse for her unusual 'exertion,
leaned heavily on his arm as they crossed the
pavement. When he caught a glimpse of her
face, as she put her veil partially aside on enter-
ing the office, it looked so pale, that he was
afraid she might be about to 'faint. He placed
her in a chair beside the fire, closed the door,
and went hastily to a side-table, where he poured
out a glass of water, and brought it to her.
"Will you let me suggest that you ar~ too much'
mu~ffied up about the face?" he said.' "Permit

I

MR. WARWICK'S NEW CLIENT.

and he drew the masses of crape back, as
she put the water to' her lips .for a moment.
Seeing her countenance thus more distinctly, he
was' shocked by its appearance, and confirmed
in his'drcad of a fainting-fit. He pulled asmall
table that was close by, to her elbow, and set the
glass of water, which she now gave back to him,
upon it. Then he crossed the room to one of sev-
eral walnut bookcases that were ranged around
the walls, opened a door that revealed to sight
three shelves full of respectable-looking volumes
bound in calf, while the fourth, and lowest,
seemed to be doing duty as a sideboard. From
among two or three decanters he selected one,
also a wineglass, and returned to Mrs. Gordon's
side.

"You look very pale, very ill, I may say," he
remarked; "drink this wine. It will do you
more good than water."
"Thank you," she said, taking the wineglass
which he had just filled. "You are very kind.
Yes, I believe I need it."
She drank part of the wine, put the glass on
the table, and turned to him. "Sit down," she
said, with a slight motion of her hand toward
a seat opposite. "I shall not faint, and I have a
great deal to say to you."
It was some time before she spoke~ Whether
it was the memory of the past-of the different
manner in which they two had once known each~
other-or whether it was merely the all-absorbing
thought of the threatening present, something
overpowered her, and it was some time before
she could collect herself sufficiently to break
the silence. At last, with an e~fort, the' fir~t
words came.
"Mr. Warwick, for a reason that I will tell
you presently, I stand in need of the advice of a
lawyer. I have come to apply to you for that
advice. But, even more than I need a lawyer, I
need a friend, and the service that 'only a friend
can render me. I venture, therefore-you may
think without any claim-to ask if you remein-
her the old time sufficiently to care to render me
this service?" -
"Mrs.' Gordon must surely have forgotten
that she was once Pauline Morton, before she
could ask me such a question," said the lawyer,
flushing slightly. "There are hereditary claims
of friendship between us," he went on, ha'stiiy,
~as he saw an answering flush rise to the pale face
opposite him, "and there is, moreover, a particu-
lar claim. When I was a' struggling boy, your
father aided me in a manner 'I can never forget.
What I am to-day, I owe to his generous kind-

107

ness. I will gladly do any thing in my power to
serVe his daughter."
Mrs. Gordon understood, as not many pea-
pie would have done, the delicacy which made
him speak thus-which made him allude not
to herself, but to her father. Understanding it,
she appreciated what she had only felt before,
that thisman could indeed be trusted, and that
he spoke truly when he said that he would do
"any thing" to serve her. Instinctively she
held out her hand.
"Thank you," she said. "I felt sure that I
might rely on you; but I am glad to hear you
say that you will help me. .Ah, it is~ a terrible
thing to be a woman," said she, looking at him
with pathetic eyes. "If I were like you, I should
not need help."
"We all need it in some form or other," an.
swered he. "None of us are so strong as to
stand quite alone.??
"But it is only a woman who is entirely at
the mercy of another; who may be crushed in a
hundred different ways-each more cruel, 'more
bitter than death. Mr. Warwick, tell me-what
power, short of murder, does not the law give a
man over his wife?"
"It gives him a great deal," said Mr. War.
wick, regarding her keenly, and reading the ex-
citement written on her face. "But what inter-
est has this subject to you? A widow-"
He was stopped by a gesture from her. Sud-
denly she extended her hand, and taking up the
wine, drank it off. Then she put down the glass
with a ringIng 'sound, and, leaning forward, looked
steadily into his eyes.
"God forgive me!" she said-" God forgive
me that I am forced to say it, but He has not
been kind enough to set me free. The first thing
1 have to tell you is that I am no widow. My
husband "-the word nearly choked her-" is liv-
ing.
Mr. Warwick started, but the surprise was
not nearly so much of a surprise as might per-
haps be imagined. He had suspected some-
thing like this before. It is hard to tell what
slight circumstances first sowed the seeds of sus-
picion in his mind, but he had long felt an in-
stinct that Mrs. Gordon's seclusion and impene-
trable ; reticence were not characteristic of a
widow, but o( a woman who had still some-
thing to' fear, something to hide from.' Then,
no one knew the business of the Morton. estate
as he did, and he had not faile4to make hisown
comments on the fact that, in taking possession
of this estate, Mrs. Gordon had absolutely re-

]


108                       MORTON HOUSE.

109

*         fused to go through any of the usi~al legal forms.
There was no one to contest her claim, she said,
and so she quietly assumed her right of control
without any sanction from the law. Over this
obstinacy, Mr. Shields shrugged his shoulders.
"It's a woman's notion of doing business, Mr.
Warwick," he said. l3ut Mr. Warwick himself
was of a 'different mind, lie suspected how it
was; though the suspicion scarcely took definite
form in his brain. He had other and more im.
portent things than Mrs. Gordon's private affairs
to consider; and notwithstanding the boyish
sei~timent for which his sister still gave him
credit, Mrs. Gordon herself was no more to him
than any old friend~ liked sincerely-liked with a
certain tenderness, perhaps, on account' of the
past-but making no part of his daily life. And
so it was, that he felt very lit1~le surprise when
she told him that she was not a widow-that
her husband was living.
"Do not blame me more than you can help,"
she went on, a~ he did not speak, "Do you re-
member how proud 1 used to be in the old
time? Well, that pride has not quite been
crushed out of me. I could not bear to come
back here and tell these people what hitter ship-
wreck had overtaken me I I could not bear to
spread before them the history of-of such n life
as mine I"
"Why did you come back at all?" said he
hardly knowing what else to say.
"' Because it was a place of refuge-and I
had no other. Because it was the one place in
the world where he was ' least likely to come-
least likely to' think of searching for me. When
the last awful blow fell," said she, growing fear-
fully white, "I looked round despairingly and
wondered where I could go. Then, like a relief
from Heaven came the thought of my father's
house. Here I could be safe, here I would be
untroubled, here I might live and die unmolested
by him. But I have only been at peace a little
while. To-day Babette met an agent whom he
ha~ sent in search of me."
"An agefit?"
"An unscrupulous tool, whom he retains for
uses of this kind, named St. John. As soon as
he conveys the information of my whereabouts,
that man-my husband-will come here. It is
not sue lie wauts,~t Is ~'elix-but if he takes the
child, ho must take me too. What I wish to
sak you "ia this "-she rose, and stood before
him, with an eager yearning in her eyes-" can
hWtake ~lslm from ~ne? Does the law give him
that powe~-.-here?"

The lawyer's heart was touched with pity for
her; but truth was uncompromising, and must
be told. "If he can prove that he is his father,
it gives him that power anywhere."
The woman-the helpless creature to whom
the law gave no power-sank down again into
her chair, and covered her face with her hands.
When she looked up at last, that face was tense
and bloodless.
"Then I must ask that service of which I
spoke a short time ago," she said. "Will you
take my poor boy, and put him somewhere-
away from me-where he will be in safety, and
-and cannotbe found?"
Mr. Warwick started, and, for a moment,
looked more than surprised-in fact, he looked
almost aghast. Here was a proposition indeed 1
that a lawyer who respected the law as the most
sacred of earthly obligations, should be instru.
mental in ei'ading it I-that a man who was full
of the dominative opinions of his sex, should
lend his aid to a scheme that removed a child
from the just control of its father! Pauline
Morton certainly stretched the cord of ancient
friendship to its utmost tension, when she made
such a demand of him.
"Mrs. Gordon," he said, gravely, "I would
do' any thing to serve you-any thing that was
right; but I am not sure this wonldbe right. A
father always has a paramountelaim to his child."
Instantly all the woman in her blazed out upon
him.
"A paramount claim, given by whom?" she
demanded. "It is you men that make the laws
that grind poor women to the earth-not God,
not religion, not any thing that should be re-
spected 1 It is you who tear the very hearts out
of our breasts, and then talk of right and power
to do so. Yes, you have a right-the right of
the strong to trample the weak! You have a
power-the power of the master over the slave!
God knows there is no other. But I might have
been sure a man would never help me against
a man. Therefore, I shall do what must be
done, myself-and only ask, you not to betray
me."
"Stop, Mrs. Gordon," he said, as she rose
and moved toward the door. "Stop a moment,"
he added, following her. "You must not leave
me like this. Remember that I have not re-
fused to help you. I stated a general fact when~
I said that a father has a paramount claim to
his child. It is certainly true, as a general 'fact;
but in particular cases, that claim is sometimes
forfeited. If I am to serve you, I must do so

I

MR. WARWICK'S NEW CLIENT.

with my eyes open-I must know whether the
claim has been forfeited in this instance."
"I think I can convince you of that," said
she, faintly, as she sat down again. "I am not
strong enough for such violent emotion," she
went on, panting slightly. "Wait-wait a lit-
tle, and I will tell you alL"
"Take your time," he said, kindly.
"If I do that, I should never speak at all,"
she answered, hurriedly. "I must do it at once.
You heard of my marriage some fifteen years
ago, did you not?"
"We heard of it vaguely. You kept up no
communication with Lagrange, you know."
"I married a Captain Fraser, an English
officer," she went on, apparently unheeding his
reply. "I was very much in love with him,"
she said, with a trembling, scornful smile; "and
he-well, he seemed to be in love with me. I was
beautiful then, you know, and I had been very
much 'admired. He was highly connected, and
he was very handsome-I honestly believe that
those were the only reasons I had for liking
him. I thought myself able to judge of char-
acter, and rank and good looks dazzled me, as
they might have dazzled any village school-girl.
WellI married himand I cannot tell you of the
life ,I led afterward. Look at my face. Every
hour of it is written there! Captain Fraser left
'the army, and we lived on the Continent-there
is not a city of Europe that is not full of bitter
memories to me. After my mother died, the life
'grew worse. My husband was dissipated, and
recklessly extravagant. My poor brother"'-~her
voice almost choked' her-" helped me as much
'as he could. It was my demands that went to
impoverish the estate, and-and I hear that he
has all the blame of it. As time went on, and
'matters grew worse, I would have separated from
my husband, if it had not been for Felix, He,
who was my youngest child, alone lived, and I
could not leave him. It would hare been bet-
ter, perhaps, if I had done so, for "-she stopped
here, and something like a ghastly horror came
over her face-" for as matters grew no better,
as ill-usage increased, my brother at last lost
patience. He met us at Baden, where Fraser
was at his worst, and-and there was a violent
quarrel. I don't know how it ~was -.- I have
never heard any particulars-but he-my broth.
er-was killed by that man whom the law calls
my husband!"
Almost ~neonsciously, Mr. Warwick uttered
~an exclamation of horror, but white as was her
'face, parched as were her lips, she hurried on:
8

"The next day I was half mad, and I did not
know where to turn; but on one thing I was do-
termined-that was, never to see him again. He
and this St. John had been obliged to leave Ba-
den, but he sent me word to go to Scotland,
where we had been living for some two or three
years-I forgot to~ say that an uncle ha4 died,
and left him a large estate, with the condition
that he assumed the name of Gordon. Instead
of going to Scotland, I came to America. He
knows how I always hated the country, and I
was sure he would never look for me here-be-
sides he had hardly more than the vaguest idea
of where Morton House was situated. 1 relied on
all this, and I thought I might liveisere, and-
and train Felix to be a gentleman. But you see
how it has ended I I might have known I could
not defy the cunning of these two. It is Felix
they want-not me! If they take him, it will be
to make him what they are themselves. And
sooner than see him that," she cried out, pas-
sionately," I could find the strength to kill him
with my own hands!"
Without a word, Warwick rose from his
seat, and took two or three turns' up and down
the room-then suddenly came back and stood
before her, looking at her worn, haggard face.
"My God 1" he said, "what you must have en-
dured I And you went away from us for this?"
"Yes, for this. Don't-don't speak of the
old time. I cannot bear it now," she cried out,
suddenly. not speak of' , answer
"No, I will           ~   he
kindly. "I was only thinking-it seems' hard
that mistakes should sometimes be punished
as bitterly as sins. Well, you were, right. I
will help you to thc very utmost-of my power
As long as I can prevent it, the man of whom
you speak shall never obtain possession of, your
son."
"But the law-
"Such a man as the one you describe Is slot;
likely to have recourse to the law, in the fls!#
place-especially in a foreign land. But, If be
did, the law could only assign the child to him4
it could not find him for him. Get Felix ready
for a journey, and I will arrange my plans; mean~
while, and will communiq~t~with you to-morrow
at latest. Do not ~e surprl~&amp;I or unprepared if
I call for the child ~tq~ very early hour. in thu
morning. That Islf~1~ere is need of haste in
the matter."
"Yes, yes-there isjreat need of hastn-4m-
mediate haste. I do not knowbow near:slsy hus-
band may be. Probably he is in America."~


~.IO                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                         MISS TRESHAM KEEPS HEll WORD.               iii

"This St. John cannot himself molest you?1
"Not unless he were to entice Felix away
The ~hildwas always veryfond oisn-.--hemigh
do that," said she, suddenly rising, with terror ii
her eyes. "1 must return at o~ice to Mortoi
House. He told J3abette that he was comiul
there. Good Heavens! I don't know wha'
may happen while I am away."
Mr. Warwick did not attempt to detain her
He saw that it would be cruel to do so. Hei
fears were causeless, for Babette was fully aliv
to the danger, and St. John could sooner have
snatched Felix from the den of a lion than fron~
Morton House, guarded by her, and garrisoned
by a troop of servants; but all the same it would
have been useless to reason with, and still more
useless to detain, a woman whose nerves were
strung to the pitch which Mrs. Gordon's now
Were. He saw this, and opened the office-door.
"I will see you tomorroww" he said, and, as he
said it, she uttered a sudden, half-stifled cry, and
eaught'his arm-
"There I - there!" she gasped, shrinking
back into the room, and pointing eagerly across
the street.
His eyes followed the motion of her hand, and
he saw a slender, well-dressed man sauntering
alone. "That is the man?" he asked, though
the tiyestion was almost unnecessary.
"It is St. John!" cried his companion, with
a wild burst of tears. "It is'the wretch whom I
have not seen since-since-"
He put her gently into a chair, and said in a
quiet voice, the very tones of which were reassur-
ing, "Trust to me, and try and compose your.
self. If you allow yourself to become unnerved
Ia this manner, you will put yourself entirely at
the mercy of this man, if, by any accident, he
succeeds in gaining admittance to your presence.
And the child-you must th~nk of him. For
his sake, endeavor to control yourself."
Without waiting for a reply, he turned and
walked to the window, and followed Mr. St.
Jolstt's retreating figure with his eyes, as far
as it could be seen. It was a good thing that
Mr. St. ~Tohu was thinking deeply; or that keen
glance might have made itself felt -not com-
fortably. Few men iike to be scrutinized in
that seam~ching faslil~n and this man especially
had good reason for avoiding it. When he
finally turned a cOrner, and was out of sight,
Mr. Warwick went back to his companion.
"He is gone," he said, gently. "Let me put
you into the carriage now, Mrs. Gordon."
She extended her hand silently, and he con.

' ducted her out. After she was in the carriage,
an4i the door had been closed, she leaned forward
t and spoke. "God bless you I" she said. That
was all; but the words, and the sound of the
r rich, sweet voice that had spoken them, lingered
with him long after he went back into his office,
and sat down to Mr. Sloan's deed.
-4--
CHAPTER XXI.
MISS TRESHAM KEEPS HER WORD.
THE morning after the ball at Annesdale,
Katharine was one of the few people who came
down-stairs at the usual hour. Most of the
ladies kept their chambers, and the gentlemen
dropped into the breakfast-room at irregular in.
tervals, looking the worse for their night's
amusement. Miss Tresham received many corn-
pliments on her matutinal habits-all of which
she answered by a faint smile. "1 don't de-
serve any credit for my energy," she said. "I
should have liked very much to sleep longer, and
probably would have done so, if 1 had ifot been
obliged to go to Tallahoma this morning."
Mrs. Annesley was sitting at another table
and talking to quite another set of people; but
she caught the last words and turned round.
"Did I hear you say something about Talla-
homa, Miss Tresham? I hope you are not in-
tending to desert us?"
"Not unless. you prohibit my return," an-
swered Katharine, smiling. "I was only talking
of going into ,town for a while this morning.-.-on
business," she added, as she saw a slight expres-
sion of surprise on Mrs. Annesley's face.
"Hear! hear!" cried Mr. Langdon, laughing.
"'On business '-that is, to buy six yards of rib-
bon, or a pair of gloves. Howgrandly you ladies
talk!"
"To buy something much more important
than many yards of ribbon, or many pairs of
gloves~" answered Miss Tresham, gravel~i. Then
she turned to Mrs. Annesley, and asked if she
could send her into town.
"Certainly. The carriage is it your service,"
her hostess replied. "At what hour shall I order
it?"
"Immediately after breakfast, if~you please," -
Katharine answered.
immediately after breakfast, Miss Tresharn
went up-stairs, and put on her bonnet and cloak.
Wh 1 she came down, the carriage was standing
before the door, and, while she was con~ratulat.

ln~ herself ou her escape from eompanionshii
and questioning, lo I from the drawing-room
sallied forth Mrs. French arrayed in full out-doo~
costume.
"You don't object to taking me along, dr
you, Miss Tresham?" she asked, with a smilk
that Katharine could not help thinking had th
least possible tinge of malicious enjoyment in it,
"Mamma wants me to go to the Andersons, and
they live on the other side of Ttdlahoma. I can
drop yvu in the village, and call for you as I re-
turn, if you say so."
Katharine said so with the best grace she
could summon, and in this way found herself
fairly hooked to make the best or worst of
Mrs. French during a five-miles' drive. For a
while, the latter spared her any conversational
exertion-being full of the important subject of
the ball, on which her tongue ran as glibly as
possible.
"Was it pleasant, Miss Tresham ?-did you
really enjoy yourself?~' she asked. "Did other
people seem to be enjoying themselves? Of
course everybody told me that it was delightful;
but 1 have said such things dozens of times,
when in fact I had been nearly bored to death.
After one has told stories of that kind one's self;
one isn't apt to believe other people, you know.
I am so glad you think every thing went oil'
nicely. Our ball has become quite the Christ-
mas event in Lagrange, and I always like it to
be nice. It often strikes me that it is a very
daring thing to bring a hundred or so people to-
gether, and leave them to umuse themselves-for
that is what a ball really tomes to, you know."
"Indeed I don't know," said Katharine,
smiling. "On the contrary, I think it Is on
the hostess that the success or failure of a ball
principally rests. You must not try to shirk
the success of yours, Mrs. French."
"Oh, it was mamma who played hostess,"
said Mrs. French, with a shrug. "I took no
more responsibility of that sort than any of the
guests. When I come home, I tried to forget
that I am married; and I generally succeed in
enjoying myself quite as much as if I was a girl
with a dozen or so of admirers. By-the-by, we
were talking over the ball this morning, and
there was quite a discussion going on as to
who was the-belle of it. Tell me who you think
is best entitled to that distinction."
"That is bard to say,?? answered Katharine,
trying to keep her wandering thoughts to the
sul4eet in question. "Everybody has a different
opinion as to who was the belle of the ball. I

think Miss Vernon was the most beautiful woman
present; but whether other people thought so,
or whether that constitutes bellehood, I really
don't know."
"I should say that the woman who was
most sought and admired was the belle," said
Mrs. French, decidedly. "You were very much
admired, Miss Tresham," she went on, with sur-
prising candor. "Any. number of people asked
me who you were, and said you danced so grace.
fully. I suppose you learned to dance in Europe
-in Paris, perhaps."
"Indeed, no," said Katharine, smiling and
sighing both at once. "I never was in Paris.
I learned to dance at home-in the West Indies
-where everybody loves it so."
"But you are English."
"I am West Indian," said Katharine, flush-
ing a little. "Please don't call me English, for
I am no more English than you arc. Your
grandparents, or great-grandparents, probably
came from England, and so did mine-that is
all."
In this strain, the conversation went on until
Tallahoma was in sight, and Katharine, instead
of being fresh and ready for what was before
her, felt already wearied and downcast.
"Where shall I tell John to stop, Miss Tresh-
am?" asked Mrs. French, with her hand on the
check.string, as they entered the town.
"At-" Katharine stopped a moment. She
was about to say "Mrs. Marks," but a timely
recollection of the lateness of the hour, and of
the many detentions that would await her there,
came over her.' It was imperative that she
should see Mr. Marks at once, and that the
business which brought her to Tallahoma should
be transacted without loss of time; so she fin-
ished her sentence by saying-" the bank."
"The bank, John," said Mrs. French, with
a little arch of her eyebrows. Then she added,
laughingly, "I must tell Mr. Laugdon that your
business in Tallaboma really was business.. One
doesn't go to a bank to buy ribbons and gloves."
"I am going to see Mr. Marks about say sal-
ary," said Katharine, more annoyed by this re-
mark than was strictly reasonable, and thinking
she would put an end to any and all conjectures
concerning her business.
"My dear Miss ~resham," said Mrs. French,
a little shocked, "I hope you don't think that I
meant any thing-that I was so impertinent as
to be curious about your affairs. I really beg
your pardon, if I said any thing to make you
think so."


112                       MORTON HOUSE.

"You did not say any thing," answered Katl
anne. "I ought to beg your pardon for mention
ing them~-only one certainly does not go to
bank to buy ribbons and gloves."
"This is the place now," said Mrs Preneli
looking out. "Shall I call for you here, Mis
Tresham V"
"At Mrs. Marks's, if you please," said Kath
anne, as the footman opened the door, and sh
descended to the sidewalk. "I shall be bad
in about two hours," was the last thing sh~
heard Mrs. Preach say, as the carriage drov~
ofl~
Watching it out of sight, the girl said
Thank heaven I" with fervor, then turned~
and, opening a gate just before her, went up
short walk bordered with green box, to the dooi
of a somewhat gloomy-looking brick house. 5h
knew the place well, for, during her first year of
residence with the Marks family, they had lived
here; and it was only because the children were
growing large, and the house, with the bank
apartments *deducted, was uncomfortably small,
that they' had removed to the outskirts of the
village. Nobody was more glad of the change
than Katharine; but still, her local attachments
were strong, and she gave a kind smile round
the yard, with every nook and corner of which
ehe had been familiar. She even stopped mo-
ment to examine a rose-bush, that was clambering
over the porch, before she went in. The passage
which she entered looked dark and cheerless, but,
on a door to the right, theword "Bank" was con-
spicuously lettered; and, as this door was ajar,
a large, well-lighted room, with a counter run-
ning across it, was visible. Here all was well-
knowmi ground; so Katharine walked in without
any hesitation. Two gentlemen were standing
at a ibeplace behind the counter, and they both
turned as she entered. One was Mr. Nfarks, the
other Mr. Warwick. A young man was busy
with accounts at the other end of the apart-
ment.
"Why, ~[iss Kate, is it possible 1" said the
cashier, meeting her in his hearty way. He
sl~ook hands, and seemed so' glad to see her,
that ~athanine, who was thoroughly unnerved,
felt half-inclined to cry. It is astonislii~ig how
every emotion with a woman takes the form of
that inclination. "Yes, it is I, Mr. Marks," she
said; and, while she was making inquiries about
Mrs. Marks. and the el~ildren, Mr. Warwick, after
speaking to her, took his departure. "I'll be
back in the course of an hour," he said to. Mr.
Marks; and then he went out-looking, Kath-

m- anne thought, a little more grave than' was
i- usual with him.
a Her own business was soon transacted. If
Mr. Marks felt any surprise at the demand she
, came to make, he had discretion enough not to
s show it. "The whole amount, Miss Kate?" was
all that he said. "The whole amount, if you
- please, Mr. Marks," she answered. So, after
a due examination of accounts, and due adding
~ up of interest, Katharine found no less a sum
than one thousand dollars in crisp bank-notes,
paid to her across the counter. Her heartgave
a great leap. She had been so little accus-
tomed to the command of money in her life,
that this seemed to her a 'large amount-quite
a moderate fortune, in fact. "Surely it will buy
my freedom," she thought to herself;' with a
stm~ange pang at her heart; and then, while she
signed a receipt for the payment, a sudden
I thought occurred to her, and she startled Mr.
Marks by dropping the pen, and looking up at
him.
"Mr. Marks, I am sorry," she said, hastily,
"but could you let me have the amount in
gold?"
"In gold!" echoed Mr. Marks, so much as-
tonished that he could not help showing it. "In
gold, Miss Kate?"'
"Yes-if it will not inconvenience you-
if-."
"If it will not inconvenience you, my dear
young lady," interrupted the cashier, laughing a
little. "You'll find it rather troublesome, I
think; but of course the bank is always ready
to pay specie when demanded on its notes. Do
you want all that money in gold?"
"All, if you please."
"I must go down into the vault for it, then.
We don't keep specie up here," he added, smil-
ing.
As Katharine stood waiting for him to re-
turn, she hurriedly reviewed the situation in her
mind. Regarded in any light, it was a rather em-
barrassing one. To conceal a thousand dollars
in gold about her person was simply impossible;
to carry it in her hand through the streets, with-
out exciting much observation, and incurring
much fatigue, was equally impossible. Yet
what was to be done? If she paid the bank-
notes to S~. John, he would certainly convert
them Immediately into specie; and, as the notes
might readily be identified, this would subject
her to a great deal of unpleasant conjecture
and possible inquiry. The only way to avoid it
waste draw th~ gold at once; and yet, in that

I

case, the problem still remained-how was she to
take the amount either to Mrs. Marks, or to An-
ncsdalc, being unfortunately unprovided with any
convenient pocket or satchel? Necessity, how-
ever, is the best spur, not only to invention, but
to fertile expedient. As Mr. Marks 'reii~tered
the apartment, a solution for her difficultyflashed
through Katharine's brain. She thanked him,
after he had counted the last one of the ringing
yellow pieces down before her; and, while he
was methodically tying them up in a canvas bag,
she asked, quickly~
"Mr. Marks, would you object to my seeing
a friend in the parlor yonder, across the pas-
sage?"
"Certainly not, Miss Katharine," answered
Mr. Marks, speaking without the least hesitation.
"By all means, see a half-dozen friends there, if
you desire."
"One will do," said Katharine, acknowledg-
ing this pleasantry by a faint smile. "Now one
thing more-will you give me a pen and some
paper?"
Pen and paper were obligingly placed before
her; and she wrote a few lines, folded, sealed,
and addressed the note to Mr. Henry Johns.
As she was about to leave the room in search
of a messenger, Mr. Marks spoke
"If it's a note you want taken anywhere,
Miss Kate, Hugh can go for you. He'll not be
sorry for a ~ he said, nodding toward the
'clerk.
"If Mr. Ellis won't mind," said Katharine,
looking at him with a smile.
The young man put down his pen, and came
forward with an air which plainly showed that
he did not mind. In shy, boyish fashion, he was
quite an admirer of Miss Treshapi, and she knew
it.
"You are always ready to oblige me," she
said, giving him the note, with a smile that al.
most turned his head. Then she followed him
into the passage. "See the gentleman yourself;
please," she said; and Hugh promised that he
would.
After he was gone, she went into the un-
furnished parlor, and walked up and down the
floor, thinking the bag of gold which she kept
whispering to herself would buy her freedom-
at least, for the present. After a while, how-
ever, she found it heavy, and put it down on the
window-sill, for tables or chairs there were none.
Then, as she stood waiting, the forlorn aspect of
every thing around began to strike her. Pew
things are more forlorn than an empty room-a

room of bare floor, naked walls, uncurtained win-
dows-and when, together with these things, the
day is cloudy, and the prospect without not a
whit more enlivening than the prospect within, it
would take a very strong mind indeed to with-
stand the effect of time and place. Some people
are peculiarly susceptible to influences like these,
and Katharine was one of them. Those who
knew her well thought she deserved a great deal
of credit for being as quiet and full of practical
common-sense as she generally proved herself;
for she possessed in unfortunate degree that
sensitiveness to outside events, that capability
of being deeply affected by outside things, which
sober, phlegmatic folk are fond of calling "non-
sense." Engrossed as she now was by thoughts
of the coming interview, she was not so en-
grossed but that she noticed at the time, and
remembered afterward, every separate detail that
went to make up the scene around her-every
grotesque figure on the sickly green wall-paper,
every cobweb across the dusty, fly-specked win-
dows, every tree and shrub in the yard outside.
She was looking at her watch, and thinking how
fast time was going, when the' click of the gate..
latch make her start, and, looking up, she saw
Hugh Ellis ushering in St. John.
As they 'entered the passage, she opened 'the
parlor door, and motioned the latter to enter.
When he obeyed, she closed it againand, with-
out speaking, walked to the window where the
bag of money lay.~ Taking it in her hand, she
turned and held it out as he approached.
" Here it is, St. John," she said. "I wish it
was more, but, sueh as it is, you are .welcome to,
it. Don't think that I grudge you one shilling
when I say-will you go imow and leave me in
peace?"
"You think of nothing but yourself;" said
he, without touching the money. "Prom first
to last, you have thought of nothing but your-
self, and of being 'left in peace.' Yet, there are
people who call women unselfish."
"If I think of myself; who forced me to do
so?" said she. "St. John, don't let us recrimi-
nate now. Here is themoney. Take it-believe
me, you are welcome to it."
"As's. price to get rid of me."
"No-as a relief freely given."
"It's a devilish mean thing to take it," said
he. But still he did take it-opening his eyes a
little at the amount.
"You must have been hoarding, Katharine,"
he said. "Or else they pay like princes here."
"They pay very well," she answered, "and I

/

MISS TRESHAM KEEPS HER WORD.                   113


have not spent much. I have had no need to I
so.,,
"What is the amount?"
"A thousand dollars. I took gold, becan
I thought you would prefer it to bank-notes."
"This is better," said he, a little absent
He weighed the bag in his hand, with an expe
gesture. "Two hundred pounds stenlin.'" sal
he. "Katharine, is it worth while to say that
am much obliged to you?"
"No-it is not worth while."
"Very well," said he, coolly.
He opened the bag, took out some of th
coin and looked at it, put it back, and tied u,
the mouth again. 4Something slightly nervous i
the action, struck Katharine; but, as he did no
speak, she spoke herself.
"You will leave Tallahonia to-day, SI
John?"
"No," said he, sharply. "Why should yoi
think so?"
"I don't see what should detain you," shi
answered. "I-this is all I can do for you."
"I am not considering you," he said, coldly.
He turned and walked up and down th
room, looking absently at the doors and win.
dews as he passed.
"Is this rickety old place a bank?" ho
asked, tfter a while.
"Yes, it is a bank-that is, the bank is in
the ether room."
"Humph I They must offer a premium for
feats of burglary."
"It is seCure enough," Katharine answered
-.--adding, suddenly, "St. John, don't waste time
like this. Tell me what you mean by saying
that you will not leave here."
"I mean that I have found work to do," he
answered, coming back, and pausing before her.
"I mean, Katharine, that I have found ~he thing
I most need, and least hoped for-a claim on
Fraser."
"A claim I-kere !-St. John, are you mad?"
"If I tim, it is the luckiest fit of madness
that ever came to anybody," he replied, with a
short laugh. "No, I am quite sane, and I tell
you-"
"Rush I" said Katharine, catching his arm
with a force that surprised him. "Hush I-what
is that?"
They both stood quite silent, and listened-
St. John full of astonishment, Katharine full of
suspense. Through the closed door, there came
the sound of a rustling dress a~md a m~oman's voice
in the passage beyond. As soon as Miss Tresham I

14
54
y
ri
0
]
p
a
t
Li

s heard this, she turned and glanced out of the win-
dow near by. To her dismay, the Annesley car-
riage stood before the gate.
"I must go," she said, hastily. "It is Mrs.
French. St. John, don't keep me-I must go."
"Who is Mrs. French?" he asked, impa-
tiently. "I want to see you-I want to speak
I to you about this business."
"I cannot stay now," she said; and, as she
spoke, she moved rapidly across the room, and
unclosed the door, just as there came a knock on
the other side. Opening it suddenly, she faced
Mrs. French, who was standing with her hand
uplifted, ready to knock again.
"Oh, Miss Tresham," said she, rather taken
aback. "I beg pardon-I hope I did not dis-
turb you? The Andersons were not at home,
so, thinking you might still be here, I called on
my way to Mrs. Marks. Mr. Marks told me that
you were in this room, and I merely wanted to
let you know that I had come-I hope I did not
disturb you."
"Not at all," said Katharine, perfectly con-
scious that, despite the obstacle of her figure,
Mrs. French's eyes had fully explored the room,
and fully scrutinized St. John, who was still
standing near one of th~ windows, and imme-
diately within her range of vision. "1 am
ready to go," she added. "Don't let me detain
you."
"My time is quite at your service," said
Mrs. French, with most obliging sweetness.
"I can wait in the bank until you have finished
your business."
"I have entirely finiAhed it," answered Kath-

anne.
In consequence of this reply, Mrs French
had no alternative but to turn from the door,
and allow Miss Tresham an exit. As she walked
down the passage, Katharine paused a moment,
and motioned St. John to approach.
"If you are anxious to see me, you can come
out to Annesdale," she said. "If what you have
to say is important, you can meet me to-morrow
in the place that I showed you before."
"At what hour?" he asked.
"I will try to be there by twelve," she an-
swered, after which she closed the door, and fol-
lowed Mrs. Frennh.
"Shall I tell John to stop at Mrs. Marks's?"
asked this lady, as she moved aside to let Kath.
anne enter the carriage.
"I believe not," Miss Tresham answered.
"I won't detain you. It does not matter, since
I shall see Mrs. Marks in two or three days."

I

114                       MORTON HOUSE.                                                          SPITFIRE FLAYS AT HIDE-AND-SEEK.             115

"Home, John," said Mrs. French, gathering
her silk dress in both hands and stepping into
the carriage.
Ten minutes after the equipage rolled out
of sight, Mr. Warwick came down the street
toward the bank. As he entered the gate, he
met St. John, who was just going out. A glance
only passed between the two men; but some-
times a glance can be very significant. The
ren~embrance of the lawyer's keen eyes gave
the adventurer an uncomfortable feeling as he
walked along, with Katharine's thousand dollars
safely stowed in his pockets, while Mr. Warwick
went straight into the bank and asked Mr. Marks
what "that man" had wanted there.
"That man 1- whom do you mean?" in-
quired the cashier, in a tone of surprise.
"That St. John, or Johns, as I believe he
calls himself-what did he come here for?"
"St. John !-Johns ?-Thcre has beennobody
here of that name," said Mr. Marks, looking puz-
zled. "In fact, there has been nobody here at
all since you left, excepting Mrs. French, who
called for Miss Tresham."
"The gentleman Mr. Warwick means is the
one Miss Tresham sent for," said Hugh Ellis,
looking up. "I saw him as he went out of the
gate."
"Miss Tresham sent for him?" repeated Mr.
Warwick.
He said nothing more, but walked to one
of the windows, and stood there for a minute
gazing out. Then he turned and came back
to his brother-in-law.
"Don't think I am meddling," he said, "but
if it is not confidential, I should like to know
what Miss Tresham's business was. Did she
say any thing to you about that man?"
"She said nothing about any man," replied
Mr. Marks. "She came to draw her money."
"Her money l,~
"The whole of her two-years' salary," said
the cashier. "A very pretty little sum it was,
too," he added, approvingly. "A thousand dol-
lars down in gold."
"Why did you pay it in gold?"
"Because she requested it-from a foreign-
er's distrust of our paper, I suppose. I did not
think of it before," he went on, "but it looks a
little as if she meant to go away. If she did,
I should be very sorry, for I don't know where
I could find another teacher who would suit us
all as she does. As for the man, I don't know
any thing about him. She wrote a note, and
sent it by Hugh; but he hadn't been here

l
I

more than ten minutes before Mrs. French
came."
"Did Miss Tresham go away then?"
"Yes, she went away then."
Mr. Marks paused a monient, looked at his
brother-in-law, and added, hastily:
"I hope there's nothing wrong about the
man, Warwick? It did not occur to m~ to
think any thing-somehow I always feel as if
Miss Tresham could be trusted as we don't trust
every woman of her age.~~
"I am sure Miss Tresham can be trusted,"
said Mr. Warwick, quickly. "You don't sup-
pose I was thinking of her? Whatever the
man may be, there's one thing certain-she can
be rustedd."
"I am glad to hear you say so," responded
Mr. Marks, looking relieved
Surely you did not need to hear me say
so? Now, about my business. Mrs. Gordon
asked nie to get this cheek cashed for her. She
wants the money at once."
-4--
CHAPTER XXIL
srirrinz PLAYS AT rIIDE-AND-sEEx.
"Msmrmri~," said Mrs. French, entering the
drawing-room where her mother was sitting
with half a dozen ladies, "have you any idea
where Miss Treshiim is? We want to rehearse
the tableaux for to-morrow evening, and she is
not to be found."
"I saw her go to walk a little while ago,"
said Mrs. Annesley, looking up from her em-
broidery. "She went out toward the shrub-
bery, Adela. You had better send for her if you
need her."
"Send Mr. Langdon," said Mrs. Baynor,
laughing.
"I wouldn't advise you to do any thing of
the kind, if you want to see either of them sodh
again," remarked Mrs. Dargan. "T'hat young
man is really absurd!" she added, with cQnsid-
erable asperity.
"Send Maggie Lester and Morton," said
Mrs. Annesley. "Spitfire will soon find her
for them."
"That is a good idea!" cried Mrs. French,
and, by way of putting it into execution, she im-
mediately returned to the library where the prin-
cipal portion of the party were assembled. A
lively examination of engravings, and discussion
of costumes, was going on here, and a great deal


116                MORTON HOUSE.

of interest and excitement was afloat; for, thirty
years ago, tableaux were by no means the v9ry
common and very boring amusement which they
are at present. In those days they were quite
novel, especially in country districts-and, in
consequence of the novelty, were considered
very fascinating. Not long before this, Mrs.
- Fr~jch had assisted at an exhibition of the
kindin Mobile, and she itus anxious to intro-
duce the new amusement into Lagrange. Hav-
ing abundant material at hand, in the matter of
pretty girlsobliging gentlemen, and an unlimited
command' of costume, she determined on giving
a New-Year entertainment of this character.
All. the company received the idea with enthu-
siasm, and the only danger was that their zeal
might outrun their discretion, inasmuch as they
seemed anxioiis to prolong the entertainment in-
definitely by representing every conceivable scene,
and personating every imaginable character with-
in the range of history or fiction. At length,
however, this vaulting ambition a~as somewhat
curbed, and the programme, after much weeding,
wa~ finally made out. Of course, the usual trou-
ble. about the distribution of parts-the trouble
which is the bane of private theatricals, and all
afihirs of the kind-ensued. But, by judicious
management, the stormy waters were allayed,
and, after many compromises, peace was at length
secured. But only peace in partial form. Char.
actors being settled, dress yet remained i~n open
question; and, when Mrs. French entered the
library, a warm discussion was in progress.
"Itell you it.ought to be black velvet and
pearls," Miss4.ester i~as saying, decidedly, as
her friend walked up and touched her on the
shoulder.
"Let the black velvet alone just now, Mag.
gie,"~she said. "I want you to go out into the
grounds mid look for Miss Tresham. Mamma
says she went to walk. I wouldn't ask you, only
you are so fond of exercise; and, if you take
Spitfire, hewill soon show you where she is. We
must have her to settle about the dress of Queen
Mary~ Please take Morton with you, and see if
you can't find her."
"Do you hear that, Mr. Aunesley?" asked
Miss Lester, who was ready at once for the part
assigu~d hex'. "The morning is charming, and
I should like nothing better than a walk. Spit.
lire will like a game of hide.aud-seek, too. He
will find Miss Tresham for you in no time, Adela.
Meanwhile"-this to the lady to whom she had
beentalking before-" remember that I sayblack
velvet and pearls."

Spitfire was quite willing for a walk and i~
game of hide-and-seek, 'while Morton, for his
part, was heartily tired of talk about doublets,
and ruffs, and colored lights, and gauze screens.
"Oh, we can't let Mr. Annesley go-we
haven't settled on the costume of the Master of
Ravenswood yet!" cried one or two ladies, as he
rose with alacrity to follow Miss Lester from the
room.
"He won't be long," said Adela, philosophi-
cally. "What do you think Lucy Ashton ought
to wear ?-a bridal dress, of course; but in what
shape?"
"Which w~y .shall we go, Miss Lester?"
asked Morton, as they descended the front steps
together.
"We will ask Spitfire that," the young lady
answered. "Here, Spitfire ! - seek, sir, seek!
Find Miss Tresham-Oh, I forgot," as Spitfire
stood looking very confused and irresolute. "I
must have something of Miss Tresham's to show
him. Mr. Annesley, run into the hail and see if
you can't find me something."
Mr. Annesley did as he was bid-that is, he
walked into the hall, and returned after a minute
or two with a long crimson scarf. "I think
this is Miss Tresham's," he said. "I have seen
her wear it several times."
"Here, Spitfire, here!" said his mistress,
shaking the scarf at him, as if she was a mata-
dore and Spitfire was the bull she wished to en-
rage. "Here, pet! and now go and seek Miss
Tresham."
Thanks to the instructions of" Cousin Tom,"
Spitfire was tolerably well trained. He sniffed at
the scarf, then trotted about a little, sniffed at the
ground in much the same disdainful fashion, and
finally set off toward the shrubbery.
"Come on," said Miss Lester, beginning to
walk very fast; and Morton came on, as request-
ed. Fast walking is not the most graceful thing
in the world, as we who livb in this day have
ample opportunity for observing; but, on the
81st of December, when the sun is clouded over,
and the air decidedly sharp, it is at least a com-
fortable thing. .Miss Lester's cheeks had bright
roses in them whei~ at last she came to a halt.
"Where has Spitfire ~one?" she cried, laughing~
"I am afraid we shall have to look for him, with.
out the advantage, which he has, of a nose as a
guide."
"This way, I think," said Morton, and he
turned down a path that led into the wildest and
prettiest part of the grounds. The woods, which
had been enclosed here, were left almost ~htirely

I

as Nature arranged them, excepting that the en-
cumbering undergrowth of the forest had been
cleared away, and now and then a rustic seat was
placed in some shady nook. In spring, summer,
or autumn, a lovelier spot was not to be found
within the borders of Li~grange; but it looked
cheerless enough on this bleak December day,
with the leafless trees standing out like fine pen-
cii tracery against a dull, gray sky, and the brown
earth covered only with dry, fallen leaves.
"I don't think Spitfire came this way," said
Miss Lester, a little pettishly, for she did not
fancy walking down a steep hill with the as-
~sured certainty that she would have to walk up
again.
"I am sure he did," said Annesley; "but, if
you are tired, we won't go on. No doubt he will
bring Miss Tresham to us after a while. Here is
a seat-pray sit down."
"No, we might as well go on. There I-is
not that Spitfire that I hear?"
It was Spitfire, undoubtedly. From no other
canine throat could such a volume of shrill sound
have issued-a vehement barking, of the most in-
dignant kind, that was borne with singular dis-
tinctness through the still air.
"He can't be attacking Miss Tresham in that
way," said Morton, quickly.
"Oh, no," said Spitfire's mistress, with the
coolness which characterizes the owners of bad
dogs, when those dogs are annoying or terrifying
other people within an inch of their lives. "He
-he has met somebody else-somebody that he
don't know. Let us walk faster," she went on,
more eagerly, "or he may be hurt.'
"The somebody may be hurt, do you mean?"
asked Annesley, as he quickened his pace in ac-
cordance with her own. "Surely Spitfire will not
really bite?"
"The somebody l" echoed the young lady,
with an indignation that startled him. "You
don't suppose I am thinking of the somebody-
I mean that Spitfire himself may be hurt."
"Oh!" said the gentleman, thus enlightened
-then he added, with a smile, "perhaps he may.
1 wQuld ,not answer for what I might do under
such provocation as that."
"That" was the furious sounds of rage to
which Spitfire was giving utterance as they ap-
proached. Other sounds were also audible now
-Katharine's voice calling him oY, and a man's
voice angrily bidding him be gone.
"Some one is with Miss Tresham," said Mor-
ton, stopping with an instinctive hesitation-an
instinctive remembrance of that other meeting

SPITFIRE PLAYS A

116

LT ~HIDE-AND-SEEK.                     117
of which his mother had spoken two days be-
fore.
But he stopped too late. Urged by a fear for
Spitfire's safety, Miss Lester rushed eagerly for-
ward, and he could not decline to follow. A few
more steps brought them into the little dell, of
which mention has before been made, and there
the combat was raging hotly-Spitfire barking
fiercely, and making frantic dashes at the feet
and legs of St. John, the latter defending himself
with considerable bravery, and Katharine trying,
by alternate persuasion and command, to draw
off the assailant.
Upon this scene Miss Lester rushed, just as
St. John lost patience, and, stooping, took up a
stone. Before he'could throw it, his arm w~s
peremptorily caught.
"How dare you I', cried the indignant and
breathless owner of Spitfire. "How dare "-a
long pant-." dare you throw stones at my dog?
I wonder you are not ashamed of yourself-a
great big man like you to be afraid of a little dog
like that!"
"Excuse me," stammered he, turning round
in astonishment, and finding himself in the grasp
of a young and pretty woman. "I did not mean
tohurt him-but he attacked me without provoca.
tion, and "-he added, with a sud~1en effort to re-
cover the self-possession that had escaped him-
"'though he be but little, he is fierce.' You
must confess that."
"How could you let him do it?" said Miss
Lester, turning to Katharine, "and when Spitfire
-poor, dear fellow-came out to look for you,
too! But what is the matter ?-are you not
well?"
"Yes, I am well," said Katharine, trying to
smile-a piteous attempt which touched Annes-
Icy-" but first Spitfire, and then you, startled,
sue a little. I was not expecting any one."
"Adela sent us to look for you," said Miss
Lester, turning her back on the gentleman, al
the more determinedly because she was dying of
curiosity to look at~ him. In her own fashion,
shewas a girl of very high-minded ideas, though;
and she kept her eyes steadily fastened onKath-
anne's face. "Adela sent us for you. ~She'
wants to rehearse the tableaux, and you forget
that you are Queen Mary and Joan of Are."
"I did forget it entirely," said Katharine.
"I will go back with you at once. Mr."-.--she
paused a moment - " Mr. Johns, perhaps Mr.
Annesley will be kind enough tc~ show you the
way out of the grounds."
"Certainly," said Mr. Annesley, with a grave,


118                               MORTO~
bow, "unless y6~u will permit me to suggest the
amendment that you introduce me to your friend,
and that he will do me the honor to return with
us to the house."
Katharine cast a quick look of mingled appre-
hension and entreaty at St. John before going
through the form of introduction, in a voice that
was not quite steady. She might have spared
herself the apprehension she entertained. St.
4ohn was equal to the occasion. He bowed
with easy grace, and regretted that he could
not accept Mr. Annesley's courteous invitation;
then bowed again to the ladies, as Katharine
said to Miss Leste~', "Shall we return now?"
"With all my heart," the young lady an-
sivered., "Here, Spitfire! here pet! I am
afraid to leave him there," she went on, as
Katharine and herself mounted the hill. "He
has evidently taken a great dislike to that gen.
tleman, and, when Spitfire takes a dislike to any.
body, he never gets over it. He-your friend-.
was about to hurt him when I came up."
"I thYnk not," said Katharine. Then she
added, suddenly: "Don't call him my friend. I
know him, and he chanced to be here and meet
me-that is all."
"You know him I" repeated Miss Lester,
looking at her. "Excuse me, but you say that
as if you did~not like him."
"I don't like him."
"Then, if I were you," said the oilier, with
sudden frankness, "I would not meet him in this
sort of way. I wouldn't do it for a man I liked,
end I am sure I would see a man I didn't like
shot ten times over first. Don't think me imper.
tinenti Miss Tresham," she went on,"butllike
yo~s, and I thought I would tell you how people
consider such things here. You are a stranger,
and perhaps don't know our customs. Of course,
I shall not gossip about the matter, and, as for
Morton Annesley, he is true as steel; but still,
If I were you, I wouldn't do it. Are you offend-
ed with me?"
"Not ifl the least," said Katharine, smiling
faintly. "You mean kindly, and, therefore, I
could not be ~ffendcd. You simply don't under.
stand.~'
The last words were uttered so quietly, and
with so much unconscious dignity, that they had
their effect upon Miss Lester. She hesitated a
minute before answering.
"No, I don't understand, of course, and I
don't mean to judge either. But I can see how
things look, Miss Tresham, and it was of looks
tbat I was speaking."

I

HOUSE.

"Yes, I know," said Katharine, absently.
Meanwhile Morton and the companion who
had been presented to him were crossing the
grounds to the side-gate through which St. John
had entered. A few commonplace remarks about
the weather were interchanged as they proceed-
ccl; but, when they reached the gate, instead of
opening It, Anneslcy stopped and faced the other.
"Excuse me, Mr. Johns," he said, gravely,
"if I ask leave to speak a few words before we
part. Of course, I do not know why you pre-
ferred to see Miss Tresham in the grounds, but
permit me to remind you that the house is only
a short distance from the place where I met you,
and that any one of Miss Tresham's friends is
cordially welcome there."
"It was by Miss Tresham's own request that
I met her where I did," answered St. John,
coldly. "I will bid you good-morning, with the
assurance that I shall not invade your domain
again."
"I hope you understand that it was on Miss
Tresham's account that I spoke," said Morton,
flushing a little.
The other lifted his hat with a courtesy so
ceremonious that it had not a little of mockery
in it.
"In Miss Tresham's name, allow me to thank
you," he answered. "The only thing that puz.
zles me is the cause of this kind solicitude."
"Miss Tresham is one of my mother's guests,"
said Annesley, with a good deal of unconscious
auteur. He. opened the gate, and raised his
own hat, as St. John passed through. Nothing
more was said~ on either side. They parted with
a couple of stiff bows that would have become
a pair of duellists; and, as St. John strode
away in the direction of Tallahoma, Annesley
went back to the house.
When he entered the hall he was at once
waylaid by Mr. Langdon, and marched szolens
votes. into the back drawing-room, where a re-
hearsal was going on.
"No mutiny, young man," said the latter, as
Morton tried to get away on a pretext of busi-
ness. "I was sent in search of you, and it is as
much as my lie is worth to go pack without you.
Queen Adela is ?e,~mant just now, and she would
think nothing of ordering my head to be taken
off for disobedience of orders. In with you!"
He gave his captive nt time for expostula-
tion, but ushered him straight into the room
where the ~tage of Christmas Eve was again
erected. Strangely enough the two women
whom Morton had last seen together in the

I

SPITFIRE PLAYS AT HIDE-AND-SEEK.

grounds were the first on whom his eye fell
as he entered.
They were now confronting each other in
tragic attitude-Miss Lester as Queen Elizabeth,
Katharine as Queen Mary, in the famous scene
from Schiller's "Marie Stuart."
In these days all the world knows that scene,
for all the world has seen Ristori act it. But
then it was something neW, and something for
which the world of Lagrange was indebted to
Morton Annesley. He, knowing and admiring
Schiller with all the enthusiasm of a German
*     student, had suggested the picture, and given
his opinion concerning a proper selection of the
characters.
"Maggie Lester would do for an immensely.
flattered ~Queen Elizabeth," he said, laughing.
"She can't deny that her hair is red. And, if
you were to put a Marie-Stuart coif and curls on
Miss Tresham, I am sure she would look like the
Queen of Scots. The color of her hair and the
cast of her features are not unlike the portraits
of the royal beauty."
When he came in just now poor Queen Mary
was thinking of any thing else but her cowering
rival or her deadly wrongs. She saw him enter,
and, though she could not turn her head, she
shot a wistful glance out of the corners of her
eyes which Mrs.Frcnch caught as well as himself.
This astute lady had made nothing of Maggie
Lester's reserve and self-possession. But a look
at her brother's face told her all that she wanted
to know.
"He has seen him!" she thought; and the
knowledge acted on her like a stimulant, enliven-
ing her spirits as if by magic.
After that the tableaux went on bravely, for
everybody was held well in hand by their fair
ruler, and nobody ventured on any open signs
of weariness or dissatisfaction.
It was not until the rehearsal ended, and
most of the companyhad dispersed to dress for
dinner, that Katharine found an opportunity of
speaking to Morton. He was standing near the
sttge, directing the servants, who were arranging
some of the decorations, when she walked up to
him.
"Mr. Annesley," she said, hurriedly, "I
should like to speak to you. I have something
to say to you. May I say it now?"
"Certainly," he answered, turning at the first
sound of her voice. "Shall we go into the libra-
ry?"
"No, it is only a few words. If you will
come here4-."

119

She walked away, and he followed her. Every
one, excepting the servants, had now left the
room. On one side was a bay.wiudow, and into
this Katharine went.
"It is only a few words," she repeated, as
Annesley followed her; "but I should not like
for any one to hear them."
"There is no danger of any one's doing so
here," he answered.
Then he was silent, waiting for her to speak.
After a minute she began, with a nervous haste
of manner that had grown habitual with her of
late.
"It is not about myself, Mr. Annesley. It is
about Mrs. Gordon. I know that you are much
attached to her, and-and I thought I would
tell you, so that perhaps you might be of service
to her. She is threatened, if not with danger, at
least with serious annoyance."
Now, this was the last sort of communication
which Morton could possibly have expected to
hear, and the surprise which he naturally felt
showed itself at once in his face and nianner.
"Mrs. Gordon threatened with serious an-
noyance 1" he repeated, with a start. "Pardon
me, but you must be mistaken. There is no one
who would dare-"
"There is some one who has the right to
dare," she interposed, hastily. "Believe me, I
know what I am saying. She is certainly threat.
ened with very serious annoyance and distress."
A sudden dark flush rose over his face, and
he frowned as Katharine had never seen him
frown before. She recognized then what many
other people had recognized before, that to
touch Mrs. gordon was to assail him in one of
his most sensitive points.
"By whom, and iwwhat way?" he asked.
"I cannot tell you that. I would if it were
my secret; but it is not mine-it is Mrs. Gor-
don's. It came to my knowledge accidentally,
and I cannot repeat it. Go to her, and, if she
wishes you to serve her, she will tell you herself.
I--I am very sorry for her," said the girl, with
tears coming into her eyes. "She has a hard
lot. I wish I could help her. Perhaps you can,
Mr. Annesley-you are a man."
"I will try, at least," he said. "Shall I--
would you advise me to go at once?"
"At once."
He moved away a few steps, turned abruptly,
uid came back.
"Miss Tresham," he said, quickly, "Is there
nothingg I can do for yourself?"
She knew what be meant. She kne~v that he


120

MORTON HOUSE.

would not ask her confidence, or seem to request
an explanation of the events of that morning.
But she also knew that he gave her an opportu-
nity-perhaps a' last one-to right herself in his
eyes. Some instinct told her that much hung
on her reply, and she gave a slight gasp over
it.
"Nothing, Mr. Annesley."
"I am sorry for that," he said.
Then, as if afraid to tru~t himself to speak
another word, he walked away.
In tlielhall he met 'his mother.
"Where are you going, Morton?" she asked,
as she saw him take his gloves and riding-whip
from the stand. "Don't you know that dinner
is nearly ready?"
"I shall not be back to dinner," he answered.
"Make my apologies, if you please, mother, and
say that iw~ortaut business called me away."
"Why, where are you going?"
"I will tell you when I come back. I have
not time to talk now."
"But, Morton-"
She spoke in vain. Morton was gone. When
she followed him to the door he was walking
rapidly in the direction of tbe stables, and, not
long afterward, she saw him, from her chamber
window, canter away in the direction of Talla-
homa.
It was not to Tallahoma that he was bound,
however. The last sun of the Old Year had
given a few golden gleams, and was sinking to
rest in a beg' of soft, violet cloudy when he dis-
mounted from Ilderim before the door of Morton
House. Rapidly as he had ridden, he noticed
along the avenue the fresh track of carriage-
wheels, and the fact puzzled him a little. Mrs.
Gordon never left home, and nobody. ever came
to' the house. At an ordinary time he might
merely have thought that one of these rules had
been broken; but now, with the remembrance
of Katharine's vague warning in his mind, he
felt an uncomfortable foreboding of ill. This
foreboding was increased as he approached the
terrace and saw a group of negroes loitering with
sorrowful faces around'the steps.
"What is the' matter?" he asked, as one of
them came forward 'and took his horse. "Has
any thing happened that you all look as if you
had beenlto a funeral ?"'
"Mesa' Felix is gone, sir," answered the boy
addressed, in a tone which indicated that he
tliou~ht this a' sufficient reason for any length
of visage.
"Felix I--gone--~l" Annesley repeated. A

sudden fear, common enough iii that country
and at that time, startled him. "Do you mean
that he is lost?"
"Oh, no, sir," answered the boy, quickly.
"Mr. Warwick came and took him away in a
carriage. They hadn't left more'n a few minutes
before you got here, sir."
"Did his mother-did your mistress go
too?"
"I"lo, sir-she's in the house."
"Very welL Keep my horse here. I shall
be back directly."
He walked hastily to the house and on the
portico met Harrison, who was wearing a most
lugubrious face.
"What is the meaning of this, Harrison?"
Morton asked, quickly. "Where has Felix gone?
-and why has he been sent away?"
CL The Lord only knows, Mass ~ said
the old man, dolefully. "Miss Pauline and Mr.
Warwick done it. I don't think they asked any.
body's advice, sir-they just packed up Mass
Felix's clothes, and took him right away. It
was hard on the poor child, sir, for he didn't
want to go; and if you could a-heard him a-cry-
ing, sir, it would almost a-broke your heart."
"I am glad I didn't hear him then," said
Morton, who saw plainly that the whole feeling
of the household was ranged on Felix's side.
"But his mother must have had some gofod rca-
'son for sending him away. Where is she?"
"In her own room, Mass Morton"' answered
Harrison, following the young man ~into the
house. "You better go into the drawing-room,
sir, and I'll ask if Miss Pauline can see you. I
don't mean to blame Miss Pauline," ho added,
with an air of severe justice. "To be sure she
must a had her reasons unbeknownst to the rest
of us. But it was hard on Mass Felix-and him
so young."
"A great many things are hard," said. Mor-
ton, "but they must be done. Send Babette to
ask 'my cousin if she will see me."
In a few minutes, Babette entered the room,
and sajd that Mrs. Gordon would see him. The
Frenchwoman's eyes were red with weeping, and
her face was sadly swollen from the same cause.
Morton felt sorry for her~' and said so~-at which
she startled him by a fresh burst of tears.
"Ah, madame-poor ~ cried she.
"M'sieur, 'comfort her, if you can. She is
heart-broken--she will die of grief, if she is not'
comforted."
"I will do my best," said he;" but if Felix
is gone, I fear that will not be much. Cheer

'I'
3:
3:
1'
I 'I
1
L

SPITFIRE PLAYS AT HIDE-AND-SEEK.

up, Babettel Surely he will be back before
long."
"Le bon Dieu only knows," answered Ba.
bette. And, as he crossed the hail, he heard her
'sobbing behind him.
Poor Morton I There is no exaggeration in
saying that he would sooner have faced any dan-
ger which could possibly be imagined, than the
scene which fancy painted as awaiting him in
Mrs. Gordon's room. The sobs, the tears-Ba-
bette's noisy grief was, of course, only a faint
shadow of what the bereaved mother must feeL
He set his teeth, as he laid his hand on the door-
knob-then turned it, and entered.
All was quiet within. On the hearth the fire
burned; outside the windows, a soft, sad requiem
of the dying year was moaning through the tall
trees; but no human sob or sigh was borne to
Annesley's ear. A figure clad in black sat on
one side of the fireplace, and held out her hand
as he advanced.
"Come in," said Mrs. Gordon, quietly. "You
- are very welcome. Is it not cold? Draw nearer
the fire. Well "-with a faint, mournful smile-
"have you heard the news? I am desolate."
"I have heard it," he answered.
He could say no more; for, although he ought
to have been relieved, he was, in truth, more
deeply affected by her quietude than he could
have been by any vehement outbreak whatever.
The hopeless accent of the last words went
straight to his heart, and touched it more than
tears could have done. He said nothing; but
he kept her hand tightly clasped in his for sev-
eral minutes.
"I see you feel for me," she said-" you do
not think it is foolish to mind it so."
"No words can say how much I feel for you,"
he answered.
"It might be foolish, perhaps," she went
on, "if he was not my all. But he is, you
know-literally every thing that I have on
earth."
'"But surely you have not sent him far-surely
he will not be gone long?~~ said Morton, unable
to contain his surprise.
"I do not know where he has gone," she
answered, in the same quiet, hopeless tone;
"and I do not~know when I shall see him again
-perhaps never."
Annesley said, "Good Heavens I "-and then
he stopped. A sudden remembrance of Kath-
arine's words and looks came ~to him. "It is
'Mrs. Gordon's secret," she had said. "If she
wishes you to serve her, she will tell it to you."

121

Here was the secret staring him in the face;
and evidently it had been told not to him, but
to John Warwick. For a moment, he felt
wounded-more deeply wounded than it is pos-
sible to describe; but, almost immediately, cooler
reason and better feeling triumphed.
"'Whatever you have done, I am sure you
have done well," he said, in his kind, loyal voice.
"Whatever is to be borne, I am sure you will
bear well. This is no time for reproaches, but I
cannot help asking you why you forgot that I am
your kinsman, and ready to do any service for
you~"
"1 did not forget it," said she, holding out
again the hand he had relinquished. "Morton,
don't reproach me-for that i~ reproach. 'After
Felix, there is no one so near my heart as you
are-both for your own and your father's sake.
If I did not ask this service of you, it was only
because you were not in a position to render it.
Circumstances made it necessary that Felix
should be taken away-far away, 'where even I
might not know where he is-and you had not
the requisite time for this."
"I would have taken the time."
"I don't doubt that-but I could not ask it.
Besides, I went to John Warwick, as a lawyer,
and he advised me as a lawyer, before he served
inc as a friend."
"I could not have advised you, perhaps; but
I would have served you against any thing-or
anybody."
"There are some things one can only fight
with cunning, not with force," said she-adding,
after a moment, "I will tell you every thing if
you will remember that I tell it oulyto you-mi~
to Lagrange, or to anybody in Lagrange. Yet
that is a foolish remnant of the old pride, for
everybody will know it soon."
"Consult youz"own feelings, not mine," said
he. "If it is painful to you to speak, don't do
it. I will serve you ignorantly as readily as
with knowledge. Don't-don't distress your-
self."
"You deserve confidence from me," said she,
"and you shall have it."
Then, as if it were a relief-and, indeed, after
a fashion, it was a relief.-.she began and poured
forth her pitiful story, going far more into detail
than she had done in speaking to John Warwick,
and eliciting far more of warm, outspoken sym-
pathy. What the lawyer felt he had shown in
deeds, not words; what Morton felt burst forth
in eager 'language, though it would have been
equally ready to prove itself by acts. The dif-


122

MORTON HOUSE.

ference was lesS in the different natures of the
two men than in their different ages.
As Mrs. Gordon went on, Morton's interest
grew Watmer, until suddenly there came a cold
chilL It would be hard to say what the young
man felt when she first spoke of St. John, and
an instinct.-...a sharp convulsion at his heart.-.
told him that this St. John was one and the
same with the"' Mr. Johns" whom Katharine
Tresham had that morning asked him to show
out of the grounds ofAnneadale. Then, the
warning sjse had given him, the knowledge which
she possessed of this carefully.guarded secrbt-
he grew suddenly faint and sick, and turned so
palethat Mrs. Gordkn noticed it.
"What is the matter?" she asked. "You
are thinking of something besides nie."
"I am thinking of this St. John," he an.
swerved. "Don't you think that he may have
~come here accidentally-not in search of you,
after all?"
"Babette thinks so; but I cannot believe it.
However much he may pretend otherwise, I am
sure he came here in search of me."
"But how did he know that you were
here?"
"I cannot tell that."
-iMorton said no more. lie would have cut
out his tongue sooner than mention Katharine's
name in the matter; and, although he did not
know it, Mr. Warwick had been equally dis.
erect. Mrs. Gordon had not a suspicion that St.
John was connected with any one in Lagrange
besides herself. Different as the two men were,
they had something in common, which they
proved by this reticence. Morton was right
when he once told Felix that the grand test of a
gentleman is the capability of being trusted;
and he might have added that it is not only the
capability of being loyal to ft truss which has
beeniolemnly and explicitly given, but it is also
to be found In that fine sense of honor which can
appreciate tacit confidence, and respect the secret
for which n~ Ocerecy has been asked.
When Annesley rode away from Morton
House, the last day of the Old Year had died the
death common to all things mortal. The last
gloam of light had faded in the west; the night
liungo~er all things with its sombre mantle; the
stars gleamed within uncertain fitfulness through
a curtain of misty cloud; and even the lights
from the wayside houses looked, to the young
man's fancy, more dull and red than cheery and
bright. As be rode forward,. his heart was
strangely heavy, his mind strangely disturbed,

and, in a sort of accompaniment to the thoughts
that tormented him, a certain verse of a poem he
had seen shortly before kept running through his
brain. Almost unconsciously, as he looked at
the great hosts of Night that were marching
steadily forward to the death-bed of the Old
Year, he caught himself repeating:

"He ileth still; he doth not move;
He will not see the dawn of day.
He hathno other life above.
He gave me a friend sad a true true-love,
And the l.~ew Year will take them away."

-4---
CHAPTER XXIII.
A. MOaNING-CALL.

GanAr was the rejoicing of the Marks cliii.
dren when, on the day after New-Year, the same
carriage that had conveyed Miss Tresham away
drove up to the gate; and Miss Tresham de-
scended, smiling in acknowledgment of their
eager welcome, but looking decidedly pale and
worn, as Mrs. Marks at once perceived.
"Dissipation don't agree with you, Miss Kath-
arine," she said, after the first bustle of greeting
was over. "I never saw you look so badly. You
must have danced all last night."
"I did," said Katharine, smiling. "After the
tabteawo we had a sort of fancy ball-that is, all
those who had taken part in the tableaux were
in costume-and day was breaking when I went
to bed. I wish you had come to the tableaux,
Mrs. Marks-they were so pretty!"
"I thought about it," said Mrs. Marks, re-
gretfully. "I should have liked to have gone;
but it was a long drive, and Nelly had a cough
that sounded a little like croup, so I was afraid
to leave her."
"But you might have sent Sara and Katy;
they would have enjoyed itac much I"
"They were crazy to go, and I might have
sent them if there had been anybody to take
thenji. But Richard was tired, and Jqjxn isn't
here, you know."
"Indeed, I don't know," said Katharine,
with a start. "Where has Mr. Warwick
gone?"
"Gone to take Felix Gordon to school," an-
swered Mrs. Marks, sending her scissors with a
sharp snip through the cloth from which she was
cutting a jacket for one of the boys. "You
can't be more surprised than I was, Miss K~th4

'I

A MOR

anne; for John started off without giving an~
body a word of warning. It was a queer thin
for Mrs. Gordon to send the child away-so fon
of him as they say she is.-.and it was queer o
John to take him; but, then, dear me! who
isn't queer in this world? I told Richard las
night that I shouldn't be surprised if ever
thing came right at last. You know what
mean; I don't like to mention names before th
children."
"Yes, I know what you mean. But is
likely, do you think 1'"
"If this don't look as if it is likely, Iwon
der what would look so? Other people beside
me think the same thing. I saw Mrs. Sloai
yesterday, and she was telling me that Mrs
Gordon-Katy, don't stand there drinking ix
every word 1 say; go upstairs and see if Mm
Tresham's room is all ready-that Mrs. Gordos
has been going to see John at his office of late
and, when a widow does that way, you know ii
is apt to mean something. There are a greal
many reports going about; but I know hoi~
people talk, and I didn't pay much attention tc
them till this about Felix came on me like s
thunder-clap. Then I couldn't help believing.
I am sure I never expected that matters would
K        come to pass so that John could marry Pauline
Morton-but this is a strange woridi"
"When will Mr. Warwick be back?" asked
Katharine.
"Indeed, that's more than I can tell. He
said nothing about it; and, since I don't know
where he went, I can't even calculate whe~i h9's
likely to be back. He left a note for you, which
I was about to forget. Let me see-where did
1 put it?"
After considerable reflection, Mrs. Marks re-
membered that she had put the note in her
workbox, and drew it forth from among the
spools and tape which filled that receptacle.
Katharine, who restrained her impatience as
well as she could, took it and opened it. This
was what Mr. Warwick said:
"DEA~l Miss TazsarAM: I find that I am un-
expectedly obliged to leave home with Felix Gor-
don. I shall endeavor to return within a fort.
night. Will you go to see Mrs. Gordon and try
to cheer her? She is suffering very much.
"Yours truly,
"JOHN WA.nwrcn."
"Does he say any thing about when he's
*    likely to be back?" asked Mrs. Marks, who was

1~TING-CALL.                              123
~. watching the governess's face attentively, and
g secretly burning with curiosity to know what
d her brother had written about.
f "lie says he may return within a fortnight,"
t answered Katharine, with her eyes still fastened
it on the note. Then she held it out. "There
y it is," she added; "you can see for yourself
I what he says. It is not much. I will go and
e take off my things."
While Mrs. Marks eagerly read the note,
t Katharine left the room and went upstairs,
She found her chamber carefully arranged for
her. Every thing looked fresh and bright, the
a fire was burning, and on the table her ebriatmas
~ presents were laid out in order. It seemed like
a pleasant coming home, and gave her a sense
of rest and relief after the gay dissipations of
Anneadale. At another time she might have
thought a little regretfully of all that was going
on at the latter place; of how Mr. Langdon was
just then throwing a great deal of sentimental
expression into his voice and eyes as he talked
to some young 'lady who sat in the bay.wind'oiv
where she had herself sat yesterday; of how
Miss Lester was playing billiards with Mr. Tal-
cott; how Mrs. French was entertaining a lively
group with disquisitions on private theatricals;
and how the same people were loitering In ~e
sanie places and saying the same things as on
every day while she had been there. The habits
of society are much the same on a small or on a
large scale all the world over: Let a man drop
out of his circle in Paris, and, even if he has
been the brightest star in that circle, who misses
him? So it is in every circle of every city, vfl.
lage, or hamlet, throughout the world. Remain,
and you are liked exactly according to yatir d@
serts; go, and, whatever those deserts may have
been, you are forgotten as speedily and as natur-
ally as the events of yesterday yield in interest
to the events of to.day. Until a cloud came
over her brightness, Katharine had achieved
quite a social success at Anneadale; but she
had sufficient world experience to know that
already she had sunk beneath the horizon, that
others had taken her place, and that to-morrow
people would even cease tosay, "Miss Tresharn
did this," or "Miss Tresham did not do that."
At a different moment such a reflection might
have cost her a pang; but now she was too full
of other subjects. Instead of thinking of the
farewells of Messrs. Langdon and Talcott, she
thought of Mr. Warwick and the note he had
left behind. "What did he mean~?" she asked
herself, and, receiving no satisfactory reply, wae


124:                               MORTON
still askIng~ when the door opened and Katy

rushed in.
"Miss Tresham, there's a gentleman down-
stairs, and mamma says will you please come
down, he wants to see you."
Poor Katharine! She had expected this,
but not quite so soon-not quite so unexpect-
edly.
" Katy," she said, with a start,," who is it?
,What is his name?"
"He's a strange gentleman," answered Katy,
decide4iy. "I don't know what his name is, and
mamma didn't tell me. He came here once
before, though."
"To see me? "
"Yes'm, while you was away.~~
"Amen," said Katharine, under her breath.
She mechanically took off her bonnet and shawl,
smoothed her hair, and went down-stairs,
In the passage she met Mrs. Marks, evidently
much fluttered and excited.
"A gentleman in the dining-room to see you,
Miss Katharine," she said. "I asked him there
because there was no fire in the parlor. You
needn't be uneasy on my account," she, added,
with a good-natured smile, "I am going into the
kitchen anyhow. They ar~ trying out lard again
tq~day, and I have to see about it. He's very
good-loo~dng," she said, with a significant nod,
as she went out of the backdoor.
Katharine did not even smile. The conclu-
sion to which Mrs. Marks had leaped was absurd
enough; but she was not in the humor for the
absurdity to Btrike her in a humorous light. On
the contrary, she felt annoyed when ther~was no
reasonable ground for annoyance. These sig-
nificant looks and smiles jarred on her.
"What fools people are!" she thought, with
an impatience very unusual to he; as she went
on aud opened the dining-room door.
8t. John was standing with his back to the
fire, looking moodily down .at the hearth-rug
wben she entered. She saw at once that some-
tl4ng was. wrong with him, pnd, unfortunately,
was in no doubt concerning the nature of that
something. He looked up when she entered,
but did not move forward.
"Well," he said, "have you heard the news?
Do you know that she has sent off the child, and
given me the slip?"
"Yes, 1 know it," she answered, sitting down
in the first chair she came to. "Hut what can ;r
do? Why do you come and annoy me?"
"That is always the cry !-always, why do I
come and annoy you! I come because I choose

I

A MORNING-CALL.

125

* HOUSES
to do so," said he, angrily; "and because you
may be able to help me in this business."
"In what business?"
"In finding out where Felix has been taken."
"What is the use of such talk as this," said
she, coldly. "Do you suppose I know any thing
about it ?-or, if I did, do you suppose I would
tell you?"
"I suppose you can find out, if you choose,
for the man who took him away lives, I am told,
in this very house-and, I suppose that, if you
don't choose, you may repent it," arfaw-ered he.
"I don't want to hear any nonsense, Katharine.
This is a matter of life and death to mc, and I
will not be thwarted. You can find out where
the child has been taken, and you shall do so."
"I might show you whether or not I would,
if there were any question of finding out," she
answered. ~' But there is not. Even his own
sister does not know where Mr. Watwick has
gone."
"She may say she does not-"
"She says the truth. Don't think that every-
body tells falsehoods, St. John."
"Everybody tells them when it suits his con-
venience," said St. John, coolly. "Do you sup-
pose I don't know the world?"
"Your own world-perhaps so."
"The world is the same everywhere. If this
woman does not know, her husband does."
"No-he does not."
"Then wait until the man comes back, and
get the secret from him. What's the good of
being a woman, and a pretty one," he addcd,
with a sneer, "if you can't do such a thing?"
"You don't know any thing about Mr. War-
wick," she cried, indignantly. "If you did, you
would know that no woman in the world could
make him tell a thing that he wished to keep
secret. And I would do any thing sooner than
ask it of him. St. John, you are cruel 1"
"You are a fool I" retorted St. John, short-
ly. "I think there must be something between
you and this lawyer," he went on, looking keenly
at her. "If that is the case-"
"I won't hear another word!" cried Kath-
arine, losing temper, and somewhat dismaying
him by the angry light that came into her eyes.
"You are insulting me-~nd 1 will not listen to
you. If I knew where Felix Gordon was this
minute, I would die sooner than tell you!" she
said, passionately. "You may be sure~f that."
"I think I could make you sorry for it."
"I have no doubt you could-but I would
not do it!"

I
There was silence in the room after thi
St. John had not expected such a defiance, an
it quite astonished him. He drummed on hi
hat for some time, and knitted his brows, a
he scowled at the 'girl, who sat before him lool
ing pale and resolute.
"Upon my word, I had not expected this,'
said he, at last. "A charmingly affectionate pci
son you are, Katharine, I iriust say I You'd di
before you would obtain for me a certain iten
of information about a person who cannot con
cern you in the least! Will 'you tell me what ii
the meaning of this sudden interest in Felix Gor
don?"
"I have no interest. But~I will not play th(
spy at your bidding. I owe a debt of gratitude(
to this place, and these people; and I do nol
choose to repay it in such a form."
"A debt of gratitude for allowing you to
come and slave among them? Humph! your
ideas of a cause for gratitude are singular, to
say the least. You do owe somebody among
them a certain sort of gratitude, though," he
went on, with a peculiar si~ile. "Fray, what
do you consider the most unfortunate thing
that has befallen you lately?"
"Your coming," she answered, unhesitating-
ly.
"I thought so," said he, coolly. "Well, you
asked me, when we first met, how I discovered
your place of residence. I did 'not answer the
question then, because it was irrelevant. It is
relevant now, and I shall answer it with pleasure.
First, however, do you know any one in a place
galled Mobile?"
"No one."
"Have you ever been there ? "
"Well, your 'address was forwarded to me-
but stop! I will tell the story in order. There
is nothing like method. Read that."
He took out a pocket-book, opened it, and
drew forth a slip of paper which he put into her
hand. It was the Times advertisement that Mrs.
Annesley had shown to Adela French.
"Have you any idea who inserte~1 that?" he
asked, watching her face, as she read it.
Her eyes dilated with astonishment, her face
paled until the very lips were white, and he was
oreed to repeat his question, before she looked
up and answered.
"Idea !-no. Howshouldlhave? Idid not
think there was any one in the world who would
have done such a thing."
*         "Do you think it was some on&amp;here?"
9

b

s. "It must have been. I have never been
.d anywhere else in America, and no one who was
is not of Lagrange could have known any thing
,s about the West Indies or CumberlandY
" Those allusions prove that it is some one
who knows you?"
" "Yes, it is some one who knows me."
"See if these will enable you to tell who it
o is."
Forth from the pocket-book came two let.
- ters, and were placed in Katharine's hand. She
took them, as she had taken the advertisement,
- and glanced over them with compressed lips.
When she finished, she laid them down on the
table beside her, and looked at St. John.
"I do not know who has written these," she
said. "God forgive whoever it was-God grant
that they may never have to endure such suffer-
ing as they have brought ort me!"
"That is cant," said he. "Of course, you
* don't forgive them; and, of course, you can
tell who the writer was. What, in a small cir-
cle like this, not be able to place your finger at
once upon the person! Tell me whom you
know, and I will tell you who did it"
"I do not know anybody who would have
done it."
"That only proves your ignorance of the
world. Do you suspect me of forging those let-
ters?"
"Then they were certainly written by some-
body who knows you, and whom you know.
Common-sense might show you this. Tell me
whom you least suspect, and I will tell you who
did it."'
"I cannot tell you. I-St. John, let me
alone I', she cried, suddenly, but with an accent
of almost heart-rending pathos. "I don't nn-
derstand anything! I am heart-sick and weary.
Don't-don't torment me I"
"You know who wrote those letters," said
St. John, watching her with unchanging scrutiny.
"If you don't choose to tell me, well and good-
I can find out for myself. You will be sorry for
this want of confidence though, Katharine. I
am your best friend."
"May God give me my worst, then!" cried the
girl, who was driven beyond all power of selfMcon~
trol.
"I have heard some rumors about you," pur-
sued the immovable St. Johg. "It is quite use-
less to try to deceive me-I should think you
would have discovered that long before~this time.
Who was the gentleman that waskind enough to


i2~                       MORTON .HOUSE~

show me out of the grounds of the house where
you were staying.the other day?"
"I am going," said Katharine, rising and
walking toward the door. "If you have only
come to torment me as you used to do, I will
not stay to afford you amusement. I am sick
and weary-I am going."
"I shall remain here until you come back,
then."
*      "St. John," cried she, facing round upon
*   him, "what is the meaning of this ? You prom-
ised me that,. after. I gave you some money, you
would go; and you are here yet, to make life a
burden to me."
"I made no promises," said St. John, "and
I will m~e none. But I tell you that I will
come here every day until you find out-as you
can, if you choose-where that boy has been
taken to. I have written to Gordon, and he
~~ll come, expecting to find the child here. If
he is not here-if I cannot put my hand upon
him-it will be worse than useless to have sum-
moned him."
"Write and tell him so."
"No letter would reach him now."
Katharine sank back into her chair, and
gazed out of the window at the desolate garden
which had been so fair and smiling on that No.
vember evening when she first saw Mrs. Gor-
don's face. She could have cried out upon the
cruelty ~f all this, but where was the use? All
the tears of Niobe could not have moved the
man before her one hair's-breadth from his pur-
pose~ The nether millstone is not half so hard
as the selfish resolution of a selfish nature.
*WhuI~ ~he wa~ atil hitting in hopeless silence,
and St. John was still standing on the hearth-
~eg wa~ting her reply, there came a stir in the
passage outside, a movement of feet, a sound of
voices, Miss Tresham's name audibly pronounced,
and, before Katharine could ~nove forward, the
door opo~ied, and Mrs. Gordon stood on the
threshold!
-"4--.
OHAP~ER XXIV.
OLD FOES.
IT had been a relief to Mrs. Gordon to tell
her story to Anne~ley, and the exhaustion con-
sequent upon long and painful emotion had made
her sleep heavily during that night-the first
night after Felix had been parted from her. But
who can paint the waking-the next day-the

long watches of the next night? As hour after
hour rolled by, she endured them in much the
same passive fashion as that which had so much
surprised Morton. But, on the third day, this
endurance began to give way to restlessness.
Babette, who went in and out on various pre-
texts, and watched her anxiously, immediately
perceived this. She had shortly before been to
town on an errand, and she now bethought her.
self of an expedient to interest her mistress.
"Madame is not well," she said, planting her.
self on the hearth~rng, with an air of determina-
tion. "Madame is lonely - she should have
company. As I was coming home, I met made.
moiselle-the young lady who comes here with
the children. Why should not madame send
for her? She would cheer her up."
"Nobody can cheer me up, Babette," said
Mrs. Gordon, smiling faintly. "I am used to
trouble, and I can bear it; but, as for cheer-
that is a different matter. Don't talk of it."
"Madame will be ill, if she is not ~cheered,"
said Babette, obstinately. "If madame would
only send for the ~voung lady-"
"Is it Miss Tresham you are talking about?"
asked Mrs. Gordon, languidly. "Did you say
that you met her going into town?"
"A short time ago, madame."
"Well, you may send or stay-no, I will go
myself. Order the carriage."
"Madame!"
"The carriage," repeated Mrs. Gordon, impa-
tiently. "Don't you see that I must get out of
this house or go crazy? I will go into Tallaho-
ma, and bring Miss Tresham back to stay with
me. You are right. ~he will do me good-if
anybodycan."
"But Monsieur St. Jean!" cried Babette, who
was aghast. "If madame gpes into town, she
may meet him."
"lie cannot harm me," said madame, haugh-.
tily, for she could aiford to be brave now that
Felix was safely out of reach. "Go and order
the carriage.
Babette went at once; but, owing to the fact
that the horses were out on the plantation, and
had to be sent for, it was some time before the
carriage came round. Mrs. Gordon's fit of rest-
lessness had by that time partly s~bsided~ and
she was half inclined to give up her intention, and
merely send Babette with a note to bring Katha-
rine. But Babette was of the opinion that it
would be beneficial for madame to go herself, that
a breath of the outer air would revive her, and
the sight of the outer world be good fo~ her. In


I

OLD FOES.

cases where the mind has too long preyed on it-
self, there is, indeed, no better prescription than
this-simple as it seems. He must be very far
gone in morbid gloom whom God's air, and God's
sunshine, and the bright, rejoicing beauty of
God's fair earth, cannot comfort, cannot help,
cannot draw a little out of himself. Beguiled by
the persuasions of her faithful attendant, Mrs.
Gordon at last consented to go. The French-
wc~man put her into the carriage, and saw her
drive off; with great self-congratulation. It is
possible that this self.congratulation might have
been slightly changed if she had only known who
it was that her mistress had gone to meet.
On her way to Tallahoma, Mrs. Gordon was a
little diverted from the subject of her own trou-
bles, by thinking of the pleasure Qf bringing
Katharine back to Morton House with her. She
felt certain that Mrs. Marks would not object, for
Mr. Warwick's last words had advised something
like this, and she thought it probable that he
might have spoken to his sister on the subject.
She liked the girl-liked her bright face, her
frank bearing, her sunny smile-and she felt
thi~t it would be a great relief to see her moving
bout Morton House, and lighting up the' gloom
with her graceful youth, instead of poor Babette's
V ~       long face and ready tears. As she was drawing
this half-unconscious picture,'Katharine was go.
ing down to meet St. John, with a very pale face,
and a very heavy heart, making quite a contrast
to the girl whom Mrs. Gordon had seen last-
the girl who even then was pictured in Mrs. Gor-
don's mind.
When the carriage drew up before~ the Marks
house, two or three children were playing in the
yard. They all stopped, and stared open-mouthed,
as Mrs. Gordon descended. When it was evi-
dent that she intended to enter the gate, they
~         immediately took flight, and ran Cull tilt to the
kitchen-rushing headlong through the door1 and
very nearly tumbling into a pot of boiling lard.
"Mamma, here's a carriage, and a lady com-
ing in!" cried Katy, who was first.
"Mamma, it's a lady in black-.-.-I think it's
Felix's mother," panted Sara, who was second..
"Mammi-lady tummin," said 'Nelly, who
as last.
"A lady in black I-Felix's mother! Good'
acious!" e~ried' Mrs. Mark's. "Itumi, Letty, and
sk her in-in the parlor, mind. I'll be there
n a minute. Get away, children, and let me take
this apron. Good ~acious l-who was to
hunk-"
While Mrs. Marks was ~isstily untying her

127

apron, and Letty was 'running full speed to the
house, Mrs. Gordon walked up to the front door,
and was about to knock, when Jack came rush.
ing down-stairs. He, h~u~ beeu to the sehogl-
room to get sonie~ string for his kite, and was
on his way back to the place where he had left
that valuable article of property, when he was
thus unexpectedly brought ~f~e@ to face with a
strange lady. Fortunately, he was not at all
troubled with diffidence; so he went forward,
and, when Mrs. Gordon asked if Miss Tresham
was at home, at once responded in the prompt-
est manner imaginable~.
"Yes'rn, Miss ~resham's at home-she got
home a little while ago. She's in the dining-
roon~, I believe."
"Can I see her?"
"Oh, yes'ni-..walk in. This way, please."
His hand was on the lock of the' dining.
room door, when,, enter Letty on t~ie scene.-
panting and almost breathless.
"Not that way, Mass Jack;" cried she, eager-
ly. "Ask the lady in the parlor. This way,
ma'am"
She hurried forward ,to the parlor.door, and
Mrs. Gordon half turned 'to follow her, when
Jack, who was always at feud with Letty,~asserted
hit superior knowledge.
"The lady wants to see Miss Tre4ias~'sai~l
he, in a loud voice, "and Miss. Treshani aln't in
the parlor, she's in here. There slip is~ ~iow~he
added, triumphantly~ as he threw open the IoOr~
and revealed 'Katharine; whoAwas sitting gn~o$
immediately in front of, it.
Mrs. Gordon saw her, and at once adv~ia~e4.
into the room. ~he did not see St. ,Jnh~j who
was out of her range of vision, so she hogan
speaking, as she crossed the floor.
"Miss Tresham, I hope you will excus~me-~."
Here she stopped suddenly~ ~omething in
Katharine's face startled her, end made herlook  4
round. Then she saw her con~panion.
To describe the change that passed ever her
would be impossible. If shebad expected to see
him, if she had thought there was even the least
reason to fear a meeting with him, she would
have prepared for it-being ~ proud woman, and
one who would suft~er any thing sooner than let
an enemy ret~d her weakness. But, as it was, she
had no time for preparaflon. When she turned
and saw that so well-remembered, that so bitter-
ly-hated face, it was as if a sudden, brutal blow
had been dealt to her. She gave a sharp cry,
and covered her own face with her hands.
The door was still open, and Jack and Letty

0
z
0


128                       MORTON HOUSE.

OLD FOES.                           129

were holding an altercation in the passage, which
tilled up, strangely enough, the interval that fol-
'lowed.
"Never mind, Mass Jack-.-I'll tell mistis.
Putting' yourself forward when she told me to ask
the lady in the parlor!"
4L You mind your own business-I'll tell mam-
ma myself. The lady asked ~or Miss Tresharn,
an~ I wasn't a-going to show her in the parlor.
There ain't any fire in there, either."
This was what came into the room, while
Mrs. Gordon clasped her hands over her face, St.
John stood undecided what to do or say, and
Katharine felt a despair which bordered closely
upon recklessness. She could have laughed, or
she could have cried; but, instead of doing
either of the two, she heard, with the. odd dou-
ble consciousness that came to her in moments
of excitement, the recrimination in the passage,
and evei~ Qaught the angry whisk of Letty's dress
as she departed.
Nevertheless, Katharine waS the first who
reedvered self-possession. Seeing that St. John
was about to speak, she silenced him by a
glance, and walked up to Mrs. Gordon.
"Will you let me take you into the other
room?" she said, gently. "I am very sorry
for-for this."
The sound' of her voice seemed at once to
restore Mrs. Gordon to herself. She looked up
with a start. Then her whole face changed-
petrified, as it were-and she drew back, so that
not even her dress might touch the girl-drew
back as she might have drawn back from a scor-
pion.
"So it was you!" she said. And her voice
was so cold and hard, so changed in timbre, that
it made Katharine shrink.
"What was me?" she asked,"as the other
paused and said no more. "I do not under-
stand. What was me?"
"It was you who gave the clew to my place
of refuge," answered Mrs. Gordon, with the same
repellent coldness of voice and manner. "I
see it all now. I was foolish enough to like you
-to welcome you into my house-to encourage
my cousin in his love for you-and you gave me
this return I Thank you, Miss Tresham-.--thank
you for proving to me once more that the wisest
person in the world is the person who neither
gives nor hopes to receive regard."
'~St. John," said Katharine, turning round,
"do you hear this? Do you stand by and say
not one word to exonerate me from such an ac-
eusation?"

"What can I say?" asked St. John, care-
lessly. "Mrs. Gordon ought to know that she
is talking nonsense-that, if you had told me a
dozen times ovcr where she was, she had no claim
upon you to make such an act any thing but
natural.-But Miss Tresham did not tell me," he
added, turning to Mrs. Gordon. "I came here
in total ignorance of your having chosen this
as a place of residence. After I discovered the
fact, it was my duty to inform your husband; and~
that duty I fulfilled."
"I beg your pardon," said Mrs. Gordon,
addressing Katharine with her utmost stateli-
ness of tone and bearing. "I had no right to
speak to you as I did a moment ago. I am not
by nature a patient woman, and trouble has
tried me severely. I hope you will let this
plead my excuse. As Mr. St. John said, it is
certainly true that I have no claim upon you
-no right to hope that you would respect my
unfortunate position sufficiently to refrain from
betraying me to-to-"
She stopped, gasped slightly, as if threatened
with suffocation, and her hand went up to her
throat. Before Katharine could speak, however,
she went on:
"I ought to apologize for this intrusion.
When I entered the room, I thought you were
alone. I came to see you, to ask you to return
to Morton House with me, to beg you to cheer
the solitude which Felix's absence has made so
dreary. After this meeting, I shall not press that
request. I shall only bid you good-morning.~~
She bowed slightly, drew her veil over her
face, and turned to leave the room-a "grand
lady,~~ unmistakably, and, so far, commanding
much the best of the situation.
But at this point Katharine spoke, her clear,
quiet tones seizing Mrs. Gordon's attention, and,
almost perforce, arresting Mrs. Gordon's steps.'
"If you will allow me, madam, I have a few
words to say in my defence. It seems that you
disbelieve Mr. St. Johii's assertion. Will you
disbelieve mine when I tell you that I did not
bring him here, and that I knew nothing of his
acquaintance with you until he himself informed
meof it?"
Mrs. Gordon turned, and raised her veil
again. The two women faced each other for a
minute before the elder spoke-spoke with a
certain quiet contempt in her voice.
"1 confess that your question seems to me
unnecessary, Miss Tresham. Having granted
your right to inform Mr. St. John of my place
of abode, I can see no reason for uselessly pro-

)

longing this discussion. Why should it matter
to you whether or not I believe you to have
done so?"
Katharine flushed at the tone; but she con-
trolled herself, and held to her point with steady
dignity.
"Unnecessary or not, will you be kind enough
to answer my question?"
"If you force me to speak, I must answer,
then, that I do believe it."
"In the face of my assertion to the con-
trary?"
"In the face of any assertion given by any
friend of Mr. St. John's."
Hot words leaped to Katharine's lips; but
she held them back. Even at this moment she
had sufficient strength of will to restrain herself
-to remember that he who loses temper loses
many things besides, and that angry rejoinder
never yet helped a cause. She had a hard fight
for self-control; but she fought' it bravely, and
after a minute she was able to command her voice
sufficiently to reply.
- "I am your debtor, Mrs. Gordon, for the first
direct insult that was ever offered to me in my
life. I asked your attention before as a cour-
tesy; I demand it now as a right. You have
seen fit to charge me with falsehood with regard
to a matter in which, according to your own ad-
mission, I should have no reason to deny the
truth. I will now prove to you that you have
done so without a shadow of just cause."
She walked across the floor, and took the
Times advertisement from the table where she
had laid it.
"Will you read this?" she said, coming back
and offering it to Mrs. Gordon.
"I cannot imagine-" began the latter,
haughtily.
"Read it," said Katharine, interrupting her
with grave resolution.
So constrained, Mrs. Gordon took the slip of
paper and read:
"If the friends or relations of Katharine
Tresham, formerly of the British West Indies,
and lately of Cumberland, England, are desirous
of knowing her present whereabouts and address,
they can obtain this information by addressing
R. G., Box 1,084, Mobile, Alabama."
Having read it, she looked up.
"I confess that I do not understand this,"
she said.
"Perhaps these will enable you to do so,"

answered Katha:ine, offering the letters in
turn.
The first one which Mrs. Gordon opened-the
one which chanced to be the last, and in which
the writer gave Miss Tresham's address, and
asked information concerning her for "person-
al and family" reasons-startled her no little.
11cr eyes had scarcely fallen on the writing be-
fore she changed color. As she read on, her
face assumed an expression which puzzled Kath-
arine. It did not puzzle St. John, however.
Still master of himself, and quietly biding his
time, he coolly watched Mrs. Gordon, and coolly
arrived at a conclusion.
"She either knows or strongly suspects who
is the writer," he said to himself. "I shall re-
member that."
After Mrs. Gordon finished reading the letter,
she stood for some tim~ with it in her hand,
apparently deep in thought. Then she roused
herself, and opened the other. She merely
glanced over this, folded it up, and turned to
Katharine.
"Miss Treshain," she said, with formal courte-
sy, "I apologize. I see that you were not the
person who brought Mr. St. John to Lagrange,
and I retract my assertion to that effect. Are
you satisfied?"
"I am satisfied, madam," answered Katha-
rine, as coldly as herself.
"Will you allow me, then, to inq~uire~if you
have any idea who inserted this advertisement
and wrote these letters?"
"I have not the least idea."
Here St. John made a step forward, and was
aboht to speak, when Mrs. Marks appeared at the
still open door, in her best company dress and
with her best company smile.
"I heard that Mrs. Gordon was here," said
she, advancing into the room, "and I could
not help coming to-" Here the good woman
stopped, awed, amazed, by the face that looked
at her, overpowered by a sudden rush of feeling
which swept away all thought of conventional
greeting or conventional compliments. "0 Miss
Pauline I It can't be Miss Pauline I" she cried,
with an almost pitiful astonishment in her voice.
*" 1-1-0 Mrs. Gordon I excuse me, but such a
change-"
"You, at least, are not changed," said Mrs.
Gordon, extending her hand. "The same Bessie
Warwick that I knew once-the same BeSsie
Warwick, with the same honest face. Will you
take me somewhere-anywhere-so that I sian
speak to you alone?" she went on, much to Mrs.


130                       MORTON HOUSE.                                                                  OLD FOES.

131

Marks's surprise. "I am glad to see you; fo
I have something that I should like to say b
you."
"I-certainly-if you don't object, I wil
take you to my own rooin,~~ said Mrs. Marks
looking in bewildered surprise from Katharine
t~o St. Johnand from St. John to Mrs. Gordon
"I told Letty to make a fire in the parlor; but]
don't expect it is burning yet, and I couldn't asi
you to go into the cold. My room is in greal
confusion, for the children make such a litter
but if y9u wouldn't mind-"
"Anywhere," said Mrs. Gordon, faintly. Al.
ready her excitement was ebbing, her strength
was failing, and the room was growing black be-
fore her eyes. "I am ready," she added.
She took Mrs. Marks's arm as a support, and
turned to leave the room, but before she had
made thre9 steps, St. John stood before' her-
barring the only mode of egress.
"It is quite useless for you to think that you
can carry off matters in this way with rue, Mrs.
Gordon," he said, in a tone of contemptuous
amusement. "I understand, from various ru-
mets, that you have sent Felix away, and that
you intend to conceal his place of residence, as
y~u have already concealed your own, from his
father. Individually, I have no right to inter-
fere with your plans; but I think it well to in-
form you that your husband"-she shrank at the
word-.-" will be here in a short time, and that he
will use every means to discover the child, and to
punish, with the utmost rigor of the law, those
who have aided you in concealing him."
"Oh!" cried poor Mrs. Marks, and turned a
glance on. Mrs. Gordon, as i? to say, '"(Jan this
be true
But Mrs. Gordon did not heed the glance.
~t. John's tones and words had waked all the
fire of combat within her-all the haughty spirit
of resistance which years of tyranny had failed
to subdue.
"Tell the man for whbm you are acting," she
*       said, with rtll languor gone from her face, and all
weakness from her voice, "that if he is wise,
he wiU spare himselfthe trouble of coming here;
for no human power shall over make me see him
agaIn. Tell him that Felinis safe from him; and.
that those who have the child in charge, are
neither' so poor nor so weak as to be frightened
bytlireats of any penalty which it is in his power
to lnffict~ Tell him, alse," she added, with a
sudden flash in her eyes that absolutely made
St. John recoil a step, "that he had better think
twl~e before he comes'to seek the sister of Alfred
K

r Morton in her own home, and among her own kin-
, dred. I have oirly to speak, and there are men
here who would ask nothing better than to take
1 the matter of vengeance into their own hands."
"You know your husband, madam," said St.
John, quietly. "You know whether such threats
as that are likely to influence him."
"As for you," she went on, with passion so
intense that it made her whole frame quiver,
and her voice rise to that infinite height of
tragic emotion which only the greatest actors
have ever been able to imitate, "if I have
spared you, it has been because I recognized the
* fact that you are simply a tool, and, consequent-
* ly, that you arc below any thing save contempt.
But if you trouble me again, I say to you, as I
* said of him~ that there are men who would ask
nothing better than to rid me of you summarily.
* You will do well to remember this!"
"' If your friends will be kind enough to call
on me, madam," said St. John, with superb cool-
~iess, "I shall be happy to receive them. I can
make tkem accountable for the words you have
just addressed to me, because I have endeavored,
as your husband's friend, to serve his interests."
"My dear Mrs. Gordon, let-let inc take you
to my room," said~Mrs. Miirks, breaking in here
with a half-bewildered tone of expostulation. "I
-had no idea of any thing like this, or I should
not have come in. If this gentleman will move
aside-"
The gentleman moved aside in acknowledg-
ment of this request; but Mrs. Gordon stood
still-the glow was yet on her face, and it was
evident that she had yet something to say. This
time she addressed herself to Mrs. Marks:
"I wished to speak to you in priv~" she
said; "but it is not worth while. The warning
which I desired to give you-which it is my
duty to give you-had better be spoken in the
presence of the person against whom it is
directed. I find Mr. St. John apparently at
home in your house. I do not know how long
this has been the case, nor how long it is likely
to continue; but I warn you that, if you were
aware of his real character, he wonld not remain
within your doors five minutes. I speak of this
charaeter,'beeause I know it to my cost. lie
is the unprincipled inetruinent of another man
whom it is my misfortune to call my husband.
Miss Tresham has sufficiently shown that she has
some close connection with him. What that
connection is, it does not concern me to inquire.
Whether or not it concerns you, is a matter
which I leave for yourself to decide."

II
40

"Miss Katharine!" cried Mrs. Marks, with
one great culminating gasp of astonishment.
She turned and looked at her governess with an
air of appeal. Plainly she meant to say, "An-
swer for yourself."
But, as it chanced, Mrs. Gordon's last words
had tried Katharine's patience to its utmost limit.
She had, so far, curbed herself steadily-wonder-
fully, in fact, considering how much she had
borne before Mrs. Gordon's entrance, and how
much she had been called upon to endure since
then-but the last tones of scorn roused her as
she had not been roused before. She answered
Mrs. Marks's looks, therefore, by a few haughty

words.
"Mrs. Gordon is perfectly right," she said.
"My connection with Mr. St. John does not con-
cern her in the least. I decline to explain it in
her presence.~~
Mrs. Gordon showed her appreciation of this
reply with admirable temper and dignity.
"Miss Tresham reminds me that I have not
yet said good-morning," she remarked. "Will
you allow me to say it at once, and to add that
I shall be glad to see you at Morton House?"
She shook hands cordially with Mrs. Marks,
bowed distantly to Katharine, and left the room.
Mrs. Marks foilowe~ her, and, during the few
minutes which ensued, St. John was able to
say:
"Was there ever any thing as unlucky as
that she should have found me here? If you
had gone with her, you could have discovered
every thing."
"You have only yourself to thank that she
found you here," Katharine answered. "But, so
far as I am concerned, it does not matter-I
should not have gone with her."
"Why not?"
"You know why not, St. John. I should
only have laid myself open to the imputation of
doing what you wish me to do, of being what
you wish me to be-that Is, a
At this point, Mrs. Marks came back through
the passage-having parted with Mrs. Gordon on
the front piazza. She saw the dining-room door
still open, and hesitated a moment. Evidently
curiosity said, "Enter;" evidently, also, discre-
tion said, "Pass on;" and, between the two,
she stood irresolute. Seeing her irresolution,
St. John astonished Katharine by stepping for-
ward.
"Will you ~come in, madam?" he asked.
"In my own defence, and that of Miss Tresham,
I should like to say a few words to you."

OLD FOES.

Mrs. Marks came in-nowise loatii.-but Kath-
arine hardly saw her. It was now her turn to feel
faint and sick-for the room to go round in a
sort of black mist. Through this mist, she heard
St. John speak as if he had been a great way
off.
"Since you know Mrs. Gordon, madam, you
must be aware that she is of a very excitable
and impulsive disposition. This fact will ac-
count tor her unprovoked attack on Miss Tresh-
am and on myself. I came to this place in igno-
rance of her being here; but, as a friend of her
husband, I could not conceal from him that the
wife for whom he has been searching all over
Europe is in America. One does not expect
reason from an angry woman; but you heard
how unjustly she assailed mc, on account of
this act of disinterested friendship. As for Miss
Tresham, I will not insult her by offering to-"
"But is it really true?" asked Mrs. Marks,
mercilessly interrupting this flow of language.
"Is there really no doubt that Mrs. Gordon has
a husband living? I-that is, we thought her a
widow."
"There is no doubt, madam, that her hus-
band is living, and that she left him in the
most-"
Here Katharine rose and came forward.
"St. John, that is enough," she said. "Mrs.
Gordon's domestic troubles cannot~ interest Mrs.
Marks. Will you go now? I do not think I
can stand this any longer."
She spoke quietly, but with a certain deter-
mination which, almost against his will, St. John
obeyed. He started, looked at her face, and, see-
ing the resolution of the eyes that met his own,
went to the mantel-piece for the hat he had left
there.
"I will go, certainly," he said; "but I must
see you again. When can that be?"
"I don't know," sh~ answered, wearily. "I
shall begin teaching on Monday, and-"
"I should like to see you before Monday."
"Come when you choose, then-that Is, if
Mrs. Marks does not object."
"Certainly not," said Mrs. Marks. "I am
always glad for any of Miss Katharine's friends
to come to see her, and if Mr."-she stepped
and looked at Katharine.
"Mr. St. John," said Katharine, in reply to
the look.
"If Mr. St. John will come to tea this evea~
ing, we shall be very glad to see him."
"Thank you, madam," said Mr. St. John,
speaking for himself. "I am very grateful for


132                       MORTON ROUSE.                                                               MORTON'S CHOICE.                     133

your kind invitation, but I regret to say that I am
unable to accept it. I have business-letters of
importance to write to-day, and I do not think
[shall be able to finish them in time to do my.
self the pleasure of coming.~~
"To-morrow evening-" began hospitable
Mrs. Marks; but St. John had already turned
away, and was speaking to Katharine in a tone
too low for her to hear his words. As Miss
Tresham replied, the coldness of her manner
struck Mrs. Marks so much that she stopped
short ~n her second invitation. She had sup-
posed that this handsome gentleman must be a
favored suitor, but now she began to change her
mind. He was a lover.-Oh, dear! evidently a
lover, or he would never have spoken in that
voice, and with that manner-but a rejected,
perhaps a hopeless lover, poor fellow I His
devotion touched her, but she was too close an
observer not to see at once that his cause was
doomed to failure. Men are sometimes deceived
by the coldness of a woman, are sometimes un-
able to tell whether this coldness is that which
betrays dislike; or that which conceals love; but
you never find another woman who is so blind.
Mrs. Marks saw at once that there was no hope
for Mr. St. John; and, although she felt sorry for.
him, although she would have liked to do some-
thing to console him, still she had sufficient dis-
cretion to feel that the invitation to tea had bet-
ter not be pressed. When he took leave, she
threw a good deal of respectful sympathy into her
manner; and, after he was gone, she would have
opened fire at once on Katharine, if Katharine
had not anticipated any address on her part, by
coming and putting her arms around her.
"You are very good to me," she said, sim-
ply, "I am very glad you did not let Mrs. Gor-
don prejudice you against me. But do not ask
Mr. St. John here again, Mrs. Marks. I do not
think Mr. Warwick iVould like it,"
"I hope I'm mistress in my own house, my
dear," said Mrs. Marks, a little stiffly. Then she
softened, hnd kissed the girl. "I won't, of
course, if ~you say not-it was only because he
was a friend of yours that I asked him. I can
see that he cares a great deal for you, and that
he hasn't much in the way of hope to thank you
for. B~t I don't see what John has to do with
it."
"Mr. Warwick is Mrs. Gordon's friend, and,
naturally, he will take her side, and look on her
cause as-as she does. I don't mean to defend
Mr. St. John," she went on, hnvriedly. "I don't
mean that they may not be right; but still, I

should like to see him sometimes, as long as he
stays here, if you don't object."~
"My dear, I don't object in the least," said
the elder woman, kindly. "Don't be afraid of
my being prejudiced by Pauline Murton. I
know how quick and fiery she always used to be.
As for you, I would trust you with-with a mint
of money, if I had it."
"You have trusted me with the children, and
they are worth tea mints of money," said Katha-
rine, smiling faintly. Then she disengaged her-
self, and went np-stairs.
An hour or two afterward, Mrs. Marks was
in the dining-room, where Tom was busy setting
the table, when she was startled by the appear-
ance of Miss Tresham, who entered all cloaked
and bonneted as if for a journey, and with a
small travelling-bag on her arm.
* "Mrs. Marks," she said, "will you lend me
a little money ?-ten dollars will do. I find I
have none in my purse, and I want to catch the
coach, and go over to Saxford. I cannot be
back until Monday evening, and that will prevent
my beginning school until Tuesday; but I hope
you won't mind it."
"No-I won't mind it," said Mrs. Marks, a
little taken aback. She thought Miss Tresham
was growing very eccentric, for she had been to
Saxford only the week before Chrisunas, and now
to go again so soon, was quite unprecedented
and singular, to say the least. She did not
think of refusing her consent, however; but, on
the contrary, searched diligently for her purse in
the depths of a capacious pocket.
"It's late to be thinking of going, Miss
Katharine," she said. "The stage is due for
dinner, you know; and I'm afraid you'll hardly
catch it now. Give Tom your bag, and~ he can
put some ham and biscuit in it, for you won't be
able to stay for dinner. Will two five-dollar
notes do? I haven't a ten."
"Two five-dollar notes will do very well," said
Katharine "Thank you, and good-by. Kiss the
children for me-I really have not time tb see
them. That will do, Tom-give me my bag
now."
She took the bag, kissed Mrs. Marks, and was
out of the door before that astonished woman
had time to collect her senses. When she did,
her first exclamation was:
"What will Richard say?"

'I
2

Morton chanced to be standing near Irene
Vernon when he read this, and his change of
color at once struck that young lady, who was a
very close observer.
"Nothing is the matter, 1 hope, Mr. Annes-
Icy?" she said, as he looked up and met her
answered he, a little hesitatingly.
Then he glanced down at the note again, and
went on: "Nothing is the matter, I hope; but I
must go at once to Morton House. My cousin
has sent for me."
"Oh, how provoking! What will become of
our ride this afternoon?"
"I am obliged to ask you to defer it. You
won't care, will you? I am very sorry, but"-
"But, if it must be done, that is an end of4he
matter. The weather may be as delightful to-
morrow as it is to-day. At all events, don't
consider me, if your cousin has sent for you."
"You are the embodiment of obliging good-
ness," said Morton, gratefully. Then, to the ser-
vant still standing by, "My horse."
While the horse was being brought out, the
young man curbed his impatience as well as he
could- and, to enable him to do so, took Miss
Vernon partially into his confidence. He did
not tell her all of Mrs. Gordon's story, but he
told her enough to account for his abrupt depart-
ure, and to enlist her sympathy. After a while
they wandered from this immediate subject to
certain side issues.
"There is one thing that might console your
cousin a little," said Miss Vernon, as they
walked up and down the piazza, with the soft
air and the bright sunshine all around them.
"She has gratified the wishes and fulfilled the
desires of her heart. It is not given to every-

CHAPTER XXV.
MORTON'S CHOICE.
Tim morning on which Miss Tresham left
Annesdale was wearing into noon, when a note
from Mrs. Gordon was brought to Mr. Annesley.
It was written after her return from Tallahoma,
and was brief, to the extreme of epistolary brev-
ity.
"MORToN Ilousz, Friday morning.
"DEAn MORTON: Come to me as soon as pos-
sible-at once, if that be possible. I have some-
thing of importance to say to you. Yours,
"PAULINE GoRDoN."

body to do that, you know. She must have tasted
some sweets before the bitter came-ought not
that to help her to resignation?"
"Would it help you, do you think?"
"I don't know-but it seems to me it would.
Any thing is better than dull, even stagnation.
A still day of leaden cloud is the dreariest thing
in the world-don't you think so? Ah, how
bright and beautiful it is to-day! If I knew
that to-morrow would bring a blinding storm, 1
should still take the sunshine, and enjoy it while
it lasted."
"You surprise me," said Morton, smiling.
"I had no idea that you were such an epi-
curean. But," he added, more gravely, "you
are mistaken. If you had ever known Mrs.
Gordon, you would see that the lesson of her
life is directly opposed to the sentiment you are
advocating-a sentiment which has found its
best expression in the words, 'Let us eat and
drink, for to-morrow we die.' The lesson of
Mrs. Gordon's life teaches with unusual force a
thing which has almost grown trite in our ears
-this is, tlia~ the gratification of our own wish-
es, and the fulfillment of our own desires, never
brings happiness. Of course, we all think it
would do so; and, since there are few of us
who are free enough to test the matter, we go
on to our lives' ends thinking so But, in truth,
when we see those who possessed the freedom
which we lacked, and who marched forward to
the goal of their own hopes, what is the result?
Mrs. Gordon was one of those people, Miss Ver-
non; and, if you could see her, your own eyes
would assure you that, for her, not only the end,
but the very hour of fruition-if, indeed, there
ever 8 an hour of fruition-was disappointment
and bitterness."
"But, at all events, she has not merely exist-
ed-she has lived."
"You must give me your definition of life
before I can grant you even that," he said, with
a slight, grave smile. "Does life consist in a
certain amount of sight-seeing, a certain number
of vicissitudes to be endured, a certain depth of
emotion to be sounded? I know that the idea
of the day runs somewhat thus, and that discon-
tent is rife in many places, because some people
declare that life is only worthy of the name when
it has known these things. But it seems to me
that minds which think thus, must reason very
shallowly-else they could hardly fail toperceive
that, by such a standard, they exalt the worst
class of the world above the best. In their
sense, wh~ has lived most thoroughly, the saint

MORTON'S CHOICE-

133


~34                              MORTOI
in his cloister, the philosopher in his study, the
great minds and hearts that solitude has nurtured
in all ages, or the reckless adventurer, the wander-
ing sybarite, the men who sound every scale of
human life, and, dying, pass from human memory
like the brutes that perish? Miss Vernon, will
you tell me what you meant by saying that Mrs.
Gordon had lived?"
"I meant exactly what you have condemned,
Mr .Annesley. I meant that her existence has
not been tame and stagnant, and east in one
groove; ,but that it has been like a varied drama,
filled with many scenes and many emotions. In
short-..-well, I express myself badly, hut I think
you know what I mean."
"Yes, I think I do. You mean that, to you,
her life ~cems like a picture, where the shades
onlyheighten the effect; or, like a story, which
would lose half its interest if it had no' tragic
incidents, or pathetic close. But the tragedy
and the pathos are not poetical, but very bitter,
when they come home to us in our own lives.
If you will allow inc to make a personal applica-
tion of my meaning, I should judge from what
you have said just now, and from many things
which have gone before, that you find your life
dull and tame-.-it may be, even weary. But does
it never occur to 'you that this very life seems to
others like one long sunny idyl of brightness
and peace? Believe me, thd chief secret of hap-
piness-the only one, in fact-is content with
that life, and mode of life, which has fallen to
em- portion. I don't mean that we can obtain
this content by merely wishing for it," said the
young man, with a wistful look on his face;
"but we can gain it by fighting for it, and it is
worth a battle. Forgive me, if I seem to be
preaching to you," added he, with a smile. "I
have very imperfectly expressed the thoughts
your words suggested to me, but perhaps you
can seize the idea through the rude garb in which
I have clothed it. It has only come to me dimly
a~d feebly, but there is a thrill about it which
tells me thAt I am on the threshold of a great
truth. Yonder is my horse, at last. Now my
posing is at an end. Good-by."
"Good-by," echoed Miss Vernon, giving her
hand, unconsciously, to the one he extended.
"I did not know you thought this way," she
we~nt on, abruptly. "Your creed seems to me
simple, and yet-I fear I am very morbid," she
said, quickly. "You have done something to
make me ashamed of it"
'4 You are a little morbid," said Morton, smil-
lug. "must forgive me if I tell you so, and

HOUSE.

you must also forgive meif I suggest the remedy.
May11"
"Of course you may."
"Forget yourself then. I don't mean that
you think of yourself a great deal," he went on,
as he saw her flush; "but we are all prone to
self-consciousness, and, in some natures, it fos-
ters vanity; in others, a morbid habit of intro-
spectionwhich-pshaw! lam drifting into meta-
physics, and I know you hate the stuff as much
as I do. Once more, good-by. I am off for
good, this time."
Miss Vernon stood on the piazza and watched
him as he rode away. lie looked very gallant
and handsome; for, like most of his country.
men, he rode to perfection, and never appeared
so well as on horseback. When he was out of
sight, she smiled, to herself, with a mixture of
archness and sadness. Seen just now, her face
wore its very softest and sweetest expression.
"It is not hard to tell where he obtains his
philosophy," she thought. "No doubt he is
perfectly sincere in it, but it is amazingly easy
t6 be resigned to success, and to be content
when every desire of one's heart is gratified.
The test will be when disappointment and failure
come. If his philosophy helps him to bear
that, it will be genuine, and worth practising.
Will it help him to bear it, though? Who can
tell?"
Regarded as an abstract question, who, in-
deed? Yet the time was fast approaching when
the abstract question would assume practical
shape, and when Miss Vernon's question \vould
be answered in a way which Miss Vernon could
not, at that moment, possibly have foreseen or
imagined.
She was still standing on the piazza, still
looking absently out on the bright landscape,
still thinking of Morton's philosophy, and of the
chances for and against his practising it, when
Mrs. Annesley appeared at the open hall-door,
and walked up to her.
"All alone, my dear?" she said, with a
smile, in which the kindness for 'once was real.
"I thought I saw Morton with you a few min-
utes ago?"
"You did see him with me ~ few minutes
ago," Irene answered; "but he is gone now.
Didn't you hear the tramp of his horse?"
"I heard the tramp of somebody's horse, but
I had no idea that it was his. Where has he
gone~"'
"To Morton House, I believe."
"To Morton House!" The extreme of 5'W?

MORTON'

pris~ appeared in Mrs. Annesley'a face. "Why,
what has taken him there? And so suddenly-
without a word to me!"
"A note from Mrs. Gordon was the cause of
his going," said Miss Vernon, carelessly. "He
showed it to me, because he had an engagement
to ride with me, which, in consequence of this, he
was obliged to break."
"And what was in the note?"
"Only a few lines, begging him to come to
her at once, on a matter of importance."
"Nothinc~ more?"
"Nothing more at all."
"How very strange 1" said Mrs. Annesley,
with her color rising. "A matter of impor-
tance, and not one word to me-either from
Pauline or Morton. My dear, excuse me, and
don't think it is curiosity I feel-I am surprised,
and, I confess, a little wounded, that I should be
openly excluded from the confidence of my son.~~
"I don't think Mr. Annesley knew what Mrs.
Gordon wants with him," said Miss Vernon, see-
ing the mischief she had unwittingly done, and
being anxious to smooth the lady's ruffled plumes.
"He seemed very much surprised, and, I am sure,
he never thought-"
"That is just it," said Mrs. Annesley, a little
bitterly. "Of course, he n~verthought-or per-
haps he receives Pauline's confidence with the
stipulation that it is to be kept from me. But
we mothers must make up our minds to bear
this," said she, recovering her usual manner by
an effort. "As our children grow older, others
supplant us in their hearts and minds, and we
must endeavor to abdicate with a good grace.
If we could only choose our successors, it would
uot be hard to do so," she added, drawing the
girl's hand within her arm, with a smile.
"Dear Mrs. Annesl~y, you do your son great I
injustice," said Irene, speaking quickly. "No I
one will ever supplant you in his heart. I don't
think you know how much he loves and admires
you. It often makes me admire kim to see it."
"You reconcile me to abdication, my dear,"
said the lady, smiling the same gracious smile.
"Ah! if I can only choose my successor "-she '~
broke 6ff, as irene colored and drew back a lit-
tle. "Forgive me-I only meant to say that I s
am very happy if I am one link to draw you e
nearer to us. Shall we go in now? I am afraid d
you find it cold out here."
They went in; and no sooner was Mrs. An- b
nealey able to make a retreat, than she retired t:
te her own room, and rang for her maid.     V
"Get my wrappings, Julia," she said, "and a

S CHOICE.                             135
order the carriage. Tell Sarah to have dinner
an hour or two later than usual, for I am going
to Morton House, and shall not be back at the
ordinary time."
While his mother, at Annesdale, was prepar-
ing for her drive, Morton felt as if the ground
had absolutely yielded beneath his feet, when
Mrs. Gordon, who was in a state of strangely-
passionate excitement, told her story at Morton
House. After it was ended, she gave the reason
that had made her send for him.
"I have been foolish enough to encourage
you in your fancy for this girl," she said. "It
was my duty, therefore, not to let you rest an
hour in ignorance of her true character-not to
fail to tell you at once that I consider her an
adventuress of the most decided stamp. Mor-
ton, for Heaven's sake-for the sake of your
name, your honor, and your friends-do not give
another thought to her!"
"One moment," said Morton, who was pale,
but reticent-evidently he meant to hear every
thing, and say nothing that would commit him
to any positive line of action-" you have not
told me yet why you think this."
"Could I think it on better ground than
that of her association with St. Johnl' You
don't know-you can hardly imagine-.-.what he
is!"
"But is it just to judge her by him?"
"What could be more just, when there is
evidently some link of familiar connection be..
tween them? Morton, put the case as if it re-
garded somebody else. What would you think
of a woman who was on terms of-~-.-well, we will
my intimate friendship, with a man than whom
bhe lowest sharper is not more destitute of honor
-with a man whose record is one that exile~
idm forever from the companionship of honest
eople?"
"She may not know this."
"Ask her if she does not! I am willing to
'isk every thing on her reply, for I think that
circumstances have made it impossible for her
o speak falsely.. Ask her if she does not huow
rho and what St. John is."
"You are right," he said, rising. "I will
*sk her. That is the straightforward and hen.
at thing to do, after all. Don't think that I
oubt you," he went on, looking at bi~ eoiisin.
Don't think that I am ungenerous euouRjat~
lame you for what you have said. 'Op~li~4os~.
rary, I thank you. I should certainly hear all
fiat is said-if only that I may be abl&amp; to ~n-
wer it. You must forgive me that' I i~annot


MORTON'S CHOJOB.                     137

136                       MORTON HOUSE.

take any mere circumstantial evidence against
her. It seems to me that 1 should be a very con-
temptible fellow, if I did."
"And you are going to her?" said Mrs. Gor-
don, bitterly. "Well-perhaps it may be best;
but oh, Morton, don't be rash! Don't say any
thing that you may hereafter regret. Give me
that much credence, at least."
He bent down, and kissed her cheek-smiling
with an attempt at cheerfulness which went to
her, heart more surely than any pathos could
'have done. He was mad and foolish, she
thought; he was about to risk the happiness
of his whole life in the blind determination to
trust to the last; yet, even while she felt impa-
tient~ she could not but be touched by his sim-
ple, steadfast fidelity. It had all the elements
of the highest chivalry in it, though nobody
could have known this as little as Morton him.
self. It was Mrs. Gordon who recognized it, and
who, in the midst of her anxiety and irritation,
felt suddenly thrilled by admiration. Still she
could not but make one last effort.
"Morton," she said, catching his hand as he
bent over her, "listen to me. I am much older
than yourself, and, although I am a woman, my
knowledge of the world is much greater. Be-
sides, I am your cousin-~--the only Morton left,
the only one of the name which hereafter you
will have to represent. To see you what you are
-to know you brave, and true, and loyal-has
given more sunshine to my life than you would
readily believe. IC he lives, Felix's duties will
be elsewhere-sonic day, therefore, this house
must be yours. This has been my only comfort.
Morton~remember that it was through my fault
my father left here; it was my fault my brother
never took his place. It is a horrible thing to
see, when it is too late, a direct sequence of
events-to know that one's own haid has set
in motion a tide which ends by sweeping away
every thing that life holds dear. This has been
my lot. Don't add one mor~ disappointment to
it-one more bitter memory. Don't ruin your
life, and tarnish your name, by marrying this
woman."
The earnestness, the passion of her appeal,
touched Morton deeply. lie saw plainly enough
that the question of his happiness was with her
entirely subordinate to the question of family
pride; but he sympathized with this sentiment
sufficiently to feel its supremacy no 'hardship.
lit these times, the thought that any thing is of
more importauice than the gratification of a sen-
timental fancy is quite obsolete; but, in that

day, a few people (and Morton was one of these
people) clung to the old-fashioned idea that there
were certain claims to be considered in such a
case, certain higher duties than the duty of mar-
rying and giving in marriage, certain principles
to be observed, and, if any or all of these things
clashed with love,'then love must give way. We
of the present period know better than that.'
Having the grand advantage of modern enlight-
enment, we know that the first duty of every
reasonable human being is a duty to self. And
as selfishness generally culminates its strength
in love-not divine love, which takes us out of
ourselves into something higher, but that passion
bearing its name, which is of the earth earthy-
so love must needs be taught to override all the
grand 'old watchwords of Faith, and Honor, and
Duty. But, as we have said, Morton was not of
this day. The jargon of the new school of mor-
alists would have been a foreign language to his
ears. The conception of sacrifice-the concep-
'tion which is the key-note of every nature which
deserves to be called noble-had always been
familiar to him, had grown with his growth, and
strengthened with his strength. As far as he
was concerned, he was ready to put his own
wishes clown under his feet for the sake of any
thing that had a right to demand the offering;
and, reared as he had been, the name that he
bore was one of these things. No sacrifice could
be counted too costly that would help to keep it
pure and untarnished.
Regarded from this point of view, his course
seemed clear-but then there was another side
to the question, or else all this explanation need
not have been written. To Morton, life had al-
ways seemed a very simple thing, and he had
never had much sympathy with those who pro-
fessed to find it otherwise. "The path of duty is
always clear and straight," he said, "andifwe
follow it, we can't possibly go wrong. The peo-
plc who are involved in moral difficulties, gener-
ally make them for themselves." Now the time
had come for him to learn-as everybody who
deals in such fluent generalities sooner or later
must learn-that life is, after all, a very com-
plex tissue, and that, without being addicted to
the dangerous pastime of splitting hairs, we may
find ourselves on the horns of a moral dilemma,
and be honestly and seriously puzzled thereby.
Two duties were clashing with him now, aad
the young man felt sorely uncertain as to which
had the strongest claim to his respect. On the
one side was the name to which a gentlemanowo~
his first duty. On the other, that principle of

steadfast fidelity which every tradition of his
creed, and instinct of his nature, made a solemn
obligation. Moved as he had been by Mrs.
Gordon's passionate appeal, he was not yet
ready to set this aside as naught-not yet ready
to believe that the higher duty conflicted with
it.
He walked away to the window, and stood
there looking out. Before him lay the broad
Morton fields, and the distant shadowy Morton
woods. Above him was the roof which he had
just heard Mrs. Gordon declare might some day
be his own-at a little distance from him sat the
woman rendered so sadly desolate by her own
folly, the woman who had appealed to him in the
name of family honor, who had bared her heart
to him, and prayed him to spare her another
cruel blow. Here it would have seemed as if
every influence weighed heavily in one scale-as
if here the side which all these things represented
surely must prevail. Yet here his heart spoke to
him as it had never spoken before. Here Katha.
rme Tresham's face rose before him with a pathos
and a beauty which the face itself had never
owned. Suddenly the passion which he had
heretofore so steadily curbed, so sternly kept
obedient to his will, rose up in revolt, and swept
over him in a great wave that fairly startled him.
A voice seemed to speak in his ear, and to say:
"If you give her up in this way, you are a das.
tard!" It was in obedience to this voice that
he turned at last to answer Mrs. Gordon.
"Until I have seen Miss Tresham, I cannot
tell what I will do," he said. "I can only say
that I will try to act as seems to me right. 'Many
things have conspired to perplex me of late;
and, at this moment, I am only certain of one
thing-that I, will not give her up! I will trust
her until she herself proves or disproves your
opinion of her; and I should not deserve the
name of gentleman if I did not do so."
"This is your decision?" asked Mrs. Gor-
don.
"This is my decision," he answered.
Something like a faint smile of pity came to
the lips of the woman who had gone lan- way, and
who now looked back on the results of it.
"Weare all alike," she said. "Indeed, all
of us must needs run our own course of folly,
and wreck our lives according to our own fancy.
I suppose It is useless to reason with you; and I,
of all people, have no right-save the right of
sad experience-to bid you stop and consider.
Yet "-she paused a moment-" yet I fancied
you would be different. I fancied you would

rate the duty you owe to your name above your
passion for a woman's face."
"And I thought you would understand me
better," he answered, quickly. "I thought you
would believe that I do rate it above every thing
excepting my duty to God, and that if my love
for Katharine Tresham clashed with it, I would
sacrifice that love without an instant's hesita-
tion."
"if it clashed with it?"
"Yes, if it clashed with it. You must par.
don me that I say 'if'-but your opinion is only
your opinion, you know; and, in a matter which
concerns the happiness of my whole life,' I can.
not accept any thing but positive evidence."
"One word more," said Mrs. Gordon, as he
extended his hand to bid he~ good.by. She did
not take the hand, but rose ~o her feet, holding
her own tightly pressed against her heart.
"You will not misunderstand what I am going
to say, I am sure; you will not think that I mean
to influence you by any thing so foolish, and
(from me) so impertinent as a threat," she went
on. "But I think it right to place before you
the consequences of the step you seem deter.
mined to take. Morton, that woman is allied in
some way to the man who helped to ruin my
life and to murder my brother. If you make
her your wife, you can never be master in this
house."
She spoke quietly, but in a moment she saw
that she had spoken unwisely. Her warning
certainly had much of the nature of a threat in
it, and the man must be cold-blooded, indeed,
who, in a matter of this kind, subMts to be
threatened.
"You might have spared me this," said
Morton, with more hauteu,- than he intended.
"My resolution with regard to Miss ~'resham
did not need a spur; and your own experience
might tell you whether my sense of family obli-
gation is likely to be increased or diminished by
the knowledge of such a penalty. I see that I
had better go," he added, after a short pause.
"You have wounded me, and I may pain you, if
I remain any longer. Forgive me if I have
seemed abrupt or ungracious. I-this has been
a harder struggle than you think."
She let him go in silence. But after the hst
echo of his step had died away, the reason of
thin became evident. She sat down, and a rush
of tears came through the thin, white fingers
which covered her face.
Half an hour later, Babette opened the door,
and brought in a card.


138                       MORTON liOUSE.

"The lady is in the drawing-room, and insists
on seeing madame," she said.
"I can see nobody," answered Mrs. Gordon,
languidly. Still she extended her hand, and
took t~~e bit of pasteboard. She started when
she read Mrs. Anneelcy's name.
CHAPTER XXYL
~5R. SLAUK5 AssERrs HIM5ELr.
Mn~. MM~ns's doubt of what "Richard"
would have to say on the subject of Miss Tresh.
am's flitting, proved to be well founded. When
the cashier came home to dinner, and heard his
wife's eager recital of the events of the morning,
he looked decidedly grave. The zhenti~n of Mr.
St. John recalled Mr. Warwick's opinion of that
gentleman, and for Mr. Warwick's opinion no.
body' entertained a greater respect than his
brother.ia.ltLw. Then Mrs. Gordon's warning
seemed to Mr. Marks a much more important
matter than it had seemed to his wife. -
"Mrs. Gordon would never have spoken in
that way without some cause," he said, when
Mrs. Marks told her story. After this, came
the news of Miss Treshata's sudden departure
-.at which Mr. Marks startled his wife by the
astonishment of his face.
"Gene 1" he said. "Gone, just at the close
of the holidays, and~before she had* been in the
house more than a few hours! What is the
~neaning of it?.-.what did she~say was The mean-
Wgefit~?"
"I-really, I believe she only said she was
going to Sanford," answered Mrs. Marks, de-
eldedIy~taken aback. "Sheasked me if I had
~tayObjectioiiand I told her no. I thought a
day or two~Would n~t matter about the children,
and it never occurred tome th~t you ~Would mind
~4.~~
"I mind it, because I don't understand it,"
said Mit. Marks, with the same unusual gravity.
"It doii'~t~look well for Mlss~resham to be neg.
letting her duties in this way ;~ but, a~s you
eey, aday or two wouldn't matter~-.if a day or
two's loss of titus was all. What does matter,
is~46me explanation of this strange conduct.
Think, ~essi~i I Did she tell you nothing about
wAy sh6 was going to Sa~ford?"
'~hn~did not tell inc a word," said Mrs.
Marks, looking and feeling a little crestfallen.
"She ~nine ~ln here in ~a great hurry, just as
Tom was setting the table, and asked me to lend

'her some money, as ~he had none, and wanted--
Why, Richard, what on earth is the matter?"
There was reason enough for asking the ques-
tion. Mr. Marks's eyes opened wide on his star-
tIed wife, and the expression of his face fully
warranted her surprise. When she broke off
in this way, his lips had already formed an excla-
mation.
"She asked you for money!" he repeated,
hastily. "Bessic, there must be some mistake I
Are you sure she asked you for money?"
"Of course I am sure! How could I be mis-
taken?"
"And did you lend her any?"
"Of course I did-I lent her ten dollars."
"Ten dollars!"
The cashier's astonishment seemed to have
reached the utmost extreme possible to that
emotion. He walked up and down the floor,
then came back and stood before the lire, look-
ing down into the glowing coals.
"This is the strangest thing I ever heard
of!" he said, at last. "I confess I don't under-
stand it."
"What is the matter?" demanded Mrs.
Marks, who was, in her turn, excited by curios-
ity. "What is strange ?---.what is it you don't
understand? Why shouldn't Miss Treshani ask
me to lend her some money?"
Her husband turned and looked at her.
"The simple reason why Miss Tresham should
not have asked you to lend her some money is,
that I paid Miss Tresham no less sum than a
thousand dollars no longer ago than last Tues-
day."
"Richard I"
"Her reeetpt is at the bank to show for it,"
said Mr. Marks; "and now-on Friday-she
comes to you to borrow ten dollars! It is very
strange conduct, to say the least of it."
"A thousand dollars! Good gracious!
What dO you think she could have done with
it?" cried Mrs. Marks, all in a flutter. "She
certainly said she didn't have any money, and
she certainly took two five-dollar notes from
me. Richard, what on earth could she have
done with it?"
"That is more than I can pretend' to say,"
answered her husband. "But one thing is cer-
tam-.--1 don't like. the look of matters. When*
Miss Tresham drew that mokey, she was very
~articu1ar about requiring gold. Then she wrote
s'note in the bank, end had a meeting in the
parlor across the passage, with this St.~Jehx~.
After that she went away, and War~4e1c~-&amp;~a~ee

I
I

MR. MARKS ASSERT$ IIIMS.ELF.                 139

in. The first thing he told me was that the
man-'St. John, I mean~was an unprincipled
scoundrel; and, though he did not give me his
reasons for saying so, he spoke in a rntuiner
which showed very plainly that he had reasons,
and good ones, for the opinion. I confess that,
at the time, I didn't pay much attention to the
matter; but; looking back now, it seems to me
more serious. After what has happened. to-day,
I feel uneasy-I feel certain that something is
wrong."
"Not with Miss Tresham, Richard-I'm sure
there's nothing wrong with Miss Tresham."
"What do you know about Miss Tresham,
Bessie? You may forget, but I don't, that we
engaged her when she 4as an entire stranger to
us, and that, after living with us two years, she
is, as far as her own affairs are concerned, as
much a stranger as ever."
"But you know how nice she is!" said Mrs.
Marks, indignantly. "You know nil that she has
done for the ehihfren, and-and all that she has
done for me. You liked her yourself, Richard-
you know you did!"
"I like her now," said Mr. Marks, with that
stolid masculine coolness which some men pos-
sess in superlative degree, and which is, to the
feminine mind, the most exasperating thing in
the world. "But what has that got to do with
the matter? l'm not talking about liking her.
I'm talking about her drawing that money, and
borrowing ten dollars from you three days later
-.-I am talking about her acquaintance with this
S&amp; John, and what Mrs. Gordon said of it-and
I'm talking of her going away without a word
of explanation, just as the holidays are at an
end."
Mrs. Marks sat dumb. She was a good par.
tisan; but even the best of partisans must have
something besides mere opinion withwhich to op-
pose stated facts. On any one of these grounds,
she was unable to ~ay any thing for Miss Tresh-
am. After a minute's silence, Mr. Marks re-
sumed:
"One of two things must happen. Either
Miss Tresham has gone away for good-than
which, I confess I think nothing mere likely-
or else she wrn come back at the stated time.
If she does come back, there must be an expla-
nation required from her. I must know who
Mr. St. John is, and on what footing he comes
here. Otherwise, I may be sorry to part with
her, but my duty is plain-she must go. I can-
not keep a governess wh~ acts as Miss ~Fresham
has-been acting lately."

So spoke the head of the household in his
official capacity; and much as his wire's sym-
pathy ranged on the side of the governess, she
could not deny that he spoke with reason. Miss
Tresham's conduct certainly justified all that he
said of it. Yet the unreasoning faith of Miss
Tresham's advocate was not shaken for an in-
stant. 0 wonderful instinct of woman I There
is nothing like it in the world; and where it has
taken one woman wrong, it has led a hundred
thousand right. Yet there are people who would
like to educate and "develop" it into a "reason-
ing faculty!" Why does not somebody~ come
forward to paint the lilies of the field, and furnish
us with patent improved sunlight, warranted to
shine on every occasion?
Oblivious, for once, of his business duties in
town, Mr. Marks was still standing before the
fire, considering the perplexing subject which was
on the domestic tapir, when there came a knock
at the front door.
"There, now!" said Mrs. Marks, starting.
"or course it's somebody to see me .Mrs~
Sloan, I expect-and what a sight I am! Go,
Richard, please, and ask her into the par.
Icr."
Mr. Marks'~obcyed, and, as he carelessly left
the door open behind him, his wife heard him
exchange a cordial greeting with the visitor;
and then, without any warning, he came back,
and ushered Morton Annesley into the dining.
room, where the uncleared dinner-tablestood in
the centre of the fioor.-Mrs. Marks having been
in such a fever of impatience to tell her story,
that she had not allowed Tom to finish his
duties.
"Oh, my dear!" she cried, in a tone of capes-
tulation. But it was too late. Morton..-.-wbo
would have been none the wiser if there had
been an elephant, instead of a dinner-table, in
the middle of the fioor-walked forward and
shook hands with her.
"Fray don't speak of it," he said, when she
began apologizing. "I hope you don't consider
me a stranger. Mr. Marks, at least, was more
complimentary, for he asked me in at oncc.~ :1
hope you are well. I hwve not seen you fern
long time-not since before Christmas~ I b~.
lleve~ May I wish you a happy New Year,
since we did not have an opportunity ~e ~ox.
change Christmas greetings ?-Y~cs, Mr. Murka-
the roads are quite heavy. That rain ~~t~rday
has made them muddy. My boots show it.-.
don't they?"
People less clear.sighted thanMt~ M~srks ~ti4

K


MR. MARKS ASSERTS HIMSELF.                  141

140                       MORTON HOUSE.

his wife might have perceived that the young
z~au made these disjointed remarks very absent-
ly, that his eyes turned unconsciously toward the
door, and that he started at every noise in the
passage outahic. They glanced at each other
significantly, but were kind enough to take no
further notice, and talked of indifferent things,
until Morton himself came directly to the point,
in 'his frank, somewhat boyish fashion. Mrs.
*M~rks spoke of Miss Tresham's enjoyment at
Annesdale, and Morton instantly caught at her
name,
"I ~ope she did enjoy herself," he said.
Then he added, quickly: "Is Miss Tresham dis-
engaged just now ?-.-I should like to see her, if
she' is. I am obliged to return to Annesdale
very soon, and I am particularly anxious-"
lie nt~~ ni~ert. The expression of Mrs.
Marks's face warned him that something was
wrong. He looked hastily from herself to
her husband, and read the same expression
still more strongly stamped on the masculine
face.
"What is the matter?" he asked, impetu-
ously. "Miss Tresham
Here Mrs. Marks interrupted:
"I am sorry to say, Mr. Annesley, that Miss
Tresham is not at home. She left to-day for Sax-
fQrd."
Morton was astounded. In a moment his
mind ran over a terrible possibility-the possi-
lillity that there had been some misunderstand-
ing 'between Miss Tresham and her employers,
which had resulted in her leaving Tallahoma per-
manently.
"Left-for Saxford!" he repeated. "Mrs.
Marks, what is the meaning of that?"
"' Don't ask me, Mr. Annesley," said Mrs.
Marks. "If my life depended on it, I could not
tell you a thing more than just that4-she has
gone to Sasford. I am sure it didn't strike me
as strange; but here's Richard has been talking
alout it, and-"
"It i~ very strange," said Richard, speak-
ing for himself. "I don't pretend to under-
stand it. I don't wonder you are astonished,
Mi~. Annesley. I was astonished myself when I
came Jsome and heard that Miss Tresham was
gone."
"When will she be back?" asked Morton,
catching at the first idea which presented itself
to him.
"On Monday," answered Mrs. Marks, tp
wheat the question was addressed. "she said

she would be back on Monday, Mr. Annesloy,
and I am suxe she will come. Miss Ratharine
never breaks her word."
"But why did she go away?" asked Morton,
impatiently. "Did she not tell you why she
went?"
Mrs. Marks looked at her husband, and Mr.
Marks looked at his wife. This time Annesley
perceived the glance, and saw plainly that there
was something in reserve which he was not to
hear. Determined to know if any thing had
happened after Mrs. Gordon left the house, he
boldly broke the ice at once.
"I have been to Morton House and seen
my cousin," he said. "I am aware of the un-
fortunate "-he stopped a moment, as if search-
ing for a word -"the unfortunate discussion
which took place (his uaoraixig. Will you allow
me to iffquire if that discussion, or any thing
resulting from it, was the cause of Miss Tresh-
am's leaving Tallahoma?"
On this point Mrs. Marks professed utter
ignorance, and she was going on to state every
thing which she had already told to her hus-
band, when Mr. Marks broke in:
"Since you have seen Mrs. Gordon, Mr. An-
nesley, I need not hesitate to say to you that I
am seriously perplexed and uneasy about this
affair of Miss Tresham. As I was telling my
wife, just before you came in, there are more
reasons than the reason of Mrs. Gordon's warn-
ing for distrusting Mr. St. John, and Miss Tresh-
am's connection with him. You know her quite
well, I believe: will you tell me if she has ever
mentioned the man or any thing about him to
you?"
Morton flushed. He remembered the eve of
New Year, and the manner in whieh Miss Tresh-
am had repulsed his first and last attempt to win
her confidence. Oh, if she had only been frank
with him, the young man thought, if she had
only trusted him, and given him a right to speak
for her! But she had not done this, and there
was nothing for it but to answer Mr. Marks's
question by the truth.
"She has never mentioned Mr. St. John's
name to me," said he. "But I have never been
in a position to receive her confidence."
"Hum!" said the cashier, significantly-
looking the while at his wife, and smoothing
with one hand his well-shaven chin. "I cannot
find," he said, after a moment, "that Miss Tresh-
am has ever mentioned Mr. St. John's name to
any one; and, even after Mrs. Gordon's visit~ she
gave my wife no explanation of his purpose in

f,

coming here, or of her acquaintance with him.
My own impression," added he, "is, that she
has left Tallahoma simply to avoid giving this
explanation."
"But when she returns en Monday?'
"When she returns on Monday-or, to speak
more correctly, if she returns on Monday-I shall
certainly endeavor to obtain this explanation. If
I cannot obtain it, Mr. Annesley, my mind is
made up-Miss Treshamn must leave my house."
An indignant reply rose to Annesley's lips,
but he had sense enough to restrain it-sense
enough to see that he would do harm, instead of
good, by uttering it. What business, after all,
was it of his? what right had he to interfere in
Mr. Marks's domestic affairs? Angry as he was,
he asked himself this question, and accepted the
0c3(L5 reply. Dcidcig the wale which fol-
lowed Mr. Marks's speech, nothing was said.
Then Annesley rose, and begun drawing on his
gloves.
"If you will allow me, I will call again on
Monday to see Miss Tresham," he said, with un-
'csual formality. "I am sorry-very sorry that
she has left Tallahoma. But, if you will excuse
me, Mr. Marks, I would advise you to suspend
judgment upon the matter until she returns."
Before Mr. Marks could reply to this advice,
there came an interruption. The door opened,
and Letty appeared. She addressed herself to
her mistress.
"There's a gentleman out here to see Miss
Tresham, ma'am, and he wants to know if you
can tell him when she will be back."
"Miss Tresham will be back on Monday,"
answered Mrs. Marks. "Tell the gentleman-
or, no, stop.-My dear" (to Mr. Marks), "per-
haps you had better see who it is, and speak to
him yourself."
Mr. Marks went out, and Morton, after shak-
ing hands with Mrs. Marks, followed him. At
the front door they met St. John, whom Morton
had seen once before, and the cashier never at
alL
A glance was sufficient to show them that
Mr. St. John was very decidedly out of temper.
The face, which on occasions could be so bland
and smiling, was now set snd lowering in sin-
gularly marked degree. It did not even lighten
when he saw the two men who advanced toward
him.
"Mm~. Marks, I presume," he said, raising his
hat as Mr. Marks came down the passage. Then,
glanch~g at Annesley, he started, and bowed with-
out any sign of recognition. For some reason, he
:io

evidently chose to ignore their previous meeting,
and addressed himself solely to the master of
the house.
"I have called to see Miss Tresham," he~
said, "and I am surprised 'to hear from your
servant that she has left Tallahoma. Will you
allow me ~o inquire if this is true?"
"It is true, sir," answerer Mr. Marke, with
business-like brevity.
"May I ask where she has gone, and when
she will return?"
"She has gone to Saxford, and will probably
return on ~Monday-at least she told my wife to
expect her on that day."
A dead pause. An expression on Mr. Marks's
face, and in Mr. Marks's attitude, which said:
"Your questions are answered. Take leave."
An expression 'en St. John\s face of perplexed
astonishment, and half-absent thought, which
Annesley, watching him closely, felt sure was
not assumed. He looked silently at his' boots
for a second, then glanced up again at the
cashier.
"Excuse me," he said, "but this news is
very unexpected-and surprising. When I was
here this morning, Miss Tresham gave no inti-
mation of any such intention as this. Shall I
trespass too much on your kindness if I ask you
to inquire whether she left any message or note
for me-that 'is, for Mr. St. John?"
"I can inquire, sir, but I do not think it is
likely," said Mr. Marks, with the same forbidding
civility.
lie walked down the passage, and, without~
entering the dining-room, held an audible con-
versation with his wife.
"Bessie, did Miss Tresham leave any nOte or
message for Mr. St. John?"
Reply of Mrs. Marks from behind the scenes:
"Not a word, or a line; with me, Richard."
"You are sure of this?"
"I am perfectly sure. She never mentioned
him."
"Miss Tresham has left nothing for you, sir,"
said Mr. Marks, returning to Mr. St. John. "I
regret that I am not able to give you any further
information about the reason of her departure."
"You can give me one item of further infer-
mation," said St. John, manifestly proof against
the plainest of hints. "Is Miss Tresham in the
habit of going to Saxford?"
"She is in the habit of going there once a
month or so."
"May I ask if she has any acquaintances
there?"


142                       MORTON HOUSE.

"She goes, I believe, to see a Catholic priest,"
answered Mr. Marks. Then he lost patience,
and showed it in a way very unusual with him.
"You must excuse me, sir, if I decline to answer
any more questions. Miss Tresham's private
affairs as-c her private affairs; and, since she has
been living in my family, I have never interfered
with or inquired into them."
"Allow me to admire your discretion," said
Mr. St. John, with the same bow which had once
irritated Morton by its covert mockery. "I re-
gret to have trespassed so long on your time and
civility, and I have the honor to wish you good-
day.'~
In another bow he included Annesley, and,
then went his way, leaving Mr. Marks with an
angry sense of having had the worst of it.
"An insolent scoundrel I" said he, as soon as
St. John was out of hearing. "What do you
say, Mr. Annesley?" he went on, turning to
Morton. "Don't you think that 'rascal' is
written legibly on his face?"
"I don't especially fancy his face," said
Morton; "but I should not like to say that any
thing particular. is written on it. One ,thing
is certain," he went on, more slowly; "Miss
Tresham's departure has taken 1dm by sur-
prise.
"That is to say, he looked as if it had,"
said Mr. Marks, who, what with Mr. Warwick's
opinion, Mrs. Gordon's opinion, and his own
discomfiture, was ready to believe the very
worst of Mr. St. John. "Candidly, however,
Mr. Annesley, I don't trust, any thing about
him."
"You think-"
"I think that I will follow your advice of a
little while ago, and wait and see. Miss Tresh-
am may come back on Monday. If she does,
we can clear up matters speedily, and it is not
worth while to trouble ourselves with coujec-
"Meanwhile, however, you distrust Mr. St.
John?'~
"Mei~nwhile, I do most decidedly distrust Mr.
St. John."
With this interchange of sentiment, the con-
versation ended. The two men walked to the
gate together, and there separated-Mr. Marks
going into town, and Annesley riding off in the
opposite direction.

MRS. GORDON'

CHAPTER XXVII.
nns oonno~'s suocxsrioN.
WHEN Mrs. Gordon read her cousin's name
on the card,-she hesitated a moment. Then she
surprised Babette by lifting her face with an air
of decision.
"I will see Mrs. Annesley," she said. "Ask
her in here."
Babette left the room to ohey the direction,
and a minute or two of silence followed. To
Mrs. Gordon the interval seemed much longer
than it really was, and she had extended her
hand to ring the bell and ask the cause of the
delay, when there came the sound of foot-steps,
and the rustIc of silk, crossing the passage.
Through the closed door she heard Mrs. Annes-
icy's voice:
"Just left, you say ?-not more than half
an hour ago? It is strange I did not meet
him. Do you know where he was going?"
"No, madame," said Babette, in reply.
Catching both the question and the reply,
Mrc. Gordon dropped the bell-rope with a smile.
"I might have known what detained her," she
thought - and, as she thought it, the door
opened.
The two ladies met in the centre of the
floor, and greeted each other with a moderate
show of warmtb. They called each other "my
dear Elmer," and "my dear Pauline," but, be-
yond this, there was not much of effusion on
either side. They shook hands, kissed lightly,
spoke of the weather, and sat down opposite each
other, like two ordinary acquaintances. Mrs.
Annesley looked at ease, but in fact she was
very far from that enviable state of mind. She
remembered her former discomfiture in that
house; and something in her cousin's face
seemed to warn her that it might possibly be
repeated.
Nevertheless, she plunged boldly into con-
versation, and began deploring the many social
duties that had kept her so long from Morton
House. "I am sure you believe that I would
have come if I could," said she, looking at her
cousin. "Oh, my dear Pauline, how wise you
were in declining to reiinter society I I so
often think of you, and envy you-so retired,
so quiet, so surrounded by repose. As for
poor me-I might as well be a galley-slave,
for all the libedy I have! If it were n~t for
the sake of my children, I really think I should
give up society entirely. It tries my health so

severely, and is so unsuited to my taste. A
quiet day with you, now, would have been
much more agreeable to me than all the gay
times we have had at Annesdale."
"I should have been glad to see you, if you
had come," said Mrs. Gordon; "but pray, Eli-
nor, don't trouble yourself to make excuses for
not having done so. I understood your position
quite well. It is hard for any one in the full
tide of social life to be able to see much of an-
other person who is entirely apart from that
life."
"My only consolation," said Mrs. Annesley,
"has been that Morton sees so much of you.
Riding continually about the country, he is able
to come here more often' than I possibly could;
and I have been so glad of it. I did not feel as
if I were completely neglecting you, while he was
my representative.~~
"There was no cause for you to feel so,"
said Mrs. Gordon, a little coldly.
She was growing weary of these prolonged
excuses, and did not see the point of them. Mrs.
Annealey saw it, however, and timed her advance
to it with careful exactitude. ~
"In fact, Morton often unconsciously shames
me," she said. "He does not let any thing
stand in the way of his visits to you. I don't
know when I have felt as much ashamed of my.
self and my own neglect, as I did this morning.
I saw him on the piazza with Irene Vernon-
have you ever heard him speak of Irene Ver-
non? Ah, she is such a charming girl, and so
lovely I-Well, he had been there for some time,
when suddenly I missed him. I went to see
what had become of him, and I found Miss Ver-
non alone. Morton, she said, had received a
note from you, and left instantly to obey your
summons-he even broke an engagement to ride
with her, which he had made for this afternoon.
My dear Pauline, when I heard this, I felt abso-
lutely rebuked. Although my house is full of
company, I at once ordered my carriage. I was
determined not to let the hateful thing which we
call society keep me any longer from coming to
see you. I thought I would follow Morton, and
meet the dear boy here, and that, after we had
both enjoyed a visit to you, we could go home
together. But your maid tells me that he has
been here, and is already gone."
"Yes, he has gone," said Mrs. Gordon.
She saw the object of Mrs. Annesley's visit
clearly enough now-saw it so clearly that all
this careful fencing amused her not a little.
She could have closed with her, and brought

S SUGGESTION.                          143
matters to an issue, very speedily, if she had
chosen to do so; but she contented herself with
this non-committal reply, and left her visitor to
show her hand by force of necessity.
"It is strange I did not meet him," said
Mrs. Annesley, in the same words she had al-
ready used in speaking to Babette. "lie could
not surely have returned to Annesdale?"
An accent of interrogation made this a direct
question, and, as such, Mrs. Gordon answered it.
"He went to Tallahoma, I believe."
"Indeed!"
A pause after this. Within the bounds of
civility, how could Mrs. Annesley ask the ques.
tion which was next trembling on her tongue;
and yet, how was it possible for her to forbear
asking it? Who of us can account for certain
instincts which at various times of our lives in.
fluence our actions in greater or less deg~-ee?
Such an instinct had caused her to follow Mor-
ton from Annesdale, and such an instinct-now
that she was on the threshold of the matter
which had brought him to Mrs. Gordon-made
her resolute to press forward, and in the face
of civility (or of any thing else) learn what it
was. After a short hesitation, she asked the
question:
"Pardon me, my dear Pauline, if I appear
curious, but was it on your business that he went
to Tallahoma?"
"Certainly not," answered Mrs. Gordon. "I
have no business in Tallahoma."
"Then you do not know why he went?"
"Yes, I chance to know why he went."
"And I am not to know, I suppose?" said
Mrs. Annesley, flushing.
Her cousin looked at her gravely and silently
for a minute, before she replied.
"I light answer that it is Morton's affair
-not mine, Elinor," she said. "But since it is
in part mine, and since I have a question con~
corning it to ask you, I shall not violate Mor-
ton's confidence in telling you. lie has gone to
see Miss Tresham."
Involuntarily, Mrs. Annesley started to her
feet, and made a step towar~l the door.
"I knew it!" she eried, passionately, "I
knew it! Something warned me that he had
gone to see that-" here she stopped sudden-
ly, and sat down again. "I am a fool," she
said, bitterly. "What equld I do, if ~ followed
him? lie has gone his own way, without any
regard to my wishes. ~11ow could I prevent
him, if I tried, from doing so?"
11cr cousin came over to~ h.er,~nd, stran~l~


144                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                       MRS. GORDON'S SUGGESTION.               145

enough, sat down by her, laying one hand on
her arm.
"I will tell you what you can do-if you
care to hear," she said.
Mrs. Annesley drew back. The instinct of
distrust between these two women was so strong
that circumstances could hardly be imagined in
which it would not have betrayed itself.
"I do not understand," she said. "I thought
you liked this-this girl!"
"You are right," said' Mrs. Gordon, quietly.
"I did like her. But that was when I knew very'
little thout her. Since I have learned more, she
is, so far as herself is concerned, an object of
indifference to inc. So far as MortOn is con-
cerned, however, she is an object of distrust,
and, as such, to be dealt with-as summarily as
possible. Elinor, do you wish Morton to marry
her?"
"Can you ask me such a question?"
"Well, I have tested his infatuation thor-
oughly, this morning; and it has been proof
against the strongest plea that I could urge.
Yet I forced him to concede that he would give
her up, if it could be proved that she was un-
worthy of him. If you wish to prevent his
marrying her, your only hope is to prove this."
"I know it," said Mrs. Annesley, "but I
have tried -" She paused suddenly here,
caught her breath, and was silent.
"Yen have tried to prove it," said Mrs. Gor-
don, quietly'. "Well, I know that. What I
don't know, and what I would like to hear is,
how you succeeded."
~ did not succeed at all," answered Mrs.
.Annes~ey, coldly. "What do you mean when
you say that you know of my effort? You can-
not possibly know-any thing."
"I fancy I know every thing, or almost every
thing," replied the other, with the same compo-
sure as before. "Pray tell me, Eli{or, did you
ever hear of a Mr. Henry St. John?"
The shock of startled surprise caused by the
question was unmistakable. But Mrs. Annesley
never s~4rendered without a struggle.
"1 do not understand you," she said.
"Don't you?" said Mrs. Gordon, smiling
slightly. "Perhaps I can assist your memory
basking another question, then. Do you re-
member an anonymous letter which, by way of
jest, you once wrote to Edgar Annesley!"'
"i-think I do.~'
"I aai~ sure you must, for the events which
followed it were too marked to be readily forgot.
ten. Well, you may remember, also, that~I read

that letter, and admired the ease with which you
wrote a hand entirely unlike your own. It is
twenty-four years since I saw that writing, but
the consequences arising from the letter stampe~
the~recollcction of it on my memory; and when
a letter-when two letters-were shown to me
this morning, I recognized the hand at once.
Now will you tell me whether you ever heard
of Mr. St. John?"
Mrs. Annesley saw that all attempt at further
concealment, was useless. However much or
however little Mrs. Gordon knew, it was at least
certain that she knew too much to wake denial
safe. In an instant she remembered the man
who had met Miss Tresham in the grounds of
Anneadale, and what had been before merely a
suspicion resolved itself at once into a certainty.
"I have heard of him," she said-end then
she added, "He is here!"
"Yes," answered Mrs. Gordon, "he is here.
I have no right to blame you for the means you
took to obtain information concerning Miss
Tresham; but it may surprise you to hear that
by those means you have brought upon me the
curse of my life-the worst enemy I have ever
had, or can ever expect to bave 1"
"Good Heavens!" cried Mrs. Annesley, in
amazement. "How could I imagine-whom do
you mean?"
The answer came in four bitter words:
"I mean my husband."
"Your husband!"
"I see that Morton has not told you my
story."
"Not one word," cried Mrs. Annesley, eager.
ly, forgetting for the moment every thing else,
and with the extreme of curiosity painted 'on
her face, and quivering in her voice. "My dear
Pauline," she went on, "you can surely trust me
-you can surely confide in me!"
"It is a matter of necessity to tell you some-
thing of my life, Elinor," said hercousin, coldly.
"Otherwise, I have learned that it is wise to
'confide.' in nobody. You know that I was mar-
ried. What I endured in my married life it is
not worth while to tell you. I did endure it as
long as endurance was possible. When' it be-
came impossible, I fled from my tyrant and came
here, hoping to find rest and shelter under my
father's roof. How long I might have remained
undiscovered I do not knew. Not long, I sus-
pect. But, however that may be, it was your
act which brought discovery upon me. The
advertisement, which ,you inserted in the L6m.
don 7?lme8 before I came here, has borne bitter

fruit. I have been tracked to my place of
refuge, and my child has been taken from me-
perhaps forever!"
"Taken from y~u! By whom?"
"By my own. will. I have sent him away,
that his father may not be able to find or claim
him."
"But Ido not understand," said Mrs. Annes-
Icy, in a state of perplexity which, all things
considered, was very natural. "Is it this Mr.
St. John who is your husband?"
"St. John! Are you mad? Have you ever
seen him?"
"Never."
"He is a hanger-on of my husband's-his
secretary, he was called-a sort of instrument
for unprincipled purposes. Of character or
position he has not even the shadow. Where
he comes from, who ho is, or what he is, it is
impossible to say. I only know him in the
position of which I have spoken. I am sure
he has never had a better one."
Mrs. Annesley looked horror-stricken.
"And it was tkis man who wrote to me as
the friend or relation of Miss Tresham !-it is
t/sis man who is here now to see her!"
"It is this man:"
"And you-you let Morton go without telling
him?"
"I told him much more than I have told you,
and it had no effect upon him. Stop, Elinor "-
as Mrs. Annesley, in uncontrollable agitation,
rose to her feet-i' you can say nothing to Mor-
ton that I have not already said. We have no
proof of any thing beyond mere acquaintance
between Miss Tresham and St. John. Think a
moment. Did his reply to your letter contain
nothing more?"
"I don't need to think," answered Mrs.
Annesley, impatiently. "It contained not one
word. Do you suppose I should have permitted
matters to go on as long as they have in this
way, if I had been able to produce a word of
proof against her? My God! to think how help-
less I am!" said she, striking her hand heavily
on the cud of the sofa near which she sat. "To
think that this artful creature 'may make Mor-
ton marry her any day, and then - discovery
would come too late."
- "Have more faith in Morton," said her com-
panion, gravely. "Believe, as I believe, that he
will not take any extreme step, without giving
you fair warning. In the me~an time, you must
endeavor to find out something about Miss Tresh.
am."

"But how?"
"Do I need to tell you how? Is not St.
John here, and have I not described his charac-
ter? You need feel no delicacy about approach-
ing him."
"But this is more difficult than you think,"
said Mrs. Annesley, hesitatingly. "Morton
would never forgive me if he knew of such a
thing, and how am I to see the man without his
knowing it?"
"I have simply pointed out the way," said
Mrs. Gordon. "The means I leave to yourself."
"But you-you know this St. John, Could
not you-"
"No," answered Mrs. Gordon, with forbidding
coldness. "Nothing would induce mc to see or
hold any communication with him."
"Not even for Morton's sake?"
"Not even for Morton's sake."
There was no appeal possible from that de-
cided tone. Mrs. Annesley saw that, whether
for success or failure, she must act for herself.
After a minute's consideration, she said:
"Can you tell me where I shall find Mr. St.
John?"
"It is probable that Babette can," said Mrs.
Gordon, ringing the bell.
Babette appeared, and proved at once the
accuracy of her mistress's judgment. She was
able to gratify Mrs. Annesley with every possi-
ble particular concerning Mr. St. John; and,
after that lady had heard all that could be of
service to her, she dismissed her informant, and
turned to Mrs. Gordon.
"I don't see my way at all clearly, Pai~linc,"
she said. "But I hope you will remember that
I am acting according to your advice."
"Accoriling to my suggestion," amended
Mrs. Gordon. "I never give advice, Elmer."
"If Morton discovers it, he will never forgive
mc."
"If you are so' much afraid of Morton, you:
had better let him go his own way without inter.
ference."
In reply to this, Mrs. Annesiby rose from her
seat.
"One word, ~'auline," she said, as her cousin
rose also. "Have you told Morton about' those
letters?"
"No; why should I?"
"You will not do so?"
"I have not the least intention of doing
so."
"Thank you," said Mrs. Annesley, impulsive.
ly. ~fhen she added, with more ~of'.her usual


146                        MOETON HOUSE.                                                                                                     147
MRS. GORDON'S SUGGESTION.

manner: "My dear Pauline, no words can Ba;
hew sorry I am that my act should have brought
so ~nuch annoyance upon you. Can you possibi:
forgive me for it?"
"There is nothing to forgive," answered,
Mrs. Gordon. "When you wrote that advertise
meat-last summers was it not ?-you could no
possibly have thought or known of me. Are yot
going?"
"I must. It is getting late, and I fear
shall not be back at Annesdale in time for din
ner. I will come to see you soon again. Wouk
you adyise-that is, would you suggest, that I
should offer money to this $t. John?"
"I can only say there is no reason why you
should hesitate to do so."
Mrs. Annesley repeated her thanks, and took
leave. Once in the carriage, she looked at her
watch and made a calculation of time, with refer.
ence to dinner. Having made it, she pulled the
check. string and said: "Tallahoma - Mrs.
Marks's."
Poor Mrs. Marks had not recovered from
the combine~l effects of Morton's visit, and her
husband's unusual assertion of himself, when
this new astonishment was prepared for her.
Having seen the table finally cleared oft; and
having rid herself of the children by dispatch-
ing them in a body to the "old field," of which
mention has before been made, she sat down
with a very heavy heart, to darnvarious small
stockings full of various large holes. As she
darned, she *sighed; and, in fact, sighs were
more frequent than stitches with her. The
kind soul was lamenting her husband's reso-
lution, and grieving much over the loss of her
favorite, "Miss Katharine." She even shed a
few tears, and wiped them away with the leg of
Jack's soak. Impatient thoughts on the per.
versity of human circumstances came to her, as
* they had come to Katharine at Anneadale, as
they come to all of us when people and events
prove "contrary." Oh, why cannot things go
right? ~*hy cannot people act as they ought
to? Why cannot circumstances cease to fret,
or goad, or restrain us? What is the reason
that 'every thing has its dash of bitterness, and
that life seems to vibrate, like the pendulum of
acloek, continually, between the painful and the
disagreeablee 1' This is the strain of thought that
Is going up to heaven on the wings of every
minute, like the broken cry of an imprisoned
spirit, panting, ab! how vainly, to be free.
What is the good of it all? Ahi granted.-.

y what, indeed, is the good of it all? But then,
t friends, dwellers upon the earth, co-heirs of the
~ curse laid on Adam, the question is, not what is
the good of it, but how are we to help it? There
I is but one way known to men-the way of child-
like faith-and few of us are great enough, or
strong enough, to follow that.
Mrs. Marks was still darning, still heaving
sighs, and still dropping a tear or two occasion-
ally, when she was startled by the sound of a
knock at the door. The dining-room was in the
I hack part of the house, and so it chanced that
she had neither seen nor heard the arrival of the
Annesley carriage; so it chanced, also, that, with
her work in her hand, she went out to answer the
knock, and found herself face to face with no less
* a person than Mrs. Annesley.
Her consternation was almost as great as her
* surprise. The fear of something additionally
disagreeable-a fear vaguely inspired by Mrs.
Annesley's face-instantly seized her. Somehow
or other, ~the greeting was accomplished, and
Mrs. Annesley was ushered into the dining-
room. When she had been installed in the
* most comfortable chair, and Mrs. Marks was sit-
ting opposite, with her darning mechanically re-
tained in her hand, a few remarks were exchanged,
and then the visitor opened the serious busiacss
of the occasion.
"No doubt, you are surprised to see me,
* Mrs. Marks," she said, graciously. "In fact, I
ought to apologize for such a startling visit.
But, being in Tallahoma, I thought I would stop
for a few minutes; and I also thought that I
might find Morton here. I am anxious to see
him on a matter of business before he returns to
Annesdale."
"I am very sorry that you have come a little
too late," said Mrs. Marks, with the utmost sin-
cerity. '~ Mr. Annesley was here, but he left a
short while ago; and I think he said he was go-
ing back to Annesdale"
"He was here, and left only a short while
ago! Oh, how provoking!" said Mrs. Annesley.
"What an instance of my bad luck! But
pray, Mrs. Marks, what does a 'short while'
mean? Do you think, for instance, that I could
overtake him before he gets home?"
"Oh, no. I am sure you couldn't," said
Mrs. Marks, with decision. "It's been a good
hour since he left, and he must have reached An-
nesdale by this time-or, indeed, before this. He
didn't stay long," she went on, telling of her own.
accord the very thing Mrs. Annesley was anxious
to hear. "He called to see Miss Tresham, and,

Miss Tresham not being at home, he left very
soon."
"I thought Miss Tresham was at home,"
said Mrs. Annesley, a little stiffly. "She left
Annesdale this morning."
"She came here this morning," said Mrs.
Marks, in an aggrieved tone, "but she is gone
now."
"Gone!" Mrs. Annesley simply opened her
eyes. It could not be possible that exposure had
come so soon, and come of itself? "Gone! Bx-
cuse me, but you surprise me very much. I
thought she came back to recommended teach-
ing."
"She went to Saxford to-day," answered Mrs.
Marks, unconsciously lifting the stocking, which
she still held, to her eyes, from which one or two
tears were drawn forth by that oft-repeated state-
ment. She stood extremely in awe of the ele-
gant mistress of Annesdale, but the latter was a
woman, after all, and she had dropped in to pay
a sociable visit, and Mrs. Marks's heart was sorely
in need of a confidante, and so she began to open
the floodgates of her feelings, and to express in
words what she had heretofore only expressed in
sighs.
"She went to Saxford," she repeated-very
much as she might have said, "She went to be
buried! "-" lt is hard on me, Mrs. Annesley-~--it
is certainly hard on me! I never meddled with
Miss Tresham's affairs in my life-I never said a
word, either to her or to anybody else, about
them-and yet you'd hardly believe all the trou-
ble and worry that's been in this house this day-
all on account of Miss Tresham's affairs, and Miss
Tresham's visitors, and because Miss Tresham
has taken it into her head to go to Saxford!"
"But why has she gone?" asked Mrs. An-
nesley, with a very uncivil disregard of Mrs.
Marks's personal grievances.
"Everybody asks me that," answered Mrs.
Marks, "and Miss Tresham told me no more
about why she was going than she told my little
Nelly playing out in the yard. I am sure it
seemed natural enough to me that she should go
-she often does go to see her priest-but every-
body seems surprised about it, and Mr. Marks is
so provoked that he says if she don't come back
on Monday, and if she won't explain every thing
about Mr. St. John, she"- second application
of the stocking as a pocket-handkerchief-" will
have to leave us."
This good news was so unexpected, and so
startling, that for a minute Mrs. Annesley scarce-
ly realized It. Then a glow of satisfied pleasure

began to steal over her, and she saw how well
Fate was fighting the battle of which she had
been almost ready to despair.
"Really, you astonish me!" she said. "I h~ad
no idea of any thing like this. Miss Tresham only
left my house this morning, and now to have gone
away so unexpectedly-and, you say, without any
explanation?~~
"Without even so much as a word of expla-
nation," answered Mrs. Marks, who was now
fully launched into her theme. "Perhaps I
ought to have said something to ker, Mrs. Annes-
Icy; but my head was quite upset-and then she
was in such a hurry to get to the hotel before the
stage left that she didn't give me time hardly to
breathe. I'm sure I didn't pay any attention to
what Mrs. Gordon said about her-I mean"-
hastily correcting herself with a timely recollec-
tion that Mrs. Gordon was Mrs. Annesley's cousin
-" that I felt confident there was some mistake
-but it seems to me all the same, that Miss
Katharine might have told me something before
she left, so that I could have explained it to
Richard. But she never said a word."
"Nothing about Mr. St. John?"
"Not a syllable."
"How extremely singular!" said Mrs. An-
nesley, very slowly and very gravely-so gravely
that Mrs. Marks began to feel as if she had much
underrated the importance of Miss Tresham's
reticence, and Miss Tresham's departure. It
was astonishing how infinitely more Mrs. An-
nesley's opinion on the subject weighed with her,
than that of her husband had done I
"It was strange," she said, "though I didn't
think of it at the time. Miss Katharine is so
nice, Mrs. Annesley, and we are all so fond of her,
that somehow it never struck me that-that, as
you say, it was singular for her to give no expla-
nation about Mr. St. John."
"Perhaps he may be related to her," said
Mrs. Annesley, carelessly-she began to be aware
that she had betrayed more'interest than it was
proper to show in Miss Tresham's affairs-" your
governess herself is a very lady-like person; but
people in her position often have very disreputa-
ble relations, you know."
"Mr. St. John is very much of a gentleman,
indeed," said Mrs. Marks, greatly astonished.
"I am sure nobody could say that there is any
thing disreputable about him. But I don't think
he is any relation of Miss Katharine's; that is"
-a short pau~e-" I really don't know. I never
heardiaer say that she had any relations."
Mrs. Annesley knew this before, but none the

146

MORToN HoUsE


148                                MORTON
less did she think it necessary to look as much
shocked as if' she heard the statement for the
first time.
"No relations!" she exclaimed. "A girl of
her age! Why, that is dreadful! Really, Mrs.
Marks, you must excuse me if I say that I won-
der very much at your courage in engaging such
a person to enter your house and teach your chil-
dren."
By way of reply, Mrs. ~Iarks only stared. It
had yet to dawn upon her comprehension that
the misfortune of having no relations could pos-
sibly be made a social crime.'
"It is hard on a young thing like Miss Kath.
anne "-she l~xsgan, when Mrs. Annesley inter.
erupted her in her grandest way.
"I1~ is not of Miss Tresham I am talking,
Mrs. Marks, but of her position. Of course, it is
only reasonable that when a girl of her age, and
I suppose I may say of her refined appearance,
talks of having no relations, she simply means
one of two things-either that her relations do
not acknowledge her, or else that they are them-
selves not fit to be acknowledged. In either
case, as I remarked before, I think you must
possess a great deal of courage to admit her to
your family as you have done, and to be willing
to trust her as you seem disposed to do. For
my part, I confess that I should shudder to think
ef assuming such a responsibility; but then my
conscience is very sensitive."
"She was so nice,".said Mrs. Marks, deprecat-
ingly, much impressed by this forcible view of the
matter, apd much aghast at being brought in
guilty, by implication at least, of a callous con-
science.
"So nice!" repeated Mrs. Annesley, in a
tone of overpowering scorn. She forgot herself
and her part, for a moweiit, and let the real ear-
nestness which she felt come to th9 surface, as
the thought rushed over her that all the trouble
now weighing upon her, all the fear that had
made her life wretched for months past, resulted
from tl~ act of this woman-this woman so far
out of her life, so apart from all her associations.
She, had scarcely done more than bow' to Mrs.
Marks when they chanced to meet, once a year
or so, on the village street, and yet the fateful
sisters had thrown their shuttle, and 'across the
warp and woof of her own life had woven the
threads of this oth~r homely existence. Common
as such things are, when they come home to us
as they came home to her, it is hard not to feel
startled by them-hard to realize that they form
the daily history of that which we call circum-

HOUSE.
stance! Two strangers met by chance in the
parlor of that Charleston hotel; the girl's face
brightened into a winning smile, and the elder
woman's heart was touched; a few words were
said, and lo! the whole current of life was
changed, not only for them, but for others then
scattered in widely-different corners of the civil-
ized world, then going each his different way,
laughing, talking, smiling, weeping, perhaps, and
knowing not what had been done-knowing not
that, on a single breath, as it were, every aim
and purpose of existence had been staked and
changed-for better or worse, who could tell 1'
Surely only He of whom it is well to think in the
midst of such reflections as these-He who draws
~us each into our appointed path, and does not
leave us to be the blind victims of a merciless
Chance.
"I beg your pardon," said Mrs. Annesley,
recovering herself with a faint, forced laugh. "I
suppose, of course, you think Miss Tresham nice,
but I was really unable to discover her attrac-
tions. What a beautiful view this room has!
Do you cultivate your garden much?"
She rose and walked to the window. Well
disciplined as she was, and thoroughly accus-
tomed to self-control, she could not have sat still
a moment longer and face the woman 'who had
brought all this anxiety and possible grief upon
her. An outbreak of some sort must have come,
and she wisely prevented it by walking away and
gazing absently into the garden, while Mrs. Marks
willingly forsook the subject of Miss Tresham
for that of her celery and winter lettuce.
As she talked, Mrs. Annesley's fertile brain
ran over expedient after expedient for seeing
St. John, and dismissed each as impracticable.
How was she to do it ?-kow was she to do it?
This was the accompaniment in her brain to
Mrs. Marks's conversation. Yet she was as far
as ever from the solution of her difficulty, and
she almost began to despair of its accomplish-
ment, when she accidentally caught sight of a
man's head above a rose-bush in the garden. In
a second, she felt sure that, by some strange co-
incidence, her opportunity was here, ready to her
hand-that St. John stood before her.
She did not stop to consider why she knew
that it was he, she did not think for a moment
how he came there. She only felt, by a strange,
intuitive thrill, that her desire was gratified more
speedily and more completely than she could pos-
sibly have hoped for it to be, and that, come
what would, she must seize the fortunate oppor-
tunity.

ON GUARD.

Yet how could she escape? how get rid of
Mrs. Marks? That became as great a difficulty
now as the means of meeting St. John had been
before. As she asked herself the question, how-
ever, she saw that there was no need of imme-
diate haste. Plainly, St. John had entered the
garden to bide his time, and plainly he meant to
wait till that time came. His head had now dis-
appeared from above the rose-bush, but Mrs.
Annesley marked the place where she had seen
it, and a thin, pale wreath of smoke, which now
and then floated up, sufficiently indicated his
present position, and sufficiently provd~ how he
was whiling away the period of waiting.
"What is he waiting for?" Mrs. Annesley
began to consider. "Is it Miss Tresham, or is
it to come in and see Mrs. Marks ?-Ah ! "-as
a sudden recollection flashed over her-" it is for
me to leave. He sees the carriage before the
gate, of course, and he has decided to remain in
the garden and smoke a cigar until the coast is
clear. There could not possibly be a better op-
portunity for seeing him, if only I could get rid
of this horrid woman! But how on earth am I
to do that?"
How, indeed! For, while the blue smoke
floated pensively over the rose-bushes, and while
Mrs. Annesley could scarcely keep her impatient
hand from the latch of the door near which she
stood, Mrs. Marks steadily held her ground, and
steadily poured forth her flow of language with a
profound unconsciousness that seemed as if it
could be shaken by nothing less than a moral
earthquake.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
ON GUARD.
SUDDENLY the ill-matched companions were
startled by a terrible uproar in the hack yard
-the deep, angry growl of a dog was followed
by the scampering rush of two animals in a
short, mad chase, and then the cries of inarticu-
late distress, which dumb beasts can occasion-
ally utter in their own behalf; fell painfully on
the ear. Mingled with these came a Babel of
sound-men shouting, women running, cries,
commands, aiA indistinguishable confusion-in
the midst of which a panting little negro rushed
to the dining-room door.
"Mistiss, Rollo's caught the calf, and Uncle
Jake says as how he's goin' to tar it to pieces!"
"Good Gracious!" cried Mrs. Marks, in con-

149

sternation. "What did he let the dog catch it
for! What will your master say! Tell him to
beat him-do any thing to make him let got I
always told Mr. Marks he better not bring that
bull-dog here," she added, as the child darted
away. "I knew he was sure to do mischief-
Goodness! what awful sounds !..-Mrs. Annesley,
if you'll excuse me, I'll-"
The sentence was not finished, and Mrs. An-
nesley had no opportunity to reply~ The up-
roar grew worse, and Mrs. Marks followed the
example of the rest of the household-she flew
to the scene of action.
If the victim of Rollo's unreasoning fury had
been a child instead of a calf, it is to be feared
that Mrs. Annesley would equally have regarded
the episode in the light of a fortunate and provi-
dential relief. The instant that the last flutter
of Mrs. Marks's dress had vanished down the
passage, she opened the door that led out upon
the side-piazza, crossed it, and the next momexit
was walking rapidly down the garden-path.
She was so lightly and delicately shod that
her step made very little sound on the smooth
gravel, and St. John, who was comfortably smok-
'inn- his cigar iii a sheltered nook-waiting, as
Mrs. Annesley had shrewdly suspected, for the
departure of the carriage-was completely taken
by surprise when, without any warning, this ele-
gant figure stood before him.
Instinctively he took the cigar from his lips,
and rose to his feet. This was not Mrs. Marks,
but none the less was it somebody much more
at home in the garden than he had any right to
be. Therefore, the first words that formed on
his lips were words of apology for his presence
there.
"Excuse me," he said. "I fear I am a tres-
passer; but I am waiting to see Mrs. Marks."
Mrs. Annesley bowed graciously, and, instead
of retreating, swept a step nearer.
"Mrs. Marks is occupied just now," she said,
"and I came out to look at the garden.. Don't
disturb yourself; I beg. I shall not Interrupt
you. Mr. Marks told me something about a
perennial," added she, glancing round. "Don~t'
let me trouble you, but pray do you chance to
know where it is?"
St. John smiled, and replied in the nega-
tive.
"I am a stranger," he said, "and this is the
first time I have ever ventured to invade Mrs.
Marks's garden. I am sorry that I cannot tell
-you any thing about the perennial."
"You have no idea where it ~


150                  MORTON HOUSE.                                                                      ONGAD                                 5

"I have not the least idea where it is."
Mrs. Annesle3* gave a little sigh of resigna-
tion.
"Such a pity!" she said, and, as she said it,
she ran her eye with apparent carelessness, but
with really keen attention, over St. John's per-
son.
The result of her observation was discour-
aging. Despite all that Mrs. Gordon had told
her, and despite her own distrust of the man,
she could not believe that it would be expedient
or oven possible to approach him with any over-
tures of bribery. Adventurer though he was-
sharper though he might bc-he at least bore
all the outward semblance of a gentleman; and,
as he stood before her-perfectly self-possessed,
notwithstanding the equivocal position which he
occupied, and lightly holding his cigar between
two fingers as he returned her scrutiny-she felt
as much at a loss how to address him as she had
before felt at a loss how to reach him. It was
hardly wonderful. This man was so different-in
every particular so essentially different-from the
man her fancy had created, that the discrepancy
in itself startled her.
*   As she hesitated, St. John, on his side, had
time for observation and consideration. The
perennial excuse had not deceived him. He had
seen at a glance that this fine lady-whoever or
whatever she might be-had come into the gar-
den to meet himself. At first he had supposed
that her motive might have been one of mere
eu~iosity; but, as she still kept her place in front
of him) a~ he felt her keen black eyes reading
his face, and, as he saw the doubt unconsciously
stamped upon her own face, an instinct of her
real purpose came over him.
"There is something she wants to get out of
me," he thought. "Well, let her try. It will
be strange if in the end I don't succeed in get.
lang eos~siderably more out of her than she Lhinks
of ez~ bargains for!"
"Perhaps there is something else I can do
f4~ryQu~"~he said, as she remained silent for some
~ .Anacslcy started a little, and recovered
1~e~self.
"There is nothing, thank you," she said.
"I won't disturb you any longer. Good-day."
She bowed slightly, and walked away-three
steps. Then she paused, and, turning back,
spoke again.
"Perhaps there is something I can do for
you," she said. "Am I r~ot right in supposing
that it has been my presence which has kept

you from seeing Mrs. Marks? Shall I be obli-
ging, and take my departure?"
"I could not presume to ask such a thing,"
answered he, bowing gravely.
"It would not be very much of a presump-
tion," answered Mrs. Annesley, smiling gracious-
ly. "A friend of Mrs. Marks-you are a friend
of Mrs. Marks, I suppose?"
"I scarcely think it probable that Mrs.
Marks would allow'me to claim that honor."
Mrs. Annesley arched her eyebrows and
looked around the garden. Plainly she meant
to say, "Not a friend of Mrs. ~Yarks ,and yet
here!"
The coolness of the glance amused St. John,
and he answered it more on account of this
amusement than because there was any absolute
necessity for doing so.
"Under these circumstances, you are sur-
prised to see mc here?" he said. "But I think
that, when I explain the reason of my presence
to Mrs. Marks, she will not regard my intrusion
as unpardonable."
"I am sure Mrs. Marks is always glad to re-
ceive Miss Tresham's friends," said Mrs. Annes-
Icy, using the very words which Mrs. Marks her-
self had used that morning-thc words whioh
had encouraged St. John to return and endeavor
to learn from her something more than he had
been able to glean from her husband. The coin-
chienee struck him, and, together with the un-
suspected sound of Katharine's name, made him
look sharply at the speaker.
"Excuse me," he said. "I do not under-
stand."
But, as it happened, Mrs. Annesley had grown
tired of this aimless fencing; and, besides, she
had not time for it. At any moment Mrs. Marks
might come in search of her, and the opportunity
she had been so anxious to secure would thus be
hopelessly lost. Making a rapid calculation for
and against success, she decided to close at once
with her slippery opponent.
"Excuse me," she said, with a smile. "I
fancied that I was speaking to Mr. St. John."
The smile told St. John infinitely more than
the words. There was a shade of malicious
meaning in it, which, under the circumstances,
was far from wise, but which Mrs. Annesley
would have found it hard to con~ol. It was so
pleasant to turn the tables on him in this style-
so pleasant to show him, in three words, how
well she knew every thing about him! But still,
it was a blunder. It put St. John on his guard,
and it madehim set his teeth and think:" Con-

found the woman~ What deviltry has she got
in her head?" It galled' him, too; but he had
a very good armory of his own at command, and
from it he immediately selected his favorite
weapon of covert mockery.
"I am deeply flattered," he said, with a bow.
"I had no idea that my name had been fortu-
nate enough to attain any degree of notoriety.
I do not think that I have the pleasure of an ac-
quaintance with yourself, madam."
"You have probably never heard of me,"
said Mrs. Annesley, quietly. "I am a person of
no consequence whatever-out of my own fam-
ily. It has merely chanced that I have heard
of you," she went on. "Mrs. Marks is very
much attached to Miss Tresliam, and, in speak-
ing of her, she mentioned your name to mc. 1
also am a friend of Miss Tresham's," said the
mistress of Annesdale, with a virtuous expres-
sion of face, "and as such, I am glad. to meet
you-glad to be able to say a few words to you, if
you will allow me to do ~
"I am at your service."
"Let us sit down, then. Since you are kind
enough not to consider me impertinent, I should
like to be very frank with you. I am generally
frank with everybody. Experience has shown
me that it is so much the best way."
They sat down. Just behind the short bench
from which St. John had risen, was a wall of
running ivy; on each side rose tall shrubs, which,
although bare, still made a seclusion of the little
nook. Regarded from a short distance, the two
figures, who had the nook to themselves, might
easily have passed for a pair of lovers. Consid-
ered as they actually were, they much more re-
sembled two ad~pit chess-players, who sat down
equally matched to a game in which skill and
care could alone determinee the result. Mrs. An-
nesley made the first move-St. John contenting
himself with keen watchfulness and attention.
Said the lady: "I must begin what I have to
say, by explaining why I say it. I know Miss
Tresham quite well, and"-a gulp.-A' like her
very much. You can imagine my surprise, there-
fore, when I heard from Mrs. Marks that she has
left her late home in a very sudden and myste-
i-ious manner, and that it is more than doubtful
whether she will be received again, when she re-
turns."
St. John started. This was certainly news to
him. Mrs. Annesley noted the start, and went
on:
"I think it right to tell ~,ou, Mr. St. John,
that the ground on which Miss Tresham will be

dismissed from Mrs. Marks's house when she re-
turns, is that of her connection with yourself.
Mr. Marks has finally decided that unless a satis-
factory explanation of this connection is given, he
cannot retain Misa Tresham as a governess.
Now, as a friend of Miss Tresham's, will you
allow me to ask if it does not occur to you that
it is your duty to remove the elcaid from Miss
Tresham's name byat once making thi3 explana-
tion?"
"You have set me an admirable example of
candor, madam," said St. John. "Do not be
offended if I follow it, and, imitating your frank-
ness, ask if it does not occur to you that it is
quite impossible for you to judge of the affairs
of people who are strangers to you?"
"I thought Ihad explained that Miss Tresham
is not a stranger to we."
"Evidently she is a stranger so far as re-
gards her confidence, or else you would not need
to make this appeal to mc."
"You do not intend to heed the appeal,
then? ~
"Imitating your frankness again, I must de-
cline to answer that question."
"Because I am not personally concerned in
the matter?" asked Mrs Annesley, resolutely
resolved to keep her temper under any provo-
cation.
"Yes-because I am unable to perceive that
you have any personal interest in the matter."
"Suppose that I assume-that, if necessary,
I am willing to prove to you-that I have an in-
terest in the matter, that I have a personal ~rea-
son for wishing to clear up the mystery around
Miss Tresham, will you still refuse to give me
the explanation?"
"I regret to say that I am compelled to d~
so.',
"Do you not take Miss Tresham herself into
consideration-her character? Do you not ap-
preciate how badly this reticence looks - for
her?"
St. John only smiled. Evidently, if it had
been courteous to do so, he wonld have shrugged
his shoulders, and said, "What is that to me?"
As it was, his face said it for' him, and Mrs, An-
nesley read his face. That instant she shifted
her ground.
"I am anxious to obtain certain items of in-
formation about Miss Tresham," she said; "items
which can harm neither her nor any one else. Do
you know any one who, for a liberal reward, would
show me how to obtain these?"
She looked steadily at St. John, and St. John

ON GUARD.

151

150


152

THE SIC

MORTON HOUSE.

returned her gaze without the quiver of an eye-
lash.
"I do nOt know any one whom you could
employ for such a purpose," he answered.
"No one atall?".
"No one at all."
Mrs. Annesley rose from her seat, and drew
her shawl gracefully around her.
"It is growing~chilly," she said, "I must go
* in. I regret to have disturbed you, Mr. St. John.
rray, don't let me di~turb you further-pray,
don't get up. I suppose it is quite useless to
look for that perennial. Good-day."
A bow on both sides, and they separated.
The worsted player retired with all the dig-
nity she could summon to her aid; but, as she
swept slowly down the garden-walk, she struck
one gloved hand angrily against the other.
"I went to work wrong," she thought.
"Some way or other, I went to work wrong!
The consequence is, that this wretch has com-
pletely baffled me, and that I am not an inch
nearer to my end than I was before." '
As for St. John, the first thing he did, when
he was alone, was to relight his cigar, and the
second was to indulge in a laugh of properly-sub~.
fined tone.
"Oh, these women I these women I" he said
to himself. "How is it that the devil teaches
them so much cunning, and yet lets them over-
reach themselves so completely? Well "-with
a long puff-" this has certainly been something
*that I did not bargain for-a little dash of in-
trigue that I did not expect in coming to look
up my respectable friend who asks mc to tea.
I fancy Mrs. Gordon is not the only person now
who has discovered the identity of H. G. After
this, I can put my hand on the writer of the
advertisement and the letters whenever I choose.
I have two things yet to find out, however-first,
her name; and, secondly, her motive."
A thought struck him. He rose from his
seat, walked to the garden-gate, let himself out,
and sauntered down the road to where Mrs. An-
nesle~r's carriage stood, with Mrs. Annesley's
coachman and footman in attendance. Stopping
to admire the horses, he easily fell into conver-
sation with the servants, and in five minutes had
learned every thing that he wished to know. No
human being was ever so fond of boasting as the
family-negro of the old r6gi'me, and Mrs. Annes-
Icy's servants were no exception to the general
rule. No sooner was it evident that St. John
was a stranger, than their tongues were loosed
on the glories of Annesdale and of the Annesley

family. Mistiss and niistiss's various splendors,
Mass Morton, and Mass Morton's horses and
dogs, were the favorite topics-the last espe-
cially; and St. John, who never forgot any thing,
had no difficulty in identifying this much vaunted
"Mass Morton" with the Mr. Annesley whom he
had met in the grounds of Anneadnle. Every
thing wa~ so clear to him that he could have
laughed to himself as he stood on the sidewalk
smoking his cigar, and listening lazily, as John
and Peyton by turns descanted on the absorb-
ing subject. It was quite a shock to Mrs. An-
nesley when she came out and found him there.
"Mr. St. John!" she said, haughtily, and
drew back as he came forward with the mani-
fest intention of assisting her into the car-
riage.
"I have been admiring your horses, Mrs.
Annesley," said St. John, smiling. "They do
credit to your taste. Will you allow me?"
On second thoughts, she allowed him to put
her into the carriage; and, when she was seated,
looked up and spoke.
"If you will take my advice, you will con-
sider what I said to you a short time ago. It
might be worth your while. I need not tell you
where you will find me if you desire to communi-
cate with me."
He bowed-making no other answer to the
covert sneer in her last words-and, as he
stepped from the door, the carriage drove off.
When it was out of sight, he turned, and,
opening the gate, walked up to the house. Mrs.
Marks had accompanied Mrs. Annesley to the
front piazza, and was still standing there when
he approached. In the first sound of her voice,
in the first word which she spo3~c, he saw that a
change had come over her-that she had been
placed on guard against him. She answered his
questions courteously; but there was none of
the hearty cordiality of the morning in her man-
ner, and she did not ask him to enter the house.
After finding that her ignorance about Katharine
was quite as complete as it had been represented,
he had no alternative but to take his leave. Be-
fore doing so, however, he received a piece of
information which startled him a little. He
thought that it might be as well to verify onin-
disputable evidence the facts which the servants
had given him, and so he said, carelessly:
"Will you allow me to inquire if the Mrs.
Annesley who has just left is related to the
young gentleman of the same name whom I saw
~iere a few hours ago?"
"She is his mother," answered Mrs. Marks-

adding, involuntarily, "and the cousin of Mrs.
Gordon."
"Indeed l" said St. John, starting quickly.
After this, he asked no more questions, but
made his apologies, and took his leave almost
immediately. As he walked down the street,
the few people who met him and looked curious-
ly at him, saw that he was deeply absorbed in
thought. In fact, he was revolving what he had
just heard, and considering what it meant.
"Mrs. Gordon's cousin," he repeated to him-
self. "What the deuce is the meaning of it all!
Shall I never get to the end of all the strings and
counter-strings which seem to be pulling these
people to and fro?"
-4--
ChAPTER XXIX.
TIlE sicn LADL
Two weeks after Miss Tresham had taken
her departure from Tallahoma, a carriage, con-
taining a solitary traveller, drove into the town
of Hnrtsburg-a place of considerable import-
ance, situated some thirty miles southwest of
Sasford.
"The Planters' Hotel, Cyrus," said the trav-
eller, as the carriage turned into the Main Street;
"or, no-I was cheated shamefully there as we
went on-the Eagle Hotel, I believe."
"Whar that beMass John? ~
"Twosquares below the other house, on the
corner of the street."
Two squares below the other house the car~
ringe proceeded, and stopped before a large,
rambling frame building, two stories high, with
a double piazza running the whole length of the
front. An uninviting hostelry, people would
think nowadays, with ideas of brick and stucco
in their minds; but in that day the standard of
comfort for the unfortunate travelling public
was by no means a high one, and, as houses of
entertainment went, the Eagle Hotel was by no
means to be despised. A " tavern" look about
it, unmistakably; a "tavern" odor, very cer-
tainly; but still-well, there were worse places
(probably the traveller had spent the night be-
fore at one of them), and in that thought was
comfort.
When the carriage stopped, a man came for-
ward from the group of smokers and loungers
congregated, according to invariable custom, on
the front piazza, and reached the door just as it
was opened and the traveller stepped out.

K LADY.                                153
"Well, Mr. Crump, how are you?" said the
latter, with a smile.
"Why, Mr. Warwick I how do you do, sir?
exclaimed Mr. Crump, extending his hand. "I
had no idea it was you You don't usually
travel in this sort of conveyance. Walk in,
air-walk in. Come down to court, I sup-
pose?"
"No; I have been below, and am on my way
back to Tallahoma. Is it court-week?"
"To be sure, sir, and the house full of law.
yers. I never saw a larger crowd."
"Perhaps you can't accommodate me, then?"
"Never fear about that, sir. The old woman
will find you a room, if she has to turn the judge
himself out.-Drive the carriage round' to the
stables, boy, and see the hostler about a place
for your horses.-Now, Mr. Warwick "
He turned, but Mr. Warwick was already
surrounded by half a dozen men-gentlemen of
the legal fraternity-who were shaking hands,
and cordially welcoming him. They were all
glad to see him; all seemed astonished when
'they heard that he had not "come to court;"
and all inquired if it was possible he had no
cases on the docket. While he was answering
their questions, az~d endeavoring to make them
understand that it was merely by accident he
chanced to be in Hartaburg, Mr. Grump seized
his portmantcau, and, carrying it into the house,
called vociferously for "the old woman." Thin
personage not being forthcoming, half a dozen
servants appeared from as many different quar~
ters, and to one of them Mr. Crump addressed
himself.
"Sam, take this valise up-stairs, and ask
your mistress where it's to go. Tell bent's
Mr. Warwick's, from Tallaloxna.-Where the
dickens is she? Don't any of you know?"
"She's in the sick lady's room, sir," said a
tall negro-woman, who came down-stairs as he
spoke. "She says as how she'll be here in a
minute."
"Deuce take the sick lady-pshaw I I don't
mean that either; but it seems to me Selina's
never anywhere else these days. flow is she,
anyhow ?-the lady, I mean."
The woman shook her head with that doleful
solemnity which a negro finds real and sensible
pleasure in indulging.
"Miss S'lina thinks she's some better, sir,"
she said, and, with this significant mode of en.
pressing her own opinion, vanished.
Mr. Crump gave a low whistle, expressive,
apparently, of his own view on the subject, rn~d,'


THE SICK LADY.                       155

154                       MORTON HOUSE.

turning, was about to go out of the door, when
he met Mr. Warwick coming in.
"Well," said the lawyer, smiling, "how is
it? Can Mrs. Cmmp find a corner for me? I
shall only trouble her for one night."
"I don't doubt that she'll find room for you,
sir; l~ut I haven't seen her yet. She's busy with
a sick boarder, who's been giving us no end of
trouble."
"Indeed! lint Mrs. Crump don't mind trou-
ble, I know."
Mr. Crump muttered something in reply
abont "court.week," and "the house being
full,'~ from which it was to be supposed that
he thought it would be better for him if his wife
did mind trouble a little more. He 'evidently
felt injured; butbefore he had time for further
expression of his sentiments, a stout, pleasant-
faced woman of about fifty came downstairs and
advanced toward them. She greeted the lawyer
in~ rather a preoccupied manner, and then, in-
*    stead of saying any thing about his room, turned
to her husband.
~ have to send for the doctor again,
Tom. Thought, a little while ago, that she was
better; but I don't like the way her fever's
*     rising now, and I'm afraid she's going to be
light-headed again."
"But, Selina, here's Mr. Warwick wants a
room, and-'
"I'll see about Mr. Warwick presently," said
Selina, looking at him with a pair of kindly yet
somewhat anxious eyes. "That poor child up.
stairs stays on my mind; and, do what I will, V
can't get her off of it. Go along, Tom, and send
for the doctor, as I told you.-Mr. Warwick, you
don't mind my being a little put outlam sure. ~
If you'll come with me, I'll try and' find you a
room. Somehow .1 had an idea you'd be here
this week, and' I saved you one right along~
side of the judge's. I'll go and look in to see
that all's right."
She led the way up-stairs, and Mr. Warwick,
as in duty bound, had nothing but thanks for the
room late which she showed him-it being very
comfortable, according to the ideas of comfort
existing at that time. While she still lingered,
~oiiehing a chair l~ere, and arranging a curtain
there, he taade the 'ordinary inquiries concerning
her health aud domestic afibirs; and, after these
IVOre answered, she, of her own accord, led the
conv~ers&amp;tion back to her sick boarder.
"A poor young thing that don't seem to have
any friends, and-though I wouldn't tell Tom so
...4'll venture to say, not over-much money,"

she said. "She come here in the stage one night,
and meant to go on next morning; but, Lord
bless you! she was took down with a fever, and,
though that was more'n a week ago, she hasn't
lifted up her head since. I've tried to get her to
tell me who her friends are, so ihat I can write
to 'em; but she won't. She says she ain't got
any, which, you know, sir, would look badly, if
she wasn't such a real lady."
"She is a lady-is she?" asked Mr. War-
wick, carelessly. The sick woman was to him a
matter of infinitely less importance than some
fresh water and some hot coffee.
"A real lady, sir, as ever 1 saw-no half-way
trash, I can tell you. That's the pity of it, and
that's what makes me so anxious to find out
who she is, and where she belongs. I'm as sure
she's run away from home as I can be; and, if a
man is not somehow or other at the bottom of
it, my name isn't Selina Crump. I only wish
he'd dare to come here, and set his foot inside
the Eagle Hotel!"
"What would you do to him if he did?"
asked Mr. Warwick, who, despite his weariness
and impatience, was amused by the tone in
which the landlady's last words were uttered.
"What would I do? I'd scald him-that's
what I'd do! I'd put on a kettle of water spe-
cially for him, if' I only knowed when he was
coming; and I'd show him how he come into a
honest house, after tickingg off a pretty girl like
that, and then leaving her to die, or to get well
as best she could 1"
"But why are you so sure that a man's at
the bottom of it?"
In reply to this, Mrs. Crump became some-
what mysterious and reticent; but it finally ap-
peared that the lady had been delirious, and,
when in that state, had talked a great deal of
nonsense, especially about a somebody named
"John."
"She always thinks he's after her," said the
landlady, solemnly, "and she's always trying to
get away from him."
"Probably he is her husband," said the law-
yer, basing his remark upon an extended knowl-
edge of human nature in the marital relation.
Mrs. Crump obstinately shook her head and
obstinately held her ground-blind to the long-
ing glance which Mr. Warwick, with the dust
of a day's journey upon him, directed to the
wash-stand.
"There's something about a married woman
a body can almost always tell," she said. "I'm
as sure as can be that this girl ein't married.

F'raps she's run away to do it; but that's a
different matter, and all the more I'd like to
send her back to her friends." A pause; then,
in an insinuating tone, "I thought you might
help me to find out something' about her, Mr.
Warwick, knowing so many people as you do~
I haven't said a word to anybody else, because
she's such a lady that somehow I didn't like to
do it. But Tom is mighty snappish about her,
and, if I could only find out who she is, it might
make him hold his tongue."
"I do know a good many people," said Mr.
Warwick, patiently; "but it is quite impossible
for me to tell whether I know the relations or
friends of this sick lady among them. Pray,
what is her name?"
"She wrote it down when she came, and Tom
put it on the register; but my head's dreadful
for remembering such things, and I couldn't
tell it to you now, if my life depended on it. I
saw a book lying on the table with her name
written in it, though, and I'll go and get that for
you."
Without waiting for an answer, she left the
room, and, with another regretful glance at the
wash-stand, Mr. Warwick walked to the window,
to await her return. At that moment the prin-
cipal thought in his mind was a wish that he
had gone to the Planters' Hotel. lie began to
wonder if there were any "sick ladies" ~A~ere,
to be thrust remorselessly upon the attention of
travellers, and defer indefinitely those ablutions
of which tired nature (when just off a journey)
first and foremost stands in need. "Mrs. Crump
ought to know better," he said to himself, a little~
indignantly; and, as he said it, the door opened,
and Mrs. Crutup reappeared with a small, black,
much-worn book in her hand.
"When she was herself she mostly had it
on the bed by her," said the good woman; "but
to-day she's been light-headed, and sb I put it on
the table, and in that way I got it without dis-
turbing her. Here it is, Mr. Warwick, and the
name's in it."
Mr. Warwick took the volume, and, as he
did so, he could not repress a start, or account
for a sudden chill instinct, that seemed to rush
over him. The book was a pocket-edition of
Thomas ~ Kempis's "Following of Christ," and
at once struck him as strangely similar to one
that he had often seen in Katharine Tresham's I
hand, It was her familiar companion, and, as
such, familiar to him also. Just now he could
have sw~rn that this was the very book-he knew
the very look of the worn edges, th~ embossed

cross in the middle of the back, and the smaller
crosses at each corner. "I am a fool 1" he
thought, and opened it at once, at the fly-leaf.
There, traced in faded ink, he read, "To Katha-
rine Treshani, from her aunt, Mary Tresham,"
and a date fourteen years before I
To say that Mrs. Crump was startled by the
face that turned round upon her, would be to
describe her sensations very inadequately-for
she was in fact astounded. She fell back a
little, and grasped the bedpost in a state of
alarm.
"Goodness alive, Mr. Warwick!" she cried;
"what's the matter?"
"Is that the name which the lady gave
you?" asked Mr. Warwick, following her, and
pointing to the writing on the fly-leaf-" is that
the name?"
"Why, to be sure that's the name. I-I
told you it was in the book." Then gaining
courage-" Is any thing wrong about her, Mr.
Warwick? Oh, mc! what will Tom say?"
"Wrong!"repeated Mr. Warwickin a tone
that made her start back again. Then he
stopped and recollected himself. "You have
acted quite properly, Mrs. Crump," he said~
quietly, "and your decision in this matter shows
you to be a woman of good judgment, as well as
of kind heart. This is a lady-" he emphasized,
the word-" whom I left at my sister's house,
in Tallahoma, and whom I am naturally sur~
praised to find here. I know her wcll~ and can
vouch for her in every particular. Will you sit
down and tell me how she came here, and every
thing that you know about her?"
Mrs. Crump willingly obeyed; but out of her
verbose narrative Mr. Warwick gathered very
little more than he had heard already. On
Wednesday, a week before (this was Thursday),
Miss Tresham had arrived in Hartsburg, and
stopped at the Eagle Hotel for the night, de-
claring her intention of continuing her jour-
ney (destination unknown), the next morning.
As the landlady learned afterward, she had a
burning fever all night, and, when morning
came, was not able to leave her bed. Since
then, she had steadily grown worse, and lay in
titernate stupor and delirium most of the time.
When questioned about medical attendance,
~!rs. Crump answered, hesitatingly. The doctor
iad not come very often-perhaps because
thought it extremely doubtful whether he
~ver be paid for coming at all-and hail 'net
~poken by any means encouragingly. "I 4pi't~
hink he's got much idea that she'll live,"'s~i4


156                      MORTON HOUSE.                                                          THE SICK LADY.                     157

Mrs. Crump. "He told me I'd better try my
best to find out about her friends."
"Who is the doctor-Randolph?"
"No, sir- anew doctor-Joyner is his name
-who, I thought, might pay more attention,
because he hasn't got any practice to speak
of."
dS ~ should like to see him when he comes,
and, meanwhile, I wish you would send a mes-
senger for Dr. Randolph. I-" He stopped a
moment, as there came a knock at the door.
"Who is that?"
"It's me, sir," responded an unmistakably
African voice. "Mass Tom sent me to see if
Miss S'lina's up here.'~
"What dbes he want?" asked Mrs. Crump,
going forward and opening the door.
"He say the doctor's come, ma'am, and Mom
H&amp;nnah's done took him in the sick lady's
room.~~
"You had better go at once," said Mr. War-
wick, as she turned and looked at him. "Bc
sure and send the doctor to me before he leaves.
I will wait for him here."
After she left, he sat quite still-totally for-
getful of the dust now-trying to realize, and, if
possible, to account for this singular freak of cir-
cumstance. But the more he thought, the more
absolutely puzzled he became-the more difficult
It was to believe that the woman of whom Mrs.
Orump spoke, the woman who lay thus, sick and
helpless at the mercy of strangers, . was the
Katharine Tresham whom he fancied safe in
his sister's home, the Katharine Tresham whom
he had' seen last in her white ball-dress, with the
blue flowers in her soft, brown hair! "There
wust be some mistake!" he said, hale aloud.
"It cannot be 1" But, as he uttered the words,
he looked at the little book still in his hand, and
it seemed to answer, "It is so!" But how did
she come here so strangely! friendless and
alone? It was vain to ask himself that ques-
tion-vain to torment himself with fruitless con-
jectures. Of course; he thought of St. John, of
Mr~.6 Gordon, of his~ sister, of Annesley, of the
money drawn at the bank, and Mr. Marks's com-
ment upon it-but all these people and things
were hopelessly confused in his mind. He could
Dot even frame out of them a conjecture plausi-
ble enough to satisfy himself. One random
thought succeeded another, until at last, to
escape from thi~m, he rose and started to leave
the room. "I'll meet the doctor," he said.
This intention was frustrated, however, for the
doctor was at the door.
/                   "p

"Mr. Warwick?" said be, interrogatively.
"Yes," said Mr. Warwick. "Dr. Joyner, I
presume 1' Walk in, sir. I wish to speak to
you.
Dr Joyner bowed and walked in. He had
on his professional face and his professional
manner. Having said this, it is useless to say
how he looked in the matter of expression, for
all doctors look alike under these circumstances.
The drill of a soldier is not more exactly marked
than this professional mask, which is so widely
prevalent that an inquiring observer is some-
times driven to wonder if the novices of medi-
cine are taught deportment as well as science.
In the way of personal appearance, Dr. Joyner
was a man who might have been twenty-five by
his figure, and forty-five by his face. The anom-
aly of youth and age is not often seen united
in the same person; but, when it is, it strikes
us unpleasantly-we can scarcely tell why. It
struck Mr. Warwick unpleasantly as soon as the
physician entered the room, and yet he could not
possibly have given his reasons for th~ feeling.
Dr. Joyner sat down, and opened the conversa-
tion himself.
"I was referred to you by Mrs. Crump, sir.
I understand that you are a friend of the lady I
have just seen."
"Yes," answered Mr. Warwick, "I sm a
friend of hers, and, in the absence of other
friendslam anxious to hear an exact account
of her case. Will you be good enough to give
it me?"
This direct question seemed to embarrass the
doctor a little. Tie had uncertain sort of eyes,
that were given to shifting their gaze. They
shifted it immediately, and, instead of looking
at the lawyer's face, gazed out of the win-
dow
"The lady's ease is a peculiar one," he said.
"I am by no means sure that the illness under
which she is laboring has developed itself suf-
ficiently for me to give it a specific name."
Mr. Warwick looked astonished. "What!"
he said. "She baa been ill for a week, the land-
lady tells me, and you are not yet able to give.
her disease a specific name!',
"The symptoms have developed themselves
slowly," answered the doctor, stiffly. "I have
treated her, in a general way, for fever produced
by cold and excitement; but to-day I begin to
think that the brain is becoming involved. If
so-" Re stopped and hesitated.
Mr. Warwick turned a little pale, but took
up his sentence quietly:

"If so, you think her life in danger?"
"Well, I don't go so far as that; but I thinl
her illness may be very serious.
There was a pause. The doctor's eyes shifts'
from the window to the mantel-piece, and thenci
travelled back to his questioner's face. Thel
rested there in keen and undisturbed serutinl
for several minutes, Mr. Wtirwick being deep iz
thought, with his brows slightly knitted, and hi~
own gaze fastened on the floor. Without looking~
up, he said, slowly:
If I only knew what to do!"
I would advise you to write to the lady':
friends, if you know them, sir," said the doctor,
quietly.
The other started, and glanced up.
"I beg your pardon. I was thinking aloud.
Can I see your patient?"
"You can see her, certainly."
"Will it not be dangerous? will it not excite
her?"
"It cannot possibly excite 11cr, for she knows
nobody."
"She could not answer a single question,
then?" -
"Not when I left her, ten minutes ago."
Mr. Warwick resumed his scrutiny of the car-
pet, and Dr. Joyner resumed his scrutiny of Mr.
Warwick. In this way another minute passed.
Then the lawyer rose.
"Will you come with me to her room?" he
said. - "Since I am her only friend within reach,
I must see her, and judge for myself of her con-
dition."
"I am at y'oar service," said the other, rising~
in turn.
They left the room, and walked down the
passage together, making one or two sharp turns
around. sharp corners-for the, house was built
with a daring disregard of any plan or order
whatever-and finally pausing before a door, at
which the doctor tapped lightly. A negro-woman
-the same who had spoken to Mn Crump in the
passage below-opened it, and, seeing the doctor,
made way for them to enter.
A queer little room, with a fireplace in the
corner, and dark-green walls, that contrasted
strongly with clean white curtains, was what
the lawyer saw. The furniture was plain and
scanty, but .there was not space for much; and
the bed, which occupied the most prominent
place, was neatly draped in spotless coverings.
The best that the house aWorded was plainly
here, a~d it was evident that Katharine had
suft'crod from no neglect at the hands of her
11

entertainers. Without saying a word, the doctor
~ led the way to the bed, and Mr. Warwick fol-
lowed him. Standing side by side, they looked
I down on the sick girl.
She had fallen into a light slumber, and lay
with her head thrown back over the pillows,
showing the white arch of her throat, aid its
large arteries, beating with a rush that it was
painful to watch. Her cheeks were deeply
flushed; her hair fell in tangled masses all
about her face; and her lips were bright scar-
let. She made a lovely picture, seen in the
half-darkened room, with the white draperies
of the bed surrounding her; hut it was a pic-
ture lovely with that awful glow of fever which
hushes our breath even when we see it in a
stranger. The most inexperienced person look-
ing on could hardly have failed to perceive that,
if life and death were not already wrestling
here, the hour of their struggle iyas not far dis-
tant, and the issue more than doubtful. One
hand was thrown, as if in fevered restlessness,
outside the counterpane. Mr. Warwick stooped
down and laid his finger lightly on the wrist.
Almost immediately he lifted his face, and looked
at the doctor.
"Feel her pulse," he 'said. "I may be inex-
perienced; but it seems to me that it is going at
a fearful rate. I cannot count it."
Even in the dim light, it was evident to his
keen eyes that the doctor changed color. He
drew out his watch, and, taking the wrist, began
counting the pulse, speaking after a while with-
out lifting his eyes.
"Her fever i.~ rising. I was afraid it would.
She seemed so much lowered in strength yester-
day that I ordered stimulants, and I think they
have been pressed too far. She was delirious
when I was here a while ago~~
"She seems to he sleeping now."
"Speak to her, and see if you can rouse
her."
Mr. Warwick spoke. His words roused' her,
for she opened her eyes at once; but there was
no consciousness in their gaze. They looked at
him blankly, and, when he spoke again, she an-
swered in the aimless wanderings of delirium-
few words-words without any gleam of reason
-.--accompanicd by a wild and painful glare of
the eye, so foreign to its usual soft expreseldn
that it absolutely destroyed her resemblance to
herself, and made Mr. Warwick almost question
if this were indeed Katharine Tresham. After a
minute spcnt~ in closh and attentive observatinn,
he walked to the door, and beckoned the dbefor


158                         MORTON HOUSE.                                                                  THI3I SICK LADY.                       159

to follow him. Once outside, he stopped and
turned, thus facing the other.
"I find that the ease is much more serious
than I could possibly have imagined," he said.
"L fear that there has been some neglect."
"It was quite impossible for me to nurse
the 'patient as well as prescribe for her," an.
swerved the doctor, coldly. "All that I could do
1 have done."
"Then I suppose you will not object to niy
calling in another physh4an? I have sent for
Dr. Randolph."
He said this in a matter-of.course tone; but
he was not unprepared for what followed. His
distrust of the doctor-increasing continually
ever since the doctor entered his room-made
him expect very much the reply that came. The
* man flushed deeply, and drew back with a stiff
little bow.
"In that event, I beg leave to withdraw from
the case. I decline to go into consultation with
Dr. Randolph."
"se good enough, then, to make out your
bill and send it to me," said Mr. Warwick.
"Good-evening."
He left the man standing at the head of the
stairs, and went down, smiling a little to himself.
"it did not cost much trouble," he saidhalf
aloud, as he looked round in search of Mr.
Crump. That worthy was easily found, and
matters were soon placed on a satisfactory foot-
ing. Mr, Warwick had very vague ideas on the
uubjeet of sick-nursing; but he knew that unre-
mitting attention was an item of the first impor-
tance, pud he provided for this by engaging the
services of two women, who were to relieve each
other on duty.
"Hannah's up-stairs now," said Mr. Crump,
"and Elsie'll be on hand when she's wanted. Is
there any thing else, Mr. Warwick?"
"I asked Mrs. Crump to send for Dr. Ran-
dolph. Do you know whether sl~e did so?"
*   Before Mr. Crump could reply, a heavy step
sounded in the passage outside the room in
wbiql~ they were standing, and a round, Cull
voice was heard asking, "Which room?"
"There's the doctor now," said Mr. Crnmp-
"This way, doctor I Herc'~ Mr. Warwick."
"This way-is it?" responded the same
jovial voice; and the next instant a tall, stout
man, with a frank, pleasant face, a~id an eye of
that peculiar color which can only be called
"laughing hazel," entered the apartment, lightly
swinging a stick, formidable enough to have been
an Irishman's shillalab.

"Well, doctor, how are you?" said Mr. War.
wick, meeting him with extended hand.
"Mr. Warwick, I am delighted to see you,
and to see you looking so well," said the doctor,
giving the hand a cordial shake. "I was afraid,
from the urgency of the message, that I should
find you seriously ill. You haven't much the
look of a sick man," he added, laughing. "What
is the matter ?-broken down from over-work?
I've prophesied that, you know."
"Your prophecy is not verified y~t, at any
rate. But you are mistaken; I am not the pa-
tient for whom you were summoned. There
is a lady here under my care" (Mr. Crurap
opened h~s eyes to their fullest extent), "who
is, I fear, dangerously ill. I want you to see
"What is the matter with her?"
"That is what I want you to tell mc. I am
afraid, however, that she has brain-fever."
"When was she taken ~"
"A week ago."
"A week ago-ke7eV'
"Yes-here."
"And who has been attending her?"
"A doctor of whom I know nothing but
that his name is Joyner."
At the sound of that name, Dr. Randolph
dropped his eyes, which had been fastened on
the speaker's face, looked in the fire, and said.
"Humph 1" in a significant manner, that was
not lost on Mr. Warwick. He at once hastened
to explain.
"Don't think thatlcalledhimindoctor.
Miss Tresham came here a week ago, as I tell
you, and was taken ill. Mrs. Crump called in
Dr. Joyner. I arrived an hour ago, and I have
already dismissed him. With little or no knowl-
edge of medicine, I am still able to perceive that
he has been grossly mistreating the case. What
I ask of you now is to see if you can repair the
mischief he has done."
"That may be harder than you think," said
the doctor, gravely. "A week-however, I will
reserve my opinion till I see the patient; and
that I will do immediately, if you please."
Mr. Warwick led the way to Miss Tresham's
room, and just i~ the door they met Mr#. Crump
coming out, '.~u
"Oh, d~q~r, I~n glad to see you I" she~ said
to the do~%~t1', ~ She is clean gcneo~t of her
head, and tks~ boyd knowp I haven't am idea what
to do w~thls~g ~
The .d~ct~r did not utter ~ ~ passed
her hastily'and entered the ehambev2 ~ne step

took him to the bed, where, with flaming cheeks,
and eyes bright with the awful glare of fever,
Katharine lay tossing and raving wildly. He
gave a single glance, then turned and drew back
the curtain from a window near him. It chanced
to be toward the west, and the rays of the set-
ting sun streamed with a flood of golden glory
into the little room, filling it with an almost daz-
zling radiance. The sudden rush of llght almost
blinded the others; but the doctor bent over the
bed, felt the pulse that bounded beneath his
touch, and gazed intently into the eyes that met
his own.
When he raised his face, Mr. Warwick was
startled by the gravity of his brow and lip.
"Bring a basin here," he said to the servant.
To Mrs. Crump, "Bare her arm." He drew a
small case froth his pocket. The next moment,
there was the gleam of a lancet, a sharp stroke
into the soft, white flesh, and a stream of dark-
red blood pouring into the basin.
"Bandages," he said to Mrs. Crump, who
was standing by. While she was gone for them,
he turned to Mr. Warwick, and added, "Brain.
fever of the most violent type. This is the only
hope of saving her life."
"It is brain-fever, then?"
"Beyond doubt. If I had only seen her a
day earlier!"
"Thank God it is not a day later!" said the
lawyer, under his breath.
There was no time for any thing more.
Mrs. Crump returned, and the doctor imme-
diately devoted his whole energy to his patient.
In the face of all remonstrances and entreaties
to the contrary (Mrs. Crump and Mom Hannah
freely treated him to beth), he bled her until in-
sensibility took the place of violent raving. Then,
and then only, he stopped the flow of the blood,
and bound up her arm. After this, he called for
a pair of scissors and for ice. With the first,
he remorselessly cut from her head the rich,
brown locks that had crowned it like a glory,
and, when they lay scattered over the bed, he
saturated a towel with water, filled it with ice,
end bound it around the burning temples.
"There!" he said, speaking for the first
time, pfter this was done. "Remember, Han-
nah, this is your business- to keep a supply
of towels and ice at hand, and change them
whenever the chill has worn off. With the fever,
that won't he long.-Mrs. Crump, I suppose 'you
have no time to spare-"
Indeed, doctor, I shall take the time," in-
terrupted Mrs. Crump, hastily. "Just tell me

what you want done, and P11 engage to do it, no
matter what else goes undone."
"Just at present there is nothing to do, ex-
cept to send for some leeches, and try and keep
things as quiet as possible. Could you give
those gentlemen down-stairs a hint that there is
a case of brain-fever in the house, and that a lit-
tle less noise would be desirable?"
"I'll give 'em something more'n a hint,"
answered Mrs. Crump, decidedly-and left the
room, to send for the leeches, and command the
peace.
"A word with you, Mr. Warwick," said the
doctor, walking away to the farthest window.
"I think it right to tell you," he went on, as
Mr. Warwick followed him, "that this attack Is
a very dangerous one, and, from present appear-
ance, the chances arc that it will prove fatal in
its result. If the young lady has any friends,
they ought to be communicated with at once."
lIe paused as if for a reply; but Mr. War.
wick did not speak. Situated as he was-in
utter ignorance how or why Katharine had left
his sister's house-it was impossible for him not
to hesitate when thus summarily brought to the
point of positive action. He did hesitate-he
ran over in his mind the unsatisfactory condi-
tion of affairs when he left home, and the unsat-
isfactory conjectures that had beset him an hour
ago, without arriving at any result. Finally, he
looked at the doctor, and made a simple state-
ment of facts.
"In few words, doctor, I don't like to do
this without Miss Tresham's sanction," he said.
"She is a foreigner, with no relations in Amer-
ica, and as for her friends-.--I can only account
for her presence here by supposing that some
estrangement has occurred to separate her from
those who' might be called her friends. Under
these circumstances, I do not think that n$~ in-
terference could do any good-certainly not by
means of letters."
"But when her life is in danger?"
"That statement would, of course, be suf-
ficient to bring, relatives to her bedside; but
you know the world well enough to be able to
judge whether it would be likely to have any
effect on those who were simply bound to hc~ by
ties of convenience.
The doctor was silenced. He looked from
the bed to the lawyer, and from the lawyer to
the bed, trying to understand the inatter,'and
failing utterly to do so~ In the range of kin pro."'
fessional experience, many sad pages of' human
life had come under his eye-.--as they come under


160                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                          AN OLD FRIEND.                     181

- the eye of all men of al professions, and of all
physicians especially~-many desolatestories had
been laid bare to him, many woful tragedies had
been acted before him, until out of very familiar.
ity, he bad grown callous to these varied phases
of the one great drama of human suffering. But
now he felt strangely touched. That this girl, so
young, so fair-had she been ugly, the position
would have lost half its pathos 1-so evidently
of tender nurture, should be thrown utterly
friendless, utterly alone, upon the care and kind-
ness of strangers, seemed to him inexpressibly
pitiful. lie felt for her deeply-felt as he had
not'felt for any one since he was young and im-
pressionable, and new at his profession; but
with regard ~ John Warwick, his part in the
matter the doctor failed entirely to compre-
hend. If all that he had said were true, what
is4erest had he in the girl, what right to make
her safety his personal care? Such conduct
*   was~so unlike the quiet, reserved lawyer, always
gravely courteous to women, yet always care-
fully avoiding them, that it seemed incredible.
Reading 'the doctor's surprise in the doctor's
face, Mr. Warwick-for Katharine's sake-ad-
dressed himself frankly to it.
"I see you think it strange that I should
occupy the position I do," he said; "but if you
will consider a moment, I think you will under-
stand why and how it is. Miss Tresham has
been living in my sister's house for two years,
and I have learned to know her well, and to re-
spect her highlyb I do not know why she has
left her position; but I am confident that it was
by no f~ult of her own; and it would be strange
if...eneeting her accidentally, as I have done-I
did not do every thing in my power for her.
Considering that I am old enough to be her
fe~ther, ~ ': sure you will grant this."
your age out of the question," said
tI~e debtor, with ashade of his usual jovial smile,
.1
"Z gz'ant~tfully, Mr~ Warwick. Your conduct is
tbat of ~ ti~Ite.hearted gentleman, and you have
iby'h~art'y iespeet and support. God willing,
w*!l1 ~4i the poor girl through, with or without
help fro~a anybody else. Now tell me if you
have any idea. of the chpse of her illness."
"No
t the least. When I saw her last she
w~s in perfect health."
"That was when?"
"Less than three weeke ago."
"Have you any reason to suppose that she
may have been suffering from trouble or distress
of mind?"
Mr. Warwick thought of S~. John, and paused

a moment before he replied. "I do not know"
he said. "I think it probable that she has;
but if so, we cannot reach the cause, and it is
useless to consider it. Do you suppose that
mental trouble has brought this on?"
"I cannot tell-I can only make a surmise
from the condition in which I find her. Speak.
ing in the dark, I should say that mental trou.
ble, liberally sided and abetted by quack treat-
ment, has brought it on."
"My instinct was right, then-that man is a
quack?"
"A quack! That old woman yonder has
quite as good a right to put M. D. after her
name, and, I dare say, a much better amount of
medical knowledge to support it. The scoun-
drel has hardly the barest smattering of infor-
mation on the subject-as he proves by leaving
a case whenever another doctor is called in.
This is not the first patient he has brought to
death's door-and, unfortunately, some of them
go beyond it. Last week a poor fellow died un-
der his hands-a carpenter with a large family.
As clear a ease of butchery as ever I saw!"
"Is there no way of stopping this?"
"There is no way as long as people, like our
friend Mrs. Crump, choose to send for him.
We live in a free country, you know, and when
a man comes and settles among ,us, there is
no competent authority to examine his diplo-
ma and give him a license, before he sets to
work killing people."
"I think if I see him again, I shall feel very
much tempted to put it out of his power to do
any more mischief-for some time to come~ at
least."
"He is not likely to let you see him again.
To give the rascal his due, he is the embodiment
of discretion. As I came along the street, some.
body told me that one of his othei~ patients-his
only other one, I expect-was in a critical con-
dition. If she dies, I am inclined to think that
the town will become too hot to hold him. But
we must make arrangements for to-night. Some-
body must sit up here-b-somebody who can be
relied on to follow my directions exactly."
"I will do it."
"You can, if you choose-and so shall I,
for that matter. hut there must be somebody
besides - a woman, of course.' Mrs. Crump
would be the person, if she was not broken
down; but, from her looks, I should: say that
she was up last night. I'll send, my wife. She
will be glad to be of service." '
"Doctor, how can I thank you!"

"Don't think of such a thing till we see how
It turns out." He walked to the bed, and looked
down at the hotly-flushed face, the parched lips,
and wandering eyes, with a glance of pity.
"Poor ctirl 1" he said to himself. Then, sharp-
ly, aloud to the old woman, "More ice here-
change these cloths." Then, again, to War-
wick, "It all hangs on a thread. There is no
telling what the end will be"
CHAPTER XXX.
.&amp;N OLD FRIEND
WHILE Miss Tresham was lying ill at the
Eagle Hotel in Hartsburg, and while Mr. War-
wick was quietly journeying along the road that
led to his meeting with her, matters and things
in Lagrange were in a far from satisfactory con-
dition.
To begin with the Marks family, there was
growing indignation on the part of Mr. Marks,
discomfiture and concern on the part of his
wife, and turmoil and complaining on the part
of the children, at the unaccountable absence
of the governess. Two weeks had gone by,
without any sign of return, or any word of ex-
planation from her. Under these circumstan-
ces, what was left for her employers to think
but that, she had deliberately forsaken them?
It was true that every thing she possessed, with
the exception of a small bag containing a few
necessary articles of clothing, had been left be-
hind; but that might have been done merely to
avoid suspicion-and then, there was that unan-
swerable riddle, the money! Why had she
drawn it, if not to go away ?-why had she been
so particular about demanding gold? "It is 'as
plain as a pikestaff," said Mr. Marks, "that she
meant to leave just in this manner! It was the
first suspicion that came into my mind, and it'
proves to be the correct one." Poor Katharine
~had very little idea, when she went to the bank
that morning, how h~avhy it was to tell against
her afterward, in the net that circumstances were
weaving. At first, Mrs. Marks was stout in her
defence, but after a while she succumbed-facts
being too strong against her. "It's that hate-
ful St. John!" she said, at last. "I'm as sure as
can be that Miss Katharine has run away just to
getrid of him!" It provoked her that her hus-
band would' not, admit the validity of this cx.
euse. "Miss' Tresham may have, run' away to
get rid of Mr. St~. John," he said, "but it is

very certain, Bessie, that s~e needn't have done
any thing of the kind if all had been straight
and clear with her. If he had no claim on her,'
why should she run away from him?" In the
face of this masculine logic, Mrs. Marks had no
reply-no relief but that of boxing Nelly's~ars,~
when that poor little soul cried piteously for Miss
Tresham to tell her a story at night.
Then there was another annoyance. Mr. St.
John, who, if appearances might be trusted,
seemed as completely puzr.led as themselves,
persisted in calling at the house, in questioning
the servants, in accosting Mr. Marks, and in en-
deavoring by every means in his power to find
out something about the missing governess. As
time went on, this became a positive nuisance-
and a nuisance all the more disagreeable because
Mr. Marks disliked the man, and Mrs. Marks had
changed her respectful sympathy into a violent
aversion for him. In her eyes, he stood as the
representative of the change that had given such
a shock to her household, and she detested him
accordingly. "Will he never go away?" she
said to herself, pettishly, as, day after day, sh~
saw the same slender figure, the same dark, regu-
lar profile, pass and repass the house. "If he
would only go away, I am sure Miss Katharine
would come back, and surely Richard couldn't
refuse to let her stay." Fortunately for himsOlf,
Mr. Marks was not put to the test. St. Johiit did
not go away, and Miss Tresham did not return.
Morton Annesley called vainly for news, and was
always met by the same dismal shake of the
head. "Not even a letter, Mrs. Marks?" he
would say, with such a wistful look in his eyes
that it almost betrayed Mrs. Marks into telling
him a consoling falsehood. "Not even a letter,
Mr. Annesley,"' she would answer, and heave a
deep sigh as the young man went away. At such~
times her regret took the form of in~igiiant ~e-
preach against Katharine. It was shameful!-
Richard was right: it was shameful; she would
think, as she went back to her work, andheard
the children squabbling in the yard, instead of
being settled quietly at their lesions.
As for Mrs. Annesley, she was simply in-
credulous of this great good fortune which had
befallen her. That Katharine should go aweyof
her own accord-shouId~ without any ernbarxaks-
ing disclosure or trouble whatever, be rewo#ed
out of Morton's life-was more than she had ever
hoped in her most sanguine moments-.-was far,
far too good to be true. She could n~t believe
it-she absolutely declined to believe It. Some
plot was at the bottom of it, she felt sure-some.~


162                       MORTON HOuSE.                                                              AN OLD FRIEND.                      163

thing that would ~end by complicating matters
more seriously tknn they had been complicated
yet, by involving Morton as he had not been in-
volved yet. To describe her state of mind dur-
ing these two weeks would be impossible. The
inaction was terrible to her, tl~e doubt and sus-
pense still more terrible. She went to see Mrs.
Gordon, but there was no comfort to be obtained
there. Mrs. Gordon knew no more than herself,
but Mrs. Gordon took a view of the matter which
had not occurred to Mrs. Annesley. "The girl
has been sent by St. John in search of Felix 1"
she cried, as soon as she beard of Katharine's
departure, and only her own ignorance of Felix's
whereabouts prevented her from instantly setting
out to guard iiim from this new danger. As it
was, she lived in a state of restless terror which
sometimes almost went beyond her control. Her
only comforther only hope, was in John War.
wick. As long as As was with Felix, she felt that
the child was safe. 11cr reliance on him told her
this, and did not tell her wrongly. Only some-
times she would think with dismay of his liking
for 1~atharine, and wring her hands over it. "If
he once lets her draw the secret from him I" she
thought., But then, again, she would grow
ashamed of this, suspicion. Was it likely he
would let her do it ?-was it likely that, to the
woman he loved best, to the man whom he
trusted most, John Warwick would betray the
confidence given him as a sacred charge? The
woman who had once known him well, the
woman whom he had once loved passionately,
did him the justice to answer the question in the
negative.' No; John Warwick would never do
this, and so John Warwick was to be trusted.
But oh, Felix I-Felix! That was the burden of
the mother's thought, the echo of the mother's
cry. That great anxiety dwarfed every other con-
sideration-even the consideration of Morton's
folly. She still felt for him, and'fpr the bitter
distress that was hanging like a sword over his
~oth~r's head; but still Felix was at her heart,
a~id ther~was no disguising the fact that she
would have been glad tohear of Miss Tresham's
,r~z~to Tallahoma, even although that return
i~ie~rt Morton's marriage with her the next day.
Under these circumstances, it may be sup.
posed that there was not much sympathy be-
tween herself and Mrs. Annesley-yet there was
more than might be imagined. 'They were both
suffering from keen anxiety-that Was one link.
The anxiety of each was about the object dearest
to them in the world-that was the second link.
The same person, in each case, was the cause of

this nuxiety-that was the third link. These
things were much in common, and it is doubtful
whether they had ever in their lives been so nearly
drawn together before. Mrs. Gordon's mode of
accounting for Katharine's absence seemed to
Mrs. Annesley plausible enough; but Felix was
to her a person of small importance-or, to put
the matter more correctly, of no importance at
all-and, accepting her cousin's theory as a fact,
the great consideration still remained, What
would be the end of it with regard to Morton?
She had heard nothing from St. John, and she
had been too completely worsted to think of
seeking him again herself. Besides, she had a
sort of instinctive distrust of him-an instinctive
feeling that she had placed herself in his power.
If he saw Morton, and told him of her applies.
tion, Morton would never forgive her I This was
what made a coward of her, for she was very far
from being a subtle diplomatist ready to walk to
her end over any obstacles; but rather a woman
weak with the weakness of her sex, who, having
set in motion certain machinery of the power of
which she had only a vague idea, stood by,
shrinking from the consequences - a woman
whose hands were fettered, from the use of plain
i~ieans to a plain end, by a purely ideal fear-the
fear of dosing her son's love, and forfeiting her
son's respect.
As time went on, Morton was, perhaps, the
person most to be compassionate. All the
others had "themselves to thank," in great
measure, for their uneasiness; everybody else
(even Mrs. Gordon) was suffering from the direct
result of certain acts of his or her own. But
Morton had done nothing to bring upon him-
self the keen anxiety which he was enduring.
It may be perfectly true that we cry all the same
whether we break our toys ourselves, or whether
somebody else does the work of destruction for
us, and that it is by no means a source of com-
fort when "one has only one's self to blame"
for any of the disasters of life; but, in the mat-
ter of sympathy, this fact of personal responsibil-
ity makes a great difference and justly so. The
man who has brought his trouble upon himself
can, at best, advance only half the claim on our
sympathy, of one who suffers through misfortune,
or circumstance, or the fault of others. On this
ground, therefore, it may be conceded that Mor-
ton deserved compassion mOre than any other
of the circle whose interests were so capriciously
twisted and intertwined together. Not on the
ground of his love for Katharine Tresham, nor
of the suffering which that love entailed upbxi

him, but on the ground of his earnest desire to
"do the thing which was right," no matter what
the cost of that doing might be; of his loyal
effort to reconcile the different claims that were
conflicting with him, by the plain, straight rule
of honor; and of his sincere renunciation of self,
which deserved a better return than had yet be-
fallen it. During these weeks he had gone about
the ordinary affairs of life, and tried to meet them
with his ordinary face; but, somehow, it would
not do. Knocking more and more painfully at
his heart, echoing more and more loudly in his
ears, he heard the question, Where has she
gone ?-what has become of her? Had she, in-
deed, passed out of his life forever? Had he
trifled so long with the happiness that might
have been his, by a word, perhaps, that it had
at last escaped him? Asking himself these
questions, he took a sudden resolve. He would
go in search of her, and, having once found her,
he would not leave her again until all trifling and
hesitation were at an end, until the fate of his life
was settled as far as it was in Katharine Tresh-
am's power to settle it. Her very absence, which
told against her so strongly in the eyes of every
one else, did not shake his dogged faith for an
instant. He trusted her! That was his answer
to all that the voice of the world could urge;
and, whether it was a wise one or not, let us at
least acknowledge that it was a noble one.
Having niade up his mind to go, Annesley was
not long in carrying the design into execution.
A plausible excuse of business was soon found
for leaving home, and, although Mrs. Annesley
strongly suspected the real ,cause of his depart9
nrc, she had no excuse for saying, no means of
doing, any thing to prevent it. To expostulate
would have been worse than useless, and there
was nothing else left. "It comes of being a
woman," she thought, bitterly; but, in fact, if
she had been a man a hundred times over, she
could have thrown no obstacle in Morton's path
which Morton's impetuous resolution would not
have surmounted. As a general rule, women are
very much given to magnifying the disabilities
of their sex, when these very disabilities often
make the secret of their greatest strength. In
the present instance, it was certainly so. No
tangible restraint which Mrs. Annesley could
possibly have~ place over her son would have
bound him half so firmly, would havO influenced
him half so much,' as the intangible restraint of
those wishes which appealed to him the more
because she had no power to enforce them.
Still, he bsgan to consider that he had, perhaps,

sacrificed a little too much to them; and, in
taking his present resolution, he put them ten-
derly but decidedly on one side. ~Some instinct
told him that his first duty now was to the wom-
an he loved, and, with the simplicity of thought
and intention which characterized him, he set
forth to fulfil this duty.
It was on the sixteenth of January-exactly
two weeks after Katharine left-that Morton
drove out of the gates of Anneadale, and turned
his horses heads into the road that led to Sax-
ford. He had not gone more than a mile when
he met George Raynor. Of course, a pause and
a conversation ensued.
"You look as if you were rigged out for
travelling," said Mr. Raynor, after the first
greetings were over. "Going down to Apalat-
ka?"
"No-only to Saxford," Annesley answered.
"I have to meet a man there on business."
This was strictly true; but the speaker did not
add that the man would willingly have come
to Lagrange. "Why should you think of Apa.
latka? Is any thing going on down there?"
"Nothing that I know of; but I heard you
promise Seymour to go down soon, and I thought
you might be on your way to fulfil the promise.
Maggie Lester went home yesterday," he added,
with a laugh.
"And you think I am likely to be following
Miss Maggie? Thank you; I don't care to inter-
fere with Lawton's amusement. She didn't stay
long with Mrs. Raynor, then?"
"Her mother wrote for her-company ex-
pected, or something of the sort-and she was
obliged to leave. Flora was very sorry to see
her go-chiefly, I think, because she~ took Irene
along.~'
":bid Miss Irene go?" said Annesley, a lit-
tle absently. "I am sorry to hear that,' and so
will a great many other people be. But sho
will be back soon-won't she?"
"Hardly soon, according to present arrange.
ments. Flora is to join her in Apalatka, a~d
they will go on to Mobile' together. I fancy La-
grange won't see either of them again very
shortly. I look forward with resignation to a
long period of bachelor-soh, Charlcy!-You
had better draw your horses out of the way,
rink! Here comes the stage."
rink-the servant who was driving Annes-
ley-drew his horses to one side of the road ac.
cordingly; while Charley, who was young and
foolish, backed into a fence - corner, as the
heavily-laden coach, with its six horses, itS nine.


164:                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                                 AN OLD FRIEND.                          165

inside passengers, end one fortunate outsider,
who had secured the seat beside the driver,
rolled by with a sweeping air of grand impor-
tance on its way to Saxford. As it passed, An-
i~esley glanced round and ran his eye over the
passengers, vaguely looking for an acquaintance,
as people will do, whether in stage-coaches or
railroad-trains. With the exception of the
driver, to whom he nodded, he saw not one
familiar face-duning the first instant, that is.
The second after, a man, on the seat opposite
from the side of the road on which Raynor and
hin~seif were, leaned forward for a look at the
way-side group, and he recognized St. John.
Long after the coach had passed out of sight,
after he had~said good-by to ilaynor, and was
once rnor~ under way, with the horses trotting
briskly over ~the smooth, well-beaten road, that
face remained with Annesley to conjure up tor-
menting thoughts. Why was St. John leaving
Talla~zoma? Why was he going to Saxford?
What connection did he have with Miss Tresh-
am? These three questions formed the text of
a mental discourse that occupied his attention
until the roofs of Saxford came in sight, just as
the sun was going down in a gorgeous bed of
sunset clouds, and the whole wide panorama of
Nature-its fields, and valleys, and shaded hill-
sides-began to clothe themselves in the exqui-
site purple of the winter gloaming.
.Annesley drove to the principal hotel of the
place, and sound that the coach had preceded
him in its arrival by an hour or two. The first
person he saw, on entering the house, was St.
John. involuntarily the young man frowned
the very sight of the sallow, handsome face had
gro~ ~s repugnant to him as to Mr. Marks.
or other this man was connected with
Zatht~rine and~ Y~atharine's disappearance-ac-
cording to Mrs. Gordon, he had sent her away;
according to Mr. Marks, he, at lea0t, knew where
she was, and why she had gone. In either view
of the case, Annesley felt inclined to take him
by the throat and demand "satisfaction" in the
form ef information on the spot. But the codes
of olvilized life discourage, if they do not abso-
lutely condemn~ such arbitrary proceedings as
these; and, this consideration apart, such pro.
ceedings are sometimes attended with unpleas-
ant consequences. Morton restrained the in-
clination, and passed on. After the business of
ol$aining a room was over, his first inquiry star-
tled "mine hoat" a little. Was there a Catho-
lb priest residing in Saxford?
"~~u're the second gentleman that's asked

that question, Mr. Annesley," answered the pro-
prietor, opening his eyes, but smiling all the
same. "There was a gentleman came in the
stage, and wanted to know the same thing. I
told him, sir, what I can tell you-that there's
no priest living in town, but one comes here
sometimes-I really can't say how often. I re-
ferred the other gentleman to an Irish family,
named Malone, for information; but, if you are
anxious to know any thing about the priest, I'll
take pleasure in sending round and finding out
every thing for you.~~
"Thank you," said Morton, a little amused
at the contrast thus strikingly marked by the
landlord between Mr. Annesley of Annesdale
and an ordinary traveller, who was (so far as the
knowledge of thatworthy extended) Mr. Nobody
of Nowhere. "I will trouble you to find out,
then, whether the priest is now in Saxford, and,
if he is not, when he was here last, and is likely
to be here again. When the messenger returns,
send him up to my room, if you please."
Before long, there was a tap at Morton's
door, and the expected messenger made his ap-
pearance. He was a bright-looking boy, and
delivered his message very clearly. He had
seen Mrs. Malone. The priest was in town-
had arrived that evening to he in time for Sun-
day-and was staying with the Malone family.
On hearing that a gentleman at the hotel wished
to see him, Mrs. Malone had suggested that it
would be well if the gentleman would defer his
visit until the next morning- the father had
come thirtymiles that day, and was not very
well, and a gentleman had already called on
him. If the gentleman was going away, ho
might come that night, of course; but, if not,
it would be more convenient if he would wait
until the next morning.
"I'll wait," he said, absently; and, after the
messenger left, he asked himself what di~'erence
it made. He had waited three weeks in La-
grange-why not wait one night~ in Saxford?
Yet he felt impatient ovcr the delay1 as people
will feel over any delay, however slight, that in-
tervenes between the fruition of a hope or the
fulfilment of an expectation.
He reasoned with himself about this folly,
however, and, after a whiin, managed to recon-
cUe himself to the charitable opinion that there
was no real need for disturbing Father Martin's
well-earned repose on that night. One thing, at~
least, he had gained by the application. He had
learned that, instead of knowing all about Keth-
anne, St. John, like himself, was merely ~at'the

track of discovery, and that, also like himself;
the first person to whom he applied for informa-
tion was the person '~liom Katharine would have
been most likely to take into her confidence-
that is, the priest.
While he was arriving at this conclusion, the
person of whom he was thinking entered the
hotel and passed directly into the bar-room. If
Morton had seen him it is probable that he would
not have felt encouraged concerning the degree
of information which Father Martin was able or
likely to give. Discomfiture was written as legi-
bly on St. John's face as anger betrayed itself in
his manner. On entering the door he pushed
rudely against a man who chanced to be stand-
ing near, and did not trouble himself to make
even the ghost of an apology. Walking for-
ward, with an air of profound unconsciousness,
he called for a glass of brandy, received it, and
was about to raise it to his lips, when the man
who had been so unceremoniously treated fol-
lowed and touched his arm.
"I beg your pardon," he said, quietly, but
with a certain tone of menace in his voice.
"You are the gentleman who came within an
ace of knocking me down, I believe. Did I
hear you apologize for it?"
- St. John turned quickly, with an insolent
reply visible in his eyes before it passed his
lips. He was evidently in that frame of mind
when to insult somebody is nothing less than a
positive relief. As it chanced, however, he had
no. time to speak. No sooner did he turn his
face than the other recoiled a step-in sheer
amazement, as it seemed.
"By -1" he said, "St. John?"
* Something in his tone, something in his man-
ner, struck even the by-standers with surprise.
They had looked with interest the minute before
-anxious to see the end of what promised to
be a vei~y pretty quarrel-but the interest sensi-
bly quickened at this unexpected recognition.
Its effect on $t. John was unmistakable. He
looked keenly for a second in the face before
him-his own growing a shade paler, meanwhile
-then he put down, untouched, the glass of
brandy, and extended his hand.
"You!" he said. "I had no idea it was
you. I apologize, of course. Where the devil
did you come from?"
The other took his offered hand and shook it
with a laugh. After the first manifestation of
surprise, the meeting seemed to affect him very
little, cit her one way or another.
"Where I came from isn't' half as ~vondcrful

as where you came from," he answered. "Sup
pose we exchange reminiscences at our leisure?
Will you come to my room? You can take your
brandy there, and I will order some to keep you
company."
"All right," said St. John; but he said it
reluctantly, and, as he allowed his companion to
take his arm and lead him away, the people
whom he left behind could not help thinking
that this meeting was to him any thing hut a
pleasurable event.
They were quite right, too. He ground his
teeth, and cursed his unlucky fate, as he fol-
lowed the man who had claimed his acquaint-
anceup the steep and ill-lighted staircase of the
hotel. They entered a room just at the head
of the flight of steps, and, while the propriety~
of the apartment fumbled about for the means
of striking a light, St. John sat down on the first
substantial object he came to, which chanced to
be a table, and was silent.
"Deuce take the thing! Where has it
gone?" grumbled the one who was stumbling
about the room, kicking the chairs, and finally
knocking.down the pitcher and basin with a
resounding clatter. "I've found the confound-
ed candle, but where the devil has the match.
box gone! Here-no. D- it, all the water's
spilled, and I've stepped right into it? ?shawl
I'll get a light across the passage and not keep
you in the dark this way, St. John. Excuse me
for a minute."
St. John vouchsafed not a word as the speaker
left the room and crossed the passage to a door
just opposite, under which a stream of light was
visible. -
His knock was answered by a gentleman, who
opened the door almost immediately, and cour-
teously acceded to his request. He returned to
a table in the room, and brought from it a can-
dle with which to light the one presented. As
he did so his face was fully exposed to view, and
St. John, sitting in the darknesss of the oppo-
site room, recognized Annesley.-. Instinctively
he drew a little farther back into the friendly
shade. At that particular time, and under
those particular circumstances, he had no desire
to be recognized in return. There was no dan.
ger of this, however, for his position effectually
shielded him; and, besides this, Morton's atten-
tion was occupied just then with the man before
him. As he brought forward the candle some-
thing like recognition was plainly to be seen in
his face-was evidently struggling to assert itself
La his mind. As the stranger held Ma candle to


AN OLD FRIEND.                     16

166                               MORTON HOUSE.
the flame, and thelight thus fell on his face, the
recognition suddenly became clear.
"I beg your pardon," said the young man.
"I did not know y~u at first. Dr. Joyner, is it
not?"
Dr. Joyner-for it was indeed he-looked
with a start into the face before him; then, ac-
cording to his invariable custom, shifted his eyes
back to the candle.
"You are right. Joyner is my name," he
said, "but I believe you have the advantage of
me, sir."
"That is natural," said Morton, smiling a
little. "I never saw you but once-but my
memory is good for faces. I was down in Apa-
latka about six months ago, and, in passing
through Hartsburg, I called at your office to get
a prescription for a sprained wrist. You may
not remember the occurrence, but, as soon as I
saw your face, it came back to me,"
"Doctors see so many people that they may
be pardoned for havingpoor memories," said the
other, apologetically. "I think I remember you,
though," he went on, looking again at the young
man. "You were with Mr. Seymour, I believe,
and he introduced you as Mr. Annesley, of La-
grange."
"The same," said Morton. "Your lotion did
my wrist a great deal of good," he added, with
the frankness that sat very winningly upon him.
"Won't you come in? I should like to hear
something of Apalatka and my friends down
there."
"I regret-I am sorry-it would give me
great pleasure," said the doctor, stammering, as
he bowed over his candlestick, "but I left a
friend in my room-in the dark, too, poor fel-
low I-and he is waiting for me to return. Other-
wise-" Another bow completed the sentence."
"In that case I can't expect to detain you,
of course," said Morton. "Good-evening."
When the doctor went back into his own
room his face wore an expression of mingled sur-
prise and amusement, which at once attracted
St. John's attention and roused his curiosity.
"You seem to be enjoying something amaz
ingly," he said. "Considering that the brandy
hasn't come yet, you might as well let me knon
what It is. One thing is certain "-with a lool
of disgust around-" I don't see much in th
way of amusement hereY
"I am only enjoying a new illustration of ar
old proverb," said the other, putting the candle
stick on a rickety table that was on one side ol
V       the room, with a cracked looking-glass hanging

over it. "Did you ever chance to hear that 'a
prophet is never without honor save in his own
country?' Well, I've just had an example of
that. For want of something better to do, I have
been trying my hand lately at the healing art, and
the result was by no means as brilliant as I could
have wished. The other doctors in the place
where I settled were jealous of sue, a few un.
pleasant accidents attended my practice, a man
or two died-don't men die sometimes under the
hands of regular M. D.'s ?-and the consequence
was that the people raised an uproar, and I had
to leave-absolutely, my dear St* John, I had to
leave, in preference to being mobbed. Think
what a state of barbarism this horrible country
is in! Well, I left the place-.Hartsburg is its
name-under those circumstances, and I come
here, and the first person I meet compliments
- actually compliments - me on my medical
skill!"
"That young fellow across the passage?"
"Yes-did you see him? Fine-looking, isn't
he? One of the first men in the country round
about here, I believe. I met him, as he remind-
ed me, in Hartsburg, with a Mr. Seymour, a
wealthy planter who lives in the county of
which Hartsburg is the seat. He had sprained
his wrist, and I gave him. a lotion for it. He
says it worked excellently."
"Then why couldn't you prescribe for your
other patients as well?"
Dr. Joyner indulged in a laugh-.--quiet, but
of considerable depth and evident enjoyment.
"I sprained my own wrist once," he said,
"and I got this prescription for it from a doe.
tor. You see it's useful ~never to forget any
thing."
"And you practiced medicine en the strength
of knowing one prescription? Well "-with an
impatient movementp..-" I suppose it was as good
a trade as any other that you were likely to drift
into. What did you leave the old country for?"
"Humph!" said the doctor, looking at him
I askance. "What did you leave it for?"
"That's easily answered-because I felt dis.
- posed to do so."
"Oh, you did, did you? Well, then, there's
a good deal of difference between us. I left
because the police were so unusually pressing in
their attentions, just then, that I had no alterna-
tive but to do so. I made the narrowest slip of
the galleys imaginable," said he, growing pale,
notwithstanding his lightness of tone. "'Ma
foil it would be delightful to be number nine
of a chain-gang just now! rractising medicine

at the expense of the good people of Hartsburg is
quite an improvement on that. Do you object to
my leaving you for a minute? I'll step to the
door and call for that brandy. In a place like
this you have to assert yourself, or the rascals
will neglect you."
St. John making no objection, Dr. Joyner pro.
needed to step to the door and assert himself.
Having shouted for some time, he at last suc-
ceeded in bringing up the brandy, and half a
dozen people besides, anxious~ to know if the
house was on fire. After reassuring them on
this point, he coolly relieved the servant of the
brandy, shut the door in the faces of the others,
and returned to St. John.
"There, now!" said he, setting the bottle
and two glasses which accompanied it down on
the table. "I call this comfortable-two old
friends and good comrades drinking each other's
health in elegant seclusion. You'll find water in
that pitcher there, St. John-confound it! I for-
got it was spilt. Shall I call for more?"
"Not on my account," said St. John, resign-
edly. "I don't car~ to bring up half the house-
hold again. Sit down," he went on, impatiently.
"Something is on your mind-I've seen that
from the first. Speak it out, and have done."
"With all my heart," said the other, sitting
down and composedly draining a glass of spirits.
"You haven't told me yet how you enme here,"
he added, with a sudden furtive glance at his
companion's face. "One good turn deserves
another. I've been frank with you-now be
frank with me. Has the pretty little game of
ro~ege et nob- done for you also?"
"I'm here on business," said St. John, ir-
ritably. "I thought I told you that. What is
the good of~ being so d-d inquisitive? I
haven't been in America more than a month or
two, and I shall not stay an hour longer than I
can possibly help."
"Are you very closely occupied just now?"
"That depends on circumstances. Why do
you ask?"
The other looked over his shoulder nervously
at the door. Then drew hisehair a little nearer.
"Would you be willing to run a small risk for a
great reward?" he asked, quickly.
"That depends," said St. John, watching him
coolly; "both on the degree of risk, and the
amount of the reward."
"The risk is hardly worth considering, and
the amount is that of a moderate fortune. In
one word, St. John, can I depend on you, or can
I not? This thing has been on my mind for

some time, and I have been considering day and
night how I could manage it without any assist-
ance; but when I saw you, the problem was
solved for me. I said at once, 'There is the
man in the very nick of time. If his head's as
cool and his wits are as sharp 'as they used to be,
I've nothing more to fear."'
"I don't stand in any need ofa dose of fiat.
tory," said St. John. "Affairs are desperate
with me juSt now, and I am ready for any thing
that won't put my neck in a noose. A person
on whom I depended has just given me the Slip
in the most complete manner. A scheme on
which I have been building is likely to come to
nothing, as far as I am concerned, and so-pass
the brandy, and let me hear your plan."
"It's not a thing to describe in a place like
this," said the other, glancing round again. "If
we talk about it at all, it must be in French.
"You don't object, do you?"
"Not in the least."
"Listen then," said he, plunging at once into
French, and speaking with an ease and fluency
which proved his intimate acquaintance with the
language. "Before I left Hartsburg, I chanced
to hear that a bank of importance, which is es-
tablished there, was about to send a large amount
of specie for distribution among its various
branch banks. I did not pay much attention
one way or another to the report, until, in com-
ing to Saxford, I travelled with a man who is
well known to be the messenger intrusted with
the money. This fact, and my own desperate
condition, soon made me think that here was an
excellent opportunity of fortune, only needing a
man of courage and nerve to seize it. The cour-
age and nerve I had, my dear St. John, but I
needed a few other things-a little assistance,
principally. The undertaking is too great for
one person to attempt. I needed a comrade to
share the risk and-the reward. As soon as I
saw you, I thought 'Here is my man.' It's for
you to say whether or not I was right."
"1 have heard the object," said ~St. John,
coolly. "How about the means?"
"The means are as plain as could be desired.
The messenger is at present on his way to Talla.'
horns, wimre the specie will be lodged in the
bank until opportunities are found for forwani-
ing it to the other branches. Now, I have been
in Tallahoma, and Ihave seen this bank. Write
me down a fool, my dear St. John, if it would not
be as easy to enter it as to walk out of this room.
See here!"
lie took from his pocket a morocco case of

167

MORTON ,HOUSE.

166


MORTON HOUSE.

FATHER MARTIN.                      169

moderate size, touched a spring, and, as it flew
open, he held it out for the inspection of the
other.
"Whatwould you call that, now?" he asked.,
St. John regarded it superciliously, as he
answered, "I should call it a box of tooth-instru-
ments. Have you been practising dentistry as
well as 'physic?"
"A little. I fleshed thls".-he held up to
St. John's recoiling sight a formidable-looking
pair of forceps-" in lhe-"
"Spare me a description of the operation, I
beg," interrupted the other, with unconcealed
disgust. "What have these things to do with
the subject you were talking of?"
"Don't ~e impatient, and you shall hear.
You would call it a box of tooth-instruments,
would you? Well, you're not to blame there-.
and that's the beauty of it. Anybody would
call it the same thing. But now-I'll show
you."
So saying, he took the instruments from the
box, then, with great care, removed the red-
velvet cushion on which they had rested, and
which turned out to be a false bottom, beneath
which was .a eiivity containing a dozen or more
of eccentric-shaped implements, the use of which
it would have puzzled an ordinary observer to'
conjecture. It did not puzzle St. John in the
least.
"You are well '-supplied," he remarked, with
a grim smile.
"You may say so l Look at that, now, will
you?''
He lifted a small saw, made of the finest
watch-spring steel, and exhibited it, handling it
with the same caressing touch which a painter,
who has not used his brushes for some time, be-
stows on those beloved servitors of his more
beloved art, or with which a musician passes his
hand over the strings or keys of his favorite in-
strument.
"That walks through iron with the seine ease
that a good carpenter's saw passes through
wot~d!" cried he, with enthusiasm. "And
here-" He went on to expatiate upon the
excellence of various of the implements, and
the virtues of the box itself. "You observe,"
he said, "there is room here for other mat-
ters besides these useful little gentlemen. I
keep any papers of importance, that it might
not be advisable to have about me, here too."
~It is a good idea," said St. John, absently.
"But about this bank." He thought for a me.
ment, then looked up with something like a

flash in his eye. "The man who is responsible
-the cashier, 1 believe they call him-is named
Marks, isn't he???
"I-yes, I believe so. I didn't pay much
attention to his name. What has that got to do
with it?"
"It has to do with it that he is an unman-
nered scoundrel, who has gone out of his way
to insult me on one or two occasions," an-
swered St. John, vindictively. "If it's his bank
that you want to rob, I'll help you, with the
greatest pleasure, on the understanding that we
share the spoils fairly. But I can tell you that
you will have to be very cautious in jour ar-
rangements."
"We will discuss them now," said the other,
eagerly. "Help yourself to thc brandy, and then
we can plan the campaign."
-4--
CHAPTER XXXI.
~AT1lER MARTIN.
EARLY the next morning-as early as was at
all compatible with civilized habits-Annesley
set forth to pay his visit to the Catholic priest.
Having been carefully directed with regard to
the whereabouts of the Malone house, he had no
difficulty in finding it, and, when he came to a
plain two-story building, with the usual four sides,
and the usual long piazzas, set back from the
street in a green yard, he knew at once that
it was the place of which' he was in search.
His knock at the front door was answered by
a pleasant-looking woman, with an unmistakably
Irish face, and still more unmistakably Irish
accent. Hearing that he was "the gentleman to
see the priest," she asked him to walk in.
"Father Martin went into the garden for a
walk," she said. "I will send one of the chil-
dren to tell him you are here."
"It would be a pity to bring him in," said
Annesley, smiling, and winning her heart at once
by hia face and manner. "Can't I go to him?
I have only a few words to say, and I need not
disturb his walk very long to say them."
"I-yes, sir; there is no reason why you
should not go," answered Mrs. Malone, after a
moment's hesitation. "Straight across the yard
-yonder is the garden-gate. It can't be long
before you find the father; he's walking in there
somewhere."
Annesley thanked her, and went his way.{A
path led across the yard to the gate of4whielt~1~4

had spoken~ Opening it, he found himself in a
garden, which was not very much of a place in
the way of size or arrangement, but which had a
certain attraction, seen under that bright morn-
ing sky, with the Bun shining gayly across the
cabbages and rose-bushes, the birds twittering
and trilling in every tree, and the fresh odor of
newly-turned earth from some spaded beds.
* But the chief beauty of the place was in the
prospect beyond-a glorious panorama of open
country spreading as far as the eye could see; a
sweep of level fields near at hand; then hills
and valleys farther off, mingling and blending, as
only Nature's perspective can blend, gleams of
brightness and patches of shade, clouds drift-
ing, delicious "bits" of harmony and contrast
everywhere, and a breadth of landscape, impos-
sible to describe, stretching to the verge of the
horizon, where it wns edged by a fringe of dis-
tant forest.
Annesley was charmed; but he did not have
time to indulge the luxury of sight as he would
have liked. He gave one minute to admiration,
then looked round for the object of his seareji.
It was not long before he discerned a black figure
walking up and down under a trellis, which cov-
ered one of the walks, and was overrun by a
grape-vine. Advancing to the nearest,
he saw a man of middle age and decidedly sacer-
dotal aspect-a man who wore a black cassoclc,
and was reading from a well-worn breviary-
advancing toward him. As they came within a
few feet of each other, the priest looked up.
Morton took off his hat, and introduced himself
at once.
"My name is Atiriesley," he said. "I call by
appointment. Mrs. Malone told me I should find
Mr. Martin here."
"I am Mr. Martin," answered the ecclesias-
tie, courteously. He closed his book, and, com-
ing a step nearer, offered his hand. "Your name
is not unknown to me, Mr. Airncsley," he said.
"I am glad to meet you. Is there any thing I
can O~ tor you?"
"You can be kind enough to answer a few
questions for me," Annesley replied. "May I-~
but are you at leisure to attend to me now?"
~ I "Perfectly at leisure," answered the other.
remained at home this morning because I ex-
pected your call. I was only reading my office
-you don't disturb me in the least. Shall we
return to the house, or will you sit down here?
The air is delightful."
"If you do not object, let us remain here,
by all means. Is it necessary, though, that I

should interrupt your walk? 1 should he sorry
to do so."
"Join me, then," said Father Martin, emil.
ing. Like everybody else, he was attracted by
that gift of pleasing which the young man pos-
sessed in such remarkable degree-that happy
mingling of courtesy and frankness which came
to him by nature, and for which he did not de-
serve half as much credit as he obtained. "Exer-
cise, fortunately, does not interfere with conver-
sation."
Annesley was ready enough to take him at
his word. A great many people can testify from
experience that, when one has an awkward ques-
tion to ask, or a disagreeable answer to render,
t~ ask the one, or give the other, in the course
of pedestrian or any other sort of exercise, is
infinitely preferable to a cold-blooded interview
face to face, and eye to eye. By this time, Mor-
ton began to feel that he was in rather an awk-
ward position. After all, what excuse could he
give, what right did he have, to be making these
inquiries about Miss Tresham? If Father Mar-
tin chose to "take him up" sharply, what could
he say in self-defence? He had literally no ex-
cuse to offer, literally no right to show. Yet he
was in for it now; and he cleared his throat, and
dashed at the heart of his subject without any
preliminary.
"I hope you will not be surprised by what I
am about to say," he began. "I believe you
know Miss Tresham quite well. Are you aware
that she has left Tallahoma suddenly and very
mysteriously?"
"I was told so yesterday," answered the
priest, gravely. "If it is of Miss Tresham that
you have come to speak, Mr. Annesley, you may
rest assured that my attention is at your com-
"Your attention I" said Annesley. They
had not taken more than half a dozen steps;
but he stopped short, and turned round upon
the other. "Your attention I" he repeated.
Excuse me; but is nothing el~e at icy com-
mand? le it-is it possible you do not know
where she is?"
"Until yesterday evening, I was not even
aware that she had left Tallahoma. Of course,'
therefore, it is impossible for me to know where
she is."
"You have not seen her?"
"Not since before Christmas."
"Yen have not heard from her?"
"I have not."
Annesley looked helplessly at hhn. lie ilid

9
168


140                       MO1~TON HOtTSE.                                                         ~'ATHER MARTIN.

1'71

not know what to do or say next. Me had been
so sure that Father Martin had seen Katharine,
so sure that he knew where she was, that this
unexpected obstacle, this barrier of complete
Ignorance) seemed all at once to end every
thing.
"It is no temporary absence. She Is gone-
gone for good "he thought, and, thus thinidug,
grew so pale that the priest felt sorry for him,
and, extending his hand, touched his arm.
"Be frank with me, Mr. Annesley," he said,
kindly. "Believe me, you can feel no interest in
~diss Tresham which I do not share. The news
'which I heard yesterday evening," he went on,
"cost me a sleepless night. I do not understand
the matter, as yet. Will you try to explain?"
"There is nothing that can be explained,"
said Annesley, looking -very downcast. "Miss
Tre~ham has left, nobody knows why, and gone,
nobody knows where. That is why I came to
yot%, sir. Her friends in Tallahoma are very
anxious about her; and I thought you must cer-
tainly have seen her, would certainly have known
where she went. When she left, the impression
with Mr. and Mrs. Marks was that she had come
to Sanford to see you."
"When did she come?"
"This day-no, yesterday, two weeks ago-
the second of January."
"I told her, when I saw her in December,
that I wight be here on the Sunday following
that date. Unfortunately, I was prevented from
coming. Well, Mr. Annesley, has she not re-
turned to Talinhoma since?"
"No; she has not returned."
"Nor written?"
"Not a line."
"Indeed!" said Father Martin; and he
walked along silently for some time, his hands,
which still held the breviary, clasped behind
his hack, and his eyes absentlyfastened on the
scene outspread before ~ "There is one
thing," he said, at last. "Elan Miss Tresham's
employers throw no light on her absence? Did
she give them no explanation of why she
went?"
"She did not tell them-that is, she did not
tell Mrs. Marks-any thing excepting titat she
was going, and that she would be back on the
following Monday."
Annesley spoke very quietly, for he felt in-
tensely depressed and despondent; but he was
startled by the expression that came over Father
Martin's face at his last words. This time, it
was he who stopped short in his walk, and looked

with wonder-..it might almost have seemed with
alarm-at the other.
"Are you sure that she said she would be
back on Monday?" he asked.
"Yes," answered Morton, with some sur-
prise. "She certainly told Mrs. Marks that she'
would be back on Monday. I was in the house
an hour or two after she left it; and this assur-
ance was given to me at the time, and repeated
since.
"That settles the matter, then, Mr. Annes.
ley," said the priest, with decision. ~' If Miss
Treshain told Mrs. Marks that she would he
back on Monday, you may be sure that she in.
tended to return on that day-you may be cer-
tain that something which she did not' foresee in
leaving Tallahoma has alone prevented her doing
so."
"But-"
"But is it possible you can know Miss Tresh-
am, and doubt this?" interrupted the other,
looking at him keenly.
"I have trusted, I do trust Miss Tiiesham iw~
plicitly," said Morton, simply. "1 me that you
are right-I see that this assertion of lmrs amply
proves that in leaving Tallahoma she left it with
the intention of returning. E~i4#~ntly,. however,
she changed that intention,!'
"Evidently ~he was made to change it."
"You mean-"
"Stop a moment, Mr. Annesley, before I tell
you what I mean. I have answered several of
your questions. I shall ask you now to answer
one of mine., Suppose we sit down? After all,
I believe it is more convenient to be seated when
a conversation like this is going on."
lie did not~wait forAnnesley to accede to his
proposal, but, taking the liberty which social
custom grants an older' man, sat down on a
bench placed at the end of.the trellir, and mo-
tioned the other to a place beslae him.
Morton instantly obeyed.
The awkwardness of the first meeting was
entirely worn off by this time, and his eager-
ness had reached such a point that he would
probably have stood on his head if Father Mar-
tin had made that a condition for gratifying
this eagerness. Their position would have en-
raptured an artist. The trellis behind them
broke the direct beams of the sun without exact-
ly shading them, while the beautiful scene, with
its purple hills and distant forests, Its shifting
shadows and winsome brightness, lay like a pie.
ture at their feet. Yet how little either of them
heeded it! For all the thoughts they gavel it

might have been as desolate as Sahara or
bleak as Siberia! And, in the face of this, ~
turn round churlishly and cry out upon Natu:
that she does not sympathize with us - tha
in our moments of brightness, she sometime,
weeps; and, in our mourning, often smiles!
"Yen know Miss Tresham quite well, 11
lieve," said the priest, after a momentary paus
"Will you tell me (I do not ask the questic
without a reason) if you know the history of h
life?'
"I
she is know nothing of her life, excepting th~
a West-indian by birth, and that sh
lived 'in England as a governess," Anncsley at
swerved.
"Have you ever heard her speak of Mr. Si
John?"
Morton hesitated a moment before replying.
"I have never heard her speak of Mr. SI
John," he said, at length, "but I met her one
when-when she was with him. Circumstance
made it necessary that she should introduce us
know nothing more than that."
"You never asked any thing more?"
"If I had felt disposed to do so-which I dk
not-whom could I have asked?"
"Miss Treshamn herself perhaps."
The young man colored suddenly and deeply.
"You don't know me, sir," he said. "I can't
be offended, therefore, that you should think
might have been guilty of such an impertinence.
But you do know Miss Tresham. You know
whether she is the sort of woman with whom one
would be likely to take a liberty."
The priest smiled with a genial expression
that lit up pleasantly his strong Irish face.
"Your punctilio does you no discredit, Mr.
Annesley," he said, "but I assure you I made
the inquiry without supposing for a moment that
you had been guilty of an impertinence, or that
Miss Tresham would permit a liberty. I may in-
terpret your answer, then, to mean that you are
in complete ignorance of every thing about Mr.
St. John save the mere fact of his existence."
"I could scarcely be ignorant of that," said
Annesley, smiling in turn, "since I have been
reminded of it very recently. Do you know that
he is in Sanford?"
"I had~a visit from him yesterday."
"And does he know nothing of Miss Tresh-
am?"
"What he knows,, Mr. Annesley, I am unable
to say. What he told me I violate no confidence
in telling you. He came to me, as you have
done, for information about Miss Tresham."

~s     "And you told him.-.?"
re "That' I had none to give him. I did not
re ask Mr. St. John to walk in the garden," he
.t, added, significantly, "and our interview was
~s quite brief-confined merely to a business-like
,interchange of~question and answer."
e-    There was a silence after this.
e.    Morton hesitated what to say next, and per.
a haps the priest hesitated also. Frankly as they
~r had spoken, willing as they were to meet each
other's advances, there was a barrier of reserve
it still between them-a barrier raised by the igno-
e ranee of the one and the knowledge of the other.
i-    It was Annesley who, with characteristic
impetuosity, dashed straight at this.
t "Sir," he said, "there is a great difference
between us. I know nothing about Miss Tresh-
am's life, and you probably know every thing.
Under these circumstances, I should like to ask
e one question, and I should be glad If you would
s answer it."
"I mu sure you will ask nothing that I ought
not to answer, Mr. Annesley."
"No, I hope not. My question is simply
I this Does your knowledge give you any real
advantage over my ignorance? Does it enable
you to form an idea why Miss Treshara did zwt
return to Tallahoma, and where she has gone?"
Father Martin thought a moment. The young
man had certainly gone straight to the only im-
portant point - the only thing that made the
difference between them of any moment. After
a while he answered:
"No, Mr. Annesley, I cannot say that my
knowledge enables me to form any clear idea
why Miss Tresham did not return to Tallahoma,
and it assuredly does not tell me where she has
gone. Thus far we stand en equal ground. Of
course, I have certain suspicions - but so, I
fancy, have you. Can you tell me whether Mr.
St. John has been in Tallahoma during the whole
of these two weeks?"
"He has not left the town for a day until
yesterday."
"The next thing," said Father Martin, rising
to his feet, "is to inquire what Miss Tresham did
while she was in Sanford. Fortunately, we have
the means of information near at hand. When
I arrived here, Mrs. Malone told me that she
had been to inquire for me. I asked no ques-
tions, and the good woman went into no details.
If you will come with me, we will ask some ques-
tions now."
Annesley rose with alacrity to follow, him.
They left their sheltered nook and turned Into

170

MORTON HOUSE


172                      MORTON HOUSE.                                                       LIFE AND DEATH.                    173

a walk that led directly to the house; but,
before they had gone a dozen yards, they saw a
servant opening the gate and advancing with
evident haste toward them.
"A messenger for me, no doubt," said the
priest, resignedly. "The faithful have heard of
my arrival."
"A messenger who seems to have travelled
long and hard," said Annesley. "He is splashed
with mud from his hat to his shoes. The roads
are not so 'bad either."
"Toward the southwest they are. There
have been heavy rains between Hartsburg and
this place lately, as I found yesterday.-Well,
my man, whom are you in search of 1"' he said,
turning to the servant.
"The priest, if you please, sir," answered
the boy, who had reached the two gentlemen by
this time and taken off his cap. As he did so,
Morton started. To his surprise he recognized
a(well.known Tallahoma face-no less a person-
age than Mr. Warwick's body-servant.
"What, Cyrus!" he exclaimed.
"Why, if it ain't Mr. Annesley!" said Cyrus,
starting in turn, and staring open-mouthed at the
young man.
U What are you doing here?" Annesley
asked, immediately. "Where is Mr. War-
wick?"
"Mass John's in Hartsburg, sir," answered
Cyrus. "I've just come from there. I rode all
night, sir, over awful roads. I never saw sich
holes in all my life. You could almost a-put
Rattler and me both in one of 'em, and-"
~' What on earth were you riding all night
for? ~
"It was Mass John's orders, sir," said Cyrus,
in an important tone. "He told me to git here
as fast as I could and give this note "-he pro-
duced one frota between the folds of the lining
of his cap-" to the Catholic priest in Saxford.
If he wasn't here-"
"He is here," interrupted Father Martin.
"I am the Catholic priest. If the note is for
me,~ give it to me at once, my good boy."
Cyrus delivered up the note immediately, and,
after one hasty glance at the address, the priest
broke the seal and unfolded it. Morton, watch-
ing hi~ face as he read, saw that he paled sud-
denly and strangely over the very first lines. He
did not raise his eyes, however, not even after
the young man felt sure that he had finished the
letter. In fact, he was silent so long that at last
hu~atienee got the better of civility, and Annes~
ley spoke himself.

"Pardon me, sir, but is there any news about
-about the person of whom we have been talk.
ing?"
Father Martin started and looked up-with
reluctance, it was evident.
"Yes, Mr. Annesley," he said, " there is news
-very painful news, I am grieved to say. In a
few words," he, went on hastily, as he saw the
young man change color, "Miss Tresham is very
ill, and I am summoned to her. Here is Mr.
Warwick's note."
He extended the sheet of paper, and Annes-
Icy took it without a word. This was what Mr.
Warwick said:
"EAGLE HOTEL, HART5BUEG,
"Six o'ckrck r. ar., Friday, January 16t/~.
"Ray. Mr. MARTIN
"DEAR Sin: Yesterday afternoon I chanced
to reach this place, and, to my surprise, found
Miss Tresham (lately teaching in my brother-in-
law's family in Tallahoma) lying dangerously ill
here. Why or how she came here I do not
know, for she had lost consciousness before ~I
saw her; but since she is in a violent brain-
fever, which leaves scarcely a hope of her life,
the doctor urges me to communicate with her
friends, and I therefore venture to address your-
self. You arc the only person who, in an emer-
gency like the present, can possibly be able to
say what she would or would not wish to be
done-what steps taken, who informed of her
condition. May I hope that you will come to
Hartsburg at once? I shall send this by a mes-
senger who will ride all night.
"Very respectfully,
"JOHN WARwIcK."
"P. 5.-i have just seen the doctor, who
thinks there is no hope. I ought to add, per-
haps, that I should have written to you yester-
day, if I had thought of it, J3ut, in running
over the list of Miss Tresham's friends, your
name only suggested itself to me a few minutes
ago. Once more, I hope you will lose no time in
coming."
That was all. The letter-so cold, so reti-
cent, so full of bare details, so utterly chilling to
every thought of hope-fell from Morton's hand
unheeded. Dying 1 That wss the only sound
he heard; the only thought left in his brain.
Dying! A black mist seemed creeping over
every thing round him; the very air seemed a
knell that repeated the word. Dying I Youth,

health, strength, all had been hers when he sa~
her last; and now-
It was Father Martin's hand that touched him
and Father Martin's voice that roused him fron
his trance of despair.
"There is nothing in that letter which IICC(
affect you like this, Mr. Annesley," he said
"Mr. Warwick is a fallible man, and so is th4
doctor on whose authority he speaks. Manj
doctors have said that there is no hope, anc
lived to learn that while there is life there ii
always hope. Will you do something to heli
me on my way to Hartsburg?"
"I will do any thing," said Annesley, speak
ing like a man who had been stunned. "Whal
do you want?"
"I want a horse, if you will be kind enough to
go up the street and engage one for mc. I would
not trouble you, only my own is broken down
from yesterday's journey, and is1quite unequal to
such a ride as the one before me."
"Engage a horse!" repeated Anuesley, as
if the sound of the other's speech had only
dimly reached him. Then he suddenly caught a
gleam of his usual intelligence. "That is quite
unnecessary," he said. "My own horses are at
t e hote ,and are quite fresh. .Ifyou will let me
drive you "
"Do you think that I am not going?" asked
the young man, passionately. "If you don't go
with me, I shall go alone-so it is all the same.
No power short of death could keep me from
her. I have stayed too long already. This is
the end of all my scruples and doubts," he added,
bitterly. "She is dying!"
"She is said to be dying," corrected Father
Martin, obstinately. "I will believe that she is
dying when I see her in the article of death-not
before. If you intend to accompany me-or to
allow me to accompany you-will you let me
suggest that you order your horses at once?'~
"I will be here in ten minutes," Annesley
answered. He turned to go, caught sight of
Cyrus, who stood by, Inwardly astonished, but
outwardly stolid- and paused. "Cyrus," he
raid, wistfully, "did you hear anybody say what
the chances were for Miss Tresham's recov-
ery?"
Cyrus looked down at his muddy shoes. In-
stinct made even him pause before telling the
truth.
"I heard the folks in the hotel a-talking, sir,"
lie said~ "They thought she was mighty bad
off."
12

v     "Did you hear any of them say that they
thought she might get well ?"
Cyrus slowly shook his head. "No, sir.
i They all said she' was bound to die. I heard
Dr. Randolph a-telling Mass John so, just before
i I left."
"The horses, Mr. Annesley," said Father
Martin, anxiously.
"I am going," answered Annesley-and this
I time he did go. He left the sunny garden and
its bright, beautiful prospect, without even so
much as a glance; yet it was long before the
scene of that awful blow passed from his mem-
- ory-long before he forgot one outline of the
purple hills, one gleam of the golden sunshine, or
one throb of the sickening pain. As he went his
I way to the hotel, one cry seemed to ring through
his heart-the same bitter cry that had been
wrung from him unconsciously so short a time
before.
"This is the end of all my scruples and
doubts. She is dying!"
CHAPTER XXXII.
LIFE AND DE4TU.
"Is she alive?"
This was the question which Father Martin
and Annesley asked simultaneously, as the ex-
hausted horses drew up before the door of the
Eagle Hotel, and Mr. Crump came forward to
receive them.
"She's alive, gentlemen- that's all I can
say," the landlord answered, for he knew at
onee to whom they alluded. "You're the
Catholic priest, I suppose, sir," he went on,
addressing Father Martin. "Mr. Warwick told
me to be sure and ask you to walk up-stairs as
soon as you come. - The other gentlemau-"
He stopped, and looked at Annesley. His man-
ner said that there had been no directions about
the other gentleman.
"I'll walk up-stairs also," said Anneslcy
springing to the ground, and throwing his reins
to a boy standing near. As he was turning away,
he suddenly recollected that he had driven his
horses very hard, and he paused to say, "Attend
to these animals very carefully, if you please.
Rub them down well, and let them stand half an
hour before feeding them. My servant will be
on in the course of an hour or two." Then,
to the landlord, "Now show us tba way up-
stairs."

t'


1~i4                      MORTON HOUSE.                                                              LIFE AND DEATH~                      175

yor
hai
gui
lici
ani
'str
thi
ale
tar
fac
wh
us
rit~
off
ger
sta
lefi
lad
My
del
lad
sta
* On~
up~
ale:
Bel
pea
ad~
she
su~
of
ser
she
pre
ho~
Le~
5cr
up
citl
too
fier
an~
gee
wh
the
Is 1

Mr. Crump was quite impressed by the ter," said Morton, hurriedly.-" Where is War.
ang man's manner. From various causes, he wick, Miss Maggie?"
i lately conceived the idea that it was a dis- "In his own room, I think. He was in Miss
ised princess who had been lying ill at his Tresham's room a little while ago; but he went
ase for more than a week, and this was only out with the doctor. Mr. Crump will show you
ther proof of the correctness of that opinion, the way. Mr. Warwick is very anxious to see
e ills tniosa person after another bad memod the pr-that is, Mr. Martin."
angel interested in her welfare; and now "Walk this way, if you please, sir," said Mr.
a handsome young gentleman, whose horses Crump; and Father Martin followed him down
ne showed that he was a person of impor- the passage.
tee, sprung to the ground, and, with a pale Morton, however, stood his ground. Despite
e and a manner which agitation robbed some. his inquiry, he had not come to see Warwick,
at of its usual courtesy, said, quickly, "Show but to see Katharine, and he thought that his
tht way upstairss" best means of compassing the latter point 'was
"Certainly, sir," said Mr. Crump, with alac- through Miss Lester.
r. Then, to a servant standing near, "Take "Why don't you go too?" asked she, in
those valises, and bring them in.-This way, her straightforward fashion. "If you want to
ttlemen." hear about Miss Tresham, Mr. Warwick can tell
He led the way into the house and up the you a great deal more than I can. He knows
ircase-talking, as he went. "The doctor every thing that the doctor says, while, for my
only a little while ago, air. They think the part, I am at dagger's-drawing with him. I
y won't live through the night, I believe, told him to his face that he wasn't worth calling
wife hardly leaves her at all, and Mrs. Ran- a doctor if he could not save her life, and he
ph set up night before last. Last night, two told me that I did not know what I was talking
lea arrived at the house, and they've been about. So you see I am not the person to come
ying here all day to help about nursing her, to for Dr. Randolph's opinion."
of them is Miss "                          "It is not~Dr. Randolph's opinion I want,"
The opening and shutting of a door on the said Annesley. "I have heard quite enough of
er floor, and the rustling of a woman's skirts that. I want to see Miss Tresham, Miss Maggie;
ng the passage, stopped his flow of words, and I hope you will let me do it."
bre anybody could speak, Miss Lester ap. "You want to see Miss Tresham?" repeated
red at the head of the stairs, and faced the Miss Lester, in amazement. "Why, Mr. Annes.
ranging party. Icy, are you crazy? Don't you know she is so
"Has the priest come yet, Mr. Crump?" ill that she would not know her own mother, if
asked, in her quick, clear tones. Then she her mother came? And yet you talk of seeing
Idenly caught sight of Morton in the rear her! Of course, you can't see her; nobody can,
Mr, Crump's portly figure, and smothered a except the people who are nursing her."
cam. "Goodness! Is it Mr. Annesley?" "But, Miss Maggie-"
cried.                              *      "You really can't, Mr. Annesley; and that is
"Yes, it is I, Miss Maggie," said Morton, the end of the matter."
saing forward. "How is she? Pray tell me "Not quite the end, I hope," said Annesley.
v she is!" "If you are determined against me, I must ask
"She's as rn as she can be," answered Miss the doctor, He won't refuse, I am sure."
~ter, with a little catch in her voice that "He would refuse if you were her own broth-
nd~I almost like a sob. "But I don't give er," returned Miss Lester. "I-I never heard
hope, Mr Annesley; and I don't mean to, such a thing in all my life! If it wasn't yo~j
~er, I know how doctors talk; I have heard Mr. Annesley, I really think I should be veil
many of them," said the young lady, almost angry. What possible right have you to see
cely. "Dr. Randolph isn't a bit better than Miss Tresham?" she demanded, in a tone that
of the rest. No hope, indeed! What's th~ provoked Annesley to a retort.
ul of being 'a doctor, if he can't cure people "As much right as John Warwick, I sup-
en they've got brain-fever as well as when pose," he said. "He has been admitted without
y ye got chills. Oh, me, if I was a doctor! any difficulty, I believe."
that the priest, Mr. Annesley?"             "There is a great difference between you and
"This is the priest.-Mr. Martin, Miss Les- Mr. Warwick," said Xiss Lester, severely. "It

I

seems to me you might see it. He is an old
man" (the speaker was eighteen), "quite old
enough to be Miss Tresham's father; and, be-
sides, he found her, and sent away her doctor,
and got another one, and all that sort of thing.
She would be dead by this time, if it had not
boon thr Mr. Wmwink. lInt yun.-.ik. Aiinee.
ley, I am astonished at you! If Miss Tresham
had been ill at home in a private house? you
would never have dreamed of making such a re-
quest as this."
"You are wrong; you do me great injus-
tice;" said Morton, quickly. "I would have
made it all the same, under any circumstances.
Miss Lester, you won't refuse me-I am sure you
won't-if you only stop and consider a minute."
"I might consider a hundred minutes, Mr.
Annesrey, and nothing would come of it. Be-
sides, I am not the sick-room authority. Oh,
dear, no! There is Mrs. Randolph. You would
have to get her permission after you had mine."
"Please go and ask her to come here, then.
Any thing is better than wasting time like
this."
Even at that hour, feminine vanity was not
quite extinguished in the youthful feminine
breast. Miss Lester shot a keen little shaft
out of her brown eyes, and made a smart little
courtesy. "Thank you for such a nice compli-
meat, Mr Annesley," she said, and, having said
it, hurried away.
In a few minutes Mrs. Randolph came out of
the sick-room, and walked up to the young man.
Strange to say, he found her much more dis-
posed than Miss Lester had been to listen kindly
to his petition. She read his whole story so
plainly, and she had so entirely given up all
hope of Katharine's life, that the grim shadow
of propriety almost ceased to terrify her, almost
seemed to recede into nothingness, by the side
of those two phantom-shapes-Life and Death-
which had met in their last awful duel. She
listened, softened, and, even while she expostu-
lated, seemed half inclined to yield.
"What good would it do?" she asked.
"Miss Tresham is quite unconscious. You could
not rouse her; you could not speak to her; you
could only look at her."
"That would be enough," said Morton, im-
ploringly. "Only let me look at her-that is all
I ask. Dear madam, don't refuse me! Think
-only think-that, if you do, I may never see
her again in ~
His tone of unconscious pathos brought tears
to Mrs. Randolph's eyes. She stopped, thought

a moment, hesitated, and seemed about to yield,
when a step sounded on the stairs.
"There is my husband now," said she, with
an expression of relief~ "I am so glad I It is
quite impossible for me to decide such a matter
as this; and he will be able to say exactly what
is right to do. I am so glad he is cotning I" she
repeated, as the staircase creaked loudly under
the weight of her lord, and the top, of his tall
hat came in sight round the curve.
For his part, the doctor was quite astonished
when he looked up and saw his wife in close con.
sultation with a handsome young stranger at the
head of the stairs. He had left her in chief
charge of his patient; and, knowing that she was
the most vigilant of nurses, he found it hard to
account for this seeming forgetfulness of duty.
"What the deuce-" he began asking himself,
when he caught a better view of the stranger,
and recognized Mr. Annesley, of Lagrange. He
knew him slightly, and they were soon shaking
hands. Then the petition was referred to the
doctor by the doctor's wife.
"Mr. Annesley is just from Tallahoma, from
Miss Tresham's friends," said this diplomatic
woman. "He is very anxious to see Miss Tresh-
am, and-and I hardly knew what to say to him.
You have come just in time to take the responsi-
bility off my hands. You can tell him all about
her."
"There is only one thing I want to be told,"
said Annesley, a little brusquely, "that is,
whether or not I can see Miss Tresham. Surely
there is no harm in it," said he, addressing
Mrs. Randolph. "Surely it can't injure her,"
he said, addressing the doctor. Then throwing
all his eloquence into an appeal to both, "Only
a few minutes! I am not unreasonable, and I
won't ask any thing more."
"It is neither of my wife nor of myself that
you should ask that much, Mr. Annesley," said
the doctor, gravely. "Miss Tresham was placed
under my care by Mr. Warwick. It is to Mr.
Warwick, therefore, that you must apply for
permission to see her. I can only say as a med-
ical man whether or not such a visit would injure
her."
"And may I ask what you do say?"
"~fhat the visits of a hundred people could
have no possible ill effect upon her now. Her
disease has today passed from violent delirium
to its second and more dangerous stage-that
of stupor, which is deepening gradually into the
insensibility that precedes death."
Annesley shrank. Alas! who does not shrink

?


176                                MORTOI~
wheu that terrible word is spoken with the cold,
calm deliberation of scientific certainty in regard
to some life to save which we would freely tell
out our blood, drop by drop-for which we would
give the very throbs of our heart, the very hours
that come to us filled to the brim with the keen,
fresh elixir of vitality, the very powers of health,
and strength, and possible enjoyment, that mock
us so bitterly at such a time!
"Doctor," said he, huskily, "is there no
hope?"
Other people had asked the doctor this ques-
tion, and to each of them he had given that
decided answer which had so roused' Miss Les-
ter's scorn. In the name of every symptom of
the ease, of every teaching of experience, of
every data of medical knowledge, he had re-
plied, "No hope."
Now, for the first time, he hesitated. Now,
for the first time, he felt inclined to rack his
brain for something of a temporizing, it might
even be of a consoling nature, felt inclined to
evade the direct answer, as he often evaded it
when people came to him with the extreme of
love and anguish quivering in their voices to ask
this same question, "Doctor, is there no hope?"
"I might answer that, while there is life,
there is always hope, Mr. Annesley," he said,
"but thpt is a mere generality which means
nothing. If you want my honest opinion of
this particular case, I can give it to you. Every
symptom up to this point has been unfavorable.
The disease has not yielded an inch to the reme-
dies employed, but seems to be advancing stead-
ily to a fatal termination. $o far I have not seen
a single sign which encourages me to hope that
the patient may rally. Yet, as a medical man, I
cannot say that such rallying would be impossi-
ble. In the first place, recoveries take place
more frequently from meningitis occurring as an
attendant upon other diseases than when the com-
plaint is original. Miss Tresham's disorder i4
secondary meningitis. That, therefore, is our first
ground for hope-slender though it be. In the
second place, the disease has three stages: vio-
lent exdlteinent, first, when it can almost always
be easily arrested; stupor next, when the chances
of safety are very much diminished; and, lastly,
coma, or profound unconsciousness, which pre-
cedes 'and gradually sinks into death. Recovery
from thislast state is so unusual that it' is hardly
possible to count upon it. Nevertheless, in rare
instances, it does occur-or rather the tottil
prostration which sometimes follows the cure of
violent inflammation, simulates the symptoms

HOUSEE.

that mark the closing stage of the worst cases.
This is our second ground for hope. Slight as it
is, I shall act upon it. I shall resort to stimu-
lants. If the symptoms are organic, they can do
no harm, for death must necessarily take place;
if merely functional, they may be the means of
saving her life."
"And if your worst fears are realized-if the
last stage is really here?"
"In that ease to-night decides every thing-
death must ensue before morning."
"And if she lives through the night?"
"Let us wait until the night is past, before
we ask that question," said the doctor, almost
solemnly. "Now I must go. If you wish to
see my patient, Mr. Annesley, 17 can only refer
you to Mr. Warwick."
He made a short little bow and went away,
followed by his wife. As for Annesley, he stood
still and watched' them with a feeling of blank
hopelessness impossible to describe. To-night!
He had said that to-night would decide every
thing! Involuntarily the young man looked out
of a window near which he stood, and shivered.
The shades of. evening were falling. The sun
was gone, the gray mantle of twilight was en-
wrapping every thing, a lovely crescent moon
was cradled softly over the fringing western
clouds, while faint and more faint the burning
glow of sunset was fading from the sky. To-
night! And night was coming-night was here!
It could not be, he cried out, fiercely yet vainly
-ah, how vainly! The darkness seemed like
some horrible monster advancing with slow,
stealthy steps to do its horrible work; to seize
its passive victim from those strong arms of
helpless, outstretched agony; to bear away the
grace, the beauty, the glory of life, under its
sombre pall, and leave only a cold white shadow
of mortality to meet the gaze of the suu when he
came once more in pomp and splendor from his
royal couch. 0 fall of night 1 0 long hours of
darkness! How terrible ye are to watchers like
these, to those who cry, "If she can but live
through to-night!" The awful death of light.-
awful sometimes to the shrinking soi4 when
there is no cause like this to dread it-seems
at such times invested with a horror nil its own.
When morning comes-nh, morning! Will she
ever see it?"
"Can you show me Mr. Warwick's room?"
said Annesley to a servant passing by.
"Number thirteen-right down the passage,
sir," answered the man, hastily. "You' can't
miss the door."

"'I

To number thirteen, right down the passage,
Annesley accordingly took his way, and soon
round that, indeed, it would have been impos-
sible for him to miss the door, especially as it
was standing open and Father Martin was in the
act of coming out.
"It is really impossible for me to advise you,
Mr. Warwick," he was saying. "You must act
according to your own judgment in the mat-
ter."
"That is harder than you think," Mr. War-
wick replied.
And just then Annesley appeared.
Father Martin, who was looking very pale
and grave, nodded to the young man, and walked
slowly away, while Mr. Warwick extended his
hand cordially.
"I am glad to see you, Morton," he saW.
"I heard that you were in the house, and I was
just coming in search of you. I suppose you
have seen Randolph, and there iS nothing for
me to tell you."
"I saw him a moment ago," Morton answered.
"He has spoken very plainly. He says that every
thing depends on to-night, and that the chances
are all against life."
"I suppose you have heard how I found
her?"
"No, not yet."
The lawyer told him in a few brief words,
adding: "It is quite useless to make wishes with
regard to what is past; but, if I had reached
here a day earlier, all this might have been
spared. The treatment of an infamous quack
brought on the disease of which she is dying;
and, if Randolph had seen her twelve-nay, six'
-hours earlier-but this is folly. You heard
the news in Saxford, the priest tells me."
"I was with him when he received your note.
I had gone there to try and find out something
about her. I "-he paused involuntarily. Men
do not readily speak to each other with regard to
matters of sentiment or feeling, do not easily con-
quer the strong reluctance to show the soft ker-
nel of their natures, instead of putting forward
the harder rind which characterizes them in every
degree and condition of life. Even when cir-
cumstances force them t~ this expression, they
give it with a hesitation which shows how much
it goes against the grain. It certainly went
against the grain with Morton now. According
to his own desire, he would not have made a con-
fidant of anybody; but to make a conzjdant of
John Warwick-the irony of events could not go
any farther, he thought. Still, he must speak

LIFE AN

*D DEATH.                               177
plainly, if he wished to see Katharine: and
plainly, therefore, he proeceiled to speak-.
"Perhaps I don't need to tell you, Mr. War-
wick, that I have loved Miss Tresham for a long
time," he said. "That love is my excuse for
coming here, and for asking your permission to
see her-since chance and your own kindness
have placed her under your care. I can scarcely
hope to interest you by speaking of my own feel-
ings," he went on hastily-" but her death would
be to me a terrible grief."
"I am sure of it," ~aid the lawyer, with kind
gravity. "You are right in conjecturing that 1
was aware of your love for Miss Treshana," he
went on; "I have observed it, and I can under-
stand that it brought you here, and that it makes
you anxious to see her, now that you are here.
But, of course, you have been told that she is
insensible. It seems to me it would be more
painful than gratifying to you to see her in that
state."
"All I ask is to see her," said Morton. "The
doctor says it could do no harm-but he referred
mc to you for permission."
"To me! I-stop a minute-let me think,~~
said Mr. Warwick, in reply. He rose and walked
to the window, where he stood gazing, as Annes-
icy had done, on the gathering twilight and fall-
ing night. Objects were indistinct by this time,
and his tall, dark figure was little more than an
outline to Morton, who sat quite still beside the
fire. After a while he came back, and, standing
on the hearth, addressed the young man.
"I have been thinking of your request," he
said, "and I have decided that it is you, not I,
who can tell best whether or not I ought to aq..
cede to it. Your own love for Miss Tresham is
no reason why you should be allowed to see her.
The only thing that would give you that right
would be her love for you; and, consequently,
her assumed consent. Understand this, and say
yourself whether or not you shall see her."
Morton was startled. "Mr. Warwick, you
place me in a hard position," he said.
"The decision rests with yourself," repeated
Mr. Warwick; and, having said this, he turned
and went back to the window.
Annesley sat and thought. For a short time
he was quite puzzled, but at length he began to
understand Mr. Warwick's meaning, and to ap-
preciate the bearing of the question which had
been thus unexpectedly thrust upon hire, It was
a strange position, certainly. To decide, at the
bidding of another man, whether th~ woman he
loved, loved him in return; to count 'ovei~ her


LIFE AND DEATH.                    179

178                       MORTON HOUSE.

words, and looks, and intangible shades of tone,
and to reckon if all these proofs went for or
against his cause. At any other time, or for any
other reason, nobody would have been quicker
than Morton to call himself a miserable puppy
for doing such a thing as this; but now it was
imperative to arrive at some conclusion-it was
the only hope, the only condition, of seeing her.
Honestly, then, and with a strange, wistful lean-
ing toward his own side, as far removed from
vanity as one thing could possibly be removed
from another, he went over the ground, faith-
fully summed up all the evidence, and, at last
made his decision. Then he rose and crossed
the floor to Mr. Warwick, who had waited pa-
tiently at the window.
"Mr. Warwick, I think you will agree with
me that this is not a time for false delicacy," he
said, with quiet simplicity. "You have put me
on my honor to speak the truth: forgive me if
what I believe to be the truth sounds like van.
ity or unpardonable presumption. I have asked
myself honestly if I think Miss Tresham would
marry me, and, honestly also, I have answered,
'I think she would."~
"That is enough," said Mr. Warwick, turn-
ing, and, a good deal to Morton's surprise, offer-
ing his hand. "Yes, I agree with you that this is
no time for false delicacy. Your candor does you
more credit than any mock modesty would. 1
left the question to yourself; but, since you have
expressed your opinion, I will tell you that it is
mine also. Miss Tresham is not a woman to
wear her heart on her sleeve; but, I think if you
had asked her to marry you, she would have said
'yes.' You have my best wishes that she may
say it yet," ho added, smiling gravely. "Now
we will go to her room."
"You will find Miss Vernon here," Mr. War-
wick went on, as they walked down the passage
together. "She and Miss Lester arrived at the
hotel yesterday, and, finding Miss Tresham ill,
they remained. They are both very kind; and
Miss Vernon, in particular, has proved herself a
most excellent and capable nurse. This is the
room."
He stopped Annesley, who was passing on,
and tapped lightly at the door before which he
paused. It was opened by Mrs. Randolph, who
at once admitted 14m, She smiled when she
saw Morton, but said nothing; and, leaving them
to close the door, went back softly to the bed.
Mr. Warwick passed in first, and Annesley
followed. There was nothing repulsive, nothing

suggestive of pain, or struggle, or death, in the'
scene before him. On the contrary, every thing
was very quiet and peaceful. A sick-room, un-
doubtedly, but hardly a death-chamber, one would
have thought, looking at the exquisite neatness
of all the arrangements, at the white bed with its
recumbent figure, at the shaded light, the soft,
pretty glow of the fire, the figures sitting or
standing here and there. Every thing was very
subdued. If they had spoken in tones of thun-
der, they could not have roused that motionless
sleeper, or raised those heavy lids; but, none the
less, an unconscious impulse made them tread
softly and speak low. Around tl~ bed two or
three were grouped. Father Martin, with his
hands clasped behind his back, stood just before
Annesley, as the latter approached. When a
touch made him draw aside, the young man
looked down on the face he had come to see.
A motionless face, out of which the burning
fever flush had faded long since, a face that was
almost as white as the pillows on which it rested,
that was sunken in the lines a little, and bore
on its serene features something of a shade of
the awful change that was to come. To-night!
Did they say she would die to-night? Morton
could realize it, now that he had seen her. Fair,
and gentle, and robbed of all terror, as that
quiet sleep looked, it was not so fair and gentle
but that it shoWed the deadly meaning under-
neath. It was too still, it was too full of unchan-
ging repose. The longer he looked, the more he
felt inclined to doubt whether, indeed, it was
life or death on which he gazed. At last he
could look no longer. With a gasp he raised
his eyes, and met the gaze of another pair of
eyes on the opposite side of the bed-eyes whose
beauty he had known long~ but whose tenderness
he never appreciated until he saw them now
shining like stars upon him from Irene Vernon's
face.
"How is her pulse?" he heard Mr. Warwick
ask the doctor, who came forward and bent over
the patient.
"Feeble and thread-like - apparently fail.
ing," was the reply. "There is nothing for it
but to push the stimulants. I have very little
hope in them; but, at least, they can do no
harm; while, as it is, she is sinking rapidly."
They went oii speaking, but Annesley moved
away. This was so different from any thing he
had anticipated, that he was obliged to go to the
other side of the room to steady himself. They
had all warned him that it would be so, but,
nevertheless, he had fancied something very dif.

ferent-something like a scene in a book, some-
thing that would sweeten all the rest of life with
a taste of love's divine elixir. But this! To see
her pass from him like this, lapsing from earth's
sleep to the deeper sleep of death, without one
gleam of consciousness, one parting glance, one
farewell word-surely, this was hard! He had
set aside all the obstacles, and traversed all the
space that divided them; he had won his point,
and was here in the same room with her; yet
what were those other barriers to that which sep-
arated them now? Ah, love can do wonders! it
can break through prison-bolts, it can climb
mountains, it can cross oceans; but it has never
yet been able to send one single tone into the
ear that death has dulled, to win one single
glance from the eyes that death has closed.
After a while Miss Vernon came up to him,
and held out her hand. "Don't despair, Mr. An-
nesley 1 She is very, very ill; but I think the
doctor has not quite given up hope," she said,
gently.
"She is dying!" answered Morton. He ap-
preciated it now, and the realization of the in-
evitable brought a sort of stunned quietude with
it.
"I am not sure of that," said Miss Vernon,
quickly. "I have seen a great deal of sickness
in my life, and seen people who were desperately
-so desperately-ill, sometimes recover, that I
cannot despair of anybody. Besides-you may
be surprised to hear this, Mr. Annesley-but
Miss Tresham does not look to me like a dying
person. And, what is more, Mrs. Randolph-
whose experience is, of course, greater than mine
-says the same thing."
"~on't try to give me hope, Miss Vernon,"
he said, with a faint smile. "Think how terri-
ble it will be to-morrow."
"But you need some hope. I see that you
have given up to despair."
"I was madly full of hope until I saw her.
After that, I should be blind not to perceive
that the doctor is right - that there is no
hope."
He turned away, and, leaving her abruptly,
went to a window near at hand. The solemn
curtain of night met his gaze-a deep, dark
shadow lay over all things, shadow hardly lighted
by the faint, tender radiance of the young moon,
or the steady glory of a myriad stars. It had
come, it was here, that fateful time of darkness
in which Life and Death would fight their last
battle!
rresently Miss Lester accosted him. "Mr.

Annesley, you have had nothing to eat. Come
-with me, and I will take you down-stairs and
ask Mrs. Crump to give you so~ne hot coffee and
supper all to yourself~"
"Thank you, Miss Maggie, I am not hungry,"
he answered. But, when she pressed the matter,
he went down-careless what he did, or what be.
came of him. He drank the coffee, and listened
to Mrs. Crump's account of all that had hap.
pened, as in a dream. After some time, he
found himself back up-stairs-in hi~ own room,
this time-pacing to and fro, or sitting motion-
less before the fire, waiting, listening, strung to
the highcstpitch of nervous anxiety-for they had
promised to call him whenever "any change"
should come.
So the long hours passed, midnight came, and
it was at midnight that the doctor had said the
flickering taper would be most likely to go out.
In the sick-room all was quiet. The nurse nodded
on one side of the fire, and Miss Lester dozed on
the other: the doctor had gone into Mr. War-
wick's room to lie down, leaving strict directions
for the administering of the stimulants, and strict
orders that he was to be called at the least sign
of change. Mrs. Randolph was sleeping lightly in
a deep arm-chair, while Irene Vernon, at the bed,
kept vigilant guard over the sick girl. Exactly
at midnight, she gave another dose of the stimu-
lant, then remembering what the doctor had said,
she laid her finger on the pulse. It crept beneath
her touch like a thin, feeble thread, but stiil she
started, and motioned Mr. Warwick, who was
standing near, to bend down.
"Feel it," she said. "I may be deceived,
but it seems to me it is stronger and fuller than
when I felt it last."
She took away her linger, and he laid his
own in its place. Her eyes were on him, and
she saw that he too started~
"'It is stronger and fuller," he said. "There
is a change of some sort. I must go and call
Randolph."
He left the room, and was passing down the
passage, when a door on the ri~ht opened, and
Annesley appeared.
"Well," he said, quickly, "has it come?"
"There is no change for the worse," answered
Mr. Warwick. "I ani only going to wake Ran-
dolph. See for yourself, if you like," he added,
as Morton looked at him a little doubtfully.
In two minutes, the doctor stood in the room,
and felt the pulse-his facewatched by the others
with breathless anxiety.
"There is a little change," he said, guard.


MORTON HOUSE.

T
MRS. GORDON'S SUSPICION.

edly; "but it may be only a fluctuation of the
disease-a flicker of the taper. We shall soon
see. Press the stimulants, Miss Vernon-shorten
the time between the doses. A few more hours
will end all suspense."
The hours crept on-slowly, heavily, every
minute a battle-ground with Death, who sullenly
retreated step by step; not vanquished, only kept
at bay. It was, a night that nobody who was
present ever forgot, for it is seldom, indeed, that
the issue of this terrible conflict hangs on such a
trembling balance, that one single error of judg-
ment, one single fault of skill, would throw the
advantage so irretrievably into the hands of an
adversary who never relents. For hours it was
impossible to tell whether Life or Death was win-
ning the victory.-the variations being so slight,
the fluctuations so many. Nobody dared press
the doetorwith questions, yet everybody felt what
a neck-and-neck race he was running, as he sat
by the bed, and scarcely once took his finger from
that slender, feeble pulse, steadily pursuing the
same treatment which he had so hopelessly be-
gun, and stimulating by every possible means the
sinking system. Not once during all those hours
did the set, anxious expression of his face relax,
or his lips utter a word of hope. lie worked
with unflagging energy; but whether or not he
found any signs of encouragement, no one could
tell. When the first light of the cold, gray dawn
began to steal into the room, the issue of the
battle was still doubtful-the victory was still to
be won.
Annesley, who had been in and out of the
room a dozen times since he had met Mr. War-
wick at midnight, was walking up and down
the passage (on which a soft cloth, to deaden all
sound of foot-steps, had been laid), as this chill
dawn began to break. Full as he~was of other
thoughts, he stood still to watch it. A less en-
livening oecup~tion could hardly be imagined,
especially on a winter morning, wh~n mind and
body are alike depressed by long watching at a
sick-bed. In summer' there is something bright
and rejoicing hi the birth of color, the songs of
birds, ~xe dewy freshness of awaking Nature;
but a winterday dawn is one of the most dreary
things in existence. ~How stealthily the gray
light comes I How ghost-like the white mist
looks creeping aleng the ground, or wreathing
into phantom.shapes among the bare, black
boughs of trees! How barren and bereft of all
beauty the earth seems I .Annesley looked around
him drearily, then turned and began his prome-
tiade again. Night itself was 'better than this, he

thought. Up and down he walked with the day.
light growing clearer and clearer around him,
all unheeded, or, if noticed, only a discordance.
The cast began to glow into royal beauty, fling-
ing out her crimson and golden banners, with
a gorgeous affluence that made the glories of
sunset pale into insignificance. At last, with one
magnificent bound, the sun uprose, and sent his
long lines of level gold flashing across the earth.
One of them darted into the passage where An-
nesley paced, and ~treamcd on Katharine's door,
like the touch of a burning finger. At that very
moment, the door opened, and Irene Vernon came
out-the sunshine encircled her like a halo of
luminous glory, as Annesley hurried forward to
meet her.
"You want me?" he asked, breathlessly.
~ she answered eagerly, with a smile
-was it the smile or the sunshine that dazzled
him so ?-" 1 want you. The doctor has spoken
at last, and he says- Oh, Mr. Annesley, thank
God-that we may hope."
CEIAPTER XXXIII.
MRS. GORDON'S SUSPICION.
A raw days later, Katharine was sufficiently
out of danger, and sufficiently in the way of re-
covery, for Mr. Warwick to think of returning to
Tallahoma. He could not see her, or enter into
any explanation with her before he went, for the
doctor absolutely forbade any exciting presence
or exciting topics; but he made every possible
arrangement for her comfort, and finally took his
departure, with the assurance that she could not
be in better hands. She was still at the hotel,
for the doctor peremptorily negative removal;
but it was understood that Miss Lester ~would
claim her as soon as she was well' enough to
move. There had been ~uitc ~ contest between
this young lady and Mrs~,ll~ulolph on the sub-
ject, but the former had oa~ried the point in her
spirited, self-willed way. Mrs. Randolph was
forced to resign her claim, and it was settled (as
much as any thing could be settled without the
consent of the person most ewicerned) that Miss
Tresham was to be handed over4o~Miss Lester
as soon as ~r, Randolph would give his sanction
to such a step. Meanwhil~,&amp;Iiss Lester and Miss
Vernon at last took their departure from the
hotel, and, much to the relief of the downy
trodden Lesters, pare and rn~re, accompli~hed
their return to Bellefont-the name of tb~ Z~es~'

180

ter plantation. From this place, however, they
made daily incursions on the Eagle Hotel, and
sent messengers with game and fruit, and a hun-
dred delightful things, at all hours of the day.
As for Annesley, he did not trouble himself to
go back to Lagrange, but quietly took up his
quarters with Godfrey Seymour-who, like the
Letters, lived near Hartsburg-aad he, too, left
his. compliments and inquiries regularly with
Mrs. Crump, for Mrs. Crump's patient.
To this patient the sight and sounds of life
came back very slowly, giving to life itself a
dream-like unreality. It was only by gradual
degrees that consciousness returned onee more
-that time and the things of time again asserted
a claim over the spirit that had stood on the very
threshold of eternity. All the weeks of pain,
and the days of terrible danger, were blotted
into nothingness; so that when Katharine at
last opened her eyes to the things around her,
she found herself in a new, unintelligible world.
Her very arrival in Hartsburg was one of the
memories that had gone from her forever, so her
complete surprise at the strange faces and strange
surroundings about her may be imagined.
"Where am I ?-how did I come here ?-who
are you all ?" she asked. But, receiving no sat-
isfactory reply, she felt too languid and indiffer-
ent to press the matter. Day after day she lay
in that profound rest which makes the luxury
of convalescence, too weak to think, too weak
to remember, too weak to conjecture, too weak
to do any thing save smile faintly in the doctor's
cheerful face, answer Mrs. Randolph's or Mrs.
Crump's kind inquiries, and for the remainder
of the time lie quite still, watching the sunshine
on the window-sill, and Mom Elsie's black fingers
as they sent the bright knitting-needles swiftly
to and fro. As yet, she had seen no familiar
face, heard no familiar name-not even the names
of Miss' Lester and Miss Vernon, not even the
name of Mr. Warwick.
"I'll run no rishs~'~ said the doctor to the
latter. "Take yourself oft' to Tallahoma-the
sooner the better. Leave her in my hands, and
when you come back-we will think about let.
ting you see her then. That handsome scamp,
young Annesley, had the impudence to come to
me with a request of the same sort to-day," he
added, smiling. "I assure you, I cut him short.
He wanted a message delivered. I. told him I
should like to catch myself playing Mercury, or
Apollo, or Cupid, or whoever is supposed to be
the messenger of love-stricken youths, to a pa-
tient just out of a brain-fever."

181

"I need not trouble you with any thing of
the kind, then, I suppose? "~
"You may trouble mc with it, as much as you
please; but, whether or not I'll trouble Miss
Tresham-well, candidly, that is quite another
matter."
Denied all access to Katharine in this decided
manner, Mr. Warwick had no alternative but to
take his departure, and leave her, as requested,
in the doctor's hands. He did so unwillingly;
but time, business engagements, and, above all,
the remembrance of Mrs. Gordon's anxiety,
pressed him hard. Excepting on a matter of
life and death, he absolutely could not remain
away from Tallahoma any longer. Feeling this,
he made up his mind to go, and, having made
up his mind, he was not long in carrying resolve
into execution. On Wednesday morning, the
twenty-first of January, he drove away from the
Eagle Hotel, and, leaving Miss Tresham to be
slowly won back to health by comfort and care,
turned his face homeward.
Wednesday nighthe spentin Saxford. Thurs-
day afternoon he was driving along the familiar
roads of Lagrange, and fast nearing Tallahoma,
when he met a squarely-built, middle-aged man,
dressed in a suit of brown homespun, riding a
horse (also squarely bulit) of deep-bay color, with
whom he stopped to speak.
"Well, Shields, how are you?" said he.
"Pretty tol'able, I thank you, Mr. Worruck.
How do you do yourself, sir?" answered Mr.
Shields, with a sort of stolid surprise at the
sudden encounter. "I'm glad to see you back.
How did you leave the little boy?"
"Quite well, and in a fair way to be content-
ed, I think. Has not Mrs. Gordon received my
letter?"
"I don't know, sir. I haven't seen her for
nigh about a week. I was at the house Tues.
day; but she was onwell, they said, and, as I'd
no partic'Iar business, I didn't disturb her."
"Any news in Tallahoma?" asked Mr. War.
wick, as he saw that the man held his ground
and did not pass on as he had expected him to
do.
"Well," said Mr. Shields, speaking slowly,
but with evident unction-" well, yes. There's
news in Tallahoma that l'm sorry to tell you,
Mr. Worruck. The bank was broke into last
night, and robbed of a hundred thousand dollars,
they say."
"What!"
"It's a fact, sir. The excitement about it In
town is tremendous. You might a' knocked me


down with a feather when I heard the news my-
self; and, as for Mr. Marks, he was as white as a
sheet when I saw him this morning. They say
the first thing he knowed of it was when he went
down to the bank as usual, and found the locks
all broke, and Hugh Ellis-"
"When did it happen 1"' demanded Mr. War-
wick.
"Last night."
." Is there any suspicion as to who the thief,
or thieves, were?"
"There's a suspicion of its bein' a man that
went to the bank yesterday; but nobody knows
who he is, nor where he is neither, for he's not
about town to-day."
"Well," said Mr. Warwick, "this is bad
news, and I must hurry on to town. I will stop
and see Mrs. Gordon, however. Good-evening,
Shields."
He nodded, and Cyrus drove on, leaving Mr.
Shields somewhat crestfallen in the middle of the
road. He looked regretfully after the vanishing
carriage, and then pursued his way in rather a
subdued frame of mind. He did not exactly
think to himself that it was hard to be cut short
in this summary fashion, when he would have
liked to talk over all the particulars of the mat-
ter, as he had talked them over twenty times
before that day; but, none the less, it was hard.
Mr. Warwick, as he drove on, did not think of
what a real and sensible pleasure he had deprived
the poor man.
His road led him directly past the gates of
Morton House. When he reached those gates,
he turned in. Ten minutes later, he was shown
by Harrison into Mrs. Gordon's room. She was
sitting before the fire, leaning back in a deep
armchair with a listless languor that struck Mr.
Warwick at once. She did not even turn her
head when the door opened, and her abstraction
was so deep that he reached her side without at-
tracting her attention.
"You see I have got back, Mrs. Gordon," he
said, quietly. But, quietly a~ he spoke, he could
not avoid startling her. She bounded' in her
chair at the first tone of his voice; then turned
quickly, and tried to rise-did rise half-way,
but, through weakness or agitation, sank back
again.
"You 1" she said, faintly. "I-how you
startled me I"
"I see I did," he said, with some contrition.
"I ought to have known better. I thought you
would have heard me come mb
"No; I did not."

"I am back, you see."
"Yes, I see." She rose now, and held out
her hand. "I am very glad to see you. And
Felix?"
"I left Felix very well, and almost contented;
no doubt, he is quite contented by this time."
Instantly her eyes filled with tears.
"Contented!" she repeated. "Away from
me! Ab, that is(hard-harder than you think!
Yet I am glad to hear it. Sit down, pray, and
tell me all-every thing-about him. I am hun-
gry, heart-hungry, to hear."
Pressed for time, and burning with impa-
tience, as he was, he sat down and told the story
of his journey, with all those details that every
woman loves to hear, and few-very few-men
know how to give. She listened to him eagerly
-drank in every word, indeed-while he de-
scribed the kind people (old friends of his own)
with whom he had placed Felix, the child's first
despair, and subsequent partial content. After
every thing, even to the last parting, had been
told, he rose.
"I would not leave you so soon," he said, in
answer to her glance of pained surprise; "but I
heard some news, a few minutes ago, which star-
tled me very much, and I feel that I ought to
J~asten into town. Besides, even for your sake,
I had better go. I may find a letter from Mr.
Lloyd. You know it was arranged that he should
write to me instead of to yourself."
"Yes, I know."
As she stood up to give him her hand at
parting, the light shone full on her face from a
window just opposite, and he saw that it was even
more pale and hollow than when he went away.
"You look badly," he said. "Have you been
ill, or only fretting?"
"I have had nothing to do since you left but
nurse my fancies," she answered, with a sad
smile, "until I am half sick with nervous terror
about Felix. I have wished a thousand times
that I had not sent hinvfrem me, or that I had
gone with him."
"It is not too late yet," said he, kindly.
"Shall I take you to him? Only say the word,
and I will do so.
"No," answered she; "don't tempt me. I
might go if it were not 'that it would look so
cowardly, so much as if I had reason to be
afraid-and I have none. Let him come! He
can do me no harm-now that Felix is gone."
"He could annoy you more than you think."
"Let him try!" Something like the fire
and glow of combat swept into the face that, an

182

I

MORTON HOUSE.

182                      MORTON HOUSE.                                                        MRS. GORDON'S SUSPICION.

183

instant before, had been so pale and listless. "You say this deliberately? Stop, Mrs. Gor-
"At all events, he shall find me here, if he don-think. It is a terrible ~hing to make such
chooses to come. Don't talk of this, however, a charge. Do yqu say it deliberately, weighing
Talk of yourself, instead. Let me thank you for it well?"
having been so kind to me-and so considerate, "I say it deliberately, weighing it well.
which even the kindest people often fail to be. Whether or not he is guilty of this crime, I
But I must not detain you. I see how impa- believe him capable of it."
tient you are to be gone, and I do not wonder- "But alone-unaided!"
I have heard of that dreadful robbery. I am so "How do you know that he is alone, smaid.
very sorry for Mr. Marks! You will come to see ed? God forgive me if I am judging him un.
me again soon-will you not?" justly, but a man like him soon makes friends,
"Can you doubt it? I would not go now but and-accomplices."
for the news of that robbery of which you speak. Mr. Warwick did not answer. To her sur-
I must see poor Marks at once, and try to stir prise, he turned away and looked in the fire.
him up to some energetic measures for discover. The peculiarity of his manner, the expression of
ing the perpetrators of such an outrage. I can his face, struck her. Involuntarily, she wondered
imagine how stunned and hopeless he is. Good. what was the meaning of it-what there was in
evening. If there is a letter from Lloyd, I will thit supposition to affect him so evidently and so
send it to you at once." strongly? Before she could ask any questions,
He shook hands with her, and was starting to however, he turned round again-a question on
leave the room, when she called him back. Like his own lip, and by no means one that she had
most women, she had still a "last word," and he anticipated.
was doomed to hear it. He could not help feel- "Have you spoken of this before, Mrs. Gor-
ing a little impatient, as the best-natured people don?" he asked. "Have you mentioned this
will feel at such detentions when they are burn- suspicion to any one else?"
ing to get away-yet if he had only known "No," she answered, wonderingly. "Even
the importance of that word, he would hardly if I had felt disposed to do so, I have seen no
have grudged the time necessary to hearing one to whom I could have mentioned it. I heard
it.                                         of the robbery from the servants. I see nobody
"Mr. Warwick," she said, when he turned else."
back, "I am half ashamed to speak-and yet I "Will you do me a favor-a great personal
think I ought to. It is better to give a useless favor?"
hint, than to withhold one that may he of even "Certainly," she said, wondering still more.
the least service. Don't think mefull of nervous "Can you ask me such a thing-you who have
fancies, when I ask if you have thought of St. just sacrificed time, business, every thing to
John in connection with this robbery?" ~erve me? Tell me what the favor isandbe
Mr. Warwick started, and his face changed assured that it is granted beforehand."
so much that she noticed and was surprised at "Then do not mention this suspicion to any
it.                                         one else. I have a particular reason for asking
"No. How could I?" he replied,           this," he added, as he saw the astonishment'
"Well-I have. I don't mean to accuse legible on her face. "For one thing, if it should
him, I simply mean to say that I f.Aougld of Aim be correct, it might reach Mr. St. John's ears,
as soon as I heard of it. Was this an instinct, and put him on his guard. Promise me "-he
or merely a fancy? I don't pretend to know; spoke earnestly-" that you will not mention the
but I think it right to direct your attention to matter again."
him as a measure of precaution."               "Since you ask it as a personal favor, of
"What! is he so worthless a scoundrel that course I will not. Otherwise-but I shall try
you should think he would commit an open rob. not to be curious. You must )~ave some very
bery like this?"                            good reason for this, Mr. Warwick."
"He has lived by cheating and robbing-one   "I have."
way or another-all his life. Why not this way  "Reason that I am not to hear?"
as well as any other?  If the chance of success  "Not just now, at all events.  I have net
was good, and the chance of detection not great, time, even if I had inclination (and; frankly9 I
I don't believe he would have hesitated a mo- have not inclination at present), to tell you.
meut." '                                    May I rely on your promise?"


A

184                               MORTON
" I hope you may-we Mortons are proud
of always keeping our word."
" I do rely on it, then. Now, good-by. If I
do not leave at once, it will be sunset before I
reach Tallahoma."
" One word!i I see you think I will never let
you go ; but it is only one word more. Have you
seen any thing of Morton .Annesley ? His mother
is very anxious about him."
" Why should shp be anxious ? Surely he is
old enough to take care of himself."-'
'" He has gone she does not know where, but
she strongly suspects that it is in search of--your
sister's governess, who left here very abruptly,
several weeks ago."
" Tell me something about that," said hbe,
forgetting even the bank for a moment. " Do
you know why she went ?"
"I do not know,' but I have -suspected that
she was sent by St. John in search of Felix. -I
found-after you left-that he came here to see
her, and only discovered me accidentally. There
is some tie of close connection between them,
evidently. I--I absolutely went to ask her to
stay here as you advised, and I found him with
her. God only knows how grateful I was for
having done so. If I had brought her back
with me, I might have been weak enough to tell
her all that he wishes to know."
Mr. Warwick said not a, word. Once again,
that incomprehensible expression came over his
face which Mrs. Gordon had noticed before. He
looked at his boots maeditatively, and, after a
while, she went on:
"If Felix had not been under your care, I
scarcely know how I could have borne the cruel
suspense, the cruel doubts and fears Miss Tresha
am's absence has: caused me. I am sure she
went for this purpose-this alone-and now that
I see you before me, my heart begins to fail once
more. .Ah, tell me, is he quite safe ?-is there
no possibility of her reaching him ~"
"You may set your mind at rest on that
point," he answered, quietly. " There is not
the least danger of his being found by any
agent or snesseuger of' Mr. St. John. But I am
forgettingmnyself. I must go. Once more, good-
by."          .,
-He shook hands again hastily, and left the
room before she had time for another word. A
minute or two later, he was driving at a rapid
pace down the avenue.

HOUSE.

CHAPTER ,XXXIV.
MR. WARWicK'S INVESTIGATIoN-.

Dusu was setting in when Mr. Warwick en-
tered Tallahoma, and, as the Marks house was
the first on that side of the village, Cyrus had
already drawn up to the gate, and his master was
about to descend from the carriage, when the
latch was lifted and a servant came Out. .
" Mass John I " he exclaimed, as, notwith-
standing the dim light, he recognized Mr. War-
wick.
" How are jou, Tom ? Has your master
come home yet ?"
" No, sir ; master ain't been home since mor-
nin', and mistiss is just now sent me to tell him
to come home to supper. Thie bank was robbed
last night, Mass John, and-"
"yTes, I know.-Drive on, Cyrus-to the
bank.--Tell your mistress, Tom, that I have
conie, and that I have gone on to meet your
master."
Mr. Warwick was so occupied with his own
thoughts that he did not notice any thing, did
not even look out of the window, as he drove
through the village, or he would have seen his
brother-in-law, who was plodding homewai'd, with
step'most unlike his usual brisk business-walk,
his head declined, and' his eyes fixed vacantly
on the pavement. Thus abstracted, the carriage
passed him unperceived, and in a few minutes
stopped at the bank,.
" You need not wait," said Mr. Warwick,
alighting hastily. He opened the-gate, and had
proceeded half-way up the walk, when, recollect-
ing his promise to Mrs. Gordon about the letter,
he went back and called to Cyrus, who was driv.-
ing off. " Make haste home with the horses," he
said, "and, as soon as you have given them to
Jacob, go to the post-office, get my letters, and
bring-them here as quickly as possible."
The front-door of the bank was standing wide
open, and, as he was entering the passage, he
heard the sound of a key turning in its lock.
The next instant, the clerk of the bank, who
had just been locking the door of the cashier's
room, preparatory to going out, came toward
him. It was too dark to see the young man's
face ; but, recognizing gis figure an'd movements,
the lawyer spoke.
" Well, Hugh, I understand you have had a
terrible piece of work here," he said, holding out
his hand.
Poor Hugh Ellis had borne up manfully until

I

MR. WARWICK'S INVESTIGATION.

185

this moment ; but his courage and power of self
control broke down now. Seizing the hand whiichb
Mr. Warwick offered, he wrung it hard, made a
desperate effort to swallow a huge lump that had
been stationary in his throat all day, giving him
the constant sensation of choking, failed in his
effort, and suddenly burst into tears.
" Come, come," said Mr. Warwick, kindly ;
" this won't do!i There's no good in crying
over a thing, you know. What we must. think
of is to ferret out the thieves and get the money
hack."
" Oh !-if y-ou could-do that, Mr. War-
wick !" cried Hugh, sobbingly.
"It must be done. So come back into the
bank with'me, and let me hear all about the busi-
ness. Where's Marks ?"
" Just gone home to supper ; but he said he
would be back in half an hour," answered Hugh,
with animation; for his heart was already light-
ened, and his spirits raised, by the confident man-
ner of the lawyer.
Leading the way back to the cashier's room,
he unlocked the door, groped his way to the
fireplace-the windows being all shut close, the
room was in pitch darkness-felt about on the
mantel-piece until he found a box of matches,
gnd struck a light. As he turned, with it in
his hand, toward Mr. Warwick, who was advan-
cing, the latter started in astonishment, exclaim-
ing:
" Good Heavens ! what, is the matter with
you ?'"
He might well ask the question, since the face
before him was so bruised and disfigured that he
could scarcely believe it to be that of Hugh Ellis.
The lower part of one cheek was swollen out 4~f
all shape, and very much discolored, while the
eye on the other side of the face was half closed, .
and surrounded with pieces of sticking-plaster,
crossed diagonally by narrow strips of black
court-plaster to hold them in place-the counte-
nance altogether presenting an appearance at
once ludicrous and pitiable.
" Did you have a fight with the burglars ?" he
demanded, his mind leaping to this conclusion be-
fo're the young man had time to speak.
" Not much of a fight," answered Hugh, in a
tone of mortification. "They were two to one,
and too much4for me, though-"
" But you saw them ? " interrupted the other,
eagerly.
" Yes, I saw them."
" This is better than I bad hoped. Sit down,
Hugh, and tell me all about 'it. Don't waste

5'

- time, for minutes may be valuable here ; but
don't slur over particulars, as it is generally by
some trifle that a discovery ist made in cases of
this sort. Go on."
He took a chair as he spoke, and Hugh, put-
ting the candle down upon the counter, followed
his example, and proceeded to comply with his
request.
" I went to bed about eleven o'clock, as usual,
Mr. Warwick, and soon went to sleep. How long
I was asleep, I don't know - but I'm sure it
couldn't have been long-when I was waked, as
I thought, by a sudden, sharp noise. I jumped
up and listened ; but every thing was perfectly
still-so still that I began to think I must have
been mistaken about there having been any
noise, though I couldn't imagine what else would
have waked me so suddenly. Since the money
was brought up from Hartsburg, I have been
very wakeful-easily disturbed, and constantly
starting in my sleep. Nearly every night I have
got up two or three times- and struck a light to
see that all was right. It was only yesterday that
I mentioned to Mr. Marks that I hadn't had a
good night's sleep since it came ; and lie laughed,
and said he was glad I took such care of it, but
that it wouldn't be here to trouble me much
longer, for he should send off part of it to-day,
and expected to get rid of the rest-all that
don't belong here-the first of next week. Well,
I sat up in bed, listening with. all my ears, for
some time-but not a sound could I hear ; and
then I get up and struck a light, and went round
to all .the doors and windows, examining them
closely. Every thing was right, and I put out the
candle and went back to bed. But I could not
go to sleep again. Not that I felt uneasy. So far
from that, I was disposed to laugh at myself for
being startled at nothing. But I was so wide
awake, that I felt as if I should not be able to
close my eyes for the rest of the night. I lay
thinking of all sorts of things for a long time,
when suddenly-just as quick as thought, Mr.
~Warwick, and without knowing why-I jumped
up in bed, all over in a cold perspiration!i I
had not been asleep-I'd swear to that I-for I
was thinking at that very minute about Miss
Katharine-who, I suppose, you don't know--"
"Yes, I know, she has left Tallahoma. Go
on. You were thinking of her, and so you are
sure you were awake-?"
" Yes, sir. As wide aiwake as I am this min,
ute. And there hadn't been the slightest noise-
and I couldn't tell, to save my life, what was
th~e matter with me. I just jumped up as if I had


186

MORTON HOUSE.

been set on springs-and found myself in a cold
sweat, and trembling like an aspen-leaf. It took
me so by surprise that it must have been several
seconds before I came to myself sufficiently to
know what I was about. Then I felt sure-just
as sure as I am now-that something was wrong.
I put my hand under the pillow and drew out my
revolver, and, without waiting this time to light
the candle, I sprang out ef bed, groped my way
to the door, which I always leave open at night,
and came into this room. I stood still to listen
for an instant, but all was silent; I was just
turning to go back into my own room to strike
a light again, when I heard a noise in the pas-
sage outside there.'~ lIe pointed to the door
which gave egress from the cashier's room to the
passage. "It was a slight, but suspicious kind
of noise. Guided by the sound, 1 went close to
it-to the door, I mcan~-and then I beard voices
whispering. The doors so thick, and they spoke
in such a low tone, that I could not make out a
single word they said; but I could hear that it
was two men talking-and that they were pick-
ing the lock. Oh, Mr. Warwick, if I had only
had the presence of mind to keep perfectly quiet,
so as to let them think I was asleep, and come
in, I might have slipped out while they were
busy picking the lock of the vault door, and
obtained assistance to come and take them be-
fore they got the money. Mr. Marks always
takes the vault key, and the keys of the safes,
home with him at night-and the opening of
them must h~ive been a tough job. If only 1 had
had the presence of mind! But all I thought of
at the minute was to scare them off or kill them
-I didn't care which. Like a fool as I was, I
didn't even, wait to light the candle, but called
out just where I stood, 'I hear you, you thieves!
I've got a revolver, and if you want me to send
you to the devil, just come on!' They took me
at my word quicker than I expected. I hal
started once more to goafter the light-but be-
fore I was half-way across the room, the door
was burst open, and when I turned I just caught
one ~limpse of two men as they rushed in, by
the light of a lantern one of them carried. It
was a dark lantern, and he shut it as soon as he
saw that I had no light-I heard the door pushed
shut, and one of, them said, 'You stand against
it, while I do for this bragging rascal.' I don't
remember ever being afraid of anybody before in
my life, Mr. Warwick; but it was an awful feel-
ing that I' had then-expecting every minute to
be seized in the dark, and not knowing how I
could defend myself; and, above all, how I could

save the money! I knew if they killed me
they'd have every thing their own way. Well,
the thought flashed through my mind that if I
could get into my own room and fasten the door
-it locks on the inside-I might manage to
escape out of the window, before they could
break open the door, and, once out in the moon-
light, I could give the alarm, or at least fight
them if they followed me. I was barefooted, and
had the advantage of them in that-as I made
no no:se in moving. But it was pitch dark, and
I somehow got turned round in my head as to
the direction of my room-door. Instead of going
toward it as I intended, I went the opposite way,
and suddenly came thump against the counter.
The villain that was after me heard it, and I
hea~d him coming toward me. I ought to have
kept out of his way; but, instead of that, 1
fired at random in the direction of the noise be
made in approaching, which was the very worst
thing I could have done-for of course he was
not hit, and the flash of the pistol as it went off
showed him exactly where I stood. All was so
confused after this, I can scarcely recall any thing
about it. I fired twice, and the last thing that I
can remember is that just as I was pulling the
trigger for the third time, both the scoundrels
jumped on me. I fought like mad, but 1 think
it couldn't have been long before they over-
powered me. I felt a sudden blow here "-he
put his hand to the side of his forehead, which
was ornamented with the yellow-and-black patch-
es. "It seemed to me that a blaze of sparks
flashed out of my eyes, and made a solid sheet
of white flame before them that shut out every
thing. The blow must have knocked me down
and stunned me-for my mind don't go beyond
seeing this white blaze for an instant, like a flash
of lightning exactly. The next recollection I
have is of coming to my senses gradually, and
finding myself in pitch darkness and dead silence,
tied neck and heels, aching all over from head
to foot, and with a gagin my mouth. I tried at
first to get up, but I couldn't budge an inch, I
was tied so hard; and every movement I made
seemed as if it would kill me with pain. As to
my head, 1 really thought it would burst, it ached
so! I think 1 was hardly in my right senses for
some time-for, in spite of myself; I kept strug-
gling to get loose, until I was almost strangled,
besides suffering perfect agonies from the strain-
ing of my wrists and ankles, which had all thc
skin rubbed off of them." He held up his bands,
exhibiting a pair of bandaged wrists, as he went
on: "At last I lay quiet from exhaustion-and I

I

U

MR. WARWICK'S INVESTIGATION.

187

couldn't begin to give you an idea of how mud
1 suffered, and how long the time seemed, unti
Mr. Marks came in the morning. I thought morn
ing never would come! 1 hope I may never, a:
long as I live, have such a time of it again
knew the bank was robbed-and that it was mj
fault-because if I had only-"
"You are wrong," said Mr. Warwick, as tin
young man's voice faltered, and the tears agair
came into his eyes. "It was not your fault-you
did your best-and that is all that can be re.
quired of any man, and you were willing to risk
your life-and that is what every man would
not do under similar circumstances. So, don't
blame yourself unjustly. I am sure Marks doesn't
blame you."
"No. He-"
"You say you saw the men?" interrupted
Mr. Warwick, who was exceedingly impatient to
come back to this point of Hugh's narrative, and
had only constrained himself to listen to the
rather verbose relation of the young man, in the
hope of hearing something more about those per-
sonages. "Have you any suspicion of who they
were?"
"I have a suspicion that I have seen one
of them before, sir-though I couldn't be certain,
as it was only just a single glimpse that I caught
of them, before the lantern was shut."
"Who was it?" said Mr. Warwick, abruptly.
"I don't know his name, sir--he is a stranger
hereabouts; that is, if I'm not mistaken about
the person I'm thinking of. When I turned
round, as the door was burst open, I saw the two
men distinctly for an instant-that is, distinctly
enough to take in a general idea of their appear-
ance, and to see that they were black. But I
felt sure then, and I'm still more sure, in think-
ing it over, that they were not negroes, but white
men with their faces blacked."
"It is more likely," commenced Mr. Warwick,
"that they wore-" crape masks, he was going to
say-but stopped himself in time. "You are
right, Hugh; they were certainly white men.
This is not the sort of thing that negroes would
undertake. And you think you recognized one
of them?"
"I think so, sir. The one that was in front
when I saw them was quite a tall man-as tall
as you are yourself; or taller, and stout in
proportion; the other, who had the lantern,
was shorter and thick-set. Just about such a
looking man as Mr. Shields." ("Not St. John-
either of them ~" thought Mr. Warwick, paren-
thetically.) "It was the first one that I thought

i I recognized. I never saw him but once, and'
I that was the day before the robbery-"
"Yesterday, then."
"Yes, it was yesterday, though it seems, to
me a good deal longer ago. Well, this man
came into the bank, while Mr. Marks was gone
to dinner, with a very ragged live-dollar bill that
he wanted a new note for."
"And did he get it ?-did you take the
bill?"
"No, sir, I couldn't. It was no bill of ours,
but one of the 'Commercial Bank of A.'s' notes.
I thought it was strange that the man should be
so stupid as not to know that a bank has ifoth-
ing to do, in this way, ~'ith any but its own is-
sues; but I explained the matter to him; and
he seemed very bard to understand. I felt a lit-
tle out of patience at having to go over and over
my explanation; and nIl the while I was talking,
he stood staring round the room, and at me, in a
very curious way. 1 noticed that he stayed a
great deal longer than there was any necessity
for; and seemed inclined to stay still longer, if I
had not told him that, if that was all he wanted, I
was sorry I could not accommodate him, and
that he must excuse my going back to my writ-
ing, as I was busy. He went away then."
"And you think this was one of the bur-
glars?"
"I think so, sir; but I wouldn't take oath to
it. There was something about the tallest of the
two scoundrels that at once brought this stranger
to my mind; but it might have been merely his
height."
"The voice-did you notice that?"
"No, sir. I was in to ~ much of a flurry to
think of noticing that. And I only heard him
speak once."
"Was his dress the same as that of the stran-
ger?"
Hugh shook his bead. "Both of the bur-
glars had on blanket overcoats. The stranger
who came about the money was dressed in
black."
"HewnsnotagentlemanIsuppose?"
"Well, I can hardly say," answered Hugh,
hesitatingly. "His dress was rather shabby;
but still, so far as that was concerned, he might
have passed for a gentleman. But there was
something in his face, a bang-dog sort of look,
that-but, on the whole, I suppose, yes "-rather
doubtfully-" I suppose be was a gentleman.
And I can't believe that he did not know better
than he pretended about the bill. I think he
made that an excuse to get in and take a look at


the bank, and find out all he could. I saw him
looking very hard at the door of the vault there.
And he shut the room-door when he went out,
though he found it standing open. And then, he
didn't walk out at once, but stopped so long in
the passage that I went and opened the door to
see what on earth he was about. He walked
away when he heard me coming, I suppose, for
he was just going out of the front door when I
stepped into the passage."
"All this does look very suspicious," said Mr.
Warwick. "Did it occur to you, at the time, that
he might have evil intentions?"
"No, sir. Such an idea never entered my
head. All I thought was t1i~t he must be some
idler who had nothing to do himself~, and was
loafing about, disturbing other people at their
work. He had a dissipated appearance; indeed,
be looked to me more like a gambler than any
thing else."
"And have you made any inquiries about
him, as to who and what he is, and whether he
is in town yet?"
"Oh, yes, sir-we've tried to find out some-
thing about him, but nobody seems to know any
thing at all. As soon as I told Mr. Marks this
morning what I've just been telling you, he tried
his best to trace up the fellow; and so did a good
many other people. The whole town's been in a
great excitement, as you may suppose, Mr. War-
wick."
"Did you, or anybody, go to the hotel and in-
quire if the man had been there?"
"Mr. Hilliard was here himself, and Mr. Marks
asked him, the first thing, whether a man like the
one I described had been at his hotel. He said
not; and nobody seems to have seen him except
little Jimmy Powell, who thinks it must have~
been a man that came into his father's store
yesterday, about dinner-time, and bought a pen-
knife from him,"
"And what has Marks.-"
Mr. Warwick paused, as he heard the sound
of approaching foot-steps. The next moment,
Cyrus entered with some letters which he gave
to hie nlaster, who, after glancing at the address
of each, put all but one of them into his pocket.
That one he opened at once, and read it with
evident satisfaction, "Give me a sheet of paper,
and pen and ink, Hugh, if you please," he said,
as he refolded it. Carefully sealing it up and
addressing it, he handed it to Cyrus, saying,
"Take a horse and go with this at once to Mor-
ton House. Ask to see Mrs. Gordon yourself,
and give it into her own hand. Now, don't lose

it-for your life, Cyrus! It is of the greatest
importance."
"Yes, sir."
"Have you had your supper?" said Mr. War'
wick, calling him back as he was leaving the
room.
"No, sir."
"Then go home and get it before you carry
that letter; but don't be all night over it, for I
want the letter delivered as soon as possible.
And remember what I told you this afternoon-
about gossipingg"
"Yes, sir-I ain't forgot."
"Talking of supper, I expect I have been
keeping yen from yours, Hugh?" said Mr. War.
wick, as Cyrus finally disappeared.
"Oh, I'm not in a hurry-I'm not at all hun-
gry," answered the young man.
"You ought to be, then," said Mr. Marks,
entering the door in time to hear the last sen-
tence, "for you had no dinner any more than
myself.-Well, Warwick," he continued, as he
shook hands with hiabrother-in-law, who rose to
meet him, "you come back to find me a ruined
man."
"Not so bad as that, I hope," said Mr. War-
wick, gazing hard at the face before him, which,
by the dim light of the single candle, looked
pale and haggard, as he had never seen it be-
fore. "It is an ugly business, I must admit," he
went on; "but giving up is not the way to mend
it. We must go to work and find the thieves
and the money.,~
"That's easier said than done," replied Mr.
Marks, sitting down with an air of hopeless de-
jection. "We've been all day trying to do some-
thing toward it, and have not succeeded in gain-
ing the least trace to begin with, And the in-
fernal scoundrels have got a clear start on us of
sixteen or eighteen hours, at least."
"Why, surely you have sent out advertise-
ments of the robbery to all the papers in the
State, and notified the bank to stop payment of
the notes stolen?" said Mr. Warwick.
"Oh, yes; I sent off special messengers not
an hour after I found out the robbery. But the
thieves arc not likely to let the grass grow under
their feet. Of course, they'll get out of the State
as fast as they can.-Hugh, why don~t you go to
supper?"
"I'd rather stay and hear what Mr. Warwick
thinks ought to be done," answered Hugh,
"I'm afraid nothing can be done to-night,"
said Mr. Warwick. "But, when you come back,
you shall hear if we have decided on any thing."

Upon this hint, Hugh, who took his meals at
a boarding-house not far off, finally went to his
long-deferred supper; and Mr. Warwick inquired
what was the amount of money stolen. "A hun-
dred thousand dollars, Shields told me, but I
suppose that is an exaggeration?" he said.
"Yes; the amount did not reach that figure.
There was twenty-four thousand and eighty dol-
lars in specie, a package of fifty thousand in
notes still in the sheet, and thirteen hundred and
twenty-seven dollars in bills that have been in
circulation," answered Mr. Marks, with his usual
preciseness,'but by no means his usual brisk,
hearty tone.
"And you sent off at once to the bank, and
all its branches, giving the numbers of the
notes?"
"I did every thing that could be done in
that way. I sent messengers right off express
to our bank and branches; and I wrote by mail
to all the other banks in the State, and in the
neighboring States, giving a list of the numbers
of the notes, even down to the one-dollar bills.
Powell, and Gibbs, and Williamson, and Horton,
were here all the morning, assisting Hugh and
myself with the writing-copying the lists and
the advertisements-and Burgess kept the mail
open to the minute the stage was starting, to
put the letters in. I have offered, on my
own responsibility, a reward of five thousand
dollars for the recovery of the whole of the
money; or a thousand for the detection of the
thieves, and recovery of any considerable part
of it"
"So far, very well," said Mr. Warwick
"And how about trying to detect the thieves
yourself? Did you examine closely the scene
of their operations? - and could nothing be
found to afford a clew?"
"The whole town, pretty near, were examin-
ing-" -
"You ought not to have permitted that. The
thief or thieves themselves might have been
among the number, for aught you know, to see
if they had left any thing behind them, and to
secure it if they had."
"No danger of that," answered Mr. Marks.
"Hugh saw the thieves, and he says one of them
was very tall-over six feet, he is sure-and the
othe' was short and heavy built. There was
nobody here that would answer to either descrip-
tion, and nobody that we didn't know. Just our
own townsfolk. I wouldn't have let strangers
come about, of course."
"And how do you know but that th~ robbery
13

188                      MORTON HOUSE.                                                    MR. WARWICK'S INVESTIGATION.            189

may have been committed by some of our own
townsfolk?"
Mr. Marks shook his head. "There are some
trifling men in Tallahoma, it's true; but .1 don't
believe there's one that would be bad enough for
a thing of this sort."
Mr. Warwick rose and took up the candle-
stick.
"Get another light, and come with me, will
you? I should like to look at the vault myself"
he said.
Mr. Marks did as requested. He took from
the mantel-piece another candle, lighted it, pro-
duced a bunch of key~ from his pocket, and pro-
ceeded across the room to a heavy-looking door
set in a deep recess in the wall.
"The lock was picked, but I had another put
on, though it looks very much like locking the
stable after' the horses are stolen," he said, as
he opened the door.
Descending a narrow flight of steps that ran
down against the wall, with a balustrade to pro-
tect it on the outside, they held the lights for-
ward, and Mr. Warwick took a survey of the
place. It was a small, vaulted cell rather than
room, not more than eight feet by twelve, with
two huge safes standing against the wall oppo-
site the stairs. Substantial safes they were for
the period, but not cast-iron, and not burglar..
proof, as their present melancholy condition
proved. The doors of both were wide open; but
while one of them retained its contents, consist-
ing of piles of ledgers, labelled boxes, and bun-.
dles of papers of all sizes (which had evidently
been roughly handled and thrust back in utter
confusion), the shelves of the other were bare.
Mr. Warwick examined the whole place with
the most minute care. First, he held hiscandle
within the empty money-safe, running his eye,
and even passing his hand, over every square
inch of surface on the two shelves above, and
taking the drawer which was fitted between the
lower shelf and the floor of the safe, for the
reception of specie, clean out of its place, in
order to make an effectual search.
"You'll find nothino-" said Mr. Marks, who
had stood by watching these proceedings with an.
expression of face in which apathy and impa-
tience were rather singularly blended.
"Don't let me detain you," said Mr. War-
wick, reading this expression. "I dare say you
are right, but still I want to satisfy myself by a
thorough examination. You were all excited
this morning, of course, and may have overlooked
some little matter-there is somebody coming in,


190                              MORT(
I think~ Had you not better go and see, Rid
ard? I will be up presently."
"I suppose it's Hugh," replied Mr. Marks
"but I'll go."
Left alone, Mr. Warwick next subjected th
floor of the vault to as close an inspection a
that which he had bestowed on the safe, unt
he was convinced that no object, though it ha
been only the size of a pin, could have escape
his observation. He then took in hand the saf
containing the documents. Every separate vol
ume, every box, and each package of paper~
passed under the scrutiny of his keen eye an4
industrious fingers. But, as Mr. Marks had pre
diced, he found nothing.
It was with a sense of decided, though eve
to himself unacknowledged, discouragement, tha
he remounted the stairs to the room above. Mr
Marks was sitting in a drooping attitude, witl
his eyes, but not his thoughts, fixed on the clerk
who knelt' upon the hearth, trying to ignite
hopeless-looking pile of wood which he had ins
put on the andirons. In their excitement an
preoccupation of mind, both himself and his prin
cipal had forgotten the fire that afternoon-th
more readily, as the day had been a very mik
one., But the evening closed in cold; and poci
Hugh, who was feeling almost as wretchedly Ia
body as in mind, shivered at the cheerless aspect
of the apartment, as much as at its chilly tem-
perature, when he returned from his boarding-
house. The hearth, that always gave forth such
a cheerful glow and warmth, was cold and dark
now-like the ill-fortune that had so unexpect-
edly come upon them, he could not help think-
lug-4hough he was not addicted to a poetical
turn of thought usually.
Mr. Warwick walked up to his brother-in-law
and laid his hand on his shoulder kindly. "Take
my advice, Richard," he said. "tie home and
go to bed, There~s nothing more for you to do
here; and you look thoroughly used up. I want
to ask Hugh a few questions about his visitors
of last night; but I shall not be long. Tell Bes-
sic, if you please, to have some hot coffee ready
for ma-I have had no diniker."
"I can wait for you," said Mr. Marks.-" By.
the-way, Hugh,'hadn't you better have got some-
body to stay with you to-night.?"
"What for?" demanded Hifgh, coloring with
boyish mortification. "There's no such good
luck as that those villains should take it into
their heads to come back. I only wish they
would. I'd know how to deal with them this
time?"

)N HOUSE.

Ei- "And1" pursued Mr. Marks, who was a kind-
hearted man, considerate of the comfort of those
; about him, and feeling now some self-reproach as
he remembered how little attention he had paid
e to the pains and bruises which the clerk had.
s incurred, though unavailingly, in the discharge
il of his duty-" and I don't believe Tom has been
d here to attend to your room to-day, has he?"
d "Yes, sir, he came this morning, but it was
e while the house was full, and every thing in eon-
[- fusion; so I told him to never mind about it."
,    "I'll go and send him now, thcn.-You might
~ as well come with rae, John. It must be getting
late, and I should think that, as you had no din-
ner, you'd be hungry."
r "I am. But waiting a little longer makes
t no difference; and I must take a look at Hugh's
room. It is only eight o'clock," he added, con.
r suiting his watch. "I will follow you in half
an hour, or less time, perhaps."
Mr. Marks made no further remonstrance, but
L rose, said good-night, a~Iid departed.
I "Now, Hugh, let mc see your room," said Mr
- Warwick. "lam glad that it has not been med-
died with. Did 'you look about to find if-
I Humph!" he exclaimed, as at this moment he
stepped into the apartment in question, which
adjoined the cashier's room. "Humph!"
It was a comfortless-looking dormitory at
- present, certainly. The bedelothing, including
- the inttttresses, had been tumbled off one side
of the French bedstead, and lay in a disordered
heap upon the floor, which was strewed with
* strips and fragments resembling hospital-linen,
for much of it was crumpled and bloody, like
soiled bandages. Hugh explained that he had
been tied down to the bedstead itself; which, no
doubt, was bared for that purpose. The sheets.
had been torn up, and twisted into a rough imi-
tation of rope, with which he was bound.
"The scoundrels seemed to understand their
business," said the young man. "You see they
made notches in the side of the bedstead here
near the head, to keep the bandy I was tied
with from slipping."
Mr. Warwick bent over, and looked closely
at the spot pointed out. "'The bedstead was of
walnut-wood, and the no~ehes appeared to have
been cut into it without difficulty, as they were
at least an inch deep. "The wood is soft," he
'remarked. "This looks as if it 'had been cut
with a pocket-knife."
He stepped toward the foot of the bed as
he spoke, and again leaned down to examine
whether there were notches there too. There

I

I

~PWO AND TWO MA~B FOUR.

191

CHAPTER XXXV
Two AaD TWO xauz revs.

was one great gash-obviously the commence
ment of a notch-but that was all. In holding~
the candle so that the light would fall full upor
this, Mr. Warwick's eye was attracted to
small, glittering object upon the carpet just al
the side of the bed, and, stooping, he picked ii
up.
"What is it?" cried Hugh, as the lawyci
uttered a slight exclamation.
"A fragment of the blade of a knife," an-
swered Mr. Warwick, quietly, but his eyes spar-
kled. "Something may be made of this, I
hope," he added, examining it eagerly.
"Oh, do you really think so, Mr. Warwick?"
said Hugh, joyfully..
"I hope so. It was broken in the attempt to
make that notch."
"And you think, sir, you can trace them out
by it?"
"I shall try. It is a point to begin with;
and in an affair of this kind, as in every thing
else, the first step is almost always the most
difficult. I shall sleep the better to-night for
having found this little bit of metal. Here-hold
the candle a minute!"
Hugh extended a hand trembPng with excite-
ment for the candle, and Mr. Warwick took out
his pocket-book and carefully placed the broken
blade in an inner compartment of it.
"Don't be too sanguine," he said to Hugh,
as he fastened the clasp, and returned the book
to his pocket. "And don't mention my having
*found this to any body-least of all, to Marks-
for it may turn out nothing. But," he added, as
he saw Hugh's face fall at these words, "I think it
is a clew. Good-night. There's Tom coming, and
I'll go. Oh I-don't have any sweeping done
to-night. I will be here early in the morning,
and we can then make a more careful search of
the room, and may possibly find something else.
I don't like to keep my sister waiting for me so
long; and this does very well for a beginning.
Mind, Hugh, that you hold your tongue!"
"I will, Mr. Warwick."
"You are not afraid of another call from your
friends, the burglars?"
"Afraid? I should think not!" cried the
young man, flushing, and half offended by the
question.
"Well, good-night," said Mr. Warwick.
"Here's Tom."

7'

"Joux, John, I am so glad you have got back
at last I" was Mrs. Marks's greeting to her
brother, when he entered the dining-room,
where a bright fire and the supper-table were
* waiting for him. She had been crying all day,
* poor woman, but the fountain of her tears was
not exhausted. It gave forth a plentiful supply
of briny drops, as Mr. Warwick smiled kindly,
kissed her, and told her to dry her eyes, and
give him some supper, for ~that he was tired and
hungry.
"Richard has gone to bed, I hope?" said
he, as Mrs. Marks began to take up from the
hearth, where they were ranged in a semicircle
to keep warm, various dishes, which she placed
upon the table, himself hastening to assist her
in doing so.
"Yes, he's gone to bed "-a profound sigh
-"but there's no sleep for him t/d., night, F
know. Seventy - five thousand, four hundred
and seventy dollars, John," pursued poor Mrs.
Marks, with a ludicrous, unconscious imitation
of her husband's manner, that made Mr. War-
wick smile, despite his sincere sympathy with
the distress which seemed so out of place on
the rouuid, good - nature face before him.
"More than twice as much as Richard is
worth, counting every sixpence he has got in
the world I-and he blames himself for it all-
and I'm sure he must blame me, though he
don't say so "-the tears burst forth afresh-.--
"gnd five little children-"
"Stop a minute," said Mr. Warwick, stem-
ming the torrent of words that promised to flew
on uninterruptedly for an indefinite time to come.
"Blames himself? What does he blame him-
self for?"
"He says he ought never to have left the
bank~ That a cashier's business and duty is to
protect, by hia constant presence, the property
committed to his charge; and that, instead of
leaving poor Hugh to bear the brunt of the
danger, and get beaten and bruised nearly
to death, he ought to have been there himself.
And you know it was m~y fault, John, that
we left the bank, because it was such a nasty,
cooped-up place for the children, compared to
this house."
"All this sort of talk is nonsense, Bessie,"'
said Mr. Warwick. "Marks is very much out ot~


192

MORTON ROUSE.

spirits, of course; but he will find that matters
are not so bad, after all. He has been prompt in
taking the steps necessary in the business, and
the only uneasiness I feel now is about the spe-
cie. I have no doubt the greater part of that
can be recovcred-but not the whole, prob-
ably. As to the notes - you need not trou-
ble yourself about them, I assure you. The
scoundrels will find that the fifty thousand
dollars might as well be blank paper so far
as they are concerned. In faet, it is certain
t~ bring detection upon them if they try to
pass it."
"I don't see how that can be," said Mrs.
Marks, drying her eyes once more, but, looking
very doubtful. "It's money. All they've got to
do is to cut 'it apart.. It's signed, every bit of
it."
"And numbered too, fortunately. Never
mind puzzling yourself with the matter. You
can take my word for it, can't you?"
"I suppose so. But John, are you quite
sure "
"Well ?" he said, as she paused, and the in-
exhaustible fountain began welling forth from
her eyes again.
"Are you sure we shall not be ruined-
and" sob "that Richard's character
won't-"
"Bessie," said Mr. Warwick, in such a very
quiet tone, that Bessie's eyes opened wide in
startled surprise, and the drops with which they
were brimming stood arrested in their fall-
"Bessie, have you quite forgotten that you once
bore the name of ~
The~ poor wo~nan was bewildered. Never
very quick of apprehension, she was totally un-
able now to perceive the connection between
this "awful" bank robbery and her own maiden~
name; and, after a troubled pause of considera-
tion, she looked inquiringly into her brother's
face.
~ I asked the question," continued he, "be-
cause I confess that I am mortified to find that
my sister "-he laid a strong emphasis on the
last two words-" instead of being courageous
and cheerful in this misfortune which has be-
fallen her husband, as a brave woman and good
wife ought to be, is giving way to unreasonable
and extravagant lamentations that must make it
twice as hard-~"
"Oh, n~l you don't mean that I have made
it harder for Richard to hear! Surely you don't
think that! '~
"I know it."

She wrung her hands spasmodically. "What
can I do-what can I do?"
"You can act like a sensible woman, and re-
member that the loss of money-even if Marks
loses any, which I ani not at all sure that he
will-"
"He says he intends to refund every cent
that the bank loses, whether it is required of him
or not, aid if it takes nIl that he owns in the
world."
"He may be a few thousands out of pock.
et, then-but what of that? if?, instead of los-
ing a little money-or, we will say a good deal of
money-he or some of the children were to
die-"
"John!" gasped his sister, turning very
pale.
"I think you would feel what a trifle, com-
paratively speaking, this whole business is," went
on Mr. Wavwick, without noticing her horrified
ejaculation-" and be glad that trouble, which
you know everybody has to endure in this world,
Bessie, has come in this form, instead of a
worse'
"Indeed, I am glad-and thankful to God,"
said she, in a subdued, rather awe-struck tone.
"And thankful to you, John, for reminding mc
of it," she added.
lie smiled encouragingly, and told her he had
no doubt this wretched business might be set to
rights in the end; but th&amp;t, meanwhile, he ex-
pected to see her hopeful and brave. Then he
went to a side-table, where a chamber candlestick
was ready foi~ him, and, as he lighted it, asked
whether she thought Marks was asleep yet. "I
* won't disturb him, if he is; but I should like to
speak to him a moment, if he is not. Will you
see, Bessie, if you please?"
She went, merely opened the ehamb&amp;-door,
glanced in, and returned.
"He's wide awake," she said, with a sigh.
"I will go and speak to him, then, Good-
night."
"Come in," responded Mr. Marks's voice,
when his brother-in-law knocked at his door a
minute later.
Mr. Warwick walked up to the bed, and found
the afflicted cashier lying straight and motionless
on his back, 'with his arms tlirownup over the
pillow, his hands folded one upon ,the, other
above his head, and the same expression of
stolid endurance on his face that it had worn
when he was at the bank.
"I have just been scolding Bessie, Dick,"
said Bessie's brother, with a smile thn~t had

I

'I

TWO AND TWO MAR11 FOUR.

humor as well as cheerful kindness in it-" and
I have come to give you your share now. Why,
pounds! what's the use of being a man, if you
can't bear the ills of life like a man! It is
natural that you should feel this severely; it is
a bad business, as it stands just at present. But
you must not look only on the dark side of it.
The money may be recovered-will be recovered,
I believe. You know whether I am in the habit
of talking at random, or of boasting; and I tell
you that I have not the least doubt of being
able to track down the villains-in time. We
must have patieneer and not be discouraged be-
cause it is impossible to find them at once. I
have made a little discovery since I saw you-"
"You don't say so!" cried Mr. Marks, start-
ing up and leaning on his elbow, as he gazed
eagerly up into the other's face. "What is it?
-what-?"
"Never mind as to that. It is something
that Hugh and myself found out after you left.
Don't question Hugh in the morning. I told
him not to say any thing to you about it. I
should not have mentioned it myself if it had not
been that I see you need stirring up a little.
Between Bessie and yourself, you are making
this alliiir twice as bad as there's any necessity
for."
"It's harder to bear than you think for,"
said Mr. Marks, apologetically. But his face
had cleared very much, and he was looking alto-
gether ten per cent. better than he did when bis
brother-in-law entered the room.
"A good many things in this world are hard'
to bear," said Mr. Warwick; and-not at all
pertinently to the subject of which they were
tal~in~-he sighed under his breath. "Well,
good-night. I hope you will go to sleep now,
and be yourself again in the morning. Rest
assured that I am sanguine of recovering the
money."
He went to his own room, and the first thing
he did was to take out his pocket-book, and
examine again the fragment of knife-blade which
he had found. Then he sat down before the fire,
stirred it, absently, put the tongs back into
their place, and gazing at the leaping and curl-
ing flames, and the glowing cavern that he had
made beneath them, he remained for a long time
absorbed in deep thought.
He rose early the next morning, and at an
hour when he was usually asleep, took his way
into the village, which was just beginning to
show signs of awakening life. Shopkeepers
were opening their doors and windows, and

193.

drowsy-looking servants were sweeping oft' door-
steps, and gossiping with each other, as they
leaned on their brooms; exchanging items of
information concerning the great bank robbery,
which was the topic of conversation with white
and black in Tallahoma just then.
Mr. Warwick paused at the entrance of a
store, near the open door of which a negro boy
was lazilyshaking a foot-mat, wondering to him-
sell the while, "what had brought Mr. Worruek
out that time in the morning."
"Your master here yet, Bill ?" said the law-
yer, pointing into the store.
"No, sir-nobody's here yit but me and Mass
Jimmy."
To his surprise, Mr. Warwick, instead of pass-
ing on, entered the door. Probably that gentle-
man had never before been conscious of the
existence of "little Jimmy Powell ," certainly he
had never noticed the boy particularly. But he
looked closely now, as he walked into the store,
and encountered the gaze of a pair of remarkably
quick and intelligent eyes, the owner of which
was seated on the front edge of a counter, with
one leg doubled under him, while the other dan-
gled over, and kept up a swinging, kicking ac-
companiment to an air he was whistling. A
bright face-altogether not an ordinary boy, Mr.
Warwick thought-small for his age; for, though
he was thirteen or fourteen at least, his size and
delicate physique made him appear a year or two
younger.
"How are you, Mr. Warwick? Can I do any
thing for you this morning, sir?" he said, at
once dexterously slipping backward across th~
counter, and landing on his feet on the opposite
side, where he stood with the attentive and busi-
ness air of a well-trained clerk.
"Yes, I wish to see some penkuives," said
Mr. Warwick, with a half smile a~ the~ serious
c1erkli~ess of the little man's manne~.
At the word penknives, there w~a flash of
intelligence in the boy's face, but h4'said noth-
ing. Turning quickly to one of the shelves be-
hind him, he took from it a box, which he
brought and placed on the counter, and, open-
ing it, proceeded silently to display several kinds
of knives. Mr. Warwick examined them, one
after the other, and finally looked up, or, rather,
looked over, at the countenance that was just on
a level with his own hands. The expression of
that countenance surprised him a little, there
was so much shrewd interest and curiosity in it;
and yet not vulgar curiosity, either, for the boy
restrained it the moment he perceived that it


104                              MORTO
was observed, replying with modest brevity V
the questions as to the price of the knives, whici
his customer asked. The latter had been wait
ing to see whether the little clerk would volun
teer some information which he wished to obtain
but, finding that there was no probability of this
he now opened the conversation himself as h
paid for one of the knives.
"You have heard all about the bank-vobbery
of course?" he said.
"Yes, sir," was the answer; and the bright,
brown eyes shot another ray of intelligence, and
then looked gravely attentive.
"lou know then, probably, that Hugh Ellis
thinks he recognized one of the burglars in a
man who was in the bank the day before the
robbery was committed; and he tells me that
the only information he can get about this man
is, that a person answering to his description
was here in your father's store that same day,
and nearly about the same hour, and that you
sold a penknife to him, Do you remember what
sort of a knife it was?"
"It was like the one you have just bought,
sir."
"Aid Youaresure?"
"Certain sure, Mr. Warwick."
"You recollect selling the knife, then?"
"Yes, sir."
"Can you describe the man's appearance to
me?"
"He was as tall as you are, sir-maybe a lit-
tle taller, for he stood just i~here you are stand.
ing now, and I had to look 'way up to see his
face. He had sandy, bushy hair, and a very red
face, and he was dressed in a shabby suit of
black."
"Would you have taken him for a gentle.
man?'~
The boy hesitated.
"I hardly know, sir, whether he was or not.
He looked something like a gentleman, but-Ms
linen was soiled."
"What sort of money did he pay for the knife
with?"
"He offered me a very dirty five-dollar bill
that was all torn. But I wouldn't take it, and
then he paid in silver."
"A flue-dollar bill?" said Mr. Warwick,
whose interest had been quickening, and his
hopes rising, with each successive reply to his
question~. "Did you notice what bill it was-
of what bank, I mean?"
"Yes, sir. He threw it down on the coun.
tar, and I took it up and looked at it a min~

HOUSE.

o ute. It was a 'Commercial Bank of A-'
~ note."
"Humph I" cried Mr. Warwick. "It must
- have been the same fellow who was at the bank.
A 'Commercial Bank of A-' note, and very
ragged, you say?"
3 "Very ragged indeed. I don't think it was
a counterfeit," added the boy, thoughtfully;
"but it was too ragged to pass anywhere; and
so I told him I couldn't take it."
"Why did you think of its being counter-
I feit?" asked the lawyer, a little surprised at this
remark.
"Because I didn't like the man's looks, sir,
and I thought he mightn't be too good to pass
counterfeit money. There's a good deal of it
about now, you know. He never once looked
me straight in the face, though I tried my best
to catch his eyes. But they kept moving about,
first to one place, and then to another."
"Ah 1" exclaimed Mr. Warwick, with an em-
phasis that was almost startling.
"Yes, sir. He looked so "-and the boy
glanced about him in a quick, uncertain sort of
way, rolling his eyes from side to side with a
restless movement that brought vividly to Mr.
Warwick's recollection the eyes of the quack
doctor in Hartsburg.
"Do you remember the color of his eyes?"
"They were of a light greenish blue, sir."
Mr. Warwick stood silent for a full minute,
evidently in deep thought. He was trying to
recall to mind the appearance of the quack doc-
tor; but, with the exception of the restless eyes,
his memory was for once totally at fault. He
had a general but very vague impression that
the man was tall, and that his hair was not
"sandy and bushy." Nevertheless, the repre-
sentation given of the stranger's eyes-the very
pose of the boy's head while rendering the imi-
tation-brought back so forcibly the look of
Dr. Joyner, as he called himself, that Mr. War.
wick felt morally sure that, in common parlance,
he had4' struck the trail "-and, it is needless to

say, he resolved to pursue it.
"Well, Jimmy," he said, looking down with a
smile," I think you have given me some valu-
able information, and that you can help me st4ll
further in this matter, if you are willing to do
so.
A quick flash came to the upraised face,
and the boy's eyes sparkled with eagerness, as
he replied: "I wish I could, sir."
- "Do you think you would know th~ man if
you saw Mm again?"

TWO AND TW

I

"Yes, sir, I'd know him anywhere."
"You are at the store here all the time, are
you not?"
Yes, sir." The little fellow sighed as he
spoke.
"I ask, because I should like to see you
again after breakfast.. Good-morning for the
present.1~
"Good.morning, Mr. Warwick,"
"By-the-by," said the lawyer, turning back
as he was about to cross the threshold1 on his
way out of the store; "by-the-by, my little friend,
I had rather you did not mention to anybody-
excepting your father, if it comes in the way-
what I have been asking you, and what you have
told me. I want to trace out this man that we
have been speaking of, and, in a matter of the
kind, talking ruihs every thing."
"I know that, Mr. Warwick. I'll not say a
word."
From Mr. Powell's store the lawyer went
the stage.office, as it was called, to find out, if
possible, whether the man he was in search of
had left Tallahoma by any of the several lines of
public conveyances that ran to and from the
place-Tallahoma, though in itself an inconsid-
erable village, being on one of the principal thor-
oughfares of travel in the State. He did not
succeed in obtaining any information; and was
feeling very much "at sea," as he walked xaed.
itatively toward the bank, when, just as he was
turning a corner, he met the Chesselton hack
coming in. Instantly it flashed upon him, as by
an inspiration, that it was more likely a man
trying to escape observation would take this,
which wan a less public line of travel - more
merely local-than those he had been thinking
of. The Chesselton hack, he remembered, ran
only three times a week, and consequently, though
Chesselton was but twenty-eight miles from Tal.
lahoma, communication was much less easy and
frequent than with &amp;xford, for instance, to
which there was a double daily line-both a
coach and hack line. To a man ende~voring to
evade detection, it was a dcsirable-con*ideration
to be as much out of the way of quick communi.
cation as possible. The hack left Tallahoma on
Tuesday, Thursdays, and Saturdays, returning
on the night of the same day it left; that is,
making the round trip in twenty-four hours.
And the rusty-looking ~rebiele, the appearance
of. which had suggested these reflections, had
now just arrived from its Thursday trip for the
current week. This was Friday morning, and
there would be no further mail communication

o ~IAKE FOUR.                         105
with Chesselton until Saturday-an excellent op.
opportunity for a thief who had taken refuge there
to make good his escape farther, undoubtedly.
These thoughts passed rapidly through Mr.
Warwick's mind as he turned and followed the
hack to the hotel where it stopped, in order to
speak to the driver. He paused at the entrance
of the stahle.yard into which the carriage was
driven after discharging its passengers at the
hotel-door, to wait until the driver descended
from his seat.
"Gillespie I" he called, as the official seemed
likely to prolong interminably his dl~eotiona to
and gossip with the hostlers who surr~iunded him
and his horses. "Gillespie I "-the man turned
to see who had spoken to him-" just step here a
minute."
"How.d'ye-do, Mr. Worruck? Was it me
you was calling' to?" inquired the man, approach.
ing him.
"Yes, I want to speak to you." He looked
round, and, seeing that nobody was within ear-
shot, went on: "I am trying to find out some.
thing about that bad business which happened
night before last at the bank, and I want to
know what passengers you took over to Ohes-
selton yesterday; whether a fellow who was
hanging about town here the day before the rob-
bery, and who, Hugh Ellis thinks, was one of the
burglars, may not have been among them?"
The driver shook his head.
"I was keeping' a sharp lookout myself, Mr.
Worruck, for I'd like monstously to have the
handling' of that five thousand dollars reward
that Mr. Marks offered for the apperhension of
the thieves "-he chuckled at the bare thought
9f handling it-" but I hai.n't seed nobody sence
I left Tallyhomy that answered to the descrip-
tion of either of 'em, I'm sorry to say. There
wasn't as many passengers as usual yesterday
Only one old gentleman, and a man and his wife,
and-"
"But," interrupted Mr. Warwick, "did you
take up no passengers by the way?"
"I tuk up two; but one was a woman, and
the other didn't noways curryspond to the de-
scriptions I heard from Mr. Ellis. He didn't.
have on black does, nor yit a great.eoat, I
noticed particular. And he wore a curous kind
a speektlekles sich as I never seed before, that.
stood out like a couple of leather cups before his
eyes."
"Goggles, I suppose? "said Mr. Warwick.
"Mebbe so. Anyhow, he didn't answer to
the descriptions.


"How far did he go with you?"
"He' stopped a little this side of Chessel-
ton."
'SAnd did you see any thing of him after-
ward?"
"Never sot eyes on him after he got out of
the hack when I stopped at Spring Creek to
water my horses. He said he'd' git out and
stretch his legs by walking' the rest of the way,
as hewas goin' to a private house in the country
nigh by."
"Did he have no baggage?"
"A black leathertravellin'.bag, not very big,
as you may know-for he tuk it into the stage
with him, and sot it down betwixt his feet."
"And you don't think it likely he was the
man Hugh Ellis saw?"
"I don't think it noways likely it was the
same man, sir."
"Did'you notice the color of his hair?"
"Well, 'I didn't, Mr. Worruek. But I'll tell
you what I'll do. My next trip over I'll see if I
cap find out who the fellow was, sei~ce it seems
a uliatter of intrust to you."
"'~ha~ik you, Gillespie. I shall be obliged if
you wrIl~do so. You go over again to-morrow, I
bell~ve
sir.
Aft~, ezohanging a few sentences more, Mr.
Warwiok bade Gillespie good-morning, and hur-
ried en to the bank.
Hugh Ellis was expecting him impatiently.
"Pee found something, too, Mr. Warwick,"
he said, quite trembling with eagerness, as he
held up to view a dark crimson-and-yellow silk

ask him," he continued, starting toward the door,
carrying the handkerchief; which he held by one
corner, fluttering along.
"Stop, stop!" said Mr. Warwick. "Look
if it has a name on it."
Hugh, fingering it rather superciliously, could
find no name.
"Are silk handkerchiefs ever marked?"
"Sometimes. Pu~ it down. I am going to
breakfast presently, and I will ask Tom about it.
Are you certain that there is nothing else to be
found in the room?"
"I am certain, sir. I searched the floor first
-the whole room, indeed-and then 1 took every
thing off the' bed, arid shook the counterpane,
and the sheets, and the blankets, each one sep-
arately. I even took the pillow-cases and the
bolster-case off! I assure you, Mr. Wa~wick, I
have looked thoroughly."
"Very well. I need not lose any time here,
then; and I am very glad of that, for I am going
to start to Chesselton directly after breakfast.
See here!"
He sat down to the table-they were in the
cashier's room-and put down' before him the
knife which he had just bought frdm Jimmy
Powell. Then he took out his pocket-book, pro-
duced the fragment of blade, and, opening the
knife, he playedd the fragment upon the whole'
blade. Hugh uttered an exclamation as lie saw
that the two were identical in every respect, even
to the brilliant newness of the metal. 'Mi'. War-
wick explained in as few words as possible all
that he' had learned from Jimmy Powell, and
what he had since heard from the stage-driver.

TWO AND TWO MAKE FOUR.                    197

*                                   MORTON HQUSE.
"He may have changed his dress, and put on f handkerchief that was considerably worn, and
the goggles to avoid detection," said the lawyer. j not a little soiled from use. "I got up as soon
"What sort of looking man was he, and how was j as it was light enough to see, and hunted the
he dressed?"                                room over, and I found this lying behind the
"He was a good.lookin' man, or would a bin, bed. How it was that Tom didn't find it last
if he hadn't had on them.-guggles, did you call night when he was making up the bed I don't
'em ?-they give him a out.of-the.way sort of know."
look. He was dressed well enough-drab breech.  "How do you know that it was dropped by
es and a brown surtout. But, with them things the burglarss"
stiekin' out two inches from his face, with green  "It must have been. How else could it have
glasses at the top of 'cm, he had a curious look." got into my room? It is not mine. I never
"What sized man was he?"                saw it, or one like it, before. They must have
"A stout fellow. Six fcet-more'n that, I dropped it."
reckon."                                      "It may have been dropped by some of the
"Where did you take him np?"            people who were here yesterday."
"At Moonie's-.--the second stnge.house from  "No, sir; impossible. Nobody was in my
here, you know,"                           room. I shut the door and looked it."
"Twe~y miles from here, is it not?"         "It may be Tom's."
"Yes, sir, twenty miles - and good ones,   "I don't think so," said Hugh, decidedly;
too."                                      but he looked a little crestfallen. "I'll go and

"Now," he said, when he had concluded his
relation, "I am going somewhat upon a venture,
which I am not in the habit of doing; but I have
an instinct, amounting to a positive conviction,
that the man you saw, the man who bought this
knife from young Powell" - he touched the
broken blade-" the man whom Gillespie de.
scribes as wearing green goggles, and a quack
doctor that I met last week in Hartsburg, and
who, a day or two after I saw him, had to take
French leave of the place to escape being
lynched, are all one and the same individual;
and 1 shall take young Powell, who says be can
identify the rascal, and see if I can't find him. I
hope," he added, as he rose to go, "that-Well,
Tom, what's the matter?"
Tom, who had at that moment appeared in
the open door, responded to this question by
another.
"Mistiss say ain't you comm' home to break.
fast this mornin', Mass John?"
"Yes, I am just going now. is this your
handkerchief 1"'
He took up the article in question, and, hold-
ing it as Hugh Ellis had done, by one corner,
exhibited it to the servant as he advanced.
"' Mine? No, sir," answered Tom, with sur-
prise. "I never saw it before, Mass John."
"Well, Hugh, I'll take it and see if I can
discover the owner."
He looked round, picked up a newspaper,
and, wrapping up the handker4tie!~, consigned it
to his coat-pocket.
"I shall not see you again before I start,
Hugh, so good-by. How are you feeling this
morning, on the whole?"
"Dreadfully stiff; sir. I ache all over. Wit
I don't mind that, so those infernal scoundrels
are brought to taw, and we setback the money."
He said this as he walked to the door with
Mr. Warwick, who paused there to shake hands
and give him one parting caution.
"Not a word to anybody about the knife or
about my movements. In one word, hold your
tongue."
"Trust me to do that, sir."
Mr. Marks was just leaving the breakfast.
table, when his brother-in-law entered the room.
The little Markacs, sitting demure and silent-
they had been involuntary penitents during the
four.and.twenty hours preceding-all started up
with irrepressible and rapturous cries of "Unky I
unky! Here's unky!"
Even the unnaturally-solemn visage of the
cashier relax~ into a smile as the little folk

bounded tumultuously forward, each eager to
get "unky's" first greetings; and Mrs. Marks's
face beamed for a moments But, before the
said greetings were over, Mr. Marks looked as
saturnine as ever, and his devoted helpmeet was
applying her handkerchief to her eyes.
"Don't go yet, Richard; I have a word to
say to you presently," said Mr. Warwick, as ho
saw the former about to leave~ the room.-
"Well, bairns, have you missed unky much?"
"Oh, that we have! that we have I" was the
unanimous and rather stunningly vociferous re-
ply. "We-"
"Hush, this minute, children!" cried their
mother, whose temper had not improved since
her brother's departure, a month before. "Do
you want to deafen your uncle? Go along out
now; he has other things to think about than
your nonsense. Go along, all of you !-and,
John, do come to breakfast!"
"In a minute," answered her brother, with-
out moi~ing from where he stood, just inside the
door, surrounded by the children, who were,
every one, clinging to him-Jack and Dick hav-
ing seized each an arm, Sara and Katy having.
possession of his hands respectively, while poor
little Nelly had nothing for it but to clasp her
two little fat arms round his knee in an ecstasy
of noisy delight. He looked down on them with
a smile which was like sunshine to their little
hearts, as he listened to their rejoicings at his
return. But again Mrs. Marks began~ a sharp
remonstrance and command to them.
"Do let them alone Besale!" said Mr. War-
wick, a little sharp in turn.-" Here, Sara-hold
your hand."
Sara's hand was extended with astonishing
quickness, while all the others were breathless
with expectation.
"Now, is it honor bright?" asked their
uncle, appealing to them generally.
"Yes, unky, honor bright! honor bright!"
"Then, take this key, Sara, and see what
you can find in my valise. Go, all of you, and
stay in my room till I come. But mind-Sara is
to take the things out and put them on the table,
and you must all keep quiet and wait patiently."
"Honor bright!" responded they, in a breath,
and were gone.
"Bessie, do you think it worth while to punish
those poor children for the 'fault of the thieves
who broke into the bank?" said Mr. Warwick,
as he sat down to the breakfast-table.
"Punish them, John? I don't know what
you mean! I haven't been punishing them."

197


198                              MORTO~
"Yes, you have, and in the worst possible
way-by cloudy looks and unmerited reproof. I
wish you would remember what I said to you
la~it night."
Mrs. Marks looked conscience-stricken, and
Mr. Warwick turned to her husband, who stood
by the fire, waiting for the word that his brother-
in-law had for him.
"I have got what I believe to be a clew,
Mi~ks, and I shall start immediately after break.
fast to follow it up. I don't know when I shall
be back-!..in a day or two, perhaps; but it is not
certain. All I can tell you is, that I intend* to
track dei~n those scoundrels. So, keep up your
spirits. You will find that this matter will all
come out right at last."
"You really think so?" asked Mr. Marks, a
little doubtfully
"I am sure of it. Did you ever know me to
be mistaken in an opinion which I expressed
deliberately?"
"Why, no; I never did."
"Rely on my opinion in this, then. If I am
absent more than a day or two, I will write. Are
you going to the bank now? If so, I will say
good-by, as I have ordered my buggy to be ready
by the time I have finished breakfast."
"I'll see you off," said Mr. Marks, drawing a
chair toward the fire, and sitting down. "There's
no hurry aboutmy getting to the bank," he added,
disconsolately.
"Where are y~u going, John?" asked Mrs.
Marks. /
"I am going first to Morton House to see
Mrs, Gordon for a few minutes," answered Mr.
Warwick, evasively. "By-the-way, J3essie-"
But Bessie, to whom the mention of Mrs.
Gordon's name recalled the remembrance of the
domestic trouble which had so much afflicted hex~
-before the more important misfortune of the
bank robbery occurred, and dwarfed its import-
ance, indeed drove it entirely from her mind for
the time being-interrupted him eagerly.
"0 John," she cried, "every thing has been
going wrong Since you left home I Would you
believe that Miss Tresham went away the Friday
after you left, and, though she was to have come
back on Monday, she's never made her appear.
anee from that day to this? and, what's more,
we haven't heard one syllable about her!
What's become of her, I can't understand,
for-"
"Do you recollect what I told you, Warwick,
the day she drew her salary at the bank, and
wanted it in gold? I remarked to you then

HOUSE.
that I suspected ahe was going to leave us; and,
you see, I was right," said Mr. Marks, to whom it
was quite a satisfaction-a little ray of light in
the very dark sky that loomed over him-.to be
able thus to vindicate so triumphantly, particu-
larly to his brother-in-law, the correctness of his
judgment.
"I remember your saying you were afraid
she would leave you," replied Mr. Warwick.
"And you ha~re no idea why she left- have
heard nothing from her?"
"Not a word-not the scrape of a pen!"
cried Mrs. Marks, volubly. "All her things are
here yet-two trunks, and ever so many
"You know she drew a thousand dollars in
gold from me on Tuesday," Mr. Marks here broke
in, with an animation which he had not exhib-
ited before, since the first suspicion of the bank
robbery had dawned on his horrified apprehen-
sion. "Well, on Friday, when she was going off,
she borrowed ten dollar.r from Bessie! Think of
that-..-ten dollars! Now, I saythat there's some-
thing wrong about all this-one way or another-
and I made up my mind that, if she didn't come
back at the time she said, and couldn't give a satis-
factory account of why she went-"
"She went to see the priest, Richard-she
said so!" cried Mrs. Marks, who was still some-
what of a partisan of Katharine's.
"Yes, she said so," answereAl Mr. Marks, dry-
ly. "But she didn't say what was the reason
this St. John - you remember the man you
warned me about, Warwick, when you met him
as he was going out of the bank that day?"
Mr. Warwick nodded.
"Well, there is some connection-"
Here Mrs. Marks's eagerness grew quite un-
controllable, and she dashed into the conversa-
tion-taking the floor by storm from her more
quiet husband-and proceeded to pour out the
whole story of St. John's visit to Katharine im-
mediately on her return from Annesdale: Mrs~
Gordon's having come in while St. John was
there; what Mrs. Gordon had said; Katharine's
hasty departure; Morton Annesley's call; St.
John's call; Mrs. Annesley's call; St. John's
second call, and the manner in which the latter
had persisted ever since in persecuting the
whole family, in the effort to obtain information
of Katharine's whereabouts; her own solemn
conviction that Katharine had gone away t~ get
rid of St. John, and that she would never come
back while he remained in Tallahoma; and Mr.
Marks's obstinate resolution not to. receive her
again into his family, if she did come back.

I

TWO AND TWO MAKE FOUR.

199

Mr. Warwick listened in attentive silence, and
had finished his breakfast before the narration
was concluded. When Mrs. Marks finally stopped
an instant to take breath, he turned to her hus-
band.
"Has it never occurred to you that Miss
Tresham might have been detained away acci-
dentally?"
"Never!" answered Mr. Marks, emphatical-
ly. "It only occurs to me that there's some-
thing wrong. I'm sure of it; and, though I
don't know what it is, I'll have nothing more to
do with Miss Tresham. I told Bessie at the time
that it was a risky business to be engaging a
governess without knowing any thing about her.
I have no idea that Miss Tresham will ever re-
turn here; but, if she walked into the room this
minute, she should not stay very long. I'm done
with her."
Mr. Warwick said nothing. He did nothave
time to argue the question just then, and, in fact,
what could he have said? Perfectly ignorant of
Katharine's motives, or the reasons which she
might be able to give for her apparently singular
conduct, he thought it best to be silent as to his
knowledge of her present place of sojourn. He
could only conjecture that Mrs. Marks's suspicion
of her having left Tallahoma to avoid St. John
was correct, and, as he had but a moderate
opinion of Mrs. Marks's powers of reticence-
or, indeed, of the capacity of people in general
in that particular-he judged it most prudent to
leave matters as they were-at least, until his
return from the journey which he was about tak-
ing. Unwilling as he had been to entertain the
suspicion suggested by Mrs. Gordon concerning
St. John, he had found it impossible to put the~
idea from him, notwithstanding that the evidence
of Hugh Ellis as to the appearance of the bur-
glars went far to discredit its probability. The
correctness of Hugh's observation in the case
of one of the two-which Mr. Warwick consid-
ered fully corroborated by the testimony of the
little Powell-entitled his statement to respect,
and a little staggered the intuitive conviction,
which had steadily been gaining ground in Mr.
Warwick's mind, that Mrs. Gordon was right.
Yet still, that conviction was only staggered, not
done away with; and, though he thought it neces-
sary to follow the clew which he had obtained,
and which, so far as he was aware, did not p~int
to St. John as a participant is the outrage, he
was exceedingly anxious that the man should
not leave Tallahoma during his own absence, and
anxious, tlso, that he should continue ignorant

of Katharine's movements. Therefore, he would
not risk any thing, he thought, by premature can-
dor. When the affair of the robbery was off his
hands, he would take up this mystery about the
governess, and see if he could not unravel it.
So, without a word upon the subject, he rose, and,
after a few more encouraging assurances that he
would "bring the business" (of the robbery)
"all straight," he took leave of the Markses,
senior and junior, and, entering the buggy,
which was at the gate, told Cyrus to drive to
Mr. Powell's store.
As he was passing the hotel, his quick eye
caught sight of St. John on the bench that ran
along the wall from end to end of the long
piazza (for the convenience of the loungers who
there did congregate at all times and seasons)
engaged in what, to appearance, was the busi-
ness of his life-smoking. He sat apart fz~m a
group of noisy talkers, but near enough to enjoy
the benefit of hearing their conversation.
No sooner did Mr. Warwick appear in sight,
than one of these gentlemen of leisure, a brother
lawyer, started up, and stepped to the edge of
the piazza to exchange a word with him as he
passed.
"Warwick! A moment, will you, War-
wick!" cried he. "I did not know that you
were back. When did you arrive?"
"Yesterday evening," answered Mr. War-
wick, as he stopped and shook hands cordially.
"But I am off again, you see."
"Ah?" said the other, with some surprise.
"I thought you would have gone to work about
the robbery. Don't you intend to hunt down
those scoundrels?"
Mr. Warwick smiled. "You know my faith
in the old saw, 'Give a thief rope enough, and
he is sure to hang himself.'"
Mr. Ashe~-the legal brother-smiled also,
and very significantly; though, as he stood with
his back to the group in the piazza, nobody but
Mr Warwick himself perceived the smileor the
glance that accompanied it. He knew Mr. War-
wick's faith in the said proverb; but he knew
also that Mr. Warwick invariably took the pre.
caution, In eases of the kind, to hold the end of
the rope in his own hand-and shrewdly suspect-
ed that he was not departing from his usual cus-
tom on the present occasion. A few general
remarks followed after this-Mr. Ashe judicious-
ly refraining from indiscreet questions and
then Mr. Warwick, pleading haste, went on his
way. But he had taken theopportunity during
the moment in which he was stationary almost


200                              MORTON
directly in front of St. John-for he had not
stopped the buggy until it passed a few feet be-
yond the group of loungers-to cast one or two
rapid, apparently careless, but in reality very
keen glances at that personage. Glances which
were returned with interest-since, on more than
one account, the lawyer was an object of no
common regard to the scheming adventurer.
This was the man who had spirited away Felix
Gordon-this the man who, according to the
unanimous belief of his townsmen, "would soon
ferret out the bank thieves." St. John had no
particular, or, rather, no personal knowledge of
Mr. Warwick's character; but he had heard
enough about it in the discussions concerning
the bank robbery, which were in everybody's
mouth, to excite his apprehension.
"Yet," thought he, moQdily watching the
smoke, as it curled away from his lips, "what
can the man do 1"' And then he went over in
his mind all the precautions against detection
which his comrade had so elaborately adopted;
he remembered that this comrade was accom.
pushed in the art of deceiving London and Pari-
sian detectives; and he smiled cynically at the
ider~ of a village-lawyer in "this d-d backwoods
country," being able to outwit such an adept in
his profession. For himself, he had not the
slightest uneasiness. His figure had been so
effectually disguised by much clothing and a
heavy blanket-overcoat, that nobody, he was cer-
tain, would ever imagine that the tall, slender,
and elegant form, so familiar now to Tallahoma
eyes, could have been transformed into that of
Burglar No. 2, whose portrait passed from lip
to lip as "short and square-built; just about
such a looking man as Mr. Shields."
Meanwhile, Mr. Warwick drove on a square
or two, and stopped'bcfore Mr. Powell's store.
"Is your father in, Jimmy?" he said, as the
boy hurried forward to meet him.
"Yes, sir. Will you walk into the counting-
room I"'
He led the way to a glass door at the farther
extremity of the store, opened it, ushered in the
lawyer, and closed it again-looking regretfully,
as he did so, at the curtain which concealed the
interior of the apartment from his view. He had
scarcely returned to his place near the entrance
of the store, however, before the folds of this
curtain were pulled aside, and he saw his father's
hand beckoning to him. All elate, he bounded
down the long room, and disappeared from the
gaze of the wondering clerks. A few minutes
afterward, the door was again opened, and Mr.

HOUSE.

Warwick, Mr. Powell, and Jimmy, all issued forth
-the face of the latter beaming with pleasure.
"I am very much obliged to you, Powell,"
said Mr. Warwick, as they walked toward the
door. "I'll take good care of Jimmy, and bring
him safe back, I promise you."
"I don't doubt that, Mr. Warwick. Always
glad to accommodate you in any way, sir; and
particularly glad in this case-for Marks's sake
as well as your own. I only hope Jimmy may be
of use to you."
They shook hands, and Mr. Warwick, relinter-
ing his buggy, pursued his way in one direction,
while Jimmy, after also shaking hands with his
father, and receiving a few parting injunctions
from him, walked off in another.
The latter went home, and, as Mr. Warwick
had advised, put his tooth-brush and a change
of linen into a pocket of his overcoat, and then
proceeded, by a short cut through the woods, to
Morton House. So correctly had Mr. Warwick
reckoned the time which his own and the boy's
movements would require, that, just as he drove
out of the Morton domain, Jimmy emerged from
the wood on the opposite side of the road, and
joined him.
"I give you credit for your punctuality," he
said, with a smile. "Let me have the reins,
Cyrus. I shall be back in a day or two. t4ood-
by.-Up with you, Jimmy-this side."
H~ drove oft; down the Saxford road, and kept
it for several miles; then he took a fork to the
left, and, after pursuing this for some miles far
ther, emerged into the Chesselton road.
-4-
CHAPTER XXXVI.
CHECKMATED.
Ox Saturday afternoon, St John took hia
usual sunset stroll, which invariably led him
past the Marks residence, into the country tow-
ard Morton House. He was in good spirits-in
high spirits, in fact-for, by the Chesselton mail
of the morning beTore, he had received a letter
posted at the stage-house from which Gillespie
had taken up his goggle-wearing passenger (a
country post-office, as well as stage-house), ad-
vising him of the safety thus far of his associate.
Added to this, he was under the impression that
Mr. Warwick had "gone off on a wrong scent."
Not an hour had elapsed from the time at which
that. gentleman halted for a moment at the hotel
piazza to speak to his friend Mr. Ashe, before

I

I

CHIEOKMATED-

the group of loungers were discussing the fact of
his having taken Jimmy Powell an~l started to
Saxford. Everybody had heard Hugh Ellis's ac-
count of the man who was at the bank with the
ragged note, and was aware that Jimmy Powell
believed he had seen the same man, on the same
day, in his father's store; it was known that Mr.
Warwick had been at the stage-office, making the
most minutely particular inquiries; and some-
body had met Mr. Warwick with Jimmy Powell
in his buggy, travelling toward Saxford. With
such circumstantial evidence, the inference was
clear, thought the gossiping loungers and their
interested auditor-Mr. Warwick had gone to
Saxford in pursuit of the burglars, and had
taken the boy along to identify the one he had
seen. And while Mr. Warwick's admiring
townsfolk exulted in anticipation at the suc-
cess which they were sure awaited him,
St. John smiled to himself sarcastically, and
with intense satisfaction, at the failure which
1w was as confident the lawyer would meet
with.
He was thinking of this failure, congratulat-
ing his confr~lre in crime and himself on the ad-
mirable conception and execution of their daring
exploit, and altogether in a better hi~mor with
Fortune than he had been for many a d~ty before,
when a curve in the road he was pursuing, broug1it~
him into an open and rather elevated space of
ground, over which a crimson light from the
blazing western sky was at the moment stream-
lag. St. John was no lover of Nature. He did
not turn to admire the magnificent sunset; but
having just emerged from between two walls of
lofty and dense forest, which had made an almost
twilight gloom around him, he was surprised 'to
find that the sun was not yet set, and he paused
an instant to look at his watch. As he stood
motionless, his figure was so clearly defined in
the broad light, and against the background of
sun-gilded forest, that Mr. Warwick, who was
advancing from the opposite direction, though at
least a quarter of a mile distant from the place
where he stood, recognized the slender and ele-
gant form at once. As it chanced that he was
just approaching the gates of Morton House, he
checked his horses.
"I~have business here that I must stop to
attend to," he said. "I suppose you can drive
on to town alone, Jimmy?"
"Certainly, sir."
"You will find Cyrus at my office. Just
hand the horses over to him." He alighted, and
held out his hand with a cordial smile. "I shall

201

not forget the service you have rendered me,
my boy. Good-evening."
St. John, discovering that it was so much ear-
lier than he had thought, walked on, with his
eyes on the ground, as was his habit, and his
thoughts still dwelling upon the success of his
late "venture." He Was considering whether it
would not be safest to destroy the paper, rather
than run the risk of detection at any future time
in attempting to pass it. This question had
already been discussed by his associate and him.
self; for, even before he had heard of the pre-
cautions taken by the cashier to stop the notes,
he was aware of the danger attending the illicit
possession of bank-paper. But it had been de-
cided to keep it, on the chance of being able to
realize at least a part of it, af~qr the excitement
about the robbery had blowIl over. He had in-
tended to insist on one ~%oin~-that not a dollar
of it should be used, until he himself was safe
out of the country. His own safety once assured,
he was not uncomfortably solicitous about that
of the man whom he regarded merely as a tool
forced upon him by Fate.
Engrossed in meditations so interesting, Mr.
St. John gave but the most careless glance at the
buggy be met and passed. He had left behind
him the sunny knoll which had betrayed his pres-
ence to Mr. Warwick, as the road again entered
between aisles of thick forest growth, when sud-
denly he lifted his eyes with a sense of instinc-
tive apprehension, and perceived at a distance of
fifteen or twenty yards before him on his path,
and advancing at a quick pace toward him, a
man he instantly recognized as the lawyer whom
he had supposed to be atthat very time in Sax-
ford. He was startled-so much startled, that,
for once, presence of mind deserted him. He
turned and began to retrace his way to the vil-
lage, hoping thus to 'avoid the Jnost transient
meeting with a man for whom he had felt, from
the first moment he ever saw him, a sense' of
unequivocal distrust - a distrust amounting to
positive fear under present circumstances. After
a moment or t*o, he felt somewhat reassured
from his first panic. What pretext could the
man find for addressing him? So thinking, he
walked more slowly, and endeavored to collect
himself to meet with a properly supercilious
wonder any salutation which the lawyer might
make. But notwithstanding his resolution
his heart beat quickly, as near and nearer be-
hind sounded the sharp, firm tread that was
overtaking him rapidly. Just as he had left
the forest shade once more, and stood in the

. - /


202                       MORTON ROUSE.                                                                CHECKMATED.                       203

full light of the setting sun, a voice at his side
said:
"Good-evening, Mr. St. John."
Ho turned with an air of affected surprise,
cast a single glance at the speaker, responded
coldly, "Good-evening," and fell back a pace,
with the obvious intention of letting the other
pass on. But Mr. Warwick, instead of taking
the hint, stepped a little forward, and faced so
as to impede the, way.
"This chance meeting has saved me the trou-
ble of hunting you up in Tallahoma, Mr. St.
,John," he said, quietly. "We will sit down on
this log, ~f you please. I have something to say
to you~"
The tone, the manner, above all, the expres-
sion of those p1 lug blue eyes, struck terror to
theguilt~man's I. He quailed for an instant;
but, rallying then~y great effort, answered
sneeringly:
"Really, sir, you are very obliging. But, to
the~best of my recollection, I have not the honor
of ygur acquaintance. You probably mistake me
for some other person."
Re would have moved on, but the tall form
of the lawyer effect~xally barred the way. The
only possibility of e~cape'~was by positive flight;
and reckless~ and, morally degraded as St. John
was, there still remained with him one at least
of the instincts of gentlcmanhood.-courage. Re
couhi not fly from an adversary: on the contrary,
the very sense of open antagonism gave to him an
unaffected boldness of bearing and of feeling,
which the consciousness of crime had almost par-
alyzed the moment before. He met Mr. War-
wick's eye unflinchingly, as he said with super.
cilious auteur:
"What is the meaning of this insolence,
sir?"
Mr. Warwick smiled. '~ I am a little prema-
ture, I admit, in claiming your acquaintance," he
said, in so 'ordinary a tone that only a very nice
ear could have detected an inflection of mockery
in it; "but I have a little document to present to
you, which will correct the infermalit~-a letter
of intred~sction from your friend Mr. Gilbert Di-
* dier, alias Dr. Joyner, edias Mr. Johnson, alias
etc., etc., etc., ad itujnittsm, I have no doubt."
He took out his pocket-book deliberately-
though he kept his eye on St. John-opened it
and produced a small, scaled note, which he ex-
tended.
St. John did not move to take it. His sallow
face had grown actually livid, and he reeled as he
stood, almost like one drunken. Mr. Warwick

had the character ol' being a hare man; but, as he
gazed at thh cowering form that only a moment
before had worn so brave a front, an expression
very much like that of compassion passed over
his face. It vanished, however, as he saw the
instinct of the bravo flash into the eyes of the
detected criminal. Re was prepared for this;
and, as St. John plunged his hand into his bos-
om, he himself threw forward his right hand, and
St. John, before he saw the weapon, heard the click
of a pistol as it wa~ cocked.
"If you.withdraw your hand, I fire," said the
lawyer, in a tone not to be misunderstood. "You
see that, in every sense, you are in my power-
in my power absolutely. If y~u wish to save
your life and your reputation, you will not at-
tempt useless resistance, but will follow the
example of your associate whom I yesterday even-
ing caused to be arrested and lodged in Chessel-
ton Jail for the late robbery of the bank at Tal-
lahoma, and who has confessed his guilt."
Re paused, and, with his pistol still covering
St. John's person, waited for an answer-waited
~patiently enough, for he saw that a terrible strug-
gle was going on in the mind of the miserable
man, and he believed it would end in the man-
nerhe wished. So he stood, watchful but patient,
as the thin and now fearfully pallid face worked
with a convulsive passion frightful to behold.
Suddenly the face grew calm, settling into an ex-
pression of half-sullen despair, of half-fierce de-
fiance.
"What are your proofs against me 7" he
asked, with a directness which elicited Mr. War-
wick's respect for his discretion in thus coming
at once-to an understanding of his position.
"Your promissory note in your own name to
Didier, 'for one-half the specie secured in your
late enterprise on the bank at Tallahoma '-I
quote, you perceive, the wording of the note it-
self-with an acknowledgment that the whole
amount of money stolen is in your possession,
and that the paper shall be disposed of as here-
after agreed between Didier and yourself," was
the reply, in a perfectly dispassionate and busi-
ness-like tone.
St. John gnashed his teeth.
"Also," continued Mr. Warwick, in the same
tone, "a letter of date of Thursday morning
last, purporting to be from James Smith to
Thomas Johnson, advising the latter that 'busi-
ness goes on prosperously,' and so forth. The
writing of this letter (though some attempt at
disguising the hand was made), and the paper
upon which it was written, would be recognized

by a court of law as identical with those of the
promissory note."
"The vile hound, so he betrayed me!" ex-
claimed St. John, more to himself than to Mr.
Warwick.
But the latter answered:
"Joyner, or Didier, you mean, I suppose?
No; Ialways give the devil his due. He did not
betray you. I don't think he could have been
induced to do so. I obtained the evidence I hold
very much against his will by- Read his note.
That, I presume, will explain."
Once more he held the note toward St. John,
and the latter, withdrawing his hand from his
bosom, this time condescended to take it, though
with an air of disdain. Tearing it hastily open,
he read as follows:
"Don't think that I betrayed you, St. John.
I did not even make the slightest admission about'
n~self until after this infernal lawyer-curse
hi~ I Curse his whole tribe, for they are the
same all the world over, from Lincoln's Inn to
this damned out-of-the-way hole that 1 am caged
in! I was going to say that I did not make thc
t4ightest admission about myself, much less about
you, until after all was up by his discovery of the
false bottom' in my instrument-box that I showed
you. I had stowed your note and letter in there
for safety. I had hoped that you would escape
with the money, for there was nothing to crimi-
nate you, ~r even to suggest a suspicion against
you, until this infernal law-ferret scented out
the box,' and got possession of your note, and
the tools that are my letters of credit and open.
sesame into banks and out of prisons. After that
it was no good in holding out, and I made the
best terms I could with him for you as well as
myself. Take my advice, and follow my example.
You; will get off easy if you make no difficulty
about giving up the money, which is lost to us
anyhow, and it' will make considerable difference
for me. Don't get into one of your devil's hu-
more and refuse to listen to reason. You see h~
has evidence to convict you. And you owe it to
me to do all you can for me, as I would have done
for you; for I'll be d-d if anything would have
induced me to betray you.
"Truly yours,
"G:rausnT Dxrnzn."
"Have you seen this?" said St. John to the
lawyer, when he had finished reading it.
"Is what he says true?"

Mr. Warwick took the note, which the other
offered, with his left hand, and in turn ran his
eye over its contents, without, however, suspend-
ing his vigilance as to St. John's movements.
"Yes, it is true," he answered, briefly.
"What are your termsl"
"I will spare you arrest and prosecution for
the crime you have committed, and will keep
your secret-not even telling it to my brother-
in-law-on two conditions: first, that you at
once give up the whole of the money; secondly,
that you agree to leave this State and never re-
turn to it. If you refuse these conditions, I will
arrest you on the spot. You look as if you
thought that'would not be easy to do "-he in-
terrupted himself to say, as St. John's lip curled
into a sneering smile-" but you are mistaken.
As I told you a minute ago, you are in my power
absolutely. The first movement that you make
to possess yourself of the pistol that you have
in your bosom, I will disable you. I don't intend
to kill you, but I'll wing you; both sides, if neces-
sary. I am the more powerful man of the two,
and could then deal with you easily myself. Bnt
I need not be at that trouble. I have only to
raise my voice and shout for assistance, to be
heard by some of the Morton negroes. The
quarters are just round the point of that wood,
and the hands are in from work by this time.
They know me, and will obey any orders I give
them."
St. John's eyes sank to the ground, and he
gnawed his lip sullenly, without speaking.
Mr. Warwick, after a minute's silence, re-
sumed:
"Decide at once whether you accept my con-
Aitions. I am in a hurry."
"What terms do you offer as regards Di.
dier?"
"I have not made public the evidence that I
hold against him. He was arrested at my in.
stance, OIL suspicion of having been connected
with the burglary. I need not say that my evi~~
dence is sufficient to convict you both. He was
aware of this, or he would not have made the
'admissions which he did to me privately-for he
is a bold scoundrel. I must do him that justice.
On the restoration of the money, I will withdraw
my accusation against him, and he shall be re-
leased, on condition that he, too, leaves the coun-
try. I shall retain the proofs against both of
you that I possess, and, if either breaks the eon-
dition I impose by coming back into the State,
he will be coming to immediate arrest and prose-
cution."


204

MORTON HOUSE.

" Your conditions won't do. I must have
some of the money."
"Not a stiver!i"
" You may whistle for it yourself; then. My
arrest -and conviction will not help you to a
knowledge of where it is. Allow me five thou-
sand dollars - the reward which that fellow
Marks has offered for its recovery-two thou-
sand five hundred apiece to Didier and myself,
and I will produce it. Otherwise-do your
worst I I shall at least have the gratification of
baffling you, and ruining your insolent brother-
in-law."
"You are not as clever as you think your-
self, Mr. St. John," said Warwick, dryly. "You
forget that your accomplice knows where the
money is concealed. To give you a chance,
he refused to treat with 'me himself on the
subject. But I leave you to judge whether
he- is likely to' persist in his silence when he
learns that you threw away the chance thus
afforded' you, and as his own safety depends
upon the restitution of the money. I give
you terms much more favorable than you have
any righj to expect, because it will be less
troublesome to me to receive the money im-.
mediately, and let you go, than to arrest and
imprison you, and then make another jour-
ney to Chesselton to bring Didier up here,.
Once for all, do you take mly conditions or
not7"     e
There was a pause, a struggle-a bitter strug-
gle in St. John's mind, before he answered, sul-
lenly---
"Yes."
"Produce the money. I am aware that it is
secreted in the woods somewhere hereabout. De-
liver it to me at once."
Without a word the defeated man turned and
walked toward the great iron gates that gave en.-
trance to Morton House, his companion keeping
beside him. The sun had set very shortly after
the foregoing conversation commenced, and it
was now deep dusk on the lonely road which
they tratversed; but when they entered the gates
of, Morton-they did enter, St. John leading the
way still silently-there was something of twi-
light yet lingering in the mor-e open path that
they pursued; and the full moon was just rising
grandly brilliant in the clear eastern heaven. St.
John, after keeping the path for a short distance,
plunged into the thickest of the wood, and finally
stopped at a spot well chosen for the purpose to
which it had been applied-a sort of miniature
ravine that was shut in on all sides by a thick

undergrowth, and surrounded by tall forest-trees.
Halting beside the huge trunk of a fallen tree, he
stirred among the dry leaves with his foot for an
instant, then, stooping, took up by the handle-a
mattock which had been concealed there. Walk-
ing a few steps farther, to the foot of the tree,
he again pushed away a quantity of dry leaves
that filled a hollow caused by the violent up-.
tearing from the earth of the roots of this for-
est monarch, which had been blown down by a
hurricane, and proceeded to exhume with the
mattock the treasure that he was forced to re-
sign.
Mr. Warwick watched the work i silence;
but when St. John, after removing the shallow
layer of earth that had covered a pair of small
leather saddle-bags, hauled it out with the mat-
tock and pushed it with a heavy thump toward
him, he said: " Is the money all here ?"  .
"Yes."
"Very well.. Keep your part of the agree-
Iment and I shall keep mine."
He picked up the saddle-bags, and they left
the spot as silently as they had sought it; and it
was not until they had regained th? open path
again that another word was spoken. Then Mr.
Warwick paused and said:
" Our paths separate here. I have been trav.-
elling and am tired-and this is rather a heavy
weight to carry from here to Tallahoma.- I will
cross the wood to Morton House, and borrow
Mrs. Gordon's carriage to take rap to town.
Good-evening."
St. John deigned no reply. He waited to
hear the conclusion of Mr. Warwick's speech--
then, without a syllable, without even a glance,
he turned and walked rapidly toward the gates.
Some short time afterward, to Mrs. Gordon's
surprise, Harrison ushered Mr. Warwick into her
sitting-room. He carried on his arm the leather
saddle-bags, and, declining the servant's proposal
to relieve him of it, deposited it himself on a
side-table before accepting Mrs. Gordon's invita-
tion to join her ait her tea, which she was just ,
taking.                -
" You do not drink tea," she said.-" Coffee,
Harrison, and something a little more substan-
tial than this." She pointed to the table.
While Harrison went to execute this order,
the lawyer 'told his story, and preferred his
request for the carriage.
"I tell this to you only," he said, after she
had congratulated him cordially on the recovery
of the money. "Having received the first hint
of the man's guilt from you, I do not consider it

I

I

CHECKMATED.

205

"

a breach of my promise to tell you that your sus
picion was just."
Harrisoni returned, here, with a reiinforcemen
of edibles that quite transformed the appearance
of Mrs. Gordon's tea-table; and, after taking his
supper with the appetite of a man who has been
travelling, and is in excellent spirits, Mr. War-
wick said good-evening to his friend and hostess,
and once more preferring to carry his saddle-
bags himself (a little to the scandal of Harrison,
who was old-fashioned in his ideas of the pro-
prieties), he entered the carriage which was in
readiness, and was soon set down at the garden-
gate of the Marks residence. -
Passing up the walk and through the piazza,
-he entered the dining-room, and1 found Mr. and
Mrs. Marks its sole occupants-the children hav-
ing been seat off to bed when the tea-table was
removed, an hour before. He paused on thbe
threshold of the door, and, himself unperceived,
regarded for an instant, with a smile of dry
humor, the disconsolate-looking pair. Mr. Marks,
solemn-visaged and pale, sat gazing with a dull
stare into the fire; while his wife, her usually
busy hands folded in pathetic idleness, was look-
ing sorrowfully at him.
" Well, Marks, I have brought you back part
of your money," said Mr. Warwick, advancing
into the room. " Just draw that little table for-.
ward, and we will count it, and see how much is
missing."
Mr. Marks sat motionless, so startled and
astonished was he by this unexpected appear-
ance and address of his brother-in-law. He
looked from Mr. Warwick's face to the saddle-
bags on his arm, and back again, in dumb in-
credulity of the possibility of such good fortune;
until the latter, growing tired of the weight,-de-
posited it upon the knees of the stupefied cashier,
while he himself fetched the table he had asked
for, transferred to it a candle from the mantel-
piece, lifted the saddle-bags'again and set them
down with a sounding thud beside the candle,
drew a chair to the table, and sat down. Then,
as he proceeded methodically to unbuckle one
of the bags, life flashed back through Mr.
Marks's stagnant veins, and he drew his chair
forward with feverish eagerness-impatient of the
slowness, as it seemed to him, with which Mr.
Warwick's long white fingers did their work.
One, two, three straps ; and the buckles were
new and stiff, hard to open. But the flap was
lifted at last, and Mr. Warwick's hand brought
forth bag after bag, and ranged them before the
hungry eyes that looked on. When he had emp-.
14

- Tied both bags, he began telling over their con-
tents. Twenty-four canvas bags--the mint mark,
t" $1,000," bright and black on each-seals un-
broken (with the exception of one, a little larger
than the rest, which had been opened and was
now tied at its mouth with a piece of red tape),
*and two packages of bank-notes. These Mr.
Warwick examined first. He patiently counted
the smallest package--the notes that had been
in circulation. " Thirteen hundred and twenty-
seven dollars," he said, as he put down the last
bill " That was the amount, was it not ?"
" That was the amount," answered Mr. Marks,
recovering speech.
"Now let us see whether this is right too,"
said the lawyer, unwrapping a newspaper that,
was folded loosely around the larger pack-
age.
" All right !" cried the cashier, eagerly, as he
saw that here too the seals were intact. "Good
God! I never thought to see any of it'again,
and here it is just us I saw it last! This bag "
-he took up the one that was tied--"has eighty
dollars over the amount in the others. It was
part of what I was to keep, and I put the eighty
dollars in-"
" John, how did you get it back !" exclaimed
Mrs. Marks, who had been literally inarticulate
with joy up to this moment. " Oh, my dear,
dear John, how did you get it back ?"
"Nve mind about that, Bessie," he an-.
swered, smiling. " All I can tell you is that I
tracked down one of the burglars and made hima
disgorge."
" You've got him safe, I hope, for punish-
ment ?" said Mr. Marks.
.  "No. I could not secure the thief and the
money both-so I preferred of the two to~take
the money," answered he, rising and standing
on the hearth-rug with his back to the fire.
" But John-"
If you ask me any more questions, Bessie,
Plmake Marks pay mae the fire thousand dol-
lars reward that he offered for the recovery of
the money," interrupted her brother, with his
slight and rare laugh.
." Why, you don't mean, John, that you're not
going to tell us any thing more than this ?"
" Yes, Bessic, I mean just that. I have con-
jured back the money-there it is!I-and that'
must satisfy you."
"It satisfies mc !" cried Mr. Marks, speak-
ing like himself once more. '.' John, I .donet
know how to thank you!" He started up and
began shaking Mr. Warwick's hand so hard that


206

MORTON HOUSE.

the latter could not restrain a slight grimace of
pain.
* "Don't try," he said, as he managed to with.
draw the sufferin~ member from that merciless
grasp. ."Where are the children? Not gone te
bed already, surely?"
"Yes, they are gone to bed. It's not very
early," answered Mrs. . Marks, apologetically.
"Why, what am I thinking of! - don't you
want some supper, John?"
"Thank you, no-I have had supper. Have
you heard any thing from or of Miss Tresham
yet?"
"Not a word. And never shall, I expect."
She sighed.
"There you are mistaken. I can give you
some news of her."
"You can!"
"Yes," And he proceeded to describe his
having found her in Hartsburg the week before~
and all 'that had followed. The Markses were
amazed, and . even a little sympathetic so far as
the brain-fever was concerned; but Mr. Marks
remained firm in his resolution of having noth-
ing, more to do with her. "I liked her very
much," he said, "and all may be right so far
as she herself is concerned; but I'm convinced
there's something wrong about this Mr. St.
John, and there certainly is some connection
between the two; so I think it safest to have
nothing more to do with Miss Tresham. I've
made up my mind to it, and I hope you won't,
try to change my resolution, John
"Cer~ain1y not," interrupted Mr. Warwick,
a little coldly. "If you have made up your
mind, that settles the matter. All I have to
say Is, that you are acting very hastily and very~
foolishly, in my opinion. I wonder if Tom has
gone to bed, as well as the children?"
"Do you want him?"
"Yes; I should like to aend word to Hugh
Ellis that the money is safe?'
"You're right 1" cried Mr. Marks, with ani-
mation; "Poor Hugh! I'll go and send at once,
and relieve his mind."
The~message certainly relieved Hugh's mind,
but it put his curiosity on the rack; and great
was his disappointment the next morning when
he learned that this curiosity was not to be grati-
fied by any more satisfactory information than
that very meagre account which the Markses had
already heard~ , Nor was he alone in his disap-
pointment at Mr. Warwick's reilcenee. All La-
grange felt defrauded and indignant; and St.
John, as he sat next morning for the last time

in the hotel piazza (he left in the Saxford coach
at noon that day), listening to the gossip of the
loungers, had the satisfaction-if in his existing
frame of mind any thing could be a satisfaction
to him-of hearing Mr. Warwick's obstinate re.
fusal to give any explanation of how he recor'.
ered the money, commented upon and censured
in the strongest terms.
-4--
CHAPTER XXXVII.
TO WIN on LOSE IT ALL.
rznnuAny came with a burst of tender, spring.
like beauty that seemed to take the world by
storm. Far away on the hills and over the woods,
the soft, purple mist of the spring-time-that
mist to the careless eye so like, and to the ob-
servant eye so essentially unlike, the blue, melan-
choly haze of the Indian summer-rested like a
promise of coming beauty and budding vegeta-
tion, hung like a veil of enchantment over each
distant scene, rounding every outline, softening
every rugged shape, clothing all things with a
loveliness that charmed the senses like a draught
of fairy elixir; if, indeed, we do not dishonor
Nature by such comparisons, for what fairy elixir
could be half as full of the delicious power to
charm as her least gleam of sunshine, her palest
sunset, the least flicker of her shadow~' upon a
velvet turf? Sometimes February comes with
dun skies and dropping tears, and sad robes trail-
ing over the cold-brown earth; but then again-
and this more frequently-she comes in the win-
some guise of which we have spoken, crowned
with flowers-who does not love them better
even tjian the royal roses of May ?-and followed
by a train of joyous birds that seem to fill the air
with their happy twitter and 'full-throated song.
"Singing, perhaps, does not so much make them
happy, as it saves their little hearts from burst-
ing because they are so full of happiness," says
one of the sweetest and most tender of writers;
and sometimes we think this must be so. Some-
times we feel as if they utter out- happiness, as
well as their own, out- thanks to God for the
bounteous gift of all this His fair and glorious
creation.
it seemed so at least to Katharine, as she felt
the world waking to new life all around her-
felt it as she felt the health that was coiiiing like
new wine into her veins, and flushing her cheek.
She was by this time domesticated at Ilellefont,
and every thing was very pleasant around her.

I

TO WIN OR

Luxurious appointments, plentiful attendance,
kind faces, cordial tones, smiles that seem only
the faint reflections of warm hearts- -who has
not been cheered by such a haven once or
twice in life, at least? Who has not gone forth
warmed, invigorated, grateful for what has been,
and courageous to meet what may be? Just
now it was the time of rest with Katharine. The
first period of convalescence was past, and she
was well enough to make one of the family, cir-
cle into which she had entered; yet the habits
of illness still clung to her, and the task of
getting well was as yet far fromcomplctc Re-
pose was still a necessity; and this repose the
Lesters took especial care to secure for her.
Though the house was thronged with company
half the time, Katharine found that every thing
had been arranged so that she could see as much
or as little of it as she chose; and when she
chose to see exceedingly little, nobody found
fault or was offended. Mrs. Lester, a quiet,
motherly old lady who wore black-silk aprons,
and carried a huge basket of keys1 sympathized
with the young stranger, and spent much time in
concocting delicate, dainty dishes with which to
tempt her appetite; Colonel Lester made her
welcome in very pleasant and hearty fashion,
gnd promised her exercise on a "splendid~~
riding-horse that would bring back her roses as
soon as she waS able to sit in the saddle; Miss
Lester was charmingly kind, and kept her dozen
or so of bOisterous cousins to herself as much as
possible; Miss Vernon Katharine liked better
every day; Spitfire condescended to remember
that he had formerly made her acquaintance, and
to greet her with tolerable amiability; and the
redoubtable Bulger (whose teeth in themselves
were enough to terrify a nervous person into
hysterics), suavely permitted her to pat hi~ head,
when he was triumphantly marched in for inspec-
tion by his doting mistress. Even the maid who
was detailed for her special service had a bright,
pleasant face; and any one who has ever suffered
from a sour, sullen, Or unwilling servant, will
need no assurance that this was a very far from
inconsiderable item in the general sunshine.
On the whole, Katharine felt as if she was
in a sort of dream. Tallahoma 1-Mrs. Marks!
-the school-room 1-St John 1-Mrs. Gordon!
What had become of them all? Which was
real, that life or this one? What had befallen
all thohe people since she parted from them so
long ago? What chance had led these kind
Samaritans to the way-side where they had found
her? It all seemed strange---nearly as strange

LOSE IT ALL.                           207
as when she first waked from unconsciousness
and asked those bewildered questions which no-
body would answer-which nobody had answered
to her satisfaction yet.
One evening, a few days after her arrival at
Bellefont, she was down-stairs, in the cosy sit-
ting-room where the family assembled when
there was no company, where Mrs. Lester pla-
cidly knitted in one corner, where Colonel Les-
ter read the papers, and occasionally nodded over
them, where he played whist, and never nodded
over that, where Miss Lester had her particular
seat by the fire (the same seat on which she had
nursed her doll a few years before), from which
she chattered nonsense unceasingly, where Spit-
fire basked luxuriously on the hearth-rug, and
where a little darkey with an unnaturally solemn
face and an unnaturally-clean cheek apron, sat in
a corner by the fireplace on a low stool, ready to
hold Mrs. Lester's yarn, to bring chips, and run
errands generally, for anybody who wanted any
thing. It was a pleasant, home-like scei~e, Kath-
arine thought, as she sat back in a corner (it is
astonishing how many corners a room of this
description can manage to have), and watched
and listened, herself quiet and silent. There was
a piano in still another corner-somewhat in the
shade-and at this Miss Vernon was singing that
softest and sweetest of Scotch ballads, "The
Land o' the Leal." The clear voice-'-which had
no power in it for bravura execution--sounded
very sweetly in the touching cadences of the
tender melody. They were all silent, and all
listening - even Colonel Lester, who cared no
more for music in general than for the beating
of a tin pan-when there came a step in the
hail. "Some of the ubiquitous cousins," thought
katharine, with a sigh of regret; but a familiar
voice was heard saying, "Yes, I know the way,"
and Godfrey Seymour entered the room. The
music did not cease. Miss Vernon only nodded
to him with a smile, and went on singing, while
he made the tour of the fire, shaking hands with
every member of the circle, and only recognizing
Katharine when he came to her last of all.
"Miss Tresham 1" he exclaimed. "What a
pleasant surprise!" Then he greeted her warm-
ly, and sat down by. her side. Katharine did
not feel much like conversation, but it never
required any efl'ort to talk to Seymour.. He was
so frank, so simple, so free from all effort him-
self that, unconsciously, he forced others to ,be
natural also. Miss Tresham was startled: when
at last she glanced at the clock and saw how
long she had been talking to him.


208

MORTON HOUSE.

" I must go," she said, smiling. "I am an
invalid still, and keep invalid hours. You will
excuse me, won't you ?"
" Of course, I excuse you," he answered,
"especially since I hope to see you very soon
again."

lIe went with her to the door, shook hands
when he said good-night, and then, in turning
back, cast a quick glance round the room,that
took in the occupation of every one of its in-
mates. One of the ubiquitous cousins kad ar-
rived, and was entertaining Miss Lester, Colonel
Lester was nodding over a newspaper, Mrs. Les-
ter wps winding some yarn which Flibbertigibbet,
(a name of his young mistress's bestowal), held
solemnly on his two little black paws. Miss Ver-
non was still at the piano, singing softly to her-
self. To the piano, therefore, Mr. Seymour took
his way.
"I don't know what you will say to me," he
began; as he settled himself in a seat byithe key-
board. ."I have broken faith with everybody,
and told Miss Tresham that Morton is staying
with me."
"Indeed !" said Miss Vernon, stopping in the
midst of her song. " And what did she say ?"
" Nothing in particular," he answered,
"though I assure you I was frightened enough
when I found I had let out the secret. I had
been warned so solemnly against any indiscre-
tion of the kind, that I fully expected her to
faint; but, instead of that, she had not even the
grace to turn pale."
" How foolish you arc! !" said the young lady,
smiling. " Of course, nobody ever expected her
to faint, or even to turn pale. In fact, there is no
reason why she should not be told aliout him.
You know it was by the doctor's orders that.
every thing has been kept from her up tor this
time; but I think she is niell enough now -to
bear something a little more exciting than dear
Mrs. Lester's nice soups and omelets."
"I bring a message from Annesley, anyway.
The podr fellow wants to know when he can
come tver. I was charged to make intercession
for him, and I can do so most sincerely. It is
amazingly dull for him over at our place."
"Thiat is a slander on your place which I
won't sanction. Because 'Mr. Annesley happens
to be lovesick, and unable to find any pleasure in
any thing that is not brightened by Miss Tresh-
am's eyes "-(then with some contrition)-" there
.    goes my sharp tongue again I I wonder if I never
shall cure myself of saying ill-tiatured things ?
* Honestly, I am very sorry for him, and it was

only to-day that I told Maggie that she ought to
write a note and tell him he might come. I am
very glad you paved the way by speaking of him
to Miss Tresham. Dy-the-by, this reminds me
that Mrs. Lester has received a letter from Mr.
Warwick, begging her to keep all accounts of th'e
Tallahoma bank robbery from Miss Tresham, and
adding that he will be down here soon to take
her back to Lagrange."
"lie seems to take a great deal of interest in
Miss Tresham. I hope it does not hode ill for

Annesley."
"Nonsense ! I should as soon think of a
volume of Blackstone falling in love as Mr. War-
wick. Miss Tresham was his sister's governess,
and he has been very hind to her-that's all.
Men are twice as fanciful as women are about
such things as this."
" Perhaps because we know each other bet-
ter. Miss g4esham is amazingly pretty," he
added, candidly, " and very attractive, very sym-
pathetic. I sltould hot mind falling in love, with
her myself."
" Do it, then, by all means. Your chance
would be quite as good as Mr. Annesley's, I
should think."  ~-
"I might, perhaps, if-no man can serve two
masters, you know, much less twvo mistresses.
Now, I found mine long ago. Fortunately, or
probably unfortunately, for me, I could not
change my allegiance, if I would."
" It is a misfortune to be too constant," said
Miss Vernon; but she said it very gently, and
then changed the subject abruptly. " And Mr.
Annesley wants to make an appearance on the
scene, does he ? "
["He sent me over specially to intercede for
him. Not that I needed much persuasion to
induce me to come," he added, with a slight
grimace. "I am always ready enough to singe
my wings. Tell me what message I shall take
back to the poor fellow."
" We must go and ask Mrs. Lester that. I
can't venture to bid him come merely on my own
responsibility." .
Mrs. Lester being propitious, it was finally
decided that Mr. Annesley might venture to
make his appearance at Bellefont the next
morning ; and, with this comforting news for
his friend, Mr. Seymour took leave.
The next morning was unspeakably lovely.
The sky had not a cloud, the air was soft and
warm, yet full of buoyancy-so full of buoyancy
that it almost seemed as if it were possible to
feel the buds expanding, the flowers opening, and

I

I

TO WIN OR LOSE IT ALL.

209

the grass springing all around. As Miss Vernon
sauntered back and forth on the front terrace,
her bright beauty looked akin to the bright day.
She almost dazzled Seymour and Annesley when
they came riding up, and, dismounting from their
horses, looked up and saw her ,standing at the
top of the steps, with the sunshine pouring over
her slender figure, her fresh morning-dress sweep-
ing the gravel-walk, and a knot of violets fast-
ened at her throat.
" I am very glad to see you," she said, greet-
ing them both with a smile. "Is not the day
charming ? I could not stay in the house,
though there are half a dozen people there who
have come with the deliberate intention of
spending the day-the Roystons, and ever so
many more. Mr. Seymour, you need not look
so much alarmed. You can stay out here with
me, if you choose, and that will give me a good
excuse for not going back. I can say you kept
me."
"And put all -the blame on my shoulders,"
said Godfrey, laughing. ."Well, they are broad
enough to bear it, and I accept the responsibil-
ity with pleasure. We will certainly stay. It is
a sin to go in-doors such a day as this."
"But how about me ?" asked Annesley,.
" Am I to be left to the tender mercies of Roys-
ton &amp; Co., or ap I to be allowed to remain an'd
enjoy the beauties of Nature also ?"
"You are to come with me and he shown
what you are to do," answered Miss Vernon.-
" Stay here, Mr. Seymour, if you please, I will
be back in a minute-This way, Mr. Annesley."
Somewhat amused, and a little puzzled, Mor-
ton obeyed, an followed the young autocrat
around the terrace. She led him to an angle
of the house, and quite out of sight of the draw-
ing-room, before she paused. Then she stopped,
and pointed to three French windows that opened
on the terrace, just where the terrace overlooked
the garden, which lay to the south, ,
"Do you know where those windows lead,
Mr. Annesley," she asked, gravely. -
" I think I do, Miss Irene," answered Mor-
ton, with equal gravity. " They* lead into the
sitting-room."
" Well, if you choose to go through one of
them, you will find Miss Tresham in the sitting-
room. I left her there half an hour ago." .
." But is there no fear of startling her ?"  -
' "None at all, I assure you. She knows you
are expected, and I don't think she troubles her-
self to be the least bit excited about it. She
said she should be glad to see you-she wanted

to hear from Lagrange. Go in, by all means, and
give her the news from Lagrange ; only remem-
ber " (and her voice changed prom bantering to
earnest) " that you must not mention the bank
robbery. For some cause, Mr. Warwick has pro-
hibited it."
" You may depend on my discretion," he
said, and was turning away, when she extended
her hand and touched him.
" One moment, Mr. Annesley," she said,
smiling and blushing. Many a long day after-
ward the scene came back to Morton;- he re-
membered the sweet spring sunshine, the slender
white hand on his coat-sleeve, the beautiful face
bending toward him, the frank, 'tender eyes, and
the delicious fragrance of the violets fastened at
her throat. " One word, Mr. Anuesley," she said,
hastily- "Don't think me impertinent, but we
are old friends, and-may I wish you success? "
For one moment Annesley was surprised; the
next, he felt deeply touched. The few words
had been so sweetly and so gracefully said that
the veriest churl must have acknowledged their
charm. It was fortunate that they were out of
sight of the drawing-room windows, for, follow-
ing his first impulse, he bent and kissed the
hand.
" Thank you, Miss Irene," he said, simply.
Then, before she could answer, he was walk-
ing away toward the French windows.
As it chanced, Katharine was sitting imme-
diately in front of one of these windows, leaning.
back with supreme comfort in a deep arm-chair,
enjoying idly all the fresh beauty of the scene
before her, and so wrapped in the dreamy reve-
rie which such weather inspires, and which does
not deserve to be called thought, that a book she
had been attempting to read had dropped from
her hand to her lap, and lay there unheeded.
She hardly started when a crisp, ringing step-
step that she knew well-sounded on the gravel
walk, when Morton drew aside the curtaius and
looked in at the window, thus finding himself
face to face with the woman he had come to
seek.
" Miss Tresham!I How happy I am to see
you!" he exclaimed, making one long step
through the window to her side. " How happy'
I am to see you ! and to see you looking so
entirely yourself!"
" How happy I am to be well enough to -be
seen again! " she answered, letting him take
both her hands in his warm, eager clasp. "You
are very good to-to look so glad," she added,
with a little laugh. "Everybody is so good to


210

MORTON HOUSE.

me! You have heard how these kind peoph
insisted on bringing me here to get well?"
"I have heard considerably more that you
have, I believe," said he, laughing in turn. Then
he released her hands, and, stepping back a lit-
tle, looked at her.
Her illness had not left any very terrible
traces. That was his'first thought. The worst
was certainly the loss of her hair; yet, even that
did not disfigure her as much as might be ima-
gined. The head had only been shaven on the
top of the scalp, and that was covered by a light
and infinitely becoming cap of muslin and lace;
elsewhere the brown hair, which was not more
than an inch or two long, had an inclination to
curl, that saved it from the horribly-ungraceful
aspect of short straight hair~ Round the fore-
head it lay in soft, pretty rings, that seemed to
suit the delicate complexion, which had an exqui-
site transparence, that is often seen after severe
illness, but rarely ever at any other time. l~ven
the eyes he knew so well had caught, Morton
thought, new beauty; they were so full of dewy
lustre, as they looked up, dazzled and drooping a
little fr~rn the sunshine! Perhaps this dewy
lustre sprung from tears. At least, there was
something like a suggestion of tears in her voice
when she spoke.
"Everybody is so good to me!" she repeat-
ed, with much feeling.
"How could anybody help being good to
you?" he asked, in a tone that carried with it
an unmistakable accent of sincerity. After he
said it, something rose in his throat and choked
him ~a little. With that face before him, and the
golden day all around4 a sudden remembrance
came of the nEght when this bright life had
seemed passing away from earth, and the things
of earth, into that realm of darkness and shadow
which to him, as to ninny people, the night served
to typify. Was it real? Was it she, sitting be-
fore him there with the sweet, flickering smile-
smile half akin to tears-on her lip? Or was
that other only a dream-that memory of past
danger, darkness, and distress? He found it
Impossible to realize them both. Yet, he looked
at her, and said:
"You don't know how grateful I am that you
are gaining health and strength once more."
"Can you imagine how grateful I am?"
she asked. "It is so pleasant-no words can
say how pleasant-to feel life coming back with
everybreath one draws 1 The most common and
trivial things of existence seem to have new
sweetness and value, when one has so nearly

lost them. This day-no doubt, it is charr~i.
ing enough to you, but to me it seems like para-
dise! So it is with every thing. I cannot de-
scribe the sensations that beset me; or-, per-
haps, I can, sum them up in one-I am so glad
to get well!"
"And glad to be here, are you not?"
"Vory. glad, indeed, though everybody was
most kind in Hartsburg. I don't understand
matters quite yet," said she, looking puzzled;
"but I suppose I shall after a while.' I was sur-
prised to hear that you were expected to-day
How do you chance to be down here?"
"Oh, I-I am staying with Godfrey Sey-
mour," *said he, smiling a little. "What are
you reading?"
She held out the book. It was a volume ci'
the "Facrie Qucene."
"I wanted something that would not excite
me," she said; "and this is an old and dear
favorite, that has gone with me many a rnmble.
Perhaps it is from this association that it seems
to me as if it should always be read with bright
sunshine and beautiful scenes all around. I am
so glad to see you!" she went on, with an
abrupt change of subject, as Annesley took the
volume and began turning ovcr~the leaves. "I
want to ask you about Lagrange. I feel as if
the world might have come to an end while I
was lying sick in Hartsburg; so I really have
not dared to write to anybody. Tell me some-
thing, please, Mr. 'Annesley."
"What shall I tell you?" asked Mr. An.
nesley, becoming much interested in the "Facrie
Qucene."                        -
"Any thing," answered she, impatiently.
"Don't look that way, or I shall think t'hihre is
something you 'don't want me to know. Mr.
Annesley "-growing pale-" tell me, please, is
there any thing?"
"On my honor, not a thing," answered Mor-
ton, hastily, quite startled by her sudden change
of color. "What should there be? and, if there
were any thingwhy should I not tell you 2 I-
I'll go and bring Mrs. Lester to you, if you don't
get your color back," he added, becoming more
alarmed.
"No, don't!,~ said she, holding out her hand
as he half turned to go. "Stop; the color will
come back in a minute. I fancy your fright is
only an excuse to escape from my questions,"
she went on, smiling faintly. "I have not asked
them yet, you know. Did you see Mrs. Marks
before you left Lagrange?"
"Yes, I saw her, and she was quite well.

I

TO WIN OR LOSE IT ALL.

211

Please let me go and get you something-some
water or ~
"I need nothing at all; thank you. Did Mrs.
Marks say any thing to you with regard to me or
my absence?"
Poor Morton cast about in his mind for an
evasive answer, found none, and plunged head-
long at a reckless truth.
"She mentioned you, of course, and ex-
pressed great concern at your absence. You-
she-it seems you did Aet tell her how long you
meant to be away?"
"How coukt~when I had no idea of any
thing like this? It is like a dream," she said.
"You don't know how strangely vague every
thing seems. Almost immediately after I ar-
rived in Saxford, things waver and grow dim in
my recollection. I stayed there two or three
days-longer, perhaps-waiting for Father Mar-
tin. :1 think, in fact I am sure, that the fever
was '~h me then. My remembrance of those
days is of continued, dull, heavy pain, and burn-
ingvt~irst. If I 'Ifad been myself, of course, I
should have gone back to Tallahoma; but I was
full of cowardice and terror-terror of a person
whom I did not like-and I had no control over
my nerves. Day by day this grew worse, until it
became a wild desire for flight. My last tangible
recollection is of making up my mind to leave
Saxford and going to sell my watch, fQr I had
brought very little money with me. After that,
~ver~ thing is a blank till I waked up in Harts.
b~urg, and they told me I had been at death's
ddor. I don't know what they think of me in
Taliahoma. It has been six weeks, you know,
since I left there-but I have felt a quietness
about it that amazes myself. I am glad to come
back to life; but it seems as if many things
that troubled me before have dwindled in im-
portance, have less, far less power to disturb me
than they formerly had."
"Then that is one good result, at least,
arising from your illness."
She looked a little startled.
"Why, is there any thing that I must
hear?"
"How quick you are to suspect what has no
existence! There is nothing at all that I know
of. I am simply glad that you have reached an
enviable state of indifference to things subluna-
ry, which are more often disagreeable than pleas-
ant."
"I did not say I was indifferent. I hope I
never shall be. I think indifferent people have
hardly a right to live in a world that is full of

things to take interest in. Never mind about
that, however. Tell me how many days it has
been since you left Lagrange."
"Days!~~ He first stared, then hesitated.
"It has been a month since I left home."
"Indeed!" The extreme of astonishment
was in her face and in her voice. "A month!"
she repeated. "Then you must have been else-
where? You cannot have been here all that
time?"
"If by here you mean Apalatka, I am obliged
to confess that I have been here all the time.~~
"But Mr. Annesley-"
"Well, Miss Tresham?"
"I beg your pardon," said she, coloring. "I
was so much surprised that I was o~ the point
of being very uncivil. I was about to ask what
you had been doing here."
She spoke with perfect unconsciousness; but
her words seemed charged with meaning to Mor-
ton. He had gone in search of her with one fixed
purpose in his mind: he had waited to see ,her,
,steadily resolved to accomplish that purpose as
soon as practicable; and now, here was the op-
portunity to do it. Morton did not fear his fate
very much, as his frank assertion to Mr. Warwick
on the night that Katharine lay, as they thought,
dying, plainly showed. Poor fellow! He had
been so spoiled and humored, so praised and
taught to consider himself irresistible all his life,
that the wonder w~s, not that he had little~ van-i
ity, but that he had half so much honest humil-
ity. There was nothing of offensive puppyism-
in fact, there was nothing of puppyism at all-
in his belief that Miss Tresham would accept
him. He wondered at it himself, and, despite
Jiis apparent grounds for confidence, could not
help doubting it a little. He even flushed sud-
denly at her last words, more like a boy than
like a man of the world; then looked straight
at her with his clear eyes.
"I will tell you what I have been doing
here," lie said. "I have been ivaiting to see
"To see me!" repeated Katharine. Sh~*as
stupid just then, and it did not occur to her what
he meant. On the contrary, her head was so full
of Tallahoma, and St. John, and Mrs. Gordon,
that she turned pale again, and gave a low, trem-
bling cry. "I knew it," she said. "Yen have
something to tell mc. 0 Mr. Annesley, pray be
kind and tell it at once."
"I think I am the most bungling fellow that
ever lived!" cried Annesley, out of patience 3vith
himself. "This is the third time I have stai~tled


MORTON HOU$E.                                                             MEA CUI4PA.                       213

you withQut any earthly reason for it. Please
belie~re, once for all, that there is nothing I could
tell you if I wanted to-of a disagreeable nature,
I mean. There is something I wish to tell you,
and mean to tell you," he went on, hurriedly;
~ but it certainly cannot have the merit of nov-
elty, and I hope it will not be disagreeable to
you. Miss Tresham~ do I need to tell it? Don't
you know-you, without any help from me--why
I came here~and why I have remained?"
In ,a~ second she knew what he meant. A
flush caine over the pale face, then died away,
leaving it paler than ever. Looking at her, An-
nesley was startled; he did not know whether to
hope or ~to fear. Only one thing was certain-a
good sign, it is usually considered-she did not
speak. Still there was something about her, now
as ever, which kept him at a distance, which
made blia speak with humility when there was
every reasonable ground for speaking with hope.
~' Miss Tresham," he said, "don't be angry
with me. I only mean this: that I love you so
~'ell 1 cannot keep silent longer. I-what is the
use of talking 1" said the young man, with a sud-
dez~, passionate burst of excitement. "You are
every thing in the world to me; words are too
poor to tell you what you are. I never knew
what love was till your face kindled it in my
heart. I should have spoken long ago if-if you
had given me one sign of encouragement. But
you are so cold, so self-contained. Even now-"
J~Ie stopped suddenly-stopped without any
apparent ~ause-.-and, turning, walked away.
He was right. Words were too poor to tell
her what he felt, to utter the great love, the faith-
ful, honest devotion which lay at her feet ready
for her to take up and make her own. But
then, again, no words were needed to tell him
tha4 he had spoken in vain, that there was no
~hswer to his passionate pleading in that averted
face, that the hand lying so lightly on the arm
ofjwr chair would never be extended to him,
~ever~--*~h, never! The knowledge came on him
with a rush-.--a force that was equivalent to a
physical blow. lie stopped, turned pale, and
walked to the other end of the room. Then
tl~ere wp~ it silence. A bird just outside of the
window was twittering and trilling as if in the
verye~uberance of happy content, a ripple of
gay voices and laughter sounded across the hall
front the drawing-room, and a gardener just be-
low the terrace sung to himself a negro melody
as lw spaded.
~KatIiarine was the first to speak, her voice
~liJ3g notl~ing of ibe struggle it had been to

command it, as she uttered his name. He came
back instantly, a light of wistful hope in his eyes
that touched her heart, and gave her tones a sort
of quiver whe~i she went on:
"Mr. Annesley, forgive me that I did not
speak. You surprised me so much, and I-I am
not very strong yet. What can I say?" she
added, after a moment's pause. "It seems use-
less to tell you that I am grateful for~ the honor
you have done me. I admire you so much, I
esteem you so highly, that I shall be prouder, all
my life, and yet sadder, too, to think that you
should have loved me. But you know-ah, why
have you been so foolish ?-you know it cannot
be!"
"I only know that it depends on you," said
Annesley. "On nothing-on nobody else. Un-
derstand this, you hold my life in your hands.
Keep it, or throw it away, just as you please;
all the same, it is yours."
"Hush 1" said Katharine, gently. "Pray,
don't talk like that. YourJife.-.ah, Mr. Mines-
Icy, how much you have forgotten when you
sp~k so to me.' Your life can be nothing to
me, my life less than nothing to you. Not a
single interest or possibility of one crosses, or
can cross, the other. Why have you forgotten
this?"
"Rather ask why I sliould remember-why I
should believe it."
"You know it is impossible," said she, speak-
ingwith an earnestness that startled him. "You
have acted on a sudden impulse-a generous im-
pulse, I am sure-but you must see and feel that
it is impossible; that I am nothing, that I never
can be any thing to you."
"You are every thing to me," he answered,
standing before her, pale and resolute, deter-
mined evidently to obtain a definite answer
before he left her presenue.
"I-oh, how foolish I am!" said Katharine,
as a sudden rush of tears ended her sentence
almost before it was begun. She was foolish-
very foolish-but this was a great temptation;
and that fact may, perhaps, excuse her. How
forlorn she felt, just now, especially, among
strangers, a~ad without a single friend on whom
it was possible to rely; and, in the very midst of
this loneliness, a hand was extended, a voice
spoke, and she knew that care, kindness, home,
wealth, position, best of all, earnest love, was
offered to her. Was it strange that, realizing
this, her resolve s4most failed, her heart gave~ a
great pang when she tried to speak the words
that would put them forever from liar?

"Don't distress yourself," said Annesley, to
whom the last, worst evil of earth was the evil
of seeing a woman's tears; "pray, don't distress
yourself; I. shall never forgive myself if you
do! I think I had better go," lie said, desperate-
ly; "I shall make you ill if I stay any lGnger.
All this agitation must do you harm. I will
come again to-morrow. Please think of what I
have said, and-and try to make up your mind to
'come to me. I think I could make you happy, if
you would," he added, wistfully, "and I am sure
you could make me more than happy."
With these words he left the room, Kath-
anne making not an effort to detain him. In
truth, she was literally incapable of doing so.
Weakness and agitation together had proved too
much for her. She was so completely exhausted
that, after he was gone, she could hardly remem-
ber where she was, or what had happened.
When Morton went back round the terrace
(for his exit, like his entrance, was by way of the
window), he found that Miss Vernon ~iad disap-
peared, and that Seymour was standing by the
horses, smoking a cigar, and looking rather
gloomy.
"Have you spoken to the good people in the
house?" asked Annesley, coming up. "I won-
den if it is necessary to do so before we go?"
"No, I have not," answered Godfrey, with a
start. "And I don't think it is necessary. They
are not ceremonious people, or people likely to
be offended. - If you have finished your visit, we
might as well be off'. As certainly as we go in, we
shall have to stay to dinner."
"Let us be off, by all means, then," said An-
nesley, springing into his saddle with ungrateful
haste.
The other followed his example, and,' riding
briskly, they were soon out of the Lester domain.
The Seymour place was several miles distant.
They had ridden a mile or two before Annesley
roused sufficiently from his own abstraction to
notice his companion.
"What is the matter, Godfrey?" he asked.
"You don't seem like yourself-you don't even
look like yourself."
Godfrey rolled a cloud of blue smoke from
between his lips before he answered. Then he
laughed shortly.
"A man is apt to look gloomy after he has
made a fool of himself" he said. "I lixve tuade
an egregious fool of myself; so, as a logical con-
clusion, I have a right to look gloomy. It is
only the old story," he went on, meeting Annes-
ley's eye. "Every six months, regularly, for the

last three years, I have asked Irene Vernon to
marry me. She has told me, regularly, in the
gentlest and kindest manner, that she cannot
think of such a things Each time I say to my~
self that it shall be the last time; yet I go back
and commit the- same absurdity over again.
With the best possible intentions to the contrary,
I committed it again this morning."
"And the result?"
"The result was that I made her cry, and
that I should like to give myself a sound drub-
bing, if that would do any good."
"Cry!" repeated Annesley, somewhat aghast.
"Good Heaven~! I wonder if women always cry
on occasions of the kind?)'
"Not if we may believe the testimony of some
lucky fellows," said Seymour, dryly. "However,
I don't think a man is worth much until he has
been rejected once or twice," he added, resigned-
ly. "It is like getting well thrashed at school-
part of that sound, but unpleasant process called
'finding one's level.' One or two straightfor-
ward noes would not do you any harm, my good
fellow."
"Thanks. I suppose you mean that ,I am a
puppy?"
"No; I only mean that you are a little con-
ceited, as, perhaps, you have some right to be.
If you won't consider me impertinent, have you
ever been rejected?"
"Never!" Said Morton, who had -reasons of
his own for being reticent on this point.
"Then you have some of the needful dispi-
pline of life yet to undergo. Let that be your
consolation when the time of your discomfiture
comes."
"I hope it may never come l" said Annesley,
with perfect sincerity.
But, in his heart, he could not help thinking
that there was a very good chance of its coming
on the morrow.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
MEA cULrA.
AFrER Annesley left, Katharine went to her
own room, partly because she was obliged to lie
down, and partly because she wanted to be al~ne
and think over all that had occurred.
From this process resulted great self-con-
tempt, and greater self-reproach. Why had she
been so foolish ?-why had she been so unde-
cided ?-why had she let herself be swayed from


214                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                                  MBA CTJLPA.                         215

what she knew was right ?-why had she let him
go away under a false impression that she might
perhaps say yes ?-and, oh! above all, why had
she been so silly as to cry? She asked herself
all these questions, and did not find a single satis-
factory answer for one of them. The more she
thought of the matter-of that unsatisfactory,
pointless proposal-the more vexed with' herself
she became. She could no~ walk distractedly up
and down the floor, because she was much too
weak for such an exercise; and she could not
tear her hair, because there was hardly any left
to tear; but she did every thing else that people
under stress of strong emotion are usually ex-
pected to do-she set her teeth, she wrung her
hands tightly together, and every now and then
impatient exclamations (far from complimentary
to herself) burst.from her lips. Nothing is more
true than that "some people seem by intuition to
'see only truth and right; others must needs work
out their faith by failing and sorrow. They real-
ize truth' by the pain of what is faThe, honor
through dishonor, right by wrong repented of
with bitter pangs." ~Katharine was one of the
latter class. Looking back over the events of
the last few months, regarding them as having
~culminated in the events of the last few hours,
-, no words can express the self-contempt and self-
reproach that rushed over her. "St. John was
right, I have thought of myself-of nobody but
myself!" she said. "And this is the end. Ah,
me! Are people always punished so much for
considering themselves? If so, I wonder that
anybody ever does it."
Theinore she thought of Morton, the more
the temptation of his offer gained strength, and
yet the more firmly she determined to put it from
her. "I should nanke &amp; base return for his geir.
erous kindness if I accepted him," she thought;
yet what an attraction there was in himself and
~in all that he offered her! There is neither sense
nor truth in saying that a woman only feels this
attraction when she is in love. Plenty of women
feel it about plenty of men; yet instinct tells
them that it is not the right feeling-not the
feeling that will endure, and, enduring, sweeten
all that even thehappiest married lives must know
-so they resiSt it; and so, likewise, it often takes
as hard a struggle to say No, as it is sometimes
reported to take for saying Yes. The probabil-
ities are that, if Katharine had loved Annesley
as much as Juliet could possibly have loved
Romeo, she would still have held firm to her
refusal; for with all her weaknesses-and her
story shows that she had a sufficient number

of them - she possessed no inconsiderable
amount of that rare strength which enables
a human soul to come victorious from the
most' fierce and terrible combat known to earth
- the combat where self takes part against
self, and the flesh rises against the spirit. But
Fate had been kind enough to spare her this
last, worst trial. She was not "in love" with
him, as far as that common phrase can be taken
to mean the eager,'impetuous passion that no
obstacle of rank, time, distance, or age, can over-
awe. Very probably she would have fallen in
love after the most approved mode, if she had
been of, an equal social position with himself, if
she had not known that insuperable obstacles
lay between them, or if she had not been occu-
pied with other and graver considerations. As it
was, however-at the risk of making her a little
less interesting, the truth must be told-her
struggle had not the romantic savor which a
desperate passion hopelessly combated can alone
give; the attraction that drew her toward Aunes-
Icy was, in great degree, an attraction apart from
himself.
Yet not the attraction of those merely world-
ly advantages which went with him. They had
their weight, of course; it is only in Arcadia that
people are entirely independent of such consid-
erations; but their weight was infinitely less
'than that of the faithful love, the warm devo-
tion, the shielding protection, that would be hers,
if she held out her hand to him. Think of her
for a moment-think how lonely and friendless
and desolate she stood! Then, if possible, won-
der that the temptation was almost beyond her
strength. Let it not be supposed, however, that
any grandiloquent ideas of not loving him ~uf-
floicratly made her hold back. She lovcd nobody
else; and she did not doubt that a grande passion
for this young paladin would come soon enough
with time and opportunity to help it. That was
not the consideration. Yet she-him-oh, what
was the consideration? Tier head felt singularly
dull and heavy. Before she was aware of it, tired
Nature asserted itself, and she fell asleep.
How long she slept, she had no means or
telling; but the sun, which was streaming over
the crystal essence-bottles of the toilet-table
when slumber overtook her, had entirely veered
round, and was dancing like a will-o'-the-wisp
about the white ewer and basin on the wash-
stand, when she woke-woke with a start, and
found a bright face surrounded by crisp,' red
curls bending over her.
"Well," cried Miss Lester, "it is not possi.

ble that you have really concluded to open your
eyes at last! 1 began to think that you were
going to sleep straight on into to-morrow. Dinner
has been over ever so long, and mamma has been
up two or three times to see about you. She came
to me at last, and wanted' to know if I thought
you could have taken morphine or any thing of
the sort. What is the matter? Does your head
ache9"
No, not now," answered Katharine, putting
her hand to the member in question, and trying
to remember what made her feel so vaguely un-
comfortable. Suddenly, it all came back to her
with a rush, Mr. Annesley! Oh-yes-that
was it! How painfully bright the sunshine was!
Why could she not have been left to sleep in
peace?
"It does ache, I am sure," said Miss Lester,
who was watching her. "Is it the sun that
dazzles you? P11 close the blinds, if you say
so."
"No, thank you," said Katharine, rising lan-
guidly. "I believe I will get up. I am sorry
to have troubled Mrs. Lester so much. I really
did not mean to sleep so long."
"People can't be expected to wake them-
selves," said Miss Lester, composedly. "If you
are going to get up, I will ring for your 'dinner.
You must feel the need of something to eat."
The dinner was rung for, and the dinner
came up-a sight to tempt the worst valetudi-
narian appetite. ' Even in the midst of difficul-
ties; people can sometimes be tempted by dainty
dishes served on fineold china,'with damask of
dazzling whiteness, as Katharine satisfactorily
proved. She ate her dinner with considerable
appetite; and, after it was finished, Miss Lester
cleared her throat, and made a plunge into con-
versation.
"I would not tell you before you had taken
your dinner," she said, "for a little thing often
takes' away one's appetite; but there is some-
body down-stairs to see you - somebody who
came after you went to sleep."
Poor Katharine! This was dismaying intel-
ligence indeed, for she thought of nobody but St.
John; and, thinking of him, she gave such a
gasp, and grew so pale, that Miss Lester was
quite frightened. "Good gracious!" cried she,
making a wild dart at a cologne-bottle on the
toilet-table. "Surely you are not going to faint.
I had not an idea-dear, dear! why, it is only Mr.
Warwick, Miss Tresham! What on earth is the
use of looking like this about him?"
"Mr. Warwick!" repeated Katharine, and

she gave another gasp, and tried to laugh. "Oh,
how much you startled mel I was thinking of
another and-and quite a different person. I am
glad Mr. Warwick is here. But surely he has
not come to see me?"
"To see you, and nobody else," answered
Miss Lester, keeping the cologne-bottle still in
her hand, and looking suspiciously ready for all
possible emergencies. "He drove over from
Hartsburg, and arrived just before dinner. You
were asleep then, and mamma would not let you
be waked; besides, Mr. Warwick said he was in
no hurry. Take your time, therefore, about see-
inghim. If you don't feel like it just now-"
"Of course, I feel like it," said Katharine,
rising and walking to the mirror. "I like Mr.
Warwick extremely, and~it is very kind of him
to come and see about me," she went on. "I
wonder how he found out? Oh, my poor hair!
How much he will be astonished to see me such
a fright!"
"Who-Mr. Warwick? Why, he saw you
when you looked a hundred times worse!"
cried Miss Lester, heedlessly. Then she stopped,
and stammered, as Katharine turned round in
amazement: "I mean, of course-I forgot you
did not know-oh, pshaw! Miss' Tresham, it is
all nonsense, and I am sure you ought to know
that, if it had not been for Mr. Warwick, you
would not be alive now. He found'you there in
Hartsburg, when you were lying ill, 'at the mercy
of that abominable quack who, I hope, is hanged
by this time."
"He found me? Mr. Warwick found me?"
said Katharie, in the depths of astonished be-
wilderinent.
After this, there was no help for it. Whether
Miss Lester would or not, she was forced to tell
the whole history, as far as she was acquainted
with it; and Mr. Warwick had to listen r~signed~
ly to Mrs. Lester's gentle commonplaces below,
while Katharineabove, listened breathlessly to
the account of his good deeds. When, at last,
she went down-stairs, the remembrance of what
she had just heard was flushing h~r cheeks and
lighting her eyes, until John Warwick, who had
naturally expected to see a pale, !anguid invalid,
was quite startled by the eager, impetuous girl
who opened the sitting-room door and walked up
to him.
"Mr. ~ she said, "I have just beard
-I did not know before~-how very, very kind
you have been to me. Forgive me-oh, pray,
forgive me-for having given you so mi~eb trou-
ble! I am very grateful to you! They tefl me

. 1


216                              MORTON
I should have died, if you had not found me. I
should not like 1o die, and-and I am so grate-
ful to you 1"
She spoke hurriedly, clasping her hands ea-
gerly together; then stopped suddenly at the last
wotds, and extended them toward him, with an
impulsive warmth that he had never seen her
display before.
"My deai~ Miss Tresham, they have been im-
posing upon your credulity, I fear," he said,
laughing, as he took the hands and shook them
cordially. "I am delighted to see you looking
so well I-You have done wonders with her, Mrs.
Lester." Mrs. Lester, who was sitting by, smiled
a bland acknowledgment.-" I had not expected
to find you so entirely recovered in such a short
time; but Mrs. Grump told me that your con-
valescence was very rapid. I saw Mrs. Grump
as I came through Hartsburg; I spent last night
at the Eagle Hotel. She sent her best wishes to
"And Mrs. Grump-deceitful woman I-kept
me in iguaoranee about you. And Dr. Randolph
-Mr. Warwick, why did you forbid them to
tell me? You might have known that I would
find it out sooner or later."
"On my honor, I did not forbid them. 'I
never thought of such a thing. You must pour
out the vials of yous.,~tadignation on Randolph's
head, not mine. By-the-by, this is the first op.
portunity that I have had to return an article
of your property which, strangely enough,
chances to be in my possession.~~
He put his hand in his pocket, and drew forth
the little, worn volume of Thomas it Kempis, on
which Katharine darted at once, with a cry of
recognition and delight.
"'My 'Imitation of Christ! '" she exclaimed.
"Oh, thank you, Mr. Warwick! I am so glad
to see it again! I thought I had surely lost it
during all that dreadful time of which I remem-
her nothing. it is such a pleasure to recover
it!"'
"If I was fortunate enough to be instru-
mental in saving your life," he said, "you may
thank that book for my having done so. If the
landlady had not brought it to me, I should
have gone away totally unconscious that I had
passed the night under the same roof with
you.
Katharine opened the book, and pointed to
the faded writing.
"It seems like a blessing accorded to ker
prayers," she said, softly. "I can hardly think.
that I deserved it. But you have not told me-

- HOUSE.

I don't understand-how did you chance to be
in Hartsburg?"
"Your memory is bad," he said, smiling.
"Have you forgotten a note that I wrote you
when I left Tallahoma, nearly two months
ago?"
"A note?"
"Yes, a note. Stop and try to think what it
was about. That will tell you how I chanced to
be in Hartsburg."
She stopped and thought for a minute, be-
fore she succeeded in grasping the missing idea.
Then, like a flash, her face cleared, and she
looked up at him.
"I remember! You said you were going to
take Felix Gordon to schooL Were you on your
way back to Tallahoma when you stopped in
Hartsburg?"
"Yes, on my way back."
"And you found me accidentally?"
lie pointed to the book.
"If we may call that accident."
Her glance followed his.
"No," she said, reverently; "it was not acci-
dent. I hope I am sufficiently grateful-to God
first, and to you afterward. You have done so
much-so very much-for m'e, and I, alas! Can
do nothing for you.~~
"Yes," answered Mr. Warwick, smiling
slightly, "you can do something for me, and
you must not be surprised when I tell you
what it is."
"I shall not be surprised, no matter what
it is. I am only too glad to hear that there is
something," she said, earnestly.
Mrs. Lester, with commendable discretion,
had left the room by this time, and they were
alone. Miss Tresham was sitting on a low chair
at one side of the fireplace, while Mr. Warwick
still stood before her, in his favorite attitude,
with one hand on the mantel. After her last
words, he sat down, and looked at her kindly
with his clear blue eyes.
"I did not expect you to make such a rash
promise," he said. "But, since you have done
so, I will take advantage of it. What I ask of
you, then, is-confidence."
She started, colored, and looked at him a lit-
tle apprehensively.
"Pray be quiet," he said. "I won't distress
you, if it is possible to avoid it. Can't you trust
me-a little?"
"I trust you a great deal," she answered,
simply.
"Very well, then. Trust me thus far.-.~-tell

I

MEA CULPA-

me candidly, as you would tell your own brother,
the reasons why you left Tallahoma."
There was a minute's silence. Katharine
checked a question which rose to her lips, sting.
gled with herself a minute-the varying color
made that evident-then lifted her eyes, and
spoke as quietly as he had advised.
"I will not ask why you think it necessary
to make this inquiry, Mr. Warwick. I am sure
you must have some good reason, or you would
not do it. You don't know how strangely your
question strikes me after-after some thoughts I
had this morning. It seemed to me then that,
looking back on the last few months, I could
trace all that I have suffered to one thing-my
own cowardice. I ought to have spoken plainly
from the first-spoken as I will endeavor to
speak now, if you have patience enough to listen
to me. Don't be astonished if I go very far
back, though; I must do it to make you under-
stand."
"I can spare you a little, perhaps," he inter-
posed here. "Do you know that the Catholic
priest-what is his name 2-Mr. Martin, from
Saxford, was summoned when you were so ill?
I sent for him principally that I might inquire
if you had any friends or relations. I thought
he was more likely to know than any one else.
Well "-as she colored deeply-" I see that you
anticipate what I am about to say. You must
not blame him. I pressed him. hard, and he
thought you were certainly dying. Under these
circumstances, he finally told me that you had a
brother-the Mr. St. John I had seen in Talla-
homa."
"And you thought-"
"I thought nothing, believe me, that I ned
hesitate to tell you. If I ask your confidence
now, it is because, knowing thus much, I find it
necessary to know more; why, I will tell you
presently."
"You dqn't despise me for having been so
-so cowardly about acknowledging him 2"
A dark cloud came over the lawyer's face,
a cloud which absolutely frightened Katharine,
and yet which had no possible relation to her.
"I do not even blame you," he answered. 1
"More than that I can not say, until I know
more. I am sorry to impose such a hard task I
upon you, but-"
"It is not a hard task," she interrupted, ea-
gerly. "It is almost a relief to tell it to you. 1"
(she looked at him wistfully), "I begin to wish
that I had told you every thing when you asked I
me some time ago, if you remember."

2'17

"It would have been much better if you
had."
"Yes, I see that now. But then it seemed
so useless, it seemed like a confidence without a
purpose. You could not help me, I thought, and
so why should I trouble you? Afterward, after
he came, of course, it was harder to do. You
can't tell what he has been to me all my life,"
she said, covering her face with her hands.
"I can imagine."
"My first remembrance is one of terror and
dislike of him. We lived in' Jamaica with an
aunt-our parents were both dead-and even yet
it makes me burn with indignation to think how
her life was robbed of all peace and sunshine by
St. John. Mr. Warwick, I can't go into particu-
lars. They would not interest you, and they
would make me uncover some bitter ashes which
I tried-tried hard to bury in her grave. Only
believe that he rep~tid her kindness by ingrati-
tude and bad conduct of every possible descrip-
tion. I ought to explain, perhaps, that she had
adopted us from our earliest childhood, from my
earliest recollection. We never bore ~ny other
name than hers."
"Yet your brother-" he began.
"Is named St. John,~~ she interrupted. "Yes,
I know. But 1St. John is merely one ofhis hap.
tismals, the one by which we always called him,
and it was only when he 'Lally separated from
us that he dropped Tresham and adopted his
second Christian name as a surname. Well, at
last it became impossible that my aunt could
endure him any longer. She wrote to his guar-
dian in England, a mian whom he had never seen,
and represented matters so forcibly that St. John
was removed from her nominal control. The
guardian desired that he should be sent to Eng-
land, which was done. After that, as a means
of escaping from him in case he came back, she
left Jamaica and went to live in Porte Rico. It
was in vain, however, as far as her object was
soneerned. After a while he followed us; he
was in need, and wanted money. Slender as my
aunt's neans were, she was forced to comply with
~iis demands, as a condition of getting rid of
him. This lift her too poor to move away again
.f she had felt disposed to attempt it. That was
ut the beginning. St. John did not come very
)ften, but he continually wrote for money; and
~ou can imagine what it was to have this, eon-
inual cloud hanging over one's life and home,
rnd the face one loved best in the world. What
us life was in Europe, meanwhile, I cannot even
~retend to say; I cannot bear to think. There


218                               MOR~O~
was a man named Fraser, who seemed his special
comrade; or, rather, I -should say, his leader in
the life on whiek he entered. That man-well,
you have heard t~f him. St. John told me that
he is Mrs. Gordon's husband."
"Yes; I have heard of him."
"Perhaps, then, you know better than 1 do
how St. John lived during the intervals of
months, sometimes years, in which we never
heard of him. As I have said, he only came or
wrote when he was in need. He had not been
hears from for a long time, when my aunt died
and left me desolate. Almost her last words im.
plored me to leave the West Indies and go to
some place where he would not be able to trace
me. 'He will ruin your life if you do not escape
from him,' she said. 'lie will destroy every pros-
pect of happiness that you could possibly have if
he knows where you are, and if you acknowledge
him and give him a claim upon you.' She was
dying, Mr. Warwick; you may believe that I was
ready enough to promise to avoid him if I possi-
bly co~xld. Well, I left the West Indies, and
went to Englaud to an old friend of hers, who
obtained a very good situation for me at florn-
thorne Place. I had lived there a year-con-
tented, at least, if not happy-when one day St.
John appeared. By some means he had tracked
me down; from the mere desire to torment me,
I honestly believe, for he knew I was in no posi-
tion to' aid him. This man of whom I have spo-
ken, Fraser, I mean, had inherited a large Scot-
tish property, and St. John was living with him
as his secretary. The knowledge that he was
living near mc, the knowledge that he knew
where I was, filled me with the old terror. I
remembered my dear aunt's dying admonition,
and, coupled with my own inclination, it made
me resolve to leave England and come to Amer-
ica. I felt that I should be more safe from him
here. You know how I came, how kindly your
sister took me, how quietly and happily I lived.
Butit all ended on that November evening when
you brought me his letter; the same evening that
Mrs. Gordon' arrived.' Do you remember it?"
Mr. Warwick's memory was very good. He
said, with perfect truthfulness, that he remem-
bered it.
" After I received that letter, the terror of his
coming pew upon me to an almost morbid de-
gree. At one time I had nearly made up my
mind to leave Tallahoma, but then that was very
hard to do; I had grown so much attached to
the children, and Father Martin (to whom alone I
'told my story) counselled me against it. 'Wait,''

HOUSE.                                           MEA OULPA.                      21

he said; and I waited, alas! too long. I was
very miserable during that time, though you were
the only person who perceived it. I remember
one day I was reading St. John's letter over
again, in the parlor, when somebody came in, and
I hastily put it out of sight in a sheet of music
and forgot it. Not long afterward Mr. Annesley
was turning over my music and found it. This
seems a trifling thing, no doubt, but you don't
know what a shock it was to mc. I seemed to
real~he who and what he was so clearly when it
came to the point of speaking of him to some-
body else. Of course, the feeling grew because it
was indulged. I did not combat it as I should
have done; and, at last, it reached such a point,
that I felt as if I would sooner die than ~eknowl-
'edge him. 1 see now how wrong it all was, how
nothing but selfish regard for the opinion of the
world, and wretched human pride, was at the bot-
tom of it; but then I gave way, and tried to
make myself believe that it was right to give way
to it."
"I can't say that I think it was wrong," ob-
served the lawyer, gravely.
"Yes," she said, "it was wrong. I see things
more clearly now; somehow it seems as if I al-
most see them as clearly as I might have seen
them on that death-bed which I so narrowly
escaped. We are not put into this world to
think of ourselves. Now, I thought of nobody
but myself. I shirked the plain duty, I tried to
throw off the plain burden which God put be-
fore me, and all out of mere worldly opinion and
fear lest my name should be linked with-with-
0 Mr. Warwick, nothing can ever do away with
this! It was cowardice, it was wretched cowar-
dice, and all that has followed is my fault."
"Pardon me if I remind you that you are
wandering 'from the point," said Mr. Warwick.
"It is a bad thing to be discursive. Suppose you
go back to causes, and let effects alone."
She saw what he meant. "I won't excite
myself," she said. "There is no use in that,
you know. But, all the same, it is my fault.
Well, St. John came; and, of course, after he
came, matters with me grew worse. After I took
the first false step-I see now that it was a false
step-in the way of concealing his relationship,
and attempting to conceal his visits, I went
deeper and deeper' into difficulties. At first it
seemed very simple. He assured me that he
would leave as soon as he received the money I
~nis able to give him, and I counted certainly on
lis keeping his word. But then came his recog-
nition of Mrs. Gbrdon, and his writing to herhus-

band, and all the rest. Have you seen Mrs. Gor- "Well?" (as she paused).
don, Mr. Warwick? have you heard how she "You cannot mean Mrs.-Mrs. .Annesley?"
came in and found St. John with me, and how "I do mean Mrs. Annesley."
she charged me with having brought him "But this is only a conjecture on your part~
there?" you are not sure?"
"Yes," he said, kindly. "I have heard "Pardon me-I am perfectly sure."
both from herself' and from Bessie. Don't trou "Mr. Warwick 1"
ble yourself to go over that."                 "Well?" (smiling again).
"Well, after she left, a sudden impulse "Oh, don't smile!" cried she, passionately,
seemed to take possession of me; I felt desper- covering her face with her hands. "It-it is
ate, felt as if I must get away, let what would be so horrible! That she could-that she would-
the consequences. I chanced to remember that Oh, what had I ever done to injure her! How
Father Martin would be in Sanford on the Sun- had she the heart!"
day following New Year. I thought I would go "Be reasonable," said he, gently. "I was
and ask him what to do. If you had been in indignant too-as indignant as you could possi-
Tallahoma, I am inclined to think that I should bly be-when I first heard of it; but, afterthink-
have asked your advice; but you know you had lag it ever coolly, I saw that a woman-a mere-'
gone. That was Friday. I had barely time to ly worldly woman like Mrs. Annesley-was not
catch the coach and go to Saxford. Acting so much to blame for taking this step. Miss
on impulse, I went." She then told him sub. Tresham, she did not even know you personally~
stantially the same that she had told Annesley when she wrote that advertisement."
with regard to the days she spent in Sanford, " But she knew-anybody must have known
the nervous, feverish desire of flight which had -that it was a cruelly dishonorable thing to
beset her~ and the manner in which she went to do! How could she tell what she might bring
llartsburg. After this, she added: "There is upon me?"
only one thing I have neglected to mention. On "She probably thought much more of her-
that last morning, just before Mrs. Gordon came self than of you; and more, perhaps, of her sen,
in; St. John told me for the first time how he than of either. Have you yet to learn how easily
had discovered where I was. Mr. Warwick, people reason themselves into a belief that a
~don't r*~fnse to credit me when I tell you that it thing which they wish to do, is a thing that it
is somebody in Lagrange, somebody whoni I is right to do? I have no doubt that this adver-
could never possibly have imagined, who was tisement, and every thing connected with it," he
cruel enough to advertise in the Londoa Times went on, "seemed to Mrs. Annesley a solemn
for information concerning me." duty."
"I have heard that, too," said Mr. Warwick. "Does that excuse her?"
"I see you think that I have heard every "Well-no. Morally speaking, I suppose it
thing," he added, smiling; "but you forget how does not. Philosophically speal~ing, however, it
natural it was that Mrs. Gordon should men- may. Try to be a philosopher, Miss Tresham,"
tion this advertisement to me." he continued, with an effort to divert her that
"I remember that she saw it, that I showed might have amused Katharine if she had been in
it to her." a humor to be' amused. "I should not have
"Since you have mentioned the matter, per. told 'you had I supposed that you would take it
haps you will not be surprised if I ask you a so seriously; in fact, I should not have told you
question concerning it: have you any idea who at all, if I had not been sure that, in thinking the
was the author of that advertisement?" matter over, your own suspicions would point to
"Idea! How could I have? I knew so few the right mark."
people out of Mr. Marks's family; I flattered "They might have done so," she said, a lit-
myself that I had not an enemy, or any thing tie wearily. "I cannot tell."
approaching td an enemy, in Lagrange."         Her head sank on her hand with a dejection
"Stop and think a moment. Is there nobody that touched the lawyer. "She loves Morton,
in Lagrange whom it was in your power to disap- and this is hard on her," he thought. "Poor
point, and-after a certain fashion-injure? Miss girl!" He rose, walked to the window, stood
Tresham, brain-fever certainly has not improved there a moment looking out, then turned and
the keenness of your perceptions." came back.
"Mi-. Warwick, you do not mean  "           "Miss Tresham," he said, seriously,"'shall

r HOUSE.

219


220                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                            MISS TRESHAM'S REPLY.                   221

I tell you something else that made me speak
of this? I thought you might perhaps respect
my opinion-a man of my age is apt to be vain
on that point, you know-and I thought that, if
you were inclined to take an extreme view of Mrs.
Annesley's conduct, I might throw all the weight
of this opinion into the other scale. You have no
friend in the world," he went on, with energy,
"who feels your interest more than I do, or
who would be quicker to resent your injuries.
But, on my honor, I do not think that Mrs. An-
nesley can be very much blamed. Remember
that we must not judge people by our own stand-
ard of honor and dishonor, of right and wrong.
We must, as much as possible, judge them by
their own. Mrs. Annesley's code Is of the world,
worldly judge her by that, Miss Tresham, and
see if you cannot excuse her."
"No," said the girl, with a hard, set look
about the mouth. "Judged by the merest code
of worldly honor, this was a dishonorable act.
Don't try to make me think otherwise, Mr. War-
wink; I cannot. Besides, what does it matter?
-Mrs. Annesley is nothing to inc."
"I am not sure of that," he said. "She may
be a good deal to you some day; that is, if you
are wise. You must exense me if I speak of
something that does not seem exactly my con-
cern. Miss Tresham, you would not let such a
thing as this weigh against Morton's honest,
unselfish love ?-Morton," he proceeded, ear-
nestly "whom I have known ever since he was
a child, and who is certainly one of the very best
fellows in the world?"
"No,'1 said Katharine, quietly, "I am glad
to say that it has not weighed with me. In
utter ignorance of his mother's act, I told Mr.
Annesley this morning that I could not marry
him."
"Miss Tresham!"
"Well," said shea a little surprised at the
astonishment on his face, "what is there so
amazing in that? Surely, Mr. Warwick, you did
nOt think that I would marry him?"
"I thought so - yes," said Mr. WaTwiek,
heginning to recover himself n little. "WIxy
should 1 not think so? If you were my own sis-
ter, I could not wish a better fate for you than to
b~ his wife. A. woman could scarcely ask more
than Morton Annesley is able to give."
"And yo~,s advise me to accept him?"
"I do, most emphatically."
"I had not expected this of you," she said,
impulsively., "Think what a position you would
place me in! Mr. Annesley himself is every

thing that is kind, and generous, and disinter- -
ested; but his mother-his friends-what just
ground they would have for complaint if I were
selfish enough to accept him! It lt)0k5, perhaps,
as if it would be doing a good thing for myself,"
she went on; "but in truth (unless I was willing
to find happiness in fine dresses and jewels, and
the like), I should be doing the worst possible
thing. Such a marriage would be too ill-assorted
for any hope of happiness. As Mr. Annesley
grew older-he is little more than a bright,
warm-hearted boy now-he would feel it himself.
Can you not think what it would be to him-he
so proud, so sensitive to the least shadow of dis-
honor-to know that his wife's brother was-
was- 0 Mr. Warwick, don't you see how blind
and foolish I should be, even to my own best in-
terests, if I did such a thing?"
"I see this~" said Mr. Warwick, whose ear
was quick enough to catch the pathetic ring in
her voice, "that you are on the eve of doing what
many high-strung natures have done before you;
that is, of throwing away substantial happiness
for an unsubstantial scruple. I am a practical
man, Miss Tresham, and, you may take my word
for it, that all these things of which you have
spoken arc not worth considering when placed in
comparison with a heart like Morton's. If you
love him-'-"
"If I loved him," interrdpted she, "I might
~not be able to reason as I have done. But I
don't love hm!"
"You don't?"
"No-I don't. I am sure I don'ti~now why,"
she said, with half puzzled frankness. " Nobody
knows better than I do how charming he isno-
body could admire or respect him more; but I
do not love him. Perhaps because I have had
other things to think of~ or because I knew how
many insurmountable barriers were between us,
or, again, because I have learned to put little
faith in the admiration and attention that any
moderately-attractive woman is sure to re-
ceive."
"But are you certain of this; arc you certain
that you are not deceiving yuurself?"
U 1 am certain. He was here this morning,
and I have had all day to think about it; that is,
until I went to sleep. I assure you that saying
No to him did not cost me a pang, unless (I will
be quite frank with you) it was the pang of feel~
ing my own loneliness."
"You feel your loneliness, then?"
Her eyes softly filled with tears-tears that
had no bitterness in them. She looked at the

little, worn volume closely clasped in her hand;
then round the pleasant, home-like room.
"They are all very kind to me," she said.
"But how could I feel other than lonely here?"
Something in the simple words, something in
the pathetic glance, .went to the lawyer's heart
like a shaft. He knew more-.much more-than
she did the loneliness of her position; much more
than she did of the difficulties that surrounded
her. Looking at her as she sat in the deep, old-
fashioned arm-chair, she seemed so fair, so deli-
cate, so little fitted to cope single-handed with
that world over which only the sternest triumph,
that an impulse which he could not resist-an
impulse which he afterward bitterly regretted-
made him speak words that Katharine little ex-
pected to hear.
"Yes, I can see that you are lonely," he said,
with something-a gentleness that she did not
quite understand-in his voice. "Miss Tresh-
am, do you think it would be a hard fate to ex-
change this loneliness far care, and protection,
and love, even though there were little besides
these things to win your heart? I am old
enough to be your father, but if you can resolve
to trust yourself with mc, 1 do not believe you
will ever repent it; at least" (with an uncon-
scious inflection of pathos), "I promise you that
no effort shall be wanting on my part to prevent
your ever repenting it."
For one bewildered moment the room seemed
going round with Katharine. Was she awake?
-was she asleep ?-was it Mr. Warwick who had
spoken these words? Was it he sitting there,
or-or- How foolish she was! He had not
meant that-she was sure she had misunder-
stood. He, of all men, had not meant to ask
her-
"Mr. Warwick," she said, turning pale, "it
cannot be - it is not possible .-..-you do not
mean-"
Mr. Warwick cut the confused sentence very
abruptly short.
"I mean," he said, quietly, "that I have
asked you to marry me. Will you do it?"
CHAPTER XXXIX.
MISS TRESHAM'S REPLY.
THIS time, at least, Katharine could not mis- 1
take the meaning of what she heard. Deliber-
ately-with his eyes open, and every outward ap-
pearance of a sane man-Mr. Warwick asked
15

herif she would marry him! It is not too much
to say that amazement literally superseded every
other feeling with her. It is seldom, indeed,
that an offer comes with quite such a force of un-
expected surprise. Usually, if there is no posi-
tive preparation, there is a suspicion at least, a
word, a glance, or, it may be, only a tone, to show
what is coming. But here there was absolute
want of preparation, absolute astonishment, and,
for a time at least, absolute incapacity to reply.
Then the realities of the occasion began to as-
sert themselves; and Katharine tried to meet the
emergency.
"It seems impossible that you can be in ear.
iest, Mr. Warwick," she said; "but if-if you
arc, I scarcely know what to say to you."
"Would you like time to consider?" he
asked. "If so, take it."
"No, I do not require time to consider,"
she replied. "No amount of consideration
could teach me any fitting words in which to
thank you-In which to say to you how deeply I
feel the kindness which has made yo'z speak to
me thus. I see, I feel; why you have done so;
but "-clasping her hands, and speaking pas-
sionately-" you certainly cannot think so poor-
ly of me as to believe that I would repay all
that you have done, all that you would do for
me, by marrying you because I am poor and
lonely; because I need a home and a friend?"
"My dear Miss Tresham," said he, smiling
gravely, ~'I am not a romantic or passionate
lover like the man whom you have already re.
ejected. I was not very much addicted to pas-
sion or sentiment in my youth; but now-well,
now I am equally beyond the age and the Incli-
nation for either. Still I think I may say that
I ~love you well enough to be willing to be ac-
cepted even on those terms. Don't look so much
astonished "-as her eyes opened on him large
and startled. "I have spoken on the strength
of an unaccountable impulse. When I entered
this room, I had not the least intention of such
a thing. I was sure you would marry Annesley.
[t was only when I discovered my mistake that
[thought I might give you the option of accept-
or rejecting-a man old enough to have left
Love-making behind him! Only "-here he took
a short turn up and down the room-" the heart
will not grow old with years. We may think
~hat it does, we may flatter ourselves that it has,
intil suddenly there comes an hour when pas-
lion, strong as any passion of youlhseizes it, and
sre know that age has left one citadel uncon-
iuered. I tell you this," he went on, pausing

*-

p

I


222

MOnTON HOUSE-.

again in front of her, "because I do not wish
you to think that I have asked. you to marry
mc simply on account of your lonely position. I
have loved you longer than you can imagine-
longer than I knew myself-but it never occurred
to me to think of telling you so. My age alone
put such a declaration out of the question. Now,
however-"
"Now you think of me!" cried Katharine,
with a rush of tears-a softer shower than that
which had driven poor Morton from the field-
"0 Mr. Warwick, I am so sorry, if I had known
this earlier, I might perhaps have learned to love
you, I might have been able to marry you; but,
as ~t is, I-oh, pray forgive me-I cannot."
"You cannot promise to marry me, and trust
that the love will come with time?"
She shook her head mournfully. Through
their brimming tears, her eyes said . again "For-
give me," as she answered, "I dare not."
~L Think a moment,~~ he said, in evident agi-
tation. "Believe me, I do not press you from
mere selfishness. Do you not think you like me
even well enough to marry me for the sake of
that home and that friend of which you spoke a
moment ago?"
"I like you too well, much too well for that,"
she cried, passionately. "Don't you see-sb,
don't you see how it is! If I liked you a little
lese,:I might marry you for such a motive; while
if I liked you a little more, I should marry you
for your own sake. But, standing between the
two, I only feel your generous effort to make me
happy~. I am only sure that I should repay you
very ill, if I accepted you for any reason but the
right one."
There was silence for some time after this.
Through her tears, Katharine glanced up into
Mr. Warwick's face, and was surprised to see
how grave and thoughtful it looked, as he stood
with his eyes absently fastened on the fire. He
*did not know that she was looking at him; so he
'p         allowed an expression of troubled perplexity to
betray itself; which he would otherwise have
kept concealed. Something in this expression
struck the girl with a vague foreboding of ill.
The fear that had found such frequent expression
when Annesley was with her, suddenly sprang to
her mind and to her lips again. Before she was
consulous of what she was doing, she leaned for-
ward and touched his arm.
"Mr. Warwick," she said, as he turned qui~k-
ly toward her, "I am sure something is the mat-
ter-something in which I am concerned. Tell
me what it is."

The quickness with which she leaped to a
conclusion would have taken anybody but a law-
yer by surprise-would have thrown anybody but
a lawyer off his guard. It required all Mr. War.
wick's professional command of countenance not
to show how closely her shaft had struck home.
As it was, he had only just presence of mind
enough to smile
"Why should you think that?" he asked.
"Can't you imagine that I was thinking of my.
self; and my own great disappointment?"
"No, you were not thinking of yourself;" she
answered. "You were thinking of me-I am*
sure of it. Mr. Warwick, if it is any thing about
St. John-it is something about St. John!" cried
she, suddenly springing to her feet, as she caught
an expression on his face that it was beyond his
power to control. "I knew it! I felt sure of
it! Oh! "-with a ring of imploring agony in
her voice-" tell we what it is."
"Sit down, Miss Tresham," said Mr. War.
wick, almost peremptorily. "There is no know.
ing what harm you may do yourself by this ex-
citement. There has been a little trouble in
Tallahoma, and Mr. St. John was mixed up in
it," he added, quietly; "but I assure you every
thing is right and straight now. Still, if you in.
sist upon hearing about it__"
"Oh, indeed I do I',
"I can give you an outline~ of the matter. I
am sorry, however, that you force me to it, for
I think you have had agitation enough for one
day. Why, you arc quivering like an aspen.
leaf!"
"Never mind. 1 cannot help it, it is purely
nervous. Go on, please; tell me what he has
done."
As gently as possibLe Mr. Warwick told her,
softening the blow by every menus in his power.
But no gentleness, no softness, could break its
awful force, could shut out from her sight the
hideous truth. "0 my God!" she exclaimed,
when she first clearly understood whet it was
that he had done. But aft~r that, no sound came
from her lips. She sat with her face buried in
her hands, and only now and then a long, shud-
dering sigh seemed to shake her whole frame
from head to foot. Even after Mr. Warwick
ceased speaking-after he had made his last
attempt at pitying comfort-she still sat bent
down, crushed, as it were, by the double blow of
anguish and disgrace.
"Miss Tresham, this will never do," said he,
at last. "This is not like you-is it worthy of
you? Can you find no comfort in the fact that

I

MISS TRESHAM'S REPLY.

no one is aware of Mr. St. John's complicity in
the 'matter? Ifave you not sufficient reliance in
mc to feel that the secret is as safe with me as
with yourself?"
"I should be the most ungrateful human
being in the world if I did not feel it," said she,
liftiugher face-so pale and drawn, that it abso-
lutely startled him-" but not even your kind-
ness can alter the fact itself-the terrible, awful,
overwhelming fact! Mr. Warwick, I never, zEever
thought I could sink so low as this!"
"Which do you consider worst," said Mr.
Warwick, coolly, "this conduct, or that of which
you have spoken with regard to yourself?"
"Oh, this, this!"
"There I don't agree with you. The man
who robs a defenceless woman, as this man has
robbed you, does not, it is true, make himself
amenable to the law, as when he breaks into a
bank; but he does transgress the higher law-
the moral law-as much, or, perhaps, more; and
the man who violates the one, will not hesitate
to violate the other, whenever he thinks that he
can do so with impunity. Miss Tresham, believe
me, you need not regret Mr. St. John's moral de-
gradation-I mean that you need not think he
has taken any deeper step. When he entered
the bank to rob it, he was committing an act
which made him liable to the penalties of the law,
if the law could detect him; but he was not,
even in degree, taking a deeper step in abstract
dishonesty, than when he entered it to rob
you!"
"But the disgrace-the terrible disgrace!"
"So far as that goes, so far as the opinion
of the world goes, a thing cannot be disgraceful
which is not known. If you trust me at all,
trust me this far, nobody ever shall know of*
this."
"0 Mr. Warwick-"' Once more the tears
came, and ended all further speech. lie made
no effort to stop them, but walked away to the
window, and left her to herself; sure that those
tears would do more to relieve her heart and
clear her brain than any words of his could.
As he stood there, feeling sad and sore enough
at heart, he watched the last red glow of sunset
fade from the top of some distant trees, and the
lovely veil of spring twilight begin to steal over
the earth. Something in the scene and in the
hour carried his thoughts back to that evening
when the doctor said that the life so near him
now, the life at that moment throbbing with the
emotions and sorrows of earth, would pass before
morning into eternity, when he had gazed at the

228

steady advance of night, and waited for Morton
Annesley to decide whether or not the heart o~
that dying girl was his. "Poor fellow!" said
the lawyer, half aloud, forgetting his own cause
for wounded feeling in pitying the young man
who had been so full of honest, impulsive grief.
Strangely enough, he was standing at that mo-
ment exactly in the place where Mortoiihad stood
a few hours before waiting to~ hear his sentence.
Katharine noticed it when she turned to ~peak,
and saw that he had left her side.
"And, ~owing this, you couA~selied me to
marry Mr. Annesley!" she cried, her voiqe, with
a sudden flash of indignation in it, mal4ng him
start, as it rang through the silent room, "9h,
how could you do it? how could yon think so
meanly of me? bow could you think that I
would carry such a stain as this to a man who
loved me?"
"You do not serioAisly think that your broth.
er's conduct leaves any stain on you?" said he,
coming back, with something of his usual slight,
grave smile on his lip. "Miss Tresham, I am
astonished at you! Such talk sounds like melo-
dramatic nonsense in a novel or a play! If An.
nesley were here, he would tell you what I tell
you for him, that Mr. St. John is not of t~w least
importance when considered in connection ~
yourself. As for this affair in Tallahoma I s
but one result springing from It, and that is a
good one. It has taken the scoun-the man
out of your path. Trust me that, as longas you
remain in Tallahoma, you have nothing to fear
from him. He will never return there, for he'
knows that 1 hold evidence against him which
would convict him in any court of law."
"And yet you let him go?"
"Yes, I let him go."
"On my account?"
"Do I need to tell you that? do you sup-
pose any other, motive could have induced me to
spare him?"
"And you have done all this for me, while
I-" she stopped, and covered her face with her
hands, held them so ~ moment, and then looked
up. "Mr. Warwick," she said, with exquisite
gentleness, "I begin to appreciate your offer of
a moment ago; I begin to see more clearly why
you made it. I begin to understand that, when
you office~ me a home, you did so because no
other home is open to me. You have not spoken
of N~2i~, Marks. I feel sure that he does not wish
m~o return to them."
For the second time during the coujue of~ this
interview Mr. Warwick's face betrayed him. The


.224                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                           MISS TRESITAM'S REPLY.                   225

climax to her speech came so suddenly, that he
was not prepared for it; and, feeling her eyes
steadily fastened on him, he knew that evasion
or concealment was useless. The truth had
already' shown itself and the truth must be
told.
"You are right, Miss Tresham," he said;
"my sister's husband has fallen many degrees
in my estimation, by his refusal to receive you
again. But you mistake very much when you
think that I asked you to marry me merely to
offer you a home. It is true that your loneli-
ssencocwagcd me to tell you of my lore, but
that love existed long before this loneliness came
upon you."
"But still it is true-Mr. Marks does not wish
me to return 1"'
"It is true," he answered. He could say no
more, for he was too indignant with his brother-
h-law to attempt to make excuses for his con-
duct (which really, if he had looked at it dispas.
sionately, did not merit indignation), and he
could not but be wounded by Katharine's indif.
ference to those last words of his-words which
had been so full of earnest feeling.
"Oh," said the girl, wearily, "how desolate I
am, how very desolate 1 I cannot stay much
longer with these kind people, and yet where to
go, what to do? Mr. Warwick, am I asking too
much of your kindness and forbearance when I
beg you to advise me what to do?"
Mr. Warwick might have replied that he had
already advised, and that his advice, in two differ-
ent cases, had been unhesitatingly rejected. But
he was one of the rare men-rarer, by far, tl~an
heroes, or geniuses, or exceptional wonders of any
other description-who, on emergencies, can put
themselves aside, and speak or act for others
without any bias of egotism. He considered
for a moment, and then he said:
"I think that Tallahoma would be the best
place for you just now, because Tallahoma is
safe from Mr.' St. John. You are not well
enough to be molested by him, and you are only
saib from that molestation when you are where
he"will not dare to venture. 'Will you allow me
to ask if you gave him all the money which
Marks paid to you?"
"All. I borrowed ten dollars from Mrs.
Marks to go to Saxford-by-the.way, I must
return It to you for her-and in Saxford I sold
my watch, when I hardly knew what I was do-
ing, to enable me to go. farther. They were cry
honest at the hotel in Hartsburg. I found all
that money safe in my bag when I got well. I

have it still, for Mrs. Crump would not receive
any before I left. She laughed, and told me I
could settle the bill when I came back. Dr.
Randolph said the same thing. After those bills
are paid, however, I scarcely think there will be
any left."
"Never mind those bills. I have already set.
tled them. Surely"-as he saw a deep fiu~h
come over her face-" you do not mind being
indebted to me for such a trifling amount, and,
I hope,' for such a short time. Remember, Miss
Tresham "-smiling a little sadly-"I am old
enough to be your father. 1 assure you that 1
have the bills, and you may pay me the full
amount as soon as you are able to do so. Wait,
however, and don't attempt to pay me until you
are able. Give me the pleasure of helping you a
little. Now "-hurrying on-" the question is,
have you money enough to come and board in
Tallahoma while I endeavor to obtain another
situation for you? I am sure I can do this in a
short time."
"I believe I have a hundred and fifty dol-
lars. The watch had been my aunt's, and was
richly jewelled. It should have sold for much
more; but I-I was not in a condition to do any
thing but take the first sum that was offered me.
Nevertheless, this amount is enough to support
meforatime, is it not?"
"For a short-" Mr. Warwick began, when
the door behind him opened and shut quickly, a
silk dress rustled across the floor, and through
the dusky gloom Irene Vernon came forward,
her eyes shining, her cheeks glowing, and her.
self looking like some radiant picture that. had
stepped from its canvas to walk the earth 'in
guise of flesh and blood.
"Mr. Warwick," she began, abruptly~ "and
you, Miss Tresham, pray pardon me when I tell
you that I have overheard a little of your conver-
sation. I was passing along the terrace a mo-
ment ago, and, as I stopped by the window, I
caught the sound of your voices, and heard a
few words-enough to send inc in upon you,
and make me venture to ask you" (addressing
Katharine) "a question. Am I right in gather-
ing from those few words, that you do not intend
to return to Mrs. Marks?"
"Yes, Miss Vernon, you are tjuite right,"
said Katharine, quietly. "I do not intend to
return to Mrs. Marks, for the simple reason that
Mrs. Marks does not wish my services any long-
~
"And you 4e talking of going to Tallahoma
to-to board?"

"I

"Mr. Warwick has advised something of the
sort."
"Well, I will give you better advice than Mr.
Warwick's, then," said the young beauty, with
her most royal tone and look. "You can go
back to Tallahoma-in fact, I think it is a good
thing to do-but you must go back with me.
No-not a word! I positively won't hear a word
until I have finished what I have to say. It is
very uncivil to interrupt people, is it not, Mr.
Warwick ?-Well, Miss Tresham, I was about to
tell you that I heard to-day from my sister, for
whom 1 have been waiting here, and she cannot
join me. My troublesome brother-in-law has
managed to break his leg-Flora says she thinks
he did it on purpose to keep her at home-~and
she begs me, instead of going on to Mobile, to
come back to Lagrange and wait for her. Now,
I will go hack on onecoudition-that you go with
me. Flora took a great fancy to you, and so did
George, and they will both make you heartily
welcome, not to speak of the pleasure of my
society. You can get well there at your leisure,
and-and-indeed it is just the thing for you.-
Mr. Warwick, tell her that shc ought to go!"
"Miss Vernon, you are too kind, much too
kind," began Katharine, in that tone which inev-
itably presages a refusal; when Miss Vernon
broke in upon her with an utter disregard of her
own theory about interruptions:
"You are mistaken, Miss TreshamIam not
at all too kind-nobody ever was too kind ja
this world. If there were such a thing as being
too kind, it might not, perhaps, be quite as hard
a world to live in as it is. That is social cant;
and you know how I hate social cant. I see
plainly," she went on, "that you are going to,
say something about 'deeply grieved,' and 'im-
possible to accept,' and all that sort of thing. I
will take it for granted that you have already
said it; and I will ask you to give me o~e rea-
son-a single reason-why it is impossible for
you to accept the kindness (saying that it is a
kindness) which I have offered you?"
"I have no claim upon such kindness," Kath-
arine said.
"You have the claim of my liking you; what
better could there be?"
"I have not even that claim upon your sis-
ter."
"Upon my sister! Why she likes you ex-
ceedingly; and, even if she did not, she would
be glad to see . you all the same.-Mr. Warwick,
did you ever hear any thing quite as absurd as
the idea of her making a bughear out of Flora,

of all the people in the world?" (Persuasive),
"Tell her, please, that she ought to come!"
(Imperative), "Tell her that she must come!"
Said Mr. Warwick, looking ~a little amused:
"Miss Tresham, don't you think it would be well
to consider Miss Vernon's proposal? it seems
to me that it is 'a very clear way, and a very
pleasant way out of all your difficulties-present
ones, at least."
"But I really cannot," said Katharine.
"Miss Vernon is mistaken if she thinks it is
social cant w
that her hen I say that she is too kind-
kindness blinds her to the objections
against her plan."
"Name them," said Miss Vernon, with busi-
ness-like brevity.
"I am under very many obligations already,"
said Katharine. "I cannot consent to increase
their number."
"That is nothing more nor less than pride,"
said Miss Vernon, concisely; "and pride, no
doubt you are aware, is the besetting sin of
human nature, and the one we are most called
upon to struggle against. I was reading in your
-what do you call it ?-your manual, the other
day, and I saw that you were specially told to
mortify your will. Now, here is a good oppor.
tunit~ for you to mortify your will by going with
me to Lagrange."
Katharine laughed. It was impossible to do
otherwise-the girl's manner, half.serious~ half-
whimsical, made such a strange and complete'
contrast to the highly-wrought frame of mind
which she had dispelled by her entrance. She
had brought a fragrance of vkilets into the room
with her, and as she stood in the soft gloaming,
with the firelight gleaming on her silk ~lress and
a 'gold locket that hux~g round her throat, she
seemed to have brought an atmosphere of other
things besides violets-of sweet thoughts and
noble impulses, and generous, kindly deeds.
Katharine was won by her now, as, indeed,
she had been from the first; and, when two soft,
white hands took hers, and a gentle voice said,
"See! I ask it of you as a favor to me. 'Won't
you come?" she remembered how tenderly those
hands had nursed her through her desperate Ill-
ness, and she felt that refusal was no longer
possible.
"Yes," she said, "I will come."
And so it was settled. Thus, swayed as it
seemed by the merest chance, yet led, who can
doubt, by the kindest care, she took the road back
to Lagrange-that road that was leading slowly
but surely to the end.


226                              MOIITOI
It was determined that they would leave the
*iext morning. Miss Vernon, on her own (that
is, her sister's) account, was anxious to do so;
but she ~ood-naturedly proposed to wait several
days if Miss Treshain desired. To her surprise,
Katharine begged that the journey might not be
deferred on her account.
"I am quite well enough to travel," she said;
"and, if I could only go away from here to-mor-
row morning early, I should be so glad-so very
glad 1"
"But Mr. Anues-," began Miss Vernon, in
amazement. Then she paused, her bright-blue
eyes turned keenly on her companion's face, and
in a nzoi~ient the truth flashed over her.-" Miss
Tresham," she cried, sharply, almost angrily (they
were alone in Katharine's room a little while be-
fore supper), "you don't mean to say that you
have rejected Morton Annesley 2"
"Miss Vernon," answered Katharine, with a
touch of the, besetting sin of human nature, "did
you think it likely that I would accept him 2"
"Did I think? Of course, I thought you
would accept him," returned Miss~Vernon.
"Why should I not think so? You seemed to
like him, and he is certainly every thing that a
woman could wish to like. Miss Tresham, you
can't have done such a thing!,'
"Yes, I have," said Katharine, who was
tired of the .subject, and could not bear the
idea of running another gantlet t~f remonstran-
ces. "Yes, I have; and, if you only knew my
reasons for having done so, I atn surb you would
not blame me."
"I toould blame you I" cried Miss Vernon,
indignantly. "I lon't believe that, if I knew
~'y or evely reason that could possibly have in-
fluenced you, I should blame you a single de-
gree less than I do now."
"Don't make rash assertions," said Kath-
arine, smiling faintly, "I cannot go into a detail
of all the motives that influenced me; but, put.
ting most of them aside, one is, or nught to he,
~nough~to exonerate me from blame. Miss Ver-
non, I grant all Mr. Annesley's good qualities
so cordially that I think the woman whomarries
him ought to love him devotedly.. Now, I don't
love him at all. Would you advise me to return
all the generous devotion that is willing to give
so much by a cold sort of liking that is not able
to giv6 any thing?
"But Is it possible that you really do not
love him?"'
"It is certainly possible; and-ah, me! I
must write to-night and tell him so. The letter

HOUSE.

can be delivered after we leave, in time to pre-
vent his coming here to-morrow morning."
"You are determined to go, then?"
"The decision rests with you; but I should
like to go."
"Of course, then, the matter is settled; We
will go.-Heigho!" sighed the young lady to her-
self, as she left the room. "Poor Morton !-.
poor, dear fello#!' How strangely contrary to
what we expect, things turn out sometimes!"
That night Katharine sat down to write her
letter to Annesley. Taken at any time, or un-
der any circumstances, it was a hard letter to
write; but, with an aching head, and, worse yet,
an aching heart, the difficulties of composition
were many times increased.
Everybody does the same thing in a case like
this. Everybody spoils one sheet of paper after
another; makes beginnings with the desperate
intention, "This 8kall do!" becomes disgusted
at the third line, throws it aside disdainfully, or
wrathfully crumples it up, and dashes at another
fair page, with the same result. One stilted ad.
dress follows another; the gamut of endearing,
or respectful, or uncivil terms is run from end
to end, until at last-if common-sense can man-
age to get a hearing-the grand conclusion of
so many experiments is simple, and generally
brief.
Thus it was with Katharine. After getting
well on in half a dozen lengthy epistles, she at
last thought how foolish and vain all words be-
sides the few strictly necessary ones were, and
the result of this thought was the following
note:
"DEAR Mx. ANKESLEY: Miss Vernon has
kindly asked me to accompany her back to La-
grange and spend a few weeks at her sister's
house until I am strong enough to find another
situation. I shall leave with her to-morrow
morning. This arrangement, made since I saw
you, renders it necessary that I should write and
tell you how deeply I feel your kindness, and
how impossible it is for me to accept all you
have offered me. I will not pain you-as I know
I should do-by speaking of the great disparity
in our social positions, and of other greater ob-
stacles, which under any circumstances would
stand between us. It is enough for me to say
that the woman whom you honor with your heart
should love you as you deserve to be loved-as
~ome women far mere ~worthy of you than 1 am
will yet love you-and that this love it is not In
my power to give you. Forgive me, Mr. .Mues-

'il

I

GOOD SAMARITANS.

Icy, if' this sounds ungraeious-souuds as if I
had forgotten all the many kindnesses which
are, in truth, written on my heart. I must
speak frankly, and make myself clearly under-
stood, for your sake, as well as for my own.
Every feelingexcept the one feeling which alone
you would be willing to accept, I have for you.
Each one of them makes me your warm and life-
long friend; but all of them put together are not
strong enough to make me your wife. God bless
you, Mr. Annesley! God make you happy! God
reward you for all your generous kindness! It
is hard to close this letter here, and yet there
is nothing more to say, unless I ask you again
to forgive me.
"Faithfully, your friend,
"KATHAnINE TRESHAM.
"BELLEFONT, Tkur8day nlgkt."
It was done. For the second time that day
Katharine deliberately put aside the love and
the protection which two different men, each
well worthy of trust, had offered her, and with
the blind, heedless, yet sometimes divine impulse
of youth, turned from the golden gifts of life,
those gifts for which some wretched women are
willing to sell themselves into legal bondage, and
went her way alone. It had been a struggle, a
hard struggle, in both cases; it was a struggle,
even after this letter was written, to seal it and
lay it aside, saying: "Lie there, happy days, full
to the brim of love and content, and soft belong-
ings, and tender care, and glittering pleasure!
Lie there, sweet dreams of what might be, of
affection ripening into love, and trust growing in
sweetness and strength with every passing year I
Lie there, words, and looks, and tones, that will
never see the light; days possible, yet forever
unborn; emotions never to be felt, and the whole
current of a life never to be lived!" It was hard
to hold out the arms, saying: "Come, weary days
filled with toil, uncheered by any smile from kin.
dred lips, or glance from loving eyes! Come,
days that lead among the rough by-ways of the
world, and toss the living, yearning human heart
from one strange household to another, that teach
in every hour of your flight how some ps~t~ia are
strewed with roses only that others may be filled
with' thorns! Come, days within whose very bit-
ter lurks a sweat that only these who meet you
willingly can ever taste-a sweet like that grand
victory which nohle deeds wring from defeat,
which come when the spirit has dropped its
arms after long conflict, and the divine secret
%~f content begins to steal upon the soul, the

27

first knowledge of good and evil, the first star.
tled, humbled thanks to God that He guided the
blind eyes and the faltering hand, and gave at
last the leaden casket with the precious jewel
shrined within!"
CHAPTER XL.
gOOD SANARITANS.
GREAT was the astonishment, and greater the
consternation, of the Bellefont household when
they heard of the intended departure of Miss
Vernon and Miss Tresham. With Miss Lester in
especial, these feelings verged strongly on indig-
nation.
"Your sister is absurd. If Mr. Raynor chose
to break his leg, surely she is able to nurse him
without any assistance from you!" cried this
young lady to Miss Vernon. "I thought you
might be content to stay with me for a little
while; you are not nearly strong enough to
travel yet," she said, reproachfully, to Miss
Tresham.
Miss Vernon laughed, and Katharine apolo-
gized, but they both rcmainedfirm in their inten-
tion. Bellefont ch~rmcd wisely, but charmed in
vain.
"We must go," said Miss Vernon, decidedly,
and Katharine echoed, "We must really go!"
They did go, notwithstanding all the persua-
sive eloquence employed by their kind hosts.
And, when these last saw that the resolution was
firm, they made a virtue of necessity and yielded
gracefully, remembering that the law of hospital-
ity is double, and that it is as incumbent to
speed the parting as to welcome the coming
guest.
"You won't forget us, I am sure," said Mrs.
Lester, wistfully, when she, kissed the young
stranger who had taken such a hold en her
heart.
And she was right. In all the yesrs of her
life Katharine never forgot the pleasant home
which had opened its doors to her in the hour
of her need, nor the cordial faces and. warm
hearts that had surrounded her with kindness
and care.
When the last thanks had b~een uttered, the
last farewdlls-many times repeated-.were over,
and the last glimpse of pretty Bellefont, crown.
ing its stately terraces, had vanished from sight,
Katharine could scarcely restrain her tears. She
felt as if she were bidding adieu to peace, as if


GOOD SAMARITANS.                    229

228                       MORTON HOUSE.

she were leaving quiet behind her, and turning
her face toward turmoiL She had seemed to
escape out of that uneasy current of life in La-
grange, to be able to spread her wings for wider
flight and freer air, yet, of her own accord, she
was now going back-she was now drifting again
among the scenes and the people that haunted
her like uneasy dreams of delirium, and inspired
her with a strange shrinking impossible to analyze
and hard to resist.
"1 have an instinct approaching to a cer-
tainty that I ought to have turned my face in
the other direction," she said, to Miss Vernon, as
the horses trotted gayly along the smooth road,
and she felt that every moment was taking her
neirer to Lagrange.
"And I have an instinct approaching to a
certainty that you are doing the right thing in
taking this direction," answered Irene, smiling.
"Now, the question is, which instinct is entitled
to the most respect?"
"Mine, I think, since I have a reason for it."
"A good one?"
"A very good ofle."
"Suppose you let me judge of that."
"It would involve a long story," said Katha-
rine, "and that, I fear, wouldtire you.',
"What, with a day's jou~hey before us, and
not even a novel to read! My dear Miss Tresh-
am, what are you thinking of? If you have a
story, and if you would not object to telling it,
there is nothing I should like better than listen-
ing to it, especially if there were any good end
to be gained by doing so."
"There is no good end to be gained," said
Katharine, "but, since I accept your hospitality,
I certainly owe it to you to be quite frank about
niyself. I don't know what may or may not be
said about me in Lagrange, Miss Vernon; but,
having so generously extended your hand to me,
it is only right that you should be able to judge
intelligently of the truth or falsehood of any re-
ports which may be afloat."
"Miss Tresham, if those are your reasons
for telling your story, let me assure you that you
need not do so. I rarely hear gossip, and I never
believe it,"
"Nevertheless, it exists; it is heard by every-
body, and believed by the vast majority. Mrs.
Raynor may like some explanation' of-"
"I can answer for Flora, that she will not
dream of such a thing."
"At all events, you must allow me to speak,"
ssldi~atharine, smiling faintly. "For once in my
life I have been betrayed by cowardly folly into

that tangled web which deception iii any form is
sure to weave. The sooner I can clear myself
of it, the sooner I may be able to forgive myself
for having fallen into it. Shall I begin at the
beginning, and tell you a tolerably long story?"
"If you insist, I can only be frank, and say
that I should like nothing better."
So, as the carriage rolled along the pleasant
country-road, with a changing panorama of sunny
landscape all around, drifting clouds throwing
sudden shadows over distant hill-sides, green
valleys on either side, orchards in the full glory
of tinted bloom, and dogs rushing out to bark
from every way-side house, Katharine told the
story of her life, in all its details, to a very sym-
pathizing listen
These two advanced nearer toward friendship
during this day than in all the days of their for-
mer acquaintance, For it is with friendship as
with love-to be perfect, it has two requisites,
congeniality and confidence. Without the for-
mer, it is a merely fictitious sentiment; and,
without the latter, it is a sentiment dwarfed at
best, and restrained. Confidence is a golden key
to almost every heart, and certainly a golden link
to every affection, let its form or degree be what
it will.
Says Miss Thackeray, very sweetly and truly:
"If love is the faith, then friendship is the char-
ity of life."
And so these -.two women were to find it.
Neither of them was an ordinary woman; both
of them had much of the rare sweetness that is
born of strength, and in which a frivolous or
petty nature is invariably lacking; and both of
them had felt at different times, and in a different
manner, the need of a friend.
There had been a certain attraction between
them from the first; but they were not quick to
come together. Both of them had seen too much
of the world for this. When at last the league
of friendship-a league whfeh was to last all
the rest of their lives-was struck, they made
no protestations to that effect. It was under-
stood somehow, and none the less felt and re-
spected because it was tacit.
"Now," said Katharine, when she had fin-
ished, "you will do me a great favor if you will
tell as much or as little of this to your sister as
she requires to know or as you think fit. Re-
member that I leave the matter entirely to your
discretion.".
"My discretion, then, will be likely to leave
Flora very much in the dark," answered Irene,
smiling. "It is better to err on the side of tell.

ing too little than of telling too much, you kno~i
-at least there is a remedy for the first, but uc
remedy has ever been devised for the second. I
shall tell her just as little as she will be satisfied
to hear, Miss Treshani."
Judging from her experience of human na-
ture in general, and the feminine nature in par.
ticular, Katharine was inclined to think that
this would not be very little; but she thanked
Miss Vernon for her discreet intentions, and it
was decided that Mrs. Raynor's curiosity was,
if possible, to be left ungratified.
On the afternoon of the second day, many
familiar signs began to show that they were ap.
preaching the bourn of their journey-familiar
Lagrange scenery around, familiar Lagrange
faces on the road.
Miss Vernon~ sa# that Katharine was grow.
ing nervous, and tried to reassure her.
"It is very absurd that you should persist in
making bugbears of two of the most inoffensive
people in the world," she said. "Miss Tresham,
do you think I would have asked you to come
with me, if I had not been able to promise you a
cordial welcome?"
Katharine acknowledged the truth of this, and
much more like it; but still she was uncomfort..
able-as, in fact, it was not remarkable that she
should have been.
It was almost a relief when at last the
dreaded moment of final arrival came, when the
carriage turned from the main-road, entered a
wide gate, and, after half a mile of trotting along
an avenue so full of sylvan beauty that it looked
as if it might have led into the heart of a forest,
came to a bridge crossing a pretty creek, a smooth
lawn sloping on all sides like green velvet, and
the usual country-house, with many piazzas, and
wide, cool hall, where Mrs. Raynor was standing
in the door waiting to receive them.
"0 Irene, I am delighted you have come!"
she cried "I hardly expected you so soon-in
fact, I did not know whether or not to expect
you at all.-Miss Tresham, I am charmed to see
you "-she looked a little surprised, nevertheless
-" I am glad that you are well enough to travel.
Irene wrote me an account of your illness; it
must have been dreadful I"
"I have brought Miss Tresham to stay with
us for some time," said Irene, before Katharine
could answer. "She looks badly, does she not?
We must try to bring back her roses before we
let her go.-How is George?"
"Dreadfully cross,".answered George's wife,
with the most literal promptness. "The doctor

says he is getting on very well, however; and,
indeed, I suppose crossness is one sign of it.-
Miss Tresham, I am very glad to hear that you
I are going to stay with us. I am only afraid you
will be dreadfully bored. I confess I am bored
myself nearly to death. Bella and Louisa have
been over continually, Irene. They are dear
girls, you know; but by no means the liveliest
of companions."
"Where is George?" asked Irene.
"In his own room. Will you go in and see
him? He will like to hear all the Apalatka news.
I will take Miss Tresham up-stairs.----This way,
Miss Tresham. Dear me, how pale you are!
You must lie down immediately, and take some
refreshment. Do you prefer wine or cordial ?"
Katharine's mind was soon set at rest on the
score of her welcome. Mrs. Raynor was unaffect-
edly glad to see her-glad of any thing or any-
bocly to break the monotony of sick-room nurs-
ing, for which Nature had rendered her singularly
unfit.
"George is so disagreeably cross that I am
glad to get away from him for a little while," she
said, as she sat down' in the room into which
she showed Katharine, and plainly manifested
her intention of remaining some time. "I have
a horror of sick men," she went on; "tb.ey are
so impatient, and ten times harder to manage
than sick women, or sick children either. I am
so glad Irene has come to relieve me a little. I
am very glad, too, that she has brought you, Miss
Tresham. I hope you will not let Mrs. Marks
deprive us of you soon."
"I shall not return to Mrs. Marks at all,"
said Katharine, meaning to give an explanation
of her position at once~ But Mrs. Raynor mere-
ly opened her pretty blue eyes a minute, and
then rambled on with her own grievances; she
had a habit of paying very little attention to what
was said to her, especially if she chanced to be
interested by something else at the time.
Miss Vernon soon discovered that her sister's
Curiosity was nQt at all troublesome on the sub-
ject of Katharine. Not to give her too much
credit, however, it must be premised that this
would scarcely have been the hase if she had
entertained even a suspicion of any thing un-
usual in the matter. True, Lagrange was full of
gossip about Miss Tresham and Mr. Annesle.v;
but Mrs. Raynor had been full of her own con-
cerns, and had heard very little of this gossip.
Besides, Katharine was certainly very "niceh"
She herself had thought so, and Irene had taken
quite a fancy to her. As Mr. Raynor had once

b


230                       MORTON HOUSE.

remarked, Irene did not often take fancies, espe-
cially to women, and when, by some chance, she
did take them, it was an understood thing that
they were 'to he humored. Then, in her present
desperate and doleful condition, Mrs. Raynor was
so glad to see her sister that there was no doubt
but that she would have welcomed the most dis-
agreeable person in the world whom Irene might
'have chosen to bring back with her.
"I believe there is a good deal of talk about
Miss Trc~ham," she said, indolently; "but, of
course, we have no reason for minding that.
These stagnant Lagrange people would talk'
about a straw. By-the-by" (with some anima-
tion), "Irene, have you any idea where Morton
.&amp;nnesley is ? ~'
"Certainly I have," answered Irene. "He is
down in Apalatka, staying with Mr. Seymour.
Why do you ask? Have his good-natured
friends been talking about him, too?'~
"Indeed, they have; and, what is more, I
fancy that Mrs. Annesley and Adela have been
very uneasy."
"Uneasy 1" repeated Irene, with a curl of
her scarlet lip. "Pray what mischief did they
think he was likely to get into? Surely he is old
enough to manage his own affairs without being
kept in leading-strings by his mother and sis-
ter."
"They have every disposition to keep him in
leading-strings; but I don't think they succeed
very well," answered Mrs. Raynor. "He has a
wifl of his own, notwithstanding that he looks so
gentle. Adela French was here not long ago-
'just before George broke his leg, that is-and,
although-she said nothing on the subject, I could
see that she was very uneasy."
"About what?"
"About the danger of his marrying Miss
Tresham, I presume. For my part, 1 never be-
fleyed that there was any probability of it. I al-
ways felt sure that he has entirely too much
sense for such a thing."
'"It would be the best thing in the world for
~ said Miss Vernon; "and, I am sure, it will
not be his fault if he~Ioes not succeed in doing
It. ' Is Adela french in Lagrange yet?"
"I don't know, but I think not. George has
kept me so closely at ~o~e"(in an aggrieved
tone), "that I hardly know anything. I will ask
fella when she comes to-day. She may know,
and she can tell you all that people are saying
alout Miss Tresham."
"Thank you; but I have not the least curios-
i~y on that score. I give them credit for any

amount of ill-nature, just as much as if I had
heard all they say."
When Miss Ilaynor came, she proved fully
capable of retailing all the gossip of which her
sister-in-law had spoken. Miss Vernon listened
with a disdainful curl of the lip; but still, she
did listen; she felt that it was necessary to know
exactly what was said of Katharine, in order to
use to the best advantage those discretionary
powers which the latter had given her. After
all, however, the talk proved to be harmless and
indefinite enough with all its ill-nature. La-
grange had known nothing; and, therefore, La-
grange had found it difficult to say very much.
The chief hubbub seemed to have been raised
about poor Morton Annesley. The kind friends,
who always know all the particulars on these
occasions, had declared, unhesitatingly, that he
had "given his mother the slip,"'and eloped with
Mrs. Marks's missing governess. Why he should
have thought it necessary to give his mother the
slip, or Why-if he wished to marry Mrs. Marks's
governess-an elopement on either side was re-
quisite, nobody was able to say~; but circumstan-
tial evidence being strong against the two, they
were formally condemned after the most approved
form of popular justice. It was useless to hint
(as one or two skeptical people did) that Mr. An-
nesley had not left Lagrange until two weeks after
Miss Tresham's departure. 7VeSt the wise ladies
and gentlemen concerned were ready to reply,
was by special arrangement. It was meant to
lull suspicion, and throw people oft' their guard.
No doubt Miss Tresham had gone on before to
some appointed rendezvous, where Mr. Annesley
had followed in due time, and a marriage had
taken place. This point being settled to the
satisfaction of everybodybut the most stoutly in~
credulous, people became undecided whether Mr.
Annesley would take his bride away somewhere
(to Europe, probably), oc whether he would re-
turn, and, with a high hand, "have it out" with
his outraged family. Being, as usual, very stag-
nant for subjects of interest , Lagrange hoped
much for the latter event. Parties ran high on
the question. Would or would not Mrs. .Annes-
ley continue to live at Annesdale? "Mrs. An.
nesley is a Christian woman; she will bear this
severe trial as a Christian woman should, and re-
main with her son," said one party. "Mrs. An-
nesley is a woman of spirit and self-respect; she
will certainly leave Anneadale, and go to Mobile
with Adela French," said another party., Chorus
of both parties, "What a sad pity for )frs.'An.
nesley! Such a charming person! Mrs. Marks's

I

governess for a daughter-in.lawl Only what s
might have expected, however; the idea of mv
ing such a person to Annesdale! Might ha'
known what would follow," etc., etc., etc.
It was not to be doubted that Miss Vern
felt a considerable degree of malicious enjo
meat when, after a month of uninterrupted -go
sip (to which the only drawback had been a d
cided and uncomfortable dearth of material), tI
news fell like a thunder-bolt on the county, tin
she had returned to her sisters, bringing Mb
Tresham-who was still Miss Tresham-with he:
At first Lagrange was incredulous, then Lagran~
was indignant, and finally Lagrange stood on it
dignity, and said things more scornful and sligh
big than agreeable and complimentary, about tb
governess who was no longer a governess. Wh
had she left Mrs. Marks? Lagrange was no
curious, by any 'means; but still, it wanted t
know that. Where had she been all this time
and what was the reason that Mr. Annesley hai
not yet made his appearance? Lagrange db
not absolutely request people to tell their stor'
to the marines, who were foolish enough to main
statements about brain-fever, and Colonel Les
ter's, and no connection with Mr. Annesley; but
in its secret heart, it did not believe a word of
the whole story, and waited grimly for what ii
was pleased to call the "upshot of the matter."
This did not come for some time, however.
Miss Tresham remained quietly enough at the
Raynors', and Mr. Annesley still' lingered in
Apalatha. Poor Morton! That letter of Kath-
arine's, written the night before her departure,
had dealt him such a cruel and such a terribly
unexpected blow, that he felt cowardly about go-
ing back to Lagrange, about taking up again the
familiar life from which so much sunshine had
gone, he thought, forever, lie felt more inclined
to remain with Seymour, to,~pend his days stroll-
ing about the woods, with a gun on his shoulder,
and a dog at his heels; his nights in talking or
not talking to Godfrey, as he felt inclined, while
they both smoked countless cigars. It was a
dull, quiescent sort of life, but it suited his mood.
It was doubtful when or how he would end it;
and, all this time, Lagrange talked unceasingly,
and Mrs. Annesley's anxiety nearly drove her into
a fever.
All this time, too, Katharine was winning back
health, and strength, and bloom, and making 'her-
self very attractive and very necessary in the Ray.
nor household. The power to charm, the gift
of diffusing brightness, was hers now as much as
ever, and these new friends began to look a little

GOOD SAMARITANS.                     231

he injured when she talked of intended departure.
it- "Why can't you stay?" Miss Vernon would
ye ask; "why need you be in such a hurry to pro-
cure a situation? Flora and George are both
n absolutely in love with youj and both thank me
y- on an average once a day for having brought you
s- here. I am almost sorry to see Mr. Warwick
e- come; I fear, every time, that he may have found
ic a place for you."
~t "He is trying to do so," said Katharine.
:s Then she added, gratefully: "Mr. Warwick is
r. very kind to me. He is the best friend, by far,
e I ever had."
a "One of the best," corrected Irene. "I am
t- sure he has no better disposition to serve you
o than-than Mr. .Annesley, for instance, lie has
y better opportunity, that is all."
it "Don't you think one is apt to be more grate-
o ful for realities than for possibilities?" asked
, Katharine, smiling. "Not but that I am very
I much obliged to Mr. Annesley," she added.
I "He, too, has been a very kind friend to me."
~     "Nevertheless, I see plainly that you prefer
Mr. Warwick."
-    "Do you mean that I am more grateful to
him?"
"Well, yes; and that you prefer him. That
includes liking as well ns gratitude, doesn't it?
you are twice as cordial to him as I ever saw you
to Mr. Annesley."
"He is different," said Katharine, blushing in
a manner which Miss Vernon thought quite unac-
countable. "I have known him so much longer
and so much better. And-and there is no dan-
ger of misconstruction with him. Now, with Mr.
Annesley, I felt as if it was necessary to be on
my guard all the time."
"Against his vanity, do you mean?"
"Oh, no; how could you think I meant such
a thing? Against gossiping tongues, and ill-
natured comments, and all that sort of thing.
It must be a very foolish woman who does not
learn a little discretion from being tossed about
the world as I have been."
"I hope you will never be tossed about
again," said Miss Vernon. "I wish you would
be reasonable, and let it be over at once."
The two ladies were sitting in a pretty morn.
ing-room, which opened on the lawn, while they
talked in this manner. A soft, spring shower
was falling outside, but every thing looked very
bright and pretty within, when thedoor opened,
and Mr. Warwick was shown into the room.
They greeted him cordially; and, aftet' the first
salutations were over, he turned to Katharine.


232                               MORTON
"I see you are getting quite well," he said.
"Are you almost ready for work?"
"I am quite ready," she answered, eagerly.
"Have you found any thing for me?"
"I cannot say positively," he answered, "but
I have a strong hope of doing so before very long.
Have you any objection to going to It- Coun-
ty?"
"I have not the least idea where R-
County is; but I have no objection to going any-
where."
"flow very obliging you are!" said Mr. War-
wick, smiling. But Miss Vernon gave a cry.
"R- County!" she said. "Why, Mr.
Warwick, that is so far away, that we need
never hope to see her again if she once goes
down there. Is it possible you could not find a
situation for her nearer Lagrange?"
"It does not at all matter t~iat it is so far
away," said Katharine, hastily, for she under-
stood Mr. Warwick's reasons for choosing It-
County better than Miss Vernon did. "I-I am
not at all diffident about going among strangers,"
she went on.. "Mr. Warwick, do you really think
that there is any certain hope of a situation?"
"Read that," said Mr. Warwick, taking a let-
ter from his pocket, and giving it to her.
She opened it eagerly; and, while she read,
Miss Vernon was summoned from the room. A
little negro boy, whom Mrs. Raynor called her
page, came in with a message from "Mass
George" of a very imperative nature, necessi-
tating her immediate attendance on that gentle-
man. She went at once, though it was with\
some reluctance. "George is spoiled to death I"
she said, to Mr. Warwick. "I have no doubt he
will send a message for you when he knows you
are here. He seems to 'think that people exist
merely for the purpose of ministering to his
amusement."
"It ig not worth his while to send for me,"
said Mr. Warwick "I shall not be here ten min-
utes longer. Tell him that, if he has any such
intentions, if you please, Miss Vernon."
"I will," she said, with some malice, and
the door had hardly closed on her when Kath-
arine looked up.
"I like the tone of this letter," she said.
"You bare answered the questions, I pre-
same?"
~ he replied. "I answered them yes-
terda~r. I know Major Wright well," he went
on,"and I am sure you will find a situation in
his family pleasant. I should not have enter-
tained hig proposal otherwise."

HOUSE.

"I am sure of that," she said, gratefully.
"You think of me a great deal-much more
than I deserve."
"Let me be the judge of that," said he.
"When Wright's next letter comes-no doubt
empowering me to offer certain terms for yours
acceptance-you will be ready to close with
them, then?"
"Oh, yes; most gladly."
"You won't feel inclined .to regret that B-
County is so far from Lagrange?"
"How could I? The last few months have
given me very painful associations with La. -
grange." Then, remembering how ungracious
this sounded, she hesitated and blushed. " Yeas
will come down to R- sometimes, will you
not?" she said. "There is no one else I shall
care to see."
"I don't know," he answered. "It has been
two or three years since I was down there last,
hunting up evidence in a troublesome case. It
may be two or three more before I have such
another matter on hand. Do you think you will
remain with the Wrights thatlong?"
"I cannot tell)" she answered, a little wound.
ed by his ton~e. "'A rolling-stone gathers no
moss,' you know; so I shall endeavor to be a
stationary one. Very likely, therefore, you will
find me in the Wright household two or three
years hence. If so, I hope you will come to see
me."
"There is not much doubt of my doing that,"
said he. "But I shall hope to see you in a home
of 'your own, no longer a waif and stray of For-
as you are now."
She looked at him reproachfully. It was
astonishing how they were playing at cross-
purposes, these two. He meant to show her
that she had no troublesome pejuistence to fear
from him; while ~he felt aggrieved by the man-
ner in which he seemed to ignore much that she
thought he might have remembered.
"You have forgotten," she said, in a low
voice. "You must have forgotten a great deal
before you could say such things to me. I shall
never marry, Mr. Warwick."
Mr. Warwick shrugged his shoulders a little
over this positive declaration.
"Why not?" he asked.
"You know why not," she answered. "My
burden is heavy enough on myself; I will not
take it to any one else."
"Not even if he were willing to bear it?"
"No, a hundred times, no!"
"That is foolish, Miss Treshain. You must

I

GOOD SAMARITANS.

233

forgive me for saying so, but it is very foolish
Your brother has nothing whatever to do wit
yourself. A man who loved you-a man whoi
you loved-would never hesitate for such a coi
sideration as that."
"You should not judge all men by you~
self," she said, smiling faintly, yet very sweetly
"There arc very few who are able to sacrifice
themselves as you have proved willing to d.
I-I never knew anybody before who was."
"Don't think that I mean to reopen a sul~
ject which was closed finally," he said, "when
beg to correct you in the use of that word. 'Sac
rifice' means something which we do unwillingl;
for the sake of another. Now, when I asked yoi
to marry me-don't start! I have not the leas
intention of repeating that act of folly !-I was
making no sacrifice at all; I was simply follow
ing the instinct of human nature, and endeavor
ing to win for myself the happiness I most de
sired. Take my word for it, that this will be th(
ease with somebody else before long - some
body," he added, kindly, "to whom you may b
able to give a different .answer."
She shook her head, but something-a mosi
unaccountable something-rose in her throat, and
she could not speak.
He saw her agitation, and walked away, te
give her time to recover herself.
"Poor girl! no doubt she is afraid of an-
other sentimental scene with a man old enough
to be her father," he thought, with a strange
mixture of bitterness, and amusement, and sad-
ness, as he stood looking across the lawn, watch-
ing the rain as it fell, and the sun as it tried to
struggle through the clouds. After a while he
turned round and took up the thread of conver-
sation again, with a tolerably successful attempt
at cheerfulness.
"You have no idea how anxious poor Bessie
is to see you," he said. "It would really be a
deed of charity to give her that pleasure when
you chance to be in Tallahoma some day. I am
sure you don't bear malice, or I would not ask
such a thing."
"Bear malice!" repeated Katharine. "What
an expression! Why, I am quite as much at-
tached to Mrs. Marks and the children as ever;
aud I really have not been to Tallahoma because
I could not bear to think of not calling to see
them. Miss Vernon asked~ me to go with her
yesterday, but I declined."
"Yoi~ must understand that Bessie has all
the time been very anxious for you to return,"
he said. "It was Marks who made a fool of him-

~. self. I can see very plainly that he is sorry for
is it now. 2Perhaps thefact of Mrs. Raynor's august
n protection may have something to do with his
s- change of sentiment," he ad~ed, with a smile.
"It has been for the best," said Katharine,
~- a little sadly. "I cannot blame Mr. Marks at
~. all; and I am sure it is better that I should
e leave Lagrange. I have done little besides mis-
. chief since I have been here."
"Will you be good enough to tell me what
kind of mischief?" asked Mr. Warwick, with
I the humorous accent she knew very well.
"Don't laugh at me," she said. "I assure
y you I am serious. Looking back, I can trace
~ every thing to myself. If I had not come here,
t there would have been none of this trouble about
St. John and Mrs. Gordon, or about Mr. Annes-
- Icy, or-or about yourself."
-     "And if you had not been born, you would
- not be living," said he. "If I laugh at you, it
is because you deserve to be laughed at for such
- absurdity! A quickness at perceiving the con-
nection between cause and effect is a very good
thing in its way, Miss Tresham, but it is possible
to carry it too -far-it is possible to torment
one's self uselessly with past and irretrievable
issues. No man is wise enough to foresee the
to-morrow, or how the events of to-day may in-
fluence it. If we act with an honest intention
for the best in the present, it is all that God will
require of us. Nobody in the world stands
alone; life is a very complex tissue, and every
human soul influences others directly or indirect-
ly. The conduct of some one else affected the
course of your life; your conduct, in turn,
affects the lives of others, and so on, ad iaflui.
turn. If you want to be logical, you must go far
beyond yourself."
"You give me comfort as well as teach me
logic," she said. "Must you go?"(as he rose).
"Well, give my love to Mrs. Marks, and tell her
I will certainly conie to see her soon. Are the
children all well?"
"Quite well, and eager for a s~ght of you. I
may hear from Wright next week. If so, I will
come and let you know."
"Thank you." She held out her hand.
"You are very good to me," she added, softly.
The tone of her voice, the look in her eyes,
haunted him after he left the room, after he rode
away, and even after the ordinary distractions of
life began to assert themselves once more. It
was with difficulty that he finally banished the
intrusive recollections.
"I have been a fool once," he thought,


234                        MORTON ROUSE.                                                                THE LAST DEFIANCE.                    .235

"Nothing shall induce me to make a fool of
myself a second time. I am old enough to have
left such absurdities behind me."
CHAPTER XLI.
THu LAST DEFIANCE
"Tun slow, sad hours that bring us all things
III" went by, slowly and sadly enough; brought
little enough besides ill to Mrs. Gordon, as the
days lengthened, the heavens smiled, and earth
budded, and Nature, weakening from her brief
winter sleep, prepared for her long summer carni-
val. Springcame, with its soft airs, its sportive
breezes, its glittering sunshine, and bright flow-
era; but no change of season or of weather
lightened her gloom; no lapse of time softened
her sorrow, or taught her resignation. Round
the old house that had been silent so long, and
at last had come to shrine this one lonely life,
all was rejoicing beauty; but within its doors
there was a hush that seemed to speak of deso-
lation-.--a subtle and penetrating sadness that
human grief sometimes seems to impress even
upon inanimate surroundings. People-the few
people who ever came-felt it as soon as they
entered thedoor, and left it behind them, like a
weight, when they emerged again into the fresh
air and bright sunshine. Day after day of stag-
mint, weary calm, rolled by; and the pale wom-
an, lying on her sofa, grew daily more pale and
more hollow-eyed. Who can wonder? Troubles
suspense, and bereavement, are grim phantoms
which prove hard enough to fight when the daily
cares of life-cares merciful at such a time-are
pressing on the heart, and giving at least the
relief of partial distraction to the mind. But
trouble, when there is nothing to do but brood
over it; suspense, when it is only possible to sit
and wait for the dreaded day, or the dreaded ob-
ject; bereavement, when not one human source
of consolation has been lOft; oh, where is the
tongue or the pen that can speak of these? As
people who sit by warm hearth, and for whom
luxurious tables are spread, shrug their shoul-
ders, and say, "Poor thing I" when their sym-
pathy and their attention are claimed by some
taunt, thinly-clad form out beyond in the night
and storm, so we utter a few set words of pity
and eondol~nce when a face, white with the awful
ibotprhits of despair, looks in on our life. But
have we-we, warmly clothed, and fed, and lodged,
and hedged about with love-even the least con.

caption of how bitterly the cold cuts, how heavily
the rain falls, how dark and full of terror is the
night to that poor, houseless wanderer? If we
had, ah, vain words! even if we had, what could
we do? The needs of the body can be supplied,
the wants of the body can be filled, but who has
yet been able to comfort the soul sick with lone-
ly grief, or feed- the heart starving for absent
love?
So the days went by-one after another, with
dreary sameness-and so the woman, whose life
of fevered emotion had sunk at last into apathetic
lethargy, watched them, from sunrise to sunset1
all alone. Sometimes she shivered, as a keen
realization of her position oarn~ over her; as, lit
a mirror, she saw herself sitting in the desolate
solitude of her father's house, waiting for the
man whom she had once loved, and now hated;
the man who had wrecked her life, and made her
what she was; the man whom she dreaded, ab-
horred, yet longed to see again..-longed to sour
out upon him the bitter tide of reproach, de-
fiance, scorn, and hate. Sometimes she would
shrink and shiver at a footstep, thinking, dread-
ing that it might be his; then, again, she would
pace the floor, and clasp her hands together,
longing that he would come, that the worst
might be over, that the utmost which could be
said might have been said But the weeks wore
on, and he did not appear. John Warwick came
often-as often as possible, and as he had news
from Felix-and did his honest best to cheer
and lighten the gloom which he found; but even
he, when he went away, felt depressed; even he
felt how hopeless were any efforts to bring sun.
shine where sunshine was net.
"If you only had a companion!" he said; to
Mrs. Gordon, one day. "Such a life as this is
enough to kill you! your own thoughts are the
worst possible company; anybody or any thing
would be better."
"And where would you find me a com-
panion?" she asked, languidly. "Not that I
would desire such a thing, but, If I did, where
would you find one? A companion! think of all
that a companion means. Not somebody to sit
there and distract me with set looks, and com-
posed manners, and talk about the weather and
Lagrange gossip; but somebody who would have
quickness enough to read my moods, and change
with them; who would cheer at one time, and
soothe at another; who would not be too gay,
nor yet too dull; toward whom I need feel no
reserve, yet who would not pry into my heart -
somebody who-. Ah, what Is the good of talk:

ing? All this means a friend, and where have I
a friend?"
"I know where I could find such a person for
you," he said. "If-if you would only consent
to it."
She looked at him a little suspiciously.
"Whom do you mean?" she asked.
"I mean Miss Tresham," he-answered. "If
you would only believe-"
She interrupted him, passionately. "I will
believe nothing that would bring her into this
house! I don't trust her, Mr. Warwick; say
what you will, ~ don't trust her! St. John's sis-
ter cannot be other than false, and you will live
to find it out!"
"I am rather of the opinion," said he, "that
you and some other people will live to find out
that it is neither just nor reasonable to condemn
one person for the faults and crimes of another,
no matter how nearly related that other may
be."
"And you trust her? Trust anybody with
that blood?"
"Stop a moment, Mrs. Gordon; consider how
little you know of the blood, or are able to judge
of it from one representative. It is impossible
for you to tell how many brave and noble an-
cestors this very St. John may have had, ances-
tors whose blood has made his sister what she
is.
"She is his ~
"That settles the matter, I see," said he,
slightly shrugging his shoulders. "Well, per-
haps you may be glad to hear that this dangerous
person will soon be removed from the neighbor-
hood of Morton House. I received a letter to-
day from an old friend of mine in one of the
lower counties, offering Miss Tresham the posi.
tion of governess in his family. She has re- f
quested me to accept it for her, and to say that I
she will leave Lagrange in a few days. I am go- r
ing home to write that letter now." s
"Does your friend live near Felix?"      
"N~o; very far from Felix. Surely, after all c
that I have told you, you do not cling to that o
ideayet?"                                   c
"It has been an instinct with me from the
first. One cannot disregard instincts."
"Yes, one can, especially when they are con. 11
trary to reason and common-sense. You see I g
talk plainly to you. On my honor, I think you iv
need it. Have you seen Annesley since he re. n
turned V'
"He was here yesterday. lie tells me that -
this girl has finally rejected him."

"And will not even that fact alter your judg-
ment of her a little?"
She made an impatient gesture. "Why
should it? No doubt she Would have married
him if she had dared to do so; that is, if she
had not known that his family would never recog-
nize her."
"Morton is tolerably independent of his fam-
ily," said Mr. Warwick, dryly. "If Miss Tresh-
am had married him, no doubt they would have
found it tiresome to stay away from Anneadale
because his wife was mistress there; and that is
all that their not recognizing her would have come
to, you know. Well, the afternoon is wearing
on, and I must leave you, Don't you ever go
out to get a little fresh air?"
"Scarcely ever," she answered, languidly, giv~
ing him her hand as he rose to take leave.
After he ivent out, he carried a dreary pic-
ture back to town with him-the room, which
looked dark and confined, as any room will look
on a day when Nature is taking one of her royal
holidays; the sofa, with its cushions, and the
pale, thin face pillowed thereon; the relaxed
form; the sad eyes; the books, tossed aside in
utter weariness! He seemed to see it all as he
rode along, with the lovely day around him; and
he could not help saying over and over again,
"Poor woman!"
The poor woman, who well deserved his com-
passion, lay, meanwhile, where he haI left her,
watching dreamily the shadows lengthening on
the stretch of emerald sward beyond her window~
the fruit-trees looking like pink-and-white elou4s
a an orchard faraway, and the golden afternoon,
aith allits spring-time wealth of sight and sound1
Irawiag toward sunset. Sunset, however, had not
~et come when she fell into a light sleep, her
hec still turned to the window, and the soft
~recze playing gently over it. Something of
eace, something even of beauty, came to her as
he slept, as we see it often come to world-worn
aces when the stillness of this mimic death steals
ver them, winning back a little of the lost grace
f youth to the heavy, deep-set lines of age or
are.
She had not slept more than half an hour
rhen the stillness around her was broken, slight-
broken by a step on the sward that sloped so
ently from the window before which her sofa
'as placed. The sound was so slight that it did
ot rouse her, and she still remained unconscious
-still slept with a faint, sweet smile on her lip
-when a shadow fell across the floor, a figure
mw near the window, and a man, pushing back

'I


236                             'MORTON
the gently-swaying curtains, stepped into the
room.
Not Mr. Warwick, not Annesley, not even St.
John, but a stranger, who steps into this history,
as he stepped into that room, for the first time-
a tall, handsome man, with an air at once un-
mistakable and indescribable, which only much
intercourse with the world confers, with a bear-
ing of marked distinction, and with a look of
youth-despite certain significant lines that told
of the wear and tear of reckless years and more
reckless passions-in singular contrast to That
pale, faded woman on the sofa. Evidently, he
had walked round' the hou~e, and entered the
~rst window which he found open. Evidently,
also, he had not caught a glimpse of the sleep-
ing figure before he made his unceremonious
appearance. He at~rted when he saw it, drew
back a step, then smiled a little, and came for~
ward.
At the same moment, Mrs. Gordon woke-
woke suddenly, with a wild start. In recalling
the scene afterward, she remembered that, in the
midst of a happy dream nbout Felix, her heart
seemed, without any warning, to give a great
bound, and with a terror which she did not
understand she sprung to a sitting posture, and,
half sleeping, half waking-was it dream or real-
ity ?-saw before her the face that had haunted
hei~'last waking thoughts.
She gave a low, inarticulate cry, then clasped
koth bands to her heart, and kept theni there,
striving vainly to still the passionate throbs that
~nade speech impossible. She had expected him,
looked for him; sometimes, in a strange, wild
way, longed for him; yet, now that he was be-
fore her, the realization of it turned her faint.
She could say nothing; her 1ips seemed parched;
her tongue refused to speak it almost seemed
as if she was still asleep; and yet she knew that
she was awake, and that her husband was before
her.
"I have come, Pauline," he said, coolly. "I
suppose, of course, you expected me. You have
acted like-well, like a foolish woman; but I
presume you knew that I would come."
All the past rushed back over her in the first
tone of that cold, careless voice-all the memo-
ries, how bitter, how stinging, none but she
could tell! Rage, scorn, defiance, hate-where
were they all? Only an overwhelming horror
came to her, as in these words he asserted his
'claim over her-this man who was her husband,
and the murderer of her brother, yet who stood
'there under her f?~ther's roof!

* HOUSE.
"How did you come here?" ~she demanded,
fh'4h a house
haughtily. "This is my aterouse,
only fit for honorable men. My servants long
age received orders not to admit you."
"I gave you credit for that measure of pre-
caution~' he answered, in the same coldly-care.
less manner, a manner on which it 'was evident
that St. John had modelled his own~ and which,
therefore, possessed all the advantage that an
original possesses over a copy. "I did not
trouble your servants to admit me," he went on.
"The front of the house was entirely deserted.
[ walked around until l came to this window.
Seeing it open, I entered."
"It is still open," she said. "If you do not
leave the room instantly, I shall do so myself. I
am determined never to see or speak to you again.
if there is any thing that you wish to say to me,
any arrangement that you wish to make with me,
I refer you to my lawyer."
He only answered by walking across the
room, and closing the door. Then, coming
back, he placed a chair so as to intercept any
possible retreat on her part, and quietly sat
down.
"All this is folly," he said, with unmoved
composure. "I thought you knew me well
enough to be aware how worse than useless
such a tone as this is. You seem to forget-or
I suppose you really do not know-that I am
the injured person in this freak of yours. Your
conduct, from first t~ last~ has not a single ex-
cuse, not a rSngle palliation. I directed you. to
go to Scotland, and you deliberately came to
America, thereby robbing me of Felix, and en-
deavoring to conceal yourself from me. It was
a woman's idea," he said, with contemptuous
amusement, "and ha~ had the success that
might naturally have been expected."
"You mean that you have found me?"
"Yes, l mean that l have found you, and that
I am lenient enough to give you your choice
whether you will return to Scotland with me, or
whether I shall leave you in the seclusion you
have chosen, and simply take Felix."
The tone of subdued but unmistakahle malice
with which he spoke the last words roused Mrs.
Gordon like the blast of a trumpet. Suddenly,
the remembrance came to her that she was not,
as heretofore, helplessly in Us power. It was
evident that he thought to bend her to his will
through her fears for Felix; yet Felix was safe,
was far away, was where this man could not pos-
sibly seek or find him. The sweetness' of that
one moment repaid her for all the months of

'1

THE LAST DEFIANCE.

337

desolate sorrow she had endured. Watching old haughty strength and pride, and faced him
her face, her husband was startled by the change -once, at least-on equal ground.
that came over it-the sudden glow that seemed "I defy you!" she said, after he had sworn
to light up the sunken eyes and the pallid fen- a bitter oath to make her repent.. "You have
tures into something of their old beauty. done your worst and your last. You have
"I decline to make any choice," she said. wrecked my life, you have murdered my broth-
"I have, already told you that 1 refer you to er, you have insulted and injured me in every
my lawyer for any thing you wish to say to possible way. There is only one more channel
mc. However long you may choose to detain through which you can strike me - that is,
me, you will obtain nothing further from Felix; and Felix you will never see again, even
- me."                                       if' the price I must pay for it is the price of
With something like a mocking smile, he never seeing him myself! Once more I repeat
leaned forward, and laid his hand on a bell- that I am safe-that I defy you."
rope that hung against the wall, just at the It seemed as if she could not repeat the
head of her sofa, last words too often. Their very sound in her
"I will ring for Felix, then," he said. "It ears was as the 'echo of music, and, when she
will save time and trouble if I take him away uttered them, she looked like another woman
with me at once." -lik~ a vision of the regal beauty who, long
"You can ring if you choose," answered years before, had gone forth from this very
Mrs. Gordon; "but you will not find Felix. Do house, and who now faced the direct result of
you suppose I should have sat here quietly if her own wilful folly. Gordon could scarcely
there had been any dander of your finding believe that it was his wife who spoke to him.
him?" she asked, scornfully. "I should have Not on account of her fiery spirit-he kner that
defied you to keep me! But, thank God, Felix well enough of old-but at sight of the trans.
is safe! Three months ago, I knew that you forming power which 'excitement had over her,
would be here, for your miserable instrument and which seemed to kindle the dead light in
appeared before you, and I sent the child away. her eyes, and bring back the dead roses to her
It was like tearing the very heart out of my cheeks. 'He had hardly ever been wrought to
breast; but I did it, and now I am repaid." such a pitch of fury against her, yet, again, he
"You-you dared to do it?"               had hardly ever been forced to such a degree
"Yes,. 1 dared to do it." of reluctant admiration. He made a quick step
was well that she came of that 'brave forward, and caught her arm.
Morton blood which had never been known to "The devil is surely tempting you to your
quail at danger in any shape, for there was own ruin," he said, bitterly. "Have all the
that in the baffled face looking at her which years we lived together taught you no better
might have startled the firmest nerves. All than this ~ Have you not learned yet that
his cold smoothness of manner gave way, as there are no possible circumstances which could
she had before seen it give way on a few mem- snake it safe for you to defy me? You had bet-
orable occasions, and the savage of the man's ter stop a moment and think-you don't know
nature stood out clear, and dark, and unutter- what you are doing!"
ably repulsive. He was silent for a moment. "I know perfectly well what I am doing,"
In that moment the veins rose like cords on she answered. "1 am trying to save Felix-and,
his forehead, and his eyes glittered as eyes only with God's help, I will save him-from you, and
glitter in passion that, for violence, is next to what you wo',ld make of him."
insanity. When he spoke-Well, it is scarcely "And do you really thiik that you have con-
worth while to transcribe such scenes as these. ceased Felix so effectually that I, with unlimited
Who cares to write, who cares to read, who cares means at command, cannot find him?"
to dwell upon them? Forttmnately for Mrs. Gor- "1 am sure of it."
don, she had served her apprenticeship of en- He read her face keenly, and, being well
durance; and the knowledge of years is not skilled in physiognomy, saw that she spoke
readily forgotten in a few months. Besides, from no mere bravado~-.no mere attempt to
she was fired with new spirit. One of those simulate confidence in order to deceive him.
moods in whioh she had longed for him to From some cause, of which he knew nothing,
come, that she might pour out her hate and she was sure, she was perfectly secure, that
scorn, rushed over her. She gathered all her' the child was placed beyond his reach.
16


ft
MORTON HOUSE.

238

"No doubt you were confident of being safe
when you came here," he said, with the mocking
smile which she knew so well. "Can't the fail-
ure of one attempt teach you wisdom with re-
gard to another? But that is a foolish question,
women never learn wisdom, especially women
like you. I see one thing, however, that you
have not arranged and carried out this precious
scheme alone. You have had assistance. .Ah 1"
-as she changed color a little-" I knew it!
Well, that makes matters a trifle easier than
they would have been otherwise. I can find
your instrument, and, having found him, you
know me well enough to be aware-"
"I know him well enough to be aware that
your threats are useless," she interrupted, "You
will gain nothing from him. He is not a man
whom you can either bribe or intimidate. I
sent you a warning once," she went on, excited-
ly. "I don't know whether you ever received
it; but if so, you would do well to heed it-you
would do well to remember that him here in
the midst of my friends, and that to attempt to
hartil me further is only a certain means of
harmhug yourself~ I am no longer in a foreign
country, and helplessly at your mercy. I am at
home, and you-if you only knew it-are at my
mercy!"
"I suppose you mean that some of your
highly-civilized kinsmen and friends would be
ready to shoot or stab me at your bidding," he
saidsarelessly. "For that I have only one an-
swer-by all means let them try. flow much you
must have forgotten, before you thought it worth
your while to take a tone like this."
"I have said all that I shall think of say-
ing," she answered, coldly. "It is for you to
heed or not,~as you think fit. Once more, will
you go? I h'!ive defied-I do defy you-to do
your worst. There is nothing to add to that."
"Yes, there is something," he said. "Not
on your side, perhaps, but on mine. I will inflict
my presence upon you long enough tQ add it."
He had loosed his grasp of her arm by this
time, and he now sat down again in the chair
'from which he had risen. His change of man-
ner warned her that something worse than what
had gon~ before, was yet to come. She tried to
conjecture what it could be; but a dizziness
seized her, and she could think of nothing.
Felix! Felix! That was the only thought which
rang through her brain. He could not touch
him. ~he was sure of that. What did any thing
elae matter? With a great parting flash of glory,
the sun went down; the whole sky was glowing

with the lovely reflection of the incarnadine west,
melting into softest rose-colors, and violets, and
blues, when he began to speak.
"I gave you your choice when I first caine
in, to return to Scotland with me, or to resign
the child to whom the law gives you no claim.
Considering the defiance of my authQrity, which
has been your only reply, I might reasonably re-
tract that offer. But, as it is, I give it to you
once more, and for the last time. Stop I "-lift-
ing his hand when he saw that she was about
to speak-" you must understand fully, as you
do not understand now, the alternative that is
placed before you. In the first place, I am sure
that it is in my power to find Felix-if you con.
sidered a moment, you would be sure of this
too. But to do so will cost both time and trou-
ble, neither of which I desire to expend. I shell
expend them, if necessary," he said, with ener-
gy; "but I am willing to make a cq~promise
to effect his recovery without them. I shall not
speak to you of your duty, nor of the false.and
groundless charges that you make against me
in the matter of your brother's unfortunate
death-"
"If you arc wise, you will leave 'that name
unspokenn," she said, in a tone that came with
something like a hiss through her teeth-teeth
set to keep back the fierce tide of emotion that
struggled for expression. "If you utter it again
-here, under this roof-I think I could almost
find strength to murder you, as you murdered
him! Bay what you have to say while I am able
to control myself sufficiently to listen to you. It
is the last time that I shall ever see you, or hear
your voice."
"You forget that you are my wife, and entire-
ly in my power."
"I am your wife-God help me 1-but I am
not in your power, nor ever will be again."
"We shall see about that," he said, smiling
again. "I was on the point of saying, when you
interrupted me, that I shall not speak to you of
your duty, but of your interest. If you consent
to produce Felix, I will allow you to accompany
him hack to Seotland. If you refuse, I wiWfind
him myself, and in that ease I shall take him
alone. Do you understand?"
"I understand."
"And refuse?"
"And refuse."
"Very well. That point is settled-irreve-
cably. We will not return to it again. Now!
give you another alternative-either you will
produce Felix, or you will alienate from him, by

I

I

THE LAST DEFIANCE.                      239

your own act, the inheritance which would natur-
ally be his. I swear to you solemnly-and you
know whether or not I am likely to keep my
oath-that unless he is resigned to my guardian-
ship, he' shall never inherit a fragment or a pit-
tance of the Gordon estate."
"You are counting too much on my igno-
rance, when you make such threats," she said,
haughtily. "I chance to know that you are un-
able to fulfil them-I chance to know that your
uncle'S estate is entailed upon your son, and that
you are powerless to alienate it from him."
"You are right," he said, with a flash of tri-
umph in his eye. "It is entailed upon my son,
but upon my ddest son."
- "XVcll?"
Something like a dim foreboding of the truth
began to dawn upon her. The excitement died
out of her face, she turned white to her very
lips, and leaned back against the cushions of the
sofa.
"Well," he'replicd, coolly, "Yelix is not my
eldest son. For reasons that will be apparent to
you hereafter, I have preferred and do prefer him
as an heir. But he is not the legal inheritor of
the estate. It depends upon you whether or not
he will ever own an acre or touch a penny of
it."
"Upon mel" A gathering mist seemed clos-
ing round her; but she fought it bravely-she
struggled desperately against the rising faint-
ness that threatened to sweep away all powers
of combat. One thought only save her strength
-Felix's rights! They were assailed-falsely,
unscrupulously, assailed, she was sure-and she
was their only defender.
"I do not believe you!" she cried out, pas-
sionately. "Why should I? You have never
failed to deceive me when you could do so with
any advantage to yourself. Why should I be-
lieve anything so stamped with falsehood as
this?"
"Believe it or not, as you please," he an-
swered. "It is a matter, fortunately, which ad-
mits of proof."
"You can prove that Felix is not your eldest
son?"
"I can prove a former marriage when I was
quite a boy, and the existence of a legal heir to
the Gordon estate in the person of my son by
that marriage."
"He is living?"
"Yes, he is living. 1 can put my hand en
him whenever I choose. You need not look so
incredulous," he said, as he saw her eyes grow

larger and larger, her face whiter and whiter.
"As I have said, it is a case in which assertion
can have no weight; it is capable of proof that
can, if necessary, be taken into a court of law.
Perhaps you ~nay be convhlced if I give you a
short statement of the matter?"
She made a gesture, signifying assent; and
yet it was hardly necessary. Something in his
manner-something in his tone-above all,
something in his face (and she knew that face
well)-told her that he was speaking truth, and
not merely a cunning falsehood devised to an-
noy and intimidate her. Every thing had seemed
so plain to her a minute before, and now all was
confusion. Felix! Felix's rights! What were
they? where were they9 what ought she to do?
This was the accompaniment to her husband's
words when he began to speak.
"I need not trouble you with particulars," he
said. "It is enough to give you a bare outline of
facts. When! was a very young man-in fact,
little moro~than a boy-my reg~nwnt was sta-
tioned in the West Indies. I had not beeu there
very long when 1 accompanied ouc of my fri~uds
on a visit to Martinique. This maa-I have fot-
gotten his name, and it does not matter-had a
letter of introduction to an Irishman named
O'Grady living on the island. He took me with
him; and, since our welcome was very warm,!
soon became intimate in the family. The man
himself-O'Grady~ I mean-was a widower, and
his family consisted of two daughters. One of
them was a widow1 a Mrs. -. Confound my
memory! I have forgotten thatname, too. The
other was a young girl, pretty enough, I dare
say; but I have little recollection c~f her now,
excepting that she turned my head completQly at
the time. A. love-affair followed, o~ course, not-
withstanding that! was in a mu~h better posi-
tion to cut my throat than to think of marrying.
My father had paid my debts twice, and I was in
deep disgrace with him. The beggarly allowance
which he still continued, and my pay together,
barely sufficed, or rather did not suffice, for my
own wants, since I was a third time deeply in
debt. To marry under these circumstances was
simple insanity. This I knew perfectly well.
Still, I was young, and ready for any act of folly.
The consequence was that I compromised with an
elopement and private marriage. The girl was
easily worked upon; and, for the rest, matters
were quite easy. There is hardly the lea~1~ com-
munication between the different islands of the
West Indies, and there was nobody to followor
inalte disagreeable iurjuirics. Her Lathe; who


240                       MORTON HOUSE.

was infirm, died ,almost immediately after Ii
departure, and there were 110 troublesome brol
ers or cousins in the matter. I took her to f
island where I was stationed; but nobody in ti
regiment had any suspicion of the marriage.
was particularly cautious on this point, becau
any rumor reaching my father's ears would ha'
ruined me. Well, before long, I appreciated a
folly as it deserved, and grew heartily tired
the whole afl'air I fancy it did not answer w
on either side. Kate-that was the name of U
girl-was sufficiently full of complaints, if con
plaints are any signs of unhappiness. At las
to my great relief, the regiment was ordered
home. I left her as well provided for as peas
ble, but hardly had I sailed from the island whe
(as I afterward learned) she wrote for her sist
-a thing I had expressly forbidden. I~er excus
was that she felt sure of dying at the approach
ing birth of a second child. If that was tb
~ase, her foreboding was verified, for, as
chanced, she did die. The sister wrote to m
then with regard to the children-one, the be;
of whom I have already spoken, the other an in
fant, and I believe a girl. To be burdened witi
such dead-weights as these would have beci
tt snieSi1n~ In far ar my'
in life were concerned. A lawyer answered her
by my directions, offering a yearly sum for thel
support, provided I was never troubled with nn~
thing concerning them, and provided also tha
they did not bear my name. Since the entir
proof of the marriage rested with me~ to pro
duce or to suppress as I thought fit, she bad ~c
alternative but to consent. She gave, them hc
own name, and kept them with her until the bo~
grew toward manhood and became unmanage.
able. Then she addressed the agent through
whom the yearly stipend was paid, and request.
ed that some arrangement might be made, remov.
ing him from her control, also requesting that,
if necessary for this, the whole of the allowance
might he taken, as she was able to support the
sister herself This was accordinglyy done; and
the boy was played at school in England. lIe-
fore long he was expelled for some disgraceful
scrape. Then I took him, to see of what mate-
rial h~ really was, and soon found "
He stopped, for Mrs. Gordon had ripen again
to a sitting posture, and faced him in the gather.
ing, twilight with a look of horror that words can
naly fail to describe. It awed even him, seen
through the falling gloom; yet he recovered him-
self with a slight movement, as if to shake oil
some unconmious influence.

er "Well," he said, lightly, "what is the mat.
h- ter?"
he "What is his name?" she asked, in a tone
lie that fell sharply on the still air. Then, in a
I lower voice, "My God! It cannot be! It is too
so horrible even for you! What is his name?" she
ye cried, again, more sharply than before.
y     " You might know his name by this time,~~
)f he answered, in a tone of mingled disgust and
11 triumph that did not escape her highly-strung
ic ear. "The msn to whom you will give the Gor-
a- doja estate, if you still refuse to surrender ,Felix,
t, is the man you have so long scorned and hated,
d the man whom you have held as less than the
i- dust beneath your feet-is, in short, St. John!"
a For a full minute after that name was spoken,
w not a word further broke th~ silence of the room.
c Face to face they sat in the dusky gloaming,
i. the tempter and the tempted, and the only audi-
e ble sound was that, of Mrs. Gordon's breathing,
t which came in short, painful gasps, as she sat
e with her hand once more pressed to her side,
y trying to still the wild throbs of her heart, try.
ing to command her voice sufficiently to speak.
a She was silent so long that at last Gordon him-
a self broke the stillness.
S ~'The ~h~3ke i~ Iw.~k~re ycn,'~ Ian said. f'Sur-
render Felix, and I make him my heir; refuse,
and 1 shall prove my first marriage, which will
give the estate to St. John. I need not tell
you what is my choice in the matter. It will be
no pleasant task to acknowledge a son in one
- of the most profligate adventurers and swindlers
in Europe."
"And who made him either an adventurer or
a swindler?" she cried, with a sudden vehe-
* mence that startled her listener. "Who made
him a tool for all the base uses that your own
* hand disdained? Who taught him to scorn every
* law of God and man? If ho is your son-if you
have spoken truly-you have prepared for your-
self an heir who is worthy of you 1 If I surren-
dered Felix, it would be for the same result.
You wpuld make him what you have made this
poor instrument of your vices I Do you hear
me-do you believe me-when I tell you that I
would rather see him dead before me?"
"Do you think that Feli*x will appreciate
these heroics?" he asked, with a bitter sneer.
"Do you think that, if he lives, he will thank
you for having stood between him and his in-
heritance-for having made him virtually a beg-
gar ~
"If he has a drop of Morton blood in his
veins, he will thank me for having spared him

.1

the example of such a father, and the shame of
having purchased worldly prosperity-the enjoy-
ment of property that rightly belongs to another
-at the price of moral degradation."
"Then your decision is finally made?"
"Yes, it is made. Nothing that you can say,
nothing that you can do, will change it!"
He rose to his feat and half turned away, then
stopped a moment, and came back to her.
"I suppose you know that you have no right
whatever to this property which you are enjoy-
ing," he said, "that the law gives all control of
it to your husband, if I choose, I can sell this
house, and every acre of land you call your own,
to-morrow."
"I am not sure that the law gives you such
power," she answered. "But, granting that it
does, I have only one reply to make-try, if you
dare, to enforce it."
"Do you think that the law will stand your
friend, because you chance to be a Morton, and
to be at home ?
"I think-I know that the law is sometimes
powerless to act in the face of public opinion.
And, if it comes to an issue of high-handed
ia.trags like thi4 &amp; ~kc~ect wilt never Inek
friends or defenders in Lagrange."
"You may find yourself mistaken."
"We shall see. But, if you had the right,
and if you were able to enforce it, there would
be no difference. If I were obliged to live on
charity, or to beg my bread by the way-side, I
should still defy you. Let that be the last word
between us-the last I shall ever speak to you-
I defy you!"
"Very well," he said, grinding his teeth to-
gether in irrepressible rage.
Itecalling the scene afterward, Mrs. Gordon
wondered at her own fearlessness. She was en-
tirely alone, she was utterly helpless, and she
had good reason to know of old how brutal and
how reckless he could be. Yet she rose to her
feet in the excitement of passion, and uttered
those last quivering word3, like a haughty chal-
lenge.
He made a step forward, almost as it' he
would have struck her; but she did not quail.
She stood before him, like a pale wraith of a
woman, in the ghostly twilight, daring him to do
his worst. After a short interval of silence, that
worst came in the form of words.
"You have taken your choice," he said,
"and, indeed, you shall abide by it. I swear to
you that I will find Felix, and that I will make
you repent this defiance in sackcloth and ashes.

When I find him, and when your hour of repent-
ance comes, then I will see you again, and pot
before!"
His tone, often as she had heard it in mo-
ments like these~ involuntary made her shud-
der; it was so full of concentrated bitterness,
hatred, aiid revenge~ that the wonder was, not
that he had for a moment threatened her with
personal violence, but that, he was able to re-
strain himself from executing that threat. If
she had felt inclined to reply, he gave her no
time to do so, but left the room immediately
through the window by which he had entered.
As his shadow passed away, the woman-his
wife-sat down, sick and shuddering. It was
over. Was it over, or had~ she only waked from
a hideous dream? Had he really been there,
and had the last bitter defiance been exchanged
between them? Had she really told him that
Felix was safe from him, and, that, for herself,
she was ready to face the worst that malice, aided
by the strong arm of legal power, could devise
against her? Her head seemed giddy; she could
not tell. A darkness, that was not the darkness
of approaching night, closed round her. She
&amp; ~&amp;(&amp;     tO ery' aloud; hut it ~u4e4 in
a low, gurgling moan. Then she sank down on
the pillows.
Gordon, meanwhile, was walking quickly and
fiercely-as men always walk under the influence
of strong passion-round the house. It was not
by any means so late as it appeared in the room
he had quitted; but, still, dusk bad fallen, and
objects near at hand were becoming indistinct,
while those farther off were entirely wrapped in
obscurity'. This fact, together with great pre-
occupation of mind4 prevented his observing a
man who was nearing the terrace, as he e~nerged
from the shadow of the house, and descended the
stone steps that led down to the avenue.
He had scarcely taken half a dozen steps on
'the latter, when his path was barred; a voice,
quiet but somewhat menacing, said, "A word
with you, if you please," and, looking up, he
found himself face to face with St. John!
--4--
CHAPTER XLII.
THE THILESUOLD or MORTON uotis~.
IT was time that Morton Annesley had~atlsst
returned to Annendale, and thai Lagrange had a1~
last been rewarded for long and impatient wait-

ON THE THRESHOLD OF MORTON HOUSE.              241


242

MORTON HOUSE.

ing, by the appearance of the hero of the melo- quisite care into the other. Yet people corn.
drama it had arranged with so much artistic plain of this, and call it "unsatisfactory." if
skill, and such dramatic situations-arranged, they called themselves ungrateful, they would be
alas I for nothing. It was a very tame conclu. considerably nearer the truth.
siOn indeed, the crestfallen gossips thought, The day after Morton's return home, he went
when Annesley quietly came home, two or three to see Mrs. Gordon. The one following this-his
weeks after Miss Tresham's return, and looked third in Lagrange-he spent in Tallahoma, at.
and seemed, in every respect, very much as tending to various arrears of business. It was
usual. sunset when he left the town, and turned Ilde-
It was a very blessed conclusion, his mother rim's head in the direction of Annesdalc. His
thought, however; and her joy was so great that road led him past the Marks house, and some.
she even refrained from any reproaches or any thing in the hour and in the sight of the chil.
complaints of the long and bitter anxiety she had dren, who were playing in the garden, brought
endured-anxiety concealed as much as possible to his mind with singularly vivid remembrance
under a suave manner and a smiling face, but that November evening when he had stood at
suffered like the gnawing of a vulture, while La. the gate talking to Katharine, and Mrs. Gordon
grange talked itself hoarse, and her own heart went by-when her face entered for the first
was sick to the extreme of heart-sickness. It time the current of their existence. It is only
might have been that his pale face and listless as we pass on in life - only when we have
manner pleaded for him more powerfully than reached some height of time, and can thus over.
any words. He had suffered-he was suffering! look the road winding through the valley-that
After all, there is no excuse like that, especially the mist clears a little, and we begin to under.
to a woman. Of her own accord, and quite Si. stand the true significance of events that seemed
lently, Mrs. Annesky buried out of sight the purposeless or puzzling at the time of their oc.
tomahawk which had been kept in bright, sharp currency. To Annesley, looking back, it seemed
readiness for combat, during all this, period of as if every change of the last few months dated
absence. He was back again, he was safe-what froili that evening-as if all the perplexities and
did all the rest matter? It is true it mattered annoyances which had encompassed him took
sufficiently to fill her with an inexpressible mix- their rise then-as if the quieter life, and the
ture of relief and indignation when she heard hopes that had brightened it, went down into
that the girl against whom she had expended so darkness with that long- vanished day. He
much effoi't, the girl whom she had unhesitating- sighed a little to himself-a short, quick, half-
ly denounced as a scheming intri~qante, had ab' impatient sigh-then pulled his hat over his
solutely refused the grAnd chance of becoming eyes, and touched Ilderim with the spur. Ilde-
mistress of Annesdale, when the owner of Annes- rim, who always resented any liberty of this
dale had been insane enough to offer it to her. kind, immediately indulged in a few rearing
There is no exaggeration in saying that contend- and plunging exercises, which had the effect of
ing emotions nearly choked her when she heard diverting his master's attention from useless and
this; and that the relief and the indignation, by no means enlivening retrospection. When he
already mentioned, were at least equal in her was brought to terms, and had at last settled
breast. "Oh, what a blessing to be free at last into a sharp, steady canter, a proverb familiar
from that haunting dread, and yet-oh, how dare enough to a certain class of' thinkers was on
she, the miserable creature!" That was the Annesley's lips. "Ohs 8iV~c~~ sard!" he mut-
way thanksgiving and reproach were mingled to tered to himself. "After all, who can tell?
her. Is it not always so? Few things are more Every thing is for the best, no doubt. The only
singular than to consider how seldom in our lives difficulty-Soh, Ilderim! What the deuce is the
we have ever known a pure, unmixed emotion of matter with you, sir?"
any sort. Whether it be joy or sorrow, it is al- . He broke oft' with this impatient question, as
ways dashed by and blended with something Ilderim suddenly gave a bolt from one side of
else it is almost always complex in its nature. the road to the other. It was just where a foot-
God is good to us in this, as in all things else. pathled across some fields, and a stile crossed
Strong revulsions of feeling would be too power- the hedge that bordered the main road. As An-
Cal, if they came with unmixed force-if joy were nesley turned quickly to see what had caused
joy, and sorrow were sorrow, pure and simple, the fright, lie caught a glimpse of the top of a
not as now, the hues of each blended with cx- hat sinking below the hedge, and thinking that

U

I

ON THE THRESHOLD OF MORTON HOUSE.

243

some little imp had startled the horse for amuse-
mnent, and was now hiding from the probable
consequences, he gave Ilderim's bridle a per-
emptory jerk, and, in a good deal of a fume,
rode up to the stile. "Come out, you miserable
little' rascal," he said, "and let me tell you that
if you ever try such a trick as that again-"
He stopped short, full of amazement. In-
stead of a child, a man rose up from behind the
hedge, at his bidding, and, with the full glow of
sunset fallii~g on him, he recognized St. John.
They faced each other silently for an instant-
Annesley overcome by astonishment, St. John
full of mortified rage, and neither knowing what
to do or to say, until the adventurer, who, hav-
ing been most prepared for the encounter, broke
the awkward silence first.
"I beg your pardon~ he said, with a sort of
insolent defiance. "Did you speak to me?"
"I beg your pardon," answered Annesley,
recovering a' little. "No, I did not speak to
you. That is, when I spoke, I thought some
mischie~'ous boy had frightened my horse, and
was hiding behind the hedge. I had no idea it
was you-that is-I mean-"
"You had no idea that I was hiding behind
the hedge," said St. John, grimly. "Thank you,
Mr. Annesley, for that much courtesy. You are
right, too-I was not hiding. I have been in
the country to see a friend, and, returning to
Tallahoma by this short cut, I stopped here a
moment to rest. I regret to have startled your
horse. I know by experience that nothing is
more provoking. Good-evening."
Annesley returned the salutation, and rode
on; but as lie ro~le, he thought of the encounter,
and the longer he thought, the more singular it
appeared to him~ "That fellow is a slippery
scoundrel," he thought, "and I am ns certain as
I can possibly be of a thing I don't know, that
he was hiding when I startled him. 'A friend
in the country,' 'resting on the stile '-as if he
imagined I would credit such a story! What
the deuce is he up to, I wonder? He can't be
meaning to turn highwayman; and yet this looks
amazingly like it. Ah 1"
He pulled up Ilderim with a jerk that almost
threw that astonished horse on his haunches,
and stopped a minute in the road to think.
Like a flash, the recollection of Mrs. Gordon
came to him, and he remembered that this stile
was almost exactly opposite thegates of Mor~o~i
House. Was St. John on his way there ?-did his
appearance mean any thinglike annoyance to her?
Such a thought was enough to fire Annesley at

once. He did not stop to consider whether or
not it was probable-that it was possible, was
quite sufficient to put his blood in a glow. He
wheeled Ilderim about, and in a second was gal-
loping back along the road he hail come.
At the gates of Morton House, however, he
paused. He did not want to startle his cousin
unnecessarily, or make himself ridiculous, yet
he could not banish an uncomfortable impres-
sion that St. John's appearance in that particu-
lar place meant mischief: While he was still
debating what he should do, the thought of John
Warwick came to him as a sort of inspiration.
"He will know," he thought. "He has been on
the scene, and knows much more of matters
than I do. He may be able to tell what the fel-
low is after ;and, at all evekits, I need not star-
tle my cousin without first learning whether. or
not she is likely to be annoyed." Under such
circumstances, and with such a person, resolve
and execution are very nearly synonymous terms.
in the course of another minute, he was gal-
loping rapidly toward Tallahoma.
Dusk had fallen, as he rode down the village
street-his evident haste making more than one
person gaze curiously after him-and drew up
before Mr. Warwick's office just as that gen-
tleman, with his letter to Katharine's would-
be employer in his pocket, stepped into, the
street.
"Why, Annesley 1" he exclaimed, as the
eager horseman reined up at the curb-stone. "I
am glad to see you back," he continued, coming
forward with extended hand. "How are you?~~
"Tolerably well, thank you," said Annesley,
shaking hands absently, and in a great hurry.
"You won't be surprised, or think me very fool-
ish, if I ask you a rather abrupt question, will
you?" he added, quickly. "I have a special
reason for it."
"A lawyer has no business ever to be sur-
prised," replied Mr. Warwick, noticing the eager
concern on~he face before him. "Ask away-a
hundred if you like."
"Anybody in your office?"
"Not a souL"
The young man leaned out of his saddle, and
spoke low and -quickly. "You know more about
Mrs. Gordon's affairs thtin I do," he said. "Is
it possible that that fellow St. John could annoy
her in any way?"
The lawyer started a little.
"It is possible, certainly," he answered,
coolly; "but it is not at all probable~ Why do
you ask?"


244

MORTON HOUSE.

"Wecause I met him half an hour ago, at thi
gates of Morton House."
"What ". exclaimed Mr. Warwick, abap.
lutely recoiling a step in his amazement. "Yoc
must be mistaken, Morton," he went on hastily~
"It can't be-it is not possible-that you mel
St. John!"
I saw him as plainly as I see you, and
spoketo him, besides," answered Morton, some~
what surprised. "Why should it not be St.
John? He-"
"Never mind about that ~ interrupted the
other hastily. "If you are sure it was the man
himself__"
"I am-perfectly sure.~~
"Well, then, are you also sure that lie was
going to Morton House?"
"Not at all-as you may judge for yourself."
He then proceeded to detail the incident as it oc-
curred. "You see," he went on, when he had
finished, "it is all pure supposition on my part
-and for that reason, I would not run the risk
of disturbing my cousin until I had spoken to
you about it. If he can annoy her in any
way~~
"He can annoy her," interrupted Mr. War-
wick, "and his venturing to reappear here looks
very much as if he had that intention. You are
mounted, Annesley. You had better ride on to
Morton House at once-I will follow you as soon
as I possibly can."
"Then you really think-"
"Halo, George! Stop a minute!" cried
Mr. Warwick, suddenly interrupting him. And
when Morton turned, he saw that the person ad-
dresa~d was a young man who came riding down
the street in their rear. "Good-evening, Clay.
-ton," he said, recognizing one of the young
"men about town" of Tallahoma; and, ni Clay-
ton drew up and returned the salutation, Mr.
Warwick went on: "George, you~are going home,
are you not? I thought so Lend me your
horse, then, for an hour or so. I want to go to
the country in haste, and haven't time to wait
for my own."
"Certainly, Mr. Warwick," said the young
man, dismounting instantly. "He's quite at
your service,!' he continued, with evidently cor-
dial sincerity. "You ifeed not be in a hurry
about returning him; and, if you want to go any
distance, he's quite fresh-I've only been out to
the plantation and back." -
"Thank you," said Mr. Warwick, hastily,
and mounting the horse without loss of time. "I
am in a great hurry-it is most fortunate that

you happened to be passing, George. Good.
evening.-Now, Annesley!"
Annesley needed no second bidding, and side
by side the two men whom Fate. had of late
seemed capriciously determined to throw togeth-
er, rode out of town on their way to Morton
House. Considering thdt both horses were put
on their mettle, it was not surprising that in a
few minutes they reached the large iron gates of
the Morton domain, and, in still another min-
ute, were cantering up the avenue-looking al.
most like spectral horsemen as they rode rap-
idly under the bare trees in tIle dusky gloam-
ing.
Their anxiety and uncertainty had in some
intangible manner been communicated without
toy agency of speech; for certainly each knew
what the other was feeling, and yet certainly
also, not a word had been spoken on either side
after they left Clayton, standing full of surprise
and curiosity on the curb-stone in Tallahoma.
They were half-way between the gate and the
house when the first sound broke the stillness.
Suddenly, on the soft evening air, the report of
a pistol rang sharply out. Both horses sprang-
reared-plunged-and before a ward could be
exchanged-in the midst of the struggle for tJie
mastery, which ensued on the part of both
riders-two other reports followed in quick suc-
cession.
"What on earth can it be!" said Annealey,
as soon as Ilderim, quivering in every limb, was
again und~r his controL
Mr. Warwick did not answer. He gal loped
hastily forWarJ, and the other followed. In an-
other minute, they reached the terrace-steps,
and came upon a scene that neither of them ever
forgot.
The reports which they heard had evidently
startled the entire household. Notwithstanding
the obscurity of the twilight, they were aide to
see that figures were running eagerly round the
terrace and descending the steps, at the bottom
of which a confused movement was taking place.
A group of servants were bending over some ob-
ject, or objects on the ground; but they all
drew back instinctively as the two gentlemen
galloped up.
"What is it, Harrison?" asked Mr. War-
wick, almost before he drew rein.
~ The Lord only knows, sir," answered Har-
rison-evidently in a state of the wildest excite:
ment. - "Two men shot themselves sir --- right
here-and the first we knowed of it was when
we heard the reports. I was in the kitchen,

I

ON THE THRESHOLD OF MORTON HOUSE.

sir, and I jumped up and come a - running,
and "
"Stand back, all of you!" said Mr. Warwick,
impatiently. lie and Annesley pressed forward.
it was true. Two figures were lying on the
ground where there was every trace of a fierce
struggle-one slightly breathing with a pistol
still in his hand; the other fallen across the
lower step of the terrace-on the very threshold
of Morton House-stone dead!
For a moment, the unexpected horror or the
situation held both men powerless. They looked
at each other through the gathering shades of
evening, with white faces; but neither of them
said a word, until the thought of Mrs. Gordon
came to both. What had preceded this trage-
dy, they could not even guess; but it would
have been strange if their first care had not been
for her.
"You will see what can be done here," said
Annesley, after a moment. "I must go to my
cousin.
"Yes-go at once," answered Mr. Warwick,
quickly. "She must ~hav-e heard the reports,
and she may come- Stop that, by any means."
Morton did not think this likely; but he gave
one or two agile bounds up the terrace-steps,
and strode hastily toward the house. He had
not gone a dozen paces before he met Babette,
running in the direction of the scene of itetion,
wringing her hands, and crying aloud. She did
not recognize him, and he was forced to claim
her attention peremptorily before she would even
notice him. When she found who it was, how-
ever, she seized his arm with both hands, and
poured forth a pitiless lamentation.
"M'sieur, what is the matter?" cried she.
"I went in madame's room, a minute ago, an~ I
found her-poor lady-lying in a dead faint on
the sofa. I knew-nh, mon Dieu! I felt sure
that M'sieur Gordon had been there. Then I
heard the guns, and I saw all the servants run-
ning: but I could not leave madame, and
she-"
"Has she come to herself?" asked Morton,
who could not help thinking that a dead faint
was the best possible condition for Mrs. Gordon
just t~hen.
"I can do nothing with her!" cried l3abette,
hysterically. "I have tried to bring her to, but
I could do nothing with her; andl came to see
about the guns-O m'sieur, what is it ?-has
M'sieur Gordon-"
"You are just the person I" said Annesley,
interrupting her; and, much to her surprise, tak-

245

ing her, in turn, by the arm. He led her for-
ward, without giving her time for a word, and
stopped at the head of the steps.
"Here's Babette, Mr. Warwick," lie said.
"She will be able to tell more than anybody
else. My cousin, she says, is in a swoon. Why
don't you send for lights?"
"I have done so," answered Mr. Warwick's
voice out of the dusk. "There they come now."
They came as he spoke-three or four ex-
cited negroes running as hard as possible, some
with candles, which they shaded with their
hands, and some with pine-torches caught from
the kitchen fire-the red flames streaming out
wildly on the night air, and lighting up the
whole scene with the peculiar glare that only
pine produces. It was a singularly picturesque
group, if anybody concerned had been able to
think even for a moment of its possible effect.
Afterward Annesley remembered h6w hp stood
at the top of the steps holding the trembling,
sobbing Frenchwoman by the arm; how Mr.
Warwick directed every thing below how he
glanced back at the grim old house behind them,
thinking of thd insensible woman within it; how,
at that moment, a shrill, piercing scream from
Babette made him look round again; how the red
glow of the torches fell just then full ~n the
face of the dead man, and how he shivered from
head to foot as his companion cried wildly:
"Ah, mon Dieu l-M'sieur Gordon!"
An hour later, Mr. Warwick came out to An-
n~shmy, who had left the house and was walking
up nnd down the terrace before the front en-
trance. Mrs. Gordon insisted upon being left
alone with the dead body of her husband, and
the doctors were in consultation over St. John,
so there had been nothing for Morton to do; and
he had come out to see if he could not shake off
the numbing horror that seemed to oppress him,
in the fresh air, and under the great, silent can-
opy of heaven lie had not made maci-a thnn
half a dozen turns, however, and the cigar he
had mechanically taken out was 5till unlighted
in his hand, when the lawyer walked up to
him.
"The doctors have decided that there is no
possible hope ~'or that poor fellow," he said.
"The ball has entered his lung in a place which
renders extraction impossible; and, death must
take place in a few hours-probably sooner. He
has recovered consciousness, and I think his sis-
ter ought to be summoned Morton you must
go for her."


/

246

MORTON HOUSE.

"For his sister!" repeated Morton, in bc
wildermeat, As much as he had time to think
he was certainly inclined to believe that Mi
Warwick had taken leave of his senses.
"I forgot that you did not know," said th
etiher. "Miss Tresham is his sister; and she i
at Ra~'nor's-George Raynor's. Will you go fo:
her?"
"I-of course, instantly," said Annesley
swallowing this new cause for astonishmeni
with a great gulp. "But-if you will excus
me-are you sure-is there no mistake-"
"I am quite sure," answered Mr. Warwick
cutting him short. "There is no mistake what.
ever about her being his sister; but it is a long
story, and I cannot begin to tell it now. Takc
every thing for granted, my good fellow, and go
at once-remember, it is a case of life and
death."
"I am not likely to forget that," the other
replied.
Nothing more was said by either. Mien,
when they know they can rely on each other,
are not much given to speech. With his Un-
lighted cigar still between his fingers, Annesley
walked away to the stables where some officious
servant had taken Ilderim, while Mr. Warwick
~vent back into the house. His fpot fell softly as
in crossing the hall he passed a closed door,
under which shone a stream of light. As he
sprang into the saddle, he chanced to turn
one look at the honac, and caught the same
ligl~t-shining steadily over the terrace from a
flower-wreathed window. lie drew his breath
quickly at sight of it, for he knew what it meant
-he knew that in the room ~vhere little more
than an hour before the last bitter defiance had
passed between them, the widow now watched by
her husband's corpse.
He had no time for reflection, however. "Re-
member, it is a case of life and death," Mr.
Warwick ~a4 said; and the young man, as he
had answ, Was not likely to forget it. lie
gave fld~r~*n ~ sharp taste of the 'obnoxious
spurs, aa~ nfter. one wild plunge, was away-cut-
ting straight across the park, and taking a plan.
station by-way that led through the fields to the
Raynor estate. He did not trouble himself
much about gates or bars; but when he came
to ~ fence-and fences, it seemed to him, had
never before been so numerous-gave Ilderim
his head, and went straight at it.
At this rate, it was Dot long 'before he came
in sight of the Raynor house-or rather,~of the
Ilaynor out-buildings; for his approach was

madefrom the rear. Fortunately, he knew the
:, place well, and was at no loss where or how to
proceed. Opening one of the usual large plan-
tation gates, he let himself into the stable-ydrd,
a and riding forward soon came upon a group of
servants lazily talking and smoking together.
"Here, one of you boys," he said, startling
them very much by his unexpected appearance,
"take my horse, while I go to the house. Is
your master at home?"
"Yes, sir- Mass George's at home," an-
swered several of the astonished boys. Then
two or three of them advanced. "It's Mass
* ilenry Dargan, ain't it?" asked the first; for
the starlight made personal appearance very
much a matter of conjecture.
"No-it's Mass Morton Annesley," said an-
* other, before Morton himself could reply. "I
knows his horse.-Shall I put him up for you,
Mr. Annesley?"
"No" - answered Anuesley. He stopped
and thought a moment. "Is Chancy in the
stable?" he asked.
"Yes, sir-been up all day."
"Change my saddle to him, then, and put a
side-saddle on Ilderiin. Make haste about it,
and when they are ready, bring them both to
the house. Do you understand?"
"A side-saddle, sir?"
"Yes-i~ side-saddle. Don't waste time over
it. Change my saddle as quickly as you can, and
bring the horses on."
He walked away, leaving the astonished
grooms to bewilder themselves with conjectures
about this strange order, and took a familiar
path to the house. Following it directly, he soon
found himself on a side piazza, and, looking
through a glass door, saw that the family were
at supper. Involuntarily, he stopped a minute-
he began to realize now that it was hard to take
the next step.
Standing thus, he saw Katharine for the
first time since that well-remembered day at
Bellefont. She was looking pale, hut very pret-
ty, he thought, as he watched her sitting exactly
opposite the door through which he made his
observation. The family party was not large,
and supper-if the light meal merited such a
heavy name-was set very informally ona small
round table. George Raynor, with his crutches
beside him, was comfortably established on one
side of this, while his wife poured out coffee on
the other. Irene Vernon, with a book in her
hand, stood by the hearth, where a servant was
toasting bread. Being the person most disen-

4

gaged, she first caught a glimpse of Annesley's
farce through the glass door, and made a slight
exclamation. After that, he had no alternative
but to push it open, and enter.
CHAPTER XLIII.
THS VALLEY or THE SHADOW OF DEATH.
SOHETHING in Annesley's face and manner
told his story for him as soon as he came in up.
on the astonished group. Raynor was the first
person who looked up as the door opened, and
he made the first echo of Miss Vernon's excla-
mation.
"Why, Annesley!" he cried, making an
effort to rise, and sinking back again, when he
remembered his leg. "Good Heavens, Morton!
What is the matter?"
Morton came forward, and tried to smile, as
he held out his hand.
"You must excuse my being so unceremoni-
ens," he said. "I came through the stable-yard,
and followed the side-path to the house. I hope
you are all well. It was a shame to startle you
sol- indeed, Mrs. Raynor, you need not be
alarmed. Nothing is the matter, 1 assure you-
at least nothing that concerns you."
"Something that concerns~ somebody else,
theii," said Raynor, impatiently. "The deuce,
man i-don't try to tell us that nothing is the
matter when you look like this! What is it?"
"1 have come for Miss Tresham," said An-
miesley, looking at Katharine, and thinking-
poor fellow !-that he had better make a desper-
ate plunge into the matter at once. Impulsively,
he went over and took her hands-there was
something very pitying in his face and eyes;
"I am very sorry for you," he said, "I mustbeg
you to come with me at once. You are wanted
-at Morton House."
"Wanted !-by whom?" she asked, for Mor-
ton House was the last place she could possibly
have expected him to name.
"Wanted by "-he hesitated a moment-" by
Mr. St. John. He has been in a difficulty, and, I.
am sorry to say, is badly wounded."
"Ah I" she gave a low cry, and grew sud-
denly pale. "But-but he cannot be there!"
"Yes, he is there. I cannot tell you any
more now," he went on, hastily, as he saw the
amazement in her dilated eyes. "You had bet-
ter change your dress at once. I have ordered
a horse for you-it will b~ the quickest way of

THE VALLEY OF THE

SHADOW    OF DEATH.                  247
reaching Morton House. The sooner we start
the better."
"Is-" She stopped, and drawing her hand
out of his clasp, clutched nervously at the back
of the chair from which she had risen, while her
words came with a slight gasp-..-" is he dying?"
Annesley did not answer, but, being inexperi-
enced in dissimulation, his face answered for him.
Everybodywho was looking on read the reply
written there as plainly as Katharine did. She
gave a shuddering sigh, put her hands to her
face for an instant, then let them fall, and
turned to leave the room.
"I will be ready in a minute," she said, in a
repressed sort of voice.
"I will help you," said Miss Vernon, break-
ing the trance of surprise that held them all.
She came forward quickly, and drew the girl's
hand into her arm. There was something very
gentle in the action, and in her face, as she
looked back at Annesley.-" She shall be ready
hi a minute," she said. "Don't fear any de-
lay."
They passed out of the room, and then Mor-
ton was beset by questions-to which he gave
very~unsatisfactory answers indeed. "I don't
know much more about the matter than you do,"
he said, at last. "And of what I do knew, I am
bound to say nothing, because it is no affair of
mine. You may hear all about it soon-God
knows: I don't. Who is shot? That poor fel-
low St John, for one, I can tell you.-George, I
had a side-saddle put on Ilderim for Miss Tresh-
am, and ordered out Charley for myself. You
don't object, do you?"
"Object! Of course not," said George.
"Chancy has been standing up in the stable eat-
ing his head ofl ever since I broke my leg. But,
Morton, you can at least tell us what this-St.
John is his name ?-has to do with Miss Tresh-
am?"
"No, I can't," answered Morton. "Miss
Tresham will very likely tell you herself," he
continued; "until then, my dear fellow, you
must restrain your curiosity as best you can.-
Mrs. Raynor, will you give me a cup of coffee?
I have had no supper this evening."
He made the right eiversiou. With all a
woman's ready sympathy, Mrs. Raynor was at
once intent upon administering to his bodily
wants, even in preference to the gratification of
her own curiosity. Notwithstanding hi~ pro-
test, she insisted upon making him eit as well as
drink, and she was so full of this important
matter, that she did not find time to ask anotli-


er question, before Miss Vernon and Katharine
came back, the latter equipped and ready to
start.
"Mr. Annesley, are you not afraid to put her
on that wild horse?" Miss Vernon asked, as
they stood on the piazza and Morton led Ilderim
up. "Minnie is in the stable. Surely she would
do."
"She would do excellently well for a pleas-
nrc - ride," answered Annesley; "but not for
such a purpose as this. Charley is by no
means safe," he added, "so Ilderim is our Only
resource.-Miss Tresham are you afraid of
him?."
"Not in the least," Katharine answered.
"I should not be afraid of any thing, Mr.
.Anneslcy, that would take me there at once."
"Ilderim will take you there like light-
ning," he said, lifting her to the saddle. And,
as he said it, a sharp recollection came to both
of them of the evening when ~'he had given the
name which had come to bear~such a sigiiifi-
canoe1 "Ilderim-it signifies 'the Lightning,"'
she had said; and now it rested with Ilderim
whether or not she should reach her brother's
death-bed in time to hear or to speak one last
word of love, or pardon, or hope. "Oh!" site
said, under her breath, "do you remember?"
just as Annesley for his part said, "Do you re-
member?" then added quickly, "You are riding
him at last."
"Take care of her, Mr. Annesley,~~ came
from the piazza, in Miss Vernon's voice. It
was the Inst sound that followed them as they
rode away.
"Where are we going?" Katharine asked,
as they passed out of the stable-gate to~ether.
"This is not the road to Morton House."
"Yes, it is-the shortest road," he answered.
"A cut across the plantations which will take
off ~two or three miles of the distance. Are you I
afraid?"
"Afraid-with yOu? Oh, no."
She said the words very simply, but, out of 1
their very simplicity, they touched him deeply, 1
making that strange, lonely ride-that gallop at I
full speed across the great silent fields, and now 1
and then through a dark stretch of woods full 12
of the weird, inarticulate voices of the Night- 12
an era in his lifeto be ever remembered. What ~
man is wise enough to be able to tell when pas. I:
sion is born, when it reaches its full height, or
when it dies?' Does the turn~of the tide always Ii
come when the waves have reached their highest ii
point? As they rode along, with the hoof. h

MORTON

248

* ~

248                                                                                                                      THE VALLEY     OF THE SHADOW      OF DEATH.                  249
strokes of their horses the only audible sour~d,
themselves uttering scarcely a word, Nature in
silent grandeur all around them, man so far
distant, and the great hosts of heaven march.
lag steadily overhead, it seemed to Annesley
as if much that had before been unintelligible
was now made plain to him, lie could not
possibly have given expression to the different
emotions that swayed him, to the different
thoughts that came to him, or to the strange
flux and reflux of feeling that possessed him.
But all the same, these things left their mark
upon his life-all the same, he looked back af-
terward to this night as to one of those peri-
ods of transition which every human soul must
undergo. The forces may be long in marshal-
ling, the causes may be long in preparing their
effects, but we may know the thrill of final issue
when it comes, even though we may not know
till long afterward the final result.
Annesley had no means of judging what
length of time they had been on the road, when
at last they reined up before the door of the
great stables of Morton House, and, springing
to the ground himself, he received the slight,
swaying form of his companion in his arms.
"Courage, Miss ~fresham I Here we are at
last!" he said, kindly. "Don't give way now,
after holding out so well. Shall I send for
some wine for you, or shall we go to the house
at once?"
"Let us go," she answered, panting slight-
ly. "We must not wait a minute. He-O Mr.
Annesley, do you think he is alive?"
"Let us trust so. But you ought to have
something to strengthen you before-"
"No," she interrupted, with feverish eager.
aess. "Take me in. I-I am quite well."
"Just as you please," he said, with that
considerationn which comes from the heart, and
~nows, therefore, when it is vain to press even
hat which is best on an unwilling recipient.
lie drew her hand into his arm, and she remain-
)cred afterward how gently and carefully he
ed her to the house, speaking now and then
dnd words of cheer and comfort. During the
ast half-hour of their ride, he had told her all
to knew of what had occurred, and who had
can St. John's adversary in the quarrel that had
ndcd so fatally. Shocked she was, undoubted.
y; but almost less so than he had expected.
Jt is horrible-horrible for Mrs. Gordon-that
~e should have been killed there," she said,
rith a shudder; "but, oh~ you cannot tell how
is influence has led St. .~ohn astray, and how

much this seems to me like retribution!',
That ~vas all she said of the man who had so
suddenly and so fearfully gone to his account. All
her thoughts seemed filled by her brother. An-
nesley was astonished to hear with how much
tenderness she spoke of him; he could not tell
how the news of his danger and extremity cart
ned her heart back to the days when they had
been children together, and loved each other as
only children can love. All the intermediate
time of terror and repulsion, of shame and dis-
grace, was swept out of her memory. He was
her brother, that was enough.
As they neared the house, Annesley pointed
to the light which streamed from the windows
of Mrs. Gordon's room-the room where Katha-
rine had spent the first evening of their acquaint-
ance.
"My cousin's husband was here this after.
noon," he said. "He must have seen her in that
room, and, as well as we can judge, had just left
her, whan-when this took place. His body is
there now."
"And she?"
"Is with it."
The girl looked at the light and shivered,
Vaguely and dimly she wondered at the possible
depths of emotion existing so near her. Out of
her own anxiety, she had time for a throb of pity
toward the woman who, under the roof that had
sheltered her girlhood, received the dead body of
the man she had once loved, and, through love,
learned to hate.
"Does she know how-how it occurred?"
she asked.
"She knows all that we do," Annesley an-
swered; "but that is not much. This is the,
door, Miss Tresham."
He led her into the house, and the first per~
son whom they met was Mr. Warwick.
"Thank Heaven, you have come at last I" he
said. "I thought you would be too late. He is
sinking rapidly.-Miss Tresham are you able to
see him at once?"
"Oh, yes, yes-at once," she said.
"Then bring her on, Annesley-this way."
Haled the way, and Annesley with Katharine
followed. St. John had been insensible when
he was brought into the house, so they had
carried him up-stairs, to one of the chambers.
It chanced to be the one that had been occupied
by Felix, and the first thing that met Katharine's
eye, as she entered the door, was a number of
boyish playthings arranged carefully at the end
of the room. The hobby-horse, drum, and gayly.

painted bow and arrows, made a strange contrast
to a table near by, which was covered with sur-
gical instruments and an open medicine-case,
such as doctors practising in the country always
carry; and to the bed, wit1~ its muslin curtains
thrown completely over the old-fashioned can-
opy, while the bandaged form of the wounded
man rested on top of the coverings. Two doe.
tors were in the room-the only two of any skill
that Lagrange could boast. One of them was
sitting by the bed, the other stood by the table,
measuring out some medicine, when Katharine
entered. Mr. Warwick walked up to the latter.
"Here is Miss Tresharn, doctor," he said.
"I suppose there is no danger of her exciting the
patient too much?"
"I suppose not," answered the doctor, a little
ungraciously. He looked keenly and somewhat
suspiciously at Miss Tresham. He did not un-
derstand matters at all, and he did not care to
conceal his resentment of this fact. Who was
Mr. St. John ?-how had he been shot ?-what
was this about a dead man in the house ?-what
the deuce did this girl, whom he knew as the*
subject of a great deal of Lagrange gossip, have
to do with it all? Doctors are subject to the
infirmities of human curiosity as well as other
men, and do not like to be kept in the dark a
whit better. Perhaps this doctor liked ita shade
less, as ha tone showed, when he said, stiffly:
"I suppose not-the patient is considerably past
being harmed by any thing."
"Oh, doctor, is there no hope?" asked a
voice, against the pathetic sweetness of which
even the doctor was not proof. He glanced
quickly at the gray eyes lifted to his face-then
looked away again.
"I thought you would have told her that the
man must die," he said, addressing Mr. War-
wick.
"He did tell me-that is, I have heard it,"
said Katharine, before the lawyer could speak.
"Only I thought I would like to hear your opin-
ion myself. He is my brother," she added, after'
a momentary pause. "You will forgive me for
asking how long he can live?"
"That is a question which it is hard for me
to answer," said the deetor, more gently than
might have been expected; then he shot a glance
half questioning, half indignant, at Mv. Warwick
"Mr. St. John's wound is mortal," he went on;
"but in these eases it is hard to' determine ex-
actly when death will ensue, so much depends
on the vital power of the system. He may live
two or three hours-possibly even through the

249

I'


250

MORTON HOUSE.

night-or he may die within ten minutes. I cas
not tell."
"Which do you think most probable?"
"As far as I can judge, he is sinking rapidly
He has already lived longer than I anticipated.'
Annesley, on whose arm she still leaned, fel
her shudder from head to foot; but ehe sak
nothing. Her face grew a shade whiter, perhaps
and her lips set themselves with painful rigidity
but that was all. The doctor thought to himaci:
that she had no feeling. "She ealls the pooi
man her brother, and takes the news of his cer
tam death like this! ". he thought, as she drei~
her hand from Morton's arm, and crossed the
floor alone, to the side of the bed.
St. Jo~in lay in what was apparently a deep
stupor, Or what was, perhaps, the prostration
which precedes dissolution, and verges on insen-
sibility. The henidrrhage from his wound had
been so excessive that his face was bleached to
a deathly pallor; but otherwise it showed 'no
signs of the approaching death which the doctor
prophesied. Looking' at him, Katharine could
scarcely believe that it was indeed so near, un-
til suddenly a sharp convulsion of agony passed
over the face, and roused it from its repose.
The lips sprang apart, then closed tightly over a
groan, while the eyes opened full on her face.
In an instant she saw that he was perfectly con~-
scions. As soon as the paroxysm abated-it did
not last more than a minute-he strove to speak,
but, failing in this, lifted his hand, and motioned
her to come nearer. The doctor silently resigned
his seat, and, sinking into it, she bent her face
down almost on a level with his own, while her
hands clasped eagerly over the one he had ex-
tended.
"Don't try to talk, dear," she said, gently.
"Here 1 am-l shall not leave you."
"You won't be needed long," he answered.
His voice was very weak, and had a slight eat~h
between the words; but otherwise there was no
change, and the old mocking cadence still rang in
its notes.
"Oh, St.. John-" Her own voice broke down
hi the quiver of sobs that were hastily choked
back. 'This was x&amp;either thue nor place for them
-espcciall~ since 'the doctor's hand was laid
heavily on her shoulder, and the doctor's voice
said in her ear, "The least excitement will kill
him in a minute." She fought hard for self-con.
trol, and after time gained it. At last she was
able to say, quietly, "I will not leave you-but
pray keep quiet. The doctor says the least ex-
citement is very dangerous."

"Confound the doctor!" answered St John,
peevishly, apparently quite unconscious that this
personage stood just by his side. "What is the
use of keeping quiet?" he went on. "Why,"
with a singular inflection of contempt, "I know,
t as well as he does, that I'm done 'for! Only
I there's one or two things I must say to you, if-
if I can."
"Don't try-oh, pray don't try!"
r "I must, I tell you!" This quite impatiently
* -then, more faintly, "Water-my throat is dry-
* I-can hardly talk."
Katharine turned, but the doctor was al-
ready at hand, with a glass of water in which a
stimulant was infused. "He is sinking fast," he
said, as he leaned over her. "If he has any
* thing on his mind, let him say it. H~ may go
off any moment."
lint, after dAnking the water, St. John seemed
to sink hack into stupor. Holding his hand,
Katharine chanced to rest her fingers on the
pulse, and she was startled to feel how weak and
slow it was. Life was ebbing fast-even her
inexperience began to appreciate this, especially
when she noted that awful grayness which is the
first shadow of approaching dissolution, and
which no one, who has seen it once, can ever
forget or mistake,' 'stealing over the face. lie
looked very handsome as he lay with closed
eyes, and slightly-heaving chest. All that was
repulsive about the face seemed to have been
fined away as by a sharp chisel. The features
stood out with the pure clearness of sculptured
marble, and the dark lashes and brows made the
only contrast to the deadly.white pallor of the
complexion. Mr. Warwick and Annesley ex-
changed a glance-was it only imagination, or
did they notice a strange, subtle likeness coming
out on this face, to that other lhce lying evcn
more still and white, below? .iust now, they
thought it was imagination, but afterward-when
the full horror of the truth was known to them-
they knew that fancy had not played them false,
but that the hand of death had brought out with
a force not to be mistaken the trace and the
proof of common blood~
Se~'eral mimtes passed, then Mr. Warwick
came up ~o Katharine, and, standing in the shade
behind her chair, bent down and spoke.
"If he rouses again, you must ask him how
this occurred," he said. "The other man is
dead, and it is important'that we should know."
"Very well," she answered, under her breath
-and just at that moment, with a slight start,
St. John opened his eyes.

'I

I

I

I

THE VALLEY OF THF

"Katharine-are you there?" he asked, his
voice having become much weaker since he spoke
last.
"Yes, I am here," she answered, bending for-
ward so that he could see her. "Is there any
thing lean do for you?"
He muttered something, but so low that she
did not catch his words. Then, while she was
still straining her ears, he turned his head, and
said abruptly," Is Gordon dead?"
Katharine had been so entirely unprepared
for such a question, that she did not know what
to reply; she did not know what the effect might
be of the unsoftened truth. She looked at the
doctor; but the doctor's face was non-expressive
-at Annesley, but there was nothing to direct
her there. It was not until Mr. Warwick said,
in a low voice, "Tell him," that she found cour-
ag6 to answer.
"Yes, St. John; he is dead."
You are sure ?
"lam quite sure.~~
There was silence after this. St. John drew
a deep breath-to every one of the bystand-
ers it sounded almost like a sigh of relief-and
*      lay quiet for some time. Katharine was on the
point of speaking again, when he anticipated
her, uttering his words faintly, and with evident
*      effort.
"So that is settled," he said. "Well, I
didn't mean to kill him; but I should be a cant-
ing hypocrite if I said it was not a good riddance
*     to everybody! He tried me too far," he went
on, gathering a little more strength. " It was
all his fault-not mine. He was in one of the
devil's own rages, and I was desperate. They
have told you all about it, I suppose, Katharine."
"How could they?" she answered sadly.
*      "Nobody knows any thing about it."
"Don't they?" said he, with the old mock.
ing sneer on his white lip. "It would be a pity
if their curiosity should never be gratified. Of
course, you know how it was, though.. When a
man is hungry, and footsore, and penniless, he is
next to a wild beast, and I was all those things,
a f~w hours ago. I knew Gordon would be here
about this time; and I bad been wandering about
the country for days; keeping a sharp lookout
for him. At last I met a boy-to-day, was it?-
who had driven him to Tallahoma. Then I came
on as quickly as possible, and I thought Morton
House would be the best place to find him-the
safest place for me, that is. Just as Igot to the
terrace, he came down the steps. It seemed be
'had found out that the child was gone, and that

SHADOW    OF DEATh.                  251
his wife was out of his power. If you knew any
thing about him, you'd know what sortof a scene
we had then. He was out of his head with fury,'
especially against me, who had brought him here
for nothing, while I was jus1~ as ready as not t&amp;
have out all the old scores I There was plenty
of them, for I had been his eat's-paw for many a
day, with mo~t of the labor, and all the risk,
and hardly a taste of th~ profit. I told him he
should not stir till he had promised to give me
something-any thing-to live on, and, in that
case, I engaged never to come near him again.
He had not sense enough to close with the offer
-considering all that had gone before, an amaz-
ingly liberal one, I can tell you-but he dared to
say that he would give half his fortune to take
me to the gallows, but not a penny to keep me
from it. At that, [lost my temper. I-oh, this
cursed throat! Give me some water."
It was given to him, and, after drinking, he
went on of his own accord:
"You need not think I fired without provo-
cation at an unarmed man. I did not mean to
use the pistol-in fact, it was in my pocket, and
I had forgotten all about it. I would not have
touched it, if I had not. been at a terrible dis-
advantage. But he fought like a tiger, and he
soon got the better of me. In th~ scuffle the
d-d thing went off, and gave me this wound.
Then I knew I was done for, and the devil en-
tered m~, and I was determined to kill him. I
managed to draw it, and fired twice. I-I don't
believe he stirred afterward."
"He is exciting himself too much," said doc-
tor No. 2, in the midst of the pause wh~eh fol-
lowed tho last words-words over which' the
dying man's voice had sunk into inarticulate
weakness. "He will kill himself in ten minutes,
at this rate! Miss Tresharn, you must not let
him talk."
"But I will talk," interrupted St. John. "If
I choose to kill myself in ten minutes, whose
business is itt? Not yours, at any rate I-Katha-
rine, I-I have something to say to you."
"Had you not better be quiet, dear?"
"I can't think what it was"-a strange gasp.
lug and catching was now audible in the weak
voice, the gray shade stole more plainly over the
face, and an awe settled on those around him.
"I-yes, I wanted to tell you that I am sorry
I have been such a drag and terror on your life~'
I don't know, but-but it seems now' as' it' I
might-perhaps-do a little better, if it were to
live over again. It is too late now for any thing
of that sort; but-I am sorry."


252

MORTON HOUSE.

"Oh, St. John!" The tears cagie now in a "Katy.-.little Katy," he murmured. And
hot, burning shower, as she sank on her knees just at the words: "Oh, let it not be said that I
by the bed. "Oh, my brother-my dear7 dear have perished where no one ever found but grace
brother! don't you know-can't you tell-~iow and salvation," there came one strong shiver and
little it all seems? It was my fault too-don't all was over.
think it was all yours. If it were-oh, if' it were
to live over, I should be more patient, more lov-           -4--
ing, more kind-then all might bedifferent. But,
dear love, try to think of your soul, and of God. CHAI'TEIt XLJV.
Oh, remember how near death is!  St. John,               IN THE DAWN.
have you quit~ forgotten and disowned the dear
Lord who died for you?  Oh, try, try to make.  THE first gray chill of' daylight was stealing
one good act of contrition-it is all you can do, over the terrace and gardens of the house, when
but lie is strong enough to do the rest." Mrs. Gordon's door at last opened, and coming
out she asked a servant, who was loitering and
How strangely his faltering tones contrasted shivering in the ball, where Mr. Warwick was.
with her passionate accents! All was silent "He's in the dining-room, ma'am," answered
around. The figures about the bed might have the boy. "Mus' I tell him you want him?"
been. of graven stone, for all the sign of life they "No-I will go myself."
gave by word or movement. It seemed as if the She walked a few steps, then stopped and
forces of Good and Evil had met to fight their turned round.
last awful combat over this erring soul.      "Is he quite alone?" she asked. "Is there
"Oh, try!" she cried, "for God's sake, try~ nobody with him?"
Think-think that you may have to face Him in "Nobody at all, ma'am; the doctor is gone,
another minute! You are sorry for all this life and Mass Morton, he went up-stairs a minute
of sin and violence, areKyon not?" ago."
He murmured something in reply. The oth- Thus reassured, she walked forward, and
ers could not heni' it, but she did. Whatever it ojiened the dining-room door. A fire was burn-
was, rt must have been affirmative, for she lifted ing on the hearth, and throwing its flickering
&amp; crucifix, which was attached to a rosary at her light over the walls panelled in old-fashioned
~girdle, and held it before his eyes. "Try to fol- style, and the portraits hung round them. It also
low me," she said, and then she poured forth a threw a fantastic glow over the face of Mr. War-
fervent Act of Contrition. It was only the ordi. wick, who had leaned back in a deep arm-chair,
nary form, but her voice uttered it with a pas. and quietly fallen asleep. This sleep was only a
*ion and pathos that touched the heait more light doze, however, for the opening of the dooi~
than any pomp of language could have done. lit roused him at once, and he started when he saw
was the very cry of' an anguished, shipwrecked the figure that came across the floor toward
soul, moimting in its last dire extremity to Him him.
who once ended His bitter passion on Calvary. "Mrs. Gordon!" he exclaimed, not quite
St. John tried to follow; but strength was fail- sure in the dim light whether or not
Ing fast. When she held the crucifix to his lips, played him false,          his sight
be l~issed the sacred figure fastened thereon; "Don't let me disturb you," said Mrs. Gor-
but he could not articulate any longer. The don, as he rose. "If I had finown that you were
awful moment of final agony had come. God sleeping, I should not have come in. You must
and the pitying angels only knew what strong he very tired."
and powerful wrestling in passionate supplication "No-not tired at all," he said, moving a
the girl beside him did, during that short time, chair toward her. "Fray sit down-you look
One familiar prayer after another rose from her very weak. Can I get any thing for you-any
lips; and at last, by a sudden impulse, she began thing in the way of stimulant or refreshment?"
the "Memorare" In a second, something like Her pale lips answered, but no sound was
the light of conscious life flashed into the fail- audible. She shook her head, and, sinking into
ing eyes. The lids lifted, the lips faintly smiled the chair he had placed for her, motioned him to
-the souud of the long-forgotten but still la- resume his own seat. As he turned to do so, he
sniliar words had apparently taken the thoughts perceived the pale, gray daylight wl4ch began to
of the dying man far back into his childhood, struggle through the blinds of a window at the

N
25~

IN T HE DAWN.

end of the room, and, walking to it, threw them
open. He felt as if it might be possible to th,~ow
off something of the ghastly horror of the night
with these first tokens of God's day.
When he came back to the fire, he was star-
tled to see the change which the last few hours
had made in Mrs. Gordon's appearance. She
looked inconceivable old and haggard, as she sat
there in the pale morning light-inconceivably
worse than he could have imagined that even the
* long watches of this fearful night would have
made her look. Before he could speak, she an.
ticipated him.
"Sit down," she said. "I have something
to say to you, and I can say it better now than
hereafter." She paused a moment, then added,
gently, "Is that poor man np-stairs dead?"
"Yes," he atiswered, a little surprised, not at
the question itself', but at the tone of it. "Yes,
he is dead-he has been dead for several hours."
She gave a deep sigh, and, leaning back,
closed her eyes. There are few stranger things
in this strange world than the similarity and asso-
ciation of sound. This sigh immediately recalled
to Mr. Warwick's mind the sigh which St. John
had uttered on hearing of Gbrdon's death. In
both there was a cadence of' unmistakable re-
lief which his car was able to detect, though it
had been mingled with a singular chord of other
emotions. Some instinct warned him that he
was not yet at the end of this night's eventful
history-that there was something yet to hear,
something yet to do, before the sun should rise.
Thinking of this, he did not observe that Mrs.
Gordon uneloted her eyes) and when she spoke,
her voice startled him.
"Where is Miss Tresham?" she asked.
"Was she sent for? Ta she here?"
"Miss Tresham is here," he anawered-theit
added, after a second, "she is lying down, I
believe. The agitation which she underwent
at her brother's death was too much for her.
He had scarcely ceased to breathe) when she
fainted."
"But she has recovered-has she not?"
"So the servants tell me. I have not seen
her since I carried her out of the room."
"Bjibette is an excellent nurse," said Mrs.
Gordon, with more interest than he had expect-
ed. "Has she seen her?"
"She is with her now, I think."
"Ah I" with a faint sigh, "then she is in
good hands. There iS no fear of her dying," she
went on, a little bitterly. "Neither grief nor
trouble is merciful enough to kill. Twill speak
17

of her again, after a while. Now, I should like
to ask you something else. Did he-did St.
John-give any account before he died of how
all this occurred i'"
"Yes; just before he died, he told his sister."
He then related all that the dying man bad said,
adding, when it i~as over: "Every thing goes to
corroborate this statement. The time at which
Morton met him-the time we occupied in com-
ing from Tallahoma-the shots we beard, and the
condition in which we found the two men. The
doctors also say that the position of the wound
proves it was given accideiftally aild in the man-
ncr described."
"Then there is no doubt that he killed my-
my husband?"
"There is no doubt of that. I can only ask
you to think for a moment of his provocation,
and you will scarcely be able to condemn him,
as we condemn a cold-blooded murderer."
"Condemn him!" Her tone and manner
surprised the lawyer somuch that he could only
gaze at her in astonishment. Excitement sprang
into the eyes, passion quivered in the -voice-
some overpowering emotion, seemed to seize and
shake her form from head to foot. "Condemn
him! My God! I can only pity him, till pity
grows into pain. I can only look with horror-
as I have looked all this night-on the t~rriblc
retribution which even in this world erisse some-
times works for itself!"
Was she mad? Had the shock proved too
much for her mind? Mr. Warwick almost
feared that it had, as he met those burning eyes.
The daylight began to broaden by this time, and
he saw more plainly the ravages of fierce emo-
tion, already suffered, on that white, haggard,
face.
"Try to be quiet, Mrs. Gordon," he said.
"I am afraid I ought not to have told you all
this. You have undergone too much excite-
ment. You arc not yourself. Let me beg you
to rest-to talk no more."
"I must," she answered. "it is a work of'
justice, and it must be done. Don't fear about
me. I shall hav~i strength enough to do it, and,
after that, nothing matters~ It does not even
matter if I never see Felix again, for he is sa~fe
now. Does that sound horrible? Should not I
think of it now, while 1w lies dead?"
"It is natural that you could not avoidthink.
ing of it," he said. "But let me entreat you-"
lie spoke in vain. She did not even hear'
him, but went on with what she was goin~ to
say:

&amp;


254                  ~~~MORTON HOUSE.                                                                     NTH    DA   .25

"Was it yesterday afternoon that you were whom were lying dead under the roof of Morton
here? Every thing appears so long ago that House.
happened before he came. Wnil, I fell asleep "There is One thing to be grateful for," he
after you left, and, when I woke, he was entering said, at last. "That wretched man, St. John,
th~ room. I told him that Felix was gone, and died in ignorance of this."
that I.-I defied him! It seems to me that was "And therefore I asked you if he was dead,"
all I said; at least"-passing her hand wearily sle answered. "I felt that it was impossible to
across her brow-" I cannot remember any thing utter the truth-even to you-while he lived.
else. By various arguments he tried to induce If all ended with him, I should let the horrible
me to surrender the child; but, when he found secret die and be buried in the grave of the man
that every thing else was useless, he threatened who from the beginning to the end of his life
me with the entire loss of his inheritance. I worked little beside ill. But-there is some one
knew that he could not possibly alienate this; else to be considered."
and I told him so. Then "-she shuddered vis- "Miss Tresham?"
ibly-" then he said I was mistaken-that he "Yes, Miss Tresham. She must be told."
could alienate it, that Felix was not his eldest "Why?" he asked, eagerly. "Why should
son, that there was another-another who-" you distress her by such a terrible story? Why
She stopped.-.-so ghastly pale, that he" was not be merciful, and never suffer her to suspect
about to rise and go to her assistance, when she it?"
lifted her hand with a gesture which signified "I have thought of that. But, granting that
"Keep still," and went on: it would be a merciful concealment, it is one
"He said he had another-a son whom he had which I have no right to make. It is her right
never acknowledged-the child of an early, pri. to know this story; and I am sure you would
vate~marriage. He told me the history of that not be willing to accept the responsibility of
marriage, and it was so much in character with keeping it from her. Besides, I have wronged
the record of his whole life that I could not her very much, and I ~an only make reparation
doubt it. But conceive what Ifelt when he said by means of this explanation."
thatthis son was the man whom I have known "But what good end will be gained? I do
as his partner and instrument in dishonor and not see."
crime!"                                        "Do you not see that I cannot suffer her to
Mr. Warwick started to his feet. The horror remain in her present position-she who is my
of the revelation was too much even for his self-' husband's daughter, and Felix's half- sister?
control.                                    And do you think that she would be likely to ac-
"Good God, Mrs. Gordon I" he cried. "You cept any thing from me unless she was made
don't mean that it was-" aware of her own claim upon me ?-unless she
She looked 'up and finished the sentence as knows that she is a' Gordon?"
he paused. "I mean that it was St. John I"     "But you are not certain of this," he per-
she said.                                  sister. "You have only your husband's asser-
"It is impossible 1" he exclaimed.      tion, and-and the story may have been devised
'" It is true," she answered,            merely to terrify you."
"But 'have you thought-have you consid-    "I have told you already that I am absolute-
ered?"                               '     ly certain of its truth. If you wish to be con-
"The horror of it? Yes, I have thought of vinced, however, go and bring Miss Tresham
it all. I scarcely think this tragedy has shown here. Her answers to two or three questions
It to me more plainly than I saw it when he will be sufficient."
spoke-when he told me who St. John was."      "Bring Miss Treshem here!" he repeated,
Mr. Warwick sat down again. A chill seemed looking absolutely aghast. "I must really re-
ereepingover him which he tried vainly to shake monstrate against this, Mrs. Gordon," he went
off. It wa* horrible! He beganto appreciate it on. "Neither Miss Tresham nor yourself are in
a little-but only bydegrees. It was not a thing a condition to bear further excitement. Such a.
to take in all at once. He could not feel, all at storywould be a fearful shock to her. I must
once, h~w that woman had felt as she faced the beg you to defer it.~i
terrible 'secret through the long watches of the To his surprise, she answered by rising to
night-he 'could not all at once realize the her feet. "Come with me," she said, walking
real tie which united those two men, both of toward the door.

Half mechanically he followed. She crossed
the hall, and led the way into the apartment
where she had spent the night. It was the sit.
ting-room which he knew well. On the couch
where he had left her the afternoon previous
-the couch where she had been' sleeping when
her husband entered - the body of the dead
man lay, with a shawl thrown over 'the figure,
while the face remained uncovered. Before leav-
ing the room, Mrs. Gordon had extinguished sev-
eral candles on a table near by, and opened the
blinds of the' window through which he had en-
tered. It looked toward the east, an.d as much
of daylight as there was, streamed freely into
the apartment-streamed over the couch and the
white face pillowed on its cushions.
She moved so as to command a view of this
face, and motioned 'him to approach. He did so,
and thus, for the first time, saw clearly in death
the man whom he had never seen in life.
Handsome as that face had always been, it was
something ~'ar more than handsome now-it was
almost beautiful, under the refining touch of
death, and with the peculiar serenity of expres-
sion which sometimes comes to the clay when
the spirit has left it. But that which struck Mr.
Warwick at once, and startled him most strange-
ly, was the likeness to St. John-as St. John's
face had reminded him of this, though he had
only seen the latter hastily and indistinctly.
There had been no likeness between them in
life-even now, the whole cast of feature was so
entirely dissimilar that it was difficult to deter-
mine where the resemblance was, and in what it
consisted. But no one could possibly have
failed to perceive that there was a resemblance
-that, in some subtle manner, the blood which
they owned in common asserted itself, and
stamped each face with a token which even
the most superficial gazer must have observed.
Mr. Warwick certainly observed it, and it ban-
isl~ied from his mind the last doubt of the story
Mrs. Gordon had told him. She was standing
by him, when he said, half unconsciously:
"It is true. It is there."
"So you see it, too?" she said. "I brought
you for this purpose," she added, after a mo-
ment "We will go now. I-I cannot talk
here."
She led the way again to the door, and again
he followed her. They were in the dining-room,
when she spoke next.
"That was why I took you ia-to show you
the likeness which death has brought out so
strongly," she said. "The perception of this

resemblance first made me think of telling Miss
Tresham the terrible truth at once. Remember,
I have not the least proof of the story, save my
own word, and-and that. But I am sure it
would be impossible for her to look at that face
and refuse to believe mc."
"I agree with you that far, but why be in
such haste ?-why not rest, yourself, and let her
rest? A few hours hence-"
"Can you answer for the change which an
hour may make in that face? ' And will the
force of the blow be less great to-morrow than
'to-day?"
He saw that she was resolved; so he did
what it would have been wisest to have done at
first-he submitted.
"What do you want?" he asked.
"I want you to go for her, and, if possible,
~bring her here. But first, one momcnt-give
me a pencil and a piece of paper."
Somewhat puzzled, he produced a pencil and
that inevitable last resource for writing emergen-
cies with a man-the backof a letter.
"Will that do?" he asked.
"That will do," she answered. $he wrote
a few words, then tore off the strip of paper,
folded it, and, greatly to his surprise, handed it
to him. "Keep it," she said, "and when I ask
Miss Tresham one or two questions which I must
ask her, see if her answers correspond with
what is written there. Now, go and bring
her. Remember-bring her, if she can possi-
bly come."
With those words-words the earnestness of
which it was impossible to disregard-sounding
in his ears, he went up-stairs. As he was look-
ing round for a servant to send with a message
to Katharine, he saw Annesley standing with his
baek to him at a large window which ended the
upper passage, 'atid overlooked the froni~ en-
trance. He went to him immediately, and
touched his shoulder.
"Do you know how Miss Tresham is?" he
asked, as the young man turned quickly round.
"Miss Tresham!" repeated Morton. "Did~'
you ask how she is; or where she is?"
"How she is, of course. I thought you
might have heard."
"She is much better-so much better, that
she is in that room "-he nodded In the direction
of the chamber where St. John had died-" I
was staying there, but she' came in, and begged
me to leave her alone with-.-with the body."'
"And is she there now 1'"
"Yes, she is there now.

A

254

255

IN THE DAWN.


256                              MORTO~
To Annesley's surprise, Mr. Warwick turned
and walked into the room thus indicated..
Every thing had been put in order, and the
chamber, seen in the light of early dawn, looked
singularly calm and peaceful when he entered.
The white bed, with the motionless figure upon
it, occupied the centre of the floor, and candles
still burned at the head and foot. By the side,
Katharine knelt with the little crucifix in her
hands, on which the dead man's last glance had
been fixed. It was a touching picture, the law-
yer thought, as he paused a moment, with un-
conscious reverence, on the threshold. Twelve
hours before, and how great had been his scorn,
how profound his contempt for that man !-now
the great sanctification of death had come, and he
lowered his voice, and softened his tread, even in
presence of that poor forsaken dust. Truly we
live in the midst of mystery -who shall cx.
plain even this?
Katharine had heard his step, light as it was,
and, rising to her feet, she looked round. When
she saw who it was, she smiled a faint, pitiful
sort of smile, and motioned him to draw nearer.
"Come and see," she said, pointing to the
still face. "Does that look as if it had ever
known violence or sin?"
Certainly it dkf not. Even more marked
than on the face below.-because here the end
had been less sudden-was the peculiarly serene
expression which ~lways follows death from gun.
shot-wounds. The placid lips seemed almost
about to smile, and on the brow, and around the
closed eyes, there was a seal of ineffable calm-
calm almost like that "pathetic peace of God" 4
which, on the faces of thoso'~ho in the beautiful
language of Holy Writ have "fallen on sleep,"
sometimes hushes into awe the very sobs and
tears of mourning. B.ut here-even as below-
was the likeness.-intensified, if possible, since
he had noticed it first. It startled him at once
into a remembrance of the errand on which he
had come.
"Mi~s Trerham," he said, " Mrs. Gordon is
very anxious to see you. Will you come to her?"
Much to his surprise, for he had expected to I
meet with some dilliculty, Katharine assented at I
~once. a
"Ican do nothing here," she said, mournfully a
nothing, save pray I am only too glad if I o
can be of the least cpwfort to Mrs. Gordon. Is g
she very much prostrated~ Mr. War wick?" d
"She i~ supported by excitement now," he h
answered. "I am afraid she will be terribly ti
prostrated when it is over." v

HOUSE.

That was all that was exchanged. Annesley
looked surprised, when they passed him on their
way down-stairs; but he said nothing, and the
silence lasted until they reached the dining-
room. Then-before opening the door-Mr.
Warwick thought it well to give a slight warning
to his companion.
"Don't beastonished," he said, "if Mrs. Gor-
don asks you some questions that do not seem
to you exactly relevant. She has ~ good reason
for doing so, and I am sure you will confer a fa-
vor on her by answering them frankly."
"I-of course 1 will, if I can," said Katha-
rine, already much astonished.
After this, he opened the 'door, and they
walked in. Mrs. Gordon was sitting by the fire,
where he had left her; but she looked up when
they entered. Then rising, she advanced a few
steps, and held out her hands to Katharine, with
a grace which, even at that moment, was some-
what stately.
"Miss Tresham," she said, in the rich, sweet
volee which had charmed Katharine when she
heard it first, "I cannot claim your sympathy,
nor offer my own itt the grief that has fallen
upon us, until I have asked you to forgive me."
Notwithstanding the grace and the stateliness,
there was much of hesitation both in her voice
and manner-for she remembered the day at
Mrs. Marks's when she had last seen Katharine,
and she did not know how her advances were
likely to be received. She need have felt no
doubt on this score. Almost before she finished
speaking, these outstretched hands were taken
eagerly and warmly.
"Dear Mrs. Gordon," said the girl, gently,
"theic is no need to utter such a word. I have
nothing to forgive. I can only love and pity
you--if you will let me."
It was so sweetly, so simply, so earnestly
mid, that, by a sudden impulse, the elder woman
pened her arms. In a second, the first tears
irhieh either of them bad shed, flowed together.
Mr. Warwick walked away to the other end
f the room. It was a very long apartment, and
ic might almost have been out of it, for all that
ic heard of the words spoken, or the tears and
obs mingled by the fire. There was not very
~uch of the latter: neither of these won~en was
a demonstrative nature; and, with both, the
rief which oppressed them ~as not of that ten-
e~ l~ind which can be "cried away~" A few
ot, bitter drops; a few dry, choking sobs, and
fiat was all. Before very long, Mrs. Gordon's
olee recalled him.

IN THE DAWN.

"Mr. Warwick," she said-and Mr. Warwick
turned instantly and came bae~ to the fireplace.
A small round table, on which some ~upper had
been arranged for Morton and himself, was still
near the hearth-rug where it had been placed.
Mrs. Gordon and Katharine were standing on one
side of it as he advanced from the other. In
this manner they faced each other. There was
something almost judicial about the scene, he
conidnot help thinking.
"Mr. Warwick," said Mrs. Gordon, a little
formally, "will you look at the paper Which I
gave you a few minutes ago, and see if Miss
Tresham's answers correspond to the answers
written there? '~ Then she turned to Katharine.
"Don't think that I intrude upon your re-
serve," she said, gently, "when I ask you to tell
me how you are related to-to Mr. St. John?"
"I have no reason for reserve upon that
point," Kathaiine answered. "I have not had
for some time. I am his sister."
"His own sister?"
"Yes-his own sister. There were " -her
voice faltered - "there were only two of
us."
"And will you let me ask what was your
mother's maiden name?"
Katharine looked a little surprised. She did
not understand-she did not see the point or
meaning-of these questions. But she felt
somewhat apathetic and indifferent about them.
It was strange that Mrs. Gordon should ask such
things at such a time; but there was no reason
* why she should not answer them; and so-after
a second-she replied:
"IMly mother's maiden name was Katharine
O'Grady."
Mrs. Gordon looked at Mr. Warwick. He
glanced up from the paper, with a slightly-signifi-
cant expression. Nothing was said-only that
glance was exchanged-and then the lady turned
again to address Katharine.
"Forgive me for pressing you, but I should
like to ask one or two further questions. Was
your grandfather an Irishman by birth, and did
he live in Martinique?"
"So I have heard my aunt say," Katharine
answered. "I never saw him-he died before I
was born. My mother and my aunt were both
native West-Indians," she went on. "They were
born in Martinique."
~ And do you remember your ~
"I? Oh, no. She died when I was a few
weeks old. My aunt was my mother," sh~ said,
softly.

257

* "And did she never tell you any thing about
your father ?-who, or what he was? "
"Never. My impression always was that he
was dead-though I cannot remember that my
aunt ever absolutely said so." She paused a
moment, then added: "Since her own death, I-
I have sometimes thought this might not be."
Mrs. Gordon extended her hand across the
table, and took from Mr. Warwick the slip of
paper, which he at once surrendered. She gave
it to Katharine, saying,:
"1 wrote those answers to the questions I
have asked you before you came down-read
them."
Wondering more and more the girl obeyed.
This was what she read-written hastily in pen-
cii on the torn fragment of a letter.
"Maiden name of mother-Katharine 0'-
Grady.
"Time of her death-soon after the birth of
her second child.
"Grandfather an Irishman by birth, who lived
in Martinique."
Katharine looked up with profound astonish-
ment visible in her face.
"I gave the paper to Mr. Warwick~ when he
went for you," Mrs. Gordon answered.
"But how-how was it possible? How did
you-know?"
"Child," answered the other, so gently and
sadly that her voice seemed, as it were, to still
instead of excite emotion, "I know, because I
heard the whole story from your father's lips."
Mr. Warwick, who was looking on apprehen-
sively, notwithstanding this apprehension, was
alarmed by the change that at those words
came over Katharine's face. She turned deadly
pale, and quivered from head to foot. Did
something like an instinct of the truth dawn
upon her? It almost seemed so. It almost
seemed as if fear, doubt, terror, and amazement,
were all struggling in her eyes and in her voice
when she spoke.
"Mrs. Gordon "-it was fairly a ~vall-" what
do you ~
But having gone thus f~r-having made re-
treat absolutely hopeless-Mrs. Gordon's courage
failed. Woman-like, she looked at the man
standing by with a glance that asked, "What
must I say?"
Mr. Warwick answered the glance quietly,
almOSt sternly.
"It is too late to hesitate now," he said~
"Tell her."
"Yes, tell me!" cried Katharine, clutching


258

MORTON HOUSE.

the table with one hand, and looking up with -of all that he had the will to do-i have not
eyes full of passionate appeal. " I-I must yet been able to say this. But, standing here
hear it now. Tell me-tell me at once !" with you now, I feel that your debt against him
" Have you never thought-have you- never is even heavies' than mine. Your mother and
suspected-who your father might be ?" asked your brother-he ruined and killed them both.
Mrs. Gojdon. -He made your life the hard and bitter thing which
" I-how could I? "                       it must have been. He-your father-left you
" Have you never thought that the man who without a thought or a care to struggle alone, in
ruined your brother's life-that the, man who your woman's helplessness, against the world.
ruined my life-and the man who ruined your Count up all these things, as I have done-add
mother's life, might be one and the same ?" up every sigh, and tear, and drop of blood. 'Then
" My God I-no !"                         see if you are Christian enough to stand here-.
Mrs. Gordon pointed to the paper in her here by his side - and say that you forgive
hand. My husband," she said, " came to me him!t"
yesterday evening. He demanded Felix, and, Her words rang through her listener's heart
when I refused, he threatened me with the loss with a strange power, her voice was full of the
of the child's inheritance. When I was incredu- modulations of a passion for which language has
lous of his power to fulfil the threat, he told me no name. As she spoke, her very soul-her
that he had an elder son living-the child of an quivering, stricken, human soul-seemed laid
early marriage-and that the name of this son bare before the girl who listened. The horror
was__" of it was too much for Katharine. The still,
But here Katharine interrupted-her voice white face swam before her- eyes - a deadly
ringing, with a tone of horror in it through the faintness came over her. She fought hard
quiet room:  .against the rising tide of unconsciousness ; but
"It cannot be !" she cried, almost wildly, fought vainly. Things tangible faded away from
"0 Mrs. Gordon, stop-stop and think ! Don't her for a time-how long, or how short, she
utter any thing which is so horrible, which must could not tell-but when she came to herself,
be so untrue! It-" she made a motion with she was sitting before the window with the fresh
her hands, as if thrusting it from her-" it can- air playing over her face, and Mrs. Gordon's
not be true !"                              hand resting on her brow.
"I see that you know what I mean," said     "I shall never forgive myself," she was say-
Mrs. Gordon, calmly-and again her quietude lng. " I ought to have thought-I ought to
seemed to' still Katharine's passionate excite- have known__"
mont. " Come with me," she added, in a lower " Never mind," said Katharine, rallying a
voice. " What I have to say to you can best be little.  "I have not fainted yet. -I-I don't
said in 14e presence."                      think I shall."  Then she roused herself, and
She drew the girl's hand within her arm, and caught the hand which was on her brow. "Is it
-before Mr. Warwick could interfere-led her true ?" she asked, passionately. "I cannot
from the room: They crossed the hail, and en. think--I cannot reason and consider all the
tered the apartment where the dead man lay. links of evidence. I shall believe you, if you
Outside the windows was all the dewy freshness tell me it is true."
of Nature's happy morning wakening--birds Mrs. Gordon bent down and kissed her ten.
twittering, leaves softly rustling, life everywhere derly. "It is true," she said.
--inside was the terrible quietude, the settled Nothing more was uttered for some time.
stillness which pervades the air of a death-chain. Katharine sank back againgfand closed her eyes.
ber, and makes our very pulses seem to our- Mrs. Gordon stood, like a statue, by her side.
selves out of unison with its deep repose. Into fuller and yet fuller radiance glowed the
When they both stood by the couch, looking east-royal tints of every imaginable color, melt.
down on that marble face, Mrs. Gordon spoke. ing and changing, and softening into each other,
"'This man," she said, " wronged me mere and waxing more glorious with every succeeding
deeply than he could ever have wronged any one moment, on the wide panorama of sky. .Who
else-save, perhaps, that poor victim of his vice can look on such a scene with 'the mere eye of
and crime who lies dead above us. I have strug- sense, or the mere thought of earth?. " Heaven
gled all this long night for the power to say that and earth are full of the majesty of Thy glory !"'
I forgive him. Thinking of all that he has done rises instinctively to the mind and to the lips. I

I

A TURN OF FORTUNE'S WHEEL.,.

259

sunset comes to us like a sweet, solemn vesper,
after the weary, busy cares of day, surely sunrise
is like a grand, triumphal symphony, bursting
and thrilling from a million notes into one noble
harmony of exultant praise I it seemed so to
Kathterine when she opened her eyes and saw
the dazzling glory spread before her.. With an
impulse that startled her companion, she rose to
her feet, and half turned toward. the dead man,
on whose changeless face the glowing splendors
fell. ,

" Oh, who are we, to talk of forgiveness !',
she said-and her voice, with a deep, pathetic
thrill in it, fell strangely on the hushed calm-
"is there any wrong so great that it is not easy
to forgive it if we- only think of the dear Lord
who will one day need to forgive us so much ?
Can we harden our hearts over any thing, if
we only remember that our free, generous, will-.
ing pardon of all wrongs may touch His heart,
and make Him more merciful to the soul that
has gone forth to meet His justice ? 0 Mrs.
Gordon, we do not know-we cannot tell how, in
what degree, our forgiveness may benefit this
life which has passed forever from our life,
which, in all the ages of eternity, can never,
never harm us again! Let us -oh, let us -
here-now-say that we forgive him-that we
forgive him for ourselves, and for those he has
injured far more than us !"
Her earnest pathos startled and awed Mrs'.
Gordon; bent her, as it were, without any resist-
ance, to the higher passion, the stronger will.
They advanced to the couch, and side by side
said the words together.
As they uttered them, the sun rose, and, with
the first flood of golden light, a myriad of birds
burst forth into rejoicing. The night was past,
the day was come. As the glory of the sunlight
streamed over their bending figures, it seemed'
like the promise of a brighter, happier future-
like the earnest of a day of tranquil pence, after
the night of troubled terror-.
CHAPTER XLV.
,A TURN or FonTUNE's WHEEL.
AW'EE after the double tragedy at Morton
House, and while all Lagrange was still ringing
with the noise of it, Miss Vernon walked across
the lawn of her brother-in-law's residence with
oton Annesley. '
The young man was on his way to bring Fe-
lx Gordon home, and had only stopped a few

minutes to deliver a note and a message from
Miss Tresham to her late kind entertainers.
But, when he rose to make his adieux, he sud-
denly recollected something else that he wished
to say, and, much to Mrs. Raynor's regret, asked
Miss Vernon to walk " down'to the bridge " with
him. .Irene consented, and they weie soon on
their way to that spot-a very favorite spot with
every Aabitus of the place. The lawn was ex-
ceedingly pretty now thatevery thing began to
wear the light, silvery-green livery of early
spring ; but the special charm of it, the special
thing which made it different from other lawns,
was the creek which flashed along under a fringe
of willows and laurel, and the graceful bridge
which was thrown across it. When they reached
this spot, they paused-the bright water flowed
beneath their feet, the soft shadows flickered
overhead, and a lovely perspective of lawn and
shrubbery opened behind them. On the other
side of the stream-set, as it were, in an arch-
way of green-a travelling-carriage with servants
in attendance, and a trunk strapped on, was
standing in the shade-the horses switching
their tails leisurely, and the servants amicably
gossiping. The whole sweet, spring wealth o~f
tender beauty and indescribable charm was all
around and all about them, until indeed one
might have wondered
".-how It was
That any one, ir. such a world might grieve,
At least for long, at what might come to pass;
The soft south-wind, the flowers amid the grass,
The fragrant earth, the sweetisounds everywhere
Seemed gifts too great almost for mani to bear."
The day was rapidly advancing toward its
meridian, but .Annesley seemed in no haste to
'begin his journey. Irene wondered a little at
his -delay,. as, instead of saying (go4by, he
stood before her, and looked and liedsed while
she talked of Katharine.
" I suppose there is no hope that Miss Tresh-
am will return to us," she said, twisting the note
which he had brought around her fingers..- "I
am very sorry-we are all very sorry. We have
missed her so much since she went away. She.
is one of the most attractive and sympathetic
persons I ever knew. George said only last night
that he would be willing to go to school himself
for the pleasure of securing her as a permanent,
inmate."
" Mrs. Gordon needs her more tlfan you do,"
said Annesley, smiling a little. "Will not that
console you ? Ah I you don't know all that she
has passed through I"


260                        MORTON HOUSE.                                                          A TURN OF FORTUNE'S WHEEL                  261

"She I Do you mean Mrs. Gordon, or Mi
Tresham?"
"Both...-'but I mean Mrs. Gordon." I
stopped a moment, then added: "'Of course y
have heard the whole terrible story!"
"No, I have not," she answered~ "I belici
there is a great~ deal of gossip afloat, but I rare]
heed gossip."
"Still, you have heard-"
"Something' undoubtedly."
"How those wretched 'men were killed, fc
"Yes," she said, in a low voice. "How ho]
rible it Ivas!"
"How much like retribution it was!" m
turned the young man, with a dark cloud comm,
over his face. "I confess that my pity all ~ven
with that poor fellow St. John," he said. "H
was hardly used in every way. Miss Irene, did yo
ever trace out a sequence of cause and effect?"
"Never," she answered-then added, smiling
"I am' like the lilies of the field, not worth mud
either for toiling or reflecting."
"You are like them in another respect &amp;lso,'
said he, pointing the compliment by the admi
ration in his eyes as they lingered on her face,
which was indeed like a lily in its stainless
beauty. "But I am sure you have sometimes
noticed the strange connection between events
the strange manner in which circumstances seem
to act and react on each other."
"I assure you I never have. I eat my daily
bread, and am thankful for it, without troubling
myself to think that somebody must have sowed
and reaped and garnered it yesterday. I remem-
ber, however, that you on~ic suggested something
of this kind-~about Mrs. Gordon."
"It is a very fascinating occupation, when
you once get fairly into the spirit of it," said he,
~leaning against the railing of'the bridge.
He could have stayed there all day, he
thought, with 'the pretty music of the stream in
his ears, and those wonderfulblue eyes gazing at
him.. In the midst of his reflections, he forgot
to thinkwhat a strange comment on this strange
self-absorbed life of ours his very mood and the
very tone of conversation made. The awful
tragedy which had carried two souls into eter-
nity, and wru~ig two living hearts with the bit-
terness of death, had become a topic to be dis-
cussed with, philosophical curiosity in the midst
of a scen~ike this.
"Tell me the facts as they really occurred,"
said Miss Vernon, "that is, if I am not asking
you to violate confidence."

ss "No1"b e answered, gravely, "facts can harm
nobody now. Indeed, there is so much exagger-
le ation of them, that it is well the truth should be
,u known."
Then he began, and told her all that had oc-
re curred-soon drifting by insensible degrees into
more than the bare outline of events. Some-
thing in the sympathetic face and honest eyes
made him sure she could be trusted; and so,
while the servants and horses waited as patiently
ir or as impatiently as they could, while the water
rippled, and the shadows flickered, he gave a
~- sketch of the different causes that had led to
this result. Her interest and astonishment were
almost beyond power of expression. St. John
g the son of Gordon! Katharine the step daugh-
.t ter of Pauline Morton! Little as he felt inclined
e for such a thing, Annosloy could almost have
a laughed at the overwhelming surprise on her
face.
"It is true," he said. "My cousin tells me
that the last assurance her husband gave her was
of his first marriage, that St. John was his eldest
son, and the heir of the Gordon estate."
"And-and does Mrs. Gordon mean to make
this public 1'"
"No-making it public would involve too
many painful disclosures. The horror of the
tragedy would be doubly augmented, if people
knew that a son (however ignorantly) had killed
his own father. Besides, it is unnecessary. My
* cousin is going to Scotland soon, and the affairs
of her life matter nothing to the people she
leaves behind-this time forever."
"But Miss Tresham?"
"Miss Tresham will accompany her."
"Indeed!" Miss Vernon started a little.
"I am surprised to hear that,'? she said, simply,
almost involuntarily.
"Why should you be surprised?" he asked.
"Don't you think it is the natural thing and the
right thing-on both sides?"
"Yes-oh, yes, I "-she stopped, hesitated,
blushed somewhat-" I was not thinking of that.
I was thinking, if you will pardon my candor,
Mr. Annesley, of you."
"Of me!" said he, blushing himself; in the
boyish fashion which he had never quite out-
grown, yet smiling at her embarrassment. "And
may I ask what you were thinking about me?"
"I am sure you don't need to ask," answered
she, with a direct frankness which some carping
people called ?irusquerie. "Perhaps I have, no
right to speak on such a subject, bu~ "-a win-
ning smile, half-bright, half-soft-" my eveuse

is,'that I should be very glad to see you both
happy."
"I hope we may both be happy," said he,
earnestly. "But, dear ~tiss Irene, I think it will
be apart-not together. Miss Tresham has re-
jected me."
"I never thought you lacked perseverance."
"I don't think I do-when there is any thing
to be gained by it. But you would not advise
me to waste time and effort in a hopeless suit?
Did you read the letter which Miss Tresham
wrote to me the night before she left Belle-
font?"
"I! flow could I?" she asked, flushing.
"What a strange opinion you must have of Miss
Tresham if you think she would show such a
letter; or of me, if you think I would read it l"
"Don't be indignant!" said he, smiling.
"You forget that Miss Tresham and yourself
were in the same house, and good friends be-
sides. There would have been nothing repre-
hensible in her showing you the letter-nothing,
certainly, that I should have been inclined to
resent. It was a very charming letter," said he,
with a slight grimace. "The only misfortune
was, that I was not exactly in a frame of mind
to appreciate this, when I received it. I read it
over last night, and appreciated it better, I
think. It is exceedingly kind, but very decided.
I~ I had it here, I would show it to you, and ask
you if you thought it worth while to persevere in
the face of such a ~ as that."
"You certainly take your disappointment
very philosophically," said Miss Vernon, with a
slight tinge of sarcasm in her voice.
He changed color a little.
"I hope you don't think that I take it
lightly," he said. "I assure you it has been a
very serious matter with me. I was as wretched
down there in Apalatka, as-well, as anybody
could possibly wish to be. But no man with
any sense or self-respect will spend life pining
and moaning because a woman has rejected him.
I fought hard for resignation, and I think I may
say that I have gained it."
"You are resigned?"
"I am quite resigned."
Miss Vernon looked at him with an expres-
sion' on her face which he did not understand-
a mixture of half-puzzled surprise and struggling
remembrance, which puzzled him in turn. She
could not tell of what his tone and manner re-
minded her, until, like a flash, she recalled the
day when they had walked up and down the
piazza at Anneadale, and he had spoken of Mrs.

Gordon, and of the content with life and the
things of life which could be gained-so he said
-by fighting for it. She remembered how she
had questioned whether this philosophy of his-
a buoyant, healthful philosophy, which, even in
theory, had commanded her 'respect-would
bear the test of disappointment or failure. Was
her question being answered now? Was this,
indeed, the content which is the victorious fruit
of struggle, or was it only that mask of indiffer-
ence which often betrays, instead of hiding, the
deepest wound?
"You astonish me," she said. "I had an
idea-I really don't know why-that ~you were
very constant, very tenacious, in your affections.
This makes me think that I was mistaken in that
opinion."
He colored again, and looked at her with an
expression which she, in turn, did not quite
understand.
"Won't you distinguish between constancy
and obstinacy?" he asked. "I think there is
a distinction. One may be constant to an affec-
tion as long as there is hope of return; but,
surely, it is the height of folly to hold obsti-
nately to a sentiment which causes, and can
cause, only pain. Don't you think it is desirable
to control one passion as well as another-the
passion of love, as well as the passion of anger
or revenge? I won't pretend to tell you how
much it has cost me to be able to say that I am
resigned; but if you did know-if you could
know-you would not, I am sure, accuse me of
being inconstant or light."
"I-I did not," said Miss Vernon, a little
contritely. "The fact is, I am unreasonable,"
she went on, half-laughing. "It would be diffi-
cult to please me, I am afraid. Nobody would
have been more sorry than I, if you had taken
Miss Tresham's rejection to 'heart after the ap-
proved romantic mode; and yet, you see, I find
fault with you for showing yourself a seiisible
young man of the nineteenth century. Desper-
ate love has quite gone out of fashion,'? she
said, with a shrug of her shoulders. "' Nowadays
you are all so reasonable, that it is quite edify-
ing. I have been wasting a good deal of sym-
pathy on you; I see, now, that I must change it
to respect."
"And I see that you are determined to give
me a liberal taste 'of mockery," he said. "I
thought you would be more kind-more just."
"Indeed, you are mistaken," she answered.
"Indeed, I am glad, heartily glad; that I am able
to change sympathy to respect. You must


262                       MORTON HOUSE.                                                        A TURN OF FORTUNE'S WHEEL.                263

not think otherwise. I should be very sorry
you were-were suffering."
"Since I am not suffering, however, ye
think I am able to bear a little sarcasm on m,
unfortunate exemption,"
"You ,are provoking!" she said. "Yoi
know better, and I shall not reason with~ yoi
any longer. Let me inquire if you have any in
tension of reaching Sanford todayy"
"There will not be the least difficulty in do
ing so; the roads are excellent, and my horse~
perfectly fresh. It is growing late, though," h
said, with a regretful look at the shadows rounc
him. "I suppose I ought to go-I suppose
muSt go. Before doing so, however, I should
like to convince you-"
"Never mind," she interrupted, hastily; "1
am quite convinced. Besides, it is not a matter
of any importance. My opinion-"
"Is of great importance to me," he said,
eagerly. "I want to show you-I want to
prove to you-that I am neither inconstant nor
light."
"That expression - which, by.the-way, I
don't M all remember having used-seems to
rankle with you!" she said, trying to laugh, yet
feeling vaguely conscious that the scene was
growing too earnest for her taste. "I don't
mean to be inhospitable," she went on, "but I
really think you ought to go; those poor ser-
vants look so tired, and I fancy they are gazing
reproachfully at me, thinking that I keep you."
"They make a great mistake, then," he said,
smiling; "for it is I who am keeping you-un-
willingly enough on your part, as I perceive. It
is amazingly hard to go. This is certainly the
pleasantest and prettiest spot in Lagrange. I
wish I was an artist; ,I would paint you as you
stand there now.  'he whole scene is lovely, and
you-~-.pardon me, if I say so-never looked more
beautlful.~r
"You are not an artist, though, and I am not
standing for my portrait," answered Miss Ver-
non, turning away. "I see I must make the first
move," she went on. "I hope you will have a
pleasant journey. Good-by."
He followed her, and held out his hand. "If
[am obliged to go, at least you must tell me
good-by alter a more cordial fashion," he said.
"I shall be back soon. Shall I find you still
here?"
She gave him her hand and smiled. "Very
probably you will," she said-.~-" unless George
becomes more amiable than he is at present,
about letting Flora go. Give wy love to the

f Lesters if you see them in Apalatha," she added.
",Once more, good-by."
u This time he echoed her farewell, and took
y his departure. But long after he had left the
pretty lawn, and silvery creek behind, her fair
i face, her tender eyes, her bright smile bore him
Li company. Try as he would, he could think of-
he could see nothing else. "How beautiful she
is!" he caught himself saying again and egain.
- Yet something told him that her beauty was the
least part of her, that the regular features, the
my-white complexion, the golden hair, and violet
I eyes, would have been worth little indeed with-
out the brave, noble soul, the strong, sweet na-
I ture, which shone through these outer coverings,
and glorified them, "like the lamp of naphtha in
the alabaster vase." He had only lately learned
to know this. Until within the last few months,
Irene Vernon had been to him a woman merely
like ether women-a girl like the maJority of
girls, only a little less attractive, perhaps, on ac-
count of her haughty beauty. Now an in-
stinct begun to dawn upon him that hence-
forth in his life she was to be set apart from
all other women. The memory of his fevered
passion for Katharine seemed to fade away.
That graceful figure, that exquisite face, still
stood there on the bridge, with the l~right water
flowing beneath, the tender green of earth's re-
newed life all around, and heart, and hope, and
fancy, seemed to bow down before her and say,
"Lo!we are thine!"
Two weeks after this, Mrs. Gordon's prepa-
rations for leaving America were so nearly com-
pleted that the day of her departure was fixed,
and not far distant. Feli~ was once more at
home, and all that now detained her in La-
grange was the final disposition of the Morton
property, and its transfer to Annesley. The
house which his mother had so long coveted
for him was at last to be his, through the kind-
ness of the very woman whose arrival had
caused Mrs. Annesley so much of bitter heart-
ache, so many fruitless schemes and plans.
Where were they all now ?-.what end had they
gained? Morton, with his loyal honesty, had
seen the straight path and followed it; while
she had wandered off into dark and devious by-
ways. And, after all, it was Morton, not she,
who won at last the prize on which her heart
had been set. Did the perception of this teach
her wisdom? Doubtful, indeed. Few things
are more rare, thin that the eye once accustomed
to darkness should learn to love the light; than

that the nature which finds pleasure in bidden
paths, should learn that plain roads lead best
to plain ends, and that open weapons are more
effective, as well as more honorable, than con-
cealed and stealthy ones. Still, Mrs. Annesley
was heartily glad of this auspicious end, and, in
her own way, felt a little ashamed of herself.
"I should have tried to do more ror Pauline, if I
had only known," she said-and that was the
whole secret of it If she had only known-if
she had only been aware that something was to be
gained by cousinly kindness and championship,
she would have buckled onher armor and entered
the lists as fearlessly as Morton himself; but, as
it was, why should she have been expected to do
such a thing? "I had my children to think of,"
she would say, "and we werenever fond of each
other at the best of times." Every thing had
turned out very well, and she was glad of it; but
she could really see no cause for blaming herself
in any thing she had done, or failed to do, al-
though-well-yes-she might, perhaps, have
been a little more cordial to Pauline.
As to Lagrange, it was thunderstruck by the
news of Mrs. Gordon's impending departure, and
by the rumor- tenfold exaggerated- of her
wealth and rank, And this was the woman who
had lived in their midst for six months, whom
they had persistently ignored, and about whom
they had circulated any number of ill-natured
reports. A Morton, too! The last direct repre-
sentative of the oldest blood in the country!
What could they have been thinking of!-La-
grange waked up, as it were, from a sort of
trance, and felt, in a measure, half-dazed, and
totally unable to account for its own conduct.
One thing was certain, however: Mrs. Gordon
must see her old friends-and, what was consid-
erably more important, her old friends must see
Mrs. Gordon !-once more, at least, before she
bade a final farewell to the home of her youth.
The door of Morton House was suddenly be-
sieged with visitors, and Harrrison grew weary
of receiving cards, and saying, over and over
again, that Mrs. Gordon begged to be excused
from seeing company-she was preparing for her
departure, and was, besides, not very well. Only
the few friends who had come forward to wel-
come her, were admitted to say farewell be-
fore the wanderer once more turned her face
-this time forever-from her father's house.
These few were struck by a singular change
in her appearance. They had expected to see
her looking much older, much more broken
by the late terrible scenes through which she

had passed; yet fragile, and pale, and worn as
she was, underneath all this there was some-
thing which had not been there before-a
glimpse of the Pauline Morton of old coming
out under the ghastly change wrought by years
and trouble, a possibility of reviving power
which no eye could have been keen enough to
see before. The worst part of the change which
had so shocked her friends was gone from her.
She was even yet a woman on whom the signet
of fiery trials had been branded too deeply ever
to fade; but she was no longer a woman resting
helplessly under the torturing, haunting dread
of a terror that might come to her any day or
hour. Peace at least was hers at last, and the
seal of peace-the promise of the calmer life
upon which she was entering-was plainly to be
read upon her face.
"In time, perhaps, you may even teach me
to be happy," she would say, wistfully, to Kath-
arine.
And, indeed, the thing which seemed to giv'e
her most pleasure was the thought of this bright
and gentle companion whom she had won, this
girl who all her life long had managed to find
some pearls of happiness under the stormiest
water.
Katharine, for her part, made her prepara-
tions to leave Lagrange with a reluctance that
surprised herself. She did not understand the
intangible sadness and regret which oppressed
her-she often asked herself what it meant-she
often wondered why a dimness should come over
her sight, and a choking rise in her throat when
she looked out over the fair hills and woods
clothed in their lovely April green, and thought
how soon she would leave them, never to return.
"Why should I care so much?" she would
ask herself, half indignantly. "It is no native
home of mine-it is not as if I'had been born
and reared here! Then, indeed, it might be hard
to go; but now, I do not understand it., Why
should I care so much?" A little while Inter it
was all so clear to her that she could have
laughed at the remembrance of her own per-
plexity; but that was a little while later. At
the time of which we speak, no o~ ld have
suspected her hidden sadness, her notable
reluctance; but, all the same, it cxli lithe
same, she would move about the roe 4 gal-
leries, and gardens, of Morton House, i~rlghteii-
ing and cheering every spot to which she came,
but deplorably conscious, meanwhile, of a very
heavy heart, and asking herself~ in puzzled hon-
esty, what it possibly meant.


MORTON HOUSE.                                                         A TURN OF FORTUNE'S WHEEL.               265

At last the day of departure drew near
hand. They were to leave on Tuesday mcmii
On Monday afternoon a heavy shower of ma
was falling; but Katharine wrapped herself
in a large cloak, and, armed with an umbrel]
set forth to pay a farewell visit to Mrs. Marl~
Mrs. Gordon was somewhat shocked, memo
stated, and insisted upon ordering the earring
but the girl obstinately declined.
"I much prefer to walk," she said. "I don
mind a rain like this, and it looks as if it migl
clear. I can stay as long as I please if I wall
you know; and then "-a slight quiver of ti
voice here-" it is for the last time."
So Mrs. Marks, who felt sufficiently dolefu
and had entirely given up all hope of the pron
ised visit, was equally astonished and delight
when there came a shout from the children o
the front piazza, and ahe next minute a drenched
apparition of Katharine, with glowing cheek
and rain-gemmed hair, walked in upon her.
"So you have come!" she cried, joyfully
"Oh, I am so glad! I didn't look for you at al
after it began to rain."
"And you thought an April shower like thi~
would keep me away from you, when it is for th
last time?" said Katharine, dropping her we~
wrappings in the middle of the floor. "Yot
must have given me credit for wanting to se
you very badly-mustn't she, children ?-Katy~
my shoes are quite damp. Can you take theix
into the kitchen to dry, and get me a pair of
your mother's slippers to wear?"
While Katy eagerly darted away on this er-
rand, the other children crowded around the
young ex-govemness, and drew her into a chair.
What an afternoon it was that followed! There
~ was so much to say, so much to tell of the past,
so much to promise of the future, that the won-
der was how it all was said, even in the three or
four hours which were consumed.'
Katharine made several fruitless attempts to
leave before she rose at last and said that she
must go.
am afraid it will be dusk 'before I can
reach the house," she said, "and Mrs. Gordon
will be, uneasy.-No, no, children, don't do that"
-as several ~.udible sobs were heard-" this is
not good-by. Thu must not think so. Mrs.
Gordon, and Felix, and I, are all going to stop to
see 'you to-morrow morning."
It may not have been "good-by," but still it
was a very lugubrious~ leave-taking. Mrs. Marks
broke down as well as the children, and Kath-
arine herself was on the brink of tears when

at she left the sobbing group behind, and hurried
1g. along the front walk. These tears were blinding
in her to such an extent that she did not recognize
ip -she did not even see-a man who had reached
a, the gate as she came out of the house, and stood
a. there waiting for her.
n- "Good-evening, Miss Tresham," he said; as
~; she fumbled for the latch, and his voice, which
was very unexpected, made her start violently.
.'t "Are you going to Morton House?"
~t "Good - evening, Mr. Warwick," she an-
k, swered, as the gate at last yielded, not to her
~e touch, but to Mr. Warwick's, and she came out
into the road. "Yes, I am going to Morton
1, House. I have been spending the afternoon with
1- Mrs. Marks," she added, looking up at him with
d her brimming eyes.
n "I think you came very near spending the
d evening also," he said, smiling. She caught the
s smile, and it made her feel aggrieved. She did
not, of course, expect him to be in tears like
Mrs. Marks, and the children, and herself, but
I still he might have felt the solemnity of the oc-
casion a little, and he need not have, smiled in
3 that way, just as if nothing more than usual had
happened or was about to happen. "You are
late for such a lonely walk," he said. "Give me
your umbrella. I will see you safely to the
house."
"Indeed, you need not take that trouble,"
she said, with a shade of coolness in her tone.
"It is not very late," she went on. "The road
may be lonely, but it is entirely safe, and I had
much rather you did not."
Her speech was cut short very summarily.
Mr. Warwick took the umbrella out of her hand,
and held it over her head, as he walked along
the foot-path by her side.
"I am sorry if you would 'much rather'
I did not accompany you," be said; "but I
cannot reconcile it to my conscience to let you
go alone into the country at such an hour as this.
Besides, if you must know the truth, I was on
my way to Morton House when I saw you; so
the only difference is, whether I shall go alone or
with a companion."
"In that case, I am very glad that you
chanced to see me," said Katharine, conquering
her momentary grievance. "I need a compan-
ion," she went on, a little sadly. "My frame
'of mind is any thingbut cheerful. Oh, how hard
it is to say good-by to people that one loves!"
"Yes," said he, with something of uncon-
scious dreariness in his voice, "it is hard."
Nothing more was spoken for some time.

MORTON HOUSE.

They walked along, side by side, and both so
much abstracted that they scarcely noticed how
the rain had ceased, and the sun, which was not
yet down, seemed about to break through the west.
era clouds. They were by this time fairly beyond
the last outskirts of the town, and the sweet,
wild odors of forest and field-the peculiar spicy
woodland fragrance which loads the very air
after a spring rain-wereborne to them byovery
breeze that, in passing, shook myriads of glit.
tearing rain-drops from the boughs under which
they walked. Katharine laughed a little as one
of these quick showers sprinkled her face.
"The very trees are 'weeping," she said. "I
wonder if I may flatter myself that they, too,
are sorry to see me go? How fresh and fragrant
every thing is! Surely there is no month like
April; and yet it seems to me that, after this,
April will always be sad to me."
"You are like a child who thinks today's
clouds will not be gone to-morrow," said Mr.
Warwick, smiling again; but this time in a man.
ncr with which she was not inclined to find fault.
"Is it possible that you do not know that before
another April comes round Lagrange will seem
to you like a dull and painful memory? By that
time you will wonder how you ever endured such
a life as this, from which you are now sorry to
part."
"You think so because you don't know me,"
she said, a little resentfully. "Whatever else I
may be, I am not fickle nor ungrateful. I love La-
grange now, and I shall love it always. If I
live to see a hundred Aprils come, I shall always
think of this one, and-and be sorry."
"Sorry to have left poverty and toil behind
you, and gone to ease, and luxury, and happi-
ness?"
"No, sorry to have left so much kindness
and so many dear friends behind me-kindness
shown to me in the days of my need; friends
who proved their friendship when I was desolate.
0 Mr. Warwick! you do not really believe that I
can ever forget these things?"
"No," said Mr. Warwick, touched by her
earnestness. "I do not believe any thing un-
worthy of you. I am sure that, go where you
will, you will retain a kindly remembrance of us,
and that, perhaps, is as much as we could ask."
"I shall always think of you as the best
friend I have ever known," she said. "I-I
cannot say good-by without thanking you once
more for all your kindnesses to me-they have
been so many, so great."
"Don't call them kindnesses," he said,

hastily. "They were not that - they were
pleasures to me, and I was only glad that they
were also services to you. I-"
He stopped. What he was on the point of
saying, he scarcely knew; but an instinct warned
him that iLwas something which had better be
left unsaid. He was a self-contained man, well
accustomed to controlling himself on all possi-
ble occasions; so he bad very little difficulty in
restraining words which he told himself could
serve no good end. Why distress and pain her
uselessly ?-why give her a last disagreeable
memory of him to take away? What folly it
was, after all! She had unhesitatingly rejected
him when she was poor and desolate, without a
home on earth; and was it likely-was it even
possible-that she would reconsider that deci-
sion now, that she would turn from the brilliant
future which opened before her, to share his
homely, commonplace life? He gave a sort of
mental laugh-a laugh singularly devoid of
merriment-at The very thought.
"Is not this the view of which you are so
fond?" he asked, pausing abruptly on a knoll
which they had reached, a gentle emineiioe that
commanded a prospect of the surrounding coun-
try-of all the fields and meadows clad in bright.
cat green; of the hedges in full blossom; of
groups of trees near by, with feathery, tended~
foliage; of shadowy woodlands far away; of hill~
melting and stretching in graceful undulations to
the cast. Toward the west there was an cx-
panse of open ~country, and the sun (which had
now come forth) was gilding all things with the
red glory of sunset, turning all the rain-drops
into diamonds, and all the little rain-pools into
miniature fiery lakes.
"Yes, this is the view," said Katharine.
"Is it not lovely ?"
She stood quite still,, and looked with linger.
ing, pathetic' gaze on the fair scene. The light
of the glowing western sky was on her face and
in her eyes-soft; sweet eyes, that were none the
less lovely for the tears that filed them.
"It is 'hard~ to leave," she said at last, sim-
ply, and almost as if ahe were thinking aloud.
Those words, and the tone in which they
were uttered, were too much for the man beside
her. After all, what did it matter? He could
only hear again what he had heard before-he
could only receive the answer which was, of
course, the sole possible answer for a question
such as his. Still he would ask it. He could do
no harm, at least; arid a strange, wild hope--
which he sternly tried to 'repress-rushed over


266                              M4
him unaccountably, and without a mo
warning~i The struggle with himself oc
a minute. During that minute, the sun
sank out of sight, and Katharine, with a'
sigh, turned her face around.
"Perhaps we had better go," she
"Mrs. Gordon will be uneasy."
"We will go in a second," he axis
quietly-so quietly that she had not the f~
suspicion of what was coming. "You en
hard to leave," he went on. "Has it e,
curred to you that there is a very easy v
remaining? I suppose it is worse than fo
me to ask such a question, but do you Ii
grange well enough to give up all this
future whish' is opening before you, and in
your home for life-with me? ".
The strong passion which, under the~
cumatances, he did x~ot feel indllnedto bei
which, under any circumstances, he was
man likely to betray-rang in his voice d
himself, and startled her. Something d
her-something seemed to rush over her
thrill beyon&amp; expression. Was it joy, o
prise, or relief; or only a great unutterable
of rest, ~vbich came suddenly, like a ble
and, in its coming, showed how sore and
had been the conflict to which she was onl
to give a name now, that it was forever:
She stood for a moment quite silent-....striv

E~RTON HOUSE.
meat's realize, striving to understand all that was re.
copied vealed to her so simply and so strangely. Mr.
~uietIy Warwick grew pale, despite his self-control, and
wistful set his lips in a way peculiar to him. 'He was
bracing himself for the reply, telling himself
said, that, of course, he had known all the time what
it would be, and that, at least, he was prepared
wered, for it.
Lintest If this was the case, he certainly was not
y it is prepared fur what came. After a short pause-
~er oc. it was short, though it seemed to both of them
~ay of very long-a white hand was extended, and a
ily for voice with a quiver-half of archness, half of
ke La. tears-said:
bright ")1 am afraid that I do not like La.
Lake it grax~e sufficiently to give up for its sake all
thi~ of which you speak, but-but I do like
~e cir- s'of."
tray- It was not very clearly expressed, perhaps;
not a but John Warwick had no difficulty in 'compre-
espite heading what she meant. He knew then, as
azzled well as be knew long years afterward, that the
vith a happiness of his life had come to him at last;
r sur- and as he saw the sweet face-with the sunset
sense glow still on it-turned toward him, wearing the
ssing, look that no man was ever blind enough to mis-
deep take, his first words were those which, 'for the
y able smallest as for the greatest blessing, should he
aded? ever on our lips:
ing to "Thank God!"
TE~ END.

I

4

ENEN
H
H
0
0
0

I'
6~
r12
0
r12
0
0
Q

H
H
0
z

z
0
0.
fl-I


LOTHAIR..
A Novel.
By the Right Hono~rab1e BENJAMIN DISRAELI,
Late Prlxne Jl~1ulster of Great Britain.                    -
"N6sae lime omnnia salus est adolescdntulis"-TERENTIus.
After a silence of twenty-three years (his last work, "Tancred," waspublished in 1841) this
eminent English novelist reappears with a work in his best style. "Lothair" has all the
erlillaut wit, the keen and sparkling satire, and the refined grace, of the most popular of
Its predecessors. It deals with current topiCs of the deepest interest-with Feu~nis~,
Ritualism, the Catholic Question, the Intrigues of the Jesuits, etc., etc.
~IOTIOES OF' THE PliliSS.
"There Is not a fast character, a fast trait, or a fast phrase, in the whole of' Lothair,' yet
the story is a story of yesterday-almost ef to-day-and comes fresh and warm from the au-
thor's study. . . 'Lothair' will be read by the whole world, will provoke immense dis.
eusslon, and will greatly deepen the Interest with which the author's own character, genius,
and career, have long been contemplated by the nation"-Londtm Dall~y News.
"'Lotheir' gives proof of rare originality, versatility, flexibility, force and freshness. One
over lbs merits of-a novel so pre~ant with thought and character, nor would
we wish fodo1norewere It possible. We should be very sorry to weaken the interest that
must accompany the perusa of the book. We had thought Mr. Disraeli dared a great deal
in risking his reputation on another novel, but now that we have read it we do not feel called
upon to pay him many compliments on his courage. As he wrote he must have felt that
the risk was Illusory, and assured himself that his powers had brightened instead of rusting
In haIfa lifetime of repose."-Loszdon Times.
"As a series of brilliant sketches of character, with occasional digressions Into abstract
and speculative topics, 'Lothair' need not fear comparison with the most sparkling of Its
author's previous works."-.Losufon OOserves-.
"Nothin of the original t~erue of Mr. Disraeli's style has been lost by the lapse of years.
Fresh as 'Coningaby,' vigorous as 'Vivian Grey,' tender as 'Renrietta Ternplo, enthralling
as 'Tanered,' humorous as any of his former works, 'Lothair,' apart from the Interest attach-
ing to It ~n account of the position of Its author, would be the literary success of the season."
-London Standarct.
"As a literary production the new story is all that the admirers of 'Vivian Grey' could
have wished. The deft hand has lostnone of Its cunning. The wealth of glowing description,
whose richness becomes at times almost a painful enjoyment, the keen satire, the sparkling
epigram, the wonderful sketches of society, the airy skimmin" over the surface of life,
touching upon Its fashionable graces, laughing a little at its fash'?onable follies-all are here
as we kuew them of old. The brightness. Is undimmed and the spirit Is unsnbdued."-N~w
Y~* Tribune.
1 vol., l2mo, cloth, price $2.09; also In paper, octave, price $1.90.
Copies of either mailed, post-free, to any address within the United States, en receipt
prIce.
Uniform Edition of Disraeli's Novels.
The undersigned will publish immediately a cheap uniform edition of Disraeli's novels,
octavo, paper covers, as follows:
Henrietta Temple.           50 cents.       Airoy.     50 cents.
Venetian.      50 ccnts                      Contarini Fleming.          50 cents.
The You.ug Duke.           50 cents.        Vivian    Grey.     60 cents.
Coningsby, Tancred, etc.
D. APPLETON &amp; CQ~, PubIisher~,
549 &amp; 551 Broadway, New York.


  
             
         
       
   
