
    ----CITATION----
        Wright, Sarah A.. The Secret Duel; or, The Soldier's Dream .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8399
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The secret duel; or, The soldier's dream 
            
                 TIME. I "TIME and tide wait for no man," is an old and true proverb, and we presume no person in this great metropolis will for a moment dispute. it; and what is true of New York, in this respect, will apply to a greater or less [extent to all other parts of the country. The "Lhouse of BENEDICT'" has for sev- eral years furnished the true meridian time, until nearly every bank, railroad office, Government-office, hotel, church, etc., relies mainly on "Benedict's time," In this way the Messrs. Benedict Brothers have made themselves a sort of necessity to the country at large. By a strictly honorable course, they have attained a reputation as horologers as wide as the country. Their watches uniformly conform to the true time. BENEDICT'S TIME WATCH. PRICES. Silver Watch, Ovington Benedict ............... .$30.00 Gold (18 kt)  ... .... ....    ........ 90.00 Silver Watch, Samuel W. Benedict ................ 45.00 Gold (18 kt) ' . .............................. 105.00 Sent to all parts of the country by express, with privilege to examine before paying. Send for a Circular, and compare prices before purchasing else- where. BENEDICT BROTHERS, Jewelers, and Keepers of the City Time, No. 691 BBOADWAI, near Fourth         Street, NEW XY OR K.   OVINGTON BROS., CHNA  IMPORTERS, PARIS CLOCKS AND BRONZES, STATUA RY   AND RICH    MANTLiE   SETS, Superior Silver-plated' Goods, FINE TABLE CUTLERY AND CRYSTAL GLASSWARE. 236, 238, 240, FuLToN STREET, BrOOkLyN, House in Paris-54 Cour, Rue de- Paradis, Poissonniere. L. NICOLETTI, (FROM PARIS,) "ADIES' HAIR         DRESSER, 891 Broadway (between 19th and 20th Streets), -NE: WT    Y o t:E WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.  Manufacturer of all kinds of Hair Work. Always on hand, a large assortment of Braids, Curls, Chignons, Pompadours, Frizet Wigs, 'Half^Wigs, Perfumery, &c. &c. GOLD MEDAL obtained at the Hair Dressing Academy of Paris, 1856. AMade, to order at short notice. - Ladies Fashion Plates received from Paris and London. 'r          A O. GAiNARD. E G. GAINARD. J- B     CGANIAR D BIROS. MANtFACTURtRS oF : B1       fflS  ! t  I  b JNo. 21i Canal St., N. Y.; (One block East of Earl's Hotel.)  A large assortment at Wholesale and Retail. For sale by Carpet and' Furniture Houses all over the country.     ORt THE SOLDIER'S DREAM. A. Story of the L-at 'VVa r- BY MRS. SARAH A. WRIGHT, Authoress of "Medora," "Gem of the Lake," "Improper Use of the Tongue," etc. etc. NEW  YORK: THE, AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, "9 AND 121 NASSAU STREET. 1869.   THE APPEAL, Suggested to the Author, on the breaking out of the War, the Old Dominion being her birth-place: VIRGINIA, sweet home of my childhood, hold fast To the Star-Spangled Banner ; may it ne'er be o'ercast With the name of disloyalty; never--no, never-- Shall the sons of Virginia our great Union sever! Away in the South, on the brink of York river, The cannon vibrated and the British did shiver; Brave WASHNGTON drove the red jackets to sea, And the Star-Spangled Banner waved over the free I Hurrah for America's sons on the soil! We can conquer the world, 'mid sorrow and toil; rWe bend not nor bow to the base British yoke, Nor to those who would dare foreign foes to invoke. We will fight our own battles o'er hill and o'er vale, Away in the South, 'mid tempest and gale; Our cause is the right, and the right we'll uphold; 'Mid sunshine or darkness, the hero is bold! May peace soon echo from Shenandoah valley, And from the hills of old York may each freeman rally, Where Cornwallis was conquer'd, near the broad, surging waves, And the pale moon shone o'er the slain heroes' graves! Oh! may the red, white and blue of Liberty's tree Float again on the breeze o'er the land and the sea, And the Star-Spangled Banner forever may be An emblem of liberty to the brave and the free! Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by SARAH A. WRIGHT, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.   PREFACE. IT is an old adage, that " truth 1i stranger than fiction;" and in this age, as the world grows older, people seemingly become more romantic, and we are sorry to say, perhaps more wicked, as tragedy reigns triumphant; therefore duels and murders are not at all strange occurrences of the day. Thus we have founded our story on facts, as it is our usual style of writing novels; romances, or what- ever the reader chooses to class our works. The romantic hero of our story was surely an adventurer, and we have tried to delineate his joys and sorrows as accurately as our ability permitted. In real life there is sufficient food for the pen in tra- gedy or comedy. The private and military career of Col. Baldow's life is, sufficient to engage the attention of any one, irrespective of education or religious opinion. His first youthful fancy with the fair Eva, the doctor's daughter, while at college, was sufficient to show an impulsive disposition, which could not be termed love or sincere affection; but; his second attachment was more deeply rooted, and cost him years of sadness, and, simi- lar to Charlotte's beau, Werter, ended at-last in   "  i      PREFJACE. one of the principal events of the narrative. The flippant fancy of the little German girl on board the ship, while on his passage to America, was not sin- cere but amusing. Miss Oakley's death, too, was a source of deep regret to him, as he was engaged to be married to her, yet he mourned her fate without taking a dose of arsenic, or plunging himself into the foalning billows; for at that time he was enga- ged in fighting against many of the bravest men that ever led an army or waved a sword on a battle- field of the American continent. The adventures of our hero during his military career, are truly interesting, although, he suffered acutely from wounds received during the sad ravages of a civil war., But the darts of Cupid's arrows were more destructive to his happiness than all other troubles during the conflict, yet he claims our sympathy, and also Clara Hollinbergh, whom we may term the pro- minent heroine of our story, as she is a true para- gon of a Southern woman. Those who do not believe in dreams, should remember Joseph's sun, moon, and the sheaves of corn, and also not forget the incarceration of Clara, at the time Horace dreamed that -she had been abducted from him.   THE SECRET DUEL; ' OR HHE   gOLDIER'S  UREAM. CIIAPTER   I. THE glorious orb of day, the brilliant sun, was just sinking behind the western hills, and all nature beamed forth with resplendent- beauty, as Horace 'Baldow, our military hero, approached his home, after an absence-of several months, on a business tour through the mountainous districts;of Poland and Prussia. His heart beat wildly with anticipa- tions of a reciprocity of that pure feeling which is our first offering on the altar of love, from her whose image, mirrored on his heart, had been his constant companion through many a long and weary day. 'After receiving the blessings and warm' greetings of his aged parents, we next find him by gr                  .      4      THE SE]RET DUEL; OR the side of the being to whom he had given his whole heart, and who he hoped ere long to claim by the most- sacred tie that binds us this side of the grave. His reception was not just what he suppo- sed it should have been. He soon noticed that a chalnge had apparently come over her during his absence ; and he found to his bitter disappointment, while conversing with the gay brunette, that she was engaged to another: and to think that he had been supplanted by a rival, and that rival his old friend Frank Goldenstein, the companion of his youth, was a shock so terrible and unexpected, that one would have imagined for a while that Horace was insane. He trenibled with emotions, then sprang to his feet in madness, and paced the floor, wringing his hands in agony, while his brain reeled, and his heart sank within him. He then murmured, I'll go; yesI'll go to America, and engage in the war, for I care not for the rifle shot, for the one which ends my existence will render me a happy man." He turned and gazed upon Oppolita with intense feeling, and as he whispered farewell for ever, he left the house. Her heart beat quickly; her very soul was agita- ted; thus she turned her eyes away, as if to divert that piercing glance, which ran through every nerve of that fair form, now they were separated. iHe   THE SOLDIERS DREAM.      5 whom she had once: determined to have followed to the battle-field, or any portion of the known world, had gone; and he too had imagined that she was to strew his path w'th flowers, and watch his last dying breath with the emotions of a wife. But alas! alas! and as he left her side he whispered, "Strange and deluded girl, I pray to God you may never repent your choice." Oppolita sat pale and trembling, while her delicate hands covered those bewitching eyes, which were streaming with tears. But in a few moments she -recovered her strength, raised her head, supposing that Horace had taken his seat. But he had gone; yes, gone I  "Oh I Horace I Horace I would to God I had died ere we met!" cried the frantic igirl, as she arose from her seat, and stood at the Window, to watch him as he glided from her view. A It was there she meditated. "' I love, yes, I love him more than lips can utter, or tongue can express, and though on a foreign shore thou shouldst meet thy fate, my prayers shall ever ascend to heaven for thy safety ; and if on the battle field thou should die, permit me, O my Father in heaven, permit me to imprint one, last. lingering kiss upon his cold lips and manly- brow, and strew his. grave with the emblems of truth, and water them with my tears. ( But this is all denied me, and why? becausehe is   6   .    THE SECRET DVEL; O  poor, and Frank is rich; yet father will not tell Horace that he alone is the cause of our separation. Dear father, you have sacrificed your daughter- for wealth, and I am lost, lost. Horace believes me false; but O, Horace, I am not," she sighed heavily and then threw herself upon the sofa, where she and her beloved had been so recently seated ; but in a few moments more she arose and swept from the room like a spectre, arid entered her chamber, there to meditate upon the future, and to mourn the day that she and Frank Goldenstein had ever met. O love, thou art omnipotent! Then why trifle with a passion which drives men to the battle-field, and women to their graves? Yet such is life. And now the war-cry echoes and re-echoes throughout the United States, and Horace Baldow has made up his mind to cross the great Atlantic, and join the Union Army, to gratify a warlike, ambitious feeling, which he had imbibed from a boy, and if possible forget his bitter disappoint- ment. At this time the South felt it had been imposed upon, and determined to submit no longer to what it considered harsh treatment. The North knew their numbers were millions, and it held the weapons of power; it was thus it boasted, yet the victory is not always to the strong, but the vigilant,   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.      7 the brave, and the active. These were days when the very air bore the war-cry upon its gentle breezes, the rustling leaves, and the bending boughs, at the twilight hour, seemingly wafted the sad tale of death from Mexico to Maine. We will now refer to the birth-place and early days of the youthful soldier; then we will follow him through his military career, and love's sad dream. The Grand Duchy of Baden numbers about one million of inhabitants, and is one of the most fertile and beautiful countries in Europe. It extends to great length, but little width along the Rhine, from the outlet of that river, at Lake Constance, to its confluence with the Neckar. It consists chiefly of a fertile plain, with excellent cornfields and vineyards, washed on the west by the Bhine, and bordered on the east by the Odenwald anl the Black Forest, of both of which mountain ranges considerable portions belong to the Grand Duchy, and contribute to its beautiful scenery. In the latter, the charming Berg- strasse and the picturesque valley of the Murg are distinguished. There is an abundance of fine grain, great plenty of fruit, and in the warm regions of the Bergstrasse almonds, chestnuts, and walnuts grow luxuriously. Fine wines are also produced in profu- sion. The forests are superb, and the whole face of the country resembles a garden. To attempt even an   8       THE SECRET DUEL; OR outline of its historic and romantic interest would require pages of manuscript. The town of Baden, famous for its baths, and, in fact, deriving its name from them--the word "Baden " being the plural of the German "bad," meaning "a bath "--is situated in an enchanting valley, about two leagues from the river Rhine. Its old castle affords on all sides a series of the most splendid and romantic views, and contains a number of subterranean vaults, which, according to tradition, were the halls of a se- cret court of justice called the Vhem-Gericht. They were probably constructed by the Romans. The Hall of Antiquities contains Roman monuments found in the vicinity. The College Church of the Jesuits con- tains the sepulchres of the Margraves of Baden.. It has six altar-pieces by Lill, painted after Grindo da Reni. Baden has twenty-six mineral springs, the principal of which has a temperature of 133 degrees Fahrenheit, and  affords in twenty-four hours the immense amount of seven million three hundred and forty-five thousand four hundred anid forty cubic inches of water. The rock from which it issues is even now partly covered with Carrara marble, and was no doubt a Roman bath.  In the former bath for the poor, there are alsoremains of Roman baths. In the Hoellenquelle or Nell-spring, of 144 degreeslFah- renheit, meat will cook. - The town now numbers some five thousand inhabitants, and is annually the resort   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.       9 of throngs of the gay and wealthy of all countries,  who Rock thither to enjoy its delightful scenery, its . health-restoring waters, and its fashionable and splen- did dissipation. In one of the most picturesque parts of the city lived the father of the hero of our story. Horace Baldow was the seventh son, and, as the old adage is, such are destined to be great; and it may be the fate of the German Lieutenant.  If the patient reader will follow this tale to its close, he-will discover whether our hero, in the immortal language of the bard of Avon, was "bomr to great- ness, achieved greatness, or had greatness thrust upon him." We will give the preliminaries of Mr. Baldow's life in as few words as possible, and we think the mostt stupid mind would not weary of such a -hero. His father, Thomas Baldow, sent his son to- one of the first colleges in the city of Berlin, capital of Prussia. From a lad, Horace had evinced a great taste for military life, and while at school, Napoleon like, he made balls of snow, arranged his army, proclaimed himself general, and never failed to:conquer his youthful opponents. Thus success made him  con- fident, and increased his native bravery.  He was an intelligent, attractive youth.    a He had been but a short time at college when, one afternoon, the students were granted  an opportunity   10      THE SECRET DUEL; OR for recreation. Under Den Linden is the principal street in Berlin. The Tier Gar ten is situated on this street, and is one of the most lovely places in the city. Within its limits are collected all kinds of flowers and trees. The weeping willow bends its graceful switches to the gentle breeze, while the tall majestic cedar puts forth its evergreen in a most luxuriant growth. Va- riegated flowers send forth their odor moistened with the balmy dew of heaven, and birds of a thousand notes may be heard warbling their songs of praise amid the lonely shades. The operas performed at the Tier Garden are said to be of the finest music in Germany. In this beautiful pleasure resort, Dr. Walcroft and his daughter were walking on one fine afternoon, also the collegians. The Professor had a lovely child, and she was only fourteen, but oh! exceedingly pretty. So, truly, thought Horace Baldow. He had never seen the Professor's daughter until that afternoon. As she, by the side of her father, passed a group of students, Horace inquired what beautiful girl that was. He was answered by his room-mate, Frank Goldenstein: "Miss Eva Walcroft, the Doctor's daughter." "Well," said Horace, after a moment's silence, and drawing a long breath, " she is certainly an exceed- inly pretty girl." She was a blond, blue eyes, fair hair, a very pretty   THE SOLDIERrS DREAM.     " little mouth, and a dcimpled chin. She was full of- natural vivacity, and chatted merrily with her father. As she passed the captivated youth who had inquired , her identity, she shed a bewitching smile upon him, which, however unconscious, had the immediate effect of determining Horace to make her acquaintance. Soon the Professor seated his daughter under the pendant branches of a huge willow, while he walked away to another part of the garden. As the portly form of the Doctor vanished in the distance, the youths approached the maiden, and Goldenstein in- troduced his' friend. The young lady looked pleased, for coquettery is natural to all women, but especially to the German. Eva, as Horace discovered, was very graceful in manner, ,and exceedingly loquacious for one so young. But those who have grown up in so- ciety, as it were, are never very awkward. It is only those raised in obscurity who affect' so much mock modesty. Eva was pleased with her father's pupil, that was very evident. In a little while Miss Walcroft and Horace were to be seen en promenade, he expatiating with the en- thusiasm of his- teens on birds; flowers,- music, and the beautiful sights and sounds by which they were surrounded, and she appeared very well satisfied with his eloquence. When the Professor returned, they all walked off together on the return home. After they had left the garden, the Doctor inquired of his   12      THE SECRET DUEL; OR daughter in what manner she had become acquainted with Horace Baldow. "He was introduced by Frank Goldenstein," replied the little -maiden, with a blush and a smile. "Well, Eva," said the old gentleman, "I will excuse you this time for strolling around the grounds with Horace Baldow, but I desire you to have nothing more to say to any of the students." "Oh, father!" cried the laughing girl, " it is no harm to talk to the boys, I am sure;" and she laid a wicked little emphasis upon the word "boys." "No harm, perhaps," said the Professor, "but you are yet too young for such things." And the Doctor silently passed on, buried deep in some metaphysical reverie. About the same time, another dialogue took place. "Well, Horace, you are the most dare-devil fellow I ever saw. Not for the world would I have let the Doctor see me en promenade with his fair daughter. I knew he was displeased, because I overheard him lecturing Madamoiselle as they passed." "Oh, I do not care!" said Horace, laughing as care- lessly, if not as musically, as the fair Eva; "when I see a girl, and like that girl, I am determined to make her acquaintance, if possible. 'None but the brave deserve the fair,' thou knowest." "I lay you a wager you get into trouble some of these days," said Frank, who could not help laughing   THE SOLDIER'8 DREAM. '     13 at the irresistibly comic expression just then assumed by Horace's mobile features. "If I do get in, 'tis likely I shall get out again," rejoined Horace. "In this mutable world a fellow cannot stay either out or in for any length of time, and variety's the spice of life, and gives it all its fla- vor." So "Vive la bagatelle"  The boys entered their class, and all passed off for the present. Horace Baldow often thought of the pretty little girl whom he had met in the Tier Garden, and as often wished to meet her again. Under Den Linden is a most beautiful street. - The King's palace is near it, and many have been the visits made by Queen Victoria to the beautiful plea- sure-grounds since her daughter, the Princess Fred- erick William, has lived in Berlin. Such places of pleasure are often frequented by lovers, and many are the matches matured on these enchanting grounds. If there is anything to elevate the mind of the lover, itis scenery. Nature, in her own garb, is calculated to inspire the mind with holy feelings towards God and man. A few weeks after Horace had met Eva in the- Tier Garden, he found himself promenading alone in that of the Professor; and as he strolled slowly on, amusing himself by twisting in his restless fingers sprays of jasmine and rosebuds, he was attracted by a neigh- boring sound. Turning quickly, he beheld Eva under   "r    v THE SECRET DUE,; OR an arbor, with a book in her hand, as though she had been learning her lesson in that secluded spot among the sweet-scented flowers. "Oh!" cried Horace, springing to her side, 'where did you drop from?" :   "I dropped from the clouds, you unpoetic boy," answered she, pertly, but with the sweetest smile Horace had ever seen. "Rather say you sprang up among these flowers, to make them hide their envious heads in despair," said the apostrophized boy. "That is really very well," she said, patronizingly. "You'll improve, if you try hard." "Where is your father?" he asked, boldly taking her hand in his. "He is absent from home this afternoon. If I walk and talk with you now, it will be against orders. Papa was very angry with me that afternoon, and he has strictly prohibited all intercourse with the stu- dents." "I saw, then, by his countenance, that my having made your acquaintance was not prodigiously pleasing to the Doctor." "Ah! never mind: he will get over it after a while." The boy and girl lovers strolled about for some time, having fallen as suddenly, and, as they thought, as iretrievably in love as Romeo and Juliet. All the future, as well as the blissful present, was coleur &A   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     15 rose to their happy young eyes. Before they parted, the means to keep up a constant correspondence was arranged between them; but-ohl folly of youth H- it was to remain a profound secret, particularly to the Doctor. But an occurrence took place, which, for a time, separated the young lovers. The revolution of 1848 commenced. The people rebelled against the King, William IV., and Berlin was in uproar. As Frank and Horace were one day passing the barrack, with books under their arms, they were seized, pressed into service, and compelled to prepare to fight. Baldow was not displeased. He had evinced a war spirit from childhood, and he could now indulge it a little. He had a brother in a Frankfort regiment, and the brothers were arrayed against each other, just. as we now see our American people. Our hero was only fifteen, yet he fought bravely. Frank Goldenstein was not so content with this hitch in the wheel of fortune, and it required all Baldow's eloquence to encourage him to do his duty. Frank's forte lay not in the military line, and powder and ball were not pleasant to his senses. However, neither of them were wounded, and the Sebellion was soon put dowhi. Horace and his friend returned to school, and all went smoothly for some time. Eva was delighted to hear how bravely her hero had borne himself, and prophesied to' him, softly \     THlE SECRET DUEL ; OR speafiA  in his ear, that some fine day surely a gen- eral he would be. Praise from such a source, no doubt, pleased and flattered him more than the united eulogies of all the men in Berlin would have done. Well, it appears that Horace and Eva were to be separated. They really loved each other very dearly. Horace was one of those wild, enthusiastic natures 'that loved with all his heart as long as the flame lasted. His light hair and soft blue eyes denoted an affection- ate temperament. But this afaire de coeur was des- tined to be nipped in the bud. One day the sapient Doctor met a servant on the stairway with a letter in hand. "Where go you with that note?" asked the Professor. "To Miss Eva, sir," replied .the servant. "Remit it to me, then," said the gray-headed man of science, incontinently seizing the billet doux, and making off to his sanctum. The perusal of the inter- cepted document did not serve to cool his passion, for in it Horace had poured forth his soul to his juve- nile charmer. The domestic was called, and told that in future all epistles directed to Miss Eva were to be first delivered in his hands; and the wondering serv- ant was also forbidden, on pain of dismissal, to reveal to his daughter that her letter had been intercepted. Poor Horace waited in vain for a reply to his eloe quent effusion; none came; and, to his utter aston-   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     17 ishment, Miss Eva was packed off to school. She was so closely watched, that not one line could she drop to the wondering swain. "Oh! What a sad af- fair," they thought. Each one thought that they loved more ardently than it was possible for any other human being to love. It was a long while before Eva had an opportunity of explaining her silence. In about a year she returned home. Then Horace had given up his wild fancy, and had become very studious. She addressed him a note, explaining why she had been sent off, for the domestic had confessed to her the interception of the letter by her father. But it seems that when a man changes toward a woman, she may be as innocent as possible of wrong, they never get over their prejudice. Horace imagined that Eva had treated him badly in regard to her silence, and he had cast her from his mind forwhat she couldnot avoid. Such things often occur; but as they were both young, it made but little difference. However, they met once after her return, and talked over the speedy separation, and parted as good friends; but their wild fancy had taken wings, and flown away. Young Baldow remained seven years in that school; then he returned to Baden Baden, and became book- keeper in a large wool-manufacturing house. Yet he lost none of his taste for military affairs. He often talked of going to different wars, and expressed more   18      THE SECRET DUEL; OR desire to become a great man in a military way than in any other. His father often chided him for wish- ing to fight. Time rolled on, without bringing to Horace the desired opportunity. He now became very much enamoured of Miss Oppolita Zeroth, the daughter of his employer. She often visited her father's store, and our hero had quite forgotten the pretty little blonde, and fallen under the spell of the beautiful brunette. Her long, dark, glossy ringlets, her vermilion cheek and white teeth, quite subjugated a heart that was panting for a new attachment. Bal- dow's was a temperament that must have something to love, and a pretty girl seemed to him to be the most suitable toy. After having met Miss Zeroth, he did not so much feel like going off to the war; yet the description of battle-fields was by no means un- palatable to his taste. in a few months after becoming acquainted with the merchant's daughter, Baldow was quite overpow- ered with the feeling which has caused so much hap- piness in the world, and also so much misery. ^ Love, for the second time, had entered his heart, and now it was a passion fully developed: it was no school-boy attachment, which a few months of absence would serve to efface, but a lasting, consuming spark, which had caught, and was not easily to be extinguished. "Love rules the camp, the court, the grove, For love is heaven, and heaven is love." H   THE SOLDIER'S DiEAM.      19 CHAPTER II. THE passion of our hero was not hopeless. Miss Oppolita appeared quite as susceptible to his attrac- tions as he had shown himself to hers. Baldow was now a large, fine-looking, intelligent man, whose clear blue eye sparkled with mind and vivacity. We do not wonder that Miss Zeroth lost her heart. There was the opposite of characters in the lovers. They became wholly absorbed in the affections of each other., Baden Baden is one among the first watering places in Germany. Many were the strolls taken by Oppo- lita and Horace along the river IW hine during the summer months. Ah, how happy were theyl Like all who are successful in their love, the whole creation seemed revivified to their ecstatic senses. One even- ing, when the lovers sat on a green mound by the river's brink, "Oh!" said Horace to Oppolita, "does not this spot remind you of Robert Burns and his Highland Miary?" "Yes," said the young lady, "for there are hawthorn blossoms upon that tree now." "We are happy with the happiness of which the great poet sings!" cried Baldow, catching her to his   20      THE SECRET DUEL; OR bosom, and pressing her yielding lips to his: "Oh! Lita, will we ever be parted?" "I hope, I trust not, murmured the trembling girl," the tears springing to her eyes. Baldow's heart beat wildly, his brain was on fire, his soul was replete with the purest happiness which the capacity of man can enjoy. She leaned upon his manly breast, her long, dark ringlets drooping over her shoulders. They spoke but few words. True love is said to be taciturn, and we do not doubt it, for the heart is too much absorbed in the object to be very loquacious. Hour after hour the lovers sat admiring nature and each other. Happy with a great happiness were these two, and when they returned home it seemed to each as though this had been the most glorious evening of their lives. Horace still had warlike inclinations, strange as it may seem, and often spoke of them in the presence of the lady and her father. A natural propensity for the sword and rifle seemed to predominate in his breast, notwithstanding his sincere love for the elected lady of his heart. Frank Goldenstein, and Baldow were at this time warm friends, and the love of Horace was often the theme of their confidential hours-a love upon which the sun of prosperity seemed to shine with unobscured splendor. Goldenstein admired the choice of Horace; the merchant seemed to think most highly of his book- !   THE SOLDIERS DREAM.  keeper; and Baldow looked upon Oppolita as indis- putably his future wife. But as we are often deceived, so it was in this case. One morning Mr. Zeroth' approached Baldow's desk, and inquired if he were willing to go traveling upon business for the house, adding that he was, for that purpose, the most suitable man in the firm. The young man answered in the affirmative, feeling will- ing to make almost any sacrifice for the father of her whom he so devotedly loved. A short time sufficed to make Horace ready for a year's journey. All he regretted was leaving Oppo- lita, although he had kind parents, lovely sisters, and six brothers in Baden Baden. He knew that Op- polita was young, only eighteen, and he had sufficient time to wait for her; as the idea of a rival had never entered his mind, he felt perfectly satisfied to leave, and await the future day which was to consumate the union, and which he imagined would be the happiest moment of his life. The reader must bring his imagination to portray the parting of the lovers. "Do you love me well enough to wait a year?" whisperedi Horace to the blushing, tearful maiden. She fell upon his bosom. "Oh! Horace, do not ask me that question. You know that Hoppolita loves you well enough to wait   ]22      THE SECET DUEL;..; OR forever. Oh I she never could love another. as she loves -Horace -BA w.^dow" They stood almost speechless, gazing into each other's eyes, both trembling like the aspen in the breeze. Oh! reader, is there anything so overpowering as love? The writer has seen enough of this wild pas- sion to convince her of its reality, and Oppolita Ze- roth and Horace B]aldow were now suffering all the pains that Cupid's keen arrow can inflict. But Horace must depart; he pressed her to his heart, and, impr'inting a last, long kiss upon her trem? bling lip was gone. Those who, "have loved and parted" can imagine the feelings of the separated lovers, and will sympathize with them. Those who have never felt the first pang of an unquiet feeling in their hears, from them we ask and expect- nothing, They would have but little sympathy for our here while pursuing his travels over the cold regions of Poland and among the Prussians. He labored faith- fully for the firm:; and many thousands of dollars worth of goods he sold. lFor six months ormore- he received such affectionate letters from Miss Zeroth, that his tour was more plea- sant than otherwise. He ascended mountains and, descendped valleys. The countries through which he passed only renmmded him of her, he' had- left behind, 'for he never saw a stream of water that he did not   -THE -SOLDIER 8S DREAM.    2 think of the Rhine; he never heard a bird warble, or beheld a flower bloom that Oppolita was not by his side in imagination. When he had been absent about eight-months, her letters became fewer, and irregularly writtea; not so much punctuality in her correspondence nor quite so much enthusiasm in the- epistles. He began to feel strangely. "What on earth can be the matter?" thoughtE Hor- ace. "She certainly loved me. It cannot be possible that another is gaining her affections." But surely something had taken place. No more peace: for our hero. He hurried u his business, and after having been absent a twelvemonth, again trod the streets of Baden Baden. He proceeded to the office of his employer, whom he met at the door; The first inquiry of the lover was the welfare, of Oppolita. He received reply that she was well  at at home., Horace hurried to -the house. She was not in the well-known sitting-room. In the hall he met a serv- ant, who directed him to the drawing-room. He en- tered; she was seated at the piano: as he approached, she arose, and- saluted him with dignity. Her cool reception made the senses of the young man reel: he perceived in her manner a difference, a vast difference. He caught her hand, and offered a kiss; which she: almost repelle d,  Oh! can we describe his feeling? No, no:. it is im--   g4,     .THE SECRET DtEL; OR possible to do so. A death-like chill ran along his nerves. As she arose fron the piano, where she had sank after her first reception, and seated herself upon the sofa, he placed himself beside her, but he could scarcely speak: his voice for a while was lost. At last, he uttered, "My God, my God, Oppolita, is this you? What can be the matter? Is it possible that the girl I have worshiped for more than two years has forgotten me, and treats me thus coolly? He clasped her hand in his, as if in a vice; he trem- bled, and became deadly pale. She moved not. Her large, full, black eyes fell to the floor; she could not meet that tender gaze; she could not endure the re- proach speaking in his countenance. She trembled in her turn, and, as he talked, the tears gathered in her eyes: his gaze, his touch, his voice seemed to send compunction to her heart. Oh! reader, her love was revived. He pressed her to his bosom, and the most tender language was ut- tered. She trembled in his embrace; she sobbed convulsively. He then said, "Oppolita, Oppolita! tell me, tell me, for God's sake tell me, if you love me no longer. Why this trembling, these tears? Surely, this extreme emotion is not the sign of joy?" She could not speak, but trembled like the quiver- ing leaf in the breeze. Baldow placed her hand on f .   THE SOLDIERrS DREAM.     25 his heart, and sighed heavily. "This is more than I can endure," he said. "When we parted, you affirmed that you could never love another as you loved me; but it is evident to me that you have been won." "Not won," murmured the trembling girl, "but pledged." "Pledged to another?" asked Horace, in a voice "Iow, but deep." ' "Yes," she said, as a ghost would say, could such things speak. "To whom?" he asked, in the same suppressed tone. "To-to--o Frank Goldenstein." The arms of Horace dropped lifelfess to his side; white, white as marble turned his stern face, and al- most as marble cold. A dead silence ensued. At last, he heaved a sigh, more nearly a groan, and moved from her as from a false thing. "Can it be possible that I have been so deceived?" said the grave young man. "Horace, Horace, I did not intend to deceive you, but my father--my father preferred Frank to you," said Oppolita. "Do you prefer him?" he asked, in a tone that chilled the heart of the girl. "No, I do not, nor ever did." "Do you love me?" in the same icy tone. "If I were to say that I do not, I would utter an untruth; but to say that my affection is as strong as **  \ '   \   26       TH SECRET DUEL; OR when you left, would be to utter something equally false." You still love me a little then?' "'Horace, you must not give way to your feelings You are enthusiastic," said Miss Zeroth. "Do not talk to me of enthusiasm!" cried the young man, springing to his feet, and pacing the floor. a Enthusiasm! My God, no one can love truly with- out it. There is no such thing as governing their feelings when they are sincere, and when a person of -my nature loves, he loves to adoration. Do you re- member when we promenaded the shores of the Rhine?" "Yes," he forced the weeping girl to say. "Do you remember the hawthorn-tree, and how -happy we were under its shade?" "How richly grew the gay green birk, How sweet the hawthorn blossom, As underneath her fragrant shade I clasped her to my bosom." - Oppolita, you were as dear to me as was to the heart of Burns his Highland Mary But this is not heaven; we are still upon earth, and now must part. But," (changing to a brighter tone,) "ere I go, per- haps you will be kind enough to tell me your objec- tions to me." Horace,' said the abject girl, "I have none, nor ever had; but father says that you are inclined to a   v  !-1 THE SOLDIER S DREAM.      27 t- miitary life, and that, were we to marny,you would soon go of to some war, and leave me, perhaps, a friendless widow in a strange country." "And that is your father's objection?"' a Yes; that is all I ever heard him advance." Well," said Baldow, "'had I married r you, I might never have taken aa notion to go to the war. My love was such as would have bound wme to you." "Bememniber Napoleon," said'the girl; .he loved Josephine; yet ambition ruled his passion." "I am no Napoleon," said 3orace; " but now that -destiny parts us, I shall throw myself into the battle- field, and God bless the marksman whose sure ball -enters my heart. Death would be a relief for a little while." Oh! strange, recklessHorace! He contin- ued: "Permit me to offer you a filial embrace, oh! "faithlessmaiadeh, and to wish my friend Frank and yourself all happiness; and may he prove to you a truer husband than he has proved to me a friend; and may he find in you a twife less fickle than I in you found one to love." In spite of all, his lip trembled, and a pang made itself felt amid the bitterness that filled his heart. It was a trying moment to both: they were about to be separated forever. -Oh! love, love, how cruel are thy -mandates!  Oppolita sank upon the sofa, and covered her face with her hands. When she looked uP, he was agoen   28      THE SECRET DUEL; OR Horace Baldow wended his way to the house of his father. A military life was now the desire of his soul. The girl he had loved had been persuaded to be false to him. He smiled a bitter smile as he recalled all that had passed during the interview, and knew in his heart that she still loved him. That would yet be a bitter pill for Frank Goldenstein to swallow, he said to himself. And, oh! how he hated that very Frank, with an intense hatred, and he longed to be revenged. We hope that the reader will have patience with our hero, if he falls once or twice more in love before he reaches the end of his career. Arriving at home, he at once informed his father that he had concluded to sail for America. "And why?" asked the downright father. "Because the girl I loved has proved false," an- swered the equally downright son. "Are there not many other girls in Germany?" said the weeping mother. - "Not for me." "Oh!" cried Pauline, amid her tears, "Horace has vaulted upon one of his war-horses, he has so long talked about mounting." "Yes," said the dissolving mother; "he says that if there is a battle to be fought on the face of the globe, he will be there on that day. And all on ac- count of a girl 1"   'THE SOLDIERYS DREAM.     !29 "I will not remain where I can see or hear of Op- polita Zeroth and Frank Goldenstein," said Horace, passionately. "Why, dear brother, where is your courage? If you have no more in war tfhan you have in love, you will make a poor soldier. If you run from a girl, I fear you will desert the battle-field in the hour' of danger. "'None but the brave deserve the fair.'" CHAPTER III. Is came Hildegarde Veick, their pretty neighbor. "What under the sun, moon, and all the planets, has occurred?" she cried, holding -up her pretty white hands. "Like April weather, you are all in smiles and tears!" "Horace has lost his Krasna Holga, his beautiful girl," said Pauline, Horace reddened as a pair of blue eyes turned their expressive glance upon him. "He is going to America, or any where else where there is a chance of finding a battle-field. He is flee- ing from a coquette, and the next thing we'll hear will be that he has fled the battle-field. Well, "He who fights and runs away, Will live to fight another day."   30      THE SwEOET DUEL; 0l "You are mistaken, Pauline," replied Horace, too weary and heart-sick to become vexed at their rail lery. "I shall fight more bravely now even than heretofore, because I do not fear death-nay, to meet the grimn monster, especially upon the battle-field, would be the boon I most would crave," and he smiled faintly. "Nonsense, Horace, you make me laugh with your idle talk," cried his sister. "You have never loved, Lina," said the brother. "Not in your distracted, fanciful manner, I grant you, I never have, and hope I never may. In less than six months, brother mine, you will be again in love--mark my words. If youdo join in a war, there will be some little American girl binding up your wounds, and bathing your burning temples." "You are determined that I shall be wounded, it t seems." "It is more than likely. Such is the chance which soldiers run, particularly when they, like you, rush' recklessly on to the battle-field. "Ah! quel plaisir d'etre soldat," * Horace left the house, which was thrown into utter confusion by his sudden resolution, and went in search of a ship. Old Mr. Baldow wondered what he had done that his seventh son should be possessed * Ah? what pleasure to be a soldier!   THE SOLDIER' DREAM.  ,   31  with such a roving spirit. The old gentleTnan could not sympathize with a spirit that dould prefer the battle-field to relatives, friends, and fireside pleasures. But it seems that our hero was one of those who are doomed to tread the various paths of life, the "steep and thorny," as well as the "primrnose" ways. -Such is the fate of many; and happier are those whob meet the thorns in youth, and for whom the roses come in later life-whose last days are- their best days. Well, we say that the suddetermination of the seventh soni threw his father's family into confusion. His brother Andrew, coming in, was made acquaint- ed with the news. "Welln' said he, C the people of the United States are now cormm encineg a muss about the slavery ques- tion, and, it is thought, that in less than a year there Will be war, anad Rorace will arrive there mi time to engage on one side or the other." "The foolish boy!" said Pauline. "Why should 'he engage in foreign combat? Let him remnsain to fight the battles of his own nation." "Perhaps the fellow may digtinguish himself, Paul- ine-who knows? Then we may feel honored, for I tell you nothiing gives a man as great a nanme as to become a hero in war. Just thitnk of Putnam. when he plunged his horse down the hill, ard saved his army from the English. Who can tell but that our   32      T THE SECET DUEL; OR young German may do something to give him a name :n the annals of history?" Horace soon wound up his affairs, and was in readiness to embark. "Now, my son," said his father to him, " since you are determined to leave us and go to America, I will bestow upon you a little advice. Should you engage in war, of which you have so long talked, for God's sake, never turn traitor. If you take sides with one party, never desert it. If you die, die an honorable death. Ijet all your wounds be in front. Bravery is what I admire, and a turn-coat I detest. Act hon- orably in peace or in war., and you will never disgrace your family. Never, never be an Arnold." "Do not fear for me, father. I shall ever try to be right in all things. The steamer Indiana sails to- morrow, and I must be off bright and early." Horace sat musing alone after his father left him. All things about him seemed brighter and dearer than ever, now that he was about to leave them, and he often sighed when he thought of the pretty bru- nette upon whom he had lavished the passionate love of early manhood, and who, after all, had played him false. He thought of his school-mate, Frank Gold- enstein, and the words of Burns presented themselves to his recollection: "Man's inhumanity to man. Makes countless thousands mourn."   THE SOLDIER S DREII.      - .J e On the following morning, Horace took his farewell of the weeping family. Pauline, the sprighty Paul- ine, exclaiming amidst her tears: "Do not weep papa, mamma, sister, Horace is not going to be killed, he is only going in search of some pretty American girl to strew his path with flowers, and to nurse him when he is wounded in those battles about which he has so often talked." Bidding the dear, affectionate,.jesting girl and all of them A tender farewell, he soon reached the steam- ship, and was outward bound. Our hero enjoyed himself friely, yet often his mind wandered back to Germany, to the scenes of his childhood, to his rela- tives, to his friends, to his fair false love. One evening, after they had been some days at sea, a fearful storm arose. The elements seemed at dread- ful warfare, each one striving to destroy the reeling ship. During this furious storm, Horace saw apretty little German girl staggering on the deck as if she were sick. He approached her, and kindly asked if he could be of any assistance. She replied that she would be very grateful if he would procure her a glass of water: this he hastened to do, and the  little drinker declared herself much refreshed by it. Hor- ace saw that the girl was unprotected, and' all his sympathies were excited in her favor; his loneliness of heart was so great, that after the storm abated he assiduously cultivated her acquaintance. She proved   ,Si     ,THE SECRET DUEL; OR' to be a Miss Mary Zoffman, on her way to America for the purpose of visiting her only sister, who resided in Cincinnati. Baldow became quite pleased with her. She was different from his former girls, but yet she was pretty; she had gray eyes and auburn hair, a round face, but a very mild and amiable expression of cotmtenance, and she performed beautifully upon the guitar. He often played and sang with her. All went on pleasantly , The hours were not so dreary to Baldow after he made her acquaintance. He did not feel for her that wild, enthusiastic attachment which had- drawn him to Miss Zeroth, but the little Germnan girl pleased his taste sufficiently to make the dull hours fleet pleasantly away. This is the way with many others: they are debar- red the society of the one whom they best love, and therefore they wile away the dull hours in the best way they can. After Baldow had paid the young lady some atten- tion, 'the mate commenced to do the same. Baldow waited for some days to observe in what manner she received the devours of the second officer. One even- ing Miss Zoffman said to Horace, "I wish, sir, yout would speak to the mate, and in- form him that his profuse attentions are not agreea- Ible to me. ' He really annoys me." Mr. Baldow felt determined to do as she requested. One evening our hero sat upon the upper deck,   THE SOLDIERS DSREEA.      35 smoking his segar, when the mate, John Herclew came up to him, and made some remark regarding the young lady. This gave him an opportunity of intimating to the officer that his attentions were not exactly pleasing to the object of them. The mate not relishing this, a violent quarrel ensued. Herclew drew a weapon, and about fifty of the crew were on the spot to assist him. Baldow, being high spirited, caught his knife in one hand andhis pistol in the other, which he was in the act of fing, when the captain rushed up, caugnt the mate by the arm, and -dragged him down, thus subduing the riot. B'aldow explained to the young lady how nearly he had been murdered for her sake. She was sorry to have occa- sioned it; but for the remainder of the passage they enjoyed the society of each other undisturbed by the mate. When they arrived in New York, Baldow saw her to the western cars, where they parted-she giv- ing him her address in Cincinnati, and he promising to call. He remained some weeks in New York at the Everett House; then started for the west,'and he often thought of the girl whom he had left in Germany. It is said that traveling will break the charm of love, but sometimes it is a long while before it is ac complished. While west, he called upon his pretty fellow-traveler, and found that she had married. He was ve'ry much Surprised to hear the news, although he had never felt for her anything but friendship. het ha'  e                 Flp   36      THE SECRET DUEL; OR Not long after this our hero attended a ball, and was there introduced to a young lady from New York, a Miss Eliza Oakley. He was exceedingly pleased with her; she possessed superior talent and beauty. She had hazel eyes, a fair complexion, and a form that would have captivated a less appreciative Tan than Horace Baldow. The roses-on her cheek went and came quickly while he conversed with her, and her eyes spoke a language which^ is quickly under- stood. That she admired Mr. Baldow, was a self- evident fact; and he, after dancing a few sets with her, began to forget the beautiful eyes in Germany and the hawthorn blossoms. How little Horace Baldow knew his own heart! He had imagined that no woman, however attractive, could again subjugate his affections, after the falsity of Miss Zeroth. But he now knew that she was lost to him, and somehow that put a different phase upon the matter. He had received a letter from his sister, which informed him of the union of Oppolita and  Goldenstein. The intelligence affected him vely deeply. But "There's many a heart gained in the rebound;" and the ruby lips and sparkling eyes now before him taught Baldow that his own eyes had not lost the faculty to admire, nor his heart that of feeling. Bal- dow determined to cultivate this new acquaintance;   THE SOLDIERBS T R       - 37 but the opportunity granted him at present covered a fortnight of time. Miss Oakley was only on a visit to her uncle, and two weeks after Baldow had met her, she returned to New York, Horace first securing permission to visit her whenever he was in that city. The pretty brunette in Germany was married; so also was the little Eva, the Professor's daughter, Bal- dow's first love; and, again, the young lady, his fel- low-passenger. Now Horace was at liberty to give his heart away again. Perhaps he had never heard, that "he who has loved often, has loved never." But the state of the country for a time drove all other than political thoughts out of Baldow's head; He attentively perused the papers, and. onfidently predicted war. The times indicated nothing else. The North and South must fight to settle this aboli- tion question. Nothing else was heard of. During this excitement, Mr. Baldow returned to New York. After having been some days in the city, he called upon Miss Oakley. She gave him a cordial welcome. Horace B-- was a very handsome man; he was full of animation, and calculated to please the ladies. He soon became a constant visitor at the house of Miss Oakley, and in a very short time Horace Baldow had almost forgotten Germany. Strange, so strange are the hearts of men H e had fancied that he could ,           '\   r   '  . 38      THE SECaET DVEt; OR never again love, yet -here he was enraptured with the  F--    street beauty. She was now all ' i all to him. He loved her with all his heart-as he had loved the others while he loved them. He found his new love all he desired, and that same love began to kindle and rekindle, and burst ouat from a heart that could not conceal it. He declared his passion in eloquent language, and his manner evinced his deep and honorable attachment. He loved her with all his heart, and she reciprocated the attachment so lately formed; and it ended in an engagement of marriage. Horace received another letter from home, telling him of the death of his father, which for a while was a great trouble to him; but being young and gay, he soon recovered his spirits. He had not said much of his military mania to Miss Oakley: he recollected that it was on that account that Miss Zeroth had objected to him, and he feared that Miss Oakley might enter- tain the same prejudice. He wished to return to Germany to settle up his affairs; then return, and be6 married. But the cry of "War! War!" met his ear on every corner of the street. The lion was roused, and now he began to roar. One day Miss Oakley and Baldow went to the Cen- tral Park. It reminded him very much of the Tier Garden in Berlin, although not half so beautiful; yet he and the young lady enjoyed the walk: they seemed to live but for each other. He told her that he in-   tended to sail for Germany in a few days; that he would return in two months, and that he wished her to be in readiness to marry him at that time. She consented to all. Oh, how happy they felt! The evening passed sweetly away. There is nothing which makes one so happy as to be loved by the one whom we  adore. 'They returned home. The next day 'Horace was to take ship: he bade her farewell, and they parted as lovers usually part; and Baldow was off to Germany, as he thought. But after remaining on board the -Havana for four days, she changed her route, and did not sail. Mr. Baldow was' disappointed. The war-cry had become universal. New York thundered War, War! The President had sent off an expedition to Fort Sumter by way of reinforcement. All eyes were watching the bulletin-all ears were catching every ? breath that passed in the streets. South Carolina lad seceded; other States were following her example. When the expedition had reached Fort Sumter, the beautiful Stars and Stripes were hoisted, the emblem of our much-loved country; but the balls were fired into vessels. Now came the severing of the tie. Oh, ye heavens! did not angels weep to see such blindness-such fearful recklessness! Anderson, the brave Anderson, would not surrender until it was no longer possible to do otherwise. Now commenced the bloody tragedy of our beautiful and   40,     THE SECRET DUEL; OR prosperous country. Mr. Baldow became very much excited: he had long wished to be in a battle: his enthusiastic nature now became uncontrollable: his early thirst for a military life was now revived. The city of New York was in a great state of excitement; so with the whole North. The South had become insane on the subject. The frigid North had been a little slow, but now her ire seemed to be awakened. "Fight! fight!" was heard in every direction. "W e will whip them back in a short time; we will soon conquer and subjugate them." All hearts were on fire, both North and South: the very air seemed to vibrate "War." During this state of excitement, Horace Baldow had been disappointed in returning to Germany, and he had made up his mind to enlist as a soldier. But it was necessary to obtain the consent of one. He hur- ried to F.--    street, and there he opened his heart to one whom he now loved more than all the world beside. She gave her consent, saying, "I can- not endure this severing of the Union. To preserve our country, I could give up my father and my bro- thers, or were I a man, I would myself go to defend it." "Brave girl!" exclaimed Horace, and he caught her in his arms, and kissed away a silent tear which stole down her rosy cheek. "Suppose I should be wounded?" said Horace. "Then I would nurse you." "Perchance I shall be killed."   ITHE SOLDIER 6 DREAM.     4f "Then I shall shed tears from a broken heart. But go: you-have my prayers for your safety and success." "Noble woman!" cried Horace; "I will go;" and he hurried away to effect his purpose. Now the hour had arrived when his boyish aspira- tions were fulfilled. In his becoming costume, he went again to bid his fair adieu. He kissed her fondly.- "I am going: I only came to bid you farewell." The color forsook her cheek; her eyes sparkled no longer, and she wept. "Do you regret my leaving?" said Horace, as he pressed her to his bosom. "No; I do not regret it: I believe it to be your duty. Yet I cannot but grieve. I did not sleep last night for thinking lof you." "Shall I remain?" asked the young soldier. "No," repeated Eliza. "Go: I would not love a man who would shrink from his duty." "Brave girl!" again' cried Horace; and, with an- other passionate embrace, he was gone. Eliza sat in her room, thinking of him. She wept; she prayed to God to save him in the hour of peril, and to grant her strength to bear the separation. But, frail girl, how little she knew of woman's nature! She had never before loved and been separated. But she whispered to herself that it was his duty that called him, from her side, and murmured, while ta transient glow, overspread her pallid face, "Go where glory waits thee!"   42a      THE SECRET DUEL-; OR. CHAPTER IV. THE day of departure arrived. The German regi- ment, urnder command of Colonel Blenker, passed down Broadway. Loud beat the rolling drum; mar- tial were the strains called out from the fife; banners waved, spreading out the glorious Stars and Stripes to -the free breeze. Broadway was crowded. The officers looked magnificently on their war-horses; feathers quivered, epaulettes shone, swords glittered, and arms were held proudly erect. On, on they march. At a window near Stewart's sat a pale, lovely crea- ture, with her veil drawn close over her face; and as he arrived opposite that window, a bouquet of red and white rosebuds were thrown to the feet of Horace ibmD- --. He caught it up, gazed in the direction of the veiled face, pressed his lip, to the flowers, and: smiled. But, oh! how pale he looked. He gazed as long as possible, but all too soon theywere out of sight. Eliza descended- to the street, sprang into the car- riage, and was driven home. But her eye was cogni- zant of nothing before her: her heart was on the way to Washington with Horace Baldow. The regiment reached theb capital city at about six o'clock on the next day, all in fine spirits. A fight was what they wished for. Two weeks they waited in Washington. During that time, Eliza had been ill.   THE SOLDIERB' DREAR ,      4 Night after night she had grieved herself to sleep. Her cheeks became as marble; her eyes lost their light. Her parents trembled, for her health seemed to be failing. One morning she entered the breakfast-room, with the languid step, which had now become habitual. "My daughter, are you ill?" asked the anxious mothbr, "I do not feel ill, but something tells me that I shall not live long," answered Eliza. "You are a strange girl, methinks; to speak of dying, and yet say you are not ill," observed Mrs. Oakley. "People sometimes die without any visible illness, Eliza languidly replied, That day she wrote to Horace, but she never men- tioned the low state she was in. She wrote in the most encouraging manner, and spoke of their future union. It delighted him to receive that precious letter. The bustle of Washington:, the cry of war, and the expect- ation of battles, had kept up his spirits. Yet he thought long and: often of his heart's treasure inNew York. Long were his letters to her, and filled with all the incidents of his: new/life. After having been m Washington two weeks, they proceeded to Camp I  ar, a few milesout of thecity, While there, Horace received a communication from   "      THE SECRET DUEL; OR Mr. Oakley, informing him of Eliza's illness, and that she was not expected to live. The shock was great to young Baldow: he was very much distressed, for he suspected the cause of her illness. He immedi- ately replied to the letter, and declared his intention of instantly returning to New York, should she be- come worse. The regiment was slowly marching toward the bat- tle-ground. A fine time they had in Millar's Camp. They drank all the milk they could find, and ate the butter, and everything they wanted. . There they met two or three negroes, and inquired where were their master and mistress. "Massa's in de session army, and missus and young missus is lock all up, and done gone way off some- whar's-whar we don't know: to de Nordern States, so some ob de colored people say." "Well, what do you do now?" inquired the soldier. "We eats and we drinks, dat's all." "You have a good time then!" said Baldow. "Yes, sir; we is got it good now sense de war; but still, we don't like dis yer gun-work--what you call shoot a fellow down dead afore he can say peas." "You don't like war, then?" "No, sir, to tell de trut. I had radder be to work, as we was afore. All dis yer fuss come on kase none ob us sees any pleasure, neider de white folks or de niggers."   THE SOLDIERrS DREAM.     45 "That is so, old man," said Baldow, " and we hope soon to put an end to this war." While at Camp Millar, Horace Baldow received a letter from New York, and it was sealed with black. Well might he tremble as he tore it open. It was from Mr. Oakley, and announced the death of his beloved daughter. For the first and only time in his life, Baldow fainted. His friends endeavored to con- sole him; but nothing can solace .such trouble, save time. Oh, wretched young man! How unfortunate the fate of his affections! Eliza had said "Go!" and she had thought that she could endure the separation. But-poor, frail girl!-she ]lad sunk from depression of spirits,' Love had caused her to pine away and die. Some hard-hearted people will say, there is no such thing as love, but Eliza could tell another story. Dreary and lonely were the hours now to Horace Baldow. How much she must have loved him! Brave gid! she had suffered her heart to break, rather than deprive the country of a bold soldier. After the soldiers had left Camp Millar, they marched in the Fairfax road; but slovly they pro- ceeded, for they cut and cleared their way as they went. Now Horace Baldow had no regrets: he cared for no one now: he was anxious to reach the battle-: ground, but their progress was tedious and slow. Colonel Blenker was a very fine man, and well cal-   "      THE SECRET DUEL.; OR culated to fill his present position. But he had the peculiarity of wearing two hats-one gray, the other black. We may suppose that he had two, in case one was shot off, the other would be ready to supply its place. But the Colonel must have looked strangely enough, giving orders with two hats on one head! They encamped a few miles from Fairfax. IWhile there, the Garibaldi regiment came up, and there they remained some weeks. In that regiment were said to be -a set of rowdies. They did act ridiculously: they entered an elegant house, and one of the men threw a watermelon at a mirror, and, of course, shiv- ered it into a thousand pieces. They carried a beau- tiful rosewood piano into the woods, and split it up for fuel. While there encamped, they suffered in- tensely from hunger and cold. The rain came down in torrents. Then Horace thought of his happy German home, and all the luxuries of his father's house. He remnem- bered the words of his aged parent, and the memory of his sister's-tears at parting awakened a sadness in his heart. But a speedy attack was expected, and Baldow im- patiently awaited it. They were obliged to shoot or catch anything they could to eat. A soldier's life is not at all enviable. The regiment passed on to Centreville, and there awaited further orders. They were joined by other   THE SOLDIER'S DIEA.      47, German regiments, under the command of General Mills. The Southern troops were fast approaching Bull Run. The night previous to the great battle, the First German Rife Company had a picket fight, which was quite a serious affair, and resulted in losses on both sides. Now Horace Baldow began to realize what warfare was; now came its horrors., A hundred thousand troops were concentrated. On Sunday morning, about two o'clock, the lines advanced. Great Heaven! what a scene! Officers darted like lightning in all direc- tions; the cannon roared, and the air was darkened with the smoke of gun-powder. The fire continued hot and heavy from two A. M. to five P. M.; yet the Stars and Stripes waved over the battle-ground. The blood ran from many poor, dying soldiers, who who were falling in all directions. Oh! what a thrill-  ing, horrid scene.! How many souls passed into the other world on that memorable day, July 21st, 1861! The Fire Zouaves made the first attack: they were well cut to pieces. The SiXty-ninth and Seventy-first fought bravely. The Irishmen threw off their jackets and, faith! they gave it to the rebels, they did. Colonel Corcoran's bravery will be long remembered. But flight came at length. Panic-struck they flew. It was said that the officers cut the horses from the wagons, and away they flew, "over the hills and far away" into Washington. Then the German regiment, commanded   48      THE SECRET DUEL; OR by Colonel Blenker, took possession of each side of the road, in order to cover the retreat. After the field was cleared, the First Rifle regiment secreted them- selves under the bushes along the road. They sus- pected that the Black-Horse Cavalry would return for their dead. They did so, and the Germans cut away at them, and a pretty severe fight followed: the Ger- mans drove them back, and then the battle was over. The gallant Corcoran has since suffered severs imprisonment. Blenker, Corcoran, and Mills were brave men, and did their duty. Our hero had not an opportunity to evince much bravery, for they had been held in reserve. Yet there was something to be done. At a distance, the colonel beheld the Stars and Stripes trampled in the dust, and the rebels were making an effort to get possession of the banner. Now, what was to be done? The brave officer stepped forward, and, with a loud, com- manding voice, he said, waving his sword toward the spot, "There lie the Stars'and Stripes of our beloved country in the dust. Who has heroism sufficient to go and bring hither the flag?" Now came a speechless moment. While all stood motionless, Horace Baldow sprang forward. With twenty-five fellow-soldiers, he rushed to the spot, caught up'the contemned flag, amid a volley of grape from the enemy, and returned to his Colonel, bearing the blood-bought banner in his hand. Col. Blenker   THE SOLDIER 8 DREAM.         49 eulogized him, and he was subsequently promoted to   a colonelcy. The  foregoing   circumstance prompted the following lines: OUR  FLAG. The red, white and blue are most glorious hues I They are seen in the heavens above, And America's banner boasts of the three As worthy of Freemen's best love. Red, is the rose whose language is beauty!  Violet, modesty that blooms in the valley! White, is the lily, whose purity should ever Inspire our hearts for frieedom to rally! Then wave not the flag which bears not the blue-- It has forgotten its Maker, its country and vow! It may floa t on the breeze of time for a while, But, alas! to the rainbow it surely must bow. The red, white and blue are colors whose hues Are unsevered by treason's cold hand! Then wave them again o'er the North and the South, And let each true heart cheer the brave band! Those colors so dear do not away tear, They our forefathers fought to sustain! My body, when cold, lay beneath the old flag, There in peace let me ever remain. But does the reader suppose that he came off un- injured? Alas! no, although in the excitement of the moment he had not noticed his wound. It proved to be a serious one in his leg.  It became so painful, that, with a companion, he was compelled to fall back from   the ranks, and let the others proceed without them.   They stopped at a house by the roadside.  Baldow, addressing its mistress, said: "Dear madam, we are your enemies; but you know the Bible teaches us, if an enemy hunger, to   S0     THE SECRET DUEL; OR give him bread; if he thirst, to give him water. So take pity, and supply us." "You are wounded," said the lady. "Yes," replied Baldow, and severely, I fear." Mrs. Hollinbergh immediately seated him, *and, preparing some lint and bandages, dexterously dressed his wounds. "Have you any children?" asked the Colonel, as he watched her skillful fingers. "I have two, sir; one at the battle of Bull Run; and I am unaware of his fate. He may be shot." "I hope not, for your -sake!" The tears ran down the cheeks of the widow. At this instant, a tall, beautiful, black-eyed girl came out, of an inner room; her hair hung in massy ringlets about her face. "Let me assist you, mother," said she, in a soft, low voice. "' This is my daughter," said the mother, briefly. Baldow watched her so intently as she assisted her mother, that the color in her cheeks looked like two peach-blossoms. She was dark-complexioned, and she strongly reminded him of Oppolita Zeroth. As her fair hand accidentally touched him while passing different articles to her mother, it seemed to ease his pain more than anything else. Such is the effect of beauty and imagination. Finally, the wound was   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     5i dressed, and Baldow, offeHng the ladies many thanks, proceeded on his way, expatiating to his friend on the beauty of the young girl. "She is certainly very handsome," said Jaffer; "but now, Baldow, don't go falling in love these war-times, for we must save the country before we stop to choose a wife." '"Oh!" said Baldow, " when a fellow meets a wo- man who pleases him, he does not stop for war or peace. But as this glorious creature is in a seces- sion family, I am sure no Northern man may think of her. However, there is nothing like trying. Perseverance often accomplishes much." The Colonel andbis fellow-soldier reached Wash- ington, and found the whole city in an uproar about the defeat. Streets, doors, and windows were filledc with anxious faces. We all remember those two: or three gloomy days which followed that battle. Baldow remained quiet for some days, and his wound soon healed; but he could not so soon re- cover the effect that beauty had upon his heart: her dark, languishing eyes haunted his soul. They were expecting another attack. All the troops were in a state of preparation. Colonel Baldow was out on picket duty; and while passing near the residence of the widow, he perceived one of the Irish soldiers:in the act of shooting her lIst,   52      THE SEORET DUEL; OR milch cow. Baldow knocked the rifle from his hand, and saved the widow's property. "What are you about?" cried the youngofflcer; "have you no respect for the property of others?" "Shure, an' it's frish beef we're wanting." "And if you are, you shall not shoot the cow of this woman." "An' if it was yourself as wanted the beef," mut- tered the man, " yer would not stop about the widow's cow; but ye officers have plinty, and it's the soldiers who sufferfor something to ate." And he went off grumbling. Baldow turned toward the house. The widow stood in the door; tears of gratitude filled her eyes. He approached, and kindly accosted her. "You have saved my last cow," she said, " and I cannot thank you sufficiently. The Northern soldiers have killed three of my cows, and all my poultry, and lambs, and pigs; and soon we shall have nothing to eat." And the poor widow wept. "Oh, this war!" she moaned, " and my poor son!" "Where is your son now?" asked Baldow ; " have you succeeded in hearing from him?" "Dead-dead!" replied the weeping mother: "Oh, God! I am ruined--ruined." And pointing to the new-made grave of her child, she sighed and sobbed bitterly. This scene of deep emotion sug- gests the following lines:   THE SOLDIER'S DRE,h.          53 \THE SOLDIER'S GRAVE. I SAW a lonely grave-yard, Near by the river side, And heard a cooing dove moan; I watched- the surging tide, Then I walked toward the spot- The grass was mirrowy green, The willow waved its slender leaves O'er forms, alas! unseen.- The sun was glimm'ring o'er the hills, The air was fresh and pure, The feather'd tribes were coming forth From out their nests obscure. The flowers rear'd their graceful buds Before the morning breeze, Each warbling songster of the grove Was heard among the trees. I stood beside the lonely graves And saw a new tomb-stone, And upon the snowy slab Engrav'd a name unknown; A true and dauntless soldier he Who lately here was laid, Perishing away from kindred all For his country, alas I betray'd I gazed upon the silent dust -\And heard the song of the birds, And in the rustling leaves I thought , I heard these gentle words, As though the spirit whispering them Was floating in the air, And his bright and happy soul Had come to greet me there. "Go tell my friends that I am gone Afar to a world of bliss! Alas I my mother was not here To give me a parting kiss. It was upon the battle-field I received the deadly wound Which laid me on that fatal day In the silence of the tomb. "O, tell my sister not to weep; Tho' I lie beneath the sod My soul it liveth now in Heaven And is at peace with God,   '04      TVi SECRET DUEL; OR In the world where spirits blend Their praises to the Hand that made The mountains and the rills, And the ever verdant glade." Ah I then I did not wonder To see the little dove Moaning o'er the soldier's grave, While his spirit lived above. The pretty bird then flew away As if to the other shore; The rustling leaves spoke not again To tell me any more. "Was he shot in the battle?" inquired the Colonel. "Yes; he was brought home to me a corpse. Oh, this horrid war!-and all about the poor, piti- ful negroes. God knows I wish we had never seen the face of an African." "You own slaves then?" inquired Horace. "Yes; only about twenty, and I wish we owned none; but-we had them, and must take care of them in the best way we can." "Oh, well," said the young officer, " the war will soon be over, I hope, and then all will be right again." And bidding her good afternoon, he resumed duty. He related the circumstance to Achilles Jaffer, who laughingly told him that he supposed his duty would often take him in the direction of the widow's farm, where dwelt one of Virgiia's fairest daughters. A few weeks after this, Baldow received a letter from Germany, in which his sister informed him of the death of Oppolita, and that Frank had sailed for America. She also stated that Mrs. Goldenstein had died of a broken heart-that with Frank she had never been happy. Living, she had preferr- ed another to him; but he had once truly loved her, and when an individual once loves, the tender   THE SOLDIERS. DREAM.     55 feeling can never be entirely obliterated from th6 heart. But she, the beautiful, had passed away into another state of existence; and a sense of unutterable loneliness and the uncertainty of all things pervaded his heart. It was not long after this that Baldow, being in that direction, found himself again before the door of the hospitable widow, and now again he met the melancholy brunette. She was in deep mourning, and her pale countenance bespoke the grief that reigned in her heart. Her touching appearance deeply interested the susceptible heart of our hero. She wept as they spoke of her brother, and Baldow truly sympathized with her. He inquired the name of the family, and Miss Hollinbergh gave him her card. The widow was in the garden; but she soon came in, and offered tempting refreshments to Baldow; and as he accepted from the hands of the pale, dark-eyed girl a glass of cold, rich milk, she smiled a rare smile, as she said it was from the cow he had saved; and he said it was the most delicious -milk he had ever drank in his life. When Baldow went away, it was to dream of dark, sad eyes, which he longed to see that his presence had power to brighten, and a sweet smile that melted his affectionate heart. Not long Was it before he was again in her pres- ence, and they had not met many times before the   56       THE 1 SCRORT DUEL; OR impetuous young man permitted her to know the ex- tent of his admiration. She did not appear displeased at his homage. He discovered in the course of their acquaintance that she had an uncle who bore the rank of colonel in the secession army; that he often called upon them; and Baldow thought that it would not very well do for them to meet. The Union troojremained inactive, and our hero had not much else to do than to think of his beautiful new inamorato. "The sea hath its pearls, The heaven hath its stars; But my heart, my heart, My heart hath its love. Great are the sea and heaven; Yet greater is my heart, And fairer than pearls and stars Flashes and beams my love. Thou little youthful maiden, Come unto my great heart: My heart, and the sea, and the heaven, Are melting away with love." -FOM THE GERBMAN OF MNHRCH HE1INE. One afternoon Baldow called upon Miss Hollin- bergh, and invited her to take a walk. She consented; and, as they left the door, her mother cautioned her not to remain long. "Whither shall we go?" asked the Colonel. "If you do not object, I would like to go to our family church-yard, where lie buried my dear father and brother."   THE SOLDIERS DREAM.      57 "A place so dear and sacred to you, cannot but be revered by me," replied Baldow, as he followed her light footsteps. The road in which they walked was beautifully shaded with oak trees and myrtle bushes, and on either side the wild-rose and honey-suckle bloomed profusely. Horace thought that he had never looked upon a lovelier scene; and as he wandered on, with the lovely girl leaning on his arm, he poured into her ear a story worth a listener, for his love was pure and true; and she listened, blushing and happy. Neither remembered- how lately that very road had been crowded with troops. They soon reached the church, where stood a large oak, whose wide branches over- spread the tombs of the dead. "Here," said Clara, " here lies the body of my dear brother, who was shot at the battle of- Bull Run." And she burst into tears. Horace consoled her as well as he was able. But, alas! only time, the great consoler, can bringi resig- nation to those who grieve for the dead. "Wyhat is the narne of this church,?" asked Horace, in order to divert her attention. "Christ's Church," she answered. "It reminds me of some of the churches in Baden Baden," said the Colonel. "I suppose that is a beautiful city," said the young lady, as she wiped away her tears. X    58      THE SECRET DUEL; OR "It is," answered the enthusiastic German, "and some of these days, when the war is concluded, I would like to take Miss Hollinbergh to see the home of my birth and the tombs of my ancestors." "Are you then an orphan?" "My father died since I left Germany. He did not wish me to come to America, for he feared that I would engage in the war. Now I am enlisted; yet I wish, heartily wish that the battles were fought, the victories won, and the country once more at rest." "I do not now take much interest in the war," an- swered Clara, weeping afresh; for my poor, dear brother lies here, and I loved him more than any one on earth, excepting my mother." Finding that to remain beside the resting-places of the dead, one of which bore such fresh evidence of recent interment, only roused deep sorrow in the heart of his companion, Baldow persuaded her to return home; and they wended their way back amid a silence only broken by the occasional sobs of Clara, which it was evident she struggled hard to suppress. Leaving her at her door, he returned to Washington. The delay regarding the fighting caused Baldow to begin to weary of the war. Could he have fought, all would have been well; but to him delay was death: he longed to hear the sounds of the fife and drum. One evening the Colonel went out to call on Clara. As he advanced to the house, he saw an officer leave   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.      59 the door. He wore the uniform of a Captain of the First Rifle regiment, and from his appearance Baldow knew him to be one of his compatriots. When Hor- ace entered, he inquired of Mrs. Hollinbergh the name of her retiring guest. "Well," said the old lady, smiling, "I believe he is one of Clara's beaux; he is also a German." Baldow felt as if an icy arrow had entered his heart. However, he passed on into the'parlor, and there he found Miss Clara, who had just arisen from the piano. Baldow tried to enter into conversation; but, after making a few remarks, he abruptly asked her if she had another German admirer. 4 No, no," said, she; " there is a very fine-looking Captain, who calls here occasionally; but he is no beau of mine." "How did you make his acquaintance?" asked the exacting lover. "Just as we made yours, accidentally. He called to ask for a drink of wathr, with some of his compan- ions. None of the servants happened to be present; so I assisted them. Mother offered them some re- freshments. The Captain was very polite and talka- tive; and since then has called here occasionally." "Well, I am sure I cannot blame him for wishing to visit so beautiful a young lady as Miss Clara Hol- linbergh," said Horace. Clara blushed painfully, and seemed very much   60      THE SECRET DUEL; OR confused. Baldow, growing more uneasy, said that a rival in her affections would be death to him, and he could not feel happy were one in his way.. The pretty brunette had no idea of encouraging the Captain; her affections had become seriously en- gaged in favor of the Colonel, and he was all she now cared for. So she soon quieted the jealous fears of her lover, telling when the Captain was to call again, and inviting him to meet the " bughear." Laughing gayly with her, Baldow said that he would return at the appointed time, In a few days, Baldow sat in the same room, con- versing with Miss tHollinbergh when the Captain was announced. He entered, and Miss Hollinbergh was in the act of introducing them, when Baldow staggered back, became deadly pale, and exclaimed, "Great God! what does this mean?" and rushed toward the door. The German Captain was no other than Frank Goldenstein, who followed Iorace to the door, saying, "Horace, I} do not believe you know me." "Yes, too well I know you; and well you know all that has passed. I wish no parley with you; but if you desire to see me, meet me at the old brick church to-morrow afternoon at-four." With a  strange smile, Goldenstein replied that he would be there at the desired time. Baldow hurried from the house. Clara was very much astounded;   THE SOLDIERS DREAM.      61 she knew not what to make of the conduct of Baldow. Goldenstein gave her no satisfaction in regard to their meeting; he would only say that he had seen the young Colonel before. Horace Baldow passed a wretched night. The meet- ing with Goldenstein had brought back all his youth- ful follies and fancies. The past came vividly before him. His school-mate had once taken from him the girl whom he idolized. Could it. be possible that the same thing was again about to occur'? He believed that Clara loved him sincerely; but, alas! he had also as firmly (more firmly, because he had not then been deceived) confided in the affection of Oppolita. Frank had once supplanted him, and he feared-he scarce knew what. Both in America, and each again in love- with the same girl. Strange and mysterious are the ways of my life," thought Baldow. "Am I to be one of those unfortu- nates who are doomed to sup sorrow all the days of their existence?" The day, the hour arrived, and the German officers met according to appointment. =Strangely they ap- proached each other, each accompanied by a friend. "Now," said Horace to Frank, "we wid talk over this meeting. I did not wish that yolnm lady to un- derstand our difficulties; but now I 'wil give you a piece of my mind."  He then asked Goldenstein if he was paying his  j   62      TWE SECRET DUEL; OR addresses to Miss Hollinbergh, who replied that he did not consider it necessary to answer that question. "Well, I only asked, to let you know that I am : it remains for the young lady to decide which of us she prefers. If you, then I have nothing more to say; but if it is myself, then I warn you to keep out of our way."i Goldenstein laughed scornfully. Baldow became more excited; also, Frank, in his turn, waxed wroth; and it ended in a conference between the friends of each party, and a challenge, which was accepted, and the duel was arranged to take place near the old brick church, and not far distant from Fairfax Court House. After they separated, Baldow's thoughts dwelt con- tinually upon the fair Clara. He knew that she loved him, although they had only so lately known each other; but when persons admnire each other, and have confidence, mutual confidence, love is not so long in lindling. Love at first sight is often of the purest kind, and the most enduring. Such was the passion which filled the hearts of these lovers. Baldow un- ceasingly almost thought of Clara. He had beheld her weeping beside the grave of her brother, and he knew her true and loving heart; but he did not know how soon she might be called upon to shed bitter, bitter tears over his corpse. But he kept it all from her; not a word escaped his lips. He called upon her on the afternoon previous to the duel. He knew not but that those were the   "THE SOLDIERS DRE A       63 last hours he should ever pass in the presence of Clara Hollinbergh. She appeared truly happy to welcome him; and playfully asked some questions in regard to the German Captain, which Baldow carefully evaded. ( Sing to me, Clara," he said, leading her to the instrument, and arranging her music-" sing to me: I am in discord with myself, and you must harmonize me to-night." "And what will it please your colonelship to listen to?" she smilingly asked. ' And he placed before her that beautiful song, ,When other lips and other hearts Their tales of love shall tell, In language whose excess imparts The power they feel so well, There may, perchance, in such a scene, Some recollection be Of days that have as happy been, And you'll remember me, And you'll remember, you'll remember me." Clara could not tell why he had chosen that song. She knew that he was jealous of the German Captain, but certainly he acted strangely. He thanked her for her sweet performance, but in rather an abstracted manner; and then, rousing himaself, he asked her to take a stroll towards the old brick church. She con- sented; and, throwing a light shawl about her-grace- ful shoulders, they were soon without the house. The reader must imagine for himself the feelings of Horace Baldow on this, perhaps their last evening together in this fair world.   "     'THE SECRET DUEL; OR "Clara, my beautiful," said Baldow, as he pressed her hand," do you really love me?"As he spoke, he gazed into those tender, loving eyes. "Oh, Mr. Baldow!" said the trembling girl, "why do you ask me that question? Have I not discarded attention from all others since we met?" "Is there not one who visits you?" said Horace, in a low voice. "Whom do you mean 2" "The German Captain, Mr. Goldenstein." "You know he is no lover of mine. He calls occa- sionally, and I found it incumbent upon me to-to- tell him that my affections were otherwise engaged;" and she blushed deeply. "Can that be true?" asked Baldow, while a glad light shot into his eyes. "As true-as true as my own heart," replied Clara. "You need not fear the German Captain, nor all the exquisites in Virginia. When I profess friendship, it: exists; when I love, I adore." "Noble girl!" exclaimed Baldow, as he pressed an ardent kiss upon her hand. "You love me, then, my sweet girl, and I hope all will yet be right." "We have nothing to fear but my uncle," said the beauty, innocently. "He has heard that you visit us, and he is very much angered.,i He dislikes all the Northern men, and would rather see me dead than marry one." Horace smiled, and said,   WE SOLDIERY' DREAM.      65 "You can tell him that I am a German; and although now in the Union army, I shall go back to Baden Baden in a few years-perhaps before the war is over; for they fight so slowly, I am tired of waiting. Would you go to Germany with me?" asked Horace. "Yes," replied the girl, "or to any part of the globe: where thou goest, I will go; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God." "Sweet creature!" exclaimed Baldow, "you make me forget the past, and enrapture me with bright. hopes in the future." For some time they walked on in silence. Oh! how happy do we feel when we are with those whom we love, and know that our attachment is reciprocal. Life then is a heaven upon earth. And, on the con- trary, when we are destitute of reciprocal attachment, we are miserable---miserable. Memories of his past dreams of love came to Horace with the present. The scene before him brought back visions of another scene beside the Rhine, and he could not but remem- ber that Oppolita lay cold in her grave; and Clara Hollinbergh was her image. The coal-black eye, the raven curls, the flush on her dark cheek, the beautiful smile, all reminded him of early days and happy hours. There is no language sufficient to describe love; no pen can give its adequate definition, but it exists in our hearts. Horace Baldow and the beautiful Clara were drinking in its sweets as they sat beneath the old oak tree; and not until the sun sank behind the   ".     THE SEORET DUEL; OB western hills, and the dismal whip-poor-will had begun its melancholy music, did they rise to return home. The various sounds peculiar to a country twilight scene pervaded the 'air. "This is real country life," said the Colonel. "Yes, it is; and, since the death of my brother, I cannot endure to hear the notes of the bird called the whip-poor-will: it is considered the true precursor of death. The night before Albert was brought home, one came, perched itself on the garden-gate, and ut- tered its melancholy wailings all the night. Mother said then that it was a bad sign." "You do not believe in such things!" said Horace. "No, not exactly," replied Clara; but I actually now feel as though some trouble were about to befall me." "No, no, dearest, I trust not," said Baldow, with a pang of the heart. As they entered the yard, they beheld Colonel Hol- linbergh in the act of mounting his horse. He looked at his niece and her companion with keen eyes; how- ever, he only bowed distantly, and rode off. Horace took a parting kiss from the rich lips of Clara, and left, with a promise to call again in a week, or, if unable to do that, he would write. Clara, stand- ing in the doorway, watched him until his figure faded in the distance. -- When he was no longer visible to her loving eyes, she retired to bed, but not to sleep. A strange fear of coming sorrow overshadowed her heart. The fact that a whip-poor-will sat under her   THE SOLDIER'S DEAM.      67 window, and many times repeated its doleful trysylla- ble, did not tend to restore her spirits. The long night passed at length; and in the morning Miss Hollin- bergh arose- early, and was watering the flowers in her garden, when the voice of her mother summoned her to breakfast. As they sat at the temptingly-spread table, Clara smilingly said to her mother, ( Mamma, how would you like it were I to take a trip across the 'Atlantic Blue?'" "Silly child! What do you mean?" "I mean, that I may be induced to go to Germany one of these days, after the war shaf have ended." "Do not allow any one to hear you say that, my dear," replied her mother; for your uncle is mad enough now because that German Colonel comes here; and he swears that, if he sees him here again, he will shoot him." "That is not acting honorably, I am sure," said Clara: "if he wishes to shoot the young man, let them meet on the battle-field. I scarce think that the 'Ger- man Colonel' fears him much. He it was who rescued the Union flag at the battle of Bull Run." "Was it he? Why, your uncle was one of the Black- horse Cavalry, and he has told me of the brave young man who struggled for the flag, succeeded in obtain- ing it, and bore it triumphantly to his officer." "That was Baldow," said Clara, quietly. "Was it indeed! Well, then, he is a brave young man.--Why do you not eat your breakfast, Clara?"   68      THE SECRET DUEL; OR. "Because I have no appetite this morning, chere mamma," she said; and, rising, she went into the parlor, seated herself at the piano, and played a waltz which had been taught her by Horace-one of the German waltzes that he so loved. The day passed slowly away with Clara; but with Horace the hours, which well might be his last, seemed to speed on winged feet. Hie must meet in mortal combat one who had been his friend, and who, although having grievously wrong- ed him, he had no cause now to be jealous of. But the challenge had been given and accepted, and the engagement must be kept. One of Baldow's friends, young Jaffer, said to him, "Do you intend to shoot to kill?" "I will reply as did John Randolph when the same question was put to him in regard to his meeting with Mr. Clay. He said that if Mr. Clay looked vindictive when he entered the-field, he would fire to kill; if not, he would shoot high. So will I," said Baldow. They arrived-they met. The weapons were ready, and the hour had come. The day was made gloomy by the thi misty rain that filled the atmosphere. The distance was measured, the duellists took their places, and the pistols were put into their hands. Triggers were pulled, and both fell. A heavy groan escaped the lips of Goldenstein, succeeded by the exclamation of"Oh, my God!"Baldow lay motion- less; e was insensible. They were both wounded:   THE SOLDIER S DREAM.      69 Goldenstein in the leg; Baldow in the arm: he had fainted from loss of blood and excess of emotion. They were removed to Washington. Baldow was very wretched, when he thought how severely he had wounded Frank. Even after all the provocations he had received, he had never intended to hit his whilom friend. On the next day :Baldow dispatched a letter to Clara, in which he begged her (it consistent with her feelings) to come to him; that he had fought a duel, and was severely wounded. It was nearly night when the letter reached the fair recipient, when-but she or- dered the carriage, and accompanied by her mother and two faithful servants, was soon on the way to Washington. Poor Clara! Oh, how she suffered! How deathly she looked when she received the letter! She wept piteously all the way to the city, wondering with whom Baldow could have fought a duel. They arrived, and, after some difficulty, succeeded in fnding the place. Clara's anxiety prevented her from fully realizing the awkwadrness of their position. Their rap at the door was answered by a gentleman. "Is this Mr. Baldow's quarters?" asked the faithful old man-servant of Miss Hollinbergh. "Yes; but " "Is he ill?" asked Clara, no longer able to contain herself, "He is worse than ill:" he is dead," was the reply.   70      THE SECRET DUEL; OR CHAPTER V. THE sentence recorded in the last chapter fell heav- ly upon the stricken heart of Clara: one moment she reeled, as though about to fall to the floor; the next, she gasped out, "Take me to him,"' The gentleman, evidently much struck by her youth, beauty, and deep emotion, took her hand, and led her into a side room, where a flickering light burned on the table; and further on lay beneath a sheet a human form, which had once been tenanted by a hurman soul, now forever fled. Clara went up to it, and with a trembling hand drew down the covering from the face. She started back, and shrieked aloud, and murmured in a faltering voice, "It is not! it is not him! Horace! Horace! my own lost one." "What name did you then repeat?" asked the gen- tleman, after a respectful silence of some moments. "Horace Baldow." "There is some mistake here.. The name this poor fellow was known by in life was Barren. Come with me, and I will rectify the misunderstanding. She was taken into another room. The gentleman went in search of the Colonel; and in a few moments he re- turned, smiling in a most friendly manner, and con- ducted her to the right room. We will not attempt to describe the succeeding in-' terview between the lovers. They wept, suffered, and were happy, as only true lovers do and are.   .           .   TIME SOLDIER'S DREAS t    71 Clara was, of course, much amazed to hear with whom and wherefore the duel had been fought. "Horace, never doubt me again," she said; "my love is as steadfast as the rock, and as true as the polar-star." The short interview was soon over, and with a fond good night they parted; Baldow promising to visit her as soon as the state of his wound would permit; and that he hoped would be in a few days. Mrs. Hollinbergh and her daughter remained atthe house of a friend in the city; for the night, and the next morning returned to their beautiful home. Horace Baldow, a few days after, received a letter; the superscription seemed familiar to him, but he could scarcely believe it to be from Frank Golden- stein; but so it proved. Goldenstein announced that he was out of danger; that he heartily begged pardon for all the evil he occasioned Baldow; and ended by inviting him to dinner, naming a certain day. Bal- dow was glad and willing to wipe out old scores. - He accepted the invitation. They met with a hearty shake of the hand and moistened eyes; and before they parted were pledged to a sincere friendship. They had been enemies, arid bitter enemies; but the more manly portion of their natures had prevailed, and thus again they were friends. Forget and for- give is a sublime precept. Fighting the duel had expelled them from war du- ties, of which both were well wearied.   72      THE SECRET DUEL; OR Baldow determined to hasten his marriage, and set sail for Germany. There seemed now not a cloud to obscure the horizon of his happiness, He had ar- ranged everything with Clara. During the very evening that he sat with her, per- fecting their plans, Colonel Hollinbergh came to see his sister. The, Unionist and the Secessionist met. Oh! the fire flashed from the eyes of the latter. He walked the dining-roomn like a wild man. He raged at the widow; and made heavy threats against his niece if she did not immediately discard her Yankee German lover. He left the house about sunset; and Baldow quitted it soon after. "Strange," said Horace to Clara, "that I hate so to leave you to-night; it seems that it will be so long e'er I shall see you again. "What makes you suspect that?" asked Clara, with a smile. " I know not; but so it is." Clara had sung and played to him all the evening; yet he could not overcome his low spirits. Impelled by he knew not what, he gave her his address in this city, and made her promise that, should some unfore- seen fate separate them, she would go on to New York, where there was more chance of their again meeting, than perhaps any where else at that time. They parted most tenderly, and after'the manner of Alonzo and Melissa, pledged themselves to live for   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     73 each other. Little did they suspect how long the time would be e'er they were again to behold one another. As Baldow left the gate, he turned, and kissed his hand to the fair creature who held him a willing cap- tive; who, smiling sweetly, waved a white rosebud to him. With her lonely old mother she sat for some time talking before she retired to her room. "Well," said the old lady, in conclusion, "I pray God, that this war may soon be over; for the trouble it occasions is great, growing and continual." "I will retire now, mother dear, and be up bright and early in the morning." "I think a walk to the old brick church before sun- rise would do you good, Clara," suggested the old, lady. "Oh! mamma, I do not care to go there now as I once did," and thinldng of that horrid duel, she went to her room. Sleep would not be wooed to her eyes, and she took up a volume. She had been reading for some time when she heard the sound of carriage wheels. "This is strange!" said Miss Hollinbergh, as the sound came nearer and more near. The carriage stopped at the gate; and soon after she heard a soft footstep in the hall, and then a low tap at her door. "Who is there?" she asked, and thinking it must be one of the servants, and fearing to hear of illness,   '7^     THE SECRET DUEL; OR she opened the door. Who should stand before her but her uncle. "What are you about up so late?" he said, angrily. "Writing love-letters to that Yankee German?" "Oh! no uncle," said Clara; "I was reading." "Reading! how long is it since you became so stu- dious-Madam, do you know that your name is in the mouth of everybody since that duel? Nice talk you leave made all over Virginia. Every body dying to see theVirginiabeauty, you little fool. No Southern man will ever marry you; and before you shall marry a man in the Union army I will make a recluse of you, young lady, by shutting you up in my own house." "What under heaven do you mean, uncle!" "Mean!--you get ready to go with me at once, my young beauty. Your mother lets you have your own way too much; and I am determined to break up this affair with that d d Yankee. There is not a girl in all Virginia, save yourself, who would encourage those abolitionists. A girl of your birth, fortune, and appearance might have married one of the first men in the state-but now that is all over. The duel has been fought. I hear your name even in the ranks, and the curses of all true Southerners are upon you. Come, get ready, and go at once." "Am I to leave my mother?" asked the trembling Clara, who stood in habitual awe of her uncle. "Yes; and it will belong ere you see her again."   THE SOLDIERS DREAM.      75 She did not move. He put a shawl about her, tied her bonnet on, put her arm within his strong grasp, led or rather dragged her out of the door, on through the hall, and into the yard. There he lifted her almost lifeless form in his arms, put her into the car- riage, and followed, with an angry order to the driver to urge his horses on. Not a word was spoken. Clara looked drearily out into the night, too frightened and horror-stricken to speakor even think distinctly. She only realized that she was being borne away from all she loved. With feet horses, fifteen miles were poon sped, and they found themselves at Mount Pleasant, the Colo- nel's plantation on the Potomac. The carriage stop- ped, the Colonel dismounted, Clara followed, and was ! conducted by him into a distant room in the house. "Here," said he, "you are to remain, locked in, both day and night, until you are willirg to discard the society of Northern men." Clara's overcharged heart relieved itse f by a shower of tears. She looked around her prison. To add to. his cruelties, her uncle had incarcerated her in the haunted room of the house. The poor prisoner saw no hope in the future, and only grief and discomfort in the present. All night she wept. In the morning her door was unlocked, and a servant brought in her breakfast. "Good morning, Aunt Dinah," said Clara, in reply to the salutation of the old colored woman. "God bress my soul,. Miss Clara, ef dis don't beat de beater! What is come ober ole massa to lock you up yere in dis yer haunted room?'" (This was the   r6      'THE SECRET DUEL; OR climax of misery to the superstitious old negress.) "Did ye hear anything last night, honey?"And hex white eyes rolled around the room as though she ex- pected to see a spirit start from every corner. "No, aunty, I saw nothing; and had there been aught to see, I had an excellent opportunity, for I did not sleep at all." "Well, chile, yer is your breakfast. Eat it while 'tis hot, kase when it gits cold it won't be good-tasted." "You can go down, and not wait for me to conclude my breakfast," said Clara. "Oh, no, honey! I can't; for de oberseer is dar at de door, a-waiting to lock it up, soon as I goes out." "Well, then, I will not detain his lordship," said Clara, sitting down before the tray, and endeavoring to eat a little-the overseer peeping in every moment to see what was going on. The colored woman put the room in order, and the man locked the door. Then Clara sat alone, and nothing to divert her mind but a few dry books on the desk. The window blinds were closed, and iron bars on the outside. Es- cape was impossible. Poor girl! she had fallen into a dreadful difficulty by giving way to the emotions of the heart. Yet she was firm and steadfast. Love is not so easily conquered. The iron bars of a prison cannot effect the change. We will leave Clara in her prison--a room in a spacious mansion, situated on the beautiful and romantic Potomac it is true, but still a prisoni-and return to her lover, Baldow called upon Miss Hollinbergh at the time appointed, and was met by her mother in tears, who told him what had occurred. Then Baldow was en9   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.       7 raged. He swore that he would rescue her, if he lost    i his life in the attempt. The old lady begged him to     i remain quiet; that perhaps Clara might escape; but -. Baldow was not to be quieted; Had Colonel Hollin-  bergh been before him, he would have shot him in a moment. There was no way whatever for him to re-       ! claim his lost prize, His heart felt as if it would break.  He left the widow, and returned home. He had learned the direction to, and all the particulars about, the Colonel's plantation; and at a future day he in- tended to make an effort to regain his beloved Clara. We cannot describe the feelings of the separate lovers as weeks rolled by. Each was miserable, more than miserable. There is nothing so painful as a true- heart separated from one it loves. The Colonel went in to see his niece occasionally; and at every visit he was sure that she would discard the German Colonel; but she was unchangeable. One morning he asked her if she would not promise    i him never again to speak to a Northern man, during the war, at least. If she would comply, he would make her a present of a handsome set of diamonds, or any thing she wished. "I do not wish to punish you in this way, but I would rather see you a corpse than married to a Northerner." "Uncle," said Clara, "did you love your wife?" "Yes, I did," replied the startled Colonel. "Would diamonds or wealth have purchased your heart?" The proud man's eyes fell to the floor. "I would never have sacrificed myself," said he: "I loved wisely, and a woman who was my equal."  **   8    '  THE SECRET DUEL; OR "So do I,' said Clara, boldly. "The man whom I love is not of my own nation, it is true; but he is highly educated, a perfect gentleman, and I love him' -that is -sufficient." Her uncle bit his lips with anger. He said, "You are a perverse girl. You are my brother's only daugh- ter, and your brother, your father's only son, lies in the church-yard, shot by the Yankees. And now, for you to encourage a Northern officer, is a disgrace to a Southern family. Great God! it makes my blood boil." And, slamming- the door, he locked it with a loud turn of the key. Clara to herself whispered, "You are all to blame, both North and South. The war is a dreadful affair; we are all involved in the difficulty; but my heart cannot be changed." The war was the cause of her confinement in a close room. Had she not met the German Colonel on the eveninglthat he stopped at her mother's to have his wound dressed, she might have escaped all this misery. But she had met him; they were mutually pleased; an intimacy had commenced; hearts were touched; love was rooted within their bosoms; and poor Clara @ was the sufferer. Her health suffered from confine- ment, and her nerves were all unstrung. Sometimes she almost fancied that she beheld with her bodily eyes the spectral visitants who were said to assemble in that haunted room; and she smiled to think how, nervous she had become. In a few days, the Colonel came again, and put the same questions to his niece. "I will marry the man I love or none."   THE SOLDIERSB DREAM.    ,.  T Oh! the anger of her uncle! He left the room without a word. Clara tried her best to make a friend of Aunt Dinah, and persuade her to take a letter to her mother; but the old woman was too well paid by her master to prove unfaithful. The poor girl began to droop and fade visibly. No fresh air, no society-and grief were doing their work. But God never forgets the pure in heart. He may suffer us to fall into temptations and trials, but He will eventually save us. Horace Baldow was almost beside himself. He knew not what to do. One day a thought struck him, and he determined to effect the liberation of his dear girl, a prisoner in the house of her own uncle. The sun had withdrawn its rays, and the lowering sky portended a storm, when Baldow started on horse- back toward the Potomac. He rode fifteen miles. When he reached the plantation, it rained in torrents; the thunder rolled; the lightning flashed. It was a regular September gale. When Baldow reached the house, all was as still as death, save the howling of the storm. He knew the room which must contain his treasure by the bars without the windows. He rode down a glade where there were some fig-trees, and, tying his horse, he walked toward the kitchen. He listened; all was silent. He heard a noise, but it was without the house; and, upon examination, it proved to be a shutter blown away from Clara's room window. It occurred to him that, could he obtain a ladder, he might ascend, and convey a letter to Clara. A negro man came to the door, and it remained open for a short time. Baldow took advantage of the   s80     THE SERET DUEL; OR light to pencil a few lines-he being shielded from observation and the weather by an angle of the wall where he stood. Going again beneath the window which was to lead him to "the desired haven of his wishes," he found that by aid of the portico projections, gutter, etc., he could ascend, and, as Fortune would have it, he suc- ceeded  arrivin g at the shutterless window. He stuck the letter on the window pane with two wafers, and down he- went like a squirrel. He sought his horse, which had slipped the bridle, and was just about to start away. The storm had now spent its fury, and no rain had fallen for ten minutes. Vault- ing into the saddle, he rode rapidly, and in a few hours was again in Washington; wet and cold, it is true, but that was nothing, could he but succeed in releasing the beauty of Fairfax. The noise of the storm and the vivid lightning had frightened the poor little prisoner, and the sounds at the window during Baldow's ascension and descend- ing had not tended to quiet her nerves. When morn- ing dawned upon her sleepless eyes, she perceived the absence of the shutter, and the adherence of some- thing upon the pane, Raising the sash, she took in the paper. Reader! imagine her joy when she read the dear name of Horace Baldow, and his determin- ation to rescue her from her cruel situation. She hid the precious billet in her bosom; and, catching up two forks, tacked a shawl up 6ver the window, so that her jailors might not notice the ab- sence of the shutter. That day passed less unhappily than any she had spent beneath that roof. How dif-   THE SOLDIERS DREAM.      81 ferent looks the world to hopeful eyes! WThen the servant entered with her breakfast, she exclaimed, "De Lord, Miss Clara.! is you up aready? "Yes, indeed," answered Clara, in a cheerful voice; "and I feel hungry, too, this morning, Aunt Dinah." "Lands sakes; something is sartinly gwine to hap- pen, kase you aint eat notting sense you been yer, ob any 'eount. Well, I tell you, I got good breakfast for  you dis yer morning, honey." Clara laughed, and said that she -always brought something good. Aunt Dinah chatted away, seemingly relieved to observe the cheerfulness of the lovely young prisoner; and Clara smiled to herself, as every now and then the thick head of the overseer was thrust into the room. She fervently hoped that this was the last morning he would be under the necessity of watching over her. Aunt Dinah ran off, saying that " marster" was expected home that day, and she must get some- thing nice for his dinner, as well as for Miss  Clara, whose appetite had so much improved. The grim guard locked the door, and the prisoner was again alone. Neithet of her attendants h'ad noticed: the shawl at the window, and the shadow it cast into the room. Clara sat and meditated. What- will not a woman suffer when she loves! Clara could have said that she would discard Baldow, and been free in a mo- ment; but she would not tell a falsehood; and she never meant to discard him. A brave girl was our heroine. But the most perfect and honorable women, it   82      THE- SECRET DUEL; OR seems, are those who are fated to suffer; and Clara was a true, warm-hearted Southern girl; and when we admire, it is admiration ; when we love, we love; it is no flying fancy, nor child's play, but pure, dis- interested affection, which could not be bought with money or precious stones. Yet the spirit of true af- fection is not always appreciated. But the Colon:el was a man who could not forget her who loved him. he was willing to risk his life to obtain the woman he so dearly loved. CHAPTER VI THE day passed slowly with our heroine. In due course of time Aunt Dinah arrived with her tempting dinner. After she had partaken of it, the table was removed, and the white face turned the key upon her. He had never shown the least sympathy for the im- prisoned girl. He looked as though he was as much incensedagainst her as her uncle. He no doubt had heard the story that she was going to marry a North- ern Colonel. Colonel Hollinbergh had not kept it a secret from his family. The mother of Clara would gladly have endeavored to release her child, but the uncle was the guardian, and the mother had no power. As above said, the day passed slowly away. Our readers must imagine for themselves how the girl felt. Night came on to bring one more visit from the over- seer. The old woman came in with a service of shin- ing silver. "Here now, Miss Clara, is your supper." "All nice asusual, no doubt," said Clara, pleasantly.   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     88 "Yes, Missus; don't you see how my silver shines? I cleaned it well to-day. Ole marster sen word dat to-morrow some ob de Southern officers come to take, supper wid him; an all must be in order." "It all looks very nicely,?' said Clara, kindly, " and you have been very good to me, Aunt Dinah, for which I am thankful." "Never mind, chile; you is welcome, and if I could get you out, so ole marster wouldn't, lknow it, dat I * would, quick as a flash; but dat Massa Bradley, de oberseer, is like de ole boy. He watch me as close as a cat watch a mouse, for fear dat I will do something for you. He sarch me toder day to see if I had a letter for you. Mi! was'nt I mad at him? But he is white, an' I said notting to de scamp." Clara laughed at the old woman, and said that she might some day fly away out of the chimney. "Bress my soul, you will be a witch den. Good night, and de Lord bress you, honey." The door was locked, and all was silent. About seven o'clock Clara heard the sound of horses' hoofs as the officers rode up; and then the bustle of ser- vants about the house. She heard the voice of her uncle, crying out to. a green waiter- "You fool, Jack! don't you know the champagne basket from the claret?" '"God, marster, I can't read. How is I gwine to know? I has never been waiter before dis." (Come, come," said the Colonel, hurriedly, "hasten, lasten; I want to get through dinner. We expect an engagement to-night, or in the morning; and we want to pepper the d--d Yankees a little hotter than we did at the Bull Run battle." #- .& ,           ' ^,        '   84      THE SECRET DUEL; OR Clara was glad to hear that they expected an en- gagement; hence she knew that her uncle would not be at home. In her distant room the sounds of loud talking and laughter smote her ears; and after a long time that of footsteps approaching her room, roused her from a fit of musing. The key was placed in the lock, and slowly turned to admit her uncle. "Good evening, niece," he said, politely. "How are you getting along? Are you not almost weary of this room? Tell me now, like a good girl, will you not discard that Yankee beau of yours? If you will, there is a fine-looking officer down stairs who wishes to be introduced to you-Colonel Shetton. He was one among the bravest of the brave at the battle of Bull Run; he has heard of you, but does not know that you are now in prison. Shall I introduce him?" "No, uncle: I wish for no introduction." The Colonel then began to rave. He swore ven- ' geance against her if she ever attempted to leave the room, where he intended to keep her as long as she persisted in her obstinacy, even were it her lifetime. And he departed in high dudgeon. A short time after, Clara heard the officers ride off at full speed, and apparently ir high spirits. The servants, tired out with waiting upon the impatient soldiers, hurriedly cleared away the remnants of the feast; and, like -the sleepy set they are, hastened to bed. All became death-like in silence. "I wonder if he will come!-I wonder if he will come!" she re- peated over and over to herself. Midnight was the hour named as the time she might expect him. For the hundredth time, she again looked at her watch.   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     85 Great Heaven! the hour had passed. She began to despair. A thousand conjectures distracted her mind. Hark! a sound-a sound such as she had heard on that blessed night she saw the letter arrive. Her eyes became riveted on the window: in an instant, another pair met hers. She rushed to the window, and threw it up: "Horace, Horace! is it-can it be you?" -' Yes, my dear girl!" he answered, springing in, and catching her to his heart. ( Thank God! thank God we have met again I' he fervently exclaimed. The overpowered girl could not utter a single word. "We must fly," said Baldow, at length; "I was late in arriving; my friend Jaffer disappointed me in some of nny arrangements; but he is here now to help me assist you from the porch." "Oh, Baldow! am I to get out on the portico?" "Yes, trust yourself to me." The window was ele- vated to its full height; they crept out, and then it was lowered to its place again. A ladder of ropes had been provided, and soon they were all on terra firma. A carriage awaited them at the gate; they sprang in, and drove rapidly away. Clara trembled. She could not believe that she was free again. For eeks she had been shut up in a close room; now she again breathed the fresh air by the side of him she adored. Her soft, dark eyes beamed tenderly upon her love, as he pressed her hand, and whispered, "( Beloved, I am so happy to have you once more beside me! I pray God that we may never again be  separated."  * *;    86      THE SECRET DUEL; OR "What have I not suffered for your sake, dear Hor- ace!-But whither are we going now?" "To your mother's, dearest, who has consented to come to-morrow with you to Washington, where we will be married, and immediately go to New York." Having driven at the highest speed, they soon ar- rived at the house of the widow; and Clara flew into the arms of her mother. After the first transports of meeting had subsided, then the fear of Colonel Hol- linbergh fell upon all hearts. They knew how unscru- pulous he was, and how news flies. Mrs. Hollinbergh declared that, much as she loved her daughter, she would rather part with her than see her- subjected to the threats and fancies of her fiery brother-in-law. As it was now very near morning, and their- ar- rangements were all completed, Baldow and his friend left; Mrs. Hollinbergh promising to meet them early the next day. Clara threw herself upon the sofa, and listened to the sound of the departing wheels, until they died away in the distance. Then with her mother she talked over all that had occurred during their separation. The next day they made preparations to leave early for Washington, when, in the midst of them, they were alarmed by a report that Colonel Hollinbergh was in the neighborhood. Consternation was depicted in the countenances of mother and daughter. What to do, they knew not. Just then, one of thleir plain neighbors stopped at the gate with his wagon; and Clara, disguised by dress and thickly!. railed, took a seat with him, and was soon on her way to Washington. When she arrived at the hotel, she was told that   THE SOLDIER S DREAM.  .   87 Mr. Baldow had left that morning for N ew Yo k, and that she was to follow him. Another disappointment. Surely,thought Clara, we are destined to be separated. She returned to the house of the friend where she had stopped upon arriving in the city, and penned a letter to her mother, asking if Baldow had been there, and if aught had been heard from her uncle. She waited to receive the reply, with a full determination  to go to New York immediately on its receipt. It came, and it was stained with her mother's tears. She begged Clara to come home, and give up Baldow. She said that her uncle was seeking her in every direction; that he threatened to find her, even at the risk of his life. She read the letter of her mother, and wept over it. Poor girl! she dearly loved her mother, and wished to obey her: but she had pledged her hand and heart to one whomrn she adored. Strange, infatuated girl was the Fairfax beauty. She loved a German Colo- nel, and one opposed to her own principles; one who lhad drawn the sword against her people--yet she loved him. Strange as it may appear, yet so it was. She was afraid to move, lest she should come in con- tact with some of her uncle's emissaries. Oh! how many sleepless nights passed over the head of Clara Hollinbergh:. But at last her courage again returned. She made up her mind to follow the Colonel, and trust to his honor. No rest, no peace for her weary heart, apart from Horace Baldow. She cared not for crossing the Atlantic, and being thrown into the so- ciety of a nation whose language was to her hiero- glyphic. She felt toward the young Colonel as the Empress Josephine felt toward Napoleon, when he   88      THE SECRET DUEL; OR was on St. Helena. No doubt, had she lived a while longer, that beautiful and loving woman would have gone to the lonely island of the sea, there to cheer and comfort the banished Emperor through the re- mainder of his life-although he had divorced her for a heartless Marie Louise. Such pure women are rarely appreciated by even our most honorable men. Clara Hollinbergh prepared to leave Washington City for lNew York. She swote to her mother, and gave her all satisfaction in regard to her leaving. But she was determined to see Horace Baldow. Not all the Generals and Colonels in the Southern army could have deterred her from making the attempt; and she entered the car, dressed in a mourning traveling dress, and a doubled vail over her face. -She felt strangely to be traveling alone. The. Southern ladies think they are quite ruined, if they do not have a gentle- man at every step. Southern females are little ac- customed to earning their own living. They possess energy, but they tremble when they are necessitated to put it into practice. Well does the writer know what a Southern woman suffers when she is thrown upon her own resources. Now Clara Hollinbergh had cast herself alone into the world. She did not travel as do too many poor, unfortunate women, with but little means. Money she had, in abundance, but a protector she had not. The gaze of curious men was upon her: her very sensitive heart almost stood still with fear. "What a strange world!" she thought, as she no- ticed the many different faces around her. Some   THE SOLDIERS DREAM9. 89 vere ladies and gentlemen of pure refinement, while thers were vulgar, uncouth men and women. Beneaththat vail there was a sweet, intelligent face; whose mind was highly cultivated, and whose birth 3he would never blush to own. There was a man who molested that pure and innocent girl, merely because she was traveling alone. Clara noticed no one par- ticularly ; but near her sat a gentleman, to all appear- ances. He wathed the delicate features through the thick vail; he noticed every movement of the black figure. At length, towards night, when bhe supposed no one would notice him, he seated himself near the girl, and commenced conversation, to which she paid no attention. He persisted, and annoyed her ex- tremely. Some men have not sufficient mind to un- derstand a repulse, while others are too sensitive- therefore, women know but little of man's real char- acter. At length Clara succeeded in gettng clear o the annoyance. Although a lady may be as harmless as a dove, and as pure as an angel, yet there are a class of unrefined, uneducated men, who approach her as if she were some ordinary woman-and well may a heart tremble in the society of such characters. Clara Hollinbergh was a novice in traveling. This world is a great stage, and our heroine had just step- ped before the public. She arrived at the great city of New York, and, taking a carriage, ordered the coachman to drive to the St. Nicholas. There she ordered a room, and for one week saw no one but the servant, as she was all that time quite ill with nervous headaches, caused by anxiety. When she had suffi-   90      THE SECRET DUEL; OR ciently recovered from her indisposition to think clearly, she inquired for Mr. Baldow. She received as answer to her inquiry that he had been there a few days previous, but had left for Washington city. The reader may imagine the feelings of Clara Hollin- bergh! A stranger in the city of New York. Not a female friend to speak to; not a male to whom to confide a word. Poor girl! she wept, she wrung her hands, she prayed. She knew that if she returned home unmarried it would disgrace her forever. The Southern people look upon some things rather differ- ently from what they do in this city. She was alone in a large hotel, and she well knew that there would be some wondering minds curious to discover who she was, and why she was there. If the gentlemen would only mind their own business, they would find quite sufficient to employ them. , We will return -to Baldow. Having waited long beyond the time appointed by him for Clara to join him, and she not making her appearance; it was con- cluded between Jaffer and himself that she must have misunderstood the arrangement. But the week she had stopped over threw her out of the way of meeting Baldow, who had gone on to New York. Horace, not finding her at the St. Nicholas, returned to Washington. She was not in that city; and her distressed mother could give no information concern- ing her. Horace Baldow was almost crazy. He was sure that her uncle or some of her relatives had ab- ducted her. To leave no means untried, he returned to New York, and at the hotel inquired for her: to his astonishment she had been there, but was gone.   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.      1 Clara had no acquaintances in New York city, but, fortunately she knew a family in Brooklyn; she had formerly met them at the Shenandoah Springs. She knew the business address of the gentleman in the city, and calling, was immediately recognized, She was a helpless female in New York; she made a con- fident of him, and he kept her secret. His family called upon her at the hotel, and Mrs. T insisted upon Clara's returning with her, and remaining some weeks. She had been brought up in Eastern Vir- ginia, and felt every sympathy for the lovely girl. Clara left the hotei, and went to her friends. The family of the merchant wished her to go to some places of amusement, but she declined all invitations, wishing to be seen and heard of by but one, and sthe knew not how that was to be accomplished. Weeks rolled by, and Clara was yet with her friends. There we will leave her, and endeavor to discover what has become of the Colonel. He was boarding in T..v ..,-- street. But no peace-no rest for his mind. Days and nights passed slowly by; 'all was sad. Every day he wished him- self at the seat of war, in the midst of the strife. He had lost her his soul loved. She was'the lilly ofthe valley and the rose of Sharon to him; but he. knew not where the enchantress was to be found. He thought of his mother and sisters in Germany; and when Pauline told him that he would love again, he could not believe it a possibility. But he had found in America, and on American soil, a beautiful, intelli- gent, warm-hearted woman, and he loved her to ado- ration. He had' fancied the pretty little blonde of thirteen, when in Berlin. He had sincerely loved the v             edth   92      THE SECRET DUEL; OR handsome brunette, Oppolita Zeroth, the merchant's daughter. She had caused him to leave Germany, and sail for America. After he embarked, and while on shipboard, he took quite a fanqy to a little Ger- man girl. Then he sincerely loved the sweet and no- ble girl of Fourteenth street, who died of a broken heart for him. He would have married her as soon as he returned from the war, had she lived; but all the mementos he had was her miniature, -and the withered rosebuds, which he- had kept sacred. He had visited her grave in Greenwood, in accordance- with her request, and a silent tear stole down his cheek as he gazed upon the tomb of the early dead. Oh, reader! was not our hero an unfortunate man? Strange, strange to mankind are the ways of God! It appears that some persons are destined to misfor- tune and disappointments-let them do as they may. Providence does not seem to smile upon them, But there is a world of mystery beyond this, and that only will show us why we have suffered, and wherefore we have been unfortunate in this lower sphere. We may be far superior in many things to those persons who have usurped all power over us; and we may suffer; but God will unfold the secret at some future day. Horace Baldow was one of those mysterious charac- ters. He was honorable, brave, talented, and hand- some; but, oh! the sad misfortunes into which he had fallen i \, O      I   THE SOLDIER'S DREAM.     93 CHAPTER VII. A YOUNG Irish physician boarded at the same house with Colonel Baldow; in fact,/they roomed together. One night the Doctor had with him a friend. About midnight the Colonel arose, drew his sword, and walked the floor, giving orders to his men. The Do-  tor lay looking at the somnamnbulist, and laughed to see the young German go through the tactics. No doubt he thought that he was fighting with Colonel Hollinbergh for the release of his sweet Clara. He promenaded the floor for awhile, giving orders, and then returned to bed, and went to sleep quietly. But the young physician did not at all admire the military performance, for he knew not that his head was quite safe on his shoulders with a sleeper of so warlike a spirit. No one said anything to Baldow concerning his Iocturnal drill. Baldow was very much liked in the house; and all saw a sadness in his countenance, but no one knew what it was. Little did they suppose that his heart was suffering so acutely on account of the Fairfax beauty; yet so it was. On the following night the Doctor and his friend again retired-the former putting his pistols under his head, in case his German friend used violence in his sleep. Mr.'T  knew that Baldow was asleep; but the Doctor, not having been accustomed to see the night-walker, did not at all relish Ms warlike acts. ; They had nearly fallen asleep, when the Colonel sprang out of his bed like a furious tiger, caught up   "     THE SECRET DUEL; OR his sword, unsheathed it, and walked toward the Doc- tor's bed. The young man, much frightened, caught up his pistol from under the pillow to shoot the Colo- nel; but T-- caught his hand, and said, "For God's sake, don't shoot him: he is asleep." T-- could scarcely speak for laughter. "I do not like such attacks," said the valiant physi- cian. "If he is in the Bull Run battle, he must keep in Virginia, and not be rising up here in this boarding- house to kill us Northerners for the Southern rebels." The Colonel walked and gave orders as he had done the night before; and then T-- awoke him. "For God's sake, Baldow," said he, "put that sword by, and go to bed; you'll get shot, if you don't look out." "What am I doing?" said Baldow. "Oh! I was dreaming about fighting a Colonel Hollinbergh at the Bull Run battle. I shot him, and then with my sword I cut him asunder, because he had stolen my girl." The Doctor laughed, and said that he would not sleep in the room another night, to be murdered for a Southern Colonel. The next day Baldow went over to Brooklyn. It was late when he crossed the ferry. While at the boat, he saw a lady in deep mourning about to enter a car. He knew not by what power he was attracted to the car, for he had no business to call him to Brooklyn. It was near dark-; she sat vailed, but he watched her closely. H e felt strangely. "What can this mean?"' thought Baldow. "Why am I going to ride up town in Brooklyn? I know not, I am sure. It grew darker, yet Baldow continued to watch the figure: in black.   THE SOLDIE'RS DRNAX.     95 "That is some sweet, pretty woman," he thought, "who has lost some dear friend perhaps in the war- may be in the Bull Run battle. Who knows now but that she is a stranger in the city, without friends?" Such were the thoughts of Baldow, as he sat in the car, and watched by the dim, flickering rays of the lamp. It commenced to rain. He could not distinctly see the face he watched through that thick vail. She left the car at the City Hall, and Baldow followed her. ' She crossed the street, and walked rapidly. It was raining fast, and the dim lamp only lighted the street. She walked on swiftly, and our hero followed. He knew that it was impolite and ungentlemanly; he saw that she was a lady. The rain began to pour down; and the Colonel had an umbrella. "Now," thought he, "if I offer my umbrella, in a gentlemanly manner, she will not take it as an insult." Up he stepped, and said, very politely, Lady, it is raining violently. May I take the liberty of offering you a part of my umbrella?"She turned and looked at him. "- I thank you, sir; I have but a few blocks now to walk." He walked close to her side, and offered his arm ; she trembled as she touched it. He also felt that an icy arrow was at his heart; but why it was he knew not. She spoke very low, and he had nearly lost his voice. As they stepped up on the stoop, the servant was in the act of coming out, and the hall lamp gave a brilliant light. She threw her vail aside, and her features became visible. "Great God!" exclaimed Baldow; and he caught her in his arms. "Clara, Clara! oh, my own darling, have we met again? Thank God, thank God, for ever!"   96      THE SECRET DUEL; OR She recognized him, and she fainted. He carried her in, and laid her on the sofa.-Reader! here was a scene worth- the pencil of an artist. They wept on each other's bosoms. As it happened, there were none of the family in the parlor. "Strange and wonderful how we have met!" ejacu- lated Baldow. Then Clara unfolded to him an account of all her travels, and how long she had been with her friends in Brooldyn. She had intended to leave for Virginia on the next morning. Now the fate of our hero seems to be changing. The star of destiny seems to turn in his favor. Oh, how happy they were! Our pen cannot describe the ecstasy of these hearts, so long separated. They sup- posed each other lost; but now, on a dreary, rainy evening in October, they had met again. It is not necessary to speak of all the tears, sighs, and honeyed phrases that were made use of by the happy lovers. The reader can imagine for himself. They have seen what each party have suffered up to this moment. Now they have met in a mysterious manner. Wonderful and powerful indeed are the works of- God! Now the time of their marriage was appointed. Only three more days, and Clara and the Colonel were to be united. She went out, and invited her friends in to see her long-lost lover. Mrs. T-- was happy to see her friend so. She loved her husband, and knew it was woman's fate to love. Clara then asked permissio n to be married there, which was granted with pleasure. Horace spent the evening with them;   THE SOLDIER's DREAM.     97 and a happier couple never lived than were Clara Hollinbergh and her lover. In three days after, they were united in the holy bonds of wedlock. There is no necessity to describe a brilliant wedding. They were both in easy circum- stances, and had all they wanted. Clara's mother had given her a heavy purse, and she had not been extravagant. Horace had brought moneyin abundance from Germany, and the wedding was as elegant as any one need desire. They were married by an Episcopal clergyman, and then went to the St. Nicholas, to remain there until they were ready to leave for Germany; She wroto her mother a beautiful letter, telling her of her mar- riage and her happiness, which' gave the troubled heart of the widow much pleasure. Clara received a very encouraging letter in reply from her mother, advising her to be a dutiful wife, and stating that her willful uncle, Colonel Hollinbergh, was yet in pur- suit of his fugitive niece. In a few days the Havana sailed for Germany with the German Colonel and his wife on board. The beauty of Fairfax recovered her faded charms. Love and disappointment had been destroying her beauty, but happy love had now brought it all back, and added thereto a newer charm. Now she was- on the bosom of the deep blue sea, sailing toward Germany, the fatherland of him whom she had vowed to love " till death us do part." She regretted not leaving her home, nor even her mother, to go far away with him she so deeply loved. " Where thou goest, I will go; where thou diest, I will die: thy people shall be mT   98      THE SEORET DUEL; OR people; and thy God, my God." What a strange, powerful passion is love! The seventh son, had proved himself a brave man in battle, and also in love; and now they were cross- ing the Atlantic to enjoy the sweets of a German home in -Baden Baden. The passage was fine, and in due time they reached the shores of Germany, the harbor of Bremen, and Horace Baldow, with his beautiful Southern wife, were soon cosily domiciliated at his mother's house. Oh I what jby sparkled in every eye as they beheld the long-absent son and brother. Hie introduced to them his fair wife, begging them to love her and make her happy; telling them how much she had left be- hind to marry him. His aged mother wept over her, but was truly happy to hear of his victory in the war. His sister Pauline had not forgotten all her dry jokes. She said, "Horace, did I not prophesy that you would find some little American girl to bathe your head and dress your wounds? And, sure as life, you have found a beautiful woman to nurse you." 'He laughingly replied, "Well, that is true, Pauline; for my pretty little wife was the very woman who dressed my wound that I received at the battle of Bull Run." g"You did not run, then, brother," said Pauline, "Dt stood, and permitted the Southerners to shoot you at their leisure?"  "No, I did not run; but when I caught the Stars and Stripes from the field, then they shot me. But it is all over now; and before we return to America the war will have ended."   .     z   THE BOLDIEB' DREAY. M  "And if it is not," said his sister, ', I hope that you, at least, will be quiet. You must remember that you are now married to a sweet, pretty wife." "Yes, my sister; Iam now perfectly content to live and die wherever it pleases God to cast my life, so my Clara is with me." Mrs. Baldow seemed very much pleased with her German relatives, although they could not speak any English. She soon learned the German language. After she had been in Baden Baden'a few weeks, she wrote to her mother in how beautiful a city lived the friends of her husband. She described the scenery as being magnificent. The waters of the Rhine ap- peared to look clearer and flow more majestically than any water she had ever seen in America. She desired her mother to tell Aunt Dinh that she remembered her nice brown puddings, but tnat she had some in Germany even nicer. She begged her only surviving parent not to think sadly on their separation; but that they should meet again, and be happy, unmo- lested by her uncle. And concluded, as the most of brides do, by declaring that she was perfectly happy with her German "liege lord and master."   His noble heroism had won for ]im laurels which will shine green on his brow, even down to old age. The- German Colonel, the Seventh Son, will never be for- gotten in the Union Army. "FROM THE GERMAN OF SIMON DACH "As the palm-tree standeth, so straight and so tall, The more the hail beats and the more the rains fall; So love in our hearts shall grow mighty and strong, Thro' crosses, thro' sorrows, thro' manifold wrong.   100  THE SECRET DUEL; OR THE SOLDIER S DREAM. Should'st thou be torn from me to wander alone In a desolate land, where the sun is unknown, Thro' forests I'll follow, and where the sea flows, Thro' ice, and thro' iron, thro' armies of foes, Whate'er my desire is, in thine may be seen- i I am king of the household, and thou art its queen." So ends our story of the German Officer and! his beautiful Southern Bride. *"       '/   CARTING ORDS. WE do not' feel that we can 'take leave of our patrons, after this brief interview, without expressing the wish that they will not think the time they have spent in perusing the foregoing pages, wasted; but rather that our acquaintance, commenced " sans cere- vonzie,"' should continue and ripen into an attach- ment that shall prove of mutual interest. W'e have still another duty to perform, not only to, our readers, but to those of our friends who have generously rendered us their encouragement and assistance, and with pleasure direct the attention of all who peruse these pages to the advertisements which follow, feeling assured that each establishment  A' in its character ranks among the foremost in our country, not only in the style and quality of their respective goods, but in their strictly honest and straightforward manner of doing business.   102       PARTING WORDS. We would also feel warranted in saying that those of our readers who shall see fit to call on them, will at all times meet with that politeness and atten- tion by all employed in the various branches, for which the first-class houses of our country have ever been noted, and which seldom fail of success, with the further assurance that they will find prices as low as at any establishments in America. AUTHOR.   JOHN S. WILLARD & CO., No. 269 Can al Street, - - -   - - - New York MANUFACTURERS OF THE PRIZE MEDAL "B -@@KB0N]       @LASb gE DEALERS. IN EVERY VARIETY OF GILT, WALNUT and ROSEWOOD MOULDINGS, "Xooking Glasses, Window Cornices, Picture Frames, and Phiotograplh Ovals, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. French and American Chromos at Publishers' Prices. B AIN iS      BR@L./ ^&,LaeU wff U(&e fa  .2Xs1 uL %A aUJ -Q6 east lt1-41      Street, JyioJvx sQJA9E ................ ;yfftr W o FO . New Pianos to rent. New Pianos for sale low, New Pianos by installment, New Pianos on terms to suit all classes in regard to price.  GEORGrE .. HERIRI1V          . IMPORTER OF I dia Cashnlere Slawls, WHOLIESALE AND RETAIL. No. 39 Union Square .............  New rork, Two doors below 17th Street. Persons visiting the city will do well to call and examine our splendid assortment of Poods, just imported, before making their purchases elsewhere. * t  ,  .  .       . . '    I. E. W ALRAVEN Is HAS REMOVED HS ENTIBE*TOCx OF UPHOLSTERY -GOODS, LACE CURTAINS, And LINiENS, FROM No. 686 MBo ADWAY, TO 751 BROAD IFA Y. below      8th Street, ROBINSON, HAT T"E R, SUCCESsoR To GENIN, 513 BROADWAY NE,         W YORK, (Under St. Nicholas Hotel.) Fnglish Turbans, Rosalind Spanish Turban, and a large variety of Fancy Hats for Infants and Chiildrcn. Also alarge assortmentof HATS AND CAPS, FOR BoyS. Oow-TC:IiNG NEW I EVEtHY LADY      H    Tf: OWN DRESSMAK ME! S o M. MOSCHCOWITZ, No. 6 Clinton Place, near Broadway, New York, Takes pleasure in notifying the ladies of the'United States, that the time has at last arrived when every one can cUT and PIT their own Garments without the slightest trouble. This new PATENT "NING is placed before the public for the purpose of revolution- izing the old fogy ideas of Dress Cutting, and with the slightest instruction (which he offers gratis), enables every dressmaker and lady in the land to become her own artist in the cutting and fitting of her garments, whereby the old style of measuring and cutting, and cutting and measuring, is done away with forever. Ladies are respectfully invited to call, examine, and judge for themselves, at the- principal depot, No. 6 CLINTON PLACE, where they willy find Mi. MoscicQ wITz at all. times ready to im- part to them all the necessary information concerning this won- derful invention. N. -B. 'Assorted numbers of this PATENx DESS LINNMG is offered wholesale and retail to all merchants, by whom it will be sold to the milinibs. Agents wanted in every town in the United States. DR:SS-MAKING done at this establishment on the European plan, with the most artistic skill, by Men Dress-makers. Work done to order at very short notice. ,1'   I J. L. HAJRLE:M & CO., MANUFACTURER OF FINE, SILVER ^^^ll ^^PLATED WARE, =-as  SPECTACLES, Spec Cases, Razor Strops, Patent Tobacco Boxes, &c. "Maiden Tane, New York.- ESTABLISHED NEARLY TWENTY YEARIS. FLOOR COVERINGS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION AT ALLING & LACEY'S, Nos. 171 and 173 Sixth Avenue. Oarpetings, Druggets, Oil Cloths, Mattings, and Every description of Floor Covering, Domestic and Imported, in the Handsomest Designs, Newest Styles, and of Every Quality, at Positive Bargains, and Cheaper than elsewhere in New York. ALLING & LACEY, Sixth Avenue, corner 12th Street, N Y. OGen tlemen s', Youths' anad Children's, GO TO TRAPHAGEN, HUNTER & CO., 387, 400 LnC5d 4O02, Bo-vver-y ASSORTMENT, STYE and QUALITY UNSUPASSED I And Prices 20 per Cent. below BroadwayqRates. - JOHN   G. LY-JVS TTT TSho Whse Stfreo IS opening this NEW STORE, I beg to inform you where will be found the BEST QUALITY of Ladies', Gentlemen's, and Children's Imported and Domestic 'BOOTS AN3STD SICO:ES, At the Lowest Pieces in FINE SHOES in the City.  407 Sixth Avenue, between 28th and 29th Sts., and 149 Sixth Avenue, corner of 11th Si., N. Y.              * * * . w  we g * g W ' s 8 ^,  /    A TNA SEWING MACHNES. SALES ROOM: Corner Catherine and     Division  Streets* THESE Machines for Neatness and Durability, perfection of ope- ration, and adaptation to the varieties of work, have won the position of THE BEST SEWING MACHNES NOW IN THE     IARoc 'nt. They tuck, hem, fell, gather, cord, quilt, braid and embroider. PRICES from $60 to $150. Instructions gratis. AGENTS Wanted. BENJ. SUGDEN.            GEO. T. BRADBURY. SUGDEN & BRADBURY, "ATE WITH "ORD & TAYOR, Iaj porters a3ncld Retailers OF DRY G OO DS, Silks, Shawls, Cloaks, Dress Goods, Cloths, White Goods, Linens, Flannels, Ho- giery, Gloves, Ribbons, Trimmings, Lace Goods, Embroideries, Mourning Goods, Merinos, Alpacas, Repps, Empress Cloths, Draperies, Lace Curtains and Upholstery Goods, Domestics, Blankets. Nos, 312 and 314 BOW JRY, NEW YOREK. EMP IR E Sewing Machine Company, 294 KBowerya, New York.      ' MAUFAOTORY : SOMERS, WESTCHESTER COUNTY, N. Y. F. W. KATRFLEm(sO, Pres.  GEO. W. STArB, Seo'y. & Treaa     
         
       
   
