
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). Mabel Lee .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8069
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Mabel Lee 
            
               Ti e rna~n, Frucnes Chrst;io(Fjsia.r)

B E L

L EE.

A NOVEL.

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"VALERIE AYLMER,"' "MORTON HOUSE," ETC.

WIT!! ILLUSTRATIONS.

NEW YORK:
D.hAPPLETON AND COMPANY,
54.9 &amp; 551 BROADWAY.
1872.

M

A

@1

K.1


BETERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871.,
Dr D. APPLETON &amp; COMPANY,
In the Office of the Llbrarlsn of Congress, at Washington.
i2~AQ

I,

I

OOKTEI{TS.

CUAP.
1.-MAKING UP HIS MIND,
11.-MABEL LEE..................
111.-MABEL GIVES ADVICE,.
IV.-AN UNEXPECTED MEETING,
V.-HEBE IN A RIBBON-SHOP~
VI.-IN THE GARDEN~ ~.
VIL-MR. AINSLIE'S EXPERIMENT,
VIII.-TAKING COUNSEL,
IX.-PLAIN SPEAKING,
X.-FORESHADOWINGS,
XI.-" IN A GONDOLA,"
NIL-ON THE WIN(~~
XIII.-MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM,
XIV.-THE ROSE BY THE WATER'S EDGE,
XV.-A FAIRY FLITTING,

PAGE
5
11
14
19
23
29
24
41
48
54
61
66
I~3
82

CEAP.
XVI.-OONFLICTING EVIDENCE~
XVIL-UNDER SUSPICION,
xvm.-vox roi'ui,.    .    .
XIX.-A FORGERY,
XX.-~-A LOST TRINKET,
XXI.-ALL AT SEAT
XXII.-BROKEN DOWN,
XXIII.-ON THE TRACKS
XXIV.-TWO HEADS ABE BETTER THAN
ONE .
XXV.-THE DOUBLE SEAL 01? BLOOD,
XXVI.-THE WAGES OP SINS
XXVIL-THE EVIL THAT MEN DO LIVES
AFTER THEM~ .

8? 1 XXVIII.-INTO THE SUNLIGHT, .  .  1~8

PAGE
90
9?
103
108
114
J.1~
122
12?
182
185
144
152


MABEL LEE.

CHAPTER I.
MAKING UP 1115 MIND.
Thnnn had been a shower in the earlier
part of the day, but the April afternoon was
very fair and peaceful, full of the fragrance
of opening blossoms, the rustle of half-grown
leaves, the glitter of rain-drops, the glimmer
of capricious sunlight, the twitter of full-
throated birds, the tender beauty, and the
whole indescribable charm of the spring-
time, when a sturdy horseman rode up to
the door ~f Seyton House, and calling to
one of two negro boys, who were makingg a
great deal of play and very little work for
themselves on its broad, green lawn, asked
* where their master was.
"You'll find him in the liberty, Mr.
Blake," answered the nearest one, touch-
ing his hat, with that subtle mixture of re-
spect and familiarity only possible to the ser-
vant of the ancient re'gimc.~ "He looked
out of the window a little while back, and
axed if you hadn't come y~t. Hold Brown
Jerry? Yes, sir. Mus' I take him to the
stable'?"
"No," said Mr. Blake, dismounting as he
spoke. '~ No-I sha'n't be long, Walk him
till l~e cools oft; and then fasten him here.
What are you doing, or pretending to do?"
"Rolling the lawn, sir. Mr. Farris se1~
us at it."
"Mr. Farris might better have stayed to
see it done~ then. You may tejI him so,
when he~ comes. In the library, did you
say?"

Although ho ~is~ke.d the q~uesi4on, he 4id
not wait for an ai~swer, but strQde away at~
once, skirting tJ~e lofty frpnt~p~~'tie&amp;, the
jutting bay-windows, and the niaujy angles
in which Seyton, Hojise abounded, until lie
turned suddenly upon a hroad terrace set
out with vases and balustrade in the Italian
style, and commanding, a~striki~gly magi~fi-
cent view-a. view so~ magufficent, ix~d~ed,
and so important in the story which is to
come, that it merits afew wo~ls of careful
description andoareful attention.
First, however, i1~ may be well tp state
that Seyton House was o~e of those solid
and somewhat stately r9lics of colonial
times which are yet tQ be foun~l, at $i4er-
vals throughout Yi~rginia. ani the Carolinas,
and that it h~d been b~iilt by ~ of the
many Cavalier aslventurer~, pf. good, blood
but scanty fortuile, who tbrQnged t}ie~hores
of America during the reign pflizabeth
and her Stuart 5uccessQr8-~--one ~whpu~ atm-
gent cirouins~auops, cl4efiy, of ~ pecuniary
nature, foi'cqd froni th~ g~y,~h4de~ Q~J4te~
hall; whoa after cruising. with. thej~ld, buo-
caneers of the Caribkea~ ~a, and doi~gj~t-
tie with the warlikp flidians Qf ~ El
Dorado, at last chanced upon l~i~Vmjn.e, of
virgin gold to~seek wh~ch he l~ed ~etfqrth
on hi~ lifa of adventure. Years jxa4 been~
spent in the search; however, end, when ftr-
tune at last came, youth and ,t~he capacity
of enjoyment were alike goi~e fron~ him.
The king he had served was~ an ~xil~, ,tbe
boon compaiAons, ~f ibis eld revels ~w~re
scattere4 tu~d gone; the women, l~e hed
loved were 4Qad, or-worse yet I-old; and


6                          MABEL LEE.                                                          MAKING UP HIS MIND.                    7

ugly; so, sadly enough, he resigned him-
self to the trite fact that change and time
stand still for no man, and prepared to en-
joy his wealth where he had found it. He
settled, therefore, in the colonies, drank
King James's health to the end of his life,
and died at last, leaving behind him two
more than ordinarily enduring monuments
of his existence. One was this stately house
which bore his name; the other, a charge
upon his descendants never to part with, or
suffer this inheritance to be alienated from
them, but, in case the entail expired, to re-
new it immediately. Under English law
the fulfilment of this requirement had
been very easy, but, when the government
changed~ hands, it became more difficult;
yet, even then, family pride found such good
means to compass its end, that for more
than ahundredyears the Seytonpropertyhad
remained intact, chiefly through a peculiar
family custom, which in time became a fam-
ily obligation. This custom made it bind-
ing on every third possessor of the house
to ~renew the entail (which, according to
American law, could not be extended be-
yond one generation), securing the noble old
mansion and the broad lands for which the
Seytons could still show King James's grant
to one direct heir, and thus preserving them
from the indignity of division and spoha-
tion. This was the Seyton tradition, and,
up to the time of which we write, no Sey-
ton had ever betrayed the trust given to
him, or taken advantage of that power
which rested with every third one-the
power of ceasing to renew the entail.
Thanks to this wise policy, there was no
such place, far and wide, as the Seyton
place;' no such stately old house, full of the
savor of well-preserved antiquity; no such
grand old trees as those that girdled it; no
sui~h treasures of pictures, plate, and furni-
ture, as those with which it was filled; no
such fertile fields and royal woods as those
that stretched around it, far as the eye could
reach, and no such view as that which could
be gained by standing on its southern ter-
race. For the dead and gone Cavalier who
first selected this site for his future home,
must have owned sonfething of an artist's
eye, and an artist's love of the beautiful.

At least he had placed his new eyry on the
most commanding height of all the undulat-
ing country, crowning a lofty hill, like some
l5lhineland castle, while at its feet rolled the
most beautiful of all our beautiful southern
streams-that lovely Ayre, which, sweep-
ing down through all the rich lowlands and
fertile plains, never loses the crystal pu-
rity of its mountain birthright, until it is
whelmed in the vast Atlantic.
Standing on the terrace of Seyton house,
it would be hard to say how many miles lay
spread out like a panorama before the gaz-
er's eye-miles of green slope and flashing
water, of graceful hills and cultivated val-
leys, of waving woods and distant moun-
tains, of oil things fair and dainty; and beau-
tiful it seemed, as the April sunlight rested
on them, bringing out the delicate emerald of
early spring, the clouds of tinted blossom,
the flickering vicissitudes of light and shad-
ow, and the crystal depths of the river that
lay under the tender sky, as blue and peace-
ful as an Italian lake. The broad lawn,
the shrubberies and gardens of the house,
stretched away on the other side, and made
the approach very beautiful; but here the
ground shelved down abruptly in almost
precipitous descent to the river-side. There
was a narrow foot-path which wound down
the face of the bluff; but only those who
were at once very sure-footed and very sure-
headed did well to try it; while, leaning
over the balustrade, it was possible to drop
a stone directly down, a distance of eighty
feet, into the limpid waters below. A short
distance up the stream lay a small island,
which looked fair enough and picturesque
enough to have been the haunt of fairies
and elves unnumbered-an island half a mile
in length, by a much narrower width, and a
perfect wilderness of trees and flowers; a
place which was garlanded from end to end
by jasmine and honeysuckle, and was a
very popular resort for picnic-parties, Who
often came in force from a pretty town that
not very far off nestled against the river,
and bore its name.
Tow, when Mr. Blake came out on the
terrace, he paused ent, and looked
round him. N~ot t the ospect--for he'
was familiar eno eh ~~ith th -but at the

house, whose long French windows ~th
only modern improvement about it) opened
on this side to the ground. The bright af.
ternoon was all around and about, dazzling
him with its glory, however, and it was not
until a voice, musical enough for a woman's,
said, "Here I am, Blake," that he recog-
nized the near neighborhood of his employ-
er, Mr. Seyton. Even then he did not see
him, but, shading his eyes with his hands,
looked eagerly toward the house, in search
of the familiar face that should have accom-
panied those familiar tones. For they had
lived together forty years, these two, in a
companionship as intimate as their different
positions would allow. It was a long time,
and yet, to one of them at least, it seemed
only yesterday when he had been a poor
Irish boy, fresh from an immigrant-ship,
without a shadow of character or recom-
mendation, whom Mr. Seyton had taken in-
to his employ out of the simple charity of
his charitable heart. It had been a mere
impulse of kindness with him, touched as
he was by the boy's haggard face and
straightforward story, but perhaps the prov-
erb concerning those who entertain angels
unawares was never better i1justr~ted.-
Certainly the fine gentleman who stopped
his horse, and listened to the ragged lad
who rose up from a wayside stone to speak
to him, did little, it would seem, which any
* Christian might not have done, yet our good
deeds come back to us sometimes with.the
royal usury of heaven, and out of all the
days of his life this 'day was the one which
Gervase Seyton had most cause to bless, now
that time had rolled on and made them both
old men. He had been at that time loaded
to the very earth with hereditary debts and
liabilities - debts and liabilities which he
saw no means of meeting, without being the
first of his race to break in upon the domain
set aside for entail-and it was this poor
boy whQ seemed specially sent to clear off
the incubus, without suffering a single rood
of the old land to pass from the old name.
I~obody had ever called Mr. Blake an over-
seer, since the early days when he had been
promoted to a position, for which there is
no eract American term, but which in Eng-
land would have been at once steward and

confidential agent; and for nearly half a cen-
tury the entire management of the Seyton
estate had rested in his hands. The busi-
ness talent he possessed was so great that
he might have made a dozen fortunes for
himself while he had been Working in the
Seyton interest, and making the Seyton
property thrice as valuable as it ever was
before; but there was something almost
pathetic in his dogged devotion to the per-
son and interests of the man who had stood.
between himself and starvation; the man'
who seemed to the rest of the world only a
graceful, fine gentleman, somewhat givento
the weaknesses of dilettante and valetudi-
nan, but whose bpst points and highest vir-
tues were perhaps known only to God and
this one honest heart.
"Here I am, Blake," said that musical
voice again, and this time with a decided
petulance. "What a time you have been,
to be sure!"
"I couldn't help it, Mr Seyton," an-
swered the other, as he came toward the'
window from which the sound proceeded ;
"I rode over to see Mr. Gross about the
bottom-land he has been trespassing upon;
so I didn't get your message till about half
an hour ago.~~
"Did you come over at once, then?"
"Yes, sir, I did, without losing a mm--
ute."
"That is to say, without your dinner.'
Just like you, Blake. I don't think I ever
knew any man before so careless of his di-
gestion. Go, and make Mrs. I~esbitt give
you something to eat."
"Thank you, sir," said Blake, with a
smile, "but I had rather not. It upsets me~
to eat out of my regular times, and I either
take my dinner at twelve, by the stroke of,
the clock, or not at all. I would not know
what to make of myself if I went to dining
at this time of day."
"It is not late excepting by a barbarian
standard of time," said Mr. Sexton. "You
had' better take something."
"If it's all the same to you, sir, I'd
rather not."
"It's not all the same to me, in the least
-but I don't suppose you care about that,
as long as you have your own obstinate


S                           MABEL LEE.

MAKING UP HIS MIND.

wny. I give you up, Blake-I give you up!
and you had better take a seat."
Mr. Blake was accustomed to being
given up by his employer, so he submitted
ve~ry; quietly, and took the indicated seat.
Than he fanned himself slowly with his
broad straw hat, and waited for Mr. Seyton
to speak.
The room which he had thus uncere-
moniously entered was very luxuriously
furnished, but somewhat sombre in effect,
owing to the book-lined walls and dark oak-
en panels; a room abounding in depths of
shadow, which even the bright April sun-
shine could not disperse, and from out
whose mellow twilight white statues and
husts gleamed with an almost spectral ef-
fect; a room that was moderate in size and
~er3r -perfeet in appointment; wher~ Mr.
~eyfonspunt the major part of his life, and
i4iioh therefore reflected, as in a mirror,
much of his character and habits-plainly
thu room of a scholar more elegant than
profound, but of one Who also possessed a
keen appreciation and love of art, which was
rafs indeed in his day and generation-and
a room that made a very effective back-
ground. for the two men sitting by the open
window.
They were curious contrasts, thete two
meli! -~-cui~ious examples of the power of
that bidden force which we call sometimes
aympiithy and sometimes attraction, and
whioh, overleaping all barriers of diverse
oa~te'and diverse nature, had brought them
together out of the world - equal in one
sense, at least-as friends.
Tha one so bhiff and hearty, so tall and
strongly built, with health and resolution,
a~nI iiit~llect of a certain sort, too, in every
line ~f the honest bronzed face, and every
glance of the clear blue eyes !-a man whom
t~e:verie~t' skeptic in human goodness and
human honor might have trusted blindfold;
yeta Maii of Whom knaves and swindlers
woul&amp;ha.ve steered Qlear by instinct; a man
who could sooner have translated Chaldaic
th~nooncealed a feeling, or practiced a sub-
terfuge, and who, it was easy to see, pos-
sb~s~4 to the full t'he courage and devotion
tg~d faithfulness tha.t have made his race
* famous; a man so full of vitality, that his

mere presence made ordinary men ashamed
of their dyspeptic stomachs and failing legs;
whose hands were hardened by the toil of
half' a century, but whose port was as up-
right, whose stroke was as vigorous, and
whose seat in the saddle Was as sure, as ever
at twenty-five.
The other, so slenderand pale and grace-
ful, so evidently the finest of fine gentlemen,
as he leaned back in the depths of his pur-
ple-velvet chair, and looked at the sturdy
yeoman, who sat before him. All his life
long, people had called Mr. Seyton an ex-
ceedingly handsome man, yet his lX3atures
were almost too delicate for masculine beau-
ty, and his figure was slight even to fragil-
ity, while the fret outstretched before him,
seemed tiny enough to have worn Cinderel-
la's slipper, and the fair, blue-veined hands
that rested on his knees looked as if noth-
ing, save lace ruffles, should have fallen over
them. Of its own type, however, his style
was very perfect, for he was one of the men
-and they are rare enough-upon whom
the seal of refinement is so plainly set that
iio outward circumstances can affect om~ out-
ward disguises conceal it. If Mr. Seyton
had been dressed in homespun, and placed
in a garret, he would have looked, if any
thing, more strikingly patrician than here
under the shadow of his own roof-tree.
Just at present he wore a loose morning-
coat of black velvet, and the soft rich fabric
suited him as nothing else could possibly
have done; suited his transparent complex-
ion and high-bred face; suited the brown
eyes that had once been reckoned very fas-
cinating; suited the silken curls of golden-
brown hair-the hair that never grows
gray, unless from sorrow or terror-suited
his whole appearance, which seemed. more
that of some petit-maitre of the sixteenth
century, than a commonplace man of the
commonplace to-day.
Finding at last that Mr. Sexton did not
seem' disposed to break the silence, Mr.
Blake took that office upon himself.
"Since you have sent for me, sir, I sup-
pose that you have made up your mind."
It was hesitatingly said, and there was
plainly anxiety of 'some unusual sort in the
gaze directed so earnestly toward' Mr. Sey-

ton-the gaze which Mr. Sexton did not
meet.' On the contrary, he looked straight
out of the window, with those dreamy
brown eyes of his, as he answered, in the
same low, musical tone:
"Well-yes, Blake. I think I may safe-
ly say that I have made up my mind."
The other leaned eagerly forward.
"Well, sir?
"Well, Blake-" A moment's pause,
then Mr. Seyton suddenly flashed his eyes
full upon those of his companion, with two
short Words, "Philip Conway!"
After that, there was a profound still-
ness.
Mr. Sexton was the first to speak. After
a while he leaned forward, and laid his soft,
white hand on the two hard rough ones that
were locked together over Blake's hat.
"Old friend, ~ he said, '~vith the winning
gentleness that all his life long had wiled so
many hearts, "I knew it is hard on you, but
try and forgive me. Try and understand
me."
"Sir," said Blake, hastily, "it isn't tlust
-it isn't myself-it isn't any thing but__"
There came a warmer pressure of the
two hands that still obstinately held them-
selves together.
"iDo you think I don't know what it
is?" he asked. "Do you think I don't
know that you are considering me-the
poor life that is not worth an hour's pur-
chase, remember-and these broad acres
that you have saved from the usurer's
clutches and th~ auctioneer's hammer?"
"I'm thinking of you-of nothing else,"
answered the other, brusquely. "As for
the land, I saved it for you, and if-and if
you were not here, it might go-anywh~re,
to-morrow."
"You saved it for me, yes," said Mr.
Seyton, "but in doing that, you also saved
it for the name. We must remember that,
both of us; ana yet,' my poor Blake! it
would hurt you to'see the fruits of your toil
in spendthrift hands."
"It would hurt me, sir, but not an hour
longer than it would hurt you."
"Well, it would not hurt me at all-
after I Was once laid down to rest in the
graveyard yonder-even if Philip Conway

oomdd dissipate property which will bestrict~
ly entailed upon his heir."
"Sir," said Mr. Blake, and hi~ voice rose
into something of solemnity-" sir, [ have
told you that I am not thinking of the prop.
erty. I tell you so again. I will even swear
it, if you like."
"Then what are you thinking of?"
"That I fear harm and evil from any one
who bears the Conway name, or owns, a
drop of the Conway blood."
"Harm! Towbom?"
"To you. To all who may now or here-
after be brought into contact with the man
you would make your heir."
"But what reason have you for saying
I
this? Have you ever heard any thing
against my nephew?"
"Never, sir. But I know the blood."
"So do I, for that matter, and distrust
it as heartily as you can. But it is only
fair to give the boy the benefit of a doul~t.
He is half Seyton, you know."'
"Sir," said Blake, whose earnestness
seemed to deepen, "the water in this vase
is very pure and good now, but if you pour
even so much as one drop of poison in it---
would you like to drink it, then?"
There is something very unansWerable
in a sudden practical illustration, even if
that illustration, as in the present instance,
be not altogether a just one. Mr. Seyten
was a good deal of a philosopher, and v~y
fond of dealing in metaphor, but he fou#d
himself looking at the vase which had *0
well served his companion, without an~ ~i-
swer ready, either to silence or i~ebiiku.
Whereupon, Mr, Blake seized his opportu-
nity, and went on:
"Sir," he said,"I know you too wolf to
think I can offend you by speaking plainly.
Of all the base and cruel men X ha#e aver
known, the Philip' Conway, whom your sis-
ter married, and who was killed La a duel
for foul play at a gambling-hell, was' Limo
most base and most cruel. Sir-Mr.' Beytou
-you are fond of this 61d house of yours;
'are you willing to put it into the hands of
that man's son?"
"It' will be entailed."
"What of that? Are any ofi~is bloOd
likely to be more trustwoi'tliy?"


10                           MABEL LEE.

MABEL LEE.                            11

"You are the most thoroughly unreason- in favor of Philip Conway, without know-
able fellow I ever knew," said Mr. Seyton, ing him-that I send for him, and give us
somewhat indignantly. "1 must make my both an opportunity to know him?"
will and renew the entail. You heard the Mr. Blake looked at his master a little
doctor when he told me that this heart-dis- doggedly. "I'm opposed to any thing that
ease may carry me off at any moment-and will bring Philip Conway under this roof,"
I must find an heir. Kow, the choice rests he said, slowly.
between Philip Conway and-"               "But why?  What ~re you fearing for?
"And your younger sister's son, Cyril My life ?-your life ?-or the plate-closet?"
[larding. Why not take him I" "What Pm fearing for, I could not tell
Mr. ~eyton shrugged his shoulders with you, sir, if I wanted to; but I wish I was as
a gesturee half of petulance, half of disgust. sure of my eternal salvation as that Philip
"You have your own prejudices, Blake; Conway will bring harm to this house, if he
grant me a little grace with mine. I feel as ever lives to enter it."
if I had taken an emetic whenever you men- Again the solemnity of his voice and
tion that milksop." manner-his earnestness, his almost passion
"I never heard any harm, sir, of him or -had their effect upon Mr. Sexton. He
of his father." paused-and how different would have been
"You never heard one of his father's one life, at least, if he had paused to some
sermons, then. The hours of agony he used purpose! Ah! it boots little in the great
to inflict upon me! And then he was such sum of human existence-such retrospection
a confounded prig." -or we might often, perhaps always, trace
"It does not follow that his son is, how- the winding of the thread of mortal agony
ever." or mortal crime to some such moment as
"Doesn't it? So, then, it's only poor this-soi~ne moment when the heart and the
Philip Conway's gambling and bullying that hand were alike free to choose the good or
are to be considered hereditary; not Tom the ill, and when the one was deliberately
Harding's insufferable dulness~nd self-suffi- put aside and the other accepted.
eie~ey,"                                  For the impression made by Blake's
"Dulness and self-sufficiency are-" words was, after all, only momentary, and,
"Cardinal virtues in your eyes just at when Mr. Seyton spoke again, it was rather
present, no doubt," interrupted Mr. Sexton, coldly.
impatiently. "But, for my part, I would "I must repeat that I think you are un-
take the Conway vices in preference to the reasonable, Blake ; but I will concede even
harding virtues any day." thus much more. I must send for Philip
"Would you, sir?"                   Conway; bat I will also send for Cyril
"Yes," returned Mr. Seyton, "I woi~ld. Harding, at the same time, so that I can
l.a entirely a question of taste, you see." fairly and dispassionately judge, not which
"If you put it on that ground, sir, I I like best, but which will make the best
have nothing more to say; perhaps, indeed, master for this heritage that it has fallen
I ought to beg pardon for having said so upon me to bequeath. Does that satisfy
much." you?"
The 8turdy figure rose to its feet itt those "If it must, it must, sir," said Blake,
words, but, before it knew what was corn- with a deep sigh. "You are very good to
big, felt itselfpushed back into the chair by give into me so far. I can't ask you to do
Mr. Seyton's outstretched hand. any more, but-I can wish that Philip Con-
he ~ there, Blake, and don't be foolish," way will break his neck before he ever
said, half laughingly. "Pardon, indeed! crosses the threshold of Seytoii House."
Who has a better right 'than you to speak "Blake, Blake, I'm ashanied of you!"
of an heir for the land you have saved? "Indeed, then, sir, you needn't be, for
Oo~ne, suppose I compromise with you? I'd never have said it, if there was even the
Snppose-..aince you will not agre&amp;to a will least hope of any thing so lucky happening.

Oh, sir, there would be none of all this trou-
ble if only-"
"Well, dear old fellow, if only what?
The honest Celtic eyes wandered round
the stately room, and the broad, deserted
terrace, where never a child's voice had
echoed, or a child's foot danced in long
years. Then he said, quickly:
"If only your own son' was standing by
you now, to take up the burden when you
lay it down."
Had the April sunshine suddenly grown
dim, or were there quick, rushing tears in
Mr. Seyton's soft brown eyes? Yet he only
laid his hand gently on the broad shoulder
beside him, and after a moment said, qui-
etly:
"Then wish that I had been more pa-
tient, and another less fickle; wish that the
grave could give back its dead, and that I
might see again the face it has held for
thirty years."
The words had scarcely passed his lips
when a flood of golden light poured sudden-
ly across the room, the curtains of the win-
dow were drawn back by a pair of hands
that might have belonged to Titania, and
the face of which he had spoken looked in
upon him.
-4--
CHAPTER II.
MABEL LEE.
A r~cn that was well worth the con-
stancy of twice thirty years, so delicate, so
beautiful, so almost spiritual was its loveli-
ness. But not in the least a face that
looked as if the grave had surrendered it.
There were earth's own tints in the exqui-
site wild-rose complexion, in the sunny hair,
and the quivering, childlike lips there was
even earth's own mischief gleaming in the
deep, violet eyes.
After one momentary start, Mr. Seyton
held out his hand with a smile of welcome,
than which no lover's was ever brighter or
warmer.
"Ab, Mab, my darling! what brings you
on ~ like a ghbst or an elf?"

"Like a fairy, if you please, godpapa,"
answered the sweetest and clearest of girl-
ish voices. "Only fairies bestow such gifts
as I have here for you-only you must guess
what it is before I give it to you."
":Not strawberries, Mab, surely?"
"Ah, you wicked old conjurer! You
saw the basket."
"On my honor, no. I only guessed that
because I thought it impossible. Farris has
none yet."
"Show Mr. Farris this, then, with my
compliments."
And the next moment a slight, blue-
robed figure had flitted past Mr. Blake, and
deposited on Mr~ Seyton's knee an offering
that the fairies themselves might not have~
have been ashamed to bring-a graceful lit-
tle basket, lined with moss, and filled to the
brim with luscious strawberries.
"l~Tow, Mr. Blake, is it not 'pretty,?"
cried the young lady, appealing to her only
convenient witness; "is it not pretty, and
ought not Mr. Farris to be ashamed of him-
self? It will be two weeks yet, godpapa,
before you taste a strawberry from your
own vines."
"And where, in the name of all tle fair-
ies, did you find these, Mab?"
"They were grown f~or the queen of the
fairies' own table; but I lifted them, and
here they are."
"But do you, know the penalty, pretty
one?"
"Falling under her majesty's power? I
believe I should like that. Think of a
moonlight flitting with a prince in a green-
and-gold hunting suit.-Mr. Blake, ~rould
not that be better than being soberly' mar-
ried by Father Lawrence 'to my cousin Fran-
cis, or-or to some one else just as stupid? ','
"I don't know, Miss Mabel," said Mr.
Blake, with his genial laugh. "Would the
prince bring you back again? If not, I ~
for your cousin Francis, or~xne~ne else
just as stupid."'          '
"I will tell Cousin Francis that," said
the girl, ~ayly; "but ,I shall wait for my
prince, nevertheless.-Godpapa, I hops he
will have eyed like your's and hair that curls
as softly, and, above all, your brow. It is
perfect."


12                           MABEL LEE.                                                                         MABEL LEE.                            13

"Is it, Mab?"
"Quite."
Aud in token of approbation she leaned
over the back of his chair, and kissed it.
They made a pretty picture, those two,
as they were thus grouped together in the
soft, mellow gloom, and, oddly enough, that
little scene came back to Mr. Blake's mind,
whenever he thought of the chain of events
whi9ll dated a beginning on this afternoon.
Long afterward-when the mere thought of
it brought hot tears to his eyes-he remem-
bered how lovely Mabel Lee had looked, as
she bent over her godfather's chair that
evening. One rounded arm, from which
the loose sleeve had fallen back, was thrown
into relief by the rich purple velvet against
which she leaned, her light muslin dress
enveloped her in a sort of cloud, her bright
g~4den hair crowned her like a diadem of
glory, band her eyes, that were deep and
tine. ~iud tender as those of any virgin saint,
resle&amp;'fondly ~on the head she had all her
life been taught to love and honor.
It was Mabel lee's aunt-~-her father's
only s~ister-7-w~o, having once been engaged
to Mr. Sexton, had jilted him, nobody knew
how, to marry another man, nobody knew
why, and die ~ry speedily-some people
saidef a broken heart; others, of neglect
and il~ usage. However that was, she died,
and the gossips had never again need to
cc,~iple Gervase Seyton's name wjth that of
any living woman. He had not diffused his
a~ectiQDs yery widely before this; bnthe
now. narrowed them down to the brother
of his lost~ love, and, after a while, to the
girl. 'o.hor~ hex name, and seemed to have
inherited' the beauty which had made her
faino~is-4he girl upon whose, entrance into
life. there rested a dark cloud of terror and
her, For, shortly before Makel's. birth,
faVlx~r, acting against Mr., Sey~on's
urgent adyice, invested largely in a speculat-
r 'iirg~bubhle~f"soms~ friend, who promised to
make not one, but a dozen fortunes for hi!n,
at~d was, rewarded as dupes ef his class
ge~ral1y are-.--that is, one~ fine day there
ca~e~tJ~tejn~vitable crash; the scheme, proved
a swin4k~ ~he friend a 'scoundrel, and Mr.
Lee, overwhelmed by ruin, became insane.
Nut being closely~watehed, he found a pistol,

loaded it, locked himself up with it, and
when his wife, who had been absent, re-
turned, she found his brains spattering the
walls of her chamber.
This was the tragedy which ushered
Mabel into the world; and it was Mr. Sey-
ton who named her at the hurried baptism
which took place just after her birth, while
her mother lay raving of the awful horror
so lately enacted. Nobody thought tho
frail infant would live, but, nevertheless, she
did-lived to grow into a child so exqui-
sitely lovely that people held their breath
when looking at her-into a maiden so
peerlessly beautiful that high and low alike
yielded her homage. There was no dis-
senting voice about her beauty, as there is
about the beauty of most women; and no-
body was ever heard to hint that it could
be improved. :Neither did it move anybody
to envy, for in all the country-side there
was no one so well loved as this girl, the
pathos of whose mournful birth some people
thought they saw reflected in her eyes-
eyes which might be grave or gay, laughing
or serene, but which, in any mood, never
lost a ,certain deep shadow of sadness that
rested in their depths-such a shadow as
that which, according to the Old-World
superstition, marks those specially set aside
for misfortune, either in life or death.
Said Mabel at last:
"Godpapa, you are talking business
with Mr. Blake, were you not? Don't let
me interruj~ you. I will go out on the
terrace, and you can tell me when you are
finished."
"We finished before you came in, lady-
bird," answered her godfather, smiling.-
"That is, unless this obstinate old fellow
has something else to say.-Eh, Blake?~'
"No, sir," answered, Mr. Blake, bringing
his attention back to the subject under dis-
cussion, and almost unconsciously heaving
a deep sigh-" no, sir; if your mind's made
up, that's enough. All I have to say now is,
that I hope you may never live to regret it."
"Anglicl-you hope I may live to re-
gret it, and you may live to triumph over
me?"
Mr. Blake shook his head as ho rose,
still holding his hat in one hand.

"You know better than that, sir. I
hope with all my heart I may be the falsest
prophet that ever spoke; but I still think I
will prove a true one. Remember that, sir;
I still believe in my instinct."
"Never a doubt of it," said Mr. Sexton,
good-humoredly. "But I tell you what I
mean to do, Blake. I know you have a
great respect for Mabcl's judgment. I mean
to consult her."
"Do you, sir?" said Mr. Blake, with a
comical glance at the childlike creature
before him. "Do you? Then take my
advice, and don't show Miss Mabel the like-
ness you have of Mr. Philip Conway."
"Why, Mr. Blake?" asked Miss Mabel,
a little curiously.
"Why, ma'am? Faith, and onlybecause
you'd' never be a woman if you didn't like
him the better for his handsome face."
"Mr. Blake, you are a slanderer! I
refer you to my cousin, Mr. Francis Nowdll,
for a refutation of that."
"Ay, ay," said Mr. Blake, with a some.
what grim chuckle. "I know you don't
fancy Mi'. Nowell overmuch; but I for one
can't see his good looks, and I doubt if
you'd see them either, by the side of this
picture Mr. Seyton's got."
"Godpapa, show it to me this instant."
"No, no" said Mr. Seyton, laughing.
"I must not bribe your judgment, or Blake
would never believe in it. You shall see it
after I have heard your opinion.-Blake,
are you going?"
"I must, sir. I have to see Martin yet
this evening, and give him' directions about
replanting the cotto~a to-morrow."
"Pahaw 1 there's no' hurry about that.
Stay and have a sociable smoke."
Mr. Blake only, smiled. The Seyton
estate would never have been what it was,
if he had yielded to the temptations to
idleness and pr~crastinatiou ever held out
to him by this indolent master of his.
"N'ot this evening, thank you, sir," he
said. "But I will see you again to-morroW.
-~-Miss Mabel, I hope you left your mother
and Miss Constance well?"
"'Quite well, thank you, Mr. Blake.
You must call' and see mamma soon. She
was saying, only the other day, that she

would like to have your advice about-about
the asparagus-beds, I think it was."
"The asparagus-beds are more in Mr.
Farris's line," said Mr. Blake, sxiilling; "lint
I may be able to give her a hint or two, and
I'll call to-morrow."
Then, bidding them both good-evening
he stepped through the window, and went
back to the front of the house, where he
mounted Brown Jerry, without a word to
the servant holding him-an occurrence
in itself remarkable-and was slowly riding
away, when he heard his name eagerly
called by Mabel Lees s voice.
"Mr. Blake, Mr. Blake! one moment, if
you please."
He wheeled round at once, and she came
lightly bounding over the lawn toward him,
her pretty fringed scarf floating in the
breeze, and in her hand the basket of stra~-
berries she had brought to Mr. Seyton.
"I am sorry to stop you for such a little
thing," she said, as she reached his side, and
paused, slightly out of breath. "I am afraid
you will think me very foolish, but you did
not taste my strawberries, and they're the
very first of the season. You must take a
few, if only to please me."
He knew what she meant-that she had
forgotten to offer them before, and feared
he would think her too careless of' him, and
too careful of her' rare fruit-so he made
none of the demur in which a coarser' iift-
ture might have indulged.' He stooped
dewn, and took two or three fragrafit'elu~-
ters out of the basket she held up to him.
"This is more than enough, Mi~s'MabeI,"
he said, smiling into her soft, ea~'r!iest eyes.
"I only care for them when they 6a~e of
your growing, and great credit they do 'you,
too. Thank y3u, very kindly. ~food-even-
, ,,
ing, ma am.
"Good-evening,' Mr. l~lake," she ~gLid,
and drew aside to let him pass.
When he had ridden half-way dowit the
lawn, he turned in his saddle tolook b~ek
after hers The sun was jrist setting, and 14s
last level rays gilded' the slender, girIl~h
figure, as she walked slowly along the tEr-
race, still swinging 'the little basket' iii her
hand.
"An angel, if ever there was one," he

a 5


14                           MABEL LEE.                                                                MABEL GIVES ADVICE.                      15

muttered to himself. "God bless her! God
bless her!"
Are such benedictions ever unheard?
But then-God's modes of blessing are not
like ours. We would do well always to
bear that in mind.
CHAPTER III.
MABEL GIVES ADVICE.
"Now, godpapa," said Mabel, coming
back to the window where Mr. Seyton still
sat, "I will tell you what I want you to
do."
"You have only to speak and be obeyed,
my violet-eyed darling."
She knew that very well, but the knowl-
edge that would have rendered many women
exigent and unreasonable, only made her
so exquisitely careful and moderate in all
her requests, that Mr. Sexton was often
very hard put to discover opportunities for
the lavish indulgence he would have de-
lighted to shower on her. She only smiled
now, and lifted up her hand, with a pretty
air of command.
"Well, then, it is our sovereign will and
pleasure that you order the boat to be
made ready, and take me home by water.
A row will do you good this lovely after-
noon. You are not looking well, godpapa."
"Am I not, sweetheart? We'll try
your prescription, but not just now. You
must spend the evening with me."
Mabel shook her head.
"I wish I could; but I promised mam-
ma to be back in time for tea."
"She Will not mind your staying.~~
"Perhaps not. But I promised."
That logic was evidently unanswerable.
$o, Mr. Seyton smiled, and gave up the
point.
"Ring the bell, then," he said, "and give
your orders."
The bell was rung, and the orders given,
~ in afew moments the boat was reported
ready. "Take your master's cloak down,"
said Mabel.-.-" And now get that likeness,
godpapa, that Mr. Blake spoke of. We
must take it along,"

"What for, Mab?"
"What for? Why, because you want to
ask my advice, you know, and, after you
have asked my advice, I want to see it."
To hear and to obey were indeed synon-
ymous things with Mr. Seyton where his
goddaughter was concerned. He rose at
once, and crossed the floor to a little Floren-
tine cabinet, very quaint, very beautiful,
and chief among his i.,irtuoso treasures.
"I don't know what induced me to put
the thing here," he said, when Mabel fol-
lowed, and looked over his shoulder, "for I
only keep valuables in this. But here it is."
In an aromatic drawer of fragrant san-
dal-wood, side by side with old coins, ,rare
Italian cameos, half-effaced medals, and the
countless other trifles, so priceless in the
collector's eyes, so valueless in those of any
one else, lay an oblong velvet case, which
Mr. Sexton meditatively took up and looked
at.
"I wonder what induced me to put it
here?" he repeated, as if the question puz-
zled him. "I am sure I don't value Philip
Conway's likeness in the least; and unless
-yes, that must be it, Mabel."
"What must be it, godpapa?"
"It is so exquisitely painted," said Mr.
Seyton, with a deprecating glance at. the
velvet case. "It is so exquisitely painted!
That must have been the cause. I have
never before seen such softness and power
of touch combined on ivory. I wish I knew
the artist, Mab; he should paint your face,
my darling."
"Should he? Well, I'm glad you don't
know him, then. Bnt, pray, don't stand
there, talking about the picture in that way,
godpapa, or my curiosity will mount so high
that I ahall certainly look at it, and I d~$?~'t
want to afford Mr. Blake that triumph."
"I shall put that out of the question,"
said Mr. Sexton, and he dropped the case
into one of his coat-pockets. "Now let us be
off, if I have to take you home before tea."
"But the cabinet! You are leaving it
unlocked."
Mr. Sexton turned back with a start,
and closed, the inlaid doors upon his beloved
treasures. "Do you believe in omens,
~Xab?" he asked, as he did so.

"Well, yes," said Mabel, candidly. I
think I do; although Father Lawrence says
I must not."
"If I did," said Mr. Seyton, slowly, as
he fitted the sides into one another, "I
should certainly think that Philip Conway
was destined to be the master of Seyton
House; for of one thing I am sure-" and he
turned the key in its lock with a sharp snap
"Cyril Harding's face would never have
gained admission to my Florentine cabinet."
"Who is Cyril Harding, gadpapa I"
"I will tell you after a while, lady-bird.
At present we must go down to the boat."
They crossed the room together - a
subtle likeness in their delicate, high-bred
beauty making them almost look like father
and daughter-and came out upon the ter-
race.
The sun had set, but the broken masses
of 'gorgeously-tinted clouds, which he had
left to mark "the bright track of his fiery
were so faithfully reflected in the clear
waters of the river, the air was so heavy
with fragrance, and the tender purple mist
of the spring-time hung so softly over the
distant uplands, that his absence left noth-
ing to be regretted. Yet Mabel looked
around a little apprehensively, as they
turned into the path which led across the
lawn down to the water's edge.
"Two miles," she said. "I am afraid,
godpapa, you will be very late getting
back."
"And, please your majesty, suppose I
don't mean to come back?"
"You mean to spend the evening wit~i
us? How delightful! What a charming
game of piquet you and mamma can have!"
"And how finely you can sing to us!"
"I think it is so strange you like music
when you are playing cards, "'she said, medi-
tatively. "Now Cousin Francis always says
it disturbs him."
"Cousin Francis is-"
"A lawyer. I don't think we need say
any thing more, when we want to 'express
stupidity on every subject not connected
with that profound and soul - depressing
science. Godpapa, I am so glad ~,ou are not
a lawyer."
"I am not sorry myself; Mab."

"I suppose they are good. for some
things," pursued Mabel, with a little peni-
tent sigh; "but being agreeable is certainly
not one of them. Godpapa, what is Mr.
Philip Conway?"
Mr. Sexton laughed slightly, and
shrugged his shoulders in the graceful,
indolent fashion he had learned in Paris
years before.
"That is more than I can tell you, bon-
nibelle. But I rather fancy he belongs to
the wide ranks of social condottieri."
Bonnibelle looked a little puzzled; but
before she could ask any questions, they
came to the boat.
It was a graceful and well - fashioned
little craft, built according to Mr. Seyton's
own directions, and easily propelled by one
oar, although two rowers were now lying
back in their seats, waiting their master's
arrival. Stalwart young boatmen they were,
whose smooth black skins contrasted effec-
tively with their white trousers and striped'
shirts, the "two best" of a twelve-oar boat,
which was used on state occasions.
"Where are the cushions, Austin?"
asked the master, as he came forward. And
both the boatmen sprang to their feet.
"Are you sure the bottom is quite dry?"
"Here's the cushions, sir," said Austin,
bringing them from the bank; "and yes,
sir, the bottom's as dry aW'6an be.-A little
closer, Nate-All right now, Miss Mabel."
Mabel stepped in, followed by her god-
father, and the next moment they were
gliding off with that quick, steady, easy
movelnent which only first-class oarsmen
can attain-the swift, sure stroke cleaving
the water right and left, and leaving show-
ers of rainbow-spray in their wake.
"How delightful!" said Mabel, taking
off her hat, and letting the fresh river-breeze
toss her fair hair according to its own ca-
price. "What a pleasure it is to be rowed
by Austin and Nat! Godpapa, you ought
really to present them both with a medal,
in testimony of their skill."
"You may, if you want to, Mab," said
~Ir. Sexton, with a smile. "I suspect they
would value it more from you than from ru7e.
-Wouldn't you, boys?"
At which the boys touched their hatA,


16                           MA3EL LEE.                                                             MABEL GIVES ADVICE.                       17

end an~w6red that "an'y thing from Miss
Mabel was ~'always. acceptable." Then Mr.
Seyton said the medals should be struck off
with a water-nymph 'on one side, and a pair
of oars crossed on the other. Whereupon
Mabel laughed gayly, Austin and Nat seemed
very much gratified, and the subject was
changed.
"Now," said Mr. Seyton, as they reached
the~lower point of the island, and were glid-
ing along past its beautifully-fringed shore,
"now, Mabel, let me remind you that I
mean' to ask your advice on a very impor-
tant subject."
"I'm all attention, godpapa."
"Tie on your hat, then. You will take
cold."
Mabel knew there was no danger of that,
but she tied it on nevertheless, and, after
the' blue ribbons were made fast under her
ohm, looked up with a smile that meant,
"'Go ~n~"
"'In one word, then," said Mr. Seyton,
gravely, "I am going to make my will."
Mabel started. There lar sQmething very
suggestive in that one simple word, and all
th~ blood which had been flushing her
choekS rushed away at once to her heart.
"Godpapa!" she said, with something
like a' gasp.
But he only smiled tenderly at her.
"There is no cause to look so startled~
m~ bonny flower," he answered. "No man
dies an hour sooner for making sti~aight his
worldly affairss, and leaving his last com-
muands in black and white. I should indeed
have fulfilled this duty long ago, but for one
thing. Can you guess what that has been?"
She shook her head.
"If I were a free man, Mabel-free, that
is, tis other men arO, to leave my property
to whom 'I choose, without' any' obligation
of honor binding it and me- do you not
know to whom that old house up yonder
would go?"
Again Mabel shook her head. It was evi-
dent that she did not conceive his meaning.
"Ab, my darling," said the fine gentle-
~a*i, with a rush of emotion in his VQice,
"I would make you the richest 'heiress in
all the country-side; I would dower you
like a princess; I would set you up as mis-

tress of all this fair, wide heritage-if only I
dared! 0 Mabel! you can never know what
a struggle it has been to me to take it away
from my heart's delight-from the only
thing on earth I love, and give it to stran-
gers."
Mabel's soft hand stole into his without a
word, until she said, simply, "But, godpa-
pa, I don't want it, and I am not a Seyton."
"No," he said, with a deep sigh, "you
are not a Seyton."
Theu there was a pause of several min-
utes, 'only broken by the splash of the water,
the dip of the oars, and the low hum of in-
sect-life from the island, whose drooping
willows almost touched them as they
passed.
At last Mr. Seyton spoke again, quite
abruptly:
"It seems as if it would be easier to bear
if I had only possessed no option in the mat-
ter; if I had not belonged to the unlucky
thirds in our order of succession-for you
know the obligation of honor which is bind-
ing upon us, do you not, Mahel?"
"Yes," Mabel said, she knew it, ~as who,
indeed, did not know that singular tradition
and custom?
"You know how the matter stands then.
I have either to renew the entail, or to be
the first of my name who has broken the
trust of the dead. Another sort of dishonor
I might have faced for you, Mabel, but not
that. I could not resolve to meet the men;
who went before me, with the brand of such
a betrayal upon me! I could not even
imagine that an inheritance so left would
bring other than harm to you."
She pressed closer to him, and laid her
tinted cheek down on his shoulder.
"Godpapa, I am sure of it."
"Yes, so am I. And you will not re-
member hereafter how much itwas in my
power to have given you, and how little I
did give? You will not think hardly of it,
or doubt the love of the old n~an who would
pour out his heart's bloed for you?"
"Oh, hush! hush! You kill me when
you talk so."
And indeed a perfect April shower was
raining from the violet eyes down upon the
velvet morning-coat.

"Then I will not say another word; but
you must stop crying. You know we can
none of us bear to see that. We feel as if
we had not been half tender enough with
our flower. Mabel, do you not know how
you are paining me?"
The tone was enough to dry Mabel's
tears at once, but she twined her arms round
him before she spoke again, and then it was
only to say, in a half-choked voice:
"Nothing more like that, godpapa-
nothing more like that."
"Not another word. Only a discussion
of the claims of Philip Conway now. Shall
I show you his likeness to cheer you into
interest?"
"I believe not. Mr. Blake would never
trust my opinion then."
"You know who he is?"
"Your nephew, is he not? I have heard
mamma speak of your sister who married a
Captain Conway."
"Yes, my nephew. This same sister's
son. Poor Adela! She has had a hard
life. I hope he makes amends for some of
it." After a moment's silence, he contin-
ued:
"Now, Mabel, you must understand
that Conway was not an honorable man;
he was, in fact, an unprincipled adventurer,
and that there is natural reason to fear that
his son may be like him. Blake thinks
there is every reason to fear it, and warns
me solemnly that nothing but evil ever
came of the Conway blood. Blake is aux-
ions that, in entailing the Seyton estate, I
should entail it, not upon Philip Conway
and his heir, but upon Cyril Harding and
his heir.~~
Mabel was becoming interested. She
raised her head, and repeated the question
she had asked once before: "Who is Cyril
Harding?"
"Cyril Harding," answered Mr. Seyton,
concisely, "is the son of my younger sister,
who married a clergyman of that name. I
have told you that Philip Conway was an
unprincipled adventurer; I must also add
he was the most fascinating man of his day,
and, in telling you that the reverend Mr.
Harding was the embodiment of strict re-
ligious principle, it is only fair to add that
2

he was likewise the embodiment of dulness
and bigotry. Whether his son is like him
or not, I cannot say; but the presumptive
evidence that he may be so is at least as
strong as in the case of Philip Conway.
Now, the point at issue between Blake and.
myself is simply this, which of these two
shall I choose for an heir?"
Mabel shrank slightly at the last word.
She did not answer for a minute or two.
When at last she did speak, it was quite
slowly:
"It scarcely seems to me, godpapa, as
if mere presumptive evidence ought to
weigh against anybody; or if it is just to
judge the son b~ the father. If-if this
were put aside, which of your nephews
would you be inclined to choose?"
"There is not a doubt on that subject,"
said Mr. Seyton, with a slight grimace.
" Even as it is, Mab, my preference is all on,
the Conway side. Adela has always been
my favorite sister, and, despite his being
such a scamp, I liked her husband heartily.
Besides, she is the elder. As a matter of
tastd-but then, you see, that is the rub!
In a decision of this kind, I have no right
to consult my individual taste. I have to.
'think of the generations to come, of the
name, and of these "-he pointed to Austin
and Nat-" in choosing my successor."
"Yes," said Mabel, and her eyes ranged
thoughtfully over the broad Seyton lands
which lay on either side of them-"yes, I
understand. But, then, godpapa, how can
you possibly decide rightly without knowing
any thing of either of them?"
"That is the very difficulty I propose to
obviate," said Mr. Seyton. "I promised
poor, faithful Blake to send for both of
them, and judge dispassionately between.
them. But, after all, that is pretty ranoli.
of an empty form, you know, Mab. They'
will both be on their good behavior, and,.
unless some accident reveals the different
characters, I shall no~ be likely to gain
much knowledge that can benefit me."
Mabel shook her head very sagely.
"I think most people show something,,
at least, of their characters very soon, god-
papa; and then I can't help wondering
which one needs the inheritance most."


18                         MABEL LEE.                                                        AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.                   19

"There is no doubt of' that, either," Mr.
Seyton answered. "The Hardings are very
substantially well off while the Conways-
ah, my poor Adela! That is another diffi-
culty, Mab. If I clo send for her son, how
on earth can I ever disappoint her-life has
been such hard lines to her 1-by sending
him away empty-handed I"
Mabel looked up with all her heart in
her eyes. Those few words-" life has been
such hard lines to her "-told a very pitiful
story that her fancy filled in at once.
"Godpapa," she said, abruptly, "if I
were you, I would not mind Mr. Blake. I
would do what is right. I would make Mr.
Conway the heir. Every thing you have men-
tioned is for, instead of against, him, unless
the character of his father. We know that
many good men have had bad fathers, and-
and if I were you, I would do what is right."
"But his father's character is a great
deal against him, Mab. The most fair-
minded person in the world would, admit
that. You don't know, you can't even im-
agine, what a man he was. I tell you, if
the son skoud be like him, it would be' my
solemn duty to do a temporary evil, that
la~ting good might come of it."
"' Godpapa, L don't believe that good
ever did come out of evil, or ever will."
"In short, you. are transformed, after
the manner of your sex, into a thorough-go-
ing partisan."
"'Yes," she said, nodding ga~yly~ "I am
all for the Conway interest. You asked my
advice, you know, so I have a 'right to give
it, and it is this-take Philip Conway)'
Ifr~ godfather. did not answer. He only
smile&amp; a. little, and then sat stroking her
hair, ~vhile his eyes were absently fastened
on the water. Indeed, he remained thus so
long that Mabel at last grow impatient.
"Am I 'discharged from the office of
counsellor, godpapa?" she asked.
He started~slightly, .nnd looked round.
"Is it the likeness you want I"
"Your intuition d~oes you credit, sir. It
is the likeness."
He took it'o~t, and handed it to her.
She had not even instinct enough con-
cerning the future 'to make her hesitate for
one moment before opening it. Thanking

him with a smile, she pressed the spring,
and Philip Conway's face looked up at her.
Mr. Blake had kept to the letter of the
truth regarding it; for a face half so hand-
some she had never seen before. It was
very finely outlined, with a clear, dark com-
plexion, and possessed more than one mark
of the Seyton lineage, although the spirit
nnd force which stamped it was something
quite different from the fair, languid. Seyton
type. Yet, even in this pictured semblance,
it was easy to see that the chief attraction
of the face did not rest either in grace of
feature or harmony of coloring. The large,
dark eyes were very perfect in size and
color, but their fascination was quite apart
from the one or the other, and might rather
have been found in their wonderful power
of expressing the two extremes of anger or
tenderness. The gaze lingered on the well-
cut month, less because no classic model
was ever more faultless, than because there
was something in the curve of the lips-de-
fiantly compressed as they were-which
proved how winning their senile could be
when it came. The nose was straight-al-
most severely regular; the eyebrows hori-
zontal and slightly knit; while a crest of
black curls gave finish to the forehead, that
was else somewhat lacking in loftiness and
amplitude. Altogether it was a singularly
attractive face-a face without any tokens
of degrading vice or sensual appetites, but
~a face on which indomitable pride and in-
* domitable resolution were plainly stamped
-the face of a man evidently accustomed to
make his own will the arbiter of his own
fate, and still more evidently accustomed to.
ride rough-shod over any obstacles placed
in his way.
But Mabel saw little of this and heeded
less. When at last she looked up from
those magical eyes, there was something in
the scene and the hour which she never for-
got to her dying day.
The broad river, the deep shadows, the
gathering twilight over the distant hills, the
last faint, broken cloud-reflections in the
water, the fringed banks, and the swift cur-
rent, hastening on-on-on-still on, bear-
ing its freight of living water down to the
vast depths of ocean, and also bearing-

though she knew it not-all quiet and peace
and happiness out of her life, never, fur
many a long day, to revisit it again.
-4--
CHAPTER IV.
AN UNEXPECTED MEETiNG.
"CAN you tell me, sir, which of these
roads leads to Seyton House?"
Mr. Blake wheeled Brown Jerry about
like lightning, and faced the man who had
asked this most unexpected question.
A slender, elegant horseman, dressed in
a dark-gray travelling-suit, riding a well-
built 'chestnut, and bearing about him that
nameless air of refinement and style which
is only given by much association with the
world-a man whose singularly handsome
face was his least title to distinction; who
might have been any age between twenty-
one and thirty-five; who looked as much at
ease there on the sultry cross-roads as if he
had risen from a drawing-room sofa, and
who smile a slight smile of amusement, as
he repeated his inquiry, slightly altered:
"Excuse me, but I have really forgotten
some directibns that were given me this
morning, and I would be glad to know by
which of these roads I am most likely to
reach Seyton House."
Neither in question nor manner was
there any thing save gentlemanly courtesy;
and, considering this, there was some ground
for his evident surprise at the grim stare
which was, for the time, his only answer.
Then Mr. Blake nerved himself, and jerked
forth a reply:
"Either road, sir, pill lead you to Sey-
ton House. If you want the shortest, take
the left; if you want the best, take the
right."
The stranger looked at both, smiled
slightly again, and then turned his horse's
head.
"I have but one principle in all my jour-
neys," he said, quietly-" the principle that i
speed must always be subordinate to corn-  1
fort. Thanking you for your information, f
sir, I take the right."                d
With an inward growl, Mr. Blake drew t

aside to let him pass, scarcely deigning to
return his salute, and then stood quite still
looking after him.
"Philip Conway's own face! Philip
Conway's own figure! Philip Conway's
own devilishly beguiling tongue," he mut-
tered to himself. "God forgive me, but
how I wouUl like to throttle him before he
ever reaches Seyton House!"
"A surly old boor," thought the stran-
ger, who was riding away. ' "I wonder if
he may be regarded as a specimen of the
aboriginal inhabitants of this interesting
[region? He seemed decidedly struck by
my appearance-not favorably, however.
I really cannot flatter myself that 'it was
favorable. What the deuce could have
been the matter? Have I lost my nose, or
has any calamity befallen my hat?"
He investigated his nose, and, finding
it in its usual condition, removed his hat.
He was still examining this with' quite a
contemplative curiosity, wherf there came a
clatter of horses' hoofs in the rear, and, be-
fore he could turn in his saddle, Brown
Jerry was reined up beside him.
"Sir," said Mr. Blake, with a great gulp
in his voice, "I beg your pardon for my inci-
vility a moment ago. I ought to be 'glad tt
do a service for any guest of Seyton House,
and so, if you don't object, I'll see you on
your road."
"Object!" said the~ gentleman, with ~
smile. "Indeed, no. I have lost my road
often enough to-day, to be glad of such an
offer. But, unless your way lies in that di.
rection-"
"My way 'lies in any direction that'my
~luty does, Mr. Conway."
The stranger turned round, and gave a
iuick glance of astonishment.'
"So you know me ?" he said.
"Sorra a doubt of that "-.with a quiver
)f ill-concealed bitterness in his voice-
'sorra a doubt of that, when I know your
'ather before you."
Philip CQnway-for it was he-..-looked
~t the speaker for a moment in' silence.
~hen the mist' of'doubt cleared from his
ace, a flash of recognition came into the
Lark eyes, and, drawing off his glove, ho ex~
ended his hand.


AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.                  21

20                          MABEL LEE.

"There is but one man to whom I can
be speaking," he sa4d, "that is my mother's
old friend, Patrick Blake."
Such a recognition from any one else
would not have failed to win the warm Irish
heart thus addressed; but if Philip Conway
had worn the forni and smiled the smile of
the star of the morning, h~ could not have
done more than momentarily dispel Mr.
Blake's deeply-rooted distrust. That un-
compromising person did not refuse the
hand that was offered him-the hand that
was delicate and well-shaped as Mr. Sey-
ton's own, though supple with nervous ener-
gy and muscular strength-but he dropped
it almost immediately, before he enclosed
his lip~ to answer, stiffly:
"Yes, sir, I'm Patrick Blake; Miss
Adela's old friend and servant, if Miss Adela
is good enough to remember me. I hope
yen left her well?"
"Quite well," Mr. Conway answered;
a little coldly, perhaps, for a duller man
than himself might have felt the chill of the
other's manner. "That is, she was well
when I heard from her last; but I have
not seen her for some time. She is
abroad."
"Abroad! Do you mean in the old
country, em?"
"Yes, in one of the old countries. She
is in Paris, where we have both been living
for several years."
"And you left her there alone?"
Mr. Conway laughed slightly.
"My mother is quite capable of taking
care of herself," he said. "Besides, I left
her at her own request. My uncle sent for
me, as I suppose you are aware. By-the-by,
I hope he is well?"
"Very well," answered Mr. Blake
briefly. And then the conversation dropped
They rode on in complete silence fo
some time, until Mr. Conway spoke again
rather weariedly:
"This road has seemed to stretch on
interminably all day. How far are we nou
from Seyton House?"
"Two good miles, sh~; hut you woub
have cut off one, if you had taken the othe:
road."
The young man shrugged his shoulders

It was a shrug more satiric and less indo-
lent thanMr. Seyton's.
"Better bear the ills we know, than fly
to those we know not of.-Eh, Mazeppa?
Cheer up, though, old fellow! We have
nearly reached your quarters of rest and re-
freshment." He patted the horse's satin
neck with his hand, and then turned abrupt-
ly to Mr. Blake.
"I wonder if animals are half grateful
enough for being spared all the trouble of
talking and being talked to I" he said.~
"I don't know, I'm sure, sir," was the
matter-of-fact answer; "but I sometimes
think they do understand one another."
"Yes, so do I, but ~wIpe we are mistaken.
I hope sincerely, for Mazeppa's sake, that
he will not be forced to exchange any greet-
ings or answer any inquiries, before he be-
takes himself to his fodder and dreams to-
night."
Mr. Blake gave Brown Jerry's bit a jerk,
which threw his astonished head at least
half a yard into the air.
"If you are very tired, sir, I have no
doubt Mr. Seyton will excuse you from any
greetings or inquiries," he said, emphatically.
The dark eyes looked at him with some-
thing of a mocking gleam, and there was a
slightly-mocking cadence in the tone, that
answered pleasantly:
"I would not do Mr. Seyton's courtesy
so much injustice as to doubt it, but I do
not know that I have made any plea of fa-
tigue."
Despite the cadence mentioned, the
tone made Mr. Blake feel rather ashamed
of himself, and his quickness to take offence.
So he answered, apologetically:
"I beg your pardon, then, sir; but I
only took that for granted. Anybody
would, I think, have done the same."
~ There you are mistaken, mom am~,
said his companion, good-humoredly, but
with the same mocking light in his eye that
L to Mr. Blake recalled his father so forcibly.
"A wise man never takes any thing for
granted. When I spoke of Mazeppa just
I now, I was not thinking of myself in the
r least. I am too much of a traveller to feel
worsted by thirty miles in the saddle2'
"Thirty miles since daylight, sir?"

"No-I am not a barbarian. Thirty
miles since nine o'clock."
Mr. Blake looked at the sun, it was at
least two hours high, and then at Mazeppa's
flanks.
"In that case, sir, your horse is even a
better traveller than yourself, for thirty
miles over our roads are equivalent to sixty
elsewhere."
Mr. Conway smiled; "if Mazeppa had
the power of speech we were speaking cf
he would tell you that he feels equal to
thirty miles farther to-night. And I tell
you that his speed and endurance are not to
be matched out of Arabia."
"He is finely blooded, I perceive."
"He is a cross of the best blood in Eng-
land. Sired by the famous-. However,
I spare you his pedigree, and an enumera-
tion of the many cups his ancestors have
won. You are probably not interested in
the turf?"
"Not in the least," replied Mr. Blake,
dryly.
Then there fell another pause. It was
a lovely afternoon, even for May. The, for-
~sts were beautiful with magnolia, honey-
suckle, and jasmine, that were scenting
the air with their fragrance, and the bright-
green foliage was in full luxuriance, but
neither of the two men took any notice of
these things. Mr. Blake was too well ac-
customed to them, and Mr. Conway seemed
as thoroughly indifferent as if he had been
riding over the sterile sands of Sahara. So
for a time there was a decided dearth of
conversational topics. This time it was Mr.
Blake who first broke the silence.
"I suppose you have heard nothing of
Mr. Cyril Harding on the road, sir?" he asked.
"Mr. Seyton is expecting him every day."
If he meant to convey a piece of infor-
mation, he must have been disappointed, for
Mr. Conway did not look in the least sur-
prised. He had evidently heard that his
cousin was expected at Seyton House, and
quite as evidently treated the fact with an
indifference profound as that with which he
regarded the magnolias and honeysuckle.
"I have heard nothing of him," he an-
swered, carelessly; "but it is scarcely like-
ly that I should have done so. There is a

mail line running to Ayre, is there not? On
what day does the coach come in?"
"It is tn-weekly, and comes in on Tuea.
days, Thursdays, and Saturdays.~~
"To-day is Thursday, is it not? There
is every probability, then, that my uncle
will be gratified by the arrival of Mr. Cyril
Harding."
Mr. Blake started slightly, and looked a
,little curiously at his companion.
"You do know something of his move-
ments, then?"
"Not in the least," was the cool re-
ply. "But I know something of him; and
I am sure that he will not, of his own good
will, allow me ~o precede him by even so
much as an hour in my arrival at Seyton
House."
"As you were both coming to the same
place, at the same time, and from the same
direction, I wonder you did not come to-
gether," said Mr. Blake, bluntly.
Mr. Conway laughed-not a pleasant
laugh-and shrugged his shoulders even
more sarcastically than before.
"My cousin Cyril has never forgotten
one or two episodes of our boyhood," he
replied. "Indeed, his memory is so good,
and his opinion of my desperado proclivities
so strong, that I doubt if he would bear me
company on a lonely road, to be made mas-
ter of Seyton house at the ~nd of it. Put-
ting my society out of the question, how.~
ever, I think he would, under any circum-
stances, prefer a seat in a coach to a seat in
the saddle. It is at once more comfortable
and more safe, for we can scarcely consider it
discreditable to such an eminent Christian
that he is not above the weakness of fear."
Again the light, mocking tone jarred on
Mr. Blake's ear, more than it is possible for
words to express -jarred, in recalling~ a
voice that had never owned aught save a
gibe for any thing in heaven or on earth~
and for the first time in all his life he had
laid lance in rest for the cause of fear.
"He is a very foolish man, sir, who runs
risks with his life for mere boasting and
bravado. I am glad te hear that Mr. Hard-
ing is wise enough to avoid this, and yet
brave enough to face ridicule for con-
science' sake."
I


22                           MABEL LEE.                                                               FIEBE iN A RIBBON-SHOP.                    23

Mr. Conway looked at him steadily,
with a world of covert amusement in his
dark eyes.
"My good friend," he said, "will you
be kind enough to explain what you mean
by 'facing ridicule for conscience' sake?'"
But there was no flinching in the man
whom he regarded, the man who answered
with a certain sturdy dignity of his own.
"~ mean, sir, that his Christianity does
him far more credit than your sneer at it
does you."
The honest fellow never got over
a certain half liking for Philip Conway
after that hour, after he saw how cordial a
smile came over his face, and how cordial
a tone into his voice, notwithstanding this
rebuke.
"I see," he said, "that my cousin Cyril
has already gained a friend whom I envy
him, but whose partisanship I scarcely think
he deserves. You will have to judge of
that, however. Only one thing allow me to
say in self-defence, my sneer was not in-
tended for Christianity proper-the Christi-
anity which no. man honors more than I do
-but for Harding Christianity. When you
know my cousin, you will understand the
distinction."
Mr. Blake was on the point of under-
standing it before that time, or at least of
asking one or two questions relative to it,
when a very unexpected interruption oc-
curred. A sharp turn in the road brought
them face to face with a horseman, who
was an entire stranger to himself but who
started visibly on seeing his companion, and
at once rode forward, exclaiming eagerly:
"Conway! Phil! My dear fellow, is
it possible?"
"What, Ainslie!" said the other, in a
tone of overwhelming surprise.
And the next moment they were shaking
hands warmly.
"I thought you were in Cairo, with the
desert on one hand and the plague on the
other," said one.
"I thought. you were in Paris, enjoying
Les Trois Fr~res, and the charms of baa-
carat," said the other.
Conway laughed gayly.
"It is like a scene in a play, my dear

fellow. We thought each other at the an-
tipodes, and we suddenly encounter each
other on a lonely road of the backwoods.
Are you hound for Charleston?"
"For nowhere else. Just as I was leav-
ing for the East-leaving Marseilles, that is
-a letter reached mc which left me no
alternative but that of return. One of these
troublesome people, who make it a principle
to do every thing at the most inconvenient
time imaginable, had suddenly died, and left
me without any reliable business agent. It
was come back, or be robbed to an unlimited
extent. I. came back."
"That's your sober English caution,
Ainslie."
"It's not your headlong Irish impatience,
I .know. Come, turn back. with me.. Let
us spend the night in Ayre, and go on to-
gether to-morrow. I take it for granted
you are drifting about as much at large as
ever."
"No, by Jove! I not only have a
special object in view just now, but I'm
nailed down to an appointment. You have
heard me . speak of my uncle, Mr. Seyton;
well, I must be at his house to-night."
A glance of quick intelligence passed
between them-a glance which Mr. Blake
did not fail to note, and score down to
Philip Conway's discredit; . and then Mr.
Ainslie said:
"Your uncle I Pray accept my con-
gratulations. Then this gentleman is not-"
and he turned to Mr. Blake.
"He is my uncle's business agent," said
Conway quickly, and somewhat warningly.
"Mr. Blake, let me introduce my friend Mr.
Ainslie."
Mr. Blake touched his hat, not very
graciously; and while Mr. Ainslie said a
few commonplace words of greeting, he
occupied himself in observing the personal
appearance of this new candidate for favor
or distrust.
This was all that he saw: A figure strik-
ingly like Philip Conway's both in build and
carriage, save that what was graceful slender-
ness in one, took the appearance of spareness
in the other; and a sunburnt face that was
only redeemedfrom positive ugliness byapair
of singularly brilliant hazel eyes, with some-

thing so exquisite and remarkable in them,
that nobody could possibly have denied
their beauty, and few people resisted their
fascination. This one point was all the
claim Mr. Ainslie could 'advance toward
good looks; but a certain ease and grace of
manner seconded it so well, that, even on
first sight, he was an unusually attractive
person-even on first sight people began to
think him charming-and rarely changed
their minds on closer acquaintance. For,
just as there was something in Philip Con-
way's dark, handsome face which inspired
distrust, and made worldly-wise men and
~vomen look askance at him, so in this face,
which barely escaped ugliness, there was
something that caused the most worldly
wise to give confidence and bestow trust
almost involuntarily.
Even Mr. Blake felt the subtle influence
which so many had felt before him-even
he, looking at this man, could not but
believe in him, and even he began to think
better of Philip Conway for possessing such
a friend. This feeling rather increased than
subsided with every succeeding minute, and
when he heard Mr. Ainslie say that he
might possibly spend some days in Ayre, as
his horse needed recruiting, and his mind
needed companionship, he was conscious
of something which was, curiously enough,
almost a sense of relief.
"Then I will see you early in the morn-
ing," Philip Con way said, and with this
understanding they parted. Mr. Ainslie pro-
ceeded forward to the town, and, as the two
others rode along in the opposite direction,
Mr. Conway told his companion something of
the man frotn whom they had just parted.
He was immensely wealthy, he said, the
sole inheritor of two equally colossal, for-
tunes, one of which had been left by his
father, and the other by a maternal uncle;
but, instead of making this wealth the key
to social influence or political power, or
philanthropy or pleasure, or any other of
the common toys of men, he had done little
more than spend his time in wild, fantastic
wanderings, and in dabbling after the man-
ner of a dilettante in art and science.
"He has been farther into Africa than
ever a white man penetrated before," said

Mr. Conway, warming over the mention of
his friend's achievements. "He has ex-
plored, and made miraculous escapes in the
interior of India; he has ridden on horse-
back from the Bosporus to the Arctic Ocean;
he' has ascended the Nile, and crossed the
Libyan Desert; he has lived in the midst of
the plague in Smyrna and Damascus; and he
is as well known in the Arab tents as in the
cafes of the Palais Royal; he has sounded
more seas, and climbed more mountains,
than any other man of his generation ; he is
equally at home With the pearl-divers of
Ceylon and the fishermen of the Hebrides;
he has won an honorable name among men
of letters~ and science; he is welcomed like
a brother in the studios of Rome and Paris;
and he has painted pictures that prove he
might, if he chose, be among the first ~f liv-
ing artists. In short, he has done every
thing but__"
"But what?" asked Mr. Blake, whose
interest was on the increase.
"But win social position in his native
city."
"What! that man not a gentleman?"
"Yes, the best of gentlemen. But his
father left some blot on the name-I don't
know exactly what, for such matters seem
to me of little importance-only it Was dark
enough to close the doors of good society for-
ever against his son. I don't think Ainslie
minds it much; but, if he did, it would be all
the same. lIe may climb the Himalayas, an4
penetrate the wilds .of Central Africa, but
he can never hope to enter a Charleston
drawing-room."
Before Mr. Blake could reply, the sound
of flowing water fell upon their ears, and
in. another moment they were standing on
the bank of the Ayre, with . the ferry-boat
pulling rapidly toward them, and Seyton
House showing clear and dark against the
western sky.
-4---
CHAPTER V.
HE~3E IN A. RIBBON-SHOP.
THERE has seldom been a more tired
face, serene and sweet though it was, than
that with which Constance Lee was walking


JIEBE IN A RIBIION-SHOP.

*    home out. the Monday after Mr. Conway's
arrival at Seyton House.
An exceedingly tired face-for the re-
verses of the Lee family had made this girl
a music-teacher, and she had been giving an
unusual number of lessons that morning to
unusually stupid pupils-and, judged by the
rules of beauty, not a pretty face, yet a face
that had its own charm, nevertheless-a
f&amp;~ce ~with clear, helpful intelligence in it,
with woman's ordinary power of endurance,
and more than woman's ordinary power of
thought; with earnest, steadfast g~ay eyes,
with an exquisite mouth, and with a very
arch humor in it sometimes, though just
now it looked so pale and patient-scarcely
a face to admire; but scarcely, either, a
faca to pity, for we rarely pity those who
seem capable of bearing their own burden.
Our compassion all goes to the weak shoul-
ders that bend, and to the moaning lips so
ever ready to complain; yet, perhaps, we
might bestow it better if we waited for one
of those soldiers of life who pass by with
head erect and steady step, even, sometimes,
with smiling lip, yet the cruel weight-if
we dare call any thing of God's ordination
cruel !-which is laid on then~ would thrice
double that other, on which we gaze with
swimming eyes. Ahi surely, if sometimes
we entertain angels unawares, there are
other times when we live face to face with
heroes and know them not-heroes more
brave than those that died at Marathon!
more enduring than those who starved with-
in~ the walls of Genoa !-for, as there are
deaths deeper than the mere physical pang,
so there are starvation worse than any of
the body-heroes for whom earth has nev-
er a song nor a wreath, who die soundless
as they have lived, but whom it may be we
shall find hereafter far above those whom
life has covered with praise, and crowned
with laurels.
So, on this bright Monday morning, Con-
stance Lee was walking along very quietly,
the pretty village street all to herself, and
her roll of music in her hand, looking rather
absehtly before her, and wondering whether
Nauoy had remembered to buy the barrel
of flour which was needed, or whether she
ought to go and see about it herself, when

there came a quick tread along the side-
walk behind her, a man's figure at her side,
and a voice, rather harsh than otherwise,
saying, abruptly:
"How badly you look, Constance!
What is the matter?"
She started, and then turned, with a
smile.
"Nothing much, Francis, thank you.
Some of the children were unusually
troublesome this morning, that is all."
"You are ~sure that is all? Nothing the
matter at home?"
"No, nothing whatever. I left mamma
and Mabel both in high spirits. You know
there is to be a dinner-party at Seyton
House to-day, and they are enjoying it in
anticipation."
"Yes, I know. I have an invitation,
and I was going to ask you about it. Who
is to be there?"
"Everybody, I believe," she answered,
smiling. "Everybody, that is, whom Mr.
Sexton considers de notre ekease. It is
meant to introduce his nephew in due form
to society, you know."
Her companion nodded, and then com-
pressed his lips in a way peculiar to him-
self, as he walked along by her side; in a
way, too, that made quite a young face seem
quite an old one. It was a face too lined
and sunken for symmetry at any time, but,
taken thus, it was peculiarly far from hand-
some. I~een and worn, almost haggard in-
deed, from the plainly-marked effects of in-
tellectual toil, it might yet have been refined
by this very toil into a beauty which of
themselves the rugged features lacked, if an
habitually harsh and unpleasant expression
had not marred the effect, and if the caustic
mouth had. not more than counteracted the
broad and somewhat benign brow. After
seeing his face, you were not surprised at
his voice; after hearing his voice, you were
not surprised at his face. Seldom has Na-
ture fitted two things into more exact ac-
cordance-for, there was not a tone of melo-
dy in the voice, and there was not an ele-
ment of softness in the face. Taking both
together, you felt that impressions graved
on granite were less ineffaceable than this
man's opinions and this man's resolves.

"How are you all going out to Seytbn
House?" he asked, suddenly. "I suppose
the carriage will be sent for my aunt, but
cannot I drive yourself or Mabel?"
"Mr. Seyton promised to send the boat
for us, and we are going by the river,"
Constance answered. "I think that wotild
be pleasanter for you than driving ov'er
these dusty roads. Come with us. li~o."
"I should like it, but it depends upon
who will come for you."
She looked up a little surprised.
"Who will come for us? Why, who
should come besides the boatmen?"
"Mr. Philip qonway, perhaps; consider-
ing that he did nothing but stare at Mabel
in church yesterday."
"Mr. Philip Conway was not in church
yesterday."
"Mr. Cyril harding, then."
"Nor he," said Constance, with a merry
laugh. "He is said to be the strictest of
Protestants, and would be horrified at the
mere suspicion of attending mass."
"And is the other one a Protestant
too?" asked Mr. Nowdll, with something
like an expression of relief.
"No, I believe not. But he had a head-
ache or something of the sort, Mr. Seyton
said, and that kept him at home. The gen-
tleman you saw was a friend of his, who is
staying at the House, and with whom every-
body-even Mr. Blake-is in love."
"He is very ugly."
"Ugly! how can you say so? I think
he has a charming face, and the most beau-
tiful eyes I ever saw."
"He certainly gave everybody in your
seat sufficient opportunity for observing
them. Pray was Mabel as much impressed
as yourself?"
"Mabel is the only person who has
taken an unaccountable dislike to him.
She said so yesterday, and this morning she
reported that she dreamed of snakes all
night, and that the snakes, every one, bad
his eyes."
Mr. Newell laughed.
"How fancy and imagination run away
with her!" he said-but he did not say it
half as sharply as usual.
"Excitement; too," said Constance.-

"See! yonder, she is at~ the gate, waiting
for me now."
There she was, indeed; a violet-eyed,
golden-haired vision, leaning over the low
gate toward which they were advancing,
and looking like a Hebe of the spring, with
a wilderness of tender foliage ~and.tinted
blossom on either side, and drooping ten-
drils of t~ie honeysuckle, which was trained
in an areli over the gate, falling all around
her. She opened the gate for them, as they
came near, and gave her hand and a smile to
Mr. Newell, while she looked reproachfully
at her sister.
"0 Constance! what a time you have
been, and mamma so impatient. I really
thought I should have to send Nancy for
you. What made you leave her cap all in
pieces, and the ribbon-nobody knows
where?"
Constance looked dismayed-as well she
might.
"Mamma's cap! I forgot it completely.
I had it done up, you know, and I was sure
I put the trimming back on it. However,
there is not much to do, only-"
"Only what?"
"I must first go down the street for
some ribbon, the other is too soiled to be
put back; and I remember now ~hat was
why I waited."
She turned from the gate, hut Mabel
4
summarily laid hold of her.
"Go down street, indeed! You look
very much like it. Can't I see in your
poor, pale face how tired you are? Besides,
mamma will take hysterics in another five
minutes, if you don't go to her. Give me
your hat. I will get the ribbon."
"But, Mabel, you will tire yourself~ and
you know the dinner-party-"
"Yes, I know all about the dinner-par-
ty; and I know, too, that you seem to think
nobody has a right to be tired but yourself.
Cousin Francis, is 'this a free and indepen-
dent country, and am I a free and indepen-
dent citizen of it? If so, I summon you, in
the name of liberty, to remove that hat and
give it to me."
"Many things quite as high-banded have
been done in the name of liberty," said ~fr.
Nowell, as he lifted Constance's hat from

I-i

24

MABEL LEE

25 K


26                         MABEL LEE.                                                       HEBE IN A RIBBON-SHOP.

her brown braids, and laid it on Mabel's glit-
tering locks. "You can quote Madame Ro-
land, if you feel inclined, Constance."
"She had better go and put mamma's
cap together," said Mabel, while she tied
the strings under her chin. "Dear, what
makes you trim your hats with such an
ugly color? I am sure I look like a fright
in it, don't I, Cousin Francis?"
"Suppose I say yes, Mabel?"
"Suppose you know your duty better,
sir? What are cousins for, if they don't flat-
ter one and keep one in good-humor?"
"I consider their duty in life to be just
the reverse."
"I know you do," she said, "and that
is just the reason I don't like you-some-
times. You lecture too much."
"Do I?"
"A great deal too much," she answered,
with a pretty little toss of the head. "I
lUre you infinitely better when you are
agreeable, and, as you seem to be in a toler-
able good-humor now, I will let you go
down-street with m~.-Constance, what sort
of ribbon do you want?"
"Two yards of lavender lutestring, inch
width, if you wilt go, Mabel. But I am
really afraid the sun will give you a head-
ache."
"Cousin Francis will tell you that it is
time I should get used to headaches. lie
says I am spoiled to death, and that, if I had
any strength of mind, I would unspoil myself.
I mean, for once, to prove that I possess the
necessary strength of mind."
Constance saw that further remonstrance
was useless. She said to Mr. Nowell,
"Take care of her," and then she went into
the house to find the cap, and pacify her
mother.
Meanwhile, Mabel set off down-street,
wearing the most simple of morning-dresses,
her curls all dishevelled, perfectly innocent
of gloves, veil, or parasol, and altogether a
figure which greatly horrified the two Miss-
es Crane-shopping in green silks and black-
lace shawls-when she met them on the
main street. They both stared; for Ayre
was very fashionable, and it was not con-
sidered the style to appear on Main Street
in any except "dress" costume. But Ma-

bel smiled as brightly as if her offence had
been one of the most venial nature, and
then, with a pleasant good-morning, flitted
past them into a lace-and-ribbon shop.
The two ladies looked at each other.
"Did you ever see the like of that?"
said one.
"She has been s&amp; spoiled, I am hardly
surprised," answered the other. "People
really seem to think her something more
than mortal, while, for my part-I like her
very much, of course, but I can see that she
believes she can do exactly what she
pleases."
"And Francis Kowell, too!" said the
first, a little resentfully. "I wonder he
would have come down-street with her, and
she such a figure!"
"Everybody knows that Francis Now-
dl is in love," returned the other, with a
shrug; "and a man in love has about as
much sense as this parasol. 'The king can
do no wrong' in his eyes, you may be sure,
Lavinia."
"Men are very great fools," said Miss
Lavinia, in an aggrieved tone, for, as it
chanced, nobody had ever been tempted to
folly on her account. "But still, Francis
Nowell-he might know that a girl like
Mabel-a girl who has been so much flat-
tered and spoiled-would never marry a
man like him."
"She might do worse. He is very tal-
ented."
"But he is poor," said Miss Lavinia, in
much the same tone that she might have
said, but he is a gamester, or a felon, or any
thing else utterly disreputable. "He is
poor; and you. may be sure her family will
never let Mabel marry anybody but a rich
man. Indeed, Mrs. Phifer was telling me
yesterday-"
"Hush!" said her sister, in a warning
whisper. "There is Mrs. Phifer in that
shop."
"Well, what of that? She did not tell it
to me as a secret. It was only that-but here
she comes.-Dear Mrs. Phifer, how glad I
am to see you!"
Dear Mrs. Phifer was a stout, elderly
lady in black, with a very imposing pres-
ence, a Roman nose, and an air half magis-

trial ~nd half clerical, which went far to
prove that, although a "minister's wife,"
she was very unlike the meek creature who
generally fills that position, but considered
herself second in importance and influence
.to nobody in the parish. She met the two
green silk divinities in the middle of the
pavement, just as she stepped out of a tai-
lor's shop, where she had been to order a
pair of pantaloons-not for herself but for
her husband.
"Mind, Mr. Pierce, a little longer, and
not nearly so tight as the last pair," she was
saying to the tailor, who had followed her
to the door. "Now, don't forget which
piece of cassimere I chose. The other is
very inferior, and- Ab, my dears, I am
very glad to see you. How well you are
both looking!"
Of course, they both returned the com-
pliment, as they walked on together; and
then Miss Lavinia went back to the subject
which had been under discussion by her sis-
ter and herself, a few minutes before.
"We were just speaking of you, dear
Mrs. Phifer," she said, "and I was just be-
ginning to repeat to Ellen what you told
me after church yesterday, about Mabel
Lee and her godfather. Don't you remem-
ber?"
"Mabel Lee!" said Mrs. ~Phifer with
rather a puzzled look; and then her face
suddenly cleared. "Oh, yes, about her god-
father's plan of marrying her to oneof his
nephews, was it not? That is .the report,
undoubtedly; but we can hardly trust mere
gossip, you know."
"Of course not," said Miss Lavinia, ~ho
was the originator of half the gossip of
Ayre. "But I thought you quoted some
authority for it."
"Did I?" said Mrs. Phifer, looking puz-
zled again, for, in the multiplicity of subjects
which engrossed her attention, she was apt
to become somewhat oblivious of unimpor-
tant matters. "Perhaps I did, my dear, but
I don't remember who it could have been.
I heard that Mr. Seyton had sent for his
two nephews, in order to choose an heir,
and that he wbuld choose whichever one
agreed to marry Mabel. That was all. You
saw one of them in church yesterday-the

stranger who occupied a seat in the right-
hand pew, next the chancel."
"Yes, I saw him," said Miss Lavinia, in
a tone which left no doubt of the fact.
"How handsome he is!"
"Very handsome, and a most excellent
young Christian," said Mrs. ]?hifer. "He
called on Mr. Phifer after the sermon, and
I was never more edified than by his con-
versation. He assured us that, instead of de-
siring the inheritance of Seyton House, he
very much hoped his uncle would not leave
it to him. His cousin needs it much more,
he said, and, for himself, he desires to enter
the ministry. 'My Master's service,' he
added, 'is honor enough for me."'
The young ladies gave a low murmur of
admiration.
"Yes, my dears, yes. But then, you see,
it is to be hoped that he will obtain it, for
this young Conway is of most dreadful char-
acter. Mr. Harding could scarcely sPeak ~f
him without a shudder, and, although he
said very little, it was evident what he
thought. For myself, I confess that I ~hud-
der "-she suited the action to the word-
"to think of the Seyton property passing
into such h~inds."
"But it has not passed into them yet,"
said the elder Miss Crane, "and Mr.
Seyton-"
"Mr. Seyton has not ali idea beyond
Mabel Lee," interrupted Miss La.vinia.
"People always prophesied that, instead of
renewing the entail, he would leave the
property to her. I have no doubt he would
have done so, but for this bright idea of
marrying her to tile heir. What a nice race
there will be between Mr. Conway and Mr.
Harding!"
Said Mrs. Phifer, stiffly: "I doubt if
Mr. Harding will make any effort to secure
the inheritance which ou~'At to be his by
right."
"Oh, dear! trust him for that! "said Miss
Crane, in an incredulous tone. "No matter
if he ia a C~iristian, Christians want money
as much as anybody else. And then, Mrs.
Phifer, we all know that Mabel is so pretty
that everybody falls in love with her. Mi'.
Harding may do that."
Mrs. Phifer smiled loftily, but before she


28                          MABEL LEE.                                                             IN TIlE GARDEN.                       2!)

could reply, in terms of sufficient force, Miss
Lavinia gave her arm a nipping pinch, and
exclaimed, in an intense whisper: "There
he is now!"
"There is who?" asked her sister,
eagerly, while Mrs. Phifer was too indig-
nant with her arm to take interest in any
other matter. "There ~oho is, Lavinia?"
"The gentleman who was in church yes-
terday. Don't you recognize his figure?"
* They all turned and looked quickly. A
gentleman was leisurely sauntering down
the street in front of them, and-yes-they
all recognized the graceful figure and fault-
less coat which they had admired the day
before. True, the coat had changed from
black to fawn color, tufd there was an air
about the figure of the je no dais qUOi in
style and elegance, which had been totally
lacking before; but they could, one and all,
swear to it as the very same they had seen
occupying the right-hand pew next the
chancel-when lo! the stranger turned his
head, so that they caught a glimpse of his
profile, and they saw at once that they had
made a xnistake.
"It is not he, after all," said Miss La-
vinia, a little cre8tfallen. "But, oh, is he
not handsome?"
"Goodness! who can he be?" exclaimed
her sister.
Whoever he was, he turned abruptly
into the very shop where Mabel Lee was
buying two yards of lavender ribbon.
This business had proved to be one of
considerable duration, for Mr. Nowell elected
himself referee in the matter, and so unhesi-
tatingly condemned all 'the delicate tints
which were poured out on the counter, that
Mabel found herself at last decidedly waver-
ing in her own judgment.
"What will you have?" she cried, ap-
pealingly, after every shade ~f purple, lilac,
and lavender, had been alternately shown
and successively vetoed. "If none of these
suit, what do you advise?"
"Bring some gray and stone ~ said
Mr. :N~owell to the clerk. "That is what I
advise, Mabel," he said, when the desired
articles made their appearance, "Either
of these wrn suit my aunt. But she is much
too old to wear these frippery things."

* "Too old! Mammal I don't know
what you mean, sir. I only wish ~,'ou were
half as young as she is. She would leek
dreadfully in those horrid things."
"How often must I tell you, Mabel, that
looks are of no importance?"
"Then if looks are of no importance,
what must one consult when one buys rib-
bons?"
Propriety," answered Mr. Newell,
briefiy-.-" propriety which says, at present,
this."
And he held the stoniest of the grays
toward her.
But Mabel drew back almost petulantly.
"Propriety may say so, if it chooses, and
you besides, Cousin Francis; but, for all
thatTam not going to shock mamma by
taking such a thing home. Delicate colors
are becoming to her. She is like me."
"Like you, is she? Then I should not
be surprised to go back and find her arrayed
in any enormity-even a red gown."
"Did you ever see me in a red gown?"
"I certainly never saw you in any thing
like the sedate and proper colors Constance
wears."
"No, I hope not, considering that I
don't want to make a fright of myself. But
come, I must choose mamma's ribbon.
Which shall it be - this lilac, or this
mauve?"
"They are equally unfit for the pur-
pose."
"And .equally pretty. Tell me which
is the most becoming; that will decide the
matter. See, now."
She held a knot of the ribbon to each
side of her sunny hair, and looked up at
him with a smile that might have melted
a man of bronze. Francis Newell was not
quite a man of bronze-let him do his ut-
most to harden himself; and he looked at
her silently, looked so earnestly, so almost
passionately, that, after a moment, the
lashes sunk over the sweet violet eyes, and
a tinge of additional color stole into the
lovely face.
It was at this moment that the stranger's
glance fell on her, and he entered the shop
at once-entered it almost like one under a
spell.

Mabel was fronting the door.-she had
turned round from the counter to her cousin
-and so, had only to raise her eyes, when
the light was darkened by the entrance of
the new-corner, She did not raise-them;
and all that Francis Newell saw was a sud-
den, vivid blush, which spread like lightning
over the fair skin, until it reached even the
roots of the golden hair.
He turned sharply, and saw, for the first
time, a face which he was destined to see
often, to hate bitterly, to suspect cruelly, to
like never. It may be that he was a jealous
lover, or it may be only that he was a keen
lawyer; but his first, instantaneous impres-
sion of that face was one of distrust-an
impression which may have been instinct,
or only prejudice, but which after-events
seemed to justify, and which he never con-
quered or forgot. So, after one haughty
stare-a st~re that was returned with in-
terest-he brought his attention back to
Mabel, and said, coldly:
"Buy either of the things, Mabel, or
both, if you choose, and let us go. I am
sure Constance must wonder at your long
absence."
"Yes," answered Mabel, absently.-
"Two yards, if you please," she said to
the clerk. And oh! how terribly conscious
she was of her muslin dress, her falling hair,
and her gloveless hands.
"Two yards of which piece, ma'am?"
"Either-yes, that will do."
So two yards were measured and cut off
from the brightest shade of purple among
them all. At last, too, it was paid for, and
the change made, a matter which Mr. New-
ell thought would never be accomplished,
and, when they were once fairly out of the
shop, he could no longer restrain his vexa-
tion.
"You ought not to come out without
a veil, Mabel. I have told you so often.
Women are never secure from impertinent
staring. I should have liked amazingly to
knock that fellow down. I wonder who he
is? That man who caine into the shop just
now, and stared at you so, I mean."
Mabel did not' answer for a moment.
She was twisting the little parcel of ribbon
nervously round her fingers; but, after a

while, she looked up at her cousin. "It
was Mr. Philip Conway," she said, quietly.
"1 knew him at once."
CHAPTER VT.
iN THE GARDEN.
Two gentlemen were loitering on the
terrace of Seyton House - one of them
smoking, and the other leaning idly ov~er
the balustrade-when the boat containing
the Lee party came in sight.
"Throw away your cigar, Phil," said he
of the balustrade, with a laugh. "Your gal-
lantry will be pu~ to the touch in a moment
-for yonder comes your Hebe of the rib-
bon-shop."
"Then I hope her Cerberus is not in at-
tendance still,"~said Mr. Conway, carelessly.
"However, we shall not be disturbed. Th~
landing is down yonder, and they cross the
lawn to the front of the house. You have
deucedly good eyes, Ainslie. How can you
possibly tell who is in that craft, at titis dis-
tance?"
"It was not my eyes, but my ears, that
were good in this Case," answered Mr.
Ainslie. "I heard whom the boat was to b~
sent for, and therefore did not'fird it hard
to conjecture who was ia it. Yonder4s a~
blue parasol. Do divinities use blue parasols,
Phil?"
"They only wear limp dresses, and ~ex~
extraordinary hats, as far as my knowledge
extends," answered Mr. Conway. "But
you ought to know. It is said you devoted .~
your attention to the question, in the most
candid manner, yesterday."
"Who says so?"
"All Ayre, I believe. I heard several
people mention the fact this morning, so I
thought you must have done somo staring
out of the ordinary way."
Mr. Ainslie shru~ged his shoulders.
"Staring, as it is vulgularly called, is a
license permitted to an artist-and I am an
artist, for the nonce. ]3y-the-hy, did you
know your uncle has engaged me profee~
sionally?"
"What do you mean?"


30                         MABEL LEE.                                                             iN THE GARDEN.                       31

"Just what I say. He was so much de-
lighted with that miniature I painted of
you, and regretted so deeply to find that it
was not the work of a professional artist,
that I could n~t help offering my services.
And what do yoQ suppose he wanted me to
do?"
"Faint his own likeness."
"No; that of some one else."
Mr. Conway turned round and looked at
his companion with some appearance of in-
t~rest-the first he had evinced.
"Not the cub's, surely."
"Hardly," said his friend, with a laugh.
"No; the divinity herself. Don't you envy
me?"
"Impossible to say, until I know wheth-
er or not she has any brains under those
golden locks of hers."
"Brains are a very secondary considera-
tion, caro mio. A woman's face is all that
is worth attention-for, after all, there is
scarcely an appreciable difference between
the most foolish and the most wise among
them."
"I know you think so," said Mr. Con-
way, indifferently. "But there have been
women ~f sense-even from our stand-point,
Ralph."
"May all good angels deliver me from
theni, then!" cried the other, fervently.
"From ugly women and clever women may
I be ever alike preserved I-There, the boat
has touched the landing, and who is that
going down to uteet it?"
"My uncle,' I think."
"But there is some one with him."
"The nub, of course. He follows him
about like a spaniel."
"And bores him to death."
"Tant Na jour Zui."
Meanwhile, the boating-party were busi-
ly disembarking, and had almost accom-
plished that matter before Mr. Sexton and
his nephew reached them. First came Mrs.
Lee, the mcst delicate and helpless of hu-
man beings, with Constance's graceful feat-
ures, and Constance's soft, brown hair, but
with a complexion that looked as if all
color had long since been washed out of it,
and wistful, lackadaialcal eyes - a being
evidently on the gui 'vise for accidents, and

ready to scream at every unoffending grass-
hopper or caterpillar, but looking veryre-
fined and pretty in her pearl-colored silk
and purple ribbons, nevertheless; a being
who was, plainly in a continual state of in-
jured feeling and nervous apprehension-
but extremely ladylike, and rather attrac-
tive, despite these foibles.
Then came Constance, all in a floating
cloud of light gray 1~ar~ge-at which Mr.
Nowell had looked very approvingly when
she made her appearance down-stairs as
they were aboutto set out. He entertained
a very great regard for her-in a utilitarian
point of view-and nothing pleased him
more than the quiet style of dress she 111-
ways adopted. He was continually holding
up to Mabel her perfection of character
and costume; but he would quite as soon
have thought of falling in love with his
aunt as with either the one or the other of
these perfection. Yet Constance was
looking very pretty just then-although the
pallor had not left her face, or the tired
look faded out of her eyes-for her misty
draperies became her wonderfully; and so
did the soft white lace she wore at her
neck, and the knot of bright-blue ribbon in
her hair.
Last prose Mabel-to find awaiting her
Mr. Seyton's eager, outstretched hand, and
Mr. Seyton's loving, admiring eyes. "My
rose-bud has surpassed herself," he said, in
his delight; and then he led her forward,
with quite a little air of triumph.-" Cyril,"
he said, addressing a young man who was
talking to Mrs. Lee, "let me present you to
my goddaughter."
The gentleman addressed turned quickly
and bowed deeply; then, as he raised his
face, he gave one long look at the exquisite
apparition before him.
"I almost thought you were about to
introduce the queen of the fairies, sir," he
said.
And the compliment was neither so far-
fetched nor so high-flown as might at first
be imagined-for Titania's self never trod
earth in lovelier guise than did Mabel Lee
that day. Her dress was only white mus-
lin, but of exquisitely fine fab~ie, and its
making had been a labor of love .to Qo~-

stance's nimble fingers. Mr. Nowell groaned
vainly over the endless ruffles, the dainty
flounces, and airy puffs; he lectured vainly
over the broad rose-colored sash and rib
bons; for neither groans nor lectures short
ened Constance's labor, or curbed Mabel's
delight, one whit. He alone had refused
his tribute of admiration when she came
down fully dressed that day-refused it,
though even Father Lawrence, who chanced
to step in at the moment, had declared that
she might be painted for St. Agnes or St.
Cecilia. "I am sure that neither St. Agnes
nor St. Cecilia ever wore any thing of that
foolish and improper description," said Mr.
Nowell, severely-and now he had to stand
by and hear this impertinent coxcomb make
a still more odious comparison. "The
queen of the fairies, indeed! They will
spoil her beyond all hope of cure," he
thought to himself, savagely, wishing the
while in his heart of hearts that he could
take her away from them all, and shut her
up where never man's eyes save his own
should fall upon her-nor a man's voice
speak admiration. Perhaps in that case he
might have seen no harm even in the white
muslin flounces and rose-colored ribbons.
As for Mr. Cyril Harding, he was walk-
ing beside Mrs. Lee, and answering her well-
bred commonplaces, but he did little else
save stare at Mabel, all the way to the
* house-Mabel, who was clinging to her god-
father's arm, and talking to him gayly, quite
oblivious of the admiring eyes bent upon
her, except that they had struck her as very
black and very disagreeable in expression
when she first met them.
Yet Mrs. Phifer and the Misses Crane
had thought Mr. Harding an exceedingly
handsome man-and so he was, barring the
unmistakable stamp of the prig, and barring
also a certain solemnity of aspect and stiff-
ness of demeanor, which did not sit well on
so young a man, and gave him rather the
aspect of a saturnine divine-an aspect
which (like many other things too tedious
to mention) requires a cultivated evangeli-
cal taste to appreciate it; and which Mabel,
being neither cultivated nor evangelical, did
not at all fancy.
"He looks like a preacher," she wl)is-

I pered to her godfather, 'with a little confi-
dential pressure of the arm. "I don't like
him ~in the least."
*" I wonder if you will like the other any
better, Mab?"
"That remains to be seen," she an-
swered. And the next moment they were
under the shadow of the portico.
Mrs. Nesbitt, the housekeeper, met theni
in the hall with many courtesies, and at
once led the ladies away to the chamber~
prepared for their reception. Mrs. Lee ~vas~
to do the honors of the house on this occa-
sion-the first of the kind on many a long
day--so her interest in all the details of
arrangement was,,for the time, quite as live-
ly as if she had been iwna ftde mistress of
Seyton House. In this mood, Mrs. Nesbitt
was only too ready to humor her-there
being this thing, that thing, and the other
thing, concerning all of which she had
wished to ask Mrs. Lee's advice. Would it
trouble Mrs. Lee too much just to step down
to the dining-room and pantry?~ She could
decide so much better about the p~r~~zes
after she had seen them-not to speak of the
disputed point between herself and the but-
ler as to the serving of fruit on silver or
glass. Mrs. Lee replied that it would not
in the least trouble her too much; and, bare-
ly allowing Constance to fasten her collar,
she rustled away, with the voluble house-
keeper in close attendance. So, left alone,
the two sisters looked at each other and
smiled.
"Mamma will be happy for the next
hour," said Constance. "Now, what shall
we do?"
"Go down to godpapa," suggested Mabel.
"Well, no; because that means going
down to the other gentlemen also; and we
shall have quite enough of them at dinner.
Let us go to the garden. I have not seen it
this spring."
"Have you not? Then you have nob
seen any of Mr. Farris's new improvements.
Yes, that is where we will go, Put on your
hat."
"I have it here. Shall we go down the
back-stairs?"
"Of 'course; if we were seen, we should
be waylaid. Hush, now I"

MABEL LEE.

20


JMABEL LEE.

They ran. lightly down the narrow stairs,
past the pantry, where Mrs. Lee's voice was
heard emphatic in command and advice,
down a passage, out of a side door, and
straight across a green slope of sunny sward,
into the beautiful and far-famed gardens of
Seyton House.
They had never looked more beautiful,
or better deserved their fame, than on this
lovely May afternoon; and the sisters wan-
dered up and down the long alleys, admired
all the skilful gardener's new improvements,
and discussed the rival merits of :Noisette
and Bengal roses, quite oblivious of the fact
that many carriages had already deposited
their occupants at the door of the house.
Mabel, in especial, seemed to have entirely
forgotten time and circumstances; and was
only intent upon a certain South American
shrub that she wished to show Constance,
but could not find. She Wandered off in
search of it, leaving her sister quite alone.
The latter sat down patiently to wait her
return; but it was not long before she
heard her name called, and saw two gentle-
men advancing down the path toward her.
One, she knew, was Mr. Ainslie-the other
she could only conjecture to be Mr. Conway.
They apologized for their appearance, ex-
plaining that the company having all ar-
rived, while her sister and herself were not
to be found in the house, Mr. Seyton had
grown uneasy, and Mrs. Lee nervous, and
they themselves had been sent in quest of
the truants. ~o; Miss Lee must not think
it was a trouble-or that they did not very
willingly ~undertake such a pleasant service.
They were fortunate to find her so soon;
and-if they might inquire-where was her
sister?
Constance gave all the information she
possessed on that subject, and Mr. Conway
at once volunteered to seek the missing de-
moiselle.
"I know the locality of the Brazilian
plant very well," he said.-.~" Ralph, you
had better take Miss Lee to the house. I
will follow with Miss Mabel as soon as I
find her."
So saying, he lifted his hat, and strode
away down the same path that Mabel had
taken ten minutes before.

Suddenly he paused, for there, in an open
space, was the brilliant tropical shrub, cov-
ered with gorgeous blossoms, and scenting
the air with its rich fragrance, while close
beside it, bending over the cup of a large
bloom, was a slender, white-clad form, that
might have been a sylph or a saint, in that
beautiful bright framework of flowers. He
stood for a moment of strange self-forgetful-
ness, gazing with admiration at this lovely
vision; and it was only her evident and in-
creasing embarrassment which recalled his
recollection.
"Pardon me," he said, courteously, as he
advanced and took off his hat; "I amsorry
to intrude-sorry to disturb you-but I
have been sent-'-"
"For me?" said Mabel, with a start.
"Qh, dear I am I so late as that?"
"You are very late," replied Mr, Con-
way, smiling at her consternation. "Mrs.
Lee and my uncle are becoming anxious,
and the latter did me the honor to send me
to hasten your return."
"I am very sorry to have given you so
much trouble. I will go and find my sister,
who is in the garden also."
"Miss Lee has already returned to the
house with Mr. Ainslie."
"Indeed!"
She started quickly forward, but her
muslin flounces caught ~n the prickly shrub,
which seemed loath to let her go, and in an-
other moment there might have been a de-
stniction of all Constance's work, if Mr. Con-
way had not come to the rescue.
He bent over her to loosen the filmy
fabric; bent so close that lie marked every
throb of the azure veins on the hand that
strove to help and only hindered him; so
close that something seemed to unnerve
him completely,. and the strong, subtle per-
fame of the shrub rushed over him with an
almost overpowering effect. In all the after-
years of his life, he could never endure that
fragrance, or see without a shudder the gor-
geous blossoms that held Mabel Lee's dress
that day, as if they held her from the fate
she went to meet.
"That will do, thank you. I am entirely
disengaged now. But I am afraid you bav~
torn your hands dreadfully," said the sweet,

IN THE GARDEN.
girlish voice over his head. "They are something of the same way," replied Mabel,
bleeding I"                            glancing up into the dark, handsome face
He looked at them absently. They were that looked down upon her. "You have
bleeding, certainly, but not very much. heard my dear godfather talk of me in a
Taking from his pocket a white handker- way to prepossess liking, and I-"
chief; he carelessly pressed it upon the She stopped suddenly, somewhat em-
scratches, from which a few crimson drops barrassed. She certainly had not heard her
had issued, and, smiling at the wistful cx- dear godfather speak of kim~ in terms that
pressing of her face, held them out for her could possibly prepossess liking.
inspection.                               "And you?" said Mr. Conway, who
"Ihope your dress has suffered no more knew perfectly well why. she hesitated-Z'
serious injury,". he said. "Will . you go "you could scarcely have heard any one
now?"                                  speak well of me. Do you mean to say
"Yes, certainly."                   that we are not to like each other?"
She spoke hurriedly, and again started She had recovered something of self-
forward, for the Ayre code of propriety was possession by this time, and looked up now,
very strict, and-what would they think of smiling quite archly.
her in the d.a'awing-room?                "You are very kind. But suppose I
What they would think did not matter say, Yes?"
in the least to Mi'. Conway; so, taking un- "I would not arivise it; that is all."
fair advantage of her evident preoccupation "Why not?"
of mind, he chose the most circuitous route He gave his careless, graceful shrug.
to the house, and then proceeded to open a "Only because I should construe it into
conversation,                          a challenge, and, as I am a man who seldom
"Do you know I think we are en rap- suffers execution to fall short of resolve, I
port, Miss Lee?" he said, in his frank, easy should end by making you like me whether
manner. "I fancy that there is what my you would or no."
friend Ainslie, who dabbles in metaphys- "Indeed!"
ics, calls a 'sympathetic intuition' between He had succeeded in piquing her slightly.
us. I cannot imagine, otherwise, why I The cool little "Indeed" testified to~ that.
should have known you at once when I saw But it was only very slightly; for, after a
you in~ that shop this morning; nor why I moment, she looked up with a sly, flitting.
now feel a positive assurance that I need blush.
not present myself formally to you, by "I don't think you need feel yourself
mentioning my name. challenged, Mr. Conway. I have every dis..
"I cannot tell why you should have position to like you, for I am sure my dear
known me," answered Mabel, smiling, and godfather's nephew mast be worth liking."
blushing a little; "but the reason why I "Suffer me to remind you that relation-
knew you is very simple. I have seen your ship to your dear godfather is a di~tinetion
likeness." which I possess in common with Mr. Cyril
Mr. Conway gave one flashing glance Harding."
at her, and then laughed.                 "Well, and what then?  I should say
"So there goes all my fine theory of the same thing to Mr. Harding."
sympathetic intuition-the way that most "Then you are very unkind, and little
such theories would go, if we only knew the 'ungrateful, too," said her companion, smil-..
truth, I suspect. I shall tell Ainslie about ing. "My liking is rot, based upon any
this the next time he bores me with Kant such ordinary consideration. I have heard
and Jean Paul. I wonder if you are going my uncle talk of you incessantly ever ainee
to deal so summarily with another idea of my arrival, without having once entertained
mine.-~n idea that we shall like each the most transient desire -to see you; and
other?'~                               when your face drew me into the ribbon-
"I think I might account for that in shop this morning, I should have felt pro-
-        S


34                           MABEL LEE.,                                                            MR. AINSLIE'S EXPERIMENT.                   35

cisely the same degree of interest if it had I
belonged to Miss Mabel Smith, instead of
Miss Mabel Lee."
What could Mabel say? It was impossi- 4
ble for her to tell him that her liking ante-
dated even this; and that, from the first
hour when she saw it on the river, his face
had never ceased to haunt both her waking
and sleeping dreams. Fortunately, they
came in sight of the drawing-room windows,
and she was spared reply; for who should
appear at one of them but Miss Lavinia
Crane, with the sombre outline of Mr. Hard-
ing looming behind her-a sight which at
once banished every thing from Mabel's
mind, save the dreadful thought of Ayre
propriety!
"What will they think of me?" she said,
this time aloud; "and how shall I ever
again have courage to go in?"
"There is no difficulty about that,"
answered her companion, encouragingly.
"Take my ~advice, and laugh it off care-
lessly.~ Suppose we storm one of the win-
dows? It will be a more informal mode of
entrance than by the door."
Mabel would have agreed to any thing;
so they struck across the lawn, Mr. Conway
drew aside the heavy silken draperies, and
the next moment they faced that most
solemn and injured of all assemblages-a
party of people waiting for dinner.
-4--
CHAI'TER VII.
Mfl. AINSLIE'S EXPERIMENT.
As usual, the anticipation considerably
transcended the reality. A storm of laugh-
ter and jesting reproaches greeted the tru-
ant and her captor . that was all. The an-
nouncement of dinner soon banished tliem
from the public mind, and there ensued the
bustle of getting more than thirty people~
into orderly array-a bustle which Mabel
and her cavalier watched very quietly from
their window stand-point, until Mrs. Lee
swept by oa the arm of a portly ex-gov-
ernor.
"I am. very sorry, Mr. Conway," she
paused a moment to say, "but you wrn have

It

be take Mabel into dinner. Everybody else
Irns been disposed of, and-"
"Heaven be praised for it!" said Mr.
Conway, devoutly, as the rest of the sen-
tence was lost in her onward progress.
"Do you mean to say now that there is no
truth in metaphysics, or luck in garden
rambles, Miss Lee?"
"I don't know," answered Miss Lee, a
little doubtfully. "Is bringing ~ip the rear
of a dinner-party proof of either? I hope,
by-the-by, you don't mind cold soup, Mr.
Conway ?-"
"I prefer it warm, undoubtedly."
"Then we had better move forward,
for, as it is, I fear we shall hardly obtain
good seats."
They moved forward accordingly, and,
being the last couple to enter the dining-
room, drifted into what seats they could;
and found on one side of them an old lady
who had come to enjoy her dinner simply
for her dinner's sake, and, on the other, two
agricultural worthies, whose conversational
ideas seemed bounded by tobacco-lands and
Devon cattle.
Mr. Conway made a wry face over his
soup, which was very well cooled indeed;
but, for all that, he did not seem to take his
position much to heart. On the contrary,
he was evidently in that frame of mind
common to us all, when, from our own high
estate of good fortune, or happiness, or
whatever else it may be, we look with a
sublime sort of pity on the low estate Of
others. Glancing down the long table, he
saw his friend Ainslie devoting himself to
the entertainment of one of the prettiest
girls in the room, and forthwith, without
any apparent reason, he told Mabel that he
was very sorry for him.
"Sorry!" repeated Mabel, opening her
eyes. "Why should you be sorry for him?
Because he has not cold soup, like you?"
"No; because he has to entertain that
young lady with pink roses in her auburn
hair. I tried her awhile before dinner, and
I found-but I beg pardon, she may be a
friend of yours."
"She is not exactly a friend of mine,"
said Mabel, "but I like her very much.
She is very nice, I assure you.

I

"She may~ he very nice, but she is ti
farthest in the world from being very inte
testing. What is her name? "
"Nina Eston."
"Rather pretty. So is she, barring ti
color of her hair."
"I like red hair," said Mabel, decided;
"I a~ree with the Spaniards in considering
it a great beauty."
"I like golden hair," returned Mr. Coi
way, with a point-blank stare at her ow
locks. "In my opinion, people should ne~
er have any other sort. Do you think Aim
lie's hair pretty? It is red enough to sui
you."
"On the contrary, it is not half rei
enough to suit me," said Mabel, looking a
Ainslie. ",It has a red dash, certainly; bu
I should call it chestnut."
"Should you? It's not my idea at all
But I will ask him about it. He is an ar
tist, and will know."
"An artist!" repeated Mabel, and sh~
looked at him again. Then suddenly, with-
out any connection with what had gone be-
fore, she asked, "Does he mean to stay long
at Seyton?"
"That depends entirely on whether Sey-
ton proves agreeable to him or not," Con-
way answered, carelessly. "His time is
quite at his own disposal, and he will stay
as long as he finds it pleasant. Certainly,
also, he will not leave with my uncle's
good-will, for, by some means or other, he
has quite won his heart."
"Everybody seems to like him."
"Like is a faint word. I have never
seen any thing equal his power of fascina-
tion: He charms people almost without
an effort, by a single glance, or a singlet
word."
"I suppose he charmed you in that
way?"
"No, truly," answered he, with a laugh.
"I am a very cold-blooded person, and al-
though I like Ainslie tolerably well-better,
much, than I like most people-yet no one
could possibly accuse me of being fascinated
by him. There is very little in common be-
tween us, yet we agree somehow."
"You will not mind if I ask you a ques-
tion about him, then?"

bie "Not in the~least. I' am at your service
r- to answer a hundred, if you will."
She hesitated a moment, and then glanced
up, speaking hastily.
ic "Is he a man whom you would trust?"
Mr. Conway looked astonished, as in-
y~ deed he had sufficient reason for doing.
g "Trust!" he repeated, as if uncertain
whether he heard her aright. "Yes, I
i- should think so, as far as one would feel in-
n dined to trust any man of acknowledged
integrity, whose honor has never suffered
by a shade. It cannot be that y~u have
.t ever heard any thing to the contrary?"
"No, no, nothing whatever."
I     "Then I hope you do not ask such awk-
t ward questions about all new acquaintances;
t for there are not many people who can
boast a record so 8~fl8 reprocho as Ainslie;
and T, for one, could ill afford to be judged
in that way.~~
"You! But I never thought-"
"Of questioning my trustworthiness,"
* he said, with a somewhat bitter laugh. "I
hope you will not, Miss Lee, for there are
many besides your friend Mr. Blake who
will be ready to assure you that no good
fruit ever came of an evil tree."
"I seldom take my opinions second
hand," said Mabel, flushing; "and I should
no more dream of condemning a man for hi~
ancestor's vices, than I should think it safe
to trust him on the credit of their virtues."
"You are very good to say so," answered
he, gratefully. "There are so few people
who sympathize with black sheep, that we
appreciate such liberality of sentiment when
we find it. Do you know, I don't think
there would be half so many of us~ if we
did not feel reckless from being placed ~o
mercilessly 'under the ban?"'
Before dinner was over, the suui went
down, and, when they all returned to the
drawing-room, they found its lamps lighted,
and gleaming in every direction, though the
windows were still open, and the spring
dusk was dying away among the blossoms
outside. The elder people, who had a whole-
some fear of mists and the lik~, remained
within, and settled themselves to whist and
conversation; but the younger members of
the company wandered out to the terrace,

9


MABEL LEE.

38

MR. AINSLIE'S EXPERIMENT.                  87

and made more than one passer-by on the
river start at the echo of their clear, young
voices and ringing laughter. Such sounds
were not common about Seyton House; and
the boatman or two who pulled lazily past,
stared curiously at the windows that sent
forth broad gleams of light, and the groups
leaning over the terrace balustrade caught
the verses of song floating out in the still air,
and thought, no doubt, that the festive ap-
pearance of the whole scene was very attrac-
tive
"It looks pleasant, does it not?" said
Mabel, as she sat with Mr. Hai'ding, near
one of the windows, and gazed out with
eyes full of wistful longing. She was very
young yet, ~ud found it as hard to remain
quietly in the house and listen to solemn
dissertations on "the sublime, the heroic,
and Mr. Carlyle," while the purple twilight
gathered, the mocking-birds sang, and the
gay voices laughed outside, as if she had
been seven instead of seventeen. "It
looks pleasant, does it not? But I beg par-
den. 'You were saying-"
"Nothing of much importance," said
Mr. Harding, who did netlike to be inter-
rupted, and who, during the lasthalf hour,
had arrived at the conclusion that it was a
great pity that Mabel was so pretty, and a
still greater pity that she was Mr. Seyton's
goddaughter, since, but for those twp facts,
tie would have taken himself and his con-
versational powers where they would have
been sure of favorable appreciation-" noth-
ing o~ much importance. I was only quot-
ing-but it does not matter. Will you go
on the terrace, Miss Lee?"
"No, thank you," said Miss Lee, hasti-
ly; for, though the terrace m itself was very
desirable, the terrace, with Mr. Harding for
a companion, would be worse than thE
drawing-room, inasmuch as there could b~
no hope of rescue there. "I am very com-
fortable. Do you like music, Mr. Hardingi
I see Nina Eston going to the piano, and w
think that she sings yery finely. You msil
have heard her. She is first soprano in__"
She stopped short, and colored; where'
upon Mr. Harding immediately inquire
where it was that Miss Eston was first so
prune.

"In a place where you are not likely to
have heard her," answered Mabel, laughing
a little at her own stupidity. "In our
choir, that is. Her 'Agnus Dci' last Sun-
day was beautiful."
At the mere sound of these words, Mr.
Harding stiffened into reserve and silence.
He could do a great deal, he could constrain
himself a great deal, for the sake of the end
he held in view; b*ut one thing he could not
do, one point where he could not constrain
himself, was when people spoke in his pres-
ence of that Church which, in all sincerity,
he believed to be the wife of the devil.
Like Mause Headrigg, his convictions were
too strong either for policy or courtesy, and
it became a matter of simple necessity to
speak his mind freely.
"Xe, I never heard Miss Eston," he
said. "I am sorry that I am not likely to
do so when she sings an-an 'Agnus Dci,'
or any thing of that sort. I hope I am not
a bigot, Miss Lee, but I hold your churches
to be the abodes of error, and I never enter
them."
"I do not think they could possibly
harm you," said Mabel, simply. "But
nothing is so useless as religious discussion.
How animated they' are at the whist-table
yonder! Are you fond of ~
"I never play it," answered the evan-
gelical gentleman, in his most evangelical
tone. "I disapprove of all games on prin-
ciple. Backgammon, now, or draughts-"
"Will he ask me to play either of
then~?" thought poor Mabel,'In con~terna-
tion; but just then the diversion for which
she had been longing arrived. There
was a movement upon her position. Mr.
Ainslie came to the rescue, and, notwith-
standing her unfavorable verdict at din-
ncr, there was no doubt but that Mabel
was heartily glad to see him-as, indeed,
she would have been glad to see any one
who relieved her of the irksome weight of
Mr. Harding's attentions. Ainslie had a
pack of cards in his hand, and, as he sat
down, was shuffling them.
"Don't think that 'I mean to ask you
I to play any thing," said he, laughing at the
- expression on Mabel's face, for it is not
often that ~ay seventeen has zany liking for

cards. "I am something of a conjurer,
however, and I mean to tell your fortune.
May I?,"
"Of course you may," answered she,
smiling. "Isn't one always glad to have
one's fortune told? The desire of my heart
has always been to meet a gypsy. Are you
a gypsy, Mr. Ainslie?"
"For the present, I am any thing you
choose,~' said Mr. Ainslie, gallantly.
"'Being your slave, what should I do but tend
Upon the hours and times of your desire?'
"Don't think, however, that this is any
commonplace or vulgar mode of telling for-
tunes," he went on. "It is something quite
unique, one of the most peculiar things I
ever knew and" (cutting and shuffling dili-
gently) "the accuracy of the result always
surprises me as much as it surprises or
could surprise any one else. It was taught
me by an old Arab with whom I was on
terms of great intimacy in Algiers.-Ilard-
ing, my good fellow, will you give me
that stand at your elbow? Thanks-much
obliged.-Xow, Miss Lee, put your hand on
these cards. Something of personal mag-
netism i8 essential to the success of the ex-
periment."
"I really thought," said Mr. Harding,
with a grim sneer, "that only charlatans
walked nonsense of that kind."
"Far be it from me to hint that you are
mistaken," replied Mr. Ainslie. "We all
have an element of charlatanry, more or
less-..haven't we? My element is upper-
most just now-that is all.-Miss Lee, your 1
whole hand, if you pleas~ Yes-that is it." 1
Miss Lee obediently placed her hand on
some caltds which he laid before her. Tell-.
ing the fortune, however, proved quite a I
long and rather a complicated undertaking.
An abstruse calculation of some sort was
necessary, in which Mr. Ainslie made van- ~
ous mistakes, as amateur conjurers usually
do, and was various times compelled to re- t
trace his steps, and "go back to the begin-
ning." After he had gone back to the be- s
ginning quite often, Mr. Harding wearied ~
of the entertainment, and walked away. s
Conway, who had been watching his oppor-
tunity, then came forward.

"Is Ralph showing you his Arabian
mode of telling fortunes?" asked he. "It
is surprising how often he hits the truth.-
Ainslie, do you remember how incredulous
Cunningham was when you told him he
would be married within three months?
Yet that fast Miss What.was-her-name had
him in her toils before that time. When I
reminded him of the cards, he only smiled a
very ghastly smile. Poor fellow! He was
a melancholy example of what cones of
'only spooning' with a clever woman!"
"That affair of Rosset was still more
surprising," said Ainslie, between the inter-
vals of counting his cards.
"Yes, that was astonishing," said Con-
way.-" He was a young fellow in Paris,
Miss Lee-as well and strong as I am now,
when Ralph told his fortune for him. The
cards announced his death within twenty-
four hours. As you may imagine, he
laughed at it, and did not let the dismal
prophecy prevent his starting to Bordeaux
the next morning. The first news we heard
was, that there had been a railroad accident
and Rosset was one of the killed."
"But you don't mean that yoti think it
was any thing more than a coincidence!"
cried Mabel, somewhat aghast. "I am in-
clined to be credulous of marvels, Mr. Con-
way, but really this is beyond even my
powers of belief."
"I merely state the facts," answered
Qonway. "Interpret them in any manner
~'ou please-Ralph, I am sure, will allow
~rou every latitude. You don't intend to
~clieve what he tells you about yourself~
;hen?"
"That depends upon whether or not it
s pleasant. What is it, Mr. Ainslie? Sure-
y you have arrived at some decision by this
ime!"
"'What is it, Ralph?" asked Conway,
noticing that his friend had the cards spread
~ut before him, and was intently regarding
heir 'combinations.
Thus addressed, Mr. Ainslie started, and,
omewbat hastily, shuffled the cards to-
~ether again. Then he looked up with a
mile.
"I can make nothing of it," he said.
It is all utter nenser~se-suoh complete

87


MABEL LEE.                                                          MR. AINSLIE'S EXPERIMENT.

nonsense that I decline to risk my conjuring
i'4utatien upon it. Miss Lee, I will show
you some genuine juggler's links now."
They were very wonderful tricks, in-
deed, and, before long, the juggler had at-
tracted round him the major part of Mr.
Seyto~t's guests. Even the whist-players
forsook their table to see the ace of hearts
vanish up Mr. Ainslie's sleeve, and reappear
nuder a vase at the farther side of the room.
The whole company were so harmed that
when he came to the end of his repertoire
they gave him a unanimous and enthusias-
tic encore.
"Or, if you don't want to repeat those
things," cried Miss Eston, "show us sOme-
thing more remarkable. I know you can if
~o&amp;~ill~ lie told me at dinner he could
mesmerize' people," she added, turning to
the ezpectant company. "I tell you what
he shall do-he shall mesmerize me."
There w~s a general laugh at this.
"If he succeeds, he will be a wonderful
person, Nina," said Mr. Seyton. "I can't
fancy you a subject for magnetism-can you,
Mr. Ah~slle?"
"I urn only an amateur dabbler in the
science," said Mr. Ainslie, with becoming
modesty. "I doubt if I can succeed inmag-
ifetizing anybody, but it will give me pleas-
ure to try an' experiment with Miss Eston."
The' experiment was tried accordingly,
and, as a - matter of course, failed. The
~ould-be'subject laughed all the time, and,
tufter~ many passes, and much intent gazing,
Mr. Ainsile was compelled to declare that it
waS impossible to produce any effect upon
her.
"Supposa you try Mabel?" said Miss
Eston. "Somehow, I have an idea that you
would succeed with her."
"I doubt extremely if I would succeed
with anybody," said Ainslie, shrugging his
shoulders. "Still, if Miss Lee does not ob-
ject-"
But, as it chanced, Miss Lee did object.
Th everybody's surprise, she shrank from
the proposal with something almost like
alarm.
"I cannot think of such a thing, Mr.
Ainslie," she said. "Indeed, I cannot."
"There is really nothing to fear," said

Mr. Ainslie, with a laugh. "I can make
the passes-~-I learned that much from Graf-
ner, you know, Conway-but I assure you I
have no idea that I will be able to affect
you."
"Still I am so fanciful that I shrink from
the idea, and I really cannot consent to-to
try it."
"Your temperament and organization
give some hope of success," said Mr. Ainslie,
meditatively. "You would not shrink from
the influence if it were powerless to affect
you. I should like to try the experiment,
but, of course, if you object, I cannot press
the point."
"Thank you," said Mabel, looking re-
lieved. "I am sorry to seem ungracious
and unwilling to contribute my share to the
public amusement," she added, after a mo-
ment, "but if you only knew with what a
nervous shrinking-almost a nervous terror
-the mere idea fills me "
"laugh at it," said Philip Conway, "and
then there will be no fear of his succeed-
ing.
"That is what shc cannot do," said the
other, in a tone of perceptible triumph.
And indeed she could not. The myste-
rious power already seemed to have influ-
enced the highly-strung nervous tempera-
ment on whose exquisite sensitiveness the
amateur mesmerist reckoned not without
reason. Seeing how pale she became, Ains-
lie ceased to urge the experiment upon her;
but others crowded around by this time,
and beset her resolution with numberless
entreaties.
"Mabel, do!"
"Mabel, pray do!"
"Mabel, you surely have not the heart
to disappoint us so."
"Dear me) Mabel, how can you be such
a coward?"
'~ 0 Mabel, try to oblige us."
Last came Mr. Seyton, saying:
"My pet, you can gratify these foolish
people."
And thenConstance:
"Darling, will you try to do it, or shall
I send them all away?"
In this strait, Mabel looked up at Philip
Conway. If he had said, "Don't," she

might have withstood them all~ But he.
too, was curious to try the experiment; he.
too, only thought her terror the fanciful
child of ignorance; so he only asked:
"Do you think your courage is equal
to the venture now?"
And, with a sigh, she answered "yes."
The eager group drew near, forming s
hollow square about them, while Ainslie
fixed his eyes upon her with a concentrated
expression, and, slowly and at intervals,
made the passes. From the very first it
was evident how rightly he had judged that
she was entirely susceptible to the influ-
ence; for, although there was a good deal
of laughter and whispered comment going
on, her attention never once wandered from
his face; Jier gaze never once wavered from
the deep, brilliant eyes that regarded her so
steadfastly. After a while the pupils of her
own eyes began to dilate perceptibly, and
then a subtle difference of expression grad-
ually came over the face-a difference that
it was impossible for any one present
to analyze-but that every one perceived.
A sudden accession of interest came over
them all, and then-
"Mabel," cried an audacious voice in the
rear, "how do you feel now?~~
Mr. Ainslie lifted his hand in quick re-
monstrance, but it was too late. Without
removing her eyes, Mabel answered, drop-
ping her syllables slowly one by one, as if
already she had spoken under the influence
of another power than that of mere personal
volition:
"I feel strangely happy-strangely at
rest. But I also feel powerless-bound fast
-under a spell, as it were. A cold, waver-
ing flame seems creeping over me. I feel
it tingling like the charge of an electric bat-
tery. But it does not shock, it does not
burn, it only seems to pervade me with-"
At that moment the brilliant, steady eyes
seemed to fix themselves upon her with
fresh power, and the words -were hushed on
her lip. Still looking at him, she suddenly
relapsed into silence, andthe strange, subtle
expression-the change which no one could
deflu~e-deepened and deepened upon h~r
face, until it seemed to pervade and take
entire possession of it. Then he bent down

9

gently, and breathed slightly on her fore-
head, remaining in the attitude for a second,
I perhaps. The least interested among the
lookers on had not time to grow impatient,
I however, before he stepped away, for all to
see the result. She was leaning against
the back of her chair, with the careless, un-
conscious grace of profound slumber, while
its deep crimson velvet threw into relief her
tinted face, her golden ~curls, and airy mus~
lin dress. Yet not tli~ most ignorant per-
son present could have supposed for a mo-
ment that what they saw was slumber; for
the eyes were open, though vacant, as if
sleep-walking; the brow slightly contracted,
but evidently not by pain, for the lips were
faintly smiling, and the hands fell loosely,
and relaxed on either side.
There was a moment's profound hush-
a moment in which awe rushedsuddenly
over every heart that had been laughing and
mocking five seconds before-and then Mr.
Ainslie's voice broke on the stillness:
"There, my friends, is an answer fo~ all
who doubt the truth or power of mesmer-
ism"
Then broke forth a many-voiced ques-
tion:
"Is she mesmerized?"
The answer was deep and almost sol-
emn:
"She is mesmerized."
They gathered around close, and yet
closer, touching her, speaking to her, lifting
the passive hands, and proving, by every
means in their power, how deep and perfect
was the magnetic trance., Stir and move-
ment there were none. Save for the regtu~
lar breathing and the relaxation of every
muscle, it might have been death insteadof
life on' which they gazed. To Mr. Ainslie
himself, Mrs. Leo was the first one to utter
a direct inquiry bearing upon the state.
" Good heavens! how frightful it loQk5!"
she cried, with a shudder. "Mr. Ainsile-.-
of course I don't mean to doubt your word
-but are you 8U70 there is no danger in
it?"
"Danger, my dear madam?" said Ains~
lie, with a smile. "What danger conid
there be? If there. had been the least poe-
* sibility of it, do you think I would have

-/

A

NABEL LEE.


40

MABEL LEE.

asked Miss Lee to submit to the experi-
ment?'~
"But she looks so dreadfully. Make her
do something, say something, to show that
she is aliVe."
"I am not at all sure that I can," said
Ainslie, looking at Conway, who was lean-
ing over the back of the chair, close to the
place where Mabel's head rested. "I am
entirely an amateur; and this result is al-
most as unexpected to me as to any one else.
However, I will try. What shall I ask
her?"
Conway, at whom he was looking, an-
swered before Mrs. Lee could speak.
"Ask her, my dear fellow, what was
the fortune prophesied by the cards a little
while ago."
Ainslie changed color-all the curious
lookers-on noticed that-and hesitated for a
itioment.
"You would only have my word for the
accuracy of her reply," he said at last. "I
-you better ask something which would be
a more satisfactory proof, Phil."
"I will take your word concerning the
accuracy," said Conway in his easy way,
which could yet be a very obstinate way,
"and this proof will be quite satisfactory
enough. Ask her, Ralph-I insist upon
it."
"But it is nonsense," persisted Ainslie.
'~ The fortune was no fortune at all. I made
a mistake in the calculation, and it came to
nothing; I told you that!
t' Yes, you told me that," said the other,
dryly. "I am not a member of the honor-
able corps of marines, however, and I knew
better! Come, make haste-Miss Lee will
wake up if you wait much longer."
"Ask her, Mr. Ainslie!" criQd the vex
populi. "You must ask her!"
Mr. Ainslie shrugged his shoulders as he
had shrugged them several times before,
gave Conway a glance which did not savor
overmuch of gratitude, and then turned to
Mabel. When he asked the question, she
answ4~red at once, but in a dreamy voice,
aa of one who replied from some far-off
region.
"The combinations were peculiar," she
said. "Three times the same result was oh-

tamed. The prophecy was of impending
trouble, and an early, tragical death."
"Is that true?" said Conway, in a low~
tone to Ainslie.
"It is quite true," answered the other.
"I did not like to tell her the result after
those stories you had been relating-but,
queerly enough, she has hit upon iii."
"Was she right? Is it true?" asked
those around, eagerly. When they heard
that it was true, something like an awe set-
tled upon them. The superstition latent in
human nature asserted itself immediately.
The tone of the unconscious girl had been
more even than her words. Jesting gave
way to gravity, and the least impressionable
could not resist a feeling that she had been
reading her own doom in that strange, un-
impassioned voice. Folly? Yes, folly, of
course, and very dangerous folly, but yet
folly to which we are all exceedingly prone.
Then they had been wrought up by such
gradual degrees that they were really not
very much to blame. Some ladies grew
pale, others shuddered, and. the general im-
pression seemed to be that Mabel had bet-
ter be roused. Mr. Seyton, however, inter-
posed.
"One moment," said he. "You are
sure there is no suffering in the state?"
"Perfectly sure, but, if you desire it, I
can ask herself."
He turned back again, and put the ques-
tion. It was ans~vered at once in the nega~
tive.
"I feel strangely happy; strangely at
rest," Mabel reiterated. "There seems to
be a sea of light and sweet odor around ~ne.
It is only when you lay your hands on me,
as you are doing now, that I feel the cold,
wavering flame flickering up and~1own."
"But the flame is not painful?"
"No; only strange."
"Do you object to remaining in the state
a little longer?"
-" No; not in the least."
Mr. Ainslie looked round at his host.
"Are you satisfied, sir?" he inquired.
"Sufficiently satisfied to ask you to give
us one more proof of magnetic influence, be-
fore you rouse her," Mr. Seyton answered.
"I have heard, or read, that a mesmerist5

by the mere exercise of his will, can sum-
mon his subject to him from any distance.
Show us that, and we will credit your phe-
nomenon."
"I will do it," said Ainslie.
This time he did not qualify his words
by adding, "I will try;" for it was evident
that the realization of his own power was
coming to him by degrees, and that he now
felt little or nothing of the doubt and un-
certainty he had experienced at first.
"I will do it," he said; and his eyes
brightened, and a fiu~h rose over his face at
the proposal.
"Come, then," said Mr. Seyton, "come
everybody-we will go to the library and
see if he can summon her."
NobodAy spoke a dissenting word, for ex-
citement and interest were now at their
height. Only Constance declared her in-
tention of remaining behind with her sister,
and was accordingly left.
The rest proceeded to the library, which
was on the same floor, and made one of the
suite of the drawing-room. Several apart-
ments intervened, however, so that the test,
if it succeeded at all, would be very com-
plete. There was some confusion when
they entered, for only a single shaded lamp
burned on one of the tables, diffusing a sort
of mellow moonlight which made the tran-
sition from the brilliantly-lighted rooms
through which they had passed, almost that
of darkness: but, after a while, their eyes
grew accustomed to the demi-obseure, and
they found that they could see each other
with perfect distinctness. They all grouped
themselves about the room in various pc~si-
tious; but, immediately beside the table,
Ainslie took his stand4
"Be perfectly quiet now,'~ he said, ad-
dressing the company in general. And then
he raised his hand in the attitude of his first
pass, and fixed his eyed intently on the
closed door-fixed them so intently, so
steadily, with such burning power, that
Miss Nina Eston told Mr. Harding in a whis-
per that she was sure he saw through it.
Several minutes of profound silence fol-
lowed, during which the mesmerist did iiot I
move even as mt~ch as a muscle, and every I
eye in the room ifras eagerly and anxiously

TAKING

COUNSEL.                            4L
turned toward the door. Would it prove a
failure at last? Would she remain uninfin-
ejiced? No. Hark! was it not a light step,
a faint rustle, an advancing movement?
Almost as they asked themselves the ques-
tion, and doubted in their own minds
whether their nerves were not sufficiently~
excited foi~ them to imagine any thing, the
door suddenly opened wide, and there on
the threshold, with. the same strange, sleep~
waking gaze, stood Mabel Lee!
Everybody present looked at his or her
neighbor, and then back again to the mes-
merized girl, in speechless astonishment.
Then, before the hush was broken by even
one word, a slender figure passed Mabel,
and touched Mr. Ainslie's arm.
"I cannot bear it! It is too awful I"
Constance said. "Wake her-wake her!"
"We will take her back to the dining-
room first," he answered, quietly. "Jt will
be better to rouse her there."
"I will take her back, if you please."
"No you must stand away, Miss Lee,
-she will follow no one but me."
A few minutes later he was making the
reverse passes, while Governor Eston looked
on good-humoredly.
"It is my turn next," lie said. "I am
curious to know if you will get the better
of me."
But he was destined not to be gratified
by this knowledge; for just then Mabel
began to move in a natural manner. After
a moment she sat upright, and looked round
her with a wild, bewildered stare, which
lasted until her glance fell on Ainslie. Then
she gave one shuddering cry, and sank back
fainting into Constance's arms.
CHAPTER VIII.
TAKING COUNSEL.
MANY days elapsed after this before any
~ne saw Mabel's face beyond her chamber-
loor. She was borne out of the room in an
Lnsensible condition that night, and, a week
Later, her mother and sister were still de~
;ained with her at Seyton House. For, in
;ruth, she was ill, as people of exquisite or~


42                              MA~W~ii
ganizations alone can be -prostrated in
mind and body, thoroughly unstrung and
almost ehildish in the nervous terrors that
beset her-terrors so fan6ful and so con-
tinual, that only the utmost care was able
to prevent their assuming the form of de-
lirium.
"It is nothing but that miserable foolery
which is the ~ said the doctor, too
angry to be very careful in the selection of
terms. "I am not surprised at your moth-
6r, Miss Constance, but I am surprised at
you. You ought to have known your sis-
ter's temperament better than to have al-
lowed such a thing. You certainly ought
tQ be aware that you can't tamper with her
as you can with other pe~le. Or, if you
do, by George, madam, you'll simply end by
putting tier in a lunatic asylum!"
"But doctor, how could I think-"
Constance began, only the doctor was al-
ready gone, fretting and fuming as he went.
Like all the rest of the Ayre people, he
loved Mabel as his own child; and it enraged
him to see how little her nearest friends un-
derstood the care with which she should be
treated.
"They seem to forget all about her fa-
ther," he said to his wife, when he was de-
~cribing her illness and its cause - "they
seem to forget all about her father; and
they seem to know nothing whatever about
herself, or her peculiar organization. 11cr
silly mother might be excused; but Miss
Constance "-and that was the point to
which he always came back. Poor Con-
etance bad a good deal to bear during those
days of ~Eabel's continued illness - the
-doctor's censure, her mother's reproaches,
Mr. -Seyton's nervous anxiety, Mr. Ainslie's
self-blame, and, above all, her own doubts
and fears. But then she was formed to
bear all sorts of things, and it is to be hoped
it did not go very hard with her, there-
fore.
At last, however, Mabel came forth to
the outer world, herself once more, although
it was a very pale and drooping self, with a
strangely nervous manner, and a shade of
terror in her eyes, the first time she was
~or~ed to meet Mr. Ainslie, and hear his
earnest apologies and self-reproaches.

i ij.ulIi.                                                                                 TAKING COUNSEL.

"It was really nothing-only I was so
very foolish," she said; and then she es-
caped from him, as soon as she possibly
could, being glad of an interruption even
from Mr. Harding.
Mr. Ainslie watched her as she moved
away, with an expression of great chagrin
on his face; and then he turned to Con-
stance. They were all together, on the ter-
race, and he had nothing to do but move
toward the balustrade where she was lean-
ing.
"I am afraid your sister will never for-
give me for that unhappy blunder of mine,
he said, inca tone of deep self-vexation. "I
wish-I wish I could do something to con-
vince her how deeply I regret it."
"Indeed you are mistaken," Coiistance
said, earnestly. "Forgive you! she does
not attach the least blame to you. How
could she? Sh~ only blames herself; and
if she rather avoids you-"
"She does, undoubtedly."
"It is only because you are associated
with the recollection of her sufferings-not
because there is any question of her forgiving
you."
"I shall never forgive myself;~~ be said,
with evident sincerity-and then he added
nothing more, but stood looking down into
the clear water far below, and scarcely
heeding, as it seemed, the light ripple of -
talk and laughter around him. Mabel's re-
appearance had made a great change in the
atmosphere at Seyton House, and the spirits
of its inmates. Mrs. Lee relapsed from a
state of actively injured feeling, into one
that was merely passive. Mr. Seyton was
fairly radiant with pleasure, and the trio of
gentlemen guests all betokened satisfaction
-each in his own way. Mr. Harding
showed bus, in solemn and verbose con-
gratulations; Mr. Ainslie in freely-ex-
pressed relief and self-reproach, and Mr.
Conway in an intangible change of manner
and appearance, which was easily to be ob-
served, but hardly to be described. Nobody
had taken much notice of him or his state
of feeling, while Mabel was sick; but, if
they had done so, they would have found
that his concern was much more sincere
and unaffected than could have been ex-

I

pected, from a man of his stamp, for a girl, of the sweet face leaning over the balus~
however pretty, whom he had l~nown only trade above him, and instead of skirting
for the space of one evening. Whatever round to the regular landing-place, he
were the reasons-and Philip Conway was sprang ushers just at the foot of the bluff;
not a man much given to self-analysis-at any and commenced the ascent, with the quick,
rate he had been, to say the least of it, very agil&amp; ease of a trained climber.
uncomfortable. He had smoked number- "Oh, how rash, how foolish!" cried
less cigars, up and down the garden-paths Mabel, breathlessly. "Speak to him, Mr.
where he had first spoken to her, and Harding, please. Tell him to go back! If
whence he commanded a view of her win- lie makes only one- false step-"
dow, with Constance's slender figure and "He is hardly likely to do that," aaid
graceful profile passing and repassing be- Mr. Harding, who felt in truth profoundly
fore it; and he cut Ainslie very short, in- indifferent as to whether he did or not.
deed, when the latter suggested that the "As I was about to remark, the deep
mesmerism experiment was perhaps most of blue of the sky relieves so admirably those
all his (Conway's) fault, since Mabel had gorgeous~~~
left the final decision to him.           "Ah! "cried Mabel, with a little scream,
could I tell that you were going as a large stone fell with a loud splash into
to treat her in that way?" lie demanded, the water below.
sharply. " I was a fool to trust you, per- "My dear, how you jar one's nerves!"
baps; but you certainly assured me Aliat said her mother, petulantly.
the confounded thing could do no harm." "What is the matter, petite?" asked
"Harm!" said Ainslie, who was astride Mr. Sexton, quickly.
of his hobby immediately. "Harm, my Petite was spared reply, for at the mo-
dear fellow? It would be the greatest ment Philip Conway gained the top of the
benefaction of the age. It will supersede terrace, lightly vaulted over the balustrade,
the old system of philosophy and science, and stood flushed, smiling, and handsome,
by a newer, broader, grander-" by her side.
"Humbug!" concluded the other, turn- "How could you do it?" she cried, ig-
ing on his heel. "If you want to hear my noting all other greetings, though she had
opinion, it is simply this: d-n it!" not seen him before since the evening of the
At the present time, Mr. Conway did unfortunate experiment. "You might have
not form one of the terrace group-having broken your neck-~and all for nothing! -
gone down to Ayre on some business or How could you do it?"
some pleasure of his own, which he did not "How could I help doing it, rather.-
trouble himself to explain-but it chanced when I caught a glimpse of your face?" he
that just as Mabel was moving away from answered, lightly. "There was no fear of
Mr. Ainslie, with the saturnine Harding, a my neck-I have climbed too often for-that
light boat shot into sight, and paused just -but, if there had been, I think I should
below them, at the foot of the bluff. have done the same, to tell you five minutes
"I cannot conceive that the sunset ef- sooner how glad I am to see you again." -
fects of Italy are more beautiful than those "I am glad to be seen once more," Ma~
which adorn our horizons," Mr. Harding bel replied; and the warm blood which was
was saying, in his pompous style. "The dying her cheeks made her look so much
masses -of crimson clouds yonder are so ad- like her usual self, that Mr. Conway began
mirably relieved by " - to consider that the most of his discomfort
-" There is- Mr. Conway," said Mabel, on her account had been suffered without
breaking in quite abruptly. "Surely lie cause.
will not think of- coming up the face of the "Are you?" he said. "Then I wonder
bluff. It is said to be quite dangerous, t~nd you kept yourself hidden sb long. It would
-~-.ah! but he is!"  -                 be impossible to tell what we have all en~
* He was indeed; for he had caught sight dured in the way of self-reproach; and, for


MABEL LEE.

my part, I shall never know a quiet con-
science again until you assure me of your
forgiveness for my share in that wretched
"I have nothing to forgive," Mabel
answered, very much as she answered Mr.
Ainslie; but ah! in such a different tone.
"I was foolish, that was all. It is I who
ought to beg everybody's pardon, for the
trouble and commotion I caused."
"Everybody's pardon is freely granted,
with everybody's heart," he said, gayly.
"But ought you to be out here without any
wrapping?"
"Oh, I think so. The evening is so beau-
tiful."
"Is it not? As I came down the river
I thought I had never seen any thing more
perfect than the whole effect of time and
scene. Will you let me row you a little
way? I am sure you would enjoy it."
"I am sure of it, too. But mamma
would never consent."
"Why not? There's nothing the matter
with the evening, I'm sure. It is as charm-
ing as the first of June ought to be; and-I
am determined you shall go.-Harding, my
dear fellow, if you will bring Miss Lee a
scarf from the house, we may allow you to
accompany us."
Mr. Harding was so entirely taken by
surprise, that for the moment he had no
excuse ready, so he walked away, in search
of the desired scarf, while Mabel looked ye-
~roachfully at her companion.
"You have given Mr. Harding that
trouble for nothing," she said. "ThKey will
never let me go."
"Indeed I am not sure of that," an-
swered he. "I am just going to try my
power of persuasion on Mrs. Lee."
"It is scarcely worth while; for Con-
stance will make her say no."
"Perhaps it is to Miss Lee, then, to
whom I should appeal?"
Mabel shook her head with a laugh.
"That would be quite useless. Con-
stance is not to be moved-even by your
persuasions.
"If you say that, I shall certainly try
it."

"Are you in earnest I"
"Yes, for I am sure you will fail.'~
"That savors of a challenge," he said.
And he forthwith took himself over to Con-
stance. He returned shortly, however, look-
ing decidedly crestfallen.
"Miss Lee is adamant," he said~ "Tam
sorry, for we would enjoy it very much;
and there is really not the least danger of
your taking cold. However, let us go and
look at the Brazilian plant. There is no
doubt of your being allowed to do that, I
suppose I"
"No," replied Mabel, with a little laugh;
and they strolled away in the direction of
the gardens.
They had scarcely disappeared, when Mr.
Harding returned, laden with a large shawl
which he had taken, in despair, from one
of the hall-tables; and which would quite
have sufficed to smother Mabel.
"What! have they gone?" he cried,
looking round him as he came out, and
missed two faces from the circle.
"Conway and Miss Lee have gone, if
that is what you mean," said Mr. Ainslie,
carelessly. "What are you going to do
with that shawl?"
"They sent for it-Miss Lee sent for it,
'that is. Where is she? In the boat i"
"In the boat! No, of course not. She
has gone to the garden."
"To the garden! But she said she was
going on the river."
* Mr. Ainslie laughed. They were a little
apart from th~ others, so he could say pretty
much what he pleased without fear of being
overheard.
"My dear fellow," he said, "a man of
your age is not surely just beginning to learn
that to say one thing and mean another, is
quite second nature with women. If Miss
Lee said that she was going on the river,
no doubt she meant that she was going in
the garden."
"Hurnph 1" (with something of a
growl~, "I suppose Conway persuaded her."
"No doubt Conway did."
"Confound him!" said Mr. Harding, in
a~very far from evangelical tone; and then
he walked away~
Now, before proceeding further, it may

44

44                          MABEL LEE.                                                               TAKING COUNS~L.                      45

be as well to state that Mr. Harding ha
heard from his Phifer and Crane friend
the rumor which gave Mr. Seyton credi
for intending to find an heir for his estat
and a husband for his goddaughter at th
same time and in the same person, and tha
he believed it. Indeed, to him, as to th
Ayre world, nothing seemed more likely
Everybody knew how richly the master ol
Sexton House would endow Mabel Lee, ii
family honor did not stand in the way
And what, therefore, could be more prob
able than that he desired to give her th
heritage in the only practicable manner, hI
making her the wife of one of his nephews
In reality, such an idea had never once en
tered Mr. Seyton's head. But the world it
which h~ lived gave him credit for it, and,
what was more to the purpose, Cyril Hard.
ing did so likewise. Having once iuiide up
his mind that this was his uncle's intention,
he was not long in also making up his mind
to strain every nerve to win Mabel's favor;
since Mabel's favor was an essential condi-
tion of heirship. Of course it is unnecessary
to say that all of Mr. Harding's grandilo-
quent professions of desiring his cousin's
success, had been but lip-deep; and that in
reality he would scarcely have hesitated 'at
any means short of actual dishonesty, to ob-
tain the rich heritage which he had so long
been taught to expect. From his earliest
infancy, two things had been sedulously in-
stilled into his mind: one was dislike and
distrust of his cousin, Philip Conway; the
other, a longing to be master of Seyton
House. "My brother is a very eccentric
man in some respects," his mother would
loftily say, "but he is not lacking either in
sense or principle, and he will never hesitate
between a high-minded Christian gentleman,
and a card-playing adventurer, like my
sister Adela's unfortunate son." in this
view of the case, the high-minded Christian
gentleman entirely coinAded; and although
he was a good enough sort of man in his
way, and after the fashion of his narrow-
minded class, yet the desire for this inherit-
ance had so taken possession of him, that
Philip Conway, adventurer though he was,
might, in comparison, have been esteemed
almost disinterested. No doubt the latter

d was sufficiently a man of the world, and had
s suffered keenly enough the most real forms
.t of pecuniary difficulty and destitution, to
e appreciate fully all the advantage~ that
o would result from the possession of what
t seemed his natural heritage, but his was
o not a mercenary nature, and mercenary cal-
culationa were simply impossible to him.
Money was an excellent thing in his opin-
ion, and well worth having,, for all the
pleasure and freedom it would bring; but
- money, for mere money's sake-the gay,
reckless philosophy of the man knew liter-
ally nothing of such a thing. "My poor
boy," his mother would sometimes say,
when creditors were particularly unpleasant,
or something else had gone wrong, "per-
haps some day all this will end-perhaps
somo day you will be master of Seyton
House."
"I would not advise you to count on It,
* madre mia," the young soldier of fortune
would reply. "My uncle will hardly ever
trust his rich acres to my hands. And in-
deed I do not think I should know n~yself
if I were metamorphosed into any thing half
so staid and respectable as the master of
Sexton House."
He began to think, however, that ho
might know himself, and feel his circum-
stances to be very pleasant, as he walked by
Mabel Lee's side, down the broad garden-al-
leys, with luxuriant shrubs, and trim-clipped
hedges on either side, with the bright
June sunshine slanting over the flower-beds,
and making the river a stream of molten
gold, with the stately old house behind him,
and the broad fields of the Seyton heritage
stretching away far as the eye could reach.
Yes, it was a happy, peaceful spot of earth,
and for once the charm of pastoral beauty
and content entered even into his restless,
wayward heart. For a while he forgot the
reckless adventure, the hard play and fast
habits that had made his life, and thought
to himself that the man whom Mabel Lee
should love, and whom Mr. Sexton should
make his heir, need ask no better fate.
Cyril Harding was thinking the same thing,
about the same time; but it was in a differ-
ent way, and with the two conditions re~
versed.

45


TAKING COUNSEL.

40                          MAflEL LEE.

Meanwhile, Mr. Ainslie was devoting
himself to the amusement of Mr. Seyton
and his two lady guests, and bringing those
fascixjating qualities, for which everybody
gave him credit, into such conspicuous re-
lief; that even Constance was thoroughly
charmed. Perhaps he knew this a's well as
she did, for when the 'two elders began to
complain of the ~'iver-mist1 and adjourned
into the drawing-room, where Mr. Harding
Was 'already sulking by himself; he asked
her' to remain on the terrace awhile.
'~ I will not detain you long," he said, as
she assented, "though I really think they
are mistaken about the mist.' Perhaps you
may find it chilly, though. Shall I get you
a shawl?"
"Thank you, no. I do not think it at
all chilly, but very delightful."
"Yes, very delightful," he said, a little
absently. Then, after a moment, he went on
quite abruptly: "Miss Lee, I am about to
ask and be guided by your advice, in a diffi-
culty which is troubling m~; and, lest you
should think that such a declaration sounds
rather presumptuous, I shall begin by say-
ing that it concerns your sister-partly, at
least."
"I am all attention," Constance an-
swered, smiling slightly, for she could not
imagine what this opening prefaced. "Any
thing that concerns my sister interests me,
of course. And even if not-well, I hardly
think I should consider you presumptuous."
"I am afraid you will consider me fool-
ish, then," he said, "for in truth my diffi-
oulty in' of my own making~.~.-an4 by no
means great. Briefly, then, you may have
heard that Mr. Sexton is anxious for me to
paint a likeness of his goddaughter, and
that Iconsented, or rather proposed to do
so.',
Yes, Constance said; she had heard it.
"Well," Mi'. Ainslie went on, "the diffi-
culty is simply this: will not the fulfilment
of that promise cost your sister a great deal
of annoyance? I am afraid she cannot
cease to connect me with that unfortunate
experiment, and the suffering it caused, so I
scarcely feel as if I should be acting well-
as if; indeed, I should have any right-to
force myself upon her in the connection

which this would necessitate. Yet I am
very anxious to gratify :Nfr. Seyton, and to
return in some sort his kindness. So it is
simplycome to this: I cannot decide myself;
and I am constrained to ask you to do so.
You know your sister, and you know
whether her prejudice is invincible, so you
can best say whether or not I shall resign
the attempt, or persevere."
He paused, evidently waiting for her to
speak; but Constance scarcely knew how
to do so. She appreciated his difficulty, and
felt sorry for him; but she could not say
that she thought Mabel's prejudice likely to
be overcome, or that the portrait-painting
would not be a great trial to her. But there
was Mr. Seyton to be considered, as well as
Mr. Ainslie himself; in short, she felt what
she had often felt before in more important
matters, that the web of life has a great
many threads, and that some of them are
exceedingly difficult to manage.
"Indeed, I am doubtful what I ought to
say," she answered at length. "I might as
well be frank with you, and acknowledge
that you are not mistaken in thinking that
* Mabel still associates you with the experi-
ment which had such an unfortunate effect
on her. But, further than that, I do not
know. Whether or not this association will
continue, I cannot say. But I am almost
sure it will yield in time, and-and-"
"You would counsel me to try?"
"Yes; I would counsel you to try. *She
is so gentle that she does not know what
resentment is; and the vague terror which
is connected with you now cannot surely
last. At least this is my opinion, and it
would be a great pity to disappoint Mr.
Seyton."
"Yes, it would be a great pity," he said,
musingly. And then he was quite silent,
and stood looking across the river toward
the distant blue hills, the outlines of which
melted into the soft summer gloaming.
Constance watched him, scarcely under-
standing the half-wistful expressing of his
face; but thoroughly vexed with Mabel for
the unreasonable prejudice ~nd caprice
which had placed him in such a position.
"Mr. Ainslie," she said at last, with a
sudden impulse, "I really think you mag-

nify the extent of Mabel's feeling-I at
almost sure of it. I have never spoken t
her on the subject, but I will do so, and-'
"iNo," he interrupted quickly, "pra;
don't attempt that. I would not like fo
Miss Lee to put any compulsion on herself
as far as I am concerned, and I believe tha
is the only effect produced by remonstranc4
in such a case."
"I have no intention of remonstrating,'
Constance answered. "I only mean to asl
Mabel which is right, you or I. If I an
right, your difficulty is at an end, for sh
will be very willing to gratify her godfather~
by sitting to you."
"I hope so, for Mr. Seyton's sake," he
said.
And there the matter ended-at least
between these two. But Constance called
Mabel to account that night, and after infi-
nite difficulty extorted a promise that she
would submit to the ordeal.
"But you have very little idea of how I
dread it, or how I shrink from that man,"
Mabel said. "I'll do it, darling, if you say
I must; but I scarcely think I can do it cor-
dially."
"Then you had better not do it at all,"
Constance answered, more shortly than she
often spoke to Mabel. "If you behave un-
graciously about it, you will only make the
matter one of prolonged discomfort to Mi'.
Ainslie; and he feels badly enough about
your dislike and avoidance now. Mabel, it
is not like you to act so unkindly and so un-
reasonably."
"Unkindly! unreasonably!" repeated
Mabel, who was sitting ~Ialf undressed on
the side of the bed, with her bright golden
hair all about her like a cloud. "I-I never
thought that any one could consider-in-
deed, dear, I never thought at alL I have
no dislike to Mr. Ainslie-when I am away
from him. I feel toward him just as I
might toward any other indifferent stranger.
l~ut when I see him, and hear him talk, a
repugnance comes over me which I could
not control if my life depended upon it."
"A repugnance of what sort?"
can I tell? It is a 'desire to rush
away from him at any cost, which makes
me think that there must be more fear than

a simple dislike in it. The very glance of his
0 eye seems to have an influence over me, like
-like that night. Constance-"
"Well, dear?" said Constance, who be-
r gan to feel a little uneasy, as she saw how
the pupils of Mabel's eyes dilated.
t "He could do what he pleased with
~ me," said Mabel, in a half whisper. "That
is what frightens me so. Constance, when-
ever I am in his presence, I feel it coming
over me-that awful powerlessness, which
-"-but I cannot talk of it. Darling, I think I
should go crazy, I really do, if I were much
with him. Don't ask me to sit to him. I
could not."
Constance made no reply fur a moment.
She was leaning against the toilet-table,
looking at her sister very grhvely, and in
truth much undecided about her next words.
Francis I~Towell often warned Constance
that Mabel was too much humored in the
nervous fancies to which she was prone, and
th&amp;t a sterner course of treatment would be
better for her health of mind. Big, on the
other hand, the doctor's caution came back
to her recollection, together ~v'ith a vague,
shadowy fear that had always lain at her
own heart-the fear of her father's fate.
Judgment, however, inclined very much to
Mr. ~1"Towell's theory, and when at last she
spoke, it was with somewhat severe empha-
sis.
"Mabel, this is childish folly. I beghi
to believe that Francis is right. You yield
to fancies of this kind, until you grow mor-
bid. If you once made a resolute effort to
overcome them, you could do ik"
"You think I could ever learn to toler-
ate Mr. Ainslie?"
"I am sure of it. Indeed, why not?
He is a frank, pleasant gentleman, who is
deeply wounded by your resentment; for,
remember, it looks like resentment. Once
more, I must say that it is not like you to
act so."
"Well, then, I will try and not act so
any longer," said Mabel, with a ~i~ful light
in her eyes, which her sister reuii~embered
long afterward. "Dear, you must ~forgive
my fancies. Perhaps Franci? is right in be-
lieving thatI might conquer them by reso-
lution. r will make a strong effort against


PLAIN SPEAKINO~

them to-morrow, for I will tell Mr. Ainslie
that I will sit to him."
CHAPTER IX.
PLAIN SPEAKING.
"I WILL certainly tell him to-morrow,"
had been Mabel's last words when she bade
her sister good-night; and so it was her
first waking sensation on that morrow, was
one of the heavy weights with which we
are all familiar when some disagreeable duty
is to be performed. She opened her eyes
with a start, as the first golden sunbeams
slanted, through a half-closed blind, upon
her face; and with the start came the recol-
lection of this intangible something which
was disagreeable. The next moment she
knew what it was; she remembered that
she~ had promised to tell Mr. Ainslie that
she would sit to him, and dismay followed
close uwn remembrance. "How can I ever
do it?" she asked herself; and then she
thought, "at all events, I must do it." Yes,
she must do it. There was no question of
that, but the certainty was enough to drive
all further thought of, sleep from her. So
she rose at once, and made her toilet. Then
she threw open one of the windows and
leaned out, drinking in the fresh beauty of
the sparkling June morning, until a faint
perfume of cigar-smoke, floating up from
the terrace below, proved that some other
member of the household had matutinal hab-
its besides herself. She leaned over a little
farther, and ascertained that this early riser
was no other than the person of whom her
thoughts were just then fall-Mr. Ainslie.
Faithful to her instinct of dislike, she drew
back. as soon as she recognized him. But
th9n an impulse came suddenly upon her.
Why not prove her new resolution, and the
new strength of mind which she meant to
practise, by going down to him, and getting
oyer with the explanation at once? Poor
Mabel! It was quite easy to ask the ques-
tion, but very hard to answer it. She stood
with her hands locked, pale, trembling, and
altogether such a pitiful sight that, if Con-
stance could only have seen her, she would

never have urged, or even permitted, a sac-
rifice at such a cost. There was some pow-
er of self-discipline in the girlish nature,
however, for, after a time, she took up her
hat and resolutely tied it on, left the room,
and, as if afraid her determination would
fail, ran hastily down-stairs, and out of the
house.
Whatever were the subjects of Mr. Ains-
lie's morning meditations, he certainly was
as much astonished as a man could possibly
be when in turning at the end of the ter-
race, where he was pacing to and fro, he
saw Mabel advancing toward him. He
stopped for a moment in sheer surprise,
then he took his cigar from his lips, lifted
his hat, and came forward.
"So the morning has tempted you out,
also, Miss Lee," he said. "Is it not charm-
ing.?"
"Very charming," Mabel answered; and
the feeling of repugnance rushed over her
so strongly that she could scarcely refrain
from instantaneous retreat. "But it was
not the morning that brought me out," she
went on, quickly. "I-I wanted to speak
to you."
"To me!" he repeated, and he could
not help looking .a little surprised. "I am
sure I need not say that I am very much
honored and entirely at your service."
"You are very kind," she said, and then
she walked on, until she reached the balus-
trade. There she stopped and turned, with
a leok of resolution on her face which
might have amused him at another time.
"Mr. Ainslie," she said, simply, and yet
with a great deal of dignity, "I think it is
best to be frank about almost every thing.
This is my excuse for speaking directly to
yourself on a subject which you have never
mentioned to me. My godfather told me,
some time ago, that you had kindly offered
to paint my likeness for him, and my sister
told me last night that you hesitated to ask
my permission to fulfil this promise, forfear
of annoying me. Therefore I have come
this morning to say that I appreciate your
consideration in the matter very highly, but
that I am quite willing to gratify my dear
godfather, by sitting to you.'?
The sweet, clear, girlish tones spoke

every word distinctly, and then paused, or at least tolerate me, if you 'would only
more as if she had said her say, and was try."
over with it, than as if waiting 'for a reply. "I-I have tried," said Mabel, and she
A reply came, however, quietly enough. looked like a penitent child in her distress
"You are right, Miss Lee; frankness is and confusion. "I-indeed I wo4I will-
always best; and I appreciate your candor ingly like you-if I could. But-"
as it deserves. I am glad you have given "Well, but what?"
me this reassurance, for I have hesitated "I cannot."
greatly about fulfilling my promise to Mr. Mr. Ainslie smiled slightly.
Seyton. Perhaps, indeed, you may be sur- "You say you have tried," he said;
praised to hear that I hesitate yet."   "but I really do not think you have-in
She glanced up.                     the right way, that is. Now, shall I tell
"Yes, I am surprised to hear it. Un- you my theory on the subject?"
less you begin to think that you pledged "Ye-s," she answered, a little hesitat-
your good-nature too far."            ingly.
"So far from that," he answered, " I "It is simply this: that you have asso-
was never more anxious to fulfil a promise. cited me with that cursed-I beg your
But I still think that I may be the means of pardon-that wretched mesmerism. N~ow,
inflicting a very disagreeable annoyance if you will only forget it-if you would only
upon you. Can you set my mind at rest, disconnect me from it-"'
byhonestly affirming that such would not "But I cannot!" she repeated; and he
be the case?" saw her shiver from head to foot, in the
He looked steadfastly at her as he asked warm June sunshine.
the question, and Mabel felt herself color "Pardon me," he said; "there is no such
deeply, almost painfully, under his gaze. thing as 'cannot,' and I heartily wish there
5he had never felt the folly and unreason- was no such word. If you would only try
abieness of her dislike more strongly than -if you would only let me try.-.-"
at the present moment; but neither had He broke off abruptly and paused a mo-
she ever felt the dislike itself more sensibly. m~lut before he resumed:
How, theh, could she set his mind at rest, "Miss Lee, I am sure you think ins v'ery
in the way he desired? Her silence and persistent, and perhaps I am harming' my
embarrassment told Ainslie that it was im- cause, instead of helping it. But I have
possible. He smiled slightly-a little sadly, one more proposal to make. You were
as it seemed-when ho spoke again, kind enough to offer me permission to paint
"I see you cannot do so. Well, pray do your likeness; and yet you are truthful
not let the fact distress you. We can none enough to tell me that this compliance is
of us control our affections and antipathies, painful to you. Now, if the matter only
you know; the world might be a much bet- concerned myself, I should be a brute.to iw~
tcr world if we could. Tell me this, and I cept your sacrifice of inclination but
will stop worrying you. Do you think concerns your godfather, and my word 'to
there is any hope of my being able to over- him is pledged, I am ~onstrained to coin-
come your prejudice?" promise as best I can. I will, therefore,
Mabel looked at him steadfastly.    take you at your word so far. I will. ask
"I fear not," she said, gravely,    you to give a week's course of sittings, and
"But why not?" persisted he.; and he see if the ordeal proves as terrible as you
tossed his cigar over the balustrade into the fancy it would be. At the end of that tbyi.
river below, as he came nearer to her. you can decide whether or not they shall be
"You must pardon my obstinacy, but I am continued. Does this suit you?"
not accustomed to being disliked, and the "Yes," she answered, ashamed and pro-
novelty is not to 'my taste. Indeed, I am a yoked that she could not speak more cam.
good sort of fellow enough; quite harm- didly, and yefwhollyunable to do so.
less, too, and I am sure you might like, it will suit very well, and-Mr. Ainslie__"
4

K48

MABEL LEE.

I


5r11'  TIEE

50                              JILADXdA
"Well?" he said, smiling as she stopped,
and seemed struggling with herself for a
minute. He was an artist' by nature, and
he was sure he had never seen any thing
more lovely than she looked at that mo-
ment-her lids downcast, her lips quiver-'
ing, and the delicate color of her cheeks
flushing more deeply every instant. "If I
could only paint her so!" he thought to
himself, and, as he thought it, she looked
up at him with her frank, sweet eyes.
"'I only want to~ say that I am very
grateful for your kindness and courtesy,"
she murmured, hastily. "I know how dif-
ferently some people would act, and-and I
am deeply obliged to you. It makes me
very much ashamed of myself at my want
of reason; but I will try to struggle against
the prejudice, the folly of which' I see so
clearly. If I do not finally succeed in lik-
ing you, it certainly will not be your fault,
nor,' I hope, mine either."
A sudden impulse, more of self-reproach
than of any thing' else, made her hold out
her hand as she concluded, and he bent
down and touched his lips to it. Fortu-
nately, he did not see the quick shudder
that ran over her frame, or the look' on hex
face as he did so, as he said, earnestly:
"Not mine, at least."
'At breakfast every one was. rather si.
lent,~for it was a settled thing that the Leer
were to return home that morning, and Mr
Seyion was very low-spirited, over the fact
Of his own good-will he would have kepi
them altogether, and thought it quite a hari
case. that such a proceeding was not prac
ticable. It did not satisfy" this unreason
able ~man that his pretty Mabel was re
moved from him only two short miles, an
that he saw her every day; he wanted he'
with him all the time-in his house, at hi
aide, and, as her motherand sister were he'
necessary appendages, he wanted them alse
Indeed,' to secure Mabel, he would gladl~
have taken in, a regiment of mothers am
sisters,' and ,tho~xght that life could offe
him no higher privilege and greater pleas
ure than to do so. 'Fate had not, howevw
granted him this privilege, and pleasure, s
he looked grave and dissatisfied, as he ss
at'the foot of his pleasant breakfast-tabh

while Mrs. Lee, who presided opposite, re-
flected this discontent to the full. If Mr.
Seyton wished her to remain permanently
in his house, that desire was as nothing to her
own regret that it was impossible for her to
do so. It was the sort of position to which
she was properly born, she thought; for
Mrs. Lee had always been one of the people
who fancy themselves entitled by right di-
vine to the good gifts of Fortune, and i~esent,
as an injury of the deepest dye, any adver-
sity or misfortune. She had been well born
and well reared, and possessed a not uncom-
mon love of luxury, which made the stately
appointments of the House very pleasant to
her. She liked the grand rooms and lofty
corridors, the silver plate and dainty china,
the retinue of servants, to whom she needed
only to say, "Do this," and it was done.
Constance always said that it spoiled her
mother to go to the House, and that she al-
ways required several weeks to recover the
effect of a prolonged visit. On the present
occasion, Constance was in deep disgrace,
for it was she and her tiresome pupils who
were the cause of their leaving, when it
* would have been so easy to spend a week
or two longer on account of Mabel's health.
"What would be the good, mamma?"
Constance said, when this fact was quer-
* ulously brought forward. "We have to go
sooner or later, and why not now, as well
as a week hence? For my part, I like a
* disagreeable thing over."
I "No doubt it is very easy to talk that
I way," Mrs. Lee petulantly rejoined; "but
- I don't see that there is any thing disagree-
- able to you. Of course I have to suffer.
- I always do-and Mabel, somewhat. -As
I for you, however, I have no doubt you will
r be delighted to get back to that horrid Ayre,
5 and your horrid teaching."
r "It is better to be at work, if work is to
be done," Constance replied, and that, was
Y all that she said, for long experience had
i taught her the utter fruitlessness of attempt-
r ing to argue with her mother. She persist-
ed in saying she must go, however, and, as
', her going meant going for all of them, Mrs.
o Lee sat up at the breakfast-table that morn-
Lt ing, and ate her muffins, like a martyr tied
~, to the stake. "I suffer, of course; but that

.

PLAIN SP~lAKING.                             5i
is what I always do," was written on her "I have not the least objection," said
face. And, whenever she addressed Con- Mr. Seyton, "if Queen Mab has none."
stance, it was in the tone of one who mag- Queen Mab blushed and smiled-a blush
nanimously overlooks, but cannot quite for- and smile which indicated any thing but
get, a deep grievance,                  objection.
Meanwhile, Mr. Ainslie had somewhat "I am fond of boating myself, and still
smoothed away the cloud from Mr. Seyton's more fond of Miss Lee's society," broke in
brow, by telling him that Mabel had con- Mr. Harding, abruptly, to every one's sur-
sented to sit for her portrait, and that he prise. "Now, it does not seem to me that
would be ready to begin it whenever she my cousin Philip has a patent monopoly for
felt sufficiently recovered to undergo the fa- either; therefore, if you please, sir, I shall
tigue. "Since you gave a preference to oil- claim a right to take the boat for her, some-
painting over miniature," he added, "it times, at least."
will be necessary for me to fit up a studio "A right!" returned his cousin, before
here, and in that ease Miss Lee will need to Mr~ Seyton could speak. "My dear fellow
come to me, instead of my going to her." there is no such thing as a right in a matter
"Yes," said Mr. Seyton; "of course it like this. Where a lady's favor is in ques-
will be n~cessary.-Mab, my darling, do tion, a man has only one possible right-
your hear that? When can you give Mr. that of offering service."
Ainslie his first sitting?"                "Well," said Mr. Harding, a little sharp-
"To - morrow, godpapa, if mamma ly, "I offer mine, then-we have both of-
agrees," answered Mabel, looking at her fered ours, in fact-and Miss Lee may choose
mother.                                 between them."
"To-morrow will suit me as well as any  "Miss Lee nee~l 'not, of necessity, do any
other. day," said Mrs. Lee, in a tone which thing of the kind," said Mr. Conway, coolly.
befitted her martyr rSle.               "I spoke first. If there is any right in the
"To-morrow, then, is settled," said Mr. matter, it is mine."
Seyton, who was beaming with pleasure.. "Tut, tnt! " said Mr. Sexton, while Mr.
"I shall have one of the rooms opening on A~nslie gave a slightly-amused laugh.
the terrace fitted for a studio; and I sup- "There is, as ~rou said a moment ago, no
pose you scarcely have an easel with you, right in question, save Mabel's right of
Mr. Ainslie ~"                          choice. We won't force that on' her, how-
"I regret to say not," Mr. Ainslie an- ever, for she might end by choosing neither
swered.                                 of you. So I will decide the matter by giv-
"Ab, well, no matter. I have an excel- ing you leave to take the boat for her on
lent carpenter who will make you one in no alternate days."
time. Then how about canvas and paints?" "I must say-" Mr. Conway began, but
"I obtained a supply of those in Ayre his uncle cut him short.
the other day."                            "We won't say any more about it, Phil.
"Ayre is improving. I did not know The matter is settled.-And now, Oscar, go
that its tradespeople dealt in such Commod- and tell them to man the twelve-oar boat."
ities.-Mab, I hope you will not disappoint This was the signal for separation, for
us to-morrow. I shall send the boat after the tying on of. hats and veils, and finally
you at ten o'clock." of departure, all four gentlemen accompany-
"Very well, sir," said Mabel, who did ing the ladies to Ayre. It was quite early,
not look enchanted at the prospect, but and by no means very warm, yet the shade
drank her coffee in sober silence. of the, drooping trees was very pleasant, as-
"I hope I may be allowed to take the they shot along past the ishind which Con-
boat, if' you have no objection, sir?" said way told Maliel' always reminded him of the
Conway. "I volunteer my services, for' isle that Hinda praised so eloquently to her~
boating duty, as long as the painting con-'. lover. He was sitting by her now, and, as
tixiuss."                              they skirted the banks,'he said suddenly:


62~      '                       ZWJJAJJJ
"What a charming fits 4iamp~tro could
be given here 1"
"Picnics here are very common,", said
Mabel. - "I have been to them often.-Do
you remember the last one, Constance?"
"I remember you were sick after it,
from th~ combined effect of thin shoes and
damp ground, if that is what you mean."
"I don't mean that. But you know we
all agreed that dancing on the ground was
vet~y disagreeable, aad in wishing that god-
papa w6uld build a ballroom for us."
"I never heard of it," said Mr. Seyton.
"If you wished it, Mab, why did you not
telluse so? But as for the good people of
Ayre - well, they may build their own
ballroom, I think."
"ft was more they than I who wished
it, godpapa," Mabel said, with a laugh;
"though it would be pleasant, undoubtedly;
for, although 'dancing on the greensward is
~'ery poetical in ideal, it is very tiresome in
reality."
~' Suppose I give your promised inidaum-
nier.night's ball there?" said Mr. Sexton,
half jestingly.
"It would be delightful!" she cried;
while Philip Conway repeated curiously:
"Midsummer-night's ball. What do you
taean?"
"I meaa Mabel's fits-day," Mr. Sexton
answered, with a glance that effectually
stopped i~urther inquiry. "Midsummer-day
l~ hett'east, and so we always celebrate it
witt du6 honor.-I promised you a ball this
year, did I not, Mab?"
"Pndoubtedly you did," said Mabel,
promptly; "and I shall see that the prom-
ise i~ fulfilled. Now, an island-ball would
ho rapturous."
'-Re ltwghed, and yet, despite thee laugh,
his f4ce grew grave, for this midsummer.day
fete had? it~ own significance. Nobody had?
eve1~ uotieed or celebrated Mabel's birthday
4the.dtm~rWhich, besides being her birthday,
.w~th~ annivereary of her father's death;
and~thIs~~e5sit3t seemed so sad to Mr. Sey-
tea, thiit,~ihei~ she was quite a little child,
he inau~tiraied the custom of observing this
othet~ da~ with till the cei~enioisie~ that usu-
ally attend ~%rhat poets are fond of terming
"the natal day." Presents were offered,

MAWI.

good wishes made, holiday festivities insti"
buted, and such a gala air given the occa-
sion, that, as time went on, Mabel positively
began to count the years of her age fiom
this date. She scarcely ever remembered
that it was not in truth her birthday, and
nobody cared to remind her of the fact.
So, now that her eighteenth year was draw-
ing to its close, she seemed as much as ever
oblivious of it, and as much as ever deter-
mined that her fits should make up her
birthday shortcomings.
"An island-ball would be rapturous,
would it?" said Mr. Seyton. "But how
could I build you a ballroom in such a short
time?"
"Oh! there is plenty of time, godpape,
I am sure; and af4ts over there would be
something quite unique-something differ-
ent from a commonplace ~ball up at the
House."
"Something very uncomfortable, I am
afraid," said Mr. Seyton.
"Why so?" asked Conway. "It would
be very easy to construct a pavilion for
dancing, and then, with the undergrowth
cleared away, and the trees hung with
lamps, not to speak of a few arches and lire-
works, a scenic effect might be obtained
which would be very good.-Eh, Ralph?"
"Very," said Mr. Ainslie. "I can fancy
the lights gleaming over the water and the
boats darting to and fro. It is a clever idea,
Phil."
"But a troublesome one," said Mr. Sey-
ton. And with that the matter might have
ended, if he had not looked up at the mo-
ment and seen the expression on Mabel's
face. It was only the youthful, wistful long-
ing for a new pleasure; but it touched the
h~iart that had never yet denied her any eu~
joyment which wealth or love could com-
mand..
"Look here, my fine fellow," said he,
turning to Conway, with a smile, "this is,
indeed, a very clever idea of' yours. But
are you willing to take the trouble of car-
rying it 'out? Will you attend to the ar-
'rangertxents,~without bothering me about it,
and furnish Blake with necessary plans and
directions?"
Philip Conway looked at Mabel, and he

too, read aright the longing in her eyes.
lie, too, felt that any exertion to gratify
that longing would be well made.
"Yes," he said, "I will undertake it
with pleasure."
"Then~" said Mr. Seyton, "I give you
~xsrte lilanche for its fulfilment, with only
this understanding, that I am not to be
troubled. Give Blake your orders, and lie
will carry them out-that is, if Mabel is in
earnest in preferring thathor ball should be
here."
"Indeed I am in earnest 1" cried Mabel,
breathlessly. "It will be charming-it will
be delightful. 0 godp~pa, how can I thank
you enough?"
"Thank Phil, not me," said Mr. Seyton,
with a smile; and, before they finished dis-
cussing and talking it over, the boat swung
round at the foot of Mrs. Lee's garden,
where there was a landing-place, and a
flight of steps which led down to the Wa- I
ter's edge.
On these steps, at the present moment,
Mr. Nowell was standing, ready to receive
his aunt and cousins, but wifh an expres-
sion the reverse of sunshine, when he saw t
who was handing Mabel from the boat. It a
did not mollify him in the l6ast that Mr. Sey-
ton and his guests made their adieux after
the fairer portion of the cargo was fairly o
disembarked, and, promising to see them C
soon again, pursued their way to the town, tI
Miss Lee's residence being in the suburb
nearest the House.
"Francis, you arc not looking ~ is
Constance said, after the first greetings were si
'over; "and you don't seem glad to see us, fa
either. What is the matter?"
"Nothing," answered Mr. Newell, a b
little shortly. "And I suspect lam as glad gi
to see you, Constance, as you are glad to get at
back again. Mabel, in particular, looks
overjoyed."                            te
Mabel was standing at the head of the
steps, swinging her parasol in-her hand, and wi
gazing after the vanishing boat, as her cons- ta~
in spoke.. She heard him, however, end
turned round with a smile.              sh
"Do I look overjoyed?" she asked. it.
"Well, I'm uet exactly that; but I am very ho
well pleased, Francis, I assure you. How wa

p

it A ly'? TPPPAI STna CP!Aunr

w a -nor LEFo

L ~                                  58
pretty every thing is! and, though it has
only been little more than a week since we
went away, what a time it seems!"
"A very charming tim~, iw doubt," said
Mr. Newell, regarding her severely.
"I thought time seemed short when it
was charming," she returned~ "Come, I
will not be scolded as soon as I return..
You may be sure of one~ thing, sir-~-nobody
ever was cross at Seyton House; and, if you
don't want to make me wish myself back
there, you had better smooth your face.
"I am not an airy gallant, like Mr. Phil-
ip Conway, Mabel."
"Mr. Philip Conway is not an airy gal-
lant, as far as I am aware," Mabel retorted.
"He's a very pleasant gentleman; - and if
you will behave yourself; and look moder-
ately interested, I will tell you what he is
going to do for me."
"Going to do for you I Pray u~hat right
bas he to do any thing for you?"
"He has the right of being 4~ery agree-
~ble and obliging," said Mabel, 'a little in~
lignantly. "He is going to build a pavil-
on on the island for myfite; and we are
o have arches, and fireworks, and dancing,
nd a full band of music, and-every thing
hat is delightful. Just think of it!"
"Yes," said Mr. Newell, who did think
fit, to his infinite disgust. "But is Mr.
Jonway already master of Seyton House,
~at he can play the prince in this style 1"
"No; of course not. It is godpapa who
[yes me thef~te, but Mr. Conway has prom-
ed to attend to it, and he has such exqui-
te taste, that it is sure to be fit for the
fries."
"Such exquisite taste, has he I Any..
)dy has exquisite taste who undertakes to
~atify y~ur whims, I believe. Bnt if my
nit allows this nonsense "
"Mamma's delighted with the idea," in-
rrupted:Mabel.
"Then I hope she will also be delighted
ith the colds and sore throats it will en-
II."
"You may be sure of one thing," cried
e, "we;w~l n~t force anybody to come to
You may stay iu Ayre, and read yo~
rrid law-books that very, night, if yoj~
~iit to."


54                             ~1ABEL LEE.                                                                       FORESHADOWI GB.                            55

"The permission is scarcely necessary,
Mabel."
"NoU8 ~er~ono," she said, nodding her
head, and then she went away to the house,
vanishing 'down the long green walk that
led direct from the river-side to the back
piazza,~while Mr. Nowell turned to his cous-
in, who had stood by in amused silence.
"She is worse spoiled than 'ever, Con-
stance," he said, as if the spoiling was all
Constance's fault. "I am sure I don't see~
where it is to end."
"It would end easily enough if you were
kind instead of severe," Constance said.
"Your constant censure does harm instead
of good, Francis."
"I know that nothing but indulgence
does good in your eyes," he returned, as
they walked 'on toward the house.
Constance's few words had their weight,
however, for he exerted himself to be more
agreeable after he caine in, and did not even
say any thing unpleasant when he heard of
the portrait-painting, which was in itself a
remarkable fact.
CHAPTER X.
F 0 ii E 5 H A D 0 w I N~G 5.
"WzLL, Blake," said Mr. Sexton, "you
have not told me yet what your decision is
in the case of Conway 'V8. Harding,"
Two or three weeks had elapsed when
the master of Seyton House addressed this
half-imghing question to his faithful friend
and steward. They were alone in the li-
brary, and had been deep in business foi
sonie time, until Mr. Seyton pushed aside
impatiently the balance-sheet for which hE
entertained such a disgust, and changed thE
subject in this way. He looked at BlakE
with a great deal of amusement in his eyes~
and scarcely understood the half-perplex&amp;
regard which Blake returned.
"I take it you mean your nephews
sir?" the latter said, after a pause.
"~L'o be sure, I mean my nephews,~~ re
plied Mr. Sexton, good-humoredly. "Wh(
else. should I mean? Come, don't be stu
pid-or obstinate, either! Confess yow

prejudices and mistakes, and own up, like a
good fellow, that you would rather burn the
old house down, than see Cyril Harding
master of it."
"I'm no special friend of Mr. Harding's,
sir," Blake answered; "but I could stand
seeing him master as well as I could stand
seeing anybody after you are gone. If it
was Mr. Conway, now, you may be sure I'd
rather put a torch to the old timbers."
"So you are as obstinately set against
him as ever
"If you choose to put it in that wag,
sir, yes-I'm as obstinately set against him
as ever."
"You used to be a reasonable man,
Blake; if you are a reasonable man yet, you
must have some ground for such a prejudice.
What is it?"
An awkward question that, for which
Mr. Blake did not seem to possess any reply.
He twisted a pen to and fro in his strong,
brown fingers for some time, before he
replied. Then it was quite abruptly:
"I don't know that I could make you
understand, sir, so perhaps we had better
not talk of it. I gave my advice once, and
you didn't take it; that's all. I have got no
right to give it over again."
"Not when I ask you?"
"I'To, sir; not even when you ask me, if
it will do no good."
"That's as much as saying you have no
reason to advance in support of it, then; for
you know, if you 7&amp;ad a reason, it would do
good. If I have been deaf to you hereto-
* fore, it was only because you had nothing
* but prejudice to urge. Bring any thing
else, and see if I do not pay attention to it."
"I have nothing to bring, sir," said
Blake, very doggedly-" nothing, that is,
which you don't know yourself. You know
what the captain was, and how the captain
ended; and you might know, too, that the
son is following exactly in the father's steps.
So, if you choose to set aside these things, I
have nothing else to bring."
"Stop a moment," said Mr. Sexton.
"Tell me what you mean by 'following ex-
actly in the father's steps?"'
"What should I mean, sir, only that
just what the captain was when he cnme

here first, Mr. Philip is now. The captain
could talk of nothing but horses and races
and billiards, and neither can Mr. Philip;
the captain knew every jockey and gambler
in the country, and so does Mr. Philip; the
captain had never any thing but a sneer for
any good man or any decent woman, and
neither has Mr. Philip; the captain carried
off a sweet lady, to her own misery and ruin,
and so is Mr. Philip about to do."
"What do you mean?" demanded Mr.
Seyton, sharply, on whom this climax came
like a thunder-clap.
Mr. Blake looked at him in surprise.
"Surely you know what I mean, sir;
although, perhaps, it was not my place to
mention it," he said.
"Do you mean any thing about my god-
daughter ?~"
"I mean only this, sir: that day after
day I meet Miss Mabel and Mr. Conway
walking, or riding, or boating together, and
I have begun to think that the county must
be right when it says that your heir will
also be her husband."
"Does the county say that?"
"It has said it a long while, sir."
"But it' is not true. You know it is not
true."
"Ho~v can I know it, sir? Miss Mabel
is an angel of beauty and goodness-but
she's a woman, after all. And as to what
Mr. Philip Conway is, you're only to re-
member what the capital was when he car-
ried off Miss Adela."
"But it is impossible! "cried Mr. Seyton,
who had grown very pale within the last
few minutes-" it's impossible, I tell you.
Mabel would not dream of such a thing-
and her mother-her sister-pshaw! It is
absurd."
"Humph!" said Mr. Blake, dryly. "Do
young ladies usually ask the permission of
their mothers and sisters, before they fall
in love? I beg your pardon, sir, if I am
speaking too freely, but it seems to me you
might have expected this."
"Expected it!" repeated Mr. Seyton,
with something of a gasp, and then he got
up and walked disturbedly to and fro.
"You are wrong, Blake; you're totally
wrong," he said at last. "I am sure of

* that. But, if you should be right, how
shall I ever forgive myself?"
It was on the end of Blake's tongue to
say, "I warned you, sir,", but he forbore.
If what he feared was true, Mr. Sexton's
self-reproaches would need no point from
him. If not-but, alas! how little could
either of them discern that darker future
which was to come, and which would make
even this fear seem in the retrospect a
blessed hope!
"I believe we have finished with this
business to-day," said Mr. Sexton, coming
abruptly to the table, and putting the ac-
counts away. "If you will ride over to-
morrow, I will try and look at the rest.-
By-the-way, how does the pavilion come
on?"
"Tolerably only, sir. Mr. Conway gives
so many orders, and is so contradictory
about them,"
"Well, well, it will all come right, I
dare say," interrupted Mr. Seyton, absently.
~"You must excuse me if I leave you now."
"Yes, sir, certainly. Indeed, I'm just
going.
"Good-morning, then."
"Good-morning, sir."
They shook hands, and Mr. Seyton left
the room by one door, while Mr. Blake went
out of another, which opened on a side
piazza. The bright, warm noonday was
somewhat dazzling after the subdued gloom
of the library, and he pulled his hat soi~w
over his brow that, as he went down the
steps, he did not see Cyril Harding, who
was ascending them, until they came face
to face.
Now, notwithstanding~the warmth with
which Mr. Blake espoused this gentleman's
cause, in his inmost heart he entertained no
sort of fancy for him. It was a matter of
choosing between two evils with him, and
as Cyril Harding was, in his eyes, an in-
finitely less evil than Philip Conway, he
did battle manfully in his service. But, for
all that, his regard for him was, scarcely
more cordial than that of Mi~. Seyton. So
he greeted him rather stiffly, and was by no
means pleased that Mr. Harding chose to
turn and 'accompany him to the front of the
house,' where his horse was waiting.


56                         MABEL LEE.                                                              FORESHADOWING.

"How does the pavilion come on, Mr.
t3lake ~" inquired this gentleman, repeating
Mr. Sexton's question in a patronizing tone,
which made Mr. Blake feel very savage in
his inmost heart. "The 21st is very near
at hand. I suppose you will surely com-
plete it goon?"
"I suppose so too, sir," said Mr. Blake,
"if Mr.Conway will know his own mind.
It is very hard on the workmen, this hav-
ing to tear down and put up continually,
and Mr. Conway changes his plans every
day or tivo."
"The last thing I heard of was the diffi-
culty about Tonic columns," said Mr. Hard-
ing. "What is he after now?"
"The Lord only knows. Some hea-
thenish roof or other, that nobody ever saw
the like of~ as far as I know. I went there
yesterday, and the carpenters were all at a
stand-still over it, while Mr. Conway wa~s
not to be found high or low."
"That's no uncommon thing," said Mr.
Harding, with a grim sort of smile. "Mr.
Conway rarely ~8 to be found, excepting
when Miss Lee is at the House. I hope my
uncle is pleased at the prospect of the alli-
ance pending in that direction, Mr.. Blake?"
"I am sure I cannot say, sir," replied
Mr. Blake, who had no idea of being sub-
jected to a pumping-process for Mr. Hard-
ing's benefit.
"I scarcely feel able to congratulate
Miss Lee on her prospects of happiness,"
pursued the latter, who was evidently
smarting from some fancied injury or re-
pulse. "My cousin Philip's character is
notorious; and, if my uncle is not aware of
it, I think-I really think-that it is the
duty of some friend to enlighten him."
"I wonder that you do not take that
duty upon yourself," said Mr. Blake, who
every moment liked Mr. Harding less.
"There are motives of delicacy," said
Mr. Harding, solemnly. "Otherwise-but
I am sure you understand. It is impossible
for me to do it-quite impossible. Now,
yota, Blake-"
"Excuse me, sir," interrupted Mr. Blake,
shortly-" I ~havo no talent for tale~bear~
ing, even when I am able to vouch for the
tales myself. Mr. Conway's habits do not

concern me ;-nor, perhaps, Mr. Sexton,
either.
"Why?" asked Mr.. Harding, eagerly.
"You think my uncle not likely to-to-.
make him his heir?"
"As for that, I am unable to hazard an
opinion," answered the other, stiffly; "but
I only know this, sir, Mr. Sexton is able to
look after his own interests, and, if he can-
not find an heir to suit him, he will, like as
not, cut the matter short by leaving the
property to Mien Mahel Lee. Good morn-
lug, sir.
"But, good Heavens! The entail! He
dare not-" began the astonished Harding.
But Mr. Blake was gone. He had
mounted Brown Jerry as he uttered the
last words, and he was now riding away at
a sharp trot. "A precious pair," he mut-
tered between his teeth, for he was in more
of a fume than he would have liked to ac-
knowledge - "a precious pair to choose
between! No wonder the master can't
make up his mind, when he has to take, a
chanting prig like this, or a gambling adven-
turer like the other. I'm glad I gave him
that last shot. He'll not forget it soon,
and, if it does nothing else, it'll make him
uncomfortable."
Meanwhile, Mr. Scyton had gone to the
room which was fitted up as a studio for
Ainslie. It was a very pleasant apartment
connecting with the drawing-room suite,
and opening, like the library, on the ter-
race; but lacking sufficient light to make it
a good painting-room. The artist had obvi-
ated this as well as he could, by placing his
easel in the broadest glow of an uncurtained
window; but, even with this arrangement,
he found that he could do no work after
mid-day. The light changed then in the
most exasperating manner; so, necessarily,
all of Mabel's sittings were in the morning.
It was morning now, and she was on duty,
draped about with a blue scarf of son~e
light material, while her mother sat cro~
cheating in one of the open windows, and
Conway amused himself by playing critic-
in.'chief. Ha was standing behind his frisnd,
and sn animated discussion had for some
time been goingon between them.
"I maintain that the spirit of the thing

is all
wrono"' Conway was saying. "Y(
may talk about exactness of feature ai
clearness of tint as much as you pleas
Ralph; but expression is, after all, tI
main point, and there you have failed e
tirely. You may not believe it, for you a
wonderfully set up in your own opinion, bi
it is a fact, nevertheless."
"I don't know that I am set up in m
own opinion," said Ainslie, painting awa
very coolly, "but you are not infallible
I'hil, in art, any more than in any thin
else. I don't agree with you; I think I hay
caught Miss Lee's expression perfectly."
"What! that woe-begone face and mar
tyr-like nose? It might serve as a concept
tion. of Iphigenia, but for her-my dear fel
low, you must be blind. Now, if I had beci
in your place, I should have painted her ac
cording to one's idea of Titania-
'With childhood's starry graces lingering yet,
r the rosy orient of young womanhood."'
"I paint her as she seems to me," an
swerved the other, retreating a step or twc
back from his canvas. "If ever I san
Miss Lee's face in my life, I see it there,'
he went on; "and as for the expression-
you don't know what you are talking about,
Phil. That expression is, above all others,
the one which is most natural to her face."
"I know better," returned the other, ob-
stinately. "I have eyes, and they are as
good eyes as yours, though I can't put down
their expression in red and white.-Will you
come and see which of us is right, Miss Ma-
bel?"
But Miss Mabel only smiled and shook
her bead.
"I should not know," she said. "No-
body can judge of her own likeness-and,
besides, I should get out of position."
"Mrs. Lee, will you come?" asked the
injured artist, turning to his only other
witness, for Mr. Seyton had not yet ap-
peared. "Will you come and say who is
right?"
Mrs. Lee came, rather reluctantly, for
she knew as much of art as if she had been
reared amollg the Xaffre; and looked at the.
picture from a safe distance, with head a
little on one side.

)u "It is like Mabel," she said, "wender-
id fully like her. I don't see how yomt ever
e, managed it so well, Mr. Ainslie. The 'hair
me is hers exactly, and the color in her cheeks
a- is as like as life. Then the eyes-"
.e "My dear madam, how about the cx..
it pressing?" interrupted Ainslie. "Do you
think it is too pensive, too sad?"
y "It is very sad," said Mrs. Lee, doubt-
y fully. "But I have often seen Mabel look
~, just that way, especially when she was
g asleep."
e "And it is said that the face always as-
sumes the natural expression in sleep," said
Ainslie, looking triumphantly at Conway'.
-"I hope you are satisfied now, Phil."
-     "Not at all," returned    the  other.
i "Here's my uncle; we'll refer the matter
- to him. You are just in time, sir, to decide
an important.jjuestion between Ainslie and
myself-no less a questioum than whether
Miss Mabel is to appear on hi~ canvas as a
type of all the despairing maidens who ever
- looked unutterable woe since the beginning
of the world, or whether she is to be her
own bright self. For my part," continued
he, with emphasis, "I hate woc-begone
faces, and I don't 'know any class of people
bhave less sympathy with than the class of
Mariannas in their moated granges."
"I am perfectly willing that you should
judge between us," said the artist, address-
ing his host; and he moved aside, to surren-
der the best stand-point.
Mr. Seyton uttered an exclamation whezi
he came in front of the painting; and then
stood still for some minutes, regarding it
silently. It was a singularly beautiful con-
ception, and, apart from all question of like..
ness, one whIch proved the artistic power
and artistic culture of the hand that had
produced it. Yet it was very simple. Only
a half-length, and painted without back-
ground or accessories, or any of the ordi-
nary surroundings of a portrait. Instead of
these, the canvas was covered with fleecy
white clouds, out of which Mabel'sface shone
like a star-her blue mantle thrown lightly
over her head inahood-like fashion, f*tstened
at the throat by a single golden clasp, and
falling all around her, so that the waving
outlines of the figure could only be dinal.y


58

MABEL LEE-.

perceived beneath its folds. The effect was
exquisite. The golden hair, half waved,
half curled round the broad, white, child-
like brow, and then was plainly put back
behind the ears, while the eyes, "like wood-
land violets newly wet," looked forth with
that sweet sad regard which all her life long
had distinguished them. Instead of this ex-
pression being confined to the eyes, the ar-
tist had caused it to pervade the whole face,
until every feature was tinged with the
same subtle melancholy; and even her lips~
in place of wearing their accustomed smile,
were closed with a grave pathos, and the
hands lightly clasped together over the
breast increased the resemblance, which al-
most any one would have remarked at first
sight, to the Madonnas of the Italian school
-to the sweet divine grace of the star-
crowned Queen~of Heaven, as it shines upon
us from the canvas of those great masters
wh~ were of purer faith, as well as of
greater genius, than any who have trod in
the footsteps which they made immortal.
It was Mabel Lee, but Mabel Lee ethereal-
ized into a beauty deeper than the mere
beauty of flesh and blood; it was Mabel Lee
shining out of her clouds and her azure
drapery like a vision of some tender virgin
saint, as we picture it to ourselves, some
loving, pitiful heart, that is smitten by the
sin and suffering of earth, and whose sadness
is for the fettered lives and sordid spirits of
others, rather than for the self that has
learned a~l wisdom, all science, all knowl-
edge, human and divine, in two words-
"Surau)n corda."
* Whether Mr. Seyton saw all of this or
not, nobody could tell; but he was silent a
long time. Then he spoke without looking
round.
"It is exquisite, Mr. Ainslie, far more
beautiful even than I had expected. Did
3rou ask me for my opinion? I have noth-
ing to offer but admiration."
"I asked for your opinion, sir," said
Conway. "I begged to know if you do not
agree with me that, however beautiful it
may be, it is a false conception of Miss
Mabel's face."
* "It looks like a saint or a Madonna,"
said Mr. Seyton, smiling; "but I cannot

find fault with that, Phil. I:hava s~e'i t~l~at
expression on Mabel's face very~ oftan, I
saw it this morning in church." *
"And I saw it the first time I ever ~w
her," said Ainslie. "I have painted ac~
cording to my light. If it don't suW you,
Phil, you will have to paint 4ne for your7
self."
"I should paint a woman and not a
saint, then," returned Conway, impatiently.
*" There may be too much of a good thing,
Ralph. Miss Mabel* has quite as many
angelic attributes at present as she has any
need of."
"I work according to my inspiration,"
repeated Ainslie. Whereuponhe went back
to his canvas, and began touching, with
light, sweeping strokes, the folds of the blue~
mantle.
He painted steadily for some time; and
they were all quite silent-Mr. Seyton's ad-
vent, and the cloud he unconsciously brought
along with him, having put an end to the
pleasant flow of talk and laughter which
had been going on previously to his en-
trance. For perhaps it was Philip Con-
way's invariable presence in the studio, per-
haps it was the fact that Mr. Ainslie decid-
edly improved on acquaintance, or perhaps
it was only the pleasant occupation of
knowing that her features were coming
out one by one under the artist's brush, but
Mabel had become quite reconciled to the
sittings; and, although the portrait had al-
ready been in progress some time, and was
yet far from completion, she had never been
heard to express impatience or wonder
concerning the delay.
"I think Ralph dallies over it, because
he means to go as soon as it is finished,"
Philip Conway once exclaimed. And yet
the explanation was scarcely necessary, for
nobody concerned (excepting Mr. Nowell,
and he could hardly be said to be con-
cerned) found fault with this procrastina-
tion-Mr. Sexton least of all. He cordially
liked his guest, was glad of any excuse to
detain him, and would have submitted
uncomplainingly to almost any privation
which brought Mabel to the house every
day.
Mr. Ainslie had painted for about half

FORESHA

tw1i~utyaud, tired of the dulness which had
settled eyer~them, Philip Conway had saun-
tered a~ay, when the former suddenly
glanw4~ ropnaN and saw that Mabel was
1~okiii~ tired.
at~on~t let me detain you any longer,
Miss Lee," he said, kindly. "I shall not
need you again to-day; and, although your
patience is perfect, I should not like to tax
i1~ too far."
"You never do, Mr. Ainslie," answered
Mabel, rising. "It i~ my fault, not yours,
that I have grown n little weary to-day.
Mamma, I am ready."
"But you will wait for luncheon," said
Mr. Seyton, throwing aside the paper he
had taken up.
"1N9,"jsaid Mrs. Lee, a little plaintively.
"I am sorry I cannot. Did you say you
were ready, Mabel? We must go, Mr. Sey-
ton, for the Boyds are to dine with me to-
day; and, although I don't consider them
company, still-"
"Still we must go," said Mabel, decid~
edly. And she put on her hat.
"I think I shall accompany you home,"
said Mr. Seyton, rising as he spoke. "These
young men have had quite a monopoly of your
society lately; and everybody knows that
turn about is only fair play.-Toll Phil so,
if he comes, Mr. Ainslie," he added, nod-
ding carelessly to that gentleman.
"There is really no necessity, Mr. Sey-
ton," began Mrs. Lee; but Mr. Seyton in-
terrupted her in his courtly way.
"You won't deny me the pleasure, I am
sure, my dear madam.-Mab, you can dis-
pense with a young gallant for once, can
you not? Besides, I want to stop at the
island and see for myself how the prepara-
tions come on. Are you ready?"
With a briglit smile Mabel assented, and
her godfather was more than pleased to see
that there was not even a shade of disap-
pointment on her face. "It was all an idea t
of Blake's," he thought. And the relief con- t
sequent upon feeling this was so great that
he attended the two ladies down to the boat t
in even more than his usual spirits.
The reverse was strikingly the case with a
Philip Conway, however, when he entered o
the studio half an hour later, and found no- 'tJ

DOWINGS.                            59
*body but Ainslie, who was still hard at
work.
"Where are they all? Where's ~fiss
Lee?" he asked, quickly. "Surely they
have not gone home without me?"
"That is exactly what they have done,"
said his friend, coolly. "You ought to have
stayed, mon ami, if you wanted to look after
your interests."
"But how was I to fancy they would
treat me this way? And you-you might
have let me know, Ralph."
"There was nothing to let you know,"
the other answered, with a shrug. "V~tre
onclo interfered, and carried them off, much
against the fair Mabel's wishes, I imagine.
He bade me tell you that turn about is fair
play, if that is any consolation to you."
"My uncle," repeated Philip Conway.
"The deuce! What does that mean, I
wonder? Do you know I fancied that he
looked rather-rather queer, when he came
in a while ago?"
"He looked rather out of sorts; but
what of that?"
"Only that he may have been hearing
some pleasant story or other about my
many virtues and good deeds; and that, per
cbnsequence, he thinks it a measure of pre-
caution to guard his pet lamb from such a
wolf."
"A guilty conscience-you know the
rest," said Mr. Ainslie, giving a dash of
paint on Mabel's golden locks. "Don't bo
~bsurd, Phil. Who would ho have heard
my thing from?"
"My precious cousin for one."
"BahI he would not dare to speak, for
~iis own sake."
"That obstinate old Blake for another."
"And how would he know any, thing?"
"He is keen enough, and prejudiced
~nough, to ferret out every ugly story that
~ver was afloat against me, and how many
here are, and have beep, I don't need to
ell you."
"hTo," said Ainslie, dryly. "But I can
ell yon that you make a great mistake in
thinking your uncle would listen to any gos.-
ip of the sort. He is a gentleman of the
ld school, and so thoroughly imbued with
he nobleBse-oklif/e theory that to do~'auy


60                           IIABEL L1~E.                                                                  "IN A QONDOLA."

thing underhand would be an impossibility
to him. Besides, are you so much set upon
this inheritance that you should fly off at a
tangent because he' happens to look a little
grave? That's rather a change from your
old philosophy."
"Yes~"said Conway, absently. He threw
himself back in the chair where Mabel had
been sitting, and there was silence in the
room for several minutes, for Ain~lie painted
steadily on and waited for the other to speak,
which the other did not do for some time.
~" The devil's in it," he said at last, ab-
ruptly. "You'd scarcely think it, Ralph,
but the devil certainly must be in it. You
are right about my old philosophy, and it
was a very genuine philosophy too. I
scarcely eared a cent about the Seyton in-
heritance during~cll these years, or, indeed,
when I came here. But now-I wonder if
it c~u be that fellow, Harding, who has in-
feeted. me with his own overwhelming de-
sire, or if it is simply the wish to win the
race against him?"
Mr. Ainslie looked at him with a sort of
dry, sarcastic smile.
" So that's all you know about it?" he
said. "My good fellow, the secret of the
~natter is neither the Harding rivalry nor
your own uewly-cThveloped mercenary spirit;
but simply and solely-this."
He pointed his brush at Mabel Lee's
face.
"Perhaps you are right," answered the
other, nowise discomposed or taken aback.
"The master of Seyton House might afford
to indulge himself in the luxury of a wife,
pretty, charming, and penniless. But, for a
poor devil like me, it would be unqualified
madness, you know."
"So: you are conducting your love-affair
bn the prospects of heirship?"
"I'm not conducting a love-affair at all;
I'm not such a fooL You might as well
talk to ~'&amp; starving man of eating turtle and
drinking tokay. I am simply living in the
hour."
"It is tobe hQped that Miss Lee is doing
th~ same."'
At these words a dark cloud came over
Ctrnway's face.
"That's the misgiving I have myself,"

he said. "Sometimes-just now, ~for in-
stance-I feel as if I were acting like a
scoundrel. But what can I do? If I go
away, I leave this d-d fellow, Harding, in
possession of the field, and so throw aw~iy
my only chance of fortune; while, as long
as I stay-"
The pretty fooling is bound to go on,
said his friend philosophically. "Yes, I see
that. But look here, Phil, does it never
strike you that perhaps your best chance of
the fortune would be to secure the fair Ma-
bel at once? Her godfather could hardly
steel his heart against the future husband;
or (if you are bent on a bold coup) the pres-
ent husband of his pet."
"I said a moment ago that I felt like a
scoundrel," answered Conway, shortly-
"but I have no mind to be one, Ralph.
Now, I should call that scoundrelism of the
deepest dye. I don't pretend to indifference
on the sul~ject of the heirship; I do want
it; and I don't pretend to love Mabel Lee
like a paladin, or like any thing else hut an
ordinary man; hut I love her well enough not
to use her as a stepping-stone to fortune."
"Ab, I see; you've turned Quixote by
way of variety."
"Devil a bit of it, as you know perfectly
well. But a. man is not necessarily a scoun-
drel because he is an adventurer. I leave
the first to my distinguished cousin."
"What do you mean?"
"Nothing, except that I doubt if he
would consider means very much where
Seyton House was at stake."
"You had better look out, then."
"I had better not pay him any such
compliment. Let him do his best, or-his
worst. If there is any thing that I can resent
openly, you may he sure that I will do so;
but if not-you would scarcely advise me
to play the spy."
"The matter stands thus, then," said
Mr. Ainslie, throwing a cloth over his easel,
preparatory to leaving it,, and dropping the
subject of Mr. Harding very abruptly, "If
you are lucky enough to be chosen hy your
uncle as his heir, you wifl offer yourself to
Miss Lee; if not-"
"I shall go back to the old life, iirnl
leave her to my cousin Cyril," answered

the other, rising. "'To him that hath shal
he given,' you know. It is not often
quote a text; but constant Harding associa
tion must tell, I suppose. Come away now
and let us row over to the island. The~
send me word the very deuce is to pay ove
there."
CUAPT1~R XI.
~~LK A GONDOLA.~7
'Thu very deuce may have been to pay
at the ishind; but at least the question of
payment did not trouble Mr. Conway long.
That very afternoon his skit? swung round
to its moo$ng at the foot of Mrs. Lee's gar.
den; and, five minutes later, he stood at the
door of a pretty rose and clematis arbor,
within which a small table and some chairs
were placed, and where Constance and Mabel
generally sat after the mid-day heat abated.
They were sitting there now, and both
of them looked up with a smile of welcome
as he made his appearance, for it had come
to pass; without any one exactly knowing
how, that he filled quite an intimate posi-
tion in the Lee household. Why, it would
be hard to say, excepting that he, and the
like of him, generally obtain more than
their due portion of woman's favor and sym-
pathy, for both of which some plainer and
more honest fellow goes begging. It will
be remembered, however, that Mabel had
been his advocate before she ever saw him,
and inthis she did little more than echo the
family opinion, for Mrs. Lee had once been
intimate with Mrs. Conway, when that lady
was Miss Seyton, and she did not forget this
any more than she forgot the charming
manners and distinguished appearance of
that unfortunate gentleman whom Mr.
Blake styled "the captain," and never
mentioned without a grim sort of disap-
proval. Like many of her sex, Mrs. Lee
was decidedly liberal to the failings of other
women's husbands, and could not conceive
that the trifling matter of being a spend-
thrift and adventurer, and next thing to
ii swindirr, could possibly overbalance the
handsomest face and most perfect manner I

~l she had ever seen~ so her tone concerning
I Captain Conway was invariably one of miii-
gled pity-as for a hero unjustly maligned
-and exalted admiration. "The most fas-
cinating person in the world," she. would
say. "0 my dears, if you had only seen
him! It is true, you see Mr. Conway; but
I assure you he is only a faint reflection of
his father. Very charming, I grant you,
and'~very much of an improvement on the
young men of the day. But not to be com~
pared, oh, not at all to be compared to the
captain." "I hope he is an improvement
- on the captain, as well as on the young men
of the day, in some respects," Constance
would answer, gravely, at which Mrs. Lee
always gave a little cry of expostulation.
"For shame, my dear! You have been
hearing some of these horrid stories about
him. I assure you, and I know all about it~
that there was not a word. of truth in them4
No one could have known Captain Conwt~y,
and believed them, Constance." "Yes,
mamma," Constance would answer absent~
ly; for she was wondering the while if her
own partiality for Philip the Second rested
as entirely on the foundation of his mere
personal fascinations, as did that of her
riiother foi' Philip the First. "I hope I like
him for himself-I hope I am no~ mistaken
in liking him; I really believe he, has good
qualities, under all his recklessness and care-
lessness," she thought earnestly, more ear-
nestly than she would have liked to ac-
knowledge. as she saw Mabel's eloquent
ey~es and flushing cheeks; for Mabel rarely
spoke in these discussions, save by her eyes
and cheeks; yet nobody ever seemed to
doubt that she too was a firm Conway par-
tisan.
"Ladies fair," said the much-canvassed
gentleman, as he paused before them, framed
in the door of the arbor, and looking like a
young cavalier, with the flickering sunlight
falling in patches on his black curls and
graceful' figure-" who is ready. for a row?
My boat is on the shore, and the river is
smooth as glass. Miss Lee, I am sure Misi
Mabel will come; can I not 'for once' tempt
you also?"
Constance looked up from her~sewi~g.~-.
she was always busy-with a smile.


MABEL LEE.                                                              "IN A GONDOLA."

"You are very kind, Mr. Conway, but I
am afraid my answer must be the invariable
no. I would like to go very much, but-"
"But what? " askcd Mabel, as she
paused. "Really, dear, I see no earthly
reason why you should not go this evening.
That work can very well wait, and there are
no cakes to make for tea, nor any thing
else, that I know of."
"Pray, Miss Lee, think again," said
Conway; and it was the highest possible*
compliment to Constance's sweetness and
charms, that he was perfectly sincere in the
request. "I want to take you both over to
the island, and ask your advice about the
pavilion, which threatens to prove a failure.
I am afraid my first essay as an architect is
by no means a success. Ainslie laughs at
it, and says nothing fit to be seen will ever
come of it; but I think he may be mistaken,
and I want your advice."
"You want us to agree with you, that
is," said Constance, smiling again. "Well,
I will come, if you think me worth waiting
for a little while. I must see Nancy first."
"We think you worth waiting for any
time at all," he answered, as he moved aside
to let her pass.
"I Won't be long," she said, as she van-
ished from sight; but, if she had only known
it, there was no question of the length or
shortness of time with the two she had left
behind her. Hours were scarcely counted
in the garden of Eden; and once, at least,
in life, we all of us wander in that blessed
place. Yet to the profane ears of outsiders
their conversation might have seemed very
commonplace, after all, being only this:
"I see you have been reading," said
Conway, advancing into the arbor, and tak-
ing Constance's vacant chair. "What is
it? Ah, my Browning, is it not?"
"Yes," answered Mabel, with a blush
and &amp; smile, that always went together
when she spoke to him. "It is your Brown-
ing, though I can scarcely say that I have
been reading it. The fact is, Mr. Conway,
I-I'm afraid I'm very stupid; but I don'1
understand it."
"You are not necessarily stupid on thai
account, I assure you," said Conway, with
laugh. "A great many wise people fail ts

comprehend Mr. Browning. He is a new*
poet, with a new style, which I confess I do
not like, though Ainslie raves over it. Some
of the beauties don't lie too deep for com-
prehension, though, and it was these I rec-
ommended to you."
~tYes, I know, and I have enjoyed them
very much. You see it is the Dramatic
Lyrics I have here. I tried 'Sordello' this
morning, but-"
"But you came to grief shortly? No
wonder. I pity you sincerely if you even
tried it. I wish you could hear Ainslie read
some of these," he added, as he took up the
volume. "His elocution is perfect; and I
cannot imagine a more difficult test than
this wonderfully involuted metre. You
would scarcely believe it, perhaps, but he
absolutely brings out the sense sometimes."
"Does he? Then I should like to hear
him. But you, Mr. Conway-I am sure you
also read well."
"Why do you suppose so?"
She gave a little laugh.
"I can scarcely tell, excepting that your
voice is very musical. Let me hear whether
I am right or wrong. Read something."
"Read what?"
"Whatever the page is open on."
He smiled.
"To hear is to obey," he said. And
then he began those quick, ringing verses:
~ You know we French stormed Ratisbon;
A mile or two away,
On a little mound Napoleon
Stood on our storming day."
He read well, certainly; with very per-
fect taste and just emphasis; but Mabel be-
gan to feel a little disappointed, and fancy
she had, after all, mistaken the capability of
expression in the voice, the depths of passion
and energy which she had expected to find
there, when he came to the last verse:
"The chief's eye flashed; hut presently
Softened ltseg as sheathes
A film the mother.eagle's eye
When her bruised eaglet breathes.
'You're wounded I' 'Nay,' his sol4ler's pride,
Touched to the quick, he saki:
'in killed, sire!' And his chief bealde,
Smiling the boy fell dead~'
Then, with a sharp thrill that went
through and through her, and with the hot

tears which rushed to her eyes, she felt
that she had n~t~ been wrong; for never
was the spirit of a poet better caught or
better rendered than Philip Conway had
caught and rendered this. The emperor's
tone of warm yet careless sympathy, and
the proud, calm answer of the boy, who a
moment before had spoken with such gay
daring, the boy at whom
"You look twice ere you saw his breast
Was all but shot in two."
But, by this time, and before she could
express approbation in words, Constance,
who had concluded her interview with Nan-
cy, came back to them.
"If we are going to the island, we had
better start," she said. "It is quite late."
They s~t out at once. It did not take
them long to reach their destination, for
Conway used the oars as well as a profes-
sional boatman, and pulled against the cur-
rent with such hearty good-will, that his
keel soon grated on the island sand. A ne-
gro who was standing by made fast the
boat to a small upright stake, and then Con.-
way sprang out.
"I suppose the men are at work yet,"
he said to the idler. "Are you not one of
them? What are you about here?"
"No, sir, I'm not one of them," an-
swered the boy, a little sullenly. "I waits
on Mr. Blake, sir, and I rowed him over."
"What! is Mr. Blake here?"
"Yes, sir. You'll lind him where the
work's going on."
''I haven't the least desire to find him,~~
muttered Conway between his teeth, as he
turned to assist the two ladies ashore.
"You see we've been clearing already,"
he said, while they walked up a gentle as-
cent toward the pavilion. "These arcades
will be very beautiful, I think, when they
are well lighted up."
"They are very beautiful now," said
Constance, glancing down the paths which
opened among the undergrowth to the right
and left. "What exquisite views !-Look,
Mabel, at that one."
"Ah, how pretty!" said Mabel; and
she stood still to admire the vista that
opened before her-a vista lined with green, ~

and giving a panoramic view of the blue
water, the wooded shore, and the distant
hills.
"But come this way," said her escort.
"Now, here-I mean this to be the scenic
effect, .par excellence, of the evening. Im-
agine that unsightly mass of lumber yonder
transformed into a pavilion all ablaze with
light; imagine every tree bordering this
avenue hung with lamps-archways span-
ning it at intervals; then tell me what you
think of it."
"I think it will be like fairy-land!"
cried Mabel, clasping her hands; for he had
drawn her into a long, straight avenue,
which led directly from end to end of the
island, and in the middle of which the un-
sightly mass of lumber, that was to be trans-
formed into a pavilion, stood. At least he
assured her that it stood there, and that
the effect would be the sante if it were ap-
proached on either side. But, from their
stand-point, she could scarcely believe it
did not end the vista. "It would be like
fairy-land," she repeated. "And, 0 Mr.
Conway, how could you slander your pa-
vilion so? I think it is beautiful.-Don't
you, Constance?"
"I think it looks very pretty from here,"
said Constance; "but a mud-cabin would
do that, I expect. Mr. Conway, are *e not
to see it any nearer?"
"Undoubtedly," said Mr. Conway, with
a laugh. "You are to examine it as closely,
and give youropinion of it as frankly, as you
please.-This way, Miss Mabel. Take care
-those trilling fellows have left a great
deal of brushwood lying about. You had
better take my arm."
Mabel took the arm-she would have
been apt to take a scorpion if he had offered
it to her-and before long they made their
appearance on the open space around the
pavilion, where the usual carpentering
pounds of sawing, planing, and hammering,
tvere going on, and where Mr. Blake stood,
in the midst of the d~ri8, looking very
lrim. He touched his hat when he saw the
adies; but even Mabel's bright smile could
iot tempt him to relax his face. Indeed, he
lid not look at her at all, but directed his
attention straight to Philip Conway.

MABEL LEE.


"IN A GONDOLA."

"I hear you've been giving fresh orders,
sir," he said, "and I find the men consider-
ably bothered about them. It would save
trouble and time, sir, if you would speak to
me in the first place, for 1 might be able to
tell' you beforehand what can be done and
what cannot."
"I only gave some directions about al-
tering the roof, Mr. Blake," answered Con-
way, carelessly. "I considered the men
quite capable of doing that; and really, par-
don me, I did not know that you were in-
terested in the matter."
"I'ni hot interested any further than my
business 'and my duty to Mr. Seyton require
me to be, sir," returned Mr. Blake, with in-
creased stiffness of voice and manner. "1
overlook the matter at his request, sir; and,
if I didn't do it,' I don't think you or anybody
else~would dance here on Miss Mabel's.tiite."
"I know it has given you a deuced deal
of trouble, and I am very sorry for it," said
the' other, apologetically. - "But, really, if
the men will be stupid, and make mis-
takes~-"
"The men don't make mistakes, sir.
Begging your pardon, it's you who change
your mind so fast that you can't remember
what it was last time."
"Well, if I will be stupid and make mis-
takes, then, they have to be rectified, you
know. Now, that roof-"
"Is a disgrace to a Christian building.
I grant you that, sir, with all myheart."
"I am afraid it would disgrace a heathen
one much more deeply. But at all events,
it must' come oft'."
"It can't come off, sir; that is, if you
want the thing done by the 21st."
"Can't-the mischief!" said Conway,
beginning' to lose patience, and glad that
Mabel and Constance had moved away to
observe the building from another point of
view. "There's no such word as "can't,''
my good friend. 'It must be done."
" That's all very fine, sir; but, when peo-
pIe 'say ~ tutist' in that sort of style, they
ought t&amp;be able provide ways and means.
Now, I think it would puzzle' you to do ei-
ther."
"4n the devil's name, where is the diffi-
culty? 'What are the men after now?"

"Hard at work with 'the weather-board-
ing and flooring, sir. Besides, there's the
piazzas to be finished, and every one of the
posts'to be put in."
"Oblige me by calling them columns,
Mr. Blake. But you don't mean to tell me
that it is going to take the men until the
21st to (10 nothing but this?"
Mr. Blake looked at him fixedly. "If
there's as many obstacles thrown in their
way as have been, sir, I shall only be sur-
prised if they get through in that time," lie
answered.
"Confound them, and the pavilion too,
then!" said Mr. Conway, and he took him-
self oft' in a very bad humor.
He found plenty of sympathy ready for
him, however, and plenty of indignation, too.
"It is shameful of Mr. Blake," said
Mabel. "I never thought he would he so
mean-and about my ball, too."
"That is certainly an added enormity,"
said Constance, with a laugh.-" Mr. Con-
way, I am very sorry for you. The pavilion
would be so pretty, if only the faults of the
roof could be rectified."
"It would be so easy, too," said the ag-
grieved gentleman. "I assure you I never
meant it to slope in that outrageous fashion,
and, instead of being pretty, it will be ridic-
ulous, if it 1e not altered. Positively, it
would not take these fellows three days to
do it, nud yet that obstinate old-"
Constance held up a warning hand.
"Hush I You must not call Mr. Blake
any thing uncomplimentary. He means
well, I am sure; he always does. Shall I
go and try my powers of persuasion with
him? Perhaps I might bring him to terms."
"I should be inestimably obliged if you
can. But I have not much hope."
"Neither have I,', said Constance. But,
nevertheless, she went toward the place
where Mr. Blake still stood, with determina-
tion in every line of his face. What she
said nobody heard, but she came back after
a time with a very radiant smile.
"What will you give me for good
news?" she cried, as Conway rose to iiieet
her. "I don't positively say that I have
any, mind you; but what will' you give me
iflhave?"

05

"Any thing at my ~ answered ly; "and, please your majesty, you shall
he. "We have been sitting here condoling certainly hold your court under a decent
with each' other on the prospects of the roof on midsummer night. Miss Lee, let me
paVilion, in the most lugubrious fashion im- assist you into the boat. Is it toward home
aginable, and I assure you that, if you bring we are to go?"
goods news, you may name your own re- "Home, undoubtedly," said Constance.
ward, besides meriting our most sincere and "Where else should it be?"
lasting gratitude."                       "I thought Seyton House might tempt
"Tell us, Constance; what is it?" asked you."
Mabel, full of concern and anxiety. "Please She shook her head.
don't keep us waiting."                  "No; take us home. Mamma isanxjous
"Well, then, Mr. Blake has finally con- now, I expect. I did not tell her we were
scented to the proposed alteration of the going on the river."
roof on condition that it is the last."   "Mamma will know very well where we
"I knew it could be done," said Con- are," said Mabel, coolly. "Put the oar
way, coolly. "I don't feel very grateful, down, Mr. Conway, and let us float back
either, for such an ungracious favor. But with the current."
you, Miss 'Lee, I can hardly say how mach Mr. Conway was always ready to obey
I am obliged to you."                  any suggestion of hers, especially when, as
"Show it, then, by going and thanking in the present case, it prolonged a very
Mr. Blake, with some cordiality," she said. pleasant time; so he quietly took his drip-
"He assured me that it will take very hard ping oar out of the water, and laid it in the.
work to get it finished;~ and pray describe bottom of the boat. Then he sat himself
the alteration to him exactly as you wish it down somewhat at the feet of the two sis-
done. You owe him that for 'all his ters, and they were all quite silent for a
trouble."                    '         time.

"No doubt you are right," he said;
"you always are, for that matter."
Then he went to Mr. Blake, who received
his acknowledgments civilly enough. The
two sisters, meanwhile, strolled away tow-
ard the boat, and there sat down to wait
until he came. It was a beautiful spot, for
the verdure of the island rose like a green
wall behind them; the water rippled softly
past at their feet, the fair prospect of the
shore, with its wooded slopes' and green
meadow-land lay before them, while Seyton
House rose to the left among its terraces
and gardens, with the blazing Western sky
behind it, and one faint silver star gleaming
just above the roof.
"The sun has been down some tin~ie,"
said Constance, after a while. "I wish Mr.
Conway would come. We are two good
miles from home."
"The June twilight is quite long," said
Mabel, "and-but here he is, now."
She turned as she spoke, and there he
was, im~deed, breaking With' quick steps'
througit the brushwood to their side.
"The matter is all settled," he said, gay-
5

The hour was certainly an exquisite one,
and the charm of it entered deeply into the
hearts of two 'of them at least. It wassuch an
evening as only June ever gives us-so gold-
en and serene in its royal wealth of beauty.
The western sky still burned with the
glow which in this month never quite fades
from it all the night long. A crescent moon
was shining where the crimson and golden
tints melted into the misty sapphire of the
upper skies, and more than one star had by
this time come forth into sight. The river
looked deep and dark along the shadowed
banks, but where they gilded the surface
still glittered with sunset reflections, even
though all distant objects were now draped
in the soft summer gloaming.
"Mr. Conway," said Mabel, at last, "this
is the time, of all others, for music or poe-
try. We have not got the first, but we ca~
have the last. Repeat something to us-
something appropriate-and let Constance
judge of your elocution."
He looked up at her with a quick light
in his eyes. Her allusion to Constance had
passed unheard. All his good resolutions

k

MAREL LEE.


MABEL LEE'.

ON THE~ WING-.

suddenly became as nothing. They two
were alone in the world at that moment,
a~ii1 would hav~ been all the same if a hun-
dred people, instead of one, had been pres-
ent.
"Listen, then," he said, and he began
that mqst beautiful of ~tll Browning's minor
poems-the matchless "In a Gondola."
Neither of the sisters had ever heard it be-
fore, as few of us ever chance to hear any
thing-heard it interpreted with all t'~ 'as-
sion and tenderness that can fill a h. ian
heart, for he rendered it with all the expres-
sion that told one at least of them how en-
tirely the spirit of the poem had entered
into the man, and the man into the poem,
until they two seemed but one-until it was
not the ill-fated Venetian lover, but Philip
Conway's self, who spoke, in the flow of
perfect verse, his love and hope. They sat
silently listening, while the dusk deepened
round them, while the boat swept steadily
on with the broad, majestic current, and,
after a time, the lights of Ayre gleamed into
sight, like distant stars, just as the end
came, and Conway's voice, vibrating with
marvellous tenderness and triumphant scorn,
with proud daring and prouder resignation,
spoke the closing words:
"'It was ordaIned to be so, Sweet-sod best
Comes now, beneath thine eyes, and on thy breast.
Still kiss ~neR Care not fo~ the cowards (lare
Only to put aside thy beauteous hair
~tybloodw1llhurtI TheThreeldonotscorn
To death, because they never lived: but I
Have lived Indeed, Qnd so-O~et one more klsa)-.-can
diel'"
After his voice sank on the last cadence,
there was profound stillness. They could
not see each other's face, and nobody spoke
until he guided the boat ashore and touched
land at the foot of Mrs. Lee's garden.
CHAPTER XII.
ox THE WI5~G.
~o the days went by, lengthening into
weeks, until the 21st of June was near
at hand. The pavilion had been finished
in good time, and the preparations for the
ball were inaugurated in due state; but all

of a sudden Conway seemed to lose both
spirit and interest in the matter. lie still
worked as zealously as ever, superintended
the decoration of the island, helped Mabel
to fill out her list of invitations? and made
himself useful and obliging in a good many
different ways. But the animation, the
personal zest, as it were, seemed to have
deserted him; and one day he electrified
the two Lee sisters by saying that he
thought it doubtful whether he could re-
main for the ball, or whether midsummer
night would not find him distant by many
miles from Seyton and Ayre. The conster-
nation which ensued was very gret~t, and
they asked at once why he had arrived at
such a resolution. He was reticent, and by
no means satisfactory for some time; but
at last he said frankly that he saw no good
in staying any longer.
"You see," he went on, looking not at
Mabel, but at Constance, "there are several
reasons why I think I ought to go. For one
thing, my mother is quite alone in Paris;
and for another-well, for another, I think
the limit of any reasonable visit has by this
time expired."
"But Mr. Sexton," cried Constance,
eagerly. "Has he said nothing? Will he
allow you to go without-without declaring
his intentions concerning you?"
The young man threw back his head a
little haughtily, in a way peculiar to him.
Somehow~ of late, any mention of the heir-
~ship had seemed to annoy him.
"My uncle only invited me to pay him
a visit," he said, with a very unusual amount
of dignity. "Of course we both knew what
that meant; but he has never directly al-
luded to the question of inheritance, and I
don't think he ever will. I don't think,
either, that I have the shadow of a chance.
Of course, there will be no certainty-can
be no certainty-for some time; but I fancy
Cyril has won the race by several lengths."
"I think you are mistaken," Constance
began, but he interrupted her quickly.
"I have the best possible reason for be-
ing sure that I am not mistaken; and, after
all, it may be best so. Cyril will enjoy the
life amastngly, while I should probably
never do more than barely endure it,

'Better fifty years of Europe,
Than a cycle of Cathay.'
For Cathay read Seyton. 1 am philosophy
cal at least.-Am I not, Miss Mabel?"
Mabel looked up at this appeal, but
was with very troubled eyes, and a mont]
slightly quivering, despite the faint emil
she forced.
"I wish you were less philosophical,'
she said. "I wish very much you wouli
remain at Cathay, at least until after tht
ball. It will not seem like the ball if yo~
go away."
"You will have Mr. Harding in mj
place."
"Do you think Mr. Harding can fill you:
place?"
"Why, not?" asked lie, a little bitterly.
"The heir of Seyton House is the heir of
Seyton House, you know, whatever his
other name may be."
"Don't mind him, Mabel, he is becom-
ing cynical by way of variety," Constance
laughed. But Mabel did mind him. She
gave one glance of reproach, then turned
without a word and left the room.
Stricken by remorse, Conway followed
to make his peace, and in ratification there-
of was forced to promise that he would
certainly defer his departure until after the
ball; but oven Mabel saw that his intention
was firm to go then, and that persuasion
would have been useless, if she had had a
mind to try it.
"We will leave together,'~he said to
Ainslie that same day. "I will go with
you down to Charleston, and, taking passage
thence t6 New York, I can time my move-
ments exactly, so as to leave in the Arago,
which sails for Havre on the 10th."
"You are determined to go, then?"
Ainslie asked, looking at him with some sur-
prise. "If I were you, Phil, I would think
twice about it. Remember you are leaving
the field entirely in the hands of your rival."
"What difference does that'make?" re-
turned the other, shortly. "My uncle is
not such a weak fool as to be influenced by
the nearest person about him. He has seen
enough of both of us to make up his mind
in the matter; and staying here will neither.
help nor hinder his resolution. l3dsides, it

07

is an undignified position, and one 1 don't
fancy."
They w6re smoking together on the ter-
race, watching the sun go down over the
t distant mountains, and Ainslie blew a per-
~ feet cloud before he spoke again; then he
a knocked the ashes from his cigar, and said,
significantly:
' "How about Miss Lee?"
Simple as the question was, it brought a
3 cloud over Conway's face such as had dark-
ened it once before at sound of the same
name.
"Xothing about her," he answered, even
more shortly than a moment back.
"Come, come, Phil, don't take that tone
to me," said the other, good-humoredly.
"What is the good of being churlish over
the loss of your pretty plaything? Haven't
you made up your mind yet that 'lightly
won and lightly lost' is to be your motto,
now as ever?"
"I have made up my mind that I wish
Seyton and all its belongings were in the
depths of the Ayre," answered Conway,
with an unmistakable emphasis of sincerity.
"I wonder why I was such a fool as to come
here? I might have known that harm of
dome sort would be the upshot. I never
was fortunate in my life. But you know
this would be suicidal, Ralph."
"This - what?" asked the other, still
smiling. "I never expected to see you take
any thing so au tragique. What is the
matter? A pleasant flirtation, a good-by,
a heartache or two on each side, perhaps,
and then-forgetfulness. Is that a matter
to be regretted?"
"Not fl'Qm your stand-point, perhaps,"
returned Conway, a little ungratefully. "I
see as plainly as you do how it must end,"
he went on, tossing his cigar far out into
the river; "but the consolation of that end-
ing is what I don't see, just at present.
However, I don't mean to put a climax on
my folly, if that is any palliation of the folly
already achieved. In my present position,
eawr profession, eon. fortune, sane expecta-
tions, 8am3 every thing, bl~V debt and trouble,.
I could not think of Venus herself, unless
she brought a handsome dot with her. So
I have made up my mind to~go."

I


MAREL LEE.

"Perhaps it is best," said his friend,
amusingly. "If your chances here are good,
absence won't hurt them; and for the rest
-eke sard SEZTtI, you know."
So itwassettled, and that night Conway
announced his intended departure to his tin-
cle. N1r. Sexton received the news very
quietly, and made little or no demur, being,
indeed, exceedingly glad of the intelligence.
Of late he had been growing more and
more uneasy concerning Mabel's evident
predilection for his black sheep of a neph-
ew; and had wavered' toward the Harding
side more on that account than on an~ other
whatever. He felt sure that, if the pecuni-
ary obstacle were removed, the course of
true love would be very apt to run smooth
toa matrimonial conclusion, let friends and
'common-sense say what they chose. And,
dearly as he loved Mabel, he would almost
rather have seen her In her coffin than seen
her Philip Conway's wife. Blake himself
h4dciiO deeper distrust of the Conway blood,
no, mere profound horror of the Conway na-
ture,, than had Mr. Sexton, when the mat-
ter was brought home to him. It was won-
derful how he veered round to the Harding
interest during these days of anxiety, and
how secure he felt in the pragmatic stupid-
ity and, formal piety of the man for whom
he had hitherto entertained such a disgust.
:N'ow all that was changed; and for some
time the heirship of Seyton House hung on
rnorp of a thread than it had ever done be-
fore, or was ever destined to do again. But
he kept his own counsel, and, save by
shrewd surmises, nobody knew this, though'
everybody saw plainly enough his deep and
manifest anxiety about Mabel. It was the
perception of this anxiety, and of his uncle's
growing coolness toward him, that deter-
mined, Conway on departure.
"I was a fool to com~i," he thought,
again and: again. "I might have known
that, there was no such thing as luck for
me. Y~, if he'had only known' it, be was
~erving his, interests better, by going than if
he had, r nai~ied until doomsday-for, by
tAils, ~iean~he g~ve~Ir. Sexton the only clew
out qf his difficulty, the only means of corn-
pron~i~ing3wilIi two ~onfiicting desires. lie
wanted to make Conway his heir, ,and he

also wanted to put him forever out of Ma-
bel's path of life. He had not seen any pos-
sibility of reconciling these two things, un-
til the young man himself came forward
with the mode.
"I am going back to Europe," he said;
and eagerly, almost joyfully, Mr. Seyton
bade him go. He was young, he could af-
ford to wait, thought the elder man; he
could afford to remain in ignorance of the
good fortune awaiting him-it would be all
the more pleasant when it came, and, mean-
while, Mabel would marry somebody else,
and' be safely out of the way of danger.
"It will be all right when he comes
back," thought this simple-hearted gentle-
man, as he stood that night by his chamber-
window, and looked out to a spot where,
beyond the luxuriant bloom of the garden,
white shafts and garlanded crosses gleamed
in the silver moonlight. It was the burial
ground of the family-the ground where
every Seyton had been laid, since the first
of the name was played to rest under the
soil of the New World; and it spoke well
for this man's brave, steadfast faith, and
quiet, stainless life, that the thought that he
would be sleeping there when the time of
* which he spoke came round, cost him not a
sigh. On the contrary, he smiled, and say-
ing, "It will be all right then," turned
away full of content.
On the 20th, while everybody else was
full of the approaching f.~te, Ainslie shut
himself up in his studio, and gave the fin-
ishing touches to the portrait, which for
some time had been needing only these fin-
ishing touches to complete it. Then, on
the morning of midsummer-day, he took Mr.
Sexton in and showed it to him. If it had
been beautiful, before in its crude, half-fin-
ished state, it was something much more
than beautiful now. It was a picture such
as we seldom see from the hand of an unin-
spired artist, from one who has none of the
grand impulses of faith, or the tender graces
of devotion stirring in his heart, but who
works out his conception merely accoMing
to the earth, ~arthy. Th~re was about it
an exquisite spirituality, and, an almost di-
vine loveliness, which could only be likened
to "the lamp 'of ~aphtha in the alabaster

ON THE WING.
vase, glowing with fragrant odors, but shin- said Ainslie. "Seyton would not weary nie
ing only through the purest vessels." The if I remained a dozen years; but I received
execution was perfect-so perfect that the a letter from Charleston, some days ago,
eye, taking in only result, hardly noted the which I ought to have answered hi person,
finish of detail which gave the result. If a and at once. I could not prevail upon my-
fault was perceptible, it lay in the two cvi- self to leave before the ball, however, so re-
dent signs of long and patient labor, and the mnained in defiance of business. But I must
"bits" here and there, showing that they go to-morrow, or next day at farthest."
had been toiled over stroke upon stroke, "Well," said Mr. Seyton, with a sigh,
until the artist himself was satisfied. The "if you must, you must. But the precept,
fleecy clouds seemed melting into the deep which bids one speed the parting guest, has
sapphire sky, which was rather to be felt always been the hardest of all to me, espe-
than seem behind them; and the folds of the emily if that guest was a friend as valued
blue drapery floated out, half filled with air, and intimate as you must allow me to eon-
more like The drapery in that exquisite sider yourself."
"Terza di I'Totte" of Raphael, than any "I hope I am sufficiently grateful for the
thing else. :No one who has ever seen that compliment, my dear sir."
picture wjll forget the buoyancy of the fig- "You will go?"
ure, or the matchless grace with which the "I regret to say that I have no option
folds of the mantle envelop it, as it floats but to do so."
in mid air; and, almost unconsciously, Ains- "I shall miss you sadly-you and Philip
lie had embodied much of the same spirit, both," said Mr. Seyton, but he was too well
save that here there was more repose. The bred to press the matter further, and he
clasped hands, the head slightly bent, the consoled himself for his coming desolation
whole pose of the picture, was full of quiet by calling in two or three of the servants,
and sadness, and, now that it was finished, and having the picture hung in the library,
the indescribable pathos which pervaded it just opposite his favorite seat. There was
was even more perceptible than before. considerable difficulty about the light and
Despite this, however, Mr. Seyton seemed the position, and all that sort of thing; but
fully satisfied, and was eager in admiration at last it was adjusted to his satisfaction,
and praise.                            and he sat down opposite the mute shadow
"It is exquisite! " he said. "Simply as of his darling. "It looks like the other Ma-
a picture, it would be an invaluable posses- bel, as I saw her last," he said to himself;
siotm, Mr. Ainslie; but, as a likeness of Miv and after that he stayed there quiet and un-
bel, it is worth more than its weight in dia- moving for several hours.
monds to me! The only trouble now is, that Meanwhile, there was great and unusual
I cannot possibly thank you enough for it." commotion among nil the young people of
"You have thanked me too much al- Ayre. They were not young people who
ready, my dear sir," said Ainslie. "I am were at all seasoned to dissipation- a
only very happy if my dabbling in colors has few picnics, and a quiet dance or two, corn-
enabled me to require in some sort your uprising, as a general thing, their social ex-
kindness. Once more you must let me excitement the year round. So the prospect
thank you for it, and repeat hoW pleasant of a real and undoubted ball, on quite a
my visit has been, for I regret to say that it grand and rather a novel scale, had,' elated
draws to a close."                    them in high degree. It made no difference
"You are really going, then? In that whatever that the weather was scorching,
case I am half sorry the portrait is finished, and that old people, and people who, not
But what is your haute? I have often being de'n~otre clause, had not been invited,
heard you say your time is your own, and, declared that dancing would prove simply
if you persist in leaving, I shall think that unendurable, for they found their forebod-
Soyton has begun to weary you." ings laughed to scorn. It would have taken
"You could not do me greater injustice," a more than African degree of heat to damp


MABEL LEE.' ,

ON THE WING.

the spirit of Terpsichore which was ever
bubbling up in the breasts of these gay,
fresh country maidens, who bad not yet
learned to despise every thing save the Ger-
man, and vote even that only tolerable
with an entertaining partner.
"A partner!" cried Miss Nina Eston,
when a languid, city-spoiled young lady
suggested this new view of things. "I like
a good partner, of course; but, my dear
child, I would dance with a stick, to be
dancing."
And this was not only the theory, but
also the practice, of all the demoiselles of
Ayre. So, as "sticks" tibounded there, as
well as elsewhere, wall-flowers were conse-
quently next thing to unknown. This line
of liberal sentiment gave animation and zest
to the small assemblies with which Ayre
occasionally amused itself, and made them
su~ch pleasant scenes that the veriest bigot
who ever declaimed against "the sin of
shuffling the feet" might have been con-
~erted, if he had watched for one half-hour
those bright faces and graceful forms, as
they moved through the quadrilics, or tried
a quiet polka or two. ]3ut, as it chanced,
such bigots were rare in Ayre; and even
the two Misses Phifer, who represented as
much of the element as was afloat, had
pledged the attendance of their Roman
noses at Mr. Seyton's fe4te.
Great were the preparations of this day,
therefore, and poor Constance (who was a
very popular referee in matters of costume)
really thought that it would never come to
an end, and night fairly close over them.
it closed at last, and the important busi-
ness of dressing began. It was a business
which cleared Mrs. Lee's house very speedily
of all eave its regular occupants, and left
bnly a permanent thunder-cloud in the per-
son of Mr. Kowell. He was what Mabel
called "boiling with ill-humor," on account
of the ball, and had utterly refused to go to
it. But still he haunted the house all day,
and made himself particularly disagreeable.
After tea, Mabel went up-stairs to array her-
self; but, before doingso, gave him his orders.
"You are not to leave until I come down
and show myself to you," she said; and,
chafed and vexed though he was, he could

not find it in his heart to disobey. Poor
fellow I he was not the kind of man whose
love-troubles meet with much sympathy
from the outside world-rarely even with
much encouragement from their object-yet
they were none the less sipcere for that.
They made him moody and bitter, they en-
raged him against himself and his own folly,
they even rendered him harsh and disagree-
able to the woman he would have died to
serve; but they were, perhaps, the most
real thing about a nature which was intense
in its reality. Once for all, it may be as
well to say here that Francis Nowell loved
Mabel Lee as it is the fortune of few women
on this earth of ours to be loved; and that
he could not remember a single day, since
her childhood, when he had not loved her
in this absorbing fashion. She embodied
every thing that was tender and soft in his
nature and conception, for, beyond that, he
was a man whose sentiments toward the
world were, at best, those of simple indiffer-
ence. Mother or sisters he had none. Con-
stance he liked, in a certain cold way of his
own; and for his aunt he entertained a pro-
found contempt. But Mabel had twined
herself into the inmost recess of his heart,
and remained there, without change or
shadow of turning, to his dying day.
Left alone now, he walked restlessly about
the little sitting-room, where tokeimuf her
met his eye on every side, and tokens, too,
of this new life which was estranging her
from him. There lay some fragments of her
dress-the dress over which Constance had
toiled so lovingly and patiently: there a rib-
bon that ~had dropped from her hair; there
the gloves she had trimmed with lace, and
forgotten to take up-stairs; and there, close
beside them, for she had read it in the inter~
vals of sewing, a volume of Browning, open
on the last page of "In a Gondola." He
did not know, of course, the association
connected with this; but still he eyed it
disapprovingly, and, after glancing at the
closing verses, had just laid it down with a
muttered "Stuff!" when there came a rus-
tle of drapery, and a light footstep on the
stairs. The next moment she flashed in
upon him through the open door.
And how beautiful she was! Long

years afterward, in the sternness and gray
ness of his age, his heart warmed into hf
whenever he recalled her as she stood be
fore him that night in the full flush of ho
youth and beauty. She was dressed b
white gauze, of the most airy and web-lik
texture, embroidered with a silver oak-leaf
and-acorn device, the full, sweeping skir
falling in a train behind, but short enough
in front to uncover the dainty, slippere
feet. Her rich golden hair was arrange
in loose curls that hung quite to her waisi
behind, while a chaplet of pearls, whici
had been Mr. Seyton's gift that day, bound
them back from the brow in front, but they
fell over the bare shoulders and arms like
rippling masses of sunlight; and the effect
was so dazzling, that she seemed to briug a
glory into the room with her. 'No detail
of the costume was careless or lacking; and,
as she stood looking at her cousin, full of
laughing pride and conscious loveliness, he
could scarcely, for once, forbear the utter-
ance of his admiration. He did forbear,
though it was hard for him to do so. He
swallowed down the words of praise that
rose to his lips, and spoke after a while in
quite his usual fashion:.
"I suppose you think you are looking
very charming, Mabel? I wonder if you
will turn anybody else's head to-night half
as much as your own is turned?"
"So you~don't think Jam looking charm-
ing?"
"I think I have seen you look quite as
well often before; and, indeed, to my mind,
a great deal better."
"In a calico, or something of that sort,
perhaps?"

'11

even with Francis. So she only looked up
'e at him with a smile-that came back to him
afterward, many a time, and pierced more
sharply than a sword-stroke-saying:
a "I see you mean to put me out of lin-
S mor; but that is even beyond your power
to-night. I would not quarrel with the
t most provoking person in the world-which
you are not, yet a while. I came down to
I be admired; and, if you will not admire me,
I I suppose I ~nust be resigned. But I have
a favor to ask of you. Please think better
of your resolution, and come to my ball."
She spoke very pleadingly; but the mere
mention of the ball was as wormwood to
him, and he answered, sharply enough:
"I never think better of my resolutions,
Mabel. It is impossible. I shall be very
busy to-night, and, besides, I should not be
likely to contribute to your enjoyment."
"That depends entirely upon yourself.
You could contribute to it very much, if
you would."
"Pretty speeches are not necessary be-
tween us, Mabel."
"I am not making pretty speeches," she
said, a little indignantly. "What is the
matter with you to-night? 7ou are even
itmoi~e dis-cross than usual."
"Then I would be even less likely to
prove a welcome addition to your ball com-
pany."
"I only wish I could persuade you to
come in character, as Diogenes, or Timon
of Athens. Everybody would be sure to
say, 'How appropriate! '"
"That would be very kind of everybody;
but I shall not afford thorn the gratifica-
tion."

"Yes; in a calico, or something of that "You positively will not come?"
sort, if it was neatly made, and modestly "I have already answered that question,
put on."                                Mabel."
Mabel flushed suddenly. It was right "Well," said Mabel, who felt herself
hard to meet such a reception, and be strangely rebuffed, "as you please, of course.
greeted by such censure, when she had come But I am sure I would do as much to give
down full of her happiness. and pleasure; you pleasure. If it were your flte, now-
and, for one instant, a sharp retort-if any but, then, there's no good in talking. You
retort of hers could possibly have been say you will not come?"
sharp.~-rose to her lips. But the gentleness She looked at him as she uttered the last
of her nature prevailed now, as ever. She words, and nobody, save himself; knew how
thought better of it before it was spoken; nearly he had yielded. She seemed so
end, besides, she was too happy to be cross pained, and was so lovely, that his heart

I


/2

MABEL LEE.

suddenly smote him. It was, as she said,
her flte, and, when every one else was at
her feet, he alone thwarted and vexed her.
In another moment he might have agreed to
go, had not a sudden interruption come-
steps were heard advancing along the gar-
den-patl~, voices and laughter sounded quite
near. Mabel flushed up with warm delight,
and ~Towell drew back into his shell, cold
and hard as ever, when the glass door 'lead-
iftg into the garden opened, and a brilliant
gro~1p entered. It was Mr. Sexton and his
three guests, in full, evening costume, and
they made a very imposing appearance,
even though the dress suited Mr. Harding
about as well as it would havesuited an un-
d~rtalcer. He looked singularly out of
plaoe, and singularly out of humor, too, so
that his face was a very good foil to the
brightziess of the three other faces, as they
came in together.
Perhaps, if the truth had been known,
their r~ioods were not much more tuned to
enjoyment than his; but they were all
three, in their different ways, men of the
wbrld, and had at command the lip-deep
siiiiles that Society (which cares not a jot
whether the' heart be gay or breaking) de-
mands from all her votaries. Mr. Harding
had infinitely less of the conventional power
of self-control about' him; and then his
grievance was the most real of all. The
latter should be taken into consideration;
for, let people talk as they will of sentimen-
tal grievances being as bad or worse than
real ones, they have, at least, the merit of
being more easily concealed and put aside.
A man may smile when the woman he loves
has just told him that he is nothing to her
-indeed, it sometimes affords him a great
deal of gloomy satisfaction to do so-but he
must possess rare facial muscles if he can
smile when bankruptcy is hanging over his
head, or when Poverty grins at him from an
empty larder.
Mr. Harding's trouble was not quite so
real as this, but still it was not a light one;
for on that day he had heard, from his un-
cle's own lips, that all his hopes of the Sey-
ton inheritance were at an end.
"I tell you this, because I think it is
right you should know it," Mr. Sexton had

said, after his resolution was declared as
kindly and gently as possible. "It would
be wrong to let you cherish expectation
which my death would only disappoint. I
have not told Philip yet, and do not intend
to tell him. But ~ou are different. I felt
it a duty to let you know. When I die, you
will find that 1 have remembered you in the
little which is mine to give; but Philip is
the natural heir. Adela is older than your
mother, and it seems his right."
"I only hope you may never regret it,
sir," was all that Mr. Harding replied, for
he had, some dignity in his own fashion;
but it would be hard to say how bitterly re-
sentful he felt at heart.
This bitterness and resentment were
still very evident in his face and manner-
for brooding over his wrongs had only
strengthened his conviction of them-and
made his presence any thing but one of sun-
shine when he entered Mrs. Lee's sitting-
room, and saw the young queen of the even-
ing, in her white gauze dress and shim-
mering pearls. It is not too much to say
that he fairly hated her, as she stood before
him all flushed and radiant, looking more
like a shining ~eri, than the sad Madonna
Ainslie had painted. In his heart, he firm-
ly believed that she was the cause of his
uncle's decision in favor of. Conway. He
thought, as a more keen-sighted person
might have been pardoned for thinking,
that it was simply on account of the ten-
di-esse existing between those two, that Mr.
Sexton had bestowed the inheritance (as
Ayre had said, from the first, he meant to
bestow it) on the choice of his goddaugh-
ter.
"He has played his cards better than I
have," thought Mr. Harding, bitterly, as he
watched the light on Mabel's face, while
she stood talking to his cousin, a little apart
from the rest~-for Mrs. Lee and Constance
had appeared by this time-and felt all the
humiliation as well as the sting of defeat.
"He has played his cards better then I
have, for it is very plain that all my utinle's
talk about the eldest. and the right, and the
natural heir, means simply tlii L It is all
because of her baby face 'and baby liking
that he is chosen. He saw it from thefirat,

4

MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM.
and now-it is enough to make a man curse
them both!"
To this mildly Christian soliloquy, Mr.        CHAPTER XIII.
Nowell's face was an admirable accompa-
niment, and their moods appeared so much MID5UMMER-NIGIIT 5 DREAM.
like two instruments "sweetly played in THREE or four hours later, the bail was
tune," that it almost seemed as if they in full progress, and the island gleamed
might have found comfort in mutual corn- from end to end with lamps of many colors,
panionship~ Instead of that, they scarcely shining out everywhere among the deep foli-
noticed each other, but stood separately age, and making an effect which is so bean-
aloof and from their different positions re- tiful that, common as it is, we never weary
guarded the interchange of compliments and of it. The reflections of the illuminations
greetings going on, very much as Diogenes were thrown far out on the river, and the
may have regarded all the glittering bravery skiffs that were constantly darting to and
and royal pomp of Alexander, when he cast fro threw up showers of water that glittered
his kingly shadow down upon the cynic's tub. like gold and diamonds. The banks were
It was growing late, however, as the quite fringed with these boats, and crowds
hands of t~e clock over the mantel testified; of servants loitered about admiring the fairy-
and Mr. ~eyton declared at last that they like scene, and enjoying the gala-air of the
must start. occasion as much as, or perhaps a little more
"It would be bad if our guests began to than, their betters. From the Potomac to
arrive, and there was no one to receive the Rio Grande there was no picture in
them," he said. So then a universal shawl- those days without these ebony accessories;
ing took place, and they all set forth. Ma- and a ball would scarcely have seemed a
bel was the last to leave the room; and, as ball if the eager black faces had not peered
she was going out on Philip Conway's arm, in at windows and doors, full of admiration
she turned back a moment and held out her and delight. Sometimes this admiration
hand to Mr. Nowell. and delight shamed the apathy of those who
"Good-night, Francis," she said, softly, were more directly engaged in the festivi-
for, although it -was his own fault, she felt ties; but it was not so on this occasion, for
sorry that he had no part in their pleasure, there never was a greater success in a social
but was left behind in. this way; "I wish way than Mabel's midsummer-night's ball.
you would think better of it. Won't you Out of the many invitations issued, there
come-even now " had hardly been one "regret" returned;
"Impossible,"~ he answered, coldly. "I and numbers of people were there, who had
have told you before that I am busy. Good- driven from the other end of the county, a
night. I hope you will enjoy, yourself." distance of some twenty or thirty miles, to
"I would enjoy myself more if you were participate in the sight-seeing.
with us," she said, gazing at him wistfully. Up and down the alleys and arcade;
But, seeing how hard and immovable he that had cost Philip Conway so much tron-
looked, she uttered another soft good-night, ble, wandered the brightly-dressed groups,
and went away. and there was not a ~nook on the island.
He watched the last gleam of her dress that had not echoed their gay voices and
down the garden-path to where the boat lay; merry laughter.
and then he turned moodily from the house. :N~ecessarily Mirth erected his chief throne
His heart was heavy enough as he went in the pavilion, but the crowd 'was very
down the street toward his dreary office, excessive there, and, by way of relief, the
but it would have been heavier still if he cool woodland paths were very pleasant~
could have even faintly imagined how and So, also, was the circular piazza, from which
where he wae next to see that face, whose an excellent view could be obtained of the
eyes had just looked at him so wistfully and interior, with its brilliant and shifting
vainly, throng. Almost any ballroom is a pretty


44                         MABEL LEE.                                                         MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM.

sight; for the massing of the figures, the
constant picturesque combinations which
they form, the unconscious harmony with
the rise and swell of music, that tones down
almost any movements to grace, the brightly-
lit faces, the "dancers dancing in tune,"
and th9 cadenced rhythm of "flute, violin,
and bassoon," all conspire to make up the
delight of the eye in no ordinary degree.
But this ballroom seemed, to its partial
lookers-on, welluigh the~ prettiest they had
ever seen.
Through the length and breadth of the
State, Ayre was renowned for its' pretty
women, and never had they better sustained
their reputation than on this night. Look-
ing through one of the broad windows on
the dancing-room, it was a perfect "rose-
bud garden of girls" which charmed the
glance, as they circled in and out of the
time-honored and time-worn quadrille fig-
ures, 'or threw themselves body and soul
'   into the old-fashioned waltz, than which
nothing more graceful, nothing more de-
lightful, has ever been, or ever will be,
invented. The girl of the period had not
yet arrived, bringing along with her the
dance of the period; and, when the baud
struck up one of the sweet old Strauss
waltzes, eyes brightened and lips smiled as
gayly as they brighten and smile now over
the last galop from "La Grande Duchesse,"
or "La Belle H6l~ne."
"Don't let me keep you, Frank," said
Constance, turning to a young man who
stood with her near one of the windows,
where they could feel the cool night air,
and enjoy the animated scene at the same
time. "I know you 'want to be dancing.
Fray go."
The person thus addressed-a young col-
legian, who quite unconsciously kept time
to the music with his foot, and whose hand-
some face, "beneath its garniture of curly
gold," proved his near relationship to the see-
end best beauty in the rooms i. e.7 Miss Nina
Eston, of musical fame-looked round with
a smile.
"I'll go, certainly, Miss Constance," he
answered, "if you will go too, but not
otherwise. Shall we take a turn? It looks
pleasant, I am sure."

"It looks extremely pleasant," Con-
stance replied; "and that is why I bid you
go and find a partner. I believe .1 don't
care to take a turn-waltzing is much too
warm work for to-night. But I see that you
can hardly keep still, so take yourself off at
once."
"And leave you alone?" asked he,
plainly anxious to obey, and yet fearful of
transgressing 168 l~iCfl8&amp;8flCe8 too far, in so
doing.
"What does it matter about leaving me
alone?" said she, laughing. "But here is
Mr. Seyton, so now you need not hesitate~
Do go. I want to see what new steps you
have learned at the university."
"We don't learn steps at the univer-
sity," said he, shrugging his shoulders.
"And, besides-I don't see any available
partner."
"Yonder is Maggie Bradford."
"I don't care to ask Miss Maggie."
"Why not? She is a very good waltz-
er:"
"Yes," answered he, a little hesitating-
ly; and then after a moment his grievance
came out. "I was engaged to her for the
last waltz, and she snubbed me in the cool-
est       possible, to give it to that-" he
paused, glanced at Mr. Seyton, and concluded
his sentence in a manner plainly different
from what he had intended-" that Mr.
Conway."
Constance laughed.
"Well, yonder is Mabel," she said.
"Go and make her snub Mr. Conway for
your benefit. That will be only fair, I am
sure."
"It would be only fair, hut how am Ito
do it?"
'~ As if you need to ask me! Claim the
right of friendship, of course; and be as
plaintive as possible. Tell her you have
not danced with her to-night, and that you
must have one waltz at least for auld ac-
sake. AAIA, also, that you may
be in Asia, Africa, or Oceanica, on her next
f4te-day, and I hardly think she will refuse
you."
The young man laughed, and went off
right willingly. Constance and Mr. Seyton
watched him as he crossed the room, dex~

't~rously avoiding collision with several
waltzing couples, and gained an alcove
where Mabel stood surrounded by several
gentlemen, of whom Conway was one. As
Eston drew near, she laid her hand on the
arm of the latter, and was on the point of
turning away, but the young collegian
stopped her, and an animated discussion
ensued.
"I have no idea that Frank will suc-
ceed," said Mr. Seyton, regarding the scene
with very manifest anxiety; but Constance
smiled, and answered that she thought he
would. The result proved her opinion
right. After a moment they saw Conway
fall back with only tolerable grace, and the
next instant Mabel's white dress floated by
them, and ~'rank Eston nodded triumphant-
ly over his shoulder, as he bore his prize
round and round in that swift, delicious
whirl which sets the blood dancing and the
whole frame tingling like nothing else in
the world.
Undoubtedly, there were many fair wom-
en present that night-women with all the
beauty of face and form and all the name-
less fascination of voice and manner which
have made their land famous-but fairest far
among them all was the young belle of the'
evening. It seemed as if an accession of
loveliness had come to Mabel like an in-
spiration that night, and astonished even
the people who had known and admired
her all her life. It was not the mere ad-
vantage of costume, or the beauty, but it
was something deeper, richer, rarer than
any of these, which shed over her a glory
next to divine. The girl was dead, the
woman had waked to life, and the change
startled even her own sister.
"She looks as if she were enchanted,"
Constance had said, almost unconsciously,
yet in her unconsciousness she struck home
to the truth. Enchanted That was the
solution. That was the key to all this new
afiluenee of beauty, this dazzling transfl~ura-
tion of the familiar face till it seemed unfa-
miliar. The dewy lustre of the eyes, the
smile that rested like sunshine on the sweet
rose lips, the whole expression was changed
and 'glorified into something that the fair,
serene features had never known before-

something, too, that had a certain pathos of
its own, and touched into sadness more than
one among those who were old enough to
have seen many such bright dawns darken be-
fore noonday into clouds and tempest. Ma-
bel herself was conscious that it was an un-
natural excitement which filledher veins like
a subtle elixir, but she yielded willingly to
the spell, and shut her eyes to every thing
save the passing hour.
"I mean to think of nothing but to-
night," she said t~"herself and for once this
resolution-a resolution very hard to carry
out-was faithfully fulfilled. She thought of
nothing hut the night-not of the morrow
with its farewell, and still less of the long,
blank morrows that were to come after-
and, thus feeling, possessed once at least
that hoard of fairy gold which is far more
bright and far more ~r~cious than all the
currency of earth. Ah I who has not been
thrilled by its magical glitter, its wonderful
promise of happiness and beauty; and who
also has not waked to find it moss and
leaves?
Now, it happened that when Mabel had
yielded to young Eston's auld acquaintance
plea, she had done so rather reluctantly,
saying, "If you insist, Frank, I suppose 'I
must give you one turn, but~ the waltz is
Mr. Conway's, and he has a right to the
rest-that isif he chooses to wait for it."
She looked at Conway interrogatively,
as she spoke, and he fell back, as before
mentioned, with only tolerable grace.
"Let it be only one turn, then," he an-
swered, "and of course you know there is
no question of my choosing to wait. You
will find me here."
"A~&amp; revoir, then,1' she said. The next
moment she vanished from his side, and he
only caught a glimpse of her bent head over
Frank Eaton's' shoulder, as they joined the
waltzers. lIe did not tronible himself to
find a seat, or seek a companion, but re-
mained where she had left him, leaning
against the side of an open window in the
careless, languid fashion that had been a
revelation to the country-bred youths .of
Ayre. Glancing out on one sideV he Saw
the cool, dark arcades stretching away in
long vistas, broken here and there by gleam?


116                         MABEL LEE.                                                         MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM.

ing lanips.; glancing in on the other, he
watched' the gay. crowd shifting its many
colors like ~ kaleidoscope, and, if Tennyson
had given his "Maud" to the critics sev-
eral y~ars before its actual appearance, he
might have solaced himself by quoting the
sweetest love-song of our day, and mur-
mured, as 'he saw Mabel first nearing him
in the dance:
"Come forth, little head, sunning over with curls,
Tothe flowers, and be their sun;
In gloss of satin1 and glimmer of pearls,
Queen lily, ~nd rose, In one."
As it was, however, he only thought
the same thing, in much less poetical form.
"It is confoundedly warm in here," he
said to himself, "and these people bore one
to death. Instead of the waltz, I shall
take her out into the grounds, and I only
hope
lie broke off abruptly, for she had
reached him, and, as he stepped forward to
claim her, whirled past again more rapidly
than before. He could not see that she did
so with little' or no volition of her own;
that Frank Eston had borne her on quite
against her' intention or desire, saying, "We
are just in the spirit of it, and this has been
only a taste. One more turn, Miss Ma-
bel; ". nor did he catch the half-appealing,
half..apologetio glance that she sent back to
him, for at that moment Fate cast a sud-
den and most unexpected treasure upon his
hands in the substantial shape of Miss Nina
Eaton.
It chanced that this young lady was one
of the best, if not the very best, among the
fair waltzers of Ayre, and, to use her own
form of asseveration, was "perfectly de-
voted" to that Terpaichorean exercise; but
it also chanced that 'she was unfortunately
addicted to a trick of losing her head, on all
waltzing occasions, and, unless she had a
partner who was capable of regulating her
course, w'as very apt to increase her pace
iui~iiI she came to grief in consequence of
colliding with some unwary couple, or over-'
Vw~ning some innocent bystander. On this
oceftalon, sh~ had been dancing with a young
college friend of her brother's, a thin,' pale
y4rnth who knew the least in the world
about waltzing, who took wild, uncertain

steps in every direction, and had not the
strength of a feather with which to oppose
his partner's momentum when she took him
by the shoulder and carried him along, help-
less and terrified, at a whirlwind rate of
progress. The lookers-on laughed, for they
saw that a catastrophe was inevitable, and
more than one of them said, "Poor fellow!
he'll know what's what, if he once feels the
full weight of Nina's hundred and fifty
pounds." That he did not feel it, was cer-
tainly not the result of his own skill or
Nina's caution, or their common good for-
tune; but was simply owing to the fact that
Conway had stepped forward to meet Ma..
bel, and had been left in the lurch in the ig-
nominious manner above recorded. For,
just as Frank Eston whirled her past him,
the unfortunate collegian was precipitated,
without any agency of his own, full against
Mr. Harding, who, with Miss Lavinia Crane
on his arm, had been rash enough to at-
tempt the passage of the room. Both gentle-
men reeled, lost their balance, and came
down together, with a thundering crash
which was heard above the pealing of the
band, and turned every eye at once upon
them. Miss Crane had save~1 herself by
dropping her escort's arm and retreating
with a slight scream, when she saw what
was coming; but Miss Eaton would infal-
libly have gone down in the common disas-
ter, if Conway had not been at hand, and
caught her just in time. lie drew her back,
and then lent his aid to the two unfortu-
nates, who, instead of compassionating each
other, were mutually an~ry and indignant.
Mr. Harding was very red, the collegian was
very purple, and they both began talking
in an excited tone as soon as they gained
their feet. Finding that no bones were
broken, Conway left them to settle the mat-
ter as best they could, and went hack to
the real culprit, who stood aloQf laughing as
only a pretty hoyden of eighteen can laugh.
"Did you ever see any thing more ab-
surd?" she cried, as he came toward her.
"Of all people in the room, for that ~olemn
Mr., Harding to have been knocked over;
and then if you could have met thWk in
poor Bartlett's eyes when he went ~
foremost against him! I am very sormy,~

course, for it was all my fault; but I never
saw any thing more ridiculous. And what
a tremendous thump they made! I fully
expected the floor to give way. It certain-
ly would have done so, if you had not
caught me, Mr. Conway. I am extremely
obliged to you, for I am sure that poor boy
would have been crushed to death between
Mr. Harding and myself; and then Ayre
would never have got done laughing at
me."
"Never got done laughing at you for
crushing Mr. Bartlett to death? That
would be rather a funereal subject for mer-
riment, it seems to me. But I hope you
are not hurt. It was rather close work."
"I hope my dress is not hurt," said she,
examining ljhe fleecy clouds of tarletan that
enveloped her. "That would be a matter
of some importance. Look, please, Mr. Con-
way, and see if there are any rents. I am
almost sure I heard it tear."
Conway looked critically all over the
skirt, and comforted her by the assurance
that no rents were visible, which she de-
clared to be quite providential, since the
unhappy Mr. Bartlett had floundered about
like a fish on land, or a cat in water, and
might have done any amount of mischief.
~ I consider it really next thing to a
miracle," said she, putting up some locks of
ruddy hair that were straying about unbid-
den, for, though it was quite early in the
evening, her violent exercise had made her
look dishevelled before the ordinary time
for that appearance. "If you could only
imagine all the thinks he did with his feet!
Frankly, I don't believe he ever tried to
waltz before in his life. ' Is he coming this
way again? Oh, for mercy's sake, Mr. Con-
way, rescue me. Throw me out of the win-
dow, if there is no other mode of escape."
"I will do better than that," said Con-
way. "Are you too tired for another
round?"
"Oh, dear no-not too tired for a dozen
more rounds with a partner who knows his
business."
"En auantV' said he, gayly; and, when
poor Mr. Bartlett eame up to make his'
weak-voiced apologies for having been
knocked. ever, he -saw his plirtuer floating

round the room in the best of spirits and
best of looks, on Philip Conway's arm.
Mabel saw it too, and felt more grieved
than indignant threat. "He might have
waited for me," she thought; but she also
thought it natural enough that he had not
done so; and instead of being cross to Frank
Eaton, according to the general impulse of
feminine nature in such cases, she waltzed
with~ him for some time, then pleaded fa-
tigue, and sat down, looking, indeed; de-
cidedly pale and tired.
"I don't think I shall dance the next
set," she said to Constance; but she glanced
down on her tablets the next moment, and
shook her head. "I see that I must," she
added. "It is Mr. Ainslie's set, and I can-
not refuse him, for he was so good about
giving up to somebody else before this even-
ing. If it were anybody else, now-"
But, when Mr. Ainslie came up, he saw
at once how weary she looked, and very
summarily put all question of the set aside.
"You have had more than~enough already
of the heat and crowd ,"he said. "Ithink
some fresh air would doyou more good than
any thing else. Have you admired any of:
Conway's scenic effects yet? Let me take
you out and show them to you."
"Take her, by all means," said Con-
stance; and, although Mabel was rather
reluctant to go, she made no demur, but
submitted to be led away at once.
About half an hour after this, Conway
came up to Miss Lee in a very ill-humor in-
deed.
"What has become of Nliss Mabel.?" de-
manded he, in much the aggrieved tone of
one who has been defrauded of some right-
ful and undoubted piece of property. "She
threw me overboard in the coolest way im-
aginable some time ago; and now I cannQt
find her anywhere. What has she done
with herself?"
"She went out with Mr. Ainslie," said
Constance, answering over the heads of
two or three intermediate people; for she
chanced to be surrounded at the momeilt,
being, in her own way, quite popular, espe-
cially with men who, were old enough 'to
Like to talk sense even in a ballroom, and
bhose who were young enough to be in bash-


1ABEL LEE.

'18

ful awe of the gayer belles of the evening.
"You will finder iu the grounds, Mr, Con-
way; I cannot tell you any thing more than
that.''
"I met her down by the ~iver, a quarter
of an hour ago," vo~unteeredii youthful rep-
resentative of the jeunease dor~o. "I'll go
and lool~ for her, if you say so, Mr. Con-
way."
"You are very good," said Mr. Cosiway,
"but I believe I prefer to go myself. I dis-
trust people when they are too obliging, and
I am afraid you have some interested motive
at the bottom. Experience of the world is
apt to make one cautious; and after the
manner in which I was treated a little while
ago-"
"Conway, get a partner, and be our
vis.d-vis," said a gentleman, hurrying past,
with a dark-eyed girl on his arm, who looked
back and cried, "0 Mr. Conway, please do."
"Conway, have you seen Miss Lavinia's
fan anywhere?" said Mr. Harding, coming
up with the look and manner of a detective
officer. "She has lost it, and somebody said
you had it."
"How should I have it?" asked Conway,
pettishly. "Don't keep me, my dear fellow
-I am just now on my way to fulfil an en-
gagemnent, and I can't possibly stx~p."
"But hold, on; that's it in your j'ocket
there," cried Harding, seizing him. "I see
the tassel."
"Nonsense I you don't."
"But I tell you I do."
"Where?"
"There."
He pointed as he spoke, and Conway,
looking impatiently down, saw the tassel of
a lady's fan hanging from the breast-pocket
of his coat. He jerked it out with a laugh,
and held it toward the other.
~'There, take it!" he said. "I don't
know how Miss Lavinia's fan came to be in
my pocket. She must have dropped it in
her consternation at your accident, and I
must have picked it up under the impression
that it was Miss Eston's. If there are any
mere articles of her property missing, don't
come to me for them, I beg."
He hurried away1 and Harding retraced
his steps toward the owner of the recovered

property, congratulating himself as he went
that the fan had beei~ recovered with so lit-
tie trouble. Naturally, therefore, it was quite
a damper when the lady shook her head at
first sight of the silk and ivory toy.
"It is not mine," she said. "Mine was
painted with Chinese figures, and had mara-
bout feathers. Who did you take it from,
I Mr. Harding?"
"From my cousin."
"Then I suppose it is Nina Eston's. Yon-
der she is, just across the room. Suppose
you go and return it to her?"
"After a while," answered Mr. Harding;
for another waltz had just been struck up,
and he had no mind for another collision.
"You had better go at once," said his
companion, warningly. "If she sees it in
your hand, she will come for it; and there
is really no telling what sh~ might do in
that case. She would think nothing of mak-
ing you waltz with her, whether you would
or no."
"I am not afraid of that," said Mr. Hard-
ing; but he evidently thought it might be
wiser to beard the lioness, instead of wait-
ing for the lioness to beard him. So he cau-
tiously made his way across the rooni, to
where Nina stood, surrounded by a staff of
admirers. She received him with a courtesy
that somewhat set at rest his fears of a vio-
lent assault; but she denied in tote the own-
ersliip of the fan.
"It is not mine," she said. "I think it
Is Mabel's. Who did you say you got it
from, Mr. Harding?"
"From Conway."
" Then of course it is Mabel's," said
she, with a laugh. "I wonder you could
imagine any thing else. We all know-Is
this your set, Mr. Royston? I am at your
service.-' was going to say, Mr. Harding,
that we all know-Dear me, Frank, take your
foot off my dress 1"
"We all know that Conway is not likely
to have any one else's fan," said Mr. Hard-
ing, concluding the sentence for her, in his
solemn way. Then he went ~back to Miss
Crane, and told her that for the present he
would retain the property.
"When Miss Lee comes in, I will return
it" he said; ." and, if she does not oosu~ in

B

MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM.

'79

soon, I may go and look for her. But I don't been away at college a long time, and he only
think I am called upon to trouble myself returned yesterday, and he just asked for
about the matter just now." one turn, and you said you would wait."
Conway, meanwhile, having left the "And did I not wait I-and did I not get
ballroom in search of Mabel, was fortunate well rewarded for my waiting?"
enough to come face to face with her, not "You got Nina," said she, archly. "No
ten steps from the door. She was walking doubt you considered that as being well re-
slowly, leaning on Ainslie's arm, and listen- warded."
ing rather than talking; but she perceived "I don't want to be uncivil with regard
her quondam partner at once, and uttered a to Miss Eston," returned Conway, coolly,
slight exclamation. He smiled, and, stepping "but I was much nearer considering it as
forward, drew her unoccupied hand under being well bored. You cannot make any
his arm, while he addressed himself not to excuse; you need not try. I was shame-
her, but to Ainslie. fully treated, and I have fairly earned the
"I have just come out to look for you, right to name my own indemnification."
Ralph," he said; "and I am lucky to find "Name it, then," said she, with a laugh.
you so soon. Mrs. Lee is anxious to see you, When he was awa5r from her, she could re-
and begged~ me to send you to her immedi- member that it was indeed his "last. night;"
ately. You'd better go at once-I will take but, when they were together, she could
charge of Miss Mabel."                 only realize the present, and almost uncon-
"Mrs. Lee!" repeated Ainslie, in a tone sciously put from her the dark shade of corn-
of surprise. "You must be mistaken-it ing sorrow. "Name it, then."
can't be mc she wants."                   "Leave your partners to take care of
"It is you, and no one else. She is in themselves for the next half-hour, and come
haste, too-so take yourself off."      with me to the river-side. I know a charm-
"Oh, I understand," said Ainslic, signili- ing nook, which not more than two or three
canty. "Perhaps, however, Miss Mabel people have invaded to-night. You will be
will not trouble you to take charge of her. quiet there, and let your adores look for
She, too, may like to go to Mrs. Lee." you in vain.".
-"If Miss Mabel is wise, she will stay She hesitated~ a moment. Inclination
where she is," answered the other, decided- said "go;" prudence said "stay." But,
ly. "The atmosphere is at fever heat in the when inclination and prudence~ war to-
pavilion just now."                    gather in the breast of eighteen, with sum-
"I believe I will remain a little, longer," mer stars shining down, and summer fra-
said Mabel, looking apologetically at Ainslie. grace wooing forward, it is not difficult to
It is certainly much pleasanter out imagine how the strife will end. What dif-
here," he said, in answer to the look, "and ference did it make about tomorrow? To-
there is no better policy than that of gather- night was all that was worth considering.
ing roses while you may. It is not often one To-night, with its roses o~' life and bye, its
has such good opportunity for doing so." wonderful chances of happiness. To-night,
He bowed, drew back, and. entered the with its opportunities that would never
pavilion, while her new-found escort led come. again-for who in such case needs to
Mabel away in the opposite direction. be told that "eternity itself cannot restore
"I cannotimagine any thing more shame- the loss struck from the minute?" So she
ful than the manner in which you treated hesitated only a moment, and then looked
me," he at once began. "I wonder if re- up quickly.
morse on that score is the cause of your look-  "You are very moderate," she said.
ing so pale? To thinl~ that you should have "Show me your nook, by all means,"
given my waltz to anybody else-on this my  It proved to be a lovely spot just by the
last night!"                           river1 where waterlilies fringed the bank,
"But yoi!i heard how it was," Mabel said, and cushions of moss spread over the roots
with a faint attempt at excuse. "Frank has of a large live-oak, whose giant trirnk shut


80                              JJL~~UA~L
in one side, while a thicket of luxuriant ~in-
dergrowth rose behind. A spot which was
as quiet and peaceful as~ there had been no
revelry within ear-shot where the odorous
midsummer night and the soft rush of the
river had all the solitude to themselves, and
filled it with a monotone of inexpressible
sweetness. Conway arranged a seat for
Mabel, and made her lean against the tree,
while he himself sat down partly at her
side, and partly at her feet. Then there
was silence for several moments-silence
which Mabel was the first to break.
"Mr. Ainslie tells me that you have
agreed to defer your departure," she said.
"That is good. news for all your friends in
Ayre."
"Did he?" said Conway, with a start;
and, if the darkness had not been all around
them, she might haveseen that he frowned
~ suddenly. "I wonder he told you; for it
is only deferred twenty-four hours. 'We
agreed that it would be next thing to bar-
barous to start, unless on a matter of life
and deaTh, the day after such dissipation as
this. So we have put off our move until
Friday; but we go then, without fail."
"You are determined?"
"Yes, I am determined. As I told you
before, there is no good in staying any lon-
ger."
After this,. there was silence again. It
was not ~&amp;Iabel's place to combat this reso-
lutioxi,'and she h~d not the faintest idea of
attempting to do ~o. If she had known that
omie ~~ord of hers would influence him to
change~his mind, she would hardly have ut-
tered that word. It was not in her to do it.
Some women, without overstepping the
boundary of womanly reserve, can stoop far
enough to make their hearts intelligible to
hesitating lovers; but this woman was not
of that stamp. To a frank question she
would have rendered a frank answer; but
she could sooner have built a city than tak-
en one s~tep toward encouraging that ques-
tion. A woman whom there would have
been no difficulty in wooing, for she was
almost grand in the simplicity of her hones-
ty and truth, but a woman whom ne man
need hope to gain by half-expressed passion,
or tacit avowal. She was perfectly silent,

therefore, and it was Conway who spoke
next:
"Yes, I am determined; there's nothing
gained by keeping a sword hanging over
one's head, you know. Even if it is to go
to one's heart, it might as well go soon as
later. Don't you think I am right? Look
at the matter from my point of view, and
tell me-don't you think I am right?"
She could not see his face, for the light
was dim, and he did not turn it toward her;
but his tone was full of suppressed passion,
as they went out in the darkness; and she
had to steady her own voice for several min-
utes before she could answer as quietly as
she wished.
"How should I know, Mr. Conway?
How should I be able to judge?"
"I think you know," he replied, "and
I am sure there is no one better able to
judge. You cannot tell how hard I have
tried to do. right," he went on quickly. "It
is not inclination that I consult in going
away. With all my talk of Cathay, and the
like, Seyton has been so pleasant to me,
that I would willingly turn Arcadian for the
rest of my life. But 'he needs must whom
the devil drives7' and what devil is there
like poverty? Sometimes I think I would
sell myself as bondsman for my whole *ex-
istence to buy one day-one hour-of free-
dom now. Sometimes I think-"
He broke off abruptly-just in time. Al-
ready he had'said more than he meant to say;
already he had told her every thing in voice
and manner~, if not in words; but there was
still time to pause. There was still time to
curb himself before ho was committed Vast
recall, and he stopped short, resolved to do
so.
"I am afool," he said, "and more than
a fool, to talk to you like this. I have no
right to rebel-life is no harder lines to me
than to many another poor wretch who is
warned away from Paradise by a flaming
sword; but it seems hard to leave, certain
that in all human probability we shall never
meet again."
"Why not? You wrn come back to
Ayre some day."
"l~ro," said he, moodily. "No; Isbal~
never come back to Ayre~ My cousin Oyril

MIDSUMMER-NIGIIT'S DREAM.                    81

will scarcely be likely to invite me; and
you-you will soon forget me."
~CYou know better than that!"
"How should I know better than that?
It is the nature of people to forget those
who play no active part in their lives.
Tow, I go out of your life to-~norrow, and
I shall never enter it again. Years hence,
when ~ou are the beautiful Mrs. Somebody,
the leader of county fashion, you will re-
member me as a poor soldier of fortune who
once had the honor of contributing to your
amusement."
"Ahi"
It was a low, faint cry which he wrung
from her, and which came to him full of
pained reproach, striking with a sudden re-
morse a sudden sense of his own impru-
dence. The lamp-light did not pierce where
they were sitting, but his eyes had by this
time grown accustomed to the clear star-
light of the June night; and, turning tow-
ard her, he saw that she was quivering from
head to foot, and only controlled her emo-
tion by the strongest possible effort. That
sight broka down the last barrier of pru-
dence and resolution. They had been grow-
ing weaker and weaker, the temptation
stronger and stronger for some time, and
now they were swept utterly away by the
tide of feeling that rushed over him. After
all, what were these scruples and hesita-
tions but the voice of the world, and what
had the world to do with them that night?
Better one hour of freedom than a lifetime
of bondage-better one long, deep draught
of the sweet elixir of love, than to go down
to tl~e grave with the cry of the starved
heart still unsatisfied. Come what might,
he could not leave her thus-he must speak
now. If it was only to say farewell, they
must say it with heart bared to heart. So
he made a sudden movement, and possessed
himself of her hands, grasping them tightly,
holding them firmly.
"Forgive me," he said hurriedly; "for-
give me if I have pained you. I did not
mean it. I don't think you wrn forget me.
I only wish to God that you could! "
She looked up at him, with breath half
hushed on her lips.
"Why do you wish that?" she asked.
6

"Don't-don't say any thing more if it is
wrong. I will go back now."
She made a movement to rise; but he
held her, so that it was an impossibility,
and spoke-this time without a shade of
hesitation.
"Why do I wish it? Only because it is
selfish and cruel to tell you that I love~ you,
to strive, or even to wish to link your life
with mine to cloud your bright future with
my dark one-and to bind you, by even so
much as a memory, to one little worthy, of
you. Others can bring something besides
themselves; but what have I to offer? A
tarnished name, a bankrupt fortune, a-O
Mabel, why did I not fight the fight to the
end, and go away without having been mad
enough to say all this!"
of ~ was a strange form for a declaration
love; but the earnestness, the sincerity,
the passion of his words, thrilled through
and through the girl who listened-showing
her all at once how dear she was to him,
and how he had hesitated for her sake
rather than for his own. With this reali-
zation, came the consciousness - scarcely
understood before-of what he was to her,
and the impulse to show him how little she
regarded the worldly question that weighed
so heavily with him. So, she looked up
after a moment, and spoke simply but
steadily~
"If it is of me. you are thinking, don't
regret what you have said. If love is worth
any thing at all, it is certainly worth more
than all these things of which you speak.
You know best whether or not you must
go; whether or not we must part to-mor-
row; but I know best this-that it is better
to part knowing that we love each other,
better to have the open right to think of
each other, and, it may be, to wait for each
other, than to have left that love unspoken
perhaps forever. Even if we have to give
each other up, I think we can better do it
face to face with the knowledge of our own'
hearts, than secretly and by stealth. As for
these worldly drawbacks, they seem so little
to me that I can scarcely realize how you
count them so mu~h4 But you may. be
right. I cannot tell~ that; 12 can only te~l
that, come what may in the future, we will

t i 221. T 213


0

be richer to the end of our lives for this
hour.'7
The sweet, clear voice ceased, but the
spirit of her words had gone home to her
listener's heart more powerfully than if she
had spoken with all the eloquence of all the
schools, No man knew better than he the
manner in which worldly wisdom would re-
fute such philosophy no one had ever
mocked more openly or more persistently
at such sentiments; but, just then, he could
sooner have refuted-sooner have mocked
an angel from heaven. The knowledge
came to him-as it comes to all sooner or
later-that there are diviner things on this
earth of ours than the bodies we inhabit,
and the needs that go with them; that there
are powers neither tangible nor material
which no man can safely disregard; and
that who so constructs a philosophy ignor-
ingthese powers, or professing to curb them
by the strong hand of force, must pay the
penalty of rashness and folly. To the very
core of his heart he felli her last words,
"Come what'~nay in the future, we will be
richer to the end of our lives for this hour"
-and he bent down and laid his lips on the
hands he still held.
"You are right-I am wrong," he said.
"Yes; we will be richer always for this
hour, and we will not speak of parting.
You are mine now, and I shall not sur-
render you at any earthly bidding."
* Half an hour later Nina Eston was leav-
iug the pavilion with Ainslie, when they
came upon Mr. Harding just entering it.
He looked so singularly pale and disturbed,
that both of them paused involuntarily.
"Why, Harding! What is the matter?"
Ainslie asked.
"Have you seen a ghost, Mr. Harding I"
the young lady cried.
Harding shook his head, and gave a sort
of forced smile, as he strove to pass on, but
his lips quivered in the effort, and so did his
voice when he answered:
"Nothing is the matter with me, and I-
Ihave not seen any ghost. Can you tell me
where Miss Lee is, Ainslie-Miss Constance,
I mean? I have her sister's fan in my pos-
session, and I want to give it to her."
"Why don't you return it to Miss Mabel?"

"I have been looking for her, and-and
I cannot find her."
"Yonder is Miss Constance, then; but I
should not think the possession of a fan
would cause you so much uneasiness."
"It seems to cause him more than un-
easiness," said Miss Eston, as they walked
on, while Mr. Harding pursued his way to
Constance. "He appears to be seriously
troubled, and looks for all the world as if he
had seen a ghost."
--4--
CHAPTER XIV.
THE DOSE DY THE WATEE'S EDGE.
DAYLIGHT was beginning to break in the
east, when Mr. Sexton's boat unloaded a
party of very pensive and yawning passen-
gers at the foot of Mrs. Lee's garden. The
ball was over, midsummer night was past,
and the pale faces and crushed dresses
looked very little in keeping with the fresh
summer morning, whose purple dawn and
early birds had shamed their late revelry.
Mrs. Lee looked ennu~i~e and pettish, Con-
stance seemed. fairly worn out, and Nina
Eston, who had been left by her own party,
and accepted Mr. Sexton's invitation to re-
turn with him, was wearied and dishevelled
to the last degree. She had not opened her
lips (excepting to yawn), from the island to
Ayre; but she landed with alacrity when
their destination was once reached, and,
having made her acknowledgments to Mr.
Seyton, took her brother's arm to go home.
"We must make haste, Frank," she said,
as they went up the garden-path, and into
the back piazza together. "It is growing
light very fast, and I am such an object
that I would not like to be seen even by a
pig. Oh, dear!" (with a tremendous yawn),
"I wonder when I ever will get sleep
enough again?-Mabel, you surely are not
talking about going anywhere to-morrow--
to-day, I mean?"
She stopped as she spoke, and looked
with a sort of sleepy curiosity at Mabel,
who was standing on the piaEza-step~ with
Conway, and who answered with a smile:
"1 am only talking of going on tb~ river

late this evening, Nina. We will surely
have had sleep enough by that time, won't
we?"
"I don't know whether you will, but I
am sure I shall not.-Mr. Conway, you ought
to be ashamed to make such a proposal! She
should not go."
"Not at six o'clock this evening, Miss
Eston?"
"Indeed, no; uor at six to-morrow
evening, either. Besides, I thought you
were going away?"
"I thought so myself, but I am really
afraid I shall not be able to tear myself
from Ayre.-Don't forget,~~ he went on,
turning to Mabel, "that you need not feel
bound to go if you are tired."
t~TIierp is no fear of my being tired,"
Mabel answered; while Nina shrugged her
shoulders, and went on into the house. "I
will be ready for you. And, Philip-"
"Mic&amp; cc&amp;ra?"
"Shall I tell Constance and. mamma
now, or shall I wait for you to do so?"
Conway hesitated; then answered, on
the spur of the moment:
"Wait-a little while, at least. I owe
it to my uncle to speak to him at once; and
then we will see about the rest. That is--
but you had better do as you think best. If
the opportunity offers, tell them, and-"
"Conway, we are waiting for you,"
came Ainslie's voice from the boat.
"I must go," said he, reluctantly. "I
will see you this afternoon. Good-by."
"Good-by," she echoed, drawing her
hand gently from the lingering clasp of his.
Then she watched him down the garden-
path, until ho vanished from sight; and, af-
ter he' was finally gone, turned, and entered
the house.
She found that Nina and Frank had tak-
en' their departure, while Mrs. Lee had F
thrown herself into a chair, and declared
that she was too tired to go up-stairs.
"I knew I should be fatigued to death,"
she said; "but then nobody minds me-no-
body ever did, for that matter. I only hope
I shall not have one of my nervous attacks t
to pay for it."               '
"I hope not, I am sure," said Constance, I,
very sincerely. "But, if you are so tired, ~

88

mamma, you. ought to go to bed. Shall I
help you up-stairs?"
"No," answered Mrs. Lee, snappishly.
"I can drag myself up-stairs by myself.
You need not trouble yourself~ Constance.
It makes no matter about what I endure.
I must only beg that you will not talk any
in your room to-night, or I shall not sleep a
wink."
"Certainly we shall not, mamma, if you
desire not. Indeed, we should hardly have
been likely to talk any way. Mabel must
go to sleep, and I am very tired."
"I am often kept awake by your talk-
ing," said Mrs. Lee, fretfully. "I have
meant to speak about it several times; but,
then, I bear a great deal, sooner than com-
plain. Nobody could ever say of me that I
complain, without great provocation. I as-
sure you of that, Constance."
"Yes, mamma."
"And I beg, therefore, that there may
not be even so much as one word spoken to-
night. Talking is not necessary to undress-
ing; and, before you go to bed, I wish you
would bring me a glass of warm sangaree.
It may make me sleep."
"Will not cold do, mamma? None of the
servants are awake, and there is no fire. I
don't see how I could get any warm water."
"It is always the way whenever Iwant
any thing," said Mrs. Lee, injuredly.
"Heaven knows it is seldom enough I
make any demands on other. people's time
or patience; and yet this is always theway.
If I were like some people, and gave a great
feal of trouble, I might be attended to; but,
as it is, you need not trouble yourself about
bhe sangaree. I can go to bed; yes, and
stay awake, too, without it."
"If cold will do, mamma-"
"Cold will noC do. I abominate cold
;angaree. Give me a candle, unless I am to
~o to bed in the dark, and let me try to get
little rest, at least."
Constance brought the candle very
quietly , an&amp; lighted her up-stairs with it.
rhen she came down again to find the ma-
erials for the cold sangaree, which, after
lie was in her' chamber, Mrs. Lee* gracious.
y agreed to take, and bade Mabel go to bed
withoutt waiting for her.

MABEL LEE.

THE ROSfl BY THE. WATER'S EDGE.


84                              MABEL LEE.
"I will come as soon as I can, dear1"
she said; "but go to bed yourself; and be
sure you go to sleep."
"I will try," said Mabel. Then she
kissed her, and went up-stairs.
It took Constance some time to find a
initmeg for her sangaree, and when at last
she had administered it, and entered her
own room, she found that Mabel's trying
bad resulted better than she herself had ex-
pected; for she was fast asleep, lying back
on the pillows, in the attitude of a tired
child, and breathing with the gentle regu-
larity of profound sleep.
"I am so glad!" thought tha patient,
tired~ ~elder sister; and she extinguished
the -eandle at once, and knelt down to say
her prayers in the early, purple dawn.
The purple dawn had changed to broad,
bright afternoon, however, when Mabel at
last awoke with a start. She looked about
her, somewhat bewildered for a moment,
~woudering what she was doing in bed at
that hour of the day, and why the house
wa~ sd quiet. But the next instant, recol-
lection flashed over her-the ball, her bright
gala-dress, her gay reign of enjoyment and
triumph, the lights, the music, the dancing,
all caineback at once; and with them another
yet brighter and sweeter memory-a mem-
ory which caused the warm blood to rush
over eirery portion of the fair skin which
was visible; and, although she was all alone
in the room, made her bend her~face down,
and cover it with herhands, while a tide of
golden hair fell heavily all about her. It
was trpe, then~-~-he had spoken! He had
told her thathe loved her, he had asked her
to sharehis fortune for good or. for ill, to the
end of their lives; he had made her under-
stand how fair and sweet and lovely every
thing.that she did or said was in his eyes.
And she-~--ah, she clasped her hands and
wondered if he even half guessed how in-
finitely dear he was to her, this stranger,
ttds knight-errant, this fairy prince who had
eiitered her life like a dream, and made it
oneklOng story ofomanoe.
Itwas no wonder that she lingered long
over her, toilet~ he had said that he was
&amp;~ihhig thiit afternoon, and she must dress
for him. What a labor of love that dress-

lag was; and 'when at last she came down,
and opened the sitting-room door, how fair
and sweet she looked to Constance's loving
eyes, arrayed in a white muslin that had
just come pure and spotless from under
Nancy's smoothing-iron, and with a cluster
of blush-roses in her breast!
"Come in, dear, but don't make a noise,~~
said Constance, in a low voice. "Mamma
waked with a nervous headache~ so she is
still in bed, and we must be very careful.
How pretty you look; and not at all as if
you had danced all night."
"That is because I have slept all day,"
said Mabel, with a smile. "When did you
get up, Constance? And why did you let
me be so lazy?"
"I got up long ago," answered Con-
stance, as she rang a bell near her hand;
"and as for your being lazy, I was only too
glad to see you sleeping.-Bring in Mabel's
dinner, Nancy," she added, as. a black face,
surmounted by a red-and-yellow turban, ap-
peared at the door.
"Dinner!" repeated Mabel, in dismay,
"Is it so late. Did you finish dinner while
I was in bed?"
"It is nearly five o'clock," said Con-
stance. "I finished my dinner some time
ago, and-but there is mamma a bell."
~. A tinkle was heard in the upper regions,
whereupon down went her work, and away
she went, to answer a demand for the bot-
tle of cologne, or something equally impor-
taut.
Mabel wandered to the garden-door, and
stood looking out at the river, that gleamed
by under the sweeping willows-that river
that would bring her lover to her after a
while-when Nancy came in with a tyay,
bearing a cup of coffee, a broiled chicken,
two or three of the light rolls on W~iich
Nancy prided herself; and a feathery ome-
let.
"It's a deal morS like a breakfast than a
dinner, heney," she said, as she set it down,
"but Miss Constance would have it so;
and vegetables don't keep warm good, no
how, so there was a nice corn-pudding and
potatoes for dinner, not to spbak of the
peas and the sparrowgra$5...~~~
"This is all I care for, I~tancy," said Ma-

f

I

I

C

Li

KABEL LEE.

4.


"'Good-day, Francis. Don't make a noise, please. Mamma is very ~
p. 85.

THE ROSE BY TUE WATER'S EDGE.

bel, turning round; and, indeed, it proved
to be much' more than she eared for. It
must be a singular sort of person who has
any appetite the day after dancing all night;
and, although Mabel drank her coffee, and
was very glad of it, the rest of the dinner
did not receive similar appreciation. She
trifled over the chicken and rolls, but her
absolute consumption came to so little, that
she was forced t~ call in the friendly and
willing assistance of a large cat, who was
washing her paws in the depths of Con-
stance's work-basket. With this aid, the
dinner had been partially, at least, dis-
patched, when Constance herself came
back. Now was Mabel's time to tell her
sister all the last night's history; hut, as
she looked up, meaning to do so, she was
startled l~y the pallid aspect of the face at
which she gazed, and she forgot her own
story in sudden anxiety.
"What is the matter, dear?" she asked.
"I never saw you look worse. Is it only
because of the ball? Dissipation does not
seem to agree with you."
"It is only because lam a little tired,
and my head aches," Constance answered.
"Nothing much is the matter. Don't
trouble about me."
" Nobody ever does trouble about you,~~
said Mabel, a little indignantly; "and that
is the reason why you fag yourself to death.
My darling, you are the best one of us, and
you bear all the burden. It seems so hard."
"No; not hard at all," said Constance;
but, nevertheless, she laid her head down
right wearily on the soft shoulder 'that was
near, as Mabel came aiA put her arms about
her. Nobody knew how much of the pain
and the weariness thoseclinging arms took
away, nor how doubly hard a burden Con-
stance would willingly have borne for this
reward.
The ~wo sisters were still standing to-
gether, wl~ien there came another sharp tin-
kle, and Mabel said, with a half-impatient
sigh:
"Mamma's bell again. 'Let me go this
time, and do you stay here and take a cup
of coffee."
"No, no," said Constance. "You know
inamma~does not like any one but me in her

room, when she has these attacks. And, as
for the coffee-I bad some at dinner. Let
me go, dear."
"If you will," said Mabel; but she kissed
her before doing so. "You dear, dear sis-
ter," she said. If I were ever so miserable
in any other way, Constance, I don't think
I should be utterly forlorn while .1 had
you."
"And you are the very sunlight of my
life," said the other, passionately; and then
she laughed a little. "We are growing
quite sentimental; and I, at least, ought to
be too old for that. Come, let me go.
There is the bell again'
Mabel let her go, but she took tip h&amp;
hat, and the volume of Browning, at the
same moment.
"If I am to be left alone," she said, "I
am going into the garden. Will you come
after mamma is done with you I"
"I am afraid I cannot. She may want
me again at any moment. Don't let' me
keep you in, though. Only please don't go
on the river to-day. I am a little uneasy
about you. You are not used to such fa-
tigue as that of last night."
"But it agrees with me excellently.
lElowever, I won't go on the river, if you
say not. I can't stay here, though, and.
face Nancy when she sees that onielet.
Tell. mamma I am so sorry about her head-
ache, and-"
Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle!
"Go, go," said Mabel, laughingly, as she
pushed her sister toward the door. "Main-
ma must be dreadfully impatient, or she
would not ring in that way. Give her my
love, and ccme to the garden, if you can."
She waved her hand gayl~, and flitted
out of the open door. The last thing Con-
stance saw, as she herself left the room, was
a flutter of the white dress among the green
shrubs outside.
An hour or two later Mr. Nowell came
in, and found Constance sitting alone in her
usual seat, busily engaged.in her usual work.
She looked up as be entered, and gave him
the same caution she had given Mabel.
"Good-day, Francis. Don't make a
noise, please. Mamma is very unwell."
"Just as I expected," said Mr. Nowell,


with a little air of triumph. "I said from
the first this would be the result of your
island folly. And Mabel -is she sick,
too?"
"The farthest in the world from it,"
answered his cousin, smiling. "I never
saw her look more blooming than she does
to-day. And I really don't think the island
folly, as you call it, had any thing to do
with mamma's indispositions. It is just one
of her usual headaches."
"'It may boone of her usual headaches;
but, no doubt, the exposure of last night
gave it to her. I am glad to hear that M:a~-
bel is well, for I was afraid- Whore is she?
In bed yet?"
"No. She came down an hour ago, and
went into the garden. You will find her in
the arbor, probably."
"Won't you come with me?"
"I believe not. I must be within hear-
ing of mamma's bell."
He went away without further apology,
for he stood very little on ceremony in his
aunt's house, and he was more anxious to
see Mabel, and make some amends for his
ungracious refusal of the night before, than
he cared to acknowledge even to him-
self. The remembrance of his hardness had
tormented him unspeakably, and he went to
seek her in a strangely softened mood-a
mood which melted even his rugged face
into something like gentleness.
Constancel's swift needle had not trav-
elled over more than one short seam, before
he returned, looking vexed and disappointed.
"You sent me on a bootless errand," he
said. "She is not there."
"Not there!" repeated Constance, won-
deringly. "She must be there, for she is
not in the house, and I am sure she has not
gone out. You did not look well, Fran-
cis.',
"I went to the arbor first, and then
walked round the garden," he answered.
"If you don't call that looking well-But
she is not there. l~erhaps she is up-stairs?"
"No. I was in her room ten minnte0
ago. I assure you she went into the garden,
and if she is not there she must have gone
on the river. Yet that cannot be, for I
asked hernot to do so."

"I doubt if your asking would avail
much, if Mr. Conway brought his boat and
persuaded her."
"Yes, it would. Mabel never broke a
promise in her life; and she promised me
not to go on the river this afternoon."
"Promised?"
"Yes; promised."
"Humph I" said Mr. Nowell, dryly.
"Come, and let us see."
"As you please," she answered; "but I
know I am right."
She put aside her work, and went down
the garden-path to the arbor. Mabel had
been there, evidently, for a chair was drawn
before the table, where the volume of
Browning lay open, with. her handkerchief
and one of the blush-roses marking the
page.
"She is near by somewhere," said Con-
stance; "in the orchard, perhaps' And
she sent her voice through the calm summer
afternoon, with the clearness of a bell, call-
ing again and again her sister's name, but
no answer was returned.
"Now come down to the steps," said
Nowell, who had stood by silent. "Per-
haps we may find some trace of her there,
despite your incredulity."
Constance shook her head; but shewent
along with him, and they soon reached the
landing-place, which was as silent and de-
serted as the arbor.
"Yousee," she said, triumphantly.
A' Yes, I see," answered her cousin, quiet-
ly, and he pointed to a mark on the wet
sand, which had evidently been lately made
by the prow of a boat."
"You forget," said Constance, "the
boat this morning.
"That was never made by a twelve-oar
boat," he replied, sharply. "It is the mark
of a skiff; and, instead of being made this
morning, it has been done within the last
hour."
"I scarcely think so."
"Perhaps this will convince you, then,"
and, suddenly stooping down, he took up
something which lay just at the foot of the
steps, by the water's edge. Turning to Con-
stauce, he placed it in her hand.
It was one of the blush-roses.

I

80                           'MABEL LEE.                                                                     A FAIRY FLITTING.                        87

ing her until dark, and, when I found she did
not come, it seemed scarcely worth while to
CHAPTEI~ XV.                 send old Uncle Jack two miles to find out
A FAIRY    FLITTING.             that she had stopped at Seyton House."
"But why have you not sent this morn-
"IT is very inconsiderate of Mabel to go ing?"
off and stay in this manner. It shows very "Only because I mean to go myself. If
little regard for my sufferings, and still less you want nothing just now, I will start at
for my wishes. She knows that I quite dis- once."
approve of her going to Seyton House with- "And Mabel may be coming along the
out a chaperone, now that there are so river while you are on the road."
many gentlemen there. I really think, Con- "Well, what shall I do, then? Oh,
stance, that you might have interfered to here is Francis! I will send him. He
prevent her doing so." won't mind taking a little trouble-will
It was Mrs. Lee who spoke thus, in the you, Francis?"
most fretful tone imaginiible, as she and "Will I what?" asked Mr. Nowell, en-
Constance were taking breakfast at quite a tearing at the moment.-" Good-morning,
late hour, on the second day after the ball, aunt. I am glad to see you down-stairs~
She had ~omewhat recovered from her ncr- Will I what, Constance?"
vous headache, but had been fortunate "Will you set mamma's mind at rest by
enough to find it replaced by an important going after Mabel?"
grievance, in the shape of Mabel's non-ap- "What! Has not Mabel come home
appearance since the evening before. She had yet?"
been talking in a steady, querulous stream "No. She must have spent the night
for some time. Now she stopped, and at Seyton House. I was going for her my-
looked at her daughter, as if demanding an self; but mamma suggests I may miss her.
answer. Now, if you will take a boat, and go-"
"Indeed, mamma, I could not help it," "Of course I will," said Mr. Newell,
Constance replied. "1 was occupied with quickly. "Why did you not let me know
you, and Mabel went without telling me sooner? I would have gone last night, if 1
that she was going.                      had been aware that she did not return
"But it is very strange. Don't you home. Did nobody see her leave?"
think it is very strange that she has not re- "Nobody at all. But Nancy says she
turned?" heard the arrival and departure of a boat,
"I think it is a little strange," said Con- and a man's voice talking with Mabel; so
stance; "but then Mabel must have had it must have been Mr. Conway, and she
some good reason, we may be sure. No must have gone to Seyton House."
doubt Mr. Conway came for her in the boat, "Yes," said Mr. Nowell. "But you
and they went farther than they intended, ought to have let me know, nevertheless.
and she wa~ obliged to stop at Seyton I will go at once."
House. I am glad she had prudence enough He was turning to leave the room, when
not to come home after dark. Constance suddenly gave an exclamation of
"But she might have come home be- pleasure and relief.
fore," said her mother, reasonably enough "Yonder is Mr. Conway now," she said.
in substance, though far from reasonably in "Of course Mabel is with him. No-she
tone. "And how do you know that she is not."
is at Seyton House?"                        "Then he has come to let us know about
"There is nowhere else for her to be." her," said Mrs. Lee.
"You might have sent to inquire, at all And, as she spoke, Philip Conway crossed
events, and spared me this anxiety, which the piazza, and stood in the open ddor.
will end by bringing back my headache." "Good-morning, Mrs. Lee-Miss Con-
"I would have sent, but I kept expect- stance," said he, advancing into the room,


88                           MABEL LEE.                                                                  A FAIRY FLITTING.                       89

and glancing quickly around, as he did so.
"Mr. Nowehl, good-morning. I am glad to
see, ladies, that you have not suffered from
our dissipation. Miss Mabel is not indis-
posed, I hope?"
He was astonished at the singular effect
which this simple question produced. There
was an instant's silence, while cold upon the
heart of each of his three hearers flashed
the conviction that Mabel's absence, which
had seemed to them a moment ago only "a
little strange," was, in truth, unaccountable.
They gazed at Conway without speaking;
Mrs. Lee in bewildered surprise, Newell
with stern scrutiny, and Constance with a
startled and doubting look, that was quite
inexplicable to him.. But she was the first
to recover self-possession, and the very hor-
ror of the undefined dread which had mo-
mentarily seized her made her throw it off
with incredulity.
She forced a laugh, as she exclaimed, in
a tone which, notwithstanding its cheerful-
ness, was not quite steady:
"I was just going to ask you about Ma-
bel, Mr. Conway. Why did she not come
with you? Mamma has been a little un-
easy about her."
It was Conway's turn to be stricken
dumb with amaze and apprehension.
"I do not understand," he said at last.
"I have not seen Miss Mabel. Is she not at
home?"
"Did you not come for her yesterday
afternoon? Is she not at Seyton House?"
asked Constance, eagerly.
"Certainly not. I have not seen her
since yesterday morning!"
Again there was a moment of blank si-
lence, while glances of deepening astonish-
ment and dismay were exchanged, and again
Constance was the first to speak. By an ef-
fort, she spoke with composure.
"No wonder you are astonished, Mr.
Conway. I suppose we are looking and act-
ing very strangely. But we cannot help
feeling a little uneasy about Mabel, now
that we hear she is not at Seyton House.
Are you sure she is not there?" she cried,
suddenly. "Perhaps she told you jestingly
to say she was not. But no; that is not
1lke-~."

"What do you mean?" demanded Con-
way, in great agitation.
"Mabel left home yesterday afternoon,
and has not yet returned. We thought, of
course, that she had gone with you on the
river, and stopped at Seyton House. She
must have gonewith somebody else. Per-
haps the Estons or Bradfords called at the
landing, and persuaded her to go with them.
Yes, she must have gone with them. It is
very foolish of us to be alarmed in this way.
-Francis, go and bring her home. It is
foolish t~ be uneasy, but-"
Mrs. Lee, who had sat as if paralyzed
during the preceding minutes, recovered the
power of speech, as she saw Nowell silently
hurry out of the room to do Constance's
bidding.
"Oh, she is drowned I I am sure she is
drowned!" she cried, in a shrill, excited
tone. "You said you found that rose by
the river. She is drowned. Oh, my poor
child is drowned!"
"What is that about the river?" de-
manded Conway, growing very pale. "For
God's sake, tell me!"
Constance explained in a few words,
while, unnoticed by either of her compan-
ions, Mrs. Lee went off into something very
nearly approaching to violent hysterics.
"I see no reasonable cause for alarm,"
Conway said, in a tone which reassured
Constance, although she observed how pale
he had become. "No doubt she went on
the. river with some of her friends, and, be-
ing late, spent the night with them. She
may cotue in any moment. Meanwhile, I
will look for her. Tell me wI~tere to go."
Constance ran over half~4ozen places
quickly, to not one of whkt~ at another
time, would she have considered it probable
that Mabel had gone, and, almost before she
finished, Conway disappeared. Then she
called Nancy, and sent her in another direc-
tion, while she herself ran down to the land-
ing in the vague hope of seeing Mabel com-
ing home. The deep, clear water made her
shudder: and there was nothing to be seen,
so she hastened back again into the house,
and found her mother just issuing from the
front door bonnetless and distracted.
"I must go and look for my child," she

cried, vehemently, as Constance, catchin~
her arm, tried to draw her back. "Let m
go-I must look for her. 0 Mabel, Ma
bel, where are you? Mabel, don't you hea:
me? Mabel-"
"Mammahush!" said Constance, am
she drew her into the sitting-room by maiz
force, for her voice had risen at the jas
words into a scream, which rang shrilly uj
and down the quiet village street. "Main
ma, for Heaven's sake, don't! We are ~er~
foolish, I dare say. Mabel must be some
where. She will be here presently-she h
sure to come. Francis and Mr. Conway ar
both looking fo# her, and-O Father Law-
rence-"
She broke off thus, as a shadow dark-
ened the door, and a tall, spare man, in thc
garb of a Catholic priest, caine hurriedly in-
to the room.
"My child," he said, "I met your cousin
on the street a moment ago, and the news
he told me has brought me at once-"
"He has not found her then, father?"
"No; but he was hurrying on to the
Bradt'ords, hoping she might be there. My
dear child, I trust you are not seriously
alarmed, for it seems tome that the cause
for fear is very slight."
"But it is so unlike Mabel, father."
"We cannot say that. No exigency of
the sort has ever occurred before-that is
all. We cannot judge; but I see your
mother is quite overcome."
"Speak to her, father. See if you can
reassure her."
The good priest-for no one could look
in his face an~ meet his sweet, calm glance,
without feelld~oure that he was good-
drew near, an4 bent over Mrs. Lee, who lay
on the sofa. "My child," he said, "my
poor child, look up. You are very prema-
ture in this excess of grief. God is very
good to ~us, and never tries us beyond our
strength. I think Mabel will return. I
hope she will soon be in your arms. But,
meanwhile, try to make an act of resigna-
tion, and leave her to Him; try to remem-
ber__"
The cliok of the front gate at that mo-
ment made Constance spring to her feet.
The next instant she had left the room and

met Nowell in the hail. His face told at
a once that his search had been fruitless.
"Well?" she gasped.
r "I can hear nothing of her," ho an-
swered; "and I have been to every prob-
I able house in town. Call Nancy at once,
i and let me hear her story of the boat she
heard."
"Nancy is not here now; I sent her out
- also. I would have gone myself, but main-
ma-ah, there she is now!"
There was another click of the gate
as she spoke, and Nancy came up the walk
shaking her head dismally after the manner
of her kind.
"No news, ~
"Nobody has seed or heard a thing of
her, ma'ain. A great many of the gentle-
* men said they was coming to help look for
her, ma'am-but Mr. Nowell, he told 'em
* not-and the sweet child may be dead and
drownded-"
"Hold your tongue! "said Nowell, short~
ly. "Yes, I told them not to come. Ma-
bel is certainly not lost in that way. Now
tell me quickly and distinctly what you
know about a boat coming yesterday.after-
noon."
"I knows no moi-e 'an I does know,~~
said Nancy, sullenly. She could not bear
Newell, and, even when her heart was
wrung with grief, the dislike came over her
at his peremptory tone. "I heard a boat
-that was all."
"But what did you see?"
"I never seed nothing."
"What did you hear, then? Be quick
about it!"
"Tell every thing, Nancy, for Heaven's
sake!" said Constance.
So adjured, Nancy told all, which was
briefly this: She had been ironing in the
kitchen, the afternoon before, and, ds her
table was just placed under an open window,
she had heard the arrival of a boat at the
landing-place. A little while after she wa~
crossing the yard to hang out some clothes,
and then she caught the sound of voices in
the arbor, one of which was Mabel's, and
the other that of a man. Here Newell in-
terrupted her. Did she recognize the man's
voice? No; she did not recognize it at aU.


90                           MABEL LEE.                                                                 CONFLICTING EVIDENCE.                    91

It was not like anybody's voice she knew;
but then she didn't pretend to know many
folks. Was it like Mr. Conway's? Nancy
could not say, knowing nothing about Mr.
Conway's voice. Well, what kind of talk-
ing did it seem to be? Very well pleased,
as far as she could judge. She heard them
both laugh several times; and, the window
being open, she heard Miss Mabel's voice
when they were going down to the boat.
Did she hear what they said? No, not a
word, only a murmur of laughing and talk-
ing, and after a while the rattle of a chain,
as the boat was unfastened, and the -sound
of oars in the water-that was all. Noth-
ingelse? Nothing else at all.
"You may go, then," said Mr. Nowell;
and, after she was gone, tossing her head in
high offence, he looked steadily and silently
at Constance.
"What is it, Francis?" she asked.
"For Heaven's sake, speak! Any thing is
better than this."
"Do you want to hear my opinion, Con-
stance?"
"Yes, yes-you know I do."
"It is that the viper you have been
nursing among you all has stung you at last.
The man you have trusted has betrayed you,
as I told you, from the first, it was in him to
betray."
"Do you mean Mr. Conway?"
"Who else should I mean? Who else
would Mabel accompany in the way you
have heard described?"
"But, my God !-what do you suspect
him of?
"How can I tell? I am not a villain,
and I cannot read a villain's heart. He may
have carried her off to marry her, and es-
tablish a claim on Mr. Seyton-or he may
have murdered her to put her out of his
way."
"Hush, hush!" cried Constance, ex-
tending her hand with a gesture of horror.
"0 Francis, that you can be so cruelly un-
just! You saw him when he heard the
news;~ you saw his astonishment, his agita-
tion-he could not have simulated it."
"I believe that he could simulate any
thing. I believe that he has carried off
Mabel, and, by the God above us, if I find

even so much as a shadow of proof against
him-"
"Rush!" cried Constance again, and
there was a tone of almost solemn command
in her voice. "This is no time for such
threats. Who cares for proof against him?
Find her for me, Francis-" and the voice
changed to a wail of agony-" you do not
mean that any serious harm has befallen
her?"
He took her by the shoulders and put
her out of his path without a word. Then,
as he was going, he turned and looked back
at her.
"You pray to God," he said. "I go to
find her."
-4---
CHAPTER XVI.
CONFLICTING EvIDENCE.
TWENTY-FOUR hours later, it was a very
weary and worn-out group of men who as-
sembled in Mr. Seyton's library, where Mr.
Seyton himself sat, pale and haggard, with
the wan, stricken aspect of an old man,
under the sudden grief that had fallen upon
him. After twenty-four hours of constant
search, not a trace of Mabel Lee had been
discovered; and the searchers now as-
sembled after their fruitless exertions to
consult concerning what steps were to be
taken next.
Besides Mr. Seyton, Philip Conway was
the only sitting figure; but he, who until
now had not taken a moment's rest since
he first heard the news of Mabel's disappear-
ance, was so utterly exhausted- that he had
flung himself half unconsciously into a chair
as soon as he entered the apartment, and
sat in an attitude of profound dejection-his
head drooped, his eyes fixed on the floor,
and apparently heedless of all around. Near
him stood Ainslie, slowly drawing off a pair
of riding-gloves, and listening the while at-
tentively to Mr. Blake, who was briefly de-
tailing the failure of his efforts, though he
had spent the day and the night in the sad-
dle-a fact which was at once very evident,
for his boots were splashed with mud, his
clothes covered with dust, and his usually

ruddy and genial face, hollow and overcast.
:Next to him Francis Nowell stood, leaning
on the back of a tall chair, in the seat of
which he had thrown his hat-a riding-
whip still in his hand, and his eyes fastened
steadily and ominously on the unheeding
Conway. He, too, showed unmistakable
traces of the wear and tear of physical fa-
tigue and mental suffering; and even his
friends might scarcely have recognized in
his haggard face and sunken eyes the man
they were accustomed to see. The only one
of the group whose appearance had not al-
tered in the least, but who seemed quite his
usual self, with a shade, perhaps, of ad-
ditional solemnity, was Mr. harding, whose
head and shoulders loomed up behind Mr.
Seyton's chair. He had made some pre-
tence of joining in the search the day be-
fore; but had returned to the house in the
evening, and spent the night quietly in bed.
"There is no trace or clew whatever,
sir," said Blake, "excepting the confused
story of a boat, which Mrs. Lee's cook tells.
Miss Constance thinks that her. sister must
have fallen into the river; and the Ayre
people are dragging the stream. But, for
my part-"
"It is sheer folly!" broke in Nowell,
sternly. "They must be made to think
that Mabel could fall into the river. Let
them drag it if they choose; but it is not
there-it is not in the river-that she must
be sought."
"The matter is so unaccountably ulyste-
rious," said Ainslie, "that it is almost im-
possible to decide on our next course of ac-
tion. If we had only the faintest clew to
guide us-but I am afraid the cook's story
does not furnish one."
"That remains to be seen," said Nowell,
speaking in the same repressed voice as
before, and coming forward to the table
round which they were all grouped. "The
cook's story proves this much," he went on,
emphatically, "that some boat did arrive
on that afternoon, and that Mabel accom-
panied some person or persons on the river.
What we liave to do is to find that boat,
and that person or those persons.~~
"Well?" said Mr. Seyton, in the tone
of " go ~

"1 will begin, sir, by asking you to ac-
count for your own boat, which is the one
most likely to have been used, and by
requesting these gentlemen "-he looked
round the table at Mr. Seyton's three guests
-"to be kind enough to tell us how they
were engaged on that afternoon."
"Upon my-word, Mr. Nowell," said Mr.
Harding, flushing up suddenly, "do you
mean to insult us, sir?"
"Hush, Harding!" said Mr. Ainslie,
quickly. "This question is a mere form.-I
quite agree with you, Mr. Nowell," he went
on, turning to the young lawyer who stood
before him. "Of course it is best to do so.
Shall we begin with the boat, or with our-
selves?"
"The boat is not here, and you are,"
answered :Nowell, briefly. "We will waste
no time, if you please, but begin with your-
selves.-Mr. Seyton, will you conduct the
examination?"
Mr. Seyton started, for he had sunk
into abstraction, and looked up, as if sur-
prised.
"Certainly," he said. "But it seems
scarcely worth while-Philip is the only
one who would have been likely to go for
her, and Philip spent the afternoon with
me."                                 -
"Begging your pardon, sir," said Mr.
Blake, abruptly. "You forget that I called
to see you, and that you lost sight of Mr.
Conway for some time, while we sat on the
piazza."
"But he was in this room. I left him
here when I went out, and found him when
I returned."
"Can you vouch for his presence during
that interval, sir?"
"Blake !-What do you mean?"
"I mean, sir," said Blake, with a cer-
tain dignity in his tone and manner, "that
this is no time for mincing matters, and that
Mr. Nowell and I are both of one mind-
there's been black work here of some sort
or other, and if Mr. Conway does not wish
to be suspected, he had better lift up his
head and clear himself at once."
The honest, indignant voice rang through
the room fearlessly, and Conway lifted his
head quickly enough. At first his face mdi-


MABEL LEE.                                                           CONFLICTING EVIDENCE.

eated only profQund. astonishment, but as he
met the looks of dark suspicion with which
Blake and :l{owell were regarding him, he
rose and stood confronting them-amaze-
ment, incredulity, indignation, rage, and
scorn, chasing each other in quick succes-
sion over his countenance. He seemed for
a moment incapable of speech, but con-
tinued to gaze at the two men with eyes
literally blazing with passion, while the
large veins rose and stood out like cords
upon his clear, dark forehead.
Shocked by the accusation just made,
Mr. Seyton was about to interfere, but be-
fore he had time to speak, Conway recov-
ered self-possession and anticipated him.
Unconsciously, perhaps, he drew himself
up, and threw back his head, while the
glance which was fixed on Blake's eyes
grew colder but more menacing. His whole
airy and his voice, when he spoke, were'
different from his usual manner. Haughty
and grave, he looked as he felt-the gentle.
man addressing his inferior.
"Did I hear you mention my name a
moment ago, in a most extraordinary
way?" he said, in a tone so quiet that
every one present felt the slight but sensi-
ble thrill with which we listen to that low
moaning of the wind which always pre-
cedes the burst of a tempest's fury. Mr.
Harding turned a little pale, and shrank in-
stinctively behind his uncle's chair. But
Blake did not flinch.
"Yes, Mr. Conway," he was commen-
cing, when Mr. Seyton stopped him.
'~ Not a word more, Blake!" he ex-
claimed, the first real anger he had ever
felt toward his faithful friend flashing in his
eyes. "t~ou insult me, not less than my
nephew, by the infamous accusation which
you dare to suggest.-My dear boy," he
continued, rapidly, looking up at Conway,
"forgive him, for the sake of the motive
which prompts his zeal."
Before either Blake or Conway could
reply, Noweil laid his hand on the table,
and addressed Mr. Seyton. -
"Sir," he said, in a grave and measured
tone, "I respect your feelings; I am sorry
to shock them-by what I am about to say.
But I must be heard: My cousin, whose

nearest relative and natural protector I am,
has suddenly and mysteriously disappeared
from her home. I believe, and so does Mr.
Blake, that she was either forcibly abducted
or treacherously wiled away by this man
he pointed sternly to Conway. "It is right
that you should hear a detail of the circum-
stances upon which this belief is based, and
that he should have the opportunity of prov-
ing our suspicions to be unfounded before I
formally make\ the charge against him at a
legal tribunal. The following are the facts
which I have gathered, and upon which my
accusation rests: First-Mabel has, for more
than a month past, been in the habit of
going on the river almost every afternoon
with this man; on no single occasion has
she gone with any one else. Secondly-
Frank Eston and his sister heard her make
an engagement to go boating with him on
the afternoon in question, as they parted at
daylight, when returning from the ball.
Frank and Miss Eston will both testify to
this on oath. Thirdly-Mrs. Lee's servant
heard a boat come to the landing at the
very time named when the engagement was
made; heard a man's voice laughing and
tallying with Mabel in the arbor; heard this
voice and Mabel's own, talking as they went
down the garden-walk to the river; and
heard the clink of the chain when the boat
was unfastened. Shortly afterward, I my-
self, together with her sister, saw the mark
of the boat on the sand at the landing, and
just beside this mark I found a flower
which Constance recognized as one of a
cluster worn by Mabel that afternoon. An-
other one of the same flowers was lying in
an open book which she had been reading
in the arbor. Lastly-By Mr. Blake's tes-
tiinony and your own admission, you lost
sight of Mr. Conway during a considerable
part of the afternoon-fully two hours and
a half, Blake thinks-during which time he
could easily have taken the boat from her
mooring at the foot of the blufl' gone to
Mrs. Lee~s landing, and persuaded my cous-
in to fulfil the engagement she had made,
returning in time to be in the library when
you re~ntered it. What were the motives
influencing him, and how he has disposed
of Mabel, I pretend not even to conjecture.

Here are facts, and I ask what Mr. Conway
has to say regarding them?"
"That your suspicion is not so inexcus-
able as I thought before hearing the circum-
stantial evidence in support of it, and eon-
sequently I will endeavor to satisfy you,
Mr. Nowell, that in this case, as in many
others, circumstantial evidence is mislead-
in&amp;' answered Mr. Conway, in his usual
frank inauner. He had listened to Nowell,
*as had Mr. Seyton, with a surprise which
soon transcended every other emotion, ac-
knowledging mentally that the young law-
yer was not merely excusable but perfectly
justified in entertaining a suspicion which
wore such a plausible appearance. As he
thought thus, his brow relaxed from the
heavy frwn that contracted it, the expres-
sion of his face grew clear and open, and he
continued in his natural tone of voice:
"Your information concerning the en-
gagement made by Miss Mabel Lee to go
boating with me is perfectly correct. I
mentioned this engagement that morning
at breakfast, as you, sir, may remember?"
He turned to Mr. Seyton.
"Certainly!" answered the latter.
"My uncle," proceeded Conway, "ob-
jected to my taking Miss Mabel out that
day, saying that, after the fatigue of the
night before, she ought to rest. He even
desired that I would not call upon her. He
was going to send Anderson to Ayre in the
afternoon, he said, and would tell him to
stop at Mrs. Lee's and inquire how the la-
dies were. And he added that, if I was
concerned at breaking my engagement, An-
derson could take my apologies to Miss Ma-
bel."
Again lie turned to Mr. Seyton, who
said, mournfully: "Yes, I remember.
Would to God I had let you go!" And
Conway knew, from the tone as well as
the words, that there did not exist in his
uncle's mind a shade of distrust toward
him.
As I was leaving the breakfast-room,"
he went on, "I met Anderson, and request-
ed him to come to me for a note which I
wished to send to Ayre, when hewent there
in the afternoon, and accordingly he' came
to me in the library at the time that my

uncle was occupied with Mr. Blake.-You,
Mr. Nowell, have adduced the statement of
Mrs. Lee's servant, that she heard a boat at
the landing in her mistress's garden, a man's
voice, and the departure of Miss Mabel. I
will prove to you on equally reliable testi-
mony, that of my uncle's valet, that I was
in this room a very short time before my
uncle returned to it from the piazza, and
that he, Anderson, saw Miss Mabel Lee af-
ter he had discharged the errand that took
him to Ayre-having called at Mrs. Lee's,
he assured me, just before he left town to
return home-at least an hour after he left
me here in the library.-With your permis-
sion, sir, I will ring for Anderson."
Mr. Seyton nodded his head, Conway
rang, and Anderson, whose business it was
to answer the library-bell, soon made his
appearance, and approached the group sur-
rounding his master, with a very solemfi
and rather startled expression of counte-
nance.
"Anderson," said Conway, quietly-for
he wished to put the man at hisease-" An-
derson, do you remember what time it was
when you saw Miss Mabel Lee, on Thursday
afternoon?"
"Yes, sir," was the prompt reply. "I
called at Mrs. Lee's the last thing before I
left town, and it was just six o'clock. I
heard the town clock striking while I was
waiting in the garden for Miss Mabel to an~
swer your note."
"You are sure it was six o'clock?" said
his master.
"I'm sure of it, sir. I counted every
strike of the clock, for Mr. Jones wasn't at
home when I went to his office, and-"
"Never mind about Jones. Might you
not have been mistaken in counting the
clock?"
"No, sir; I know I wasn't mistaken.
I noticed particular about the time, because,
if you recollect, sir, you told me to hurry
and get back, if I could, before Mr. Blake
left, so that he could hear what Mr. Jones
said. I started fromhere just a little before
five. When I come for Mass Phil's note I
looked at the clock there, and it wanted ten
minuteS to five; and I know I thought I
could ride fast, and git back by six, but I

MABEL LEE.


94                          MABEL LEE.                                                                  CONFLICTING EVIDENCE.                    95

had to run about so before I could find Mr.
Jones that it was six when I got to Mrs.
Lee's."
"And you ~
Mr. Seyton's voice failed. He could not
pronounce the name of his lost darling. He
cleared his throat, and said, "Whom did
you see first at Mrs. Lee's?"
"I saw Miss Constance first, sir. She
was coming down-stairs, as I went up the
front walk. She come to the front door to
meet me, and after I had asked how they
all was, I handed her the note for Miss Ma-
bel. She took it, and then she give it back
to me, and told me to go on through the
house into the garden and that I would find
Miss Mabel in the arbor. I went and found
her there, and give her the note, and, after
she read it, she star ted to go in the house
to answer it. I told her I was in a great
hurry, and asked her not to be long, if she
pleased, and she laughed and said, 'Well, if
you're in such a hurry, Anderson, I'll just
tear a leaf out of this book and write with
a pencil; but you must be sure and tell
your Mass Phil that it's not my fault I
send him such a note.' So she tore out a
leaf and wrote on it, and told me to be sure
and not lose it, and not to let anybody but
Mass Phil see it. And then I hurried
home."
"And you counted the clock striking
six while you were in the garden?"
"Yes, sir. While Miss Mabel was writ-
ing the note."
"You rode to Ayre?" asked Newell.
"Yes, sir. I went a-horseback!~~
"There is one place on the road where
there is a very good view of the river, just
this side of town, you know. Did you no-
tice the river-if there were any boats on
it?"
"No, sir. I didn't notice the river go-
ing or coming. I was in a hurry both times,
and was looking straight before me all the
time."
* "That will do," saidhis master, and An-
derson retired.
* As soon as the door closed on his exit,
Mr. Sexton raised himself in his chair with
a look of mere energy than he had yet ex-
hibited. "I hope, Mr. Newell and Mr.

Blake," he said, in a tone of cold displeas-
ure, "that you are now satisfied. Ander-
son's word would not be received in a court
of justice, it is true, but if your acumen does
not go so far as to suspect my nephew or
myself of suborning his evidence, perhaps
you may give it the same credit which you
accord to that of Mrs. Lee's cook, who is
also ineligible in law as a witness; and if,
further, you do not suspect me of collusion
with my nephew in the commission of the
crime of which you have accused him, you
may possibly accept my testimony as cor-
roborating what Anderson says relative to
time. It happened that, as I am not fond
of business, and Blake was talking of busi-
ness all the while he was with me, I looked
at my watch repeatedly. I had it in my
hand when Anderson came to me for the
message he was to take to Ayre. It was,
then fifteen minutes before five o'clock.
My watch and that timepiece "-he pointed
to the clock over the mantel-" generally
run very well together. Saying that I de-
tained Anderson five minutes giving him
my directions, and I think that was about
the length of time thus occupied, he. would
have entered the room precisely at ten min-
utes to five, as he said. And half an hour
afterward, by my watch, Blake took leave,
and I came in from the piazza. That is to
say, at twenty minutes after five I found
my nephew where I had left him an hour
and three-quarters before, for Blake is mis-
taken in his estimate of the time spent in
the piazza; I looked at my watch when I
left the room and when I returned. There
was an interval of one hour and three-quar-
ters only. And from twenty minutes after
five o'clockuntil bedtime, Philip was not out
of my presence. If you do not reject An-
derson's testimony, and will bear in mind
that he saw my goddaughter at six o'clock,
you must acknowledge, Mr. Nowell, that it
proves an alibi."
Nowell and Blake exchanged glances.
Neither of them entertained a shade of
doubt as to the truth of Anderson's state-
merit. An alibi was proven-Mat they
could not dispute. It was clear that Con-
way had not been himself the active agent
in Mabel's'abduotion or elopement; but not

the less wOre they confident of' his guilt.
His astonishment when the charge was
made, and the candor with which he after-
ward admitted that circumstances afforded
some ground for suspicion, they considered
only a part of the plot-a specimen, perhaps,
of his powers of dissimulation.
After a momentary pause, Nowell spoke,
in a tone as cold as Mr. Seyton's own.
We accept Andersen's testimony, sir.
It proves an alibi, undoubtedly," h6 said.
"If you do not object, I will, as a matter
of form "-he laid a slightly ironical empha-
sis on the last words-" ask a few questions
of yourself and these other gentlemen before
we go to examine the boat. Mr. Conway,
it seems, spent the afternoon and evening
with yourself. Were Mr. Ainslie and Mr.
Harding also with you?"
"Mr. Ainslie was on the terrace all the
afternoon, I understand. Cyril was riding
and came in about dark, or a little after.
We all spent the evening together."
"You were on the terrace all the after-
noon, Mr. Ainslie I"
"I was, though I don't know that I can
produce~ any witnesses to the fact," Ainslie
answered, quietly.
"The terrace commands a view of the
river for some distance up and down. You
would have noticed any boats passing, I
suppose?"
"I think so. I cannot say with cer-
tainty that none passed, for I was reading,
and, being thus occupied, they might have
escaped observation. But I think that any
movement on the river would have attract-
ed my attention."
"I hope Mr. Harding will not consider
himself insulted, if I ask him where he spent
the afternoon."
"I spent it riding," said Mr. Harding.
"Riding? That is rather indefinite.
Riding where?"
"Really, Mr. Nowell, I am not accus-
tomed-"
"Tell him and be done with it, Cyril,"
interrupted his uncle, sharply.
"But it is impossible for me to tell him!"
cried Mr. Harding, indignantly. "I hardly
know myself. I felt badly, and I thought a
ride might help me, so I had a horse saddled

and set out. I went some considerable dis-
tance, and was late getting back-that is
all."
"But you surely know the direction you
took?"
"I took the high-road leading to Ayre,
but after a while I struck into the woods,
skirted some fields, rode along the river
bank, and came back by a large mill I
hope that is sufficiently explicit!"
"Bat did you meet no one?"
"I met a good many people, but 1 knew~
none of them. Good Heavens! Mr. Newell,
surely I am the last person in the world you
would connect with such a matter as this!
What possible concern could I have with
Miss Lee? And as for her going on the
river with me, I'd hardly have been likely
to ask her, after the manner in which she
treated my last invitation."
"I do not suspect you in the least, Mr.
Harding, but you ought to clear yourself
from even a shadow of doubt."
"What doubt can there be? Everybody
knows that for weeks past I have scarcely
seen Miss Lee. It seems to me that my
cousin Philip is the only one likely to know
any thing of her movements, considering, at
least, that I overheard a declaration of love
which he made to her the night of the
ball."
Mr. Sexton started' and looked up at
Conway inquiringly.
"It is true," his nephew responded to
that look, "though I did not expect that
you would hear in this way, or that my
worthy cousin had been playing the eaves-
'dropper." His eyes, full of eloquent scorn,
glanced from the face of Mr. Seyton to the
smooth visage at his shoulder, and then
back again. "For a month past," he con-
tinued, meeting his uncle's gaze steadily,
"I have been aware that you saw and dis-
countenanced my admiration for your god-
dai~ghter. I knew, or thought I knew, that
it would be useless to attempt to obtain your
approval of my suit; and I felt that you
might, not unreasonably, condemn my con-
duct if I persisted in prosecuting it, with tl~e
full knowledge that her family and you your-
self would never consent to her marrying me.
I determined to leave Seyton House, to re~


TENDER SUSrICION.                        97

96                           MABEL LEE.

tuin to Europe; and I should have left more
than a week ago, had not Mabel, one day
when I mentioned my intention to her sister
and herself, asked, as a personal favor, that
I would remain until after the ball. Very
reluctantly I consented to delay my de-
parture, resolving to guard every word and
look in r~y association with her. I would
willingly have abjured her society altogether,
but it was impossible to do this without
exciting her own wonder and the remark
of others. Therefore, I could only avoid
it partially. But I adhered strictly to my
resolution, until the night of the ball. On
that evening I met her in the belief that I
saw her for the last time, for I designed
leaving the next day, and meant to take no
formal farewell of her," he paused a moment,
and his hitherto pale cheek flushed crimson.
"The excitement of the .hour "-he went
on hurriedly-"the thought of the approach-
ing separation-overcame my self-control.
I was wrong - that I acknowledge, sir.
But; before you condemn me utterly, re-
member what the temptation was, and how
long I had resisted it."
'Mr. Sexton had listened with evident
emotion while his nephew spoke. To his
ear, at least, the recital, both in manner
and matter, had in it the ring of truth.
And, "thought, quick-winged as lightning,"
filled in the bare outline sketched by Con-
way of the 'struggle maintained with a
temptation the strength of which he, of all
men, could best understand. . The memory
of his own love for one who was the pro-
totype ~f Mabel, came so vividly upon him,
that he was obliged to steady hi~ voice for
a moment before answering.
"Yes, you were wrong," he said, gently;
"and a man who himself has never strug~
gled with and been conquered by passion
might condemn you. I am not that man~
I forgive you freely."
H~ extended his hand, and pressed warm
ly the one which so eagerly grasped his own
Conway was deeply affected by his uncle'~
generous trust and sympathy, and his voic
faltered a little as he continued:
"I ought to have told you at once ol
this, and so I intended. But one triflin~
circumstance after another prevented m~

speaking to you in private, until just before
Mr. Blake caine in. At the moment that ho
entered the library I was about to tell you."
"I recollect," said Mr. Sexton, "your
asking if I would give you my attention, as
you bad something to say to me, and I re-
member being struck by your manner.
This, then, was the communication you
were about to make?"
"It was. I-"
He stopped. The color, which had a
moment before rushed to his face, as quick-
ly disappeared. A sudden faint sickness
came over him, objects grew dim before his
sight, and he hastily sat down. lie had not
tasted food for twenty-four hours, but it
was not physical exhaustion which thus af-
fected him. The soft summer air, entering
the room through the windows, bore with
it a sound that caused all of the group of
men, even the solemnly phlegmatic Mr.
Harding, to shudder involuntarily. Mr.
Seyton bent his head forward, and covered
his eyes with one hand, while the haggard
face of Nowell became, if possible, more
rigid and colorless than before. Dulled by
distance, but yet perfectly distinct, and bit-
terly significant to the ear, came the report
of a heavy volley of musketry. At the
earliest dawn, crowds of the town and coun-
try people of Ayre and its vicinity, had
gathered along the bank of the river, drag-
ging it all the way from Mrs. Lee's landing
to the island-a distance of more than a
mile-but to no purpose. Something over
thirty-six hours having elapsed since the
time at which it was supposed that Mabel
might have been drowned, they were now
firing into the stream, to the end that the
vibration of the water, following the concus-
sion so produced, might cause the body to
rise to the surface. As Ayre did not pos-
sess even a single field-piece, volleys of
musketry were substituted for the boom of
cannon, but these volleys were so heavy
that, the day being unusually still, they
were distinctly audible at Seyton House.
Nowell was the first to recover himself,
and there was a tone less of harshness in his
voice as he said, "We will go and examine
; the boat!" lie did not believe that Mabel
~ was drowned-indeed, he scoffed at the idea;

I

and would not have hesitated a moment
to stake his own life on the opposite opin-
ion; he was mentally anathematizing the
people who were, he considered, "ma
fools of themselves," by prosecuting their
search for her body, as he led the way to
where the boat was made fast-but yet that
sullen boom, boom, now recurring at short
intervals, realized to him with fresh inten-
sity the terrible fact that .31a&amp;el 'was miesin~,
and seemed to his heart, though not to his
mind, like volleys over her grave.
CHAPTER XVII.
U2~DER 5U5PICIO~.
THEY fSund the boat moored at the foot
of the bluff', where the servants who were
called up said it had been ever since the
ball, and that after that night it had not, to
their knowledge, been used until Mr. Con-
way went to Ayre on the morning of the
second day.
"You see as how we was all monstrous
tired, sir," said Austin, "and pretty nearly
everybody got enough of rowin' the night be-
fore. I'd take my Bible oath on it that none.
of the white folks touched her, sir; and I'm
still more s4rtain that none of the black ones
did."
"You are perfectly sure of this?"
"As sure as if it was the last word I
ever spoke, sir."
"I hope you are satisfied, Nowell," said
Mr. Seyton, wearily.
"No, sir! I shall never be satisfied un-
til I have laid open the whole devilish plot,"
Nowell answered.-" Mr. Ainslie, the boat
might have been entered here, and, by keep-
ing close along the bank under the willows,
h&amp;ve effectually eluded your observation
from the terrace."
"Perhaps so," said Ainslie, "for I con-
fess I paid very little attention to the river,
or to any thing else, for that matter, on the
afternoon in question."
"Come, Blake," said Nowell, abruptly,
"we are wasting time. We will take the
boat and go at once to Ayre "
lie ceased speaking, and stood still in the
"I

act of stepping into the boat, for at this mo-
ment a breathless servant came running up.
"Please, sir, there's some gentlemen to
see you," he panted, addressing his master;
"and they say as how they've. got some
pa'tic'Iar news for you."
News! What a sharp pang-half of
hope, half of fear-went through the hearts
of three at least of the group of men! They
looked at each other for one instant, saw
the same thought flash into the eyes of each,
and turned swiftly and silently toward the
housed The three others followed; the
three whose thoughts were known only to
themselves and to God-and it chanced that
Mr. Harding walked alone, while Ainslie
and Conway brought up the rear together.
"Phil," said the former, after a mo-
meat's silence, "I detest half-confidences.
You never told me about any declaration;
on the contrary, you expressly said that you
had no intention of making one."
"No, Idid not tell you," Conway an-
swered, "principally because I saw the folly
of it so plainly that I did not care to hear
an echo of my own thoughts from you. Be-
sides, I had not time. It was all so unex-
pected. I committed myself before I knew
what I was about, the other night, andthen
-but what is the good of talking of it? I
never knew how dear she was to me until
now-now, when I cannot tell whether she
is dead or alive, but when I would give up
every hope of fortune, and live to the end of
my existence a slave and a drudge, only to
see her beside me again!"
Ainslie looked at him intently-looked
at him, as it seemed, a little curiously. "I
think you mean it-for the time," be said,
after a moment.
"I mean it for any time, and all time,"
answered the other. "And I only wish I
might be taken at my word. You should
never hear me complain if I had to hew
wood or draw water for my daily food.
And yet these miserable fools really suspect
me of having made away with her."
"I wonder what they suppose your ~b-
ject to have been?"
"The devil only knows! I suppose, ikE
the first ~plaee, they pitched upon me as a
subject of suspicion, because of their great

Ii


98                              MABE:
good-will toward me. Though," he added,
with gloomy indifference, "that lawyer
made out a pretty strong case against me, if
I had not been able to prove an alibi. I
don't blame him for suspecting me under
such circumstances, but I do think he is a
fool not to be convinced of his mistake, af-
ter all that he has heard."
"He is blinded by jealousy. There is
some excuse for him in that fact. Now,
Phil, don't let his example infect you.
Don't lose your head and your temper, as
you came very near doing a while ago.
Keep cool, whatever they say. Their accu-
sations can do you no harm in the end; and
~Towell, as Miss Lee's cousin, has a claim on
your forbearance. As to that fellow Blake,
not being a gentleman, he is beneath your
resentment."
"Yes," said Conway, listlessly. "Ah I"
he cried, the moment after, with an energy
and passion so new to him that his friend
was quite startled-" ah! I am not think-
ing of their preposterous accusation, but of
Iter / Ralph, tell me what you think?" he
went on in a tone of great agitation. "You
do not believe it possible, do you, that she
could have been-could have fallen into the
river? ".
Ainslie hesitated.
"It is hard to say," he replied at last,
"but I-am inclined to think so."
"I do not, I cannot believe it," said
Conway, passionately. "I go with Nowell
that far. I think that she has been ab-
ducted!" and he glanced with a dark frown
at Harding, who was just disappearing
through the library-door, a little in advance
of them.
Ainslie shook his head. "He may be
knave enough, but I doubt if he has nerve
enough, for such a business."
"We shall see I I am determined to
find her, and I think Nowell is not less so.
Between us, we shall succeed, sooner or
later."
Ainslie had no time to reply, for at that
moment they entered the library, where
quite a number of gentlemen 'were assem-
bled. Governor Eston was speaking.
"The man to whom I allude," he said,
"an entirely honest and respectable man,

L. LEE.

named Jacob Stone, declares, and is willing
to. testify on oath, that, as he was coming
home in his boat shortly before sunset, on
Thursday afternoon, he passed a skiff con-
taining Mabel Lee and a man whose face he
did not see, but whose figure reminded him
very much of-"
He paused suddenly on perceiving Con-
way in the open door before him; and, as
he paused, the latter stepped forward.
"Finish your sentence, sir, I beg," he
said. "Of whom did the figure remind
him?"
The governor bowed with very stately
but rather stiff courtesy.
"I regret to say," he answered, "that
it was of yourself, Mr. Conway."
"And he is willing to testify that, on
oath?"
"No; he expressly says that he is cer-
tain only of Mabel's identity. He did not
catch even a glimpse of the face of her com-
panion, but he took it for granted that it
was yourself. And he remarked, what has
often struck others, that a great similarity
exists in the figures of you three gentle-
men."
"And is he certain that it was one of
them?" asked Mr. Kowell.
The governor hesitated before replying,
but after a while he spoke slowly:
~ he said. "He is absolutely cer-
tain that it was one of them."
"In what direction was the boat going?
Where did he pass them?" asked Mr. Sey-
ton? "It seems to me that is of far more
importance that any thing else."
"They were coming in this direction,
and he passed them a short distance below
Morford's Landing. It is very terrible and
very strange, Mr. Seyton-we scarcely
know what to think. Ayre is more excited
than I ever remember it to have been; and
the whole town is busily engaged in drag-
ging the river. But this information entire-
ly sets at rest the question of her having
been drowned."
"It sets at rest the question of acciden-
tal drowning," said one of the othergentle-
men, "but, if she was murdered, her body
would most probably have been thrown into
the river."

I

UNDER SUSPICION.

99

A

K

"Pray, my good sir, spare us," said' the
governor quickly, for he saw how whit~
and shuddering Mr. Sexton looked, as he
sat down in his chair. "1 hope all may yet
be well, but-Mr. Nowell, are you leaving?"
"Yes," said Nowell, as he took up his
hat, and turned toward the door. "I am
going to Morford's Landing.-Good-morn-
big, Mr. Sexton. I will see you soon again.
-Good-morning, gentlemen."
"Mr. Ainslie," said Mr. Blake, "are you
coming with me ?-or is it you, Mr. Hard-
ing?"
"Does not Mr. Conway take any part in
the search?" asked the governor, signifi-
cantly, as his glance turned on Conway,
who stood apart from the rest.
"He was in the saddle all night," began
Ainslie; but, before he could say more, Con-
way advanced into the centre of the room,
until he stood beside Mr. Sexton's chair.
Then, facing the entire grdup, he spoke for
himself:
"I understand the suspicion with which
~ou all regard me," he said, "and the man-
ner in which you have juaged and con-
demned me while in profound ignorance of
any thing save the fact that Miss Lee has
disappeared. Why this is so, only your-
selves can tell. Mr. Nowell had indeed
strung together a somewhat plausible-look-
ing array of 'suspicious circumstances,' but
I proved to him, in a manner to satisfy any
reasonable mind, that I was here in this
very room during the whole of the after-
noon upon which Miss Lee disappeared.
Moreover, I can prove, by my cousin, Mr.
Harding, who has already done me the fa-
vor to testify to the fact "-he could not
quite repress an intonation of sarcasm in his
voice-" that I proposed to and was ac-
cepted by Miss Mabel Lee on the night of
the ball. How any sane man could suspect
me of abducting or murdering the woman
who was my affianced wife, it passes my
powers of imagination to conceive. That-"
"Excuse me," interrupted Mr. Harding,
at this point, to the surprise of Conway
himself, and that of his whole audience.-.-.
'excuse me, Philip, if I correct what is no
doubt an inadvertent mistake on your part,
but which I feel it right to rectify. I did not

testify to the fact of your having proposed
to and been accepted by Miss Mabel Lee,
but only to your having made a declaration
of love to her. It was by the merest chance
that I overheard this declaration, and I hur-
ried away without waiting to hear her re-
ply. 1 was looking for her to return her
fan, which had come into my possession by
accident, but when I heard your-that is,
the subject of your-conversation, I did not
wish to intrude my presence upon you, and
so I retired at once."
"Ah, I comprehend I" said Conway,
scornfully. "You mean to insinuate that,
though I offered myself, I was not ac-
cepted?"
"No," answered Mr. Harding, hastily,
growing very red, and speaking with some
indignation-" no; I mean to insinuate no
such thing! I only corrected the mistake
and made the explanation, because you
spoke as if-as if you thought my hearing
the conversation between Miss Lee and
yourself was intentional."
Conway did not reply to this speech, but,
taking out a russian-leather pocket-book,
he extracted thence a small folded paper,
and addressed Mr. Seyton. "Hero is the
note which Anderson brought to me on
Thursday afternoon. Will you read it, sir,
and satisfy whomsoever it may concern,
whether Miss Lee was engaged to me ~r
not?~~
Mr. Seyton took the note, but, before he'
had time to read it, he was interrupted by
the entrance of Anderson, who, hastily ap..
preaching him, said:
"Mr. Martin's out here, sir, and wants
to see you. I told him you was busy and
couldn't be disturbed, but he says he's got
something to tell you, and, if you can't see
him, will Mr. Blake come there directly?"
"Bring him in at once," said Mr. Soy-
ton, with mingled eagerness and apprehen-
sion. And he laid the 'paperwhicl.i Conway
had given him on the table at his side.
Anderson returned to the open door,
and ushered in the overseer, who was wait-.
big just outside, it appeared. A rough but
good-natured looking man, with honest face
and open manner, he ~took off his hat as he
advanced into the apartment, nodded short-


UNDER SUSPiCiON.

~iOO                          MABEL LEE.

ly to the company- in general,' and more re-
spectfully to Mr. Sexton. and Mr. Blake, his
eyes resting on the former for an instant
with an 'expression of compassionate wonder
at his altered appearance, and then, turning
to Blake:
"You know the flat-boat that was lost
the night of the ball, Mr. Blake?"
Blake nodded.
~"Wall, it's found; and this here was
found in it~-.stuck fast to the bottom, in
some wet mud."
He extended, not to Blake, but to Mr.
Sexton, what the latter took to be a piece
of wet 'clay-soiled black lace, crushed to-
gether into an unsightly lump, until he had
it in his hand, when he saw that it was a~
half-length glove of the kind then univer-
sally worn in summer by ladies. Gazing at
it with n shudder, unable and unwilling to
identify it as Mabel's, he turned to Conway,
and said in a low tone, "Look at it, and see
if you think it is hers."
Conway shuddered, too, as he received
it from his' uncle's outstretched hand. He
exanilnud it closely,, but, so far as the glove
itself was concerned, there was nothing by
which he could identify it. Mabel wore
such gloves,. he knew, but so did every lady
of 14s acquaintance. Mechanically, he en-
deav'ored to straighten it out, the better to
ji~dge of its size and shape, and while doing
so he found that it enclosed some foreign
substance, to which it was pasted firmly by
the half-dry mud. Crumbling this mud off,
he ,started at the sight of a note-his own
note, ~s he divined by instinct at the very
first glimpse. He extricated it with some
difficulty from the 'inside of the glove,
opened it, gave one look at the blurred but
perfectly' legible writing, and placed it in
his uncle's hand. "The glove' is hers," he
said~ ,"Se'e 1 - That is my note, written to
her on Thursday." He pointed to the date,
whieh~ Mr. Sexton read, and then spoke
eagerly to the overseer.
"Wheir and where was the boat found?"
he exclaimed.
'~ Why, you see, sir, the boat was mission'
a Thursday zil4rnin', the day after the ball,
and as she's a right new boat that Mr. Blake
had had built after a notion of'his own, and

so light that two hands can manage her
easy, though she's big, why,, he didn't like
the loss of her; and he spoke pretty sharp
when I reported it to him, and said it was
keerlessness on my part not to cv looked
after things, better, for that no doubt the
hands had got out of her in a hurry, and
mebbe not fastened her at all, or
"But where was she found?" inter-
rupted Mr. Seyton, who, having listened
very impatiently so far to this irrelevant
tirade, could contain himself no longer.
From the force of habit, he looked up at
Blake, as much as to say, "Make him come
to the point!" To which adjuration Blake
replied by a slight negative motion of the
head, signifying, "Let him tell his story his
own way, or he'll never get to the end of
it." And the man, unconscious of this by-
play, replied:
"I'll come to that presently, sir. Well,
Mr. Blake he thought she hadn't bin fast-
ened proper. He said all the niggers was
on their heads last night, and that I must a
bin on mine too, not to a noticed what they
was about, and that he'd no doubt they'd
just flung the chain round the stake, with-
out pretending' to fasten it into the staple.
I didn't think so, because Old Ike and Big
Jim was the boat-hands, and there ain't two
better or more dependable boys on the
whole plantation, and they said they hitched
her up just as usual. Well, when I cheered
yesterday morning' that Miss Mabel was
mission , I couldn't help thinking' that mebbe
her bein' gone, and the boat's bein' gone,
had something' to do with one another; and
I sent Old Ike and Big Jim down the river
in a canoe yesterday evening' late, to Mr.
Dawson's plantation, to make inquiries
whether anybody there had seed or cheered
of, the boat's gem' by there. The boys
hadn't got half-way to Mr. Daweon's be-
fore they met Andy Campbell on his raft,
comm' up for a load of timber, and he had
the fiat towen on behind him, and said he
had picked her up away 'down the river,
and kno-wed her, and was bringin' her home
as he passed gem' up the river. Well, it
was after dark when Old Ike and Big Jim
got back, and I wasn't at home, and didn't
git 'home this. morning' till after breakfast,

I

for I was scourin' the country all night with
a party of hands, looking' for some trace of
Miss Mabel. When I did git home, I foimd
the boys waiting' for mc; and when I cheered
their story I was a most of Mr. Blake's way
of thinking , that the flat had got loose and
floated off down the stream; but I thought
I'd go and take a look at her, and you see I
found that in her "-he pointed to the glov~
-" and, what's more, there's bin people and
horses, too, in her sence we used her our-
selves, Wednesday night, because it was
very dry weather then, and the boat was as
clean as she could be, and there was nothing'
to dirty her. And now she's full of mud,
and there's the plain tracks of wheels and
horses' feet-yes, and men's feet, too! And
it's my opinion," he concluded, gravely,
"that ~iss Mabel was carried off down the
river in that boat."
Most of the gentlemen shook their heads
at this idea, and Governor Eston explained
to the man that it was impossible, because
of 'the story of Jacob Stone, who was posi-
tive that he had seen Mabel in a skiff,
adding, "You know he is not the sort of
man to tell a cock-and-bull story, or to be
mistaken in what he so positively says. For
my part, I am just as firmly convinced that
she was in the skiff, as if I had seen her
myself."
"I don't dispute it," returned Martin.
"Stone's not the man to tell a lie, one way
or another, I know. All I say is, she might
a bin in the skiff when he saw her, and she
might a bin in the flat afterward. And I'd
like to know, governor, how you'd account
for her glove bein' in the flat, if she hadn't
bin in it herself?"
"That I can't account for," said the
governor. "That is strange, certainly.-You
are sure it is her glove, Seyton?"
For answer, Mr. Sexton held out to his
inspection the back of the note upon which
the address,
"Miss MABEL Lnz, "Ayre,"
was legible at a glance.
"And Mr. Conway recognizes this as a
note written by himself?" asked the ~gov-
ernor, in a very non-committal tone.
Mr. Sexton turned the other side, and

folding it back, so that the signature and
date were exposed, he again held it out for
the inspection of all who were inclined to
examIne it. Then he put it on the table
beside, the one already there, rose, from his
seat, placed his hand on Conway's shoul-
der, and, so standing, addressed the com-
pany.
"Before we proceed further with the
subject of the boat, I must ask you, gentle-
men, to give me your attention while I per-
form an act of justice and of' duty-that of
denouncing, as not only preposterous, but as
infamous-infamous in the highest degree-
the suspicion whieh Mr. ~Towe]l and Mr.
Blake have thought fit to express, and, I
believe, to disseminate, concerning my
nephew 1-a suspicion that he was the ab-
ductor of my goddaughter! As some cir-
cumstances mentioned by Nowell are calcu-
lated, upon a superficial view, to misle~4
opinion, I will, with your permission, go
over the explanation and the proofs which
I gave to Mr. Nowell, just before your ar-
rival, as to the fact of my nephews presence
in this house during the whole of Thursd~y
afternoon and evening." He recapitulated
the explanation to which he alluded-.-his
own veto of the engagement made by Con-
way and Mabel to go boating; Anderson's
account of the delivery of Conway's note
and Mabel's answer; his own and the ser-
vant's perfect recollection of the time at
which the different events of the afternoo~i
transpired. "H&amp;re are the two notes in
question," he continued. "I do not know
whether Anderson can recognize this, in its
present condition "-he put his finger down
upon the discolored and rumpled one-" but
the other' he cannot mistake, as it is not
written on ordinary note-paper, but on the
fly-leaf torn from a book.-Ring the bell, if
you please, Cyril."
Mr. Harding obeyed.
"Anderson," said his .master, when the
man came in, "I want you to repeat to
these gentlemen what you were telling us
a while ago about your errand to Ayre, on
Thursday afternoon. I think you said you
heard the town-clock strike six while you
were at Mrs. Lee's
"Yes, sir ;." and he proceeded to give


a substantial repetition of what he had said
before.
"Look at these notes," said Mr. Seyton.
"Are they the ones you carried that day?"
"That is Miss Mabel's, sir," replied
Anderson, without hesitation~ "The other
looks like Mass Phil's, only it's so dirty.
Will you let me see it a minute, sir, and I
can tell you? If it's the one I cared that
day, it's got some blood on one corner. As
I was riding along, trimming a switch, I cut
my finger, and it bled a good deal, off and
on, all the evening, and some of the blood
got on both of the notes."
Mr. Sexton had given him the note, and
he was fumbling with it as he spoke, and he
now pointed to a dull-red stain on the cor-
ner, that might have passed for a streak of
clay a little darker than that which stained
the whole paper, but which, o'n close scru-
tiny, was obviously blood. "Here is the
mark, you see, sir. It's Mass Phil's note."
"Very well. That is all I want," said
Mi'. Seyton.
"I have nothing more to say," he re-
s~mmed, when the servant had left the room.
"Any reasonable man must 'admit that I am
right in characterizing the suspicion which
has been suggested as at onceppo.storona
and i,~famous. If there are men so blinded
by jealousy, or besotted in prejudice "-he
looked significantly toward Blake-" as to
entertain the insane idea that my nephew
was in any wise connected with the dis-
appearance of his affianced wife-such these
documents (he pointed to the notes) prove
my goddaughter to have been-why, I trust
that both he and myself can support the
knowledge of their ill opinion without con-
cern, regarding it with the contempt which
alone it deserves.
"Now," he proceeded, sitting down,
and speaking in a different tone, "how
about this boat? I confess that the more I
think of it, the more do I incline to Martin's
opinion." He looked around.
An animated discussion followed. Every-
body was ready to admit that the presence
of Mabel's glove in the boat seemed strong
evidence of her having been in it herself.
"But not by any means conclusivee proof of
the fact," said Mr. Bradford. "The glove

may have been put there purposely, to mis-
lead inquiry, by directing it in a wrong chan-
nel. One thing, however, is certain~ The
disappearance of the boat was a preliminary
to the abduction of Miss Lee, but whether
used for the purpose and abandoned when
no longer needed, in the expectation that
the current would carry it out of reach of
discovery; or whether it was intentionally
left where it would be found, with her glove
in it as a decoy for suspicion, seems to me a
matter of doubt, It will be only prudent
to make every effort to discover traces, and
obtain information all along the river, from
here down to the spot where the boat was
found, but, at the same time, we must not
relax in pursuing the search in all ether
directions as vigorously as possible."
"It seems to me," said another one of
the gentlemen, "that it will be the easiest
thing in the world to find out all about the
boat. She must have been seen by some-
body on her way down the river. For fifty
miles down from here, there is not a stretch
of three miles not overlooked by some plan-
tation or residence. It is impossible that
a boat of that size, or indeed any size,
whether occupied or empty, should have
escaped notice the whole way."
"That's if she went down in the day-
time," said Martin, with stubborn convic-
tion of the corectuess of his own surmise;
"but my notion is that she went down in
the night."
"You mean that you think Miss Lee
was carried down the river in this boat at
night?" asked Governor Eston.
"That's what I think, gov~nor.~~
"But Miss Lee did not disappear until
Thursday afternoon, late, while the boat
was missing on Thursday morning?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then, what do you suppose became of
the boat all day Thursday? She must have
been on the river somewhere, and not very
far off either, if she were to be used as you
think that night. Now, if she had been on.
the river, she would certainly have been seen,
and we should have heard of it before this
time?"
"She bought a bin run up into some
creek that day. There's plenty of 'em, you

102

MABEL LEE.

know, on both sides o' the river. There~s
Caney Creek right below here, where she
could a laid all day without any diffikilty.
It twists about so, that there's no a
hundred yards ahead any place on it-and
it's so swampy along the banks that nobody
ever goes a nigh it. She could a bin hid
there handy enough, and come out after it
was dark, and come up the river mebbe, to
meee the skiff that Stone saw."
This suggestion seemed so reasonable,
that a majority of the company at once
adopted the overseer's opinion, and were
eager to set out on this new track of dis-
covery. Some ~verc still doubtful, and in-
slated on prose~~ting the search in other
directions. A more organized plan than
that which had been pursued up to this
time wa's adopted, the gentlemen present
being formed into different parties, a speci-
fied locality allotted to each, and, agreeing
upon Seyton House as the point of rendez-
vous to which all intelligence was to be
brought as speedily as possible, they sepa-
rated.
CHAPTER XVIII.
vox POPtILI.
Arrun this, the days went by slowly
and heavily, each one deepening the gloom
and the mystery which hung over the fate
of the missing girl: By degrees the activity
of the search was discontinued, for no further
trace was discovered, and a sort of hopeless
apathy began to settle over the searchers.
It was not from weariness or loss of interest,
but simply because they had been met by
blank failure in every direction, and because
discouragement follows failure, as inevita-
bly and as naturally as night follows day.
They would have made any effort, they
would have hesitated at no sacrifice, to re-
cover her, but when all efforts and all sacri-
fices proved utterly vain, when the fourth
week of her absence had gone over, and
they had not made the least advance toward
discovery, It was only natural that the peo-
ple at large-the people that were not bound
to her by any ties of kindred or peculiar

affection-should have lost heart, and begun
to think those right who had, from the first,
asserted a steady belief of her death. It
was true that the question of accidental
drowning had been entirely set at rest, and
that no one in his senses could have
doubted the testimony of Jacob Stone, or
the evidence of the glove which had been
found in the fiat-boat; but there remained
the terrible surmise of violent death, and
the morbid mind of the populace ever
ready to receive, and, if necessary, to invent
horror for itself- caught at the surmise
with avidity. The intelligent portion of
the community clung to a belief in her ab-
duction, and could not see that the evidence
tended in any other direction, but tife mass
drew back from the search in sullen despair,
and, looking at each other, said, "She has
beea murdered!"
It is almost unnecessary to say that her
own family and friends opposed this belief
with steady incredulity; clung, as people in
their positions will cling, to the vaguest
shadows of life, and shut their ears abso-
lutely to the tragic solution of the mystery.
Among them Nowell stood chief-a very
bulwark of strength on which to lean~ But
for his indomitable belief that Mabel was
living, and his indomitable resolution to find
her, every one else might have resigned
himself through sheer despair, to a con-
viction of her death. As it was, his pro-
found skepticism and stern determination-
a determination that never faltered for an
instant - affected them as any strongly-
rooted opinion must always affect the minds
of others. They could not doubt, they
could not sink down in absolute hopeless-
ness, while he held his steady way, without
a shadow of change or turning. "I will
find her!" he had said on the first day of
her disappearance, and he said it now' with a
resolution, if any thing, deeper than before,
when days had lengthened into weeks, and
no gleam of success had cheered him. It
was not singular that this belief infected
every one around him, that it preserved Mr.
Sexton from absolute despair, that it kept
even Mrs. Lee up to some faint point of
hope, and that it influenced Constance until
she thought with his thoughts and accepted

I%~  MAEL EE.vox PoPULI.

103


104                             MABEl
all his conclusions, save only the one eon-
elusion that led him to a conviction of Con-
way's guilt. On that point she remained
flrmand in all Ayre her hand was the only
onO ~utheld to the young man against whom
there rose a deep and ever-growing murmur
of recreation. For it was only natural that
Ayre sh~uId adopt Nowell's opinion on the
subject, and, looking about for an object of
suspicion, should select the man whom Ma-
bel's nearest connection was well known to
have accused of a share at least in her dis-
appearance. perhaps, if he had borne any
other name, they might have qualified their
judgment a little; might have given him at
least the benefit of a doubt; but a Con-
way-I ills patronymic in itself con-
demned him past hope.
Yet it would be hard to say how little
this opinion or this indignation mattei:ed to
the object of it-how little he regarded or
even heard the ominous murmur of wrath-
ful feeling daily growing stronger and
deeper around him. He was still at Seyton
House-waiting, hoping, looking for some
clew, but, up to this time, waiting, hoping,
looking, vainly. The other two gentlemen
were gone. Mr. Harding took his depart-
uro as soon as- he decently could, for lAs
uncle's resolution in favor of Conway had
)~Ot been rescinded~ as he had perhaps ex-
pected, and, divested of any mercenary in-
terest, Seyton House had become but a dull
abode. He left with what show of dignity
he could muster, and not long after Ainslie
was reluctantly compelled to follow his ex-
ample, having remained as long, or perhaps
a little longer, than his convenience war-
ranted. He had proved indefatigable in
the search; but at last, like most of the
rest, he seemed to lose heart. "My deaf~
boy, be sure and summon me, if there is
any emergency in which I can be of ser-
vice," he said, when he was taking leave;
but Conway saw that he thought such an
emergency little likely to arise. So he, too,
left the saddened house behind him, and,
after the manner of human nature, set his
4ee toward brighter scenes. Thus left
alone-face to face with his position and its
strasige responsibilities-Conway had little
beside his own stout heart on which to lean.

SLEE,

His uncle was broken down in mind as well
as body, and unable to afford him any as-
sistance, save the material one of placing
unlimited means at his command; and, be-
sides Constance, there was not a single face
which did not meet him with cold distrust
or dark suspicion. The sins of the fathers
are visited upon the children, by men as
well as by God, and in nothing is this great
law more conspicuously shown forth than
in the matter of name and reputation. Who
has not felt that the best earthly heritage
which a man can leave his children, is the
heritage of a good name ?-and who, also,
has not felt (God help them, if it was in
their own person!) that the most bitter and
most clinging of all shame is that which
comes by inheritance? It was this les-
son which Mabel's outraged townspeople
taught Conway now. "Do men gather
grapes of thorns or figs of thistles?" the
religious-minded among them were ready to
quote on all occasions; while every discred-
itable story which had ever been told of the
father was revived, exaggerated, and used
against the son. As a general thing, there
is a sort of rough justice in this mode of
treatment-it is well that men should be
made to feel that the consequences of wrong-
doing end not with themselves, that the few
should suffer for the benefit of the many-
but there was no justice at all in the form
of it thus displayed; and so Conway bitter-
ly felt. Feeling this, he bore himself tow-,
ar.d his aggressors with a proud contempt,
which they were quick enough to resent,
quick enough to take hold of as fuel for the
already rising flame-and so it was that all
of a sudden he found his personal safety
threatened.
"I must warn that fellow," said Gov-
ernor Eston one day, as he stood on a street-
corner with several friends, and saw Con-
way ride past. "Tbe people are at fever-
heat, and he will be mobbed, if he keeps on
coming here in this style."
"Why need you interfere?" asked one
of the others., "It is his own lookout, I am
sure-the people express their sentiments
plainly enough-and, for my part, I would
not give him a warning to save him from
the devil himself!"

U

I

-VOX POPUJLL

"Law and orddr are to be considered,"
said the governor, who had been a governor,
and therefore thought much of these things.
"You don't suppose I am thinking of him-
confound him! I confess, I should dislike
any thing of the sort, on Mr. Sexton's no-
count, though. He is pitiably broken down,
and he clings to this fellow yet, you know."
"So I suppose; but can you conceive
how it is? Mr. Seyton used to be a man
of some sense."
"I don't pretend to account for the
blindness of partiality," said the governor,
shrugging his shoulders. And then he went
off to warn Conway that for the present he
would do well to avoid the vicinity of Ayre.
He had not gone very far before he en-
countered his son, who was leisurely stroll-
ing alon~ in an opposite direction.
"Have you met Conway anywhere,
Frank?" the governor asked. "I saw him
pass a moment ago, and I want to speak to
him."
"I saw him pass, too," said young Estoh,
carelessly, "but I took the best possible
care not to look at him, since I had no de-
sire to speak to him. There were three or
four boys hooting after him; perhaps if you
would ask some of them, they could tell you
lils whereabouts."
"What boys?" asked his father, frown-
ing slightly.
"Indeed, that is more than I can tell
you-some nondescript ragamuffins or other.
But it is a pity somebody does not warn
him-Conway I mean-that Ayre is not the
safest place in the world for him just now.
They talk very suspiciously up-street."
"Who talks?"
"Almost everybody among the idlers,
and working-men, and people of that ilk.
Jim Barker was haranguing a small crowd
at the street-corner a while ago."
"I'll answer for him," said the gov-
ernor, more assured than ever that it was
high time to wara off the reckless young
stranger who rode thus boldly into the lion's
mouth. "I rather like his pluck," thought
this brave, genial gentleman, who, in truth,
liked pluck wherever or in whomsoever he
might discover it; "but it won't do. There's
no question of that-it won't do. He'll

105

* certainly find himself in the river some day;
and then poor. Sexton -Halloa! what's
that?"
He had cause enough to know, having,
spent thirty years in political life, and being
therefore well acquainted with that peculiar
sound, half hiss, ha If groan, by which an
American mob expresses disapproval, and
which now suddenly saluted his ears. He
quickened his steps, and, turning a corner
of a street, came full in view of a sight he
had half expected.
It chanced that some little time before
Conway had alighted in front of a drug-
store, and entered to make some small pur-
chases. lie did not stay very long, but the
fact of his presence sufficed to gather quite
a knot of boys on the pavement opposite,
who amused themselves by interchanging
comments and remarks in loud tones with
the loungers on the other side of the streeL
"I say, Tom," shouted one o.f the bat-
talion, to an ally in the door, "you better
let Mr. Grinders know who's in his store.
lie might like to put Miss Ellen under lock
and key. She'll be apt to turn up missing
if he don't."
"P'raps he had better look out him.
sell', too," suggested another. LL ~Long as
his hand's in now, the gentleman, mebbe,
won't stop with women."
"No doubt he's a-buyin' pisen," said a
third.
"If anybody's took awful with sudden
fits to-night, we'll know what give it to
'em," cried a fourth.
"Mebbe he means to finish off the fam-
ily-tell him to be sure and not forget Mr.
Newell while he's about it, Tom," said num-
her one again.
"Let's give him a salute when he comes
out," cried another. "There~ he is now!
Steady, boys. Hiss-s!"
A perfect roar of groans, hisses, and
cries ensued; but Conway paid no more
attention to it than if it had borne no sound
to his ears. He did not even glance toward
the small indignant; but quietly unfastened
his horse's bridle from the post over which
it was thrown, and mounted. It was just
as he did so, just as he settled himself in the
saddle, that a heavy missile of some deserip-


106                           MABEL LEE.                                                                      'Vox rOruLI.                          1o~,

tion whirled past, and, narrowly missing his
head, grazed his shoulder. And it was at
this instant-as he wheeled about with a
riding-whip uplifted in his hand-that Gov-
ernor Eston caine round the corner.
The matter looked serious enough, for
several men who had been standing by with
their hands in their pockets, not exactly
participating, 'but only encouraging, the
boys, now came to the fore with angry
countenances.
"None o' that here," said one of them,
a tall, burly giant. "You had better put
that whip down, and take yourself off, if
you know what's good for you. We'll have
no murderers threatening our children.
Take yourself ofl and be d-d to you, before
we pitch you into the river."
"Try it," said Conway, curtly. "You
insolent scoundrel, stand out of the way
immediately, or I'll break this whip over
your head!"
"At him, Jim! Give it to him!" cried
one or two voices in the rear.
"D-n him, let him come off 'en his
horse," said Jim, "then I'll show him.
It's only a coward what threatens a man on
foot when he's on horseback. Yea, it's only
a coward."
He had scarcely spoken the last word,
when the loaded whip-handle descended on
his head with a force that sent him to the
ground like a felled ox. Then, inamoment,
all was tumult and violence. Men who had
been watching the scene from a distance,
rushed eagerly forward; those near by
dashed at Conway fiercely, and for several
minutes his safety was more than question-
able. The mad mob spirit had needed only
a spark to set it in ablaze, and, as Governor
Eston hurried forward, the scene was one
of the wildest confusion and uproar. Curses
were freely hurled back and forth~ to-
g~ther with such pleasant cries as "Take
him off!" "Pull him down!" "Knock the
horse in the head!" while'all that was to
be seen was a surging mass of men and
boys, the rearing, plunging horse in the
middle, Conway firm as an equestrian statue
on its back, and the whip still clinched in
his hand.
"Whoever touches me gets this!" he

said, raising it as he spoke. "Come on, if
you dare! If you are cowards enough to
attack an unarmed man-come on!"
"Not half such cowards as you," cried
another one of those voices in the rear.
"We never carried off a woman or
drowned her either."
"Come out, where I can see you, and
repeat that!" said Conway, with his eyes
gleaming like coals of fire.
But the unknown worthy had no mind
for this. Indeed, although at least fifty men
had assembled by this time, they were all
for the moment held at bay by the rearing
horse, the uplifted whip, and the defiance
and courage which the man's whole attitude
breathed. If there had been one sign of
falter, or token of fear in face or figure, his
fate might have been sealed then and there,
for the hot Southern blood is not much
given to reasoning, or to counting conse-
quences on occasions of this kind; and it
had been at fever-heat for many days. But,
as it was, they followed the notable example
of the Tuscan chivalry in the ballad-
"And those behind cried 'Forward!'
And those before cried Back!"'
So they were still swaying to and fro, in
confused irresolution, when Governor Es-
ton saw his opportunity and took it.
"What is the meaning of all this I" he
cried, and his voice-a voice accustomed to
rise above the roar of popular assemblages
-rang clearly over the heads of the aston-
ished crowd. "Is it Ayre men who are
insulting an unarmed stranger, in such a
manner as this? Shame to you all! Double
shame to whoever began the row! Stand
back, and let me pass. I am an Ayre man,
and I must apologize for the conduct of my
townsmen."
"He's a murderer, gov~nor~you know
he's a murderer!" cried several, though
the majority were silent, and, as there was
little or no unanimity of purpose, began to
fall back.
"How do you dare to sa.y that?" cried
the governor, angrily. "You have no right
to judge any man till the law decides his
guilt-and the law no more decides Mr.
Conway's guilt than it does mine. Stand
back, I say, and go home."

I

~'He's knocked all the sense out of Jim not to the point. I was about to say, Mr.
Barker, any way," cried one spirit, too Conway, that if you consult your safety,
fierce to give up, though the tide had evi- you will, for the present, avoid Ayre. The
dently turned. "We can't stand by and see state of popular indignation is so great-"
our townsfolk treated like dogs."         "Avoid Ayre!" said Conway, with a
"Let them behave like men, then," re- dark-red flush overspreading his face. "Do
torted the governor. "Jim Barker de- you take me for a coward as well as a vil-
served what he got. And as for knocking lain, sir? I am obliged to you for your ad-
the senses out of him, Mr. Conway would vice-I have certainly seen of what your
have needed to put some in before he could townspeople are capable-but, for all that, I
have done that." have nointention of following it. The only
The ~qu4voque was -greeted with a shout thing they force upon me is the one thing of
of laughter; and it was all that was needed hereafter carrying arms. And you may give
to disperse the crowd. They fell back at warning, if you choose, that the first man
once, deserting the cause of Jim Barker with who attempts to lay hands on me seals his
shameful promptitude; and not even ani- own death-warrant."
mated to vengeance when they saw him led "Prudence is better than bravado, Mr.
away by two sympathizing friends, who Conway."
were accustomed to perform the same good "And self-respect, in some cases, better
offices after all convivial occasions in which than either. I shall come to Ayre exactly
he chanced to participate. as I have done before-and I should do the
Conway returned his acknowledgments same if I knew that to-day's scene would be
somewhat coldly and stiffly for the timely repeated to-morrow. And now, let me say
interference that had spared him the neces- one thing more. I am aware how the peo-
sity of breaking half a dozen heads instead plc have obtained the suspicion which they
of one.                                attach to me. I know that many gentlemen,
"You owe me no thanks, Mr. Conway," of whom Governor Eston is said to be one,
said the governor, a little stiffly in his turn, freely express a belief in my guilt. There-
"I hope I am always to be found on the fore I have no disposition to blame the ig-
side of law and order; and I would do much norant fools who merely follow the example
more than this to spare my old friend Mr. of their betters; and I am still more unable
Seyton any pain or annoyance. I hope you to thank you, sir, for my personal~ safety,
are not hurt? I thought I saw a brickbat when you have inflicted such an injury on
as I turned the street." my character as the one involved in this
"Very probably you did," answered matter. I hope to be able to repay the oh-
Conway, coolly. "I don't remember-Ah, ligation under which you have just placed
yes. I feel it in my shoulder here. The me, but at present I have the honor ~o wish
rascals have nearly disabled my bridle-arm, you good-morning."
I wish I had a chance at one or two more of He raised his hat ceremoniously, and, be-
them." fore the astonished governor could reply,
"You had better be glad you got off as had ridden away, leaving him quite alone in
well as you did," said the governor, whose the middle of the street.
distrust began to return as soon as the chiv- "Well, well!" thought that gentleman,
alric impulse was past. "You made a nar- as he slowly walked back to the pavement,
row escape as it was. These people are "this is thanks, upon my word, for saving
no triflers in affairs of the kind, and I his neck; he is as hot and hasty as gun-
saw them do as quick a piece of lynching powder; but what the deuce is the reason
once-"                                 that I can't help liking him?"
" I thought you were always to be found
on the 'side of law and order, sir."
"Yes, to be sure. But in this case, the
fellow richly deserved it. However, that is


108                          MABEL LEE.                                                                   A FORGERY.                         109

CHAPTER XIX.
A FORGERY.
AFTER his abrupt parting with Governor
Eston, Conway rode on, more chafed and
heated than he would have liked to ac-
knowledge, and soon turned from Main
Street, whel~e the late encounter had oc-
curred, into the quieter portion of the town
where Mrs. Lee lived. His way to her
house led him past the Catholic church, and
the priest's house, which adjoined it; but
he did not turn his head, and so failed to see
that Father Lawrence, followed by Nancy,
was just issuing from the latter, as he went
by at a sharp canter.
"Is not that Mr. Conway?" asked the
father, speaking over his shoulder to Nancy,
as she tramped along behind. "Did Con-
stance send for him 'also?"
"Not as I knows of, sir," was the re-
sponse. "Deed, I'm sure she didn't-for
she sent Uncle Jack for Mass Francis, and
me for you, and she didn't have nobody to
send for Mr. Conway."
"He is going to your house, though, I
-think."
"Yes, sir, I 'spect he is."
"He will be just in time, then."
"I wonder-" began the good priest,
thoughtfully. But at that moment Conway
chanced to look back, and, seeing those two
together, turned and galloped hastily toward.
them. He understood at once that Father
Lawrence had been summoned by Con-
stance or her mother, and i{ that summons
foreboded news, whether good or ill, he
wished to hear it at once.
"Good-morning, father," he said, as he
drew~ near, and reined up Mazeppa so
suddenly as alin9st to throw him on his
haunches. "Have they heard any thing
new at Mrs. Lee's?"
'~ Good-morning, Mr. Conway, answered
the father,~a little more ceremoniously than
he often spoke, for, kind and gentle as he
was by nature, and little given to judging
auy one, he could ziot but regard with some-
thing of distrust this blacji sheep who had

wandered into his fold,' and whom every
one believed to be connected, either directly
or indirectly, with the loss of its pet Iamb.
"Yes; they have heard some news at Mrs.
Lee's-not ill news, however," he added,
quickly, as he saw how pale thG young
man's face became. I' Good news, rather.
Constance sends me word that she has just
received a letter from Mabel."
"A letter I-from Mabel!"
It was all he could say, for his aston-
ishment was so great that it quite over-
whelmed him. He ~Iooked at Nancy, with
a mute interrogation which Nancy answered
in her own dry fashion.
"Yes, sir; a letter from Miss Mabel.
Miss Constance got it about half an hour
ago, and she sent me right straight for Fa-
ther Lawrence."
"Why did she not send-why did she
not let me know I"
"There has not been time," said Father
Lawrence. "Of course she would have sent
and let Mr. Seyton and yourself know, if-
But don't let me detain you, Mr. Conway.
I see you are in haste to go on."
Conway had not the least idea of allow-
ing himself to be detained; but he mut-
tered something like a hasty acknowledg-
ment for this consideration, and, striking his
spurs almost unconsciously into the aston-
ished Mazeppa, galloped forward, and was
out of sight in a moment.
A few seconds later, he had dismounted
at Mrs. Lee's gate, and was walking up the
rose-bordered path that led to the front
door. It stood 'open, as usual; but an inex-
pressible air of silence and sadness brooded
over the house. No voice sounded, no foot-
step echoed, no pleasant carol of song, or
'ripple of laughter, came from the sitting-
room, or floated down the stairs. All was
rigid order and unbroken silence. He stood
listening for a moment, but the house 'might
have been deserted, for all sign of life it
gave-and then knocked gently on one side
of the open door. The next instant there
was a rustle of garments, a light footstep,
and Constance came down the staircase to
meet him. She started when she saw who
it was; but it was not a start of ill-plessd
surprise. On the, contrary, she~ smiled as

he had not seen her smile in weary weeks,
and held out her hand.
"You are just in time," she said. "I-
but I see you have heard the news. Hush!
-not a word! Mamma will overhear us if
we talk here. Come in."
He followed without a syllable, as she
led the way into the sitting-room, the blinds
of which were closed to exclude as much as
possible of the sultry August air, and the
cool, fragrant atmosphere of which might
at another moment have brought to him a
sense of positive rest and peace. But now
he could think of nothing save the news he
had heard and was yet to hear-the strange,
incomprehensible news, as it seemed-and
the moment they were within the room, he
turned to her.
"Tell' me," he said, hurriedly, "is it
true? Have you-have you really heard
from her?"
"Yes, I have heard from her," she an-
swered, in an almost solemn tone. "It is
very strange, but it is true. She gives no
explanation. She tells us nothing-but, 0
Mr. Conway, she is living! and that is all
we need care to know."
"All we need care to know!" he re-
peated, passionately. "It is what I haye
known all the time, and it is tlte thought
above all others which sets me mad! It-
hut this is folly. Let me see the letter."
He spoke imperiously-spoke as one who
deniands a right, rather than as one who
requests a favor-but Constance made no
demur. She drew the letter at once from
her pocket and held it toward him.
"It will hurt you," she said. "I give
you warning of. that beforehand. Bat it is
your right to see it, and I would not with-
hold it if I could. Only, before you take it,
thank God with me, once at least, that she
is yet spared to us."
But he did not say a word. He took
the letter to one of the windows, dashed
open the shutters, and read the few lines it
contained.
"My DARLING: Don't think hardly of
me that I should have gone away~as I 4id,
and caused you all the suffering and anxiety
of the past three weeks. I could not help

it-indeed Ii could not-and when you hear
my story, you will forgive me, I am sure. I
am happy-quite happy; and I beg you to
believe so. Don't fret about me, and don't
let mamma fret. Tell her to feel as if I had
gone on a visit, and to believe-what I sol-
emnly assure her-that I will return very
soon. I hoped indeed to see you before
this; but it is impossible just now. I only
write to relieve your mind; to tell you that
I am alive and well; that I have done noth-
ing which need grieve you, and that I love
you as dearly as ever. Kiss mamma for me,
and my dear godfather. Tell them both that
I am certainly coming back; and remember
always that you have the whole heart of
"MABEL."
That was all. Not a word of explana-
tion concerning her departure, her com-
panion, or her intention; not the faintest
clew of her whereabouts; not the slightest
mention of the lover to whom she had gone
away affianced. The letter which Constance
greeted so gladly had only made the mys-
tery deeper than ever; and only added ten-
fold darker doubts and fears than those
which had encompassed it before.
And Constance, looking on, saw Con-
way's face pale whiter and whiter, as he
read the short page to the end; and when
he finished, instead of turning round and
speaking, his eye went back to the begin-
ning, as if he could not believe that what he
saw was indeed all. Then suddenly he
turned and flung it on the table before her.
"It is a lie!" he said. "My God, Miss
Lee, do you thing I am mad, to credit -such
a thing as this?"
She looked at him with eyes full of piti-
ful amaze, but before she could reply sLeps
sounded in the hall, and Father Lawrence,
accompanied by Nowell, entered the room.
They had encountered ~ich other at the
gate, and it was very evident that the latter
as well as the former had already heard the
news which was the cause of their abrupt
summoi~s. 'He soaroely noticed Vonway at
all, and gave his companion no time for greet-
ings, but walked directly up to his cousin.
"You sent for me, Constance-what is
it?"

$


A FORGERY                           111

110                           M4.BEI~ LEE.

He had advanced to the table near which
she was standing, and, instead of replying,
she pushed the letter across to him. He
seized it at once, opened and read it just
where he was. The three, looking on, saw
the lines of his face deepen and harden
with every moment-the rugged eyebrows
draw nearer and nearer together, until they
knit themselves into a dark frown, while
the narrow lipa were compressed like iron.
When he finished reading, he looked up,
not at Constance, nor at Conway, but at
Father Lawrence, and held the open sheet
toward him.
"I suppose you would like to see it," he
said, in his cold, harsh voice. "Take it, by
all means, and admire, if you can, such a
notable device."
"A notable device!" the other re-
peated. "What do you mean?"
"Read it, and answer that question for
yourself."
Father Lawrence received the letter, but,
as he did so, his eyes wandered to Con-
stance, and, seeing how pale and faint she
was, he took a step forward, and before she
knew what he was about, seated her in a
deep chair that stood near. Then he laid
his hand on her shoulder. "My poor child,
keep still!" he said. It was all that he did
say; but his sweet, solemn voice spoke as
much to her heart as to her worn-out frame.
Keep still! It is what faith says to us al-
ways-what it tells the troubled, the weary,
and the anxious, in all trials, however great
or however small. Our puny efforts can
avail literally nothing against the mighty
barrier of circumstance which is the expo-
nent of God's decree ;but there is Another,
and a Stronger, who holds all things in His
hand, to whom all things whatsoever are
possible, end who susteins those who lay
down all weapons of warfare at His feet.
Keep still I Poo; aching, wretched human
hearts,~ when shall we learn that in this is
comprised the answer to all enigmas, the
ending of all griefs, the cessation of all aux--
ieties? When shall we learn it? Ah, sure-
ly, not while the agony of bereavement or
of outrage is pressing upon us, while every
heart-string is torn and bleeding, and every
nerve is quivering with some bitter hope-

lessness, or when the gray pall of some
mighty desolation comes down and shuts
out all glory, all beauty, all comfort, human
or divine, in one great blackness! Yet, even
then, it is taught us sometimes, through
sheer exhaustion; and it was thus that Con-
stance learned it now. She sank back,
closed her eyes, and faintly moved her lips
in prayer, while-with his hand still resting
on her shoulder-Father Lawrence read the
letter signed with Mabel's name.
When he finished, he looked up at Now-
dl, with astonishment and incredulity legi-
ble on his face.
"What is the meaning of it?" he asked.
"It cannot be Mabel - our Mabel - who
writes thus?"
"Mabel!" repeated the other, scornfully.
"Can you think such a thing? Is it possi-
ble you do not see the object for which that
precious effusion has been manufactured?"
"I-how should I?"
"How should you? Why, the plot is so
shallow that a child might read it! So
shallow, that the end aimed at-the end of
calling off search and inquiry-was never
further from being gained than at this mo-
ment! So shallow, that the plotter, who-
ever he may be, might have done better, if
he had tried, I am sure!"
His eyes turned darkly and sternly tow-
ard Conway as he uttered the last words;
but Conway paid no attention to the glance.
On the contrary, he, too, looked directly at
Father Lawrence, and addressed himself to
him.
"I agree with Mr. Nowell, sir," be said;
"and you, I am sure, will agree with both
of us. That letter is not-cannot be-.--gen-
nine.
The priest looked down at it and shook
his head slowly, like one much troubled and
perplexed.
"I cannot believe that it is genuine," he
said, "but yet it is Mabel's writing. We
must all recognize that."
"It is a forgery of her writing," said
Nowell, curtly.
Conway started and looked at him ea-
gerly. "You think so?" he asked.
"No," the other answered. ~' I know
it."

I

"But you must have some reason-some
proof for such a belief?"
"I desire no better reason, no better
proof, than its own internal evidence, Mr.
Conway," said Nowell, coldly. "I do not
despair of finding others, however.-Con-
stance, will you get me some of Mabel's
writing? Father Lawrence, if you have fin-
ished with that thing, I will trouble you for
it."
Constance left the room, and Father
Lawrence handed over "the thing" at once.
When the former returned, she brought an
open letter in her hand.
"This was written last Christmas, when
Mabel was spending a month at Colonel
Mordaunt's," she said. "I have nothing
later."
"It Will do," said Nowell, and he car-
ried the two letters to the window which
Conway had thrown open, and laid them
side by side before him-side by side, com-
pared them patiently. They were very
much alike, so much alike that it was not
wonderful Constance, had been deceived,
and that he himself had only been enlight-
ened by what seemed a flash of inspiration.
They were almost identical in general ap-
pearance, but an eye less quick than his
might have noticed that in detail they dif.h
fered. Many little tricks of the pen were
visible in the first, which the second totally
lacked; and there was a formality, a regu-
larity of aspect in the last, which the other
did not exhibit. Beyond this, the difference
was too subtle to be expressed - it was
only to be felt. Most of us have seen forged
handwriting in our time, and most of us,
therefore, will have recognized what Now-
dl recognized then-i. e., the undoubted
fact that every thing on this strange earth
of ours possesses a soul as well as a body,
and that the soul of reality is invariably ab-
sent in writing meant to simulate another
hand than that of the person who guides the
pen. It is like some poetry we have read-
some statuary we have seen-some music
we have heard-a body, which may per-
haps be a very beautiful body, but is none
the less a body without a soul. Newell had
not the faintest leaning toward metaphysics,
or any thing connected with it, so he did

not put this thought into words-much less
pause to follow it out in all its bearings. He
simply accepted a fact as he found it; and
the fact here stared him in the face, that
the letter which purported to have been
written by Mabel, bore upon it the stamp
of unreality. Further than this he could
not go, for, from the first word to the last,
there was not a line or a dot which afforded
him even the slightest clew.
Meanwhile, Father Lawrence, turning to
Constance, asked if she had told her mother
any thing of this new turn of affairs. She
shook her head.
"No," she said. "I did not doubt the
letter myself-I did not think for a moment
of its being forged-but still I had a vague
misgiving, and I felt that it was wisest not
to tell her. It would have been such a
cruel blow-nh! father, such a cruel blow
to learn that it was false."
"It was wisest to have left her in igno-
rance," he answered, gently. And yet he
felt that it was not on Mrs. Lee that the
cruel blow had fallen-that hope had come
for one moment, to be dashed by despair the
next-and his heart ached for the piteous
eyes uplifted to his face. He looked half
appealingly at Conway, and Conway came
forward and spoke.
"Take comfort, Miss Lee," he said. "If
your cousin is right-and I firmly believe
that he is-in pronouncing that letter a for-
gery, it goes to prove that out' search has
in some way struck nearer the truth than
we ourselves had dared to hope. If it is a
forgery, it is meant, as he says, to call off
inquiry; and therefore it proves conclusive-
ly that inquiry has become dangerous."
"It does even more," added Father. Law-
rence. "It gives a clew that may prove a
very valuable aid to search."
Conway shook his head.
"I am not sanguine of that," he said.
"The man who could forge such a letter
as this would consider well all possible
chances of detection, and avoid them."
"But have you examkied? Have you
looked at the post-mark, for instance ~
"I have," said Constance, as Conway
took up the envelope, which lay on the ta-
ble. "It tells nothing."

p


112.MABEL LEE.

"No," said Conway, "for it i~ ~ at
Edgerton; and Edgerton is a point where
so many different points of travel converge,
that ~ny one in passing might drop a letter,
and safely defy detection. Besides, it is
only sixty miles distant from here."
"The seal, then?"
"The seal is certainly Mabel's," said
Constance. "it is a device of which she
was very fond, and always wore on her
chatelaine . It is hers-I am sure of that."
Conway looked at the seal-he, too, rec-
ognized the device-and, while he looked,
Noweil came back to the table.
"I never saw a better imitation of a
handwriting," the latter said,* with obvious
reference to the letter in his hand. "There
is not a stroke to betray the forgery; and
yet, on the fact that i~ is forged, I would be
willing to stake my life.-Constance, if you
take my advice, you will say nothing to my
aunt about this."
"I bad not thought of saying any thing,
Francis."
"And I will take the letter with me to
my office. Perhaps, by dint of hard study,
I may find some clew in it. Where is the
envelope?"
Conway handed it to him, and he took
it with a cold bend of the head, by way of
acknowledgment. Having refolded and
replaced the letter, he put it in his pocket,
and left the room after a general good-morn-
ing. But lie had hardly vanished from
sight, when his cousin started forward, and
followed him to the front door.
"Francis," she said, hastily, as he turned
at the' sound of her step behind him, "I
want to beg one favor-don't keep any
thing from me. If-if you do find a clew, for
Heaven's sake let me know of it. I can
bear any thing better than a thought of se-
crecy. Promise me this!"
He looked at her intently before he re-
plied; and even he was touched by her
pleading eyes and quivering features, so
that when he answered it was almost
gently.
"yes, I promise. But I have little or
no hope of finding any thing. There!
don't keep me. I must go."
"One moment! Tell me what you

think. Does this prove that-that she is
alive?"
"I have never doubted her being alive;
and, if it proves any thing, it certainly goes
to prove that," He hesitated a moment,
then went on quickly: "Keep heart, Con-
stance. Remember this-if she is on the
earth, I will find her."
She looked up at him gratefuhly-ah! so
grateully-~nd still followed him with her
eyes after he strode away. He was rough,
and harsh, and bitter, but she wondered
now it she had ever before been conscious
of his inestimable value; ever before recog-
nized the sterling gold that made the foun-
dation of his character; ever before realized
how entirely he was that best of all things
on this earth of ours-a sure and steadfast
help in time of need; a very tower of
strength, on whom the weak and helpless
could lean; and in whom they could put
trust, sure that it would never be betrayed.
When she went back into the sitting-
room, she found that Father Lawrence had
gone up to see Mrs. Lee, who, during all
these weeks, had never left her chamber,
andthat Conway was sitting in an attitude
of profound despondency by the centre-
table, his arms supported on it, and his head
buried in his hands. He did not hear her
step as she entered, and the sound of her
voice at his side was the first thing that
roused him, Then he looked up with ,a
face that quite startled her by its pallor and
haggardness.
"Did you speak to me?" he said~ "I
beg pardon, I did not hear you."
"I only called your name," she an-
swered. "I only wanted to say to you
what Francis said to me a moment ago-
Keep heart. 0 Mr. Conway, God 'is very
good. He will never be cruel enough to
take her from us forever'
The cloud on his face did not lift, but
rather darkened, and the pale lips com-
pressed themselves like steel. When he re-
plied, it was slowly and laboredly, ~s one
who speaks under the pressure of some
stern self-control.
"You are a better Christian than I
am, Miss Lee, if you can speak, or even
think of God, in this matter. To me, He

ii   ~ ~ 1F~

P

/

"ConMay was sitting in an attitude of profound despondency by the centre-table, his
aries supported on it, and his head buried in his hands." p. 112.

1t

F

I

112


A FORGERY.                        11

scorns quite apart from it. To me, there is
only the remembrance of man and devil-~
and the bitterness, the misery, the agony,
of feeling my own impotence to ferret~ them
out."
"In time. You may do so in time."
"In time? But every hour is an eter-
nity-and she has been gone six weeks! Do
you remember that? Do you remember
that she may be suffering-what may she
not be suffering !-while I am here? She is
somewhere - living or dead, she is some-
where-and I am powerless to find her!
You are a woman, Miss Lee; you cannot
even imagine what this burning, baffled
sense of impotence is! "
"I think I can."
"No; because you were not made to go
forth and conquer Fate by the strong hand;
you have not been trained to believe all
things possible to the resolute. Two months
ago, if this had been foretold to me-this,
and my own inactivity - I should have
laughed it to scorn. I should have said that
Iwouldsearch the world over to finder;
and yet, you see! She has been gone six
weeks, and I-am here!"
She could not say any thing to comfort
him. She stood too sadly in need of com-
fort herself to be able to speak words of
hope and cheer. She could not again bid him
"keep heart," for, alas! her own heart was
failing, and her own courage sinking with
every moment. She could only lay her thin
white hand-a shadowy hand it had grown
in these six weeks~down upon his, and re-
peat once more, as if the words had been a
talisman:
"God is very good to us!" Then she
added, softly, "His will be done."
He looked up impatiently, almost fiercely
-who shall say with what reply trembling
on his lips ?-but the pale, worn face, the
large, sad eyes, hushed and rebuked him.
This woman had suffered more than he; this
woman's desolation was deeper than his;
but she could say that-.-she could feel that
-while his heart was one seething caldron
of bitterness against the Omnipotent, as
well as against the perpetrators of the crime
which had outraged him! He could not
imitate her faith, though it seemed to him
8.

at the moment almost sublime; for he had
flung his human strength against the mighty
strength of God's fiat, and had yet to learn
that the end of this unequal conflict is only
weariness and defeat. But he felt awed and
silenced, as we have all felt in the presence
of something which is as far above us as the
everlasting heavens are above the earth.
"I hope He will be good to you," he
said. "I hope you may never feel one hun-
dredth part of what I feel at this moment.
If you ever should, then He can at least
pity you. I think I had better go now. It is
growing late, and I have yet to learn what
the mail brought to Seyton House."
"Do you think it is likely to have
brought you a letter like-like that one?"
"No, I don't think so. Either it is
their policy to ignore me, or else the forger
or forgers do not know of my existence.
But I do expect, I have been expecting
daily, news from one of my agents."
"You have agents at work, then?"
He laughed bitterly.
"Do you think I have been idle all this
time? I have my suspicions-I have had
them from the first-but they were vague
and needed proof. I could not prosecute
the search for this proof myself, because to
do so would have been to excite alarm, but
I have put a safe detective on the track,
and I wait-that is all."
"And when-"
She stopped short. Her quick ear caught
the click of the front gate, and the sound of
a man's tread on the gravel-walk that led to
the house. She turned hastily, thinking
that Newell might have ceme hack; but in-
stead of Nowell it was Anderson who ap-
peared. He walked into the hall, and then
stood still, hesitating evidently whether to
knock on one side of the open door, or to
pass through to the kitchen. While he hesi-
tated, Constance went forward, startling
him very much by suddenly appearing, 1ik~,
a white apparition, in the sitting-room door.
"What is it, Anderson?" she asked.
Anderson started, but touched his hat,.
and answered promptly. " It's only M~s
Phil I'm looking for, ma'am. Is he herq? ',~
"Yes, he is here., Have you any thing
for him?"

I

113


MABEL LEE.                                                                   A LOST TRiNKET.                        u~5

"Nothing but a message, m~~am.'~
~ Come in, then-or, stay. I will send
him to you.
She vanished, and after a moment Con-
way came out, pale and eager. He ex-
changed only a few short sentences with the
servant,~ and then went back to Constance.
"My uncle has sent for me," he said.
"Like a fool, I think it may mean some-
thing, while it is probably nothing. If it
should be any thing, of course you know you
will heal~ immediately. Good-by."
He shook hands, giving her no time for
reply; and, standing at the window a min-
ute later, she watched him gallop out of
sight, down the green village street.
CHAPTER XX.
N
4 LOST TiiIxKnT.
DiSMOuNTING at the door of Seyton
House, Conway tossed his rein to a servant
who came fovwttrd at the moment, walked
haet~ly round, and entered the library by
one of its windows.
his As he expected, he found Mr. Sexton in
usual place-the deep arm-chair that
was wheeled just before Mabel's portrait.
H~ had broken terribly in these six weeks,
had grown wan and weak of aspect, falter-
ing of speech, and altogether more like a
quavering old man than like the elegant
gentleman, whose courtly beauty and court-
ly refinement had been a proverb all his
life-but he looked up now with some ring
of the old self, both in voice and manner.
"I am glad to see you, Phil," he said.
"You must forgive me for sending after
you, ~nd startling you, no doubt; 'but these
eame~ and I could not restrain my impa-
tie~e to hear what was in them."
~ X~e pointed to the table, and Conway,
~d~rancIng, saw two letters lying there. The
young man took them up eagerly. They
were both directed to himself, by the same
h~nd, aiidbothlxrethe same post-mark. He
4latieedatthern; and then looked up at his
uncle.
are from Atkins," he said, tear-
hag one of them open as he spoke. "I won-

der you did not see this, and read them,
sir."
"I did aee, or rather take for granted,
that they were from him," Mr. Seyton an-
swered. "But it did not occur to me to
read what was not directed to me. Indeed,
I don't think I should have done so if it had
occurred to me. Make haste, Philip. Tell
me what he says."
"I can't tell yet," Conway replied, run-
ning his eye hastily down the page before
him. "I-but perhaps the shortest way
will be to read it aloud."
He read aloud, therefore-rapidly, but
distinctly-.-the letter which follows:
"-VILLE, VmGINIA, .Aug~et 7, 15-.
"Sin: I reached this point a week ago,
and I should have let you hear from me be-
fore now, if there had been any thing to
tell you. But there has not been. I have
been looking about and feeling my ground,
but I have not discovered any thing yet.
According to your instructions, I send you
an account of all I have found out up to this
time, which, as you will see for yo1~rself, is
very little. Mr. Harding came directly
from Ayre to this place, making no stop-
pages by the way. I was with him all the
time, and can vouch for this. When I say
that I was with him all the time, I mean
that I was with him as much as possible
without drawing his notice. You warned
me to be particular about this, and I have
been careful. I am sure that he has no idea
that 1 am sent here to watch his movements.
It was not until we reached Raleigh that he
saw me, and then we fell into conve~s~tion,
and I told him I was a commercial traveller
in the hardware line. I did this because I
knew it was not 1&amp;i~ line, and he was not
likely to find me opt. I have made ,a good
many inquiries about him since I have been
here, and I find him to be a man respected
by everybody. Some people laugh at him,
and say he is too religious and teo strict in
his notions for a young man, but everybody
is ready to take oath, if necessary, on his
honesty. As far as I can see, he lea~~ as
regular and open a life as any man ne~d t~.
He is said to be studying for the ministry,
and in cbnseqnence of this, as I suppose, lie

spends mist of his time at home. But h
walks every morning, and generally takes
ride in the evening. He seems very fond 0:
ladies' society, and attends regularly at al
the Sunday-schools and Bible-classes of hi~
church. I ~iave met him only once or twic
singe I arrived herefor I took pains not tC
throw myself in his way, but then we had
some religious talk. This is all that I hav
to say. I hope you willanot be discouraged
because it is so little. If you are right in
your suspicions, there is no hurry, and ne
cause to be downhearted. Mr. Harding is
bound to betray himself sooner or later, and
I never~yet found that you landed a fish any
the sooner for pulling him in too short. It
is a tough job, but I think after a while we
may clear it up.
"Your ob't servant,
"Ron'r ATKINs."
When he finished, Conway laid the letter
down quite silently, and Mr. Seyton was the
first to make any comment.
"He speaks very cautiously, Philip. He
does not seem to entertain any hope," he
said, doubtfully-wearily almost.,
"He is a cautious fellow, sir," said Con-
way, "and as for hope, he never deals with
any thing less than absolute facts. We can
depend on him for those-that is all that is
necessary."
"Ye-es."
"And now we will see what he says in
his other letter. Don't hope any thing,
sir.
"I'm not hoping."
"Neither am I," said the young man;
but, despite the assertion, he set his teeth,
and his eye brightened as he tore open the
second letter. When he unfolded it, there
tumbled out on the table a small round
something, which looked like a tiny wafer.
"What is that?" asked Mr. Seyton, ea-
gerly.
"We'll see in a moment," Conway an-
swered-and pushing it aside, so that it
might not distract his attention, he dashed~
once into the letter; It was dated a day
later thanthe other, though, from some ir-
r~n1arity of the mails; they had both ar-
jIved at the same time.

"-vxu~ Vracn~t&amp;, Augz~.t8, 18-.
"Sin: I wrote to you yesterday, giving
f an account of how matters have progressed
1 with me up to that time. Since I mailed
my letter, something has occurred which
may help to throw a little light on our way,
and, according to your instructions, I at
once forward you an account of it. Whenl*
finished my letter yesterday, I took it to the
post-office, and as I was stepping into the
post-office, I met Mr. Harding coming out.
We exchanged a good-day and a few words
about the weather, and then he went on,
and I walked in to mail my letter~ After
handing it to the postmaster, I started out,
when, just as I turned, I happened to eee
something on the floor which looked like a
piece of money, a~nd I stooped and picked it
up. After I picked it up I saw that it was
not a piece of money, but a seal set in gold.
I was about to hand it to the postmaster
and tell him to keep it~ till the owner called
for it, when something about it put me in
mind of one I had noticed on Mr. Harding's
watch-chain when he stood talking to me a
day or two before. I had noticed it be-
cause it comes natural to me to notice little
things, and because it looked like a lady's
seal, and partly because it looked v~rypret-
ty. I am quite sure that this was the same
one, and I slipped it in my pocket, thinking
I would have a look at it before returning
it. On my way back to the hotel, I met ~
little negro coming along at a trot. I knew
him in a minute, for I had taken pains to
find out who the Harding servants were,
and to establish a sort of nodding acquaint.
ance with all of them. This little fellow
was one who generally went on errands. I
asked him if any thing was the matter at
home, as lie seemed tobe inahu
said nothing was the matter, only Is Masse
Cyril had lost a seal, and thought~ ha:d
lost it in the post-offie~j~iidiuid eent~ him
to look for it, and he eiiil&amp;1 by asking siieAf
I had seen it. I did not want to tell a
downright lie, so I answered that I had
not looked for it, 'and the little scamp trot~
ted on. But I felt almost aS If I was steal
ing the thing, thoughall I wanted was ~gedd
look at it. I hul!ried back to my room, slid
as soon as I got there Itbok it out and ez~

$

MABEL LEE.


116

MABEL LEE'

ammed it, and found it to be a white stone,
with a device of a bird carrying a letter,
and some words round it which I cannot
make out. I send you a wax impression of
it, and you will be able to tell better by
that than by my description. It is a lady's
seal-there is no doubt about that. But
there was nothing suspicious about it that I
could see, and Iliad just made, up my mind
to g~ and returii it to Mr. Harding, when I
happened to look at the inside, which had a
gold plate over it, and there I saw two in-
itials scratched with a pin, or some other
sharp instrument, and making the letters
;NE. L. When I saw that, I gave up all
thought of returning it until I heard from
you. Of course, as far as I know, it may
have come into his possession fairly. The
young lady may have given it to him. But
~tiil, he being under suspicion, a~id this be-
ing a puspicious sort of circumstance, I had
no notion ofputting out of my hands what
might be an important proof. So I locked
it up in my trunk, and went out to finish
m~ walk. The first person I paw when I
got in the street was Mr. Harding. He said
he was very glad to meet me, as I was the
person who was in the post-office just after
he left it, and he wanted to ask me if I had
b4ppened to find a small seal which he
thought he had dropped in there. I was
obliged to tell him I had not seen it, and I
asked him why he thought he had dropped
it there, and remarked that he might have
dropped it in the street. He said no, he did
not think so, that he remembered touching
it with his hand the minute before he went
into the office, and that he could not recol-
lect any thing about it afterward, and he,
missed it just before he got home. He said
he haLted to lose it, and:he looked quite con-
fusedI thought, and turned i~ery red. And
thenhe said the reason why he did not like to
losp ~t was that jt was a present from a lady
friend of his, We had got to the post-office
by this time, and I walked along in with
him, to hear if any thing, elpe would turn up
about it. The postmaster did not know
any thing t~bout it, of course, ,and Mr. Hard-
ing described it to him very particularly,
and made him band out the letter he had
put in the office at the time that he lost th~

seal, to show him the impression of it. lie
showed it tome too, and when I had looked
at the seal and was returning the letter, I
took the liberty of looking at the name on
the back. It was Miss Livinia Crane, Ed-
gerton. I have been careful to give you a
full account of this, though it may seem a
little thing. I shall keep the seal till I hear
from you, which I hope will be soon.
"YQur ob4t servant,
"Ilon'T ATKINs."
Conway put the letter down, and took
the seal. Before doino. so he felt con-
up
fident that it would substantiate all he sus-
pected from the first; and he was not even
faintly surprised when he saw the same im-
pression that he had seen scarcely an hour
before on the back of Mabel's letter. He
gave only one glance, and held it out for
Mr. Seyton's inspection.
"Look at it, sir," he said. "Do you
recognize it?"
Mr. Sexton looked, and a single glance
was enough for him also. His eyes lingered
only one instant on the device, and then
raised themselves to the pale, set face of his
nephew.
"Yes," he answered. "It is Mabel's.
She has worn it on her chatelaine for a year
or more; and the "-his voice faltered slight-
ly-" the last note I received from her was
sealed with it. Still," he went ou quickly,
"this is not absolute proof of any thing
against Cyril. Remember, it may have come
into his possession quite fairly, and-"
"Stop one moment, sir," Conway inter-
rupted. "Before you proceed any further,
let me tell you that something later than
the note of which you speak, later than any
thing which Mabel wrote in her own home,
has been sealed with that impression. The
same mail which brought these, letters to
me, brought to Miss Constance a letter pur-
porting to come from her sister."
"A letter I-purporting to come from*
her sister!"
Mr. Sexton's amazement was greater
than that of any one else bad been, and hip
ezoitement i~iuch more apparent. ]?reoo-
eupied as Conway was, he could not help
but being struck by the change that had

I

A LOST

come over the face at which he gazed-the
face that a moment before had been listless
with the weary listlessness of hope deferred,
but that now quivered and glowed with
sudden emotion, whose eyes brightened,
and into whose sunken cheeks there flamed
a crimson color that made the young man
regret having spoken with too much haste.
"Yes, a letter," he said. "But don't
hope any thing, sir. It was a forgery.
Both Kowell and myself clearly recognized
that."
"A forgery!"
"Yes, a forgery."
"'And-and sealed with this seal ?"
"Sealed with that seal."
The color faded from Mr. Seyton's face,
and the li~ht from his eyes-instead of that
I,
light there came into the latter a look of
horror-stricken amaze. lie looked at his
nephew for a minute before he spoke again,
very slowly:
"You are sure of this, Phili~~"
"I am as sure as that I stand here, sir.
Miss Lee identified the seal at once."
"As-don't wonder if I am slow to com-
prehend-as the same with this?"
"As identically the same."
My God I"
He sank back in his chair, and covered
his face with his hands. After that, there
was silence in the room for several minutes.
Conway did not share his uncle's.feelings in
the least degree-l~e could hardly, indeed,
realize the horror that came upon this gal-
lant gentleman with the appalling thought
that the traitor had been of his own house-
hold and his own blood; but he recognized
the existence of these feelings, and respected
them sufficiently to keep silent. Taking up
Atkins's letter, he occupied himself in read-
ing it over-this time slowly and attentively
~~and, when he came to the end, Mr. Seyton
looked up and spoke.
"Tell me about it-every thing," lie said,
hoarsely.
"There is not much to tefl," Conway
answered. But he went over the whole
statement concisely, while his uncle listened
without interruption, until he mentioned
the post-mark of the letter. Then he point-
ed to the missive, lying on the table.

TRINKET.
"Does not he speak of Edgerton?" he
asked.
Conway replied, by reading aloud that
portion of Atkins's story which related to the
better he had seen in the post-office. "Miss
Lavinia Crane, Edgerton," he read; andthen
looked up at his uncle. "It wilibe easy to
substantiate this," he said, "by simply in-
quiring whether or not Miss Crane was in
Edgerton at the time."
"But you surely don't-you surely can't
-suspect her of complicity in such a mat-
ter?"
"Suspect her 1" said Conway, firing
into the ~uddeu passionate energy which
had broken out once before that day. "I
would suspect my own brother-my own
sister-if proof went against them, sir? In
a matter of this kind, we cannot stop to
consider probability, or to weigh the re-
spectability of any one toward whom the
evidence may point. We must follow out a
clew exactly as it is given to us; and accept
the conclusion presented, let it implicate
whom it will. I should be a fool, if I allowed
myself to be brought to a halt here, because
Miss Crane becomes involved."
"But it is simply impossible! What
motive could she have?"
"That is more than I can tell you-
more, indeed, than I care to consider. She
may have a motive of which we know
nothing, or she may only be a blind instru-
ment. In either case, our nest means of
prosecuting the search is through her."
"And what will you do?"
"I cannot say, until I go to Ayre and
see 1{owell."
"See li~Towell! But he-"
"Would quite as soon care to see the
devil," answered the young man, bitterly;
"but I cannot stop to consider his feelings.
He has a right to be informed of this; arid, as
a lawyer, lie will be able to judge what our
next step ought to be, better than I can."
"And he is safe," said Mr. Seyton, in ~
low voice. It was significant of the man's
nature, that although he, too, was in a
measure possessed by the reckless detective
fever and passionate readiness to suspect
anybody and everybody, which had taken
absolute control of Conway, yet he still


MABEL LE~                                                                   ALL AT SEA.                         119

clung tothat regard forfamily honor whiel
all his lifetime had been dearer to hin
then life itself. When lie ~,&amp;nsented to th
watch which Conway proposed establish
irig oi'er Cyril Harding, he had only don
so 'en condition of its profound secrecy
A~id now-now, when he felt more swayed
than ever before toward Conway's belief,
lie had still a thought for the name which
had never been tarnished, and over which
there hung this black cloud of positive dis-
grace. "He is safe," he said, alluding to
I~Towell, and then he spoke warmly to his
nePhew., "I~on't be rash or precipitate,
Philip. Remember you may do incalculable
harm if your suspicions are well founded,
and you betray them too soon~7~
"Trust me for that, sir," Conway re-
plied, as he folded Atkins's letter and placed
it in his* pocket. "I will follow the trail
like a~bloodhound; but you need not fear
mygiving tongue, until I have proved every
'thing. I shall go.to Ayre now, and I can-
not tell how long I may be detained there.
Doi~'t wait dinner for me, if I am not back
In time."
He took his whip from the table where
he had 'thrown it' on his entrance, and
turned to leave the room. Mr. Seyton looked
wistfully at the retreating figure, hut made
ho effort to detain him; and, a moment af-
terward, Mazeppa's hoofs were heard clat-
tering' down the avenue, and dying away in
'the distance.
CHAPTER XXI.
ALL AT SEA.
"Is your master in his office?"
- Conway reined up at the sidewalk, and
asked this question of a half-grown negro
who was lounging at the doorstep of Now-
ell'soffice, and who started and touched his
hat as he replied:
"My master? No, sir: he's just left
"Left town!" This unexpected informa-
tion took the interlocutor so completely by'
surprise, that' he could only stare for a mo-
~ngnt. "Left town-~you must be mistaken."

The boy~grinned a little, apparently at
the idea of being mistaken.
'%No, sir," he repeated. "He's left
- town, and I'm to lock up the office and take
the key to Mr.' Bradford; and if you're on
business "
"I'm not on business. When did he
go?"
"'Bout an hour ago, air.~~
*    "Gone into the country, you mean-not
* far, surely."
"He didn't say where he was gem', sir;
but I think he was goin' pretty fur. He
made me pack his valise, and he said as how
he specterd to ketch the stage at R ."
"And did he leave no message for any-
body?"
"He lef' a note for Miss Constance Lee,
sir, and I took it and give it to her as soon
as he was gone. If you're on business,
sir-"
"I'm not on' business," repeated Con-
way, this time quite sharply; and then he
turned and rode away. It was like his luck,
he thought, impatiently. And yet it was
wonderful how soon he forgot the incon-
venience and vexation to himself, in trying
to conjecture where Kowell could have
gone, and wha~ could possibly have taken
him away from Ayre at such a time as this.
He had left an hour ago, the boy said-and
it had not been quite two hours since they
parted in Mrs. Lee's house. Could the letter
have furnished him with any information,
any clew which had taken him away? But
that was clearly impossible. 1~owell had
none of his own newly-acquired light upon
the letter; and he could not~ have discovered
any thing for himself. It was impossible;
and yet, it was very strange. The more he
thought of it, the more strange it appeared,
until at last he tried to shake off the grow-
ing interest and curiosity which beset him.
Might not some professional business have
called the young lawyer away? But in a
moment he saw how impossible that sup.
position was. :Not to make his fortune a
dozen times over would l~owell have left
Ayre on professional business at such a ti~ne
as this-a time when the cloud over his
Qousin's fate had never seemed deeper or
darker; and when something which might,

perhaps, prove an important clew, had un-
expectedly been placed in their hands. Con-
way gave an impatient jerk at Mazeppa's
rein, as he realized how wide of the mark
his conjectures were; and then the thought
that, after all, Constance might know every
thing about the matter, seemed to quicken
his pace so materially that in a few minutes
lie had again dismounted at Mrs. Lee's gate.
It was Nancy who answered his knock
at the door; but he had not long to wait
until Constance came down. She scarcely
gave him time for any explanation before
she spoke hurriedly.
"I am very glad you have come. Per-
haps you can tell me-or at least help me to
comprehend- the meaning of this."
She extended a folded paper as she spoke.
Taking itl he opened it without a word. A
few hasty lines in pencil were all it con-
tamed:
"DBAu CONsTANCE: I have found a clew
which may, or may not, prove of value; but
I start at once to follow it up. I tell you
this, because you desired me not to keep
you in ignorance of any thing which might
occur, and not because I wish you to indulge
%hopes that may not be realized. The clew is
so slight that I entertain little or no expec-
tation of success; but I shall try to trace it
out. I do not tell you where I am going,
for I hardly know myself. Besides, I do
not wish your friend Mr. Conway enlight-
ened on the subject; and. I know that, if I
told you, you would tell him. If I make
any discovery, you shall hear from me; but
once more let me repeat-hope nothing.
"Truly, etc.,
FRANciS NewELL."
Conway read this brief and most unsat-
isfactory document twice over, before he
raised his eyes and met the eager, passion-
ate gaze fixed on him-met it with a great
deal of unconscious pity in 14s own.
"I am sorry that I can tell you noth-
ing," he said. "But this is as sudden, as
incomprehensible, to m&amp; as tc~ you. I heard
only-a moroent ago that your cousinj~ad
left town; and I came here.hopiug that you
knew why he had done so."

"I know nothing more than that," she
answered, "and, ever since it ~came, I have
been vainly trying to imagine what the clew
~to which he alludes can be. I believe I
should not have showed it to you," she
went on hastily, "but I forget every thing
now except the one absorbing subject. Try
to forgive him, Mr. Conway. He is very
unjust, but he means well."
"There is nothing to forgive," said Con-
way, quietly. "Mr. Newell has been fo~h
ish enough to let judgment wait upon
prejudice; but if he held me twice as guilty
as he does I could not feel any resentment
against him. We are both working for the
same end-that is a bond of good feeling,
little as he thinks so. Now, let us consider
this matter. What clew do you think he
can possibly have found?"
Constance shook her head with an air
of very hopeless despondency.
"I cannot even conjecture. It must be
connected with the letter; and yet the let-
ter seemed barren of clew."
"Did he return it?"
"Yes, it was enclosed with this. He
might have told me, if only to prevent the
perpetual torment which this effort to din-
cover will prove," she went on; '~ but it is
~hike Francis-like him, as I have always
known him-to act so. Mr. Conway, look
at the matter-think of it. Surely you
must be able to tell what it is!"
She gazed at him, with a world oi~ en-
treaty in her eyes, which he found it very
hard to meet, very hard to answer with the
hopeless negative which was all he had to
give in reply. But the matter was even
more mysterious to him 'than to her; and it
was necessary to say as much. He' did say
so, after a moment, and then he asked if
it was not possible that Father Lawrence
might be better informed.
"No," she replied. "Father Lawrence
was still here when Francis's note arrived,
and his surprise was equal to
"Thenote came immediately after 17 left,
did it not?"
"In about a quarter of an hour after-
.ward."
"I don't understand it," he niutteredto
himself. Then, catching Constanee'.s auz-

E&amp;BEL LEE.


120

MABEL LEE.

ious glance, he added aloud: "The matter
eeems strange enough to you, but it is ren-
dered doubly strange to me, by a letter
which I found awaiting me at Seyton, and
which I brought at once to Ayre to show to
your cousin. A. letter "-he paused a mo-
ment -" a letter which certainly does
afford a
"Mr. Conway!
It was a gasp which she gave-a gasp
that, together with her increasing paleness,
so much alarmed him that he moved has-
tily toward her. But she recovered herself
almost immediately, and, by the time he
gained her side, looked up at him with a
faint.smile.
"Never mind about me. It was only
the surprise. Tell me-what is the cl~w?"
"You are sure you can stand any more?"
lie asked? anxiously. "It seems to me that
I have lost all sense, all judgment, or 1
would never have shocked you so."
"You did not shock me; and the best
thing you can do now is to tell me-tell me
all about it."
He perceived that himself; so, drawing
Atkins's letter from his pocket, he opened
it and showed her the seal. She recognized
it at odc~, as she felt confident she would.
"It is Mabel's,"she said. "It is identi-
cal with the one on the envelope."
"Will you get the envelope, and let us
compare them?"
"Yes, certainly."
She started to leave the room; then, as
If struck by a sudden thought1 turned back,
"I quite forgot," she said, "Francis re-
turned the letter, but not the envelope."
'~ What I-he did not return the enve-
lope?"
"No, and the omission only occurred to
me at this moment."
"Then you may rest assured that the
envelope has given him his clew," said
Conway, eagerly. "But how could it be?"
He looked at her, almost as passionately
as she had looked at him not many minutes
before-looked se if he would, by sheer
force of will, master the secret which eluded
him. But aftel' a moment another, aspect
of the ~ffair occurred to him, and a dark,
troubled cloud came into his eyes.

"He has carried away' a most important
proof," he said; "and he has literally tied
my hands until it can be recovered."
"How ?-what is it?"
He answered her by handing her the
detective's letter, and bidding her read it.
She did so, eagerly; and, when she finished,
looked at him with amazement and incre-
dulity struggling together on her face.
~ ~ don't understand," she said. "What
does it mean?"
He explained to her in a few brief but
forcible words his own view of what it
meant; and, although she was quick enough
to understand him, she was plainly not pre-
pared to accept his conclusions.
"I cannot believe it," she cried. "I
cannot believe that Mr. Harding is impli-
cated in such a terrible crime; and as for
Lavinia Crane-goodHeavens! Mr. Conway,
what motive could she have?"
"What difference does it make about
her motive, or want of motive?" inquired
Conway, almost impatiently. "We mutt
deal with facts, not with probabilities. For
my part, I should walk on straight to my
goal over a hundred Lavinia Cranes. You
agree with me that this seal is an important
link of proof?"
"Yes; I see that clearly."
"Then the next thing is to follow the
track of inquiry which it opens. Can you
tell me whether or not Miss Crane has been
in Edgerton?"
"She has been away from home-i
chance to know that much. Mrs. Crane
sends every day to inquire about mamma;
and she sent this morning. The servant
also brought a basket of fruit; so I had to
see her, and return a message of acknowl-
edgment. When I asked about the family,
she said they were all well except Lavinia,
who got home late last night, and was feel-
ing badly from travelling,"
"Travelling from where?"
"She did not say, and I did not inquire."
"How can I find out? It is important
that I should know."
Constance thought a moment, and then
said: "Perhaps Nancy can tell. Ser~axtts
are such gossips, that shemay have hoa~L'
"Will you call her and inquire ~"

I

ALL AT SEA.

"Well, no," she said, after a second's
consideration. "That might excite her sns-
picions. I think I had better go and find
out in an informal way whether she knows
or not."
"Go, by all means."
She went, and returned in a few min-
utes, with not a little suppressed excitement
in her face. Before she spoke, Conway saw
that the detective fever had begun to take
possession of her also.
"Nancy says that the servant told her
that Lavinia had been to Edgerton," she
said, "and also hinted that it was likely she
would be married soon-to Mr. Harding.
Stop! Don't think you have gained an im-
portant step "-for Conway made an excla-
mation-" I have just remembered some-
thing whVch overthrows your whole ground-
work of proof. Lavinia and Mabel had
seals exactly alike."
"You cannot be in earnest."
"I am, though-entirely in earnest. I
remember distinctly the day Mabel bought
that seal, and, as it chanced, Lavinia came
into the shop while she was doing so.
There were only two of them, and she
bought the other."
"But is it likely that her seal would
have Mabel's initials on it?"
"..Ah, I had forgotten that! No, of
course not."
"And if she had really no share in the
matter, her seal will be still in her own pos-
5~55j~fl*~~
"But how are we to find out whether
ornotitis?"
"Easily enough-by sending and asking
to borrow it. You can do so on almost any
pretext, or by means of the truth, if you
prefer it. Write a note; tell her you have
received a letter professing to come from
Mabel, and wish to identify the seal. Un-
der those circumstances, she cannot refuse
to lend hers, if she has It."
Constance was that rare pearl among her
sex-a woman who never wasted words.
There was a writing-desk on a side-table,
and she went to it at once. In five minutes
the ucla was written and dispatched, It
wa~ helfan hour at least before an answer
wairattw~ed. Then Nancy came in with a

note which Constance opened hurriedly.
Having done so, she found that this waswhat
it had taken Miss Crane half an hour to
say:
"DEAR CONsTANcE: I regret very much
that I have not the seal you wish to borrow.
I gave it to a friend some weeks ago, but
perhaps you are not aware that only a
day or two before Mabel "-['disappeared'
scratched out, and 'left home' substituted]
-"I exchanged seals with her, she liking
best the setting of mine, and I much prefer-
ring the setting of hers. You may remem~.
ber that there was a difference between
them in this respect, and, by referring to the
impression of which you speak, you can ea-
sily tell whether it was made by my seal-
that is, the one which is hers now-for the
rim of it had sharp points, while hers was
quite plain. I am very sorry to hear that
the letter to which you allude is not genu-
ine. It would be such a relief to Mrs. Lee
and myself, and indeed to all of us, if we
could only hear some reliable news of our
dear Mabel. With kindest regards tp your
mother,
"I am sincerely,
"LAvmIA CRANE.
"P. S.-Perhaps, to avoid any misun-
derstanding, I had better say that the friend
to whom I gave the seal was Mr. Harding.
He always admired the device very much,
and desired to use it in sealing his letters to
me. The last letter I had from him (re-
ceived while 1 was in Edgerton) was sealed
with it."
Constance had read the note aloud; and
now, laying it down, she looked at her com-
panion. "Well," she said, "have we gained
any thing?"
"We have gained the knowledge that if
Miss Crane is acting at all in the business,
she is acting as a blind instrument) or else
that she is playing a very deep game," he
answered, dryly.
"Why do you think so?"
"I think so mainly because of this note,
It is too candid, and goes to~ much into de-
tail. Perhaps I am morbidly prone to sus-
picion-I am perfectly aware that my mind


122                        )L&amp;BEL LEE.                                                               BROKEN DOWN.                         128

is' not in a condition to judge fairly just
now-but it looks badly to me."
"' But, if your -suspicions were well
founded, would she have mentioned the let-
ter she-received from Mr. Harding while she
was in Edgerton?"'
- "Not if she had been wise, undoubtedly.
It isprebable, however, that 'she' may have
suspected our knowledge of it, and wished
by this means to threw us off the scent."
"0 Mr.' Conway! "-Constance fairly
shrank-" remember, before you say such
things that she may be-that there is every
reason to believe she is-as innocent as you
or I."
"If she is innocent, our suspicions will
not harm her," said Conway, coolly. "If
she is guilty, in any 'degree, let her look to
it. As I told you before, we cannot stop to
-weigh individual-trustworthiness in such a
matter as this. Any detective will tell you
that in these cases they generally find the
criminal among those who are least sus-
pected, who are most held above suspicion;"
- "How horrible!"
"Yes, horrible, but true. Now, do you
see what our next step should be?"
"An examination of the seal on the let-
ter, of course."
"Yes, an examination of the seal on the
letter. Until that is done, we cannot move
a step farther."
"And that cannot be done until we hear
from Francis."
"No. So it is that, with the best pos-
sible motives, Mr. Nowell has made himself
a hindrance instead of a help to search.
Sorely against my inclination, I will wait
one week for that envelope. If, at the end
of that time, he has not returned, and is not
beard from, I shall start for Virginia."
CHAPTER XXII.
nuoxux nowir.
Tn~ sun of a hot August day was fast
sinking to its rest, when a very tired and
dusty traveller entered a small Virginia
village, and, instead of proceeding to the
hotel which swung a conspicuous sigiQ~oss

the principal street, stopped to ask a passer-
by where he would find the residence of the
Rev. :Nfr. Harding; and, after receiving the
information, rode away in that direction.
It proved to be a substantial house of red
brick, situated in a grove of elms, in the
suburbs of the town-with a clean gravel-
walk leading up to the front doot, a bright
brass plate and' knocker, and a general air
of respectability and comfort. The traveller
left his horse at the gate, went up the walk,
knocked at the door, and found his knock
almost immediately answered by a lady in
*a black-silk dress and white-lace cap, who
came rustling down the passage toward him
-a lady whom he inlmediately identified as
a certain sombre terror of his childhood.
"Is Mr. Harding-Mr. Cyril Harding, I
mean-at home, madam?" he asked, un-
covering at her approach.
A pair of stony eyes viewed him with
evident suspicion and luAdng recognition-
while a stony voice answered, coldly:
"My son is not at home at present. He
has gone out. But if you will leave your
name, or call again in the course of an hour
or two-"
"Pardon me," interrupted the stranger
quickly; "but if you will allow me, I should
prefer to wait for him. Is he likely to be
long in coming?"
"I cannot say. Is your business with
him important?"
"Very important."
* "In that case, I may be able to assist
you. I am his mother, sir."
"I am happy to make your acquaint-
ance," said the gentleman, with a bow and
a smile; "but my business is with your son
alone."
"He may not return for some time."
"Still, if you will allow me, I will wait
for him."
Mrs. Harding drew back, slightly discom-
fited. This impenetrable courtesy and
steady determination were too much for her.
She opened a door on one side.
"You Oan wait here," she s~id icily-~-
and closed it en him.
Warm as the day was, and h~a~ he
had been, he absolutely shivered in~l~~epld,
vault-like atmosphere that rushed ever 14w,

when he entered the room-a room, the
blinds of which were all closed, the sashes
down, the furniture mulled up in linen, and
the general appearance one of cold, sepul-
chral solemnity. He looked round him'
silently, and had only noted this much when
the door opened again, and the stony face
looked in.
"When my son comes, who shall I tell
him is waiting?" Mrs. Harding asked, in the
same forbidding voice, and with the same
forbidding manner.
"An old acquaintance, if you please,"
the other answered.
"Nothing more?"
"Nothing more."
The door closed again-this time with a
perceptible bang-and then an angry rustle
of skirts *as heard retreating down the pas-
sage.
At least three-quarters of an hour elapsed
before it opened again, and this time Cyril
Harding himself stood on the threshold. He
looked a little disturbed-for it is not, at
any time, an encouraging thing to hear that
a stranger, who declines to give his name,
is waiting for one-but this slight uncer-
tainty and trepidation changed to downright
startled astonishment when he saw who
that stranger was.
"Good Heavens! " he said. "Conway!
-Isityon?" ' -
"Yes, it is I," answered the other.
"You did not expect me, I dare say. Shut
the deer and come in. I have something to
say to you."        -
- "But what has brought-"
"Shut the door, and you shall soon hear
enough~ What I have to say is not to be
said for the benefit of the house."
The tone of command was not to be dis-
obeyed, excepting by stronger nerves than
those of Mr. Harding. He looked a little
apprehensively over his shoulder-muttered
a word or two, it seemed-and came in;
closing the door behind him. His cousin
met him in the middle of the floor, but,
instead of touching the hand he extended,
threw an open letter down on the centre-
table which stood between them. -
"Don't offer to shake hands with me,"
he said. "Read that."

"What-what is it?"
"Read it, and you wrn see."
Apparently lost in surprise, Mr. Harding
took it up, and Conway watched him nar-
rowly as he read the forged letter. When
he came to the last word, he folded the
sheet, and laid it down again. The first
shock was ever, and his usual formality of
speech and bearing had returned to him.
"I am very glad to hear this news. It
is truly gratifying," he said. "I congratu-
late my uncle, and the family of the young
lady-I suppose I should also congratulate
yourself.' But I am at a loss to know how
the matter concerns me."
"Perhaps you will know when I tell you
that the day for this simulation is over,"
said Conway, sternly. "I don't impugn
your wisdom in writing, or causing that let-
ter to be written, Mr. Harding; but I do
wonder that you did not take more pains
to guard against detection than you have
done."
"I write 1-I cause to be written !-..-M~
Conway, you had better take care what ypu
are saying."
"Bali!" said Conway, with the sneer
which Mr. Blake specially detested' and
called "the captain's own"~-" bab I do' you
think to intimidate me? You might know
better by this time4 There is no gQod in
losing temper, Mr. Harding. I- have come
here for information: and I mean to have
it-if I have to drag it out of your throat!
If you were not the person directly con-
cerned in the abduction of :Mabel Lee, you
had a share in it; and I am here to give-you
warning that it will be your best polloy- to
acknowledge every thing at once. If she
is still unharmed, and you can assist us to
rescue her, I am empowered by my uncle to
promise that there will be no legal prosecu-
tion. But if you refuse__"
"I will not hear another word!" 'cried
Mr. Harding, losing all his formality in the
excitement and passion of the moment. "I
will not hear another word! How do
you dare to come here to my own, home,
and insult me in this manner? I have only
one answer for you-leave the house!"
"I will leave it when I have finished
what I have to say~" ajiswered Conway.


124                        MABEL LEE.                                                                BROKEN DOWN.                       125

"You had better hear me out, and count
the consequences of refusal, before you do
refuse. I caii assure you of one thing-it
will go hard with you if I leave this house
without that for which I came into it.
Understand clearly, that I only apply to
you, as a means of saving time. The clew
is in my bands, and you know me well
enough to be sure that I will follow it up
like a blood-hound~ I will never weary-
I will never give up, until I have found her.
And when I do-mark my words, Cyril
Hardiri~-when I do, you shall be called to
a reckoning such as you never even dreamed
of! Now do you comprehend the choice
offered you ?-and will you tell me your de-
cision?"
"In all my life," said Mr. Harding, "I
'-I never heard any thing to equal this!
Do y6u know that such language is action-
able, Mr. Conway? I can bear a great, deal
-my Christian profession obliges me to bear
a great deal-but to be deliberately accused
of abducting a young lady for whom I have
the highest esteem; and of forging letters
-this is more than even Christianity de-
mands that I should endure. Once more I
must request you to leave the house."
"You have decided, then?" said Con-
way. "Stop !-I give you five minutes
more. For your own sake, you had better
think again."
"I will not think a moment. Leave the
house!"
"You absolutely refuse to giv~ me any
information about Mabel Lee?"
"I hav~e no information to give-not a
word. 'I knon~ nothing about her. I have
no doubt the letter is genuine. I have no
doubt but 'that she has eloped- Don't,
Conway! Don't touch me, or I shall call
assistance."
He retreated backward, and his voice
rose into a cry, at the last words, for, almost
i.m'consciously, Conway' had made a step
toward him,' with a flash of the eye that
plainly meant mischief. In a moment-be-
fore the latter could speak-the door was
burst wide open; and Mrs. Harding rushed
mW the room, and threw her arms about
her sOn.
"Leave the house this instant!" she

cried, addressing Conway over her shoulder.
"How dare you come here to threaten and
attack my son? Is it not enough that you
have injured him already by your scheming,
and made my brother deprive him of his
rightful inheritance, to give it to you-you,
an adventurer, a swindler, a murderer, I
dare say, if the truth were only known, you
have made away with the girl yourself-that
is the truth of the matter-and you have
come here to charge my son, my honorable,
high-minded son, with your own crime!
Leave the house-or I shall call the servants
toputyonout!" I
"Call them, by all means, madam," said
Conway. "They will be excellent witnesses
of the charge I make against your honor-
able, high-minded son. I did not know
that he had stationed you at the key-hole,
or I might have assured him sooner that I
have not the least intention of personal
violence. Since you have assisted at the
entire interview, I suppose I need not give
you any explanation of the business that has
brought me here."
"I know that if I had been in my son's
place, I would have made you leave the
house, before you had said five words."
He bowed-smiling slightly.
"Allow me to acknowledge your kind
consideration. I will not intrude upon your
hospitality any longer than to repeat the
warning I have already given. My uncle,
outraged as his feelings have been, is averse,
for the sake of his family honor, to making
a public scandal of the matter, by instituting
legal proceedings against your son-if this
course can be avoided. If you 'desire either
his personal safety, or honorable reputation;
you had better counsel him to regard-"
He was interrupted here by his listener;
who, forsaking her son for a moment,
rushed to the door, and sent her voice echo-
ing through the house.
"Mr. Harding - Mr. Harding!" she
'cried; "come here this instant!"
The' words were like a spell.. Before the
instant had elapsed, 'a pair of slippers
shuffled hastily down the passage, and an
elderly edition o~ Cyril Harding, in dress-
ing-gown and wl4te hair, stood in the door.
Plainly, Mr. Harding, senior, had beentrained~

p

'I

in a good school of prompt marital obe-
dience.
"You called me, my dear?" he said,
peering through his spectacles at the group
before him.
"Certainly I called you," the lady an-
swered, sharply. "If you had any ears, Mr.
Harding, you would not have needed to be
called! If you had any spirit, you would
not have stayed in your study writing, while
your son was being murdered, and your
wife insulted!',
"Murdered !-insulted! " said Mr. Hard-
ing, gazing, in a state of bewilderment,
from his son, who 'seemed in excellent pres-
ervationto his wife, who was evidently in
a towering passion. "My dear, what do
you mean? I knew nothing-my study-door
was closed-and, though I heard your voice,
I thought you were only reproving one of
the servants, as usual, and-"
"And I might have been insulted or any
thing else, for all you knew to the contrary!
So long as you are left in peace, you care
nothing- Do you know who that is? Just
answer me-do you know who that is?"
"No, my dear,." replied the reverend
gentleman, hesitatingly, a~ he looked at
Conway, toward whom his wife pointed.
"The room is so dark that I cannot see dis-
tinctly; but I do not think I am acquainted
with the gentleman."
"Let me tell you, then, that, while you
were mooning over your sermon, your son
might have been killed if I-I, a weak wom-
an-had not come to his defence. Oh, you
need not look at me in that way! It is true
-as true as that this man standing here is
Philip Conway."
At the sound of that name, Mr. Harding
recoiled, as if a loaded pistol had been pre-
sented at his head.
"God bless my soul!" he gasped. "Is
this true?"
He looked at Conway, and Conway
bowed, as he had bowed before in acknowl-
edgment of Mrs. Harding's 'desire to see
him put out of the house.
"That is my. name, sir," he said. "But
there~is really no necessity for you to look
so alarmed. I do not intend to blow up
your house; and-although I regret the no-

cessity of contradicting a lady-I have had
no intention of murdering your son, or in-
sulting your wife. I am"glad to give you
this personal assurance, and I amalso glad
to see you for another reason. No doubt
you have heard of the abduction of Miss
Lee, which took place during your son's
visit at Seyton House. Are you aware that
he rests under a grave suspicion of being
implicated in it?"
"Who? My son ?-Cyril? You must
be mad, sir!"
"My madness has excellent method in it
then-as he will learn."
But-good Heavens !-Oyril, you never
mentioned this to me. Who suspects you
of such a thing?"
"You will have to ask Mr. Conway
that," answered Cyril, with as much dig-
nity as a man can be expected to possess
who is penned in a corner, and mounted
guard over, by a ponderous black silk; "I
know nothing about it, excepting that he
has come here in this unexpected manner,
and insulted me by the most groundless
charges, and outrageous threats."
"Perhaps Mr. Conway will explain him-
self?" said the father, turning rpund.
"With pleasure, sir," answered Conway.
" As a first step to doing so, will you oblige
me by reading this?"
He extended the forged letter as he
spoke, and Mr. Harding was about to take
it, when his wife interfered-shortly and
sharply.
"Are you going to listen to charges like
this, Mr. Harding? Are you going to read
a vile thing of that sort, with your inno-
cent, slandered son standing by? Tear the
letter up before his face, and turn him out
of the house!"
"But, my dear," expostula~ed the hus-
band, "if I don't read the lette~', how am I
to know what Cyril is accused of?"
"What do you want to know for? Af-
ter his uncle's mind has been p~$isoned
against him, and he has been turned out of'
his lawful rights, are you going to let th~
same viper poison your mind too?"
"Sir," said the viper in question~ "I be-
lieve I heard you mention your st~4y. If
you will allow me. to' accompany you there,


126                          MABEL LETh                                                                  ON THE TRACK.                        127

I may succeed better in placing the matter
before you."
"Accompany him there !-~accompany
him there indeed! ~ cried Mrs. Harding,
*hose voice rose higher every moment.
"What do you think Jiim, that he should'
take you oft! in secret, to hear slanders
against his son?"
"What I think him, madam, is not of the
least importance," Conway said. "But I
perceive that I have little chance of being
heard."
Before Mrs. Harding could reply, her son
gave his first and only indication of manly
courage, by putting. her aside and stepping
forward.
"This matter concerns me," he said,
with his usual pomposity, but also with a
touch of dignity quite unusual. "I am per.
feetly willing that Mr. Conway should lay
it, in all its bearii~gs, before my father. It
wrn be strange if he has found one proof
against me half as strong as the many that
were brought against him, before I left
Sexton House.~-Hush, mother! let him
speak."
Turning to the father, Mr. Conway spoke
accordingly. His language was forcible,
and colored necessarily, though uliiconscious-
ly, by his own convictions. He began with
* Mr. Harding's own confession that he had
overheard the declaration on the island,
which (according to general belief) de-
stroyed his hopes of the inheritance. This
link in the chain of evidence seemed very
slight, he said, but it weighed heavily when
* taken in connection with after - events.
Then came the history of 1~hose after-
events: the mysterious disappearance of
Mabel; the fact that Mr. Harding alone had
been absent on that afternoon; the testi-
mony of the man who affirmed that he had
met one of the Seyton House trio of geDtle-
men with Mabel on the river; and, lastly, the
forged letter, and the seal which her sister
at once identified as Mabel's1 and which a
witness (he did notsay who) was prepared
to prove had been in Mr. Harding's posses-
sion at the verytime. the letter was written.
It was, on the whole, a poor array of
evidence-for of course the subtler part of
it, the acts,. and words, and tones, that had

weighed the most with Mr. Seyton, and
even with Conway himself; could have no
place in this cold re'sum6 of facts. Regarded
from an entirely dispassionate point of view,
the most unprejudiced parents alive migbt
have been excused if they had listened as
incredulously as Mr. and Mrs, Harding did.
"Apparently your evidence can be
summed up very briefly," said the former.
"My son chanced to take a ride on the af-
ternoon of the young lady's disappearance,
and, on the strength of that accidental ab-
sence, you identify him with an unknown
man who was seen on the river. As for
the letter, it appears that you charge him
with forging that, merely because the im-
pression on its seal bore some real or fan-
cied resemblance to another seal whieh (as
he has told you) was given him by another
young lady. Really, Mr. Conway, if you
have come two hundred miles to tell this
story, I am only~ sorry that you should have
taken so much trouble for nothing?'
Conway took up the open letter, folded
and returned it to his pocket, before he an-
swered. Then he spoke very quietly:
"The array of evidence looks very slight
to you, sir, of course, and equally, of course,
your feeling is all with your son. I have
done my part, in placing the matter before
you. Once more-" and he turned to his
cousin, as he spoke-" do you refuse to
make a compromise, while there is yet time?
Remember that, after I have crossed this
threshold, your opportunity is past. After
to-day, I shall speak by the law, if the law
will reach you. If not, by another and even
surer means."
He looked keenly into the face before
him, but he read there not even so much as
one token of yielding, It was very white,
and the lips quivered a little, as if from
physical fear; but that was all. Evidently,
if this man were possessed of the secret, he
felt so secure of the absence of any serious
proof against him that it would be neces-
sary to wring it from him by a sterner
method than this had been.
"You are resolved?" Conway asked,
without removing his eyes,
And the answer came, exactly likethose
answers that had gone before.

interview - broke forth in those words. "I DO not~tell you where I am going, for
There was something fairly tragic in his I hardly know myself;" had been Nowell's
tone, as he hurled the~ like a curse at the assurance to his cousin, in the brief note he
assembled family; and~ then, turning round, left behind, when he took his sudden de-
quitted the room without another word. parture from Ayre. Yet, despite this assur-
ance, he never halted or tarried on his jour-
Late that night, he entered his chamber ney until he found himself in the city of
at the hotel, and, closing the door, sank Charleston. Arriving in the morning, he
wearily into a chair. All the evening, he arranged his toilet, and dispatched his
had been busily engaged in endeavoring to ~breakfast with a degree of uncivilized haste
discover every thing possible about Cyril of which he had never before in his life
Harding's daily life-his habits, his occupa- been guilty; and, sallying forth from his
tions, even his most trivial customs-but it hotel, soon paused at the bourne which had
had all proved vain and fruitless labor. He brought him so far-a small stationer's shop
had failed to find one single circumstance at the upper, least fashionable part of Xing
to help him in his search. From all that he Street.
could learn, thelife of the man whom he sus- The buildings all around were wonder-
pected seemed fair and open as the day-a fully dark and dingy Jew stores, principally
page for all the world to read. Sonic people with pinchbeck jewelry in the windows,
spoke laughingly of his austere piety and and signs promising cheap bargains on the
formal manners, but even these appeared outside; but this little spot possessed a
to respect, though they laughed; and no brightness and order of its own, that made
one ventured to say that his character was it seem almost like an oasis in the desert.
not above the faintest breath of reproach. It was exceedingly tiny, but a liberal use of
At the very outset of his undertaking, Con- bright paint had so freshened up the inte-
way seemed to have encountered an insu- nor, that it looked as inviting as the cav~
operable obstacle to further discovery. ernous entrances near by were the reverse;
"I feared it would be so,~' he muttered while the window was arranged with a
to himself; as he sat moodily staring at the taste and a skill which are often lacking in
floor. "The clew is so slight, the evidence the largest aml most elegant of American
so frail-'-.what else could I expect? I knew shops. It made a very effective display of
that intimidation was almost the onlyhope; fancy stationery, and the many trifles sup-
and it failed completely. I counted too posed to be connected therewith -trifles
much on his cowardice, and too little on his such as papier-m~zch6 writing-desks, ink~
sagacity, it seems-~--yet who was to think stands of rare and curious device, ivory
id'atii~possessed any of the last? The j paper-knives, crystal paper-weights, and all
qu*tion ~iow is, What to do next? Truly the extensive paraphernalia of writing at

I

"There is nothing to resolve. I am ig-
norant of every thing you wish to know.
As for your accusations and threats, I leave
them to fall back on your own head, when
you learn their injustice."
Conway smiled bitterly.
"That is a degree of Christian charity
worthy of so eminent a follower of the
Pharisees. Hear my wish now: that when
the bolt of discovery falls-as it will fall,
sooner or later-it may blight every human
soul connected with the perpetration of this
dastardly outrage!"
All the passion within him-the passion
he had curbed so steadily throughout the

I think it would puzzle the best detective in
the Paris force. There is one thing, out of
all the mist, which I see clearly-my own
determination never to relinquish the pur-
suit."
It was undoubtedly his determination,
but none the less he felt, to the very core of
his heart, that the clew had suddenly and
entirely broken down in 1)18 hands.
-4--
CHAPTER XXIII.
ON TIlE TRACK.


12$

MABEL LEE.

ease. A French name was lettered over
the door and when :N~owell entered he saw
that it was a French face whose bright
brown eyes looked up at him from behind
the counter. The face belonged to a short,
stout figure, and would have been extreme-
ly yo~mthful' in appearance if the white hair
surrounding it had not imparted something
of the aspect of age. The fresh, rosy com-
plexion contrasted with this very well, how-
ever, and a beanilug smile seconded the
wdnderfully perfect courtesy of his nation,
as the little man crossed his hands one over
the other and bowed deeply.
"Votre servant, sare," he said, in very
broken English. "Vat may I haf ze honor
to show you, sar?"
Nowell glanced round him in some per-
plexity-he had come so little prepared for
his part, that he did not even possess a
ready-made want~
"I would like to see some writing-
paper," he said, after a pause, "and-and
envelopes, if you please."
"Papaire and envelopes," repeated the
little man. "Oui, oui; I haf zem, sare, and
of ze best. Will you haf zem to mach?"
"To do what? " asked Nowell, in some
surprise.
"To mach-is not that what you would
say? To be alike-to suit."
"Oh, to match~ Yes--no-that is, I
would prefer them like this." And he laid
down on the counter the envelope in which
the forged letter had been enclosed, but
whichhe had not returned with that letter.
The Frenchman bent his head to exam-
ine it, an4 thea looked up again~
he said, "I haf plenty like dat,
flat corned from my stock."
"Yes, I know it did. I saw your mark
on it. And have you more of the same
sort?"
"Plenty," repeated the little stationer~
with a sigh. "I haf no moock custom, sare.
Zese peoples zey likes bigger shops zan
mine; and yet, m'sieur, zey finds no such
papaire elsewhere as what I keeps; for I
brought it viz me from Paris."
"You are lately from Paris, then?"
asked Newell, who had his own reasons for
desiring to make the small foreigner as

communicative as possible. The bright
brown eyes looked up at him, sadly enough
in reply.
"Oni, m'sianr, I an~ vaire lately from
Paris. I vas in trouble dere, and one kind
good countryman of yours, he lends me ze
money for to come way, and I comes here
where he lifs and can help me. Are nose
no envelopes, sare?"
"Yes, these are the ones," said Nowell,
comparing the envelope in his hand with
the contents of a box which the Frenchman
placed before him. "These are the ones.
You can put me up two packages. The box
seems quite full; so I suppose you have not
sold any of them before."
"Vaire few, saire-vaire few. Zese peo-
pbs zey know noting whatevare about good
stationerie. Zey minds noting about how
zey writes zero lettaire-nor what zey
writes zem on. Va! So zey can be reads,
nat is all zey cares. Now, zese are vairo
fine envelopes, sare."
"Yes," said Nowell. "I don't know
much about such things, but I can see that
they are fine."
"Well, sare, you may not believe me,
but I haf sold them to but one person before
you comed-but one person, sare."
"And who was that?" asked Newell,
eagerly, for the next winding of the clew
seemed almost within his grasp-far nearer
than he had dared to hope it would be.
"Zat person," said the little Frenchman,
busily tying up the bundle of envelopes, as
he spoke, "nat person, sare, was my goot
front vat helped me here-my front vat
help me yet all the time. Is nis all sure?
You said papaire, did you not?"
"Paper, yes," answered Nowell, has-
tily~ "The finest you have. This will
do."
"No, Bare; zat will not do," said the
stationer, removing from under his hand
some paper that had been lying on the count-
er. "You zay you want no finest I haf,
Zat am not ne finest I haf, sare. I haf oder
much finer, sure."
So Newell stood by, possessed with the
very spirit of impatience, while he opened
and shut drawers innun~orable, sha14x~g. his
head over each. "Non," he went on ~y-

I

I

ON THE TRACK.

129

ing. "Zis not de finest," until at last ti
scant patience of his customer gave way.
"That will do," he said. "Any will d(
I assure you. I am in haste. I really cci
not wait-"
"Ab, here it is!" exclaimed the othei
who was not paying the least attention t
him, but had suddenly jerked out a drawei
and found what he wanted. "Here it ii
sare!" he said, bringing forward som
creamy-tinted paper, which bore the fines
Paris niark, and looked as if it was mean
for nothing but billet-dour purposes. Now
oil had 'about as much use for it as he woul
have had for the pen from a pigeon's wing
and the violet-colored ink which shoul
properly. have accompanied it. But h
bought largely, nevertheless, and then feli
at liberty to bring the conversation bacb
to the question which was tormenting
him. ~
"Your friend, who helped you to come
over from Paris, must be a very kind per-
son," he said. "Is he a Charlestonian?"
"Oni, in'siour," said the little man, with
a grateful moisture shimmering at once over
his eyes. "He is a Sharlostonian. He lifs
here, and ho is vairo goot-vaire, vaire goot,
ni
"Perhaps I know him. You would not
mind telling me his name, would you?"
"Non, m'siour. Vhy should I mind?
Efory one mnst know him to be a goot man.
Lo hon Dieu knows it, I am nure. He is
not-"
"But I thought you wor&amp; going to tell
me his name?"
"Oni; and so 1 am. His name is Mon-
sieur Ainslie."
"1 knew it," said Nowoll, half aloud.
And, strange to say, he felt that he had
known it all along-known that the poor
little foreigner's generous patron could only
bethe man whom he had met as Mr. Sey-
ton's guest, and Philip Conway's friefid.
Yet, now that the confirmation of this
knowledge placed the next winding of the
clew in his hands, he saw, with bitter dis-
appointment, how far he was from time end.
Aizislie! He could not, by any stretch of.
imagination, connect Mabel's disappearance
with Aim: Ever since he entered the shop,
.9

'e he had expected to hear of him; and yet,
now that he had done so, he felt that it was
)~ impossible to accept the conollialon pre-
i~ rented. Despite his being Conway's friend,
he had liked him cordially, and trustedhim
~, entirely; and he could not bring himself to
o believe-what he would have suspected
quickly enough of any other man-that he
,, had any share in the abduction. The en-
e velope might have passed from his posses-
t sion to that of his friend, in the most natu-
t ral manner possible. And yet, perhaps, it
- was his duty to follow out the clew as it
I was presented to him; or, in other words,
to track Ainslie down, as a means of un-
I masking the friend for whom he might be
acting. He hesitated only a moment over
this doubt; then he turned round to the lit-
tle shopkeeper with a good deal of the
brusque sharpness that, young as ho was,
made witnesses tremble before his cross-
examinations.
*    "I know Mr. Ainslie well," he said
"and I am anxious to see him. Can you
give me his address?"
"Oui, m'sieur, viz plasir. But, if you
vish to see him vaire soon, ze club might
be-"
"I wish to see him privately. I don't
care~ to go to the club. Where does he
live?"
"He lifs, m'sieur, at No. -, Rootledge
Street. You will find him zere most times,
vhen he is not at the club."
Newell made his acknowledgments,
and, pocketing his paper, left the shop. As
lie walked slowly and meditatively down
King Street, he resolved in his mind what
his best course of action would be. He
must see Ainslie-there wa~ no question as
to that. One critical examination of the
man's face would enable him, he doubted
not, to judge whether he was guilty of the
complicity in Conway's ~irime, which cir-
cumstances seemed to indicate. Satisfied
on this point, his way was clear beforeliho;
but at present he fell; m6re hopelessly per-
plexed than ever before, dark as the affair
had been from the first. Yeshe must sec
Ainshie-but how? Call on him?-..-and up.
on wbatpretence ?L Seek aud question him
with an abrupt directness that might so


130                          MABEL LEE.

ON THE TRACK.                       131

take him by surprise as to make his counte-
nauc? betray him? Caution said no ; "the
slightest manifestation of suspicion would
be putting him on his guard. Call on him
in 'n~i~e social way, as being accidentally
in~to~ji upon business, and unable to deny
hi~nself the pleasure of renewing so agreea-
ble an acquaintance as that of Mr. Ainslie?
He dismissed this thought at once, as un-
worthy. No, social treason for him; he left
that for Conway &amp; Co., if Ainslie made one
of such a. firm.. No, he thought, he must
meet the man upon neutral ground; meet
him apparently by accident; and meantime
he would obtain all possible information
concerning him; what was his character-
what his manner of life. He had now been
so absorbed in reverie as to pass, without
notice, the street which he ought to have
taken on his way back to the Charleston
Hotel. 'Becoming suddenly awake to his
surroundings, he perceived that he had
reachedd the point at which King is inter-
sected by Broad Street. He turned into the
last named, and, not wishing again to lose
his way and his time by forgetfulness, was
careful to keep his thoughts about him, as
he traversed the square between King and
Meeting Streets, and turned up toward the
hotel. His eyes being open accordingly, he
had not taken three steps after turning the
corner, ere his, attention was attracted by
the figure of a gentleman who made one of
a group standing on the pavement just in
front of Hibernian Hall. When his eye
first fell upon the man (whose back was
that way), he absolutely started, thinking
that rlAll~ Conway was before him; but a
second glance showed him his mistake.
The hair was brown,, instead of black, and
the form, though of the same height and
gex~eral appearance, lacked the grace and
syminetryso remarkable in that of his hated
rival. It was Ainslie h~e saw. His late ab-
sence ~f mind, in bringing ~him several
squares out of hi~ way, had given him the
accidental meeting for which he was at that
very moment wishing.
Slackening his pace, he had ample time
to regaixi the composure of countenance
which the first sight of Ainslie had some-
what disturbed; and was fully prepared for.

the interview, not only with imperturbable
self-possession on his own, part, but also t'y
note carefully the effect which his unex-
pected appearance would produce upon the
other. When he was within a few yards of
the group, it suddenly separated, t~iree of
the four gentlemen of which it consisted
passing down the street, and of course
meeting him, while the fourth, Ainslie him-
self; went on in the opposite direction. But
he had scarcely parted from the others, be-
fore he turned suddenly to speak to them
again; and he started violently, as Nowell
could not but remark, when he saw the
young lawyer. That astute observer ac-
knowledged to himself; however, that, if the
start was caused by any thing save surprise,
Mr. Ainslie was wonderfully quick in recov-
ering himself. He advanced at once in the
easiest, most graceful manner, expressing,
in terms which, though cordial in the ex-
treme, did not sound exaggerated, his pleas-
ure at so unlooked-for a meeting. And all
the while he spoke, while asking about
Nowell himself; and then inquiring after his
other friends and acquaintances in the up-
country, there was in his air, his voice, his
looks, a certain respectful sadness, which,
much more eloquently than any words he
could have uttered, expressed his recollec-
tion of the last days he had spent in the up-
country, and his sympathy with the grief
of those days. Newell was particularly
pleased by the tact with which he avoided
the mention of Conway's name; and, thaw-
ing a little from his ordinary fl~edness of
manner, he with perfect sincerity assured
Mr. Ainslie that he was very glad to see
him.
They had walked on together while ex-
changing these first greetings; and now
Ainslie said, with apologetic 'hesitation of
manner:
"I hope, Mr. Newell, you will not think
I take too great a liberty in asking if you
have made any discovery yet about Miss
Lee's disappearance?"
Newell shook his head. "None what-
ever." After a rapid mental consideration
as to the expediency of mentioning tha let-
ter, he added: "My cousin was very nmeh
excited a day or two before I left honte, by

I

receiving a letter which purported to I
from her sister. I saw at once that it w~
a forgery, and so Constance perceived,
soon as the fact was suggested to her."
"A forgery?
"A forgery without doubt."
"That isatrange," said Ainslie, though:
fully; "very strange I"
"Not more so than all that preceded it,
answered Newell, compelling himself by
great effort to continue, or at least not t
decline, discussing the subject - bitterly
painful as the slightest allusion to it was t
him.
"And did the letter afford no clew b;
which to detect the writer-the post-marl~
for instance I"
"It would be a bungler, indeed, .wh4
would betray himself by voluntarily putting~
any thing which could afford a clew into on:
hands. The post-mark-no. Like the let.
ter itself; it was clearly intended to bliuc
inquiry. It is that of Edgerton. Of course~
the letter was mailed there on purpose tc
gi*~e~ a false clew, if we had been so simple m
to fall into the trap."
"And you have not even written te
make inquiries of the postmaster? I can't
but think-pardon me-that it might be
well to do that."
"I promised my cousin that I would sift
the thing to the bottom, on my return home,
if nothing had in the mean time been dis-
covered. But no information can be gained,
I am sure, through the medium of the post-
office." He paused. "I am sorry I must
say good-morning here, Mr. Ainslie. I am
just returning to my room "-he motioned
toward the Charleston Hotel, opposite to
which they were standing-" t~ prepare a
business paper, and am engaged for the
Whole day; so that I shall notprobablyhave
the pleasure of seeing. you again. But I am
glad to have met you."
"But you are not leaving town at once,
I suppose? Can't you dine with me? I
shall he delighted' to see you at my house,
No. -RutledgeStreet, at any hour most con-
venierit toyon, from three to eight o'clock,
or Iater% if you prefer~" he added, laughingly.
"Thank you.. I am sorry to say that it
is impossible. I am extremely anxious to

)e get back to Ayre; and, the moment that I
~s have concluded the business which brought
m me here, I shall leava-to-morrow morning,
or it may be to-night."
Ainslie expressed his regret, seeming
really, as he said, much disappointed at see-
I- ing so little of Mr. Nowell. He even endeav-
ored to alter the decision of that gentleman
" with regard to declining his invitation to
a dinner. But Newell was immovable. Re-
o eating his assurance that he had an impor-
y tant business paper to wri1~e, and several
o engagements afterward that would occupy
him all day, he shook hands, in very friendly
y spirit, apparently, and, crossing the street,
., entered the hotel.
Ainslie stood still, looking after him,
' until he vanished within the open portal,
~ then muttering, half alou~I, "I am sorry he
t' would not dine with me," he sauntered on
- up the street.
I Newell went to his room, took out his
writing-materials, and sat down to the table
to go to work. But he seemed in no hurry
to commence his task. Leaning his head on
his hand, he went over in his mind every
look and word of Ainslie-weighing each one /
deliberately, and then regarding them col-
lectively. "Did any thing in the face or
manner look like guilt?" he asked himself.
And he could remember hut one thing which
had the faintest appearance of it-that first
start upon seeing him. Yet, as he had
thought at the time, that might have been
caused by surprise only. But why, suggest-
ed Suspicion, should the mere unexpected
sight of a stranger have excited a degree of
surprise amounting at the moment to posi-
tive emotion? It was singular, assuredly,
but not impossible, Reason answered. On
the whole, the wished-for meeting had not
done much to settle his opinion-had done
nothing, in fact, for he was just as much in
doubt now as, he had been before.
With something like a groan he lifted
his head, and suffered his hand to fall p~s-
sively to the table. But he soon roused
himself from this unaccustomed mood ~f
dejectiou~ and began to write, gradually re-
,gaining, as he went on, his habitual energy
and intentness of purpose. He was making
out a concise statement of the circumstances


132

MABEL LEE.

of Mabel's disappearance, as explanatory
of the suspicion which he now entertained
of Ainsli~'s possible complicity in .herab-
duction, which statement he purposed sub-
mitting to the chief of police, in order to
take counsel with that functionary as to the
best means of proceeding in the, watch
which he intended to keep upon Ainshie's
movements.
-4---.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Two H~AD5 A~E BETTER THAN oxz.
Hu had finished a rough draft of his
statement, and was reading it over, striking
out a good many superfluous words, and al-
tering or adding a few, 'when he was inter-
rupted'by a knock at his door.
"Come in," he said, in no very gracious
tone; and lie muttered an exclamation of
annoyance, w~ndering who his visitor could
be as the door opened, and a servant ad-
vanced with - a card.. He had plenty of ac-
quaintdnces and 'friends in Charleston; but
h~ supposed that most or all of them were
out of town at this season, and, even if they
were in town, how should "they know that
he was there? . Surely it was net Ainslie.
The man extended the card at the mo-
ment. He took it, glanced at the aalue with
a surprise obviously not pleasurablexand
looked up.
"An old gentlemafi?" he inquired.
"Yes, sir an oldish-looking gentle-
man."
LI Show him up.
"Yes, sir."
-"Vexatious!" he exclaimed, as soon as
the door closed on the man's exit. And
then he colored slightly, as if ashamed of
his petulance, and pushed his tapers to-
gether, thrusting out of sight the sheet he
had- been writing. While doing thi~, he
suddenly thoughtt him that he ought to
have gone down himself to meet his visitor,
instead of sending the servant, and he
hastened to repair his incivility by going at
once.
At .the head of the stairs he was met by
an elderly gentleman, whose warm greeting

made him yet more ashamed of the annoy-
ance he felt at the idea of being inter-
rupted.
"My dear Mr. Lyndsay, I am heartily
glad to see you!" he exclaimed, with gen-
uine cordiality. "I did not know you were
on this side of the Atlantic. You must have
arrived very lately."
"Yes; a week or ten days ago. I left
my family in Virginia, at the White Sulphur
Springs1 and came down for a day or two
to take a look at the old town and attend to
some business. You passed through the
portico a moment ago, as I stood there, and,
something in your appearance striking me
as familiar, I inquired your name, looked in
the register, and, finding you were from
Ayre, took it for granted that you must be
my old friend Hal's son-the little Francis
who was in jackets the last time I saw
him."
"I remember it, and remember you
perfectly. You have not changed percepti-
bly. I need not ask how you are~ you are
lookingso remarkably welL"
"I am sorry I can't return the compli-
ment," said Mr. Lyndsay, gravely.
I~Towell smiled and then laughed at the
frankly critical scrutiny with which ~he old
gentleman's eye was travelling over his per-
son from head to foot.
"I don't resemble my father, I have
been told," he remarked.
"Not much," answered Mr. Lyndsay, sit-
ting down and taking off his gloves, for they
were by this time in Nowell's room. "When
you smile, your face has the expression of
his; 1~ut the features are different. And I'm
sorry ~to see that you are overworking
yourself, my young friend." He shook his
head. "Bad policy, believe me. You look
ten years old~r than you are. You clever.
men generally want to go up-hill too fast.
Now, take my advice, which would be your
father's if he were living, and pull up for a
while in the race you are running. You
will reach the goal all the sooner, and not
be out of breath when you get there."
Nowell laughed again, bu1~ his old friend
stopped short the disclaimer he was about
to taske. "Oh, I know all that you would
say," he went on, with a silencin~'rnotion

I

I

I

'I

TWO HEADS ARE. BETTER THAN ONE.

of the hand; "but I am not speaking merel
from the impression which your appearance
gives me, though that would be enough.
have heard of you frequently. Last year.
met young Tom Rutledge in Paris, and 114
told me that you were one of the mos
rising men in the State, both in your pro
session and in politics; but that you wer~
working yourself to death."
"Tom was mistaken. 1 have never hun
myself working too hard. I'm not looking~
well just now-"
"Well! You are looking about as badl3
as a man could. . Thin andhaggard-"
He paused, struck, it seemed, by som
sudden thought, and, drawing his chair closc
to Nowell's, laid his hand on the youn~
man's arm, saying earnestly: "Boy, youi
father was ~he dearest friend I ever had.
We loved each other as brothers. If you
are in any trouble, tell me what it is frankly.
I may be able to help you out of it; at least
I will try. Come, make a clean breast of
it! What is the matter?"
"My dear Mr. Lyndsay, I am in trouble,
in very great trouble," said Nowell, whose
eyes had grown strangely moist and bright
while his father's friend spoke. "I will tell
you what it is directly1 but first I want to
ask a question or two.- Are you acquaint-
ed with ~ young man - a native Charlesto-
nian, I think-Ainshie by name?"
"Ainshie?" repeated the other, with the
puzzled look of one who is endeavoring to
grasp a thought that is playing at hide-and-
seek in his men~iory. "Ainslie! That
name certainly-O-h!" and his chin elevat-
ed itself several inches in the air, and came
down a gain, in the emphasis of that ejacula-
tion. "I recollect now! I have no person-
al acquaintance with him, but I know who
you mean. Hum-hum! "he said to himself,
looking at Nowell with a very singular ex-
pression on his face. "Go on. What of
him?"
"You don't know, then, any thing about
his character ?-whether he is a man of
Mr. Lyndsay smiled a very peculiar
sn~ile. "I know, absolutely ~nothing about
him or, his character, excepting that he is'-
the son of the most unmitigated rascal I

13

y ever met with in the whole course of my
e life."
".Ah! "
"You were too young at the time of
s your uncle Lee's death to have understood
t much about it, but I suppose you have heard
- all the circumstances since?"
"Yes," answered Nowehl, a vague ap-
prehension beginning to dawn upon him.
"Well, Covington - the man who in-
veigled Lee and a gooA many others into a
bubble speculation which ruined them all-
was the father of this Ainslie, as you call him.
The thing was manifestly a swindle, for,.
while his friends were broken all to pieces,
it was universally believed that he himself
made an immense fortune by the transaction.
A very strong feeling was excited against
him, particularly when Lee's death occurred
* in the manner it did. He thought it pru-
dent to decamp for a while until the storm of
public indignation should blow over; and so
he went to Europe, and stayed several years.
On his return, he changed his name to Ains-.
lie, asserting that he did so in consequence
of having inherited a large property from a
relative of that name in England,' who made
it a condition of the inheritance that he
should assume his (the legator's) patronymic.
-Nobody gave the least credit to his story.
He did not recover the social status which
he had forfeited, and did not long enjoy his
fraudulent gains, dying very shortly after
his return."
"And Ainslie is ~his son?"
"Yes. Has he been playing the same
game over again? and induced you to in-
volve yourself in some pecuniary venture
with him?"
Nowell shook his head. "It is no money
affair," he replied. "Whether he has any
thingto do with it is the point on which I
am in doubt, and which I am now trying to
ascertain. But you shall hear all about it."
He. recounted briefly, but clearly, the
history of Mabel's mysterious disappearance,
mentioning his own, suspicion of Conway-
a suspicion entertained, he said, by the com-
munity at. large-gave a detail of the unsuc-
cessful search, of the receipt of the letter,
of his conviction that it was a forgery; his
discovery about the envelope, and finally of


the uncertainty he felt as to whether Ains-
lie was or was not the agent of Philip Con-
way in the abduction of his cousin.
Mr. Lyndsay listened with the most ea-
ger attention and interest, ~iot interrupting
him by a word. When h~ finished speak-
ing, the old gentleman was silent for a mo-
ment, thinking deeply. Then he said:
"Yen seem fully persuaded of Conway's
guilt."
"I am as firmly convinced of it as I am
of my own existence."
"Yet, you say, he was engaged to your
00U5in."
"He says so. Well, yes-I concede that
he was engaged to her."
"Then what possible motive could have
induced hhn to such a course as this?"
"I can't tell, unless it was that he de-
spaired~of obtaining his unole's consent to
the affair, and wished to get Mabel into his
powei', and so force his own terms. Seyton
is her godfather, and regards her as his own
child. Conway acknowledged that he was
aware of his uncle's disapproval of his pre~
tensions."
"But, if he has any sense, he could not
expect to obtain Seyton's consent by the
perpetration of such an outrage as this. Is
he' a fool?"
"No. He is not very brilliant intellect-
ually, but he's not a fool."
"And does Seyton suspect him?"
Nowell smiled bitterly. "Seyton re-
sents the mere suspicion 'of his guilt as an
Insult to himself. He has even, on the
strength of his partisanship, declared the
scoundt~al his heir."
"And the motl~er and sister of your
cousin-which side do they take?"
"My aunt is a weak woman, who has
no settled opinion on the subject. She be- I
* thieves every thing and nothing by turns.
Constance, her daughter, is as much infatn-
Med about Conway as his uncle is. But
they two are' his only partisans in the whole
country. 'Everybody else believes him to
be guilty. lie was very nearly mobbed the
day I loft ~Ayre, so intense is the indigna-
tion that exists against him."
"Set me down as a 'third partisan for
him~ I can't believe that any man, oompos

mentia, would 'have acted as you think he
has. And now let me tell you what you
must do, Francis. I think you said you
told Ainslie that you might leave town this
evening."
"Yes," answered Nowell with a twinge
of conscience, for he was not in the habit of
deviating in the least degree from the strict
spirit of truth. "Yes; I spoke on the im-
pulse of the moment, to excuse myself from
dining with him. In fact, I spoke sincerely;
for, really, while I was talking to him, I
could not believe him capable of such infa-
mous treachery. If he is not an honest
man, he is the most accomplished dissimu-
lator that it has ever been my chance to
stumble upon.~~
"Well, he may be honest. It would be
hard to condemn a man as a scoundrel be-
cause his father was one. But this very
fair-seeming which you describe looks mon-
strously suspicious to me; it is so much
like his father. Of all plausible rogues that
I ever saw, Covington was the most plausi-
ble. However, we'll give him the benefit
of a doubt, both ways. We won't condemn
him without proof, and we'll take evety
me~ins to obtain proof. And now, to return
to the point. It is very well you did tell
him you expected to leave, and you must
keep your word-go off this evening. Stop
-hear me out, before you begin to protest!
You intended to apply to the police; well,
give me the statement you have made out,
and I wrn set them to work. Fortunately,
Ikuow the chief very well, and I'll get him
to detail me a man for this special service.
I know the very man that will do; an hon-
est, faithful fellow, and shrewd, too, for
whom I once did a little kindness which he
has never forgotten. I will obtain leave of
absence for him, put him in plain clothes,
and set him to watch Ainslie's movements;
and I myself can easily find out all about
his character and habits. You, meanwhile,
will take the Augusta train this evening~
but, instead of going home, you will rui~
down to Savannah, and come over in the
next boat. If Ainslie is in this business,
either as principal or accomplice, he will of
course be alarmed at seeing you here. Your
having mentioned the letter to him,' and

seemed unsuspicious, may throw him off his
guard; bat it will be safest to take every
precaution to do so. If you leave as you
said, without having exhibited any signs of
suspicion, or made any inquiries, he will
naturally suppose that your business here
was professional-and that you have re-
turned home in haste to investigate the
affair of the letter. He is sure to keep his
eye on you, and will ascertain whether you
leave or not; and it is very likely that he
may be on the lookout for some days to saG
whether you return. If so, he will expect
you ~by train. Coming by the boat, you
may' escape observation. I will get all the
information I can by the time of your ar-
rival. tet me see; the next boat-"
"But," interposed Nowell, "you said
you were hire for a day or two. I can-
not think, my dear sir, of detaining
you.-"
"I came to stay a day or two, but that
makes no difference. I will write to my
wife not to expect me until she sees me,
and I think that, with patience, we shall be
able to discover whether this man has had
any connection with the outrage."
"But why should you take all this
trouble and inconvenience, my dear Mr.
Lyndsay, when I can-"
"Pooh, pooh! I would take five times
as much, with pleasure, for little Francis
himself;" said Mr. Lyndsay, laughing," and
ten times as mueb for his father's son.
Come, we'll walk down to Staples's office,
and you can stay there a while, then return
to dinner, and be off on the Augusta train.
Where is the paper?"
Nowell drew it forth from where he had
placed it, saying, "I must make a clean
copy."
"Yes," said Mr. Lyndsay, smiling, as he
glanced at the illegible-looking page; "I
think you had better do so. I will go at
once and see the chief of police, and will
then meet you at Staples's office. You know
his law-office, I suppose?"
"Oh, yes."
"It is now just twelve o'clock "-he
looked athis watch-." when you have fin-
ished writing, come down, and, if I am not
at the office, wait for me."

CHAPTER XXV.
THE DOUBLE SEAL O~ BLOOD.

WITH a sensation of positive wonder at
the strangeness of the position in which he
had been placed by the events of the day,'
Nowell found himself, late that afternoon,
whirling away from Charleston as fast as
steam could carry him. He had consented
somewhat reluctantly to Mr. Lyndsay's
scheme,'and now he began to doubt whether
he had not committed a great blunder in
consenting at all. Young as he was, he had
been accustomed for years to judge exclu-
sively for himself; and the habit had natu-
rally produced a certain degree of seif-confi-
deuce, as well as self-reliance. He was now
acting under the direction of another-
rather in opposition to, than in accordance
with, his own judgment. That spirit of self-
accusation, which is always strongest in con-
scientious natures, began to exhibit syxnp-
toms of becoming a very unpleasant travel-
ling companion-suggesting various, reasons
why he ought not to have yielded to per-
suasion instead of conviction, and number-
less objections to the plan which he was
~pursuing. 'But he was not a vain man; his
mind was open to reason. So lie silenced
the reproaching voice by addressing himself
to a thoroughly impartial examination of
the question, and it resulted in his entire
approval of Mr. Lyndsay's views in the ma1~-
ter, and perfect satisfaction with himself for
having acceded to those views. Nor was he
shaken in this opinion, when accident
caused a considerable detention on his way
-the train on which he traveled having
been brought toa stand-still aboutfifty miles
from Savannah, until the c~bri. of two
trains-a freight and a gravel-.-~which had
collided half an hour before, could be re-
moved from the road.
It was a work requiring severs1~. hours
for its accomplishment, and theconsequenc~
was, that the train was that much behind
time, and the boat was gone when they
finally reached Savannah.
It was an annoying ehancO, and~ N6Well
chafed not a little athis aliforced ina6tivity';

134                         MABEL LEE.                                                        TlE DOUBLE SEAL OF BLOOD.                 135

MABEL LEK


l~6                        MABEL LEE.                                                       THE DOUBLE SEAL OF BLOOD.

'37

but there was nothing for it but to wait fo
the next boat. And this he did with whs
patience he could command.
Very glad he was when at last h
stepped on board the Medora, and sti]
more glad when he stepped upon the whar:
at Charleston. Almost as he did so, hi
arm was touched by a servant, who said in
terrogatively, "Mr. Kowell?"
Yes."
"Carriage waiting for you, sir, to brin!
you to Mr. Lyndsay's. Where shall I fim
your luggage, sir?"
Nowell pointed to a valise which one ol
the boat-hands was bringing after him.
Driving hastily through the city to om
of the suburbs, the carriage stopped befor
a stately old house in a fine shrubbery-
garden. Nowell was met at the front doo:
by his host, with outstretched hand and
words of warmest Welcome.
'~ Any news for me?" cried the young
man, as they shook hands heartily.
"Nothing definite, but something cu-
rious at least, in Ainslie's habits. Are you
ready for breakfast, or will y~ou go to your
room first?"
"Thank you, I breakfasted on the boat.
I hope you have not waited for me."
"Yes; but no matter. Come in and
keep me company in a cup of coffee; at
least, aad I will tell you all that I have dis-
covered. It is not much-it may be noth-
ing-but I think it is something. The first
thing I did after parting from you," con-
tinued Mr. Lyndsay, as they sat down to
the breakfast-table, "was to find out what
I could. about Ainslie. My inquiries, of
course, were conducted cautiously, and all
that I learned of his character and habits
looked fair enough. lie has been here but
a short time, and does not intend to remain
much longer; is much engaged with his
man of business, making arrangements for
a long absence in Europe and the East; is
convivial, but not dissipated; very popular
among the men he associates with; of good
~ling at the club; very liberal in opin-
ion,~ ~s ~the phrase goes; that is (as I have
since ascertained), openly, even ostenta-
tionsly, amnaterialist. On the whole, though
the last item of information did not give me

r much respect for his sense, there was noth-
~t ing that would warrant a suspicion of his
honor as a man of the world. I was disap-
e pointed, I confess, and came home feeling a
LI little crestfallen: rather inclined to the be-
r lief thatihad sent you~onafool's errand,
s and was engaged in the same myself. I
- found my policeman waiting for me, having
been detailed for special service by his
chief, who put him at my command.
"'Well, Mike,' said I,' I've got ajob of
I work in your line on hand; and I asked
your chief to let me have your services, be-
cause I know you'll take trouble and do it
well for me.' 'That I will, yer honor, de-
pind upon it,' said he, and he listened very
attentively while I gave him an outline of
- your story, and explained what it was that
I wanted him to do. I thought it best to
make this expoai for two reasons: In the
first place, if a man is trustworthy, it is well
to let him see that you place confidence in
him-he will work with much more zeal
* and good-will, and he can, of course, work
* much more intelligently, if he knows wh~it
he is about, than if led blindfold; and,
secondly, a gentleman who interests him-
self in another gentleman's private habits
ought to have a very good reason to allege
for that interest. Mike listened very atten-
tively and without comment, until I men-
tioned Ainslie's name, lie looked surprised
at that. 'What! do you know any thing
about him?' I inquired. 'I see him going
to mass every morning , yer honor. Sure
and he's not the blaggard yer honor suspects
of this villany?' 'You must be mistaken,
Mike,' said I. 'The man I'm talking of
don't go to mass, I'm sure*' But, onques-
tioning him, I found that he was right It
seems that he is on his beat, which includes
part of Broad Street, in the neighborhood
of the cathedral, at the hour of early mass
every morning; and he says that for the
last fortnight he has seen this man go regu-
larly to mass when the weather was good.
He noticed him first as 'a stranger who had
the purtiest big brown eyes he ever saw"'
-howell's glance lightened suddenly here
-" and so much was the honest fellow
struck with those eyes, and the apparent
devotion of their owner, that he took the

:1

186

MABEL LEE. '

trouble to inquire one day. of an acquaint-
ance, when Ainslie was passing him on the
street, 'who that gentleman was.' 'A Mr.
Ainslie who lives in Rutledge Street,' he
was informed. Mike was evidently as-
tonished when I told him to attend mass
himself the next morning, watch Ainslie
carefully, and discover what he was there
for. 'Why, av course. yer honor, hers there
for what everybody else goes for, to say his
prayers.' 'No, he's one of the gentry that
don't believe in saying prayers, Mike. You
watch him well to-morrow morning, and
you'll find he don't go there to say his pray-
ers, and, as soon as he leaves the cathedral,
come and report to me.~
"I waited, as you may suppose, very im-
patiently for his appearance the next morn-
ing. 'Yer, right,' were his first
words; 'he don't go to mass to say his
prayers.' As I had suspected, there was a
lady in the case, but-don't fly off with the
idea that this lady is your cousin, Francis!"
he exclaimed, as Kowell started convulsive-
ly, and changed color. "It may be-I hope
it is Miss Lee-but there is no positive
ground for the belief in the information ac-
quired so far. Let me go on with my story,
and keep quiet until you hear me out.
Well, Mike went to mass the next morning
-it was the day after you left, Saturday-
and Ainslie duly made his appearance just
before the second mass commenced. He
placed himself in an obscure position that
commanded a view of the door, and, a min-
ute afterward, two ladies entered. Ainslie
watched them as closely as Mike watched
him, but did not approach them. When
they left the cathedral, he did not follow
them, but went at once to the Charleston
Hotel, where he usually breakfasts and reads
the papers, it appears-and Mike came to
me. I asked if he had noticed the ladies.
Of course he had. lie had seen all that was
to be seen about them, which was not much,
as both wore thick veils. But he was pret-
ty sure that one was middle-aged, and the
other young. I directed him to follow them
the next morning and find out where they
lived; and then dismissed hini in haste, so
thaiPhe should not relax in his espionage
upon Ainslie. He caught that personage

with his eye, as he issued from the hotel,
after breakfast, and dogged him successfully
all day; saw him lounging in Russell's for
some time; then he spent an hour or two
in an artist's studio after which he took
luncheon at an~eating-house, and went from
there to the office of his man of business,
where he stayed until he went to his club to
dinner. After dinner he went~ to his own
house, to dress for the evening, probably;
and an hour or two before sunset he came
out, and walked to a house in Legar~ Street.
lie remained there only about half an hour,
returning to Rutledge Street, where a horse
was waiting for him. lie mounted, and
rode off for a canter, apparently. Mike lost
sight of him, of course; but learned that he
rides every afternoon, lie returned at
dusk, and entertained a party of gentlemen
that evening. The next morning the weath-
er was bad. There had been a rain during
the night, and it was still cloudy and threat-
ening. Either Ainslie nor the ladies ap-
peared at early mass, but, as the day became
clear immediately after breakfast, Mike
hoped that they might attend high mass.
He was disappointed in his expectation,
however. Either they were not there, or
he could not distinguish them in the crowd;
and he failed to catch a glimpse of Ainslie
during the whole of that day, though he pa-
trolled Rutledge, Legar6, King, and Meet-
ing Streets diligently. On Monday morn-
ing he came to me jubilant, his game in
view again-all three at the cathedral-he,
had seen the younger lady's face as she
crossed herself, and he had traced them out
to the house in Legar~ Street. He described
the lady's face as beautiful-"
"Did ho mention the color of her eyes
and hair?" demanded howell, eagerly.
"She has blue eyes, he says. lie did
not notice the color of her hair. I made
him precede me to the street, and point out
the house, which I know very wefl, as hav-
ing been on lease for a good many years
past. It belongs to a minor. I easily dis.-
covered the name of the agent who has it in
charge, and from him I learned that his ten-
ant is, or calls himself, a Mr. Garland, who
applied to him some time about the first of
the month of June, to rent this house, say-


138

MABEL LEE.

ing that he was in very ill-bealth-he's a
sickly-looking man, the agent says-and had
teen. recommended by his physicians to try
sea-air. lie came to Charleston because he
would have the benefit of a mild climate
and good medical attendance~ as well as sea-
air; expected to spend the fall and winter
here, if the climate agreed with him; but,
as he was not sure that it would, he pre-
ferred to take the house by the quarter-of-
fered to pay the rent in advance, and did
not stickle at the price. It was a straight-
enough story, and, as the house had been
unoccupied for some time, the agent caught
at the id~a of what promised him a good
tenant. As a matter of form, he inquired if
Mr. Garland would give him a city refer-
once, etc., and Mr. Garland immediately re-
ferred him to Ainslie's man of business,
who, in reply to the agent's inquiries, stated
that he had been instructed by Mr. Ainslie
to render any attention and service in his
pow4.~r to Mr. Garland, a particular friend
of his (Ainslie's), and that, if the agent de-
sired it, he would stand Mr. Garland's se-
curity for the payment of the rent. The
agent was' satisfied, the bargain struck, and
upholsterers were set to work at once to
furnish a few rooms, Mr. Garland explaining
that his family was small, consisting of him..
self, his wife, and an orphan niece. A
couple of Irish servants were engaged- 1
cook and housemaid-and put in charge of
the establishment; and Mr. Garland, who
remained in town for several days to en-
perintend these arrangements, then left to I
bring down his wife and niece, he said.
The serva~its were to have every thing in
readiness for their arrival about the middle
of June, and at the time appointed, some-
where about the middle of June, the agent I
did not remember the precise date, the fain- ~
ily made their appearance, and had proved t
to be very quiet, respectable people. That I
was all the information which he could af- f
ford me. I asked him if the man was a gen- c
tieman. He hemmed a little over the ques- c
tion, and replied that really he couldn't say z
as to that; he supposed Mr. Garland might e
be considered a gentleman; he was, at all t
events, a very gentlemanly man. t
* "' My curiosity about his tenant evident-

ly excited uneasiness in the agent's mind,
which I dissipated by some excuse not worth
repeating, obtaining from him a promise
that he would not mention my having spok-
en to him on the subject; and I think he
will keep his promise. Mike has managed
to gather up, from various sources, a few
additional items of information as to the
habits of the family, which are singular, un-
questionably, Mr. Garland himself is a pro-
fessed invalid, who never leaves the house,
yet he has not called in medical attendance;
the two ladies go out to church only, and
generally to take a drive late in the after-
noon; and do not see Ainslie when he calls
at the house, he being the only visitor who
does call, one of the servants told Mike, yet
he haunts their movements at a distance.
Decidedly suspicious all this looks, it seems
to me. What do you think?"
"That it looks sufficiently suspicious to
justify me in taking out a search-warrant,
and ascertaining by sight whether the young
lady is not my cousin." He started up, as
he spoke.
"Stop, stop!" cried Mr. Lyndsay. "Sit
down again, Francis, and listen to me. You
must not be so precipitate. Before taking
the extreme measure of bringing in the law,
we must stand upon surer ground than we
do at present. We must ascertain to a cer-
tainty that it i8 your cousin; and then we
3an proceed with the search-warrant."
"But, meanwhile, Ainslie may take the
miarm, and spirit her away a second
~irne."
"No danger of that. I have laid all the
circumstances of the case before the chief of
olice, and he has taken measures to pre-
,lude the possibility of any further difficulty.
?or two days past we have waited only for
rour arrival, in order that you may identify
he lady, If your cousin. In your name, I
inve obtained the issue of warrants-one
~a' searching the house, if necessary, the
dhers for the arrest of Ainslie and his ac-
ompilces. The house is watched day and
Light by a police force competent for any
emergency, and, at the first sign of flight,
he warrants will be served and all the par-
les detained."
Newell leaned across the table, and, tak-

ing Mr. Lyndsay's hand, wrung it hard.
"How can I thank you?"
"That ceremony is not needed between
friends," interrupted Mr. Lyndsay, smil-
ing; "so we won't waste time at it. There
is one other circumstance which I have not
mentioned. On Tuesday morning I went
myself to the cathedral, and saw the young
lady; and either imagination is deluding me,
or she bears a striking resemblance to your
uncle Lee. I knew him very well; and,
though it is now about twenty years since
he died~ the one glimpse which I obtained of
that young lady's countenance has recalled
his face to me as vividly as if I had seen
it only yesterday. Nor is it the face alone;
there is something in the general appearance
which looks to me unmistakable-a family
resemblance~ in figure, air, and movement.
Still," he said, quickly, as he saw the eager-
ness of Nowell, "I may be mistaken. The
likeness may be merely imaginary, or it
may be accidental. Such strange coinci-
dences frequently occur, that I am afraid to
indulge the hope that this terrible mystery
is about to~be solved. The whole tissue of
circumstances looks to me, I must say,
extremely suspicious. Yet it is possible, it
is even probable, that they can be account-
ed for simply and reasonably. The man
Garland may really be what he represents
himself and there may be some love-affair
between Ainslie and the young lady, which
causes this apparent mystery."
"But how do you account for the en-
velope?" said Newell.
Mr. Lyndsay shook his head. "That is
the strongest point against Ainslie; the only
one which, to all appearance, might not he
explained away. And we cannot tell, even
that-"
"No! "exclaimed Nowell, "that cannot
be explained away. The other circum-
stances, taken alone, would scarcely be
worth a moment's consideration; but, re-
garded in connection with this, they make a
case which I should not be. afraid to take
before any court that ever sat."
"Well," said Mr. Lyndany, "contain
your impatience for ten, or at most twen~
ty-f~iir hours longer, and the mystery is
solved." And he went on to explain the

THE DOUBLE

~EAI~ OF BLOOD.                    ~139
plan which had been decided upon by him-
self and the police, for effecting this object.
Nowell suggested a few alterations in the
programme of proceedings, which were
adopted, and then he was obliged to contain
his impatience, as Mr. Lyndsay had advised,
through hours that seemed.to him intermi-
nable-the long, long hours of that long,
long August day.
The sun had set, and the short summer
twilight was deepening ovei~ the earth, when
a carriage stopped before a house in Legar6
Street, almost in front of which two gentle-
men had met, seemingly by accident, a few
minutes before, and now stood talking to-
gether in a low tone. They moved~ a little
aside, without suspending their conversation,
and, as it chanced, placed themselves very
near the curb-stone. The driver having de-
scended and opened the carriage-door, ex-
tended his arm for the occupants to alight,
and then one of the gentlemen, whose face
was turned that way, for the first time
glanced up. He saw a lady of middle age
descend, and, standing upon the curb-stone,
turn anxiously and offer her hand to an-
other lady who was following her.
"Thank you, but I can do very well
with John's arm," said a sweet, clear voice,
the first tone of which made Newell's heart
give a bound that almost suffocated him.
Before she spoke, before she had half
emerged from the carriage-doe; lie recog-
nized her! And if a shadow of doubt had
still existed in his mind as to her iden-
tity, it would have vanished when, on reach-
ing the pavement, she threw hack her veil,
and, the door of the house having been
opened that moment by a servant from
within, a broad glare of light fell full upon
the face of Mabel Lee!
Newell's arm was held in a vice-like
grasp by his companion, and he was walk-
ing rapidly down the street, when the mo-
mentary rush of almost overpowering emo-
tion ebbed sufficiently for bim to be conscious
of what he was doing. They were near the
corner of a street, and at the corner a man
in plain clothes stood, who, slightly touching
his hat, said, in a quiet tone:
"Ready, yer honor I"
"Ready," responded Mr. Lyndsay. He


140                          MABEL LEE.

THE DOUBLE SEAL OF BLOOD.                141

turned himself and Nowell, and they retraced
at wore leisurely pace the two squares which
they had just traversed so 'quickly.
"You are confident of her 'identity ?"
said Mr. Lyndsay, as they approached the
house once more, speaking for the first time
since they had seen Mabel's face. "Itwould
not do to make a mistake, you know."
"There can be no mistake," answered
Nowell, with a composure which reassured
Mr. Lyndsay as to his capacity of self-control
in the coming interview. "It is my cousin?
Mabel Lee."
"Here we are. For God's sake, keep
cool now, Francis, whatever occurs!"
"Trust me, I will."
They mounted the steps, and Nowell
rang the bell.
Some little time elapsed, and the sum-
mons remained unheeded. Nowell rang
again, this time with more energy than be-
fore.. Still there was no indication of life
within the house-no sign that any atten-
tion would be accorded to their request for
admittance. They heard the far-off tinkle
of the bell, and knew that it must have been
audible from cellar to attic of ~he house;
but no other sound broke the stillness. Now-
eli had extended his hand to ring for the
third time, when the echo of rapid footsteps
was heard descending the stairs, and coming
toward the door. A bar was removed, and
the door cautiously opened, rendering ap-
parent the fact that there was no light in the
hall; and a servant-girl demanded, in rath-
er a scared tone of voice, what they want-
ed. On hearing that they wished to see
her master, she said he was sick-not well
enough to receive any one; she knew he
could not see them.
"Tell him, my good girl, that two gen~
tlemen wish to see him on very important
business-bu~iness which cannot be put
off," said Mr. Lyndsay.
The girl hesitated, and wanted to argue
the point; but Mr. Lyndsay'~ "We must see
him," finally silenced her. She shut and
locked the door, and they heard her run
stumblingly up-stairs. She soon returned
with the message that her master was par-
ticularly unwell that evening, and could not
possibly be disturbed. She was about to

shut the door after saying this; but a strong
shoulder forced it wide open, and a strong
hand caught her arm, detaining her from the
precipitate flight which she would have made.
"list! not a word, Mary," whispered a
voice which seemed not strange to her.
"We don't mane to hurt you, my girl; but
no noise, if you plase, or I shall have to put
me hand over yer mouth." The speaker
suited the action to the word.
The girl struggled violently, but ineffect-
ually, and, while she struggled, the door was
shut quietly, and the next moment a stream
of light was thrown along the hall and stair-
case from a bull's-eye lantern , and she saw a
group of men, the number of whom her ter-
rified vision magnified indefinitely, mount-
ing the steps, some in plain clothes, but most
of them wearing the police badge. They
moved noiselessly up the stairs, guided by
the narrow path of light which their leader
flashed ahead of him, until they reached
the floor to which they were ascending.
There the man who went in front paused for
an instant and shut his lantern, ere he had
advanced to a line of light that gleamed just
before them, under a closed door. Opening
this door, he entered, followed by Mr. Lynd-
say, Nowell, and several policemen.
The apartment, thus unceremoniously in-
vaded, contained but two occnpants.;-a ca~
daverous-looking man in dressing-gown and
slippers, and the elder of the two ladies
who had returned from driving a few mm-
utes before., She was engaged in pouring
out tea at a small table near which the man
was sitting, or rather reclining, in an arm-
chair. Both man and woman seemed star-
tled, even terrified, at sight of the party be-
fore them. The sallow face of the former
became almost white, and his eyes had a
glistening, staring look, very unpleasant to
behold; while the latter dropped her hands
to her lap, and sat, pale, trembling, and si-
lent, with an expression of hopeless misery
in her face.
"Mr. Garland, I believe," said the officer
of the party, advancing to the side of the
man, who, at the sound of his name,'made a
not altogether unsuccessful effort to recover
himself, and replied, with an assumption of
dignity:

"That is my name. What is the mean-
ing of this intrusion, may I ask?"
"I have a search-warrant," answered
the officer; "also a warrant for your arrest
as an accomplice in the crime of abduction.
This gentleman "-he pointed to Nowell-
"has testified to his belief that the young
lady who resides in this house, in character
of your niece, is his cousin, Mabel Lee by
name, who was forcibly abducted from her
home on the afternoon of the 22d day of
June last. You will produce the young lady
at once, that his accusation may be either
~substantiated or dismissed."
The man's face twitched and worked
convulsively, as he listened to this speech;
and he seemed absolutely incapable of reply.
He opened and shut his mouth once or twice
in the effoitt to articulate, but no sound is-
sued from the quivering lips. The officer
waited patiently until he saw that there was
no probability otT obtaIning an answer from
him; and then, turning to the woman, was
about to address her, when his attention,
and that of all present, was attracted to the
door, which had been shut after the entrance
of the party, but which was now opened by
the young lady, the object of their search.
As if responding to the demand made a mo-
ment before for her appearance, she advanced
into the room, apparently without at first
perceiving the goodly company gathered
there, for, when she had proceeded but a few
steps within the threshold, she stopped sud-
denly, and regarded the group of men with
an astonished and frightened look~ As she
paused, Mrs. Garland started up, and, hur-
rying to her, said, in a soothing tone:
"Don't be alarmed, my dear. These
gentlemen will not hurt you. Come with
me and sit down."
The girl caught the hand held out to
her, and the two '~vere moving toward a
sofa that stood in n recess behind the tea-
table, when Nowell, who had been gazing
steadily at her whom he believed to be his
cousin, waiting for the moment when she
would Bee and recognize him, planted him-
self before them, barring their way.
" Mabel," he said, "Mabel Lee!" and he
put his hand on her shoulder, looking in-
teutly, almost sternly, in her face.

With a slight cry of surprise and alarm,
she shrink from his touch, as from that of a
stranger, lifted her eyes to his for an in-
stant without a sign of recognition, and
~then drew closer to her companion, on whom
she turned a pitiably imploring glance, which
seemed to ask what the meaning of all this
was.
Newell stood confounded. Mr. Lynd-
say thought, "Humphl he has been mis-
taken as to her identity. A fine business
we~ve made of it! "-and the policemen
were of the same opinion. The silence was
broken by a sound something between a
chuckle and a cough from the sick man who
sat by the table.
"I hope the gentleman is satisfied! " he
cried, in a tone of undisguised triumph.
"I hope he is satisfied! His cousin seems
very glad to see him!"
"Silence 1" exclaimed Nowell, turning
with a look nuder which the man literally
cowered. "Sir," he continued, addressing
the officer, "there is some trickery here.
This lady is my cousin, Mabel Lee__~'
He stopped short-a quick shiver ran
over his form-his face became perfectly
colorless, and an expression of horror set-
tled upon it. Sudden as a flash, while he
Was speaking, and gazing at the averted face
before him, the fearful truth burst on 'his
apprehension. It~ was the face, the form,
the personality of Mabel Lee which he
looked upon; but the mind-it was not
there!
Nowell had entered this house prepared
for any revelation 'which might await him;
and, though he staggered for a moment 'un-
der a blow so unexpected and so awful as
the discovery of his cousin's 'condition was
to him, he riillied' almost instantly. The
'very intensity of the shock dnlled sensibil-
ity for the time. He moved a little, so as
to stand full before tho woman to whom
Mabel was clinging.
"How lon~g has she been insane?" he
asked, in the tone of an ordinary question.
"From the very~first,'.' she answered,
without any attempt' to maintain a further
dissimulation.
"You mean from the day of her ab-
duction?"


142                          MABEL LEE.                                                           THE DOUBLII~ SEAL OF BLOOD.                 l4~

"Yes."
"Let her sit down."
The woman led Mabel to the sofa, an
liowell, following, stood before her, an
again tried to make her recognize him.
"Mabel," he said, very gently, "do yo~
not know me ?...-.me, your cousin Francis I"
She looked up at him with a painfa
expression of bewilderment.
"Will you not come with me to Con
stance I"
Something like a troubled ray of rec
collection shone in her eye for an instant
but faded then. She looked with the s~im~
imploring glance as before to Mrs. Garland
who had sat down on the sofa beside her.
liowell drew a deep breath that sounded
almost like a hiss. "Mabel," he said, witi
an heroic effort of selI~compulsion-~--" Mabel
have you forgotten Philip Conway?"
At .that name, sudden life and light
flashed into the blankly-bewildered face.
"Philip!" she cried, springing to her
feet, and extending both hands toward
howell-" my Philip!" and she flung her-
/ self into his arms with sobs of joy. "0 Phil-
ip, have you come at last? 0 Philip, I
never meant to leave you-did you think I
meant to leave you ?-are you angry with
me for going? I could not help it, Philip."
Still clinging to ~his bosom, she lifted
her face, all smiles and tears, to his; but,
when she saw the countenance bending
over her, she shrieked, tore herself from
his encircling arms, and, hastily placing
herself on the other side of Mrs. Garland,
crouched against her, as if for protection.
"It is~not Philip," she whispered, in
an accent of heart-breajdng disappointment.
"Philip! Philip! Oh, will ho neve~' come?"
As. that cry of anguish pierced his ear,
howell forgot his own anguish, and the
bitter jealousy that was gnawing at his
heart; he, cold man, usually so reticent of
the least expression of commonest emotion,
forgot the many and strangeyes that were
regarding the scene with pitying interest;
* and,. kneeling before the shrinking form of
the sobbing girl, he gently laid his hajads on
one of the arms which clasped those of Mrs.
Garland.
"Mabel," he said, in a tone sorrowful

as her own had been, "Mabel, if you will
come with me, I will take you to Philip
Conway."
The face which was pressed behind the
shoulder of her protectress lifted itself
eagerly, and she looked at him for a mo-
ment.
"Come with me, and I will take you to
Philip Conway," he repeated.
She shook her head. "He promised to
take me to Philip," she said, with a shiver,
"and he brought me here where Philip
never comes."
howell's quick eye caught sight of a lit-
tle rosary and crucifix that hung from her
girdle. He lifted it in his hand, and held
it up to view, as he asked~
"He did not, promise on this, did he?"
" lie,~~ she said.
"See, then-" he lifted the beads, and,
bending his head, touched his lips to the
silvercrucifix-"see! Ipromiseyouonthis,
that I will take you to Philip Conway."
Her face grew radiant. "I will go with
you!" she cried, joyfully; and, as howell
rose to his feet, she, too, started up eagerly,
and then suddenly turned to Mrs. Garland,
~who remained seated, saying, "You must
come too "-repeating, as she looked again
to howell, "she must come too. She is
very kind to me," she added, with touching
simplicity.
Mrs. Garland burst into passionate weep-
ing.

"I have tried to be kind to her, God
knows," she sobbed. Oh, sir," she went on,
looking up at Nowell, with streaming eyes,
"it was sorely against my will that I have
had any thing to do with this wickedness.
It was not my fault-and it was not so much
my husband's as-"
"Hush!" screamed her husband, in a
tone of shrill rage and alarm. "Hush, you
miserable fool! You have betrayed' your-
self and me-take care that you don't go
any farther. Don't answer a word-what-
ever they ask you."
"If it is Mr. Ainslie's safety you are
thinking about," said the officer, with a sig-
nificant smile, "your concern is unnecessary.
We are perfectly aware that he was th~
principal in the business; it was by watch-

lag his movements that the whereabouts of
the young lady was discovered. He is in
custody by this time, and I will trouble you
to come with us now. Here is the warrant
for your arrest." He unfolded a paper, in
a business-like manner, and laid it on the
table beside Mr. Garland, who, at the words
"he is in custody by this time," had thrown
himself against the back of his chair with a
gesture of despair, and shut his eyes; not
noticing the remainder of the sentence. The
officer, after waiting a moment, touched his
shoulder, and said again, "I must trouble
you to come with me, sir.
The miserable man opened his eyes, and
rose from his seat without a word, sullen
and defiant in manner, though he trembled
from head to foot. His wife, who, at how-
ell's request~, was just leading Mabel from
a scene which seemed to trouble and be-
wilder her, left her charge and started for-
ward, as she heard the last words, and saw
her husband stand up.
"For the love of mercy-for the love of
God, spare him, sir," she cried, seizing the
officer's arm with both her hands. "He is
very ill-not able to go out. Leave a po-
liceman here to guard him, and let him
stay."
"I am sorry for your sake, madam, that
I cannot comply with your request," he an-
swered civilly; "but my duty is plain-"
"But he is very ill-indeed, indeed, he
is very ill!" pleaded she, in an agony of
entreaty. "He will make no attempt to
escape. Leave him here at least till to-
morrow."
"Hush!" said her husband, harshly.-
"I suppose you do not object to my putting
on my coat and boots I" ho said, looking at
the officer with a sneer on his lip.
"ho; put them on," was the reply.
~b Will you come up-stairs?" said Mrs.
Garland, in a tearful voice, going to his side,
and trying gently to make him sit down
again, "or shall I bring them to you here?"
Bring them here.~~
As she was leaving the room to do his
bidding, she encountered howell in the
passage just outside the door; and, suddenly
remembering Mabel, looked inquiringly tow~
ard him.

I

.1

"The servant has taken her to her
chamber," he said in reply to her look.
"Oh, sir, speak for my husband! "~ she
exclaimed, in broken accents. "If he is
taken out and has to go through all this
excitement, it will kill him. The doctors
have always told him to avoid excitement-
he is subject to hsemorrhages-..and "
Her voice was choked in sobs. howell
remembered Mabel's artless testimony to
this woman's kindness; he thought that
every thing about her betokened sincerity,
and he believed that she had spoken the
truth when she affirmed that she had not
willingly been concerned in the abduction.
So he answered that he would try and
induce the officer to allow her husband to
remain in his own house, under guard, for
this night; and, while she went on up-stairs,
he joined Mr. Lyndany and the officer, who
were talking together, and preferred his re-
quest-explaining his reasons for making it.
The policeman was not very easily af-
fected by the woes of criminals' wives. He
was accustomed to tears and protestations
of innocence from such "parties," as he
called them; he rather wondered at how..
eli's credulity about the woman; and as
to the man's ghastly looks, and reputed
hannorrhages, he mentally pronounced that
"all gammon." But, as Mr. Lyndsay sec-
onded I'Towell's wishes, he condescended t~
concede the point that the man should not
be removed that night.
"I'll just wait till German comes, and
leave him in charge," he said. "He ought
to have been here before this. I told him
to come and let me know, as soon as our
other bird was caged. Ah! there he i~
now-" he looked toward the open door at
which a policeman appeared, and beckoned
with his hand. "Why, where's German?"
he asked,, as the man approached and sa-
luted. "I told him to come himself. You've
secured the prisoner, I hope?"
"He's safe~ answered the new.eomer~
grimly, "but not just in the way we ex~
pected. He resisted his arrest, drawled a
pistol on German, and it went. oft' in the
icuffie, and lodged a ball in his own lungs
~or his pains."
"Killed him?"


144

MABEL LEE.

"No, he's alive-but-"
"What is that y~u say?" demanded a
voice so close at the man's elbow that the
latter gave a violent start, as he turned to
the speaker, who had approached unob-
served by any of the group. "What is that
you say?" repeated Mr. Garland-for it
was he-" who are you talking ~
"About your friend Mr. Ainslie," re-
plied the officer. "He was flourishing a
pistol at my men who were sent to arrest
him, and by its accidental discharge-you
say, Davis-got shot himself?"
"Yes, sir, that was the way of it. We
found him at his own house, at dinner with
a party of gentlemen; and he came out to
us, and, when Gorman showed him the war-
rant, he turned a little white, but took it
cool, and asked all about it, and said with a
sort of a laugh that he supposed he couldn't
refuse sich a pressing' invitation, but he must
go up-stairs and change his dress, and that
when ho came down he would 'pologize to
his friends for leavin' 'em to finish dinner
without him. Gorman went up-stalrs with
him, and stood at the door while he pre-
tended to be dressing ; but instead of that he
was loading' a pistol and preparing' to jump
out of the winder and cut for it. Gorman
thought his motions was a little suspicious,
and, when he seed him put out the light that
was in the room, Gorman he run in and
grabbed the bird, jest as he was about to
~et himself down from the winder. He had
a sheet tied to the iron hinge of the setter,
~nd there's no doubt he mout have got away,
if Gorman hadn't a bin too quick for him.
He fout desperately and gev Gorman sich a
squeeze of the windpipe as almost knocked
him up. But the pistol it we~off in the
tussle, and me, heerin' the report, run up
and found him layin' in a heap, bleeding' like
a beef, and quite insensible; and Gorman
almost as bad off as he was,' and not able to
speak a word by' reason of havin' bin
choked half to death. He *as a gamecock,
he was, that Mr. Ainslie, and no mistake."
"Gorman is not actually disabled, is he?"
"Well, no, sir. He sent me on to say
he'd be here, shortly. Here he is now, I ex-
poet. I hear somebody comm' up-stairs."
The next moment another policeman

halted at the door; and then, at a signal
,from his superior, advanced.
"Well, Gorman. You are not hurt, I
hope?"
"Not much, sir. But the job turned
out different from what I could have wished,
sir, and I did my duty faithfully; but Mr.
Ainslie chose to make a~ fool of himself by
resisting. He fought like a 'devil; and the
end of it was that he's done for himself; as
I suppose Davis told you."
"Is he dead?"
"Not yet. At least he was alive when
I left; but the doctors think he won't live
till morning.".
Mr. Garland, who had stood with parted
lips, and eyes distended by horror, turned
as he heard the last words, as if with the
intention of going back to his seat; but,
before he had proceeded three steps, he
stopped, reeled, and fell heavily to the fioor~
They raised him quickly, and, perceiving
that blood was gushing from his mouth, laid
him down on his back upon the carpet,
while one of the policemen ran for salt to
,stop the hLemorrhage, and another for a phy-
sician-those who remained busying them-
selves opening his clothes, and rendering all
the assistance they could. But the friendly
aid, medical skill, the frantic grief of the
poor wife, who came shrieking, and threw
herself on the' floor beside the still form-all
availed naught. The man was dead.
-4---
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE WAGES OF SEN.
Binur time had elapsed between the mo-
ment when Nowell and Mr. Lyndsay, ac-
coinpanied by the police, had presented
themselves so unexpectedly in the drawing-
room of Mr. and Mrs. Garland, and tht~t in
which 'they had recrossed the 'threshold,
leaving for the moment, as again its only oc-
cupants, the man and his wife-the dead
man and his wildly-sorrowing wife. The
presence of death claims, from all but the
thoroughly imbruted nature, a certain trib-
ute of respect; and the party descended
the broad staircase to the now well-lighted

hail, with steps as noiseless, if not as
stealthy, as those with which they had
passed, not more than half an hour before,
to the interview that terminated so tragi-
cally.
The work of the police was over. The
facts of Mabel's presence and identity had
been established, and there was no danger
of further conspiracy against her safety, the
wretched accomplice of Ainslie being dead,
and Ainslie himself reported dying. The
functionaries of the law left the house,
therefore, encountering at the dooi~ the per-
sons who had been sent by the physician
to render the necessary services to the dead,
while Mr. Lyndsay and Nowell paused
under the hall chandelier, to hold a consul-
tation as to the best means of proceeding
now, with regard to Mabel. So impatient
was Nowell to remove her at once from
this house, that the united influence of Mr.
Lyndsay's arguments, and the assurances of
the maid (who had been summoned to as-
sist at the discussion), that he might "fright-
en the young lady into spasms if he showed
himself to her again that night, much less
asked her to go away with him," scarcely
availed to prevent his making the attempt to
persuade her to accompany him thence. In
addition to the repugnance which he natu-
rally felt to her remaining a moment longer
under that roof; he feared what the effect
upon her would be, if she became aware of
the death of her pseudo4incle; and he was
apprehensive that it might not be possible
to conceal the fact from her. The maid,
who seemed to be an honest and intelligent
girl, thought it would not be difficult to
do s~o. The young lady was not in the
habit of seeing Mr. Garland often, she said;
sometimes he did not leave his chamber for
days at a time; there was no danger of her
finding it out herself; and, of course, nobody
would tell her; no-~she was not likely to
be disturbed by the moving about which
was then going on up-stairs; she slept a
good deal, and very soundly, and had re-
tired to bed at her maid's recommendation,
immediately on returning to her chamber
when she left the drawing-room.
see nothing for it but to let her
remain here to-night," said Mr. Lyndsay.
10

THlE WAG

ES OF SIN.                         145
"As she has gone to bed, rousing her again
is not to be thought of. We will stay our-
selves, Francis.-I dare say, my girl, you
can show us a room on this floor, where we
can remain without disturbing the house-
hold in any way?"
The maid courtesied, and opened the
door near by. "Here is the dining-room,
sir. I'm sure Mrs. Garland, poor lady,
would make you welcome to stay."
She took a box of matches' from her
pocket, went in, lighted the chandelier, and,
pointing out two sofas to the gentlemen,
who had followed her, offered to bring
pillows and coverings if they would please
to sleep there. But Nowell would not
listen to Mr. Lyndsay's proposal of remain-
ing. He would stay himself; he said-he
had several letters to write, and he could
occupy himself with them, and get them
off his hands that night. Mr. Lyndsay, he
insisted, must go home.
"If you have letters to write, it may be
as well for me to leave you," said that
gentleman. "I will return early 'in the
morning, and we can breakfast together.-
By-the-way, Mike is here yet, is he not?"
he asked of the maid, who still waited.
"Yes, sir."
"He had better stay, so that if you want
any thing, Francis, he will be at hand."
"I want something this moment," re-.
plied :N~owell, "some writing-materials. It
is a lucky chance that he happens to be
here-I can send him out for them.-Tell
him to come to me, will you, my good
girl?"
The maid disappeared, and Mr. Lyndsay,
again promising to return early the next
day, shook hands and departed.'
The night was not very far advanced
when Nowell sat down to write. His first
letter was to Constance, and it was brief;
giving her no definite information-scarcely
a definite hope of the success of his search.
He wished to preare her somewhat fbrhear-
ing of that which h'e Imew she, like himself,
would regard as a worse calamity than
death itself-Mabel's insanity. "Do not,"
he wrote, "be too sanguine of a happy re-
sult to my search when I tell you that I
have undoubtedly 'traced Mabel to this


146

MABEL LEE.

place; and do not be disappointed because
I cannot now enter into particulars. Be
satisfied for the present with knowing that
I have made three certain discoveries,: First,
that Mabel is here in Charleston; secondly,
that she was forcibly abducted; thirdly,
that I was mistaken in having suspected
I'hilip Conway of being concerned, either
directly or indirectly, in the nefarious busi-
ness. Tell hir~z t4iis-and say that 1 am
heartily sorry for having judged him so un-
justly; and that I make the only reparation
in my power, by asking him to join me here
immediately. His presence wrn be of mate-
rial assistance in the further prosecution of
this affair; for I will not conceal from you,
Constance, that there are still serious diffi-
culties to be overcome. Accompany him
yourself; but do not permit either my aunt
or Mr. Seyton to come. Make what expla-
nation and excuses you think best; but re-
member, they must not come. And I en-
treat that Mr. Conway and yourself will not
be a moment in setting out. I will write
by the next mail to Father Lawrence.
"Your cousin,
"FRANcIs NewELL."
He did not wait until the next mail, but
wrote at once to the priest, detailing at
length what had occurred, as cautiously as
possible, the deplorable truth, and above
all, to expedite the departure for Charles-
ton of his cousin and Conway.
After sealing and addressing the letters,
he went noiselessly to the head of the stair-
case, as he had done many times before,
since hin watch commenced, to hear if all
/ was quiet on the floor upon which Mabel's
chamber was situated. As he paused, lis-
*      tending, the drawing-room door opened, and
Mrs. Garland stood before him, and spoke
*     in a subdued but calm voice.
"I was in her chamber a few minutes
ago, and she is sleeping as quietly as an in-
Eant. Will you come in here, sir. ~ I wish
to speak to you. Or, no-I will go down
to the dining-room, if you don't object."
"Certainly not, madam," answered
Newell, though he was not a little surprised.
lIe descended the stairs, and she followed.
Newell placed a chair for her near the

'table at which he had been writing, and sat
down himself opposite. lie almost started
when he looked at her face, now that the
brilliant light of the chandelier shone full
upon it, so worn and so ghastly did it ap-
pear. l3ut she seemed perfectly composed
in manner, and her eyes, though sunken
and feverish-looking, were tearless.
"You are surprised td see rae, sir," she
* said, as soon as she had sunk wearily into
the large chair that almost engulfedher thin
figure. "You wonder that I can wish to
talk to a stranger at such a time as this. I
thought you would be anxious to hear all
the particulars of-about your cousin; and
-and-"
Her lips quivered, and her face took an
expression of such utter wretchedness, that
Nowell withdrew his eyes from the sight
with a sense of actual pain, wishing most
devoutly that she had left him to his solita-
ry watch, and adopted some other means of
giving him the information which unques-
tionably he was very anxious to obtain.
Perhaps she divined this thought, for she
controlled herself, and spoke in a firmer
voice.
"I have been trying for the last hour to
write what I wished you to know; liut I
could not write. Have a little patience
with me. I will be as short as possible. It
is because I must do what poor justice 1 can
to my husband that I make this explanation,
sir. Ho was not as guilty as he seemed.
When that man-oh, may God's curse light
upon him!' she exclaimedwith rightful
vehemence. "May-"
"Stop, madam! " cried Nowell, hastily,
with something like a shudder. He had
been cursing Ainslie in his own heart, and
as bitterly; but such words sounded to him
horrible on the lips of a woman. "You do
not know that the man is dying, dead by
this time, in all probability."
She stared at him incredulously.
"It is true," he said, and explained
briefly the circumstances of the case.
Mrs. Garland was silent for a monwut.
She leaned back and closed her eyes, ~nd a
world of bitter thought was reflected on her
sorrow-sharpened face. When sh~ spoke
again, it was more gently.

THEW
"You were shocked at hearing me cur
this man, but ahi if you knew what can
I have to hate him, you would not wond
at it. He, and his father before him, we
the curse and ruin of my husband's lii
Covington (Ainslie's father) persuaded hi
to risk all his fortune in some speculate
that turned out a failure. We were well 0:
before that-almost rich-but my husband
lost every thing, and had to go to elerkir
for a support. He did not like it, and tli
life did not agree with his health. W
moved away from Charleston, and he trie
one thing after another, without succeeding
at any thing; moving about from place t
place, very poor, and constantly g~ttin
deeper and deeper in debt. Our children
died one after another, and we ourselves
were often on the verge of starvation. Bu
still my husband was an honest man, an
we were not altogether unhappy. It wen
very hard with nie to remember that all on
trouble was caused by the dishonesty ol
Covington; for, though my husband neve
would hear of it, I always believed, lik
everybody else, that his speculation was
cheat, and he himself a villain. Last Apri
we were in Richmond, Yirginia, in ver~
poor circumstances. My husband's health
which had been bad for a long time, wa~
getting worse every day; he was very mud
depressed in mind; was out of employment
and had not much hope of getting any worl~
that he would be able to do. One day when
he had been out hunting for a place, he
came home looking in such high spirits that
I was astonished. lie had his pocket-book
in his hand, and he opened it and took out
a paper which he held for me to look at.
It was a check for five thousand dollars.
When I asked him where in the world he got
it, he told me that he had accidentally met
young Covington-I mean Ainslie-on the
street that morning, and, recognizing him,
went up and spoke to him. Ainslie seemed
very glad to see him, and invited him to
dine with him at his hotel, and after dinner
be questioned my husband, found out all his
debts and ~diftlculties, and made him accept
this cheek, which he said he considered 'a
debt~.i~for that it was by his father's mis-~
fortune, as lie called it, that 'Mr. Garland

AGES OF SIN.

14'I

se had fallen into these difficulties. He came
se several times to see my husband, and per.
er shaded him to move to Charleston again-
re gave him a letter of introduction to his law-
:e. yer, told him to take a holiday and recruit
m his health for a while, and that when he
)n himself came to Charleston he would find
if' some place or some business for him. We
id came here and went into a boarding-house,
ig and, my husband's mind being at rest for the
ie first time in many years, I~is health improved
e rapidly, until he was almost well. I think
4 it was some time in the latter part of May
g that he received a letter from Ainslie, which
;o was the beginning of all this sin and misery.
g The letter commenced by saying that my
n husband could do him a very' great fav~r-
a confer an obligation on him for which he
t would be everlastingly grateful; that ho
ci and a young lady in Ayre had fallen in love
t with one another~ but that her family would'
r not consent to the match because they
wanted her to marry her cousin, which she
r was not willing to do. As her family
a seemed determined to force her to it, she
~ had agreed to elope with Mr. Ainslie; and
1 what he asked of my husband was that he
and myself would go and meet the young
lady, and bring her to Charleston, where
the marriage could take place. He wanted
to do every thing in the most proper. man-
ner; and Ire would like for the yonn~ lady
to have a chaperone until they eoribi~be
married. My husband saw no, hgm in
the proposal. He said that if the young
lady's family wanted to force her to marry
against her will, why, that they deserved
for her to run away; that they were fools
not to agree to her marrying Mr. Ainslie,
who was very wealthy, and the cleverest
fellow that ever breathed. He agreed at
once to do all he could, and insisted on my
consenting to my part-though I was op-
posed to it from the first. I never believed
in runaway matches, for I never knew one
that did not turn out badly. Several letters
were exchanged, and my husband, at Mr.
Ainslie's request, took this house and fur-
nished it at his expense-..and, at the time
appointed, we went in a carriage to meet
him and the young lady. They were to
come down the river in a skiff; and, sure


148                           MABEL LEE..                                                                    THE. WAGES OF SIN.                       149

enough, at a place called Morford's Landing,
t think it was, we met them. The first I
saw of thent, '~s I sat in the carriage on. the
bank of the river, they were talking and
laughing; and this did not give me a very
high opinion of the young lady, for I
thought that it must be a very frivolous girl
who could be laughing in that way at such
a timed While I was watching them, the
skiff stopped at th~ landing, and then I no-
ticed that the young lady looked surprised.
We were not near enough to hear any of
the cowitersation that followed, but I under-
stood very well afterward what was the
meaning of the strange motions she made.
Once it looked as if she was trying to throw
herself into the river. I began to be uneasy,
and directed my husband's attention to the
singular manner in which she was acting;
but he only laughed, and said it was all af-~
fectation-that she was oniy shilly-shallying
to tease Mr. Ainslie. While he had been
speaking, I looked ~away from the skiff, and
when I turned to it again, I saw Mr. Ains-
lie step on shore with the young lady in his
arms. lie brought her to the carriage, and
then I 'perceived that she had fainted. I
was dreadfully alarmed, but Mr. Ainslie
made light of it. H~ gave me a smelling-
bottle, and told the driver to bring some
water from the river with which he bathed
her face. 'It is nothing serious,' he~ said.
'She Isonly a little nervous. Her pulse is
all right. Just get into the carriage, Gar-
land, and drive off. I must hurry back, for
I don't want to be missed.' All in a hurry,
and, before I had time to think, we were
"driving 6ff as fast as the horses could go.
I was so much engaged in trying to recover
the young lady, that I did not have my
sen~ea fairly about me; But if I had them,
lain afraid it would have done no good. I
had no power to stop the carriage, or to do
any tiling but reproach my husband." Her
voice faltered here. "I am afraid I spoke
very au~grily; but stillhe affected to think
that there was nothing wrong. But, when
the young lady continued insensible for
morb titan a~ hour, he. grew very much
alawxned~ too. He 'called to the driver to
stop; 'but the driver did not hear,'or pre-
tended that'h&amp;did not. At last the poor

girl moved, and drew a deep breath. I was
rejoiced, and spoke to her, asking her how
she was. But she did not answer. She lay
in my arms and moaned; and once I heard
her say 'Philip' in such &amp; strange tone,
that it made a cold chill run over me. I
would have taken her back to her home;
but my husband would not beau of this.
Indeed, if he had been willing, we did not
know what direction Ayre was. We must
have driven ten miles when the carriage
stopped again by the river, and we heard
the sound of voices. One of them asked the
driver if all was right, and he answered yes.,
'Drive in, then,' said the first voice, and the
next moment the carriage was driven into a
fiat-boat, and we were going down the river.
We had started from the place where the
young lady was put into the carriage, just
before dusk; and it was some hours into
the night when we got on the boat. It was
the most miserable night I had ever spent.
I was sure that there had been some de-
ception on the part of Mr. Ainslie; and I
begged and implored n~y husband to sf~op
the boat, and return to Ayre with the poor
girl who lay moaning in my arms. He has
since told me that he would have done this,
if it had been possible-but that neither
the driver nor the boatmen would have
obeyed him, if he had ordered them to re-
turn.. They had received their directions
from Ainslie, and would not have listened
to-"
"One moment, madam, if you please,"
said Nowell. "Were the ioatmen white or
blacid"
"They were white men. The driver
was black-one of Ainslie's own servants."
"Thank you."
"All night "-resumed Mra. Garland,
who spoke as if she were very much ex-
hausted-" we were going down. the river
'with the current. It was light enough for
me to see thiS, though only the stars were
out. At daylight, we left the boat, and
drove to the house about a mile from the
river, where breakfast was ready for us.
When. we stopped, and poor Mabul was
lifted out'of the carriage, she opened her
eyes for the first time; and then. I s~lw that
she was deranged. I nearly went deranged1

myself I was so terribly shocked. So was
my husband; but he made up his mind, by
this time, that the thing had gone too far
for us to turn back. I reproached him al-
most franti ~a1ly; and he at last lost his
temper, and answered me very harshly."
She burst into tears. "In all our troubles,,~
she continued, "we never had any serious
disagreement. Kever-had he spoken to me
as-as you heard him speak.to.night. But
he seemed altogether changed, from that
night. lie grew irritable and gloomy; al-
ways ready to find fault with any thing I
did. Sometimes he would be like himself
for a little while; and he would then admit
that he was as miserable as a man could be.
lie suffered the most intense remorse. And
yet, strange to say, he did not seem to feel any
resentment, against Ainslie. I never could
understand how it was that Ainslie acquired
such an influence over him. It was not al-
together gratitude for the assistance he had
given-by which my husband was enabled
to pay his debts, and feel, as he expressed
it, a free man once more. lie seemed posi-
tively to love this base, wicked creature. I
believe the wretch himself was shocked
when he came to Charleston, and found
that his villanous plan of compelling Mabel
to marry him could not be carried out.~
lie never saw her but once in this house-
the day he came first. Though he was told
that she was insane, he insisted on seeing
her; and I brought her down~ She shrieked
and fainted at sight ot~ him; and I declared
then solemnly to himself and my husband,
that, if he came into her presence again, I
would make a public confession of the
whole affair, whatever the consequence
might be. He did not attempt totestmy
resolution; he did not even seem to re-
sent it; but I know, from variot~s things
which my husband told me, that he in-
dulged the hope Qf her ultimate recovery,
and expected to make her his wife. Hue
plan was, that we should remain. in Charles-
ton until he finished his business arrange-
me~it~, and then go to Europe with her,
where hecould consult the best physicians."
4L1J~ any physician seen her P' I~Towell.
ask6d.
"~to. I am very anxious to call in

physicians, 'but my husband was so afraid
of risking a discovery, that he would not
have one for himself-though he has needed
one," she added, sorrowfully. "1 have told
you all this, sir, in the hope that it will
make you think more charitably of my poor
husband. Excepting in. this one instance,
he never in his whole life wronged man or
woman. He was a good man and an honest
man. until this wretch that you think I
ought not to curse led him astray; and the
remorse which he suffered has, I believe,
been the cause of his death. Oh
would think as well as you can. of him! "h'-
she clasped her hands passionately-.--" if
you could forgive him!"
"I will try to do so," said Nowell,
gravely, "for your sake, madam. I thank
you for the kindness you have shown my
unfortunate cousin. Had she been with
one who dealt less gently with her, she
would have suffered even more than she
has. And now you will be adding to this
kindness, if you tell me what her precise
condition of mind is. I have written for
her sister, and-and the 'Philip' for whom
she mistook me; hut they cannot be here
for several days-"
"Pray let her remain. with me until her
sister arrives!" Mrs. Garland exclaimed,
earnestly. "She is very much attached to
me, and very docile to all my wishes. I-"
"But," said Nowell, "at such a time as
this-"
"My husband is dead," she replied, in a
hopeless tone. "If I can do the least thing
in. repairing the sin into whlch he wan led,
oh, give me the consolation, of doing It!"
"But may not the discovery of-of what
has occurred-be injurious to h~r V" he
asked, hesitatingly.
"She shall not knowit. Mary, the niai&amp;
you saw, is a good, trustworthy girl. When
1 cannot be with her myself, Mary shall
stay in her room."
"Thank yQu~.~-.thank you heartily.-.-"'
She did not wait for him torgnon with
what he was abont to say, butt rose f~ebly,
and, bowing her head, walked slowly from
the room; and, though she bad stopped his
speech prematurely, ho could no~ resolve
to stay her departure. In the t.e~t w~ilch


150

MABEL LEE.

she bad furnished, he found ample matter
for thought during the rest of the night.
the Shortly after dawn, Mike appeared with
information that "if his honor would
stip up-stairs, he would find some water
and towels that Mary had put for his hon- I
or's use in the spare chamber, and cook
was-" Nowell stopped him, when he had
proceeded so far, and declined the hospi -1
table attentions proffered, with an excuse
that he was going out at once.
He gave Mr. Lyndsay, while he break-
fasted, a summary of Mrs. Garland's story;
and they were about to rise from the table,
when a servant announced that a messen-
ger wished to speak immediately with Mr.
Newell.
"Show him in," said Mr. Lyndsay, while
Newell's heart gave one bound, and then
stopped still-for he thought of Mabel. But
before he had time to start from his seat,
a' respectable-looking servant entered- a
negro man-who, notwithstanding his well-
bred efforts to speak with conventional
composure, was evidently out of breath.
"I bring a message from my master, Mr.
Ainslie, to Mr. Nowell," he said, looking
from one to the other of the gentlemen.
"What, is that scoundrel not dead yet?"
cried Nowell, with all his natural brusque-
ness. "What can he want to say to me?"
He regretted having spoken so, as he
saw the man's eyes fill with tears that were
dried the next instant by a flash of indig-
nant anger~ Scoundrel, Ainslie undoubted-
ly was-but certainly he had the faculty of
strongly attaching to him the affection of
those about him.
Without noticing Nowell's remarks, the
man 'continued, coldly: "My master told 1
me to say to Mr. Newell that he is dying, I
and wishes very much to see Mr. Newell
immediately."
The two gentlemen exchanged glances.
"Mr. Ainslie's carriage is at the door to t
take Mr. Newell as quick as possible," said i
the servant; and there was the very slight- ~
est intonation of entreaty in his voice. But 1
Newell's face had become hard and cold. t
"He told 'me to be sure and bring lou, sir.' t
He wants to see you very much," said the a
man, addressing Nowell directly for the first,

time, and openly brushing away the tears
that again welled up into his eyes. The
words were simple; but the tone. in which
they were spoken made them persuasive.
"I will go," said the young man-but
very coldly. "What is the number of the
home?"
The carriage is waiting-"
"I will walk."
"No, no, * Francis!" interposed Mr.
Lyndsay. "Take the carriage by all means;
and go at once. He may have something
&amp;f importance to say to you. Don't lose
time!"
"At a gallop!" was the brief order
given to the driver by the servant who had
summoned Newell, as he sprang up behind
the carriage. And his order was obeyed
liberally. Very few minutes passed before
the equipage dashed up to the door of
Ainslie's house in Rutledge Street. The
servant jerked open the door, tore down the
steps, and rapidly preceded Newell into a
large and lofty hall, up a broad stone stair-
case, along a wide sky-lighted passage-way7
through an open door, into a handsome and
airy apartment that had, at first glance,
nothing of the appearance of a death-cham-
ber. The windows were all wide open;
even the cobweb lace curtains-their only
drapery-were drawn entirely aside to let
the fresh air of the morning enter freely;
end the sunshine poured in golden streams
upon the India matting that covered the
floor. Near one side of the bed was placed
s small table, covered with scattered writ-
ing-materials and a lighted taper, and at it
i dried-up looking man sat folding and seal-
a thick paper which needed no great
~erspicacity to divine to be the dying man's
ast will and testament. Two gentlemen, phy-
~icians evidently, stood at the window most
distant from the bed, talking in low tones.
Newell paused one moment upon the
lireshold, and then, his step attuning itself
voluntarily to the stillness around, he ad-
~anced to' the 'foot of the bed, and stood
cooking down upon the man whose hand-
he traitor-hand that had dealt him so bit-
er a wrong !-he had grasped not a week
go, in friendly greeting.
There was nothing of the fearfulness of

I

U

TIHE WAGES OF SIN.

death in Ainslie's aspect; none of the pain-
ful, often revolting ghastliness which dis-
ease seldom fails to impress upon the poor
clay of humanity. His face was very pale;
and the brilliant eyes, that had made its soli-
tary attraction, were closed; but the features
were not sunken, and there was no disorder
of garb, or disarrangement of the bed. He
still wore the dress in which he sat down
to dine the evening before, the removal of
which had not been considered unavoidable,
as the physicians had not believed it pos-
sible that he could live an hour when they
saw him first. And when he had tempora-
rily recovered his sense, under the torture
of being raised from the floor, while a band-
age was passed around his waist, he had
forbidden that his dress should be touched.
They had l~id him on the bed, with a few
folds of linen drapery thrown over the mid-
dle part of his figure; and there he remained
unmoving-sunk in a heavy stupor during
the night, but rousing to full consciousness
with the first rays of the morning sun.
Very calmly he addressed himself to the
task of setting his house in order. His law-
yer was summoned, his will made, and then
he expressed a wish to see Nowell.
A strange wish Nowell thought it, as
* he gazed at the impassive face for mm-
utes before there was any change in it.
But suddenly the eyes enclosed themselves
-and his gaze was returned. And it was
singular that the expression in the eyes of
the two men, as their glances met, was iden-
tical; bold, speculative, solemn, it spoke the
thought which was in the mind of each-
"Stricken by God!"
Stricken by God. The bitter sense of
wrong-the passionate desire for vengeance
-which had been burning so fiercely in
I'~owell's heart, ever since he had admitted
the belief of Ainslie's guilt, seemed to
shrivel and turn to ashes. He had thirsted
for this man's blood: he had only refrained
from spilling it, because he preferred the
refinement of revenge which the disgrace of
the legal penalty for his crime would in-
flict upon Ainslie.
And now!-
It was in a tone more quiet than cold
that he said, "You wished to see me?"

"Yes; I wishedtoseeyou.~~
The voice did not seem changed-a lit-
tle weak, perhaps-and there was a slight
catching of the breath but its tones were
natural. He turned his eyes from Newell's
face, to the servant who was now standing
close at the side of the bed opposite the
table, and made a motion with his right
hand, which was answered by the servant's
bringing a goblet of ice-water from a mar-
ble stand near by. Tenderly raising his
master's head, the man held the water to
his lips, and he drank. It refreshed him.
His glance returned to Newell, and he
spoke again.
"Francis Newell, I sent for you to ask
if you will grant a favor to a dying man V'
"Say ~
"Garland was my blind agent at first
-imposed upon by a deception on my part.
After lie discovered the nature of the act in
which he was participating, his weakness
of character, and partly his attachment to
me, bound him to my services But in will,
he is innocent. 'What I ask of you is, that
you will not prosecute him-or permit him
to be prosecuted."
Newell did not reply. He was gazing
intently into the eyes that met his own'
steadily-and marvelling at the incompre-
hensible character of the man who could
remorselessly lead another into crime, and
yet, at the hour of his own extremity, was
capable of the generous desire to save him.
He could not understand so contradictory a
nature.
Ainslie misinterpreted his silence:
"You~ will not promise?" he said.
"You have put aside the natural im-
pulse for vengeance so far as to come at my
call, and to hold your hand from anticipat-
ing death's stroke upon me-and yet-.
But perhaps you came to gloat over the
spectacle of my miserable end?
"No-I did not come for that."
"For what, then?"
" Because you requested my pres-
ence."
"Francis Newell, you call yourself a
Christian man!"
"Yes."
"I have never been a Christian. I


152                         MABEL LEE.                                                    THE EVIL THAT MEN DO LIVES AFTER THEM.           153

have acknowledged no God save my owi
will But now, In this moment when I
stand upon the thre~hoJd of eternity, I be
lieve that there is a God..-the God whoix
you profess to worship!" He was silent
for a minute-the catching in his VOiCE
having become more frequent and audible
"Do not think I make this declaration te
buy off from the devil. I am sufficient.
iy acquainted with the teachings of your
priests ~to know that hypocrisy is not con-
trition. I speak sincerely: I believe that
there is a God 1-and 1 adjure you, in the
name, 9nd by the precepts of that God, for-
give this man!"
"Jie shall not be prosecuted."
Almost involuntarily, Kowell spoke
thus. The dying man's solemn appeal had
affeot@d and softened him. He would not,
he thought, add one more pang to the bit-
terness of death; he would be mercifully
silent respecting Garland.
Ainslie did not speak in reply-but
those marvelously beautiful eyes grew
bright and soft with a gleam of gratitude
and pleasure; and, then he closed them
wearily, as if exhausted. But he said,
fai~4ly:
In a little time he opened his eyes again,
and joked uneasily, to 8ee if L{owell was
still there. Observing this, the servant
brpu~ht a chair, and Nowell sat down.
B~t r~rte~ passed in dead silence; and he
was beginning to feel vague apprehensions
about Mabel-doubts whether it was right
for him to risk remaining any longer from
her. lie looked at Ainslie's face. Per-
haps he b&amp;d again sunk into stupor. The
breath, he perceived, was now very short.
H~ had ql~nost decided that to wait longer
wa~ sqperfluous-that he wonld at least
c~psiilt tl~.a physicians, who were still ii
the reom, whether it wa~ probable that
ther* would be a further rallying of the obvi-
ou~1y failing spark of life. As he thought
~hi~ there's was a slight quivering of the
eyelids, and they liftedalowly, and the eyes
p~ioe .ought his face.
"There was more-that I wished to say
-but---."
Re paused, t~nd rested for a moment

-his voice had become very weak and un.
certain, When he resumed, he spoke slowly,
and with long pauses.
"I am not so remorseless a villain-as
you perhaps think. Sinful my life has been
-but never dishonorable, in a worldly sense
-until this crime stained it-I loved her-
and she was the first-who ever resisted
my power-to attract. It was a gift with
me-the power of fascinating whom I would
-man or woman. Even yourself-while
you hated Conway, you almost liked me.
She alone defied me-~and I swore to con-
quer her. But I failed-and, step by step-
my passion led me on-until it finally cul-
minated-in this outrage. Perhaps you
would-not believe me-if I told you that
the remorse-which I have suffered-in see-
ing her as she is-"
He closed his eyes. An expression of
intolerable pain convulsed his face. "And
Conway-if he had not said-that he could
not ask her to be, his wife-I would not
have wronged him so."
Again the lids sank heavily; and thee.
was a silence of some minutes. Then, with
a last effort, he looked up.
"Tell, Conway-I-am-sorry."
The light went suddenly out of the
brown eyes. The erring soul was gone.
-4.----
CEAPTER XXVII.
THE EVIL THAT MEN DO LiVES AFTEE
THEM.
Tnn sensation which Nowell's letter.
caused ii~ Ayre, was something almost be-
yond description, and quite beyond prece-
dent. Never before had any thing occurred
which so profou~d4y shocked and interested
the whole eomm~nity-as, indeed, it might
have shocked a much larger colninunity,
seeh~g that the day of sensational horrors
had not yet 4aw~ied upon that quiet region
of country. Then, of all people, ~abel Lee
was nearest the popular heart, and that she
should have been singled out for such a fate
seemed to Ayre aitnost too hard an4 ter~
rible for l~elief. Not that they knew ranch

about her as yet. Mr. Seyton and Con-
stance had left immediately on the recep-
tion of Nowell's letter, and Mrs. Lee had
followed as soon as she was able to travel;
the immediate friends of the family were re-
ticent, and the newspapers seemed to be
muzzled. Altogether, Ayre was in a state
of uncomfortably indefinite and seething cu-
riosity, which did not improve or obtain
much gratification as the days went by.
A good many of these days had gone by,
when, having taken dinner, Mr. Blake sat
down on his piazza one afternoon to smoke
a pipe of rather gloomy contemplation. His
thoughts were, of course, full of the topic
which filled all thoughts just then, when
the whoops of two or three little negroes
caused him to look up, and he saw a horse-
man enterin~ the gate. Something in the
figure, and something in the horse~, took him
baek at once to the May afternoon when he
first met Philip Conway at the cross-roads
-then in another moment he saw that it
was Conway himself. With something of a
stdrt, he took the pipe from his mouth, and
walked toward the steps. By the time he
reached them, the other had cantered for-
ward, and they met face to face. Their greet-
ings were usually formal; but, for the first
time, Blake held out his hand voluntarily.
"How are you, Mr. Conway?" he said.
"I'm glad to see you back-but, good Heav-
ens, sir, how badly you look!"
"Do I?" said Conway, shortly. "There's
reason enough for it, since I have ridden al-
most constantly-sparing neithermyself nor
my horse-since I received my uncle's let-
ter. Will you have him looked after, if you
please? lam very sorry to have been forced
totreat him so.~
Mr. Blake gave a low whistle as he
looked at the horse, who 'stood by the steps,
with his head down, his nostrils distended,
his flanks still quivering from prolonged ex-
ertion, and his whole air one of spent ex-
haustion.
"You must have ridden like the devil,
sir," he said.
"I felt like the devil," was the curt re-
ply. "But I am sorry for Ma~eppa. Poor
~ollow, he did his best. Will you have him~
put up, and furnish me another mount?"

"Another one? You surely are not
thinking of going on this afternoon, sir?"
"I an~going on in en hour, Send over
to the House for Black Tom. He has a bet-
ter bottom than any other horse on the plan-
tation, I believe. In the mean time, I will
be glad if you wrn give me something to
eat."
"Certainly, sir. But won't you have a
drop or two of brandy first?"
"I never travel without it, and I have
a flask half full in my pocket now."
"Takeaseat, then, sir, while Isee about
the horse. You look dreadfully fagged!"
lie pushed a chair forward as he speke,
and, almost unconsciously, Conway sank in~
to it. After Mazeppa had been led away,
and Mr. Blake himself was gone, he still sat~
quite motionless-the relaxation of intense
fatigue in every limb, but something beyond
fatigue, something which still had power to
goad the sinking body into action, burn-
ing in his eyes. Even during this brief rest,
the desire to be moving toward his goal
was apparent. Even while the body was
sunk in this deep inertia, the will was urg-
ing to action, and torturing with the thought
of all that was yet to be done. More than
once the slight, muscular hands clinched
themselves as if they were already on a hu-
man throat, and the black brows knitted
into ominous frowns. Can you wonder?
There are some wrongs that rend away, like
flimsy veils, all the conventionalities with
which it has pleased civilization to drape the
life of man, leaving bare the naked human
nature with all its savage instincts, which
may be tolerably well repressed, but have
never yet been uprooted. And it was a
wrong of this sort that Conway was smart-
ing under noW-a wrong that might have
made the very meekest turn in deadly
wrath; and a wrong that left n~ hope of
redress, or thought of consolation, save only
that bitter-sweet ~no of revenge. The rob-
bery was deep enough, and black eRe~gb,
in itself; but jime betrayal which ~ccorn.-
panied it was, if anything, even worse: ~4
between the twe, his heart war a e.sId~~n 4
such fierce passion as it would fare ill with
the most of us if we could even imagine.
Fortunately, not many of us can-fortunate-


154                  MABEL LEE.

ly, such provocation is not often-given, even
on this wicked earth-but, if it were, we
too might learn that sometimes, at least, the
divine~pr~oept of forgiveness is spoken pnto
deaf ears.
After a while, Mr. Blake came back, and
found his guest in precisely the same posi-
tion in which he had left him.
"I have sent -to the House for Black
Tom, air," he said; "and he will be here
shortly. I have been seeing them rub down
the chestnut, and he seems a good deal bet-
ter already. Dinner is ready: will you
walk in?"
During dinner, Conway made his first
and only approach to the subject of which
- -    both their thoughts were full, by asking if
any thing had been heard from ~Mr. Seyton.
Blake shook !iis head.
"Nothing whatever, sir. Mrs. Lee went
*   down - the other day; but I suppose you
have heard that?"
"No; how should I? I passed through
Ayre, it is true; but I had no disposition to
ask questions. Who went down with her?"
" Father Lawrence, sir.~,
And that was literally all that was said.
After dinner Black Tom was brought out,
declining the longer rest which his host
urged, Conway took his departure. They
had shaken hands, and he was in the saddle,
when Blake stopped him and spoke ab-
ruptly.
" One moment, Mr. Conway. I must do
one thing, sir, before we part-I must beg
your pardon for all the suspicion I have felt
against you. I never liked you from the
start, sfr, and I was only too ready to believe
any wrong of you. I see how mistaken I
was. And I-I beg your pardon. It's all I
can do."
"It is more than enough," said Conway.
"Pahaw, man !-do you think I minded
your ~us~ieion ?-you spoke it out honestly,
and I 1ieverre~eiited it' twen' f~r amo~nent.
Indeed, I rather liked you the better for it,
since it showed your love for her. If that
i~all-youihave to say, don't keep me here to
sayit now."
"It isn't all," said Blake, catching at his
bridle ~s he was turning away, I'm an old
man, sir, and I've loved her longer than you

have, so I have a right to say this: Take
care what you do. Wrong was never yet
mended by wrong, and-"
"Let me go 1" said Conway, between
his teeth. "Do you think I can wait here
to be preached to on a subject like this?
No, wrong was never yet mended, but it
can be avenged-and that is what it shall
be! Stand out of the way."
Blake stood out of the way sorrowfully
enough, and watched him ride out of sight.
Then he drew his hand slowly across his
eyes, and went back into the house, mutter-
ing a verse that came to his memory with
sudden force:
"'Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith
the Lord.'"
When Conway reached Charleston, the
first person whom he met was Mr. Sexton;
Blake had given him the name of the hotel
where the latter was to be found; and, going
there, he was shown at once to his room.
It was vacant, but he had not long to wait
before its occupant came in.
"Phil! my dear boy," he said, holding
out his hand to the travel-stained figure
who rose to meet him. "I did not expect
you for some days yet. How quickly you
have come!"
"I have travelled almost without draw-
ing rein," Conway answered, "and Iha~e
not heard a word of news. Sir-how is
she?"    -       -
Mr. Seyton shook his head sadly.
"There is no change, my boy-they give
us no hope of any. She is perfectly mild
and gentle, but absolutely insane. She asks
for you constantly, and sometimes takes even
me for you. Will you go to her now?"
Pale as Conway had been before, he
grew yet paler at that request, and raised
his hand with a quick gesture of silence and
refusal.
"I could not bear it," he said, huskily.
"I dare not-..-yet. If I saw her first, I
should not be a man but a tiger, and I have
something to do which must be done within
conventional bounds, at least. Sir, don't
speak to me of her, but tell me at once
where lie "-~the dark brows met, and the
dark eyes quivered and glowed-" is to be
found!"

154


flJE 1!iVI 11I TAT MELND

Mr. Seyton started, and looked at him
for a moment before he spoke.
"Do you mean Ainslie?" he asked, at
last.
"Whom else should I mean?" answered
the other, fiercely. "Tell me, sir-tell me
at once. I am on fire till I have seen him,
and taken revenge!"
Mr. Seyton came a step nearer, and laid
his hand down on the shoulder that shook
with passion beneath his touch.
"That has been moved out of your
hands," he said, solemnly. "Ainslie is
dead."
"Come in," said Constance, gently, as
Mr. Seyton paused at the door of her sitting-
room, with Conway beside him. "She is
sleeping now, but I will waken her. Come
m.
'KNo-don't waken her," said Conway,
coming forward; and then he suddenly
stopped-for there, on a low couch beneath
one of the windows, Mabel lay before him.
She had apparently fallen asleep in the
midst of some trifling employment, for one
hand still held a piece of needle-work; but
her attitude was that of profound repose,
as well as perfect grace. H&amp;r head was
somewhat thrown back, and the light
streamed down softly through the green
blinds, over her upturned face-the face
whose bloom was almost as bright as on the
morning when he told her that she looked
more like Aurora than Titania. Her fair
arms and neck gleamed like marble through
the thin muslin which covered them; and
her rich golden curls lay in glittering pro-
fusion over the dark sofa-cushions. Some-
thing in the attitude and scene-different
though both were-reminded Conway of
the night when he had seen her thrown into
mesmeric slumber; and he turned to Con-
stance, who had risen and stood near him.
"You are sure it is a natural sleep?" he
said. "She looks almost as if she were mag- I
netized." s
"It is entirely natural," Constance an-
swered. "Speak to her, if you wish to
know-she wakes very easily."          r
lie approached the sofa and knelt down s
by it. She looked so saint-like, in her v
youth and beauty, that for a moment he .1

Jill Ii1VJ~ Ai~i'I~d6 T1ii~M.       155
held his breath before he spoke. Then he
uttered only one word-
"Mabel!"
Instantly she opened her eyes. For a
moment she looked at him, as if h~ilf uncer-
tain who or what he was. Then the mist
of doubt cleared away. A smile came to
her lips-a sweet, bright smile-but no ex-
clamation broke from them. She only held
out her hand, and, as he clasped it in both
his own, she said, quietly:
"You have come ~at last! I knew you
would-but, 0 Philip, what a long time
it has been!"
"Very long, my love, very long!" he
murmured, brokenly. "But it shall never
be again. I am with you now-now and
forever."
"Forever! "she repeated, with the same
smile, but with a wandering in her eyes,
that showed at once her malady. "Forever
.-.ah, yes, I know. We said that long ago,
down by the river, did we not? I have not
forgotten my lesson, Philip. I have been
waiting for you, to say it to you. The other
Philip-there was another Philip, was there
not?" she asked, with a troubled look com-
ing over the brightness of her face. "lie
has not been here in a long time, either.
But 4here was another Philip, was there
not? "
"Yes, yes," he said, hastily-" there
was another. But you were talking of me.
What was it you want ~d to say to me ~"
"My lesson," she repeated. "I have
aever forgotten it-never~ The ether Phil-
ip was very kind and good to me, but he
sras not you; and I would not say it to him.
said it to myself; though, all the time; and
[know it now. Must I say it to you?"
"Yes," he answered; "say it to me."
She smiled and drew nearer to him.
"Put your arms around me, then," she
aid. "That is the way, you know. l~ow
et me lay my head down-so. If I forget
ome of it, yen will not mind?"
"Na, no."
"Listen, then." And with his arms
ound her, and her head resting on his
shoulder, she began in a soft, low voice the
erses he had repeated long before, in that
une twilight on the river:

0
Q
C.4
C
C
C;.
C
V
C


:/ ~
MABEl, Li~E~

156

"'It was ordained to be so, Sweet..-snd best
Comes now, beneath thine eyes, end on thy breast.
Still kiss me I Care not for the cowardel Care
Only to put aside thy beauteous hafr
My blood will Jnu't$ The Three I do not scorn
To death, because they never lived; but I,
Have iWed Uid.ed, and so-(yet one more kiss)-.--can
diet"'
When she finiiAhed, she glanced up into
his face, but he was speechless. The sweet-
ness of the past, and the anguish of the
present, were too much for him. He drew
in his breath with a quick, gasping sound,
but he uttered not a word; and, after a mo-
ment, she spoke again.
"Are you not going to praise me, Phil-
ip?" she asked, half reproachfully. "I
have said it-.-ah, so often 1-to myself! and
I thought you would be sure to tell me you
were glad. I hiive never said it to any one
but you-never."
lie looked up at Constance, who stood
behind the sofa.
"My God! How will I ever bear it?"
he asked.
"Bear it as I have done-for her sake,"
she answered, in her quiet voice. "See!
she is pained that you do not answer.
Speak to her."
He bent his head down then, and spoke
to her. What he said neither of the others
heard, but it seemed to satisfy her entirely.
She leaned back on her cushions with a
smile, and scarcely heeded that he bent his
face down in her loose masses of hair, while
his whole frame shook with convulsive emo-
* tion that seemed caused by the strong heaves
of the heart throbbing so mightily in its
love auddespair. Despite this, Mabel wan-
* dared on with astreain of talk; and after a
while be grew composed enQugh to answer
her, and strive to discover how far her mind
was sane, and how fa~ overthrown. But
he made little progress. Questions that she
could not answer troubled her; and he .wa~'
forced at last to see for himself; whatothera
had seen before him, that the very milduesa
of the malady made it the more hopeless of
cure~ Save in her recollection of one or
two people, the past was all a blank to her;
and he found that the endeavor to lead her
mind baek to any portion of it was utterly
fruitless. Plainly, indeed, the effort did

more harm than good; and when he rose at
last to go, it was with a .heart sorer by
much than when he had entered.
"Come again, Philip-come again, very
soon. Don't stay away long," were Mabel's
last words; and the pleading look which ac-
companied them followed him all the way
to his hotel.
When he reached there, the first piece
of information he received was that a gen-
tleman had called, and was waiting for him.
The gentleman himself coming forward, he
was surprised to see an absolute stranger-
a dapper little man, very carefully and pre-
cisely dressed, who bowed in acknowledg-
ment of his interrogative glance.
"Mr. Conway, I presume?" he said.
"Yes, Mr. Conway," Philip answered.
"I have called on private business," said
the other. "If you will show me to your
own room, I will explain it."
Conway felt too thoroughly indifferent
to trouble himself with a single conjecture
*about the nature of the business thus unex-
pectedly announced, but led the way at
once to hig room. After they entered, the
stranger declined a chair, and, drawing some
papers from his pocket, laid them on the
table.
"I had the honor to be the lawyer of
the late Mr. Ainslie, sir," he said, "and his
last instructions were deposited in my
hands. Among others, was a letter for
yourself; which I thought it beet to deliver
,in person."
More was said, but Conway had a very
faint idea at the time, and a still fainter re-
membrance afterward, of what it was. When
at last the man took a ceremonious depart-
ure, h~ was glad to sit. dowi?, for he felt
strangely confused and giddy. Events had
succeeded each other so rapidly that the
pewer of realizing them seemed to have
passed from him. Even with the dead
man's letter before him, he could not bring
himself to a realization of all that had hap~
pened, It was a long time before be could
fnrqe himself to take up the sheet of paper
-business-looking paper, covered with a
lawyer'a smooth handwriting.-..-and open it.
When he did so, lie saw that It began~ very
abruptly, thus:

4

*1

I

THE EVIL THAT MEN K
"CoNwAY: When this letter is placed
in your hands, you can afford to read it,
since I shall then be beyond the reach of
your resentment or your forgiveness. The
doctors tell me that I cannot live more than
a few hours, and my own sensations assure
me that I have not even that much of life to
reckon confidently upon. Don't misunder-
stand me. Don't think I write this t9 ask
forgiveness, or to plead for any more kindly
remembrance than you would have given if
I had gone down to the grave with my lips
closed. In your place, I should never par-
don such an offence as the one you have
suffered; and I know you well enough to
ho sure that I will be as much the object of
your execration at the rust moment of your
life as I am now. Understanding this, you
will believe that I write solely to make an
explanation which you could never other-
wise hear; and to speak the truth-not for
my own sake, but for that of another-as a
dying man may be supposed to speak it.
It may' be unnecessary, as far as you are
concerned, but, for the benefit of the evil-
speaking world, I once for all solemnly af-
firm that no one, save myself and my paid
agents, was concerned in the abduction of
Mabel Lee. She was utterly powerless and
passive-as I will hereafter explain. Before
doing so, however, I must go back briefly to
my first meeting with her. You may re-
member how much I was struck by her
beauty; but of course you could not even
have suspected that, from that hour, I deter-
mined to win her; and, notwithstanding her
instantaneous attraction toward yourself, I
did not despair of doing ~o. Ugly as I am,
I had tested my powers of fascination often
enough to be sure that I might easily dis-
tance you in a fair race. On my honor, I
thought nothing besides this, until the mes-
meric experiment. When I saw the aver-
sion she seemed, in consequence of that, to
conceive toward me, I could not but hesi-
tate in my purpose. I hesitated especially
about the portrait-painting, on which hinged
all else-for, necessarily, if I had abandoned
that, I should* have had no excuse for re-
maining at Seyton House. Doubting. my
own judgment very much, I consulted her
sister. She encouraged me~ to hope that the

DO LIVES AFTER THEM.
dislike was only transient, and would pass
away in time. So I remained-and you
know the rest, almost as well asldo. You
saw how her dislike faded away, and how
day by day her manner to me grew more
cordial. Of course, I was fully aware of her
preoccupation with yourself; and I did not
think for a moment that this change meant
any faint weakening of love. But I did be-
lieve, and I do still believe, thatifl could have
removed her from your influence, I could
soon have made her mine of her own free
will and choice. Acting on this belief, I
gradually conceived the idea of an abduc-
tion. It was the only means of compassing
the desired end in the desired manner; it
was the only means of proving that I could
make her far more in love with me, than
she was in love with you then. Yet I pur~
posely sounded you beforehand, honestly
meaning to relinquish the project if I found
you deeply attached to her. And what.did
I hear? Only the careless jargon of the
day; the flippant talk of convenience and
bon~lage; the mere bubble froth of a fancy,
which the next new toy would replace. I
could not harm you by depriving you of
any thing which you treated so lightly,
I thought; and, even for her own sake, 1
would do better to give her such love as
mine-love that would have faced fire and
sword for her-rather than a shallow fancy
for her pretty face, like yours. After that,
my last hesitation was at an end; and I laid
my plans. The island ball gave me the op-
portunity I desired, and I determined that,
if possible, she should be carried off that
night. It proved impossible; and was ne-
cessarily postponed until the next day. You
may remember how Fortune favored me
then. Mr. Sexton kept you engaged, and
Harding went off alone. I wasintheterrace,
and it was easy to go down the face of the
bluff-the boat was moored at the foot. I
got in, kept along the shore, and, quite un-
seen, reached Mrs. Lee's garden. There
again Fortune favored me, for I found Mabel
alone. After a good deal of persuasion, I
induced her to take "a short row's with
me. Once in the boat, I rowed rapidly
down the stream, to a place where, accord-
ing to my instructions, a carriage was to


158                          MAJ3EL LEE.                                                              1l~fI!O THE SUNLIGHT.                    159

meet me."-Here the same narrative whk
Mrs. Garland had given to Nowell was sul
stantially repeated. Then the writer spob
of the shock which Mabel's insanity ha
been to him. "I had heard of her father,
he said, "and the result of the mesmeric e~
periment proved how highly strung was hc
own nervous organization, but I never for
moment dreaded, or in the least degre
anticipated, such a conclusion to my schem
as this. I did not appreciate, in even th
least degree, what such a shock to such
mind would inevitably cause. I intended t
take her to Europe, and see what the phy
sicians of France and Germany could do fo
her; but business arrangements delayed m
-and this is the end. Perhaps it is bette
so; perhaps my dream was only a dream
and no love or care could have won he:
heart; but at least I would have striver
very hard, and I think I should have sue
needed. If she ever recovers, and you liv
~to marry her, remember this. Remember
how long I would have toiled and suffered
for one tithe of the love she gives to you-
and let the remembrance teach you some-
thing of her value.
"Now I have finished. Now you know
the whole story. Once more, as at the be.
ginning, let me say that I do not mean to
ask your forgiveness; and also that I never
intended to injure you, as it seems I did.
"RAna AINsLIE."
That was all. The dead man's signature
-written by his own hand-stood out clear
and t~lack on the white paper, and, as Con-
way gazed at it, something of the old friend-
ship stirred suddenly at his heart. The
thought that, with all its faults and all its
virtues, this soul stood now before the bar
of God, hushed on his lips any thing like
those execrations of which the letter spoke.
On the contrary, he laid his hand down up-
on the open page, and bent his head over it
reverently.
"God forgive him!" he said, half aloud.
"God forgive him-as I do!"

td

CHAPTER XXYIII.
INTO THE SUNLIGHT.

t
I
e
]

:- "PHIL," said Mr. Seyton, as they walked
r slowly along the street, a day or two after-
a ward, "Phil, the doctors here give no hope
e whatever of Mabel's recovery; but I have
e determined not to rest satisfied with their
e decision."
a Conway started out of a fit of abstrac-
o tion, and looked at his uncle. Hope had so
entirely deserted him, that he could not
r conceive how Mr. Seyton still ~lung to it;
a but then it was not his part to echo the
L' opinion of the doctors, so be only asked,
with a sort of weary indifference-
"What do you mean to do, sir?"
"I have been thinking about it," said
* Mr. Seyton. "I mean to take her where
the best science of the world is to be found
-in other words, to Paris."
"You mean to take her there I"
*    "Yes. If her mother will consent-and
* I don't think there is any doubt of that-I
will take her as soon as possible."
Conway shook his head.
"I can't see the good of it," he said.
"Believe me, sir, the doctors in Paris will
tell you exactly what the doctors in Charles-
ton have done."
"Then I will go to Germany, or to Lon-
don, or to anywhere else, where a medical
faculty exists," said Mr. Seyton, firmly. "If
all else fail, I shall even follow Dr. R-'s
advice, and see if mesmerism, which crazed,
cannot also, by judicious application, cure
her. You may be sure of one thing, Phil-.-
I shall never give up trying. It was you
who said that, when she was lost, and I
despaired of her return: now our positions
are reversed. :Now, you despair, and I
hope-I, by God's help, yet mean to accom-
plish that for which I hope."
"Even so, sir," said Conway. "I can-
not think you will succeed, hut God's help
be with yqu!"
So it 1.iras settled. Mrs. Lee readily
eon~ented to any thing which held out the
faintest promise of ultimate cure; and it
was decided that she should return to Ayre,

with Kowell, while Mr. Seyton sailed for
Europe with Constance and MabeL For a
while, Conway made arrangements to ac-
company them; but the only one of the
doctors who gave any encouragement to the
project negative that at once. "I have
not much hope in the medical science on
the other side of the water," he said; "but
change of scene, and entire separation from
all the associations connected with her
malady, may perhaps right her mind in
time. There is no telling; but, at least, if
the experiment is made at all, it should be
fairly tested. Now, you are one of these
associations, Mr. Conway; and your pres-
ence must necessarily recall a great deal she
had better forget, since you are interwoven
with all the events that have ended so dis-
astrously. Therefore, once for all, you
must not accompany her to Europe. You
must stay in America, or go to Asia or
Africa, if you desire, but you must not
cross her path until she is entirely recov-
ered-if indeed recovery is possible. Un-
derstand that this is final." It was not
so final but that Conway stoutly rebelled
against it, though he was at last overruled.
"No, you must stay,~~ said Mr. Seyton.
"The doctor is right-I can fully appreciate
that. If she recovers at all, it will be with
those whom she has known all her life, and
who are not prominently associated with
these things of which the doctor speaks.
Not another word, Phil !-you must stay."
Conway looked at Constance; but he
found no encouragement there. Her stead-
fast gray eyes met his with the same re-
solve in them. "You must stay," she said.
"Think for a moment of the harm your
presence might do, and then you will see
the necessity as plainly as we. You must
stay."
"But I might go, and be within reach,
,seehg her."
"Impossible. You would end by seeing
her, and perhaps undoing any good that
might have been done. No, the risk should
not be run and the Atlantic had better be
between you.~~
"It must be between them," said Mr.
Seyton.-" Don't let me hear any more of
this, Phil. Go down to Seyton House, and

take care of things while I am absent. You
owe me that, I think; and you ought to
grow accustomed to your duties before they
are thrown for good and for all on your
shoulders. I have only one request to make
-don't quarrel with Blake."
"I think you may tr~ist me, sir. In my
present mood, he might burn the house
over my head, and I should not question
the expediency of doing so."
"You will get over that,~~ said Mr. Sey-
ton; "especially if we tire able to send yen
cheering news. I am glad Adela is in Paris.
She will be able to assist us materially.
When we return, I shall bring her back
with me-for good."
The young man's eyes suddenly softened
and moistened in a peculiar way they had.
"My poor mother!" he said. "She will
be overjoyed to see you, sir; and pray tell
her every thing. She has wonderful brains
for a woman, and can help you, I am sure.
As for me, if I must stay behind, like a use-
less log, I must-that is all."
After this, preparations were hurried
forward, and in a few days the outward-
bound trio were quite ready. It was only
at the last moment that Mabel was told that
she was going. She made no difficulty, as
they had half feared she would; but only
looked up at Conway with a smile. "Are
you going, too?" she asked.
"Not now," he answered, with a sharp
pang; "but you will not be gone very long;
and, when you come back, I shall be waiting
for you. You must try and get well. The
sooner you get well, the sooner we shall
meet again. Remember that."
"But am I not well, now? What is the
matter with me?"
"The carriage is ready," said Mr. Seyton,
breaking in abruptly; and, without answer-
ing her question, Conway led her down.
An hour or two later, he stood on the
dock watching the steamer that bore her,
as it steamed out of the harbor. The last
face he saw distinctly was hers-still turned
toward him, and the land where he re-
mained, as she was carried faster and faster
away.
When he turned round, he was surprised
to see Nowell behind him. They had met


160                         MABEL LEE.                                                            INTO THE SUNLIGHT.                     1@1

before, but not cordially; and there was
ground for hisastonishment when the latter
said, "I have put my aunt in the carriage,
and sent her oIf Mr. Conway; if you have
no objection, we will walk back together."
"Certainlj," said Conway; and, with
one last glance at the vanishing steamer,
they turned away from the dock, and set
their faces cityward. They walked on for
some time in silence, and then Nowell spoke
abruptly-spoke very~ much as Mr. Blake
had spoken before him.
"I atn not a man who knows very well
how to do a graceful thing, Mr. Conway;
but at least I hope I know how to do an
honest one. Now, it has been on my mind
for some time to retract a good many offen-
sive things I said to you. Of course I dis-
covered long since that my suspicions were
entirely unfounded. Ton bore my charges
more patiently than might have been ex~
pected; and I now apologize for them, fully
and freely. If, after this, you wish to re-
sent them, I am at your service. If not, we
are never likely to be friends, but at least
we need not be enemies."
"I have not the least desire to resent
them, I assure you," said Conway, smiling,
for the fire-eating proclivities of the other
rather amused him. "They were very nat-
ural, I thi~k; only for once you let preju-
dine weigh more than proof. In your place,
I might have done the same; and, if you had
charged me with the blackest crime in the
decalogue, I am sure I could forgive it
heartily, for I am not likely to forget that it
~was you, not I, who found her."
* Nowell bent his head.
"Yes, I found her," he said, and there
was no little bitterness in th~ tone. "I
found her-for you."
"God only knows that," said the other;
"for Tie only knows whether or not she
will ever be herself again. We can only
hope; and meanwhile-I am sorry to hear
you say that we are never likely to be
friends. Why not?"
"For a good many reasons," answered
Nowell, as coldly as ever. "We have noth-
ing in common, for one. But, as I said be-
fore, we need not be enemies and we can
at least respect each other."

"I am determined that we shall do more
than that; I am determined that we shall
also like each other."
Nowell smiled faintly in his dry, cold
way.
"You will accomplish a prodigy then,"
he said. "It was a wise man who said first
that nothing isimpossible, however; twenty
years hence, we . may like each other. In
the mean time, my duty is done, and I must
leave you, for I have business here. Good-
day."
'He stopped as he spoke, in front of a
lawyer's office, and, be fore Cenway could do
more than echo his salutation, vanished.
"His duty done," repeated the latter, as
he pursued his way. "I congratulate him on
that, for mine is yet to come. I must write
at once and make the amende 1ionora1~le to
poor Cyril. I wonder if he will ever forgive
me I-and yet the fault was not mine. How
far astray we all went!"
How far, indeed; and yet already the
dawn of the brighter day appeared; already
the clouds of suspicion fled back into the
past -forsaking even that lonely grave
where, under the bloom of the magnolias,
Ainslie slept.
Months ~rolled by, and still the Seyton
party remained abroad, sending many bulle-
tins home, yet speaking guardedly and cau-
tiously of Mabel in all of them. The medi-
cal men gave very little hope, they said, but
still did not absolutely declare the malady
incurable. They prescribed perfect rest,
and entire absence from any associations
recalling the past. But of the future they
were absolutely reticent, and promised
nothing. She might recover, or she might
not; the case was a singular one, and there
was little experience bearing upon it. In
Mabel herself there was scarcely any change
reported, even when six months had gone
by. She was still as gentle and passive
as ever, and still asked incessantly for
"Philip "-that was, all. At the end of the
year, Mr. Seyton left her and Constance in
Paris with Mrs. Conway, and came over for
Mrs. Lee. Then, once more, Conway pe-
titioned eagerly to accompany them back;
but his uncle would not listen to it. "We

hope and trust she is somewhat better," he
said. "She has ceased to mention, and
~eems to have forgotten you-which the
doctors think a good sign. We must not
tamper with her by any risk. Stay where
you are." So once more the ehafing, impa-
tient heart was left behind in its enfQrced
quietude, while the others sailed away-far
away, toward the distant city where Mabel
sojourned.
In the course of the next few months,
the letters grew more encouraging in their
tone. The doctors began to give more de-
cided leave for hope. Mabel's mind seemed
to be gradually clearing of its mist, and ac-
quiring something of the vigor of health.
She took interest in her old occupations,
and entered into amusements and pleasures
with some faint shade of appreciation.
She began4d recall very distinctly the things
and people of her past life-always ex-
cepting the period which commenced with
Conway's arrival at Seyton House, and
ended with her own coming to Paris. When
the second, summer of her absence came
round, Mr. Seyton wrote that the doctors
prescribed travel and change of scene; so
the whole party were going to Switzerland,
and thence to any place Mabel might desire.
From Switzerland the news grew even more
cheering. "These glorious mountain re-
gions have seemed to do her more good than
any thing else," 4Jor~tance wrote. "Her
first reat intereet-by that, I mean interest
which isnot inerelysimulatedtogive'us~Aeas-
ure, butis born of her own sensationa-has
beenshown here. Sheiseheerful always, and
sometimes even gay; but occasionally that
dark cloud of melancholy steals over her, and
then I tremble. The danger is not past yet.
But she can almost always be roused from
her depression, which was not formerly the
case; and she seems, at other times, to have
recovered much of her old sunny disposition.
Her physical. health is, thank God, entirely
perfect."
And so the summer passed, and, when
the fall came, instead of turning their faces
toward Paris again, they wenton into Italy,
at Mabel's own request. The winter was
spent in Rome, andy in the spring, they
began for the first time to speak of return-
11

ing home. Mabel was quite her old self,
the letters which announced this re~o1utio~
said; had entirely recovered, save in the
single respect of totallyforgetting the period
of time before meutioued. The efforts to
lead her memory hack to. this h~d felled
utterly. It was a perfect :blaulc-,-a space
that seemed to have lapsed out of' her life.
This weakness, the ph~rsieians said, would
never be cured; but otherwise they pro-
nounced her mind to be once more perfectly
healthy and well-balanced. So at laet~ tw~
years and a half after she left Charleston,
Mabel was coming back to her native place,
and the people of Ayre rejoiced over the
news as they might have rejoiced over the
raising of one from the dead.
The retu.rning party landed in May, and,
strangely enough, it was on the same day
of the month when Philip Conway had
reached Seyton House three years before,
that they entered Ayre. He who hadhorne
this long separation so well, had been for-
bidden to meet them, so he remained at the
house, and was pacing the front portico
with impatient steps, when a travelling-car-
riage drove up. By the time he reached
it, his uncle was handing out a lady,' and
the next moment he was in h~s mother's
arms.
After the first greeting, his questions
were all of Mabel. How had she borne it?
How had she stood the test of return?
"Admirably well," his mother ,said~
"She remembered every thing perfectly;
and, seemed deeply affected by the joy which
every pue testified at seeing her. Despite
all prohibitions, there was a perfect ev&amp;ti~a
of welcome, an~l, in the midst of it, they
scarcely noticed me, who have not been
here for twenty years or more."
"Ah, but you went away very differ-
ently, Adela," said Mr Seyton, with a sigh.
"Yes, she has stood it better even than we
dared to hope, but the test will be when she
meets you, Phil. I tremble for the result.
I almost fear we have done wrong to try
it."
"No," said Conway. "You have done
right. If her miifd is perfectly reeLor.~~
there will be no danger. If not, it is better
to know it~ The question is, will she reeog-

101


~I82                          NADEL LEE.

nize~ me, or shall I have to meet her as a
stranger?"
Both the others shook their heads. They
could not tell that. Time would have to
show; and meanwhile he must be patient a
little longer. He could not see her that
day; she had had excitement enough; ho
must wait until the next.
So the heart which had borne so much,
bore also this last delay, which was perhaps
the hardest of all. But the next morning
early, a message was sent into the town to
prepare Constance for his coming, and bid
h~r arrange that he should meet. Mabel, ap-
parently at least, alone. A little later he
entered the boat, and rowed past the gar-
dens where he had first met her, past the
island where the midsummer-night pavilion
yet stood, past the willow-edged banks by
which they had fio~ted so often together,
until he reached the well-known steps at the
foot of Mrs. Lee's garden. Then, for the
first time, his heart ~'ailed him. What if the
experiment should, after all, i~esu1t disas-
trously? What if the shock should bring
back her insanity? He hesitated, faltered,
almost turned back; might indeed have
done so, if he had not heard a clear voice
lilting a song he knew well-a song Mabel
had often sung for him in the days that
seemed so very far away. It was only a
stanza that floated down ~to his ear, on the
soft May air; but, when it ended, his irres-
olution was gone.. He forgot the weary 1
years of absence, the long estrangement, the
cruel cloud, that had been between them;
he only thought of her as he first saw her,
hi the spring-tide freshness of her beauty

and grace. 'The next moment he sprang up
the steps, and walked along the garden-path.
He had not gone far, before he stepped ab-
ruptly-she was there !~
Yes, she was there, sitting on a low seat
beneath a rose-bush, as fair and fresh and
lovely~ as his fancy had pictured her, five
minutes before-sitting with the tender
green of the foliage, and the tinted petals of
the blossoms, all around her-a vision that
might have stirred a heart of stone.
He paused, but she had heard his step,
and looked up. His heart seemed to make
one bound, and then stand still, for on the
next moment hinged every thing they hoped
or feared. She gazed at him~for an instant,
with half wonder, half-struggling recogni-
tion in her eyes. And then she held out
her hands with a cry. "Philip I" she said,
and, when he sprang forward, she fell faint-
ing into his arms.
Instantly a group that had been am-
bushed in the arbor-Constance, Mrs. Con-
way, and Mr. Seyton-rushed forth, in wild
alarm. But he beckoned them back,~ and
bent over her, calling her name in every
tender tone. The swoon was very slight,
for, after a moment, she recovered sufficient-
ly to open her eyes and look at him-won-
deringly, it seemed.
"My love, my love," he said, "do you not
know me?" I promised to meet you, -and I
am here-yours, youi~ only and forever!"
Then a smile, bright as an angers, came
over her face.
"Philip!" she repeated; and that was
all that she said, but it told every thing,
and ended their fears forever.

THE END.

MORTON HOUSE,
A NOVeL
By the Author of' "VALERIE AYLMER,"
One volume, paper covers, with four Illustrations, price, $i.OO; cloth, $1.50.
"'Morton House' proves to us that at last we have a writer who understands her
public. The story is located in the South; yet there is not a word of glorification
of lost institutions or lost causes. This species of rubbish is ~simply brushed aside,
and we have society as it is-not a brawling debating club, but an assemblage of
individuals concerned in the ordinary ways of life. The plot serves; is thoroughly
sensational, and yet tolerably reasonable. The characterizations are good-the con-
versation is excellent. Above all, the tone is healthy and unostentatiously American.
For the sake of our literature, we trust that the author will not pause in her new
career, which certainly opens with the bravest promise."~Henry Ward .L'eeclser'e
(Wristian Union.
"The plot is interesting, the characters good, the dialogue amusing, and the
whole book well done."-N. Y~ .Albion.
"One of the most brilliant writers whom the South has produced, * * * There
is intense power in many of the scenes."-N. Y~ Eveniz~q Mail.
"A very readable story. The interest is sustained from the flr~t suggestion of
mystery to the final dinogment."-Bogo,~ Ckri.,tian .Iegieler.
"There is so much freshness in the tone, so much nature in the personages, and
so much interest in the story, that 'Mortox~ House,' so neatly printed and well illus-
trated, is one of the most attractive of Appleton &amp; Co.'s standard novels. It has the
topping merit of being very readable."-Boson 7i~anscript.
"The plot and characterization of this~ story are more than good. They are
marked by great force and~originality. Few finer specimens of manhood have ever
been conceived than the two suitors of the heroine. The author has shown an
elevation of sentiment and good taste, combined with an reflective style."-.-.PMIa.
delpkia Age.
"A charming picture of life in the South."- Wilmington (N. 6'.) Star.
"The author's style is flowing, easy, and vivid. Her delineations of character
graphic and true to nature. There is a fascination in all she writes, that betokens
an original genius."-.&amp;deimore American.
"The author of 'Morton House' has the genuine dramatic perceptions which
are indispensable to whoever would depict human character; and she is possessed
of a literary style which is rarely found except in conjunction with other and higher
mental qualities. In natural, easy, and graceful dialogue, we do not know a single
living writer who surpasses her. Her books are interesting from beginning to end,
and there are few pages which the zuost inveterate novel.reader will feel disposed to
skip."-The Eclectic Magazine for J~znuary, 18'12.
D. APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers,
549. &amp; 551 BnoAnwAy, NEW Yoax~


VALERIE AYLMER.
A. 1~OVEL~
B~Y" CHRISTIAN REID.
ivol., Ovo. Paper covers, $1. In cloth, $1.50.
VALKRIn Amxzn Is the first work of a young Southern author of brilliant promise, the scenes ef whose
story are mainly in Louisiana and Maryland, In theycars Immediately following the late civil war. The book
has met with extraordinary fhvor from the press. The Montreal News Is republishing It in Its columns, and,
by permission of the publishers, the L6uIsville Courier-Journal, the most widely-circulated of Southern
journals, is also printing the novel In Its weekly issue.
NOTIO~IS OF T~W NORTHERN PRESS.
b&amp;The author of 'ValerleAlymer' baa made a most decided hit1 and cannot IMI to be universally recog.
udasogo o(the rtalpg 4114 Wlall#l$ghtp of American literature. '-.tbrtiand Argus.
"It Is iikill to. c umaud ~usasl stteutlon or the story, the style, and the skilful delineatIon of char.
acter."-Bwtoss 4surlsr.
"Acle~ors~ory.".-~BostO~s Daily .iAeerUser.
"'Vle~iaAylmer'is ~ nove b a new ~vrlter, evldentlya person of culture, travel, considerable experience,
and a '~'ht 52luoiin 1~?'tO niake him inter I
brli~'~       t of proj doe             eat ng. It Is cast in thechlvalrlo mould, and deals with
t, 1isteii~eAashing, Wantlfhl hgh-strung sort of society which never did exipt, leastof all In Loul.
slana.t The story itas as much merit as the chivalric style of novel can have. In thia key it Is averyb~~t
and Interesting story. The author Indulges now and then in a little petulance toward the North, but tbis
will wear off In tlme."-HarVorsf burant.
"The book baa genuine merit. It Is written with both vigor andgrace the plot Is weli constructed, ~the
actors are live persons, and talk like people or sense and culture, and C1'I are very graphic. '-..
the esc~.ptons
"The scene Islald chiefly in New Orleans and Baltimore, and It is quietly assumed thatthe society of the
South presents the nearest resemblance to Paradise that baa survived the fall. The women are parsons of
loveliness and grace, enchantment breathes frotatheir features and the musicof heave~i lingers in thei~volce~
As models of masculine breeding, In whom alone are combined chivalrous valor and noble courtesy, the men
stand out conspicuously fromthe canvas with every virtue that makes them the ornaments of their sex. The
love of music aud*pa~tlug which pervades the work isexhibited In several passages or glowing description
that shed a gorgeous light over the narrative. In these portions of the story the power ofthewilter appears
to the greatest advnntage."-N. 7. Tribune.
"The book forms avety, creditable addition to the stock of native fldUo~."-1Y'. 7. 2Vmes.
"A thoiot~glrAhterlcan novel. The heroine Is lovely, accomplished, and brilliant. The chief merit of the
tale llesInlts~4IaIoghe. Barely has th~converMtIon~l tone been so thoronghiypreaerved."-PMIa. I~wee.
"It Is very cleverly written, the dialogue Is~rightly, and the chareeters well drawn. Certainly thIs boo)
leone of the best and most readable novels or the season."-PMladeipMa .1-bet.
"The obarsetersare boldly drawn and well defined. 'Valo~le' Is charmingly pronounced, and Is at e of
the splrIted2~ovelli~esp tbat-hnq not been cauBelessly commendc4 south of the Ohio, Altogether, the story Is
well susta~ued ~nd creditable., The author shows ins descriptive powers."-Pkilad#pA5a Gazette.
"Its tone and ~ondecoy are nne~eeptIonabie. The scene beinglald in the Southern States Immediately
after the war, creates soute difficulty in treating the story in a manner acceptable to one part of the eountt,
and not offensive to the other. In this the author has been remarkably successful. While a Northern reader
might not sympathize with the feelings of many of the characters, he cannot but admit that It Is very natural
they should enteriaiu theni.'~-PMdaWpAia Aqc.
"Thestyle of the woik Is asilmatedand strong, the characterewelidrawn, thedlalognelivelyand animated,
and th   ry           daad~su5t4ne4~lhtsreat~-CM~age ,TounaaL
" The volume ksbarpsprIg~tly, spirited, even vI~iorous. It Is better than the majority of novels."-
Chicago Nsenlng lbet.
NOTICES OF TH~ SOUTHERN PRESS.
TMOne of thebest.nf modern American novels."-BultEmow Gazette.
A6 lbs cnepwb bare before isa 8oi~thern novel, containing so many elements of good, and showing so
powa41lrsiI~z~ssls ne~ferbesranceandmay bejudged squarely upon Its merits. 'Valerie Ajlmer' Is
sihe author's retpsb         but It i~ w4tten by one whope  owers are $n the   and in plan as
flada qn1]~e1w~thdoeahoeor to our people, aJor which the Son&amp;sni be proud.".-.
"?The sto~Ia veryinteresting, and admirably written."-Charluton Courier.
"ha a pIcture of Southern life and character, as developed since the war, It barn not been surpassed or
.qqualleL'~Magvet (Ga.) Cbw*r.
'Valerie hylmer' stamps the young authoress as a woman of genlua."-Augueta Chronicle.
' The beauties of the book are manIfold. There are passages and chapters In 'Valerie Aylmer' which the
4rstAiR.rleanmlterswould ict blush to own. As a Southern novel Itis by far the best that has appeared
dnethewar.t~-5ssmuah Newt.
'~Few~ovels of the season have been so generally and so warmly pralssd."-NoWe iWisest.
"AUhalla geaulne American story and a genuine American ptery-teliera story4elierto the manes born,
~storymuyofthe soil I Here is a novel of real life as current as a news~s~, and asabundantinlocal color,
~ commonplace; the best noveiofsoelety yet produced on this side
ournaI~
D, APPLETON &amp; 00.9 Pub~Ishors.

3

CuAs. DICKENS.

Now Complete,
In 18 vols. Paper (Jover8. Price, $5.00.

LIST OF TILE ~VORKS:
OLIVER TWIST,----------------------------172
AMERICAN NOTES, *. .                    104
DOMBEY &amp; SON, .                   .   -856
MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, .                   841
OUR' MUTUAL FRIEND,  .  .         .   . 840
CHRISTMAS STORIES,------------------------ma
TALE OF TWO CITIES,  .      -  -  -   - 144
HARD TIMES, and A1A~ITIONAL CHRISTMAS STORIES, 202
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY,.......................888
BLEAK HOUSE,-----------------------------352
LITTLE DORRIT,----------------------------348
PIORWICK PAPERS, -  -                  326
DAVID COPPERFIELD, -  -     -     -    851
BARNABY RUDGE,..........................257
OLD OU.RIOSITY SHOP,.  .  .  .         221
GREAT EXPECTATIONS,                    188
SKETCHES, . -----------194

pages, 25 eent~
"   15   "
"   85   ~
"85 "
"   85   ~
"   25   "
"   20   "
" 251"

6(
~6
'4
'4

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, PICTURES OF 1TALY~
AND REPRINTED PIECES,------------------800

85
85
85
85
85
30
80
25
25

85 "

Any person o~de~g~~the entire set, and remIttln~ ~, wfll receive a Portrait of Dickens
suitable for framing. The entlrC set wilIbe sent by mallor express, at our option, postage
or freight prepaid, to any part of the United States.
Single copies of any of tise above sent to any address in tke United ,Stutes
on tke receipt of tise price a~j&amp;ved.
LIBRARY EDITION OP CHARLES DICKENS'S WORKS,.
Complete in Six Volumes, with 82 Illustrations.
Price, $1.75 per Vol., ow $10.50 the Set; Half ealf~ $8.50 per VoL

APPLETONS' (so-CALLED) PLU1~I-PUDDING EDITION
0? THu

WORKS OF


A.PPLETO~$' EDITION
OP THE
WAVERLEY NOVELS,
Prom new Stereotype Plates, uniform with the New Edition of DICEENS,
containing all the Notes of the Author, and printed from
the latest edition of the Authorized Text.
Complete in Twenty-Five Volumes.
Price, 2~ Cents Each.
Printed on fine white paper, clear type, and convenient ir~ size.
Pronounced "A lifiracle of Cheapness."
GEDEIf OF ISSUE:
I. WAVERLEY.                        14. FORTUNES OF NIGEL.
2. IVANHOE.                         15. PEVERIL OF THE PEAK.
3. KENThWORTH.                      16. QUENTIN DUIIWARD.
4. GUY MANNERING.                   17. ST. RONAN'S WELL.
5. ANTIQUARY.                        18. REDGAUNTLET.
6. ROB ROY.                         19. THE BETROTHED, ~i~n HIGH.
~. OLD MORTALITY.                        LAND WIDOW.
S. THE BLACK DWARF, AITh A LE.      20. THE TALISMAN.
GEND OF MONTROSE.               21. WOODSTOCK.
n. BRIDE OF LAMIfERMOOR.            22. FAIR MAID OF PERTH.
1(1. HEART OF MJD.LOTHIAN.           23. ANNE OF GEIERSThIN.
11. THE MONASTERY.                   21. COUNT ROBERT OF PARIS.
12. THE ABBOT.                       25. THE SURGEON'S DAUGHTER.
l~. THE PIRATE.
On receipt of Six Dollars, we will send the entire set of Waverley Novels, and a copy
of a new STEEL.PLATE PORTRAIT Or Sir WALTER SCOTT, from a painting by Sir Thomas
Lawrence, suitable for framing; the Books and Engraving to be sent free of postage to any
part of the United States.
Either of the above sent to any address on receipt of the price 25 cents pet' volume.
On receipt of Tea Dollars, a complete set of DIcKENs (In uniform style) 18 volumes,
and WALvERLEY, 25 volumes, will be sent post.pald. The cheapest Ten Dollars' worth to
be found in the whole range of Literature. Forty.three volumes for $10.
LIBRARY EDITION 01"
The Waverley Novels,
Complete In Six Volumes.
Uniform with the "Library Edition of Dickens." Each volume illustrated with
Steel and Wood Engravings. Bound in morocco cloth, gilt side and
back. Price9 in cloth, $1.'15; half calf, ~ per vox.

CAPT. LUIRYAT'S POPIJIAR NOVELS,
AT IPIFTY CENTS PER VOLUME.
~andsoinely printed, from large, clear type, on good paper, and of convenient
size. l2mo.
With an Illustrated Cover.
PRICE, FIFTY CENTS.
THE WHOLE CONSISTS OF

I.
II.
III.
IV.
.v.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
x.
XI..
XII.

MIDSHIPMAN EASY.
PETER SIMPLE.
JACOB FAITHFUL.
NAVAL OFFICER.
KING'S OWN.
JAPHET IN SEARCH OF A FATHER
NEWTON FORSTER.
PACHA OF MANY TALES.
THE POACHER.
THE PHANTOM SHIP.
SNARLEYOW.
PERCIVAL KEENE.

The entire Set soW be 8ent, poet-free, on receipt of *5.50. Ant, 'volume
sent, poet-free, on receipt of the price.
I). APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers.


IJ1LTi1NTAT
APPLETONS' ~JVU1UNAL
*                                      FOR 197g.
APPLETONS' JOU3NAL for l~72 will Continue to present a varied literature of a
class that unites entertainment with permanent value, and to
justify It. reputation ~s a Journal of .&amp;rt.
ITS LE4DI~G J!EILTURES W'ILL BE:
AMERICAN LOCALiTIES AND SCENERY.-The series of Illustrated Papers depicting the Landscapes and
Places In America, which have been so popular a feature of the JotnurAr. heretofore, will be continued. These Illustra.
tions are the result of personal search for the picturesque on the part of the artists, or many months have tray-
*            eased different sectiolis of ljhe country, for the purpose of securing a series of fresh, vivid, graphic, and thoroughly
truthful delineations of American localities. ilAunY ~ the most distinguished of our landacape-draughtamen, will
give his time exclusively to this series.
PORTRAiTS AND BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES.-Adlstlngulshingfeature of the JOUHNAL will he a continu-
ation of the series of PortrMts of Celebrities in Literature, Science, and Art, whlvh have already been so popular. The
Portraits are of unusual excellence in execution, and the Biographical Sketches that accompany them are from writers
well informed as regards their topics.
The author of "Morton House" and "Valerie Aylmer," the most successful of recent American novels, will con-
tribute short stories end sketches frequently during the year.
Jua~wr~ HAWTHORHE, son of the distinguished romancist, will continue to contribute poems and stories to the
JOUExAL. This young writer exhibits, It is generally conceded, not a little of that peculiar and original genius which
has made the name of Hawthorne so flimous in English literature.
Colonel Jonx HAY, the brilliant author of "Little Breeches," "Jim Bludsoe," and "Castllian Days," will contribute
occasIonally.
R. H. STODDARD will furnish occasional biographies of the poets.
"LADY SWEETAPPLE; on, THREE TO ONE," a brilliant novel, by the author of "Annals of an Eventful
Life," will form the leading serial during the early pert of the year.
"GOOD-BYE, SWEETHEART!" a novel of singular charm and freshness, from the brilliant and vivacious pen
*              of RHoDA Bnoueuroz~, author of" Red as a Rose Is She," etc., Is now publishing in Its pages.
Professor SOHELE DE Vinin, of the University of Virginia, will continue his series of highly-entertaining papers on
popular science.
Euomu BENsON and Hiusur WARE will contribute papers descriptive of llfe, art, and places abroad.
ALBERT WEBSTER, Jr., whose short stories have evinced so much power, will write exclusively for the pages of
Ara'ran~oxs' JotrHEAz.
GEORGE Iii. Towni~ will furnish biographical papers, and articles on topics of general interest.~
F. 0. C. DARLEY will give from his graphic pencil a series of "Pictures of Character" American and foreign.
HENRY T. TUCEmIKAN, the distinguished essayist and critic, will continue to furnish articles on literature and
biography.
Jom~ Ewrin~ CooxE, ofYirginla, Paim H. Ha~ien, of Georgia, end F. R. Grnamm (author of"The Maroonera"),
furnish sketehesof Southern life, character, and places.
A series of good-natured satires, under the title of "The Habits of Cood Society," from the pencil of Mr. Thomas
will supply an amusing feature.
upon the various subjects that pertain to the Pursuits and Rcereatlons of the People, whether of
Stories, Sketehes, and Poems, may be expectedfroni the leading periodical writers 1n~America; whatever is fresh,
vivid, animated, or valuable, will be secured for Its pages, and no effort spared to render it the leading liters weekly
form a notable feature In the JouaurAi.
Price of ArrLxvoNs' JoUDNAL, 10 cents per number, or $4.00 per annum, in advance.
Subscriptions received for twelve or six months.
Any person procuring five yearly subscriptions, and remitting $20.00, will be entitled to a copy for one year gratis.
Nw SuBsonsamss TO APPLEIONS' JOURNAL TOR 15T2 WILL RECEIVE THE NUMBERs TROll ]~)EUHEBER 2D, coN-
TAINING 4MB BEGINNiNG OF TEE NuiV SERIAL STORY, "L~trr 8WEETAPI'LE.," GRATUrrOUsLY.
AppWon.' Sbur.zal, ancZ eW~er           W~eehj, R~zs~er'e Baacer,       Magaeims, LippincoWs .Jfaga-
ste, tAo Atksmtle .af~rnt~'ay, or tAo for otis iloar, On receipt of Appleton.' ~Tout'na1 and LiUeZZ'e
JAting Age, ,p1~r $10.00. Appleto.s' Journat and Oliver C~ptio'a
APPLETONS' JOURNAL is also put up In snonthly parts; suhsiription price, $~50 per-annum.
Th~ postage within the United States, fur the JOURNAL, Is 20 cents a year, payable yearly, seml-yearlyo~ quarterly,
In advance, at the office where received. SubscrIptIons from Canada must be accompanied wIth 20 cents additional, to
prepay the U. S. postage. New-York Oltyand Brooklyn subscribers should remit 20 cents extrato prepay for postage
and delivery of their numbers.
2). APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers,
549 &amp; 551 BROAPWAY, NEW Yoiix.


  
             
         
       
   
