
    ----CITATION----
        Williams, Henry Llewellyn, (1842-). The Fenian Chief, or, The Martyr of '65 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8320
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE FENIAN CHIEF; 
               OR, THE MARTYR OF '65. 
               FOUNDED ON RECENT EVENTS IN IRELAND'S STRUGGLE FOR LIBERTY! 
             
             
               
                   
                     See, they come o'er the red-blossomed heather, 
                     Their green banners waving in the pure mountain air; 
                     Heads erect, eyes to front, steeping proudly together, 
                     Sure freedom sits throned in each proud spirit there. 
                     Their columns twining, 
                     Their blades still shining, 
                     Like sparkles of beauty, they flash from each man; 
                     From mountain, 
                     And fountain, 
                     They are coming to conquer! THE FENIAN MEN! 
                  
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF 'ARRAH-NA-POGUE' AND 'SHAMUS O'BRIEN.' 
            
               NEW-YORK: 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,  
                     NO. 33 ROSE STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, BY ROBERT M. DE WITT, In the Clerk's Office, of the District Court for the Southern District of New-York. 
          
       
      
         
            The Fenian chief, or, The martyr of '65 
             
            THE FENIAN CHIEF. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  THE VALLEY AND SHADOW OF DEATH. THE "BANSHEE." THE LAST OF THE O'CONNELLS. 
                
               AN old and dilapidated building, which was once a proud and lordly domain, but now, like its poor country, had fallen into all but utter ruin. A woman lay at the point of death. She was very ill-time, sorrow, consuming, and corroding cares, had dimmed the lustre of her once bright eye; had blanched her hair, stooped her form, and ploughed deep wrinkles in her face; but a fiery, and as yet unquenched spirit of revenge burnt within the emaciated and worn frame of her, who for long, long years had nursed a hate, deep, burning, and passionate, against those who had insulted and derided her family, and robbed the descendants of the famed Con of the Battles of their heritage. 
               All that remained of the building she now occupied was a tall, narrow tower and part of a wall, which had doubtless formed originally the quadrangle of the courtyard, the rude but stately entrance of which had gone to decay; the arch had fallen; the marks and places where hinges and bolts had been alone telling where the gate had once hung. 
               This wreck, for it can be termed little else, situated in the county of Cork, was once the home of the O'Connells. 
               Sheelah O'Connell-such is the name of her around whom the angel of Death was hovering-had never affected state, yet there had been a proud and formal bearing about her in her simple garb of widowhood-a natural stateliness, a twilight haze of time and old memories about her grey head, and a native command in her sunken hazel eyes-which bespoke a natural and conscious dignity, that poverty, misfortune, and grief had indeed failed to subdue. 
               At the time we are about to take a glance at her she is racked with pain, and badly worn by long and acute suffering. 
               Sheelah O'Connell felt that her last hour was approaching: nevertheless, the till living wreck of this ancient house lay silent, gasping, it is true, but not struggling; while yet with a rigid look of defiance she refused to yield to death till the return of her grandson, who, at her departure, would be the last of the O'Connells. 
               In him the whole thoughts of her life had been centered, and as she lay on her sick couch, her ears were on the strain to catch the slightest sound which might betoken the approach of her beloved relative-her grandson, Maurice O'Connell. 
               The room in which the miserable woman lay, awaiting her final summons, was immediately above those at the basement, and which were considered as state chambers. 
               The small apartments above that occupied by the invalid were devoted to the use of her grandson-one as a sleeping chamber, another as a sort of oratory-for it contained a crucifix, an altar-table, and some devotional books, to which a corner was given, where they were preserved in neatness and order; but the walls were hung with old-fashioned implements of the chase. 
               The few books were carelessly piled together on the shelves of a carved worm-eaten cabinet, surmounted by a flagstaff, round which hung, or rather mouldered, the remains of what had been a richly embroidered standard, the silk seemingly held together by the golden thread in which the harp strings were worked, its less perishing nature preserving the form so dear to every Irish heart. 
               The rough beams which composed the floor were furrowed by time. 
               A chest, of the same age and manufacture as the cabinet, and two equally venerable chairs, composed the furniture of the anitque chamber, into which, through a long, narrow window, the moonlight streamed. 
               This room, as well as the others in the old tower, was calculated to excite much sympathy with the past. 
               The chamber of the dying lady was like the apartment of her grandson, dedicated to gone-by and faded things; the lofty bed; from which depended the curtains, or rather the remains of tapestry converted to that use; the coverlet, thin and modern, heavy enough for the sufferer, who could hardly endure its pressure, yet flimsy and cold for winter; tattered carpets and broken chairs; such were the chief articles of use in the dingy and faded apartment. 
               The room in which Sheelah O'Connell lay over-looked the valleys and passes in the district once the territory of the O'Connells. She could hear the murmurs of those few neighbours who watched below, in the chief apartment in the base of the building. 
               Sheelah could afford little money for service, yet she never wanted such rude assistance as the surrounding poor could render. There were always plenty of neighbours and young people who held it a labour of love to run up to the castle to help the "madam;" and now several of her most attached friends had come to watch and "wait," till her spirit had left its earthly tenement. 
               The countenance of the sick woman, although comparatively calm, wore an anxious and painful expression of suspense. 
               Ever and anon her eyes were directed towards a long, narrow window, through which the moonlight streamed, as it lighted up a portion of the rough oak beams which composed the floor with a transient lustre. 
               "An' sure it's not long the young master will be now, I'm thinking-the saints be wid him," said Peggy, the woman who was in attendance upon Mrs. O'Connell. 
               A slight sigh escaped the invalid, and she muttered, in a low tone of voice,- 
               "If the good Father Rolf is fortunate enough to find him." 
               "If," exclaimed Peggy, whose faith was unlimited in the powers of her mistress's priest. "If, indeed! and, bedad, I should like to see the person who Father Rolf could not find when he choose." 
               "How long has he been gone now?" inquired her mistress. 
               Peggy looked at an old-fashioned time-piece on the shelf, which said master-piece of man's handicraft was generally within two hours of the right time, and said,- 
               "Och, and then Lord preserve us, it must be nearly two hours since the father left." 
               "Two hours!" exclaimed the sick woman; "and in two hours more--" 
               She paused suddenly, and muttered something to herself in an inaudible voice. 
                
               "And in less than that time-in less than an hour-Master Maurice will be here," ejaculated Peggy, in a tone of confidence. 
               Her mistress made no reply to this assurance. 
               When, after several more minutes had clapsed, she endeavoured to rise from the couch on which she was lying, and desired her attendant to help her to a large arm chair, which had been placed near the ancient fire-place-then it was, in endeavouring to accomplish this task, that she became aware of the state of weakness and utter prostration to which she found herself reduced. 
               Her limbs trembled, partly from cold, and partly with the exertion of moving, which had shook her attenuated frame. 
               Peggy wheeled the chair up to the great fire, and covered her mistress over with several thick shawls. 
               Nevertheless, the latter still shivered with cold; circulation was all but suspended, save a feeble pulsation around life's last citadel, the heart. 
               Peggy blew the embers of the peat fire, and a ruddy glow was soon observable in the grate. With some sense of comfort therefrom, the sick woman stretched out her thin and wrinkled hands over the mass of burning peat. 
               The attendant ever and anon glanced at her with a sympathising and anxious look; there was that in the countenance of her mistress which spoke of coming dissolution, which might not be immediate, perhaps, but nevertheless promised not to be far distant. 
               Thus did this old woman, like a stranded wreck on the shores of life, wait the coming of that wave which was to wash her to the ocean of eternity. 
               She prayed inaudibly, though not the less fervently, that her grandson, Maurice, might come back ere she had ceased to be of the living things of this earth. 
               Father Rolf, as we have already seen, had started out some two hours previously, in quest of Maurice O'Connell. 
               The priest knew most of the young man's haunts; nevertheless he was some time before he succeeded in finding him, for Maurice was a roving, wayward young man, and in league with numbers of fiery and discontented spirits like himself, who held their meetings in secret places, to plot against the government-that government whose yoke had been so oppressive and hard to bear to the native of Ireland. 
               When Father Rolf did meet with Maurice O'Connell, the latter was in secret converse with several of his companions. 
               The young man stared with unfeigned surprise when his bright eye lighted upon the face of the priest. The conversation between himself and his companions suddenly ceased; and, at a glance from Father Rolf, O'Connell followed the former out of the cave where he and his companions had met. 
               The two walked on in silence for a few minutes, till they proceeded about a hundred yards or so. 
               "Your grandmother," said the priest, sententiously, in answer to an inquiring and significant glance from his companion. 
               The young man crossed himself, bowed his head, and his face became a thought paler. 
               "Maybe she's worse, sir?" he said, in an undertone. 
               "She has sent me to seek you," was the reply to this query. "Maurice! Mistress O'Connell has not many hours, it may be not many minutes, to live." 
               "I did not think she had been so bad as that," exclaimed Maurice, as a scarcely-perceptible shudder passed through his frame. 
               The priest shook his head despondingly, and said quickly,- 
               "Let us not lose moments now so precious; already more than an hour and a half has passed since I left the tower, and your grandmother--" 
               He paused suddenly. 
                
               "Ah! she must want to see me," said Maurice, heaving a deep-drawn sigh, as the remembrance of the great love she had always borne towards him crossed his mind. 
               The two, after this, hastened on in silence. 
               The night was fair. The light clouds that had been floating through the sky were so fleecy and transparent that the stars sparkled amid their folds; there were no heavy, drifting clouds to produce the shadows which so bewilder the eyes at night, and both Maurice and his companion could see the sheep grazing on the hill-side, opposite to the path they were taking. 
               As they were traversing this, Maurice O'Connell uttered a stifling cry, half of surprise and half of fear. 
               The priest turned his face towards him. 
               "There!" said O'Connell. "Did you not hear that?" 
               "What?" inquired Father Rolf. 
               "Whist! Did you see nothing?" 
               "Where?" 
               "Yonder." 
               The young man pointed to a dark and slimy pool of water at some two hundred yards distance from himself and his companion. 
               Father Rolf, looking in the direction, thought he could discern the outline of a misty sort of figure rising out of the vapour from the water. 
               Maurice O'Connell shouted out to the real or imaginary figure. 
               In reply to this, there came a scream, long and loud, as of a woman in trouble. 
               The piercing tones of this scream seemed to freeze his very blood. 
               It was, in fact, a "keen," a regular "ullagawn," long and protracted; first loud, and then dying away, then swelling loud again. 
               Both the priest and his companion looked at each other, and then they turned their gaze towards the dark pool of water. 
               Both declared that they distinctly saw a woman, whose cloak floated behind her, glide along the surface of the water-at least, so it appeared to their excited imagination. 
               Then the figure paused, and they heard the clapping of hands, which by this time seemed to be farther off; or was so faint, that, instead of striking the ear sharply, as the screams had done, it appeared as though the noises were made by some one beneath the earth. 
               Cold drops of perspiration fell from the temples of Maurice O'Connell, and he clasped the arm of his companion convulsively. 
               The figure of the woman still glided on-on-erect and firm, treading where no mortal foot could tread. 
               As it passed them it appeared to be almost transparent-a mere shadow-tossing its spectral arms above its head, while ever and anon the wall, and shriek, fainter and still more faint, seemed fading upon the ear, and soon the strange phantom faded from the eye. 
               "She must now be in the O'Connell keep, sir," said Maurice. 
               "She is gone! but-hark! there is still a distant cry." 
               "Holy mother save and protect us!" 
               "Amen!" responded the priest in a deep voice. 
               "Some poor woman--" 
               "She's no woman," exclaimed Maurice; "least ways not of this earth-saving your presence." 
               "No woman, Maurice? what then?" said Father Rolf. 
               "An' sure now, yer riverence knows better than I do," answered Maurice. "An' sure, if we have not seen a 'Banshee' to night, no man ever saw one." 
               "You are superstitious, Maurice," answered the priest, drawing his breath heavily, "and let your imagination carry you beyond the bonds of common sense." 
               "Ah! I know what I have seen and heard-eyes and ears cannot be deceived," answered the young man. "that wail was for an O'Connell. My mother, the saints protect her! has not long to live afther that." 
               "After what?" 
               Afther the cry of the Banshee: you may be sure, as indeed I was myself, that-pshaw! why its trembling that I am; but its no wonder at that. Maybe we shall be in time." 
               And so saying Maurice O'Connell hastened on once more to the tower wherein lay his dying relative. 
               "Even assuming that the theory were true which your superstitious fears have suggested," said the priest, "you are not sure the cry was for your relative. It might be for some one else." 
               Maurice shook his head. 
               "No, no!" he said reflectively. "They do not wail for every one who passes away-they know better than that; they will cry for the head of an ancient house, though he or she die in a cabin thatched with straw." 
               Father Rolf made no reply. 
               The two continued on their course, and in a short time arrived at the remains of the house of the O'Connells. 
               "The saints be praised, ye have come at last!" exclaimed Peggy, when she caught sight of her young master. 
               "Are we in time?" inquired Maurice. 
               "She's battled bravely against death," said Peggy. "Poor soul! strong of heart, still she holds on till she sees her darling boy. Oh, Masther Maurice, but share she had a hard time of it for the last hour or so." 
               Maurice hastened towards his relative's apartment. 
               Gently opening the door, he crept softly in. 
               Sheelah O'Connell was seated in the chair beside the fire. 
               She looked at her grandson; then on that wrinkled and worn face of her's there came a smile of satisfaction, of recognition, of love, such as the young man had not seen before. 
               In a second or so he was kneeling by her side, and looking up into her face. 
               There was a degree of tenderness in the manner of his grandmother which Maurice did not remember to have experienced before; for much as she had loved her grandson, trouble had iced the surface of her nature, and her ordinary manner had not been like the manner of her country women. 
               She was, however, tender and gentle enough now; so much so, that as she clasped the hot temples of her grandson with her cold and almost fleshless hands, Maurice O'Connell wept like a child. 
               She spoke to him of his father-her own brave, handsome boy, with sunshine in his eyes and the spring of the wild deer in his feet; of his high pure blood glowing through his fair skin-her son, the representative of princes. 
               "But he loved, Maurice-loved!" 
               And as the old lady gave utterance to these words, her voice suddenly altered and its tones were almost approaching to a scream. 
               "He loved, Maurice darling! My Maurice-my son!" 
               She had always called the young man her son, ever since his father had resigned him into her care. 
               "Oh, my boy! what do I leave you now? not houses, wealth, and title-all all are gone! Stand forth, my son, that I may look on the last of our long race." 
               Maurice O'Connell rose up, and drawing a chair towards him, he sat himself down by the side of his grandmother. 
                
               The appearance of pain and anxiety had quite passed away from the old lady's face, which now wore a placid expression. She spoke in her own natural voice. 
               "Maurice," said the old lady, "I leave you nothing but misery; pursue and house are empty of lucre, of land, of title-of all we are robbed of. Listen, my boy-I call you my boy, as though you were my son; but I have brought you up--" 
               "And been more than a mother to me," said Maurice, tenderly. 
               The old woman continued,- 
               "I had hoped that your father would have lived to have joined those who hate the yoke of the oppressor-the Sassanagh-a race who are opposed to us in everything. My son! your father, myself, every one of us, have been reviled and derided; here there is poverty, misery-at Beechcroft, the usurer's home, wealth, ill-gotten wealth. Alas, my son, here there is neither silver nor gold, not purses, not land; nothing remains to the O'Connell but the wide, cold, stranger-world, and the blessings of a crushed and broken-hearted people-kings and princess once-outlawed and insulted now!" exclaimed the old woman, stretching forth her hands. 
               She continued,- 
               "Maurice, be true to your faith; come what may, come what will, never, never think of doing as misguided wretches has done before you! Never think of grasping the hand of our enemies in friendship and good fellowship; and never think of mating with wolves who may devour you. 
               "Be a patriot, my son! be true to your cause! Go, take your father's sword-aye! and my father's carbine-wrap the old flag round your body, and stand by the faith of your fathers! When the time comes, strike!-strike for your country! Remember that you are an O'Connell! There are brawlers, there are discontents, Maurice." 
               "Aye! you are right, mother; with bold hearts and strong arms!" 
               "Be true to one another," exclaimed Sheelah. "Alas, mine eyes are dim, my heart has well-nigh ceased to beat, but I can see the light in your eye, my own proud boy. It is not long I shall be able to do so-not for long-but, above all, Maurice, avoid the Beechcrofts; they have been the curse of our house! And, more than all, avoid that wily sycophant, Matthew Hyssop." 
               "Curses light on him!" exclaimed Maurice. 
               "I have much to tell you-a long arrear of wrongs to recount-part of which you may know, and part of which you may possibly never know. Your father, as I have often told you, wanted to marry one of the Beechcrofts-the aunt of this young man who is coming over to take possession of Beechcroft Court." 
               "Old Beechcroft will die, and then that cursed serpent, Mutthew Hyssop, has the management of the estate," said Maurice. 
               "Ah, a time will come, sooner or later, when a terrible retribution will over take the oppressor. But I will let you know the history of my brave boy-his history-before I depart. It is good that you should know it. As I have said your father-bad luck to the hour he did so-became a frequent visitor at Beechcroft Court; Mrs. Beechcroft, the wife of the old man, who now lives and occupies the mansion, chose to patronize the tenants here about. 
               "She was a woman of the world, with pleasant manners enough, so I have been told, but hollow at heart and false-false as all the rest of her tribe. Her sister, then a blooming young woman, was living at the Hall. I know not how he first became enamoured of her-madly love. Pshaw! it makes the blood mount to my brain when I think of this great folly! For a long time the amour was not discovered by the proud, false, and vindictive Mrs. Beechcroft. It was that human fox, Matthew Hyssop, who first made his mistress acquainted with the fact. 
               "At about this time, there was a visitor at Beechcroft Court. Your father became came very intimate with him-took him to his heart, as a friend. He believed in this man's honesty and integrity. How think you he repaid him?" 
               "I know not," answered Maurice. 
               "Listen! the loved one suddenly disappeared-went abroad-fled and it was about the same time that this very good friend of your father's was missed from Beechcroft. It was currently reported at the same time he married the lady abroad; be this as it may, they were neither of them ever seen again in Ireland." 
               "And my father?" 
               "Was frantic! alas, he loved the woman. He left to seek out and find, if possible, his love. He never did find her. Matthew Hyssop, who no doubt knew where the runaways were, deceived your father by a specious tale, and never returned to this country-I never saw him more. 
               "He died abroad, in a foreign land, too high spirited and proud to return to his native shores." 
               The old woman paused suddenly, and passed her hand across her brow two or three times; memory was busy with the past. 
               Presently she turned her sunken eyes upon her grandson. 
               "Kneel down, Maurice O'Connell, and swear to devote your life to the regeneration of your country. Swear, as you hope for mercy hereafter, that you will true to the good cause, and never rest till our oppressors are exterminated from the land which they have devastated by centuries of misrule." 
               Maurice O'Connell knelt down, and holding up his right hand to heaven, took the required oath. 
               He smiled meaningly as he did so, as though it agreed with one already known to him. 
               Sheelah O'Connell continued,- 
               "Do not rise yet," she said, solemnly; "swear that by no chance of circumstances, that by no unholy and misguided passion, you will ever be led to ally yourself to one of your country's enemies." 
               The young man paused. 
               "Dost thou hear?" screamed forth his aged relative. "You falter." 
               Suddenly an expression passed over the face of the old woman-and expression of conflicting emotions we should find it difficult to describe. 
               It was altogether different to any that had found its way across her features before. 
               "Fear not, mother," said Maurice. "I shall be true to my faith. The Fenians live but for vengeance." 
               "The Fenians!" exclaimed Sheelah O'Connell, in a tone of surprise. 
               "Yes. The Sons of the Sod!" 
               "What of them?" 
               "Hush, hush!" said her grandson, "I am high in the Circle." 
               The old woman burst out into a wild laugh. 
               "You a leader! you, my brave lad? But the oath-the oath." 
               "It is taken." 
               "Not the last-not the last!" screamed the old woman, her voice raised to the highest pitch of wildness. "Swear that by no unholy or misguided passion you will ever be led to ally yourself to one of your country's enemies." 
               The young man hesitated. 
               Just then a scream, long, and piercing, rang through the apartment. 
               Maurice started and cast a hurried glance round the room; his eyes at length rested upon his grandmother. 
               She had fallen back in her chair, her eyes were closed, but her lips were moving. 
                
               He caught her hands in his and chafed them, while, at the same time he placed his ear towards her mouth that he might catch the half-unintelligible words to which she was giving utterance. 
               "You see how I die, remember," muttered the sinking woman. An O'Connell!-all but nameless-a poor, old, blind, dying woman, but still an O'Connell; Maurice, never forget that name, your country, never!" 
               Maurice O'Connell, as he knelt beside his relative, heard the confused murmur of many voices, proceeding from those who watched below. 
               There was a wild wail and clapping of hands; the cry of the "Banshee," that weird and faithful follower who honors antiquity; the voice of sympathy from those in the house filled the castle, and frightened the owls from their nestlings in the ivy. The birds hooted and flapped against the window. 
               The dying woman remained as motionless as a statue. 
               Father Rolf entered the room softly. 
               He crept up to the side of the chair on which she was seated; laying his hand on the shoulder of the young man, he said: 
               "She's passing away." 
               He proceeded then to mutter a prayer. 
               He had not been engaged thus long, when, in a scarcely audible voice, Sheelah said,- 
               "I come!" 
               There was silence for a few moments. 
               They looked into her face; its appearance was unmistakeable. The spirit of the old chieftainess had passed away. 
               Maurice O'Connell burst into a passionate flood of tears. In answer to these, there commenced a wailing below, from those friends who were assembled in the old castle. 
               Peggy, who had left her mistress alone with her young master, now entered the bedroom of the dead woman, accompanied by several friends of the deceased, all of whom set up a howl when they caught sight of the corpse. 
               Father Rolf laid his hand upon Maurice and led him from the chamber of death. 
               In an hour or so afterwards the young man found himself in his own room, alone-quite, quite alone,-his wild spirit at fierce war with circumstances-his hot, high blood beating violently in every vein. 
               He repeated to himself the words, almost the last words, the dead woman had uttered- 
               "That by no unholy and misguided passion you will ever be led to ally yourself with one of your country's enemies." 
               These words seemed to him of an ominous significance. 
               His wild spirit was at fierce war with circumstances. 
               What was he now? 
               With all his pride and achings after station that belongs of right to old descent, he was shut out by then existing laws-shut out by them from nearly every path that led to honorable distinction. 
               He had been brought up like a young eagle by its parent bird, nurtured in the superstitions of a faith to which he clung more closely in misfortune and trouble. 
               Various conflicting emotions shook the mind of young O'Connell. 
               Most of the surrounding gentry believed, or affected to believe, that he was basely born, and though his grandmother's words reassured him, he well knew they would not reassure others, whose minds were so deeply prejudiced that it would be found a hopeless task to convince. 
               Maurice O'Connell had burned for revenge. 
               In Ireland there are hundreds of youths who, like him, thirst for revenge, and believe that they have nothing to hope, except from wild outbursts of violent resistance to the British tyrant. 
               For nearly an hour Maurice paced his chamber, and ever and anon his eyes rested upon the chest which contained the parchments and mouldering documents of his family's feudal honours. 
               His heart was full of hatred and revenge, against-he could not define what. 
               Often and often had Maurice turned over the deeds and parchments in the old carved chest, until he became familiar with their contents, but it needed not to them to point out the ancient boundaries of the forfeited estates. 
               The idea of leaving the old walls was accompanied by so bitter a pang, that he did not venture to think of it a second time. He was overwhelmed by this, his first great sorrow. 
               Death is terrible at all times, and in all places. 
               A sad void is made by the departure of any one who had for years been wont to look upon us with loving eyes. 
               Peggy, who had been a faithful servant in the family for years, had not forgotten her young master; she brought him a lamp and some refreshment. 
               The news that "madam" was dead spread rapidly, and through the night peasants kept arriving within the courtyard, each woman raising the death cry, before she dropped on her knees, at the entrance of the castle. 
               A crucifix hung at the head of the bed, the corpse was decked with the usual black ribbon, and the flaring candles threw a sickly and disordered light upon the features of her who appeared placid and dignified. The priest prayed, and the "keener" assumed her place beside the head of the bed. 
               She was one versed in the history of the family of the O'Connells. 
               If aught had been wanting to arouse the revengeful and evil passions of the men stung by the sense of poverty and degradation, it was her lamentation and recapitulation of Saxon injury and Saxon hatred, which was received as inspired truth by all eager listeners. 
               Even the men, who suffer the women to "keen" as long as they please, without taking note of what they say, now listen attentively, and every time her voice sank there was a chorus of wrathful comments. 
               "Wisha, hear that now!" 
               "Well, she knows all." 
               "It is all true." 
               "Boys, how do you ever stand it? to be put upon as we are!" 
               "Well, the saints protect us, we'll bide out time!" 
               The woman whose duty it was to "keen" commenced with the usual question,- 
               "Why did ye die? 
               "Why did ye die, dark-haired daughter of kings? 
               "Why did ye leave your castle, the only castle where there still lived an O'Connell, who now calls on thee, on the loud echoes of the broad river? 
               "Who fishes the burning waters? Whose banner now floats over the castle walls?-ah! woe and wail! 
               "The echoes will not repeat the cursed Saxon name! The waters are dark from the shadow of the thick trees, and the salt from the tears shed by the enslaved of her noble race. Why did you leave your land? 
                "Hark, how her spirit laughs. 
               "My land? What land?" 
               "The child of an O'Connell, the widow of an O'Connell, the mother of an O'Connell has no land. They have taken and spoilt them." 
               While all this was going on, Maurice O'Connell sat in the adjoining apartment, in gloomy and melancholy silence and abstraction, alone in his own room. 
               He had placed the lamp which Peggy had brought him in the fire-place, for the room was light enough, as the silver moonlight crept in from the lattice window. 
               Maurice sat down beside an old oak table; leaning his head on his hand, he bent his eyes down to the old oaken flooring He had not remained thus long, before the became aware of some shadow crossing the room. 
               His race had for centuries been deemed superstitious. 
               The young man started at this shadow, and still more so, when he found a hand laid softly on his shoulder-a woman's hand, it would appear, for he looked up, and found a gentle face looking into his own. 
               The woman, who gazed intently on him, was very beautiful. 
               Her eyes were dark and piercing; but, when she chose, they were soft, sympathetic, and, at times, voluptuous; her complexion was a clear olive, and her hair black as the raven's wing. 
               She was very beautiful-indeed she was more than this. 
               She possessed that grace of manner and winning ways that might captivate the heart of any man; nevertheless, by some intuitive instinct, if it could be so termed, he recoiled from her touch. 
               The woman looked at him in some surprise. 
               She said gently, and in hurried accents,- 
               "Mr. Maurice, a deep shadow has come across your house; pardon me-but perhaps I have been over zealous-I intrude?" 
               The young Irishman stammered something, he hardly knew what; something apologetic, at the same time reassuring. 
               She laid her hand, which was a soft as satin, on his, and said gently- 
               "You need not sympathy, but I have made bold enough to intrude upon your privacy, to assure you no one commiserates with your great loss more than Marian Ingledew." 
               She placed her hands on his temples, pressed them, and murmured some inarticulate words, which the young man took to be sort of blessing. 
               Then, before he had time to recover from his surprise, she had glided from the apartment. 
               "Marian Ingledew," he repeated to himself, and then he gave a sort of start, as a fugitive thought rushed through his brain. 
               It would have been difficult for him to define the nature of that thought; it was a troublesome one, without a doubt, for he rose from his seat, and paced the room with a restless and impatient stride. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                  BEECHCROFT COURT. THE INCENDIARY. THE DEATH OF SQUIRE BEECHCROFT. THE FALSELY ACCUSED. 
                
               NOT many miles distant from the ruined building where Mrs. O'Connell's spirit had passed away, stood the stately and palatial mansion known as Beechcroft Court. 
               It was a noble pile, of comparatively recent structure, and was altogether different in its character to the home of the O'Connells, having all the comforts of an English noblemans seat in his own country, which is saying a great deal. 
               Beechcroft contained acres and acres of well-cultivated ground: hills and dales, wood and water. 
               It will be necessary for us to describe, as briefly as may be, its present occupants. 
                
               Mrs. Beechcroft had been dead for some years before the opening of our tale. 
               Old Mr. Beechcroft-he was old now,-had never married again. 
               In the main, he was a well disposed man, but crotchety; and since he had resided on his own estate in Ireland, he had become still more so. 
               He was a magistrate, and a great stickler for seeing the "law carried out." If a man was convicted he only looked to the letter of the volumes of Blackstone and Chitty. 
               We need hardly say that in this he was not singular, as far as English landlords were concerned. 
               He was however, comparatively just, or endeavored to be so; but he gave too attentive an ear to his steward and managing man, Matthew Hyssop, who lived on the estate, and had all but entire control over the numerous tenantry. 
               Hyssop was a mild-spoken, smooth tongued rascal,-as wily and cunning as a fox, as mean and grasping as the most flinty usurer. 
               By his hypocricy and servile manners, he succeeded in getting into the good graces of his master, who unfortunately placed implicit reliance upon him. 
               "Hyssop knows more about the Skullogues (small farmers) than any man in the country," was a remark frequently made by old Mr. Beechcroft. 
               Hyssop did know a great deal more than his master in the ways of the world, that is, as far as hard dealing and chicanery was concerned. 
               The rogue, too, was plausible and sanctified, and was generally on good terms with all the English landlords-was quoted as an authority, and his words repeated as those of a far-seeing man. 
               But enough of this worthy. 
               As he is destined to play a conspicuous part in our tale, we will let him speak for himself as the story progresses. 
               Clever as Hyssop unquestionably was in many things, he had never been able to deceive Mr. Beechcroft's housekeeper, who never could "a-bear the whining sycophant," as she termed him. 
               The character of Mrs. Challice, the housekeeper, was directly the reverse of the steward's. 
               She was open, frank, generous and warm-hearted. An English woman by birth, yet her sympathies were, to a considerable extent, enlisted on behalf of many of the oppressed tenantry of Ireland; and often and often had she presumed to intercede for some of them to her master, who eventually told her to mind her own business-attend to her housekeeping, and not interfere with things a woman cannot understand. 
               Nevertheless, Mrs. Challice, when her master was in a good humor, would at times have her say; like many of her sex, she must speak her mind if she were to die for it. 
               There was another inmate of Beechcroft Court-one whose gentle nature and loving face cast a sunshine around. 
               Her merry, laughing, joyous manner cheered old Mr. Beechcroft, and her kind disposition so won the esteem, respect and love of all her neighbors, that, for miles and miles around, the name of Alice Beechcroft was known and respected. 
               She was the adopted daughter of the Beechcrofts, and was but a child when she first came to the hall, her large blue eyes beaming with intelligence: even at that time she used to canter round the country on the back of her ragged mountain pony. 
               As she grew older, her habits of observation strengthened, and she knew every cottage, and the inmates of every habitation in the wild glens through which she rode. 
               The ragged half-naked children would watch and hurrah when they caught sight of the first wave of her plumed hat, for Alice usually had a little basket slung to her saddle, freighted, if not with halfpence (which she used to coax from Mr. Beechcroft), with small cakes, and rolls of thin oaten bread; and, if the larder afforded nothing better, crusts and fragments of brown bread. 
               If anyone was ill, Alice was certain to convey wine and medicine, and not unfrequently articles of clothing, which she used very little ceremony in appropriating for benevolent purposes. 
               Visiting the poor in this way, seeing their wretchedness with the clear, sympathizing eye of youth-observing their patience under deep affliction-it was not to be wondered at that her name should become a household word in many an Irish cabin. 
               Alice had an intuitive dislike to Matthew Hyssop, even when a child. 
               Perhaps this was one reason why Mr. Beechcroft did not take kindly to her when she first became an inmate of the Hall; gradually, however, she won upon him, and after the death of his wife she became a great source of comfort to him. 
               We must all of us have something upon which we can place our affections, and human love is the greatest source of human joys. 
               As years flew by, Mr. Beechcroft's attachment to her seemed to strengthen with the advance of time. 
               Alice had nearly attained her eighteenth year, when she met with her first serious trouble; what that was we shall presently see 
               Mr. Beechcroft was seated in his library. 
               On the table before him there were numbers of documents, leases, and papers of various sorts. 
               Leaning forward in his easy chair, he took up several of these, one after another, and rain his eye over their contents. 
               At the farther end of the room, was a man verging towards the meridian of life, if not past it. 
               It would have been difficult to guess which, for, to look at the face of this personage, you would imagine that he never could have been young. 
               The features could not be called irregular, or positively ugly, but there was an expression in them that at once produced an unfavourable impression. 
               This man was Matthew Hyssop. 
               Both master and man were silent, but the latter watched the expression of his superior's features with a lynx-like and sinister look. Long habit had taught him to read the thoughts of Mr. Beechcroft almost at a glance. 
               The old gentleman adjusted his spectacles, and ran his eye more carefully over one document than he had any of the preceding ones. 
               Presently he looked up, and glanced towards the steward. 
               "Ah, there is something I wanted to ask you, Hyssop," Mr. Beechcroft said, hesitatingly. "It is respecting these O'Gradys." 
               Hyssop made a sort of obeisance, and put on one of those mild and injured looks which he was so wont to indulge in, whenever an inquiry was made respecting a refractory tenant. 
               "Yes, sir" he said inquiringly. "the O'Gradys?" 
               He then shook his head. 
               "They did not pay their rent, I know." 
               "No, sir." 
               "In fact, were always behind hand." 
               "Yes." 
               There was a short pause. 
               "They never would pay their rent,-not when the old man was alive." 
               "Ahem-no! and affairs were worse after his death, I believe?" 
               "Ah!" sighed Hyssop, casting his eyes demurely up to the ceiling; "I am sure they have had lenity enough shown them, more than they had any right to expect." 
                
               "You think so?" 
               "I am sure of it, Mr. Beechcroft. I do not like to say anything to injure any one. I trust you will do me the justice to believe that?" 
               His master nodded an acquiescence to this proposition, and said: 
               "You know that this young man is to be tried to-morrow, and-and it will be my duty to take the depositions, and give evidence against him. He really does bear a bad character, I suppose?" 
               The steward sighed. 
               "Bad, indeed." 
               "What sort of a son is he?" 
               The steward shook his head. 
               "Have you nothing to say in his favour?-nothing that will justify me in recommending him to mercy?" 
               "All three of the sons bear bad characters. It would be hard to say which is the worst," said Mr. Hyssop. 
               "We ejected the widow from the farm some time since?" 
               "Yes, sir. I had a tolerably good offer for it, and if you remember, I consulted you--" 
               "Yes, I recollect; and we accepted the offer of the present tenant." 
               "Since then the young O'Gradys have been running a lawless career. I have been maligned and insulted, but that is nothing, I have been used to it. But you yourself--" 
               "Yes, I remember-about ten months since." 
               "And I'm sure I have done all that had been possible to turn the hearts of these sinful young men, but, alas! in vain. I would fain have plucked them like a brand from the burning. I have placed in their hands several excellent tracts; have stretched out the hands of charity towards them; but it has all been in vain-all in vain. They have threatened to burn, to destroy, and devastate your property. Ah, the ingatitude of man!" exclaimed the steward, lifting up his hands in pious horror. 
               "From the evidence, there cannot be any doubt about the guilt of Dennis O'Grady," said Mr. Beechcroft, as he ran his eyes over the depositions he held in his hand, and which he had been perusing for the last half hour or so. "That will do now, Hyssop." 
               The steward departed. 
               On the morning following this conversation, Mr. Beechcroft's carriage was ordered to be got ready, for the sessions were on within a few miles of his residence, and a heavy batch of prisoners were to be tried. 
               Amongst them was the young man, Dennis O'Grady, who was charged with incendiarism and murder. 
               It appeared that, after the ejection of his mother from the farm she, or rather her husband, had rented of Mr. Beechcroft, he and several of his companions had set fire to the residence of the new tenant. The house, granary, stacks-all were burnt to the ground; and, worse than all, an old woman, and an infant of about two years old, perished in the flames. 
               Mr. Beechcroft was not in the best of spirits when he rose on the morning of the first day of the session. 
               Gathering the papers together, he placed them in readiness for his departure, and then proceeded to read the list of prisoners to be tried, which had been furnished him by the clerk of the session house, some two or three days previous. 
               He heard Alice carolling like a lark, and a smile passed over the features of the master of Beechcroft as he heard the voice of his ward and adopted child. 
               He descended into the breadfast room; Alice ran forward, put out her arms, and placing them round his shoulders, gave him the customary kiss upon his first appearance in the morning. He returned her kiss with more than usual warmth, breakfasted, and in less than half an hour his coachman was driving him to the sessions house. 
               It is not our intention to describe the various cases that were tried; it is enough for our purpose to learn that Dennis O'Grady was convicted, upon the clearest evidence. 
               Mr. Beechcroft had taken the dying depositions of the old woman, who had perished some few hours after she had been rescued from the flames. 
               Her testimony was the main cause of the culprit's conviction; she had seen him from her window with a lighted brand in his hand, firing several portions of the building. 
               Mr. Beechcroft read her evidence, and added his own testimony respecting those facts which had come to his knowledge. 
               The verdict was guilty, and the sentence death! 
               After one or two more cases, the court rose, and Mr. Beechcroft betook himself to a neighbouring hotel, to dine with several of his brother magistrates. 
               It was not till the shadows of night crept over the surface of the earth that the master of Beechcroft prepared to take his departure. 
               There had been a somewhat noisy discussion and argument in the chief room of th hotel, respecting the cases of the day; in this most present had joined. 
               Mr. Beechcroft wished his friends good night, and flung himself into his carriage, being fairly worn out by the fatigues of the day. 
               The vehicle rolled on, lumbering over the uneven roads, and jolting its inmate. They were so bad that occasionally the coachman had to pull up; his master was wondering as he did so how it was that he had not observed the irregularity of the roads in the morning. 
               A small light was burning within the carriage, so that the inmate of the same, whoever he might be, could read, should he feel so disposed. Mr. Beechcroft was in too disturbed a state of mind to do so then. 
               The incidents of the day seemed to have trouble him; he thought of the time when he first came to Ireland, and regretted that he had ever been induced to choose it as a place to live in. Then his thoughts meandered off to his early days-to his wife, to her sister, and Alice. 
               What could all this mean? He was not usually thus meditative. a presentiment of ill-a foreshadowing of some unusual change-seemed to cross his path. 
               Hark! what was that? 
               A distant cry! 
               It is answered. 
               "Pshaw!" exclaimed Mr. Beechcroft. "Some chance wayfarer. I am as nervous and frightened as a child." 
               The carriage rolled on more evenly now. It was passing through a wood, the trees of which had been felled some dozen years before, and a road made. He saw the shadows of the trees which had been left, cross the road, like sorrow crossing joy. 
               He was looking at these, when all of a sudden there was a violent crash-a terrible jolting, which sent the inmate of the carriage forward and then suddenly back, with a violence which threatened to dislocate his shoulder, or break his collar bone. The carriage was all but overturned; in fact, Mr. Beechcroft found it difficult, if not impossible, to keep his seat. In another second or so the door was opened, and the face of a man was visible. 
               Mr. Beechcroft was by nature a brave man, but the sight of this apparition appalled him. 
               He knew, or guessed from what he had heard, that the man before him was a Fenian. 
                
               For a moment or so, neither spoke. The magistrate was too much astonished, to gasp out even a sentence or two, and the intruder watched him with an eye of firm determination. 
               The landholder had until now disbelieved in the increasing signs of existence of the champions of Erin. 
               "Maybe ye'll be afther getting out," said the man, after a pause. 
               "Ahem-the carriage has broken down?" said the magistrate. 
               The man said nothing, but offered his arm to help out the magistrate, who, however, still hesitated. 
               "Samuel-Samuel! What is the matter?" he said, endeavouring to call the attention of his coachman. 
               "There is no Samuel here," answered the other-"and none wanted. Get out at once. 
               This was spoken in a tone of command. 
               Mr. Beechcroft did as he was desired. 
               In another moment he was beside his own carriage, in the road. He then perceived that the axle-tree was broken, but he could discern no coachman. 
               A chilly sensation came over him-a terrible foreboding. 
               Beside the man who had first arrested his attention, there were two others. 
               "What is the meaning of this?" inquired Mr. Beechcroft, sharply. "Do you know who I am?" 
               "Mr. Beechcroft," answered the first man. "You are wanted." 
               And without saying any more, the landholder found himself in the firm grasp of two of his strange assailants. 
               He was dragged forcibly among the road leading through the wood. 
               The spot was a lonely one, and a shudder passed through the frame of the magistrate. 
               After proceeding along for some yards, he had a little recovered from his first surprise; then it was that he made a desperate effort to free himself, but it was in vain. He found himself in the grasp of two determined and athletic men, who were bent upon carrying out their purpose. 
               What that was, Mr. Beechcroft had yet to learn. 
               The three-the prisoner-and his two captors walked on. Diverging from the road, Mr. Beechcroft was led into a narrow pathway, which was a beaten track through the forest. As he proceeded along this, he found himself being conducted into the gloomy recesses of the wood. 
               The silver moonlight no longer lit up the form of his companions, who marched him on in gloomy silence. 
               There was something appalling in this unbroken silence-unbroken by any other sound but the soft tread of their feet on the grass, and occasionally the scream of some strange bird, which had been scared from its hiding-place by the intrusion of strangers in that deserted locality. 
               They proceeded along the narrow path for a considerable distance, until they came to a small open glade in the wood, where several of the trees had been felled, and which at some time or other had doubtless been used as an encampment for gypsies, or tramps. 
               Here they paused. 
               Mr. Beechcroft found himself suddenly brought to full stop; glancing around his eye lighted upon a mound of fresh-turned earth; beside this there was a yawning pit, or sort of grave. As his glance fell upon this, his companions gave a satisfactory grunt-it could be called nothing else, and one hummed over 
                     "Rowl away, me b'ys, we'll clear the way so plisantly!"
                  
                
               Mr. Beechcroft looked inquiringly at them. 
                
               They made no reply, but pointed to the mouth of the pit, which had evidently been but recently made. 
               "What am I brought here for? What would you?' inquired the magistrate. 
               "Make your peace with God!" answered one of the men solemnly. 
               A new and terrible feeling of fear came over Mr. Beechcroft. 
               "What am I brought here for?" he again inquired. 
               "To die!" answered the man who had previously spoken. 
               "Wretches! Monsters! You will not-you dare not-" 
               The three men burst into a loud and mocking laugh. "Dare!" they repeated. "Ah, ah!" 
               And again they relapsed into another laugh, which grated harshly on the ears of their prisoner. "Come!" said one of them, "we are wasting time. Make your peace with God. We are merciful, as you see." 
               The magistrate shuddered-an icy sensation crept over him. 
               "Scoundrels! what would you?" he again inquired. 
               "You are brought here to die! Your last hour has come! You are doomed to meet the vengeance of those too long down-trodden!" 
               As the man uttered this last sentence, Mr. Beechcroft felt all his hopes of mercy fade before his eyes. He was in an unfrequented part of the wood, with three remorseless men. 
               "Listen!" said the man who had first spoken. "You have turned the widow from her home-you have cast her and her sons upon the wide world, penniless, and without a roof to cover them-one you have this day murdered." 
               "Murdered?" 
               "Yes, all but murdered. Dennis O'Grady is condemned to death. Who has been the cause of this? You-you! flinty-hearted, merciless landlord as you are? Behold!" exclaimed the man, placing his hand upon Mr. Beechcroft's coat, and dragging him fiercely towards the recently dug pit, he said, in a voice of thunder,- 
               "Behold your grave!" 
               Mr. Beechcroft's features turned suddenly of a ghastly hue; in spite of himself his knees knocked together and he trembled from head to foot. He suddenly disengaged himself from the grasp of his assailant, drew a revolver from his coat pocket, and present it at the head of the man. 
               "Wretch! Monster!" exclaimed Mr. Beechcroft. "Is it for this-for this that I have been brought hither? Help! Help! Murder!" He screamed out the last three words in so loud a tone, that his voice woke up the echoes of the lonely forest. Still covering the man with his pistol, Mr. Beechcroft stood on his guard. His assailant did not move an inch; he did not even condescend to make any immediate reply. Presently he said, in a perfectly unmoved manner,- 
               "You are brought here to die!" 
               Mr. Beechcroft levelled the pistol, drew the trigger-a sight report was heard, but the Son of Freedom stood before him uninjured. 
               Exasperated at this, the magistrate flung the pistol at the head of the man. It struck him on the temple, he staggered for a moment, and then recovering himself, he sprang upon his assailant with a how! more like a wild beast, than anything like a sound proceeding from a human throat. So sudden had been his spring, that Mr. Beechcroft was nearly prostrated to the earth. He was, however, a strong man, although advanced in years; and he knew that he was fighting for his life-dear to us all, at any time and under any circumstances. He made a desperate, and almost superhuman effort to throw his antagonist. 
               For the space of several minutes the two men writhed like serpents; their limbs entwined together and their hot breath falling on each other's faces. 
               The magistrate was overmatched; his antagonist was a much younger and stronger man; nevertheless despair and desperation lent an unexpected strength to the elder of the two. 
               The Fenian had received a wound in his forehead, from the butt end of the pistol which had been thrown at him in the onset of the engagement. 
               This gave the magistrate a slight advantage; but fighting desperately as he was then, he felt that there were two other persons, who would doubtless fulfil the purpose they were bent upon, did he succeed in obtaining the mastery of the antagonist he was engaged with. 
               All this flashed across his mind; nevertheless he struggled on. 
               One of the companions came forward to assist his confederate, who told him not to interfere. 
               He did this from his principle of fair play, as he was desirous of fighting out the battle single handed. 
               The man drew back, and remained passive, as he watched the issue of the deadly struggle in an impassible and imperturbable manner. 
               Soon after this, the boot of the Irishman struck against a mound of earth; as this occurred, Mr. Beechcroft struck him in the face with his clenched fist. 
               It was a well directed blow, and levelled the man to the earth; but he rose immediately, his face covered with blood. 
               His two companions with their innate justice could not refrain from giving a murmur of applause at the pluck of the old man. 
               This seemed to act as an incentive to their companion, who once more sprang upon his antagonist with another howl. 
               Another desperate struggle ensued. 
               Poor Mr. Beechcroft felt that his strength was beginning to leave him; nevertheless, he still made a desperate struggle for his life. 
               In early life he had been a tolerably good wrestler, and the probability is, that had he been called upon to enter into a conflict of this description some five and twenty years back he would have been found more than a match for his antagonist. 
               As it was, his position soon proved to be a hopeless one. 
               His assailant succeeded in throwing him, and before the magistrate had time to recover himself, he found the Fenian's knee upon his chest, and his eyes glaring savagely and looking mercilessly into his own. 
               When in this position he shouted for help. 
               Alas! no voice was heard in answer to this cry. 
               After this there was a pause-a terrible and fearful pause-which was more appalling to the magistrate than the struggle he had been engaged in. 
               The man, when he had first attacked Mr. Beechcroft, had had in the belt which encircled his waist two large pistols; they had fallen out in the struggle. 
               He placed his hand on the belt and uttered a grunt of dissatisfaction; then he felt in the hind pocket of his coat. 
               Mr. Beechcroft saw all his movements; for although the moonlight did not find its way into every part of the glade, there was sufficient light for both to see the actions of each other. 
               The Irishman drew from the pocket of his coat a clasp knife. 
               As the magistrate saw this, a sickening sensation crept over him. 
               He judged that he was about to be murdered in cold blood. 
               To move was impossible; the whole weight of the man was pressing against his chest. 
               Mr. Beechcroft gave himself up for lost. 
               The last act of the tragedy was about to be performed. 
               Mr. Beechcroft, however, succeeded in drawing up one of his legs in such a position, that, by a little finesse, he would be able to bring it to bear upon the other. 
                
               In another minute he accomplished the task, and kicking out his foot, he sent the victor backwards with terrible force. 
               In another moment Mr. Beechcroft was on his legs. 
               He drew his other pistol from his coat pocket, leveling it at the Fenian as he was rising, and fired without effect. The charges of both weapons had been withdrawn in the earlier portion of the day. 
               Grasping the barrel of the weapon, Mr. Beechcroft rushed upon his antagonist, and struck at him with the butt end of his pistol. 
               The man received the blow on his upraised arm, and, grasping the magistrate with his other hand, he twisted him round and endeavoured to throw him. 
               Mr. Beechcroft struck at him repeatedly with his pistol, and inflicted several severe wounds. 
               The magistrate had been well nigh exhausted; but as the two other men had not interfered, he was under the impression that if he succeeded in overcoming his present antagonist, there might be a probability of his eventually effecting his escape; or, at any rate, coming to some terms with the others. 
               This thought endowed him with new courage, and, much to the surprise of the Irishman, his antagonist seemed to have regained his strength, just at the time when he would have supposed it to have left him altogether. 
               "You murderous rascal!" exclaimed the magistrate, now speaking for the first time since the commencement of the conflict. "You murderous rascal! the hangman is waiting for you!" 
               As he said this, he struck again at the head of the Fenian, who seemed to be rendered perfectly furious by the words he had spoken, more than his actions. 
               "The hangman!" he repeated, as he sprang forward, and, heedless of the blow which Mr. Beechcroft inflicted, he would his arms round the magistrate's body, fairly lifted him off his legs, and flung him to the earth. 
               In another moment the unfortunate Mr. Beechcroft found himself again pinned to the earth by the knee of his antagonist, who pressed his two hands on his throat, and endeavoured to throttle him. 
               All efforts were now useless. 
               In vain did Mr. Beechcroft struggle, or endeavor to struggle, for he had no chance of doing so now; nevertheless he grasped both the wrists of the victor, and succeeded in removing his hands from his throat. 
               The magistrate again shouted out for help. 
               Alas! none came. 
               He saw the Fenian take his knife; taking hold of it with one hand, as he held his antagonist's hands with his other, he coolly proceeded to open the blade of the knife with his teeth. 
               When the magistrate saw this, he pleaded for mercy; no reply was made to this appeal-the blade was open, and it gleamed above the prostrate man, who closed his eyes in agony. 
               In another minute the blade descended-it was sheathed in the breast of Mr. Beechcroft, but did not inflict a mortal wound. Striking against the breast bone, it inflicted a deep flesh wound, and glanced off. Again and again, the deadly weapon descended. The unfortunate man, who lay prostrate at the mercy of his ruthless assailant, groaned, in anguish; he uttered one long, last cry. The weapon descended again-the life blood spirted forth, even in the face of the murderer. 
               A convulsive and spasmodic motion crept over the limbs and body of Mr. Beechcroft-and then a dead silence. 
               The three looked at one another. The dead man-for he was dead now-lay with his marble face turned upwards towards the sky. 
               The slayer watched the dead body of his victim for a few minutes; there was no motion, no indication of life. Slowly rising, he gathered in his hand some blades of tall, dark grass, and calmly wiped the blood from his weapon; closing the blade he returned the knife to his pocket. 
               He looked ghastly enough himself, with his blood-bedabbled face. 
               Some degree of pity found its way into the hearts of his two companions, for they turned their faces from the body, crossed themselves, and muttered some broken sentences in the Irish tongue. 
               There was a pause after this. 
               The executioner came to the side of his companions, pointed to the dead body and the grave. 
               They seemed to understand his meaning, for they both went to the side of the dead body, beside which was a dark pool of blood. 
               One of them stooped down and looked into the face of the dead man, placed his hand on the region of the heart, and then looked up at his comrades. 
               The slayer again pointed to the grave, then, stooping down, he placed his hands under the shoulders of the corpse and lifted him slightly up. 
               The other two laid hold of the legs. 
               The body was then lifted up, and the two bearers of it walked slowly towards the grave, which was situated at about thirty yards distant from where Mr. Beechcroft met his death. 
               While they were thus engaged, a distant sound met their ears. 
               They paused in their work, and listened attentively. 
               The sound still continued, and appeared now to be more distant 
               It was the tramp of horses' feet. 
               The two dropped the body, and looked inquiringly at one another 
               "Whist!-what is that?" said one 
               "Some one coming along the road." 
               "Bad luck to them, whoever they may be," answered one. "Our work is but half done. They might let us give him decent burial." 
               The man who was not engaged in removing the body, crept slowly along the pathway which had led to the glade. 
               For a moment he listened. 
               "Whist! Bedad-but some one's coming," he exclaimed. "Sure, it's like enough they might have heard him cry-hark! What is that?" 
               An expression of alarm was visible upon the features of the two who had borne the body. 
               They glanced round the glade, in a state of uncertainity as to what they had best do. 
               "Horses' feet! and coming nearer-nearer!" exclaimed their companion. 
               "It is," confirmed another. 
               "The patrol!" "Or the light horse." 
               "How many of them?" inquired the slayer. 
               "Can't tell," was the brief rejoinder. 
               "They're coming closer." 
               "No time is to be lost." 
               "An' sure we might have time to hide this ugly corpse; an' a nice dacent grave dug for it already-" 
               "Fly!-Fly!" exclaimed the man on the look out, in a hoarse whisper. 
               "An' sure now, mayen't we be reasonable?" 
               "Fly!" was again repeated. 
               This time, however, it was uttered in a tone of alarm. 
               His two companions did not wait for further bidding. 
               They were soon lost in the gloom of the forest, and in a minute or so their companions followed. 
               They were quite right in their surmise. 
               There was a sound of horses' feet coming along the road which ran through the wood. 
                
               The noise proceeded from the scrubby pony, which bore upon his back sweet Alice Beechcroft. 
               Alice had ordered the animal to be saddled late in the afternoon. 
               After cantering over the neighbouring lanes, a bright idea occurred to her-she would ride on the road to the sessions-house, and meet her guardian on his way home. 
               After the three brethren had beat a retreat, the footsteps of her steed might have been heard more distinctly, as she passed the footpath which led to the scene where the deed of blood had been consummated. 
               She then trotted on till she came to the broken-down carriage of her relative. 
               The horses had been taken out by some one-probably a passing peasant-and were grazing quietly enough in a field opposite, their harness still on them, with the curb-rein unloosed. 
               Alice's little heart beat audibly against her ribs as she caught sight of the broken carriage and truant horses. 
               Neither coachman nor her foster-father were visible-not a soul was to be seen. 
               "What could have become of them?" was the first question she put to herself. 
               Possibly some other conveyance had been obtained, and perhaps one of the servants would be despatched to bring back the carriage. 
               It did not dawn upon the mind of the guileless girl that a terrible and fearful outrage, ending in murder, had been enacted. 
               She looked round for some one of whom she might inquire respecting the cause of the accident,-but no one was to be seen. 
               She had reined up her little pony, who stood with his ears pricked forward, as though he would fain be made acquainted with the events of that terrible night. 
               While Alice was hesitating what to do, she heard the sound of horses' feet. 
               The sound appeared to be far off, but was gradually becoming more distinct. 
               She deemed it better to wait. In the course of a very few minutes she came to the conclusion that she had acted wisely in doing so; for she observed, coming along the road, several figures on horseback. As they came nearer, she could make out, by aid of the moon's light, that they were British soldiers. An involuntary cry escaped her lips as she made this discovery. When within hail she called out to them; they pulled up, and walked their horses to the spot where she stood. The officer who commanded them raised his hat respectfully, and said:- 
               "Miss Beechcroft!-and alone! Surely, nothing has happened-" 
               Alice pointed to the broken-down carriage; the officer's face wore a serious lock. 
               Alice then directed his attention to the horses in the neighbouring field. 
               "An accident, no doubt," said the officer. 
               Handing the reins of his steed to one of his men, he dismounted, and proceeded to make a careful examination of the dead man's carriage. 
               "The axle-tree is broken, Miss Beechcroft, no wonder they could not proceed. And yet it is strange the horses should have been turned out to grass, when Mr. Beechcroft's coachman might have had them led home." 
               This same thought had entered the mind of Alice some minutes previously. 
               She turned slightly pale-some undefined fear crept over her. 
               "Mr. Beechcroft has not returned home, I presume?" said the officer, noticing the change of countenance in the young and beauteous girl. 
               "Oh, dear no." 
               "Quite sure?" 
               "I came to meet him." 
               "How long is it since you left Beechcroft last, Miss Alice?" was his next inquiry. 
                
               "It must be at least two or three hours since." 
               "Ah, then, we have little to fear. Very possibly Mr. Beechcroft is home by this time; but it is now getting late. Will you accept of an escort back to the hall?" 
               "Thank you, I need not trouble you." 
               "Yes, but--" 
               "Oh, I never fear riding out, however late," answered Alice, with a sweet smile." 
               "We are going part of your way," said the officer, "and we may as well travel together for a while." 
               As he said this, he gently pulled the bridle-rein of Miss Beechcroft's pony, and drew the animal by the side of his own horse; then he and Alice took the lead, the men following. 
               They only walked their horses, so that they might be the better able to converse. 
               Thus they continued till they came to that part of the road which led to the wood. 
               They had not proceeded very far along this road when Alice Beechcroft again turned suddenly pale, and the hand which held the rein of her pony trembled slightly. 
               "You are giving way to some imaginary fear, Miss Beechcroft, said her companion, in a tone of sympathy; a fear which I am sure is groundless. What is it, my dear young lady?" 
               "I thought as I came along the road that I heard a cry; but perhaps I am mistaken. I did not take much notice of it at the time, but now-now-" 
               "What sort of a cry was it?" 
               "I can hardly tell you. It seemed to proceed from the wood. I concluded that it was some one calling to a friend or companion." 
               By this time the party of horsemen had arrived at the entrance to the bye footpath, along which the unfortunate Mr. Beechcroft had been compelled to take his way. 
               The officer turned his gaze in the direction of this pathway, and made some observation to one of his men, which was not heard by Alice Beechcroft. 
               On this pathway there were marks of recent footsteps, for the earth was moist, and received the impression of the foot. 
               The officer drew the rein of his horse a little tighter, and brought him to all but a standstill. 
               He was by this time immediately opposite the pathway in question. 
               Suddenly his countenance changed in its expression; there was a small object lying beneath one of the trees. 
               It was a glove! 
               The soldiers were ordered to halt, and their leader dismounted. 
               "What-what is the matter, sir?" inquired Alice, in a tone of alarm. 
               "Nothing," he answered, carelessly. "Pardon me for a moment." 
               He walked on till be came to the foot of the tree where lay the glove; he picked it up-it was a gentleman's glove. 
               As he placed his hand upon it, he observed the eyes of Alice Beechcroft watching him intently. 
               She uttered a slight scream. 
               Uncertain what to do, he hesitated. 
               His first thought was to conceal it from her, but upon second consideration, he put a bold face upon the matter; so he said, carelessly:- 
               "Some one has been along this road, that is certain enough, for, whoever it may be, they have lost a glove. 
               "Let me look at it?" said Alice. 
               The glove was handed to her. 
                
               She gave a scream, and exclaimed,- 
               "It is Mr. Beechcroft's glove!" 
               "Are you sure?" inquired the officer. 
               "Quite certain!" 
               "How do you know?" 
               "It is one of the pair he put on this morning. See, here is the maker's name, at Limerick!" 
               As she said this, she slipped off her horse, and walking up to the side of the officer, said,- 
               "We will walk along this path. Perhaps-perhaps my guardian and protector may have lost his way." 
               "Nay, you stay here," answered her companion. "I will penetrate into the forest, and return and let you know the result of my exploration." 
               "You must pardon me, but I would rather go as well," answered Alice. 
               "Nay, but see, the path is so dull and gloomy-not fit for a young lady like yourself to explore." 
               "I would rather go," said Alice, firmly. 
               "You are a bold young lady," answered the officer, half in astonishment and half in admiration of her courage; for the path looked uninviting enough. 
               He beckoned to one of his men, who was a corporal, and by his motion desired him to dismount. 
               The man was by his side in the space of a minute or so. 
               "Tell them to wait till we return, and you can go with us," said the officer. 
               The corporal touched the peak of his hat, did as he had been desired, and then returned. 
               The three then proceeded on, the officer first, Miss Alice following, and lastly the corporal. 
               We must now return to that spot which has been the scene of so terrible a tragedy. 
               The authors had made good their retreat. 
               Soon after they had fled so precipitately, the footsteps of a solitary passenger might have been heard by a well practised ear, threading the mazes of the wood. 
               He was a young man, with dark hair, and black piercing eyes; his form was erect and his hearing haughty. 
               Taking little heed of the obstacles which here and there obstructed his path, he brushed through them, as though he had been well used to the forest and its neighborhood. 
               There was an expression of deep melancholy upon his features. 
               No wonder! 
               The new comer who was traveling along all unconscious of the dark deed that had been enacted, was Maurice O'Connell. 
               He had attended the last obsequies of his grandmother, some few days previously. 
               The young man was sad and apparently indifferent to all external things, for he did not condescend to cast even a cursory glance at any of the objects in his passage. 
               In the course of about a quarter of an hour or so, he found himself in that part of the wood where the stark and rigid form of the murdered man lay, with his upturned face towards the sky. As the body was in the shade, it is probable that young O'Connell would not have noticed it, had it not been for a circumstance which drew his attention to it. 
               Maurice was too much wrapped in his own thoughts to take heed of anything that might lay in his path; but, as he took his way along, his foot seemed to glide over something, which caused him to start and then to look on the ground to ascertain the cause of this. 
               To his horror, he found he was treading in a pool of blood! He stood for a moment appalled at the circumstance, his eyes riveted on the ensanguined fluid, which had flowed from the heart of Mr. Beechcroft. 
               He had instinctively withdrawn, when he first made the discovery, and after then he cast a rapid glance around the glade. 
               His eye soon lighted-upon the form of the murdered man; then he observed the marks of the recent struggle, which were distinctly visible on the moist ground; the grass was trodden down, and, in some parts, torn up. 
               "There has been a conflict here," said O'Connell. "Yonder lies one of the combatants," and he walked towards the body of Mr. Beechcroft. 
               When he arrived at the spot where the last remains of the poor gentleman lay, he stooped down to ascertain if the vital spark had fled. 
               As he did this, he recognized the features of the master of Beechcroft Court. 
               For a moment the brain of young O'Connell seemed to reel. 
               He was so appalled at the discovery that he uttered a yell of agony: his nerves had been considerably shaken by the recent trial he had gone through. 
               At his feet lay one of the enemies of his house, wrapped in the close embrace of death-and such a death! 
               "How came he here?" and "who had done this deed?" were the first questions which Maurice asked of himself. 
               He could hardly believe his own senses. 
               He had seen Mr. Beechcroft pass in his carriage on the morning of that very day-that comfortable, well-appointed carriage, with its costly trappings, its heraldic device on the panels, its sleek, well-groomed horses, and its fat, pursy coachman. 
               Then he remembered. 
               At the Tuesday's meeting for drill and conference, one of the scribes of his circle (the Three-in-one-stem) had hinted at an "indictment" against the magistrate. 
               He had been kept away from the lodge by his loss. 
               All was clear. 
               And yet at the sight of the judgment befallen the rich old man, all bitter and revengeful feelings against him who lay at his feet, vanished on the instant. 
               The next thought that occurred to Maurice O'Connell was, whether the rich landholder were in reality dead, or only stunned. 
               "Maybe he isn't gone, after all," said he. 
               He took one of the hands of the deceased man in his own-it was as cold as death. 
               Actuated by some sudden impulse, he dragged the body into that part of the glade that was flooded by the moonlight. 
               As he did this, his ears were pierced by a screech-long, loud, and shrill; this was succeeded by another, and then another. 
               Calling to his mind those shrieks he had heard with Father Rolf, when the "Banshee" wailed for his deceased relative, Maurice O'Connell trembled like an aspen bough. 
               Even the features of his face were convulsed by a sudden emotion-his hands shook as though he were suddenly stricken by palsy. 
               Alice Beechcroft had caught sight of the stooping figure of Maurice O'Connell as also the prostrate man over whom he was bending. 
               She did not, nor could not, where she was situated, see the features of the dead man; but a chilly foreboding siezed her. 
               She at once divined that the prostrate figure must be her relative; and by an irresistable power, over which she had no control, she was forced as it were to send forth a series of screams. 
               Her young heart was ready to burst! 
               Captain Cunliffe, the officer who had conducted Alice to the glade where the body of Mr. Beechcroft lay, regarded Maurice O'Connell with an angry look of suspicion. 
               He then turned towards his young charge. 
               Alice was deathly pale, her lips were blue, and she appeared as though about to swoon. 
               The officer gently laid his hand on her arm, with the intention of leading her from the spot, but Miss Beechcroft rallied a little, and declared that she would know the worst. 
               At the time her eyes were fixed intently on Maurice, who seemed to be quite overcome, and utterly incapable of moving from the position he occupied. 
               "What is the meaning of this, sir?" inquired Cunliffe, walking up to the side of the dead body. "There has been some foul deed enacted; a terrible retribution shall fall upon the murderer." 
               Then, catching sight of the features of the dead man, he exclaimed,- 
               "God in heaven, it is the body of Mr. Beechcroft!" 
               This exclamation came involuntarily. 
               The moment the officer had given utterance to it, Alice Beechcroft fainted, and would have fallen to the earth, had not the corporal caught her in his arms, where she lay a senseless burthen. 
               The man had the prudence to convey her from the scene of the murder, and withdrew her to a considerable distance. 
               Captain Cunliffe placed his hand upon Maurice O'Connell. 
               "You will have to answer for this black deed," he said angrily. 
               "Me-me?" stammered out young O'Connell, "me?" 
               "Yes, you, sir-who else? There has been foul murder committed, and you must answer for the same with your life." 
               "I have done no harm to this unfortunate gentleman!" exclaimed O'Connell. 
               "Pshaw! how is it we find you here beside the dead body? Answer me that, sir." 
               "Chance led me this way," was the immediate reply. 
               "I fear you will have some difficulty in proving that, young man. A heavy and serious charge hangs over you; is it possible for you to contradict facts. This poor gentleman started from home this morning in full health and spirits; I find him now a disfigured corpse. I also find you stooping over the dead body, What is-what can be the inference?" 
               "The blessed virgin save me! What am I to do?" exclaimed Maurice O'Connell, who was quite unmanned by the events that had taken place within the last half-hour. "What am I to do? I never harmed Mr. Beechcroft by word or deed." 
               The captain looked incredibly at the speaker. 
               "It is not my business to prejudge you," he answered, slowly, and with some degree of hesitation. "Facts have come to my knowledge." 
               "What facts?" 
               "The O'Connells have been sworn enemies to the Beechcrofts, is it not so? A feud has existed between them. You are found here over the body of Mr. Beechcroft-a circumstance suspicious enough in itself-and that, coupled with other circumstances, makes it doubly suspicious. I pray heaven that you are guiltless of this dreadful crime; I pray heaven that, if you are, you will be able to prove your innocence. I do hope you are innocent, but that remains between God and your own conscience. I have a solemn duty to perform-you are now my prisoner!" 
               "Your prisoner!" exclaimed O'Connell. 
               "Yes. 
               "For what." 
               "Upon suspicion of having been concerned in the murder of Mr. Beechcroft." 
               "By the sacred name of her who not many days since I saw consigned to her last resting place-by her sacred name, I swear I am as innocent as yourself of this terrible crime." 
               Captain Cunliffe made no reply to this. 
               He regarded the form and features of the dead man with a look of deep pity and commiseration. 
               Then a visible shudder passed through his frame, as he beheld the ghastly and gaping wounds which had been inflicted with such deadly certainty. 
               He turned sadly away. 
               "I am as sorry for this as you are yourself, sir," said young O'Connell, "quite as sorry, believe me." 
               The officer did not even condescend to reply to this. 
               "I know it may be difficult for me to prove this; I know that every one of your countryman will be against me, and--" 
               "No matter, Mr. O'Connell," said Cunliffe, somewhat sharply; "the least you say for the present-the least you say, perhaps, the better. I have no wish for you to criminate yourself." 
               "An' is it criminating myself that I'll be, by spaking the truth-the solemn and serious truth?" answered young O'Connell, the blood mounting to his face at the observation of his companion. "Criminate myself! By the judgment of Moran's collar! but I'm under no fear of criminating myself! I can look you or any other man in the face and swear that I am innocent!" 
               "Well, I hope you are, I tell you; I am not a judge, and have no right to give an opinion on the matter; so let the subject drop. Spare your words till they are wanted; for the present you are my prisoner." 
               Captain Cunliffe drew his sword, placed his hand on the young man's shoulder, and again informed him that he was his prisoner. 
               "What would you have me do?" inquired O'Connell. 
               "You must away with me into the road which leads through the wood." 
               "Faith, it's the very place I was making for myself," answered Maurice. 
               The captain still held the young man firmly by the collar of his coat, as they walked along-he did not deem it expedient to release him. 
               "I shall offer no resistance, sir," said young O'Connell. "I will go quietly enough with you-bad luck to me for ever coming near the spot." 
               As the two were treading their way along the narrow pathway, they came upon the corporal and Alice-the latter had recovered from her swoon, and the former was engaged in bathing her temples with some cold water which he had obtained from a small pool close by-conveying the same in his hat. 
               When Alice caught sight of O'Connell walking by the side of the captain, a prisoner, she rose to her feet. 
               There was an expression of poignant anguish on her features-in fact, her countenance within the last few minutes had become changed to a fearful extent-her lips were white and trembled from excitement; she, however, managed to walk up to the side of the prisoner, and looked into his face inquiringly. 
               Young O'Connell was well known to her, and whenever they occasionally met he had always been treated with kindness. 
               She had pitied the young man, commiserated with him for his misfortunes, and had sent round frequently to inquire after his deceased relative during her last illness. 
               "Maurice!" said Alice, "you never can be guilty of this great crime? Say you are innocent." 
               "Heaven be my judge, Miss Beechcroft," said Maurice O'Connell, stretching out his right hand and lifting it aloft-"Heaven be my judge! as I hope for mercy hereafter, I am guiltless of your kinsman's death-I swear it! Until within the last half hour, I was like yourself, quite, unconscious of the foul deed of which we have just now had but too certain an assurance. You will believe the words I am speaking-you will if none other will." 
                
               As he spoke he turned towards Captain Cunliffe. 
               "I do not accuse you," said the officer. "But I have a duty to perform." 
               The young man bowed his head in acquiescence to the observation. 
               After this, the four individuals-the prisoner, Alice, the captain, and the corporal-took their way along the path which led to the road where the troopers were stationed. 
               When they arrived at this spot, Maurice was handed over to the care of two troopers, while Miss Beechcroft and Captain Cunliffe took the lead, and so the whole party proceeded homewards. 
               Alice besought the young captain to treat the O'Connell with as much lenity as possible, assuring him that she herself would be answerable for his conduct, and at the same time declared that she believed it to be an impossibility for Maurice to have had any hand in the death of her beloved relative and guardian. 
               Poor Alice-she talked with an amount of volubility which somewhat surprised herself. 
               Ever and anon she cast upon Maurice a look of pity and consideration; for terrible as was the blow to her when she made the discovery of her relative's death, she did not, nor would not for one moment, believe that the young Irishman who had been made prisoner had any hand in the inhuman deed. 
               Her nature was too generous to admit of her having even a passing suspicion respecting the guilt of Maurice. 
               Captain Cuncliffe, however, had very grave doubts upon the subject, for secret instructions were already inundating Ireland from Sir George Grey; and the probability is that had he have spoken his mind-which, under the circumstances, he did not care to do-he would have declared it to be his opinion that Maurice was the murderer of Squire Beechcroft. 
               When the party arrived at the end of the road they were traversing, Captain Cunliffe halted. 
               As he did so he glanced at Alice Beechcroft. She burst into a passionate flood of tears. 
               Up to this period she had been sustained by a certain amount of excitement, but now she seemed to suddenly awake to the sad and irreparable lost she had sustained. 
               Captain Cunliffe, who was naturally a kind-hearted man, hastened to her side and endeavoured to reassure her, while at the same time he said he would have the honour of escorting her home. 
               This Alice declined. 
               The captain, however, was obstinate, and after giving some instructions to the corporal, he prepared to leave the prisoner in charge of his men, and proceed along the road which diverged from the one he was in. 
               As the Captain and Alice were about to take their departure, Maurice O'Connell spoke. He had maintained a dignified silence during the journey; but had throughout the painful scene been fully aware of the sympathy which Alice had evinced towards him. 
               The young Irishman was touched-so much so, that he had some difficulty in finding words to express himself. 
               "You'll-you'll do me justice, Miss Alice," stammered forth O'Connell. "You'll do me justice, if no one else will. I little thought to have had this great trial, for I have had enough-enough from the morning of my birth; and, truth to say, some hours since I was sick and sorry of the world, sad and weary at my heart, Miss Alice; and indeed-indeed, I may say so now." 
               Alice Beechcroft trotted her pony up to the side of the young man, held out her soft white hand, which Maurice grasped, and respectfully raised to his lips. 
               "Good night, Miss Alice," said Maurice, his voice almost choked with emotion, "and may the blessings of an oppressed and injured race hover round you." 
                
               As he said this he turned sadly away, and wheeled off under the escort of the corporal. The captain and Alice then took the road which led to Beechcroft Court. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  THE EXAMINATION BEFORE THE MAGISTRATE. THE COMMITAL. 
                
               CAPTAIN CUNLIFFE, when he diverged off from the high road for the purpose of escorting Miss Alice to Beechcroft Court, had given orders to the corporal respecting the prisoner, who was to be conveyed to the house of the nearest magistrate-the residence of the latter being about half a mile distant from the spot. 
               The soldiers and their prisoner were to wait there till the captain's return. 
               Maurice when he saw Miss Alice take her departure, hung down his head, and proceeded along with his captors in sullen silence. 
               He did not even exchange a word with them till they arrived at the house of Mr. Waring, the magistrate in question. 
               He looked up in some surprise when they arrived at the outer gate of this habitation, for he had been under the impression that he was being conveyed to prison without any ceremony. But Captain Cunliffe, who was disposed to be as lenient as possible, had deemed it expedient to consult a magistrate before he took upon himself the responsibility of the prisoner's detention. 
               Mr. Waring was engaged with some Cross Channel friends when the soldiers and their prisoner arrived. 
               He was in no very amiable mood at being disturbed at that hour of the night, and muttering anathemas against the onerous duties of a magistrate, he betook himself to the moon which was always used for the examination of refractory tenants and peace-breakers. 
               Into this apartment Maurice found himself conducted. 
               The corporal made a statement of those particulars with which the reader is already acquainted, informing the magistrate that Captain Cunliffe would soon make his appearance. 
               The brow of the magistrate darkened. Already he saw guilt visible on the features of the culprit. 
               "What have you to say to this charge, Maurice O'Connell?" inquired Mr. Waring. 
               "An' sure it's little good that I can do by saying anything in the matter at all, at all," answered the O'Connell. 
               "Oh, don't commit yourself, young man," exclaimed the magistrate, sharply. "There, that will do-you decline to say anything?" 
               "It's innocent that I am of this poor gentleman's death-as innocent as yourself, sir." 
               Mr. Waring did not like the comparison: he shifted uneasily in his chair; falling back in this he cast his eyes first up to the ceiling and then on the individuals before him. 
               "Goodness gracious!" he exclaimed. "What a country we live in!-no one is safe! Poor Mr. Beechcroft-one of my most esteemed and valued friends. Such a kind, considerate landlord-too kind, in fact-to meet with such a fate. It's appalling; it's horrible!" 
               Then, turning sharply, and addressing himself to the corporal, he said,- 
                
               "Have you searched the prisoner?" 
               "The man put his hand to his forehead and answered,- 
               "No, your worship." 
               The magistrate looked suspiciously at O'Connell. 
               "Young man," he exclaimed, "I am sorry to see you under the present circumstances; it is not my business to prejudge your case, which I am bound to say assumes a very grave complexion-very grave. How do you account for the fact of your being found stooping over the prostrate form of a recently murdered man? How can you reconcile this with your declaration of innocence?" 
               "I was wandering through the wood by the merest chance," answered O'Connell, "and was surprised to find my foot slip on the grass. Upon my endeavoring to ascertain the cause, I discovered that I was treading in a pool of blood. I then caught sight of the body of a man; hastening towards it, I stooped down to see if the gentleman was dead or only wounded-my impression was that there had been a duel, or-" He paused. "I soon ascertained that it was the dead body of Mr. Beechcroft that lay before me. That is all I know about the matter, as heaven is my judge." 
               "I hope it is, for your sake," answered the magistrate. 
               "I know, sir," said O'Connell, in continuation, "that it will be a hard matter for me to convince you or any one else whose prejudices are against me and my race. I know how difficult-it may be impossible-it is for me to convince you or them of my innocence." 
               "You knew Mr. Beechcroft, then?" 
               "Yes, sir," 
               "He was a friend of yours?" 
               "No, not a friend." 
               "An enemy, then?" 
               The young man made no reply. The magistrate paused, after which he said,- 
               "You lead me to suppose that he was an enemy-at least that is the natural inference I am to deduce from your manner." 
               "If the Beechcrofts have done wrong to me and mine, still I may forgive them," exclaimed young O'Connell, proudly. "Possibly you may have some enemies in the world-few of us are without them-but that is no reason why you should be accused of a great crime." 
               "I'll thank you to confine yourself to the case, young man, and not institute comparisons which are neither pleasing or palatable," said the magistrate, tartly. 
               O'Connell was silent. 
               The noise of ascending feet was heard, and in a minute or so Captain Cunliffe entered the magistrate's room, accompanied by Matthew Hyssop. 
               The officer walked up to the magistrate and shook his hand; Matthew Hyssop followed, casting up his eyes and hands, and exclaiming,- 
               "Oh, my poor dear master! That I should live to see this day. The Lord bless and preserve us, but we live in sad times!" 
               "How are you, Hyssop?" inquired Mr. Waring, "This is indeed a sad business." 
               "Ah, Mr. Waring," answered Hyssop,-"The wolf stalks about seeking whom he may devour. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. A dark cloud has come over our house; the head of it is stricken down. Ah! we live in sad times-very sad." 
               Captain Cunliffe entered into the history of the events of the evening, which had led up to the discovery of the dead body of Mr. Beechcroft. 
                
               "This young man and the Beechcrofts were not friends I believe?" inquired Mr. Waring. 
               "I think not," answered Cunliffe; "but Mr. Hyssop will be able to tell you more about this than myself." 
               Mr. Waring ordered the prisoner to be removed to the room below. He then turned to Matthew Hyssop and said,- 
               "Do you know anything about the prisoner?" 
               The steward shook his head. 
               "Are you aware if there has been any quarrel between the late Mr. Beechcroft and the prisoner?" 
               "My late respected master has never given the O'Connells any cause to incur the deep spirit of revenge they have frequently evinced towards him." 
               "Oh, there has been a revengeful spirit evinced, then? What is your opinion of this charge? Do you think the prisoner capable of this great crime?" 
               "It is not for me to say," answered Hyssop, with a hypocritical whine; "I should like to have plucked this young man like a brand from the burning, but, alas!--" 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "He has bad companions-lawless companions, I hear-but I won't say anything prejudicial to him," exclaimed the steward, with a sudden burst of well-simulated generosity. 
               "Oh, you are bound to say all you know. What have you heard?" 
               "He is connected, I have heard, with those poor people who have been entrapped into that illegal society called the Fenians!" 
               The magistrate's countenance underwent a sudden change. 
               "Ah!" he exclaimed-"if that be true, there can be no doubt about his guilt. The Fenians! Sir, in my opinion, that fact is enough to condemn any man!" 
               "Ah!" sighed Hyssop, "it's painful, Mr. Waring, for me to bear witness against anyone; indeed, I may say it is not the least painful part of my duties since my sojourn in this unhappy country. I would fain rescue the ungodly from the slough of despair." 
               "Yes, yes-no doubt, Mr. Hyssop," answered Waring. "But there are people who will never listen to reason. A bigotted, self-willed race-ill-used they called themselves. Pshaw! ill-used, indeed; they are treated too kindly, sir-much too kindly. If I had my will, I'd-" 
               The magistrate came to a full stop. 
               He hardly knew what he would do. 
               The probability is that he would hang them by the dozen. 
               "Poor belated travellers, on a sinful road which leads to perdition. Ah! my dear master!" exclaimed Hyssop, "that it should come to this!" 
               The magistrate glanced at Captain Cunliffe. 
               "You must take him to Macroom," he said, sententiously. 
               The officer nodded. 
               "I will make out an order for his commitment. See that he is sefely conveyed thither." 
               The officer again nodded. 
               The magistrate then rose from his seat, placed his hand upon some papers, selected one of them, and made out the order for the commitment of the Irishman. When this was done, he handed it to Captain Cunliffe. 
               Matthew Hyssop heaved a deep sigh and turned away, as though he were completely overcome. 
               In a few more minutes, young O'Connell was on his road to the police prison at Macroom. 
               Upon his arrival there he was handed by the captain to the merciful consideration ation of the keeper, who caused him to be thrust into a cell and looked up for the night. 
               When left to himself in that lonely cell, the thoughts of young O'Connell were sad and desponding enough. 
               Naturally superstitious, he began to believe that an evil spirit had watched over him from the hour of his birth, and that he must have been born under an unlucky star. At every turn fortune seemed to be against him. 
               That night wore away sadly enough to Maurice O'Connell, it was sad enough also to the inmates of Beechcroft Court. 
               Mrs. Challice fairly fainted away when she first heard of her dear master's death. 
               Matthew Hyssop wandered about from room to room, arranging the papers, and shifting the tin and iron boxes that contained many of the documents, in a desultory and abstracted manner, his countenance all the while wearing an expression of deep sympathy, or of virtuous indignation, as it suited his purpose. 
               On the following morning he found his way into the housekeeper's room, just to see how Mrs. Challice was-not that he cared about that lady-on the contrary, he positively disliked her. 
               He could hardly do otherwise, seeing that she invariably treated him in an off-hand, cavalier manner. 
               Nevertheless, Hysson, would persist in thrusting his observations upon her, in a mild, reproving tone of voice; he would insist upon affecting to take a deep interest in the bodily and spiritual welfare of the self-willed Mrs. Challice, as he chose to term her. 
               It is astonishing what a sudden and new complexion is put upon the face of affairs when the head of a house is snatched away by the remorseless hand of death. 
               Miss Alice had always been beloved by the servants and retainers of Beechcroft Court; nevertheless, she felt herself but a dependent. What would become of her now? 
               This was a question which many asked of themselves, amongst whom was Hyssop, who, creeping about the house like a cat, at length found his way into the housekeeper's little room. 
               Mrs. Challice was weeping when the steward entered, and so noiselessly had he crept in that she was not aware of his presence until he spoke. 
               Hyssop gave a short cough, and said, as he walked up to the side of the housekeeper and laid his hand gently on her shoulder,- 
               "Nay, my dear lady, this is sinful, to give way to grief thus. We have all our appointed time; we are cut down like grass, even as the flower of the field. 'The Lord giveth, and the Lord hath taken away.'" 
               Mrs. Challice made no reply, but she sobbed audibly. Presently she said suddenly,- 
               "Who could have done this deed?" 
               "Young O'Connell is accused of it," answered the steward. 
               "Pshaw!" he's as innocent as I am myself," answered the housekeeper. 
               "I hope he is," responded Hyssop. 
               "I am sure he is." 
               "Umph! I am glad you are able to speak so positively." 
               The housekeeper looked up at the speaker, and said,- 
               "Have you no idea who is the guilty party?" 
               "No!" was the immediate reply to this query. 
               "Ah, Mrs. Challice, there will be a strange alteration in Beechcroft Court." 
               "No doubt." 
               "What will become of Miss Alice now her friend and protector is gone. She's too fine for-for service of any sort." 
               "Service!" repeated Mrs. Challice, looking up spitefully over her spectacles at the place where Hyssop stood-for he had risen too high in the world to sit in the housekeeper's room. 
               "Service!" she screamed forth again, after a pause, her angular figure trembling with ill-suppressed passion, while her sharp nose assumed something of a warm crimson, partly from the heat of her displeasure, and partly from long continuous weeping. 
               "Service, Mr. Hyssop? And pray what right, may I make bold to ask, have you, or the likes of you, to ever mention service to Miss Alice Beechcroft, she's the adopted daughter of our dear, late lamented master, and his natural heir." 
               The steward gave a short, dry, deprecating cough. 
               Mrs. Challice was more alarmed and more troubled in her mind at this than she cared to admit. 
               "Is she not his natural heir?" she inquired, sharply. 
               "It is not for me to say," answered Hyssop, mildly. "There is no consanguinity." 
               "No what?" 
               "Consanguinity. Miss Alice is not a blood relation-not a relation at all, in fact." 
               "Bad luck to you, or any one else that says so," answered Mrs. Challice, drawing back her head with a jerk, while she touched the thumb of her left hand with the forefinger of the right, preparing to count his questions and her own replies. 
               "Now, Sir! and pray will you tell me how it is that you can make out Miss Beechcroft to be no relation to the family?" 
               "Miss Beechcroft only by courtesy," answered the steward. "However, neither you nor I have anything to do with that. Let us hope our late respected master has left a will." 
               "Oh, you know whether he has left a will or not," answered his companion, sharply. 
               "And if there is no will, what is to become of Miss Alice? who is to keep her?" 
               "I'd be sorry to make an old fellow sarvint-as for all the ring on your finger, and gold watch in your fob, I must still count you, Mr. Hyssop-I'd be sorry to make a follow-sarvint, and-ahem-a fellow sinner an ill answer; but what's that to you?" and the old lady looked at the steward in a steady and determined manner. 
               "Oh, it's nothing to me, certainly; but from an old regard to the family." 
               "Oh, botheration, Matthew Hyssop!" exclaimed the housekeeper. "Regard indeed-pshaw! no wonder my head is grey, thinking of the wickedness of the world! Regard for the family, indeed! You forget all I know, and all I could tell, only I scorn it." 
               A shade of heightened color passed over the features of the steward at this last observation. 
               "Upon my word, Mistress Challice, your humour is unaccountable; and I must say unfitted for the time when you ought to bear a chastened and sobered spirit. When I entered this room I found you weeping, I endeavoured to console you, and because I mention the name of this young woman-am anxious about her welfare--" 
               "Who do you call young woman?" interrupted Mistress Challice. "I mind the time when you thought she pleased the poor Mistress's fancy, that you'd go on your knees from this to Cork to fetch her a rocking horse. Young woman, indeed!" 
               "I am sure I have heard you abuse Miss Alice up and down, right and left as the saying is. A black crow wouldn't look the road she went, and now you fly out like a turkey cock at a civil question. But, maybe, this sudden grief has taken effect upon you, my poor woman, and you are not quite yourself. I ought not to be angry, but remember your fallen state." 
                
               "Look here," exclaimed Mrs. Challice, "I own I have at times been angry with Miss Alice. She has been a pet child with all of us; nevertheless, she was the sunshine of our house, and she'll have enuogh that's honestly come by, not wrung out of the starving poor, or moulded with the dying curses of hungry, houseless sinners." 
               "Poor benighted woman, she's gone mad," muttered Mathew Hyssop, while his hands so trembled with ill-suppressed passion that he could hardly button his coat. 
               "No!" answered his companion. "The poor benighted woman is not mad, but one trouble and another has brought her to her senses." 
               Then she added, drawing herself up,-"the country at the present moment is just like a keetle on the boil-a kettle that will not boil away its strength into the fire, but put out the fire that set it boiling." 
               Mark ye that, Mr. Matthew Hyssop, and mind ye take good heed of the same. 
               One that stirs up the poor and ignorant, or those that are neither the one nor the other, into mischief, or puts stumbling blocks in the night time into a clear path, the Lord forgive them their sins! And those who remove their neighbour's landmark, sure you'll say 'Amen' when I say the Lord forgive them all their sins. There is a faction who have a strong arm and a long memory-a memory for the injuries they have received from the hands of their oppressors. 
               "Oppressors!" exclaimed Hyssop. "This sudden bereavement-this fatal catastrophe has turned your head, Mistress Challice. You are giving utterance to words expressive of sentiments both false and unjust. I will not stay and listen to such. The Lord be with thee, thou misguided sinner!" And so saying Mr. Hyssop crept softly out of the housekeeper's room, much to the relief of its occupant. 
               On the evening of the following day, Maurice was surprised to find the door of his cell unlocked and open by his jailor, and upon his looking round to ascertain the cause of this intrusion, he beheld the form of a woman. 
               Although the room was in some darkness, he had no difficulty in recognizing the features of Marian Ingledew. 
               She uttered a slight scream as she caught sight of the trouble features and darkened brow of the prisoner. 
               Placing something in the hand of the turnkey, she whispered a few hurried words to him, upon which the man closed the door softly, as Marian entered. 
               In another minute the woman was by the side of Maurice, her hands on his shoulders, and her face looked pityingly into his own. 
               "Miss Ingledew," muttered the Irishman, in a half suppressed whisper, "this is kind of you. How did you manage to gain admittance?" 
               "Hush, by an order-no matter from where or from whom. Let us not waste time. Enough for our purpose. I am here to save and succour." 
               "To save! I am innocent!" 
               "Bah, what matters that? What chance have you against an unjust and fatal prejudice?" 
               "But I will prove my innocence, and never let this foul stigma sully the name of the descendants of 'Con of the Battles!'" 
               "Pshaw!" 
               "You doubt me, then?" 
               "They will find you guilty." 
               "They dare not." 
               "I tell you they will, Maurice; they will hang you if it be possible." 
               "What is the meaning of this? How do you know about these matters, Marian?" 
                
               "Listen. We have no right to be conversing thus without the presence of the turnkey, but I knew the man who is your jailor some years ago. He is friendly. I have bribed him, and--" 
               "You?" 
               "Yes. It is so very astonishing?" 
               "What motive have you in thus taking so deep an interest in me?" inquired Maurice. 
               His companion's face was suddenly suffused with a deep crimson. She turned away, and her eyes swept round the walls of the gloomy cell. There was a pause for a moment, after which Marian Ingledew seemed to recover her equilibrium. 
               "Maurice O'Connell, if it be possible they will convict you; and that it is possible to convict an innocent person, we both of us know. You must escape!" 
               "Never!" exclaimed Maurice, indignantly, "never! I will stand or fall upon the issue of the trial" 
               "Trial-bah! You know not the weight of evidence which may be brought against you. You must escape!" 
               "Not if the doors were thrown open to me," answered the young man. "I am strong in my own innocence." 
               "Fool-fool! Oh, worse than fool," exclaimed Marian Ingledew, a painful and troubled expression passing over her beauteous features. 
               "What chance is there left you, Maurice? What chance, think you, when it is known that you are in league-nay, more than that-with that band whose very name is the watchword of rebellion! Think you that the tide of prejudice will not set in too strong for your poor strength. Maurice O'Connell, member of the Fenians, stands charged with the murder of the acknowledged enemy of his house. He is surrounded with a series of suspicious circumstances. What is the consequence? I can see it-can you not?" 
               O'Connell, pressed his hands against his temples. 
               "Alas, fate is against me," he exclaimed. "I dread to think of the consequence. But, Marian, it is not known only to those upon whom I can rely. It is not known that I am connected with the band." 
               "Have you not all bound yourselves by an bath?" 
               "Yes. How did you know this?" 
               "No matter. You have bound yourselves. You have papers in the round castle, where Mistress O'Connell breathed her last." 
               "Well, suppose I have?" 
               "They are going to search your house." 
               "Search my house!" exclaimed O'Connell, turning suddenly pale. 
               "Yes, ransack over your papers, and find-what?" 
               "Och, murder, but I never thought of that same." 
               "Maurice O'Connell, you must escape." 
               "And by doing so, or endeavouring to do so, at once proclaim my guilt. I would rather die first." 
               "Oh, Maurice! for my sake-for the sake of all those who wish you well, and-" 
               She paused, stammered, and again blushed, and then proceeded,- 
               "For the sake of the Good Cause, listen to what I have been saying. If aught can be done to save you; if it be in the power of weak, timid woman to accomplish the task, I swear to save you or die in the attempt. Maurice, trust not the tender mercies of your oppressors-your country's enemies-for as surely as you do so, you lean upon a broken reed. Trust not to the consciousness of your own innocence, for there again you will be deluded. Alas, they will lead you to an ignominious death upon the scaffold!" 
               The young man shuddered. 
                
               "Have you no idea who committed this great crime?" inquired Marian Ingledew. 
               "No," answered Maurice. 
               "One of your brothers?" 
               "I know not." 
               "It could be ascertained, perhaps." 
               "And what then?" asked he elusively. 
               There was a pause. 
               "Let the guilty party be brought forward." 
               Maurice shook his head. 
               "He must-nay, he shall be made to come forward." 
               "To meet his death?" 
               "If it be necessary-should there be no other means." 
               "It may not be." 
               "How so? Why not?" 
               By the solemn compact which binds us together, we are forbidden to give evidence against each other; one member of the band is liable for the deeds of the other; we are bound by the holy ties of Erin's Brotherhood! No, Marian Ingledew," said Maurice, sadly, "supposing the gentleman met his death by the hand of one of our band, the Fenians would shield and shelter him to the very last, and far be it for me, to break through those golden rules which are laid down for our guidance." 
               Marian Ingledew remained for some time without speaking. 
               She folded her arms, and contemplated the fine manly figure of the young Irishman before her, who, in his turn, regarded her with looks of interest. 
               He knew she was very beautiful; he had always taken note of that, when by chance he had been in the habit of meeting her in the neighbourhood of his own residence, but then it was but a cursory glance that he had deigned to cast upon her. 
               Now he was in deep affliction-in a cell-and before him stood a young, beautiful, and sympathising woman; her dark and eloquent eyes looking into his own; her full, soft, and voluptuous lips slightly trembling with excitement. 
               There was a fascination in the expression of those deep, earnest, and thoughtful eyes; she was paler than usual, but Maurice thought she had never before looked so ravishingly lovely. 
               It would be difficult for us to define the various thoughts that floated in the mind of these two individuals, the tempter and the tempted. 
               They stood so long without speaking that Maurice in his turn coloured slightly. 
               This was not lost upon her who watched him with the eyes of a basilisk. 
               He then walked towards her, and laying his hand softly on her shoulder, said, in a voice of gentleness,- 
               "My dear Miss Ingledew, believe me this unlooked for kindness on the part of one who is but a comparative stranger to you, will not-nay, never can be forgotten-by-myself. The ill-starred O'Connells are not, I hope, wanting in gratitude. Alas, they have had but few friends in the world-the oppressed and the unfortunate seldom have. I am poor, and of late have had much to weigh down my spirits; but now, worse than all, I am destined to meet as, I best may, the foul charge of murder. I have, however, a clear conscience; and have, at least, the knowledge of my own innocence to support me through all trials; not the least of these would be any lurking doubt in the mind of Miss Ingledew as to the truth of my entire and complete innocence." 
               Marian Ingledew, who had during this speech lowered her eyes, so that little could be seen but the long fringed, dark lashes, now raised them, and looked full at the speaker. 
                
               "If all the world believed you guilty of this crime, Marian Ingledew would still cleave to you, through bad and good report." 
               "I thank you for this declaration," said Maurice O'Connell, sadly. "There is a comforting assurance in that." 
               "But, oh! for your own sake, Mr. O'Connell, think of what I have said. Trust not to the mercy of your judges; woman's wit may do more than man's strength. Hush! I will endeavor to find some means of setting you free from this captivity." 
               The young man again shook his head. 
               "It may not be," he said. 
               "I fear you will find it the only course," she answered. "At any rate, the only safe one." 
               She held out her hand as she said this, which the young Irishman grasped, raised to his lips, and kissed. 
               "I shall never forget this consideration-this unlooked-for kindness," exclaimed O'Connell. What have I done to awaken this interest in one who-" 
               He paused suddenly-colored slightly, and added,- 
               "Who knows so little of me." 
               She regarded him for a moment or so with looks of compassion, and turned to take her departure. 
               The door of the prisoner's room stood open during the interview, while the turnkey had been pacing the corridor on the outside. 
               Marian Ingledew opened it quietly and passed through. 
               The man who had charge of the ward in which O'Connell was confined, closed the door and double locked it. 
               "An sure, ye'll be afther kaping this a secret, Miss, or, bedad, I shall be in hot wather, entirely." 
               "Trust in me, Murphy," answered Marian Ingledew. "You have no cause to fear betrayal; I should indeed be unworthy of the name of woman if-" 
               "Oh, I do not doubt ye, Miss; but it's sure I am ye did me an' mine a good service-one that I am not afther forgetting. Oh! but the O'Connell is in a sad scrape, and botheration to them as brought him here; but maybe he'll get through it afther all." 
               "I hope and trust he may," said Marian Ingledew, as she descended the stairs and took her departure from the prison. 
               "She is very beautiful!" exclaimed O'Connell, after the departure of his unexpected visitor; and then, as he gave utterance to this declaration, the words of his deceased relative rung in his ears,- 
               "Swear that by no unholy or misguided passion you will ever be led to ally yourself to one of your country's enemies." 
               Marian Ingledew was a friend, but of a different creed to himself. 
               The young man flung himself on a stone seat in the corner of his cell, and burying his face in his hands, was for some time lost in abstraction. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  MARIAN ON THE TRAIL OF THE MURDERER. THE DEATH OF O'GRADY. 
                
               IN a miserable hovel, built of mud and thatched with straw, sat two men. 
               They were ill-favoured enough; their countenances betokening savage ferocity, and the very lowest passions which find their way in the human heart. The holiest of causes have never been able to work out their beneficent results, without demons meddling with the angels. 
               Let us only point to the wretches in Hungary, Poland, Venitia. 
               But yet liberty marches on! 
               They may erect scaffolds in the way. But they will decay from the martyrs' blood, they will fall beneath the tramp of the departed brothers' followers. 
               But, to return. 
               One of these had his head swathed round with bandages; the other, the less ruffianly of the two, sat before the embers of a peat fire smoking a short "dudeen." 
               Both the men seemed to be in a moody state of abstraction. 
               Several minutes passed before either spoke. 
               The better favoured of the two glanced at his companion for a moment, and then lowered his eyes somewhat suddenly, as he observed the man with the bandages round his head regard him with a glance of angry meaning. 
               "Well," said the latter, "what now? anything new, that you look at my frontispiece?" 
               "Which is so beautifully ornamented," returned the other, with a sort of grim smile. 
               "Ugh! no odds about that." 
               "They have sent him to the prison at Macroom," answered the other. 
               "Ah! they have? Bad luck to them, and him too, for coming up at the time he did." 
               "An' sure, it'll be bad luck to him, I'm thinking, anyhow." 
               "Can't help that," returned his companion; "it ain't my fault." 
               There was a pause after this. 
               "It ain't my fault, is it?" inquired the man with the injured head. 
               "Whist! who says it is? but-" 
               "But what?" 
               "The O'Connell mustn't die for this 'ere business." 
               "Ah, he'll not die. There's no fear of that." 
               "Well, I ain't so sure of it. What is to be done, Dennis?" 
               "Why, what do you suppose is to done? You'd have me go and give myself up, I suppose. Is that what you mean?" 
               "No, of course not-only-" 
               "Well, go on. Only what?" 
               "It's hard- 
               "What's hard? 
               "To have the youth taken from us, and charged with this business." 
               "'Spose it be-am I to blame? I didn't send him there." 
               "No, that is true enough; but appearances are against him, and should it be likely to go hard with him, something must be done. 
               "Begorra! you are talking mighty pleasant, I'm thinking, returned the wounded man. "An' it's rale good company that ye are. Och! botheration, I'm tired of this intirely, and it's after leaving I shall be." As the man said this he poured out a tumbler of whiskey, and drained it off. 
               His companion laid his hand on his arm. 
               "Where would you go?" he inquired, quickly-"to Glen Flesk." 
               "No," was the brief rejoinder. "Did they inquire about me last night?" 
               "Yes," 
               "Do they suspect?" 
               "It's enough to make them do so." 
               "Why?" 
               "You not going to the meeting." 
                
               "Umph!" ejaculated the other, as he again filled the tumbler and drained off the contents. "Come, let us be off; I'm sick of being mewed up like this." 
               There was a recklessness about the man's manner, for he had evidently been drinking deeply. 
               "You had better stay where ye are, Morgan," said his companion. "You'll only be getting into mischief." 
               "I'm not going to stand this any longer." 
               "I tell you it would be better for you to remain where you are," again repeated his companion. 
               "Ugh! if you don't like to come with me, stay here by yourself." 
               "Where would you go to?" 
               "Anywher rather than be thinking and thinking hour after hour like this," exclaimed the man with the bandaged head, tossing up his arms wildly. 
               "You are not yourself, Morgan," said his companion; "be ruled by me." 
               "I'll be ruled by no one," answered the other, as he left the cabin, and proceeded along at an unsteady pace. 
               His companion followed, and placing his arm in his, the two walked on together. 
               They had not gone more than a mile and a half, when they came in sight of a a small roadside public house, which was usually frequented by farmers and salesman on their way to and from market. A number of persons were in the grounds at the rear of the house in question. 
               The two men entered there, and taking their way into the ground they seated themselves in one of the small alcoves, which were placed at equal distances apart, by the side of a small bowling green. 
               It was a bright, sunny afternoon, and there were several players. 
               The two new comers called for something, and sat for some minutes contemplating those engaged in play. Numbers of other persons were seated in the several alcoves; many of these seemed merry enough, for there was, ever and anon, boisterous laughter, and occasionally snatches of song. 
               The murder of Squire Beechcroft was discussed by some of those present. 
               As this conversation went on, the two individuals who had come in last listened anxiously to this part of the conversation; the wounded man especially. 
               His attention seemed to be rivetted. 
               He glanced uneasily at his companion, and a slight tremour shook his frame. 
               Presently a young man passed in front of the alcove where the two were seated. 
               "Ah, Dennis," exclaimed the young man, "'an sure it's a stranger that ye are, intirely; we've many of us been bothered to know what has become of ye. An' it's wounded that ye are!" 
               "Yes, yes," answered the other impatiently. "I have had a bit of a crack. It's nothing-nothing to spake of." 
               As he was giving this answer, he observed through the foliage which run round the alcove in which he was seated a pair of eyes look curiously into his face. 
               When he made this discovery he shifted his position. 
               He appeared to be uneasy even there, for he rose from his seat and paced the green sward in front. 
               "Och, murder, Dennis!" said the man who had first addressed him; "but you have been in a bit of a scrimmage; see here, now, how yer hand has been battered about!" 
               "And do you think that I don't know the same without yer telling me," said the wounded man, trying to conceal his hand from the curious gaze of his companion. 
               "Did you get the betthers though?" went on the inquisitive man. "It warn't Jerome Neefy, was it, Dennis? He nearly murthered me wid that cruel fine stick he has last Patrick's Day, but I forgave him-for the sake of the saint!" 
               "Don't bother!" said Dennis in an angry tone. 
               The latter took no more notice, but strolled up and down in front of the alcoves. 
               In one of these a female was seated. 
               As the man passed in front of this alcove she motioned him to her side; he appeared to be a stranger to her, for placing one hand on the table, he leant forward and said,- 
               "Yer sarvint, marm." 
               "Oh, you will pardon me, I dare say; but what is the name of the party you were speaking to just now?" 
               "Which do you mane?" inquired the man. 
               "He with the wounded head." 
               "Oh, him? That's young O'Grady-Dennis O'Grady." 
               "Any relation to the man who is to be executed next Monday?" 
               "Oh, bedad, and sure he is-only his brother." 
               "Poor fellow!" exclaimed the woman. "It's sad to die so young, and such an ignominious death." 
               As the two persons were exchanging these few words, the man with the bandaged head and his companion had joined the players. 
               It would have been impossible for the most acute observer to tell whether any of those present were of the patriotic order. 
               The play proceeded, still the woman whom we have noticed sat apparently an indifferent spectator to the spirit of hilarity going on, for amongst those not engaged in the game there were several merry roysterers. 
               For more than an hour this woman sat abstracted and almost apart from that motly and heterogeneous throng. 
               If any one had observed her closely they would have seen her ever and anon direct a furtive glance toward those two figures, whose entrance into the grounds of the public house have led us to take notice of and describe the scene. 
               In the course of another half hour the two men-he with the bandaged head and his companion-were making their way toward the hostelrie, which had led them into the grounds at the rear of the house. 
               The woman in the above rose, and as they passed through this gate they entered the passage which led through the house. 
               In a minute or so more they were proceeding along the high road. 
               The woman followed them, but at a considerable distance in the rear. 
               "Dennis O'Grady?" she exclaimed. "It is he without a doubt. Dennis O'Grady-I have it all-his brother is condemned to death-Mr. Beechcroft gave evidence against him-the wounds on his head-on his hand! How were they received? In some desperate and deadly struggle. Yes, all the circumstances tally-all lead to but one supposition-Dennis O'Grady is the murderer of Squire Beechcroft!" 
               As she muttered these hurried sentences, she passed her hand several times anxiously across her brow. 
               "What is to be done?" she exclaimed, in a state of excitement. "What is to be done? He is the man; without a doubt he is the man-but proofs! proofs! How are they to be obtained?" 
               She pressed her hand against her side as though she were subjected to some sharp and sudden pain. 
               "What can I do against two determined men like those?" ejaculated the woman. 
               As she said this her eyes wandered in every direction, as though she were in hope of some assistance. No one was visible, save the forms of the two men, who were now some considerable distance ahead of her. 
                
               What should she do? This was her next question. 
               To lose sight of them was not to be thought of. To accost them would perhaps be attended with considerable danger, and no good could result therefrom. 
               The woman followed on heedless of the rough road she was taking, for by this time the two men in front of her had struck off from the high read and were crossing a moor. 
               The woman followed in their trial. The moor was crossed and they came into another road, broader and more frequented than the one they had left. They proceeded along this for some time, when they at length arrived in front of a large inn. 
               The two men hesitated, paused opposite to it, and then entered. 
               The woman watched them enter the parlour of the house, and then went herself to the front of the bar. 
               She inquired of the landlord if she could be shown into a private room. 
               A female domestic conducted her to a large, old-fashioned apartment on the first floor. It was situated at the back of the house, and overlooked the private garden of the premises. 
               Marian Ingledew-for it was she who had been watching the two ruffians-ordered some refreshment, which was brought her. 
               Then she took off her bonnet and shawl, and seated herself at a table. 
               The girl who waited upon her was struck with her rare beauty, for she regarded her with looks of admiration, and muttered to herself that she was a "rale lady. 
               For a minute or so, Marian was lost in reflection; after which she rose and placed her hand upon the bell-rope. 
               Upon the second thoughts she let go of this, and again seated herself at the table; taking out her pocket-book, she tore a leaf from the same, and wrote on it a few words in pencil-they were as follows,- 
                     "If Dennis O'Grady values the life of his brother, he will do well to follow the bearer of this to room above, where a friend awaits his presence."
                  
                
               This done, Marian Ingledew rose from her seat and rang the bell. The waitress made her appearance in answer to this summons. 
               Marian folded up the note she had written and said to the girl.- 
               "There are two men in the parlour?" 
               "Yes, Miss, there are several." 
               "But I mean the last comers." 
               "Yes, Miss." 
               "There is a man in the parlor below with a bandage round his head, I wish to speak with him. Here is a note. I wish you to give him this-say that a friend of his is upstairs, and would be glad to see him for a few minutes." 
               The girl stared at the speaker. 
               She had noticed the two rough-looking men enter the parlour, and was wondering whar so fair and ladylike a person could want with such a savage-looking man. 
               She took the note and left the apartment. 
               Marian Ingledew sat calm and statue-like, awaiting his coming. 
               Her countenance did not betray any emotion; nevertheless, her heart throbbed audibly audibly during the painful period of suspense. 
               She had marked out in her own mind the part she had to play-but woman of tact and penetration as she was, she felt that she had allotted to herself a task, the performance of which might tax her powers to the utmost. 
               The girl appeared to be gone an unusually long time, and Marian Ingledew became anxious. 
               Presently the girl re-appeared. 
               "Well!" said Marian, quietly, "what says he?" 
                
               "I gave him the note." 
               "Yes." 
               "But he did not seem to understand its meaning-Ahem!-I think he has been drinking, Miss." 
               "Very likely. Did you explain to him that I awaited his appearance here?" 
               "He seemed to be very sadly disagreeable and suspicious." 
               "Pshaw! suspicious of what? Tell him a lady who knows his brother wishes to speak to him." 
               The girl went down stairs-she returned shortly, and, following close at her heels, was the O'Grady. 
               His eyes were bloodshot, and his countenance, ill-favoured enough at all times, was now most particularly so. 
               Her glared at the beauteous female before him with an expression of suspicion and surprise. 
               Marian Ingledew rose and handed him a chair. 
               The maid left the room. 
               "Arrah, an' ye sent for me, marm?" asked O'Grady. 
               "Dennis O'Grady, I have not sent for you-to-that is-for any hostile purpose. I am a friend to the society to which you belong-a friend, and not an enemy, to the Fenians. One of them lies in prison on the charge of murder. He is innocent, as you know." 
               As she said this her dark eye lighted up, and she looked searchingly in the face of the man before her. 
               He quailed before her fixed and penetrating glance. 
               "I say he is innocent!" repeated Marian. 
               "I do not doubt it," answered O'Grady. 
               "But he will be found guilty!" 
               "I hope not." 
               "He must be rescued." 
               "Aye, rescued. We are the boys to do it," exclaimed O'Grady, striking the table with his fist. 
               "That is not my meaning." 
               "Ugh!" growled the man. 
               "No, that is not my meaning. I tell you that young O'Connell will be sacrificed to party spirit, unless proofs, are offered of his innocence. Listen! I know who murdered Squire Beechcroft!" 
               "You?" exclaimed the man, starting from his chair and rising suddenly. 
               "Yes, I!" 
               "Who was it, then?" 
               "You!" answered Marian Ingledew. 
               As she said this she drew a pistol from beneath her dress, and levelled it full in the face of the ruffian before her. 
               "Attempt to move one step and you are a dead man," she exclaimed. As she did so her beautifully rounded white arm and hand seemed as firm and fixed as those of an ivory statue. 
               For a minute or so O'Grady was fairly unmanned, his limbs trembled, and a spasmodic movement passed over his face. 
               "Fear not," said Marian. "I have not sent for you to hand you over to justice. On the contrary, I wish to come to an amicable understanding. Are we to be friends or foes? 
               The man made no reply to that plain question. 
               "Listen!" said Marian in continuation. "It is in my power to save the life of Maurice O'Connell; it is in my power to hand you over to justice and prove your guilt. I do not wish to do so. I wish to save you both. Are you content that is should be thus?" 
               All this while she was covering him with her pistol. 
                
               "I do not understand what you mean," said O'Grady, who by this time was completely sobered. "I believe you must be mad." 
               "You are under a mistake, my friend, in that supposition. Quite under a mistake, I assure you," answered Marian, with admirable coolness. 
               She felt that she held a mastery over the man for the present, and was anxious to take advantage of it as speedily as possible. 
               "I am perfectly cool and collected, and to tell you the truth, I need all my wits about me at the present moment, I have a proposed to make. Sit down." 
               The man obeyed mechanically. 
               She still held her pistol presented towards him. 
               "You must sign a paper I will draw up," said Marian. 
               "What paper?" 
               "A confession." 
               The man emitted a deep guttural sound from his throat. 
               "Yes, a confession; I will give you money to go abroad-to free America; you will do well there. A more prosperous future lies before you if you are an honest man, as I hope. 
               I pledge myself, my word that the paper you will leave in my hands shall not be made use of till you are half across the broad Atlantic. Accept this offer and you will save your own life, better your condition, and save the life of an innocent man. Come, what say you?" 
               "I am not going to confess to a crime I never committed," answered O'Grady, doggedly shaking his head. 
               A smile of incredulity passed over the features of his beautiful companion. 
               "Young man, I have told you that it is in my power to convict you. 
               "How?" 
               "By the testimony of a witness who saw that fatal affray in the wood." 
               "Saw it? Who is this witness? It is false-no one was there besides-" 
               He paused suddenly as he reflected that he was committing himself, Marian hastened to take advantage of this. 
               "I was there!" she said, firmly; "and I myself can prove your guilt." 
               At these words the man sprang on one side with the bound of a panther. 
               Marian Ingledew rose also. 
               By the sudden movement he had so unexpectedly made, he had got out of the range of her pistol. 
               She turned the point of it towards him and fired. 
               As she did so he struck her arm with his clenched fist. 
               The ball lodged in the wall opposite. 
               In another moment he was upon her. 
               She screamed and cried out,- 
               "Help! murder!" 
               He placed his rough hand over her mouth, while with the other he grasped her throat. 
               Marian thought she was now at the mercy of a remorseless ruffian, and believed that her last hour was at hand. 
               She endeavoured to shout for assistance, but found it to be utterly impossible. 
               Her throat was grasped so tightly that she was already half strangled. 
               It would have been impossible to tell what might have been the termination of this scene had it not been suddenly interrupted. 
               A young officer rushed up stairs and sprang into the room. 
               "Scoundrel! your hands upon a woman!" he exclaimed, drawing his sword. 
               The Fenian turned. 
               He had released Marian Ingledew, who stood panting and almost breathless looking in speechless wonder at her ruffianly assailant and the young English officer. 
                
               Dennis O'Grady was no doubt under the impression that the whole of the proceedings were part and parcel of a plot to entrap him, and hand him over to justice, perhaps to endanger the hopes of Hibernia! 
               With the howl of a wild beast he sprang forwards toward the British officer whose sword was sheathed in his body. 
               It passed through his chest, even up to the very hilt! 
               Even in his last hour he cast a look of ineffable hate upon the red-coat who had slain him. 
               He uttered a deep groan, and, struggling a few paces, fell backwards. 
               "What have you done? God in Heaven, what have you done?" exclaimed Marian Ingledew, wringing her hands. 
               "Punished a miscreant as he deserves," answered the officer. 
               "The confession! the confession!" ejaculated Marian; "perhaps it is not too late." 
               As she said this she knelt down by the side of the prostrate man, and, placing her hands upon his chest, felt if his heart still beat. She then stooped her head forward, and bent her ear close to his face,-"Dennis O'Grady, as you hope for heaven's mercy, answer me; confess, ere it be too late, Mr. Beechcroft fell by your hand. Speak as you hope for mercy-it was you who assassinated him." 
               "He murmurs 'Yes!'" exclaimed Marian, looking at the British officer. She again bent over the dead body of O'Grady, and again besought him to speak. 
               No answer was returned. Marian then turned her beautiful eyes upon the officer, and exclaimed:- 
               "Alas, he is dead!" 
               By this time the landlord of the inn and several other persons made their appearance at the open door of the room. A mingled cry of horror came from these as they caught sight of three figures in the apartment. 
               "Rise, Madam," said Captain Cunliffe, for the officer who had come so suddenly upon the scene was none other than him. "Rise, madam, I beseech you!" 
               He offered his hand to Miss Ingledew as he said this, and she arose to her feet. 
               She had been supported throughout by excitement and the strong purpose which had been her mainspring of action; but now the ghastly figure of the dead O'Grady, and, perhaps, some pity and remorse for the manner and suddeness of his death, caused reaction, and Marian Ingledew turned suddenly pale, and staggered for a few paces. 
               Captain Cunliffe placed his arm round her waist, and endeavoured to conduct her as speedily as might be out of the apartment where so terrible a scene had been enacted. 
               "What is this, cap'en," inquired the landlord-"a duel, murder, or what?' 
               A few brief sentences from the British officer sufficed to put the new comers in full possession of the leading facts of the case. 
               "He confessed!" exclaimed Marian Ingledew, as she descended the stairs. "He confessed it; I am witness to that." 
               "I am glad you are able to say so," answered Cunliffe; "you were nearer to him than myself." 
               "You did not hear his answer to my question, then?" inquired Marian. 
               "I did not, madam," returned the captain. "I would that I had." 
               Captain Cunliffe conducted Marian Ingledew into the private room of the house, and placed her under the charge of the landlady, whose kind attentions and gentle ministering did much to recompose her troubled mind. 
               The dead body of O'Grady was left in the room where the fatal affray had taken place, there to await the coroner's inquest; Cunliffe taking the precaution of seeing the door locked, and taking charge of the key himself, till such time as it should be handed over to the proper authorities. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                  MAURICE O'CONNELL AND ALICE. A WOMAN'S PLEADING. WHO MAURICE LOVED. 
                
               WHILE the events we have been describing were taking place, the prisoner at Macroom-almost desolate in the world as he might be-was not destined, however, to pine in his miserable cell without another gentle being endeavouring to cheer, comfort, and solace him in the hour of his affliction. 
               Alice Beechcroft, although not actuated by the strong, deep, and fervid impulse which prompted the actions of Marian Ingledew, had, nevertheless, evinced throughout, as we have already seen and noted, a gentle and womanly touch of pity for the young and ill-used Irishman. 
               Maurice O'Connell was a man of stormy and violent passions. 
               A sense of wrong had been the dominant thought of his life-of wrong done to him and his for generations past. When the mind dwells upon such injuries, whether real or supposed, it becomes predisposed to magnify evils, distort facts, and too often to see only the evil at first glance. 
               Such was the case with Maurice O'Connell. 
               The whole current of his thoughts tended but one way-to seek an expiation for the wrongs received at the hands of his oppressors. 
               Like a chained eagle he fretted and chafed in the cell wherein he was confined, brooding over his sorrows, and cursing his ill-starred fate. 
               The last remains of old Mr. Beechcroft have been consigned the family vault-his will has been read; no provision had been made therein for Alice Beechcroft, who was consequently left to the mercy of the heir, who would in all probability soon be over to take possession of Beechcroft Court and the estates belonging to the same. 
               Mrs. Challice was monstrously indignant when she learned that Miss Alice was left unprovided for, but the latter defended the conduct of her guardian and foster-father, declaring that she had no claim upon him. 
               Mrs. Challice, however, declared that had it not been for the advice of Matthew Hyssop, her dear master would have never departed this life without providing for the dear young lady. 
               The neglect, however, if it could be so termed, did not appear to have much effect upon Miss Alice-at any rate not externally so-for she gave no indication of a discontented of repining spirit, but awaited complacently enough the appearance of Mr. Beechcroft's nephew and sole heir. 
               Matters stood thus at Beechcroft Court. 
               Meanwhile Maurice O'Connell awaited his trial in the gaol at Macroom. 
               Bitter enemies as the O'Connells and Beechcrofts had been, the domestics in the latter establishment had always been favourable in their feelings towards Maurice and the madam, as they called the old lady. 
               Some few days after the funeral of old Mr. Beechcroft, Alice came to a resolution, which she had been considering over again and again; she would see Maurice O'Connell-visit him even in his prison. 
               A few hurried words to Mrs. Challice sufficed to make her acquainted with the determination of the warm-hearted girl. 
               The housekeeper approved of her plan. 
               Of course, the visit was to be a profound secret to every one, as it would be impossible to tell what view the heir of Beechcroft might take of such a step; but Alice was self-willed. 
                
               Indeed, she might in latter years be almost termed a spoilt child. 
               At any rate she cared not for her own temporal welfare when the rescue of the unfortunate was concerned. 
               It would, perhaps, be difficult to say what possible good could accrue to Maurice or herself by her choosing to pay a visit to an outlaw who was charged with the murder of her relative. 
               No matter, she would go to Macroom; for what purpose we shall presently see. 
               Having come to this resolve, she was not long in carrying it into practice. 
               So, upon the plea of visiting a friend, Alice one afternoon, stepped out at the old gates of Beechcroft Court, and bent her steps towards the prison at Macroom. 
               Although naturally gay of heart, she found herself sad enough when she sped upon her present mission. She had never in her life been inside a prison of any description, and her young heart fluttered as she contemplated the ordeal she was about to pass through; besides this, there were many other circumstances which naturally tended to depress her spirits. 
               The last sad obsequies of her beloved relative, his sudden death, and her own name being entirely excluded from his will were all circumstances which tended to make the usually giddy, merry, wayward girl, more than usually sad. 
               She did not, however, for a moment falter in her purpose, for when she arrived at Macroom she walked boldly up to the iron studded door, with its pendant chains above it, and inquired for one Maurice O'Connell. 
               The turnkey looked hard at her, and asked if she was related to the prisoner; Alice answered in the affirmative. 
               Upon this she entered the lobby, the turnkey muttering to himself.- 
               "By the powers! but Misther O'Connell seems to be a daisy boy for the petticoats." 
               In a short time Alice found herself in the cell occupied by the prisoner O'Connell. In her cloak and bonnet-for she had doffed her plumed hat, being, of course, in deep mourning-Maurice did not at first recognise her. 
               He stared in some surprise, and then looked inquiringly at the turnkey. 
               "An' sure its a lady had come to see you," said the latter. 
               "Miss Beechcroft!" exclaimed Maurice, in perfect astonishment. "An sure its honoured I am by this visit; and, to say the truth, its surprised I am at the same time." 
               The turnkey, the same who had ushered in Marian Ingledew, took his departure. 
               "An' its good and kind of you, my dear young lady, to think of one who-who-is charged with having robbed you of your natural protector. An' sure I am that you do not believe all that is said against me!" 
               "Maurice," said Alice, "I feel assured, and know that you are innocent of the charge made against you, but-" 
               "But what, Miss Beechcroft?" said the young man, proudly. 
               "I cannot be deaf to other reports. Nay, do not start, and put on one of those fierce proud looks; for, if you do, I am silent." 
               "Nay, do not say that; your voice is music. It's sweetness charms my ears." 
               "Pshaw!" exclaimed Alice," a truce to flattery. I have sought you here-for what, think you? Not to listen to uncalled-for adulation. I wish, Mr. O'Connell, that my voice could turn you from the path you have chosen to follow." 
               "The path I have chosen to follow! What is the meaning of this?" said O'Connell, in some surprise. 
               "Ah! you are angry." 
               "No, no; not at all." 
                
               "But I think you are." 
               "Believe me, I am not angry, indeed. And wherefore?-and with you?" 
               "Shall I go on?" 
               "By all means." 
               "Well, then, hear me. I spoke just now of the path you had chosen to follow. Your brow darkened when I said that. Now, do not think I am come to upbraid you." 
               Her lip trembled as she said this, "do not imagine for one moment that I am come here to-to make bitter hours doubly bitter by complaint and recrimination; but, oh, Mr. O'Connell-Maurice-if I may so call you, as you value your own happiness, as you value mine, do not seek to fan into a flame the smouldering embers of rebellion." 
               "Rebellion!" 
               "Yes; much has come to my knowledge-much that I would fain wish to disbelieve." 
               "Has that miscreant Hyssop-" 
               "Hush!" 
               "Ah! you defend him. Is this so?" 
               "I have not as yet mentioned his name, neither do I desire to do so. He has nothing to do with what I wish to say." 
               "Ah! that is enough," answered O'Connell, somewhat more pacified. 
               "Maurice, I have said that much has come to my knowledge; you are in league with discontented and lawless men." 
               "Lawless men! Who made them so? What if I am in league with those who are driven well-nigh distracted by-by the wrongs put upon them by their oppressors. Rob a man of his rights, and he is called lawless. I am lawless, if implicit and blind obedience to the will of a usurper is so. Is it not enough to have starvation and contention abroad without letting them force from every cup the small drop of sweetness,-the sweetness of affection-left us in this land of slavery." 
               "God knows it is, Maurice," murmured Alice. "And God knows how bitterly I feel that. Desolate as I am-" 
               "Aye, Miss Beechcroft, that is of a piece with everything else that is done by the rich foreigner for the poor in our country; their charity is to ill-use not to succour." 
               "I mind well the time when that bigoted miscreant, Matthew Hyssop, used to cast up his eyes and talk of his angel lady's charity in bringing up a castaway. I was a boy then, and used to think had I have been a man, and you a friend of mine, that he should not have lived to say it again; as it is, my debts to him are not yet discharged." 
               "Hush," said Alice, turning pale. There is too much of death around us to talk of vengeance; the Lord has taken vengeance in his own hands." 
               "It had fallen on the innocent then," said Maurice, with one of those fierce, proud looks he was wont to give when speaking of his oppressors. "The rich have either fled the cholera and cattle plague or fortified themselves within their houses, doling out charity with hands palsied in returning pence, but active enough in taking pounds, like the cold, proud man, whose death may cost me my life. Your young bright face was a sunbeam in his house; you went abroad among the poor and returned laden with blessings that reflected on him; and what has he done for one he was bound to cherish. He has left you-how? After letting you grow up to a woman, nursing you in luxury, he has left you-how? Oh, Miss Beechcroft, bitter is such nurture, accursed such protection! He had left you now-what?" 
               "Silence!" exclaimed Alice. "Let there be no more of this; I will not listen to reflections upon the character of one who has ever treated me as a kind parent treats his own child." 
               "I have done," answered Maurice, sharply. "The kindness of the Beechcrofts!" he added, bitterly. 
               "It is not seemly for me to listen to these complaints. I seek not to go over the old ground of complaints and recriminations. They have been kind to me." 
               "Who? Mrs. Beechcroft! the proud, scornful Mrs. Beechcroft!-she kind?" 
               He laughed scornfully. 
               "Stop," exclaimed Alice. "Can you wonder that I will not hear you? I loved the only parents I have ever known, and yet you seem to take a pleasure in insulting them in their graves. Oh! can you wonder that I will not hear you?" 
               "Not very long ago, I believe your mind was as free as my own. You listened to the complaints, the natural murmurs and complaints, of the down-trodden and oppressed. Even when a child you revolted against the bigotry and intolerance of that proud woman you were taught to look upon as your mother. You saw clearly-you felt keenly; you loved your country as an Irish girl ought to do. You have even at one time turned red with indignation when you spoke of these invaders. You have even cursed them!" 
               "Then, God pardon me if I did so," said Alice, sadly. "What right had I to curse?-I, who have no power to bless. I do not love my country less than I did, but far more. When Mrs. Beechcroft lived, I own that I rebelled against her bigotry and injustice; but, surely, if men such as poor Mr. Beechcroft possessed the land there would be little or nothing to complain of." 
               "Hear this!" exclaimed Maurice O'Connell, with a bitter laugh; "did I ever think to hear such wretched words as these? Have you forgotten the injuries and oppressions of 
                     centuriesl
                     centuries?
                   Have you forgotten what I, you, and all of us have seen in our short lives?-the rise of rents and the exaction of tithes. Have you forgotten the infliction of martial law and the insurrection acts? Have you forgotten the tithe-book? The Protestant grazier who fattens his cattle for the English market paying nothing, while the poor Catholic, who raises five acres of corn-three for the market and two for his own support-is obliged out of this to pay the priest and minister. Have you forgotten-it makes me half mad to think of him-have you forgotten Mathew Hyssop and the starving out? The O'Gradys sent adrift-cast upon the wide world?" 
               "No, Maurice, I have not forgotten these things; but the O'Gradys were to blame." 
               "Blame! We are all to blame, of course. But I see you have forgotten that they are of the faith you would blacken and falsify." 
               Maurice, now that he had got upon the subject, took little heed of the few words which Alice let fall during the temporary pause which he had made. 
               He continued on, heedless of a deprecating gesture from his companion. 
               "Even lately," he said, in continuation, "when sickness has been stalking through the country, the usual tithe has been enforced for the rotten potato; the tithe proctor and driver take advantage of the famine, bring up the rear of Almighty vengeance, and become in their own persons the last scourge of the husbandman." 
               "Maurice, Maurice," said Alice, gently, "our dean has not done this." 
               "Ah, ah! and why, pray? Because he is afraid! I tell you that it is nothing but fear makes them human." 
               "Oh, Maurice!" 
               "Aye, what I say is but too true. Do you think I do not know them all? If ever I live to get out of this wretched place, they shall have good cause to fear." 
               He paced up and down his cell with uneasy strides as he said this, and continued- 
                
               "There's hardly a man-certainly not a true-hearted Irishman-in the south who is not of the Brotherhood. Believe me, we shall have foreign help as well. See the blue-coats that have been with Grant and Sherman, Kilpatrick and O'Mahony! Oh! let me in this miserable prison-house endeavour to arouse you to a sense of patriotism. Enlist yourself under out standard-the glorious standard of freedom! The harp free to sound, with no crown to crush her full gush of melody; the motto-'The wreath of mingled laurel and shamrock.' England solicits food, begs it of America for the 'starving Irish,' and then congratulates herself on her charity. Does a mother talk of charity when she feeds her child?" 
               "Maurice," exclaimed Miss Beechcroft, sadly, "your words prove the truth of what I have heard." 
               And she looked steadily at the panting and excited man who stood before her. 
               "Maurice O'Connell, there is something more than usual stirring to excite you thus. In Heaven's name, what new, what fatal project have you been plotting?" 
               "New!" he answered, bitterly. "When has it been new for the worm to turn?" 
               "Ah, she exclaimed, "I long, like you, to see a chance of the independence of my country, a chance of her not only gaining her independence, but of retaining it. I, for one, would gladly, cheerfully, give my life to achieve it, die to render it a country instead of a province, but the unavailing struggles of the past rise before me; the rapine, murder, distress, and perfidy that have followed each successive struggle, the unworthy purposes that have actuated some, and the base gold by which others have been bought, the want of means, of training--" 
               "We have means-aye, and training, too," answered Maurice, suddenly. "The time is ripe, the hour draws nigh." 
               "Alas! to organise a whole people!" answered Alice; "that has been tried vainly over and over again. Treachery will creep into your camp-that has been proved but too surely. Ah, Maurice," exclaimed the young and beauteous speaker, in plaintive accents, "for my sake, for your own, for the sake of the memory of the once proud O'Connells, I charge you to turn aside from this fatal compact, abandon this wild dream of patriotism. What good can possibly come of it? Nothing but dishonour, disgrace infamy." 
               The prisoner made no reply. Alice, believing that her words had some impression on him continued,- 
               "Think how lonely we are both of us, in this world now! I have lost my only protectors, and you;-but there, I meant not to pain you; trouble binds hearts with woe still closer together, so let it be with us. I had come here, Maurice, with the intention, the firm resolution, of appealing to your better nature, to your better judgment, to abandon all thoughts of the fatal compact which I feel and know you are engaged in. I will not ask you to either deny or admit it, but I will assume that you are one of the Fenian leaders. Nay, start not; I do not need an avowal of this. Maurice, the regeneration of your country will never be effected by these means; already, outbreaks of this desperate band of men are rendering them odious in the eyes of the good and well-disposed." 
               "An' is it odious that they are?" exclaimed Maurice O'Connell, with a sudden burst of anger. "And this from you! But you are speaking like a woman! You speak without knowledge, too!" 
               "Nay, hear me; do not chafe thus," answered Alice Beechcroft. "I am not saying they are despised by me, these misguided men, but surely you must admit that their acts are such as to render them-" 
               "Feared!" exclaimed Maurice. 
                
               "We fear the midnight assassin or murderer," answered his companion. "I would myself go to the scaffold in the cause of my country, but I confess I should shrink from being hanged for plunder or murder." 
               "We have never been branded with that yet," answered Maurice, proudly. "Never in any instance has one of the thousands sworn to our cause in Ireland-though tens of thousands are starving-been guilty of robbery. When compelled to enforce our laws by the obstinacy of those who take our lives by taking the means whereby we live, we never touch the gold for which they peril both soul and body. Ours," he continued, bitterly, "ours will be no common war; every species of justice has been denied us. Ours is a war with England and against those bastards of the soil who deny us the bit of land-the bit of land to be our own without dread of slaving for another-the bit of land which the poor man can cultivate when may be he has worked his twelve hours for his landlord, or that his wife and children can manage when he is absent. We may not have as our own a portion of the soil which was ALL our fathers'; not as a gift, but as a reward of labour; the crown of industry; but, by all the winds in Heaven, we'll have it, or the lives of those who keep their feet upon our necks and yet tell us that we are free! What is life to me, Alice Beechcroft? I ask of you why should I care for life? What is it to me?-what charm has it for me, or such as I am, that I should hesitate to strike a blow for liberty?" 
               "It is of no use going over the ground again," answered Miss Beechcroft sadly; "no use repeating that one bold, brave struggle, boldly made, and sealed it might be, with the blood of yourself and your companions, would command the sympathy and respect of the whole world. But we shall never prosper as people while we favour and conceal the assassin. What cause can justify the cruel and barbarous murder of poor Mr. Beechcroft? Was not that the act of a Fenian?" 
               "I do not know that it was-I do not believe that it was," answered Maurice O'Connell, in a resolute tone. 
               "I have my own opinon of the matter," said Alice, "and I feel deeply, and, perhaps, speak strongly. Accursed is the man who would shelter or encourage such monsters as the murders of my protector and more than father." 
               "It is well for you to talk thus, Miss Beechcroft," said Maurice; "you have learned your lesson at Beechcroft Court. We have been trained in different schools, my dear young lady. I cannot turn traitor to my cause." 
               "The school you have been taught in does not justify such acts as these; if it does, throw away its teachings for now and hereafter. Oh, Maurice O'Connell, you are a prisoner, charged with a crime which, it may be, is the act of one or more of those who belong to your own band Ought it not, does it not, read you a lesson? Oh, be warned in time. I plead to you as woman pleads to man, as a loving sister would to an erring and misguided brother; never before have I ventured to address you thus. We have, however, been always good friends. The voice of nature broke out; I obeyed its promptings, although I knew not then why or wherefore my heart yearned toward you. I am now, no longer a wilful, weak, wayward girl. Oh, Maurice, listen to me, hear me, dear Maurice. It is one of your own kindred who is addressing you." 
               As the young and passionate speaker gave utterance to these last words, Maurice O'Connell turned suddenly pale, and, staggering a few paces, fell into a chair. 
               "My own kindred! What is this? A mist is before my eyes. Alice Beechcroft one of my race! Pshaw!" 
               "It is true, Maurice; as there is a silent though an all-seeing judge above us, it is true." 
               As she said this she went to his side, and, kneeling at his feet, she placed one hand on his arm and looked beseechingly up into his face. 
                
               He passed his hand several times across his brow, and his feature wore a troubled expression. 
               "Maurice," said Alice, now in still more touching accents, "you need not wonder why it is that I have taken so deep an interest in your future life. It is natural, darling in the hour of misfortune and trial, that we should cleave to our own flesh and blood, and sure I am--" 
               "You are speaking in riddles. There is some terrible mystery in all this, else why-why this visit?-this earnest appeal?" exclaimed the young Irishman. 
               "Listen," said Alice, looking up into his face. "You will forego this fatal compact. Nay, do not turn from me; I am sure you will, for my sake. Hear me, Maurice; it is almost your sister who is speaking to you." 
               "Almost my sister!" exclaimed the young man, his strong frame trembling with excitement. "Miss Beechcroft, you are surely jesting. It is but a sorry jest, though." 
               "Maurice O'Connell, my mother was beloved by your father!" 
               At these words he bent his face down, and looked earnestly into hers. 
               "I cannot be," he exclaimed suddenly. 
               "But it is Maurice O'Connell. I have not come here with a falsehood on my lips. You know that I have always, even from my childish days, sympathised with your misfortunes. No doubt, Maurice, that even then that strange mysterious influence was at work-that mysterious power which makes one lean towards one of our own kind; but it is only within the last few days that I have known what I know now-that I am your father's child." 
               "Surely," exclaimed Maurice, in astonishment. 
               "Your half-sister," she returned. "It is true the blood of the Saxon runs in my veins, though not in yours, Maurice." 
               The young man sighed. 
               "Let it cry for mercy to your heart. Let its cry be not made in vain. For, oh, Maurice O'Connell, by our mutual father, I conjure you--" 
               "His memory!" ejaculated the young Irishman, "the memory of-Pshaw! Why recall the past? I dare not think of it! You know not, perhaps, the insults and sneers that father received from those who should have been his friends and protectors." 
               "No, Alice, you know not half a tithe of what my warm-hearted parent had to endure from the cold, proud woman whom you were taught to call mother. But enough of this; I will not chide you, my own sweet sister. And so, many blessings on your head!" 
               He stooped down as he said this, and kissed her several times on the forehead. 
               "I hope now you will grant my request," said Alice. 
               "What?" he inquired. 
               "To forswear any future connection with those who will but too surely head you to destruction." 
               He took her by the hands and raised her up. He then handed her to a seat. 
               "Alice," he said, slowly and sadly enough, "you are a young girl, and consequently can but ill judge of these matters. The very nature of your education and association would incapacitate you. However, I will put it to yourself. I will place my case as nearly as may be in its proper light before you. Suppose now you had known a young man who had been kind to you on all occasions, had rendered you infinite services, had at length become attached to you, had declared his love, and you, in return, had given him yours; and, then, having done this, you had plighted your troth, and made him a solemn promise before. God that you would keep true to him, what would you say if I, or any one else, were to come between you and him, and seek to turn you aside, or endeavour to persuade you to break your oath. What would you say?" 
                
               "I should turn from him who made such a proposition; turn from him in scorn." 
               "Good. Well, then, I have given such a pledge. I have taken an oath, a solemn oath. Not a pledge given to a lady of my heart," he said, sadly, "but to devote my life to a nobler and higher purpose-to Liberty!" exclaimed O'Connell, as his form dilated; "and, so help me Heaven, nothing shall turn me from my purpose! There, my own gentle Alice, you are answered. Upon any other subject Maurice O'Connell will listen to you, but upon that-" he paused suddenly, and tossed up his arms wildly. Alice Beechcroft, without endeavouring to persuade him further, took a hasty, but tender adieu of him she had learnt to call her brother. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                  THE POLICE-BARRACKS OF MACROOM. "LARRY LARGEMOUTH," HIS NEWS AND HIS SONGS. THE ESCAPE OF THE PRISONER. THE AFFRAY WITH THE PATROL. 
                
               QUITE a gathering of people were hanging about the door of the police-station, in a cell of which Maurice was temporarily confined. 
               They had followed, to the station, a drunken woman who had been the cause of much amusement. As the dark was coming on, the curious did not care to return to work at the late hour, and still lingered about the place. 
               They stared at the bright buttons of the policeman keeping the door, in default of anything better. 
               Hence the first novelty was sure of an enthusiastic greeting. 
               Up the street came, a fellow, all in rags, but that was not what drew all eyes on him. He was gifted with a powerful voice, and he used it unsparingly in the following snatch: 
                      
                        "As I came in through Droghadee, 
                        To take a cup or two with a fair one, 
                        With merry fate along the strate, 
                        Up came to me a rich and rare one, 
                        Her waist so nate, her locks so long, 
                        Her eyes so blue, their glance so warming, 
                        Her note was the note of the nightingale, 
                        And, oh, her tongue was wondrous charming!" 
                     
                  
                
               "Oh! It's Larry!" cried all, "Larry Largemouth, be the powers!" 
               "Sowl to be saved!" said the vocalist, as they forced him to sit down on a cabbage-cart by the wall of the barracks, "can't you let a body be, an' the officious lookin' at you!" 
               "What's the news, Larry?" 
               "Don't yees take in the paper like the gintry?" replied he sarcastically. 
               "Now, what's that paper you have in your breast, Larry," said an old woman. "Oh, darling, read us the news!" 
               "Oh, read it out, Larry! Maybe there's more of the F's!" 
               Will you hould your whist!" cried another. "Don't you see the peeler a-cockin' up his ears!" 
               Larry, who was afflicted with a cast in the eyes, paraded those organs over the scene, looking left to view the right hand objects, to the amusement of the appreciative. 
                
               Then he drew a couple of soiled newspapers from his pocket. 
               "This is the Dundalk Democrat," said he. 
               "More glory to the name," said an elderly man. "I mind whin Dumiycrat was a word that would earn one a cut wid a sabre!" 
               "Oh, he does remember that," chorussed the crowd. "Read on, Larry." 
               "Well, shall I read the horrid murder, the daring robbery or the 'proceeding at the Petty Sessions agin' the men of Blackrock on a charge of Fenianism?" 
               "That, Larry," responded they eagerly, but cautiously. 
               So the peasant went on spelling out of this paragraphs or two: 
               "According to the po-lice, the brethren to the number of two hundred were being drilled in military style. The drill-sergeant was a man named Quigley, one of the persons now in cus-to-dy. The Fenians, it appears, were marching in fours, and Quigley was ordering them to close up,' and shouting 'forward,' and calling upon the force to 'double up'--" 
               "Is it double up the inimies, he meant?" queried some one slily. 
               "You my go the jail an' ax him, Master Jerry!" returned Larry. 
               The fellow became as quiet amid the laughter as the big-bell whin the tongue was stole' out of its head. 
               "The evidence," resumed Larry "also went to show that somebody shouted "Clear the way for the Fenians," and 'Hurrah for Liberty.' Lord Bellew, who presided on the bench, announced that it was the determination of his brother magistrates and himself to send the accused to the assizes." 
               "Oh, but them Bellews is always blowing hard on a poor boy!" muttered somebody. 
               "The prisoners were represented by Messrs. M'Mahon and Johnson, who admitted that there was certainly some evidence against their clients on the charge of illegal drilling, but to ask the magistrates, notwithstanding, to dismiss the cases, which the bench refused to do." 
               "Look at that now! be jabers, is this the sort of justice one must expect?" 
               "Aisy," said Larry. "'Bail was offered to any amount'-" 
               "Oh, but there's friends to the misfortunate yet!" 
               "But was refused, and the five men sent to jail!" 
               "Murther, but they're hard!" 
               "What's the other paper, Larry! not from the States!" 
               "No! it's a Freeman for all that," replied he. 
               He unfolded a Dublin Freeman; displaying the head as if the sheet was a banner. 
               "Here's news from Cork," said Larry-"The Fenians in the neighbourhood of this city are daily growing bolder, their audacity reaching a climax on yesterday evening, when about 200 young men formed four deep, in military array, on the Friar's Walk-road, in the southern part of this city. The place at which they formed is not fifty yard from the Capwell police-barracks. They assembled about nine o'clock, and last night was the first occasion on which they mustered at such an early hour, in such numbers, or so near the city. The men, who were seen by numbers that happened to be on the road at the time, were all grown young men, and there were no boys amongst them. To about every twenty men was one with a green rod, who acted as an officer, and gave military orders. Immediately after forming they marched off, keeping excellent time." 
               "Faith the lads are profiting by the returned soldiers!" 
               "They are that," said Larry, "an' they do be telling me that there are more than one rifle that's been through the smoke, that came by the way of Queens town." 
               "Was that all, Larry-what you read?" 
               "No, nor half." 
               And he continued in his sing-song tone: 
                
               "'Soon after their assembling, intelligence was conveyed to the Capwell police-barrack, and after some delay, caused by consulting the superior officers, fifteen armed policemen, under the command of a head constable, started in pursuit. The Fenians had by this time about half-an-hour's start, and were marching along the road to a place called Five-mile Bridge. The police, of course, knowing that the Fenian sympathisers would give notice of their approach to the body in advance, would allow no one to pass before them on the road. However, it is scarcely necessary to say that they could not prevent persons passing them by going through the fields, and accordingly the Fenian body ahead were soon informed that they were pursued-'" 
               "Bedad, I'll be a friend to a Corkonian as long as I live," said Larry, "if only for that." 
               "Don't be interrupting the man! man alive, don't!" 
               "'This intelligence created nothing at all like a panic.'" 
               "On, but that's foine!" 
               "'No one broke from the ranks, but they increased their rate of speed to a "quick march." Several by-roads leading into Cork turn off the main road on which the Fenians were, and down one of these the Fenians turned, and soon reached Cork and dispersed. The police proceeded along the main road for some distance, but, finding that the men of whom they were in pursuit had turned back, and that there was no chance of coming up with them, they returned into town discomfited.'" 
               "Discom-fighted?" repeated one near Larry. "Did they have a fight after all?" 
               "Bother you for a goose" returned the reader. "Discom-fighted means the po-lice felt like anybody would who'd look for brains under your caubeen when you have it on!" 
               The laughter was loud. 
               "Oh, but you have the larnin', Larry, me jewel!" 
               He smiled complacently at the compliment. 
               "Ah!" sighed he, "but the mother that bare me almost kilt me, so she did, by the education she gave me. After all, you may speak as you like, but the wild hills is the place for education. There you'll see the lumps of boys as big, by the piper, as myself, running untamed among the mountains, without the folly of cravats, or the bother of shoes, shouting in Greek till the very echoes speak Latin, and so they do.' 
               "Sure, but the b'ys was too 'smart,' as Mickey, that come back last week from the Sixty-ninth New York, says,-'sure the b'ys was too smart for the blues!'" 
               There was a prolonged peal of merriment at the Fenians' fortune. 
               In the midst of the hilarity, a policeman, on the way to the station, passed by. He stopped and nodded to Larry. 
               Larry deferentially returned the salute. 
               The official saw the newspapers, and coupling the laughs with their contents, asked the reader point-blank what was so amusing in them 
               The crowd felt a little uneasy, as if Larry should be forced into revelation of the truth, they would one and all be marked as sympathizers. 
               But he of the Large Mouth was equal to the emergency. 
               He calmly held the paper conveniently, and said: 
               "Is it what I read to make the idlers laugh, sergeant?" 
               The man was a mere private in the police ranks. 
               "Well, sergeant, it was about the rout of the National Forces at Mallow, near Cork." 
               "Ah! what's that?" 
               "Read it over again, Larry, for the sergeant!" said a peasant, guessing that the official was not going to have the truth. 
                
               So the fellow read off this bit, one of the many calumnies started by those in the crown pay to try to cast ridicule on the noble organization: 
               "A well-to-do farmer, living between Mallow and Cork, whose truthfulness may be relied on, told that on leaving his brother's house at eleven last Wednesday night, on a horse, about a field from the house he had left, he saw two lights moving, one green, the other white; behind each light a large body of men marched. He, being afraid to pass them, got off the horse, turning him adrift, and ran back to the house. He says a number of grazing colts feeding in the field hunted his horse, and that the noise made by the galloping frighted the Fenians, who, believing them to be cavalry, skedaddled so quickly that several were severely injured in falling over the fences. Next morning a report was circulated that the light horse were over the country all night." 
               The policeman burst into loud laughter, those around him did the same, but very hollowly as one might have guessed. 
               With that, he proceeded to the station, and, on being ssked what the crowd was doing, made a report which led to no attempt at interfering with them. 
               The latter were applauding Larry's presence of mind. 
               "You're a good b'y and a true one," said an old woman, who was holding her beads in her hands. "But you're seldom at mass, now, Larry. I heard Father O'Hogan complain of you only last Friday." 
               "Yes, Larry," said her companion, "he observed that you was only half a Christian!" 
               "Half a Christian! By the piper who played before Joshua when he whistled down the walls of neat little Jericho-I know the town well, it is in Munster, and Moll Mulligan lives in it-I am a whole and a merry Christian, and can break the crown of the cleanest lad in Macroom, with five-and-thirty neat inches of sloethorn. What can a man do more? And by the blessed acorn that grew the first shilala, is there ever a mother's son among you, can be so kind to me? So you see me now, I am as good a Christian as yourself. May the saints pardon me for saying so in your own hearing," concluded Larry, dolefully. 
               "Begorra," muttered the old woman, "av I thought you meant impudence by that, I would pull your cruked nose-mind that, will you!" 
               She went away after the threat. 
               "Oh! what a bold chicken of the ould blue hen!" cried Larry after her. "She's a prime one, the widow is. Many's the potato warm and cowld, and the seat in the corner that I've had in your house, and expect to have." 
               "She's a dacent woman, for a widder and one not so bad--" 
               "Thrue for you, Jerry," went on the roving chap. "I never knew one worthy of treading down the daisies beside her but one-and that was the mother that bare me. Soul, and she was a trimmer, and broke my old father's heart and head at the same time-but the like of her at a wake was never in Ireland-straight could she stretch the corpse in six ell of Coleraine linen-and pleasantly could she sing, and weep, and wail till it was a joy, so it was, to die to be waked by the ould one." 
               The darkness caused the people to retire for their homes. Almost every one invited Larry to supper, having an eye to more intelligence to be gotten out the newspapers. 
               But he refused all, and was seen going toward the police-station. 
               He chose the time when the head constable and the inspector left the place arm in arm for their supper, and boldly approached the door. 
               As he passed by the grating on the street level, he hummed apparently carelessly but perhaps all the more significantly on that very account: 
                      
                        "Oh, the high walls and iron 
                        Are ill to get through! 
                         
                        But sit and drink on, love, 
                        O sit and drink on, 
                        When the full moon arises, 
                        O then we'll begone; 
                        O then we'll begone, love!" 
                     
                  
                
               If the thought in his mind had been formed on his lips, it would probably have taken some such shape as this: 
               "Now for Spike Island, or to come out unscratched." 
               So musing, he entered the station. 
               The policeman with whom he had had the late incident, respecting the newspaper item was at the desk. He hailed him heartily and, on Larry giving him a newspaper or two, he, and his companions, were immensely elated. 
                
               As morning broke, the inspector, who had come over early had scarcely looked at the papers on his desk, when he gave a fierce exclamation of surprise. 
               Among the "blanks" and other papers were a couple of printed sheets unknown to him before. One was well calculated to make a menial of the British crown turn aghast. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              To Friends, to Foes:-
                            
                           "Before the Ides of March, if the colour of events bear not a false hue, scenes will be enacted in Ireland that will gladden every heart on this continent which sympathises with the down-trodden nationalities of the world." 
                           
                              "MORGAN T. KING. 
                              ("Late of the Fair Oaks, 64th N. Y. S. V.) 
                              "Centre of the Excelsior Circle, 
                              "FENIAN BROTHERHOOD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The inspector caught up the other strange missive. It was only a 
                      
                        LITTLE LAMENTATION! 
                        BY A SON OF O'KELLY. 
                        As Mars and Minerva were viewing some fine instruments, 
                        Bellona stepped forward, and asked them "What news." 
                        Or were they about repairing the warlike fine inplements 
                        That were getting rusty for the want of being used? 
                        Our Parliament is gone, out nation is diminishing; 
                        Our people are half-starving, and have neither clothes not brogues! 
                        But come stir up the war, and our nation will be flourishing 
                        When we will get our own land from the den of rogues! 
                     
                  
                
               The amazement of the official surpassed anything except his rage. 
               He jumped up, over turning his ink, and was going to thunder forth a comprehensive malediction, when-- 
               "The prisoner has escaped, sir, if you please!" said the turnkey. 
               "What?" 
               "The bars was broke, sir, by somebody outside, and the O'Connell is gone!" 
                
               Long before this, two men were leaving Macroom by the western road. Larry, one of them, led a horse. Maurice walked on behind. 
               It was deemed unadvisable to mount. 
               Of a sudden, the fugitive and his rescuer found themselves face to face with a tall and powerful man. 
               He also led a horse, or rather held it, for he seemed to be about mounting, when the two parties mutually surprised one another. 
               He was one of the mounted patrol, who had alighted to adjust his saddle. 
                
               He let go his horse's rein and, having no doubt about the new comers being hostile at that hour, rudely bade them stand. 
               "Who are you?" 
               "Is it who we are?" repeated Larry to gain time. 
               But the O'Connell, embittered by his late imprisonment, replied boldly: 
               "Friends to freedom and haters of your livery." 
               The patrol drew his pistol from his holster. 
               Before the other could effect his object, Maurice bounded like a panther at his throat, and dashing the pistol from his hand, pressed him with a giant's strength backwards upon the sod of the road side, now up, now down, now over in rapid whirls, with every muscle and sinew stretched in the desperate encounter, like infuriated tigers, the two men, one struggling for life and liberty, the other for mastery, fought and contended with madman-like ferocity. Though a smaller man than the patrol, the concentrated passion of the Irishman gave him extraordinary strength and agility. His endurance, was not inferior to that of his more powerful antagonist, while the deep gasps that the fierce contest drew from the latter, as he occasionally gained the advantage or succeeded in planting his knee on O'Connell's chest, already showed to his adversary his expiring powers. 
               At length, however, the contest seemed over, and for a full minute Maurice lay passive, with set teeth and compressed lips, the other gazing into his darkened countenance with eyes that seemed on fire with the intensity of triumph and revenge; but collecting his strength and concentrating all his powers, the Fenian brought every muscle of his body into one simultaneous action, and by a powerful effort flung his assailant with such an impetus that the body of the officer was hurled to the margin of the road, where, after making one or two abortive clutches to secure a hold, it rolled with increasing momentum from the top of the hill into the hollow below. 
               With an agility marvellous after his recent desperate exertion, Maurice was on his feet in an instant, and seizing the patrol's pistol, levelled it at the rolling figure; but before he could steady his aim, Larry, grasped his hand, and though unable from emotion to articulate, pointed to the road before them. 
               Quick as thought, Maurice leaped into the saddle of the patrol's horse and unsheathed the cutlass hooked at its bow. 
               He whispered to Larry, who proceeded to obey him. 
               Two men appeared on the read. 
               One was Captain Cunliffe. His companion, who was armed with a rifle, was his orderly. They were afoot. 
               They had seen the struggle, and its end. 
               There was enough light on the spot to show that Maurice did not occupy the policeman's saddle by any right. 
               "Stand! or by heaven I fire!" cried the orderly, in an authoritative tone, presenting his rifle full in the horseman's face. 
               Surrender!" shouted Cunliffe, leaping at the opposite side of the horse's head, "or I'll drive my sword into your heart," revealing as he drew his sword the scarlet uniform. "Down, miscreant! O'Connell, so help me heaven!" he exclaimed, as Maurice raised his head to examine this new danger. 
               "What, the murderer?" cried the orderly, in breathless amazement. 
               Maurice's face flamed with rage. 
               "Fools! Idiots! Back! You tempt your fate! Give ground, or--" 
               "Secure, or slay him! Dead or alive, upon him!" shouted the patrol, as, breathless with running, he was seen staggering up the ravine. 
               "Surrender, or I fire!" cried the orderly, again presenting his piece. 
               "Not while a gasp of life remains! Back! Look to your own lives! I heed not mine, for I am desperate. Back!" Using the cutlass dextrously, he gave so rapid a cut at the last speaker, that the rifle was sent flying some distance tance from the side of the discomfited soldier, while with downward sweep on the opposite side he shivered the blade of Cunliffe's weapon to the hilt, and driving his spurs with such force into his horse's side, that the double assault and the headlong plunge of the goaded steed seemed a spontaneous action. Before either of the British could recover from their amazement, the patrol rushed panting on the spot, and seizing the rifle, dropped on one knee, and hastily wiping the blood that was blinding his sight, raised his piece, and after an instant to steady the barrel, touched the trigger, when a stream of fire poured from its muzzle, and the deadly missile was heard whizzing through the air after the flying horseman, while with breathless intensity the three men watched the effect of the bullet. 
               "He is struck!" ejaculated one. 
               "No," cried Cunliffe, eagerly, "but it was a narrow escape." 
               Indeed, the miss had been a close one. 
               Maurice, on rising an eminence suddenly reined in his steed, and turning partly round in the saddle, raised his hat, and waving it in a mock salute, once more gave his horse the spur, and dashed along the fast darkening plain. 
               "What did he say?" queried the captain. 
               "He cried," said the orderly, "he cried out: "The Green above the Red.' Its one of their rebel songs, sir." 
               "I know. Would that we could except no more than songs of defiance," muttered Cunliffe. 
               "What became of the other man?" inquired the patriot. 
               "The other! He must have ridden off, while we three gave all our attention to that man!" 
               If they had had eyes of superhuman power, they would have descried Larry, by making a circuit, join the O'Connell. 
               The two fugitives continued their way together. 
               They struck off into the lonelier regions. 
               Maurice was deep in thought. 
               Perhaps the most unfortunate circumstance that could have happened to the young patriot was his rescue from his prison at Macroom, and this subsequent affray. 
               This might be said to be the turning point in his life; the first act that placed him under the ban of the law, and to a considerable extent rendered him reckless and all but utterly regardless of his future career, beyond that one burning and passionate resolve-to be the liberator of his country, or fall in the attempt. 
               It was too late for him now to turn back, even supposing he had been disposed to do so. 
               His own feelings of pride, and his attachment to his companions, would not allow him to give himself up to the authorities. 
               Maurice O'Connell was therefore now in direct antagonism with the rulers of his country. 
               Larry, on the contrary, was at the height of good spirits. 
               "Oh, Mr. O'Connell dear," said he, "but you're a patthern of bravery. Old Con of the Battles himself couldn't aquil you, let alone the Bould Brogue-maker of Belfast." 
               "And who was this shoemaker, Larry?" asked Maurice listlessly, more to hear a human voice in the loneliness than anything else. 
               "His name was niver known to you!" said he of the Large Mouth is amaze. "Never heard of Pat Hogan? he was the neat comely article they made the song about;-he could tumble down the dozen, as clean as I tumble down drops of mountain-dew: He gave seven sweet counties the breadth of their backs; and down he came, the thief of the world, on a summer morning, and upset the prime lads of Lurgan by the gross-man and mother's son of them. Says my brother Andie, casting off an old coat of many colours, called, by way of distinction, the map of Ireland, says Andie, says he, "Come along-I'm the tightest bit of flesh and blood from Belfast to Cork-let me get but one civil twist of ye, my boy"-and before ye could crack your thumb-there lay Pat Hogan among the oneans, with three cracked ribs in his body, and there stood my brother Andie, whistling the tune of Droghadee. 
               "I tell ye what," says Andy, "I could upset seven acres of such fellows-and here's my brother Larry can give me the breadth of my back five times out of four, any time he likes-d'ye hear me now." "Ah, Andie was the boy after all, only he had a way of thinking too high of me," said Larry modestly. 
               "Yes, but what was the song, pray?" 
               "Well, Mr. O'Connell, I'll thry to give you an idea. It would have cost a man's neck in the auld day in a lobster's hearing, but the hills have only friendly echoes here." 
               With that he set up a preliminary screech to clear his throat, and rattled off: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           THE BOULD BROGUEMAKER OF BELFAST. 
                            
                              "I am a hold broguemaker, 
                              From Belfast town I came, 
                              And drunk and most unfortunate, 
                              I listed in the train; 
                              But double drill, and 'Pat, do this,' 
                              With me did not agree, 
                              So I knock'd down Sergeant Forgeson, 
                              And gain d my liberty. 
                            
                            
                              I came to Carrickfergus, 
                              As the night was wearing late, 
                              And met with Corporal Conoly, 
                              Hard by the Castle gate; 
                              He cried, 'Stand, you bold deserter;' 
                              With a blow both frank and free, 
                              I left him gathering up his limbs, 
                              And gain'd my liberty. 
                            
                            
                              By the foot of Newry mountains, 
                              All among the storm and rain, 
                              Up came Lance-corporal Collingwood, 
                              With fifteen of the train; 
                              I knocked down six, and fell'd four more, 
                              And made the five to flee- 
                              And that's the way, my brave boys, 
                              I kept my liberty." 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "A friendly echo, very Irish," reiterated the burden. 
               "That's the way Larry my boy, we'll keep our liberty!" 
               "Hooroo!" yelled Larry, opening his mouth to its widest, "we're among the lads, your honor!' 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                  THE MEETING IN GLEN EIGH. THE LEGEND OF THE FENIANS. FOREGOERS THE BRAVE HEARTS OF OLD. 
                
               The place we write of (for obvious reasons not too definitely pointed out in this era of importance to Ireland is among the wildest and most magnificent to be found in Ireland, consisting of lake, morass, and mountain upon mountain of every variety of size and form. In summer the blossoms of the wild rush make the miles after miles of the bog appear as if covered with the purest snow, waving and undulating beneath every passing breeze, and contrasting with the patches of cultivation and the rich deep brown of the peat which sends them forth in bold magnificence against the clear blue sky; many a dimpling rivulet, that creeps silently through the sedgy grass of the humbler valley, has dashed down the ravines of the broghan, or the frowning wrinkles of the wild, sparkling, brilliant, mimic cataract, playing with the sunbeams, and laughing and leaping on its way. 
               Oh, the brightness and purity of those gushing streams! softening the sternness, the ruggedness of nature in its wildest moods; lighting up the solitudes; singing where otherwise there had been no music; refreshing and invigorating where, but for their influence, all would have been cold, gray and withered. 
               There is a freedom as well as freshness in the mountain river, whether it expands into the broad Shannon or the flowery Vauheul Lee, or wanders no wider than a maiden's hand, amid rushes and wild thyme, in which the brook lark bathes, and the throstle stoops to drink beneath the overshadowing of the pink and purple foxglove, or under the blossoms of the golden iris. 
               We might throw down our glove in fearless challenge to the world to show objects more lovely or more sublime than the bird can see while winging its way in any direction over a country so beautiful that only the most cruel of tyrants could have so long found the absence of heart to oppress her. 
               In the Glen, were many persons whom we know. Let us only glance at one, Larry Largemouth and a group of companions, who had already called his story-telling qualities into requisition. 
               What tale could more naturally spring up than one of the legends of that very place. 
               We will narrate the appropriate event in our own terms. 
               The scene is the same, but in years far back. 
               As one night approached-a night which was to witness the meeting of the "Whiteboys"-heavy masses of clouds gathered above the mountains, that form such a magnificent amphitheatre around the vale; the high wind prevented them from remaining stationary as they accumulated; they heaved backwards and forwards around the rocks and peaks of the mountains, sometimes dispersing altogether, and scudding away before the blast; at others, rolling into a pyramid, or falling one over the other in various tints and forms. 
               You endure a sensation of captivity as you stand in these hollows, surrounded by these highlands, which weighs upon the heart and the free-will; on which ever side you look escape seems impossible; you feel to want wings, not of the dove, but of the eagle, to surmount the adamantine rocks which tower above you, rising high as if into the heavens. 
               In the deepest part of this fair valley is a lake, renowned throughout Ireland for its healing powers; and midway in the lake is a Holy Island, whereon was built, in what we are prone to call the dark ages, a famous hermitage. 
               The only sound was the sudden rush of wind, that made strange and unearthly music. 
               As it gushed down the mountains-a mighty but invisible power, now whistling shrilly through the cells, then bending the trees or rustling like perturbed spirits amid broken walls, bowling above graves, and plunging itself upon the waters that uprose against its efforts to insult them; now rolling a skull into the lake, then tossing the white tallies of many pious pilgrims in rude sport upon the grass as if they had been so many straws. 
               It was a fitful yet terrible wind, holding nothing in reverence, trampling over cross, and mocking the crumbling ruins, which seemed to shudder at its approach. 
               But there were men at hand who heeded it but little; it was not so strong as the beating of their hearts, nor so agitating as the tumult within their own bosoms; it throbbed not so wildly as their heated brains. 
               The lull would soon come, and the valley, island, and lake sleep as gently in the moonlight as if no storm had ever disturbed their repose; but where-where should they find rest and safety? 
               They were come to this loneliness at the appeal of "Captain Starlight," as the representative of the O'Nials was called. 
               He was that brave Irishman, with a soul for war, who, scorning to wear the scarlet, had taken to the Austrian white and gold, but at the first appeal had come to his native land. 
               He was a man destined to become a patriot leader. 
               It sounded gloriously to him-the emancipation of a brave people-the forcing of England to abandon her claim to the emerald of her crown by a guerilla warfare, by the training of bold men to the extirpation of a race of tyrants-the trumpet voice of victory or death-the poetry of war, so bright and brilliant-the real appealing and appalling misery of a people crying from the depth of their despair; feelings such as these, of support both at home and abroad, had led him to believe that something like a consistent and well-supported national struggle might really be made. 
               The government at this time had suffered disturbances to proceed without much effort to suppress them. 
               Famine had rendered people more than usually careless of consequences; and those who would have restrained them from personal violence, now discovered how difficult it was to confine them to one great idea, or to lead those who had nothing to sacrifice, and whose own wild wills goaded them on to their own destruction and the destruction of others. 
               A few days only had passed since O'Nial's escape from a guard-house at Dublin, where he had too boldly appeared. 
               Large rewards had been offered for his capture. The Irishman lay closely concealed, shifting his quarters from one cabin to another, and at each fresh place receiving indubitable proofs of the sincerity of those who sheltered him. 
               The military swept the country like a hurricane, and you might have ridden from Cork to Bantry without seeing a man by the roadside or in the fields-the goals were as full of the living as the churchyards of the dead; and yet proclamation after proclamation followed, offering large rewards for "suspected persons," amongst whom were classed Gerald O'Nial. 
               Every dozen hours or so a detachment of troops rode over hill and valley-in nine cases out of ten misled by false information-seeking those they desired to capture where they were not to be found. 
               He had baffled them always. 
               We have said he received a military education. 
               He expended all his science on his followers. 
               He had so contrived it that at the various passes which led down from the mountain to the Holy Lake sentinels were stationed, who gave and received the pass-words-and lest, notwithstanding these precautions, a wolf might enter the fold, a strong body of men were assembled at the entrance of the causeway to interchange with extraordinary rapidity the various signs by both lip and finger which made them known to each other. 
               All the sentinels were so placed on the night in question, and this guard was set in far less time than we have taken to describe the scene. 
               How they came or where they came from would have perplexed any looker-on on to tell; they seemed to spring forth from the rocks and valleys, or suddenly out of the bare earth itself. 
               Looking up at the mountains, a keen eye could detect them after a time moving downwards-not all habited in the white shirts which they wore when the country was not so much on the qui vive as it was then, but occasionally dressed in the grey frieze, concealing every tint of colour, while some few had either their faces blackened or else wore masks, so that they could only be recognised by their most intimate friends by the tone of their voices. 
               It would indeed be difficult to conceive anything more wild and unearthly than the scene which then presented itself in Glen Flesk. 
               The stupendous mountains girding the lake and Holy Island-the lighter clouds scudding before the wind, while the dense vapours disputed with the ministers of air, and heaved and lowered rather than dispersed; the moonlight marking, as if by magic, a pathway of liquid silver on the lake, while the remainder continued dark and billowy; the "lone" island, interspersed with trees and ruins, so sacred and solitary in itself, yet made the trysting place of the delegates of the people-disaffected, unconquered, but still enslaved; alas! a brave people, tempest-tossel and torn, catching at straws, comprehending every great principle, and yet alive to every small thought, and, in eagerness for the petty, never losing sight of the great. 
               The most fierce and violent of the Celtic population, having nothing in common with the Saxon but the air breathed by their ancestors and themselves, determined in nothing so much as their hatred of each other-a hatred sometimes lulled by circumstances, one rarely evident, and still never wholly extinguished. 
               They came, summoned by a mysterious and invisible power-a power entering into every homestead, hut, and cabin, no matter what its position or polities might be-a power seeing all things, though understanding nothing; converting the country into one huge whispering-gallery, beyond the espionage which the Napoleon (whom England deludes herself into being her friend! her friend! as eagle and she-wolf perch on the same heigth together!) holds over France. 
               They came on this night we are endeavouring to describe to the reader, footsore and weary, though firm and true to the purpose which had brought them to the glen. 
               Far and fasting they came from West Carberry, from Muskerry, from fertile Limerick, and the flowery glens of Tipperary; strong men of mighty limbs and stalwart frames came from Slivenamuck, and active, restless, black-eyed mountaineers from the fastnesses of Kerry. 
               They came to hear, report, and act. 
               They came not, as Irishmen are supposed to do, with riot and brawl, but silently and firmly; their wives and mothers, their sisters and their children-all helpless and ignorant as the world would doom them to be-nerving their hearts and arms, and bidding them to be firm and fearless, strengthening them with prayers-even when the idea of their country's liberty extended not beyond the regaining of the "bit of land," or the firing of the houses of those who neglected the warnings of deep dug pits at their doors, or the coffins in white chalk upon their windows. 
               They came-on and on-covering the ancient graves as with a resurrection, and loaning on the tops of their staves beneath the ivied walls of their ruined temples. 
               They were men, and they came on men's business. 
               They were desperate men, and little recked they of the consequences of their acts. 
               There was no sound of horn or shout, no waving of the green flag, no music, no cry; and but for the ominous sound of the tramp of their heavy feet, the whispers of that crowd could scarcely have disturbed the wild duck from her nest. 
               They were come. 
               All were assembled, though not all seen. 
               It was more like a gathering of a spirit world; and those who were partially shadowed by the waving branches of the trees, now in light, now in darkness, seemed flitting between earth and heaven. 
               It would have been well for many that night had they exchanged life for a quiet death among those peaceful graves! 
               Some would have thought those faint hearts who cannot believe in the day when "Ireland for the Irish" will be as a millenium. 
               The O'Nial glanced round and observed the dusky forms of the men in the sombre amphitheatre. 
               His eye was lighted up with pride as he turned his glance on them. 
               He mounted the ruins of a broken and irregular wall. 
               He then took from his pocket a paper, and commenced calling over a rude sort of muster-roll of the leaders he expected to be present, while his lieutenant held aloft, to enable him to read a huge torch of bogwood, which cast a lurid and unequal glare upon the assembly, lighting up half a score of faces in the foreground, while the countenances of the others were lost in darkness. 
               His lieutenant, a giant in stature, was nicknamed "Captain Rock." Of him we sung the lines: 
               In his full voice, the brogue a little impaired by the German accent, Gerald told them, the strong feeling that had taken possession of the English gentry and residents in Ireland. 
               They were determined to capture him at any cost. 
               Rumor had spread far and wide the locality chosen for the Whiteboy meetings. 
               The patrols were determined to make a desperate struggle; but to compete with their enemies required tact, promptitude, and judgement. 
               The Whiteboys relied upon O'Nial, to make all arrangements for their mode of action. 
               It soon became known that the military were on the march that night, through a car-driver, who had the start of them for about four hours, which were quite enough to enable them to make final arrangements. 
               The place of meeting which had been appointed for the ear-driver was a ruined cottage, within a quarter of a mile from the pass of Eigh. 
               There the man, accompanied by Roch, met O'Nial; and delivered a paper to the Chief of the Whiteboys, which pointed out the route the military were to take, where they were to defile and where unite, and how far they were to proceed-unless so and so happened. 
               The scheme had been managed by one particular British magistrate, who in a most unmethodical country was famed for method, and was never satisfied with any plan until he saw how it looked on paper. 
               After the leaders had counselled together, they proceeded to the entrance of the pass, where O'Nial blew a single blast upon his bugle, this was answered with a few seconds by another, and that, before the echoes had died away, by a third, and so on, until the real call and the echo had mingled their wild shouts together in most unearthly music-flying as if by magic influence now here, now there, above, below-around, from one end of the pass to the other. 
               Now seeming to pass up from the foaming river, now as if the mysterious source of the sea sent forth its waters to accompany some mountain spirit on its way; now bursting from behind a rock, then floating away, making melody in the distance. 
                
               Now the Whiteboys crowded and rushed forward. 
               Rocks, knolls, cataracts sent forth living creatures; not silently or calmly, with thoughtful brows and steady steps, but they came instinct with life and the great purpose of Irish life-action. 
               Something was to be dared and done; this was enough for them, enough at all times. 
               The ready and willing instruments of danger and defiance, with hands throbbing as wildly as their hearts, every nerve thrilling with emotion, they came! they gathered round their leaders, all doubt and coldness vanished, eager and panting for action, for movement, for anything rather than reflection or repose. 
               In their wild excitement they forgot for a time their misery, their wickedness, and were ready to do anything. 
               It is impossible to describe a meeting every way worthy of the desperate, rude, yet magnificent character of the scene. 
               What a mighty thing it was! hearts beating with the same motive, the same determined and desperate resolve. 
               How they hang upon every word that the O'Nial gave utterance to. 
               How firmly, how implicitly, they believed all he said. 
               The point and soul of his discourse was this, that before the noonday sun was up they should be a free nation in the sight of Europe. 
               The patriot was led away by his own eloquence. 
               His words were joyous, confident, fast and presumptuous, assuming all things as done that had yet to be achieved. 
               He assured them that the day and hour had come to thrust home their pikes; and if they were true to the cause they each and all had sworn to, "The West" was all their own, that within an hour the soldiers from Bantry would be in motion, that a party was to scour the country between them and Glengariff, while a few accompanied the gentry by the other road, to return through the pass of Eigh and unite about a quarter of a mile from where they stood. 
               Then turning to Captain Rock, Gerald desired him to take seventy men. 
               "That is too many," said another chief, who was not quite so enthusiastic as his compatriot, "fifty will be enough, more than sufficient; a man here and there is better as a decoy, much better, than a multitude." 
               "Explain your views, then; you are better able to do so than myself," exclaimed the impetuous Gerald, sharply. 
               "Nay," said the other, "do not let us peril our cause by any display of temper. Take fifty of our smartest boys, Captain Rock-mountain lads-who know every rock and niche of the whole mountain. Lie concealed-I need not tell you how-until after the scouring of the country, when, instead of finding those they seek for, they will see the dead ashes and the bright water on every hearthstone, and perhaps, in revenge, burn them as they have burned other cabins; then, when they are lingering about here, watching for those who are to meet them after their more lengthened round, angry and dispirited, but more eager for blood than ever, show yourselves gradually, man after man, playing round them like flashes of lightning." 
               "Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted the Whiteboys. 
               "Draw them on," said the speaker in continuation. 
               "Aye, aye!" 
               "Draw them on, increasing in numbers, but mind, carefully; LOW high, now low, through bog and up mountain, picking them off wherever you have an opportunity, but do not waste your fire; lead them on, bit by bit, not showing your strength or means of escape; keep them in play, as you would a ball on the tip of your hurley; never come to close quarters; keep behind the turf-champs; lead them round the mouth of the pass, but not into it; wound the horses; draw them on, boys, as a plover does a spaniel on the moor; they would show you no mercy, bear that always in mind, and return them the compliment as an Irishman knows how." 
               "We will! we will!" 
               "Remember that the great object you have in view is to scatter the redcoats in the mountains; aggravate them to pursue; the gentlemen we already know will come through, expecting to meet them; they like the drag hunt, but not the danger; they like the sport." 
               "Aye, aye!" 
               "O'Nial, remember you and your party are the decoy at this end; for every once you run away from them now, you will run ten times into them hereafter." 
               "And you, Rock," said Gerald, "you had better take fifty of the stoutest on your roll. Is that too many, Michael?" 
               "I would rather it were a hundred," answered the third chief in a quiet tone. "There will, most likely, be some real fighting in the pass, and strong men will be needed, and a reserve to pour down will be of infinite service; the decoy needs skill more than numbers." 
               "I have said fifty, and so let it stand," said Gerald. "Take fifty of the strongest on our roll, and go to the Red Deer's Rock-that big stone which darkens the pass, even at noontide. The stone, big as it is, is loose already. The captain says he can shake it with his shoulder; ten men, in as many minutes, will undermine, and leave it so; then, at command, you can hurl it down as easily as you send the ball from the hurley. Off, my good brave giant; let ten good spades accompany your fifty pikes and firelocks; pick your men, and at once, losing no time, dig away as a treasure-seeker digs, for the liberty of old Ireland!" 
               "But mind you act with caution," said Michael; "time every minute; a minute too soon or too late will destroy all." 
               "Yes, yes, Burke," said O'Nial with his usual impatience; of course he will work carefully; do not doubt that. Then, when the rock is ready to rattle down, clap your Kerry cow's horn to your mouth and blow me the old Whiteboys' blast; let it be long and loud, so that myself and companions may hear it-the joyful news that success has attended your efforts. Wait quietly until you hear the flourish of my bugle, and then in the name of all the saints, down with the rock, it will fill up the pass as this cork plugs my powder-horn, and and then, my brave boys, those murderers-those middlemen are in our power, caught-entrapped-bagged. Those who have thickened the streams of our own mountains with our own blood-who have rolled our nobles' heads on the scaffold-burnt our homes-who have stolen our lands and spent our gold in foreign countries-who have bent the gallows-trees with the bodies of our strong young men-who call us the mere Irish-who have insulted our graves. Rock has enticed them well-baited the trap; there will be no possibility of their joining the military, and we will bar their retreat with a forest of pikes; and the rock will be moved by the power of our friend." 
               "Let some one else guide it, then," said Rock; "for I must tell you, O'Nial, that I am not going to be a gravedigger up there. I could not stand it. Let me be somewhere where I can make use of my good right arm-where I can draw blood-where I can see the death pangs or the-the-" and his hands twisted round the neck of some imaginary victim, as he stamped and foamed like a maniac. 
               "I mean," he said at last, "to leave my bones under the shadow of these mountains-to sell my life-a life for each drop of blood that has been shed of mine. Put me where I can stand in the pass and shout out and urge on our men, but I will not be perched on high, watching a signal to swoop on the covey that is fluttering at my feet. No, O'Nial; that is not my way of fighting." 
                
               "The man is beside himself with rage," whispered Gerald to Burke. 
               "His impetuosity will destroy all," answered the latter, "unless he be watched." 
               After some discussion between the two chiefs, it was ultimately agreed upon that the task should be assigned to some other person. 
               This matter being eventually arranged to the satisfaction of all parties, the Whiteboys divided; and in such admirable order, and so effectually was each man secreted by his own grey rock on either side, that a priest who had been sent for to attend upon a woman, rode through less than an hour thereafter, attended only by a servant, and afterwards declared that he never before felt so awe-struck at the silence and solitude of the pass of Eigh. 
               The reader should be apprised that the officer who had the command of the red-coats had received information that a large body of the Whiteboys were gathered near the pass. 
               In the early morning, therefore, the soldiers marched in a strong body to the spot. 
               They were, of course, upon their arrival there, not a little disappointed at finding the place and surrounding neighbourhood untenanted. 
               They were however, used to such fruitless searches, being but too often deceived by false intelligence. With them all this was a matter of business, part of their vocation. 
               Not so with the gentlemen who had chosen to accompany them; they were deeply mortified and enraged at finding not only no trace of the Whiteboy rebels, but no living creature in the cabins. 
               They had been fooled; and the anticipation of how their military friends would receive the intelligence was matter for anything but pleasant speculation, for they had parted with the soldiers for the purpose of entering at the other end of the pass, where it was the business of Captain Starlight and his followers to engage their attention, so that time and opportunity both might help the work of destruction. 
               The reader will perceive, therefore, that there was considerable skill and military tact in planning that which turned out to be a deadly and sanguinary struggle. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                  THE STORY CONTINUED. THE AMBUSH. THE DEADLY STRUGGLE. DEATH OF ROCK. 
                
               WE have already said that the military were vexed enough at finding no trace of those they sought. 
               Their captain ordered his men to halt. 
               He ran his eye over the apparently deserted locality. 
               While thus engaged, and doubtful as to what should be his next proceeding, he was suddenly startled from his reverie by a volley of musketry. 
               The most active of the Whiteboys had crept along the edge of the mountains, and, under shelter of the rocks and heath, they had fired their pieces and fled towards the hills. 
               Major Blakely, the commanding officer, was too good a soldier to be caught by this guerrilla practice. 
                
               He saw at once the danger of permitting his detachment to be scattered in a comparatively unknown neighbourhood; and so, while the morning mist hung heavy and low upon the ordinary shadows of the pass, he ordered his men not to attempt pursuit, but to keep steadily on their course. 
               The Whiteboys, however, were not to be foiled by this. 
               Several of them crept sufficiently near so as to be able to taunt and abuse the red-coats from behind the rocks. 
               The soldiers fired at them, but without effect; for, of course, the moment the rebels saw them level their pieces, they dropped down behind the rocks. 
               Of course this was aggravating to the soldiers, and in a short time they became irritated by the audacity of the Whiteboys. 
               Several started off in pursuit, and ascended the mountain, hunting, as they thought, some two or three audacious rebels who ran away from the first danger. 
               But it was not so. 
               They achieved no very considerable height when, from amongst the hills and out of bog-holes, up started the enemy from every side, and it desperate hand-to-hand contest ensued. 
               Some effected their retreat, but there were several who paid dearly enough for their imprudence in following the insolent and insidious foe. 
               Several were suddenly uplifted by half-a-dozen pikes and dashed over a crag, from whence they rolled in shapeless masses, to the very feet of their commanding officer. 
               Major Blakely found it impossible to restrain his men, who were irritated be yond measure at the sudden death of their comrades. 
               As each man fell, several of the soldiers rushed forward for the purpose of avenging his death. 
               But by this time the wily assaulters were farther off, shouting and screaming, endeavouring as much as possible to mislead the soldiers by the confused noise. 
               The latter were imprudent enough to dally with their provocation, and they ever and anon wallowed in a morass, and then succeeded in galloping up the mountains, only to hear the taunts and laughter of their betrayers. 
               While all this was taking place, the gentry were straggling into the defile in long and loose array, through a thick atmosphere, which, even at mid-day, is rarely visited by the sun beams. 
               Gerald O'Nial watched with a deep anxiety which almost amounted to an agony, the entrance of the party into the pass. 
               As his eye ran over the individuals who composed this detachment of belligerents, he could distinguish plainly enough the features of each person; he could recognise them all even through that mournful twilight mist, and, indeed, with perhaps one or two exceptions, they were all known to him, and his brow darkened when he reflected that there was not one of them who had ever offered him the least kindness. 
               In the midst of this group there was one person whose presence made the young patriot utter a curse-this was a farmer-looking man, who bestrode a strong-built, deep chested horse. 
               This man was pointing out the road to his companions, and Gerald could catch the sound of the hypocrite's voice. 
               Upon the impulse of the moment, and remembering his wrongs, for the person was a well known informer, he raised his piece to his shoulder, when, upon second reflection, he lowered it and said,- 
               "Not yet, not yet; the time has not come for that. They are all doomed, but I must wait for Captain Rock's horn." 
               As he muttered these words, he counted the party in the defile as he would count ravens on a tree or crows in a field. 
                
               As he did this he fancied that the beatings of his own heart were audible as the ticks of a death-watch; so he bent on his knees, and crossed himself devoutly on his breast and brow. 
               Then he watched; eye and ear on the strain, he watched and waited to hear the horn-assurance that all was done, that the rock was ready to be hurled down across the narrow path, and then he and his faithful followers would rush down upon their victims. 
               It seemed an interminable space of time to the O'Nial before the gentry arrived at the spot where the dreadful rock impended; but in his anxiety he forgot that the gentry had about a mile of ground to pass over before they arrived at the fatal spot. 
               At the rate they were then proceeding ten or twelve minutes might have brought them to it, for still onward the horsemen wound their toilsome way through the rocky pass, the river, swollen by recent rains, dashing and foaming by their side. 
               The informer rode his horse with an air of great satisfaction; he felt assured that the Whiteboys were lurking somewhere. 
               He was in the midst of a strong body of men-he knew that the military were not far distant, and if they should succeed in unearthing any of them the Judas felt convinced that their doom must be sealed. 
               As he reflected on this, a grin of satisfaction passed over his sinister and ill-favoured features. 
               It was at this particular moment that Rock who had been on the watch, caught sight of the self-satisfied smirk which sat upon the fellow's countenance. 
               The giant was no longer able to master his emotion when he beheld the wretch riding beneath him. 
               Rock saw now in his power the very man who had robbed him of all the props of his existence. That spy had sold his two sons. 
               His heart beat with a strong pulsation. 
               His thoughts became concentrated. 
               He forgot everything else but his revenge. 
               In an agony of passion, which brooked no restraint, he, who had been so charmed with the decoy, and had meditated so great a revenge, lost sight of all but the hardened ruffian, who he believed could not now escape him. 
               Rock uttered a yell; he suddenly sprang upon the rock by which he had been concealed, and holding with both hands high above his head a ponderous stone which most men would have found-it difficult, if not impossible, to lift, he cast it, loaded as it was with the most fearful curse that ever escape the lips of a man, down on the villain. 
               It never missed its mark; its purpose was effectual; it not only wounded the noble animal he rode, but left its master a corpse. 
               The horse plunged violently forward. 
               One of the party of gentlemen who accompanied the spy drew forth a pistol and leveled it at Rock, whose gigantic form was a good mark to fire at. 
               "Villain!" shouted out the gentleman; "blood-thirsty, infamous scoundrel, die, as you deserve!" 
               The speaker took deadly aim and fired at Rock who still, with foot advanced, stood over head. 
               The bullet, true as an Indian's arrow, passed through the grey and streaming hair of the giant and closed his mortal sufferings. 
               He maintained his position for a moment and then toppled over, crashing and tumbling among the projecting rocks, spattering those among whom he fell with his lifeblood. 
               As the Whiteboys beheld the huge form of the mighty Rock fall at the feet of his enemies there came a wail and a shout which rang round the distant hills-a yell that sent the eagles soaring into the heavens in terror and astonishment. 
               The manner and suddenness of the captain's death was too much for hot-headed, impetuous men to bear. 
               It was in vain that Gerald from his airy height, forgetting all prudential motives, sprang from his concealment, and by gestures they could not see, and by words they could not hear, entreated his companions to forbear if but for a moment. 
               Each man started from behind his rock, and the whole glen bristled with pikes and bayonets. 
               Major Blakely, who had by this time formed his men in order near to where the death of Rock took place, now saw that the time was come for prompt and determined measures. 
               "Forward, men! forward," exclaimed the Major, whose troops now charged a strong and determined body of Whiteboys. Thrusts were given-swords flashed and fell-and shots rattled like hail. 
               The Whiteboys fought desperately. 
               There was no thought of retreat or surrender. 
               So violent and sudden was their attach upon the English soldiers, that the latter at first found it difficult on the uneven and broken ground on which they were fighting to hold their own. 
               While this engagement was taking place, Gerald sprang forward towards the rock; he looked down at those below, part of them had passed. 
               Quick as thought, Gerald arrested those who had charge of the fatal rock, and who had been, doubtless, for a moment paralysed by the death of Rock, for it is impossible for the best of us to tell the effect even a trifling circumstance may have upon the chances of the day. 
               "Down with it," exclaimed Gerald, in a perfect fury. "Are you all mad, that you hesitate thus?" 
               The fatal rock shuddered at its foundation; white doe will never more spring from its summit, nor eagle plume its feathers on its brow again. 
               The signal rang forth-heard clearly above the melee beneath, and causing many an anxious eye to turn upwards-three rapid notes on the bugle. 
               The giant crag trembled, it tottered; those who pressed forward were almost blinded by the dust that rushed down upon them. 
               Down, down it descended with the ravaging roar of thunder, bewildering, devastating and destroying. 
               Then came the shouts of triumph, the screams of despair, the groans fo agony, beneath the weight of this ponderous means of destruction. 
               About six-and-twenty individuals were crushed and mangled, presenting a piteous and sickening spectacle. 
               Many were dead, and had passed away without a sigh or groan; while many lay there with crushed and broken limbs writhing in pain. 
               Before the rock fell the greater portion of the gentry had passed. 
               Had this not have been the case, and had it been hurled at the time it was intended, the probability is that most of those in the pass would have been destroyed or annihilated. 
               A savage shout of triumph was sent forth by the Whiteboys as they saw the effect of their death-dealing missive. 
               It was taken up by those engaged with Blakely's detachment. 
               The soldiers pressed forward to where O'Nial and his companions stood. 
               The patriot's eye lighted up with something like pride when he saw Blakely's troops making or endeavouring to make, towards him. 
               He was on higher ground than the soldiers and the other Whiteboys consequently quently Gerald knew that he had the advantages as far as situation was concerned. He blew a long blast on his bugle; the Whiteboys gathered round him. 
               O'Nial then divided them into three detachments-one large one, and two smaller ones as a reserve. 
               These last he ordered to lie concealed behind some contiguous rocks, and desired their respective leaders to bide their time to rush out and make an onslaught upon the foe. 
               The chief detachment he commanded himself, determined to fight a pitched battle with the English troops. 
               The two smaller parties wheeled off, and were soon lost to sight. 
               Meanwhile, Major Blakely and his troops were steadily advancing. 
               They had already been sadly harassed by the other Whiteboys, whose dead and wounded bodies strewed the ground all along from where the engagement had first commenced. 
               Nevertheless, at every step the soldiers were worried and attacked by the Whiteboys with their pikes, both horses and men were wounded, many killed, and frequently the main body thrown into the utmost confusion. 
               When this took place the rebels, regardless of life, or limb, would rush into the very midst of them. 
               It was Major Blakely's desire, to gain the pass and see how the gentry had fared, for he had seen the death-dealing rock hurled forth, and his worst fears were aroused for the safety of those in the pass. 
               "Forward, men! forward!" said the major. "Cut your way forward! Let there be no stragglers! Spur! spur!-keep moving!" 
               Forward the men rode, although at a very slow pace, for Whiteboys sprang at them ever and anon, and impeded their progress. 
               The air was freighted with screams, shouts, and execrations. 
               Though the morning was advanced, its rays were impeded by the uplifted mountains, and lost in the mist. 
               While the major was advancing with his troops to where O'Nial stood defiantly, his fine from coming out against the emerald sward which covered the rising hill upon which he stood, Burke came upon the scene in a state of excitement. 
               "Gerald!" exclaimed he, "are you mad? Do you not see the English troops are steadily advancing?" 
               "I know it," answered O'Nial, proudly; "I know it, and I long to meet them face to face in the open field." 
               "In the open field! Do you think our men are a match for well disciplined troops?" 
               "We are a match," answered Gerald, confidently. 
               "Listen to me," said Burke, "No time is to be lost; I will take my detachment into the pass to cut up those that remain, or any rate to hold them in check, and prevent them from joining their companions." 
               "Good," exclaimed O'Nial, "nothing could be better." 
               Michael continued,- 
               "My advice to you is to draw off your men while there is yet time, in six or eight detachments, let them lie concealed between the various covers. Let one detachment draw on the troops to a particular spot by springing suddenly out of their covert. 
               "The soldiers will rush forward upon them, then let another detachment emerge from their hiding-place, and so on; by these means the soldiers must disperse. Once get them broken and in disorder, it will become a hand to hand combat; and when it comes to that we have all the chances on our side, while they are in a body they are all but invulnerable." 
               "We will see that," he answered, proudly 
                
               O'Nial smiled. 
               "But you must allow me to be a good judge. We are fighting a species of guerilla warfare, and if managed well, we have now every chance of success." 
               "I do not fear for my success," answered O'Nial. "There, now, you go to the pass, my good Michael, leave me to meet these red-coats as best I may. If I fall I shall fill a patriot's grave. Farewell, and may God speed you!" he added with warmth, extending his hand, which his friend grasped and shook fervently. 
               "Heaven guard and protect you!" said Burke, and the two friends parted. 
               While Captain Starlight and those of the Whiteboys who were under his command boldly awaited the coming of the English troops, Burke hastened to attack those in the pass. 
               Gerald as we have already seen, was head-strong and self-willed; had he not been so he would have followed the advice of Burke, which in all probability would have materially altered the fortunes of the day, to say the least of it. 
               There can be no doubt that it was bad generalship on the part of Gerald for him to risk an engagement in the open field with well-disciplined troops. 
               Steadily the column of the English advanced within range of the Whiteboys. 
               The order "Make ready" had hardly escaped the lips of the English commander when a volley was sent forth by the Whiteboys. 
               Several of the English troops were wounded and one man killed. 
               In the space of a few more minutes the British soldiers charged the rebels, who stood their ground nobly for some time, but were eventually compelled to give way. 
               Gerald O'Nial then came up with a strong reserve, who headed by their gallant leader attacked the soldiers with such suddenness and unexpected fury that for the moment the English sorely pressed on all sides, began to waver. 
               "Hurrah! at them! down with the tyrants! strike for liberty!" shouted out Gerald, wild with excitement. "Who's afeared of 'Jocelyn's hounds' or the 'walking gallows!' Come on, Defenders! Let 'em have it, Rockites!" 
               Presently the battle was at its height, one by one the English soldiers fell as they were picked off by numbers of the Whiteboys who were concealed behind some adjacent rocks, where they had been stationed by Burke. 
               Then at intervals the Whiteboys would spring out in parties of thirty or forty at a time from various parts and attack the troops with their pikes. 
               "Charge!" cried Colonel Blakely. 
               The men did charge, they out through the rebels; but what then?--they fought still; not in order it is true, but still they fought, and for the matter of that desperately enough. 
               The Whiteboys fell thick and fast; nevertheless, dauntless and determined numbers rushed forward to avenge the death of their companions. 
               Captain Starlight had been engaged with several of the English soldiers, and in each hand-to-hand combat he had come off victorious. 
               He rushed from post to post, cheering on his men, animating them by his presence, and in his own well-valued person performing prodigies of valour. 
               Notwithstanding all this, the compact body of English troops was firm and unvanquished. 
               While the battle was at its height there rose amidst the din a loud clarion note from a horn, and then a cheer as of victory. 
               This came from Burke's party in the ravine, who had come up with the gentry, had turned, and completely routed them; after which a desperate and fearful slaughter took place. 
               O'Nial when he heard the clarion note and shout of victory, gave back its echoes with a responsive cheer for himself and his companions, who seemed to be animated to fresh exertions, and once more rushed pell-mell upon the English lish soldiers, who were forced on to broken and uneven ground and thereby had at an advantage. 
               Captain Starlight was sagacious enough to perceive this; he pressed forward his men and they fought with a desperation that fairly astounded his enemies. 
               With shouts and yells of execration; many of the Whiteboys climbed like cats up the adjacent rocks, and lifting up great pieces of these hurled them in the midst of the soldiery, who had been forced from their original position. 
               Fortune seemed to be favouring the Whiteboys, when at this juncture a troop of horse made their appearance on the scene of action. 
               The troopers galloped towards the scene of action; they took the Whiteboys in the rear, cutting and slashing with their sabres, and laying open the heads and bodies of the rebels with the same. 
               A terrible slaughter took place. 
               The infantry formed and charged. 
               Gerald was sorely pressed. 
               Two troopers rode towards him, who still fought, supported by two or three of his trustworthy companions who had, in the exigency of the moment placed themselves by his side. 
               The Irishmen and their leader defended themselves gallantly, but it was evident enough that the fortune of the day was no longer with the Whiteboys, who fell like corn before the sickle. 
               O'Nial was struck to the earth; he rose again, and unwillingly enough endeavoured to fight his way from the scene of action. 
               While thus engaged he was ridden down by a party of horsemen, and the general belief was that his earthly career was at an end. 
               Another party of Whiteboys rushed from their ambuscade, and actuated by a dominant spirit of revenge, they endeavoured to avenge the death of their leader. 
               The effort was a vain one; they were nearly all cut to pieces. 
               One of the leaders of the Whiteboys then took upon himself the responsibility of beating a retreat to the numerous fastnesses with which the place was surrounded. 
               In the space of a few more minutes the rebels, or rather those that were left of them, had left the field of action. 
               From amongst a heap of slain the O'Nial was seen to rise. 
               He was severely wounded, having been trampled on by a horse, besides this he had received several sabre cuts. 
               As he rose, a trooper observing him, rode forwards, and with upraised sabre was about to strike. 
               Starlight, weak as he was, held up his sword as a guard; by the weight and power of the trooper's blow the sword of O'Nial was shattered to pieces. 
               "Yield!" exclaimed the trooper. 
               "Never!" exclaimed Gerald. 
               A sharp report rang out. 
               The trooper's paralyzed hand had let his sword fall, but his other held the pistol that he had fired. 
               Gerald's brains bespattered the ground. 
               The "Starlight" was out! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                  THE DESERTER. THE LONG ARM OF THE CAUSE. THE IMPATIENT. THE DISTURBANCE. 
                
               THE sad end to Larry's narrative did not much oppress his auditors. 
               They all knew of the old risings. None of them, in this age of greater intelligence, could suppose that such a fate is to be that befalling this universal attempt. 
               Except the sentinels all were called in to form the gathering. 
               The lookouts lay along the paths and roads, ready to send up a quiet signal in case a stranger should present himself. 
               Before the throng, were a couple of men to be chiefly remarked. 
               One was Maurice O'Connell, who was given the lead. The other, one Algernon Sedley, an Irishman by descent, but yet with some English blood in him. 
               He had been an ensign in the forty-seventh foot, but a "dead set" made by his brothers of the mess against him at Malta, had led to a duel, in which he had winged his man, and his subsequent resignation from the service. 
               Maurice was somewhat troubled in mind. 
               He was told that somebody, no friend, at all events, had set fore to the ancient building once the home of his family, and reduced it to a heap of smoking ruins. 
               However, he went through with his business quickly. 
               It was to read the muster-roll of this extraordinary meeting, in which participated delegates from a distance. While Maurice O'Connell was engaged in calling over the names of those who were expected to be present at the meeting, a scene occurred at the outposts, which bade fair eventually to interrupt the proceedings within the ruins where the Fenians were assembled. 
               Near to Glen Eigh there is a small wooden bridge, which runs from the rocks across a chasm. Behind this there was a miniature cataract, which ran brawling over the rocks, and emptied itself into a sparkling pool beneath. 
               A small footway ran by this, which led direct to the glen itself. 
               Along this pathway two figures were silently wending their way. 
               One was a woman in a short red cloak, and, although possessed of no inconsiderable amount of personal charms, she appeared to be a peasant girl, and her features were cast in that mould which gave unmistakeable evidence of her being a native of the Emerald Isle. 
               Her companion was an English sergeant-his dress sufficiently denoted that. 
               He was whispering honied words to her who had captivated his heart by her sunny smiles and bright sparkling eyes. 
               "I tell you, my own sweet Kate, that I care not for ought in the world besides yourself," said the sergeant, "but put me to any proof you please; I care not for the country that gave me birth-no, not a straw," and he snapped his fingers to give greater expression to the words he was uttering. 
               "You are one of my country's enemies," said the woman reprovingly. 
               "I have been-God forgive me, but I am her friend-put me to the proof," he said. 
               "That is all I ask" returned the woman. 
               "I am ready to stand the test! What would you more my own, my charming Kate?" 
               The woman stretched forth her hand and pointed to the glen. 
               "Dare you enter yonder?" she asked. 
               "Dare!" exclaimed the soldier. "I dare do anything that a soldier and a man dares; anything but offend you, my own sweet charmer." 
                
               "Follow me, then," said the woman. 
               The two then walked on together till they had come opposite the small wooden bridge. 
               As they arrived at this spot there was heard a half stifled, though fierce cry, and, in an instant, bridge, rock, and ravine were peopled by living men as though by magic. 
               They were Fenians, as the reader may readily guess. 
               Their weapons were levelled, as if by common consent, towards the English sergeant, who, although a brave man, recoiled back in surprise, if not with fear. 
               The woman sprang forward, and stretching out her arms, placed herself in front of her companion, and at the same time she gave the password. 
               Upon this, two of the Irishmen descended from their position and came up to the sergeant, whom they immediately collared without further ceremony. 
               "Hold! Touch him not!" exclaimed the woman, "He is a friend." 
               An exclamation of incredulity and distrust escaped from the Fenians at this declaration. 
               "A friend!" they exclaimed, simultaneously, "and in the garb of an enemy-a spy!" 
               "He is no spy," said the woman, scornfully. 
               "He shall not pass," returned the Fenian. "He is our prisoner." 
               "He would join us," returned the woman. "I have brought him here for the purpose. You are mad or foolish, Larry." 
               "Ugh!" exclaimed he of the Large-mouth, who then conversed apart in whispers with his friends. 
               One of them then stepped forward and said- 
               "What is the meaning of all this, Kate? You here with-" 
               He paused suddenly, and directed his eyes towards the Saxon, 
               A few brief words from Kate sufficiently explained the position of affairs. 
               The soldier was her lover; was to become her husband, upon one condition, which was to do all in his power to further the ends and aims of the order. 
               He was already a deserter from the English ranks, and all through the bright eyes of Kate. 
               After this explanation the Irish became more mollified, especially as the woman Kate had pointed out to them the infinite service the red-coat might be to the good cause. 
               Upon this the two conducted Kate and the English sergeant into the very midst of the assembly of this desperate band of men, who, at the sight of one bearing the English uniform, set up a stifled cry of vengance, and the wonder is that the sergeant was not laid prostrate on the ground. 
               "Down with him!" exclaimed some half dozen. "Down with him!" 
               "Stay!" exclaimed O'Connell, from his slightly elevated position. "Silence!" 
               There was a sudden pause. 
               "Stand forth, sirrah," said O'Connell, in continuation. "What would you? How come you here?" 
               "I brought him, an' plase you, Misther O'Con-" 
               "Hush, silence, woman!" ejaculated several of those present. 
               She saw her mistake, and, with a woman's ready tact-especially on Irish-dA wan's-she said,-aio, pon' plase you, gentlemen, he's one of us-and good luck to him and his." 
               
                  hTOa dropping a curtsey, and slightly blushing, she said, "An' sure the boy ,n Wme." 
               
                  ,79s, that do you want to bring your lover here for, you fool?" said a man. inb a, aisy, now; ye need not spake so cross. And pray, may I make so ,I e s to ask, what better hould can ye have over a man than his love for an honest woman? Daisy me! an' its only a recruit I have brought ye afther all," said the woman, with naive simplicity. 
               "You are in the English service, sir," said Algernon Sedley, addressing himself to the sergeant, "and would join us?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Are you not ashamed of yourself-wearing the uniform of her Majesty's troops? Are you not ashamed of yourself to turn a traitor to your Queen?" 
               At this the sergeant hung down his head, but made no reply. 
               "Sure it's not his fault," said the woman Kate. "An' if it be a fault at all, an' it's myself to blame, an' not him at all, at all. Haven't I now made him swear by the holy book to do whatever I told him?" 
               At this there was a burst of smothered laughter. 
               "Oh, it's merry that ye are, gentlemen, and good luck to ye for the same. An' is it so astounding to ye that he should lave a land who treats her brave soldiers worse than slaveholders do their nagers?" 
               "Bravo, Kate!" exclaimed several voices. 
               "Hark you, sir," said O'Connell, addressing himself to the sergeant, "your life hangs upon a thread, your appearance here in a secret assembly is sufficient to merit instant death, that is, premising you came here as a spy." 
               "He is no spy," exclaimed Kate. 
               "Silence, woman!" 
               Maurice proceeded. 
               "If you are disposed to join us-" 
               "I am, hand and heart," ejaculated the sergeant. "I am already a deserter from the English ranks, and never intend to return." 
               "You must take the oath," said Maurice, after a pause. 
               "I will lay down my life for the assurance of his truth and sincerity," exclaimed Kate. 
               "Silence, woman!" 
               "Och, shure, ye won't let a body spake." 
               "Silence!" 
               The oath was administered; the English sergeant doffed his military attire, and soon found himself habited as a countryman. 
               After this Kate took her departure. 
               O'Connell then proceeded to read over the list of those assembled. 
               The names which had been set down on this were in all or most cases fictitious ones. 
               The leaders of the various districts were generally distinguished by names as strange and uncouth as the appearance of the men themselves. 
               Forgetting for a moment the supposed necessity for silence, a deep, stifled, but audible shout saluted each celebrity. 
               One, called "The Wild Deer," gave a whoop and holloa, and a spin of his shilela, as he vaulted forward over the graves; while "O'Brian" strode like a colossus across a ruined arch, his tall commanding figure and square shoulders standing out against the gray sky; then he as well as his compatriots received the low and earnest commendations of his countrymen, who are ever ready to applaud personal strength in man or personal beauty in woman. 
               Wild mountaineers from Kerry and the glens and rocks which gird the magnificent bay of Buntry-little, active muscular fellows, some of them with the flat bronzed faces of Cork, others whose physiognomy showed their Spanish origin, in grey coats and almost conical hats were here; but no one was more heartily though silently greeted than Maurice O'Connell himself, who paused in calling out the muster-roll to say a few words to those who had given him so flattering an ovation. 
                
               He declared that "he was ever ready and willing to join hand and heart with those assembled to wage secret or open war against their oppressors." 
               As these words fell from his lips, another shout, suppressed and stifled, it is true, arose from the Fenians. 
               "Hurrah!" exclaimed O'Brian. "Hear this, my lads! and it's good hearings, too. See that yez stand by one another in fair and foul weather." 
               It was a singular-the more so when the distances the men had travelled is considered-and remarkable fact, that only three of the many whose names were called gave no reply. 
               A dead silence ensued after these names had been repeated for the second and third time. A mark was set against them for inquiry. 
               After this ceremony had been concluded, the delegates from different parts of the country, from the centre at Liverpool and from abroad, gathered round Maurice O'Connell, O'Brian, and Algernon Sedley. 
               Then, by rapid questions and answers, information was obtained by the system of espionage, in which women were employed as well as men-for although the former were seldom trusted with secrets, they were rendered the means of becoming acquainted with the secrets of those whose protection and wages they received. 
               Each house in each division was noted down; the height, size, and number of doors, windows, and servants; the religious and political tendencies of the inhabitants; their carelessly spoken words; the number and quality of their firearms, and where these were concealed; their personal appearance; the very position of the seats they occupied in their own houses; whether they lived on their own property or rented land of others. 
               A kindly word of gratitude was given if they were believed to be good to the poor, but all that seemed to demand inquiry was-whether they had or had not offended against nature's laws of rights of man, or evinced a disposition to do so. 
               Information upon every point was obtained and transmitted, except upon that point which would have been the principal with bandits-they cared nothing for the money, jewels, or plate of which their superiors might be possessed; they never for one moment thought of plunder; the thought dominant in the minds of all that devoted band was the working out their purpose. 
               As the night advanced much conversation took place, particularly among the "elders," concerning their future plans. 
               Except Maurice, the heads knew and felt the necessity of waiting, of concentrating, of collecting all power, ere a single finger should be lifted. 
               The national struggle this time is to win! 
               Not a sudden flame or two, quenchable, but a grand blaze, spreading until all of the isle shall be enveloped-a fire that shall purge and purify the land from the pollution of the too long endured oppressor. 
               But the O'Connell was like the young and impulsive men who could not understand why a plan so repugnant to their feelings as delay should be mooted particularly those of far-off counties, who were not disposed to treat Maurice's opinions with the respect he experienced from the Fenians of his county, who were bound to him more than ever, now that he had been rendered homeless by his adherence to their cause; for Maurice O'Connell was respected, and almost reverenced in this county from the antiquity of his house and lineage. 
               Every stone of the old castle once occupied by the O'Connells had been honoured and valued in the eyes and to the hearts of the peasantry of the immediate neighbourhood, as if they had been so many jewels of a crown. 
               The men looked toward where Algernon Sedley stood, eager and anxious for him to develope some plan, for Sedley was deemed the most efficient arrayer of attack and defence. 
                
               His military experience placed him as a fitting leader of desperate men. He had been initiated by his friend and companion Maurice O'Connell, who had excited and enflamed their spirits by the power of his eloquence, and had strengthened them by the assurances of assistance of troops and means to come from over the seas. 
               Maurice's sanguine temperament frequently led him to mislead both himself and others, and sometimes even, in the excitement of the moment, to assert as truth what he wished to be true; but when Maurice called upon Algernon Sedley to support his statements, and the latter did not respond to those queries with that warmth and ardour which his better judgment repudiated, the eager set construed his caution into coldness; and now Sedley felt that every eye was turned toward him. 
               They expected him to open some new plan, some sudden and determined blow to be aimed at their oppressors. 
               "Why does he falter?" exclaimed one, in a whisper to his nearest companion. 
               "Is he with us?" What makes him hesitate?" were other questions. 
               In their ardour for the cause which they were one and all sworn to, they expected him to do more than human being could accomplish. 
               He was preparing to address them, but there were murmurs deep and loud, a heaving and swelling discontent, a growling of human thunder, and a glare of angry eyes, bent upon the pale, dignified, though slightly-built, aristocratic-looking young man, who, perfectly self-possessed, preserved the position he had chosen, elevated above the crowd, by the side of O'Connell and O'Brian. 
               The crowd gathered closer and closer round this trio. 
               They glared at Algernon, and then they looked in the silver light of the moon upon each other. 
               Sedley did not speak, and murmurs of discontent, together with several angry glances, and a confused uttering-such as may at times be heard from a discontented multitude-fell upon the ears of those who were the chief leaders of that desperate and discontented throng of men. 
               All their respect for O'Connell was needed to restrain the impatient boys from venting their disappointment in bitter reproaches against Sedley for his supineness and apathy. 
               Had they sinned in their souls, and were they then to be told that they must wait?" 
               Had they concealed their instruments of liberty in caves and burrows, visiting them by stealth to be assured of their safety, and were they to learn that they were fated to moulder and rust? Was Maurice O'Connell himself, the descendant of kings, to remain insulted and unavenged while the smoke of the stronghold of his ancestors still swept its dark pennon athwart the sky? 
               Notwithstanding all they had heard, thought, felt, and endured, they unaccountably and suddenly-as the feeling comes upon a multitude when no opposing force is within sight-felt as omnipotent the power which belonged to them. 
               Some were under the influence of "mountain dew," that had been pressed upon them by the traitors perhaps; many had come from a distance, incapable as well as unwilling to reason, wishing to destroy some obnoxious person who had outraged the laws and neglected their warning. 
               Their feelings and passions were broiling within them; they had no defined idea of a struggle for their country; it was but a piecemeal effort to keep their bit of land. 
               The military might, for a time, overrun the country and burn and destroy all on its surface-they had but too often done so before: their spirits rebounded; they did not understand what they were to wait for when they had the power of shooting an enemy or burning a house. 
               Such was the versatility of the natures that in their violence they became elated, as they had been but a moment before depressed. 
               Strong hearts met strong hearts in Gougane Barra, and what was to hinder them from doing what they had before done; they could not be worse off than they were. 
               Without a word being spoken by that strange and motley throng of discontents, they came to the conclusion, as by tacit consent, that Algernon Sedley was lukewarm-was, in fact, what an Irishman hates even worse than an avowed enemy, a cold friend: perhaps he was not even that; they refused to hear him, and called for O'Connell when Algernon began to speak. 
               "Is this just? Have I deserved this?" said Sedley to O'Connell, who now mounted the stone on which Algernon had stood alone, to address the discontented and murmuring multitude. 
               "Have I," he now continued, in most passionate accents, "have I-sacrificed all as I have done, and anticipating the moment I may be called upon for the last sacrifice a man can make-have I deserved this?" 
               "No! a thousand times-No!" answered Maurice O'Connell, twining his arm in brotherly affection round that of the speaker, "Oh, no, Algernon, no!" 
               "I want no man to defend me," said Algernon, loudly, and unable to control himself. "I want no man to defend me; no, not even you, Maurice, and there is no man living who would do it more willingly if it were needed; but I have done nothing to need defence. Have I not abandoned all to join you?-you who murmur now at you know not what. What I have done has been for the good of my country, at least I hope so." 
               "Yes, yes!" shouted out several voices. "Hear, hear!" 
               "It is so. For the good of Ireland-downtrodden, injured, and misused Ireland! I say, we may trust to the promises of others to assist us; it is because I knew how little could be done without their aid, and I, as well as all of you, cannot bear being deceived and disappointed." 
               "We have only ourselves to look to," said one, stepping forward. 
               "And a great thing it is to have," answered Algernon. "Self-reliance is a great thing, but it is not all that is required in the mighty undertaking in hand. It is not enough to rid the land of the proud invader, and eject a mass of the population, unhappily your bitter enemies, from these holdings." 
               "Let each of us pick out our man, and we'll soon be rid of them," said the previous speaker. 
               "That would not be fair and open warfare!" answered Sedley, proudly. 
               After this speech there was a dead pause. 
               Maurice O'Connell, in an agony too deep for words, muttered,- 
               "You will destroy yourself and me, Algernon. Have you still to learn that they will fight, die silently and bravely enough, without a murmur; but they will not reason. Do not thwart them. They do not, they cannot be made to comprehend this." 
               "An' its murder ye would be afther talking about," exclaimed a low-browed fellow, as he stretched forth his long and guant arms, tossing them above his head, to command the attention of his auditors. 
               "An' sure now-it's a mighty big sounding word that same," he said, in continuation. "It's a mighty hard word, too, intirely, boys dear, and one that has never been evened upon us before. Murder is it, enagh? Don't we crush a viper in our path? only the praise be to Saint Patrick, we haven't any of that same in our country, with the exception of the human ones, who would sting us to death. Don't we pisen rats and varmint, and lay traps for foxes, and ferrel rabbits-by law, too! law! law! Do you hear me now, boys!" 
               "Aye, aye," retorted his companions. 
                
               "Oh, Tah mellay! did I tramp fresh and fasting good ten miles, to be tould that it's murder to kill one for vengeance? Did you ever hear the likes of that same, boys; and to be told it by a friend of O'Connell. But he ain't the right sort of an O'Connell. No!" continued the long-armed speaker, who was under the influence of potations of whisky, so that he could only with difficulty keep his equilibrium, but continued to toss his arms to and fro, as he went on addressing the multitude. "No, boys; he's not the true O'Connell; he came-understand me-he came into the world not wanted; but his mother was nobody knows who--" 
               "Scoundrel! liar!" exclaimed O'Connell, as he sprang forward and wound his hands round the speaker's throat, and flung him forcibly from him for the space of some yards. 
               The man fell to the earth, but in a moment or so recovered himself sufficiently to regain his feet. 
               As he did so a yell of execration was sent forth by his companions, and O'Brian grasped him with his huge hand, and twisted him round as though he were a child. 
               "Aisy, now, aisy," exclaimed the drunken ruffian-for he was little else. "Aisy awhile." 
               "Knock the fellow into smithereens!" exclaimed half a dozen voices. And Maurice O'Connell began to fear that the giant would carry out this suggestion. 
               Those present were more indignant at the insult offered to their chief than O'Connell was himself, and there is little doubt that, had he not interfered then and there, the man would not have lived to utter another speech. 
               As it was, O'Brian, with an oath, struck the man on the chest with his huge fist, which sent him reeling. 
               He was then smote by one of the other crowd, then another, and was finally flung into a corner, cowering and crest-fallen, with several severe bruises and contusions on various parts of his body. 
               He did not deem it prudent to emerge from the dark corner into which he had been so unceremoniously thrust. 
               A few minutes elapsed, during which Algernon Sedley had not chosen to move from the position on the tomb he had taken when addressing the throng of malcontents. 
               But he stood with folded arms and a firm unbending brow. 
               Maurice O'Connell was again at his side, his temper relieved by the act of violence which had been committed on the drunken insulter and brawler; he was again ready to flatter or soothe-to win and wile away the hearts that responded to the music of his voice. 
               He was agitator for the present, without attempting to be a legislator for the future. 
               His love for the faith of his fathers was an intense reality, and no man will ever get right into the Irish peasant's heart with whom this is not the case. 
               His handsome person, his noble and proud bearing, the winning sweetness of his smile, the subtlety of his wit, which, however rough, was still a diamond; his aspirations for the future welfare of Ireland; his enthusiasm when speaking of his country, indeed, his self-abandonment to the cause, and want of prudence and forethought were all qualities which constitute a successful revolutionist; and yet to men of calmer reasoning natures he had said little or nothing to the purpose. 
               He had opened no new vista which, even at a vast distance would have yielded the people at least a prospect. 
               There were many assembled in that mysterious place who were all but penniless; but Maurice held the master-key to the hearts of those present-he felt us they felt-they knew this. He shared their afflictions and their injuries, and he rapidly brought the meeting round again as though it had never wavered in its faith. 
               A shout of triumph floated above the mountains by which they were surrounded. 
               Maurice O'Connell turned a triumphant glance towards Algernon Sedley; he placed his hand upon his shoulder kindly, and said in a voice of sweetness,- 
               "Algernon, the storm has passed over, the very winds which blow over our mountain peaks are an emblem of liberty. Nature's breath is pure and free, so should be the sons of her soil. Men who can so shout for freedom," he continued triumphantly, "can surely regain Ireland for the Irish." 
               Algernon Sedley made no reply, but returned the warm pressure of his friend's hand. 
               Of a more peaceable nature than his friend, and withal, more a man of the world, and more used to the world's ways, Sedley could not but see the force of Maurice's assertion. 
               With such natures lies the difficulty of our task. 
               But who can doubt that a little time will teach them how they can best show their love-never weak, thank the tearful heaven above it-for their country? 
               These discontents must again and again have the all-comprising devotion impressed upon them. 
               That is all. 
               To return. 
               O'Connell turned towards O'Brian, and desired him to state what he had to propose to the meeting 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                  THE NARROW DEFILE. THE OATH OF VENGEANCE. THE SURPRISE. THE MIDNIGHT INTRUDER. 
                
               WHILE this had been taking place in the Glen, an incident occurred at one of the outposts, or passes, which led to the destruction of several of the Queen's troops. 
               The reader will remember that the woman Kate, who had led a non commissioned officer of redcoats to join the order, had taken her way up the narrow pathway which led past a bridge that ran across the rocks or mountains. 
               It so happened that a sergeant and four or five men going to Macroom barracks, so late, to enter the place before morning, were marching at some half a mile distance from the spot where Kate and her companion had the rencontre with the Fenians. 
               By the light of the silver moon, the sergeant described the figures of two persons. 
               Upon looking more closely he thought he could distinguish the uniform of one of the regiments of the line. 
               While he was gazing at the two figures, they suddenly disappeared from his sight. 
               The sergeant thought it advisable to march towards the spot where he had caught sight of them. 
               Bold of heart and strong of will, he did not for a moment hesitate in carrying out this resolution, and, after a halt of a few minutes, he and his companions ions were ascending the lofty mountain, which was one of those that ran round the Glen of meeting. 
               Slowly and steadily the English sergeant ascended the narrow pathway which led up to the bridge we have already described. 
               When about half-way, those of the Fenians whose duty it was to watch, and, if needs be, defend the passes, caught sight of the advancing troop. 
               The boys themselves were concealed behind stones and gorse bushes, lying flat down so as to escape the notice of any chance intruder. 
               A hurried whisper was heard as they sighted the advancing soldiers, rapid words were exchanged, and several of the Irish crept silently towards the summit of a rock, along the side of which was another rock similar to the one they sought to occupy-through these two rocks there was a cutting forming a sort of defile or pass. 
               Unfortunately for the English troops they were imprudent enough, upon their arrival at the bridge to take their way along this defile, believing it to lead to some secret haunt. 
               The Irish, who all this while lay as silent as cats or tigers on their watch for prey, calculated their chances. 
               At the further end of the defile a strong body of the boys were stationed, in the event of the troops succeeding in passing through the defile. 
               This, however, they were not destined to do, for the wary and concealed enemies of the soldiers had in the space of a few minutes laid their plans with a promptness that might have surprised the most experienced in guerilla warfare. But the teachings of those drill sergeants who have seen the Great War through the South, and clambered up Lookout Mountain and Buzzard's Roost, under Sherman, were not lost. 
               They had rolled several large stones to the edge of the rock on which they were stationed, and one or two of them were to give notice from the opposite side when the death-dealing missiles were to be hurled down. 
               The sergeant and his men paused for a minute or so before they entered the narrow defile. 
               They glanced round in all quarters; not a sound disturbed the tranquility of the place; not a single living creature was to be seen, all seemed to be deserted; the woman Kate and her male companion were no longer visible. 
               The sergeant was under the impression that they were both threading the narrow pathway at the base of the rocks-perhaps the pathway led to some secret cave or cabin. 
               Being under this impression, he motioned his men forward, leading the way himself. 
               When they had got about thirty yards or so in the defile a wild, savage, and unearthly yell smote upon their ears. 
               In another moment a huge mass of rock of some hundredweights came tumbling into the very midst of them. 
               There men were crushed in a shapeless mass by this. 
               An exclamation of horror and dismay escaped from the sergeant, who with another had escaped unhurt. 
               He looked up to the point of the jutting rocks, and beheld it peopled with men, who had the appearance of demons. 
               They gave a hideous grin of satisfaction, and in less than a minute more, another and another piece of rock fell. 
               The sergeant was literally buried by one of these, and in a minute or so more the whole of the little party of soldiers were stretched lifeless by the avenging missiles. 
               "Thus perish our enemies!" exclaimed the Fenians. "Thus perish the reds!" 
               All this had been done so silently and insidiously that any passengers at a few hundred yard's distance would have been quite unconscious of the deadly work which has been going on. 
               The victors descended from their elevated position, and after some little discussion they came to the conclusion that it would be better to carry off the the bodies and secretly bury them. 
               At the same time they did not deem it advisable to make those of their companions within the glen acquainted with their proceedings till after the meeting had broken up. 
               We will now return to Glen Eigh. 
               O'Brian, when called upon by O'Connell to address the meeting, stepped forward; as he did so his vast proportions stood out in bold relief; although he stood upon the ground, while Maurice O'Connell and Sedly were on the stone, his enormous proportions made the more slender, though well-knit, figures of his two compatriots appear to be those of mere boys. 
               O'Brian took off his hat, and his hair, though as yet abundant enough, was slightly frosted by time. 
               He looked round upon the assembly as a murmur of applause arose. 
               The crowd now showed more distinctly, for several of them had lighted torches of bogwood, which burnt steadily enough. 
               O'Brian spoke slowly, and at first somewhat hesitatingly. 
               Perhaps few countries in the world have given birth to so many sons who can boast of the possession of a natural eloquence equal to that of Ireland. 
               Even the uneducated of the soil possess this gift in many instances to a remarkable degree. 
               O'Brian was not a Burke; nevertheless, his words, spoken in his own deep rich brogue, seemed to be listened to with a breathless silence and a rapt attention. 
               "My lads," said the giant, "I am, as you all know, not much of a fist at speech making; though I believe it's pretty well known that I am not a bad one to the use of the fist." 
               "Hear, hear! brave!" shouted out several of his companions; while the half-drunken man, who was still smarting from the blow he had received from the speaker, groaned at the recollection of the same. 
               "Boys, what I have done is pretty well understood by you all. I have never raised this right hand to smite the righteous or down-trodden. I raise it to help the oppressed, as far as may be; I raise it against tyrrany-against the oppressors of my country-against those who would rob the poor, ill-used, hardly-treated, struggling peasant of his just rights-of his bit of land, which is his, or ought to be his. The blue wathers of my own lake could inform you, ten years agone, where the process-server slept, who darkened my door a living man and left it a dead one." 
               A murmur of applause followed this declaration, of so protracted a character that the giant was fain to pause, and wipe his massive brow. He then continued,- 
               "The fellow came armed to the teeth. He had his pistol and his club, and, above all, he was backed by the law; while I-I had only this," and as O'Brian spoke these words he held forth his hand that could have felled an ox; "these bones, which nature gave me against his pistols, his cudgel, and his law. I conquered! What does this prove? Answer me that!" 
               "Your cause was just," exclaimed several. 
               "It proves more than that," said O'Brian, in continuation. "It proves that, in spite of laws made by despots and invaders, in spite of arms carried by their myrmidons, that the people of a great and glorious nation are not to be trampled upon. I never saw tithe-gatherer, process-server, or soldier that would force me to turn my back. The man is not born yet who can teach me that same. Do you not all of you say the same thing?" 
                
               "Yes, yes! Hear! Three cheers for O'Brian!" shouted the delighted ones. 
               Maurice O'Connell began to be impatient. 
               "We know all that, O'Brian," he said; "we know that, my excellent friend. You have proved it, but the night wanes away, much remains to be done, and our friends have far to go." 
               "Patience, O'Connell; have a little patience, if I have not so glib a tongue as yourself, or am not so good a scholar. Hours may pass, but they will only bring us nearer to that hour when we shall see Ireland a free country. Free! How glorious the words sounds. Aisy now, I told you I was no orator. All my eloquence lies in these," and he stretched forth his hands. 
               "But, praise be to the Lord we have men of learning among us, boys: men of nobility; and we ought to be proud of that same," and as he said this he glanced at Maurice O'Connell and Algernon Sedley. 
               "And I tell you that we ought to know how to trate them. Do you hear that, boys? Well then, mind it! But enough has been said, and all of you know that there have been prophecies which are working round, glory be to the Lord, prophecies that will be fulfilled plain as the sun at noonday. There's only a little management necessary to trap everyone of our persecutors and their myrmidons. Why, look here, boys, it's aisy and natural, and it shows how small a light may kindle a great fire; for haven't we saved our brave captain from hands of the Philistines, and a jewel he is, too!" said O'Brian, pressing his huge hand upon O'Connell's head with the fondness of a father for his child. "O'Connell's a jewel, and that he is!" continued O'Brian. "There were more than ye know of who wished he might be sent out of the world for a crime he never committed. Nothing would have turned the devil's pack from the devil's hunt, but we've saved him; and by St. Patrick, it's proud I'd be of ye if ye were my boy, O'Connell dear; but I have no boy now." 
               A low murmur of sympathy came from the multitude as O'Brian said this, for his voice was tremulous as he spoke the last words of his speech. 
               "No, O'Brian darling, Heaven help you, you have not," exclaimed a sympathising voice, for most of those present remembered when the giant had a son, who had been sacrificed to the laws, it was said, that he had offended. 
               "Oh, look there, now! an' to see the nature of him, and he such a giant!" exclaimed another. 
               "Keep a good heart, O'Brian," said a third; "for every drop of blood that was in his body we'll have a life yet." 
               "Thank ye, boys; thank ye for all your mercy. God bless ye; ye'r the right sort, anyhow, he replied. "Only the weakness comes over me mighty strong, so it does, when I think of him. Sometimes I see him plain as light, slaping on the white bosom of his poor mother, who died, as ye all know under the--" 
               His voice became choked, and stopped his utterance; his huge features became convulsed; it was in vain that he struggled to speak. 
               His friends handed him a noggin of whiskey; he drank it off, and then, somewhat relieved, he returned to the subject. 
               "Well, my friends-for friends ye are every one of ye, in the time of trouble-I am not going to trouble you any longer with my own private troubles-we've most of us had our share here-but I'm just going to commence what, perhaps, I ought to have begun with in the first instance, only, ye know, man is too fond of dwelling upon what immediately concerns him. It's a way, I suppose, that we most of us have got, an' bad luck to us. Now listen; draw round; there now, that's it; well, now, attend to me. Ye know that I don't want to dwell upon my own affairs, only as far as they may be concerned with the general interest of us all. The fine lad who called me father is gone-gone to another, and let us hope, a better world-and I don't think I told what for it was. Who worked his destruction? None other than Matthew Hyssop! He was the murderer!" 
               At the name of Hyssop a yell o execration was sent forth by all; it was repeated again and again. 
               "That hypocritical old scoundrel drew them into the mesh which led to their destruction, curse on him." 
               He paused again to recur to his idea in hand. 
               "What I want you to do, boys, is this. For I am a little fearful of myself, if ye don't leave me my way. I want that wretch myself. He swore agin' my son, he got him sent across the seas to Australia, where nobody ever heard of him since. I believe he's dead-I almost hope it when I think of him so free cooped up for life! for life, and him so young then." 
               Most of the hearers pressed forward with eager curiosity. 
               "Wait a bit," said O'Brian, "wait a bit. Draw round me, my friends! Raise your right hands to heaven! That's well! Now, I'd just be glad to know on your faith, and on yer hopes of salvation hereafter, if ye're all book-sworn to what I beg of you?" 
               "We swear," murmured forth his friends. "We swear before our Maker!" 
               "Good!" exclaimed O'Brian. "Ye all take the true, the free oath, which if every man does not subscribe to we know what to think of him. I ask ye again, as yez shall answer before the Almighty at the last day, do you all take the oath-you'll lave him all to me? Are yez all sworn, boys?" 
               O'Brian spoke these words at the very top of his voice; but loud as were its tones, one less powerful and deep, but more clear and distict than his own, answered the monosyllable,- 
               "No!" 
               It would be an utterly absurd attempt on our part to describe the sensation this produced upon that vast assembly-a sort of undefined fear crept over them. 
               "Was it the voice from a being of another world!" was the first thought that ran though the minds of most present. 
               It would be impossible to describe the sudden rush towards the spot, somewhat distant from that which Maurice O'Connell and Algernon Sedley had made the centre point, or radius of the crowd. 
               A terrible sensation agitated every one present; all were seized with a desire as sudden as it was vehement, to annihilate whoever had thus intruded into their charmed circle and secrets. 
               Maurice O'Connell bade them to be still; he was uncertain what order to issue. 
               There was a swaying to and fro of the boys, like waving corn before a fitful and sudden storm. 
               In a minute or so more the stranger who had given utterance to the one word which had so disturbed the rebels, was dragged forward through the crowd; he was in the hands of several, whose weapons were at his throat. 
               The wonder was that he was not killed upon the spot. 
               Maurice from his elevated position, caught sight of the struggling stranger in the hands of his captors, who were treating him rudely enough. 
               "Harm him not! Bring him forward, boys," shouted out O'Connell, as he heard the muttered imprecations of those who were near to the stranger. 
               "Bring him forward," exclaimed O'Brian. "Arrah, we'll trate him as he deserves; but let's hear what he has to say for himself." 
               Many of the boys whirled their shillelaghs, and some few stooped to pick up stones. 
               Presently the crowd drew back to admit of the stranger being brought in front of O'Brian, Sedley, and O'Connell. 
                
               As he was brought forward every one present was astonished at the placid look of calm dignity with which the stranger regarded that wild and savage assembly, proving at once that he must be possessed of extraordinary self-possession, or be in total ignorance of the danger in which he was placed. 
               Some could not help admiring him for his utter absence of fear. 
               By this time he stood almost face to face to the three leaders. 
               With the natural feeling of gentlemen, Maurice O'Connell and Algernon Sedley removed their hats; the other leaders from the different districts did the same. 
               Those who had hold of the stranger were ordered to release him, an order they at once obeyed. 
               "What are we to understand by this, sir?" said Maurice O'Connell. "What do you mean by forcing yourself into a private assembly as a spy?" 
               "I don't think he's that," said Algernon Sedley, with the natural promptings of a gentleman. "I do not believe him, I cannot believe him, to be that." 
               "I thank you, sir, for your good opinion," said the stranger, with a smile. 
               "Fair words shall not save him;" exclaimed several. 
               O'Connell took no notice of these exclamations. 
               His dark eye rested on the face and figure of him who had come so strangely and mysteriously into the very midst of the plotters; the stranger did not quail before his glance. 
               "What and what are you?" demanded O'Connell, suddenly. 
               "I do not see that I am bound to answer your queries," said the stranger. "Indeed, I may with some justice question your right to demand of me an answer to the same. The same question might be put to you-Who and what are you? And what is the purpose of this meeting?" 
               "Away with him!" exclaimed several present; "away with him! he is a spy!" 
               "Order! silence!" said O'Brian. 
               "Now, sir, if you please, perhaps you will account for the presence in this spot. Are you aware that by such an act of temerity you merit death!" 
               "I do not imagine that I have done anything since I have set foot into this country which deserves such a punishment," replied the stranger. "I have not sought this wild and strange spot with any idea of intruding upon the secrets of others." 
               "Pray, how have you obtained the passwords, answer me that," said O'Connell. 
               "I do not fell myself justified in telling you," said the stranger, with the utmost sang froid.
                
               At this there was a murmur of discontent, several weapons were waved threateningly in the air, both near to and immediately around where the speaker stood. 
               Maurice O'Connell, by a motion of his hand, commanded his companions to desist from these expressions of anger. 
               All this while the stranger did not seem to take the slightest heed of the individuals by whom he found himself surrounded. 
               "Once more, sir," said O'Connell, "I demand to know who and what you are? I should presume you are not a countryman of mine." 
               "Why should you imagine that?" said the stranger. 
               "Because your manner and appearance forbid such a supposition," answered the questioner, quickly. 
               "I hardly know whether to be flattered or otherwise by such a supposition. The inference you would deduce is, that I am an enemy then," said the stranger. 
               "Precisely. We can view you in no other light." 
               "You are mistaken," was the cool rejoinder. 
                
               Maurice was perfectly astonished at the impassable bearing of the handsome, young man who stood so boldly before him. 
               There was an open ingenuous expression on his countenance which was in direct opposition to the supposition that its owner was a spy-and even to raise a doubt as to his being an enemy. 
               "You are a strange person," said Algernon Sedley. "Have you never heard of the Fenians?" 
               "But too often," answered the stranger smiling curiously. 
               "You are in their presence now!" 
               The young man remained calm, but he said: 
               "I have reason to believe that a dear and much esteemed relative of mine met his death at the hands of one or more of this band of men." 
               Another impatient movement of the crowd was made as this last speech was uttered; it was immediately suppressed by O'Connell. 
               "A relative of yours! His name, if you please?" demanded O'Connell. 
               The stranger made no reply. 
               The question was repeated. 
               "Mr. Beechcroft," he answered. 
               At this answer Maurice O'Connell started, then after a moment's reflection, he said, angrily enough,- 
               "An' is it for this that ye have sought out the sacred and charmed precincts. To turn eavesdropper and spy, treachery, insult upon insult, as has ever been the case with our Saxon oppressors. Then I presume, sir, that it is I that you want," said O'Connell, in continuation, and at the same time with a tone of irony. 
               "I did not come here too seek you for any hostile purpose; on the contrary," replied the stranger. "And although I came here secretly, I had no intention to learn what you did not wish to communicate." 
               O'Connell bowed his head as a tacit admission that he believed in the sincerity of the speaker as far as the truth of the words he was uttering. 
               "From all that I have heard I presume that I am addressing Mr. Maurice O'Connell," said the stranger. 
               "You are, sir," was the immediate answer; "and you?" 
               "I am Mr. Henry Beechcroft, of Beechcroft Court." 
               "Mr. Henry Beechcroft!" exclaimed Maurice staring with a sort of wondering and stupified surprise at the features of the young man who stood before him. 
               "Then you are-" 
               "The nephew and heir of Mr. Beechcroft, who met his death so cruelly at the hands of an assassin." 
               A look of incredulity passed over the features of O'Connell, as a fugitive thought flitted through his brain. 
               "You surely have not come here in the midst of this assembly with the vain-the chivalrous notion of revenging his death," said O'Connell. 
               The young man shook his head. 
               "No," he answered. "I have not been many days in your country. I am a stranger to it in person but not in heart; my sympathies are with you, countrymen. I am quite certain that they have injuries to complain of, and have been hardly used." 
               At this declaration there was a shout of triumph from the crowd. 
               "Hurrah!" many of them exclaimed, "who knows but he had come here to join us." 
               Mr. Beechcroft smiled. 
               "I do not go quite so far as that," he answered slowly. 
               There was something so natural and straightforward in this that the people looked at each other conscious that the new master of Beechcroft Court could know nothing of the danger he had encountered, and perplexed in different degrees, according to their feelings and capacities, as to what his motive could be. 
               There had been rumours afloat such as had induced the belief that the new master of Beechcroft Court was disposed to be their friend, and the secret information from his servants had rather favoured this supposition than otherwise. 
               Still, he had outraged their law-unknown, unsworn, he had stolen in amongst them. 
               He might go forth and destroy even the forlorn hope that remained-exhibit their danger to the gentry doomed to perish in the pass of Eigh. 
               The Irish are an unaccountable people; if unhappily prone to consider "the wild spirit of revenge," the only justice they can enjoy, they are as much given to a wild generosity, which burst forth even in their darkest times. 
               There was that, which went at once to the hearts of many, in a man of importance and standing, coming among them in the strange manner which old Mr. Beechcroft's heir had taken upon himself to do. 
               "I must again inquire, sir, by what means did you get here, and what is your motive for seeking us thus suddenly? 
               "I came here with no unfriendly intentions. On the contrary, since I have set my foot in this country, I have endeavoured to make myself acquainted with its people, and, as far as may be, to conciliate them." 
               There was a sort of smothered laugh from the Fenians at this part of Mr. Beechcroft's speech. 
               "And you came here to conciliate us?" said O'Brian, half in derision. 
               "I certainly have not come as an enemy," was the prompt rejoinder. 
               "Are you armed?" inquired Sedley. 
               Henry Beechcroft unclasped his cloak, which fell from his shoulders. 
               "No!" he said, firmly. Why should I come armed? I have come to Ireland determind, if possible, to love and not to fear you. To come armed would argue mistrust, which I hope you do not deserve. More than this, it would be the worst of folly; what could the arms of one man do against a multitude? I came to advise and see you, Maurice O'Connell." 
               "You are kind, sir," said Maurice. "It is the first time that the O'Connell's have received kindness from the hands of the Beechcrofts." 
               "Don't believe in such kindness," exclaimed one of the leaders, starting suddenly forward from out the throng. "How do you or any of us know what this visit may be for? No good, I'll dare be sworn." 
               The man spoke in Irish, tossing his arms wildly about, and looking, amid the flame and smoke and flickering of torches kindled to gaze upon the stranger, more like the demon of some wild mystery than a living man. 
               "I tell you," continued the man, "that ye have been betrayed by old foxes. Are you all mad, to stand looking at a Saxon as if he were a saint? Let him die, as a warning to others." 
               "Are ye mad, boys? O'Connell, remember your burnt ruins! Remember what your father suffered through the Saxons of Beechcroft Court. Remember the dying words of Madam O'Connell!" 
               Again the bad passions of the people were in the ascendant; again they changed; and as the first generous impulse of his nature shrank away from Maurice O'Connell's heart, he forgot himself, and looked with a dark suspicion upon the young man whose deep-rooted and fervent romance had urged him to an act of well-intentioned bravery. 
               Distrust had taken the place of curiosity and interest. 
               The whole of that vast assembly seemed to be tempest-tossed; the only person unmoved amongst them being he whose life hung upon a hair-upon less-the wavering will of the wildest impulse. 
               "Well, gentlemen," said Mr. Beechcroft, "considering what I have perilled to come amongst you, I hope you will hear what I have to say." 
                
               Maurice O'Connell turned sharply round upon the speaker. 
               "There is nothing that you or any or your name could say, sir," he replied, being suddenly influenced by the popular feeling; "nothing that would affect me or any of us here. We all of us but too well know the bent of English words, and the value of English promises. Without being one of us, you became possessed of our signs, have stolen in amongst us and learned our secrets, I am certain that I speak the feeling of every man within the circle, when I offer you the alternative of taking an oath, or-" 
               Maurice paused; darling as he was, he lacked the courage to speak the alternative on which he had at the moment determined. 
               "Proceed, sir-or what?" inquired Henry Beechcroft, as his cheek slightly changed colour. "Will you be so good as to name the condition you annex to this most extraordinary proposal to one who came among Irishmen trusting to their generosity. 
               "The condition that my friend would propose," said Algernon Sedley, who appeared calm and dignified, "is this-that if you do not immediately accept our oath, you must submit to be taken from this place blindfolded to where you will be in perfect safety until it accords with our safety to set you at liberty. It is a measure we sincerely regret, but, considering what you have heard, you yourself must see that we have no alternative." 
               At the first sound of Sedley's voice Mr. Beechcroft started. 
               Algernon Sedley continued,- 
               "You were quite right," he said, "in trusting to hearts that beat with every generous sentiment towards the pure and noble-minded; and I think I am right when I assert that we shall soon convince you that, however we may disagree, we treat honourable men as they deserve. It is impossible to misunderstand the motive which actuated you when you came among us as you have done; but let me hope that, sympathising, as we know you do, with the wrongs and sorrows of this unhappy country, you will not hesitate to enroll yourself among those who struggle for her liberty-who live in the hope that they may yet see her as she ought to be seen by the whole civilized world-namely, great and free." 
               "Upon my word you place me in a position I little dreamt of," ejaculated Mr. Beechcroft. 
               "I don't know what you could expect, or what you can expect now. It is hardly possible for you to be treated with greater lenity." 
               "It is quite needless for you to offer such conditions as you have proposed to me," said Mr. Beechcroft, with something like pride in his tone and manner. "If you had given me the choice of enrolling myself as a member of an illegal body and death, of course I should have chosen the latter alternative. I came here--" 
               "It is quite clear that you have come here unbidden," said Algernon Sedley; "and it is equally certain that my friends and myself, and, indeed, all within the circle, think that you have committed a great act of folly in doing so, to say the very least of it." 
               "Perhaps the gentleman meant no harm; he's new to our country and our customs," whispered several of the milder disposed "boys." 
               "An' sure his uncle was good to the poor, sometimes," said another, "and may be the nephew will be a blessing to the land. He's crossed the say, an' all for the good of ould Ireland." 
               Then addressing himself to Mr. Beechcroft he said in a wheedling tone: 
               "An' sure now, yer honour would not mind blessing us with your presence." 
               "Do say you'll join us, an' then we shall be the nicest family party as iver was seen in the three kingdoms. Do think better of what you have said." 
               Mr. Beechcroft could not resist a smile at the man's naive manner, but he shook his head in answer to the appeal. 
                
               "Mr. Henry Beechcroft," said O'Connell, "this is the first time we have met-I would that we had not done so under the present circumstances. But as you have chosen to intrude upon our council, to creep into our camp uninvited you must not blame me or any of my brave companions if we are compelled to resort to what may appear to you harsh measures. You cannot leave here as you came, a free man. You must, for a time, be our prisoner-you have heard enough to-night to ruin every one of us here. How you managed to obtain an entrance and for what purpose you sought this place appears to be a mystery." 
               "First, let me tell you how I have gained ingress," said the young man, "and spare your true guards any suspicion. I am but recently from the United States. There I came to know much of your noble design by association with the leaders. I have even brought suspicion on myself. For, not a week ago, as I again saw a September's sun gild the green of Ireland, the ship that brought me to Kilrush, was boarded by County Clare police, who searched my baggage, besides other parts of the ship, for arms that they suspected to be concealed. My presence suggested that I was an agent from the Americans. 
               "Now for my opinions. I am of English blood. For the very reason that I am an English I love freedom and wish all to be free. With liberty happiness to the mass alone may be. I am not an aristocrat, look you!" continued he, warming with his theme. 
               "No, if ever I had been, the contrast of the United States to Britain would have corrected my views. Hence I do not desire Ireland, or any country, any people to be mere appanages to the throne. Those interested, prate of our magnificent empire! With the wealth drawn from poor people, the rich live splendidly, and a royal family of a foreign race, are feasted, are bejewelled, gilded, father and son, child even unto a twentieth-cousin, so that the feeders of 'Britain's glory' keep the petty Germans in idleness! 
               "So help me heaven, I will never help to cement the prison walls, weld the chains, twist the bonds of any people! 
               "Go on-may I live to see the Republic of Hibernia-it will be a blessed country, under that name or another. I need not tell you who must be well-informed, that the crash will come, and that many of those-who have earned in the States what was impossible in their birthplace to gain for themselves-are coming to expend blood and treasure to place their country on the list of nations!" 
               A cheer broke forth of much intensity. 
               The most of the assembly could appreciate the enthusiastic ideas of the young Englishman. 
               He turned to Maurice then. 
               "I came to see you," said Mr. Beechcroft. "You are or have been accused of a crime of which I believe, and know, you are entirely and completely innocent." 
               "I thank you for that declaration," said Maurice O'Connell, with a sudden warmth in his manner. "But surely you have not come hither only to tell me this?" 
               "No!" answered Mr. Beechcroft, "assuredly not; but you have made your escape from the jail at Macroom." 
               "I was rescued by my companions," suggested the young patriot. 
               "Well, it matters not about terms. You did not stand a trial." 
               "I regret that, sir, as I should have proved my innocence." "I regret it also." "Indeed!" "Yes." "Wherefore?" 
               "Because, should you now be taken, they will convict you, if not for the murder, for the escape. You may be identified with a band of men, who they will say violate the laws of the land, and who, either misguided by others, or led on by their own passions will not hesitate to shed the blood of the innocent and unoffending." 
               What more Henry Beechcroft might have given utterance to as, carried away by the recollection of the death of his uncle, he, in the heat of the moment, thus rashly gave utterance to his feelings, was abruptly interrupted by a shout of rage, which burst forth simultaneously from the assemblage, while the dense mass surged forward as if to inflict dire and summary punishment upon the man who had not only dared to intrude upon their secret assembly, but stood thus boldly forward and seemed to accuse them all of being blood-stained assassins. 
               Both O'Connell and Algernon Sedley at once saw that the moment was a most critical one, that if the crowd by whom they were surrounded even for an instant gave way to their passions, and siezed upon Henry Beechcroft, no power of theirs could save his life. 
               They, therefore, aided by O'Brian, threw themselves between the men and their intended victim, who stood calm and impassive, looking upon the storm which he had raised as if he were the least concerned in the consequences. 
               When the leaders thus intervened, a momentary pause was made in the forward movement of the matter, and ere it could be renewed, or the yell of rage, given utterance to, which he saw was about to burst forth, Algernon Sedley, by a stroke of strategy, again turned the thoughts of the excited throng. 
               Had he made the slightest attempt at addressing, in all probability he would not have been listened to for a moment; but, instead of this, he sprang upon the stone and addressed Mr. Beechcroft in a loud tone of voice, which was distinctly and thrillingly heard to the remotest part of the assembly,- 
               "Henry Beechcroft," he exclaimed, "were it not that it is well known to me and well known to those who are around you, that you are of a kind, a noble, and a generous nature, that you never shut your ears to the tale of distress for the sufferings of the poor, they whom you see before you would not have so long listened to you." 
               When Mr. Sedley began to speak, the surging throng seemed to listen through sheer curiosity to hear what was said to him who was now their captive, but with their quick and excitable natures, the words of Algernon had already touched their sympathies, and he had gained complete ascendency over them as he proceeded,- 
               "Your love for Ireland, however-for poor, down-trodden Ireland-and for those who live in the hearts of every true-hearted Irishman, has great weight with us, and, therefore, have we thus far borne with you; still, for what you have done this night you must suffer and in such degree as the chiefs assembled here may decide." 
               O'Connell, quickly perceiving Algernon's drift, ere a disenting tongue could be heard, called forward the leading men, and giving Beechcroft into the custody of O'Brian and a few others on whom he could depend, he retired in consultation with Sedley and the leaders. 
               During this period not a whisper was too be heard among the lately excited crowd. 
               They knew that a question of life and death was impending, not as it would have been with them in their moment of wild passion, but to be calmly and quietly inquired into and decided upon according to the laws by which they were governed. 
               In a few minutes, O'Connell and the other chiefs returned, and one of their number, without a word being spoken, or even a whisper breaking the solemn stillness which reigned around stepped forward and placed a bandage over the eyes of Mr. Beechcroft, who offered no resistance. 
               Summoning to his side one or two of is immediate followers, the chief then walked forward with the prisoner, and proceeded through the midst of the ranks, who quietly made way for them as they passed; and a heartfelt awe, a dread of some unseen and unknown danger or deed of horror, seemed to fill all hearts of the mass, as the small band advanced beyond the reach of the glare of torches, and entered into the mass of solid darkness beyond, which seemed to take them within its embrace, as if they were to be no more seen or heard of. 
               As Algernon Sedley looked upon the dense and silent masses, who thus allowed the man, whom a few moments before they would have torn to pieces, to be thus taken quietly and unquestioned from among them, he felt that it only required such men as these to be given the signal to work such deeds as would strike a panic through the country, that would make the walls of Windsor Castle tremble. 
               Then, amid the flickering of half extinguished torches, and beneath the shadow of grey trees, and still more venerable cloisters, the Fenian Brotherhood swore again what they had sworn before-to be true and secret, firm and united in their next great effort. 
               And the grey light of morning, as it triumphed over the mountains, met many returning from their last meeting. 
               Mr. Beechcroft, seeing that resistance would be useless, resigned himself to the will of his captors, who took him to a mountain prison. 
               One morning, Henry's room was entered by a lady. "Heavens!" cried he, "Agnes! you here?" The lady, who was no other than our fair friend Marian Ingledew, explained that in Cuba, where she had met Henry, she went by a false name for certain family reasons. She told Henry she knew O'Connell was innocent of old Mr. Beechcroft's murder. Marian soon obtained Henry's release, and he arrived at Beechcroft house, in time to unmask Hyssop and drive him forth. 
                
               A bright sun lighted up the prison of Macroom. The authorities were removing Maurice O'Connell. A troop of cavalry had been called out, from fear of a rescue. Maurice walked forth, erect and noble-looking. The crowd made a terrific rush on his guards. The horses could scarcely act amidst the press of the multitude. 
               The horse, after repeated failures, became at last aware of the cause. 
               An order was then given for them to dismount and fight on foot. 
               The scene was a terrible one; confusion was at its height. 
               Above the din of battle was heard, loud and resonant, the wild and fierce hurrahs of the Fenians as they cheered on their companions. 
               The inspector disengaged himself from O'Brian, the leader of the boys, and flew towards his men. 
               Maurice, full of enthusiasm, forgot himself, and half made the "supreme sign," which will yet start millions into new life of liberty. Some of the league saw that, and, for the first time, rang out the cries: 
               "Clear the way for the Fenians! All true Fenians, follow! Hooroosh! the Green above the Red!" 
               One man, who wore a "McClellan" cap on his red head, was high of voice and sent up the old charging cry of Kearney's "Red Cross." 
               Still another returned U.S. soldier emitted vociferations never heard in the "ould dart" before: 
               "Ha-yay-yah! say you will! Come-y old friends of the Cause! Oh, oh, will you now! Be jabers, if we ony had 'Baxter Avenoo' and Avenoo A here! Hay!" 
               The chief of the prison guard was out of his wits, and giving all kinds of orders. His calls were hailed with shouts of derision. 
               Maurice O'Connell had hitherto been engaged with the two constables. 
               He had nearly overpowered them, when several others of the stuff came to the rescue. 
                
               Maurice was collared by several of these, and an attempt was made to drag him back to the prison. 
               He was struck unmercifully by the constables, and had received several severe contusions on the head and shoulders from their staves. 
               Being unarmed, he was unable to protect himself, and the probability is that he would have been laid prostrate and senseless on the earth had not O'Brian, with his immense physical strength, forced a passage near to where O'Connell was struggling. 
               When the former caught sight of O'Connell, and the ill-usage he was being subjected to, he, with the lungs of a stentor, set up the well-known shout of "Number Seven." 
               Despite all obstacles, some thirty or forty of the boys rushed towards the spot where O'Brian was flourishing his sabre. 
               The constables endeavoured to fly with their prisoner. 
               The boys followed, calling out,- 
               "Vengeance! And O'Connell, to the rescue! Arrah! This way! Hurrah, shure! Aisy, Captain! By the powers, we've got them now?" 
               A desperate rush was made towards the knot of constables who were gathered round the prisoner-and a still more desperate struggle ensued. 
               The ground was stained with blood. 
               Presently in the rear there was heard a din, and then a loud crash. 
               After this there were distant cheers from the non-combattants, who had withdrawn to some little distance from the scene. 
               The cause of this new disturbance is easily explained. 
               Several of the Fenians, those who had not penetrated into the thick of the fight, had gone to the side of the prison van. 
               They had succeeded in overpowering those few officials who had charge of this, and had unharnessed the horses attached to the machine; then placing themselves on one side of the vehicle in question, they had actually lifted it up and overturned it. 
               The machine toppled over and fell on its side. 
               This was the cause of the loud and sudden crash, and the shouts which followed. 
               The mob were in ecstacies at the sight of the overturned van. 
               The boys then endeavored to unfasten the door of the machine, but not succeeding in this, they armed themselves with a thick log of wood, and, using this as a battering-ram, they proceeded to batter in the sides of the prison van. 
               In this they were loudly cheered by the populace. 
               An aperture was made sufficiently large for the passage of a human being, and in a short time afterwards one prisoner after another succeeded in crawling out. 
               Meanwhile, O'Brian and his companions had not been inactive. 
               Several of the police-officers had fallen before them, and were laid prostrate on the earth. 
               The monster giant grappled with those few who still retained hold of O'Connell. 
               One by one he flung them off as though they were mere pigmies. 
               Catching hold of O'Connell, he dragged him from the hands of the officers, and a scream of delight came from the boys when this was accomplished. 
               "Aisy, boys, aisy; shoulder to shoulder. There, that's it! Ah! it's illigant, now, only to see that!" exclaimed O'Brian. 
               Two of the boys placed themselves side by side. 
               O'Brian lifted up O'Connell, heavy as he was, and placed him triumphantly on the shoulders of his two companions. 
               This done, they began to march on in triumph, a large body of the boys clearing the way. 
                
               The police were too much engaged with the other portion of the band to offer any impediment to the free passage of O'Brian's troop. 
               The inspector lay upon the ground senseless, and for aught his men knew to the contrary, it might be that he was dead. 
               A cry had been raised to "set fire to the police-barracks." 
               It was caught up by the crowd, and re-echoed in all parts. 
               An attempt was made to carry this threat into execution; it proved to be a futile one. Several trusses of straw, together with faggots of wood, were flung against the sides of the goal; some one or two of the insurgents lighted these with torches. 
               The cry of "Fire" was then raised, and those few police who were able to do so made towards the spot, which now became the seat of war. 
               The police endeavoured to put out the fire by scattering its elements, and taking those of the trusses that were not ignited and throwing them on one side. 
               The two men who held the torches thrust them in the faces of the police, and a scene of confusion took place round this half ignited fire that was at once savage, wild, and grotesque in its character. 
               The probability is that even had they been left alone, they would never have succeeded in setting fire to the building, for much was of stone, and externally did not offer any inflammable material for the fire to lay hold of. 
               The boys, however, continued to battle over their bonfire. 
               In the midst of smoke and tumult, a warning cry was raised. 
               A small party of English soldiers, Captain Cunliffe at their head, were on the spot. 
               They hesitated to interface at such a moment. 
               Suddenly, a respectable looking man appeared beside the captain, assured him that the riot act had been read and that he was ordered to tell the captain to fire on the disorderly. 
               Cunliffe obeyed reluctantly. 
               The soldiers tried to move forward peaceably, but a blow fell on one from stick or stone, and they had their blood up before long. 
               The volley added its smoke to that of the burning straw. 
               Before it, the fighters fell back. 
               They had accomplished all they had sought. 
               When they rallied on the edge of the scene, they found that O'Connell was not among them. 
               Presently, they saw the tall form of O'Brian bearing the young man in his arms. 
                
               The town had grown quiet. In a little house, were gathered a group of our acquaintances. 
               Peggy, the old servant re-attached to the O'Connells, Algernon Sedley, Marian Ingledew (as she chose to call herself to spare her father's name), Alice Beechcroft, Henry her cousin, and O'Brian. 
               "Then, it is settled," said Henry Beechcroft, "you and Alice your wife to be to-morrow, are going to the Land of the Free?" 
               "To the Land of the Free, Henry," returned the other, untill I return here to help Ireland to bear the same title, as truly hers? The hour is not far from hand." 
               "O'Brian goes with you?" 
               The great fellow nodded his head. His eyes were full of tears. 
               "I am going," said he, "but it depends upon something whether I go with Mr. Sedley or in another steamer. I hope I shall get through with my little duty soon enough," concluded he, mysteriously. 
               "Miss Ingledew," said Henry, "is going on the Continent, I shall be lonely with you all away, and especially without Alice. Miss Ingledew has honored me with an acceptance of my escort. We may even return by way of the United States." 
               He could not resist the jest, so deep were his hopes. 
               He abruptly ceased to smile, though, as he felt the presence that was in the room. 
               A coffin, draped over all except its head was in the corner. The open glass permitted a view of a calm, handsome young and noble face, that of Maurice O'Connell. 
               All glanced in that direction. The great-hearted giant and Peggy were weeping profusely. 
               "Peggy won't come," said Alice gently. 
               "No!" cried the woman, "I will stay by his grave and the mother's! There should be somebody to kape the ugly weeds that the foreigner brought from choking the daisy and the shamrock on their tombs-its all the lands they've left the O'Connells!" 
               "Peggy," said Algernon, wildly, "let your eyes be joyed as you view his grave. His last words shall go on it. 'I hope for the land of my love!' May we soon return, may we soon be able to erect the proper monument to the first martyr among the new defenders of the nation. I am going to see Lexington," said he. 
               He pointed to Henry. 
               "You to view Paris and Poland and Italy! You and I see in each place where the sparkling seeds of liberty were first sown that even such a harvest as America, and Italy have, as Poland, France, Venitia hope, will be our Ireland's? In those days-God of freedom and justice bring them near! more than we will gaze upon the shrine of that poor body and murmur our prayers and gratitude to the pure and lofty soul of the FIRST CHIEF OF THE FENIANS! 
             
             
               EPILOGUE. 
               AT one of the little fishing villages on the eastern coast, near Cork. 
               A boat, her sail set, her rudder shipped. 
               Two men, pursued by three others, running for this boat, in which a couple of fisherman are about pushing off. 
               The three pursuers overtake the fugitives. 
               Suddenly one of the latter, a giant in figure, turns, and upsets the leading couple of the enemy on the sand. 
               Both the flying men reach the boat. 
               They are just about to push off when the third pursuer, coming up panting and excited, lays his hand on the prow. 
               "Fifty pounds-reward-Larry, M'Phail, alias 'Large-mouth'-O'Brian-alias--" 
               His stammering was put an end to, by the colossal Irishman. 
               "Push her off," said he, Larry, handing one of the oars. 
               And at the same time the giant caught Hyssop, for it was he, by the collar of his coat and lifted him into the boat. 
               There was a grating on the sand, and she was afloat. 
               A push brought her head round, and the sail was sheeted home. 
               The swiftness with which had been overpowered the steward and his companions was astonishing. 
               When Hyssop was lifted into the boat by the old gaoler, he shrieked for help. 
               "Help! mercy! help!" shouted the miserable wretch. 
               O'Brian caught hold of Hyssop and held him with a firm grip. 
               At the same time he pulled not a pistol from his breast, and placed the muzzle of it at the steward's temple. 
                
               Hyssop trembled in every limb. 
               He thought his last moment was come. 
               "Silence, or you are a dead man!" said the giant. 
               "Oh, mercy, good man, mercy. I am silent as the grave; let me out of the boat," Hyssop whined, in an agony of fear. 
               "He must stay," exclaimed O'Brian. "He had no mercy upon others, and he shall receive none from us!" 
               Hyssop nearly fainted with fear as he heard these words. 
               What were they going to do with him? 
               Who was this man, who talked so strangely of his having no mercy to others. 
               What others did he mean. 
               Had he been one of his victims? 
               No, it could not be. 
               Such were the thoughts that flitted through the steward's brain. 
               The boat speeding on its course, was soon several hundred yards from the shore. 
               O'Brian looked at his companions, and heaved a deep sigh. 
               He then turned his eyes on Matthew Hyssop with a piercing glance. 
               Matthew Hyssop, pale with fear, looked into his face. He had begun to think who the giant might be. 
               "You do not know me?" inquired the colossus, sternly. 
               "N-o," answered the steward, in a trembling voice. 
               "Make your peace with God; you have but one half hour to live!" said the other, in a deep, solemn voice, which actually went through the steward. 
               "I am rich!" exclaimed Hyssop, in despair. "I can pay you handsomely for my life. Name any sum and it shall be forthcoming! I will pay you handsomely if--" 
               "Silence, wretch! talk not to me of your ill-got riches!" exclaimed the Irishman. "Spare your life! Never! You talk to me of mercy-you-you had none for my child!" 
               "O'Brian!" muttered the steward. "Oh!" 
               "You slew him just as surely as if you struck him dead," said the giant. "I have heard from Father Jerome that my poor boy's heart broke last year! God keep his tortured soul!" 
               He wiped the perspiration from his brow, and continued,- 
               "Matthew Hyssop, you are trapped in your own net; the net you had set for another." 
               "Oh, spare me! and--" 
               "Silence, it is useless. Do you remember Maurice O'Connell?" 
               Hyssop shuddered. 
               "O'Connell!" he exclaimed. "Maurice O'Connell!" 
               "Yes; him whom you ruined, and sent to death!" 
               "I send him to death? what do you mean?" 
               "You betrayed him at Tralee!" said the other, sternly. 
               "Ye-es! but the-the soldiers shot him in the crowd," faltered the steward. 
               "They did! But who said the mayor sent him, who, relying on his fine black coat and treacherous manners, deceived the redcoat captain into giving the order of death! Poor Maurice would have escaped but for that-but for you!" 
               Hyssop saw that all was known, that all was over in other words. 
               Thinking of nothing but to escape the present peril, he executed a sudden resolve with a boldness that almost resembled courage. 
               He dashed the pistol from the side of O'Brian and, ere a hand could be lifted had fallen rather than leaped into the sea. 
               When he came up, he cried out help at the top of his lungs. Only then did he see how far he was from shore. 
               "'Bout ship!" cried O'Brian. 
               The order was executed. 
                
               "What use!" said one of the Irishmen. "He's in the dead-current now! he's bound for the Haunted Ships! and it is their night!" 
               "What's that?" asked Larry ever on the alert for tales and stories. 
               The sailors answered him briefly. We imitate him. 
               Two ships, said to have been wrecked a hundred years agone, were said to have remained unrotting all the while. 
               They were pirates, that, having had permission, for a time, to work deeds of darkness on the deep, were at last condemned to the whirlpool and the sunken rock, and were wrecked in this bay, as a sign to seamen to be devout. 
               The country people say that once a year, on the certain night, one can see the infernal craft cleaving the tide, with the same laughs, song and music as before, until the same part is played out to the end, where the mortals shriek. 
               
                  This was the anniversary night. 
               At first, Hyssop had been glad to be swept away from the boat and kept out of pistol range. 
               The superstitious seamen would not approach him now. 
               They dropped the sprit and lay to, just moving. 
               The steward, a poor swimmer, was over the spot of the Haunted Hulks. 
               They saw him stop his onward course. He had met something to impede him. It was a spar imbedded in the sand. 
               The piece of timber was of some late accession, but, to the mariners, here was a confirmation of the story. 
               Hyssop had seized this mast, we say, and clinging to it with the grasp of despair, uttered yell after yell, sustaining himself against the prodigious rush of the current. 
               "Draw nearer!" said O'Brian, cocking his pistol, "you can take a tack that will give me a shot at him. I shall not miss!" 
               "What use?" said the older of the seamen, who had told Larry the story. Whose touches those infernal ships never survives to tell the tale. Woe to the man who is found nigh them at midnight when the tide has subsided and they arise in their former beauty, with forecastle, and deck, and sail, and pennon, and shroud." 
               "But see! there he is alive, and he's been ten minutes on the rock or mast or whatever it is," said the giant. 
               "No matter, I tell you," repeated the mariner, "he's doomed, he's doomed; heart and hand can never save him; boats, ropes, and man's strength and wit, all vain! vain! he's doomed, he's doomed!" 
               As the lugubrious words were spoken, they heard Hyssop, terrified by something that they could not imagine, uttered a piercing shriek and bounded towards the boat through the agitated element the full length of an oar. They saw him for a second on the surface of the water appealing to them, but the eddying current sucked him down; and all they ever beheld of him again was his hand held above the flood, and clutching in agony at some imaginary aid. 
               "I am glad," said O'Brian, uncocking the pistol, "that I did not kill him. He must have been a greater miscreant than I believed to have been doomed to such a death." 
               That vision weighed deeply on Larry and O'Brian. They did not forget it in that land, where they are waiting until that struggle shall be in progress of whose opening deeds we have here sketched the chronicle. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
