
    ----CITATION----
        Whittlesey, Sarah J. C. (1825-1896). Herbert Hamilton, or, The Bas Bleu .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8302
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Herbert Hamilton, or, The Bas Bleu 
            
               .'

r

,
.

'  -
i
,s
,.
,
3

i
I


r

Entered according to tt of Congress in the .yu ISfi8, 1
SARAH J. C.. wHITTLESEY.
o in meCIerk's Oiceo of tie Pihtrict Court of tl Initeia states for the Pistrict r virginia.

,b
r- ,
,r .
,
''
iy -
t
;
'

.
t I'

TE8 BAS BE..aU.

CHAPTER I.
"Coming! Gracious Heavens 1" My-
relda started nervously up.  The letter
in her small hand trembled, and a wild-
rose hue fluttered over her animated face.
Her eyes sparkled-with an excited light.
" He is coming!" Her lips compressed
firmly, -and a half-smile lurked in the
dimpled corners of her dainty mouth.
" He is coming I" It was the third ex-
clamation, and with it a pallor overspread
the speaker's face. The truth of the as-
sertiOn, contained in the\letterher slen-
der fingers grasped, till the red blood
lied from the taper points, seemed then,
to beifully realized. *She stepped quiM-
ly over the soft carpet, and swept aside
the window-drapery, with an impulsive
force that detached a ring from the cor-
nice. She looked up and smiled. The
smile widened, from the parted lips, and
diffused :its sunshine brightness over the
uplifted face, as she contemplated the
result of her .unconscious impetuosity,
till a clear laugh, low but musical, broke
the silence of her little chamber. , The,
heart-gush floated-away---way through
the dusky, lattice, apd died out upon the.
hazy autumn air; and a ;sober, serious'
expression settled down upon the deeply
pensive face. The transitionwas strange-
ly, sudden. The change was like bril'
1iantlau p extinguish deeetually, with-

out a single symptom of previous exis-
tence, by an unexpected waft of night
wind.. The eyes were dark and dreamy,
and no inner -light glimmered up from
the silent cloister of her immateriiheing
She was a "strange creature"--ly-
relda Montford-"past finding out; cold
as an iceberg; capricious, callous, and
coquettish"---so said "the world."
Myrelda smiled at the whisper, and a
spice of scorn was in the transient soul.
gleaming.
"Strange." Myrelda assented tothat;
it Was her ambition to live above the
world :while she lived in it., She was
strangely unlike the common herd;,their
"ways were not her ways, neither were
their thoughts her thoughts." There
was no feeling in common between them,
and the world was incapable of compre-
bending her. The world doffed its beav-
er, deferentially, as she passed, with an
ever-living smile upon her calm face,
and looked after her, as she stepped firm-
ly and proudly onward, with thee cla-
mation: "Lovely and sifted, but hound
up-in a cocoon of selfishness. When will
the nun-spirit burst the crysalis of re-
serve and retiracy, and bask in the sun-
shine of social life."
Myrelda went quietly onward,-repe-
ing softly: " nunuam minas solus, g m
uum .solas."

HERBERT HAMILTON;

S3a q

K
Y +
T1
f  ,
M1
7 i Mry
h

k

f i


2              HERBERT HAMILTON;

I

" Past finding out." She said. "Put
not your trust in princes, nor in the son
of man, in whom there is no help," and,
she only unclosed the door of her confi-
dence and faith to Him who knoweth
the secrets of the heart, and "judges
righteous judgement.',
" Cold as an iceberg." Myrelda look-
ed up at the broad, blue sky, and down
upon the sweet blossoms-the Angels'
alphabet--in the green grass; and off
at the sparkling waters singing a lullaby
at the foot of the hazy hill, and the
rich blood rippled up from a full hidden
fountain, and left a warm painting of
beauty and brightnessupon either cheek.
"Coquettish !" The scorn stood out,
prominently, upon her slightly curled
lip, as she arrived at this point. How
had she incurred this imputation ?  She
had never trifled with the tender sensi-
bilities of a human being ; on the con-
trary, she had nipped, in the bud, every
spontaneous springing of affection, de-
tected in, a heart destined, through her
own incapacity, to reciprocate the feel-
ing, to wither in the wintry winds of
rejection, if expressed. She had never
subjected an admirer to the mortification
of a refusal, if his eyes were loyal to his
judgment; and yet even he-the stern,
the proud, the unseen, daringfriend of
three years' correspondence-had boldly
applied to her this hated termI What
was there, in her seeming or nature, that
snacked of coquetry ? She would be
revengd ! He was coming! Myrel-
da's heart quivered as she thought of
their first-meeting. How would she de-
portierself? Slhem:treybled for her self-
possession in his proud presence, when
the anticipation of his coming, thus un-
nerved her.  &amp;  should not-triumph;
she would be "an iceberg," in truth.
She set her lips firmly together, and look-
ed invi Bible. He was coming, with the
avowed,purpose of "winning her; of sub-

jugating and enslaving her whole soul  -
'She could not help liking him, though
he was neither handsome nor rich. He
loved her, and was determined to win'
Too long, she had lived in "fancy free,"
and tortured the faint hearts of his sex;
he would guarantee to revenge the whole
pusillanimous set, by one fell swoop of
his irresistible power. He would clip
the wings of the coquettish Southern
songster, and imprison her in a matri-
monial cage, to be hung up among the
perfume and roses of his Northern bow
er-sure. He could no longer live with-
out her. She had provoked him into
loving her with a fond intensity that was
wasting him to a shadow. His friends
could hardly recognize him as the ro-
bust, free-and-easy, Herbert Hamilton
of three years agong ! Would she send
him her likeness? He wanted it to
comfort him, in his distress, until he
could make arrangements for emigrat
ing to her vicinity, in order to lay siege
to her cruel heart. He knew the fortress
would fall down, before the first glance
of his adoringgeyes, as effectually as the,
walls of an ancient city at the blast of
the 'Israilites' trumpets; but he .dispair-
ed of subduing her and bringing her to
terms until he attacked her rebel heart
in propria persona. Would she send
him her beautiful semblance ?"
"No, she wouldn't; she was not beauti-
tiful, and must decline having her
homely physiognomy ridiculed by the
deceitful attorney.. She had rno faith in
lawyers-not one whit; wouldn't believe
he loved her until he confirmed the asser-
tion by making his 'quietus with a bare
bodkin,' in order to prove his sincerity."
He fretted and fumed., She was a
cruel, soulless imp, raised on vinegar and
lignun vitae; her acidity had taken all
the edge off his delicious anticipations
of Wearing her sweet shadow upon his
.fond heart, until he could clasp the pre-

cious substance there to relieve its an
ions achings; Would she never be s
rious, and trust him?  He was hone
as the day was long, and true to a co:
fiding friend as the needle to the pol
He knew she was beautiful, but th
wasn't of the slightest consequence ;
she were ugly as she would have hi
believe, he would prize her minatui
above rubies, because of the proud, pur
soul that was in the dear original.
was that he wanted, and that he was di
termined to win. He had been inform
ed she was " rich, handsome and talent
ed ;" the last he knew, the others h
cared nothing about, only hoped sh
was rich for her own sake, because s
good a girl deserved the choicest bless
ings that heaven could bestow, among
which money had a place. Wealth wa
convenient, doubtless, but then that con
sideratioa wouldn't weigh a feather it
feather. in choosing a partner-not
feather. Similarity of disposition, con
geniality of sentiment, a sameness o
taste, &amp;c., &amp;c., were what he should seek
for; and he should want a woman with
a good share of common sense, of refine-
ment, genuine politeness, generous true
pride, such as a man might justly be
proud of; without vanity,; and above all
loving, constant and lovable. If, with
these, she had money, it would be well;
if not, just as well."
Myrelda leaned her head against the
window-side. The bland breeze blew back
the clustering curls behind her small
ears; and the old soul-full smile leaped
out upon her red lips, as she retrospect-
ed the past.
Three years they had kept up a con-
tinuous fire of repartee, sarcasm and bit-
ter irony. The sharp points of their
" glittering steel" pens had been thrust
into each other's patience and pride, till
endurance leaked out of the wound, and
they mutually quarrelled and quit.

S1
;  i3
~1

n
v      1.
e      {Y;
t  I
3¢;:
r      {
1
s          Yjt}{
S(
j{f,
S

OR, THE BAS BLEU.

x-   Thrice had a rupture occurred, aris-
e- ing from too sharp an epistolatory shot
st from the belligerents, and thrice had
n- Herbert Hamilton made overtures for a
e. reconciliation.
at    "She was a tormenting witch, had
if pitched into him withoutmercy or anyap-
m parent compunction of conscience. Did
re she mean to crush him entirel r,,or what
re under. the sun was under her intention ?
It Her sarcasm had cut to the quick-
e- he'd own she was more than a match
i- for him, lawyer though he was. He
t- knew she was a cruel, heartless thing
e flint was a fool to her obdurate nature-
e but he loved her in spite of the awful
o conviction. He had tried to forgether,
3- but the effort only entangled him, the
g more. He believed her to be one of the
s best girls living---that was so-and she
- knew him well enough to believe he
n meant what he said. Would she rub
a out the sum on the slate of the past, and
- begin again !"
i yrelda was overjoyed at the propo-
zsition ; her pride would not have per-
mitted her to cross the abyss between
them, but she joyfully reached half way
to take the extended hand of the sup-
plicant, and yet she knew herself equal-
ly culpable, and secretly confessed "he
was more righteous than she."
" She had no objection to begin again,
as her fadulties had rusted considerably
for want of exercise since the cessation
of their correspondence. But she would
give him full liberty to believe her na,-
ture not a whit more merciful than 'her
pet kitten's, that was now smoothing her
little white face against hers, and whose
achme of felicity consisted in torturing
a helpless mouse before she devoured it.
She would warn him of his fate; if he
persisted in rushing upon the pointof the
bayonet, she washed her hands in inno-
cency."
"He pished and pshawed." "Perhaps

3


9q
J,
d
6
i'
Af
1
ell
t     {
i     1{
. 1'
}
f
i
iy
x
ifs
I   F
a
ti
tt
1     1
r,
F
1
"r   4-ii
r     { S r r
x     1
a      '
x
i
s
V  1    ?'  1't'l    "
d s
'  ,71

HERBERT HAMILTON;

,the hasn't so almighty smart as she had thoughts and desires; perhaps he would
the vanity to believe. She was shrewd; not like her so much as he participated.
had tact} a good deal of it, but he had She glanced into the mirror involuptar-
eutwitted her once; hosannahl! le took ily, and her heart-beats subsided into a
that birdie on the wing and brought her sober pace. True, she was not ugly,
fluttering to his feet just as slick as but his standard might have been erect-'
greasel It made him smile right out ed far above her physical charms, "'twas
Ioud, to jead that last mellowed letter of distance lent enchantment to the view."
hers, after the previous thirty-two poun-  Myrelda would not confess to her own
der she had let fly at his devoted head; heart the fears it entertained, lest she
and which would have knocked it into should not realize his expectations in a
jelly quicker than scat, had he not for- personal point of view. She tossed her
tunately possessed a capital harder than curls proudly, with a pettish shake of
adamant. He had endured many 'slings her lofty little head, .and her small
and arrows' f;om, her outrageous cross- mouth curled contemptuously, as a de-
bow. that stung like an adder, and he liberate "p-s--h, what's that to me ?"
4espaired of subduing her and bringing issued from her pink lips. She was too
her to terms until he attacked the cita- proud to acknowledge the interest and
del of her imperious and coquettish soul trepidation that Herbert Hamilton's prO-
with oral bombs. He meant to try the posed. advent had occasioned.  Her
experiment; he knew she was heartless cheeks crimsoned as she reflected upon
and not worth the trouble of trying,for but her exceeding willingness to compro-
he never had succumbed to a piece of dim- misc.; in fact, her extreme joy at being
ity yet, and it was beneath the dignity of again on terms of friendship with the
a disciple of Blackstone to suffer a-little stern yet talented man..
Southern imp to get the victory over him.  Myrelda dreamed not of regarding
Three years he had, essayed to tempt him with more favor than all her host of
her to talk seriously and sensibly, and literary correspondents, when hip first
all he got for his pains was a rattlebox missive was read, with a flash of fun in
oflevity, and a batch of nonsensical dabs. her dark eyes. Thre was ,a spice. of'
ie wold endure it no longer; she might humor, blended with dignity, power and
expect him at the vale the seventeenth manifest esteem running, through every
of september atsunset,and when he came vein of, that introductory letter, that
he'd kick her cat down stairs quicker aroused all the facetiousness of her own
than lightining, for presuming to kiss nature, and impelled her to respond with
thy cheek that belonged to him;"     a promptness and interest hitherto un-
\yrelda laughed aloudas she re-read known in communicating with an admi-
4e concluding paragraph. -'She refold- rer of her literary productions.
ed the the recently received letter, and  There was a sparseness of praise in
laid it in the writing dek., No reply fulsome words that induced her to resd
as retested; perhaps it was  e last and re-read the missive, in  order to
ona she would receive from the manly comprehend, -if possible, the why and
utior. If he came--her heart gave wherefore of her gratified pride, based
an etra bound and thought refused to upon nothing tangible, yet unavoidably
the supposition.  Peraps a per} inspired with the covert meaning of the
sonal interview would quench his. pres; whole. It was coolly couched, yet pleas-
"ntrdor, and change the current of his ingly familiar, impliedly concessive and

OR, THE BAS BLEU:

conciliating in its ambiguity, yet proud-
ly dignified and self conscious in its
whole tenor and bearing.
CHAPTER II.
Myrelda drew her rocking chair to
the window, where the soft south breeze
drifted the light drapery on the purple
twilight, and sank down dreamily among
the crimson cushions. Her small head
fell languidly back, and the black lashes
drooped over the dark, clear, and half
smiling eyes. She was delicately love-
ly as she thus reclined ; the round, white
cheeks'looked white and more transpar-
ent still, contrasted with the dark ver-
million background, and the rich clus-
te of golden brown curls, behind her
t little sea-shell like ears, crushed for-
ward by the cushions, formed a glittering
bed of varying hues, for her soft plump
ohin.
A new era seemed about:to dawn up-
on her existence. She held in her heart
a presentiment of some great event, from
which all future events were to be reck-
oned. Myrelda could not have defined
her feelings, had she sat down by her
writing-desk, and essayed to wreathe.
them up in rhyme or plain prose ; they
were vivid, yet intangible--palpable, but
not to be grasped. She looked back
through the dim vista of the past, and
came slowly and retrospectively up the
long aisle of the by-gone, from the hap-
py days of her childhood up to the pre-
sent hour. Her fair face changed its
expression frequently, as she,'turned over
again, with the fingers of memory, the
closed leaves of her departed years; her
life had been strange, and ah ! so sad.
All the sunshine of her days lay behind
her seventeenth year-this side, all was
blackness and sorrow. That golden an-

niversary was a deep gulf opened up in
her heart-history, by loving " not wise-
ly, but too well," over which the pale
lamp of memory was suspended by the
chain of regret, and threw, evermore,
its-feeble rays upon the wreck of her
girlish heart, hopes far down in the dark
abyss. Myrelda shuddered as she look-
ed down the chasm, and repeated aloud:
"The wounded bird, blown o'er the deep,
would sooner quit the shore,
Than I would cross the gulf again
That Time has brought me o'er."
Myrelda Montford was an onlydaugh-
ter-the pet and pride of her parents
and only brother; beautiful in infancy
and childhood, and bewitchingly Iyely
when the bright bud of adolescence ex-
panded into the fresh flower of early
womanhood. Extremely wealthy,,and f
noble lineage, her little barque, freighted
with an immortal 'gem, glided peaceful-
ly, upon the calm waves of affectionate
care, until it stranded in the great ocean
of first love, upon the rock of cupidity.
Her beauty and wealth drew to her feet
suitors by the score, and from that sup-
pliant train she chose the most unwor-
thy.
Lovely herself, she was attracted by a
corresponding exterior, and breathed herl
vow of betrothal to one whose only
charms consisted in a fascinating pw-
sonnel-one wholly destitute of themag-
netism of mind that can, alone, retain
affection.
A sudden revulsion of fortune reduq-
ed her from affluence to comparative
poverty, and the sweet June eves that
should have witnessed her bridal,,shed
its tears of round dew upon her young
head, as she wandered alone and deoe$-
ed by hini she had soeloved an4trusted,
through the dear old scenes of;her hap-
py childhood,Ifors ,last fareweU; and
Frederick Gerald, the heartqas,. but
facinating.fortune-hunter,.akthe;idetW-
groom of a day, of one far less lovely

4

;
1
"
;    :,
,  'j:  '
,  , ;
;;
3
}F
s     P
3}
,!   'r
l
i


i
ti g
,r41
y  Ii1
t i~
{{$1ry
l it
t   p

but more favored by the fickle goddess,
Fortune.
Long yearbad gone by, since then;
the bitterness of death was past. ;The
vines of fancy and admiration that she,
had "misappreheaided for love-tendrils,.
gradually withered: and died, and. were
biown by'the wild winds of disappoint-,
ment, from the support of her energetic,
adhesiveness; but the memory of that
dread time made her what she seemed-
"cold as an iceberg," as the world whis-
,ered..
Shewas wooed by others-the good
tud'the true-4or she was lovely yet,
despite the black shadows of deep ad-
versity that had clouded her young life,
tobbing her cheek of its olden bloom,
and plunipness, and her eye of its wont-
ed brilliancy and sparkling smiles; but
her heart=remainedefolded in a shroud
of apathy, and impervious to the voice
of love. She looked back at the one
dark spot over which her feet once trod,
and ;shuddered at the 'syren song that
lmedeher on to wo! Through the Worth-
lessness of one, she was led to- distrust
all.
S Years went on; each successive one
more calmly then the last 'to Myrelda.
'Time's soft finger swept gently over her
heart, ad healed theta Brutus-wound
adeobynoe who had solemnly pledged
hunself to her, the poetic eve of their
blissful betrothal, before God and An-
gef, to"be her shield along the journey
of life; the vow was violated, and their
path  through the years' of probation,
were divergnt.  The sorrows of her
4yentmlife flowed omit in song, and many
liendto catch the plaintive strains-
min* them, Herbert Hamilton. She'
"Iea d in suffering,what she taught
ii ong;?' and the nomrnful melody awak-
S ieMa1eponse insympathetic and 'eon-
,ge  i-a itids. The streamlet of:her
soul 'fo*dd on again, in an ideal clime,

and peopled it with fancies and sweet
dreams to revel in. Not for fame did
she kneel beside the fount of Helicon,
and essay to climb the loftly Parnassus.
The flowers of her early hopes lay with-
ered upon the moaning shore of her in-
ner life--she bound them with her own
heart strings, and laved them in the
fountain of her tears; they drank the
briny flood, and ebbed its tide.
How many hearts would tell a cor-
responding tale, should their soul's ar-
cana preface their progeny of the brain.
We pore over their ideal fancies, and
drop a tear, perchance, for the sorrows
of the hapless heroine, nor think that
these dark vicissitudes are but a tran-
script of the heart of their creat6r-that
to quell the surges of memory's sea, they
excavate the isthmus of Thought and
disembogue the swelling waves of F el-
ing into the broad ocean of Ima   a-
tion..
Disappointments developed her no-
bier powers; the slender chords of her
youthful character, strengthened and
perfected by the exercise of long-suffer-
ing, and endurance of life's- most poig-
nant pang, and the pliant-hearted, .im-
pulsive girl, matured into the strong-
souled, self-reliant woman.
A few of her own sex hurled at her
darts of detraction and envy, but they
fell harmless at her feet, and the im-
potent archers foiled in their malicious
design, stooped there, and bore the vile
missiles from the invincible target-the
stone up-hurled for her, came down up-
on'their own heads,,with the crash of
public censure.  Myrelda smiledsand
forgave; they were incapable of affect-
ing her otherwise-than contemptuously
and compassionately. Her life was above
suspicion, and no stain had ever tar-
nished her fair fame.
'Her celebrity widened rapidly-twie
she had triumphed in a literary contest,

and her name drifted upon the waves of! deepehing sky, and spread a thin pur-
popularity, throughout the land. Ad- pish veil, over the outer world; and the
mirers flocked to her standard, and words bright-eyed, golden stars glanced in
of love, from many a stranger heart through the opec easement, and gt.
were poured into her ear, through the tered among her wind-stirred curls, as
medium  of Cadmus' invention.   She Myrelda dreamed on of the speedy ad-
tiscouraged hopes that could never be vent of Herbert Hamilton.
reached, and controverted the imputa-
tion of coquetry b gently declining to
receive them "in the capacity of a lov-
er," and offering them, in return only               -
her friendship and epistolary correspon-      CHAPTER III.
dence.                                 Violet Vale, the home of Myrelda
She had no intention of ever again Montford, was just the sweetest, dear-
staking her all on a single- cast of the est, and "beautifulest"(as Carlyle says)
die, in the fearful lottery of marriage; nook of a  lace conceivable; situate
once she had lost, and durst not verture on the southern verge of alovely and
again.  She smiled at the exceeding flourishing city of the "Old Dominop."
susceptibility of a heart that could fancy Behind the pretty white cottage, that
i.   enslaved in the meshes of love, looked down upon. the dark blue waters
without a personal knowledge of the ob- of the noble Potomac, stretched the
ject.                               wide old garden, with its little white
Herbert Hamilton, alone, at length wall held tightly in a thousand tender
rendered her sceptical on that score ! vine-arms, shaded by a thick row of ap-
He had woven around her., gradually, a ple, peach and plum trees, that bent in
tiny thread of thought, so attenuated as the proper 'season, beneath the weight
to be imperceptible until the multi- of their rosy-cheeked burden, now and
plicity of twinings awakened her to the then pelting the golden-winged bees,
truth that "in union there's strength;" and richly painted butterflies, humming
and her ineffectual efforts to unwind and flitting among the vines, with a
them  at bwi, provoked  er patience, ripe ball, dropped, as if for spite, from
and probed her pride.  He should not their curvilineal branches. -
triumph, she was determined on that;  And over the little:  te, through
she ventured to say her feelings would which she passed from the cottage to
cool towards him, like a glass of cream the Vale, stood a tremendous old cherry,
in a refrigerator, at the first glance of thick and green, which in Spring-time
his face. It was, only his originality, tempted one as sorely as mother Eve's.
and mental dissimilarity to others of his apple in Eden, with its great clusters of
sex, that constrained her to think of crimson, glittering and melting in warm
him, irresistibly. Sh'e didn't love him sunshine,
-she knew that; she had no faith in   Gently sloping from the garden-gate
love inspired by one unseen ;" yet My- was the quiet Vale-sloping down to the
relda could not avoid glancing at the roots of a luxuriant-old willow tree that
mirror, involuntarily, notwithstanding, shaded a clear, cool spring, and then fall-
to see if he would probably cool, as sud- ing softly, smoothly towards, the dark
denly, at sight of her face !       river; and this tiny thread of spring-
The twilight fluttered down from the liquid creptmurmuringly along, through

OR, THE 13AS BLEU.

HERBERT HAMILTON; -

7


I
,
' Uzi{v,
3      {
ki
ri 6
,art
, IL
d    4 I]l
y r
lit
r y
6{ '
1   {I
ilk
+  ,Fl
7,  r
rr }
1
r 57

HE1tR HAMILTON;_

geen grasg and :ild flowers, util its fully than evei
sweet song died amid deep waters.    a foreshadowing
'ut when the spring-time came, then  "In her tomb b;
a thousand,}thousand soft blue $yes    She closed I
peeped up at you, in every nook 'and A mocking-bit
cornet, and shady plate, and suny spot denly from th
all over this lieauitifulVale, flooding it and dissipate
with delicious fragrance, crushed out oft Myrelda, thou
times beneath Myrelda's little round was passionate
head, half-buried in a,big bunch of blue ularly the mel
violets, for a pillow, with- her bright string her ne
brown curls straggling and fluttering in mental mood,i
the fragra ce'their expiring breath, its style ; and
and her cleardak eyeswadering over vague emotion
lston'ssnatchiless story of Eden'sbloom off upon the'
and beguty, or melting tomouruful sym- bird-song, and
path  'over the sail, sad history, and tion supersede
wild; eird fanciesbfnhim, whose aturdy The bird c
tree of transcendent Genius was sapped fluttered away
bydoie Worm of the still, ere its gold- to the woode
en'i'ruitagea1natured in the'suihine of lowed its rapi
life's ineridian'1dgar Allan Poe.,  longer vacant
It was the  eventeenth .of Septem- constituted i
ber, aihd the 'day was fist waning. My- how small aI
reda sat upOn the grass-cushioned roots the extraneous
of the old willow' by tiie spring, and whole current
listened to the low lullaby of the waters. 'saddeniug fa
Volume 'of'"Poe'p Works" lay ;upon Hamilton, at
her lap'and the inimitable poem of "4n- ance she had
xabei4Le," looked 'j from the open long, were, fo
pg. Myrelda was thinking of that, her brighten
ad the soft, introverted eyes were deep- surrounding
I ynmourful in th ir expression.       Myrelda w
A wed with a love that was more than love, with the crin
' ap Aannbeiaee.                    falling and ru
"A' faint t smile'fitted, over her face, sweet flowers
a d her heart-beats grew faster.    to slumber th
"And'seall the night-tide, I lie dowrby the side  ter hours, an
ui    ey arlin   , y  fe i my  b nd '  me rrl  in  t
Ie uc u~hr ytht sea; 'mriyi
In her tomb by the sounding sea" . . '  ho-w Bryant,4
The smile faded ozt fro  - her small ' "The melai
miouth,uand the delicate head fellslow-      The.
ly bank, against the' told willow-runk;  Melanch
the hazeleyes-ooted up through the Antumn and
long: green willow-friage, and~ 'rested bird minstrel
4g    gry,;upon the ar ble sky. ~Why slid  " Saddest,'
thaet  rAte her issustrugs aerefpi- ling waters a

r before ? It seemed but
ig of her future fate-
y the sounding sea !"  T
her eyes and dreamed on-
rd's rich song gushed sud-
e boughs above her head,
d her mournful musings.
gh but a feeble vocalist,
ly fond of music, partic-
ody of nature; it could un-
rves, and deliquesce her
into entire sympathy with
the dark forebodings, and
ns of melancholy, drifted
melliffluous waves of the
a cahvn, cheerful sensa'
ed the inner gloom.
eased its glad song, and
y from the willow-boughs,
d hill-side ; her eyes fol-
d flight,-but they were no
and sad. How strangely
s the human heart,' and
pebble from the shore of
is world can change the
t of thought. Poe's soul-
ncies, and even Herbert
thought of whose appear-
mentally quivered, all day-
r the time, forgotten, as
ing eyes swept over the
scene.
ondered, as she sat there,
son and gold edged leaves
astling around her, and the
shutting up their soft eyes
rough the, long dreary win-
d the bright birds singing
he trees and hedge-rows,
could ever think
ncholy daas have come,
saddest of the year."
oly," thebrilliant stints f
the gushing gladness of
s.o
" the sweet hum of spark-
nd dreamy languor of wax-

B.

.OR, THE BAS BLEU.                             9
en flower-lids-the glitter of falling nuts little girl clinched her small capital with
in clear sunshine-the red squirrel's both hands, and looked up ludicrously.
chirp as he leaps for the round rich   Myrelda could not forbear laughing
treasure, and cracks the hazel-hued shell at the comparison and dioll expression
--the red blush of ripe ground berries, of little Rose's upturned face.
and the rabbit's'stealthy tread over the  " He led me to believe they were
dry crisp leaves.                    blue," she said mentally, ' the deceiver,
. "Oh ! Miss MyI!"                 I wish I had misled him with reference
. Myrelda started like ai electric flash to my personnel, since one good turn de-
from the willow roots at the cry of the serves another."
breathless waiting maid, and looked in-  " And is he tall or short, Rose ?--
stinctively towards the West. . The low, isn't he ?"
round, fiery sun was just sinking behind  "No m-a-m," emphasized her interlo-
a gold and purplish bed, in the low cutor, "-I had ter look up ever so fur,
horizon.                             ter fine 'is eyes and big forced; luddy
The young defalcation of Ethiopian Miss My, he's ;high some, an' big round
progenitors, caught her breath spasmodi- to hoot, hoo, not too bi do fur 'is high."
call and repeated:       '"The very revrse of his insinuations,
" Oh, Miss My, he's cum."'' mused Myrelda; " blue eyes, chesnut
Myrelda,'s face grew colorless with hair, five feet six, h'm," she went noise-
excitement and she turned from the girl lessly along the hall, and ascended to her
to conceal her emotion.              chamber.
" What sort of a looking man is he,  When there she removed every symp.
Rose ?" she asked with apparent care- tom of care or interest in her attire, so
lessness.                            as to induce the belief of utter indiffer-
"Dunno m'm; I did'nt see him, Miss ence with regard to his proposed visit.
My."                                   "I wish I could change the color of
"Who answered the bell ?"          my eyes for an hour," she said indig-
"I did m'm, but I didn't see nuthin nantly, as her luminous browI  orbs
cep 'is eyes and big forrud-de res was sparkled behind the mirror-surfade;"per-
all kivered ' up wid hair !-hoc, you haps, though, he may be more disap-
won't like 'im, Miss My, I nose, kase pointed as they are, since we are apt
you hates dem things 'bout de mouf-- to judge others by ourselves, and, doubt-
hoo !"                               ess, he deemed me as deceptive as him-
"Plague !" Myrelda ejaculated im- Iself.
pulsively, but remembering the girl, she  She became reconciled to their hazel
left the thought unexpressed. hue, when she remembered that Herbert
"A nd he knows I hate to see a Hamilton had frequently adverted to her
,manly mouth disgraced with such ap- blue eyes in spite of her assertion to the
pendages, and yet he dared to enter my contrary. She examined her face with
presence in ; that plight-characteristic jealous scrutiny, lest a single symptom of
of the man. "I'll match him," said agitation should be visible thereon. I er
Myrelda mentally. Her mild eyes grew  heart grew considerably larger as her
brighter and an indefinable smile wa- small hand rested upon the parlor door-
Vered around the firmly set mouth.   knob; and she stood still a moment to
"What color are his eyes, Rose ?" reduce its size by a might effort of her
Black as my head, m'm,"-'-and the strong will. She succeed d in calming
2


O1, THE BAS .BLEU.             I

her purturbation aid deliberately turn-
ing tihe bolt, she entered the presence
of  lerbert ,Hainilton.
CHAPTER IV.
yrelda entered "the root, deliber-
ately;- taidly and with the utmost ap-
parent indifference respecting the pres-
deice of the stranger occupant.  Her
dark eyes rested upon the glowing grate
'with a calm, cool and self-possessed
seeming as though that were the most
imiportait object in the small apartment,
She truedd  them  quietly  and half-
dreanily upon the tall majestic form
of her visitor, as he rose with grave
dignity, and advanced slowly towards
her. Her calmness, partially deserted
her as she met the deep, dark and search-
ing eyes of Herbert Hamilton, for the
first time. She was provoked by his
self-possesion and sober air; she had
anticipated a far different 'appearance,
in -her bol.;and daring stranger lover;
she had expected to screen her pertur-
1atioh behind his playful and presump-
whous greeting as he had vowed toi"have
a k's;from herded' lips at first sight;
he mould take her in his arms, and
4ess'-her to- as fond a''heart as ever
throbbed in mortal breast."  An effort
to perform that vow would' have afford-
ed a plausible excuse for her agitation;,
now she had rione. His calmness and
grave deportment, tilted her equanim-
ity,uand a 'deep blush of excitement
inantled her cheeks, as she laid her
hand in"his extended one. An'instant
it  as pressed very tightly within his
'n; the ext, it lay 'carelessly "upon
his soft, warm palm.' He stood silent
andgrave, locking 'don upon her 'rosy
tacse--no word  as 'spoken"as'yet.
Myrelda ttemeptd to'ithdraw '1hr
-hand, but his fingers closed around it

again, and prevented her.  She looked
up into his calm, earnest eyes, and a
second 'blush, twin sister of the first,
rushed 'to her cheeks. Matters were
growing deperate with Myrelda;; the si-
lence was oppressive. Where- was her
boasted heroism, her strong, self-reliant'
soul ? She strove to regain composure
and a half-frown became apparent on
her brow in the effort.
" Be seated, if you please, Mr. Ham-
ilton," she at length said, with a slight-,
ly quivering voice.
He made no movement to accept the
invitation, but releasing her hand, cross-
ed his arms behind him and stood state-
ly and-grim, still bending upon her that
deep indefinable gaze.
"I will sit here no more, Miss Mont-
ford, till I have the assurance that I
am not an unwelcome intruder."
Myrelda's strength had now almost
deserted her, and with its absence a
deathly paleness overspread her face.
"You are not sir," she faltered.
"That will not suffice Miss Montford;
We have been friends three years, and
yet, at my first appearance you offer me
no word of welcome."
I extend it now, Mr. Hamilton; a
friend is ever welcome, and the suppo-
sition that the pleasure of this privi-
lege would be understood, must be -my
apology for not sooner expressing it."
She was trembling, visibly; had she
looked up, the 'sly, exhtilting smile,
lurking in the corners of his large dark
eyes, would speedily have restored her.
self-possession ; it was the strangeness,
the unexpected solemnity and reserve
of the scene that unnerved her.
" During  my epistolary 'acquaint-
ance with you, Miss Montford, I have
found it necessary to require, words po-
sitive, in order to be' convinced of your
sincerity. You appear what you are
not, and are not what you 'are. A

strange phrase, fair lady, and seeming-
ly paradoxical, but one that delineates
yowcharacter." He led her to a seat as
lie spoke, passing his arm around her
slender waist as asupport, as he felt
her slight form quivering beneath the
hand upon her arm, and the same vic-
torious smile shone in his half-veiled eyes.
Myrelda    would have been annoyed
to the life ha she seen that smile; in
all her past history she could not re-
member the time when she had 'been so
provoked with herself. It had been
her best effort since their first acquain-
tance, to equal him in coldness, blunt
ness and sarcasm, and she had always
succeeded till now, when she most de-
sired it. She tried to rally her powers,
and her fast varying countenance be-
trayed her mental excitement.
He sat beside her, and Myrelda felt
his dark eyes rivetted upon her face ;
she fixed her own upon the red grate
with pertinacious silence.
"How very unlike the portrait my
imagination painted of you," he said
provokingly; "I fancied a tall, blue-
eyed, golden-haired woman, with a full
sunny faceand merry laugh everlastingly
ringing from her red mouth; that was
the impression I got from your private
letters-no matter about the effect of
your published articles. I find you wear
two faces, Miss 'Montford; which is the
more truthful, the public or private ?"
" And no matter about the truthful,
Mr. Hamilton; I can compete with you
in that respect, either in public or pri-
vate," she glanced at his face, and look-
ed indignantly sober.
"Because I misled you with refer-
ence to my personal appearance ? Now do
me'the justice to confess I uttered no
untruth, even though' the real differs
from your ideal."
Myrelda was compelled to acknow-'
ledge the fact, but she only did it i en-a
tally.

". But duplicity is falsehood at last,
Mr. Hamilton."
" Only reprehensible according to its
results, Miss Montford, else you were
exceedingly culpable."
" How, sir ?"
" Your present appearance indicates
great gravity of mind, and yet, were
you replying to my letter, in lieu of con-
versing face to face, you would let loose
a battery of levity and bitter iron-y at
my poor head. that would make it illus-
trate the law of gravitation as a neces-
sary consequence."
"Myrelda had recourse to her hand-
kerchief to hide the irrepressible smile
upon her lips. She looked up gravely.
" Circumstances affect our mood, Mr.
Hamilton; if. I did, it would not be
with a view to deceive."
"Do you never attempt to deceive,
fair lady."
Myrelda colored.
" Not from motives that conscience
condemns, sir."
"Precisely, just what I was contend-
ing for; my conscience never chastised
me for misleading you."
"But some consciences are terribly
elastic, Mr. Hamilton, and lengthen to
suit the convenience of the proprietor."
"lMake a self-application of that, if
you please, before handing it oyer for
my appropriation."
Myrelda laughed unavoidably, at the
glance that accompanied these words;
it seemed so like the Herbert Hamilton
of her dreams.
"There ! I knew there was sunshine
in that soul, and I have drawn it out, at
last, Dc you rarely smile, Miss ]Iont-
ford Z"
" When the inducement is sufficient,
sir."
"Then the fact of my presence was
not sufficient cause, when you entered
that door ?"

t
4

HERBERT HAMILTON ;

I b


OR, THE BAS BLEU.   .         h

" Frankly, Mr. Hamilton, I was an-
noyed'by your duplicity."
I 'BS t you had not seenme."
I had, sir, through the eyes of an-
other."
"Ah !"   Myrelda blushed, beneath
the grave, but intelligent glance he bent
upon er. "Thenyouo are not pleased
with am  appearance, Miss Montford?
I thought you were regardless of ex-
tetiors,-and that you deemed the soul,
puly, worthy of eompideration.'
"I do; sir:
"Then you think me destitute-of
both mental and physical 'attractio ?"
Myrelda looked 'indignantly up,nud
turned her ,eyes askance, upon his
physiognomy. -
"iI consider any face. devoid of at-
fraction, sir, that-sports such a super-
fluity as the one before me;&amp; and you
were not ignorant of some of my dis,
likes."
"I was not convinced of your pre-
judice against the superfluity alluded to.
at apy rate, young lady ; and even had
I been, would you expect .me to sacri-
tie my feelings to humor your whim?"
My relda blushed crimson; the scar-
let blood even tinged her little ears.
She rased her ieady'proudly, and turn.
ed, "er luminous eyes; unflinchingly,
upon his.
"I would not, sir; Iexpect, and ask
no sacrifice on your'part from, any con-'
sidet tiens f myself; but you required
a reason for my grave reception, and I'
gave it. I always, before, thought that
head too well filled with sound sense, to
be under the necessity,' of hanging out
the }sign ef Apartmeits to let!'
Tb9 dark eyes riveted upon her face,
were brimful of mirth, but no sound of
risibility escaped him; and Myrelda re-
main ed'ignorant of his-humor, as her,
face :had bent, during the speech, to-
wards the caret. He remained silent
a moment.

" Thank you for the compliment your,
faiey paid ne, Miss Montford, I see,
now, that your sentiments real cor-
respond with my ,own."
He' rose andwalked from her-raised
his hand, and ran his fingers through
the raven rings of hair, above his mas-
sive forehead; when he turned, -the
jetty moustache had disappeared. My-
relda's eyes evinced her astonishment,
and a quick flush of evident pleasure
rippled over her face. He returned
and sat down gravely beside her.
"Do you like me better, now, Miss
Montford ?"
"Yes, sir," she answered frankly and
soberly.
" Convince me of the fact, then."
"How, sir?"
"By throwing off that reserved air,
and giving me one smile-such a smile
as you only, can give.",
Myrelda raised her eyes to his, and a,
gush of genuine heart-sunshine spark-
led over her face, as she asked, archly;
" How do you know nay capacity, in
that respect, Mr. Hamilton ?"
" How do I know that you have a
soul,' whose strings can 'vibrate sweetest
pleasure,', or 'thrill the deepest notes of
Her eyes fell, beneath the expressive
glance of his. She sat silent and sedate
fearing lest her voice should betray her
mental emotion. An egnbarrassing pause
ensued, her face grew warm from the
stillness.
"And you would not marry a man
who sported such a superfluity ?" he.
asked, softly.
"I could never think him possessed
of a great soul,. Mr. Hamilton; 'and
censequently I could not trust him. It
is, and ever has been one of my deepest
prejudices; the mouth is more indicative
of character than, any other feature,
and when that is disfigured and con-

cealed by such a derogating appendage,
the countenance, in my estimation, wears
a stolid and savage appearance-there
is nothing lovable in it, but everything
repellant."
He smiled.
.." Then you thougltt me very repuj
sive? do you now, Myrelda ?" he utt -
ed her christian name for the first tinie,
with.a softness and tender cadence, that
that unnerved her again, and deepened
the rose on her. cheek. She laughed
lightly, to screen her trepidation, and
rooked coyly up,
"No, sir; Iam not afraid of you, now,i
for .a heathen!  But, pray, why dids
you take the trouble to render yourself
so formidable, since you repudiate the 1
means-?"
"I 'had a motive, Miss Montford."
He had relapsed into his former grave r
and reserved bearing. .V
Myrelda was awed again, and the
radiance faded from her countenance. f
"I desire no' explanation, sir," she
said, proudly.                       v
He sat silent and solemn, regarding
her attentively.,
' If your love is, so easily affected by
external appearances, you should never si
become a wife; the soul, only, can
secure happiness in that sacred relation y4
-that may be 'beautiful abd true' ~
whatever be the outward seeming."   to
Myreida was deeply chagrined, and b
embarrassed by his manner and lan-
guage; her pride rose to its full altitude. je
" .You are not justifiable in such an s~
insinuation, sir. You must first prove gl
that my love has been affected by ex- co
ternal appearances. I know that per-
sonal beauty may charm the eye, but it 'as
cannot fix the heart-the soul only, can
inspire love;, I have learned that from  vo
experience, Mr. Hamilton."           W
Experience! how ?" he asked, quick- fla
ly.

"I once fancied I loved, sir, one
whose' mental deficiency too soon con-
vinced me I had constructed my hope
and  happiness castle upon a 'sandy
foundation,' that has taught me to re-
gard the mind as-alone worthy of hom-
age-as the only magnet that can re-
tain esteem and affection."
"Then I have been addressing one
whose heart-garden has been rifled of its
first bloom of girlhood ?"
Myrelda remained-serious and silent.
"'Silence gives consent,' Miss Mont.
ford. And whoever wins that heart
now, must take it second-handed!" he
said, coolly.
"Yes, sir."  She was growing warm
by his seeming hauteur.
"Good Loid !" he ejaculated.
Myrelda kept her eyes fixed 4on the
red coals, but her face grew fearfully
white,
" You never informed me of this be-
ore, Miss Montford !"
She raised her head proudly, with a
ery slight curl of the'lip.
"I d   not consider it obligatory up-
n me, to make a confession to you, sir.'
He laid his arm behind her, upon the
ofa.
"True-.-I had no right to demand
,ur confidence; I beg your pardon,
Miss Montford ; but there is no barrier
forming    second attachment ?" he
ent slightly, and looked in her eyes.
Had Myrelda held her feelings sub-
ct to her will, he would not have
miled so triumphantly, at'the blush his
ance provoked. She sat silent and
infused.
"Do you love him yet, Myrelda ?" he
ked, gently.
"I do not, Mr. Hamilton."     Her
ice was clear and emphatic ; her head
as raised proudly, and her dark eyes
shed with a liquid light.
The arm behindher contracted softly,

.. ,

HERBERTHAMIL ON ;

12


OR, THE BASBLEI.             15

14               HE1~BERT HAMILTON;

andhishandrested lightlyupon her Waist.
.She shrankinstinctively, at the soft'
touch.   lie bent again, "and glanced
earnestly into her eyes.
, "May not the past justify the deed ?
Shrink from me-and the die is cast.".
. Myrelder trembled; her heart would
not permit her to reject him so emphati-
cally.'- his presence had strengthened
the partiality that had gradually deep=
ened through the past three years; like
the maelstrom, he-had drawn her nearer
and nearer, around the circumference of
his influence, until now, she struggled
in the very centre of his magical-power.
She durst not remove from his circling
arm, although die had uttered no word
of love, but, on the   contrary, had
evinced disappointment ather confession.
",B   I am not in the present, what
you deemed me in the past, Mr. Hamil-
ton; what you find me to be, effaces
what has been.' She moved from him
quietly, and with modest dignity, with
this delicate apology.
A smile of strange brightness swept
over his. face., 'He drew her back to
her former position,.with grave!respect,
slightly tinctured with tenderness.
".How do you know that you are not
what , thought you ?  You think I am
ignorant of your past history-I knew
it. all, before I sawyou; ayeyears ago."
Myielda started, and loed up, with
surprise but the glance, met sent
her eyes quickly; away.
A humorous' expression glowed in his
large,-eoes, as he rose up. - Myrelda rose
alto,his manner:indicated his inten-
tion to depart. He. turned-folded his
arms upn is breast,, and.stood directly,
opposite, stepping gracefully back to a
polite' distance, ie 'stood grave and
Migriined.'
"Iknow not how long. I shall remain
in your city, Miss M9ntford; will you
grent w ethe privilege and pleasure of
visiting you during my stay ?"

She signified her willingness to re-
ceive him in a few words. His lofty
bearing intimidated her, He stood si-
lent some motnents, regarding her. at-
tentively.
"I know he was a monster, to forfeit
onr love, Myrelda !".
"Don't flatter me, Mr, Hamilton; it
i unlike you."
"Girl! you know I never flatter !" he
said, grufly, "Had I known you were
suoh a child in years, I wouldn't have
condescended to correspond with you,
by George ! I judged from your wri-
ings, that you were much. older ; I
thought to find you more womanly in
appearance."
" My age entitles me to that term, at
least, Mr. Hamilton," she returned, half
poutingly.        ,.
"Your age !-good Lord !--how old
were you when you first loved, Miss
Montford, ten or twelve !" He drew*
himself up, dignifiedly and looked in-
credulous. Myrelda laughed at his af-
fected air.
- "As'far back as my recollection = ex-
tends, Mr. Hamilton, which is some-
where in the vicinity of my third year."
"The deuce ! That .damned rascal,
I mean !"
" Herbert !"' Surprise and indigna-,
tion drew forth this familiar name, in a
tone of -severe reproof. Myrelda forgot
she stood face to face withthe offender,
in lieu of sending a barbed    arrow
through the space of three hundred
miles to chastise him for the vagrant
crime of profanity. Her cheeks exim-
soned and scorched beneath the mirth-
ful expression which came over his fAce
,as she looked up with a half-frown into
ihis beaded eyes.
" There, don't annihilate me with a
a thunderbolt of wrath, Myrelda, as I
am not yet prepared to 'shuffle off this
mortal coil,' of which you are well

aware; aid to conciliate you, I'll take
that back,.if you please, and beg par-
don for paining your little pure Metho-r
diet heart, by such a seeming irrever-
ence. I never swear Miss Montford,
unless, as in the present instance, the
provocation is too great to resist the-
te 'ptation,  If he isn't damned he
ou ht to be, in my opinion; and if his
final Judge has not more mercy than I
wduld show him, or think him entitled
to,; the devil will have a bill of sale for
the miscreant. How old were you when
yoU loved hm, Myrelda ?".
"I was seventeen, sir."
" And how many years have elapsed
since then ?" he asked, bluntly, you see
mi object is a simple ,sum in addition,
in order to satisfy my mind on one point
where your appearance and assertion
conflict."
"Seven, Mr. Hamilton."
" Heavens and earth-.you are not
twenty-four ?-impossible ! Why you
look like a child of fifteen, so frail and
fairy--and your face is as inno----that is
simple as an infant's ! Will you never
grow old Miss Montford ?"
"In heart; no sir, that is a bud of
perennial youth. I have no patienceI
with' people who grow older every year,h
who count the mile posts of every an-
nual revolution, as they roll on in the I
stage coach of progression, over the
highway of Time, towards the station- s
house of Eternity. I don't believe in
the theory, and never intend to practice n
it. A miserable apology for a divine
creion, I call it, who suffers the roll- f
ing years to blow away the freshness and r
verdure, the light and bloom, of theit I
childhood; who marches straight .from n
Arabia Felix to Arabia Petrea, and sits
down ppon the sand of Arabia 'Desert, it
sighing like furnace' for the green things e
of the years they threw away in the m
by-gone. I mean to stand still, like

Joshua's moon, till the battle of life is
ended."
His usually stern lips were slightly
parted, with a soul-full smile, as she
glanced-naively up.
"I believe you! You -have a heart
that will never}count the years, nor feel
the weight of Time. Why I thought
myself at least twenty years your -se-
nior."
"So did I sir, when we first met 't--
she looked archly up-" you appear ten
years younger, now."
"Since I discarded' that superflu-
ity ?  As it is, I am but tenyearsyour
senior."
She colored at his expressive glance.
" Do you like me, Myrelda ?" he ask-
ed, suddenly and bluntly.
Her face sobered in a moment.
" Certainly, Mr. Hamilton !" she re.
plied, indifferently. -
S"That won't do, my lady, say yea
or no, unequivocally,. Are ou satis-
fied with my appearance ? Do -I real-
ize your anticipations, now .9"
"1 Yes sir," she said sententiously.
He stood silent some timed-Myrelda
dared not look up. He extended his
hand as if to say farewell. Bhe gave
him hers, and he retained it.
"You remember the vow in my last
[etter, Myrelda ?"
She drew back .with dignified e
erve.
" I do, sir, and now say I cannot sub.
nit to its fulfilment."
" I have never vowed, without per.
orming, and I will pay this one at the
isk of my life, and your displeasure.
You know it is harmless; if you resist
ne I will leave you now and ferevo."
Myrelda raided her eyes 'to his face ;
t was firm as adamant, and decision and
arnestness were stamped on every linea-
xent.
He toolk her in his arms, and pressed

HERBBRT : HAMILTON

14


OR, THE BES BLEU.              17

I

her slight form softly, very softly, but
closely to his breast. She trembled like
a leaf in a summer wind, and her head
drooped powerless upon his bosom. She
heard, in the deep momentary hush,.the
quicv pulsations of the. manly heart
withintiat bosom. 'He turned her face
gently, and pressed a soft lingering kiss
upon 10r lips.
"Myrelda !" , His voice was low and
half tremulous;
She opened her eyes, and they met
his; they were fall of deep, yet mourn-
ful tenderness; his: face was very pale,
and the firm mouth strangely expres-
sive of mental disquietude and anxiety.
She' essayed to disengage herself from
his embrace, but her feeble strength was
inadequate to the effort-his strong arms
held her softly, but securely, -to, his
bosom.
" Lovely girl, if the strength of this
little form, qivering in my arms, were
equal to:your mental power, the world
would acknowledge armodern Hercules.
Myrelda, do you--" he ceased abrupt-
ly; caught her with a sudden impulse
tightly: to 'his, breast, and. as quickly,
but gently releasing her, turned silent-
ly, .and -left the apartment.
Myrelda sank down, half-fainting, up-
Onthe sofa. % She was bewildered by the
scene that had transpired. She would
have laughed, incredulously, had some
gipsey oracle foretold it a few hours pre-
vious. She became indignant at her
weakness.   He. had triumphed ! Her
small mouth compressed tightly at the
thought. He had performed the vow
that excited her risibility, and defiant
resolve,when her mirthful eyes first read
th bold declaration-performed it with.
out' power 1Qn her part-eto resist him
She was confused and amazed, as she re
trospeeted the past hour. He had ut
tered no word of love, and yet had al
the seeming of a lover ; and had; irre

sistibly, assumedthe privilege of an ac-
cepted suitor. She had never met his
match before; he perplexed hertreason-
ing faculties. One moment he sent to
her cheek the indignant crimson; the
next her heart palpitated wildly beneath
his respectful, admiring eye. He was
bold, yet courteous; arrogant, yet deli-
cate and dignified.'- He could awe her
into silence and diffidence by his grave
and stately bearing, and win a smile at
will ! If that were love, she had never
comprehended its full import and power
till now ; no one had ever .exerted such
magical influence before; and as weeks
went on, and Herbert Hamilton became
a daily visitor at the Vale, Myrelda's
heart was forced to the confession that
he was the arbiter of her earthly happi-
ness or misery.
He presumed no more upon a lover's
privilege, and appeared only in the char.
acter of a friend. He was blunt at
times, but his deportment was unexcep-
tionabie, in gentility and refinement.
He drew her out, without apparent de-
sign, and led her wonderingly and en-
thusiastically over the grand and glowing
area of his. own rich, expansive mind.
The lightness and sarcasm that had,
characterized their epistolary acquain-
tance, was superseded by an earnest,
unaffected tone and manner. Occasion-
ally, flashes of wit and, satire, would
escape her smiling lips, at his expense,
as a refuge for the timid shrinking of
.her sensitive heart, beneath his expres-
sive eye ; but a glance of gentle, though
eloquent reproof, would instantly "ib-
vert her Assumed levity. He could sub-
due her into softness and sedateness,
- without a word !
!    Myrelda half-trembled at the power
she felt he exerted, and strove, assidu-
- ously, to conceal, from him the extent
I of his influence. Her ear had grown
- familiar with his footstep; she learned

!IERBEf T 'HAMILTON;

168

to look, and long for his coming; and
her heart-beats became mightily accceler-
ated, at the well-known sound; and
when, after three weeks constant com-
munion, long, anxious days roller lag-
gardly away, and he came not to the
Vale, she experienced a thrill of pain-
ful disappointment, that nqught in her,
past unhappy history had ever equaled.
She knew he was yet in her vicinity
and, his inexplicable desertion rendered
her heart-sick, and world-weary. "He
had ceased to love her-and now that she
bad learned to love him, with an intensity
that was soul-absorbing, he indifferently
withdrew from her society !"
She wished she had never met him.
Literature became distasteful; her pow-
ers of coneentrativeness were dispersed;
her ideas were too dissipated to be pro-
lific of verse, and she wandered through
the autumn-tinted Vale, aimless, and
with but one thought: "he should never
become conscious of his triumph!"
11er eyes flashed, .spiritedly, even
while her cheek paled with anguish-
pride, and love struggled for the ascen-
dency. She could recall nothing, in
the past, that extenuated his conduct.
She had thought he loved her. True, he
had not expressed it in. words, but his
dark, earnest eyes had often been silent
orators of the soul, and more eloquent,
even, than words.
Perhaps he thought her too easily
won ; she might have betrayed her
feelings, despite her efforts to conceal
them from him. Myrelda longed for.
one more meeting, even while she feared
it. Her proud soul yearned for an op-
portunity to retrieve, by apparent apathy
what she deemed she had lost, by in-
advertence, in the' past. He should not
triumph if cool indifference. in seem-
ing, could deprive him of the vic-
tory.

CHAPTER V.
.,Evy skulks behind, to squeeze the gal-bag in the
cup of life."
An elegant mansion on --street,
was brilliantly illuminated, and the hour
for the appearance of the guests had
nearly arrived. Two girls-daughters
of the master of the feast-perfect con-
trasts in person, as well as mind, were
giving the finishing touch to their toilet
before mammoth mirrors, in an upper
chamber.
Rooes of costly pearl-satin, draped
their delicate forns, but the arrange-
ment of the hair, and other little et
ceteras of personal adornment, that be-
tray, indubitably, the arcana of the
soul, differed materially, according to
the antipodal tastes of the individual
two.
Lora's, the eldest, fell in elaborate
and heavy ringlets,.of raven hue, over
a neck and shoulders of surprising nu-
dity, that could not vie-with the lily in
whiteness, at nature's own decree, and
lay in midnight masses, upon cheeks
that were wholly indebted to art, for
there "celestial rosy red;" while a wreath
of artificial flowers encircled her bru-
nette brow.
Mabel's fair tresses were put smoothly
back from a full round forehead, white
and pure as alabaster, and fell in light,
silky, natural curls, behind her delicate
ears, while a single snowy moss rosebud
nestled amid the golden clusters,
Lora's eyes flashed upon you, from
beneath long, jetty' fringes, brilliant and
black as the ringlets around them--Ma-
bel's looked meekly, through the brown
curved lashes, liquid and blue as a cloud-
less June sky.
"tHere ! clasp this bracelet, Bell;
plague take that simpleton Nettie ! she
never more' than half doethings."
"Comedon'tfrown so, sis; you looklike
a savage, when your temper is up, Net-
.-

i


I$

HERBERT HAMILTON ;

tie performed her part well--you know
the catch is a little impaired."
"Pish !" Lora pursed up her mouth
contemptuously. "Savage, indeed ! you
might bless your stars, Bell, if you were
half as handsome ; temper or no temp-
er !"  She glanced into the mirror, and
smiled complacently.
"I am content, Lora, and not dis-
posed to grumble at nature for with-
holding from me, superior charms."
"You might as well be, since you
don't possessthem! By the way, Bell,
if you'd adorn yourself more, you'd
find it a decided improvement. You
put me out. of patience, with your odd
notions. Those two stingy buds look
rather sneaking, in my opinion. Here
let me twist this wreath around your
head, and give you more of a patrician
air."
"No, thank you; I prefer nature to
art, and besides, I don't wish to rival
you, since you are determined to win,
which-Query :"
"Fudge !" ejaculated Lora, forget-
ting in her petulence, her claim to. ar-
istt racy. "Did you ever know me to
fail?"
"Past success don't guarantee future
triumph."'
"He is only aman, Bell."
"But an extraordinary one, if I am'
any judge of physiognomy, Lora."
"The very reason I intend to tri-
umph !" -
"I doubt it, Lo.; he is not one to
change easily,"
"Change ! you don't suppose her ca-
pable of enslaving him, Mabel Clyde ?"
"I don't suppose anything else on
the subject, sis."
"Fiddle-dc-dee ! I'll bet my head he
never loved her ! he has been deceived
-taken in, decidedly ! A poor lover
-deserted, down-at-the-heel.  Blue-
stocking. capture such a man as Mr..

Hamilton ! w-h-e-w! I venture to say
he is ignorant of her real position and
circumstances, for it's evident they
make j desperate effort to 'keep up ap-
pearances.' Such a man as Herbert
Hamilton, would never condescend to
wed one situated as Myrelda Mont
ford!''
"It is only such as Mr. Hamilton,
Lora, who think with 'the sweet swan
of Avon,' that 'marriage is a matter of
more worth than to be dealt in by at-
torneyship.' It is only such sordid,
ignoble minds as Fred Gerald, who
make wealth a sine qua non, in their
choice of a conjugal partner."
"I don't want to hear any more of
your nonsense, Mabel Clvde. It is no
indication of a contracted soul. to wed
one in our own sphere of life; and Mr.
Hamilton will never stoop from his dig-
nity and station, to mate with one so
far beneath him, as Myrelda Montford!"
"How ungenerous and unfeeling, to
insinuate thus of one whose social posi-
tion is equal to your own, despite her
reduced circumstances, pecunarily.--
Have you forgotten the divine precept,
Lora; 'do justly, and love mercy ?"
" Then do it yourself, and leave me
to manage my own business, since 'every
tub must stand on its own bottom.'
Mr. Hamilton is deceived; I haven't a
doubt of that-but I'll enlighten him,
and that speedily !"  Her black eyes
fulminated with - ominous significance.
"1Her lackadaisical rhymings   have
touched his fine sensibilities, and he
fancies himself in love, perhaps. He
has too high and proud a soul to wed
one in such ill repute as Myrelda Mont-
ford !"'
"Ill repute ! Lora!  Myrelda's rep-
utation is without stain, as you well
,know !"
"Indeed ?  Hasn't it been whispered
that her terrible temper, and extreme

OR,

jealousy, conduced to Dr. Geri
sertion-nay, even worse; an
that, Mabel Clyde."
"And wasn't it traced by h(
spirited brother, now far awa
El Dorado of the West, to th;
able lump of Ethiopian mo
Mrs. Gerald's waiting-maid-i
by envy and jealousy, to sully
fame of her rival? thus verif
proverb: 'he that rolleth a
shall return upon him.' Bewa
lest in attempting to detract fr
character, you fall into the pity
"Fol-de-rol! don't preach; I
of that. Take care of yours(
I'm beyond the reach of calumn
wish he sported a mustache;
one such a distiugue air!"
"You do ?-I'd as lief kiss
brush-'pon honor !"
a Dare say-its like your anti
notions. I wonder if he's rich
a"H'm, can't say; but that
consequence to one who loves."
" Confound it !-you provok
death, Mabel Clyde. Is wealth
consequence ?'
"Not when the heart is enlist
ra. Myrelda Montford, if sh
Mr. Hamilton, would never ask
rich ?', as her betrothal to Geral
evidence."
" There it is again, placing yo
sister in an unfavorable com
with that creature ! You will
the meanest thing in opposition
Mabel Clyde !" Her eyes blaz
passion.
" Because of your injustice an
less design, I defend her, Lora
know she is unfortunate, and
peachable, and yet you are plant
tarnish her fair fame, in the esti
of one who loves her, -doubtles
whose desertion,.if she reciprocate
love, would render her future as w

THE BAS BLEU.                            19
aid's de- ed as hei past has been. Situated as
swer me she is, her reputation is more vulner-
able than one's whose heart-history has
er high- not been laid open to the world by a
y in the perfidious and mercenary suitor, who
at miser- would fain hide his baseness beneath
rtality-- her'fair fame; and her present unspot-
nstigated ted name, entitles her to two-fold re-
the fair spect and esteem, for the circumspect
ying the life she must necessarily have led, to
stone, it hold in abeyance the vampires of slan-
re, Lora, der, that have drained the last drop of
rom her lite-blood from the reputation of others
Ton dig." who were similarly circumstanced.-
'm sick Have you no pity for one whose fate
elf, Bel, has been so sad, and whose future may
ny! I    be shrouded in gloom, by your unfeel-
it gives ing design,Lora- Remember 'the meas-
ure you' mete, it shall be measured to
a boot- you again.
"Pshaw !-go to Guinea with your
quarian croaking !"---Lora flounced out of the
!"      chamber, and down into the drawing-
is of no room, as the bell announced the first
arrival.
:e me to   Herbert Hamilton at length entered
h of no the brilliant and luxurious apartment,
stately and grave, and was presented
ted, Lo- to the aristocratic assemblage, by the
e loves ostentatious and gratified host.
c, 'is he It was for his especial benefit that
d bears the entertainment had been given;
through the coaxing of Lora, whose
ur own vain soul yearned to enroll one so lofty,
parison and unlike the 'common herd,' upon
support the list of her numerous butterfly ad-
to me, mirers;- and she resolved to leave no
ed with means untried to accomplish that end.
It would be such a triumph to win him
d heart- from her who had drawn him thus far
You from his native home."
unim-    A stranger from a strange land upon
ning to so romantic an expedition-for Madam
mation Rumor had whispered the story of his
s; and 'strange attachment to Miss Montford
es that through the town. Herbert Hamilton
vretch- was at once the centre of attraction.

I


(OR. THE BAS BLEUI.                    21

HERBERT HAMILTON;

His noble mien and calm dignity,,im-
pressed the beholder, at first glance,
with a sense- of his proud ancestry, and
native strength.
His dark eyes glanced rapidly around
the room, and rested with a thoughtful
disappointed look upon the carpet.
Lora exerted all her arts to lure him
to her side, but without success; he sat
calm and grave till the soft notes of
the piano trembled beneath the touch
of Mabel. He rose and moved quiet-
ly towards the instrument, his counte-
nance lighting-up with interest.
Lora soon managed to happen in close
proximity.
.Mabel sang " Twilight Dews," and
his dark eyes rested upon her sweet
face, with a vacant, mournful expres-
siod, as she proceeded. He bowed in
graceful acknowledgement of the pleas-
ure her performance had afforded him,
as she rose from the instrument.
Lora succeeded her, at his polite re-
quest. Her jeweled fingers flashed over
the, ivories, with a rapidity that was in-
tended to startle her hearers into ad-
miration and wonder at her superior
powers of execution.
Mr. Hamilton stood calm and gravel
during the shrieking and groaning of'
the belabored and tortured wires. He
placed before her a simple song, as the,
storm subsided, and her fingers lay pas-
sive upon the echoing keys.
I am glad to find this among your
collection, Miss Clyde, as it is a par-
ticular favorite, and one I have but re-
cently become familiar with- -in fact,
one I have heard but once, and that,
by mere chance. Will you favor me?"
She glanced at the title, and turned
der brilliant eyes upon him, with a
Beaming smile.
Had Mr.Hamilton taken a peep inh
1 her chamber'- an hour previous,
id seen the ill4empered frown upon

her brow, and heard the low vulgarism
which escaped her passionate and scorn-
ful lips, he could scarcely'have identi-
fied her with the now smiling and soft-.
voiced girl.
" I regret that I cannot, Mr. Hamil-
ton, as I practice only difficult operas,
and this is too simple to claim my at-
tention ; but as my sister's preference is
for this style of composition perhaps
she can gratify you."
She turned her eyes again upon the
music-page, and starting, slightly ejacu-
lated.
" Myrelda Montford !---I knew not
that that song was anong my collection,
before !" her lip curled with contempt.
Mr. Hamilton regarded her a mo-
ment, gravely, but piercingly, and turn-'
ed away, with an undefinable expres-
sion- on his firm face; when he returned
he was accompanied by Mabel.
" Your sister has induced me to hope
that you can favor me with this son ,
Miss Mabel " he said, with a -gentle-
ness of tone that made her look up.
" I can, sir, although it was quite new
to me a few hours since ; 'but I admired
it so much that I acquired it rapidly..
There is a touching pathos in the
words, in such perfect harmony with
the air that it impresses me with the
sadness that must have pervaded the
heart of the author, and I sympathize
with her sorrow through the medium of
her song."
Mabel's cheek became suffused with
a soft, delicate tinge, as she looked up
into his dark eyes, riveted so earnestly
upon hers.
" My own sentiments, precisely, Miss
Mabel, I admire it for its pathos and
sweet simplicity. I am no worshipper
of modern compositions (which means,
simply, an apology for everything ex-
cruciating in music,) and believe that in
music, as in poetry, the simpler the.

style the greater the effect; and if yoi
can give it the expression of the author
from whom I first heard it, the effec
will be complete."
Mabel drew her hands quickly from
the key-board, with a naivet of manner
that became her vastly.
"I beg you will exonerate me from
the effort, then, Sir.  I shall surely fail
Mr. Hamilton ! It was from her that I,
too, first heard it, which rendered me
sensible of my incapacity to do it full
justice."
His cheeks flushed fhintly, and he
smiled brightly down on the upturned
face.
"I can trust you, fair lady; one who
possesses a soul as appreciative as yours
cannot fail of effect."
Her modest face bent beneath his
glance, with a rosier hue. She H'esita-
ted a moment, instinctively; then, with
a determined air, her small white hands
swept over the keys. Her lute-like
voice rose soft: and mournful, after a
plaintive prelude, and the words flowed
clear and distinct, above the suppressed
accompaniment. Lora watched the ex-,
pression of his countenance, as he stood
beside Mabel, with folded arms. His
eyes were bent upon the young face,
with a softness and mournful earnest-
ness that suggested the thought: " was
it the songstress, or the author of the
song, that inspired that subdued tender-
ness of seeming,"
She averted her face, to conceal the
irrepressible shade of ill humor upon her
brow, as he led Mabel from the piano,
at the close of the song, without a glance
at her self-sufficient ladyship.
Possessing a spirit of perseverence
worthy of a better causb, she succeeded
in becoming his partner in conversation
during the evening.  He addressed her
with grave and dignified reserve. Not
to be foiled in her mean purpose, she

u gradually led the way to a discussion of
, the merits of the writers of the day, and
t carelessly drawing a neatly-bound vol-
ume from the centre-table, she asked,
indifferently :
r    " In what estimation do you hold this
authoras a poet and novelist, Mr. Ham-
iltoa ?"
He received the volume from her ex-
tended hand, and turned -to the title-
page.
1  "'Myrelda Montford."  I have long
admired her superior powers as a litera-
teur, and thought Milton's innovation
upon Murray's grammar applicable to
her position in literary merit; ' than
whom none higher sat,'" he returned,
calmly.
Lora bit her lip with vexation.
" Miss Montford enjoys an exalted
station among the literati, and is justly
esteemed for her talents, and admired
for her personal beauty, by your sex;
but-" she stopped abruptly, and looked
confused.
"But what ?--if you please. Pray,
proceed. But is avoided by your sex,
I infer from your unfinished phrase."
" I am not authorized to make that
assertion, Sir, as I am not on terms of
intimacy with her, nor associate with
any who. are."
" Are you personally acquainted with
Miss Montford ?" He regarded her
steadily, with an immovable counte-
nance.
"In childhood we were school-mates,
but have had no intercourse for years.
I meet her occasionally, in public, and
truly pity her unfortunate fate; but it
is not considered advisable to continue the
acquaintance, under the circumstances.
She lives very retired, I am informed,
and hasacquiredgreater celebrity abroad
than at home. I really admire her writ-
ings, and often feel a desire to renew
our former friendship; but we frequent-

'+ t1

20

i

f


HERBERT HAMILTON;

ly have to sacrifice our wishes to the
opinion of the world, Mr. Hamilton."
She drooped her eyes sadly to the car-
pet.
"But one in your position need not
apprehend- the frowns of the world,
Miss Clyde, as that ever fawns upon
wealth and station. The veriest rascal
may screen' himself behind a golden
post, and escape a richly-merited halt-
er; and if you consider her worthy of
your countenance and friendship, it
would be a noble-act of moral heroism
to extend to her tie support of your
favor and influence, in order to effect
her rescue from the shade of appro-]
brium into which she has fallen."
"No one, Mr. Hamilton, is beyond
the reach of stigma, in any position, if
they voluntarily lay themselves liable
to incur it.'"'
46Very true-your prudence is com-
mendable. Is she, then, so reduced,
in the estimation of society, as to ren-
der such scrupulous care to avoid per-
sonal contact, absolutely necessary ?"
Lora sighed very softly.
"Excuse me for not replying to that,
sir, I have no disposition to reflect un-
favorably, upon the reputation of any
one, particularly one of my own sex,
who is, perhaps, the innocent victim
- of calumnny, owing to her peculiarly un-
fortunate situation. I regret that she
has been made the subject of discussion
since it has led me, insensibly, into the
error of seeming disparaging insinua-
tions. I frankly confess I have spoken
inadvertently, and imprudently, and
beg you will consider what has been
said, an involuntary repetition of mere
rumor."
"Pray, do me the favor to state upon
what rumor bases its deteriorating
whispers."
"Upon the fact of her lover's deser.
tion, whom you may see yonder; and

who denies the imputation of change
bleness, occasioned by her reverse
fortune, as some have been charitable
enough to affirm, in her defence, and
to his detriment.''.
Mr. Hamilton turned his large, deep
eyes, upon the tall and strikingly hand-
some individual designated, and a fierce
light gleamed from their midnight
depths. Lora's jealousy subverted. hr
prudence, as she observed the expres-
tion of infinite scorn upon his com-
pressed lips, as his glance rested, linger-
ingly, upon the false-hearted and con-
temptible imitation of manhood before
him.
"She has one of the sweetest and,
most innocent faces imaginable, as you
will coefess at first sight."  Lora
affected ignorance of their personal ac-
quaiitance, from motives politic. "But
I have heard her compared to--"
she ceased again, right suddenly, and
bit her lip, with seeming vexation.
"To what? pray proceed.
"I declare, positively, I11 not utter
another word on the subject, she ex-
claimed, in laughing  embarassment.
"You have caused me, unconsciously to
promulge what I shall not soon cease to
repent of!  She left him hastily, as if
fearful of further injudicious remarks.
CHAPTER VI,
"And who is my neighbor."
Mr. Hamilton still' held the volume
of poems in his hand, as Mr. Berrien,
an able lawyer and townsman, approach-
ed him and appropriated the seat va-
cated by Lora.
"And you, too, are an admirer of
Miss Montford's poems, Mr. Hamilton,
judging from the interest with which t
you appear to regard them."

f
yh
L
k
.

r22

OR, TIlE BAS BLEU.                             23
Hamilton closed the book and return-  " Preposterous !-a bare calumny, Mr.
ed it to the centre-table cahnly.     Hamilton, as the result of an. investi-
"I have long been a devotee at the shrine gation, years ago, proved, conclusively;
of her genius, sir. but never, till to-night, involving, only, those who would main-
met with a copy of her published works; taiin an honorable position in the pub-
though I find in that volume many fit- lie mind, by walking over the wreck of
inihiar effusions from her gifted pen."  her reputation.  Unquestionably her
"Gifted indeed !-she is a rare gem taste for retirement is the natural con-
in the crown of American literature, sequence of a heart-disappointment; for
and one of whom we may justly be the stab of treachery cannot soon heal
proud. Few authors write with equal in a spirit so sensitive and pure as hers;
±acility of making the reader their com- and had she been my daughter or sis-
panion, as Miss Montford.'           ter, I should have been strongly tempt-
" Are you much acquainted with- ed to take the law into my own hands,
her ?"-inquired Hamilton, carelessly.  and sent the rascal who inflicted the
"Well, yes-that is some years ago; wound, to his native hell, without judge
and nov about as highly favored in that or jury !"
respect, as most of our town-people,    "It would have been an incident un-
Her life has been one of a peculiarly un- paralleled in human history, had one so
happy character, sir, as you may; prob- lovely, and circumstanced, escaped the
ably, have learned, since her position whispers of malice and envy"-re-
in the ranks of literature, renders her marked Hamilton, quietly.
conspicuous in society, and subjects her  True, Sir;   erit, like the moon,
to scrutiny that an obscure individual maddens the little dogs of detraction
would escape."                        and slander below, but rolls on, in its
" I have been apprised of her matri- brightness, regardless of the jealous
monial misfortune; has that derogated yelp it elicits from the scurvy curs be-
from her reputation, in the estimation neath it."
of society."                            The cool indifference of seeming, that
" Not a whit, despite the efforts had heretofore marked Hamilton's face,
of the emissaries of his Satanic Majes- melted suddenly away in a warm glow-
ty to filch from her good'name, to screen ing smile that irradiated his whole
the baseness of her black-souled.suitor. countenance.  A soft, faint tinge crept
I know of no one more universally re- up from his cheeks to the jetty rings of
spected and esteemed, for her amiabili- hair that shaded his full temples, as he
ty and exemplary life, than Miss Mont- turned his bright dark eyes upon his
ford; and the only regret is, that she ,interlocutor, and responded in a humor-
can't be induced to mingle more in so- ous tone
ciety.. Unlike her sex she seems to de-  " Were you a marrying man, Sir, I
sire to be heard and not seen; and this should predict a speedy termination of
very tendency to retirement, renders her Miss Montford's present state of celi-
more sought for, by those favored with bacy."
a partial acquaintance."                Mr. Berrien ruturned the smile, and
" I have been informed that her repu- caught the infection of his companion's
tation has suffered somewhat, from the mood.
fact of her lover's desertion ; doubtless  "Were I even a suitor for her hand,
I his knowledge has conducted to a dis- I should despair of success. Judging
position for seclusion."

p


21

HER3ERT HAMILTON;

from the number and character of those
who have essayed, in vain, to inspire
her with ia second attachment. I am
constrained to believe,
"-Man may not hope her heart to win,
Be his of common mould."
Mr. Berrien watched narrowly, with-
out apparent design, the appearance of
Hamilton's countenance during this re-
mark ; but the expression was sugges-
tive of no heart-history-the smile lin-
gered abeut his firm mouth, and his
dark eyes rested quietly, and with the
utmosr unconcern, upon the wall oppo-
site.
It was not without design that he
entered on this discussion; but at the
close of their conversation Mr. Berrien
was puzzled for a conclusion.
CAPTERVII.
"To dream of joy and wake to morrow,~
Is doomed to all who love, or live."-BaoN,
It was a dreamy-Indian summer day.
Myrelda sat under the old willow, by
the spring, looking off at the dark river
waters rolling silently onward to the
great ocean reservoir. Her small hand
held a pencil upon an open page, but'
few  characters were traced upon the
shiny sheet.   She looked down and
rested her pale, forehead upon ,the ta-
per point of her slender fingers, acd
sat long and motionless,,
"I cannot,-thought is vagrant,"-
she rose slowly and sadly from the wil-
low-roots as she uttered this self-ad-
dress, laid the sheet in her portfolio and
turned towards the cottage.
Aunt Linder, the cook, met her in
the garden walk, she looked up under
her cap border end eyed her earnestly.
"ILor bless yer heart, honey, you
looks pale, chile; better go straight out'n
walkhoney, bes' thing in de worl'for good

sperits. You stays in de house too,
much, chile; you'll catch de consump-
tion presently over dem nasty books an'
papers, dey's killin' you right up honey.
Go straight 'long an' wall twel you gits
some red in your cheeks, chile."
Myrelda smiled with affected cheer-
fulness, at the affectionate old creature's
solicitude.
" I am well, aunty, only a little tired;
I am going right out now and obey in-
structions."
" She can't fool me, po thing !"-
muttered the old woman, as she looked
anxiously after the tripping form of
her young mistress. "It's dat Ham-
bleton, consarn 'im; I knows all 'bout
dat; she ain ben 'erse'f sence he come !
She don't say nuthin, but I knows.
She allers would grieve ter 'ersef-po
thing ! I nussed 'erffrum a little baby
an' I knows 'er good. Lord knows I
wished 'e'd stayed ter de Norf mung
de ice, 'sted of coiin' down here to wor-
ry dat po chile ter def; nobody else
could. Lord knows she's had chances
nuff for one chile, an' nobody could
make her love 'em'but him; -cep' dat
mean, sneaking' Geral'. Ef de ole boy
don't git 'im, dar ain't no use havin' a
devil 'tall-dat's it !  I - hearn tell
uv men-folks usin' love powders, an' I
b'lieves in my soul, Iambleton knows
all 'bout dat-you heerd ne ; else she
wouldn' keer fur 'im. I sot heap store
by 'm mese'f, at fust, but I don' now-
he carries on too curus-like- I means
ter watch 'im, like a chicken eyein salt
I dus."
The old woman heaved a deep, groan-
ing sigh, and went her way, muttering
indignantly, as the object of her solici-.
tude passed from the cottage yard gate,
thinly veiled and mantled, and stepped
quickly down the street.
Passing rapidly along Prince, a sign
attracted her wandering eye that sent a.

0

OR, THE BAS BL]SU.
sadden rush of blood to her white face,  " Miss Montford !"
that as quickly receded, and left it paler  She turned carelessly at the sound,
than before. She half stopped with and bowed calmly to his salutation. He
surprise, as the announcement, " Her- bent slightly, and attempted to scaii her
bert Hamilton, Attorney-at-law," looked face, but the thick folds of her veil de-
down in her crimsoning face; but re- fled him.
nemberinglher position, she turned has- "I saw you near my once, and should
tily, and crossed to the opposite side of have joined you sooner had you not sud-
the street. She had no knowledge, denly passed to the opposite side," he
whatever, of his having located himself said, provokingly.
in town, and her sensitive soul quivered  Had notr Myrelda's veil befriezided
with apprehension lest she had been her, she would have exhibited a fAce of
observed in his vicinity; she would have scarlet.
walked miles to avoid such proximity,  "I was not aware that you were lo.
under the circumstances.  .         cated in that vicinity, Sir," she replied
She drew her veil more closely, and proudly, forgetting in her mental confu-
went rapidly on. A hasty footstep kept sion what inference might be drawn
pace with her own, on the opposite side. from the confession.
Myrelda did not observe it, she had but " Otherwise, I should not have had
one thought-to get beyond view of his the pleasure of this meeting, I supose,"
office.                             he said, in a half-reproachful tone.
Myrelda turned at the first corner, to " Why did you turn so abruptly, when
cross in the directionof the Vale, and you saw me awaiting your approach ?"
thus escape, by the nearest route; to her  " First prove that I did see you,'she
quiet home. She was greatly excited, responded lightly; and then, to change
the circumstance had unnerved her. the drift of his thoughts, continued, " I
Had she been seen near his office, what suddenly remembered I was about re-
suspicions might arise ! She was jeal- returning without having executed the
oius for her innocence.             design for which I came out."
She raised her eyes, as she turned,  She turned into a bazaar, as she spoke,
and they fell upon Herbert Hamilton on and bowed coolly to her companion, with
the opposite corner, standing in evident an air that signified her expectation of
expectation of her approach.        there separating, but Hamilton laid his
Myrelda stopped impulsively, turned hand upon her, arm, and. gallantly led
again, as though a sudden thought had her into the establishment.
possessed her memory, and walked swift- Lora and MIabel Clyde turned toward
ly from him towards the busy thorough, them as 'they entered, Mabel greeting
fare. Soon she heard the sound of rapid her cordially, with a pleasant smile, but
steps behind her. .Her slight form an expression of hauteur came over Lo-
trembled with agitation, but evoking all ran's face, as she bent her'ringletted head
ler native pride, she.lifted her head in- stiffly, and enunciated with distinct em-
differently, and awaited the result of phasis:
the pursuit.                           "Miss Montford."
He came up and measured his steps   Her peculiar tone and air struck My-
by her own. They walked together a relda as significant of some covert de-
moment i silence. Myrelda kept her -sign. True, they had not been intimate
face firmly set, as though unconscious of for years ; since adversity swept away
his 'presence.                                           -          4


BEBBRT AMILTON;

the, glitter and glare of wealth, and the'
8ulfering'maiden, abandoned b y a worth-
less and mercenary - lover, had retired
from A heartless und hypocritical worldt
into the calm cloister of her own' inner
beisg; but fora had ever, heretofore,
addressedher with.less frigid formality.
Myr lda drew her veil from her rosy
face, and regarded her silently a nzo-
ment, then with an irrepressible smile,
ofgngled mirth and amazement, invol-
untarily glancecd toward Hamilton.
He stood, in stately dignity regarding
her attentively, with a strange compres-
ion of the stern lips, around which
glimered the faintest ghost of a smile.
She turned quickly to conceal the
treacherous blood that came rushing up
beneath his glance, as Doctor, and Mrs.
Gerald entered, followed closely by Mr.
Berrien, whose presence was not prompt-
ed by a desire to patronize the proprie-
tor, of the -establishment, but merely to
become anobserver of two within, whose.
entree he had witnessed from a distant
station
Myrelda's ear soon apprizedher by
whom she wps surrounded. Mar. Ham-
ilton'svoice, in evident reply to' some
request attracted her.
" ertaihiy, Sir, if it is desirable, and
will bean accommodation, I will un-
hesitatingly accept the invitation."
Mr. Berrien responded in a loud and
joulrari tone .-turning to the group.
' aow all men by these presents,
that]I, Presidet of the Library Asso-
ci'tin, in the city of Arlingford, have
and do extend to ,Herbert Hamilton,
Esq., an invitation to 'stand and deliv-
er' the third lectureibefore the society,
in the Lyceum Hall, on Tuesday even-
ipgi next; :axed he, the said Herbert
milton, Esq., in consideration of the'
faet.tat the Rev, Henry Giles is Pro-
ket i~l y prevented from visiting Ar-
lington at tie time appointed, has and

does consent to become his substitute on
that occasion-Amen !"
A merry laugh from all parties fol-
lowed the finale. Myrelda, from child-
hood, had loved and esteemed the warm,
generous, and noble-hearted speaker.
She would have accosted him sooner,
but from an aversion to meeting others
around her, and affected ignorance of
his presence. She now turned impul-
sively at his humorous, announcement,
and -met his smiling eye fixed intently
upon her. In a tone of pleasantry char-
acteristic of the man, he approached and
addressed her:
"My dear young lady, it has been
most truthfully asserted that 'where
there 's a will there 's a way.' Now, I
was positively determined to win a little
of the admiration and attention you
were so provokingly bestowing upon that
bundle of dry-goods, of which, sub rosa,
Iam a little jealous, perhaps ! And by
rather a novel procedure, have accom-
plished the end in view. Without that
method I'll venture the assertion you
would have been deaf, blind and dumb,
so far as the proximity of your most
obedient was concerned."
Myrelda took her cue from the ex-
pression of his countenance.
" No one can long remain uncon-
scious of Mr. Berrien's presence whose
auricles are not impervious to the 'voice
of seven thunders'"-her face was scru-
pulously sober.
Mr. Berrien's eyes- twinkled with
amusement at her affected air and cool
satire. He turned to Mr. Hamilton,
whose face betrayed an effort to sup-
press his humorous emotions.
" Just hear that !..--I never touch
her through the medium    of, compli-
mentary wor4s, that melt young ladies
to honey and butter, generally, without
getting 'a thorn in the flesh' torment-
ing as St. Paul's !"

OR, THE BA8 BLEU.
"Mr. Hamilton, 'a fellow feeling makes bergof arrows that have been apro
us wondrous kind;' allow me to present ated in the past, for my destruction
you to Miss Montford with the gene- that your quiver was well nigh "vaCu-
rous view and certainty of rendering ated, Miss Montford ; but I am con-
you more sympathizing., from actual ex- strained to believe now it is an inex-
perience of my present chagrin, arising haustible mine and henceforth shall
from a similar cause, as I see you now  beware of presuming upon mere faneyg  '
smiling at my expense.''                Mr. Hamilton spoke playfully,whjle
Hamilton lifted his hat gracefully, his bright dark eyes drove hers down
and with ,a seriousness of expression, ward with a deeper blush.
in perfect keeping with the nature of Lora curled her lip at the sight, and
the occasion, that would have complete- turned to the: counter with a conteip
ly deceived one ignorant of their true tuous toss of her white plume, and es-
position, advanced towards her,      sayed to draw off the attention of thp
"Sir, I esteem myself happy to be group from the two most promine t
this day permitted to lay myself liable characters; but she lost noword of the
to meet the 'slings and arrows of out- conversation.
rageous fortune' if they 'are to be in-  "In the past !" reiterated Mr. .Ber.
curred, as a necessary consequence, by rien, with feigned surprise-'"then I
a personal acquaintance with Miss have but performed a work of supererq.
Montford, whose 'still small voice' has gation in pesenting you to Miss Mont-
been more prolific of effect to the ut- ford ?"
termost parts of the earth, even than'  "Our acquaintance is only of th"r$
the 'whirlwind' or the 'thunder."'   years standing," returned  Hamiltoj,
Myrelda maintained a grave aspect, dryly.
in conformity with the scene, while     Myrelda raised her eyes carelessly
Mr. Berrien watched' her narrowly, and they met those of Dr. Gerald for
with pent-up-mirth, and the company the first time in seven years! Con-
looked on with mute surprise.    She scious of his baseness he had never dared
raised her eyes calmly,to Hamilton's. to look into those pure depths since the
"It would be arrogating more than hour of their final parting.; and now his
human perfection, Sir, to affect indiff- cheek paled nd he winced beneathher
erence to a compliment of so great magi full cold glance, met uncnsciously, -n
nitude; _yet as the effect of a compli- his eagerness to read her heart through
went is in no small degree the result her .countenance. le had sacrifice
of its source, there might, in the present his. love to ambition, and a two-fold rp.
instance, be some extenuation for apathy, tive prompted the sly, but ineffectual
on my part, since we have it from good efforts to asperse her character to -.
,authority that 'a prudent man forseeth culpate ;himself from the vituperation
the evil and hideth himself."'       of the world, and consign her to p,
Mr. Berrien'p joyous laugh rang peiual celibacy; for Frederick Gerahl
through the room at this quiet thrust like the dog in the manger,. ygas ,9
at hjs professional brother, who stood mean to think with any degree of en-
cahpily looking down, with pleasure- placency of another's possessi  whft
sparling eyes, upon her flushed, nd he himself had deserted from theasept
now smiling face.                    of motives. He had scrupglouly avoid-
:Ithoughtl from  the mighty num- ,ed meeting pher, whom behadPoggg-

[


HERBENRT HAMILTON;

edt since his marriage with ore whose
only recommendation was wealth, arid
which, alone, was his pasport to gen-
teel society; for the exeiplary life of
his intended victim "1ad 'placed her, in:
public estiniation, above suspicion, and
su iendeidoven his own head a weight
of s orki and contempt that would have
crushedhim to the eart.hbut for the inter-
vention of his wife's almighty dollai-s."
"Oh what a world of #ile, Ill-natured faults
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a year I'
Frederick Gerald had secretly watch-
ed Myrelda during'the past seven years
and neglected no opportunity to insinu-
ate,'detrimentally to her character, in
the presence of those whom rumor dis-
tingui hed as suppliants for her favor ;
sand attributed. her unwedded state to
those-well timed isppalbable reflections.
The whisper of Herbert Hamilton's
ission to Arlingford, hed held him.
ear her, with the hope of"gathering
somewhat from their conversation, as
a cue to further proceedings. Hamil-
ton's last words startled him, and un-
consciously he turned his eyes upon
her calm face to observe the effect of
his declaration, and quailed before her
full, unflinching glance; but remem-
bering that the eyes of her lover were
uponhim, with all a villian's forethought
and' impudence, he rallied instantly,
touched his hat.with mock deference,
and' bestowed upon her a would-be sig-
nificant smile.
Myreldd comprehended the miscre-
ants motive, and with an immovable
countenance, looked him firmly in the
face-without deigning to return his sa-
lute, with a slight tincture of scorn
upon her red lips that deepened as she
gazed, and a brilliant flash of the eye
that rendered her glorious in her indig
nation.
Gerald's courage was fast oozing away
before her proud eye, and to avoid 'a

second wincing, he turned    carelessly.
and sauntered towards his occupied wife
and the watchful but apparently indif-
ferent Lora.
Myrelda glanced instinctively at Ham-
ilton; his face was rigid and white as
marble, and the dark- eyes hidden be-
neath the downcast lids. An icy cold-
ness ran through her veins, and irre-
pressible tears sprang to her eyes, as
she met Mr. Berrien's kindly' glance.
She turned to the counter to complete
her purchases, then went quietly from
the bazaar Mr. Hamilton was occur
pied in examining some article exhibit-
ed by Lora, for his admiration and in-
spection.
CHAPTER VIII.
hide thy love from him,
whom thou dost worship.-LANDON.
Lora's'eyes sparkled with satisfac-
tion as she , secretly witnessed the
exit of Myrelda and glanced triumph-
antly at Mabel. w)1ose mild blue orbs
reproved her artfulness in detaining
Hamilton.-- Mr. Hamilton saw both the
smile and the glance, though seemingly
absorbed in contemplating the bauble
presented for his inspection. He re-
turned it with a few appropriate words,
touched his hat politely, turned and
left the establishment with an air and
quickness of step that left no doubt of
his design. Mabel smiled now, and
Lora'bit her lip with ill-concealed vex-
ation.  Dr. Gerald grew    pale  with
jealous excitement, and sauntered care-,
lessly to the door, with the covert de-
sign of observing the tendency of Ham-
ilton's steps. He had the mortification
of seeing him by the side of Myrelda,
and bearing her slight purchases. He
was evidently destined to the Vale,
a despite Dr. G.'s recent effort to produce

1

I

OR, THE BAS BLBU.
an unfavorable impression, and Gerald language seem offensive, it is owing to
writhed with envy and animosity, and its ambiguity."
concocted a plan. in his base, black   " I never was remarkable for much
heart, to be developed in the future, as mental acumen in the art of solving dif-
the objects of his thoughts, all uncon- ficult problems, Mr. Hamilton; conse-
scious of the jealousy,they were exci- quently you will be good enough to con-
ting, or the evil that awaited them at sider my intellectual obtuseness, and
no distant day, disappeared from his adapt your language to my mental ca-
view, in the direction of Violet Vale.  pacity."
Myrelda deported herself towardsher  "There, your voice is calm and sol-
escort with friendly politeness, but emn as an autumn breeze at twilight,
dignified reserve. She had apt forgotten and your face placid and stirless s a
his past neglect, nor her mental resolve blue lake of a, breathless suri1ii er eve;
to be more guarded in the future.    but in those eyes, Myrelda, I aee a witch
Hamilton conversed upon indifferent of merriment trying to hide behind the
topics, until Myrelda had laid aside her covert of that silky fringe. Don't stran-
thick veil, and they sat alone in the gle the elf in its infancy, but-let it have
quiet parlor of her cottage home. He free course to run and expand itself!"
then rose deliberately, threw open the  It was no longer possibly to aheet so-
shutters, and exposed her face to the berness and reserve, and a clear gleam
full light of day, and seated himself of soul-sunshine irradiated - her face,
directly opposite.  .                while a rich carnation flush 'rippled p
Myrelda's countenance evinced her to her round cheeks, beneath hieearnest
surprise at this procedure, but she re- eye. She struggled to repress her feel-
mained calm and silent.             ings, but without avail.
"I always wish a distant view of your  "I detect an effort to appear reserved
face, Miss Montford; otherwise half the and stately, incongruous with your na-
interest of conversation is lost."  ture, and unlike your former deportment
She raised her eyes to his.       towards me. May I ask the reason for
"There, you needn't ask the question this, Myrelda ?"
in words, 'why, Mr. Hamilton?' It is   "Your boasted acuteness of pereep-
unmistakably uttered by your eyes. tion ought to be sufficient for your de-
That is the 'why,' Myrelda."        sires, without a coadjutor, Mr. Hamil-
" Then you wish to obviate the neces- ton,"
sity of oral language, on my part, sir." " Unluckily, I don't possess the attri-
"'A miss is as good as a mile,' and bute of omniscience, else I should ask
you have missed it decidedly. I would no hermenutic aid in translating the
judge of the sincerity of that language cabalistic story written upon your spirit.
by a less deceptive interpreter. There! leaves, girl!"
you utter no word, yet I'm convinced  The quick, half-uncivil tones raised
you are provoked by that insinuation. Myrelda's eyes to his. A slight frown
Were your face hidden by that abomi- contracted his broad brow, but a' pecu-
nable veil, I should now be in blissful liar expression in the deep eyes.made
ignorance with regard to the effect of her heart palpitate suddenly, and her
my words, for which I will apologise by cheeks to burn..
saying I respect your sensibility too  He regarded her a moment, and ak-
highly to wound it wittingly; and if my ed, very quietly,


30       HERBERT HAMILTON;O                 EU

What have you been doing during.
my absence ?  Did you miss me, My-
relda?"
- His allsion recalled her to watchful-
pess, and.restored her equanimity. She
lifted her head, calmly; and: replied in-
differeritly,
"Yes,-Sir; as a friend, under the cir-
cumstances, is usually missed."
" cool, decidedly 1  Your tone is as
freezing as a iorth-easter.; and you look
out ath lt window -ith a nonchalence
that says plainly, 'It was of no conse
qaene o nep$ir; whether you were in
lioaembla orexistence !' Do I judge
rightly,;Myrelda ?'"
1, "'or once your faculty, is at fault,
Mr4   amilton, I am never indifferent
to a i'iend'ptemporal and spiritual in-
terest-and comfort."
Then w.y thaticeburg air, and mid-
i* rope? What ' change has come
o'erjhapirit of your dream' since we
last iet,? You don't ask concerning
my absence, :Myrelda!'
"   aT t,,sirif.of',no consequence, is
.one -of  y ,business,,certainly !"
"tleast,, would it interest you to
kuow  hegcause ?"r
"If you consider it worthy of com-
anunicating .
IIe...at ,silent some time; his deep,
searchiiag 'eyes scanning her calm face.
"Though evidently of no importance
to ,yoi     : MissMontford, it is,, perhaps,
edue0to&amp;yself .to say, L;have been ne-
esaily detained -at my office for the
,ast thske :days, by ,an unprecedented
influx of business that'"has Jdemanded
)my ,unUvided .attention, andrendered
t; ecessaryto 'burnthe midnight oil,'
,in prder to being readiness:for the next
(Gourt. Xy success inthe matter of
gris, is -ily attributable to Mr.
Berrien, whose influence hasheem most
anassountalyrer   d i nny favorr"
" A nobler mind never realted hu-

inanity !"  Myrelda's eyes flashed with
enthusiastic admiration.
" And one that appreciates you, My-
relda. Isn't it a pity that a matrimon-
ial barrier is reared between two so
fully conscious of each other's perfec-
tions ?"
She raised her eyes, reprovingly, to
his.                    .
"There ! I am answered; and if I
were far away, should get an arrow un-
der my 'eft vest-pocket, that would
rankle thr e weeks!: Is there another
living man you hold in %s high estima-
tion as Mr. Berrien, Myrelda ?"
"I have a father and brother, Mr.
Hamilton."
"Apart from, family relationship, I
mean, Myrelda,
"I doubt not there are many, very
many, as noble, Sir."       .
" That is no answer to my question,
if you please."
" It is the only reply I can give, Mr,
Hamilton."
" Then there is no other you regard
as highly ?"
Myrelda wasexcited. To permit that
supposition she saw clearly would be the
destruction of her hopes.  She knew
Hamilton well enough to feel confident
he would never propose without a cer-
tainty of being accepted. ie was not
one to put out into 'the unknown dark,'
and founder on the quick-sands of indis-
cretion. But, to answer plainly that
straight-forward  query, 'she thought
woultl be compromising maiden modesty
in the end, by the inferences that might
be deduced from her :evasions,. if he
pushed his inquiries :farther, as she ap-
prehended. She swished her feelings
had not effervesced in Mr. Berrien's
praise. She was resolvednot to.advsnce
one step'to win his declarationn, if that
were hisnltimate;design, whiqh sheqn'w
believed, since -his;a ploglyfrs peat =ap-

ti

parent indifference; but to discourage
him by an incorrect impression, that
could not be removed without involving
her sense of propriety, sent a sickening
sensation to her heart. Her face flush-
ed and paled alternately, as she felt his
earnest eyes: searching her countenance.
Hamilton rose very suddenly, and sat
down beside her, with a stern compres-
sion of the firm mouth, that indicated
mental disquiet
.He took her hapd, and held it tight-
ly, bending slightly to look into her
eyes.
" Myrelda, turn your face this way-
there. Now answer me, unequivocally,
do you wish me to understand that no,
other man holds as high a place in your
estimation as Mr. Berrien ?"
" Certainly not, Mr. Hamilton."
n" nequivocally, Myrelda ?"
She met his deep glance timidly.
"Then; Sir, no I"-
Hamilton smiled. A brilliant gleam
of exultation flashed from his .eyes, as
he silently pressed, and softly released,
her hand, which sent a thrill of anguish
to Myrelda's soul in after time, as sub-
sequent events recalled the memory of
that hour.
CHAPTER IX.
Scorn him not. The blemished part
Had better be the head than heart. -COOK.
Though greatly indebted to Mr. Ber-
rien's influence for the auspicious com-
mencement of his professional career in
Arlingford, yet Herbert Hamilton's own
metal ability and oratorical powers, as
displayed on political occasions, during
the Presidential campaign of 184-, in
the city of A., won him the client whose
intricate affairs subjected him to nights
of watchfulness and toil. Mr. Edwards,
though of the opposite party, had stood

OR, THE BAS BLIM'U.              31

spell-bound by the argumentative force
end' rhetorical language of the speaker,
and privately declared, "Hamilton could
reason black into white, and give to a
thunder-cloud the tints of the rainbow,
as well as the next man."
He obtained an introduction, through
Hr. Berrien, and learning Hamilton's
intention to establish himself- in town
for a time, placed in -his hands papers
pertaining to a contested estate, thatre-
quired days of incessant labor and legal
cunning to comprehend. Hamilton's
reputation hung upon this, his frst case,
in a strange land, and with character.
istic energy, and indefatigable zeal, he
labored to acquit himself ,honorably.
But despite his strong will, his thoughts
would wander from the soiled pages be-
fore him to the quiet Vale. "Where
was Myrelda ? Did she watch and wait
for his coming, and grow sad at his de-
lay ?" He smiled at the thought of test-
ing her feelings by his absence, and
learning the extent of his influence by
her appearance at their next meeting;
yet at the close of that interview Ham-
ilton was no wiser, though a little more
sanguine of the success of his sheeme,
than before.
- ' *     *     *    ,*      *
It was the eve previous to that which
was to witness the debut offHamiltonias
a lecturer, in the city of Arlingford, that.
he and Myrelda took their way from the
Vale, towards the city garden, gorgeous
with the brilliant tints of a glorious
Autumn in the sunny South.
Myrelda's cheeks were'flushed to a
charming hue, by the surreptitious
glances she detected, ever and anon,
from  Hamilton's admiring and half-
smiling eyes, directed towardsher.
A motley group surrounded a pump,
directly in their route, among which
Myrelda distinguished one denomiinMtd
by the citizens, "day Jm."


g  1,R3EWf HAMILTON;

Said Joe ,was a fat, stoutly-built speci-
men of the, genus homo of five-and,
twenty, 'though a perfect child injseem-
ing and simplicity, who did "jobs" for
the townsmen at a stiptilated price, and
made no bones 'of asking for "a penny
to spopd,"when said price wsas disbursed
fromns employer's poolset, telling his
patrons in confidence, that the "job-
money," he was "goin' to carry home
tohis mother l'
1 Toe never faifed to get one cent more
than the original contract. .He had al-
wayg a joud word and hearty laugh for
everything and everybody, and took the
work aseasy as though he held a deed
in trust for every inch of ground in
this old terrestrial ball that 'hangs upon
nothing,' and every individual denizen
that crept upon it, was his tenant.
joe was the butt of the whole town,
but so good-natured that he never re-
sented an imposition, save by appointed
remark that sepithe crowd in a roar, and
restored universal. harmony. He was a
privileged personage, and went "scot
free' on steatnboats, railroads, et cetera;
or what was equivalent, "wormed" suf-
ficient out of the captain or conductor
to pay his fare. He never had a physi-
cal ailment, or met with an accident,-
but he;went straight-wayto the apothe-
cary with the story of his suffering,
designated:such drugs as the physician
hod prescribed, but "s'posed he'd have
to endure it, 'cause he hadn't got any
money to buy 'em '? Joe got the drugs
"without money, and without price."
Joe'smission,ion the present occasion
was toetrry a bucket of water from the
pump to his mother, and:he waited pa-
tietly, for access to the pump-handle,
to do his errand.
4 frolicsome youth in the group, fully
ripe for fun, at the 'fool's' expense, sud-
deslygrabbed Joe's hat and tossed it
upon the wet soil, at the same time
making tracks from his vicinity.

"That shows yer brains, and yer
bringin' up !" shouted Joe, as he care.
fully picked up his well-worn chapeau,
and eyed it narrowly, to inform himself
of the injury it had sustained from such
ungentlemanly treatment.
His eye fell upon Myrelda, and her
gallant, as he brought the insulted hat
with a nervous jerk, upon his tangled
tow-head. Now Joe was aiwardent admi-
rer of the fair girl, and prided himself
upon doing her the favorknasked,of fur-
nishing a glass fronf the nearest habi-
tation and presenting her a cool, spark-
ling draught of Adam's ale, from the
far-famed pump, whenever they chanced
to meet there, during her evening walks
which was not unfrequent, receiving
in return for his gallantry, a copper
coin, which was quite as large, in Joe's
big blue eyes, as a Spanish dollar in a
miser's.,
Joe clenched his hand indignantly,-
as he observed Hamilton, and -felt a
twinge of the green-eyed monster tug-
ging at a string in his mental machin-
ery.
" Dad drap 'im!"'he growled, "I
hearn tell of 'im before, cornin' court-
in' Miss My-drat 'im! Ain't he a
purty lookin' cuss !-straight as a bean-
pole, and black as a bar ! dog on 'im.
He shan't git no tumbler for 'er, I'll
get it myself-dog me !" And forth-
with Joe darted for the nearest domi-
cil and had a brimming glass in readi-
ness for Myrelda, when they came up.
Mr. Hamilton essayed to take it from
him, and present it to his companion,
but Joe draw back with an air of offen-
ded dignity that slushed half the con-
tents from the glass and rendered it
necessary to refill.
Myrelda glanced significantly at Ham-
ilton, and received it at Joe's hand,
with a smile and 'thank you,'. that
stretched Joe's mouth from.ear to ear,
with a glad, full-grown laugh.

__   OR, THT1EBAS BLn. ug
Hamilton  omprehendod it all in a    "JIook a-here, ole boy, I hope you
iom ent. He went round and offered may live fur'everlastin' more, an' go to
his hand to the half witted creature. glory when you're done ! an' henevei
Joe gave him his slowly and stingily, at you want a good drink, what- haintgot
though he'd rather not be on too famil- nuthin' in it to floor a fuller, jest cone
iar terms with "Miss My's" admirer. along an' I'm here ! I'll stick to ye
Ihe watching group broke forth into like a dog to a root-dog me
irresistible laughter at doe's expression  Hamilton touched his hat, smiling'y
and evident reluctance.               in answer to this rough, but honest
Mr.: Hamilton shook his hand warm- compliment, and  proceeded  without
ly, as he addressed him smilingly: -  further interruption.
" My dear sir. I beg pardon, for an   Could he have drawn aside the veil
mtintentional offence, and henceforth, and looked down the long lane of th
I will not forget what is due to your future, and seen how 'that poor 'crazy
dignity  and gallantry, and hope to creature would affect his own and My-
merit your favor and friendship by a rekia's destiny, he would have turned
more gentlemanly deportment in the from him with far less composure.
future." Ile left something in Joe's
hand, more conciliatory thin a whole
volume of fine speeches would have been.
Joe looked at his paln in blank as-            CHAPTER X.
tonishment.   He turned over some- 'Tis the glance, the expression, the well chosen word
By whose magic the depths of the spirit are stirred
thing upon it carefully, with his left                             WELBY.
fore finger, and examined it minutely, Lora and Mabel Clyde were trying on
till the reality of the thing broke glori- their bonnets, preparatory to visiting
ously upon his darkened vision. My- the Lyceum. It was Tuesday eve, the
relda held Hamilton back to see the re- eve of the lecture, and all Arlingford
sult of the investigation.            was on the qui ve, in anticipation of
"Good as corn in the mill !" yelled the event; for Herbert Hamilton's ora-
Joe, as he hurled the gift high in the torical powers had been bruited abroad,
air, which proved to be a fifty cent coin, and the citizens turned out in masse to
and caught it in both brown hands. "I enjoythe intellectual treat, till the large
knew jest what I'm gon' to do with hall was crowded to its utmost, capaci-.
this 'ere, fellers."                 ty, and even the long aisles were dense
"What ? what ?" cried a dozen voices. with a "standing army" of eager listen-
" Hoss-cakes don't go had !" said Joe, ers.
with a knowing wick at the juvenile     "I'll bet' .my head he don't go with
corps, andintelligent shake of the head her," said Lora, snappishly, her black
that signified his whole souled apprecia- eyes blazing with envy, as she thought
tion of that department of the bakery, of Hamilton's abrupt departure at the
and the large "and loud compliment he bazaar.
meant to pay it, through the agency of  Lora really fancied'that Mr. Hamil-
that bit of silver.              '    ton would tire of the "poor sentimen-
Hamilton and Myrelda turned away talist" very soon, .and be won by her
to hide the mirthfulness provoked by beauty and wealth to wear her chains.
the simple-hearted being; but Joe sang She had no idea that his 'design was
outafterhis rival with obstreperous good matrimonial;- "he was too lofty -ad
will: -

I.


)BEeT  HAMILTON;
ot-atic in bearing to wed with one I Myrelda perceived, by the dimensions
so low and awkard," she had said to of her well-spread skirts, that she could
those who had heard the flying rumor favor her "at a pinch."  But Lora was
and speculated upon its authenticity; too important a personage to be squeeze,
i  was the novelty of the thing that ed; she had unseated two sycophan-
fascinated him, now; he was wildly ro- tic feminines, and she wasn't going to,
mantic she thoughtby the frequent intro- rumpleher skirts for one so far beneath
version of the large eyes, but too sensi- her as the " pitiful blue stocking." She
ble utosacrifice his judgment to mere turned up her nose at Myrelda, and.
ideality in the end.                 sought to meet Hamilton's eye, that she
' Nous verrons "-returned  Mabel, might bestow upon him a gracious smile;
smilingly, as she passed from the chamber but Hamilton looked all around instead
and descended to the parlor, where two of at her.
uitors waited to escort the sisters to the  A poorly, but neatly-clad and exceed-
screne of action. They managed to ob- ingly delicate girl, whose sunken eyes
lain seats near the stand through the and transparent face pre-mouished one
perseverance of their gallants, and the of a premature grave, rose and tender-
deference the world ever pays to wealth ed her seat to Myrelda, with a gentle
and station, and anxiously awaited the smile of recognition, saying she would
arrival of hiin whose fame hadconvened procure one elsewhere. Hamilton laid
so vast a crowd of clirious beings of all his hand respectfully  upon the poor
classes and conditions.              girl's aria and re-seated her, with an
'A movement was heard in the aisle, undertone remark, and a light in his
and instantly, all eyes were leveled at dark eyes that glowed spontaneous with
that point. Hamilton was a stranger her meek and modest offer.
to the majority of the assembly, and   He glanced signifi-santly at Myrelda,
ea early they turned to obtain a view  and turned towards the stand-received
of his person.                       a chair from Mr. Berrien's hand, and
The standing body parted, with a seated Myrelda beside the frail girl.
squeeze on all sides, to.afford a passage whom he subsequently found to be My-
for those who were entering, and Her- relda's mantua maker.
ber Hamilton's stately head' towered  The stamping of hundreds of mas-
above the, mass, as he advanced with a online feet, greeted the orator's ascent
firm, lordly step, through the narrow  upon the stand; among which Joe's
opening, with one hand upon the arm  clumsy pedals were no slight acquisi-
of Myrelda, Montford, whose slight tion tp the thundering sound.
form wasa striking contrast to the impos-  It was a well known fact that when-
i  person of her, protector. The Presi- ever there was a public gathering, Joe
de t ofthe Association-.-Mr. Berrien-  was, to use his own expression, "thar."
receded the air.                      thehe present occas on he had inched
*  anilton essayed to obtain a seat for and elbowed, himself along, until 1be
s char     but not one was' to be pro- stood, now, midway the aisle, and at
cured,  espite the efforts of' many to the first symptom of applause, his peg-
acoowiodate ,thnpBaker, by dint of com- bottom shoes did full justice to his en-
pres jag theniselves into a sma1 er corn thusiasm.
s   f~ora, whlzo at quite near them,  "Go it ole boy, I'll hold yer coat!"
maenomovement to that effeot, though said Joe, in an audible voice, as he

OR, THE BAS BLEU.
looked admiringly at Hamilton. A half got his indignation, at the first sound
smothered laugh, from those around, of the speaker's voice, and stood with
greeted this quaint remark, which Joe open mouth and saucer-like eyes, firr
perceiving, he clapped his fingers upon ly clutching his hat-rim.
his nose and held it tightly, to main-  Herbert Hamilton stood up before
tamn a respectful silence; which action that vast assembly, calm and collected
l increased the by-standers' mirth.  as though he sat with Myrelda, alone,
"Put him out ." growled a burly old in the quiet parlor at the Vale. He
gentleman, with atremendous gold chain turned his eyes, slowly, over the sea of
and seals innumerable dangling upon faces, upturned with speaking inter-
his corpulent person, whose reputation est, and commenced his subject in a
 ghouthe scales wih pubhi     clear, distinct, but rather subdued tone,
opinion without the help of his money that rose, as he progressed. He con-
bags, would instantly have "kicked the fined himself closely to the MS. for at
beam."   He looked down upon Joe, least ten minutes, without action or ani-
as he would have eyed an insignificant mation of countenance, which made
worm crawling at his feet, and deemed Myrelda wince under the monotony of
him not a whit more worthy of consid- the scene; then, right suddenly an4
ration.                            unexpectedly he "cut the acquaintance"
" Tech who I" snarled Joe, glaring of "notes and annotations," and com-
at his insulter like a tiger ready to menced an "assault and battery " upon
spring, doubling up his fist and show- the velvet cushion before him. Myrel-
ing it to the fat man with a flourish-- da's face flushed with awakened in-
come along ole seller; I'll pitch into terest,' at this unlooked for demonstra,
,ye like a thousand of brick-dog tion. Then followed an incessant prom-
e!"   An unavoidable giggle went enading; the rise and tall of sound, the
round the rig of listeners, at the fat ebb and flow of eloquence; the varied
man's expense.                      phases of feeling, expanding from the
. You're a trump," whispered Au- mellow ray of sympathy to the broad,
gustus Smith in the simpleton's ear, full glare and swift flashes of enthusi-
eager to prolong the fun without regard asm; the whole dish of intellectual
to consequences; "pitch into him, Joe, pabulum, finely flavored with the spice
I'll stand at your back; insulting a gen-. and pepper of wit and sarcasm, that
eman      public !-poke it to him, kept the audience in a charmingly good
,                  ."humor with themselves and the worl4
Joe's eyes gldwed like live coals, at at large, and continually brought dowzr
these encouraging words, and he turn- the house in a deafening roar of apt
ed towards the fat man. who, to escape plause, above which, as it slowly subsi-
the annoyance of eyes brimfull of enjoy- ded, could be distinguished the ringing
ment at his position, had edged himself laugh-of the delighted President.
forward, away from the fool's vicinity.  Myrelda's cheeks were crimsone4
Ole barrel o' grease I" growled Joe- with excitement, and her moist, brow-
kye don't wuth a lickin no how ! mean eyes were far more eloquent than vword F
sneakin' ole cuss! I'll show ye to a to H   ton,    he looked down into
$trcak o' lightnin', dog mer I"     their liquid depths.
Hamilton now rose, and a deep hush.  Herbert Haiilton, ordiga  .
pervaded the large audience. Joe for- not ,a handsome m4n  There;


6 HERBERT HAMILTON;

it~inhess in the dark, colorless fgoe,
iad about the. firmi, proud mouth, par-
tkuarl, that reidered him' generally,
other than handioni, and  -eI oaleultt-
fedt isp     fearrather than affection;
het bin ruble liigh-souled air, ever se-
e     f h   the pr6foundest respect.
ile'i repelled the fanmiliarity of his
t now, he stood forth, glrious in
manly right and beauty, the beauty
tdat'alone°can never fade, the rainbow
beauty of a gifted mind. The round
dings of his raven hair were pushed
carelesslyback from a broad, high, and
very prominent forehead; his usually
cale the glowed with the rich blood
fbat, i'ed up from   the heart-ocean,
stirdeato its lowest depthsby the storm
winds df mental excitement, and his
black eyes blazed  and scintillated with
the lightning flash of poetic fire.
A thrill of proud happiness trembled
through Myrelda's heart, as she beheld
him, ow, and met'his glance.
EJamilton had preserved a grave as-
eCt, when'his audience was convulsed
with1auhter, and boisterous with ap-
probation, but now a -sfile swept, like
a t'nsient sunbeam over his softened
eaorms as he looked into Myrelda's
radidpt ?ace and dewy, dark eyes.
Ile' cosed his subject with a delicate
gld"bea Il tribute to the fair portion
of his audience ; and concluded the
Ihole with Canipbell's oft-quoted coup-
let:
"The worldwas sad, the garden was awild,
Aid man,'the hermit sighed"
he paused, turned racefuly towards'his
fair heateis, bowe  slightly, and fixing
his e es 1.alf-siilingly on Myrelda,
totlwoman smiled."
re da partially recovered her self-
.         ;_ "l a  iig the prolonged burst
hati~llow  as alast testiuiotby of ap.

I

probation for the eloquent orator of the
evening.
There were but two hearts that left
the Hall with a thorn rankling at the
cord. Lora Clyde would have annihi-
lated Myrelda, if a glance of supreme
scorn and hatred could have aeconr
plished 'her wish; and Dr. Gerald's
fierce eyes washed fire at the unsuspect-
ing Hamilton.
"lurra w !" shouted Joe; as he emerg-
ed into the street, borne on by the hu-
man tide; "three cheers fur Mr. H1am-
ilton-go it, ole boy, you're a brick !-
dog me! lurraw-w-w !"    And forth-
with the crowd caught up Joe's edho,
and sent it up to the cold, blue sky, with
a simultaneous peal.
CHAPTER XL
Nor can w9 he what we recall,
Nor dare we think on what we are.-YEON
Mvrelda was silent, as she walked
homeward with Hamilton, and her hand
trembled with emotion as he drew it.
within his arm.  He looked down upon
'her face, as it became distinctly visible
in the clear, cold moonlight. It was
richly flushed, but very grave, and the
speaking eyes were veiled behind the
dark, drooping fringe. She raised them
to his, intelligently, as a second burst
of applause went up from the crowd, in
the distance. lHe smiled as he met the
glance.
"All are eloquent in my praise but
you, Myrelda."
"Aid none feel more sensibly your
merits; yet where I feel the most, I ex-
press the "least !?' she said, mentally,
then added aloud "Praise is a heart-
less thing, Mr. Hamiiton."
"And yet, hunanityj is so constituted
that eyen fulsome -fattery is less offen.
sive than slightidispraise generally. All

the world covets commendation, not      "Now that -     rc
even excepting you, Miss Montfbrd."         w   aever i we tl rcoirelda "
"I acknowledge the truth of that Sir,  paid th      nyr luda
to a certain extent. Desire the favor ndiltonh-I beg  in'u   r   M
.pf hos whse i h  '  '  avr  an to--Ibegpardon!"
ef those whose high  pino n  is, in my  "The deuce I its granted, though.
estimation, worthy of an effort to secure; 'Involuntary!' precisely! else I should
but praise o blame fru other sources not have got it, little iser! That rend-
would produce no P.lasurableor unhap. ers it more valuable; we prize thine in
py emotions in my m   . With Pope, proportion to their rarity, or the dif-
 cant me                         culty of their attainment."
'Grant  o honest fame, or grant   none;'  "I'll take it. back, now, with your
and the opinion ofsnall souls are of no permission, Sir."
consequence, whatever. I don't aspire   "Can't afford it!  I want no Indian
to praise   r fro  all, indiscriminately u1 proceedings here. I'd rather lose all
would rather be rebuked for a fault, those loud and long bursts of applause,
than lauded without merit, for 'our best than this little stingy offering '
friends are those who tell u       iof am'  Myrelda's face sobered in a moment.
fhem.,,                   to correct   "Isuppose you mean that as a re-
them.' "                             turn for the gift----aceept my' acknowi-
"Then prove yourself that to me, on edgements, Mr.   pitn.yc'
bpree.tocasiol"t"her
e    s How. Sir ?'                   -cThere it is again I 'return ?' cer-
"      ir'   of      altainly; I permit no one to exceed me
"By telling me of my faults, in to-F in politeness."
nights effort "                        They walked on a moment in perfect
,I find none," she said,impulsively. silence.  Suddenly he took the hand
Myrelda spoke unguardedly. Han     that lay upon his arm with a soft, but
she reflected a moment, he would not firn grasp, and looked down searcliung.
'have smiled so broadly at her unequivo- ly, upon her face.
cal confession. .hey were a. strange   "If you wish to recall those words,
pair-well suited to be brought in -con- because you find upon reflection, your
tact. Neither could gain the vantage. judgment can't sanction them, Iyield,
ground of the other, in coolness and Miss Montford. I want no insincere
impudence of speech, and seeming. expressions."
ip to the present time, each had care-  She met his glance bravely.
fully guarded against all that bore the  "I can't claim them upon such Con.
least resemblance to admiration of the ditions, Mr. Hamilton."
other's endowments; and yet, this very  Myrelda could meet his serious eye
aeon which the  kinfic wire, unflinchingly, but a smile in those deep
g dhb the ectricity of feeling orbs, invariably put her's to flight; and
secret of the teto each heart, the now they dropped quickly, as she made
the confession.  The serious shade
There was no mending the matter melted like mist, before the firstgolden
now, however, and Myrelda     looked gush of morning sunshine gleaming
soberly forward, with apparent insensi- from the orient sea, and he released her
ability.  Hamilton's eyes sparkled with hand instantly. Myrelda was sp1ed
exultation.                          by the act. She had expected an.t  -

OBT, THE BAS BLEU.

37


N1EIlBERT HAMILTON; -

I

-mediate declaration of the love she
fancied'shi b heldin those dark,-smil-
ing eyes;' she was disappointed and
chilled by his manner.
The city clock told the hour oftwelve
before lanilton left the - Vale; and
yet no'word of affection had passed his
lips, and Myreldai was no nearer the
secret of his design than when they
first .met. . Weeks rolled away, and
matters had not ",pproximated a crisis,
Hamilton had trhianphod in the suit in-
stituted by Mr. Edwards, and all ton-
gues "rang the changes" upon his name
as a lawyer of unsurpassed legal ,bili-
ty and ,superior- eloquence.
Ambitious others, who had marri-
ageable daughters, gave entertainments
fbr his benefit; he was courted and
iateedrei to a degree that would haVe
inflated an ordinary man with self-bon-
eit, to an explosive point. But Her-
bert Hamilton received the adulation
offered him  with a cool dignity and
grave polithss that gave rise to fre-
1equit speculationsupon the nature of
his mental cbnforimation. He was the
cotistaritattendant 'of Myrelda, when-
ever she appeared innpublic; and a cer-
*aih "old maid" oracle of the town, had
even positively specified the day of their
nuaptiels, to the inconceivable chagrin
of man   a fair aspirant for his favor,
--among which host Lora Clyde stood
pre-eminent---and the unparalleled ex-
citement of Dr. Gerald.
Gerald paced this oike with the hv-
rieaded monster-of 1EVENR Eguard-
ingl the door of the 'jfernal regions"
of hia inner nature. ;His handsome
face was livid with- passion, and the
fge qyes so soft, liquid, and "beauti-
fqlly blue" in smiles, sapped fierce fire
leneeh the black arching brows.
«,' ;do it l'{lhe mnttered between,
! d h ed teh~-"he shall not tri-
p wh ie dhis .'ad has nerve to pull

a trigger or handle a sword ! He is too
proud to decline and be branded a cow-
ard. There is no alternative but death
for ohe or both! I'll do it, by-   !"
He dreg his chair to the glowing
grate, and sat down to perfect his plans.
Myrelda was the only woman that
Gerald ever really loved, and the possi-
bility of seeing her the wife of another
maddened him. He now realized what
must have been her anguish at behold-
ing him united to a rival; for Gerald
had never doubted her love-it was im-
possible from the very nature of sur-
rounding circumstances.
He had "married for money,"' a pee-
vish, consumptive looking girl, who, he
fancied, and fondly' hoped, would not
long be a barrier to the realization of
his dreams of yet wedding Myrelda;
but who, contrary to his expectations,
had lived on and on, the pest of his
life, with her captious and jealous na-
ture, until Gerald; had he possessed
tire nerve, would have dragged her cup
in desperation, and thus rid himself of
the incubus.
-He was a dastardly villian, who would
have perpetrated any deed of darkness
but for. the dread of detection. He
was absolutely vain and unprincipled
enough to believe he could so affect the
mind of Myrelda, by an eclairissement
respecting the events and motives of the
past, as to win her forgiveness and be
reinstated upon the throne o.f her heart !
He would not have hesitated to lay his
fortune at her feet, and take her to his
arms penniless now ; but Gerald was
too indolent, and had too little self-reli-
ance to, wed her, a poor man, and be-,
thrown upon his own resources for fu-
ture independence, He had reflected
on her character to subserve a dupli-
cate purpose, but he reconciled it with
an elastic conscience, by promising to
make ample reparation for the wrong,

after the removal of the one obstacle t
his happiness, whose sudden demis
coupled with subsequent transaction
might subject hinm to 'suspicion, a
perhaps provoke a post-mortem invest
nation. Mrs. Gerald was indebted fo
her daily powers of respiration to th
villhins pusillanimity next to the grea
Arbiter of human destiny.
But noi, Gerald was growing reek
less and doubly desperate. In spite o
his unceasing efforts to poison his min(
by innuendoes. Hamilton persisted it
his attentions to Myrelda, resisting th
manifest desires of others equally gift
ed in personal attractions, and far su
perior in pecuniary circumstances, t(
capture him; and would complete th
drama by uniting her to himself, by an
indisoluble bond.
. Gerald resolved, in his own mind
that that compact should never be seal
ed, while he lived to witness it! Had
he possessed the power of ubiquity, he
would have frowned less fiercely, and
planned less deadly, in the solitude of
his vindictive and invidious soul, but
laughed with fiendish exhultation to be-
hold the gulf that had opened up with-
out his agency, between the two he so
yearned to divide forever !
CHAPTER XII.
"And truest friends, through error, wound our rest."
-YOUNG.
It was a keen, frosty night in De-
cember, unusually cold for so southern
a latitude. Hamilton, as was his wont,
lad passed' the evening at the Vale.
His pannerwas so softened, and insinu-
ating, that Myrelda had confidently ex-
pected, with a palpitating heart, a crisis
before his departure, and was painfully
disappointed when he rose to retire,
without meeting her anticipations

i

3i8

OR, THE BAS BLEU.-

o Hamilton evidentig detected her dis"
e, quietude, in her ever varying 'counte-
s, nance, and a bright, incomprehensible
d smile wavered a moment alouthis firm
i- mouth,amid mysteriously disappeared.
r    Myreldia observed it, though so trans-
e sient; and an indefinable fear fell, like
t a snowflake upon the warm bed of her
heart, where such rosy nymphs of love
and hope had so recently nestled. She
f half shrank from the hand extended
d for the good-night pressure, a d quiv-
n ered slightly, with a vague apprehen-
e sion hitherto unknown in the presence
of Herbert Hamilton.   She tried to
- rally before the enquiring glance he
o cast down upon her,' and forced a smile
e to her lips; but it was not a heart-sinile,
Hamilton saw that. -He Fel her hand
tightly, td increase her agitation'by ren-
dering her fully sensible of his con-
sciousness, and the same peculiar smile
I flitted over his features.
"You are not well, MyreldaI" He
spoke soberly and tenderly.
" Perfectly, thank you; I am con-
scious of no indisposition."
"But your hand is trembling, and
your face is strangely pale" a xaiehit
since you had cheeks like  uti roses.
What is the matter, Myrelda?" .R
passed his arm around her waist softly,
but his flashing eyes, and'the fi steri.
ous smile upon his lips, evidenced little
sympathy for her-eicitement frdt .hat.
ever cause iteioi;nated.
"Nothing, Mr. Hamilton, I assur
you I'am quite well; ona}ealittl~e ner-
vous perhaps, which is not unsuaL'
He stood still a moment, as if 'revoIW-
ing something inhis mind; their helf
drawing her to his breast, he beht to-
wards her lips, gently enunciating:
"Good night I"
Myrelda he xrd the words beforeps-
ceiving the inhationti 1   . sheer
It was the frst tie e 1efr

M


H~EI HRLTQ

meeting, that lhe had presumed upon,
&amp;4ya re     . She thought the cit-
castiace some palliation then; now
she coitl4pot :submit, let the conse-
quenices be whaft they might., He fare-
bore to Claimit as- a right, aiid she
could not grait hini the privilege at the
expense ofpropijet. She stepped has-
tilyback rnd thwarted .is Alan;lbow-
inggraeguily with En indignant smile,
ash y'retreated  .he 'was ,o longer
pae or. netvons ,pride had performed
itspa   to pec ion. The crimson
blo  dyed her  lceeks and brow, and
her 1 rk eyes spaikled with unwonted
lustre; Hamilton thought of her ap-
pepande, as she confronted Gerald, in
the,"agaimr. in time past. He crossed
his ainbehind him and looked at hed
erunesly and gravely. He was not itn
the 'least dege confused or agitated,
and'yreld'amarvelled at his extr-aor-
dinary self-lossession. -Then you posi-
tielydeny me this harmless favor l"
n i d, Sir. ~
"yMrelda l"
"Mr. Itaution 1"
s'Acndawhy do you refuse me, Miss
Motfor ?"

OR, THE BAS BLEU.

held her silent. He understood why she
refused and yet he would make no ad-:
vances to remove her seruplis.
LlUnilt')n inlined his head coldly,
and walked quickly to the door; pres.
ently he turned abruptly, and went
slowly bck to the deathly pale gh:1.'
'Myrelda, do you persist in your re-
fusal ?--eflect before you answer ' m
this is the turning point in our history;
we have reached"the .Rubicon.""
She could not yield now, under the
circumstances, if her heart-strings broke
in the struggle. She would not be the
plaything of his will, and violate prin-
iplo, evpn for him, Were his miotes
honorable and his love pure, he would
not demand it ; and he would scorn her
for submitting  -Sh'e raised her spirits
radiant face to his, unflinchingly.
"1(do, Sir'.'
fie bowed with stately dignity, and
left her with  firm resolute step. My-
relda heard the door close behind him.
She went deliberately anid caluy and
turned the bolt, and 'returned as col-
lectcdly. She remenbered sitting'dowd
upon a low ottoman, and leaning hei-n
head against the 'sfa-cashions with"
strange sensation'of fullness in the re-
aion of the brain, but nothing more.
When she awoke to coimousness, an
icy coldness pervaded her slender fame.
The lights burned grim  and ghostly,
but the fire had gone out in the grate,
She consulted her watch-it was past
3 o'clock  Harnilton had left .her at
eleven.
She turned off the gas'and ascended
to her chamber. The night-taper threwv
its sickly rays over the apartmetit as
she entered. 'She took her little bile
from the mantpd i-e d a chter,"'as
usual before  eti iin then ilaik hs
throwing head unoi the chillypillow,
but te firt sundddie from' t  h
window of the orientlooked'doe sto

the tear brimming depths of her iu
closed eyes-.
True to her promise, Aunt Lind
had watched Hamilton "like a chick'
eyein' salt," and no change of Myre
da's countenance had escaped her vig
lant eye; but for sometime past he
anxiety had been relieved by the smoot
aspect of circumstances.  Now   sh
glowed with indignation, as the poo
girl entered the breakfast-room, after
night of such mental conflict. It tol
unmistakably, upon her pale face, an
in her languid eyes ; though she mad
indisposition an apology for her appear
ance. Aunt Linder was not to be mis
led as easily as Myrelda's aged and in
valid father.
" Consarn 'im !" mumbled the ol
woman over her morning's avocations
" I knowed it! I seed it all in 'ih
mean face at fust!   He's kil!in' 'ex
right up-po' thing ! Miss My's'plete
ly 'witched ! I never seen a chile love
so hard w'en she does take to it ! . She
gits red up to 'er forred w'en she even
hears 'im comm', an' fur all dat, she
won't talk 'bout 'im  w'e  'e's gone !
'Tain't no use carren on furder, nuther.
I ain'feared of her, do'-Lord knows
dare am' nary angil in heaben gooder
dan dat chile ! ole Linder knows
dat, too ! He shan't worry 'er no long-
er-plague on 'im!  He shan't come
here no more ef I kin he'p it-so dar!r
She'll fergit 'im by'm by, like dat mean
sneakin' Geral'.'
She gave orders to Rose, and wateo
ed every ring of the door-bell, taking
care to answer it in person. She con-'
strained Myrelda to take an anodyne,
and she was slumbering from the effects
when -Hamilton approached the cottage
and rang for admission. It was much
earlier than his usual hour for visiting
at the Vale.
Aunt Linder met him at the thresh-

.:.-.:w:.    _. .._.__.._ _                                               41

n- hold, and her brow clouded as she look.
ed upon him.
er   "Miss My, ain' well," she said short-
n ly, as he stepped into the hall. His
1- face colored quickly.
i-   ""he is not very ill, is she, mother?
r Tell her I wish to see her, if only for
h a momeirt.
e   "She's sleep,n," returned the old
)r lady, in the same pie-crust tone.
a    Hamilton drew out a card, and pen.
d killing a few lines thereon, gave it to
d the old woman, with instructions to
e hand it to Myrelda, immediately upon
awaking, and left the cottage slowly,
- and with a dejected air.
-   "I wonders w'at 'e rit on dis thing,"
soliloquised the old woman, as she turn.
d ed it over and over, undecidealy. "How
. somever she shan't see it, no-how-dat's
s all! I spects its some more uv 'is fool.
r ery, an' Miss .My won't be any de bet.
- ter fur seeing' it. I'll make kindling'
wood uv it-I will so!"
She threw it in the stove, without
a single twinge of conscience !
The ignorant old creature thought
she was doing her darling young mis-
tress a service!
At the usual hour, Hamilton again
appeared, and was met by the watchful
old woman.
" How is your mistress now, mother?"
he asked, smilingly.
"Better, Sir, but she don' want to see
cump'ny."
"What ?" he turned upon her with
a glance so fierce, that aunt Linder
quailed.
"She don' want ter see cump'ny, Sir."
"You gave her my card ?"
"In course, Sir.
"Very well!
He sprang downthe steps, and strode
away at a rate that betokened a mind
ill at ease.
"Sakes alive, how 'e skeeted me !"
6

41


4

HERBERT HAMILTON;

said the old negress, as she-looked after,
him. "I never seen sich a look as dat
'fore! iHe turned white as a sheet, too!
an' die morning' 'e cullerd like fire;
Good nuff fur 'im-let 'im fret I He
shan't worry dat dear chile no more.
I wished ter de Lord,'e'd go way, an'
never could git back !"
The day waned slowly and wearily to
Myrelda. In spite of herself she had
hoped and listened for his . coming.
Surely he could not leave her thus.,
His sound .judgment, upon reflection,
must commend her. She could not be-
lieve 'him  unworthy; she reproached
herself for the spirit she had manifested
the evening previous. Had she been
more gentle, they might have parted in
amity. Herbert Hamilton rose up be-
fore ,her in the fullest proportions of
manly excellence; he stood a perfect
embodiment of nobility  and  virtue;
love veiled all his imperfections, and
even his inconsistencies dwindled into
mole-hills that her injustice had magni-
fied into mountains.
But the red sun went down behind-
the purple pile in the west, and day af-
ter day rolled leadenly away, and yet he
came not. Her physical frame declined
through'sympathy with the mind, and
disease locked up with the key of de-
lirium the store-house of the sufferer's
mind.
CHAPTER XIII.
Regardless of wringing and breaking a heart
Aireadyto sorrow resigned.-CowPER-.
Myrelda slowly convalesced and went
very pale, but apparently cheerful about
her daily duties. She had ceased to
lok for Hamilton'svisits' and his name
never passed her: lips, save to her- in-,
firm father's inquiry concerning his ab-
sece. She simply replied that their

intercourse wasended; and Col. Mont-
ford imagining that Hamilton had shared
the fate of her former lovers, made no
further allusions to him. He was well
satisfied with her rejection of his suit,
as he fancied, - Myrelda was theidol of
his heart, and the only remaining tie
that bound him to earth; for Charles,
bis noble, high-souled boy -of six-and-
twenty summers, he had long mourne4
as dead. Twelve months had gone by,
and brought no tidings of the wander-
er; but Myrelda, whose organ of Hope was
more fully developed, had not so soon
despaired. She endeavered to induce
her aged parent to indulge brighter
anticipations respecting the disclosures
of the future.
Three weeks had passed, and still she
had not seen Hamilton; and Myrelda
sat dreaming of all the by-gone con-
nected with him, when a timid tap at
the sitting-room door aroused her. A
little, pale beggar boy entered at her
bidding, large tears standing in his meek
blue eyes, as he lifted them mournfully-
to hers. Myrelda drew the little fel-
low close upro the 'grate, and warmed
his tiny bare feet, that were red and
pinched with cold. He was no stranger
to the charitable girl, and had come on
an errand that wrung his-childish heart
to perform. His mother was dying, and
desired to see her benefactress before
her weary heart was still forever. .,
Myrelda hastily donned her mantle
and furs, and obeyed the sad summons.
was the first time since her rupture
with Hamilton, that - she had left the
cottage, and her heart gave an acceler-
ated throb, as she thought of the possi-
bility of meeting him. But Hamilton.
was invisible; and she reached  the
widow's poor dwelling without receiv-
'ing an -electric, shock from those search-
ing black eyes.
'-Mrs.:Fairfield's desire was to commit

I . .,-

OR, TR E B3A8 BLTU.

to Myrelda's benevolent care, her little
orphan child, when she was no longer
permitted to care for him. She had
wedded in opposition to her stern father's
imperative command, who had obstin-
ately persisted in refusing to pardon the
filial disobedience, but who would, she
cherished the hope, receive his little
grand-son, when the grave had softened
the sin of his mother. She humbly,
besought Myrelda's -intercession in be-
half of the helpless one. Her' father
was an aristocratic citizen 'of Raleigh,
North Carolina, and she implored her
influence, through the medium of an epis-
tolary communication.
Myrelda relieved the poor woman's
solicitude, by promising to exert her-
self, to the utmost in the boy's behalf,
and give him- a home at the Vale, until
the relenting father should claim his
little grand-child.
A step arrested her attention; she
turned and met the smiling blue eyes of
Dr. Gerald ! She bowed haughtily, to
to his graceful salutation.
"I was not aware that Dr. Gerald
was your physician," she said, turning
to the widow with flashing eyes.'
'Neither is he, Miss Montford ; Dr.
Merton is the-'good Samaritan' of the
poor.                          -
-Myrelda cast upon him a glance of
ineflable'scorn,and repeating her promise
to 'the suffering woman, she turned
proudly, and left his presence.
This was what Gerald expected and
desired. He had seen her pass with
the poor boy, and divined her destina-
tion. Half an hour subsequent, he ob-
served' Hamilton tending in the same
direction,  A  swift thought flashed
through the miscreant's mind.   He
would try one experiment before resort-
ing to lead or steel.- He went hastily
through a parallel street, and watched
for Hamilton's approach, and perceiving

48

him in the distance, he calculated with
all a villain's accuracy; and when My-
relda left the humble abode she observed
Hamilton directly opposite.
The uniiexpected apparition unstrung
every nerve in her system, and,,to add to
her confusion, Dr. Gerald n -w issued
from the same dwelling, and went rap-
idly in an opposite direction !
Myrelda's bloo4seemed to freeze in
her veins, as she saw the deep eye of
him, whose esteem was dearer to her
than life itself, turned sternly towards
her. What thoughts might arise from
such a coincidence ?. She was in a state
of utter despondency when she entered
her chamber, and threw herself, in wild
abandonment, upon the bed.
She could not comprehend how Ger-
ald had planned so perfectly, yet she
could not attribute it all to chance.
She saw his object was to render her
despicable in the estimation of Hamil-
ton, and he had, in all probability, suc-
ceeded., They were sundered now, and
no explanation could be given him, even
if an explanation would prove satisfac-
tory - under such suspicious circum-
stances. Perhaps Hamilton's incom-
prehensible conduct was wholly attri-
butable to Gerald's machinations; and
now the'incident was well calculated to
become "confirmation strong" of any
deteriorating whispers that had reached
the ear of even the most generous and
lenient.
Myrelda quivered convulsively through
her entire frame, and to compose her
nerves and forget her misery, she eager-
ly swallowed down a copious soporific,
and was under its lethean influence,
when Herbert Hamilton, for the third
time since the eventful night of their
painful parting, rang for'admission at
the cottage.
"Ain't in "-said Aunt Lindr, as
she faced him at the door.

+


44            ITERBERT HAMILTON

"You are mistaken; I saw her hur
trying homeward some fifteen minutes
ago."
"She ain't come do,''. persisted the
old woman.
" Go and see, if you please "-he
strode into the parlor to await her re-
turn.
u I never seed sech a man 'fore !"-
grumbled Aunt Linder as she stumbled
-up stairs--" dare ain't no gittin shet of
'im, no how, 'pears like!  I wish ter
de Lord''e was in Kanetuck !" The
old lady had an idea that that State
was just a little the other side of crea-
tion.
" Aint come Sir,'' said the sullen ne-
gress, as she returned to the parlor with-
out even peeping into Myrelda's room.
She knew she was there, but thought
to save her conscience by not seeing
her! Aunt Linder was a professing
christian of the Methodist denomina-
tion, who could sing and shout at a re-
vival,,and turn up her eyes .as~devout-
ly as the colored clergyman himself;
but like a great many more of her race,
and some who can even boast of an An-
glo-Saxon skin she never "stuck at tri-
fles," when she flattered herself the end
would justify the means.
She loved Myrelda and hated Ham-
ilton for the unhappiness she saw he
had occasioned her, and was, she de-
clared, "bent on gettin shet of 'im."
Hamilton turned, without a word,
and left the Vale, and the cottage door-
ball never again vibrated to his touch.
The following day Aunt Linder was
employed in the yard as a little boy pass-
ed through the gate with a letter for
" Miss Myrelda."
"Who sont it, honey ?"querried the
old woman, as she eyed the delicate
missive.S
" 1LMr. Hambletou tolled me to fetch
it, and gin me a quarter dollar, to gin

it to Miss Myreldy"--and the .tninia-
ture edition of Ethiopian darkness held
up the silver treasure exultingly.
"Never mine it, honey; Miss My's
sick abed, an' can't come down, po
thing ! Let me tuck it, chile; I'll car-
ry it ter 'er. honey,'"-and she slipped
it from the boys hand.
" I shan't get any more quarters-
now"-said the little fellow, sadly, look-
ing down at the shining coin. "He
give me heaps iny .bits ter run erran's
fur 'im;. but I shan't git no more,
now !'
"What fu6, chile ?" Aunt Linder's
eyes were wide with interest.
"Kase 'e's, done gone 'way I-went
in de boat .des now. I tuck some uv
'is things fur 'im,: and he gin me dis
ere piper to fetch ter Miss Myreldy.
Jack ses 'e specs 'e won't come back no
more ! I shan't git no more quarters
now."
"Bless de Lord !" ejaculated the old
woman, as she hurried to the kitchen,
and framed the letter into the red hot
stove-" dare, take dat ! I shan't be
bothered with him no more now, nor
boun' to tell no more lies! 'I hopes de
good Lord '-11 forgive me, an. I ain't
feared 'e won't, bein' as how I did'nt
tell 'im for no harm. Dat dear chile
'11 get well, now; I ain't gwine to have
her 'posed on, dat's what! He ! he!I
it takes ole Aunt Lieder to fix mean
folks--it does so! He wouldn't have
gone yit, if 'twern't fur her I'll be
bound-he! he.!"
But Myrelda's health did not im-
prove, with the knowledge of Hamil-
ton's departure, nor her reputation
brighten by the circumstance.. Mali-
cious tongues busied themselves with
her fair fame, and envious hearts ex-
ulted at the event.
Dr. Gerald's eyes sparkled with su-
perabundant joy; and he -ongratulated

OR, THE BAS BLEU.                             45
himself incessantly, upon the easy and I not come singly ; the ,fates. seemed to
successful method he had adopted for have conspired to render her supremely
the accomplishment of his desires.  miserable.
Lora Clyde's face flushed withgrati-  She went back to her watch beside
fled revenge; since she could not win the couch of her last, best earthly friend,
him herself, she gloried in her rival's crushing down tie feeling of desolation
desertion and downfall.             that struggled togush in streams from
Mysterious whispers floated through her eyes, till her heart was full to burst-
the town, detrimental to Myrelda's ing, and buried, her face in the pillow
character, beginning nowhere, and end- beside the aged sleeper.
ing at the same place ! None suggest-  She was not the Myrelda of a few
ed the probability of Hamilton's rejec- weeks ago. The light had gone out in
tion; that were too generous, by half! her sunken eyes, till the rich hazel of
Everybody had heard thus and so, con- their form' hue had paled to a dull
cerning her, and nobody could tell the leaden brown. The once round, lily-
origin; and all because Herbert Hamil- white cheeks, were sunken and wan,
ton's sign was taken down, and he gone from mental and physical disease, and
none knew whither.                  her slender form wasted to emaciation.
Her appearance sustained the reports
'irculated respecting her, and supplied
food for the vampyres of detraction and
CHAPTER XIV.               slander. "She was dying of a broken
Hear the loud alarur bel,..   heart, from the desertion of Hamilton !"
Brazen bells            they asserted.
What a tale of terror, now, their turbulence tells I-
Por.   Myrelda was too spirited and proud
"tWhile there is life, there is hope, in conscious innocence, to be affected by
Miss Montford."                     the world's missiles; and had not her
Myrelda had followed the physician heart been lacerated by him, whose sud-
into the hall, from the bedside of her den departure had set the black tongue
sick and slunibering father, and this of detraction in motion, she would have
was the medical man's evasive reply to walked, rough-shod, over the little ver-
her anxious inquiry  concerning  the min of envy and calumny.
patient.                              But her spirit was broken with an-
Dr. Merton took her hind tenderly guish, and she shut herself up in the
at parting, and looked down pityingly Vale, and heeded not the opinion of
at her pale, thin face.             the heartless crowd beyond.
"Hope for the best, Miss Montford,  It was a providential mercy that her
and whatever be the result, you know  father was now prostrated by disease;
how to meet the dispensation of One it drew her-from the morbid contempla-
who 'doeth all things well.'        tion of the ruins of her sheart-castle,
Tears brimmed the poor girl's eyes, and necessarily employed her mind with
and her heart was too full for utterance. thoughts less distracting.
She saw that Dr. Merton despaired of Her father had been an invalid for
her father's recovery, and felt she must years, subject to such attacks as now-
soon be; alone in the wide, cold world, confined him to his couch ; consequent.-
with none to love and protect her from  ly, she did not, for Aime, spprehend.a
its merciless shafts. Misfortunes had fatal termination of his present illness.


46             NERBIERT HAMILTON;

long days and nights she watched him
with untiring assiduity; but despite
every service that filial love or medical
aid could render him, the conviction
forced itself upon her crushed heart,
that he must die .  , o be alone in a
world that delighted tv  shatter the rose-
leaves of herkreputation, and bind upon
her- brow a crowr of infamy-thorns,
-would have made many a maiden heart
quail;and shudder at the prospect; but
Myrelda-Moutford shrank not with fear
at the thought. With "Truth ,undim-
med within her brest," and "God o'er-
head,"she could go forth into the world;
brave in consciousinnocence, to the
performance of duty, and leave the rest
to the Father of the fatherless.-
But to see those dear eyes, that had
never looked upon her but with love
and tenderness, closed forever, and laid
under the white shroud and the, coffin-
lid, and hear nevermore the loving tones
of a father's voice, bowed her spirit be-
neath a weight that -seemed pressing
her life out.
The winter wind wailed and shrieked
in fitful gusts around the cottage eaves,
and moaned through the leafess maples;
yet Myrelda heeded not the outer world;
a wilder storm raged around the, sable-
draperied temple of her inner life.
"Lor' bless yer heart, honey !'take
yer face out's-dat piller, an' go straight
Up stairs'n lie down, chile. It's mose
'leb'n, an' you ain'slep none-in a week,
hardly l:an' you sick too-po thig !
I'll set here an' watch marster, twel you
takesa- nap, honey-you's killin' yerse'f
right up, chileI"''
:Myrelda- assured the kind old crea-
ture that she was not sleepy, and pre-
ferred watching withther.
" Shan't do no' sich thing, honey-
you needs res':.Go straight long an'
yepldatwel y9u' hed. fige po
Myrelda- laid :1het finger upon ,her

father's pulse--it was more regular than
an hour previous, and he slumbered
quietly, without a symptom of pain.
His appearance encouraged her to hope
for a favorable result. , Little Edward
Fairfield, the helpless orphan who had
not yet been claimed by his purse-proud
grand-father, lay upon a low couch in
the corner close by ; and Rose was coiled
upon the warm hearth, running through
the land of dreams, with a song in her
olfactories, that required careful nurs-
ing to keep its occasional trumpet blasts
from disturbing the sufferer.I
She was weary and faint, and Aunt
Linder had promised to call her when
her father awoke. She relieved the old
woman's anxiety by obeying her com-
mand. She went up to her chamber,
and lay down without disrobing. Weari-
ness ere long shut her senses to all re-
membrance and realization -of mortal
suffering and endurance.
The shout, as of a thousand voices,
awoke her. She sprang up, mechani-
cally, and stood -a moment in .complete
bewilderment; then, realizing her poci-
tion, she rushed to the window. A
dense mass was collected below, and the
deep boom. of the alarmabell, breaking
through the clatter of flying feet, and
clash of rolling engines, was a sufficient,
explanation. A second shout from the
crowd, swelled above the confused roar,
as the night taper displayed her forin
through the parted curtain-drapery.
Myrelda had left her :chamber door
open, to hear, more distinctly every
sound from her father's room below, as
it came up the stair-way, but the blus-
tering wind had drawn it to,'and caught
the slender bolt.
Myrelda darted towards it;and dashed
into the adjoining chamber, but a ,vol-
ume of smoke and flames surged upthe
stairs, and drove her, half blinded, back.
There was one more hope of eseqpe,

and she bounded to the door opening into
the upper hall, whence, she might de-
scend to the passage below; but a
tongue of liquid fire, streaming through
a rear window, met her half-way the
ball, and she retreated. before it, clos-
ing the door securely, to arrest the pro-
gress- of the raging elements.
She was now effectually walled in,
and no prospect of -escape was before
her. The cottage was constructed of
brick, with a rear addition of wood,
and roofed with combustible material.
Every outlet was barred up with fire,
and soon .the ligneous portions of her
prison, must yield to the fury of the
flames. She abandoned all hope of life,
and committing her spirit to Him who
gave, folded her arms upon her breast,
and looked down upon the babel below
with a strange calmness upon her death-
ly white face.
It was now one o'clock. Let us go
back two hours, to the time of Myrelda's
departure from the bedside of her slum-
bering father.
Aunt Linder ensconsed herself in
the cushioned rocker, and listened
to the weeping and wailing of the
wind, till a sensation of drowsiness
crept over her, and threatened to hang
weights upon her dusky eyelids. She
rubbed her eyes and pinched her arms
to repel the assaults of Morpheus, but
without avail. All was hushed and
solemn within. The lamp glimmered
pale and pensive, over the calm face of-
the patient, and soon she was under
the narcotic influence of her-surround-
ings; Her 'head fell back upon the
cushion-her mouth opened gradually,
to a surprising capaciousness, and Aunt
Linler slept soundly.     -
A hissing and scorching started her
to - her feet. Flames of fire were
streaming through the door, communi-
eating with the kitchen, and rushing

up the stairs, impelled by the draught.
Aunt'Linder's -foot came in swift
.contact with Rosa's head, who started
and screamed at the lurid scene. - Lit-
tle Edward was awakened by the noise,
and rushed for the side door. Aunt-
hinder caught her master in her strong
arms, and rolling*him up tightly in the
quilt, followed upon the children's heels.
She now looked about for Myrelda, and
wrung her hands in an agohy of terror,
when she thought of her perilous posi-
tion.
The old woman plunged for-the door
again, but the flames forced her back,
The sitting-room Was a sea of liquid
fire. She sprang to the rear door of
the hall, but it was locked.' Her pow-
erful arms nerved with excitement and
solicitude, would have defied the iron
security, but for the scorching flares
that shot around the angle, in the bil-
lowy blasts, and beat her froth her post.
She fled to the front door, and with two
tremendous jars, dashed it from its fast-
enings. The crowd followed her into
the hall, but none ventured to cross the
gulf of fire, that R surged through the
window above, hissing'and snapping in
its fury, but the faithful old domestic;
She was plunging recklessly forward,
when her arm was caught in the vice-
like grasp of a stout man.
"' ain't no use, old'oman; you can't
git up thar alive !"
Aunt tinder struggled for freedom,'.
but he held her fast, and pulled her into
the wintry air.
She looked up at Myrelda's window,
and perceiving her standing helpless,
and evidently resigned to her fate, she
threw up her arms wjdly, towards her,
crying despairingly : "oh; honey ! po'
thing l"  And with a burst of agony,
the affectionate old servant fell down in
a fainting fit,

OR; THE BAS 113LU.


48

HERBERT HAMILTON;

CHAPTER XV.
Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow esli--
SiAK$PEA n.
A group was gathered in the Melville
House, lolling here and-there, smoking
cigars, and nodding over the evening
papers, with occasional bite of town
gossip thrown ip to relieve the monotony,
when the stagecoach rattled up, well
laden with.passengers.
The curious eyes of the company
were instantly leveled at the door, to
scrutinize the new-corners, who hurried
in to seek refuge-from the biting win-
ter _ lastt, and among them, Herbert
IIa pltoivery pale and grave, but
itately ;a sen time past:
The whole body of idlers started with
surprise at his sudden appearance, and
Dr. Gerald grew ghostly white.
Mr. Berrien sprang forward with ex-
tepded hnd, and welcomed him back,
with every; demonstration of fraternal
feeling and delight, at his return,;- and
the rotund' 'and jolly landlord bustled
oqt, and grasped his hand with unre-'
stained expresionsof surprise and gl4-
ness.
A smile, gentle but sickly, flitted over
Hamilton's face, as he responded to his
friends' manifestations of pleasure; but
soon it faded out, leaving him pale and
stern, as before.
e' " How now, Dr. ?" inquired the host,
as pr. Merton entered and stared in as-
tonishment at Hamilton, whose presence
he at lengthacknowledged by a cold,
supereillious nod. Not a muscle of
jian ilton's face moved as he returned
it, with one as freeing.
"Bad," the Dr. shook his head om-
inously.-"He can't last much longer-
that's evident. I
"Poor child .1 said the host, glauc-
ing surreptitiously at Hamilton. "Then

she must soon be deprived of her last
friend !  God help her !"-
iAmen l" responded the physician
soleidnly -
" ii s Montford has native strength
sufficient to sustain her in every trial,"
said Mr. Berrien ardently, "Fate may
demolish every earthly prop, but there
is one that can ,never be removed-
faith in the Eternal."
A low, mocking laugh issued from
Gerald's lips at the close of this remark,
and was succeeded by a sober seeming.
and half-frown, as though he were
self-censured for the involuntary act.
All eyes, but Hamilton's, were turned
towards him in a monient; but Gerald
fixed his own, pertinaciously, upon the
grate.'
" All ain't gold that glitters !" laugh-
ed Augustus Smith, a dissolute com-
panion of Gerald, whose reputation for
debauchery and libertinism was far ahd
wide spread. "Eh, Fred' ?"
Gerald turned slowly and silently,
and shut one eye slyly at the speaker,
with a quietness of movement that
seemed to say, he designed the answer
to be observed by the inquirer alone,
but which was really culculated to at.,
tract the notice of all around, by its si-"
lent significance.
Mr. Berrien glanced at Hamilton;
his face was bent over the paper before
him, and be. was apparently unaffected
by the various remarks. Gerald, too,
had marked his calm, unconscious air,
and felt encouraged by his apparentin-
difference. He had feared that Hamil-
ton had returned to renew his suit to
-Myrelda, and resorted to his method to
"sound" his feelings. He became buiy-
ant at the result, and grew more bold
in his iusinuations, without rendering
himself amenable to the law for slander.
.The villiau had always sedulously
guarded against that.

Is

t
1
l
l
1
C
r
1
s
I
I
t
t
c
l

3       OR, THE BAS BLEU.                             49
Herbert Haitilton arose, and laid. "'I beg your forgiveness for my form-
asiae his paper quietly, as a burst of er coldness, Sir,.  I misapprehended
laughter broke from Gerald's party, oc- your character. You would not find it
casioned by some significant grimace, difficult to pardon, if you knew the
and strode close up to the miscreant, with cause."
flashing eyes. His face was ashy white  Mr. Hamilton pressed his hand warm
with internal excitement, but outtard- ly, and with a glance of supreme con.
ly he. was calm, and firm as marble. tempt at the confounded Gerald, he left
His tall, fine form was drawn up to its the apartment.
proudest height of dignity and power.  Gerald breathed freer when his ad-
"Frederick Qerald, were you not so versary had departed, and tried to make
adroit a maligner, I should have the up in braggadocioism, for his latesilence.
satisfacion, and do society a service by  Mr. Berrien turned with a glitter of
draggin you before a 'court of justice gladness in his b ight- blue eyes, and
for slander. Your cowardly tactics are passed into the street.
your fortress, and through it the sword'  " Gad !" said the jolly landlord to the
of justi qe can't penetrate to your vul- red-faced'Gerald, "look sharp, old fe-.
ture-lik heart. But beware ! lest in low, or you'll get your foot in it!-.'
pointing the dagger of detraction at the there's Yankee stuff in him--mettle
heart of purity and helplessness, you enough to load a seventy-nine pounder,
rush upon your own destruction ! And and blamed if I didn't think he was
were Mts. Fairfield now in- existence, I going to pour it into ye!  Served -him
would hold you up to the world, and right, too "-he added aside, ashe went
prove you, by her testimony; the black- out into the hall. "Gad, how he fired
hearted traducer that I know you to be! up ! that Hamilton's spunk-that's so."
And in your future career of calumny   Gerald was boiling with wrath and
and shame, 'beware l-st you face a burning for revenge when'he left 'the
stronger foe than your intended victim; hotel that night; and the deep noon of
and mark me, Frederick Gerald, if that darkness frowned down upon him from
intended victim be she, who is now the the leaden skies, as he issued from a
subject of your inuendoes, you must gambling saloon, flushed with wine and
answer for your villiany to me-to iuE, maddened by heavy losses-for Gerald
Sir !"                               was but a neophyte in that vice-his cu-
His face glowed with indignation and pidity had hitherto restrained him-
scorn, and his voice rang'through the and sought his luxurious home.
room, as he concluded with an emphatic  Avarice was his besetting sin; it had
hump of his boot-heel upon the floor, impelled him to a marriage for conven-
that made it shiver.                ieuce, but disappointment, love and,
The company were awed into perfect jealousy had led him 'a wearychase
silence, by the unlooked for scene, and since that' great error of his life, and.
Gerald's face was livid with cowardice still dragged him on to deeper and dark-
and guilt. He essayed to make a show er crimes.
of courage, but his soul sank within  Mrs. Gerald was absent, andheclench-
him, ts he met Hamilton's blazing eye. ed'his hand with rage, as he paced his
Dr. Merton advanced to Myrelda's lonely chamber, and retrospected the
defender, with a smile and outstretched past few hours. He half resolved to
hand.                              'wreak his vengeance upon him by whom
7


50             HRBERT'HAMILTON;

he had been so deeply humiliated, by
assassinating him; but cowardly cnn-
science whispered that suspicion would
surely.fastenuupon him, and justice
track him out. with her indefatigable
blood-hounds, after the event of the
evening.
Hamilton would wed Myrelda, de-
spite his efforts to render her obnoxious,
and he tortured his burning brain for an
invention to obviate that consummation.
He would rather see her dead than the
wife of Hamilton ! yea, he would rather
imbruehis own hands in her blood, than
that his hated foe should triumph over
hi nI
He strode the floor and mused ; sud-
denly he. brought his clenched hand
down, with silent emphasis to some
mental decision; and muffling himself
up in a disguise, he sallied forth into
the wide and windy/darkness.
It :was jus the night for the perpe-
tration of the deed contemplated ; and
no suspicion rould possibly attach to him
as the authpr.
Strode on=and on till the cottage.
gate was attained, and cautiously ad-
mitted himself into the enclosure. All
was still, save the hoarse breathings of
the wind, as it wailed and howled
around him.
A pale light was shining from My-,
relda's chamber window, and he stood
a moment in silent, thought, with old-
time memories clustering about his heart,
and the white wings of the angel of
repentance poised above him.
Howoften, in happy days gone by,
had he. stood thus, beneath the old trees
of her childhood's home, and breathed
his love to her, on the soft, sweet mel-
ody of a midnight serenade. Then he
was free and.joyous; no guilt had-ever
stained;the white leaves of his young
and lovingjife. Now he stood beneath
her lattice, perjured. vindictive and

hope.abandoned,crimsonedwith the life-
blood of her he had so deeply wronged,.
for as he purposed in his heart, so God
imputed the sin to him.
Revenge and jealousy subjugated his,
softer emotions. Hamilton should not-
triumph ! The good angel plumed his:
white wings, and fled away sorrowing,
and the satellite of satan led him cau-
tiously to the sitting-room. The win-
dow-shade was slightly elevated,through
careless drawing, and Gerald scrutiniz-
ed the interior. . He could not have
chosen a more propitious moment for
the execution of his fiendish purpose.
Ali were deep wrapped in slumber,
and the stair-door was thrown wide open.
The flames would speedily bar up that
escape-way; and now the remaining one
was his care.
Gerald was perfectly familiar with
the construction of the cottage. In boy-
hood he had romped through it with a
frolicsome school-ihate, who had now ar-
rived at man's estate, and purchased a.
more imposing home.
He softly shivered a pane in the up.
per window, with a staff appropriated
for the purpose, and applied a match to
the rear of the building. The wild winds
would sweep the flames through the
apperture, and ignite the combustible
parts ere the sleepers awoke, or the
alarm sounded.
Gerald mingled with the startled citi-
zens, when the shout of terror rolled up
.from a thousand lungs, over the con-
fused city ; and none dreamed that the
author of the wild conflagration stood
wrapped in the rich folds and fur of
that costly cloak, as he gazed up at his
innocent victim, looking down upon the
rabble below, hopeless and helpless-
only one !

1

. 011, THE BAS BLEU.

151

CHAPTER XVI,               She may escape through the window'
Throtnghsthe furnane, unskrinking, thy stepsI'l pur-  "Off!" he thundered; but Mr. Days-
sue,-
And shield thee, and save thee, or perish there too, ton did not relax his grasp.
--MooRS.  Hamilton drew back, and would hate
Herbert Hamilton lay upon his couch leveled his detainer, with one blow of
at the Melville House, restless and his powerful arm, had he not relinquish..
wakeful.   The town clock had long ed his hold,-and shrank back amongst
struck the midnight hour, yet still he the crowd.
lay peering through the gloom of his Herbert Hamilton shot up the stairs
chamber, and listening to the pipig like an arrow from a bow, and was lost
winds. Suddenly the shrill blast of the to sight in an instant ! A portion of
watchman's horn pierced through the the floor crumbled beneath his feet and
driving storm-drifts; and anon the slow fell to the hall below!
tongue of the alarm-bell broke up through  "The man's mad !" gasped Dayton.
the great heart of night, telling to the "Stock mad!. he'll never come down
startled inhabitants a hoarse tale of dis- alive !"
tress and terror.                     Hamilton had no difficulty in finding
" One ! two ! three !" rolled out from Myrelda's chamber-door. A momen-
the sepulchral mouth of the iron monitor. tary lull of the wind favored him, and
"Third ward! Myrelda's vicinity !" holding his breath, he went through the
Hamilton bounded from the bed, and "fiery furnace" with such celerity the
donned his habiliments.with a rapidity flames of the burning floor did not fast
never before accomplished in the thirty- en upon him; but he saw it would be
five years of" his mortal life !    utterly impossible to return that way;*
A lurid light streamed up from the it were easier flying from, than against
quarter indicated by the warning-bell, the enemy,
and "fire! f-i-r-e !" swelled from innu-  He closed the door with a quick
merable lips, as the excited populace bang, to shut out the hot element, ashe
few by..                            rushed into Myrelda's chamber. She
Hamilton kept pace with the fleetest, turned at the sound, and a scream of
till a turn brought him in view of the mingled joy and terror escaped her lips
burning building; then like an electric as she sprang forward into his out.
flash he shot forward, and left them far stretched arms.
behind!.                             "Oh, Herbert !" she clasped her arms
He saw Myrelda, with a sea of fire around him, and laid her head upon his
surging above her head, and dashing bosom with a glad smile--she lost sight
through the mass gathered in the yard, of her perilous situation, in the over-
he sprang into the hall, and bolted foi flowing joy of a reunion.
the stair-case. A heavy hand grasped "Dearest! thank God-!" Hegathered
his arm, as he rushed recklessly on-- her delicate form closely up to his broad
the hand of Mr. Dayton, a professional breast, as though his strong arms could
brother and townsman,               shield her from the devourhig element,
Off!" he enunciated, an a tone like and kissed her repeatedly with a pas..
distant thunder, and with the look of a sionate tenderness, unlike the cool, calts
maniac.-                           Hamilton of former days,
"You can't get up, Mr. Hamilton--   The wind raged again, and blew a jot
we've tried it--don't sacrifice your life! of fire into the chamber under the yield.

I


.52                    HERBERT HAMILTON;
ing door. She started at the sight with crammed it through the wide lattice,
a shudder.                           and seizing the pitcher, dashed its con-
"Oh, Herbert ! you have sacrificed tents where most needed,but all in vain;
your life for-mine ! There is no escape the fierce winds swept the blaze through
-we must die d"                     'the interstices, resisting every effort to
Reheld her to his breast, andlooked arrest it.
down upon her upturned face with those  He grasped-the bed-cord, with a face
deep, dark, earnest eyes.            white as marble, but firm as flint, and
" I would rather die with you,,than  proceeded to fasten it around Myrelda's
live: without you, Myrelda !" .      waist.'-
This was HIrbert Hamilton's' first   "I can save you, darling."
declaration' oflove, and the circum-  ," And you, Herbert ?" There was no
stances under which it was made, con- posibility of attaching it to aught in the
firmed the assertion.     ,          chamber, and thus let himself down,
A shower of happy tears rained from that she perceived.
her smiling eyes, upon his bosom, as she "I will risk that, dearest."
nestled hertz head there, and drew her  She   th:ew  herself into his arms,
armscloser around him.              wildly.
" Myrelda, standing here on-the verge  "I will never leave thee, nor forsake
of Eternity, and looking over into the thee, Herbert ! Where thou diest, I will
'broad: Beyond, tell me, before we go die 1"
hand in hand to. the limitless. land of  He held her a moment tightly; but
Immortality-tell me you love me !"   there was no time for love-words. It
*   She started, and looked up.,       was hard to die now, and he looked
"Love you! oh, Herbert ! I love you around for some means of escape.
more than I can express ! You know I   A swift thought, hitherto buried in the
love you, Herbert!"  She lifted her great ocean of excitement, now rose to
arms to his neck, and laid her forehead the surface of calm reflection.  He
against his cheek, with a tender confi- dashed the bedstead across the window,
dence, that sent a rapturous thrill and pointed out his plan, to attach the
through his strong soul.             cord to the rail, and thus render it secure.
]ie caught her convulsively to his   A flush of joy rushed to Myi-elda's
heart in silence, with a fond pressure of face ; there was yet hope; still she
the lips, more eloquent than words.  shuddered at' the thought of leaving
The flames were fast creeping into him alone, in the fire-girded prison.
the roomand had ignited the bed-valance.  Hamilton threw  up the sash, and
They would soon beysmothered without rentthe curtains from the casement, and
vigilant care; he yet hoped for rescue .Myrelda was reluctantly yielding to his
from the citizens, if it came not, he wish, when the door communicating
would die with Myrelda.           .'with the adjoining chamber fell in, and
Hamilton tore the burning linen from billows of smoke and flame were hurled
the bed, and hurled it through the win- by the draught, through the open win-
dow. A scream of terror went up from  dow, scorching and blinding them in
the mass at the sight, and sobs of sym- their fury. Hamilton grasped her in
pathy broke from the softer portion of his arms, and fled to the opposite side,
the populace, for the doomed lovers.  and closed the window at discretion.
Hamilton now carried the bed and     All was now over; in thirty seconds,

-x

(Ri, THE BAS BLEU.                            53
at the farthest, they must be stifled !  -mortelle!I  Nobody can beat ze Yankee
He returned and knelt beside her, -be gar !"
supporting her quivering form on his   "Haw! haw!' roared "crazy Joe," as
boson..                            . he clapped his hands upon his sides,-and
" Oh, Herbert! shall we be separated leaped several feet into the air; with an-
in Eternity ?  Do yon fear to die, dear bounded delight and self-congratulation.
Herbert ?"                           "I done it !-haw ! haw !"
He hesitated, and looked down in her  , "God bless you!" exclaimed Hamil-
clear eyes.                          ton fervently, as he wrung Joe's hand,
" Do you, my darling ?"            with- a humid lustre in his dark eyes,
" Oh, no, Herbert ! 'I know that my that betrayed the grateful emotions of
Redeemer liveth' "---her face shone his heart.
with a light that was more than mortal  Myrelda laid her hand in her deliv-
--"'but you, 8h, Herbert ! dear, dear er's, with a look and tearful smile that
Herbert, 'prepare to meet thy God!' I made Joe's cup of happiness completely
cannot go without you!''             overflow, Joe gave another spring and
She clasped her arms around him in yell' of delight, that started the black
an agony. He lifted his eyes heaven- shades of old Nox, far away from where
ward, but no word escaped his firm-lips. it first broke up.
They were now almost surrounded by   Mr. Berrien hugged Joe around the
smouldering fire, that only required a neck, with two big tears rolling slowly
little more space to burst in and fill the from his laughing eyes.
room.         .                        The crowd, inspired by the' scene,
A wild shout was heard without, and grasped the exhilarated youth, and ele-
a heavy crash shivered the window to vating him to their shoulders, bore him
atoms. Hamilton sprang to his feet, off in triumph, to the nearest confection-
still clasping her to his breast. A lad! ary, and regaled him to his heart's con-
der was projected through the opening. tent, with its dainties ; among which
'but' the flames swept over it from the the immortal "hoss-cake' held a con-
doo# opposite.                       spicuous place, and not the least honored,
"Great God, I thank Thee !" he       Joe was mortally afraid of "gittin'
'aculatedand catchinher like a child hurt," and hugged his bearers around
ej at   , andwcatchig er, ikerai the neck with a drowning man's grasp,
in his arms, he wrpped h dover-coat to avoid the catastrophe referred to in
around her head and arms, hiding then the text-' how are the mighty fallen,'
in  is  osom, and defying the fiery till they gasped for breath, and threat-
tongue that crossed bi path, he valued ened to, "drop' him like hot cake, if he
upon the sill, and blistered with the didn't turn'looe'"
blaze, descended safely to the ground ! ddn ftr lioeis
Myreda' draerywason frebut Soon after their, escape, the chamber
was exterywasuoniwas filled with fire, and speedily the-roof
was extinguished without material per- fell in, with an upheating of billowy
sonal injury.                                    a   petu      fLllw
shomutry.    d     d  ,  '     flame and myriad sparks from the wreck
A shout, long, loud and deep, broke of Myrelda's home, illuminating the
up the midnight waves of air, far and confused city far and wide.
wide, as he descended.                onthr means    d ide.
Oereans of descent were now
." Huzza!" yelled a little bald-headed borne up by boisterous andtired towns-
Frenehman. "S&amp; memoir serra im- men ; but the lovers would have thee


*BH LOR, THE BAS BLEU:

been in the spirit-w'orld, but for Joe's
forethought ancd fleetness.
Hamilton despatched a servant for a
carriageand.gathering Myrelda's quiv-
ering form  closely up to his breast,
shielded ,her from the wintry blast, and
awaited its arrival to convey her to Mr.
Berri a's, whither her -ther had been
carried.
CHAPTER XVII.
'thennlet me hold thee today heart,
And every care resign-GoLns tUIr.
Myrelda was now homeless-and desti-
tute; comparatively nothing had been
rescued of their little household wealth,
and they were thrown upon the hospi-
tality of one, related by no ties but mere
friendship; yet as happy a moment she
had never known, as when Hamilton
drew her to his sheltering breast, and
bending his lovedit face tenderly to-hers
murmured: "my own forever."
She had often dreamed how that man.
ly voice,-so calm and cool, and occasion-
ally blunt,' would melt and modulate,
with the outgushing tenderness of affec-
tion, when no longer restrained by in-
comprehensible motives. She had fre-
quently thought of the capacity of that
deep, strong, soul for feeling affection ;
and longed for the moment when' the
secret door of that;hidden heart would
oegeu and. take her to the :great throne
f that inner temple. He was so unlike'
his sex-a rare, unfathomable being ;
he could neither 'love nor hate, lightly.-
His was not a heart, whose stream ,rip-
pled on,. with-a smile and a kiss'for
every fair flower that bloomed beside it,
'with here a glooming shadow, and there
: glittering cascade; but deep, noise-.
less ocean, with its jewels and pearls
hidden far 4ewn from the eyes of men,
beneath th dark, still waters; love with

him, would not merely be one of life's
incidents, but the epoch of his existence
-the Genesis and Revelation of his
heart-volume.
Slhe had never doubted his love, since
the' explanation'" voluntarily given, re-
specting his apparent neglect and indif.
ference,; -nor felt a shiver of distrust,
relative to his intentions, until the night
of their rupture ; nor had that out-lived
the gloomy hours of darkness, and her
wretchedness was augmented, by the
thought of her injustice, and the' fear
that he was too proud to seek a recon-
ciliation.
But now the wild storm that tossed
her life-sea had lulled, and her little
barque safely reached the haven, through
hisfirmness and love, who was dearer to
her than the life he had preserved, and
whom she deemed lost to her irretriev-
ably.
" It is a blessed thought that I owe
my life to ,you, Herbert!"
Hamilton shuddered, as he pressed
her closer in his arms.
"'My God ! if I had not returned !"-
his blood curdled at the thought of her
horrible death, but for his firma.essand
defiant spirit, for Myrelda coulthnot
have escaped, even with the means with-
in her reach, with the flames swelling
over it, without his strength and shield.
,He did not know that but for his re-
turn, she would then be slumbering in
her quiet, unmolested home.
He bent his cheek, caressingly, to
her forehead.
" It is written, 'He shall give His
angels charge over thee'-that is, such
as you, Myrelda. Thank God! you are
all-mine, now, darling!"
- " Heart and life !--you can never
know how dearly I love you, Herbert !"
Hamilton thought he could "guess"
pretty creditably to his Yankee reputa-
tion, when he looked down in her tell-

tale eyes, and felt her modest face hiding
its blushes on his bosom.
But sorew was not yet ended, with
Myrelda, arid the event that gave her to
the arms of Hamilton, as an affianced
wife, deprived her of another love.
Excitement and exposure to the win-
try winds, hastened the closing scene of
Col. Montford's life; and ere the morn-
ing dawned upon the smouldering ruins
of her once lovely and peacefulhome,.
the vital spark had been caught up'
from the aged clay-tenement, to mingle
with the full blaze of eternity; and the.
white drapery of death was drawn over
the mortal habitation ! He died with
Hamilton's and Myrelda's hands folded
together in his. -
"God bless you, my children, an
make, and keep you worthy of Himself.
Herbert, take a father's blessing, and
his best earthly gift-his helpless and
innocent child.. Her lot has been a
hard one-soften her future with your
love, and you will have your reward,
'both in the life that now is and, and
that which is to come.' I can die quiet-
ly now, knowing that my darling has a
home in stronger arms than her feeble
old father's. And you, my daughter,
let the consciousness of duty, faithfullyI
performed, ameliorate your sorrow forE
my loss. Don't grieve for me, my child,
'it is appointed unto man once to die,'
and the winds blow cold around this old
tabernacle; but He will build it up in3
new strength and glory, in that world
where we may meet again. God bless
you both as one, my children ; meet me
there."                             t
He pointed his pale, thin finger to- a
wards heaven feebly, and with a gentle "
pressure of their united hands, and a d
soft sigh, the old soldier of the Cross b
slept peacefully, the 'sleep that knows -
no waking," till the "last trump shall
sound."                             C

Hamilton bore Myrelda half fainting
from the chamber of death, and his
strong soul deliquesced in tears, that
brimmed his dark eyes, but -were re-
strained ,from overflowing by the inner
mandate': "thus far shalt thou go, and
no farther !" at sight of her great grief.
He laid her languid head upon his
breast,and soothed her softly and ten-
erly, as 'a young mother fondles her
first born.
"Oh, lordy, honey I" sobbed Aunt
Linder, as she knelt at their feet, and
mingled her tears with the pale orphan's.
'-Don' cry, chileI he's better off now,
honey.. De Lord's ways is oilers right,
chile, an' we musn't blame 'iar fur 'flic-
tin us ! Marster's gone ter a better
worl', honey, an' we'll see 'in ergin,
by'n bye1 IDon' ery, chile, you ain' all
'lone in de worl', honey-bless de Lord!''
Myrelda clung to Hamilton convul-
sively, at this allusion, and nestled, her
tearful face closer to his protecting
bosom.
"God is merciful! He has not left
me comfortless ! Oh ! how desolate I
should be without you, Herbert !"
His arms contracted with impulsive
force, around her tiny waist, at this evi-
dence of utterdependence upon him for
earthly hope and happiness. He clasped
the little hand that lay upon his should-
er, and kissed it with tender reverence.
" My life is your defence-my heart
your home. Lean all your helplessness
on me, darling, and give all your care to,
my arms,"
"Oh, lordy ! mars Ham'lton,' cried
he old woman in deep contrition of soul,
t the beautiful and touching scene.
I hopes you'll furgive me, honey; I
[idn' meant ter do ye no harm, chile!:
ut I did, mars Hubbert-I nose it now
--I dus so !"
The lovers looked at the sobbing old
reature, with unfeigned surprise;

HERBERT HAMILWN

54


N

56"

HERBERT HAMILTON;

"EOw, brother'?" he inquired.
"Oh.mars Jubbert, honey ! I didn'
gin 'er dat;papere, nr de letter nuther,
chile !I, thought you was killing' 'er
rights up -p4 thing I an' I wa ted ter
git shet avjeyI"'
Hamilton regarded her with a, stern
silencepthat made Aunt Linder quail;
whiled  relda sat in mate astonishment
inespabJ of comprehending the whole
affair.
"Oh I mars Hubbert, forgive me dis
time, honey, an' I'll never tell 'nuther
lie,'long'# ,ives-f-IAwon' so.! I didn'
tell5ndur zio harm, honey r I thought
youn wastryin' ter fool 'er,/chile, being'
as how -yoi was a etrange Yanky, an'
cared on o eurus-like! Au' I want
gwine ter see 'er 'posed on-po thing !"
Hamiltonlooked down at the white,
thin face upon.his bosom, and the ema-
ciated fork: child-like, in ts .slender
proportions,.lying so trustingly- and
grief-lades in his arms, and the thought
that he had occasioned the unhappiness
that conduced to her..soul touching
frailty, unmanned lhim; and with an,
irresistible outfew of tears, that would
have astonished the years that had roll-
ed by .since the days of his boyhood,
could..they have looked up from the
great grave of the Past he bent his face
to her shoulder.
"Good God !, my poor darling!"
"Oh ! mars Hubbert, say'you furgive
me!9ile !" implored the old woman,
wringing her hknds frantically, at the
sight.
Hamilton lifted his head-calmly; his
strong will had mastered his momentary
weakness.
"I do, from my heart, in considera-
tion of themotives that prompted you.
You know I'love her now, mother ?"
"Lord knows I b'lieves in my soulh
you dus,chile--Idusso !-._an' de Lord'll
bless youfur it, mars.Hubbert, kase she

*

ain' got nobody ter keer fur 'er now,
'cep' you an' me-po thing !     Lord
knows Aunt Linder'll stan' by 'er twel
'er ole head goes under de ground ,
honey-.she will so !"
This affectionate outbreak increased
Myrelda's tearm, and hiding her face in
Hamilton's bosom, she laid one hand on
her nurse's shoulder, sobbing: "'.Oh,
aunty !"
. He kindly and gently motioned the
old woman away, and quieted the sor-
rowing orphans with his irresistible tones
of tender endearment. She. dried her
eyes and lookediup.
"What is the meaning of all this,
Hurbert?"
" At another time, you shall know ally
degrest. Suffice it to say, now, that we
have both been deceived, and kept apart,
by that deception. You are weary now,
little trembler; lay your head on my
bosom again, and try to sleep. I can't
suffer you to leave me yet, darling."
" Only tell .me, Herbert, that you
loved me without distrust!'-she was
thinking of her visit to Mrs. Fairfield.
"Before we met, I loved you, Myrel-
da; and since our first meeting, that
love has grown to spirit-worshipwithout
a shadow of-distrust to cloud its bright-
ness."
She laid her head upon his breast,
with a tearful smile, and with his hand
softly smoothing   her golden-brown
tresses, .she fell asleep. -
Hanilton watched her peaceful slum-
ber till the morning sun shone through
the parlor:blinds, and eclipsed the bril-
liancy of'the burning gas.
CHAPTER XVIII..
I had not lived till now, couldsorrow ki.-Bmtox.
The old year died, and was buried in
the great tomb of departed Time, with,

OR, THE BAS BLEU.-

a thin snow-shroud folded around his
aged form; and the young anointed
king came in at the midnight hour, and
ascended the throne of his old sire,.to
wield the sceptre of days, over his late
inheritance.
The beautiful city of Arlingford lay
luiet and calm, in the cloudless morn-
ing sun, deserted by the majority of its
inhabitants, for its sister city, the great
centre of gravitation, on each successive
New Year's Dad.
Hamilton and Myrelda sat alone, at
Mr. Berrien's, where it was decided she
should remain until her marriage, at her
friend's urgent request, which was to be
consummated as early as practicable,
under existing circumstances.
Myrelda would have deferred it till
the period of her mourning was ended,
but for her lovers desire to take her un-
der his immediate protection and guar-
dianship; her heart, too, pleaded in behalf
,of a speedy blending of hearts and lives,
by the solemn marriage ritual, and her
lonely position justified it. She was
now recovering from an illness of some
days' duration, superinduced by the re-
cent trying vicissitudes through which
she had passed ; and delicately lovely
she looked, reclining upon Hamilton's
supporting bosom.
Her mourning garb heightened the*
pure transparency of her young, thin
face, and small, waxen hands; and the
red anthracite flushed a soft, faint tint,
like the inner lining of the sea-shell,
upon her cheek. Hamilton's lips, too,
had done something towards making
that modest face "blossom as the rose.
He looked down upon her a moment
in silence, and asked in a serious, half-
incredulous tone:
" How could you ever love that mer-
cenary villai, Myrelda ?"
"Idon'tiknow,lHerbert; I have often
wondereld that I could have been so

egregiously deceived--that I could ever
have thought him all that was noble
and love-worthy in man ! I W9k back
with astonishment and shuddering, to
the time when I stood upon the!brink
of. the precipice; almost upon the eve
of uniting my destiny with his; and
thank heaven for the dark reverse of
fortune that withheld me from that
abyss of misery. Death itself, would be
preferable to a life-union with so heart-
less and perfidious a nature as Frederick
Gerald's !
"And yet you suffered for one so
mean and despicable. I have never
heard it from your lips, or read it in
your private letters; but it breathea in
your published 'articles. No one can
linger there, and not feel that the author.
has passed through 'the valley of the
shadow of death !' And yet you could
smile and go proudly and firmly for-
ward, a 'hero in the strife,' when your
heart was breaking ! I knew it all,
though unknown to you, and pitied and
revered, before I ever loved you, My-
relda,"
"Not for him, Herbert; not forphis
desertion, did I suffer, but from the
dying out of a first love. My fancy
made him all that was true and worthy
-he was my ideal of manly excellence -
and when my idol fell, it crushed an
mangled the spirit-vines twisted so con-
fidingly and closely around him; but I
never grieved for 1dm. Frederice Ger-
ald possessed no power over my heart,
when the certain of duplicity was looped
back from his perfidious soul, and the
nest of vipers stirred up by the rod of
adversity.
"what he was, my fancy made his;
What he is, I knew too late;"
and not what he is, but what I fancied
him, made my unhappiness. I cas
never be sufficiently grateful to the
merciful Providenee that thwarted my
8


H ERBERT HAMILTON;

girlish 'heairthopes, even bygathering
so dark-acloud over ay earthly way.
That great gloomhas passed now, but'
the 'blackness f darkness,' would never
have 'been ipisplied from my heart had
I wdded hin as he is, had He not in-
terposed His afflictive dispensation to
save mefromthelong earth-night. God
i0 kve,' and all goodness and mercy, and
whatever be. Hiswill henceforth I can
never repine at his de'cree;,and 'though
be slay)me yet will I trust in Him.''-
Hamiltonlooked down upon her meek;
upturned face; with a soul-full softness
in' his dark eyes that told of reverence,
yet, a shade of' disqiet swept over: his
firm face.
"The furnace of-affliction has refined
the gold of your nature, Myrelda ; you
are too good and pure for earth, much
less for a life.ompanionship with me;
and I marvel now, asI have ever done,
how I could have woni you. You smile
incredulously, and raise your eyes, re-
proachfully; for this disparaging insinu-
ation concerning him you have chosen;
do you think me faultless, Myrelda?"
"No, Sir, but as near perfection as
one unimbued by the spirit of divine
grace cafi be.. I never inet your equal,
herbert, among those who are 'under the
lavr'.said I'often think what a firm,
unflinching; zealous disciple of the cross
you would be, if once brought by regen-
erating, power, 'under grace;' and I
feel confident that glorious result will
yet, be effected, because it is written,
'put thy trust iii the Lord, and He
shall give thee the desire of thy heart.'
There would be no luke-warmness-no
retrogression with you, Herbert ;'°you
would never 'look back,' when your,
hand was once 'put to the plow;' and
daring all things for the right, you
uld if necessary, die a martyr at the
stake, without a quiver-" .
' You 'make me smile, Myrelda, by

your earnest eyes and confident manner.
It is my happiness to' be thus regarded
by one who is the best part of my Ilfe ;
and if God works through instrumen-
talities, he will choose you to accomplish
that desirable end; for He only knows
the silent,- irresistible influence you
have exerted upon my entire nature,
from the first hour I ever knew you-~==
years before we met.! All you fancy I
would be; under such circumstances,
Myrelda, I think you are; and I would
as soon try, with a hope'of success, to
overturn Gibralter, by mere physical
force, as to attempt to shake your faith
in Him, or render you less pure than
now. There ! you are smiling and'blush-
ing, too; does my opinion of your good-
ness. and Worth, please you, darling ?"
" I care for no other, Herbert. ''
"if I could bring you as skinless a
heart as you have given me, Myrelda, I
should long ago have called you my
wife. You look up in wonder and half
fear! Turn your face this way again,
Myrelda; raise your eyes to mine, and
tell me plainly, do you fear me ?" -
"No, Sir; 'perfect love casteth out
fear."
" God bless you for that, my sweet
girl ! I would believe your simple word
more firmly than others affidavit! I trust
you implicitly, and your moral superi-
ority renders the revelation I have to
make, a painful, even fearful task !"
"'Don't tell me, then, Herbert; I can
trust you for all the past, and the years
that may await us in the veiled future.
We all find something to deplore, when
we look back, in later hours, to the days
of childhood and youth, and you cannot
have sinned more than others.
"Let the dead past bury its dta-
Act--act in the living present,
Heart within and Ood'o'erbea."
" My dear girl, your confidence qnd
trusting innocence oppress me! For ,
years I have tried to win your, perfect

faith and love, and now that I have
succeeded, they burden me with a fear
for a revulsion of feeling !--and yet, let
the consequences b.e what they may, I
will not deceive you.' I never meant to
do that, Myrelda; yet I wished to make
your heart plead in my behalf, ere I
drew aside the drapery of the past, and
revealed to you the whole life of him
whose destiny now you are willing to
share. When I pledge to you at God's
altar, a husband's love and protection,
I shall not give you a heart with one
niche reserved for the errors and wrongs
of my early life, that I dare not suffer
you to behold. I shall throw open
every chamber of that heart, and show'
you the home I offer you; and if you
will 'then enter in and dwell there,'
your husband's life will be devoted to
your happiness.'
" I will have no other home ,Her-
bert." .                        .
"God grant it, Myrelda! Were you
more of earth, I should fear you less!
Lay your head on my bosom again, and
let me see your face-so; it mirrors
your soul as clearly as a limpid lake
the blue vault above it; and I would
read your heart, as I tell you the tale'
of years that are gone."
CHAPTER XV.
The patient search and vigil long,
of him who treasures up a wrong.'-BRON.
"Did you ever wonder that I never
married, Myrelda ?"
"Yes Sir."
" Did you ever speculate on the whyI
and wherefore ?".
"I fancied, Sir, that your heart nev-I
er prompted you."       -
" Then you think I give you my first
love, and would be disappointed and4
grieved, were it not so ?"-an expres-

sion of pain swept over his firm face.
Myrelda xai ed her eyed earnestly to
his,
. "No, I should not, Herbert. ,Iam
contented to be your :second love, for
I know it will be as faithful and true as
the first."t
"Girl, yob, strike a dagger to my
heart at every word !" His face was
marble white and his broad brow con-
tracted with inward emotion,.
"You tremble, you grow pale, do you
anticipate the revelation, Myrelda?'
Go on, Sir; your looks unnerve
me--you magnify your error-you can-
not have sinned so grievously." She
closed her eyes to shut out his expres-
sion;
" You shall know all; but be assured
MIyrelda, what I have been, I am not
now.
"I was born amid affluence, and rear-
ed in poverty; the oldest of three-a
brother and sister, who have long lain
in their graves. Father, mother, sister
and brother, all died and left me to buf-
fet the cold waves of life alone, ere I
attained my twentieth year. My father
was reduced from wealth to poverty by
becoming surety for a faithless. friend,
who absconded and left him to liquidate
the debt,andthusrendered him penniless.
Though but a child of eight years, I
remember it as though it were but yes-
terday, the sufferings and privations of
my gentle meek-eyed mother; and I
swore -in my youthful heart, vengeance
upon him who occasioned them. She
was my idol, and .my heart turned to
stone. When a boy of twelve years, I
knelt beside her humble coffin and wept
tears of blood upon her cold, care-worn
face. My father died three years pre-
viously, and in the struggle for her help-
less children she (perished from over-
exertion and, literal want.
"They nailed the pootpine lid over her

OR, THB BAS, BL I I3.


Ka~f '1 ~iaT ,HAMILTON ;
consumtive form, and under 't was I that :has hung a millstone around the
ixied ali-thesoftness 'ofmy soi  I neck of memory, and strangled it in the
went forth nto the world, destitute and ocean of remorse fourteen years!
revengeful,,nd grew upts hard as ada-  " Yoix have heard how ay 'powers of
man;,   ashut in from all the earth,- oratory' have been applauded and eu-
Th   twias  burned into my heart, and logized here; it was thus in my native
the fire of revenge consumed every flexi- State, and wherever. as a lecturer, I
ble fibre, and left me as impervious as haye been known.
roek l                                 "From pecuniary motives, I con-
dAn einent lawer in mypative town menaced a tour in that capacity. In the
pleased with my precocity, as it was Empire State, I met with a college
ternied, adoited en at my mothlier's chum, and at his beautiful home, the
death, and designed me for"his profes- great error of my life was committed.
sion. My brother, and sister found    "Down in the loveliest bower I ever
homes amnong'sympathizing citizens, but beheld in the grand old garden, I met
died in -'afew years, and I was left alone. two young ladies-perfect angels, in
"Thardened at, each successive be- appearance-one the sister of my friend,
reavetnent, and as the years dent by, I the other, the only  daughter of a
had few friends, and no confidants. I wealthy merchant in the city of New
scorned the whole:world and distrusted York, then on a visit to her friend.
it ! My heart was: wrapped up in my They called her Stella Norwood. My-
dead mother's plain white shroud !   reld , I thought her the loveliest pic-.
My benefactor was in moderate cir- ture that God's almightly hand had ever
°umstances,biit hildless, and he gave painted, and dropped down from the
me the advantage of a good education. jewelled skies ! I cannot describe her
Four years I was;a student at Yale, and beauty-her perfect loveliness-her fas-
and at twenty-one, I graduated with cinating smile-her silver voice-her
honors, and wasadmitted to the bar. . open, love-lit countenance-her exqui--
" But I wad only a  eharity-boy, and sitely moulded hand and luxuriant'tress-
'it-stung my pride like the tooth of a es. And her mind was a storehouse of
serpebnt; for with all my poverty, I was knowledge. All the old poets, as well
proud=,s .inifer, Myrelda ! Many a as modern, were her familiar friends;
1ong night -have I lain upon my restless her reading took the-soul captive; her
couch, and;writhed in spirit at the tor- singing wrought the feelings to their
tiring thought, till the morning's dawn ! highest pitch of appreciation. Her soul
bit I keptall this secret. I resolved to was full of the purest affection for all
repay to the uttenrmost, everyobligation God's creatures-her piety was sincere
oonferid by  iy benefactor-and I and charitable. She was a creature to
have.                               be loved; the city had not spoiled her,
"But now, Myrelda, comes the- one and 1 was determined to win. Time
black-spotin memory's waste-th'e great flew rapidly. I saw that Stella' ssoul
crime of miy life, Don't turn your face was touched, and what depths 'of love
away and shilder,'but 'let the know!- that soul contained. She was the only
edge' of aiy childhood's desolation and woman that had ever softened my iron
agony, be soihepalliation of the damn- nature; and I was determined to Win.
ug e!in!' Iwould haveyoi'extenuate Wie abandoned the world, we livedfor
the guilt-t cannot !-the black deed. each other--4n each other, and in the

OR, THE BAS   BLEJ.
flowers, the books, the music 'that' sur  was the idol; the pet and p ride of his
rounded us.                        life, and I saw I could strike a deadly
We took no note of time.    Days blow at his villainous heart through her,
dawned aid waned, we strolled by -the You shudder, Myrelda; well " ay
banks of the silver lake by 'moonlight, you, I look back to that black period
we roamed over the green hills in the of my life with abhorence and-ehad..
dark, still forest, and down by the bab- dering. I did not reveal myself to hbie
hng brook; we gathered fruit in 'the then; how-I maintained my self-posses-
meadows, and beneath an ancient chest- sion in his presence I cannot divine, for
liut that stood away down at the end of his smiling, hypocritical, face reflected
the lawn, I told her my love and receiv- back all the misery of niy boyhood.
ed a blushing confession of reciprocal I saw my dead mother'e hollow eyes
affection.. What days of bliss were those and wasted form, under the coarse 'cof-
--the days of betrothal.  That fair fin-lid, and-my- soul froze within me-'
girl's whole heart was mine, Myrelda, the melted iron of my' nature hardened
wholly mine.                        again in the ice-waters of vengeance !
" It was the design of her father to I tore the love-vines bleeding at every
wed her to the son of a wealthy mer- pore, from my heart, and deserted her.
chant in the city, and their union was Girl, you will madden me by that look
soon to be consummated; but, without my of terror and aversion 1
knowledge, she wrote him a letter of  " The day for our marriage dawned
dismissal, telling him plainly all the and died, yet'the bridegroom elect was
facts in the case, and begging him to non est inventus; but in his stead came
forget her. Her affianced was a most a letter of explanation-and my revenge
estimable young man, devoted to her wis complete. The old villain'aispirit
from  boyhood, and his reply to her was crushed, for it deprived himof his
confession was heartrending. She had idol, and ill-gotten wealth. -Months af-
never given him other than a sister's af- ter I' enquired concerning heotof.my
fection, and their engagement was the friend. His answer was:
united work of their fathers; otherwise  'The rose- has long bloomed'over
'T should have declined wedding one so Stella's grave.'
inconstant, for I scorn a faithless heart, " You may judge of my feelings but,
Myrelda.                            cannot appreciatethem: You are death-
"I accompanied her to her home, and ly pale, Myrelda-you shiver--you
great God ! our happy days were ended. shrink from me in horror. Have I de-
We parted there, and it was like draw- stroyed your faith, your love ? , Am I a
ing the soul-strings from the soul. I being too vile to be forgiven?  Will
never saw her again /'             you tear me from your heart, and east
" Why not, Sir."                  me from you as the murderer of that
"Myrelda, she was the daughter of pure girl?"
my mother's murderer'! I saw him--  - " Oh I Sir it is dreadful'!" she gasp.
I recognized him,' though bearing an ed.
assumed name, and I was but a child   " Answer me quickly, Myrelda !" he
of eight years when he robbed my fath- grasped her hand with an excited eer-
er, and wrecked our peaceful home.  gy, and unconscious fierceness, that em-
"He did not recognize me, and receiv- torted a low cry of pain.
ed me as the chosen of his child. She


OR, THE BAS BLEU.

CHAPTER XX.
"Death Abnas tbe wretch who fain the blow would:
Myreid's expression rendered Ham-
ilton eons}ious of his passionate energy.
lie released her hand quickly, and
caughtSher with overflowing tenderness
in 'his arms.
." 'Iorgive me, dearest; your pale, firm
face, and look of horror and aversion
drove ia to  the'verge:of despair, and
made me uneenaciouslysviolent. I would
4ie a thousand deaths to save 'you a sin-
gle pang, Myrelda. You are -my only
hope on earth. .You have smitten the
rock of ngynature with the rod of in-
effable love, and'if you turn back the
full tide upon my heart;; it 'will congeal
to an intensitythat no sunshinebeneath
the heavens willever melt. I+ loved her,
Myrelda, God knows-she was the first
tieing, that regldered life lovely and dear
to my isolated heart, and yet I sacrifi-
ced her'lifeand 'ny new found happi-
ness to' a spirit of.insatiable revenge I
You have not herdependent softness of
soul that would snap the cords of your
life, when the 'sweet.song of joy was
ended-the keys of my strange mental
construction-were swept by other hands;
and s~er a great anthem   of music
throughmy. life long years' before I
k new youiiand yet you, girl, have given
them  a deeper, a fuller, a richer and
more echoing tone,,than they knew'in
thiosearly and misguided years. You
are- helife of my life, Myrelda; and
while that life 'remains you will be in-
corporated with its:qxistence. IJ stand
upon the great ocean ,f Time, with the
wreck of other days drifting far away,
Anonumnentof remorse  for the wrongs
of the past,with one star 'leading me to'
the haven of rest; 'you are" that star,"
Myrelda,l and if you veil your light,
and despise and desert me for the sins

I

r- ----                                                       _.,.       -    _ -- _   ---.  .

of ny youth-that, God knows I de-
plore and abhor more than you cag,
gir- Ishall wander upon the wide sea
aimless and beaconless, through the -
midnight of years that may come, and
perhaps go down beneath the billows of
stoicism and adamantine hardness of
soul, to hell, at last."
" Herbert Herbert!' Nyrelda clung
to him, shudderigly, at the calm, firm
tone in which this probable result was
uttered.'
"You' tremble-you twine your little
arms around m, as though they, with
all their frailty, could avert that fate.
Would you save me from it, Myrelda ?"
"I would, Sir, with my life.'
"Without your love, dear girl, your
influence would be lost. I might take
you to my arms, a wife, and love you.
as fondly as now through long years;
but without the knowledge that I held
your- heart in my keeping, your life
would not avail. , I shall never love
you less than now, Myrelda; you may
refuse to unite your destiny with mine,
and cast me off as unworthy, but while
there is a throb of life in my veins, or
strength in this arm, you will have my
love and protection. . Your father com-
mitted you to my care-alas ! he knew.
not whom he was trusting;--and long
as life lasts I will perform a brother's
part, if I may not claim a dearer, a more
sacred title. But the ice.-rust that has
been my;prison from boyhood, will not
break and drop from my soul, without
the warm  sunlight , of your love and
faith. I know my own hardness and
constitutional defects, and have tiied to
correct them; but it is not in my nature
to be pliant and impressible. I love you
more intensely for being shut up from
all the earth, forthe fibres of -my heart
have but one support. You can nevev
tear them fromyou, though you refuse
to train them to loftier heights and sym-

metrical proportions; you may go one,
way, I the other}; the dividing will only-
lengthen not loosenthe vines;'but the
sea-waves of life that wash between us,
will make the heart ache and bleed by
the harsh chafings; and yet, the world,
and you, would never know the inner
anguish that I should endure, for I am
so constituted, Myrelda, that I'd be torn
and mangled limb from trunk, and joint
from joint, before a tear should moisten
my eye, or a sigh heave my bosom, be-
cause of the sad reverses of human life,
or the 'ills that flesh is heir to.' Inever
could yield to that weakness, though
doomed to torture more terrible than the
lost spirits' in perdition undergo. Had
my poor dear mother been spared me, I
should have been a better man; her love
would have kept my soul from petrify-
ing in the cold, subterranean waters of
exclusion and revenge. It was in your
power, girl, to accomplish what she
would have effected; for you are the
first one that has drawn a tear from my'
eyes since I knelt beside her coffin,-
twenty-two years ago ! Love for and
from you, was the golden key to the
prison-house of my incarcerated better-
being. It is sympathy, soul-companion-
ship that I need and seek ; that alone,
can soften"and* melt my iron nature to
purer and holier thoughts and feelings.
Can you give me that, Myrelda, know-
ing to whom you trust it ?"'
" I can, Herbert; 'with all thy faults
I love thee still.' Had not your wrong'
brought its own punishment=-and were
you impenitent ,now, I should fear to
trust you.. Your voluntary confession
betrays 'your noble soul; and while I,
shudder at the enormity of your sin,
I love you more for what you have suf-'
fered.i God pardons the penitent, and
commands us to forgive. You can nev-
er be less dear to my heart, Herbert, till i
you cease to be what you now are."

"And now that you know all, will
you renew your vow; and promise, be-
fore high Heaven, to be niine through
all Time and Eternit ?"
" I will,I do, Herbert !"
Herbert Hamilton drew the lips that
uttered the vow to his own, and her
cheek was moist - with 'the overflowing
tenderness and joy that welled up froma
the great deep of his strong heart, and
brimmed his dark eyes when he hid
her face in his bosom, and bowed"his
head upon her brown tresses.
"G od bless you, dear one, and make
me worthy of you! I know my unwor-
thiness to live 'in a heart where-God
dwells;'I feel the honor and blessing of
possessing such a heart; and one less
pure I would not wish to claim. With
all my guilt and sinfulness, I have ever
shunned the sinful and abhorred crime.
Could I forget that deed, Myrelda, I
should look back upon the past with as
little remorse as most men experience
from retrospection. My dear mother
seemed ever near me, directing my ways
and keeping me from the evil that is in
the world. Strange, that I did not xe-
pent before breaking a heart as pure,
but not as firm and self-reliant as yours."
".Did you feel no compunctions of
conscience, Sir ?-was there no inward
monitor whispering you to desist ?'
" Myrelda, I felt no remorse till my
enemy was in his grave; my enmity ex-
tended not beyond that. I recovered
my father's wealth, and reduced my
poor mother's murderer to the state in
which she died, and I was avenged;
but far less content than when I was
a poor 'charity-boy.'
S"With the announcement of his
death, the first billow of remorse rolled
over my granite heart, and my dead
mother's mild eyes-so like to yours,
Myrelda, both in color and expression--..
seemed reproaching me from the skies;

t'! BB11 P °HAMILTON;


OR, THE BAS BLEU.            65

for disregarding her early teachings of
fo gives and lgoe.  I would have
ai-d    he-_then, nd itoaed  for the
past by'a life, of devotion; but i'oo
LANE wa$ written byth9 Divine hand
upon the record of Eternity;'and I
learned&amp;with feelings.indescribable, th at
'the  se alongg bl ooed ver Stella's
graye'
_,'c was aiser le, M re la-God for-
saken a   i hopeless, and yet none ever
knaw that theifngs ofthe serpent was
fastened.upon .,g joul. I rossed the
oe    fltrom the, harrowing t ights
tha ~4'0 er hauntedome, and h  their
bla ik shadows over my futureway; and
naghostly midnight have I looked"
dow'n.ipto the green waves of. the wide-
iweeplna waters, and longed to have
t     ided,. eternally, around the great
elus ra remorseful memory. And
et gbieverentertainedaseroas thought
ofdi/te f .  ion-it was too eo'wardly.
S '1ron E;arrt scorned the stggestigg,'
and    ied:itself! I would -have de-
piedinyf, had"a tear oistene4iny
eyes.'. I.aid, ta ntiugly, to my,tossed
and w4thing   spirit, ,suffer-and be
.trong  oman mhay give w&amp;y totears, but
man, s   'ev ; he ni t:hide all beneath
calmeterior.'  k
#.wandered over Europe; I strolled
down thie bright Guadalquiver, where
darkeyed.:spanish damsels dream  of
lve;    dM   4  through.t he orange
fovesof blueeyed  sunny' taly' I
cr-ssedepoud Alps; where Napolean
clambered. years' before, and sailed p
yh     I i e, within a broad and brilliant
pa oramaof beauty, unrolled oi either
side, yainfed by Godsown Artiste hand;
:visitedthe Holy Land, and stood where
Alexander 'wept becausethere were Io
ior worlds conquer; #I boatedn-the
,y 19  wateran the Nleandlingered
where Byro.S hakspenre' and Burk
once   od;   exposedd anyself to every

peril, by land and sea; but the decree
had gone forth from thecourt of Heav-
en: 'Thou shalt not die'; and I return-
ed as I went, 'seeking rest, :ut finding
none,' with themark of Cain branded,
in, letters of' fire, upon 'my heart's ,core.
";Immediately upon my return, the
brother of her whom I had so wronged
and who, at her death, wastraveli ng in
foreaign- lands, challenged me, and we
met."                             .
"Qh.! Herbert, did you kill him ?'
"You cling to ,me and tremble, as
though my answer were tjo decide your
future weal or wo! Yourface is an-
guishedwith uncertainty and dread,
and your dear eyes plead, even now,
for ,hislife ! Do youthink I would, 'My-
relda ?"
"Not now, Sir; but then, then, did
you kill him, Herbert ?".'
1" Girl! I discharged my weapon in
the air! and. fell before his fire--Myrel-
da!"
Hamilton's heart stood still at the
strange cry that escaped her lips, at1is
announcement. He caughther, impul-
sively, closer 'to his breast, and bent tver
her white face ; she lay insensible in
his arms. For the second time in her
life of trial, the strong-hearted girl had
fainted.
Herbert Hamilton's soul did not de-
sert him, even then, and without expo-
sing her to wondering and inquisitive
eyes, he succeeded in restoring her to
consciousness.
"Oh ! if you had died ! Why did
you meet him, Herbert ?"
" To give him one life for the "two I
had deprived him of. You quiver again,
1 yrelda. It was fool-hardiness,.heav-
en daring, I know, but; I was misery-
maddened, and God-defying, then. I
courted death, and braved;all things.--
Thank God thatie did not take, in his
wrath, what I would have hurled back

HERBERT -HAMILTON;

uponHim,'as unworthy of retention.'
4 He is 'long suffering, slow to anger
and of great kindness; not willing that
any should perish,' Herbert."
" Myrelda, I have, learned to fee
that, since then.  You have.taught me
to think."
" Well, Sir, was his wrath appeased
by the result ?"
" Had I died, Myrelda, his remorse
would have equalled his victim's; for
I have since learned that he possesses
as warm and tender sensibilities as she
whom I destroyed. I had never seen
hin, when we met upon the field of
honor (?) but my course was then deci-
ded. I bequeathed half my wealth to
my benefactor, the remainder to him.
Had I not formed my resolution previ-
ous to an encounter, I should have de-
termined, then, to leave him unharmed;
for, Myrelda, he was the exact counter-
part of his sister in appearance. The
first glance at his face froze the blood
in my veins, and made me hope more
ardently that his-aim might be unerring
as mine would have been, had I design-
ed to destroy him; for I was, and am,
what is termed 'a dead shot."
." Oh, Herbert, did you not think of
the
-'certain something after that,
Which makes us rather brave the ills we have,
Than fly to others that we know not of?"
"Girl, I had asked myself in my
wretchedness, 'why did God, who is all
goodness and mercy,create human beings
when He knew a part would be lost ?'
and I - reasoned my erring mind to the
conclusion that all must be saved, or Godf
were unjust."
a " Oh ! Herbert."
" Myrelda, it was blind, brain-crack-
ed sophistry, with which I would have
damned my immortal soul. I have learn-,
ed to reflect more deeply, and reason
more in accordance   with  scriptural.
truths since I knew you."
9

" Well, Sir ?"
"Do youfee thisscar ?" (sweeping back'
t the jetty curls from his massive fore-
head,) "it is a lasting monument to the
I memory of an idolizing and vindictive
brother. Nine weeks I found respite
from mortal anguish, in delirium. A
brain fever gave promise of a final re-
lease from earthly ills; but, as if by a
miracle, I recove ed. Myrelda, I open-
ed my eyes upon the world again, with
regret that they had not closed forever!
Don't reprove me with that look for
my madness; I am fully sensible of it
now.
" I lay there twelve mortal weeks and
groaned in anguish of spirit ; and, like
Job, cursed the day of my birth. Had
I not been 'made of sterner stuff' than
mere flesh and blood, reason would have
abdicated her throne,and groped a Wan-
dering Jew, through the wilderness of
idiotic night; and yet no mortal ears
ever heard a moan from my tortured
soul, or dreamed that
'riends might pity what I felt.'
You weep for me, even now, Myrelda;
your gentle heart pities more than it
contemns. Ah ! I have learned to value
life since then, dearest; and to thank
God that it was spared to know and
love you."
" And I, too, Herbert. I can compre-
hend now, how I was won, irresistibly;
it was your invincible strength of mind
that led me captive. I struggled against
your power, Herbert; but could not re-
sist your influence."
" Yea, verily, you 'died hard,' darl-
ing !"-a humorous smile drove the
shadows gathered from the past out of
his dark eyes-" and by my faith I half
despaired of ever taking you in the net.
But I caught you at last, wary one, and
securely, too, with all your slyness and
wisdom."
" Now don't boast, if you have rea-


66             HERBERT HAMILTON;

son to, I have more,. for mine was a
stronger and nobler conquest."
" Tut! I deny that, point blank."
"I won't dispute the 'point' with
you, Sir, in words; but you'll allow me-
the privilege of thinking, independent.
ly. But what became of him, Her-
bert ?"
"I sent for him, Myrelda, during
convalescence, and revealed just enough
of my inner life to induce him to accept
what I proposed to offer. He entered
my chamber with a heart burning hot
with animosity for his sister's destroyer;
but that man had a soUL, Myrelda, and
he left me, a friend, forgiving and syin-
pathiaing. From that hour there was
a mighty weight removed from    my
mind.                             '
" In recovering my father's property,
I had deprived him of all, and left him
a poor man, without a profession, and
dependent upon his untried energies for
subsistence. I secured to him ten thou-
sand dollars, as the gift of a brother ;
and he is now a wealthy merchant in
the city of Gotham; a happy husband
and father ; his wife is the sister of my
friend, at those house, and with whom
I first met Stella. They were betroth-
ed then--a lvely woman, and good as
beautiful. You shall see her, Myrelda,
when we are married-there I blush-
ing, by George I and hiding your face
in my bosom, with fright at the terri-
ble thought of having such an unde-
serving husband, I'll warrant,"
"Never mind that, Sir; but why
were you so very careful to induce me
to believe that you were not rich ?"
" Because I wished to surprise you,
agreeably, were I so fortunate as to win
you as a poor man, apparently."
"You feared I would be influenced
by your wealth, Herbert."       -"
"There, what an indignant look of
injured innocence-don't extirpate me

with it A&amp;4-relda, and do me-the justice,
darling, to believe I never thought you
capable of such meanness, It was your
high soul and pure, firm heart that won
me, girl. Your soul-touching effusions
first arrested me. I saw that you had
suffered deeply, and was drawn towards
you by that belief; and yet, in those
plaintive transcripts of the heart, you
rose superior to earth, and led me away
where there was rest for the weary soul
at last. I remember saying aloud, im-
pulsively, while reading one of your ar-
ticles: 'an angel could hardly utter a
worthier sentiment.' I conceived an
irresistible desire to know you better,
and I resolved to. address you by let-
ter.
"Your reply startled me; it was so un-
like your published writings. It was wit-
ty, ironical, astute, pungent, and proud-
ly independent. I read and re-read it,
and referred to a copy of mine for a
solution of the riddle. and there I found
it. "1You had 'hit me off' on every
point from Alpha to Omega ! I believe
the first smile that had come from my
heart in eleven years gleamed out over
that letter. You were the first woman
that had ever met me so boldly yet
modestly; .so spiritedly, yet unexcep-
tionably ; without a compromise of femi-
nine dignity or relative position. I
liked you all the more for your. indepen-
dence and bravery ; there was congeni-
ality in your free style and fearless
handling. You were not afraid to 'pay
me back in my own coin,'for you had a
soul that was self-conscious and self-re-
liant.   You provoked me-to think of
you continually, and to speculate upon
your personal appearance.   I had two
portraits of you in my mind's eye, cor-
responding to your public and private.
individualities. Your refusal to send
f me your likeness only increased the de-
sire to see you. Morbid thoughts were

OR, THE BAS BLEU.                            67
expelled, and a new life opened before dence, would have discovered.  I had
me. My purest pleasure was in read- resolved to see you whenever that im-
ing and responding to your letters.  pression was produced; and I was des-
" I tried to beguile you into speaking perately in love with you, Myrelda,
of your past life, but you were a sealed when you entered that room so coolly,
book on that point. I found that your and I stood before you so grave and ap-
heart-leaves were not to be read at will, parently unaffected. Your agitation
and whoever was privileged to turn thrilled me to the heart's centre with
them over, must possess a large share of pleasure, for I saw I had more power
interest in that heart, and the desire to over your sensibilities, than you would
claim that grew upon me sensibly.   condescend to acknowledge, even to
" But I had learned something of your proud heart. Had I yielded to im-
your history previous to that, from one pulse, I should have caught you, then
whose acquaintance I formed by mere and there to my heart, and confirmed,
chance. She had never met you, but verbally, what I had previously confes-
knew of your disappointment, and her sed, ironically, by letter ; but I had an
version of the story incensed and dis- end, to accomplish, and I resisted the
gusted me. I saw that she was jealous strong temptation."
because of my inquiries respecting you,  "A nd what was that, sir ?"
and admiration of your literary abilities,  " I wished to .get you as deeply in
and designed to reduce you in my esti- love as I was, and to conquer your pride
nation. She was a trifling, sentimental, and independence, by the depth of your
moon-struck, milk-and-water would-be affection."
author, whose one unchanging theme    "And did you succeed, Herbert ?"
was 'love in a cottage,' and ' meeting  " No ! girl, you defied me to the last,
by moonlight !' There was no soul there, even when your whole heart was in my
Myrelda. I had long tired of her lym- possession! I believe, conscientiously,
phatic letters, and I repudiated her you would have died sooner than per-
from that moment. Had she been ever mit me, by word or deed, to know you
so able a writer, I should have despised were vanquished unasked !"
her then; her remarks concerning you  "Now why did you sport that artifi-
were so uncharitable and covertly en- cial superfluity, Herbert ?"
vious.  They fred my blood with in-  "To test you2Myrelda, and to mysti-
dignation, and If found from that circum- fy you. You had ridiculed them un-
stance how very near you had approach- mercifully, supposing you were chasten-
ed me. I even detected a new-born de- ing me by the operation, and I wished
sire away down in the silent chamber to see how they would affect you in
of my sous to take you in my arms, and reality ; but I was determined to per-
protect you from the envy and jealousy form that vow, and. I found it would be
that were in the world-and yet I had an impossibility, without removing
never seen you !                    them. I had prepared myself for such
"I exerted my powers to make an an emergency; and in truth I abomi-
impression upon your heart, and at nated them as much as you professed to.
length I fancied I discerned a symptom Did you not puzzle over that circum-
of success. There was a softer turn to stance, Myrelda?"
even your sarcastic thrusts, that only one  " Yes, indeed, Sir! I never could
who looked and longed for such an evi- comprehend that."


68                      HERBERT HAMILTON;
" As I thought. I loved you more You lost nothing in my estimation when
and more from association, Myrelda, I recalled it to memory, for I saw that
until I absolutely feared to risk the final no earthly considerations could tempt
result by a plain declaration. I found you to transcend the line of strict pro-
you so pure, high-hearted and noble- priety.
souled, that I became painfully sensible  " I would 1ave returned to you that
of my unworthiness to possess you, and night, had there been the slightest pro-
distrusted my power to win.         bability of obtaining an interview. But
I essayed to fathom your feelings by I went early to the cottage the subse-
All available means, but pride was your quent day and learned you were too in-
fortress-I could not demolish that. I disposed to be disturbed. Shall I con-
heard you maligned by that monster, fess, Myrelda, that the information
Gerald, and circuitously traduced by pleased even while it pained me? for I
Lora Clyde, and something rose up fancied it a proof of your love. I had
within me, that, had it been permitted never been fully satisfied of that, you
to exercise its will, would have hurled were so guarded in your deportment,
them into Hades without mercy. Had though'the fluctuations of your couu-
the world risen up against you, with tenance often flattered the belief.
one accord, and, condemned you as     ". I left my card with a penciled re-
doubtful, I would have defended and quest for an interview at a specified.
protected you; for I had thoroughly hour, and was informed by your ser-
tested and knew your immaculatemind. vant that you-declined the interview."
" Several times, Myrelda, I was on 4"Oh ! Herbert !"
the point of telling you how dear you  " Myrelda, you have heard her de-
were to my heart of hearts, and how fensive plea; she feared I designed to
necessary to my happiness, but the 'Imp deceive you ! Girl, that erebian crime
of the Perverse' that has haunted me does not attach to my name or nature.
from boyhood, in a remarkable manner In reviewing my past life, I find nothing
held back the confession. My love of to regret for the betrayal of innocence,
self-torture held. me in restraint; but and I would sooner have .faced a play-
had you yielded to my proffered ca- ing battery than conspired with the
ress that night of our paleful parting, devil against yours. RHad I even been
I should have told you all. I thought a libertine of the blackest dye, I knew
I saw disappointment in your face when you too well to venture near that under-
I rose to retire, and it encouraged and ground magazine-I would not hesitate
delighted me ; but your stern resistance to declare my belief upon affidavit; that
and queenly air transformed me into had I been so reckless, so far as human
an iceberg."                       feeling is concerned, I should have been
"I would have submitted, Herbert, blown to the'bottomless pit of confu-
had you not spoken the parting words sion, in the twinkling of an eye! You
previous to the proffer."           smile, Myrelda; would even your love
" I was 'not aware of that, Myrelda, have spared me ?"
until I had shut myself up in my cham-  "Sir, I should have despised you
ber, and sought earnestly for arguments with a double-refined hatred ! Esteem,.
to justify your conduct. In the excite- in my opinion, is the only basis of love."-
ment of the moment I had lost sight of.  " Precisely. I knew just where the
the fact and uttered it involuntarily, fountains of your esteem and contempt

OR, THE BAS BLEU..           69

lay, and I was very careful to avoid
stirring up the latter."
"XWell, Herbert ?"
" As I told you before, Myrelda, I
am proud as Lucifer, and your refusal
to see me stung like an adder-in fact I
would have given the.preference to the
reptile. I resolved to hold myself aloof
for a time, and watch the effect. °I could
not think that I was wholly indifferent
to you, and attributed your conduct to
a similar spirit that actuated me ; but.
I was determined to see you at all haz-
ards; nothing less than divine could
have prevented that. I would have gone
through a jungle of hungry wild beasts
and braved the torture of Poe's 'Pit and
Pendulum' to accomplish it ! Since the
dawn of remembrance, Myielda, I have
never formed a fixed purpose but were
it within the compass of indefatigable
energy and perseverence and moral dar-
ing, it was executed.
"I watched daily and hourly for you,
but in vain, until I saw you issue from
Mrs. Fairfield's humble dwelling. I
should have joined you immediately, had
not that demon Ilerald then appeared."
" Let me explain that, Herbert."
" Myrelda, it was explained before
you entered your home."
"How, Sir Y"
"With the knowledge you have of
my constitution, you will not be surpris-
ed when I tell you, that, although a
perfectstranger, not even knowing her
name, I entered Mrs. Fairfield's dwell-
ing and received the particulars from
her dying lips-and had she lived to
bear witness against him, I would have
held him up to the world, as the villain
he is, long ere this,"
" Did you not doubt me even then,
Herbert ?"
" Doubt you, girl ! when I have seen
him cower before the lightning glance
of your unquailing and contemptuous

eye? I would as soon have doubted my
ow.n existence as your purity. Myrel-
da, I could 'see too far through a mill-
stone,' to suppose that mere chance had
brought us together there, a trio; or
that you would not have 'looked before
you leaped,' had the circumstances been
of a criminal nature. I could not per-
ceive the workings of the infernal ma-
chine, to be sure, but I know there were
wire-pullers somewhere   behind  the
screen, and I was 'dead-set' upon ferret-
ing them out."
" If all possessed your spirit, Herbert,
there would be fewer blasted reputations
in the world. and fewer parted hearts.
The world is too proud to 'judge from
the appearance."'
"When appearance may be but the
result of the machinations, of a fiend
incarnate to blacken the white robe of
purity itself. It is to be deplored, My-
relda, that the greatest of all virtues-
CHARITY-is the; least entertained
among men.
"But the result of Gerald's plan was
diametrically opposed to his design, for
it was the means of exposing your se-
cret piety and benevolence. Mrs. Fair-
field revealed all your private excellence
with an animation and eagerness that
proved her full appreciation of your in--
trinsic worth.
" I left her house and followed you,
Myrelda, with a heart firm as flint.-
Had you been at the Vale I would have
forced my way to your chamber, even
had ypu refused to see me. I knew you
felt wronged, and I was determined to
have a hearing, in the face of all oppo-
sition.,"
" I was'there, Herbert, in a state of
despe nation occasioned by the seeming
of the event."
"I comprehend it all now, Myrelda,
and forgive her solely for the love she
bears you.


OR, THE 3AS BLEU.               '   *

"I should have returned again that
evening, but 'for anetter received on my
homeward way, from New England, de-
ianding my immediate presence on bus-
iness of an urgent nature. I wrote you
a long 'billetdoux, that night, dearest,
explaining and confessing all, and re-,
questing a reply during my necessary
absence. .But that reply came not, and
I 'felt confident there was another plot
against me, for I knew you were too
honorable to 'refuse that request, and I
attributed it tos Gerald's villainous
shrewdness. For once he was unjustly
suspected of meanness; and I'll venture
to say it was the first time in his life-his-
tory; I should have seen you immedi-
ately upon my arrival, but for the late-
ness of the hour, and, the peculiar cir-
cumstances that surrounded- me. But
we met before morning's dawn, darling,
never to part again, till-"
"'This mortal shall put on immortal-
ity,' dear, Herbert."
Could' they have seen the serpent
crawling stealthily towards Eden's bow-
er to, strike the venom of malice into
the heart of peace, she would have
trembled for the sweet blossoms upon
the rose-tree of life; for'the muttered
words had gone forth.from the white
lips of Gerald, "He shall die!",
CHAPTER XXI
"what made.theimanof envy what he was,
Was worth in others, vileness in himself."-PoLLoK
Fredegick Gerald entered his elegan'
bppne, with glaring eyes and fiercely se
lips.'Providence had thwarted his fiend
ighiaesign sad he was a murderer onl~
in heart. = He ground his teeth with
jealous rage, as he saw again in memory
the manly arms of Hamilton folde
around the frail form of Myrelda, a
she sprang impulsively forward and fel
upon his breast.

Gerald had witnessed it all, through
the parted curtains of Myrelda's cham-
ber window, and his black heart throb-
bed fasterand anxious brow burned hot=
ter with momentarily increasing excite-
ment lest she should escape through his
rival's agency from the burningbuilding,
To be foiled now after all his bold dar-
ing would be to-doubly madden him.
He had not entertained a thought of
defeat. He felt confident the high winds
and combustible material that partly
composed the building would render all
ingress or egress impossible, when the
alarm was sounded through the silent
city. Myrelda would be stifled ere her
rescue could. be effected through the
only medium of possible escape-her
chamber wii dow.
Gerald stationed himself at a point
that best commanded a view of the
;doomed dwelling and watched eagerly
every attempt of the philanthrophic few
to penetrate to the fire-fortified cham-
ber. A satanic smile of exultation
gleamed through his costly fur collar,
as appearances indicated the impregna-
bility of her living and lurid tomb.
His heart gave a spasmodic bound as
ihe observed Hamilton leap with a tre-
mendous act of volition into the hall;
he quivered with a fearful presentiment
of defeat, as his strong right arm was
raised to fell his detainer and friend,
Mr. layton, and stood aghast as he
flashed up the staircase and disappear-
ed from the -view of the shuddering
'crowd,    Gerald trembled with appre-
t hensiou; Hamilton's very air of invin-
t cible determination stamped the epitaph
- of his demoniac hopes upon his fearful
y feelings. If within the limits of possi-
h bilty, with such a defiant and herculean
y nature to shield her, Gerald felt, in his
d secret soul she would escape unscathed.
s    His shrinking spirit expanded some-
l .what as he saw the burning linen hurl-

ed through the lattice ; it betrayed the
fearful condition of the apartment.-
They could not possibly survive but a
few minutes longer without some means
of descent from  the window supplied
by the citizens; and Gerald's watchful
eye encouraged the hope and belief that
that could not be obtained in time suf-
ficient to save them from the devouring
element. He had heard Mr. Berrien's
stentorian lungs shouting "a ladder! a
ladder I" as he flew by with a rapidity
that bore ample testimony to the ex-
citement and solicitude of his generous
and noble soul, but Gerald flattered him-
self, from the appearance of the build-
ing that all would be ended before one
could be procured. His soul died with-
in him when he saw .Hamilton's prepa-
rations for escaping from the chamber
-he had not thought of that means-
but his spirit rose to the achme of fe-
licitous certainty when they fled from
the red tongue that protruded through
the lattice. The fiend incarnate did not
know that ere Hamilton braved the
flames, or Mr. Berrien's voice rang out
upon the wintry air, suggestion of the
last resort, another had shot of,upon
the same errand of mercy.
Crazy Joe was among the first.who
started from their couch of dreams, and
rushed to the scene of ruin. Joe stri-
ded up the stairs as far as he dared ven-
ture for constitutional timidity, and with
a yell of horror and anxiety, he darted
back again into the open air, and look-
ed up at Myrelda. Possessing all the
mental weakness of a child, fear and
pity, occasioned by the scene, overcame
him, and, he burst into tears and loud
lamentations. .,Suddenly starting, like
a streak, from his position, he brotht
one sledge-hammer fist hard down upon
the brown palm of his left hand, with
the screech: "dog me.!" and went. at
the rate of ten knots, from the burning

building. No one regarded the "crazy
boy's" movements. Joe's race was de-
cidedly Gilpin. His tow hair stood out
straight behind, and his big brown
hands beat the air swiftly, as they
swung back and forth, as a means of
propelling power. His dilapidated wool
hat was carried away by the velocity of
his movements, in conjunction with the
rushing winds, but he heeded it not.--
In his hasteto arrive early at the point
of gravitation, Joe had neglected to tie
the stout leather strings that held his
heavy cowhides to his mammoth pedal
dexters, and now, as he ran, one pegged-
bottom  kine envelop popped off his
hoseless track-maker, and left him stark
barefoot upon the frosty giound. Joe
gave a tremendous kick with the other
peregrinator, and ejected the remaining
shoe with such- force and momentum,
that it flew up and grazed his ear, as
he dashed by it, muttering to himself:
" Go to grass, ole shoes ! yer ain't
nuthin' but a nuisness, no how. I kin
run ten times faster without ye-dog
me!    Poor little thing !  Hamilton's
gone, too; an' I'm boun' ter git'er out,
by !"
Now Joe was a strict religionist, and
never failed to repent in "sackcloth and
ashes," for every involuntary act of pro-
fanity, when the excitement that occa-
sioned it had subsided; and there he
was, eminently superior to thousands of
his sex who could boast a clearer and
loftier intellect. Joe was an official
member of the Second Presbyterian
Church-that is, he pumped the wind
into the big organ regularly every Sab-
bath, and was as proud of his sta-
tion as a carpenter's canine with a rule
in his mouth; and considered himself
entitled to all the immunities of the
church militant, simply from this fact;
but Joe forgot his religion on the pres-
ent occasion, and the fortl1den word

HERBERT HAMILTON;


72 .                    HERBERT HAMILTON;
slipped out unawares. He remembered of delight, on finding the casement
it the next Sunday, however, as he stood again closed-.-she was yet alive, evident-
at the organ pump-handle, and looked ly. His astonishment was unbounded,
over the green baize that screened the on beholding Hamilton in the fated
choir, down at the silver-haired Pastor, chamber ; no doubt equal to that of the
and promised his chastising conscience king of Babylon when he saw - four
to lead a more exemplary life iithe fu- "walking in the midst" of the fiery
ture; emphasizing the mental resolve furnace, where only three had been cast.
with the characteristic and emphatic The crowd caught up Joe's yell and
confirmation, "dog me."  As we have prolonged it, as much from admiration
before stated Joe did "jobs" for the of the generous-hearted creature, as
townsnen, and one of his boasted pro- congratulation for the rescue of imper-
fessions was whitewashing; and as a illed lovers.
necessary apparatus, he had constructed  Dr. Gerald's heart lay like a huge
a ladder-.--rather rude, to be sure, but lump of lead beneath his costly super-
substantial as rough; for Joe was a fine and satin, at the sight- -Joe, the
cautious soul, and valued his short imbecile, insignificant, worthless crea-
neck above rubies; he believed, firmly: ture, whom he would have scorned to
"a live dog is better than a dead lion." touch with the tips of his aristocratic
Joe was now full tilt for the ladder, that fingers, had foiled him in his purpose.
had brought him many a "clean shil- Joe's life would have hung upon an at-
ling," and was destined to be Aladdin's. tenuated thread had Gerald met him,
lamp that would supply all his subse- then, in one of the dark, deserted al-
quent necessities;, for Herbert Hamil- lies of the city. Poor Joe ! he had
ton richly rewarded him for that night's only rescued two lives from the fearful-
incalculable service. Joe's big brown ness of Scylla, to fall, himself, upon
hands tore it from its perch against an Charybdis-he had, henceforth,. an im-
old tree in the, little home-yard, and placable enemy in the villainous incen-
poking his bare head through the rounds, diary, and cold-blooded murderer at
he rested.it upon his broad shoulders, heart.o
and went as fast as circumstances would Gerald witnessed thesafe descent of
rmit, back towards the scene of con- Myrelda and her preserver, and hurried
fusion, his heart thumping against his from the scene with the shout of the
homespun vest, like a blacksmith's ham- little Frenchman  ringing the death
mer, lest he should arrive too late. Joe knell of his peace, in his envious ear.
pulled and tugged lustily at the heavy  "Nobody can beat ze Yankee"-he
concern, and bent beneath his burden, repeated, sneeringly-" we shall see 1"
like Bunyan's Pilgrim; and from mere the muttered fiercely, as he turned the
habit, he spit upon his hands and rub- bolt of his chamber door, and shut him-
bed them together brave; for, by the self in from a world he hated but little
way, his stout shoulders and broad breast less than Him whi created it.
did all the work. He heaved in sight of I Hamilton should die, he swore that,
the cottage as the jetoffirestreamed from wie  a horrid imprecation, either by
the falling door through the open win- a fair means or foul. He would provoke
dow, and his tow hair stood on end at the an insult and challenge him. He should
sight. He gave a superhuman dive for- never triumph while he lived to witness
ward, adld sent up an Indian-Jike whoop it. If he declined the meeting, the as-

I

I

OR, THE BAS BLEU.

7,

3"                                  _"     1 r.+r . .         . rr.

sassin's steel or lead should work his extirpate him by some means less has-
destruction.                        ardous to his own precious life. The
He coolly unlocked a drawer, and villain finally concluded to let eircum-
took thence a six-barrel revolver, and stances determine by what method Ham-
a glittering dagger, and gloated over the ilton should die. if Myrelda recover-
deadly weapons. Suddenly a curing ed, and an opportunity offered to assas-
thought occurred to his villainous and sinate him, before their nuptials, he
pusilanimous mind; he would not make would avail himself of it; if not, he
them instrumental in ridding him of would have recourse to the code of hon.
his rival; they would readily be recog- or as the last-resort.
nized by his. acquaintances; and many  Myrelda's convalescence, and thereport
a fatal result had been brought about of their early marriage, excited his pas-
by as simple an agent; he would visit sionate nature to the highest degree of
a distant city and procure others for anxiety, and put hirn on the alert for
his malevolent purpose, that could not his foa; but no auspicious moment was
possibly be identified as his peculiar afforded him for wreaking his vengeance
property.                          secretly, upon the unsuspecting Hamil-
He returned them to their hiding ton.
place, and the subsequent day, Dr. Ger- Their enmity was a well known fact in
ald was en route for Baltimore. He re- the community, and Gerald feared for his
turned in the evening train.        own safety should he send the murderous
steel to his breast, under other circum-
stances than such as would naturally lead
the public mind to attribute the crime
CHAPTER XXII.               to the cupidity and cold bloodedness of
"A fool tilteth headlong, and his enemy is aware" agetmn.Jc.H ilomdeo
-TUPPER. a gentleman Jack. Hamilton made no
Col. Montford's death, though the excursions into the country, save with
direct result of Gerald's barbarism, pro- Myrelda and the coachman, and passed
duced no remorse in the miscreant's every moment of his leisure at Mr. Ber-
mind; and Myrelda's illness inspired rien's.
the hope that its termination would   A small group was gathered arrand
obviate the necessity of executing the the stove at the Melville House, vari-
newly devised plan for frustrating the ously occupied. Hamilton was looking
design of his hated rival.          over the morning's paper, and Mr. Ber-
Frederick Gerald bore the unenvi- rien engaged in low and earnest consul-
able reputation, among those who knew  tation with a client. Since Hamifton's
him best, of being a consummate cow- return to Arlingford his former sign had
and; he had been tested, and found not been replaced, but in its. stead,
wanting in the inherent qualities that "Berrien  &amp;  Hamilton," had looked
entitle a lord of creation to the distinc- down upon the passers by from his of-
tion, "brave man ;" but being what is flee on Main street. A friendship faith-
termed, in common parlance, "a good ful and firm as that which existed be-
marksman," he relied upon that fact, tween David and Jonathan had sprung
in his extremity, and resolved to chal- up and matured between the two attor-
lenge Hamilton to mortal combat.    neys, and by mutual consent they had
In. his cooler moments, however, he associated their interests and legal la-
abjured.this decision, and proposed to bors. Ignorant of Hamilton's pecunia-
10

I


74            HERBERT HAMILTON;

I

ry circumstances, Mr. Berrien's gener-
ous heart instigated him to make'the
proposition as a means of bringing his
friend into a more rapid and. extensive
practice, through his wide-spread name
and reputation, and though indifferent
relative to the compensation to be
awarded his professional services, Ham-
ilton's sole object was to win a distin-
guished name in the land of Myrelda's
birth. He acceded gratefully, detecting
the secret motive of the noble minded
man ; also the co-partnership would
bring him nearer the temporary home
of his betrothed bride.
"Heard the news ?" inquired the jo-
vial, rubicund-faced  landlord, as he
bustled into the room  and rubbed his
hands together over the warm stove.
"Yes, Sir ; the Dutch have taken
Holland"-said Hamilton, as he looked
up from the paper with a remarkably
sober countenance, but a dash of hu-
mor in his dark eyes-"anything more
of importance ?"
"Out upon your Yankee witticism,"
laughed Boniface-"no, no, 'Squire;
something of more consequence, by con-
siderable; a case of slave abduction by.
Northern abolitionists, in our very town,
I'm told."
"Possible !" returned Hamilton, with
a steady, thoughtful glance at his in-
terlocutor.
Gerald's face colored with animation
and measure.
"Can't expect anything better, so
. long as we permit the -knaves to
come among us. I'll swear if it were
my slave I'd ferret out the villain at all
hazards, and pursue him to the ends of
the earth, even for the sake of doing
the South a service, by stretching his
rascally Yankee neck !"
All eyes turned upon Hamilton. at
this fiery remark, and intended insult;
even Mr. Berrien had ceased his con-

versation and looked attentively on ;
but Hamilton sat calm and unaffected,
seriously regarding the landlord, ap-
parently unconscious of Gerald's pres.
ence even. His whole air reminded Mr.
Berrien of Esop's fable of the fly and
the ox.
" I'd like to see the rascal strung up
blamed-well," said boniface ,giving his
stout fingers another vigorous twist over
the stove, "but hang me if I can tell
whether it would be a southern or a
northern neck stretched by the opera-
tion. If the slave has been decoyed and
sold to replenish the purse of a bred-
and-born Virginian, it won't be the first
instance of the kind upon record ; but
it comes natural to give the credit of
such anioutrage to Yankee abolitionists
and the burden of the sin is, by com-
mon consent, laid upon their shoulders
till factstoss it over in a pro-slavery di-
rection."
"Then nothing positive is ascertain-
ed relative to the affair, and no one
specially implicated ?" remarked Mr.
Berrien.
" Nothing definite, as yet, though
suspicion rests upon your friend Wilde-
man, Mr. Hamilton, who left for New
England, yesterday. That garrulous
and ubiquitous individual, They say,
asserts that the fugitive is now en route
for New York under the protection of
his abolition friend, and officers Burley
and Bragg are .in hot pursuit in that
direction."
Hamilton's paper had gradually drop-
ped to his knee during the landlord's
last communication.  The red blood
mounted swiftly to his forehead, his
black eyes flashed indignant fire, and a'
curl of ineffable soul-gontempt and su-
preme disgust, became distinctly visible
about his stern, proud mouth. He sat
silent a moment, steadily regarding
mine host, then answered calmly, while

I

... .r     ..._......__     _..__.  r.                      ..

75

his countenance resumed its former
quiet and gravity.
"Where intimately known, and right-
ly appreciated, Mr. Wildeman is above
suspicion; yet under the circumstances,
I can't be much surprised that his hon-
or should be more than questionable,since
human nature is prone to suspect even an
honorable man, when decieved by one
of his class or nation. It is a lamentable
fact that villainy is not limited by geo-
graphical boundaries; and in Yankee-
lund there are ignoble minds,-and soft-
head meddlers, who have sought to drop
the match of officiousness in the maga-
zine of Southern rights, and individual
dignity, to explode the National har-
mony. But Charles Wildeman don't
rank in that category, as the result of
this pursuit will most assuredly demon-
strate. It can't be expected that we
Yankees should be pro-slavery men;
the very nature of the circumstances
under which we are reared, forbids it;
but the honorable men of the North,
while opposed to the system of traffick-
ing in human flesh and blood, are equal-
ly averse to the activity of professed
philanthropists to break the chains of
slavery by compulsion; which effort, the
past has proven, but rivets them the
tighter; and their continued exertions,
despite the result of former labors,
show conclusively, that they are not
actuated by a spirit of true philanthro-
py; for I call that a doubtful exhibition
of the principle, where discord and
animosity follow in its steps. In the
language of one of your fair and gifted
townswomen, the worthy portion of the
North, of which Mr- Wildernan is em-
phatically one, believe that in the full-
ness of time 'the dear God who loveth
us, who made and loveth all,' will re-
veal His will concerning that which is
fermenting the public mind. .If the ef-
fort to free our slaves, be of men, it

will come to nought, but if it be of God
we cannot overthrow it;' and the time
will come when the Moses of Conscience
will lead the Black Host over the blue
Atlantic, and land them safely, upon
their own native soil. But if your ra-
bid ultras lay the flattering unction to
their'souls that Southerners are going
to submit to their dictation, they'll be
just as much mistaken as the old lady
was when she knocked her pudding off
the table and said: 'scat!"'
"Ha ! ha !" laughed the fun-loving
landlord, rubbing his hands together
like the grating of corn-shucks-"good.
by George ! I recognize the lady, Mr.
Hamilton-no mistaking that source !
she gave me a shot once that hit just in
the right place to be memorable !
"Do me the favor to relate it, ifyou
please, that I may know if your suspi-
cions are correct "-said Hamilton, with
a slight smile about his softened mouth.
"Why, you see, Sir, I'd heard of her
proficiency as reported, and fool-like,
I sought for a verbal specimen of her
powers, and to effect it, I one day rid-
iculed the grandiloquent style of a cer-
tain production of hers, and suggested
the advisability of writing a second
article, explanatory of the first; but
finally concluded that - people had no
business to read, if they were. obtuse,
and we couldn't expect an author to
find stif for the public and brains too;
ahd with a face as sober as a Deacon's,
during a church drought, she assured
me, if I required it, she'd be just char-
itable enough to try to help me; albeit,
it might be an everlasting job, with
such a mammoth cave to fill up.!'  I
haven't run aground on that shoal,
since!"
A roar of laughter followed this nar-
ration; excited;mainly, by the landlord's
inimitable manner of relating a joke.
Hamilton's face reddened and radiated-

OR, THE BAS BLETT.


76

HERBERT HAMILTON;

with spirit-light, and a slight tremor of
mirth agitated his strong frame , but it
was a remarkable fact that he had nev,-
er been heard to laugh since his resi-
dence in.Arlingford.
Mr. Berrien's gay voice was distinct-
ly heard, as he brought his hand down
upon his nearest neighbor's knee with
a force that made him flinch, exclaim-
ing:
"Served you right, old fellow, be
hanged! No mistaking that source.-
I defy any one to run afoul of that craft
and- not get a broadside that will heave
him keel upwards. I say, . Hamilton,
isn't he correct ?"
Hamilton turned, with sparkling eyes.
" Undoubtedly; I recognize the au-
thor of that, as she to whom I referred.
It is characteristic of her independent
and sarcastic nature, when the provoca-
tion is sufficient to call forth a Greek to
Greek collision. My head has often-
times gravitated beneath the weight of
her ready wit and stinging sarcasm,
with astonishing rapidity, with all my
'Yankee impudence and professional
brass,' as she terms it"-a broad sun-
shiney smile overspread his softly flush-
ed face.
All eyes, but Gerald's were brimful
of mirth at this facetious remark of the
acknowledged lover and bridegroom
elect. Gerald's eyes flashed fierce fire
beneath his heavy black brows, and a
mortal palenes swept over his cold face.
The watchful landlord observed his ex-
pression by an askance glance, and shut-
ting one eye"'significantly, at the amused
Hamilton, returned, laughingly:
"«And so 'Squire, to obviate future
concussions between you Yankee caput
and terra firma, you mean 'to have and
to hold' her invincible ladyship, in
bonds of everlasting 'love honor and
obedience,' and so beconte a slaveholder
in spite of principle."

"On a small scale,'' replied Hamil-
ton, entering into the landldrd's lively
spirit. "I would make facts positive
an individual screen, and thus escape
the annoyance of being overhauled by
Messrs. Burley and Bragg, during a
northward tour."
" Humph !" grunted Gerald, unable
longer to restrain his boiling rage,
"Southrons are too familiar with such
villainous Yankee pretences, to be de-
ceived by yours."
All faces, even the lively landlords,
grew sober at this malicious remark, in
evident apprehension of a scene-all
but Hamilton's. The harmony of his
features remained undisturbed, and he
turned his eyes quietly, but piercingly,
upon the enraged and jealous Dr. The
smile about his lips changed into a curl
of' contempt, as he replied with cool
sarcasm : .
" It is said that experience teaches
wisdom; but you, Sir, evidently haven't
learned the lessons taught in that school,
notwithstanding your long pupilage ;
otherwise you would perceive more clear-
ly, what vast discredit your unprovoked
enmity to me reflects upon you, as a man
and a husband."
Gerald sprang from his chair, furious
with passion at this cutting insinuation,
and rushed madly towards the speaker.
The solemn-visaged landlord and Mr.
Berrien obstructed his way to his calm
and scornful tormentor, who leaned
against the wall with perfect sang froid,
awaiting the manifestation of his furi-
ous foe's design. Hamilton waved aside
his friends, as he said quietly:
"No interference gentlemen, if you
please. I'm forced to the conclusion
that it -emains for me to teach that
worthy son of Esculapius a little dis-
cretion and common sense, in both of
which he is sadly deficient; and it
would be a charity to the ignorant gen-

I

OR, THE BAS BL

tlenian to proceed with the lesson forth-
with."
Gerald writhed with firy, and burst-
ing from his captors, plunged wildly
forward, and snatched a pistol from his
breast.
Hamilton's quick eye detected the
movement of the madman's hand, and
ere he could direct the deadly weapon
his strong fingers shut like a vice around
Gerald's wrists. He held the enraged
Dr. at arm's length, as he said cooly
and gravely :
" Citizens of Arlingford, you are wit-
nesses of the murderous design of the
imprisoned gentleman, and I request
that a message be despatched to the
Sheriff, while I deliver an extempore
address to this quivering culprit."
He fixed his piercing eye upon the
struggling villain, and continued in the
same cool and tormenting tone :
" My honorable Sir, as you see, I
might now inflict corporeal punishment
upon you, so far as physical superiority
is concerned ; both for your wrongs to
an innocent and helpless woman, and
your past insolence to, and present wan-
ton atack upon me; but I regard it as
far beneath my dignity to chastise one
so contemptible and infamous as your
musked and pomatumed physicianship,
and prefer handing you over to the un-
gloved fingers of the law, to do the. dir-
ty, but most commendable job for me.
I have the pleasure and now take the
liberty to inform you that since my
fist knowledge of your character, which
was long before I ever saw your merce-
nary lordship, I have looked upon you,
whenever I look upon you at all; for
you are so far beneath the level of a
man, that but for your fice-like obstre-
perousness (which will sometimes attract
the notice of larger dogs) I should not
have strained my ocular vision suffi-
ciently to become familiar with your
physiognomy."

EU. .-77

An unavoidable laugh broke, with a
smothered sound, from the listeners, at
the peculiar language and manner of
the speaker, which was, by far, more
tormenting to Gerald, than the heartiest
kicks and cuffs would have been. Ham-
ilton's method of castigating his foe,
was as novel as effective; it "bit like a
serpent, and stung like an adder," and
awarded him a greater victory over his
assailant, than gutta percha canes, or
Colt's revolvers could have achieved.
The convulsed landlord held his nose
and slipped behind Gerald to escape ob-
servation. An irrepressible smile flitted
over Hamilton's face- at the ludicrous-
ness of the scene. Gerald writhed and
struggled desperately, to escape the iron
grasp upon his arms, and finding it a
fruitless effort, he directed one patent-
leather boot at his custodian's knee, *ith
a malignant force that would have floored
him, by destroying his equilibrium, but
for the support of his captor, whose
watchfulness and agility foiled the mis-
creant's motive. Hamilton smiled again
as he proceeded with his sarcastic ad-
dress.
"My pugnacious Sir, I am not a bit
surprised by this maneuver, singe it is
the natural resort of all descendants of
the long-eared animal, that once crushed
Balam's leg through overwhelming
fright, as you fain would mine ; to which
species you have but given one more
evidence of your near relationship."
A burst of laughter ensued, that only
enraged and confused Gerald the more;
and curses loud and deep were heaped
upon his victor's head, Hamilton stood
calm and silent, till his victim's seeth-
ing and surging rage had effervesced in
a torrent of fierce imprecations, and
vulgar abuse. He then bowed with
mock respect, and continued his two-
edged sword slaughter.
' My indignant Sir, had you followed

s

-          -  ---


OR, THE BAS BLEU.               79

78- HERBERT HAMILTON;

the plain, but good old piece of advice,
'look before you leap,' you would not,
now, be in this most mortifying and
torturing position; but 'self-prese'vation
is the first law of nature,' and you must
pardon me for taking the precaution to
protect a life that is, just now, of two-
fold importance, as it holds the hopes
and happiness of another, which is of
more value, by far, than a thousand
such lives as you have sought to des-
troy.- Your past villainy to her has not
sufficed your fiendish soul, but you still
seek to agonize her woman's heart
though me. You have yet to learn the
nature; of. your adversary, Frederick,
Gerald; you flatter yourself that be-
cause I have disdained to flagelate you
for your past intended insults-and here
allow me to inform you, that it is not in
your power to insult me, Sir-that you
can still pursue your unmanly and das-
tardly course with impunity.' Individ-
ually, I have the most profound con-
tempt for your craven lordship; for none
butan arrant-coward will conceal deadly
weapons about his pusillanimous person,
in a civilized community; and your petty
efforts to provoke me, I regard with utter
indifference. After what Iknow of you,
my 'bravoSir, I deem you capable of
any sly deed'of darkness; and feeling
assured you will not again assault me
openly, since you have learned your
helplessness in my grasp, the assassin s
steel will probably do the work that
pur-blind passion has this day attempt-
ed"
Gerald's guilty conscience made him
wiuce at this insinuation. The power-
less gentleman had frequently essayed to
drown his antagonist's voice,'by loud
imprecations and defiant language; but
Hamilton poured forth a steady stream
of distinct words, that confused his
ideas, and rendered him passive before
the oily flood. Hamilton saw his quail-

ing eye, and regarded him sternly a
moment in silence.
"I detect Huilt in your countenance,
my worthy Sir, but shall pursue the even
tenor of my way, fearless of your blood-
thirsty design, and regardless of your
malice. So.far as I am concerned, per-
sonally, you will be as though you were
not; but should you continue your per-
secutions to her, whom it is' my pride,
happiness and privilege to protect and
defend, and, your jealous malignity
should affect her peace of mind or per-
'sonal security, while there is vitality in
my veins, 1 will pursue you to the ut-
termost parts of the earth for vengeance,
and though you sat upon the National
throne, I would press through an army
of bayonets and drench that throne in
your villainous heart's blood, in defiance
of all the steel in the universe of God!"
Gerald cowered before the blaze that~
flashed upon him from Hamilton's fierce
eye and crimsoned face. The company
looked upon each other in silence and
wonder. Hamilton turned to the Sheriff
as he entered the room, and said, coolly:
"For a wanton attempt upon my life, I
deliver Dr. Frederick Gerald &amp; your
custody, Sir, for trial, according to law."
The stout functionary laid his hand
upon the culprit's arm, and marched
him off, fuming and livid with rage and
deep mortification. Gerald was bound
over to keep the peace, in the sum ,of
$10,000, his brother-in-law becoming
bondsman.
The landlord dropped into a chair,
and sraightened himself out at full
length, while his corpulent person shook
convulsively, with long smothered mer-
riment, after Gerald's departure.
"Gad!t if that don't take the rag off
the bush-ha ! ha I Say 'Squire, he !
he 1-i shan't run against your wrath,
hi ! hi!--I'll be hanged-if I do, haw !
haw ! I'd sooner be shot than scared

I

to death-and rather run the gauntlet
than stand in Gerald's boots and be
fired upon after that fashion-ha ! h-a-
a-a-."
A  few  hours subsequent. Gerald's
dissolute friend and  associate, Augus-
tus Smith, emerged from Gerald's office,
bearing a challenge from the enraged
Dr. to Herbert Hamilton.
CHAPTER XXIII.
A wise man in a crowded street winueth his way with
gentleness.              Turp'ax.
'Twas like a wave of wormwood o'er his soul.
POLLOK.
The afternoon of the same day, Ham-
ilton sat in his office alone, preparing
for an approaching County Term to be
held at Fairville, ten miles distant from
Aringford, where he had recently been
licensed to practice his profession, since
his association with Mr. Berrien. It
was to be his debut in his legal capaci-
ty, and as thp fame of his abilities had
preceded him, Hamilton labored to sus-
tain it in - propria personae.,lie was
absorbed for the accomplishmentwof
this o1 ect, when Smith entered, un-
ceremoniously, with a pompous air,
meant to impress Hamilton with an
overwhelming sense of his superiority,
and presented the challenge.
Possessing a knowledge of his character'
both from rumor and observation Ham-
ilton;had ever avoided contact with the
unprincipled masculine, and passed him
by in silence and unnoticed. Thrust
now into his immediate presence, with-
out will or desire on his part, he receiv-
ed. him with coolpoliteness, that every
well-bred man will evince, under all cir-
cumstances, and waved him with grave
dignity to a chair, previous to examin-
ing the contents of the aristocratic look-
ing note.
Smith dropped indolently upon a

chair, with a yawn of seerliing indiffer,
ence respecting the facts in the case, or
the individual presence; then swinging
the right foot upon the left knee, heloll-
ed back as far as prudence dictated, and
tapping the farthest boot-toe, with his
gold-mounted rattan, whistled an ac-
companiment; thus betraying his vul-
garity and plebian blood, by a show of
independence and monied superiority.
Incensed by Hamilton's indifference-
concerning his august person, and en-
vious of his fame, he had honored \him
with the distinguishing titles of "green
Yankee," and "lie-for-a-living," and at-
tached himself to Gerald's cause with
a zeal inspired more by wounded self-
.sufficiency, than friendship for-the Dr.
He was an ardent abettor of the pres-
ent plot, that contemplated Hamilton's
life; for despite the disparity in their
pecuniary circumstances, as he fancied,
like Haman of old, his supposed supe-
riority in that respect availed him noth-
ing, "so long as he saw Mordecai, the
Jew sitting at the king's gate."  He
watched Hamilton's countenance nar-
rowly, as he perused the note, and was
rather disconcerted by its expression;
but his spirit rose ere long, from a most
tormenting depth into which he was
quite unexpectedly plunged,
Hamilton- laid the letter open upon
the desk-lid, and turned gravely to his
visitor ; brought. one polished boot over
the instep of the other foot, folded his
arms, and leaned in proud majesty
against the desk.
Smith's eyes swept from his head to
his feet rapidly; he took him all in, in
an instant. His delicate rattan ceased
its tattooing "right suddenly; his chair
tilted forward, and the impertinent
whistle became indistinct, as his right
foot slid silently to the floor. The su-
percilious, self-complacent air of the
bigot and fop, was superceded by the


80                      HE.RBERT HAMILTON;
quiet, respectful appearance of a man.  The peculiar tone in which this was
It was the calm, stern, inherent dig- uttered, turned Smith's eyes, involun-
nity of a firm, high soul, whose irresist- tarily, towards the speaker, but the keen
ible influence was felt wherever dis- flash of the midnight orbs he met, and
played, that awed the conceited cox- the strange curve of Hamilton's proud
comb and libertine, into a seeming of mouth, beat them back hastily, as the
decency and respectability. Others as door opened and Mr. Berrien entered.
impudent had felt its power, and been  Smith's timidity vanished before his
transformed for a time, from puppyism fears at Mr. B's. advent, and he ven-
to an imitation of manhood. Even tured to give Hamilton a significant look
Myrelda's wit and sarcasm were silenced and sly nod at the open letter.
at will, by the stern, mysterious power  Hamilton took the hint, and with a
of those deep, enthralling eyes.    a smile that non-plussed the Dr's. friend,
Smith had never before been brought drew it silently from the desk, and con.
under the influnce of this strange, half- cealed it under his coat-breast, as he re-
suffocating spell, and longed to escape. folded his arms.
He wriggled in his chair, and turned  Smith rose and turned towards the
his eyes again upon the silent Hamil- door, manifesting an intention to retire.
ton ; but they flew swiftly to a point less Hamilton waved him politely back.
scorching. Hamilton designed to chas-  " A few moments if you please. I
tise him for his insolence, and stood si- have yet to designate my second, that
lent some moments to subject him to the you may conjointly arrange prelimin-
fiery ordeal.                       aries."
Finding from the phase of his fore-  Smith's look of blank astonishment
head and middle section of his face, the and pale fear, turned Hamilton's eyes,
larger portion of his physiognomy being with an amused smile, upon Mr. Ber-
effectually screened by a luxuriant crop rien, who glanced from Smith to his
of rose-colored hair-that he was sufli- colleague, with a bewildered and ludi-
ciently flagelated, he dissolved the tor- crous expression.      $
turing charm.                          To Smith's utter dismay, Hamilton
" To-morrow at 10 A. M., Iam called drew the challenge from his bosom, and
upon to become a target for your friend, laid it in Mr. Berrien's hand quietly.
Dr, Gerald, at Sutton's Plains, Mary- Gerald's second rose up hastily, and
land; you being his second."        made another motion to "desert."
Smith bowed.                        " As you decline the meeting, there
" Being the challenged party, I sup- is no father necessity for my presence,"
pose the choice of weapons is by right he said, with all the indifference he
'mine."                              could muster.
Another bow of assent from the list-  " I have not signified, such an inten-
ener.                               tion," said Hamilton coolly.
" I should choose pistols," continued  He bent over and addressed Mr. Ber-
Hamilton dryly,-"as I have learned rien in an indistinct tone, who averted
from a recent adventure, that they are his face and rubbed his nose, with a,
the bosom friends of your associate, the clear glitter of fun in his blue eyes.
worthy Dr., and I have no desire to take Hamilton again turned quietly to the
advantage of him by selecting weapons pacified and hopeful Smith.
less fami iar to his valiant lordship."  "As you are, perhaps, aware, it would

DR,. TAR     BAS8 ILF T1.                             .1

be necessary for me to, withdraw from  ened all the wires of his mentalimdehti.
the Bar before accepting this challenge; ism.,}
and in fighting a duel I should choose  A low whistle and grunt of disdain
my associate, Mr. Berrien, as second; escape Mr. Berries; as he tossed Ger-
who in order to act in that capacity, aid's note upon the floor contemptuous-
would, also,,be under the necessity of ly, and turning upon the ghostly Whito
retiring from the fraternity."      accomplice, he said sternly:
Smith bowed,'and a satisfied smile of  "I suppose you are aware, Sir, that
seeming certainty swept over his ani- the statute law of -Virginia requires that
mated face. He had feared an arrest 'if any free person fight a duel"with any
from Mr. Berrien, and felt greatly re- deadly weapon, though no death ensue,
lieved by this information.          or send or deliver a -hallenge, oral or
"Being, as you know, but a 'green written: to fight a duel, though he death
Yankee, and having to 'lie for a living,' ensue, he shall be confined in jail not
it would place me in rather straightened more than one year, and be fined not ex-
circumstances, should I meet the -Dr. feeding one thousand dollars. And if
and stand his fire, as I could not be any free person accept or knowingly
permitted to resume my profession in carry, or deliver any such challenge or
this part of the 'moral vineyard,' till message; or advise, encourage. or pro-
our present upright and honorable Gov- mote such duel, he shall be confined in
ernor was removed."                 jail not more than six months, and fined
Smith's countenance indicated that not exceeding 'five hundred dollars;'
he would right gladly have chartered therefore you have incurred the penalty
a knot-hole for a century, or crept into annexed to thislaw."
an excavated mustard seed, and laid    Smith shook visibly from constitu-
dormant till the day of"judgment, to tional n'eakheas ; -the idea of a"six
escape .Hamilttns cool* and tormenting months' imp risnninent' -na .imoe-e thka
tbge   his  sensual nature could coutentlte
Riamiltou glanced obliquely at Mr.. with physicalfirmness.
Beiid, vho was growing purple with    Hamilton's -nobleiandf natgnahimoLs
pent ip iirth, and continued:        soul p4ied the fusillanimous being be-
f"'Ad     ow, Sir, tell the Dr. for me,- fore hina; and he hastened to reiievn hri,
if you please, to proceed'at once to Sut- agitation by undeceiving him.
ton's -Plams, outline my dimensions-   "It was nbt my intention, Sir, to en-
six feet by two-and if he plants a bul- force the law against this offence, but
let within the limits, I will confess he merely to teach you a higher respect for
would have hit me, had I occupied that law, than to trample foolishly upon its
position."                           enactments. As you perceive 1 could
Mr.  Berrien burst into a laugh of? now, be revenged for your past ungen-
such depth and volume, at this quaint erous and unprovoked abuse and ani-
request, that Smith colored furiously, mosity, but, they have affected me too
and strided indignantly towards the door.; slightly, to awaken a-single feeling of ill-
Mr. Berrien sprang forward and im- will or retaliation. As for your friend,
peded his progress.-                the Dr., I'could not forfeit my self-re-
"Not yet, Sir ; you are my prisoner I" spect, by placing myself on-a level with
Smith dropped into a chair like a him, suffciently long, to rid the world
shot ; the thought of his position loos- of such a myth of manhood, by send-
I1.


62                      HERBERT I
apga ball through his ipfan ous person
in an 'affair of honor,' as such as he
terms, it.  His life is of too little con-
aequence to , me, to take the trouble of
crossing the Potomac to send him to his
own place, where his brother Indas
went before him  some' centuries ago;
and he would as, certainly find him in
his well heated home, as I crossed the
Virginia line for that purpose ; for I
have not, in fifteen years, fired an erring
shot. As. for falling myself, I should
have but little fear of that, as the Dr's.
constitutional weakness, would undoubt-
edly destroy his present fair reputation
as a marksman. His nervous tempera-
ment, as I to-day, discovered, is entirely
shattered under circumstances that jeop-
ardize hisself-devoted corporation. Lest
you should question my veracity, I will
for your own satisfaction and the Dr's.
benefit, give you ocular, proof of my
proficiency."-
He glanced at Mr. Berrien, who
quickly left the office, and roon returned
bearing a concealed pistol. -  amilton
drew a half dollar from his vest, and
placing it in Smith's hand, directed him:
to hurl it in the air ; and discharging,
the weapon at the target's greatest
height, cut a smooth round orifice
through the silver coin. Smith-looked
at it ,steadily a moment, and signified
his conviction by a satisfied smile and
involuntary "I'll swear 1" as he ran his
soft white fingers through his maroon-
colorgd locks nervously.
"News Sir, say te the brave Dr. that
I give him his life,,simply because I
don't consider it worth the trouble of
taking away; and consequently, his soul
is too well prepared, in my opinion, for
emigrating to a region, where, we: are
informed, fire is the staple commodity.
He has forfeited his bond for ten thou-
sand dollars this day given, and sub-
jeted himself to a fine of one thousand'

IAMILTON;                                                        OR T1lE I
dollars more, and imprisonment for one    "'And few there be that find itwhen
year; but being the challenged party, I tandfewathe       rtfidtwe
will not hand him over to justice, as he that nature is as strongly fortified by a
has a wife, who, I am told, despite hi hedge of iniquity and self-consequence,
utter worthlessness, is jealously devoted as Rohinson Crusoe's habitation was by
to him, and who,in consequence,would  'a wall of natural growth ! responded
sf forandhsin;cansforqmyesae,wmylIr. Berrien, with a twimkie of humor
suffer for his sirns, and for my sake, my  in his astonished blue eyes.
lent and inactive. But bewareahow        "And the art of findig it consists
lentandinativ.  Bu  bearehow in imitating Crusoe's example, and
you proceed in such matters in future.  mlmuaing  ruoe  s     lieupoe at-
Sir, you may not always meet with one  climbing over the barrier a pa eu of at-
as forbearing as the 'green Yankee' and te Htmg to forced a passage through,
'Lie-for-a-living.'"returned Hamilton with grave sigmfi-
Smith's countenance varied from a    chance.
bright crimson to a delicate purple at  lNr. Berrien regarded 1is associate
this allusion, and he twirled his watch-  some moments steadily, and in silence,
key nervously, as lie said with much   as he bent over the desk and applied
himself to the work that Smith's en-
embarrasment :
" Had I known you better, I should  trance had interrupted, and a strange
been differently affected towards you.  tineure of wonder and admiration be-
I frankly acknowledge the injustice of  cam  eleurly visible m his earnest face.
my past unfriendly and unmerited re-     S.i
marks, and confess I would have been   -Smith dropped heavily upon a chair,
far less lenient than I find you disposed  as he entered Gerald's office, where their
to be, had I possessed the power that  mad man was impatiently awaiting his i
you might now exercise. I ask your     reunadgveentohspt-p
forgiveness, Mr. Hamilton."           feelings, in characteristic language.Hiy
.Hamilton held out his hand to the "By -- I you don't catch me in
repentant man, who grasped it, right  another scrape like that, Fred ! I be
damned if yudo !"
heartily for the first time,.and bowed re-      you    -    .
speetfully as he left the office, with a  Gerald turned upon him fiercely.
long-drawn respiration of relief, as he .       !    !       e
emerged into the open air.            pinion you, too, and kick you out of the a
" W-h-e-w I" came from  Mr. Ber-    office ?"t
"Go- to the devil ! I'd rather be f
rien's lips in a low, prolonged whistle,  kick o  town, and ahe in     f
as Smith made his exit. "That caps the  kicked all over town, and washed inNo. t
climax, by Jupiter! and reminds me of  6 to cure the sores, than stand over a r
Caesar's despatch from Egypt: eni, slow fire like that and be done up brown b
vidi, vici.' You have conquered one of  as I've been to-day-I11 swear " . si
the noblest and best, and one of the Gerald ground his teeth with rage, ti
vhery meaestnalLeatioas he looked at Smith's excited face, r
very meanest in all creation, Mr. 11am-  and fancied the cause. tn!'eli o  nOt, o twntP
ilton! 'Tell it not in Gath,' for it won't  an"anTh th  ase
be believed that self-important Smith hi The mean, snivelling scoundrel! p,
has condescended to confess a wrong" is physical power won't avail him be- re
Hamilton smiled as he repled quietly:  ore my uperring hand! I'll send his hi
" There's a road to every one's better  sneak g soul to a hotter fire, before ill
nature, Sir."                        two suns have set .!",d
Ntfrom Sutton's Plains, old fel-n

~AS BLEU. s
'low !  Hamilton thinks you too small a
mark to shoot at, Fred, and 'gives you
your life'-that's' the language, point
blank-'simply because he don't consid-
er it worth the trouble of taking away.'
I'll be - if I didn't feel less than the
little end of nothing dried in the sun
for being known as your second." Smith.
threw himself back and laughed boister-
ously to the Dr's 'confusion worse con-
founded.'
" Then the pitiful poltroon declines
the challenge ?''
Smith detailed the interview verba-
tim to the ghostly white Gerald, volun-
teering the information to the best of
his belief, that if the Dr. ' had no par-
ticular desire to be cashiered from the
corps of life, he'd better avoid standing
before Hamilton's muzzle; for he'd be
- if he didn't'come down as fast as Sa-
tan fell from heaven, with more holes
in his head than nature gave him; and
f he saw Hamilton about to fire at him,
he'd be like Col. Crocket's game, and
lide right down the tree and give up !"
He sallied out of the office whistling,
'clear the track, you're all unlucky I"
with an expression of countenance that
loubly maddened the infuriated Dr.-
le swung a chair to the red grate with
furious jerk that threatened damage
o the unoffending ,article of household
urniture, and plumped himself down
o devise another plan.  He really felt
elieved by Hamilton's refusal to fight,
ut the expressed cause of that deelen.
ion, and Smith's cool way of delivering
he message which- betrayed his own
revulsion -of feeling towards his foe,
laced him as ill at ease as the antici-
ation -of a duel.  His violent and un-
estrained  passions had precipitated
im into sthe rash act of assailing Ham-
ton, and the result accruing from the
eep humiliation of that attack ; and'
ow that the- dread of a meeting was


84

HERBERT HAMILTON;

removed, he threw himself down to plot
for his rival's private destruction. Pres.-
ently his eye flashed with exultant fire;,
he had scheemed deeply; he would have'
Hamilton's initials engraved upon the
new weapons and - Gerald smiled
a swell  satisfied smile at his own cun-
ning
CHAAPTERX      IV.
GIve:nde the world and ask me 'where'e my bliss?'
I' sp thee to mybreast and answer, Tins,
r  ..                   YOUNG.
Herbert Hamilton sprang up the steps
9f: Mr. Berrien's , dwelling and entered
uneemoniously. Myrelda tripped down
th4 stairs in answer to his summons,
and went: smilingly into his extended
arms. He held her to his breast, and;
looked down humorously, into her up-
tyredblopping face.
' Who wants a letter this morning,
Lilybd ?""
4z Hapd it over, if you please." She
pule.back from his twining arms, and
peeped cunningly-into.his side-pocket.
"There ; just as though I had one,
#rgexas Gospeil" I1l 1ppt on .a leng face:
a  turned  ia s   eyed sanotimonigqsly
_t,)    gy th (qag  Illget   ut a
p ge);   rget, orgke the respo}   "
j g   ...,a    hte orngr ,gg%
gly 4  p    dleit; ti mphantly fronm
" op thief that' mine, you, little
wg1   jg   samc We4t the letter puty-
fully, but, Myrelad dged him, and
ugiqgood her.escape tothy farther sidg
ef the centre-tale.c
quick ery es ped :hex lips, as er
eyps fell upon4he superseriptiog. Ham-
igt9n had, er htisarma in an instant.
" Darling I" The humor had all gone

out of his anxious face, and he looked
upon her with earnest solicitude.
" Oh! Herbert, it's from  Charles !
my dear brother !" She dropped her
face upon his bosom, and burst into joy-
ful tears.
Hamilton supported her to a sofa, and
exerted his tact to cheat her into com-
posure. He put his finger under her
soft, round chin, and pulled her glad
face upward.
" There ! I've found a rival at last,
by George !" He looked indignantly
sober.f
Myrelda laughed, irresistibly, at his
assumed expression..      .
. " Yes, Sir, and a most formidable one,
too ! You won't get jealous, Mr. 1am-
ilton?" She peeped at him archly, at
right angles as she emphasized the cere-
monious title. Hamilton smiled in spite
of himself,
" As a Turk ! he'd better not pro-
voke me ! I'll have no partner in my
love-establishment. I'll elope to Juan
Fernandes, and drop you over the wall
of Crusoe's 'country seat,' and feed you
upon the remnant of his 'lordly herit-
age.' I'll have no 'man Friday' arond
to change the color of, my eyes from
their present bfue to a glorious green !
Wouldn't wghave a good time on grapes,
kids and bananas? 'monarchs of 'all we
survey df  I'll brook no rival, not even
MNtyrelda's eyes were.dry ;now; she
4herhead back upon his shoulder,
and laughed heartily but softly, till his
own n.outh spread with a broad, soul-
full smile, as, he bent over with a quick
impulse, and gathered her rosy face
fondly to his own.,
"1 won't demur, IJerbert; 'where
thou goest, I will go,' and it would be
no sacrifice to forsake the:world and all
for you, whatever be your fortune or
destination.

I

..                                                                                                                      .....,.._.. .._,.,..... .....-,_ --.-- ---r..-----.--- .._.._. ._
....                                          -.

I

I
s
h
t
C
d
s
p
b
a
li
C
th
th
d4
th:

OR, THE BAS BLUT.
'Ab, only let me breathe the air,t  other hands ere Charles could arive to
The blessed air thate'i breathed by thee,  rde  t  hi  rsigcesoia
And whether on its wings it bear  redeem it, Their grasping creditor, im+
healing or deanth,'tiesweet to me!'"  mediately upon the announcement of
She closed her eyes with a theatrical Col. Mqztford's death, had taken meaa.
air and affected languor, but the quick ures for securing the debt of two thous-
throbbings of the heart beneath her head, and dollars due for the little property,
and the tightning arms around her,drawn and to-morrow it would be placed under
slowly but securely, made her look hastily the, hammer, and. Myrelda's sensitive
up. His face was very pale with visible soul shrank from intimating a desire to
emotion, and the bended black eyes were retain it, in the presence of her. b
brimful of moisture!   -trothed. Since thp knowledge of his
"Herbert !- -."                    superiority i4 a pecuniary point of view,
"Hush." He laid his hand upon her her exceeding delicacy of mind, and ex-
cheek, and turned her face gently to his trenme pride, had made .her positively
bdsom. "You have unmanned me;" his regret that hq was not what., she once
voice was slightly tremulous but impas- thought him-a poor lawyer, not one
sioned.                              whit elevated above her, in worldly pos.
He held her thus some moments,' in sessions. A costly gift,, or patronizing
deep silence; whien she looked again, air, would have stung her to vihe ,vpry
his cheeks were richly flushed, and the life.  Hanilton evidently underst.QQd
oftness of a sinless child played about her perfectly, fpr no Wound had lever
his usually stern mouth, and beamed in been given her proud, suL.,=Ie now
is clear, mellow eyes. The pleasantry slyly observed the ah deppo ;her te,
hat had sparkled in his countenance, and smiled aside, before remarki ggd
luring the interview, was displaced by a a grave tone :
ubdued tenderness of manner and ex-   " If you think Charles is really desir-
ression, :that transformed the strong, ous of retaining the Vale, 1i will purch-
tern man into a seeming of womanly ase it of him, and be can redeem it of
ofteess, and thrilled Myrelda's heart moe."
Oit silent, inrvous happiness.        She blushed with eceoeing pleasure.
Father desire Hamilten read Charles'  "I am sue imykoethe. woid consider
hitter aloud,;as she reclined upon his it a favor, for i4,was his Mel,9tin, V,,:
ps om,;,with closed eyes, to conceal the tray to my father's better'qgmnt,
umming tears 'shaken up from a full who considered the, price a sero.,pb-
ear4 y along absent brother's affec- jecti a in his reduced .circametances."
ienag words.                          "At what was it. valued,'liyrelda 7"
. Charles;was coming home, and My,    " Six thousand dollarsir; haee, of
elda started from her lover's arms with which were paid on the day of purchase,
glad cry. He had accumulated the and one subsequently. Tieten}re claim
ttle sum of five thousand dollars, as the would have been cancelle41,ipgagg. 4
Award of his toil in the gold mines of for my-fathei's faili  . hegalttjan4d.the
alifornia, and hoped-soon to liquidate expense consequens upon tha  =:IndlJ
he debt contracted by the purchase of lived of whom it was purchased he would
ieir humuble,abut, pleasant home. A  have been: more indnlgent thaun his ex'
eep shade came over ljyrelda's face at acting and feeling son "40.
is inforiatinh., Their'home was then  "I lave beeni fb  e4t abon, pj*,
Ivertised for sale, and would pA ia nto viOus to hi usagge, was - wit.;for

E


84             HERBIRT - HAMILTON

the hand of my aflianeed ,wife-that
blush confirms the story.  So you per-
ceive, Myrelda; that he is actuated more
by a spirit of revenge than cupidity.
All I marvel at is, that he did not pro-
ceed to such an extremity long ago."
"He could not, Sir. My father held
a written grant of four years, in which
to cancel the debt; which time expired
with the old year."di
That explains the mystery ; and if
youiwere alone now, he would undoubt-
edly deprive you of your home, nurse,
and child-servant, to cover that one
claim of' simply two thousand dollars ;
for' at this particular time, as you know,
property' will not sell for one-third its
value. As he is not aware of my cir-
dumstances, beyond question he thinks
to enjoy a victory. I'llteach him a les-
son, that willsperhaps be beneficial, be-
fore t ~norro* night."
IAisdirkg'eyessparkled down uponher
with 'ae smiling, 'triumphant light, that
turned her modest face a deeper red,
"I think I shall do Oharles a mate-
rialservice bybeingpresent to-morrow,"
he continued with faee full of-humor,
" as I feel confident of having a violent
opposer in' the pergonof'Dr. Gerald ;
conestpeTtlyh firay realize some thou-
sands "fromthe sale of his real estate
ovefr'tid'ab ve the amount due for the
put -ne:cha..Isuppo e Charles don't hold
it in' uh high estimation that'heiWould
not;Willibily dispse of it at a Fair price,
andI hall act in the matter solely for
his=bene it.'
Nyred'stees expressed her feelings
more eloquetly than words, as she
claspedrh nfims.:a ind his neck, and
hid her bright ,face nponLhis shoulder.
"II daresay fit were your childhood's
home you could 'hardly forgive me for
submitting to defeat;,even if the peedini-
iatry  tivalit titlfied' it;'1 The said
this sto '.st -her, and Myrelda; nt suss

pelting his motive, or the facts in the
case, raised her head and replied faceti-
ously :
" No, sir ! I should want that at any
sacrifice !"
" There ! now I have you completely,
and you may be just as sure of getting
it as I live till to-morrow."
Myrelda blushed and paled, and her
hazel eyes looked up into his radiant
face with a mystified inquiring gaze.-
Hamilton evidently enjoyed her puzzled
expression ; he drew the morning's pa-
per from his pocket and pointed to the
advertising column. The color deepen-
ed on her cheeks again, and faded en-
tirely out from the high excitement that
possessed her mentally, as she saw her
early home advertised for sale on the
following day.
'"I knew not that Mr. Lynn purposed
disposing of it, Herbert, what can be
his motive ?"
" He designs movingWeSt as his wife
is desirous of joining her sister in that
new  world of which she gives such
glowing descriptions.  If it don't sell
at its full value-that is for twenty
thousand dollars at which it is assessed,
although I'm told your father was fore-
ed to dispose of it for one-half 'that
amount, it will be reserved till some fu-
ture time. He leaves his unsettled af-
fairs with me for adjustment, and will
be as much startled by this announce-
ment 'as- you evidently are, but I ven-
ture to say the result will be satisfactory
to the present proprietor. I should have
purchased the property privately, as I
fancied it would meet the approbation
of my -   ," he hesitated and' looked
down' into her sparklingeyes with a
scrupulously sober countenance, that
lost its gravity speedily, ,before her
speaking glance-" but for one consid-
eration."

OR, THE BAS BLIU.
"And. what is that, Herbert ? if it is  Hamilton and Gerald both stood si-
not an impertinent query."         lent and watched the progress of the
JImpertinent !-you are privileged sale.
to question me, Myrelda. I wish to corn- " Fifteen hundred ! fifteen hundred!
pete with your friend the handsome Dr. going at fifteen hundred dollars 1 once
upon a platform that he thinks I cannot --twice---"
reach.  I haven't a doubt but he will  " Two thousand," said lHamilton, as
battle desperately to deprive me of that it was to be struck off.
property should I manifest a desire to  Gerald turned with ,a quick compres-
become its possessor, and as-you see the sion of the lips, as though he had been
terms are cash, designedly so stated, I stung by a serpent, at the sound of
venture to say he will retire in confu- Hamilton's voice.  "Twenty-two hun-
sion from the contest, and a few more dred," he -cried.
of the good people of Arlington will  Hamilton allowed the auctioneer to
probably be a little electrified on that proceed as far as the third "going," and
occasion."                         said quietly but very distinctly: "Three
The queer expression about his firm thousand!" he designed to induce the
mouth amused Myrelda, and gratified belief of great anxiety on his part to
her pride, and could Gerald have seen possess the property by the length of
that smile, and known its origin he his strides. Gerald punched his hands
would have shunned the rock upon to the very bottom of his trowsers pock-
which he subsequently split.        ets and set his teeth firmly together.
"A pretty good jump,y .--," whin,
-    pered Smith to the excited Dr.; "reck-
CHAPTER xxV.               on he wants it considerably-didn't
A fool's bolt is soon shot.-Moral-Loon.  think he was worth that muchlet hed.

A large crowd was collected before
the Vale, and the auctioneer mounted
upon an elevation stood ready to begin
operations.
"'Twont fetch much," said a bystan-
der--"worst time in the world to put
up property. Its a downright disgrace
to rob that poor child of the last cent.
I'd go six thousand myself if I'd the
stuff in my trousers to pay for it-they
say that's what the Col. gave or con-
tracted for. He paid four thousand I'm
told, and that's good as fat thrown in
the fre, for I'm afraid the place won't
bring enough to settle the remainder."
-he terms of sale-one-fourth cash,
the remainder six, twelve, and eighteen
nionths-were proclaimed by the Crier
and the bids slowly increased from one
to fifteen hundred dollars.

" I'll be everlastingly ---if I do I
hissed Gerald, "its worth six thousand,
and if he gets it he'llhave to 'pay dear
for thewhistle'--"thirty-five hundred,"
he cried.
Smith laughed in his sleeve, as he
saw the' Dr's unbounded passion had
blinded his reason.
" Thirty-five hundred, going at---"
"Five thousand,"   said Hamilton,
coolly.
The attention of the crowd was now
directed towards the two principal ac-
tors in the scene with intense interest.
'" I bets on ze Yankee-" said the
little Frenchman, rubbing his hands
delightedly at the contest. "Mon dien!
nobody can beat ze Yankee-be gar;"
Gerald became more excited by this
expressed belief of the foreign gentle-


n t  E t   HAMILTON;

nrah;  diAhduted ' ondly: "Six thou-
#   ,"  m aning t lbeatshis athgonist
off by the length of his pompous leap.,
- " F   h eib hyed on That," said Ham-
"Seven thousand," thundered Ger-
aldnwhite with rage' d animosity.
"Seven thousand t seven thousand !
goingnt seiew thousan4d-goig at sev-
en thousandahem I" said the Crier,
gladoing at. the grave and dignified
-Hainiltonunqugiir ingly-{z-going, go-ing,
gone! Dr. Gerald,the propertyis yours."
Hattiltoniturned composedly and po-
htely   theDr.- "Not havig the
slightest wish tt'pQssess this property,
adtid 'y'Sale object in bidding upon it,
bei g; a desire to beffriend the late pro-
pridtor Mr.Montfbrdwho will soon re-
tdip  from the' far West; I am highly
gratird by youi eagerness and deter-
mi    ffti r sto smed him in the owner-
hip, as I..appreheaded a Vast sacrifice'
f nif th&amp;dale, under the tircumstanees.{
tumigftha   had itat fobr hundred
aid n ueytnlne-dollar&amp;less, o far as Is
am concerned, had you not realized my
aticipations of;a pretty spry leap, as I
dhtklc Iqtrhaed  atu'red another bid,
1esbit hould deprive' 'Mk.; Montaodr of
sS fwit aijrise for a place should have,
no particular desire to retain,-Were he
aristebth handhskme'equivalent."
}. eIdd' oenteuaee chatiged=several
times during this addre, as he dis-
covered h'+h hid bdenntfApped in-
"You're a fool!" said Smith ,lowly.
"Febia'ft y  iiU  " e'hie  h7 i  ht  have  bidden
Mt thotak id d6lAs ifhe'd'wanted the
pleetuidteilypaid    n, since he's go-
iri toMairy M1 tfbrd'n sister! You're
sbld; old4elleW'! taken iS tad done for
Gerald had't thotglW 'of that; his
haradi br H nilton dT4'evry idea;
-0tf 1     d hnid;bit4-     nd that

one, victory over his foe ; and his feel-
ings were far froni enviable, as he made
the discovery of his own signal defeat;
thus verifying the wise man's assertion,
"he that hath no rule over his own spirit
is like a city that is broken down and
without walls." Crazy Joe, who had
stuck pretty closely to Hamilton during,
the sale, and watched with open mouth
and visible' interest upon his full moon
of a face, turned his eyes upon him,
and looked strangely crest-fallen at thp
result; but aS his cloudy intellect -
length took in the purport of Hamilton -W
words, he gave a strong leap into the
air, and knocked his feet together ex-
ultingly.
"Haw ! haw !" roared Joe, "of that
thar joke ain't a good un yer kin take
my hat---dog me!"
The bald-headed emigrant from. La
Fayette's land, on observing Gerald's
surprised and mortified face, bent down
and laying his hands upon his knees,
shook his little fat person, with a genu-
ine whole-souled French laugh.
S O c'est chairman ihe-af! he-a ! ef
dat ain't one beaugrande Yankee trick,
te fello*citizens can preez mson chsp-
peau, one, two, tree time ! he-a ! heal
Ze Yankee is too many, sacrn ventre
bleu '"
'Hat dlton smiled irresistibly, as he
caught Mr. Berrien's eye, who' . wis
brimful of mirth at the   scene, but
struggled to repress it-' He caught his
associate's hand, and drew 'it quickly
within his arm.
"Come, let us get out of this, or I
-shall explode, to Gerald's indignation-!
No need of going yonder, as we are not
interested."
Hamilton drew hiih back and followed
'the moving mae.
"I Wish to attend tkct sale, by all
means," hesaid with a 'dash of humor in
his dark eyes, that 'aroused his com-
'panion's interest.

"Going to play em another Yankee
trick?" inquired Mr. Berrien, with a
mirthful twinkle of his blue eyes.\
"That, is my design; and if the sale is
slow, I wish you to oppose me to the
full value of the property."
Mr. Berrien's orbs expanded with
amazement.
"For whom do you act ?" he asked, im-
pulsively.
"'For myself; lam going to have that,
for Myrelda's sake," said Hamilton, in a
tone that well nigh rooted Mr. Berrien
to the spot.
" That ! why it's w6rth twenty thou-
sand dollars, and the terms are cash!
and Lynn told me to-day, it shouldn't go
for one cent less than that sum !"
"Very well, I advertised it myself,
and specified the terms to suit my mo-
tive."

to his affianced, by a warm grasp of the
hand. They stood now, in the broad,
beautiful grove surrounding Mr. Lynn's
residence. Mr. Clyde stood near them,
and on perceiving their proximity,turned
and entered into conversation respecting
the object of convention.
" I should like-to purchase the place
myself," said Clyde pompously. "But
they're'the meanest, cussedest terms ever
heard of in creation ! Who the devil
does Lynn think can finger twenty thou-
sand dollars ofa winter morning, in such
money-tight-times as these ? I'm told
he values it at twenty thousand, and
won't let it go for less, though he only
paid ten himself. I'll bet a cool hun-
dred he don't get it; and I've a private
notion he's pretty hard run, and will be
glad to take what he gave, otherwise he
wouldn't nut it u at this artinula' r time

Mr. Berrien gazed at him with a won- It's a piece of absurdity, anyhow. I'll
dering, startled expression, that made go ten, and strain a point to pay for it."
Hamilton's gravity succumb to   his   "Lynn told me to-day he wouldn't
amusement.                           allow it to change hands for one cent
"W-h-e-w !" whistled Mr. Berrien less than twenty thousand," said Mr.
softly. "If that don't kill Gerald, and Berrien.
make the natives stare, I'll be hanged  "Tm             o      a
He looked at Hamilton sietywt      " Then- he may go to hell, and take
He loke at  amitonsilently, with his house with him !" said Clyde, div-
a queer smile about hisfinely cut mouth  h
that savored of pride and deep gratifi- ing his hands deep down into his breeches
cation.                             pockets, and expectorating about a gill
"What the deuce have you been of tobocco-juice uponthe dry leaves, in-
practicing law for ?" he asked in aston- dignantly. "I shan't go one copper over
ishment.                           ten thousand !"
" For this hour," replied Hamilton  The Auctioneer's hammer silenced the
significantly.                      crowd, and five thousand was the first
"Does she know it ?"              bid, from Augustus Smith.
" Yes, but the knowledge came after '"I don't like to bid against you," said
our betrothal"-he returned Mr. B's. Mr. Berrien softly. "It goes against
glance with a smile of intelligence-1 my feelings; and besides, I'm not worth
"and yet I knew her to be incapable of the value of the place, and people may
meanness."                          suspect a hoax."
" Yes, by thunder ! I'd throttle you  Hamilton smiled one of his rare spirit
now, if you had doubted her !"      beams.
Hamilton smiled very broadly, and  "Very well, Mr. Lynn will attend to
acknowledged Mr. Berrien's compliment his own interest, doubtless."
12

Olt, THE BAS BLEU.

.89

t
s


90            HERBERT HAMILTON;

" Ten thousand," cried Smith as the
sale progressed.'
"I'll go one more, by - ,!" said
Clyde, with a remarkably red face. "I
want the place, and must have it, if
possible. Five hundred more !" he cried.
Smith ran him to twelve thousand,
notwig standing .his assertion to ihmn-
ilton and his associate.
"I'll be cussed if I go another cent,"
growled Clyde, pulling up his shirt-col-
lar with a nervous jerk, and firing a ful
shot of molassas-colored saliva into the
drenched leaves. Mr. Berrien glanced
at Hamilton, and rubbed his nose to
Screen his niirthful countenance,
"Twelve thousand ! twelve thousand!
only twelve thousand, gentlemen! who
gives us another bid ?-dirt cheap!-
ody twelve thousand ! Going, going!
once, twice    "
"Thirteen thousand," said Mr. Lynn,
brother of the proprietor. Smith op-
posed him to fourteen.
" And that's my last," said ho angrily.'
"I shan't give him one dollar more ! He
didn't pay that by four thousand, and
the terns wern't cash, at that !"
Th' bystanders laughed at Smith's in-
dignation. The Crier reiterated Mr.
Lynn's opposition bid, and proceeded to
go ing, g-o"
"Fifteen thousand," said 'Hamilton
distinctly.
All eyes turned upon hit in aston-
ishinent. He stood calm and grave, and
took the fire manfully. Clyde's look of
'wonderment finally changed to one of
*njrth.
"You're caught there, Sir !" he said
to Hamilton, laughingly,  "A burnt
,child dreads, the fire, and Gerald won't
leap into that trap !"
Hamilton smiled. Gerald turned to-
wards him haughtily, with a look of
ritunph,
"I As I don't want this property, you

may have it, so far as I am concerned."
1 Thank you," returned Hamilton,
with a Chesterfieldian bow, and touch-
ing his hat politely to the Dr.
- The race was 'now between Hamilton
and the proprietor's by-bidder. Lynn,
the proprietor, looked over at his an-
tagonist in amazement, at each succes-
sive opposition ; he had mounted him-
self upon oie of the numerous rustic
benches in the wide grove, to obtain a
fair view of his countenance, and scru-
tinized  him sharply. Hamilton was
forced ,to exert his strong will to the
utmost to maintain a grave aspect. The
contest was even and moderate between
the belligerants. Hamilton intention-
ally bid but little above Lynn, to pro-
long the fun.
Who the devil is' he ?" asked the
fat man who insulted crazy Joe, at the
Lyceunm. "Thought he was poor as
Job's turkey !"
"So did I!" returned his interlocu-
tor. "knuess there's an understanding
between'em. It won't fall on his hands.
I'll wager; he can't pay twenty thou-
sand to save him from the old fellow's
cauldron I" The speaker was Gerald's
brother-in-law.
" Nineteen thousand," cried Lynn.
"Nine hundred and ninety-nine dol-
lars and one cent more'!" said Hamil-
ton, with a queer compresson of his
firm lips. A laugh went up from the
crowd at this bid.
"Ninety-eight  cents  over  that,"
laughed Lynn.
"Twenty thousand."
"Twenty thousand, twenty thousand!
Going-at twenty thousand dollars, twen-
ty thousand, twenty, twenty, twenty
thousand ! Once, twice, t-h-r-e-e times.
Herbert Hamilton, Esq !" shouted the
Auctioneer, with a broad smile, as he
brought his hammer down,

Mr. Lynn sprang from his elevation,
and hastened to his successor.
Do you purchase for 'yourself, or
another ."'
"For myself, sir" replied Hamilton,
with an irrepressible suile at Lynn's
expression;- 'and if you will accompa-
ny me to the office, we will settle it
forthwith."
Clyde turned and looked about him,
and went up to the bewildered Gerald
and Smith.
I'll be cussed if' I ever was ao con-
founded in the days of my life," he
said, emphatically.
It's a  ---- Yankee cheat "--re-
turned Gerald, fiercely, "he'll never
get possession of. this place !" and his
mad eyes swept with envious rage over
the beautiful residence. "He's going
to settle the business now, at any rate,"
responded Clyde, as he haoked after the
retreating flanilton, Beri'ien and 1Lnn,
with Joe following hard behind, toss
ing up a quarter triumphantly, the gift
of his benefactor.       -
Joe had uttered a yell that shook the t
tree-boughs above him. as the property
was knocked off to Hamilton, and turned
a delighted summersault, that landed
him plump in Mr. Clyde's tobacco-pud-s
die. Joe picked himself up, with a h
scramble and grunt, and catching hold v
of the seat of his breeches, with finger o
and thumb, twisted his short neck to a
the rear, to view the mischief done, ex-
clhimiug with a rueful visage. that con- s
vulsed the crowd : "Ef I hain't spilte a
my new trousers, dog me !"            f
To indemnify him for the damage n
done to his inexpressibles. Hamilton h
had humorously flung him   the 'silver
coin, that burned Joe's fingers till he w
arrived at the nearest confectionary. i
"He shan't take possession of' this jin
place, if he does settle the business,"
maid Gerald, mentally, as he left the 1

wide grove. "I'll be eternally -  ,
if he does! lHe's going to Fairville to-
morrow, 1 find, and the route lies
through a thinly populated country. .If
that scoundrel, Berrien, goes, I'll finish
him too, the knave !" his eyes flashed
fierce fire, as he planned for to-morrow
CH APT ER XXVI.
Who not needs, willnever lack a friend
-sE81FEAR1|
Mr. Clyde entered the room where
Mabel sat at the piano, practicing a
new song, and Lora-lay upon an estrade
in dishabille, weeping over Eugene
Sue's story of "Woman's Love." It
coincided with Lora's ideas, point blank;
she, too, would imitate the example of
the hapless heroine, and plunge into the
ocean-waters in the very spot at which
he went ,down, under similar circum-
stances. There was something so no-
ble. in the sacrifice ! She had no doubt
but Sue's heroine went up from a wa-
tery grave, to Paradise, on the wings of
angels ! She thought Sue a very mor-
al writer, and admired his lady's con-
tancy, and deep devotion, and wept for
her unfortunate fate; when the truth
was, Lora Clyde was no more capable
f loving truly and disinterestedly than
parrot was of teaching French.
" Guess who bought the Lynn place,"
aid Mr. Clyde, as he dropped down
mid the velvet cushions, elevated his
eet upon the fender, and fired a tre-
mendous quid into the grate, through
is knees.
"Theodore Clyde, Esq." said Lora,
ith a smile of proud satisfaction, start-
ng up, forgetful of Sue's model hero-
ie.
Not exactly. Guess again."
" Now, Pa. didn't you buy that charm.

OR, TIITT3ASJLEt1.


ing residence, as you promised ?" in-
quired Lora, in a tone of peevish dis-
appointment, dropping upon afanteuil,
and looking up promptly, at the old
gentleman.
" I'll be cussed if I did !" said Clyde,
laying himself back, at full length, and
squirting a fresh mouthful of Virginia
abstraction towards the grate ; half of
which fell short of"its destination, and
lodged upon the hearth, in a black pool.
"Guess again."
But Lora felt no disposition to com-
ply; she was too disappointed and an-
gry, and sat silent and sullen. Mr.
Clyde looked towards Mabel, who re-
clined against the piaio, with one hand
supporting her graceful head, the other
playing with her watch-chain,
"Come, Bell, try your powers; what
the deuce are you smiling at so myste-
riously ?"
" At the memory of my dream, last
night, of which I have been reminded
since you came in, Pa," replied Mabel,
laughingly.
" Oh, the devil take your dream !--,
That's nothing to do with the question.
Guess who bought the Lynn place, I
say."
" Well, Pa, I'll make a .wild guess,
and say, Mr. Hamilton."
Clyde started bolt up ight in amaze-
ment, while Lora sent forth a loud laugh
of derision.
"What the, Beelzebub made you
think so ?" Clyde stared at her in
blank astonishment.
" I didn't really think so, Pa; I only
-I guessed from-it may not be Mr.
Hamilton, but I reckon the sale will
put it again in Myrelda's possession,"
Mabel blundered and blushed.
"Well, I'll be blown to the farthest
corner of creation, if that don't get over
me !" said Clyde, dropping down again
and emphasizing his declaration, by

ejecting a yard-long stream of saliva,
into the hissing fire.
"Who was it, pa ?" urged Lora, now
doubly curious, from the old gentle-
man's appearance.
" Who ! why I'll be cussed if the
girl hain't guessed it."
Lora now sprang to her feet, me-
chanically, and half screamed in her
excitement:
"Pa, Hamilton, didn't buy     that
place ?"
" Cuss me if he didn't !" said Clyde,
giving a squirt through his fingers to-
wards the grate, that shot over and
plastered the mantel.
" Herbert Hamilton buy that elegant
home !" Lora ftad dropped down again,
and sat looking very white and seriously
at the crimson coals. "What did he
pay for it Y"
".Twenty thousand dollars,every cent
of it." Mr. Clyde gave the fender an
impulsive punch, that made it rattle, as
he thought of his own defeat.
" Twenty-thousand dollars ! Herbert
Hamilton pay twenty thousand dollars!
Never ! It's a cheat, Pa; he ain't worth
it."  Lora was walking the floor, pas-
sionately.
"I'll be cussed if I don't believe he
is. I always saw something in him a
little remarkable." said Clyde, laying
back, and inserting his hands to the
lowest depths of his trowsers pockets.
Mabel had left the piano stool, and
was going round the room in a graceful
waltz, with a queer smile upon her red
lips. Lora looked daggers at her slen-
der form as it floated over the carpet.
" You seem transported with~ the
news, Miss Clyde," she said sneeringly.
"I am, Loo. The wronged are now
righted. I love to see the righteous
triumph." A clear laugh gushed troi
her small mouth.
"-It's the greatest piece of romance I

9             HERBERT hA ILTON;

ever read of in any novel," remarked
Clyde, half laughing, half mortified.-
"I don't know how he could contain
himself so long. I couldn't a-done it.
I should a-let the cobbler out long ago,
and showed Smith I wasn't such a poor
' lie for a living' as he supposed. I
reckon Guss will feel a little streaked
after this. He looked like a sheep
killing dog when Hamilton bid it off.
Poor fellow ! I wouldn't be in his shoes
for his stockings. Hamilton was the
most important nfan in town before the
knowledge-of his wealth, and now he'll
stand upon the highest round of the
ladder. Money will give a fellow a
boost in public estimation, I don't care
what his talents or intellectual powers
are. ' Money makes the mare go' a
little faster. Well, I'm glad I always
treated him as a gentleman in spite of
his supposed poverty ;. and npw I want
you to pay him every attention, and his
bride elect, too. It won't do to be be-,
hind the times. Belle, you are on
terms of friendship with her, and if Lo
had had half sense she would have sent
Myrelda an invitation to that last party,
and kept her temper down. I am
afraid Hamilton will never forgive that
slight, for he's heart and soul given to
the girl, and any insult to her will flash
through him like lightning. His de-
votion to her is the town talk. Henley,
who was present at the time of Gerald's
assault, told me that Hamilton swore if
the Doctor hurt one of her little fin-
gers, he'd deluge the whole earth a mile
deep in his villainous heart's blood, if
he had to go through hell after him,
and every sword and dagger in creation
were to be thrust through him for the
murder, or something like that equally
strong. Gerald's the biggest fool in
Christendom, and his wife the greatest
dupe, 'She's jealous enough, the Lord
knows; but the Doctor plays his cards

OR, THE BAS BLEJ.

well and could make her believe the
earth stood-on a terrapin's back if he'd
give her a kiss with the assertion.-
Some women are weak cisterns, and
can't see- the length of their nose. If
she'd been all right in the upper story
she wouldn't a-had him after deserting
Myrelda. Lord knows, it's the great-
est providential blessing that could
a-been dropped down to her ; now she'll
get a man that's worth having, and rich
as cream into the bargain; for Myrelda
never would a-writ poetry if she hadn't
been pushed up to it by that trouble;
and her poetry's won her a husband
that every girl in town would give their
two eyes to get: He courted her three
years by letter they say, but the Doctor
like to a-put her light lout by his slan-
derous whispers, I am told. Well, it's
an interesting piece of business through-
out, and I want you to prepare to give
them a bridal entertainment after their
nuptials. It won't do to be at variance
with the wife of Herbert Hamilton.-
And, by the way, Charles is coming
home, right speedily; coming to the
wedding, I suspect; and I shouldn't
wonder if he's rich as John Jacob As-
tor, too, for one good luck always brings
company, and when it rains it pours."
Mabel had ceased her airy move-
ment, and stood looking through the
window. Her face flushed crimson at
this last piece of information, and grew
white as Parian marble; her slight
form trembled visibly as' she leaned
against the casement, but no one ob-
served her agitation. She stood there
till her nerves recuperated, then went
composedly back to the piano, so far as
externals were concerned. Sweet Ma-
bel ! There was a trembling secret
nestling away down in the nunnery of
that pure young heart that none but
Charles Montford had ever suspected.


OR, THE BAS BLU   .    .         9

IIEI3IiERTF AMILTON

CHAPTERR XXVII.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
--CAMPBEL.
Yes, '.ack' to-night, 'Providence
permitting,' as the preachers say."
Hatuilton. held her in  his arms,
amthed back the curls from her fore-
hgad, an looked smilingly down, as he
replied to her inquiry.
"Whythat sober face, Myrelda ?"
" Youi'lridicule  my superstitious
weaknss if I tell you."  She looked
up wiith a forced smile.
3'I'll ridicule it, now ; and tweak
your ear, into the bargain, ifyou don't."
fle  iced her cheek; with a ludicrous
turgpp~ zse expression, as he spoke,
torevive'her' spirits. "Out with it !
li en"onsulting the stars, or 'dreaming
drearis no mortal ever dared to dream
before ?'
SNSir ; nothing of that; but I
have a strange feeling of fear and sad-
ness, Ierbert; a presentiment, if you
will." 'tears filled her eyes, and she
hid them upon his shoulder.
"And what do you fear, dearest ?"
. ' don't know, Herbert ; I can't de-
ie af ~feelings but a black cloud has
b eg creeping over my heart, since
early a  wn; I only wish-'"
"WetI, what do you wish ? No half
senate   s if you please."  He spoke
humorously, but a shade was in his
deeg eyes and he drew her inipulsiv-
*ycloser to him.
' I wish the day was ended, and you
were safely back, Herbert." She twined
her arpi' ;around him, and Hamilton
felt herquiver.
"Yung says : we push time from
u, .and  we wish him back.' You are
not yel, Myrelda; I will send Dr.
Merpn up, to prescribe for your ner-
vois derangement; and your nurse shal-
defer the opening' of our new. house till
to-morrow, and remain with you till

my return. I only regret that Mi:
Bee ien left for Philaddlphia this morn-
ing ; I would not leave you, to-day;-
but necessity compels me to make-the
sacrifice, and it is very great, my wf e,
in spirit." Myrelda. trembled moire
sensibly, beneath the heart-thrilling
kiss he pressed upon her lips.
"Do you fear for me, Myrelda ?"
" Yes, Sir !"
" And why, darling ?"
" That man is destined to be my
cvil genius, through life, I .fear, tier-
bert !".
"' That man ?' Who" ?
"That monster; Gerald !"'
hailtoi gave a quick, irivoluatarfy
start, backward, and essayed to mislead
her as to the cause.
" It's going to rain, puss ; that toe
pinches like seven hundred !" ,
Myrelda smiled, unavoidably, at the
ludicrous contortions of his face.
" Why don't you apply the oil of
wormwood, Herbert ?" she asked, laugh-
ingly, "It's an infallible remedy, and
ought to be proclaimed to the four
quarters of the globe. I'll publish it
myself, as a charity to mankind.''
" I'll prove it, by George !" he mut-
tered, with well feigned symptoms of
annoyance.  "But tell me plainly, My-
relda, why do   you fear Gerald, as
consummate a coward as ever walked
the earth ?"
" A snake in the grass is more dan-
gerous than one we can see, and pre-
pare for. Havn't I cause for appre-
hension, Herbert ?" She laid her -lead
back upon -his shoulder, and looked up
into his eyes, with an expression that
puzzled him.
" Now what does that mean ? I'll
own I can't read the riddle written in
those eyes. There's a meaning in it
too abstruse for my powers. Speak
plainly, and tell me all you think."

" Then, plainly, sir. I think he would
do secretly what his violent passions
have inipelled him to attewnpt openly !"
Hamilton started again, and gave his
toe the credit.
" Openly ! what am I to understand
by that, pray ?"
"Now, don't affect ignorance, sir.-
I know all, Herbert !" She burst into
tears, and sobbed in heart-anguish up-
on his swelling bosom. Hamilton knew
how deeply he was loved, as he held
her quivering form closely to his breast;
and the thought unnerved him.
" How did you learn that, Myrelda?"
"4Through the servants, this morn-
ing, who were not aware of being over-,
heard."
He set his lips firmly together, and
his black eyes flashed fury; but sup-
pressing his indignation, he said with
assumed pleasantry :
" I'll take you away, soon, where the
black imps can't disturb your quiet. I
have sought to keep you in ignorance
of that absurd act, to avoid distressing
you, unnecessarily. I feared your weak
woman's heart"-he pinched her plump
chin, and curved his proud mouth, with
affected -disdain--"would be intimida-
ted and constantly troubled by that
knowledge. He is too dastardly to at-s
tempt it, whatever may be his fearn-
ings to that effect ; his cowardly fears
of being suspected, after all that has
transpired, particularly on that occasion,
will deter him, I don't fea1 him, Myrel-
" No, sir, you wouldn't fear to march
up, single handed, and face 'an army
with banners.' If there were an atom
of fear in, you, my life would not now
peril your own."  Tears filled her eyes
again, but she bit her lip and struggled
to crush them back.
" But the whole earth is bright andI
beautiful, even in its winter garments,

and life very der to me now, Myrelda;
and the probability of losing it and
you would doubtless make Mme fear and
tremble. I should not fear to die i I
knew I should carry you in ,my arms
over the death flood, and live with you
in eternity."
She looked up with an expression
that Herbert Hamilton saw in his lash
hour, as she uttered the words: "we
shall not long be separated, Herbert, if
you cross the Jordan first."
" Love for you has led me to hope
and trust for life hereafter; and if God,
gives you to my arms on earth, through
His grace I will hold, you there in
heaven."
She closed her moist eyes With a
bright smile, and Hamilton caught the
whisper " saved," as her small handy
met in a devotional clasp and were-laid
softly upon his arm.
He drew out his watch. "There, if I
tarry longer I shall lose my credit, and
bring reproach upon you ;" humorously.
She dropped her face upon hisibreast
and sat silent some time. He held her
there, without a word, till she raised
her head and untwined her arms from
his neck.
"There, that will shield me," he said
smilingly.
"11 hat, Herbert ?"
"That prayer. Itcreptright through
my vest pocket and told the whole
story to a little monitor on the other
side.' Like Jonah, I could go forty
days and nights in the strengthof it.
Now don't be distressed about me." He
looked at her earnestly and, inquiringly;
Myrelda swallowed down her anguished
emotions,and raised her eyes with asmile.
" And now, in return foryours, ,pray;
God bless you, my darling, and 'give His
angels charge over you, and him you
love."
He had gracefully slipped from the

I


96            .HERBERT HAMILTON;

sofa to a kneeling posture, and drawn
her gently beside him. He held her
thus some moments in silence, his face
bowed upon her head.-
Myrelda hastened up to her chamber
when. the door closed upon his majestic
form, and in its mournful hush, her
petit-up misery gushed forth, The black
cloud had culminated in the zenith of
her sky, and the wild storm broke furi-
ously over the green things in the gar-
den of her heart. Dr. Merton soon found
her in a state of high nervous excite-
tient, and left her in unconsciousness,
with Aunt Linder anxiously watching
her restless slumber.{
Herbert Hamilton was too brave to
carry deadly weapons, about his person,
in a civilized community; he had never
descended to that mean and cowardly
habit; and though target-shooting was
an early practice that had rendered him
perfect as a marksman, he had not pos-
sessed one since his sojourn in Virginia,
having presented his own, to a friend in
New   England, after his return from
abroad, which friend was preparing for a
journey to Oregon.
But Myrelda's presentiment, Gerald's
known villainy, and the loneliness of the
road over which he must pass, where a
murder and robbery had been committed
even since his residence in Arlingford,
decided him to appropriate the weapon
of Mr. Berrien, with whichhe had given
Smith the astounding proof of his pro-
ficiency, and which had since remained
in the office.
He artfully loaded and capped the
instrument, with the mental ejaculation:
"God ave me from the necessity of
shedding life blood," and mounting his
fiery charger, a powerful, prancing an-
imal, he put spurs to the snorting steed,
and dashed off towards Fairville.- As
Geraldhad said,the country was sparsely
populated, and on either side of the road,

in some portions, dense with underbrush
that defied the organs of sight to pene-
trate fifteen feet from the highway.
Hamilton had lingered so long with
Myrelda, that he found it necessary to
proceed as fast as possible, in order to
reach Fairville in time for the com-
mencement of the Court-session. He
had arrived at the loneliest, and darkest
spot upon his route, and as the bravest
man, under some circumstances, will
feel a little restlessness creeping over his
inner life, at the fancy of a pistol muzzle
taking deadly aim at his heart, through
the dark, Hamilton's black eyes swept,
piercingly along each side of the dense
way, and he urged his horse to a quicker
pace. There was no fear in his iron na-
ture; he could have marched up to the
cannon's mouth ijnshrinking, but My-
rilda's solicitude was in his mind, and a;
feeling of suspense, that ever renders
the anticipation of an event worse than
the reality, induced him to wish for more
open, and less suspicious quarters.
An explosion echoed beside him, as
his spurs touched the animal's side ; the
wild beast bolted, at the startling sound,
as the loud report of fire-arms-broke the
solitude far and wide. Hamilton drew,
the stout reins tightly in his powerful
hand, and snatching the pistol from his
breast, wheeled the frightened horse in
the direction of the fire, as a second
shot from the concealed foe woke the
deep woods from their slumber. The
frantic steed reared and plunged, and
bolting from the enemy, dashed madly
along the highway, in the direction of
Fairville, leaving the noble form of his
late rider upon the ground, and a third
shot quickened the clatter Qf his flying
feet !
.e           1f-

CHAPTER XXVlLJ.              features, and sunken eyes plainly evi-
Se farewell hope; and with hope, farewell fear; denied ; for like the prodigal son, she
Farewell remorse; all gmod to me is lost;  only fed on husks, in her splendid home,
Evil, be thou my good.-MILTON.    while he was revelling abroad, scorning
" Good-bye." Frederick Gerald bent the only heart in the wide world that
down and kissed the pale lips of his lan- really loved him. Gerald gave her just
guid wife, as he uttered the words. enough of smiles, to make her keenly
Mrs. Gerald lifted her arms to his feel their absence, and grow heart-sick
neck, and returned the pressure with in the shadow of his brow; yet, when
far less hypocricy than it was gien.- policy dictated, he would have a confi-
She loved her husband, there was no dential soul, revealing, satisfactory to
questioning that, the simple fact of her her, and allow her a few hours respite
marriage proved it; and he had ever from the torture he was continually in-
striven in a peculiar way, to encourage flicting. He knew his power, and ex-
the belief that he was attached by feel- erted it to the fullest extent of polite
ings as disinterested, in wedding her, barbarity. If Mrs. Gerald had flatten-
from motives politic. He had blinded ed his nose, independently, and flour-
her weak eyes, completely, by sneering ished the broom stick about his ears,
at, and swearing falsely, concerning he would have regarded her with more
Myrelda; and though jealous as old respect and affection; for Frederick
Bluebeard himself, of her handsome Gerald was so abominably mean and
lord, occasioned by small acts of indif- cowardly, that he delighted in tyrani-
ference, that a loving heart can detect, zing over every simple-minded and de-
more by intuition than actual sight, he pendent creature within his power;-
could mislead and mollify her at will by while an exhibition of spirit awed and
a display of seeming tenderness. To and intimidated him.
gratify a desire for absence at unreas-  " You'll be back soon, dear ?"
enable hours, street-strolling, or thea-  "Oh, certainly. Only going a few
tre-going, without her, Gerald would miles,. to consult Gray about building
sulk some hours previous- to the time up the Vale. It's a glorious spot, Jane ;
appointed, and then march out of the worth ten thousand this minute. I
elegant home for which he was indebt- made a capital spec, on that. I'll sell
ed solely to his wife's wealth, without it for fifteen after the house is erected,
a word or look of affection; and return, and make money at that !"
seemingly repentant and unhappy, af    " Montford only gave six, Fred."
ter his end had been accomplished;--  " Exactly ; but property wasn't worth
shed a few crocodile tears, and softly half then, that it is now; and the best
insinuate that her frowns, and appar- of it is. it's going up, daily ! Just
ent indifference, had driven him to act, think ! Hamilton gave twenty thous-
in opposition to his loving heart !  A and dollars cash for the Lynn place,
few score of kisses, and any quantity of 1 when Lynn only paid ten at the time
salt water, dropped from her pale blue|Montford bought the Vale. That proves
eyes, sealed their re-union; while he [ it."
laughed in his coat-sleeve, or behind  "It's the strangest thing in creation,
linen, raised to absorb his repentant how  Hamilton could pay  that sum
tears, at her surprising credulity. Mrs. Fred !"
Gerald was a miserable wife, as her thin " I reckon he know how he got it,
13

I

OR, THE BAS BLEU.           97


98               HER  AT, HAMILTON;

better then his father," returned Ger-
aId, with a significant wink. "8hould'nt
wonder ifsomerascal should turn State's
evidence, and enlighten the people on
that subject, in coming time. He al-
ways.had the look and air of a bandit;
he's no gentleman, or he wouldn't grasp
every opportunity to insult me, the -
Yankee, scoundrel!, I'll give the knave
his due yet, if he crosses my path again,
in spite of Booth and Berrien. He de-
signsto show to the world, his belief in
her virtue, by open animosity to me;
phew I, How the devil she's cheated
him into that belief, if he does credit it,
passes my understanding. I'll bet a
cool :hundred he don't marry her, in
spite of, present appearances. If he
really loves her. he's just devil enough.
to kill her, and commit suicide, when
he learns his mistake. We shall see ;
we shall see."
Gerald turned on his heel, and strode
out into the street, with a gay whistle,,
leaving hjs simple wife: smiling satisfac-
tory, at the prediction which evinced
his contempt for her whilom rival. He
passed Mr. Berrien's, as Hamilton was
ascending the steps.. Gerald compressed
his lips, and gave his horse an irritable'
cut with his riding whip, that soon
carriedhimbeyond the corporation limit.
"It's his last visit I" he. muttered,
fiercely; "let him make the most of it!"
He galloped, on, and gained the deep
wpod , securedhis charger,, and went
cautioly towards the, highway. He
had left, his own weapons behind, laid
out infull view, upon his,wife's bureau,
They, should not witness against him he
had .planned well.- He drew forth, the
new, pistols. and carefully examinedthe
caps. He had nerved himself for the,
blQody deed with a powerful dose of
French{brandy; and supplied himself
with a flask full of the courage-eleva-
ting beverage, to sustain him through

the ordeal; but despite th e stimulating
fluid, his nerves collapsed, as the sound
of hoofs came up the still, road to his
listening ear, and faster grew his heart-
beats as they neared him.
Gerald stationed himself behind .,a
sturdy tree-trunk, and peeped through
the brush-barrier, for the first glimpse
of his victim.  His nervous finger
brought the hammer upon, the first cap,
as Hamilton came in sight, and had it
discharged the barrel, he would have
been spared the effort of pulling twice;
but the quick bolt of the startled horse,
bore his rider in advance of tha first
eying ball, and the spasmotic move-
ments of the restive animal, as Hamil-
ton wheeled him irresistibly towards
thehidden foe, saved him from the se-
cond whzzing bullet, as it whistled
over the frantic steed.
Gerald's hand dropped, from sheer
excitement, as he saw Hamilton fall,
satisfied of success; but his hair stood
on end with fright when he beheld him
bound up from the earth, apparently
unharmed, and plunge into the , under-
brush, in eveident search of his foe,
grasping the pistol, and firm as rocks
in apearanceL
If Hamilton's eye rested upon him,
he was was a dead man to a_ certainty;
Smith's assertion that he would slide
right down the tree, and give up if
Hamilton were about to fire at him!
flashed- through the -cowardly  villian's
mind and dropping his weapon, uncop-
sciously, in his extreme fright, he dar-
ted from the old tree-trunk; and if. the
boughs above him had possessed  eyes,
they would have witnessed some. long
strides and tall steps from the flying
miscreant!
Hamilton saw the, shaking of thq
bushes through whichhe sped, and fir-
ing in that direction, followed hard in
lyis wake. The discharge gave no great-

er impetus to Hamilton's horse, than to
Gerald's heels; and he shot through the
woods like an arrow, in search of his
fleet-footed steed; but the animal had
disappeared I Perhaps he had been
alarmed by the firing, and escaped
homeward. In dispair, Gerald bolted
into an old hollow tree, and awaited in
trrpidation of soul, the coming up of
the enemy, pistol in hand, for a defen-
sive shot.  But no sound of pursuit
disturbed his guilty soul.
In his race, Hamilton's foot became
entangled in a wild vine, that would
have laid him at full length upon the
soil, had he not grasped a slender sap-
ling and saved his head from going-
like 'the spirit of the beast that per-
isheth"-"downward." He disengaged
himself from the creeping ligament, and
abandoned the pursuit, concluding it
would be fruitless, and-an unnecessary
waste of time.  He turned his steps
towards the highway, and chanced upon
Gerald's fallen weapon. Hamilton took
it up, and in utter astonishment, saw
his own initials upon the shining silver
plate. He had no doubt as to who was
his assailant-the fact of his flying
stamped him with-Gerald's known cow-
ardice-but the letters divulged a deep-
er plot than he had suspected. There
was doubtless a fellow to the oie he
held, and the engraver of the' initials
could probably identify their owner. He
would probe the matter to the bottom,
and visit upon the monster the whole
weight of the law.
He placed the weapon in his pocket,
and. turned towards Fairville in quest of
his horse, which, fortunately, had been
arrested by a pedestrian, who had
mounted and was galloping back in
search of the rider. Hamilton liberally
rewarded the humble woodsman for the
great service, and without alluding to
his recent encountre, hurried off to

Fairville. He had decided to keep the
affair secret from all but his associate,
to avoid alarming the foeand increasing
Myrelda's solicitude, till proof sufficient
could be obtained, to convict him of
the crime. Could he have looked a
little into the future, he would have
pursued a far different course.
On his return ro Arlingford, he was
greeted with fraternal feeling by Charles
Montford, who had arrived during his
adsence ; and in the presence of her
lover and brother, Myrelda forgot her
late misery, and laughed at her idle
fears, as Hamilton playfully plumped
her head back upon his shoulder, and
drew down his face in a die-away- ex-
pression,. in nimiery of her morning's
appearance.
Had she known that but for her pre-
sentiment, that noble and idolized form
would then have been rigid and cold in
its last long slumber, the wild rose would
not have bloomed sweetly upon her round
cheeks, nor the sparkles of pleasure
floated and flashed in those lustrous
brown eyes. Hamilton designed never
to acquaint her with the diy's adven-
ture, till his assailant was securely lodged
where his life could not agonize her heart
with fears for his own safety.
Their marriage had been delayed in
expectation of Charles' arrival; and
now an early day was specified for the
consummation. Hamilton intended to
startle all Arlingford, by the brilliancy
and pomp of Myrelda's bridal, celebrated
in her childhood's home, before, pro-
ceeding on a northward tour. Aunt
Linder and Rose were snugly domicili-
ated in their old quarters, which recon-
ciled them, somewhat, to her anticipated
absence of some months. Myrelda laid
her head on the pillow that night, with
a heart overflowing with gratitude and
love to Him who had broughther through

OR, THE BAS BLEU.            99


100                HERBETT HAMILTON;

the dark shadows, of adversity, into the
broad sunshine of earthly happiness.
. The day subsequent to the events nar-
rated, the city of Arlingford was agi-
tated by the announcement of Dr. Ger-
ald's mysterious .disappearance. Mrs.
Gerald had fallen into hysterics, as the
night wore on, and her husband came
not, and a scouting party, organized by
her brother, had gone in quest of the
missing man.
Hamilton experienced a strange sinka
ing of the soul, as this intelligence was
communicated at the Melville House,
that he could not shake off. He half
resolved to disclose the whole affair, and
exp;ess his belief that Gerald had ab-
sconded,.through fear of being appre-
hended and brought to justThe; but a
second thought decided him to await
Mr. 3errien's return, and obtain his
advice and co-operation. Gerald would
doubtless, be forthcoming with a plausi-
ble excuse for his delay, which would
serve to screen him from suspicion, if
the affair had been divulged. He re-
lied upon the weapon in his possession,
as the means of convicting his assailant.
He would search the world over, if ne-
cessary, to find the engraver of those
initials. He awaited anxiously, further
information concerning the matter, but
the day closed, and still the scouting
party had not returned.
A cheerful group was gathered in Mr.
Berrien's parlor that night, when the
noble-hearted proprietor entered and
grasped Charles Montford warmly by
the hand, with a hearty slap of con-
gratulation ,upon the shoulder. Charles
had been absent two years, and in.
listening to the recital of his adventures
in the far West, the night flew swiftly
and insensibly on. The iron tongue of
the'city clock had long droned out upon
the tranquil- night-waves the hour of'
eleven, when, in answer to a nervous

ring of the door bell, the stout Sheriff
entered, followed by officers.Burley and
Bragg, Gerald's brother-in-law  and
Smith, and arrested Herbert Hamilton
for the murder of Dr. Gerald I
Hamilton sprang to his feet in aston-
ishment and horror, while the late gay
and joyous group grew livid with ex-
itemenit.
Myrelda clung to her lover's arm in
mute agony, while her slender form
shook like a leaf in an autumn blast. -
Hamilton passed his arm around her
tiny waist, and holding her securely to
his breast, turned unflinchingly and
firm as granite to the emissaries of the
law.
.  Is Dr. Gerald dead ?"
Slie is, Sir," said the Sheriff, re-
spectfully, as he observed Hamilton's
loftly air. "His body, and that of his
horse, were found shot and partially
buried with these articles, apparently
lost in the confusion of the moment."
He produced a pistol-fellow to the one
in Hamilton's possession-and a hand-
kerchief bearing his name !
Myrelda recognized the latter as her
own gift, and turned her eyes, despair-
ingly, upon her lover's firm face. He
met her glance and asked half sternly:
" Do you think me guilty of this
crime, Myrelda ?"
She read his heart in his tone and
expression.
"I do not, Sir." He smiled at the
earnestness of her tone, as he turned
again to the Sheriff.
" I have too much respect for law to
seek to elude it; but before I leave this
house, allow me an explanation to those
I leave within it."
He related, in a calm, earnest tone,
the whole story of the assult, and the
why and wherefor of its concealment ;
and raising his eyes, reverently, to
heaven, he concl ded the revelation,-
with the words:

ia
01
s
o
ni
m
]i
h
re
ja
lo
h
a
re
te
yc

1
t

OR, THE BAS IBLEU.                           101
"Before God, who knows the secrets loud yell, as he thouglis of the reward.
of all hearts, I solemnly declare I am  "I owns half on't !" grasped John,
not the murderer of Dr. Gerald, and bolting up from the crazy stool, and
knew not of his death till within this blowing his great nose, that Tom's Punch
hour."                              had provoked, with a sound like a stage
He gathered Myrelda, a moment, horn. "I graved one on 'em, you know
strongly to his breast, and laid her, --I'll prove it by Dick Blye ; 'cause you
fainting, in her brother's arms, as he know Dick swore yourn was done the
said, with a look that pierced Charles best-I could a-knocked 'im flat for it,
Montford to the heart, by its deep, but I'm glad on't now, 'cause I'll come
tearless anguish:                   in for half the pewter, you know ''
"Thank God that I can leave her with  "You go to     !" snarled Tom,
you I"                              "Well I shan't fight 'bout it, 'cause it's
He turned quickly, and passing his all in the family, you know, an'll go into
arm through the Sheriff's, left the apart- the same till. Je-: usalem ! who'd
met with a firm, stately step, but mar- a-thought them pistols would a-give a
ble-hued brow, followed by Mr. Berrien. feller a lift like that-whew! i'm off
The result of his examination, with to --le'me see, court setts first Monday
the evidences of guilt produced by the in March. I'm off to Arlingford on
Sheriff, was a commitment to prison to Sunday to save time; can  it the tin
await a further trial.            'and git back to Baltimore by Monday
night p'rhaps. Cre-ation ! 'if that ain't
a streak o'luck ! An' the rascal's gone
ai' shot Dr. - what's it? Dr. Ger-
CHAPTER XXIX                 ald, an''is horse to boot!. with them
Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure,  ere pistols ! I'll help to hang 'impby
Thrill the deepest notes of wo.-BuRNa.  -1!1:knowed the devil was in the
"Hello ! Je-rusalem ! hell and fury! scamp, he had sucla hang-dog look
f I hain't made my everlasting jack 1" 'bout 'im, spite of 'is broadcloth. I
shouted Tom Bushman, as he leaped eyed 'im, 'cause 'e seemed restl  like,
ver the counter and flourished the an' tried to hide 'is face;- you know I
3altimore Sun about his head, in a man- 'marked 'pon 'is conduct subsequent,
er that betokened unwonted excite- I'll know the mean cuss-black eye,'
lent, while his keen grey eyes glistened black hair."  " No 'e didn't !" inter-
ke a serpent's in a thorn hedge.   rupted John, "he had blue-green eyes,"
"What the dickens is it ?" growled "Go to the devil !" thundered Tom
is partner, John Lynch, looking up "he had on green specks, that's It
ver his glasses, from a watch he was haw ! haw ! I know the cuss had black
pairing.                          eyes, an' I'll swear to it !"
"Is it ?'' thundered  Tom, as he    Look-a.-here, Tom, don't go to swear-
tmmed the crumpled paper againss the in' to a lie, 'casue you might git the
ng nose of John, and shook his fist at wrong one strung up. 1 know 'is' eyes
im in unbounded delight.   " Look was blue, 'cause ----
-there, old boy,! five thousand dollars  " Yes you knowed Cynthy Blye's
ward to him as 'graved them ere let- was black, and they turned out to be
rs 'H. H.,' 'pon that pair of pistols, gray !  Look-a-here, old feller, don'
ou know-hurraw !" and Tom gave a talk till -you gits better eyes in your
own head than them ere !


102                     HERBERT HAMILTON
'lit laid his head back, and haw= stately and firm, strong in the belief of
hawed, to his partner's confusion; who an acquittal.
could ,not gainsay his assertion. Buch-, A note had been rece ived by Mr.
anan toothed  down his face and con- Berrien, the author of the advertise-
tinued!                            aent, at Hamilton's instance, from
I'll'dentify the rascal; black eyes Tom Bushman, who would appear as.
black hair, and curly. I never had any witness, on that occasion ; and the pris-
good 'pinion of black heads," he ran oner's heart was buoyant- with hope, as
his fingersthrough his owntluand he looked upinto the crowded gallery,
sandy locks, that stuck out,wlike bris- at the wan face of his affianced wife.
ties, upon his bullet-like poll---"tall an'  The weapon, handkercef, and a
stout, si- feet, good, an' some to spare; note in a scrawling hand, evidently
thick an' blek moustache, an' whole feigned, but bearing some faint resem-
fae  covered with hair; 'where th  blance to Hamilton's chirography, found
hair had ouh f  t   r,'" he s      in the pocket of the murdered man, re-
this totliaf tune of 'Old Ned,' as he questing his presence at a house, on the
moothed his hand  over his own well road leading to Z airville, at a specified
cultivated uphisand smiled a sardonic hour, were produced, and the witness-
grin    e of complaisance.          es called to the stand, by the Clerk.
Tre to-hipromise, which was a     Smith testified to the sending of the
rare thing, pwhe phis interest was not challenge, and its declension; and to
At stake, Tom Buchanan was whirled Gerald's expressed intention of visiting
with railroad rapidity, towards Arling- Gray, the mason, on the day previous
foit, r   othe rholyday, specified, "to to that on which he was found murder-
save time."                         ed in a quarter antipodal to Gray's res-
*        *  *        *     *    idence.
O~Meriful heaven !' Mr. Wilmot The woodsman affirmed to the arrest-
sprang from his chair, clenching the i  o' Hait  hoca     hisaecited
leter ustrecive, n4 pcedt~'andappearance on that occasion ; and his
fette: just, received, and paced to and lt  ria at Fairville was proven.
fro e i1tedly. "Arrested for murder! ate arrive             pr    -n
Hebhert~ Hanilton! my high-souled boy! Tom Budhnhan declared, affidavit, that
than whom a nobler never walked God's he was the engraver of the letters upon
footstool ! proofs of guilt, thus far, the weapons produced; and that the
fearfully against him ! only one hope! prisoner at the Bar, applied to him for
]I'llransack the earh to find him!-- the service,in December last; he could
Herbert sha't die, till he's forthcon- not state the precise day, but it was.- i
ing. I'll-'turn he world upside down, the latter part of the month named.
to reprieve him if hes condemned !'   It will be remembered that Gerald
Mr. Wilmot, ,the foster father, and visited Baltimore, the day following
law-master; of HJamilton  hastily packed Hamilton's return to Arlingford, and as
a portman#epu, and leaping into the he had kept his own counsel, the fact
cars, the iron horse bore him, swiftly, could not be proven; but it waashown
in at Sontherg direction,           by Hamilton sown words, that.he had
passed through that city, the day of his
i IerbertE amilton entered the court- sudden and surprising appearance at the
house,; arwn-in-arm with the Sheriff ;. Melville House.

OR, THE BAS BLEU.                            10'
The glow of hope that had illumined eyes, and Hamilton's appearance cor-
Hamilton's heart, expired at this de- responding precisely, with the memory
position of Bushman.h le sat firm and he retained of Gerald, he unhesitatingly
un   ing      colorless as able, is swore ohis identity, when supplied
luminous black eyes fixed piercingly with the false' moustache and green
upon "the, witness.- Bushman,'- who glasses, which Hamilton occasionally
really s opposed he was testifying truth- wore, as a protection from the glare of
fully; but more thoughtful of the re- gas-light in his office, and winter winds.
ward, than the result of his testimony, A witness testified that Hamilton had
met his gaze boldly, and the prisoner them on, the night of his return to.
and witness kept up a full, unflinching Arlingford.
stare.                                Lynch, who was not altogether satis-
Mr. Berrien's cross examination, fled with his affidavit, as he looked
elicited the ,confession, that the prison- earnestly into Hamilton's black eyes, re-
er's personnel differed only from that of marked that he should recognize the
his applicant, in that the latter sported applicant for the initials, by his hand
a heavy black moustache and green alone, as he had been particularly ar-
glasses, whereas the former was destitute, rested by its feminine size and fairness,
The State's Attorney here produced and remarked upon its appearance, to
the false moustaches, and a pair of green his p rtner at the time of the engrav-
spectacles found among Hamilton's ing of the weapons.
effects, and held them up to the Court . -By request of the ,Commonwealth's
and crowd.                          Attorney, Hamilton removed his thick;
A momentary silence pervaded the fur-lined glove, and exposed a hand of
mass, and a thrill of conviction, took such delicacy and beauty, that a mut-
possession of all but few hearts, that had tered exclamation, "the villain !" burst
hitherto leaned to the prisoner's side.  from several in the crowd, unacquainted
In compliance with the request of the with the prisoner, save by reputation..
prosecution Attorney, Hamilton placed Lynch sat down, fully convinced of
them in the position designed; and Hamilton's guilt, despite the idea he
Bushman swore roundly, to his identity had entertained, respecting the color of
with the applicant of the initials,  his patron's eyes.
The indefatigable Berrien pushed his Hamilton's countenance betrayed no
inquiries, and found that the partner of emotion, during the whole examination
the witness was present, at the time of of the witnesses, his every movement
the application of the proprietor of the was calm and firm as. adamant, and his
pistols; And the trial wa postponed to large dark eyes followed Lynch.steadily,
the: following day. A telegram was as he turned from the standiand looked
despatched for the appearance of John into his face, with an earnest, scrutiniz-
Lynch, forthwith,                   ing gaze, as though seeking to read the
The .court-house was crowded to its secret soul of the false witness. Lynch
utmost capacity, when Hamilton again despite his conviction, winced befbre the
took his seat at the Bar; and many a full, steady blaze, and whispered to his
pitying eyewas lifted to Myrelda's palb partner:
thin face, when Joahn Lynch bore tests-  "I wish I'd stuck to it, .'e had blue
niony to her lover's guilt.  John had eyes-.confound mae if I don'ti!- He
distrusted the faithfulness of his own looks deuced, like 'im, but .a villain


104              HERBERT IAMILTON;

couldn't shoot as clear as them black
eyes-I've seen too many on 'em !-
they: will-flinch when-they gits pinned
up; but this manlooks like he'd jest as
lief as not, walk right into hell an'shake
the devil by the hair, over'is own coals
for 'cusin' 'im of meanness !"
"You go to hell, yourself !" growled
Tom.   "He's a hardened villain, I see
it in 'im! an' tries to make up in looks
for what he lacks in evidence !  Ie
can't skeer me. I'll be -  if he does
I'd swear to lim on a stack of Bibles !"
Lynch grew more sanguine and self-
satisfied, at this broad and emphatic
declaration, but carefully avoided Ham-
ilton's eyes.
Mr. Wilmot testified to the unim-
peachable .life of his foster son; and
the old man's nervous excitement, and
earnest solicitude would have stamped
him as the culprit to an ignorant ob-.
server.
TheState's Attorney'sopeningspeech
was followed by an energetic one from
Mr. Berrien, the counsel for defense.
He painted(Gerald's reputation in viv-
id colors, his desertion of an affianced
bride, from mercenary motives, his sub-
sequent slanderous insinuations con--
cerning her, to screen his own baseness,
his unjustifiable animosity for her ac-
knowleddlover, his wanton attempt
upon ihat, lover's-life, the challenge and
its declension,, had the prisoner yearn-
ed forthe life of his adversary, he
could have sent him into eternity with-
out trouble or stratagem, and been con-
sideredonorable, in the estimation of
the world! :Was it unreasonable or un-
natural to suppose that one so eager for
the destruction of the prisoner as the
deceased had evidenced himself to be,
would not descend to the assassin's re-
sort tocompass. his end, :when other
means!had failed ? If Gerald's design
was to obviate suspicion by murdering

the prisoner with weapons bearing his
own initials, would not so cunning a
mind fold himself in a mantle of secre-
ey, respecting all that pertained to so
nefarious a plan ? Was it marvellous
that he should not have bruited abroad
his absence, when that absence was
purposely designed to affect his scheme?
Gerald's personnel so strongly resem-
bled the prisoner's that a stranger might
readily confound their individualities,
under the circumstances. It was a well
known fact, that the deceased had ever
prided himself upon the feminine size
and seeming of his hand, witnesses had
testified to that truth."
Mr. Wiley, the opposing counsel,
succeeded Mr. Berrien.
"If the prisoner at the Bar were
guiltless of the crime alleged, who was
the murderer of the deceased ? Did
suspicion rest upon an ther enemy who
could devise so perfect a plot for the
prisoner's destruction ? The arraigned
had acknowledged the assault of the
deceased, upon the highway, and his
cowardly flight., Who would believe
that an ambushed enemy would fly,
without a third shot at a prostrate foe ?
and who would believe the prisoner at
the Bar so brave as to face a hidden
assailant, a broad target for a secret
weapon, when a frantic steed would
have carried him   swiftly, beyond its
deadly power? It were far more reas-
onable to believe that the loss of the
weapon and handkerchief, in the hurry
and confusion of secreting the. murder-
ed -body, originated the whole story
of the assault. Had the prisoner been
granted sufficient time to regain the'lost
articles, the deceased would doubtless
, have been borne from     his coffinles
- home in" the tangled wildwood, to th
silent grave-yard out yonder, witho-
this last black reflection upon his ia
mented clay, and an idolizing wife, no

.]
e
c
o
e
p
p
ti
te
PI
tpi
ti]
m
de
in
M
hi
no
de
an
ha
rai
Be
till
ter
vei
for

105

lying upon -the confines of the tomb, whom their chief hope of Hamilton'-
through agony for his death 1"       acquittal rested.
As Mr. Wiley concluded his lengthy   Hamilton was content tog in  u
and touching appeal, fiery glances were without a private interview ithu
hnrled at the risoner, from the xci- man; well satisfied with the knowledge
ted .cowd.                          ofhis existence; but-Mr.Wilmot haun.
Hamilton turned his eyes calmly, but ed the depot till the hour of ten on
solicitously, upon the half-fainting My- Monday. Bushman, however, caroused
r*ida, as he rose, with grave dignity the Sabbath night aw, with sone,
and firmness to "atswer for himself." "hale fellows, well met' in the ne
He, pointed his finger slowly and stead. boring city, and arrived s late at the
ily at Bushman and Lynch, as he said court-house as to render hit' the last
[n a deep clear tone:-               witness upon the stand. Thus a hma
" Were I the murderer of the deceas- life was perilled by utter indifference
ed, and the proprietor of the weapons to mortal suffering ad solicitude, Had
bearing my initials, is it probable that Bushman been aware of the1act that
I would have offered a reward for the the reward was to come from  the prig
engraver of those initials, merely to be oner, it would have biased his-mean
condemned to die, by his testimony ?" mind in his favor, and set him at once
Bushman and Lynch looked at each at liberty, so far as his testiaoncw
other significantly. Hamilton's keen concerned.
ye, and analytic mind,'noted their ex-  Through indolence, which was his
)ression.                           besetting sin, Lynch, who was familiar-
" I'll swear I didn't know it 1" whis- ly-known among his intimates by=the
ered Tom, "thought the boot was on soubriquet of "lazy Lynch," mise bthe
other leg '     '":                 cars at Willowborough, and arrived -t
Bushman's ignorance 'did not arise Arlingford in an antedeluvion hack, at
rough carelessness on Mr. Berrien's "the eleventh hour;-" thus the two
art, but from indifference in the mat- principal witnesses appeared in court
3r, on his. He had neglected to ap- without a private interview with the
rise the advertiser of his existence,-- prisoner's counsel.
1l a short time previous to the com-  Hamilton went from Alpha to the
encement of the court; as he conclu- .Omega of his residence in Arlinford.
Pd the reward wouldnot be fortheom- He held up Gerald in the full blaze of
g until his testimony was given ; and truth and reason.He descanted upon
r. Berrien's note remitting funds-for his unfeeling and udmanl  erse on
s transportation to Arlingford, had of an innocent and helpless woman hliia
it been received ; askTom's correspon- intrusion at Mi-s. Fairfield's togive hi
nce was so like, angels' visits, "few  slanderous insinuations- a colorin  of
d far 'between," that his porcupine truth,. His pale face flushed as he pro-
ir and brandy4inctured face were ceeded, his large black eyes flashed i
resights at the P. 0. aperture. Mr. upon thd'eager listeners, as his fine ex-
3rrien anxiously awaited his arrival, panned form, in its lithe and graceful
l within two days -of 'thee superior swayings, spoke the earnest es ofis
rm, when Mrs. B's sudden illnes pre- eloquent and powerful mind.
ated his design of going in person,  Mr. Wilmot's eyes brightened, as he
the incomprehensible witness, upon drank in the rich flood poured from
1.4

OR, Trn BASIBL U4


1o6

HERBERt HAMILTON;

thdeep; ipansive intellect-of hisfos-
ter son ; and Myrelda leaned forward,
divestedof her fear,: before the'"words
of trdtahnd soberness," that flowed!in
a:rcleary full; unimpeded stream  from
herdover's retaodehed' tongue
' W'e he the,"author of the note
fdund-aboutethe personHof the deceased,
he would not have allowed itito'r'emain,
whe'e: iticould' bear-! witness against-
hidi; with seuh ievidences as it has-been'
aseitedj itdreof'his authorship., Had
hefdesignedthe murder of Dr. Geraldy
hewouldinot have appointed 4 time for
the idxecdution 'of the bloody deed; when-
hisu mbsenbe*as generally known; and
upbn; tihe highway ovar which he must.
necessarily pass; when the events of
the.;past would naturally direct the eye
ofesspicion to so 'open an adversary'
of the deceased. Had he been aware
of the=death }of Dr.'erald, and.'the pro-
prietor!df'the weapon :found in the vi-.
einity df- hisude woodland grave; he
woilaenot have remained silent, with
the fiew' of'.'convicting him through'
the testiinmony of. the engraver of the
initials -upun 'its fellow, in his posses-
sion'p could he not have regained the.
lost weapon , conscience would have
made him cowardly, and impelled him
'beyond this grasp of the civil law,. Dr.
Geradwa. dead,under circumstances
that implicated him as the 'murderer,
to one who ,woldot look behind their
mereseemipg,' torthe bare probability
Benjamin was arrested for larceny, with
every appearance of guilt, when the
evidence that convicted him, was: but
the result of another's invention. And
now it:wassaidthe cup was id Benja-
min'sstaok but -as God; reigned in the
heavens, he, wals as innocent of the,
eriine alleged, as the youngest spn of
Jacob was 'of :the theft of' :Joseph's,
goods. Theniurderer who had planned
so deeply for his' destruction, might

than be within the sound of his voice
(he turned his eyes. slowly and eearch-
ingly over the mass, and one of the
challenged juror's, challenged by_ the
prisoners ,counsel, winced strangely,
before his penetrating glance, .alnil
on stood-silent asnioment, and flashed
upon him, one of ,his soul-stirring looks,
and turned, his eyes, intelligently, upon
Mr. Berrien,; then -re-directingr them
towards -the rejected  man's agitated
ftee, hecontinued) "exulting in the
success of his machinations; but what-
ever be the result, if condemned, by
circumstantial evidence, that has doom-
ed many ah =innocent. man to an ;igno-
minious death, to pay the penalty of
his crime-; the death of the gallows is
far preferable to the undying death of
a blood-stained, torturing conscience,
with the iron hammer of feeling sound-
ing upon the coffin- of hope,. through
the years that may lie before him ; and
the wail of a remorseful, despairing Al-
tamont: "is there a .hell ?" will roll up
from the noon of darkness in that guil-
ty heart, long after :his victim shall
have gone to the bar of God, to witness
against him, before the great Judge- of
all the earth ! CONsCO ENCE, the, un-
dying worm that drinks at the red foun-
'tain of the soul-life, yet never drains it
dry, will be my avenger on earth, and
ins ternity; "vengeance ismine, I will
repay, saith the Lord."  I would rath-
er die now, guiltless, as I am, of the
death of Dr. Gerald, than live and meet
the fate of his mrderer.H e turned
firmly and sternly to the astonished and
repentant Bushman and ,Lynch,, and
pointing 'his steady finger at them, be-.
fore, which Lynch quailed as though it
were the muzzle of a loaded- pistol, pro-
ceeded: * And you, upon whom my
hopes of an honorable acquittal rested,
you have perjured your souls by swear-
ing falsely, for the destruction of one,

i

I

who; I solemnly avow; in the sight of me, and my immortal spirit ,ho- tie
God and angels; as I hope 'for endless launched into eternity, Iwould repat
life beyond the present existence, nev  and reiterate, as y.do a w;before pia
er looked upon you until we met within  who is omniscientand:from everlasting
these walls. Whatever be your motive, to everlasting,-and at.wbose barawbeh4a
you will have your reward ; and may all one day stand, 'thatI never desiggud
God help you, for you will need more the destruction of Dr. Gerald, and ;am
than human aid, in the years that may NOT 'GILTY of his death."
core, should your testimony result as  The State's Attorney's diosingspeech
did that of other "false witnesses," that arrested the, full tide of }popular favor
nailed even the Savior of the world to that hadset-in towards the puseneryby
the-cross upon Calvary! He, for whose the adroitness and :Igl cunning die-
crime I stand arraigned before this bar played in the summiag up of evidenoo
of justice;' and you, from  whatever   * It, was no evidence of the prisoner's
cause, may rejoice in my execution, but innocence of the crime alleged, that the
you will iot triumph over me. I-do reward had been offered ffor the appear-
Bot fear to' die."  His noble formex- ancei of the engraver of the, jnitinla,
panded more proudly in conscious in- when in his extremity. he: had. made
poOende,- and a; smiling lustre beamed such a design a screen, for his silence.
from his large soft" eyes, as he lifted It would have been.equivalent to a taeit
them to Myrelda's. "I have faced death confession of guilt, . to have deferred
in many 'forms,unflinching, when unpre. under the cireumstaees;andmas the
pared for the realities of an immortal prisoner had resorted'to a disguise in
state; jand nowny soul is nerved with a applying for the initials--a foresight for
stronger  power ' than  mere ' human which:the legal fraternity ,were famous
strength, to confront the grim monster, -"he had,;doubtless, but little apprer
even with 'my feet -just crossing theJ hension of being recognized ; ands the
threshold of the grand and ,glorious larger. the amount; the, heavier would
temple of earthly 'happiness.: The un- fall thescailes of jdatice in his favor.
folded door of a new and lovely life on The deceased had been' robbed, aS well
earth, may be closed by you,         as. murdered; another cunningdevice to
'The lights go out; in itsfestal halls,  avert suspicions from one : whose{known
And the sable of sorrow be hung in Its walls,  wealth would serve 'to screen him fom
but there's a more glorious temple, whose the crime should it be discoveredbefore
gates no falsehood can shut,         his. departures from Arlingfor . :The
'where those who love shall meet again, ',Jnote was, doubtlesspunth '  ht f in the
An" ***r*s oorares~ there. . : confusion and trepidation. def'the ma k
Mr. Clydejblew his nose lustily, and menti ..The loss of the weapon and
squirted a tremendous mouthful of to-f handkerchief, had unquestionably, orig.
bucop jueeupon the floor, that spattered inated the whole story of the assault;
'a1l: theatrowsers-legs in his vicinity,.as and theprisonersrelying uponshii legal
he ; listened" to 'the  richness  and and oratorical powetsfand the.seeming
touching cadence of the speaker's cleai, impregnability ofcikcumstanbesbehind
calm' '+oice, white sobs-and smothered which he was entrenched;; ad1 imprv,
criesaame 'from the gallery.  HasAilton dently risked the result ;of iaegal in-
turned firmly to the jury. '    :    vestigation, rather that flywithout first
S.Wers theoofiniand shroud before'I accomplishing his .matrimonial design

OR, TIIE BAS BLEU..

Uly

r


Og             HERBERT HAMILTON;

Bit 'murder would out,' and he upon
*homn the prisoner had .confessed his
hopes offani honorable acquittal rested
had'frustrated those hopes by an unex-
pected recognition, even without the
disguise 'resorted to by the perpetrator
of the, contemplated foul deed. Who
would believe, that another had chanced
s&amp; opportunely to finish the work evi-
dently designed by the prisoner's con?
fessed pirstuit of the deceased, during
his cowardly flight ?-i Even granting'
that oppositionn, the note was still left
in, mystery. Or who: so ingenious; vig-
ilint 'and black-hearted, as to 'murder-
the 4eceaded for thepaltry sum of ten
dollars; and the amount of a watch, and
surround the prisoner with such evi'
dences of guilt,;as to render him a two-
fold murderer, without a feeling-of ani.
inosity towards his victim ? The pris-
oder couldpoint to no one and say, from
past symptoms of enmity: 'thou art the
mans and the deceased had no foe but
the .prisoner. The prisoner,-and the
prieoner's counsel, had'aspersed...the
eharketer of{thedeceased; by charging
him with mercenary motives in desert-
ingalady love.' 'The subsequent domes-
tie life of the deeeased,'had evidenced
that a inore honorable and just cause
could be assigned for-- .'' t
Hamiltonsprang to his-feet;asthough
electricity had touched a; secret spring'
irl his physicalformation, and-upraised
hin. with{ lightning.-like  spontaneity.
His firmlips= compressed more firmly,
his' pale fAce grey- marble-like, in its,
cold; hard seeming, and his large black
eyeapoured a lurid blase of light into
the .Attorney's face4 as :he raised 'his
right arm tkwards the speaker,: ind
iauniated, in a deep, stern tone' like
distant thunder;
* B$WARE I over my powerless
formyou must pass to her-!".
The ,old judge, whose white face had

grown whiter, and mild blue eyes moist
with feelig, daring the prisoner's de-
fence, reprimanded.the State's Attorney
for transcending the line.
The opposing counsel bowed apolo-
getically, to the blazing prisoner, with a
faint smile that the spectators construed
into an evidence of feeling antagonistic
to his position; and closed his address
by reminding the jury ;that one who
would commit the crime for which the
prisoner was arraigned, would not scru-
ple to make any declaration, however
emphatic, respecting his innocence..
Hamilton's eyes turned to Myrelda,
with anxious solicitude, when the jury
retired. 'Her livid excited!face agonized
him, and he motioned to Charles to re-
move her; but Myrelda firmly refused
to obey her brother's .gentle command
and her lover's appealing look. Charles
shoo ;his head sadly at 1Jamilton, and
essayed to nerve himself for the worst,
with Dr. Merton, at the lover's request
on the opposite side of the quivering girl.
A half hour passed leadenly away ere
the jury slowly and solemnly, re-entered
the court-room.
" Gentlenien Qf the jury, have ,you
agreed upon ayverdict r ' asked the Clerk
-a work of supererogation, but for the
form-the answer was written upon
each juror's face.
"     have."
"Have you found the prisoner guilty
or not guilty. ?"
The foreman drew a long, deep breath
ere he enunciated hoarsely:
S" GUIL TY !"
A scream, wild, piercing and despair-
ing, broke up the momentary hush, and
'Myrelda was insensible to her lover's
doom ! The heart-broken sound lifted
Hamilton to his feet spasmodically.,
x' Oh,G od 1" :Iie washed through the
crowd, and up into the gallery, with a
rapidity that reminded many present, of

OR; TIE BAS BLEU.                           1ot
his flight Up the burning stairs of My- his lonely and gloomy prison-ford from
reda's home; with a tiny stream of blood her who was apparently dying,.thregh.
trickling frem his whitelips, a startling devotion to him ! His exleriorjws
proof of the mental agony of the strong calm and hard as. flint, btt strangee
firm-hearted man !                   light burned in his .deep, dark .eyes.
"Good Lord !" Mr. Clyde sprang to He laid his hand upon Mr., Bprrien's
his feet at the strange, hopeless cry. arm, ere the prison door Closed !pan
"I'll be cussed if Iever heard anything him, and turned those strangelydittyas
like that, in the days of my life ! It upon his associate's,
went right through my head, and tore    "Keep me advised of her;.. Tell
it to finders ! She won't live till he's Merton to make her his .special care:;
hung--if that heart ain't broke, there's I will indemnify him for every loss from
no truth in sound-poor child !" He other sources." . Ie hastenediin to es-
blew, his nose, obstreperously, and ran cape the emotion of his friends:
his fingers under his glasses, as he fired
into the crowd, from his juicy mouth.
No outward sign but the oozing blood
drops, betrayed the mental strife of
Herbert Hamilton, as they lifted My-          CHAPTER      XXX.
relda from his bosom, and bore her, in a  How linked, how blessed we might have bees,
death-like swoon, homeward. He passed   Had fate not frowned so dark between.-gooa.
his arm silently through the Sheriff's,  Days, weeks and months rolled on,
and went sternly back to the Bar.    and the hour for Hamilton's execution
The old judge's voice was -choked had well nigh arrived. Every ,means
with emotion, as he passed sentence upon and effort that friendship and love: could
the stately and unflinching prisoner; suggest and perform, had been resorted
and burying his face in his handker- to forthe detection of the realimurdeter,
chief, the good old man wept like a but without avail.
child, when the terrible task was done, -Mr. Berrien, at Hamilton'B desire,
with Messrs. Wilmot and Berrien, and who marked Lynch's quailing'eye dur-
the sympathizing Sheriff for company !-ing the trial, obtained aprivate ,iner-
Crazy Joe had -been previously forci- view with the remorsefulengr er and
bly carried from the court-ropm, to si- learned the secret story 'of hisiftlstidli-
lence his stentorian voice, and avoid the pression respecting the color of his
consequences of a maliciously brand- patron's eyes, and his deep'rtebt"fbr
shed knife ! Joe avowed in profane not having "stuck to it," in ,apiteo fthe
terms, his intention to "rip up the whole past, deception of his - ocular optisi.
jury in a lump-dog me !"   .          Mr. Berrien became more nervous an
"That fellow ought to have on' a tormentingly restless by this revelation,
straight jacket !" said Clyde, looking and lost-no time in proclaiming- it di
after Joe and his.knife in consternation, the housetop to the four idsofd a.
No moisture glistened in the prison-  .'Notwithstanding the . evident esrf
er's eye, and his step was lordly and guilt that surrounded the prieandr, his
firm, as he turned from the.bar, where entire innocence of thec rim f rgwhioh
heihad often triumphed in by-gone days, be was condemned, was :the uniterul
with, the sentence'of death upon him, belief in. Arlingford ; setting aieathe
for another's criine, and went back to relatives of the 'deceased -:r. (Gsald,


OR, THE BAS B h   'U

ad higher grewthe exditeme'nt in the  ltlanilton calmly -dispose&amp; of all his
qunvM4tny   as'the day of::execution earthly affairs, unknown t4'Myrelda,
4rew  ligh                 "9        and 'turned his spirit-eyes away from
!' J~nry Greenwood, the challenged ti mely' things, to=theinvisible land.
juror,:. ho had'betrayed hueh'emotion He should soon see his beloved mother,
Aungu  1adilton's' trial, as' the prisoner] and her whom his youthful' errors had
fs  fhisdflashibg-:eyes uphn thin, was laid in a premature o rave. 'He com-s
mant ii watchedby Mr. Beirrion, tn- prehended now, in his -anguish  t part-
til the report of his, derangement was ing with Myrelda, what agony she must
bi ulatedg and his absence fromformer 'have- endured, to send  her broken:
hauntsn ofedisdipation and. depravity hearted to the grave. Had his love for
wa thus'explained'                   her, equalled that he felt for Myrelda,
rMylapthrouigh the sedulous care he could not have subjected her young
and emlerndkill of.Dr. Merton',recov- heart to such torture; but "old things
ered sufficiently to visit her lover daily; had passed away and all things became
and in listening to his words of resigna- new" -in his nature, his ,"sins-' which
tion, and confidence of a re-union in' were nisfy, had all been forgiven him,"
heaven, her heart grew stronger, and an&amp; he felt no fear for the past but
the strengllshe .ew;f oi his intrepid bright hope for the future. Myreida's
spirit,twas exhibited in her calm, marble: influence had purified his heart, and-his
w~hffad' She "felt" she could not deep Ive for her, had led him to stride
.die'a~s alda-4while Hlerbert' as in to be worthy of one so pure.
ezistenee;ht when! all hope for him  Hamilton: had never forgotton the
wasyiostralie should'surelym'die±in his expression of her countenaneQ, as-they
deatii',. She m ovdd thtouh Mr..Ber- 'knelt together in the burning chamber,
eiensho me hiielessen'dghostlike no and she lifted hereyesifearlessly to his
.oloraglimeitaasmile had appeared with the words uttered apparently"upon
upon her face since 'Hamilton'' arrest, the'very verge of Eternity:- "I know
,S  at r first meetings with her lover that my Redeemer'liveth " 'It haunted
-iulhis dreamyy ,priso-u 'The red blood him with a strange' incomprehetdeible
rippedap;tphers wan cheeks aud a 'import, until his own heart learned to
lsiletg ted iher lanquid eyes; tothef -repeat 'it joyfully, in the 'tiIenee and
SstIllaio'hisincareersted'from; but, midnight gloom ofhis lonely prison.
=doiitheyLfededandf died out, before the' But for hei misery, who was dedrer to
1d ed   rn&amp;or' o fa "future day  MY- his heart than life itself, and'who was
l     itapwtheimighty strugglein.his; 'the blessed instrumentin -God's hands
6dia&amp;heathy 4  fill nd' faet thro- o fattniiig him'from the broad' road to
thin ya he sleped,'her' eloselftheVe, destruction, into' the nasrw' way of
,and  sedbach parting kisskeponvr,' life everlastirrg, he: could die brayely.
di,  hili iem, palecal'a e evsed He 1sive the effort she made to appear
oaiyiqiedan mental composure; and caam and resigned inh1s pressn ee and
tie'o to arqtlhfolyaeio noble; 'a flood 'of tenderness surged through
Ottdib stipodarbedrlted iin ikhrent' jhis strong soul for the frail being who
itti rt* sud'prtdd manliness'abode the sought to'hide her own ,sufferings, to
lWoMrat: 4tgen uShamofldpare hin ,spare him pain.
=3i        fitnessi ;der suffering,1  AHatiultor bequeathed ten thouud
b6aWias er utlwbldsustaindier indollars to' his -benefactor and Edward
the secret conflict.

Norman--'the real name of Stella Nor-
wood's brother--individually; and live
thousand each to{Mr. Berrien and Dr.
Merton, there renainder-..-one hundred:
and forty thousand-to his affiancedd
wife, stipulating a liberal annuity to
crasy Joe during his natural life.
It was a blue, sunlit, June. morning,
the day of lamilton's execution ! ]Be-
tween the ,houts of ten andtwelvepit
was .decreed the vital spark should be-
extinguished; and thousands had con-
gregated to 'witness the awful scenes
Myrelda lay, niore dead than alive,
upon her lover's breast, but tearless and
hard-struggling for . composure ,that
would not be .evoked to screen her
throbbing temples and livid face, and
the wandering burning eyes betrayed
but too plainly the inward writhing.
Hamilton was smoothing back the brown
hair from her hot, blanched forehead,.
and looking down in those wild, burn-,
ing eyes, with a tender smile upon his
softened lips, that was all the more.soul-.
crushing to her who heard the deep,t
restless throbbings of the heart be-
neath' .her head. He was. speaking
lowly and deliberately, in a soft, event
tone, while his pale, massive brow con-
tractedifrequently, with inward pain,i
as he detected her secret struggles toc
conceal.her feelings .
"My .darling, in the language -ofr
your sainted father: 'it is appointed t
unto man once to die,' and God wills
that my death be an ignominious one; r
but his immaculate Son was.falsely ac- 1
used and unjustly condemned, and I a
can passunshrinking, the gate through b
which He entered into his Rest. 'I I
fear not' to die, dearest, as you once said y
in a moment 'of peril, and which I have i
never forgoaton: 'I know that my Ret s
deemer liveth,' and through His atone- t'
ment, I have found redemption from all I o

HE BERT HAMIb TON;

10

pasteinful es. Letthe co*tseumess
that ypur 'goodness And- purity.hwe
taught the way to iieaven  t  ye,
love most,,and who, loves youk'with
love that;is more thy;love!eonaolyeM
for hi, lobs, .I had, looked forwardo4,
many long, bright years ,o'arhy 4p,
piness,-as your.fond husband het.G14
who looks{through all4hayear.f9liiim*
abd-EteritPy,,sees best]withhpli the
dear realities of wedde: life,} adii
must-submit humblyald tntstiJly'to
His will. His ways, though inseguezp
ble, are just aright, andingtbe'Veiled
future, we shall confess;fis ,aithfdlnes
and mner'y, evenin:thisedark dispensa-
tion. ,Be brave-hearted; in the p eee
as you have been in the past, my dark,
ing, and'think of your Herbert as'w t
lost, but gone before.' a had hoped to
make yourfuture"life on earth. repay
you, through my love, for yo tpost aord
ro s; but though Imay not be permitted
to ,smooth your earth-way with my
mortal hand, and shelteryawfr forn;
upon my heart from the= earesineide t
to human life, my spirit wilt be .lwkya
near you, myown Myrelda, Io Jeep
you in all your ways,' and wh x $
throbbing brow and aquiveringform
hall rest at last,'I %i1 er  30 n9y
imiort l arms,,to thegr.eatS Yin,
endlessJ fedlov,tbe way-to 4iw   h
you have taught mewhere 'we hel#
never part, anywhere my innoene of
his crime willbe proclaimed,4 allithe
nations of 'the eartfi. .It; nieyn ver be
revealed in Time, but it will: be is
Eternity. and your .lrerberw will be
acquittedd by the;great Judge ete et
before those who now ,deem hire tu 'y,
Don't waste the precious :nomentai of
our abort life in ,tar a4 bighs for
ne,- darling, buticomfotiaiid relie e the
uffering and-destitute,,with the1we
hat 1 have-left you, and the happiness
f doing good will be yours."


Myr da   closed  her tearless,
brillianpeyes, and lifted'them tohis.--
Shre atsexnted to speak but no sound
cam from  her deathly white lips,-
Hamilton bent down, with an agonizing
eXpressof  pon° his face, and pressed
her chek to his. She struggled}in his
aiast a iomest and ,gasped for breath;
thenn living liis'head with her hand,
shi  ixtd there wild, burning eyes
aguibapon him,,,-
""Youhave left me your wealth,;
Herber"E
wks yw wife, Myrelda, you will be
found iidimy will."
-Wm l' sherepeated it slowly as
though trying r comprehend its mean-
iag,'twith a vacant; insane light in her
elear eyes. , Hamilton read her coming,
doom in }thatbrilliant glance.
"' shall never need or-apply it, Her-
bert; yitall die with you.
o'hen the stem dies, the leaf that grew
Out of its heart, will push, too.'
I  would rathe h'hve your name, Her-
bAt than all else. Give me that and I
dii die more calmly. . Let me wear it
t the '}grave with you, for one grave
Will hold us both."  --        -
+ arilton'sfirmness ,deserted him,
4aptie his powerful efforts to maintain
c   .exterior, at this request; ard he
eiher to his heart,"with a gush of
ireasgble tears.
TheWhite haired pastor stood up in
that glduny prison Jefore that devoted
fnd ddt ed pair, ahd uttered tremu.
I1 prououneeyou husband and wife.
Wrat God'hath joined together let not
ma|I put biundef."
1 Herbert Hamilton's hopes were, at
last, iriitedl'ad he smiled down upon
hi young -bride, as though no cruel
1A1~ wei every soon td separate them
br vi&amp;ui earth. He ftlded her in his.
wedded arms,'with a nervous clasp.

u Myrelda Hamilton-my own wife."
She smiled;, blushingly, at the new
and dear name; and hiding her face in
his bosom, murmured tremulously :
"My noble husband."
Hamilton's face flushed, radiantly, at
the timid sound, and the -rare, sunshiny
smile lingered a moment about his
proud mouth and in his large luminous
black eyes. It was a strange bridal,
whose altar was wet and dripping with
tears from all around it, but the newly
wedded r
Myrelda started spasmnodically, and
clung tightly-.to Hamilton, as the pale
and agitated sheriff entered to lead his
prisoner to the place of execution.-
Her brow grew purplish with intense
anguish, and with a quiver and gasp
she lay upon-his breast in strong con-
vulsions.  He yielded her to the weep-
ing Charles, with   such  deep soul.
suffering depicted upon his livid face
and contracted brow, that the grim and
hardened sheriff joined in the concert
of sounds that filled the dreary prison.
" Charles, my brother, this is worse
than death!1"  Hamilton clasped them
both in his arms, as he spoke, and laid
his face upon Myrelda's.  -    .
"'Never leave her or consign her to
an asylum.' Her life will be short--we
shall soon meet again, my innocent,
suffering wife. Dr. Merton, I leave
her, a dying legacy, to your unceasing
care and professional skill.
He laid his arm over the tortured
Mr. Berrien's shoulder, with a fervent
" God bless you I" and went forth into
the free air of heaven; from which he
had been so long shut out, for another's
villainy. His step grew firmer as he
walked to the place of execution; and
ascending the elevation, he turned, in
proud majesty, to address the assembled
thousands before him.
Mr. Berrien dashed out of the prison

1 1                     1119I fl1IM  hAMILTON

and went like a madugan, in an oppo-
site direction.  He spiaug upon his
waiting horse andilashing the astonished
steed with a fury foreign to his nature,
he plunged out of the hated, city and
along the woodland way like, an es-
caped maniac, beyond all sight and
sound of the horrible scene.
CHiAPTER XXXI.
And like a plague will memory break out,
And in the biaul and solitude of things,
' Upon his spirit; with a ever's strength ,
Wil censcience prey.-.-woRzswoerti.
"Doctor, come quick! 1le missus say
come ft de Lord's sake. He won't
lie 'till you gets dar."  The old white
headed negro breathed hard and fast,
as he delivered the message, while his
panting horse betrayed the speed at,
which he had been urged by his faith-'
ful rider.
Dr. Elwood vaulted into the saddle,
and signifying his wish to the sagacious
and sleek animal by a low whistle and
shake of the reins, he was very speedily
out of the buzzing city and flying over
the highway with a rapidity that left
the old negro's tired horse far behind..
Dre Elwbod was a, man in the prime
of life, universally esteemed in-the city
of Arlingford for his piety apd erudi-
tion, and the nephew of the excellent
old man, Dr. Merton. "His word is as
good as an oath," was his reputation.
" How is he ?"
A. flood of tears from the aged mother
of the patient was his answer.,
D . wood went softly into the dark-
ened chamber, and laid his anger upon
the wrist of the deranged man, who from
time to time muttered incoherently, and
sprang up with a strange cry of evident
terror. The poor mother pressed her
thin hands over her weeping eyes, with
a shudder. at the unearthly sound.
lo

Olt,

. "1How-long has he been in this state,
Mrs. Greenwood,:"
" sent for you or your ne    the
first alarm, Dr. ie awok qute *4ixnal
this moraing, an:dencourag m  ps
of a longer lucid interval,y
appearance, ti, lthe souid of  aweek ad&amp;
hoofs hurrying by arreiste4Ihia
springing wildly up, he inghired the
day of the month.
"' They are going to his execaion !
he gasped; and with a shris   that
curdled my blood, he relapsedi in v-
iig insanity!"
' The day of the month !" Di. El-
wood grew red and white alternatefy,
as he repeated it. "Great God! if he
should not revive in time !t
The good man clasped his hands and
fell upon his knees at the bedside. He
turned his white, excited face, towards
the miserable and mystified nothge .
"Mrs. Greenwood,you are abristian,
unite your prayers with thine, Cor the
restoration of your son to reason within
this hour. 'With God all things are
possible.' and He has promised etit
'where two or three shall agree as touch
ing any one thing, it shall- be gven."'
Mrs. Greenwood went, trenb'lingl,
and dropped down at the bedside. They
knelt there in.silence; Dr:lwood, *ith
his finger upon the patient's pulse; the
unhappy mother, sobbing and'quivering
beside him.,
The wheels of time appeaet to be
clogged with lead, ai the anxious physi-
cian; yet no symptoms of returning coix-
sciousness were visible in the still
patient. He drew out his watch, nerv-
ously; it had run down since he entered
that gloomy chamber. Dr. Elwood
sprang up in a state of high gxcite-,
nient. He had, surely, been tliere sev-
eral hours, and it would be too Ate now,
even if the patient revived, and cold
be induced to'make a revelation! 'ti


114                    HERBRT HAMILTON;
turned, white as death, to the astonished anti his noble charger had not entirely
mother.                            recovered from his late race. Dr. El-
"Tell me the hour !" he commanded wood dashed through the mud and mire,
with a-rough imperativeness unusual in with a shower of inky slush spattering
the gentlemanly physician.         both horse and rider, at a rate that
The poor widow's only dial was a startled Mr. Berrien, who viewed his
sun-mark on the door, and the rays were wild progress afar off, as he flew from
very near the line -!Dr. Elwood wrung the excited city. Dr. Elwood recog-
his hands in an agony of suspense, as nized him as he came nearer. He took
he said huskily :                   off his hat and swung it around his head
"Great God ! and he dies at twelve!" as he shouted with a voice like the
The words penetrated the inanimate roaring of many waters:
patilht's brain. He opened his wild   " H-1-d !"
eyes, and sprang to a sitting posture.  Mr. Berrien tightened the reins so
"Dies ! dies !-who dies ? Mr. Ham- suddenly and powerfully, that his horse
ilton !-he shan't die !-he is innocent! courtesied to the movement.
-save him I-1 am the murderer ! I     "BACK !" shouted the Dr., at the top
will die in his stead ! 'Is there a deeper of his lungs. "The murderer is found!
hell ?'-he said it, and I repeat it-is -f-l-y !"
there a deeper hell !Fly Dr., Iam bet-  Mr. Berrien wheeled his horse like a
ter now; the great stone has rolled from flash, and applying the whip unmerci-
my breast !"                       fully, he uttered a thrill, impressive
"The proof, Henry,"-gasped Elwood, shout : "hur-r-a-h !" and shot down the
--"give me proof of his innocence; road towards Arlingford, with the thun-
Gerald was robbed as well as murdered!" der tones of Dr. Elwood following him:
At her son's directions, the anguished " Henry G-r-e-e-n-wood ",'
mother brought forth, from a secret   Not less excited than when he sped
nook, a massive gold watch, bearing the over it in an opposite direction, Mr.
initials "F. G." upon its elaborately Berrien strained over the highway, like
carved case.                        a startled bird, in advance of Dr. El-
Dr. Elwood recognized, and grasped wood. It seemed, to the Pythias of
it eagerly;'but its tiny hands were mo- friendship, that he had been racing for
tionless, too; and he was still in ignor- hours, such an age of misery had rolled
ance of the hour.                   over him, since he dashed out of the
"God forgive you for the deed, and wretched prison' and-he pulled out his
bless you for the confessionI I will watch, with an impatient jerk, as he
soon return !" gasped Elwood, as he plunged onward. He dashed it between
bolted out of the widow's home, and his vest and linen, with the anguished
leaped upon his horse. It was madden- exclamation: "Oh! merciful God !" and
ing to think Hamilton should die for applied his whip, furiously, to the labor-
lack of a moment of time. He knew ing and panting steed. It wanted but
the kind-hearted and reluctant Sheriff one minute of twelve, and he was yet far
would allow him the last second' of his from Arlingford -!
hour, but he feared he could not accom- Dr. Elwood was racing hard behind,
plish the distance before the last sand his powerful charger had gained upon
had run out ! The way was long, and his friend's.  He saw the movement,
the road miserable from recent rains, and heard the despairing sound-

OR, THE RAS LEt.

"What time ?' he cried, to the dis- glimpse of his friend's form; but a wave
tressed man.                         of madness rolled over his soul, as he
- One minute to twelve ! If he's lost saw the Sheriff approach him and lift
now, I shall d-i-e!" exclaimed Mr. Ber- his hand ! It was the last second of the
rien, as he 'irged his tired horse onward last hour he thought/and they were too
to the hill that overlooked the white far off to be observed or heard through
city, and disappeared down the declivity. the dense and turbulent mass; but imi-
Dr. Elwood found both, horse and tating the example of -Dr. Elwood, he
rider prostrate, as he attained the brow snatched his hat from his head, and
where he had last seen his friend, his whirled it swiftly aloft, as the stentorian
horse had stumbled, and laid them both lungs of the tortured men, sent the
flat, through the impetuosity of hisrider. mighty  shout onward : "h-o-l-d !-
" Fly !" shouted the agonized man, as hurra-a-a !"
the Dr. shot by. "Save him, for ,rod's
sake!" and -Elwood's horse's hoofs
struck fire from the hard road, as he
clattered over it.                          CHAPTER     XXXII.
Mr. Berrien leaped to his feet, re-
gardless of the wound he had received  Nw idoP ry the touch.
Aund try If thou be current gold indeed.-
from the fall, upon the forehead, fromsAARK,
which blood was issuing, and was vault- "I'd give all I have on earth, and
ing into the paddle to continue his flight, begin life anew, to save you, Mr. Ham-
when his eyes fell upon a well known ilton I" said the agitated Sheriff, lowly,
woodsman, just emergingfroma by-path, as he led his prisoner to the place of
over the hill, mounted upon a stout beast execution.
evidently cool and vigorous. He rushed Herbert Hamilton turned his large,
towards him, and prevailed upon the expressive eyes upon his friend; it
old man, who had no desire to witness needed no words to tell the language of
the execution, to dismount; and point- his heart. He stood up before that
ing to his own jaded horse in exchange,' immense crowd, stern and hard as ad-
he sprang upon the fiery animal, and amant in seeming. His manly face was
lashing hin to the top of his speed, left marble white, but calm, to the gaze of
the verdant old gentleman in utter his thousands of observers, and his rich
amazement at his crazed appearance. voice rolled in floods of eloquence, over
Dr. Elwood looked at him in aston- that sea of faces, like the last notes of
ishment as he overhauled him, ere he the dying swan
reached the corner that brought them   " He don't look guilty," was the re-
in view of the immense crowd assem- mark of many in that large audience.
bled around Hamilton. - He was yet "But appearances are mighty deceitful.
alive, and Mr. Berrien uttered' a glad A feller can't tell anything from looks.
shout, as he saw his tall form upon the 'The proof of the pud'n' is chewin' the
elevation, beside the Sheriff. It was a string,' and his trial did that; and 'pity
long way off; too far to distinguish in- for a criminal ia weakness.' The Bible
diiduals, had he not been aware of says 'judge not from the appearance,'
their precise locality.             for the devil himself deceived UJriel,
Mr. Berrien's warm heart beat with and slipped into the garden of Eden---
renewed hope, as he caught the first damn him !"

115


OR, THE BAS BLEU.

HERBE-RT HAMILTON;

A loud report and savage yell echoed'
behind the speaker, and Hamilton
turned, involuntarily, at thesound. It
was crazy Joe; he had landed, with one
tremendous bound, from among the
spectators, upon the platform; his great
blue eyes rolling in 'fine frenzy,' and
brown hand flourishing a most formi-
dable-looking knife.
"I'll stick it in the dratted Sherifff
clean up to the handle, ef he dares to
tech Hamilton-dog me !'' roared Joe,
flourishing the glittering knife around-
his headwith the look of' an escaped
lunatic.
The grieved Sheriff smiled sadly, at
this effervescence of affection from the
half-witted for the doomed man, while
tears sprang to the eyes of the prisoner
at the demonstration.
Officer Bragg crept stealthily behind
the furious youth, and  wresting the
knife from hisclutching fingers, pinioned
hin securely, and was bearing him from
the platform, kicking and yelling fran-
tically, when Hamilton stepped forward
and graspedhis hand with a last farewell.
" God bless you, Joseph, we shall
meet again; be her friend, when I am
gone."
Great tears were rolling from Joe's
eyes, as he found himself incapable of
aiding his friend, and he sobbed out
between a shriek and a groan:
"I will so!-oh Lord !--I will so! ef
I don't, dog me!"
Joe plunged and howled in his des-
perate efforts to escape from his captor;
and the memory of the dim and dreary
prison, with which he was threatened,
alone silenced his obstreperousness; but
he dropped down at the feet of the offi-
cer, and sobbed like a whipped child,
upon the bare ground.   -
Hamilton crushed down his emotion,
with a strong effort of his extraordinary
will, and proceeded with his address.

Suddenly the Sheriff's hand was laid
heavily upon his shoulder; while his
white face and starting eyes betrayed
the most intense excitement. Hamil-
ton's eyes followed his wild, eager gaze,
and far away, down the broad opening,
two horsemen were observed straining
over the smooth way with waiving hats,
and a shout was borne through the dis-
tance, to the acute senses of the eager
listeners.
Nearer and still nearer they flew,
Hamilton turned and looked at the
Sheriff, who had lifted the other hand
to his. shoulder and leaned nervously
upon his prisoner, forgetful of their re-
lative positions. Hamilton stood like a
marble statue, firm and cold to the last
degree, while the stout Sheriff trembled
with joyful anticipation.
The attention of the crowd was now
directed to the shouting and flying horse-
men, and Mr. Berrien was recognized,
hatless and bloody, in advance of Dr.
Elwood. Mr. Berrien had dropped his
hat, in mortal terror, as he ssaw from
afar the Sheriff's movements about his,
friend, and strained his lungs to arrest
attention, before the fttal deed was done.
He saw he was perceived, as he came
nearer, and lashing his foaming steed,
he gave a last and glorious yell, that
was caught up and prolonged by Dr.
Elwood: "hurra-a-a ! hurra-a-a-a !" and
shot forward. He tumbled headlong
from his horse, and leaped upon the
elevation.
"The murderer is found ! Hamilton is
free !''  The good man and faithful
friend fell exhausted and breathless
upon the platform, with his associate's
arms around him !
A shout went up from the immense
and excited crowd, that tore through the
air like live thunder !
The Sheriff burst into tears, and
hugged his late prisoner right heartily

-round the neck, as Dr. Elwood pro-
duced the watch, and made a short and
hurried revelation.  ilamilion stood
like one entranced, during the explana-
tion; he appeared rooted to the spot, ii-
capable of language or action.  Pres-
ently his fine form expanded gloriously,
the rich blood surged over his radiant
face, add his lustrous black eyes turned
smilingly heavenward.
"g4wife-thank God !" He tottered
forward, and leaned a moment upon Mr.
Berrier's shoulder; then leaping from
the plaifori with a mighty bound; he
fled towards his associate's residence,
with the uproarious rejoicings of the
immen e crowd following him, in peals
of thunder from iron-like lungs, that
tore up the blue atmosphere far and wide.
Joe reared-and plunged among the,
crowd, like one possessed as he compre-
hended the matter, and.his bran new
hat, presented by Hamilton, was seen
making an aerial tour, a little previous
to being "squat up" by the thousand of
trampling feet. He leaped upon the
back of officer Bragg, and hugging him
around the neck, well nigh to strangula-
tion, with unutterable joy, poor Joe
roared like a young lion !
The city clock rang out the hour of
twelve, as the late prisoner sprang up
the steps of Myrelda's temporary home;
Mr. Berrien's watch was ten minutes too
fast,
The servant uttered a scream of su-
perstitious fright, as she admitted him.
He caught her tightly by the arm.
" Silence !--don't fear; I am free-
how is Myrelda ?"
The girl quivered and sobbed :
" She ain't got over her fit yet ! Oh!
mars Ham'lton, dey say she won't live!"
Hamilton reeled and fell against the
wall.
" Go and send Dr. Merton here,
Fanny-quick !"

The negress fled up the stairs in a.
twinkling; she thought he was dying too!
Dr. Merton sprang.forward, and threw
his aged arms around Hamilton's neck,
as he hurriedly entered the parlor.
" Thank God !'for His mercy eudur-
eth forever.'" Hamilton's shoulder was
wet with his tears.
" Tell me there is hope!" The agonized
husband fixed his flashing eyes upon the
old man, while his fingers tightened
vice-like around his arm.
"While there is life there is hope;
if she can be made sensible of your es-
cape, she will live; but we must act with
.caution, a sudden revulsion might des-
troy her:"
Hamilton followed him up the stairs,
and softly entered his wife's chamber.
He caught Dr. Merton's arm, with an.
expression of utter despair upon his
countenance, as he beheld her face ; it
was rigid and cold, as though the last
spark had gone out. He gathered her
to his breast, with a tender fondness
that drew tears from all eyes. He had
thought never to hold that frail form to
his bosom again; and now that he was
free, to see her perish from his arms,
upon the very brink of earthly happi-
ness, and leave him alone in the world,
would be insupportable. He breathed
her name in softest accents, and kissed
her pale lips repeatedly; but her ear was
dead to the sound of his voice, and no
glad flush of recognition rippled over
her cold, white face.
The day wore tediously on, and Ham-
ilton sat beside her, no less white and
rigid than the face upon which his
strangely-lit eyes were riveted.  No
sound of sorrow or startled exclamation
had escaped his lips; yet those who
looked into the fathomless depths of
those restles, introverted eyes, knew the
deep throes of the strong heart beneath
them.

117

116


118                     HIRE1RT HAMILTON
A Mild, piercing, despairing scream,  Myrelda'trembled like a wind-swept
such as once echoed through the court- leaf; she readP the whole truth in the
room; suddenly startled the watchers radiant face of the good old man. She
around her, and a frightful spasm con-' gave an irresistible scream of joy, and
vulsed her form, and darkened her con- burst into a torrent of tears. Merton
torted brow ! -                     caught her excitedly, at the sound, and
Hamilton sprang to his feet, spasmodi- Hamilton half betrayed his proximity.
ally, and -clasped his hands over his Myrelda looked up through smiles and
burning eyes.                      tears.
' Oh ! God of mercy, spare me this "Don't fear-I can't die now ! 'Bless
misery !" blood-drops stained his white the Lord, oh ! my soul, and all that is
lips, as he uttered the anguished moan! within me, bless His holy name!' Let
. The wild raging in the bosom of his me see him, and I shall live !"
deep ocean-nature, had at last ruffled  Hamilton came slowly from his hid-
the calm surface. ' He knelt down by ing place, and stood within view, but
the bed side, and folding hr small, still beyond her reach. His face grew rosy
hand in both his, Herbert Hamilton as her own, as their eyes met, but he
prayed with such eloquence and power, assumed a queer expression, such as
that Dr. Merton fancied he almost heard Myrelda had before seen, under circum-
the rustle of angel wings, as he came stances whenher heartrequired strength,
down to carry the earnest burning peti- ening, and said humorously, while the
tion to the great white Throne !    arm upon Charles' shoulder betrayed his
The noon of darkness had passed, and secret emotion to the laughing and weep-
yet they watched for the first symptom  ing brother:
of returning consciousness.           "-My dear Mrs. Hamilton, your liege
"If she revives but a moment, there lord has the happiness of standing be-
isthope," said the anxious physician, and fore you honorably acquitted, and de-
eagerly they awaited the first indication sirous of paying his respects to your
of sanity.  A moaning sigh at length laughing mouth, after the manner that
heaved her'quivering breast.        St. Paul advises, but forgoes the'pleasure
"Out of sight!"'urged the excited Dr. through fear of your weak woman's
and Hamilton flashed behind the bed heart!"- His turn-up-nose expression
curtains.                           provoked a laugh from all around, and
Her brow contracted as memory parti- produced the desired effect upon her.
ally revived, and Merton knew a second Aunt Linder's glad voice rose over all.
scream would be the consequence of a  " He! he ! Lord bless de chile ! I
clear mental perception. He grasped never seed sich a man 'fore !"
her hand eagerly, and bent down to ar-  Sparkles of mirthful happiness swam
rest her eyes.                     in Myrelda's wet eyes, her cheeks glowed
"Mrs. Hamilton, I have 'glad tidings and she extended her arms, yearningly
of great joy'--be strong, for your hus- towards him:
band's sake !"                        " Oh, Herbert ! my husband !"
She -et his glance, and sprang im-  He started nervously at the sound,
pulsively up. He laid her gently back. and a softer flood of light welled up to
"No faintings---you have a strong his dark smiling eyes. He went can-
will, exercise it now; remember Haman tiously forward, and slipped his hand
died upon the gallows he erected for under her head, bent within the clasp
Mordecai !"

011, TIE BAS I3LEIU.                119

of her slender emaciated arms, and
lifted her tenderly as an infant to his
breast.
"fay e eP' The deep of his strong
soul was broken up, and the pure waters
wet her glowing cheek, as he pressed it
to his own, in superlative joy and grati-
tude.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
Revenge, at first though sweet,
Bitter, ere long, back on itself recols.-4n1LToN.
Henry Greenwood was the only son
of a father who had obtained his wealth
by what is termed "foul means," that is
by imposing upon a dying relative, who
was non conmpos mentis; which wealth
was subsequently -wrested from his son,
by the - rightful heir, Mr. Edwards,
through the agency of Herbert Hamil-
ton's superior powers.
Mr. Greenwood, senior, was an un-
principled man, and trained up his son
to "follow in the footsteps of his illus-
trious predecessor;" and the race-ground
gambling saloon, and rumseller, were
well patronized by both father and son,
while the amiable and pious wife and
mother, wept over the downward ten-
dency of those most dear to her heart
on earth.
Mr. Greenwood, senior, died of mania
a potu, a few months previous to Ham-
ilton's advent in Arlingford, and the
result of the suit instituted by Mr. Ed-
wards, made the counsel a vindictive,
but secret enemy in the defeated and
abandoned son. This fact induced Mr.
Berrien to challenge him on the occa-
sion of Hamilton's trial; for though dis-
creet and courteous to the talented and
popular man, the lynx eye of Mr. Ber-
rien detected more in the countenance
of Greenwood, than his unsuspecting
associate had ever sought for.

Greenwood saw the look of surprise
that Hamilton gave Berrien, at the time
of his rejection, which rendered him
more sensitive during the trial, and
completely unmanned him, when, in
sweeping over the crowd, the prisoner's
eyes rested upon him. He hated Ham-
ilton, and yearned for revenge, but saw
-the better part of valor was discretion."
He soon perceived Gerald's animosity,
and watched him narrowly, hoping
through him, to satiate his thirst for
vengeance. He longed to form a league
with him against Hamilton, for the de-
struction of his hated rival's reputation
and by getting Gerald within his power,
supply his pecuniary wants from the
Dr's. purse, and at the same time, grat-
ify his yearning for revenge; but Gerald
was not to be entrapped into a conspiracy.
He concealed, as far as in him lay, his
bitter enmity for Hamilton-which was
an ineffectual effort of his fiery and
passionate nature-to obviate " suspicion
when his murderous plan was executed.
Greenwood was present at the Melville
House, the night of Hamilton's return
to Arlingford, and witnessed the Dr's.
humiliation; and was his victor at the
gambling saloon. He passed Gerald's
residence, as the intoxicated and furious
Dr. emerged therefrom, and surreptiti
ously followed in his wake. He saw
the firing of the building, and readily
comprehended the design; it was the
same that he yearned for--revenge !
Gerald's disguise did not availhim--
at last he had the blood-thirsty Doctor
within his power !  He awaited the
victim's return to the front yard, to dis-
close his knowledge of his felony, but
Gerald suddenly disappeared behind the
rear building, and made good his escape
ere Greenwood became fully satisfied of
the fact.
Henry Greenwood would not have
perpetrated cold blooded murder; but


OR, THE BAS BLEU.             121

120              HIERBERT HAMILTON;

he permitted the burning of the build-
ing, through hatred for Hamilton. Ils
hand had not ignited the match, and he
comforted himself with this reflection,
as he witnessed the after horror.  It
would be in vain to inform Gerald of his
knowledge now; he would deny the
charge, and there was no proof, and be-
sides to give publicity to the matter,
would but implicate himself, and open
up a gulf between him and his intended
victim.
Greenwood kept quiet, but followed
'Gerald more closely, and watched his
expression narrowly, in the presence of
Hamilton. He saw the flash of the Doc-
tor's eye, as his despised rival's visit to
Fairville, was announced, and formed his
plan accordingly.,- He felt confident,
that the murder of the lover was the
villain's aim, since his' attempt upon
Myrelda's life was defeated.
Gerald passed him, in the.disguise of
a decrepit old man, mounted upon a
mule, as he preceded Hamilton upon the
road to Fairville. Like Peter, Green-
wood ,followed him "a long way off," and
saw him enter the woods, unperceived
by him. He cautiously secured his vie-
-       .4im's horse, to prevent his escape, and
clambering up a lofty monarch of the
woods, awaited the result. He presented
himself to the terrified Gerald, as he
came forth from his hiding place, and
made proposals which the guilty man,
inhis awful strait acceeded to,  The
sum of-one thousand dollars was to be
the "hush money". for the present, with
future disbursements at Greegwood's
command.
Gerald suddenly became- very com-
municative, and confidential. He con-
fessed his incendiarism, and displayed
the: weapon as a proof of his satisfaction
and confidence in his new ally; but as
Greenwood's eyes were bent upon the
initials, a dagger flashed from the Doc-

tor's breast, and struck against a half
dollar in his vest, with a forcethat sent
him reeling backwards. He dodged
the second blow and aiming the weapon
he held, fired. Thus, the weapon bear-
ing his rival's initials, and which was
designed for his destruction, sent the
would-be-assassin, in the morning of his
years, into the presence of an offended
God; verifying the proverb: "who so
rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him."
Greenwood was confounded, as he
saw himself a murderer, but the Arch
Enemy whispered, he might now have
his revenge. He shot the Doctor's horse
and partially buried the two bodies, and
tossed the weapon in :the tangled wild;
he was not aware that it had a fellow.
He readily joined the scouting party,
and was the discoverer of the lost pistol.
The handkerchief was subsequently
found by Gerald's brother-in-law, 'it
having been lost during Hamilton's race
after his secret foe, and not perceived
until his arrival at Fairville; and as he
returned to Arlingford with Mr. Day..
ton, he could not tarry to recover it,
without betraying the secret which he
designed to preserve for a time, from
all but his associate.
Upon the commitment of 'Hamilton,
arid his final sentence, Greenwood's hate
was superseded by remorse, which de-
ranged his mind, as the day of execu-
tion drew nearer, and forced him, at
last, to a confession,
A few days subsequent to his entire
restoration to reason, Greenwood was
visited by Hamilton and his blooming
bride. The guilty man buried his pale
face in the pillow, in deep humiliation,
at his approach; but the kind voice of
the noble man whom he had "hated
without a cause," restored him to self-
possession; and laying his sickly, wasted
hand in his, with a sudden impulse. he
exclaimed, with a gush of penitential
tears:

"Forgive me, Mr. Hamilton !"
Herbert Hamilton did forgive, as his
subsequent care and kindness to the re-
formed man, and his estimable mother
evidenced.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
"Love is the fulling of the law, God is Love."
Fourteen months had passed, since
the events narrated in the last chapter,
and Myreldra Hamilton sat in an elegant
NewEngland home, twisting the short
jetty curls of a black-eyed baby boy
around her small, taper finger, when her
husband entered the apartment, bearing
a sealed letter.
The old flush of love and gladness
rippled up to her round cheeks, before
the smiling glance of Herbert Hamil-
ton, as she went forward, with assumed
stateliness, and bowed dignifiedly to the-
majestic form before her, whose deep,
dark eyes flashed with humor, while his
firm, manly face was scrupulously sober.
" My. dear Sir, I am most happy to
find myself again in your immediate
presence, after an everlasting age of ten
minutes' absence, and respectfully re-
quest that you will forthwith 'render
unto Cesar, the thing that is Caesar's.""
She peeped archly around at the letter
behind him.
Hamilton brought his hands behind
her, with a laughing squeeze, and
smack of her red upturned mouth, like
the report of a Christmas cracker, and
gently snubbled her nose with the edge
of the letter, ere he exchanged it for
his crowing baby, whose light drapery
fluttered musically in the breeze, as it
came down from an upward toss, with a
chirruping catch of the breath, and
grabbed at its father's black rings of
hair, with its tiny, fat- hand, which
elicited a facetiously frowning : "hello !

o-u-e-h !" from its delighted paternal re-
lative.
Myrelda read Charles' letter aloud,
which occasioned.no little surprise and
pleasure, in the heart of both husband
and wife. It ran :
"'The melancholy days have come,
The saddest of the year,'
to quote the language of that sweet but
mistaken poet, Bryant.
" The September winds go by with a
lullaby sound, which to a sorrowful heart
might seem a moan of anguish; and the
faint-hued blossoms are shutting up their
blue eyes in a peaceful death-slumber,
down by the garden wall, and off in the
woodland nooks ; the gold and crimson
leaves are rustling along the hazy ways,
and over the smoky rills, with low and
pensive sound, telling a tale of change
and.decay; but within my heart, sweet
sis, blooms a world of freshest verdure
just bursting into beauty and fragrance,
for the bridal day of your brother is
near at hand, and you and yours are
'respectfully invited to attend' the 17th
inst.
" When I left you so abruptly, in
your lovely summer home, four weeks
ago, I did not tell you that love for her,
who is now my betrothed bride, drew
me irresistibly to a warmer atmosphere
than floated-within your mountain clime.
" Three years agone, I resolved never
to reveal my heart to you, until I had
the assurance of a reciprocity of feel-
ing from her whom I have loved from
boyhood-my gentle blue-eyed Mabel
Clyde. But for our fallen fortunes, I
should have addressed her sooner; but I
feared her proud father, and trusted to
time and the symptoms of affection I
detected in her to realize my hopes.
.We are now betrothed, with the full
sanction of that proud father, who con-
fesses he would never have suffered
pecuniary circumstances, alone, fb im-


122           HERBERT HAMILTON;

pose a barrier to his child's happiness.
There is something noble in him,-away
down beneath the cold surface of high
station and pecuniary power, and my
Mabel looks hopefully to the time when
the little leaven in his proud nature,
will 'leaven the whole lump.' Mr. Clyde
esteems it an honor to bestow his
daughter upon the brother-in-law of
Herbert Hnmilton.
" Last week, Lora eloped with that
dissolute youth, Lorenzo Lee, to whom
her father objected, on the ground of
his principles, despite his wealth. Her
unfilial conduct has cast a gloom be-
neath the parental roof, and Mr. Clyde
turns more thoughtfully and humbly, to
his christian child, iny pure-hearted,
meek Mabel, for comfort and companion-
ship.
" Mrs. herald, it is rumored, will ere
long become the wife of Augustus Smith
through the magnetism of her many
golden charms. Imtaet her at Cape May
on my return South-a gay and dash-
ing widow, blooming in the brightness
of art, and surrounded by a bevy of
butterflies of fashion, who bask in the
rays of fortune, and court alone its
favorites, the most conspicuous of whom
was her bridegroom elect. I venture to
predict \for her a happier future than
her wedded past, even with, such a man
as Augustus Smith ! I would not say
more of the dead.
" Henry Greenwood continues tem-
perate and industrious, and gladdens
the heart of his amiable and pious
.mother by his steady and onward course.
In him is verified the scriptural passage:
'through fear, men depart from iniquity.'
He is now my head clerk, and gives
high promise of a prosperous and hon-
orable future. He reveres the name of
him whom he once hated and most
wronged-the forgiving and munificent
Herbert Hamilton.

"The improvements at the Vale are
now perfected, and the new and hand-
some mansion will be illuminated (deo
vo lente) the 18th, for the reception of
my loved and loving bride. We re-
pudiate the modern style of absconding
from church, on a bridal tour, and mean
to make our marriage a blessing to the
lovers of dainties and amusements, as
well as ourselves-especially 'the poor,
the maimed, the halt and the b lind'-
by keeping up the festivities for a season.
"I'm tired of bachelor life, in this
great old mansion, with none but Aunt
Linder and Rose,iand the cat that Her-
bert proposed to 'kick down stairs quick-
er than lightning, for presuming to kiss
the cheek that belonged to hirn,' for
company ; and I beg you will hasten
like summer birds, from the keen moun-
tain air of that New England home, to
a warmer and sunnier clime."
Myrelda laid her head back on Ham-
ilton's shoulder, and laughed merrily
over the quotation in Charles' letter,
while his large black eyes sparkled down
in her rosy upturned face, and the baby
squirmed and crowed at the inspiring
scene.
Charles had relieved the widow Ger-
ald of her husband's malicious purchase
and fitted it up for the future home of
sweet Mabel Clyde, who entered it soon
after Myrelda's return to Arlingford, as
Mrs. Charles Montford.
Mr. Berrien prosecuted Bushman and
Lynch for perjury-recovered the five
thousand dollars paid by Hamilton for
being condemned to die by their testi-
mony ; and the old judge who presided
at Hamilton's trial sentenced them to
five year's imprisonment in the peni-
tentiary, as a warning to others of like
ilk.
" Haw ! haw I" roared crazy"Joe, as
he took the plump and sputtering heir
of Maple Hall-Myrelda's early home

OR, THE BAS BLEU.                         123
-in his awkward arms, and looked up Herbert Hamilton, Myrelda Montford,
at the laughing parents, and Mr. Ber- the Bas Bleu, wandered through Violet
rien-"ef this ere feller ain't 'nother Vale, leaning upon his protecting arm,
Herbert Hamilton clean through, yer a blooming wife and mother-the dark-
kin take ' y hat, an' I'll stick to 'em ness all passed, and the light of love
like a dog to a root-dog me!"      and happiness shining sweetly around
Two years from her first meeting with them.

(


  
             
         
       
   
