
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). Carmen's Inheritance .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8065
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Carmen's inheritance 
            
               CARMEN'S INHERITANCE.   CARMEN'S INHERITANCE  BY   CHRISTIAN REID, AUTHOR OF "VALERIE AYMER," "MORTON HOUSE," ETC., ETC.  HANDSOMELY ILLUSTRATED FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS BY 'WM. L. SHEPPARD.   PHLADELPHA:   TO-DAY PRINTING AND PUBLISHNG COMPANY, 1873.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by TO-DAY PRINTING AND PUBLISHNG CO, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.    CONTENTS.   I   .           CHAPTER    I. PAGE MADAME ALVAREZ ................................                  7 I CHAPTER   II. A  POINT  OF  H ONOR ....................... ................... ............................................... .. 1 CHAPTER    III. 9"A  DAUGHTER  OF  THE  GODS" ................................................................................... 16 '                 CHAPTER     IV. IN  TH E  F LAM ES  ........................................................................................................ 20 CHAPTER V. B ERTIE'S  TRUST ..  ..................................................... ..................................... .. 24. CHAPTER    VI. BERTIE'S  R ESOLUTION ......................................... ...... ........................... .........  28    CHAPTER     VII.         - NDER  FIRE...................... ......... ... ............................... .... ......... . ....... ........... CHAPTER     VIII. LEAVE MNE HONOR FREE    " ..................................................... 36 CHAPTER     IX.                - E HEIRE    OF  LAURITON ............................ .............................    i'/ E FLOWER OF  HOPE ..................... .............................. ... 44 8i , , -, . .          CE CHAPTER  X I. -.AN  U MNEXPECTED ARTRIVAL ....................................... ................  .................. 48 )I CHAPTER XII. M ORNING  ON  THES RIVER .............................................. ......................................... 5 ' , -  't:"- '  -CHAPTER         XIII. T " .ING  B ES                     .  .................; 57 r M THN GN BESIES CROQUET . ......................................... CHAPTER XIV. A  DI xN ER-PA TY. ..................... ..................................... . .......... .... ......... *... ..*..... . 61 CHAPTER XV. 'YFROM AN ISLAND .... ................................. ...."  I- CCHAPTER XVI. :f E D Y O A?INCE SS ............................................. ..... ......... CHAPTER XVII. :Oi : :: C. OTE  P.     .s................................ .............. 79 ijifTE m CflT                 ......................,.....,...6........... , .f              CHAPTER XVIII. s)TE  Q IT- O E ........ ......................... ..............-.............................. 7 ,- 'CHAPTER XIX. : :: i ( . -, .                                    . r,  CHAPTER XIX. A   TH E T IDE.............................................. ....... ....... ........... ................... ..............  S ::.:              CHAPTER    I XX. Il * :-::J t  UT e P,  ,e^?-,i'* tv   CARMEN'S INHER rII^W^ / - 4^ Aj,.?   "' THERE WAS NO-MSTAKING THE SUDDEN START OF SURPRISE WHCH SHe OAVIL"   CHAPTER I. MADAME ALVAREZ.. THE time was seven o'clock in the evening, the place was a glittering'Paris cafe, the persons were three young men, two of whom were Americans and one of whom was French., "It is useless to ask Bertie whether or not he will go,'" one of the former was saving. "He has bored me to death with raptures over' thi wonderfil Alverez ever since we have been in Paris, and he will graspt  opportunity to find that his goddess is, after all, on mon clay.'  "But that is exactly what he will not find,"-. the Frenchman said. "Never. was there a godJe/^    Olympus farther removed from common: lh;:   l Alvarez. She' is divine-Lauriston is i and you, non cher, will be convinced of y o you know her."   -  The other shrugged his shoulders.'    "You are as deeply infatuated as Bertie himself, Du- chesnil," he said. "But when I find a goddess, you may rest assured that it will not be by the glare of the footlights. I scarcely think I could manage to idealize a woman who finds her sweetest music in the applause of the ctaquers, and her best employment in turning the heads of journal- ists for the sake of their paragraphs." "If you knew Madame Alvarez, you would know that she is far above such commonplace arts," Duchesnil an- swered, flushing a little, for, as it chanced, he belonged to the latter class, and was, for so young a man, enviably well known among the art-critics of Paris. But he who was called Bertie-a frank, pleasant young fellow-interposed here: "There is no use trying to refute St. Julian's cynicism, Duchesnil. He is so very proud of it and so very fond of it-it is becoming to a poet, you know-that he will hold fast to it at,any sacrifice.' Take my word for it that lie admires Madame Alvarez as much as you or I do." "As an actress, I do assuredly," said St. Julian, coolly. "She is one of the few perfect artists whom I have ever seen on the stage. But I have sense enough, or perhaps I have experience enough, to know that off the stage she is probably a commonplace woman, who thinks as much of chiffons and lovers as any other of her sex. Therefore, having seen clsarie Stuart and Phgdre from my place in the stalls, why should I desire to know Madame Alvarez, so' that-I can never again do other than see her in her most dramatic impersonations? It is a great mistake," pursued this Mentor of twenty-six, gravely, " ever to know personally an actor or a writer, if you can help it. Know- ing them, it is impossible to avoid thrusting their individ- uality before their works; and in proportion as you do this, you wrong them and mar your own pleasure. Hence, my dear Duchesnil, although you have been very kind in hon- oring me with an invitation to the supper which you and your brother critics give to-night to the famous actress who is just now turning the heads of all Paris, on princi- ple I must say, No." "And I, Yes," said Bertie Lauriston, eagerly, as Du- 2{hiiil looked at him. "I don't share St. Julian's fear of nteirhig disillusionized ; but if I did, I should run the risk. Such a magnificent creature cannot be other than magnifi- cent, off' the stage or on it. By the way, Duchesnil, can you tell me how it is that she who is so great an actress should have reached the boundaries of middle life before fame overtook her?" "There is something of a romance in her life," said the. young critic. "It is not all art, that tone of pathos; in her voice, that look of sadness in her beautiful Spanish eyes. She has a story." "'May we hear it?" suggested St. Julian. "It is not timhe for either of you to be thinking of making your way to the tleatre yet; and as for me, I am not going, so I shall take Madame Alvarez' history, instead of herself, to season my evening." "Not going?" repeated Duchesnil. "Mon ami, are you dreaming? The Alvarez plays Adrienne Lecouvreur to- night." *'It will be a representation worth witnessing, I am sire, but, unluckily, I have another engagement. There- fore let us hear about the toine of pathos in her voice and the look of sadness in her beautiful Spanish eyes. . They ' are beautiful, certainly; and when everything else matched 'tttem, she must have been altogether of rare beauty."  "She was," said Duchesnil, as he rolled up a cigarette and lighted it. "I cannot remember her myself, btt there are many whose memories go back so far, and who will tell you that for abstract beauty Carmen Alvarez had not a rival on the stage when she came from Madrid to Paris, twenty years ago. She had been a reigning favorite there -in Madrid, I mean-for some time, but the reputation she brought with her did not avail very mluch here. All the world looks to Paris, but Paris, as we know,.does not look beyond itself, and accepts no reputation which it has not made." "And like all Parisians, you are absolutely proud of euch unparplleled egotism," said St. Julian, dryly. "I merely state a fact, mon aini," said the other, good-   naturedlv. "Think what you will of it, Paris is Paris all the same. Well, as I have said, the reputation which the young actress brought with her did not do very much for her; but she had that which is greater than reputation. She possessed a force of genius which carried all things before it, and almost in- a night Paris was at her feet. I have heard Janin say that even within his experience he has never known such a storm of enthusiasm as carried her to the very apex of professional renown. She was voung, she was beautiful and she was famous; you can judge, therefore, whether or not she soon had admirers and lovers by the score. Among the rest was a young Englishman, who was of gentle birth, but of socialistic politics, and of whom it was asserted, though no one could vouch for the fact, that he had given up a fair fortune and estates to serve 'the people' as one of them. Of course, like all the rest of his school, he was a wild theorist and red-hot revolutionist, but he was a man of more than or- dinary intellectual power and much more than ordinary fascination. Those who have been swayed by the elo- quence of his written or spoken words say that he might have gained any eminence to which he had chosen to aspire, if he had been anything but a socialist, anything but a sworn enemy of government and society. Such as he was, however, he gained the heart of the beautiful actress so completely that, although the most splendid establish- ments in Paris were just then lying at her feet, she turned from them all to marry a man who had already espoused 'humanity' and taken poverty as his birtlh- right." "By Jove!" said Bertie. "I always knew there was something grand about her." "Something absurd, you mean," said St. Julian; but despite the sneer, he was a poet in soul, and a new light of interest came into his eves as Duchesnil went on. "Call it what you please, mes amis," the young French- man said. "You cannot find anything to say of it which Paris did not say when it was known that the popularl; idol had stepped from her pedestal and resigned all the brilliant honors of her profession to marry a disciple of Fourier and Comte-a tribune of the people, a man whose revolutionary schemes were likely any day to put him in the galleys fobr life." "But of course she remained on the stage?" said St. Julian. "o," the other answered; " that is precisely what she did not do. She never appeared again in public while her husband lived. As I said, he was a gentleman by birth, and he seemed to retain the instincts of his class in this particular at least. When he married, he took his wife as absolutely from the stage as if he had been a duke. After, that she lived his life, shared his visions, it is to be supposed, worked with him and for him certainly, until he ended a career of singular adventure and vicissitude by dying in prison, fifteen years after their marriage." "But I thought socialists abolished marriage?" said St. Julian. The other shrugged his shoulders.        - "I don't pretend to know how far the Englishman ac- cepted socialistic teaching in that respect," he said; "but there can be no scandal about their marriage, for all Paris went to see its favorite commit professional suicide." "And after the death of the FourieristK? "Then she returned to the stage. Of course grief and destitution had sadly changed the woman who dazzled Madrid and Paris in her youth, but tears had not washed all the fire of genius from her eyes, and before long she had won again her old position-won it despite the ravages of time, the coldness of friends, the jealousy of enemies- won it, indeed, more securely and triumphantly than be- fore, since the adventitious aids of youth and beauty .are gone, and it is genius and art aloie which have borne down opposition, and placed her where she is-in the front rank of her profession." "So that is her story," said Lauriston, after the pause of a few minutes. "Thank you, Duchesnil. It tells me ex- actly what her face told me long ago-that, apart from the actress, the woman is well worth knowing." "For once I agree with you, Bertie," said St. Julian,   1 quietly. "The woman who could make such a sacrifice as 'this of which Duchesnil has spoken is worth knowing and worth studying. Hence," turning to the latter, "if you will allow me to change my resolution, I accept your invi- tation to meet her to-night." "It is a resolution well changed, mon ami," said the young journalist, gayly. "Madame Alvarez will be the star of our party, but you will meet many other stars of the dramatic and literary world, some of whom are well worth knowing. Now, change your resolution still fur- ther, and come with us to see the great actress in Adrienne Lecouvreur." "I think I will." He was a variable man in his moods and resolutions at all times, as he had a right to be, perhaps, on account of that poetic temperament which has been already noticed. So this point-blank change of intention and opinion did not surprise Lauriston, who had been his friend and coln- panion for many a long day. They had not much in co)m- mon, these two, yet they held together with a curious kind of adhesive force which puzzled people who only knew them on the surface-knew Bertie Lauriston as the pleasant, good fellow who represented one of the oldest names, and had inherited as sole heir one of the finest estates, between Maryland and Texas; knew Basil St. Julian as a clever, supercilious dabbler in literature, who was of sufficiently independent fortune to amuse himself with squandering money on publishers. Nubt a popular person, this St. Julian-rather the reverse, since his tastes were fancifiul and his tongue often caustic. But his hand- some face and intellectual head were not likely to be for- gotten by any one who had ever seen them once; and not a few feminine hearts had tumbled unawares into the depths of his limpid gray eyes, and been heard of no more. Lauriston, on the other hand, was cordially and heart- ily liked by men wherever he went-liked too, after a fash- ion, by women, though the victims'of his fascinations, if he had ever made any, must certainly have died and made no sign. "Bertie Lauriston?" his friends would say, when asked about him. "Oh, yes, I know him very well-a capital fellow. Not quite as steady as a rock, perhaps, nor yet likely to set the world on fire with his talents; but you always know where to find Lauriston. He is a man who never does a shabby thing, and who never goes back from llis word." This was not very exalted praise, per- haps; but then I make no exalted pretensions for Bertie. He was a young fellow very much like many others in the world --sufficiently good-lookirg, sufficiently amiable, high- spirited, generous to a fault, keenly sensitive on any point of honor, and fill enough, no doubt, of conceit, only he lhal sense enough to avoid any offensive display of it. At present a philosopher might have defined him chiefly as "an animal capable of entlhusiasm."' He was almost boyish in the excess of eagerness with whichi he hurried his -companions toward the theatre, which they found al- ready tpacked, although they were in time to hear the first note of the overture, in time to join in the tumultuous :hunder of applause which greeted the appearance of the fair, graceful woman whose beautifll magnetic face and dark Spanish eyes seemed to send a thrill through the house as soon as she appeared, in time to catch the first rich tones of that marvellous chest-voice in which she spoke. A wonderful woman, truly, this Madame Alvarez-a great actress in that power of sinking her own individual- ity in the impersonation of the moment which is the one supreme test of dramatic genius. When she came before the footlights with that thrilling face and voice, the coldest and most austere of critics could not but be struck with the cadences of her elocution or the grace of her gestures- could not have done other than let himself be charmed by the self-abandonment with which she threw all her magnificent wealth of art, of tenderness and of pathos into the dry bones of another's ideal. In truth, it was the great secret of her triumph that she brought before the public no thought of herself, no -single connecting link between the woman who was Carmen Alva rez and Nhle who was a queen of Scotland or of Greece. Even her most intimate friend would have needed to look long be- 2    fore he could have discovered one trick of manner, one accent of voice, to break the charm of perfect idealism and thrust the artist before the art. To-night she was even more than usually successful in thus binding her audience with a spell whicfijew would have cared to break, for the character in which she appeared-that tender, passionate, beautiful character of Adrienne Lecouvreur-suited her in especial degree. Never had she so wrought upon the mag- netic sympathy of those who followed her-now with quivering lip, now withy brimming eyes, then in deathke silence, broken only by low, choking sobs-through the culminating scenes of this most touching tragedy. "She is a woman of genius," St. Julian said, when it was all over, the death-scene acted, the curtain down, the house rapidly emptying, " and women of genius are rare. That was one of Rachel's greatest triumphs-that charac- ter of Adrienne; and Madame Alvarez must possess not only great dramatic power, but great moral courage, to make a triumph of it before Rachel's own public-the most cultured and critical public in the world." "Thanks, mon ami," said Duchesnil, smiling. "Thanks for Madame Alvarez and for Paris. She Ls indeed a wonderful woman. And now we will go to meet her. A llons." An hour later it was a very brilliant and notable com- pany among whom the two young Americans found them- selves. As Duchesnil had said, there were many stars of the literary and dramatic firmaments present, though the queen-planet, the Venus whose radiance somewhat paled all the rest, was assuredly Madame Alvarez, but they were very pleasant and companionable stars, full of ease and wit and' individuality, not a set of well-dressed, well-bred nonenti- ties, as the men and women of purely " society " gatherings too often are. Each one had gained for himself or herself the honorable place which he or she held in that great professional world which is the only true republic man has ever made, and hence they had each some special gift which rendered them well worth knowing, apart from the halo of reputation encircling their brows. Bertie was a little dazzled by the number of famous people around him. . St. Julian knew more of such gatherings, aild was much:;'-: more at ease with the pretty actresses and celebrated  writers-far more at ease, far more genial and brilliant, : than at the- fashionable dinners and balls where people it called him "that handsome, disagreeable Mr. St. Julian, : who-is said to be so clever." Handsome he certainly was, as we have said before-so handsome that lie frankly ac- knowledged the fact himself, and bewailed his " unfortn- ^, nate appearance" as if he had been a satyr,-so handsome, ;:. that before long his face attracted the attention of the c famous actress herself. "Who is he-that man with such clear eyes, and the , brow of a poet or musician?" she asked of those around.  her. "He was speaking to Mdlle. Janvette a moment ago.  Who is he?" "His name is St. Julian," a distinguished playwright near her answered. "I have met him several times lately. He is an American, I think, and literary.. Some day he will be famous. He has not much absolute genius, but cleverness enough to take him to the top of the ladder at once. Cleverness mounts over men's heads more read- ily than genius, you know." "Does that account for your reputation, mon amif"La Alvarez asked, with a laugh whose melody robbed the words of their sharpness. "But unless I am. mistaken,' there is genius in those eyes. Mafoi! they are as limpid as lake-water. What ha;s he done?" "Nothing as yet, I believe," was the dry response. "He is only tgoing to do something." "Ah!" said she. "Then, pray, do you, M. Ledrue, or . some one. who knows him better, present him to me. I like people who are going to do thilings better than those who have done them." - "Will madame suffer us to ask why?" said a young-  artist who had himself done so many things that his name had gone, with the designs of his facile pencil, to every quarter of the civilized world.. "Do you need to ask, monsieur?" said the actress, smiling. "Does not your own experience tell you that  S      ' -, t t 7   you. and I were better worth knowing when we were younger, more full of high aims, bright hopes and warm desires, than we are to-night? Alas!" added she, with a slight tone of pathos in her voice, " who would ever strive for fame if he did not hope to win happiness with it? But we know that the two are not only often separable, but in truth are rarely united. Our poet yonder has not learned this lesson yet, however. Who are these, also English or American, to whom he is speaking now?" "They are friends of Duchesnil's," was the reply. And just then Duchesnil came forward to beg that Madame Alvarez would suffer him to present two warm admirers to her. This was accordingly done; and even St. Julian was fas- cinated by the beautiful eyes which glanced at him with very kindly interest when his nanle was pronounced. "I am happy tO know you, monsieur," the actress said, with the soft Spanish accent which she had never wholly laid aside. But when Lauriston's name was spoken, there was no mis- taking the sudden start of surprise which she gave-the sudden look of something almost like astonished recogni- -tion which came into her face. "Lauriston!" she repeated, as if she doubted the evi- dence of her ears. "Lauriston! Is that your name, monsieur?" "That is my name, madame," answered Bertie, not a little surprised on his part, but bowing with a sufficient degree of graceful acknowledgment. "And you--you are from America?" "I am from America," he replied, so much puzzled by the 'tone of'her question that he could do no more than merely assent to it. "Pardon me," she said, observing his surprise; "I have been abrupt, have I not? But your name struck an old chord of remembrance; and if you will forgive my interest, I should like to ask if it is common-that name-in your country?" "Your interest does me great honor, madame," said Bertie, making a bold grasp at the self-possession which was escaping him. "My name is not at all common-so far from it, indeed, that I know of no family besides my own which bears it." "And your own-you will be good enough to pardon me again-but to what' part of America does your own belong?" "Is this a dramatic mode of beginning acquaintance?" thought Bertie. "She will probably ask for the certificate of my birth and baptism next." But a Lauriston had no cause to envelop himself or his belongings in mystery, and the young fellow frankly named the State and county in which the noble old Lauriston place had been a landmark for generations. Madame Alvarez listened with an atten- tion which struck him; and when he paused, she smiled a little. "I have puzzled you, have I not, monsieur?" she s id. "Sit down here and let me explain myself." Then, when the young man, half flattered, half bewildered, had obeyed, she went on "I knew some one of your name once. In- ,  ,              ,   deed, since you tell me where your home lies, I think he must have been of your family. Was there no} one of them-a Godfrey Lauriston-who left America many years ago and came abroad?"       \ "Godfrey Lauristonl" repeated Bertie, quickly, aston- ished in his turn. "Is it possible you knew him, mad- ame? Certainly he was one of us, and his story has always puzzled and perplexed all who were connected with him. If you can throw any light on his fate, you will do us- you will do me especially-a great service." "And why you especially?" asked the actress, fastening her dark, brilliant eyes on him. "You cannot mean that you, who could scarcely have been born when Godfrey Lauriston left his home, feel anything more than the in- terest of curiosity in his fate?" "I mean that I feel much more than the interest of curiosity," he answered. "It is something of a story, but since you knew him, you may feel an interest in him, and- " "Pardon me," she interrupted, "but you can tell me nothing new with regard to Godfrey Lauriston. I heard his storvy from his own lips, for!"--she paused a moment- "I knew him well. Do you know," she went on, a little wistfully, " that there is a slight resemblance to him in your face? It is not a resemblance, but a-a suggestion of re- semblance." "You flatter me," said Bertie, flushing a little. "God- frey Lauriston was the most brilliant and intellectual of our family. Young as he was, he had shown that before he left home, although his mind had run wild over social- istic and infi-" Here the young fellow stopped short as if he had been shot, but the actress reassured him by taking up his words quietly and gravely. "Yes, he was a socialist and a born revolutionist, but as you say, monsieur, one of the most brilliant and intellectual of men. Ah," said she, sighing slightly, " what he might have been if he had not taken up the cause of those in whose ranks he had no place! He was mad, monsieur- no one knows that better than I; but do you not think there is grandeur in some forms of madness?" "There may be," said Bertie, hesitatingly. In truth, he didonot think so at all; but how could he say what he honestly thought to a woman whose husband had died for "humanity "? Perhaps it was fortunate that just then there came a di- version which ended the conversation-that folding-doors at the end of the apartment were thrown open and a glitter- ing table displayed, to which the most distinguished mem. ber of the party advanced to lead Madame Alvarez. All the silvery ripple of talk and laughter ceased. There fell that awed hush common to human nature before it dines or sups; and as the actress swept down the brilliant salon with the same magnificent bearing which always brought forth tumults of applause from a crowded theatre, Bertie found time to realize that he had not discovered how or when or where she had known this Godfrey Lauriston of whom she had spoken.   "YOU RECOGNIZE TIIS FACE, THEN, DO YOU."   CHAPTER II. A POINT OF HONOR. "THE question is, Bertie," said St. Jlllian, "what has put such an absurd idea into your head?" The two friends were sitting at breakfast at a very late hour on the morning after Madame Alvarez had achieved what the critics were good enough to call " her brilliant   success" in Adrienne Lecouweur, anld as St. Julian askedg this question, he looked with a smile at the pleasatS frank face, slightly overcast just now, of Bertie Lauristofi,^ "Is it an absurd idea?" said the latter. "By JovV? I  am not so sure of that. And as for what put it into my,: head, Madame Alvarez herself put it there. You might] have seen how strangely startled she was at the sound -of -; my name last night."  "I did see that she was a little startled," St. Julian ,s* swered. "But she explained the cause of her surpi with sufficient frankness, I am sure."      - "The cause is exactly what shle did not explain,"' -  . * -.,   !?Laurinton replied. "She only told me that she had l'knowh' Godfrey Lauriston. But was that any reason  ; whiy she sholld turn pale and look so-so very queer, be- : cause she met another man of the same name? Depend  upon it, she has known Godfrey Lauriston in some more N? than ordinary way; and you may laugh if you please, but t!:I feel a conviction approaching to a certainty that he must : have been her husband." '  "Fiddlesticks l" said St. Julian. "He was some asso- I- ciate or comrade of her husband perhaps, and for aught we gi know, a lover of her own; but M. Blanc mentioned her I[- married name to me last night, and I can assure. you for ! your satisfaction that it was not Lauriston." , - What was it?" asked the other, eagerly. a *"If I can remember, I'll tell you," said his friend; "but the deuee has taken my memory of late, and then I am not Alvarez mad, you know. Try some of this patg, Bertie.  It is better than disquieting yourself about dead and gone : socialists. Apropos, how did you like the entertainment  Flast night? Rather brilliant, wasn't it? Too many peo- pe, perhaps-as Mrs. Browning says, 'I'll name a fault ; here -but all of them people worth knowing. Savarin l himself might have prepared the menu, and the vintage !:I was royal. So is the Alvarez herself, for that nfatter. It - -ipay gratify you to hear that I have never founda public ; personage who stood the test of private acquaintance so X".: well." ! "She  is divinel" said Lauriston, with enthusiasm. Si bhe is not only the greatest actress, but she is the f::most beautiful, the most graceful, the-the most fascinat- ;iing woman, I have ever seen. ; Do you know, St. Julian, I can imagine a man's sacrificing anything and everything for such a woman as that?" '   , i;i' "Can you?" said St. Julian, dryly. "Well, you are not : singular in that respect. A good many men have sacrificed ; anything and everything for just such women. There's psomething of more than ordinary sorcery in those dark eyes of hers, and her mouth is one of those 'things of 5 beauty' which may truly be defined as, 'joys for ever.'-: I i. can't say that I should care very' mucN about kissing it, ?, though," he added, candidly. "It is astonishing how some  mouths are at once suggestive of that amusement, while ? others again are not."     .  I.; The others are made for better uses," said Bertie, a lit- e;tile indignantly. "Don't blaspheme, St. Julian. It is sac- .ilege to talk of kissing those lips, which might be cut in ;?marble without the alteration of a line, as if they were the s: -.rosebud mouth' of some red-cheeked school-girl." "t" tRosebuds are very pretty things, and so are school- mgirs sometimes," said St. Julian, coolly. "'It seems to me i that there is a great deal of unnecessary obloquy cast upon 1 that unfortunate class, considering that all of our goddesses pvie nmelt of bread and butter once at least in their lives.  :d:Aa for Madame Alvarez' mouth) being cut in marble with- Obut the alteration of a line, why, so might yours or mine, r that matter, but wddld the result be very striking?" i ! "Nonsense!"  t "Well, yes, I think it would be nonsense; but there is iV really no telling how soon such things may be done. Ideal consceptions of beauty may before long find themselves i ousted as summarily from sculpture as they have already T 'dbeen from literature and painting. Realism is the war- c cry of all the critics-what a pity they are not all hanged I i ?.-until: they have hunted everything that is not tame, a commonplace and thoroughly hideous from modern writ- a infig and modern art."'    "t I. 'I suppose they have," said Bertie. He was of a most t :obliging disposition and would have agreed to anything A ;,just then to stop the career of the other's hobby. "They A :Gre god for someI things, however-the critics," he went h ,Onj magnanimously.   "Just see how well they speak of o Miidame Alvarez' Adrienne this morning. five  you n *d  the papers? I  called for them as shon as I was tl ke."        a   '             i "( ^4{XMi ame Alvarez is a very charmning woman," said St. tl :Juian dryly;  ' and if you noticed, she kept her sweetest h1 lend glances for the journilists last night."  w - Well, and why not?" said Lauriston, stoutly. "They p w"ke her public, and the public make her bread."   th A, z s #  ,   ills   d   "That is very true; but if she chanced to be Godfrey n  Lauriston's widow, as you have a fancy to suppose, she ought to be above depending on the public for bread, d oughtn't she?" e   He asked the question lightly and in iest, for Bertie's t  conjectures with regard to Godfrey Lauriston and the t  famous actress had seemed to him like the wildest dream- ing; but after he asked it, he was struck by the change which it brought over his companion's face. Bertie not e. only started, but the whole color and expression of his r countenance altered. St. Julian could not avoid seeing r that for some reason his careless words had struck with telling force. "Good Heavens '!"Lauriston said, speaking as men speak t' in the face of a sudden revelation, and his eyes, which were t gazing at the other, sprang wide open with a look of startled  amazement. By George!" he said, after a minute; t"I dide not think of that before! It is queer that I should t have forgotten it, but upon my word I did altogether." "Forgotten what?" asked St. Julian, surprised and not t a little curious. "Have I said anything extraordinary, that you look like that? I am sure I was not at all aware of it if 6so." t  "No, you did not say anything extraordinary," Laaris- ton answered, gravely.  "It was only that I remembered just then something which it is strange I should have forgotten." "And may I ask what it was? Excuse me if I am in- quisitive; but when you tell a man that his own words have suggested something that makes your eyes as large as saucers, of course you naturally make him curious re- garding it." "It is no secret," Bertie answered, "and Heaven forbid that I should ever attempt or desirefo make it one. The only thing which your words have recalled to me was the simple fact that if Madame Alvarei or any other woman is the widow of, Godfrey, Lauriston, it is she, and not I, who is the rightful owner of'the.,Lauriston estate." "What!" said St. Julian, overcome  with amazement. But after Bertie had repeated the statement, he shrugged his shoulders in his usual manner. "My dear fellow," he said, "is it champagne or the grande passion which has turned your head?   it must be one for the other, surely, else you would not make an assertion which can have no possible ground in common sense,or law."' "Hasn't it?" said Bertie, smiting. "But as it chances, I  am not quite so quixotic or so foolish as you suppose, and I happen to know what I am talking about. Godfrey Lauriston- But do you know who Godfrey Lauriston was?" "Not' I." "Well, you ougithto know, if only to understand that I am not talking nonsense. He was the only son and heir of the Lauriston-Archibald by name-who held the estate just before my  father. A rare old fellow this Archibald Lauriston must have been, to judge from all that I have heard of him and from his picture which is at home-as handsome and stern a  face as one need care to see. He /Wbs a   staunch aristocrat, moreover-as became a man whose ancestors left England with King James-but un- fortunately his only son took exactly an opposite view of politics. Having been sent abroad for his education, he came home steeped to the lips in socialistic red republican- ism. Now, some men can keep wild theories to themselves and enjoy them quietly, especially in a country where, as a   general rle, nobody cares a straw what you think; but there are otlers whllo cannot rest unless they are thrusting these opinions into the faces of all around them. Both Archibald Lauriston and his son were of the latter stamp. A battle-royal was raging between them all the time, I have heard my father say, who as a cousin-the last of an- other branch of the family-was often in the house. It 1l- minated finally in an open rupture, when Godfrey asserted that if Lauriston was ever his, he would turn it into a Fou. rieristic phalanstery. Lauriston never should be his, then, the father rejoined, ,svearing a solemn oath (so I have heard' my father say):tlhat lie would set fire to the house with his own hand sooner than suffer it to pass into the! possession of a  socialist. The upshot of the matter was that le married a  second wife with the avowed purpose of   disinheriting his son, and that Godfrey Lauriston went abroad with the avowed purpose on his part of never re- turning to America. Nor did he. It is true the father's second marriage proved barren, and he would have been glad enough after a while to make a compromise with Godfrey, but Godfrey never appeared for the purpose. After he sailed from America all trace of him was lost, and not a single item of news concerning him ever came back to the family and friends he had left. Archibald Lauriston outlived his second wife, and as time went on made countless efforts to discover the fate of his son, but they were all in vain. When he died, it was found that he left Lauriston and all his personal and real estate-an im- mense bequest, as you know-to my father (then a strag- gling lawyer), in trust for Godfrey or his heirs." "I should not have been obliged to him for any such trust," said St. Julian, dryly. "So my father thought, and for some time he refused to accept, or in any way enjoy, the inheritance. But after the executors of the will' had employed every possible means of search for the missing heir, and after they had all failed and it became the unanimous opinion of every- body concerned that he must of necessity be dead, they represented the matter so strongly to my father that he wits at last induced to accept the estate. And so it came to me, and so you may understand what I meant when I said that if Madame Alvarez or any other woman was Godfrey Lauriston's widow, she is the rightful owner of Lauriston." "I understand exactly what you mean," answered St. Julian, gravely, " but I understand also that the less pub- licity you give this story, the better. It is all nonsense- utter nonsense-about Godfrey Lauriston's having a widow whom neither his father nor the executors you speak of Were ableto unearth; but the mere hint of such an inher- itance awaiting claimants would suggest to any needy ad- venturer the idea of imposture. The fact of Godfrey Lauriston having lived abroad would make such a thing extremely feasible." "Stuff, St. Julian I Things of that kind happen only in novels." "You are mistaken about that. Ask any. lawyer, and 'he will tell you how full legal records are of exactly such occurrences. Impostors are always ready to spring up whenever there is the least chance of a golden harvest to be reaped. Therefore, I say, hold your tongue. It is time enough to talk of claimants to the estate when they present themselves." "But how can they present themselves if they do not know?" said Bertie. "I shall not talk about the inherit- ance, St. Julian-despite your evident doubts on the sub- ject, I am not quite a fool-but I must, if possible, see Madame Alvarez again, and learn all that she can tell me about Godfiey Lauriston." "'Let sleeping dogs lie,' Bertie. There never was a better proverb than that, though there have been many more elegant." "But it is not honest," said Bertie. "As my father's representative, I hold this estate in trust for Godfrey Lau- dston or his heirs. Now, this which Madame Alvarez hhs given is the first trace that was discovered of him, and as an honorable man I am bound to follow it up." "You will find that it leads to nothing." "So much the better, then, but you cannot expect me to take that for granted. By Jove, St. Julian! it is I who should feel like an impostor if this man left, a wife and children who may be suffering want while I hold their rightful inheritance." St. Julian shrugged his shoulders. "You twit me about being a poet, Bertie," he said, "but I am decidedly the most practical of the two. All that about a widow and children is nonsense, and wildly improb-;- able besides. You talk of not taking things for granted, when, in fact, you are taking everything for granted. You always were a hard-headed beggar, however, and I sup- pose there is nothing to be gained by arguing with you. Let me hear, therefore, how you propose to prosecute your inquiries with La Alvarez." "I propose to go to her to-day," said Bertie, quietly.   "And if you were a marquis, my dear fellow, instead of a ILuriston of Lauriston, you would not be admitted." "Then I shall write and request the honor of an inter- view." "Eh bienl I have a suspicion that your conscientious scruples about Godfrey Lauriston and his apocryphal widow and children are very convenient just now as an excuse to see your actress-divinity." "I'll not deny that the)y are convenient," said Bertie, laughingly, " but, nevertheless, they are sincere." And the young fellow was right enough. They were undoubtedly sincere, but they were also very convenient, as he felt with a thrill, a few hours later, when he rang the door-bell of Madame Alvarez' apartments au prenmier overlooking the Rue de Rivoli. St. Julian was with him, and it was evident to both, from the air of the servant who. received their cards, that there was but little hope of see- ing the famous actress. Madame had given no orders to be denied to visitors, this personage said, but it was scarcely likely she was disengaged. Nevertheless, if the gentlemen insisted, he would ascertain whether or not she would receive them. The gentlemen did insist, and their tone and manner, aided by a liberal douceur, prevailed so far that they were admitted tv an ante-chamber to await the pleasure of the fair autocrat. "We have not the faintest claim to see or be seen, Bertie," said St. Julian. "She is certain to be engaged."' But as much to his surprise as to that of the servant, who returned with an increased air of respect, Madame Alvarez was disengaged, and desired that the gentlemen should be shown into her presence. Into her presence accordingly they were shown, follow- ing the velvet-shod lackey through several apartments full of tall mirrors and cabinets and vases, into a boudoir smaller than the rest, but infinitely more charming-a room which would have been a gem for an empress- where the actress herself rose to receive them. Both were struck alike by the grace and cordiality of her welcome-a far more gracious welcome than either of them had ex-t pected or felt that he had any right to expect. "I am happy to see you, messieurs," she said, in her soft, musical speech, and the words illy represented the charm of man.  ner which accompanied them. Even St. Julian grounded arms and'surrendered himself to the enchantment of the beautiful, gracious eyes. She put them at their ease at once, and conversation rippled on brightly and gracefully for some time-for so ' long a time, indeed, that it was a glance from his friend which at last warned Bertie that they were transcending the ordinary limits of a morning call without having once touched upon the subject which had brought them there. Then, as the young fellow hesitated a minute, uncertain how to begin, his glance chanced to rest on a small cabinet- picture which he had not observed before. Madame Al- varez was at that moment speaking to St. Julian. To gain time, therefore, for a second's cool thought, he rose and walked over to the recess where it hung. Then he saw that it was the portrait of a young and handsome man. Not an ordinary-looking man by any means-strikingly the reverse, in fact-a man who looked as if he possessed the fatal gift of doing, daring and suffir- ing much above his fellows. The firmly-braced lips were stern, and there was a keenness which matched them in the steadfast eyes; but there was much of benignity, as well as of intellect, on the broad, massive brow framed by such short, clustering curls, as we see in the portraits of Lord Byron.  Altogether, it was a face which no one who had seen it once could possibly forget or mistake; and as he gazed at it, a sudden flash of recognition came to Bertie. It was the face of Godfrey Lauriston I There was not only a, -look common to all the name-a look shared by himself-- on the noble, clearly-cut features, but besides this family likeness, there was an individual likeness impossible to 7,- mistake to that portrait of Archibald Lauriston of which'Jf he had spoken to St. Julian, and also to the picture of a, graceful, bold-eyed boy standing beside his favorite horM e ' which hung in the great hall at Lauriston--a picture which : strangers were always told was the sole memorial of the missing heir. *    '        * ' .^^,; M   : . As may be imagined, Bertie's heart gave a leap when :!. this knowledge came to him as if by inspiration; and as 1he turned, uttering an exclamation, he found that Mad- ameAIlvarez had followed, and was standing beside him. ^"You recognize this fatce, then, do you, monsieur?" she said, calmly--so calmly that Bertie thlought how right St. Julian was in characterizing as " absurd" the supposition )-..that she could possibly have been the wife of the mall ; before whose portrait they were standing. Y Yes, madame," he answered at once; " it is the face of -my, cousin Godfrev Lauriston." * .He uttered the words quietly but proudly-he did not "hoose for any one to think that one Lauriston could pos- sibly be ashamed of another; and as le spoke, the beauti- ful Spanish eyes turned quickly on him with a look of surprised gratitude which lie never forgot. "You are very good to speak in that tone of a socialist,  monsieur," she said. "I thought you would have been , more likely to say, 'That is the man who was cast off and 1' disowned by his fanmily.'" ' As it chanced, however, he did the casting off himself," answered Bertie, a little dryly. "Will you pardon me," - e went on, ".if I say that I ventured to intrude upon you this morning principally to ask if you will be kind enough to toltell me something of the-life and death of this unfortu- i. nate man? I gathered, or inferred, from your words last  night, as well as from many other things, that he is dead," he added, quickly, as a change which lie did not quite understand came over her face. ' "Yes, he is dead," she answered, in a low tone, glancing with a look of mingled sadness and pride at the brave, handsome face silently regarding them. "Since that is said, is not all said, monsieur? What more can you or any other member of the family, which you tell me he cast off, desire to know of him?" "If you will allow me to speak as the present head of ,the fitmily, madame," said the young man, with a dignity which surprised even St. Julian, "1 answer that I desire to know something more of him, because dead men often leave living representatives, and for the living represent- atives of Godfrey Lauriston I hold an important trust." She started, and her eyes gave a quick flash of astonish- mlent and interest. "How can that be, monsieur?" she asked with point- -blank directness. ^ "If you will do mne the favor of listening to me for a i few minutes, I think I shall readily show you how it can -be," Bertie answered, as directly as herself, disregarding a glance of warning fronm St. Julian. "Will you sit down?" ^ph went on, quietly; " what I hlave to say may occupy a liuttle time," - TShe had been standing by him, but at this she smiled a Bittle--perhaps it was his straightforward manner that - amused her--and sat down in a chair near at hand. Al- , thiough she smiled, both St. Julian and himself noticed that sihe was very pale.            i- "I attend, monsieur," she said. And then, necessarily at somewhat greater length, Ber- tie told her the same story which he had already told St. 1Julian-the story of Godfrey Lauriston and the estate in- -:.herited in trust for the absent heir. It was a foolish thing amp tell, St. Julian thought, listening irritatedly, half to 6jfBrtie and half to a military band playing the familiar itains of "Partant pour ta Syrie," not far off: What con- /Arn did Madame Alvarez have with the story because the ,i'man had been a friend or lover of hers, and she chose to ,ihang his portrait in her boudoir?  Madame Alvarez, t meanwhile, was listening to Lauriston, with her dark eyes -.all quivering and glowing in her pale, passionate face. -.The frank simplicity of the young man seemed to touch and please her, Occasionally she made a comment on-his ;-'to'ry, but not very often; and. when he paused at last, she ti'vaited for several minutes before she spoke. There was silence in the room during this time. Nothing was heard /e,/ve the ticking of the clock on the mantel, the carriages !r6Uling along the street below, and the twittering of a (; ia arat some upper window. Even the soft voice of the f!less fell almost sharply on the hush when she spoke ':lJi $-laat ,  Mc.;  fc'^'   "But you have been reared to consider this inheritance your own," she said, gravely. "It would be hard on you -nay, it seems to me that it would be scarcely right-for Godfrey Lauriston's heirs to claim it at this late day." ,." Are there heirs, then?" asked Bertie, eagerly. The poor fellow was honest and loyal as the day, but he could not help a sudden sinking of the heart almost akin to sick- ness. There was scant cause for wonder at this. Did not the appearance of Godfrey Lauriston's heirs mean penury- or something which by contrast seemed penury-to him? "That I cannot tell you-at least not now," she answered, slowly. '"But I may be able to learn, to make inquiries- that is, if you desire it." "I do desire it," said Bertie, unflinchingly. "You will make me your debtor for life, madame, if you are good enough to interest yourself in this. But cannot I make the necessary inquiries?" he asked, with sudden recollec- tion. "If you will only tell me how to proceed-" But she interrupted him, quickly and decidedly. "That is impossible, monsieur. This is no matter for the police. Private inquiries alone can be made, and I must make them. But," she said, looking at him with a strange wistfulness in her eyes, "had you not better take a short time to decide whether you wish this done? I have rea- son to believe that your cousin was married, and therefore the heirs of whom you speak may be in existence. Had you not better think a little before they change their igno- rance-for they must of necessity be entirely ignorant of the inheritance awaiting them-into knowledge? Say only the word, monsieur,' cried she, almost passionately, "and I pledge you my honor that no one with a drop of Godfrey Lauriston's blood in his or her veins shall ever hear the story which you have told me." 9 "Madame!" said Bertie. He was inexpressibly aston- ished, and, to tell the truth, a little shocked. He had not expected Madame Alvarez to espouse his cause, much less to make such a proposal as this. "Madame," he went on, after a minute, "you are very kind to think of me at all; but as I have already told you, the greatest service which you can possibly do me is the service of finding Godfrey Lauriston's heirs." "And if I found them, what then?" "Then," said the young fellow, with a smile which was brave and bright enough to do him credit, though slightly forced, "I should resign the fortune which my father merely v held in trust, and which I, as his representative, cannot do other than hold in the same manner." "You are determined upon this?" "I have no choice," said he, flushing slightly. "It is a point of honor." "But what if these heirs proposed a compromise by which you might retain a part of the estate, as it would , surely be only honorable for them to do?" "It is scarcely worth while to discuss what has not oc- curred," he answered, flushing more deeply. "It is enough to say that I should not entertain such a proposal for a moment." "But that is wrong," said she, quickly. "Do you not think so?" she went on, turning to St. Julian, who, up to this point, had taken no part in the conversation. "Do you not believe that he should retain a part, at least, of the inheritance which but for him would never have come to Godfrey Lauriston's heirs at all?" "I believe, madame," answered St. Julian, coolly, "that the whole affair is, on Bertie's part, so absurd and quixot- ical, that there is really no room for further absurdity or quixotism. I think I am an honest man," pursued the young cynic, gravely; " but if I were in Lauriston's place, I cer- tainly should not feel that I was in honor or conscience bound to cut lly own throat, in a pecuniary sense, by searching for the heirs of a man who had only his own folly to thank for the penury of himself or his children. If they claim the estate, there would be time enough to talk of surrendering; but to searchl for them-to make this story public, and thereby offer a premium to impostors of every kind and degree-I hold that human madness could go no farther." "And why do you not heed your friend?" asked Mad- ame Alvarez, turning her lustrous eyes on Bertie. "You   cannot deny that he speaks with much prudence and com- mon sense?" "Madame," answered Bertie, quietly, "you may take my word that if St. Julian was in my position, he would act precisely as I am doing." "What a compliment to my sense!" said St. Julian, dryly. "But he is right," said Madame Alvarez. "You are cutting your own throat, while these heirs may, perhaps, not need the inheritance at all." "Let them have the opportunity to decide that," said Bertie, smiling faintly. "Pray do not think of me any farther, madame," he went on, impetuously. "I am a man; I shall' do very well. Only be good enough to tell me where I can find the wife and children of Godfrey Lau- riston. That is all I ask." "But it is what I cannot tell at once," she answered. "You must give me time, and I will do my best for you. Can I say more than that?" "Not to one'who knows what Madame Alvarez's best can be," he answered, flushing again, but this time with pleasure, under. the kindly glance she gave. Then feeling that his visit had by this time passed beyond   all reasonable limitsihe rose to make his adieux. When can I hope for the pleasure of seeing you again, madame?" lie asked, a little wistfully. "The hours will seem leaden- weighted until that time." "Until you may be called upon to surrender your in- heritance?" said she, smiling faintly. "Surely not that, monsieur. But if they will be leaden-weighted, why not abridge them? Why should not M. St. Julian and your- self do -me the honor of taking supper with me to-night after the play?" How eagerly this invitation was accepted-an invitation which just then marquises and dukes were anxiouis to gain -it is quite needless to say. Despite the information which he had received with regard to Godfrey Lauriston's probable heirs, Bertie seemed to tread on air as he left the porte-cochere. He even turned and smiled into his compan- ion's grave face. "What do you think of it all, St. Julian? I am curious to hear," he said. But St. Julian only shrugged his shoulders. "I think several things," he responded; " but I am not fool enough to tell any of them to you, Bertie."   "'L LOOK, Iot1,aKl' SHE GASPED."   CHAPTER III. 'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS." WHLE Laurlston had been sunninghimselfin the glances of, Madame Alvarez's dark eves, and finding a certain pleasure in kindling a light of interest on her face as he told the story of his jeopardized inheritance, thus having the satisfaction of placing lis whole future life in her hands, his name, if he had known it, was the topic of con- versation with a bevy of his newly-arrived countrywomen at the Hotel du Louvre. "I hear that Bertie Laulriston is in Paris," one of them,   a petite and sufficiently pretty brunette, was saying. '"Mamma, we must let him know at once that we are here. I think it is charming to meet pleasant acquaint- ances abroad. They seem like old friends, though one may only have danced a few Germans with them." "But we have done more than danced a few Germans with Bertie Lauriston, Amy," said another brunette, older, more self-conscious and not so pretty as the first. "You may have forgotten, you are so heedless, but he was at our house quite often last winter." "No, I have not forgotten, Belle," said Amy, a little sharply. "One does not meet so many pleasant, men in society that one can afford to forget anybody as nice as Bertie Lauriston. My remark was general, not particular; though, indeed, I don't think tiat we were very intimate with Mr. Lauriston."   "I did not say that we were," answered Belle, sharply, in turr. "But he was more than a mere dancing acquaint- ance. Why, season before last, when we were at the White Sulphur, we saw more of him than of anybody else. Manma remembers that, don't you, mamnma?" "Yes," interposed Amy, evidently bent on being pro- voking ; "but it was because his mother shared our cot- tage, and that brought us constantly together. I don't think we can really flatter ourselves that he admired either you or me. He has a penchant for blondes, if I recollect rightly, and we are colored folks." "Nobody ever dreamed of supposing lie ihdmired us," said Belle, flushing angrily. "You might at least wait until people asserted things before you contradicted them, Amy ." "Did you speak to me, Belle?" said a middle-aged lady, also a brunette, but handsomer than either of her daugh- ters, who looked up just here from a letter; for of course these new-comers, like all other new-comers, had sent at once to their banker for their mail. "This is from Clara," she added, extending the open epistle. "She gives a great deal of news about our friends at home, who seem to have taken to marrying and  dying with singular vivacity since we left. And she mentions that we shiall probably meet Bertie Lauriston in Paris." "We were just talking of him," said Belle and Amy, in a breath. "Papa must look him up at once. He will be able to add so much to our enjoyment. He has been abroad so often that he knows exactly where to go and what to do and how to do it." "But there is Alice, who knows all about Paris,and . speaks French like a born Frenclhwoman, itf we want a guide," said the elder lady, who was known to society as Mrs. Davenport. Belle shrugged her shoulders silently; Amy burst forth at once: "But Alice is a woman, mamma; and of all stupid thng, I think a set of women poking about by themselves is the most stupid. If we came abroad to do that, I think that we might as well have stayed at home-better, in fact, since there are men there." "Very well," said Mrs. Davenport, smiling. She was used to the freedom with which the girl of the period enunciates sentiments like these. "We will send your father to find Mr. Lauriston and represent onr desolate condition. No doubt lie will be kind enough to take pity upon us and come to our rescue. Perhaps vou may even be fortunate enough to secure two guides, couriers, cavaliers, or whatever it is you want, for wherever one hears of Bertie Lauriston-especially abroad-one is always sure to hear of Basil St. Julian also. They seem inseparable." But this suggestion was not by any means received with favor. " I detest Basil St. Julian," said Belle, with unction. "Of all the disagreeable men whom I have ever known- and their name is legion--I consider him emphatically the most disagreeable." "He is intolerable," cried Amy. "As you say, Belle, of all conceited and sarcastic people, he is the most hate- ful. Go about with him to picture-galleries and churches -I, who don't know a Claude from a Titian, or Gothic from Greek! Not if I know myself!" "Amy," said her mother, severely, "I have begged you to be kind enough not to talk slang." "Oly in the famiy h circle and on important occasions, maimma," said Amy, laughing. "It is so forcible! Alice, if Mr. St. Julian does make his appearance, e weill turn him over to you, who can talk art and architecture. poetry and sculpture, Shakespeare and the musical glasses, to him to his heart's content," she went on, addressing a young lady who was reading a letter at a window not far off. This fourth member of the circle looked up now with a smile. She was so unlike the others that it was at once evident that if there was any tie of relationship between them, it must of necessity be very slight. They were small, slender, and so dark that they might almost have been said to deserve Amy's title of " colored folks," while she was tall, nobly formed and dazzlingly fair-a magnifi- cent type of the purest blonde beauty-not that delicate, 3   daintv,.petite blonde which lhas been fashionable in novels and out of them of late, buht the old heroic standard which makes one &dream of Helen " drawing the odorous yellow braids adown her cheek," of Chriemhild at the court of Worms, of many a grandly-sculptured figure in the long line of fair women, even of "ox-eyed Juno" in her fair Olympian home. "Who is it that is to he turned over to me, Amy?" she asked, in : voice that suggested Alpine water, it was so clear, so cold, and yet so purely sweet. "Not anybody whom you like yourself, I am sure." "No," said Amy, candidly. "As far as lies in my power, I generally keep them to myself. This is some- body whom I dislike exceedingly, but you may fancy him, Alice-there is no accounting for tastes-and he is said to be very clever. He is disagreeable enough to be that or anything else," she added, with a shrug. ... "Disagreeable enough to be clever," said Alice Riving. ton. "What a very singular idea of cleverness you must have, my dear! Will you forgive me if I say its novelty is certainly remarkable?" ' Ohl, say what you please, by all means!" cried Amy, stung by the amused contempt perceptible in the other's tone. "Thank Heaven I know very little of clever peo- ple, but all that I ever have known "-this with emphasis- "were exceeding disagreeable." Maiss Rivington's lips curled a little. It was only neces- sary to look at hler broad white brow under the light wav- in, fluff of her golden hair to see where this last shaft was iwont to strike. "But who is the obnoxious person?" she asked, quietly. "A manl, I suppose, of course?" "A man, of course, or Amy would hardly be discussing him," said Belle. "A handsome man, too, and a poet, so vou see she is very generous." "He is a very nice person indeed," said Mrs. Davenport, breakirng in upon the sparring, which threatened to become general. "I think you may like him, Alice, for hle is said to be wonderfiully clever, although the girls are right in considerink him a little disagreeable. He is a St. Julian, however, and his mother was a Singleton; so besides his talents, lie is quite irrelproachable in family." "Handsome, talented and ligh l-born," said Miss Riving-. ton, smiling "Why, you describe quite an Admirable Criclhton, even if hle is a little disagreeable." "But he is poor," said Amy. "No, he is not poor," said her mother. "He is moder. ately well off, when you don't compare his fortune to that of Bertie Lauriston." "And who is Bertie Lauriston?" asked Miss Riv- ington.  "Somebody who is an Admirable Crichton!" cried Amy, eagerly. "Somebody who is handsome and high- born and-and talented, I suppose, besides being as rich as Croesus and as charming as an archangel." "Don't be irreverent, Amy," said her mother. And  - just then the conversation was cut short by the entrance of Davenport pere-a tall, handsome man, with a look of Alice Rivington about his straight nose and white brow. "Well, girls, have you run through all your letters, and are you ready for sight-seeing?" lie asked, good-humoredly. "When a man has nothing to do but see sights, he does not feel comfortable unless he is at the business. Hive you settled what it is to be this morning? There's the Louvre, or the Palais Royale, or Notre Dame, or the Champs Elysdes, or the Tuileries, or the Lux-" "I Oh, papa, don't overwhelm us!" said Belle. "We are not going to work sight-seeing like that. We mean to take our time about it. Here is Alice, who is at home in Paris, and she will tell us exactly where we should go and what we should see." "And what is Alice's programme for to-day?" asked Mr. Davenport, looking at his stately; golden-haired niece-for such was the relationship between them-with a smile. "My programme for to-day," said Alice, " is that we shall not attempt anything in particular.. Belle and Amy have some shopping to do, and' we till go to the Rue de la Paix, and anywhere else that we have a fancy, for that   purpose. This afternoon we will drive out to the Bois, and to-night we will go to see the new wonderful actress who is appearing in Adrienne Lecouvreur." "I was going to propose thte last thing myself," he said. "Have-you read what the critics say of her this morning? She has all Raehllel's fire and passion, theyv declare, witlh more than Rachel's tenderness and grace. I confess I am curious to see lier-all the more curious because I saw Rachel once in this very play, and I shall never forget the impression she made lupon me." "We will all go," said Amy, "though .four women is a terrible proporltion to one man. This reminds me, papa, that you must go at once and try to find Bertie Lauriston, who is somewhere in Paris. There are things like visitors' lists, are there not? Anyhow, you must find him, if you have to enlist theepolice in the search." "In the first place, however, you had better obtain a box for to-night, if you can," said Alice Rivington. "Thl larger and the nearer the Tae,Tihe better." "Very well," said Mr. Davenport; and opening his note- book, he jotted down, '" 1leoi,: to get a stage-box at the theatre and find B.- L." Thills proceeding was of such com- mon occurrence that nobody lllghed. If the note-book in question had fallen into the hands of a stranger, he would have found a curious melange of entries therein. Nothing was too small or too great, too absurd or too grave, for Mr. Davenport to jot down. "It saves trouble," he would say, "and one never forgets it then." Perhaps it was on account of tlis business-like memoran- dulm that he was fortunate enough to secure a stage-box for that night. It was a pure instance of luck. Just before the box-office closed, at an unusually early hour on account of all the seats having been secured, sonme one brought back a ticket to sell, and Mr. Davenport, chlancing in just then, bought it eagerly. But when evening came, lie found, somewhat to his chagrin, that bothl Mrs. Davenport and Miss Belle were too mnlch exhausted by the dav's amuse- menlt -to encounter any fiarther dissipation that night. "It is an excellent thing," Amy declared, unfeelingly. "There should never be more than two women in a box. Four would be atrocious." So it chanced that while the curtain still hung motion- less before the footlights, these two-as munch from their position as from their youth and beauty and the contrast of their different styles- found themselves the objective point at which half the stares and opera-glasses of a crowded house were levelled. At first Anmy liked it very well--what young, pretty girl, conscious of a good toilette, does hot like to be adlired?-and she flushed and flut- tered, and seemed to grow more piquant and radiant every moment, despite the haughty coldness that came over Alice's statuesque features and her father's growing indignation. "Draw back bellind the curtains, girls," he said; "I never saw sucll impudence in my life. Those insolent fel- lows in the stalls must be counting every one of your eye- laslies! By Jove, I should like amazingly to give one or two of them a lesson in good breeding! Here, let me come to the front, and hand me your largest opera- glass." The girls retreated, even Amy nothing loath, for she had by this-time begun to feel a little hot and uncomfort- able. When they retired, Mr. Davenport advanced, and taking a position in the front of the box,-screwed an im- posing-looking opera-glass to a proper focus, and then brought it coolly and deliberately to bear on the most per- sistent and impertinent of the starers in the stalls. Thle effect of this was almost instantaneous. The stalrers were not only looked down and beaten at their own game-for there was an almost basilisk sternness in the glare of tliose heavy doluble-barrels-but thev soon found that the obser- vation of several hundred pairs of eyes-^was being turned upon them I Now, to stare anybody else, especially a woman, out of countenance, is rather an amusing occupa- tion than otherwise to a great many men, but to be stared out of countenance themselves is ;a operation which very few find agreeable. It was especially disagreeable in this instance, because the audience, ready for any occupation or amusement. heartily appreciated Mr. Davenport's retalia-   tory measure. First there was a rush of laughter, begin- ning in the pit and sweeping up-to the galleries, and- then suddenly there came one of those quick outhursts of ap- plause which seem the spontaneous expression of good- feeling and good-will. "Oh, they are applauding papa," cried Amy, rippling over with laughter in the back of the box. "Bow, papa, bow! That is the proper thing to do when you are ap- plauded. Oh, Alice, look round the corner,of the curtain, and see how everybody is laughing. Don't you know those impertinent men feel nicely now? Upon my word, thile manager ought to give us something-a benefit, say- for diverting the house so well." As a matter of course, this little incident drew the atten- tion of everybody in the theatre to the box from which the two pretty faces-one darkly bright, the other superbly fair-had withdrawn, and the curtains of which now framed instead the cool, handsome countenance and Eng- lish whiskers of Mr. Davenport. Among the rest, Bertie Lanriston looked in that direction when lie came in, rather late, wondering a little, as lie made his way to his seat, what had evoked the applause just dying away. "By George, St. Julian!"l he cried, when lhe had brought his glass to bear on the general point of interest; "it is Da- venport-Henry Davenport, as I live! Look! There can be no mistake. It is the very old fellow himself, and fill of pluck as ever, too. Did you ever see anvtlhing cooler than the sarn! froid with whchi he faces the whole house? But what is everylody latuehing at him for?" "Everybodv is not laughing at, but with, your friend, monsieulr," said a courteous Frenchman, who understood English, on the other side. "If you had been five minutes earlier, you would have seen hlow well he turned the tables -is not that what you say?-on some men who were star- ing out of countenance the ladies who accompany him. Ma foil they were not without excuse," lie added, shrug- ging his shoulders. "A nore beautiful woman than one of them I have never seen." "By Jove!" said Bertie-and his tone was ludicrously crestfallen-" are there ladies in the question? St. Julian, do you blear that? We ought to go and speak to them, oughtn't we?" "That depends entirely upon whether you came to talk commonplaces to a set of tiresolme people or to see Madame Alvarez in Adrienne," responded St. Julian, quietly. "I came for the latter purpose, and I shall not stir if the whole Davenport family are there en masse. Davenport himself is by fier the best of them," lie added. "The mnother and daughters are insufferable bores." "I always found them sufficiently pleasant, vell-mean- ing people," said Bertie, " and common civility-" " ay. go to the deuce for aught I care," interrupted his companion. This ended the discussion for the time, since at that mo- ment the curtain rose, and the instantaneous hush which characterizes a well-bred audience fell over the house. Bertie settled himself comfortably in his seat, and salved his conscience by thinlking that he would go round to the Davenport box for a few minutes between the acts; but the first sight of Madame Alvarez' face, the first tone of her filll, rich voice, swept everything else so completely from his mind that it is scarcely likely he would have given another thought to his old friends if at the end of the first act he had not been surprised to observe St. Julian's opera- glass levelled fill upon their box. "How are our friends looking?" he asked, witlh a smile; and then he turned his own lorgnette in that direction. To his surprise, he saw beside the familiar face of Amy Davenport, pretty and sparkling as of old, another face so rarely and purely lovely that he fairly caught his breath as he gazed at it. There was nothing to occupy attention on the stage at that moment, so there were. many)^lcside himself lost in wonder over the matchless Greek iiprofile, the stainless skin, and the heavy masses of golden hair which were thrown into such clear relief by the dark back- ground of the box. All around he could-hear a murmur of comment and admiration. Even St. Julianin rpppead his glass eagerly.              '::; "Wlho the deuce is she, Bertie?" he asked. " 'y./J1ve, w     ,    what a face! I never saw anything half so perfect out of marble. Do you know her? Did you ever see her before?" "Not I," said Bertie. "I have never seen her nor any- thing like her before. Who she can be I have no idea. Not a Davenport, however-that is certain. How much like a grisette little Amy looks beside her!" "She is making a sensation," said St. Julian. "See llow the lorgnettes are turned in that direction from every part of the house! The little Davenport takes it to her- self," he went on, laughing. "How self-conscious she l xoks, wlhile the othier is grand and serelne as an Olympian goddess! I say, Bertie, wouldn't it be only courteous if we went and paid our respects to our old friends?" "I am decidedly of thatlinion," said Bertie, smiling. "So they waited no longer, but mnade their way at once, followed by many envious glances, to the box just then attracting so much attention. They found a warm wel- come awaiting them from Mr. Davenport and Miss Amy,  while St. Julian, who liad confided to Bertie, en route, his I fears that the blonde beauty's complexion might resolve itself into pearl-powder, was agreeably reassured on this Ipoint. In truth, Alice Rivington possessed that rare love- liness which distance does not shink lto isignificance, nor i close observation resolve into coarseness. Her features were not only purely and nobly cut, but every detail of tlhe face was exquisitely fished. Nature lahd left no  hasty touches here-touchwlswhich often mar the most beautifull fatces-but seemed rather to have lingered with lovincg care over her work. The milk-white skin was of tle texture of finest satin, and the same rare perfection was visible in every other physical point. St. Julian, who wavs a falstidious yet enthusiastic worshipper of beauty, could not but admit that he had never before seen personal love- liness which seenmed so absolutely capable of defying crit- icism. "What a study for a sculptor!" lhe - thought, watcliing the classic outlines of ]lead and face, the grand, sweeping curves of the stately figure. Of the woman her- self-of the lhuman soul enshrined within this fair temple of flesh, and gazing at hin through rltle wonderful azure eyes-lie did not think at all. She was like all other women, hle fancied, and he had learned to know the sex well and to despise it not a little during the course of his twenty-six years. He found that the statue could speak, however, for- since the Davenports, father and daughter, altogether mo- ,aopolized Bertie-these two were thrown on eacll other's hands. They talked a little of Madame Alvarez and the play until the great actress, appeating on the scene again, I hushed all conversation by the mere magnetism of ler presence. Even Amy's heedless words stopped on hler lips, s a little because she, too, felt the magic thrill, and a great deal because Lauriston at once turned from  hler to the stage. The sunflower is not more loyal to the sun thlan i Bertie was to his divinity. Tliat she was a. divinity well worth worshipping many beside himself thought th:at night. Never liad h1er passion, her pathlos, her matchlless grace and tenderness, so wrought   upon the enthusiasm of her audience. Even Rachel had scarcely ever evoked such smiles, such tears, or such storms of rapturous applause. The little party in the box said scarcely a word to each other. Miss Rivington turned completely from her companions and bestowed her whole attention upon the stage, making n6 effort to join in the little talking which was done between the 4acts. Only once-at the end of one of the most touching and charm- ingly-acted of the scenes-she looked up at Lauriston, who was leaning over the back of her chair. It was the first time that lie lhad found an opportunity to notice at close quarters her dazzling beauty, and now he noticed also that her eves were swimming in tears. "Is it not strange that we should like to have our sym- pathies so wrought upon?" she asked, almost indignantly. "Is it not strange that we do not recognize how unreal it all is? Whly should I feel my very heart breaking now over poor Adrienne's fate, when I know that it is a pure ques- tion of artistic perfection with Madame Alvarez, and that while she has sent us home weeping over that marvellous death-scene-which I saw once, and shall never forget- she will have washed the paint from her face and, gone to some charming, brilliant supper?" "Because you cannot lhelp yourself," answered Bertie. "Madame Aivarez is a genius, and she does with us uswhat she will. Slhe plays upon our heart-strings, .as you play on the keys of your piano, without any comlpunction what- ever." "True, it is her business," said the young lady, still a little indignantly. Then a sudden smile-very sweet and very radiant--broke over her face, "I am cross because I am so much touched," she said. "It is always the way witi me. Please don't think anything of it. And' here is Iny bouquet you can give her at the end." "May I have one flower out of it?" asked Bertie, smiling. "You will rob IMadame Alvarez if you do," answered Miss Rivington. "But hush, here she comes." Notwithstanding the fact that he was robbing Madame Alvarez, Bertie tho-ught he must retain one flower at leaq;t in memory of the fair falce and the beautifull eves-more like sapphires than violets-which had looked lip into his own. To disengage this flower, however, was a work of  time; for according to the usual custom of florists, they were all fastened upon wires with the least possible amount of stenm; and whle he was thuws occupied in pulling dili- gently at a delicate blossom for which he 1a;1 a fancy, he was stalrtled by MTiss Rivington's hand grasping his arm and Miss Rivington's voice in his ear. "Look, look!" she g:tsped. "Yonder - belind the scenes!" He looked--from  their position they commanded a view of the side-scenes and wings; and as he looked, a sheet of bright flame darted suddenly across the stage, a vivid glare which paled even the gas lit up the theatre, and a wild cry of "Fire!" burst almost simultaneously from a hundred throats.   "ET HMtlM; IF DR)OP' iFlOIl 'alJisCI'  TO THE Z'TAGP,."   CHAPTER IV. IN THE FLAMES. To those who have ever witnesseds a palnic arising from fre in a crowded house, the scene which followed that burst of flame will need little description. In a moment the whole theatre was filll of confilsion and uproar-of people madly rushing for the doors, of others striving to warn them back, of others again calling for gendarmes, for fire- men and for engines, of others yet again wringing thleir hands and bursting into wild exclamations of terror and dismay.' Amy Davenport screamed and rushed frantically to the door of the box, from which she could with diffi- culty be withdrawn by her father and St. Julian, who assured her that the fire was only in the scenery, and would probably do no harm besides that of stopping the evening's amusement. "There will be more people in- jured-perhaps killed-in the panic than, burned in the fames," said Mr. Davenport, grimly. Meanwhile, the play was of course arrested, the actors and actresses scattered in every direction ; and, to judge from :the running hither and thilher across the stage and behnd tihe scenes, there seemed a panic among the company as well as among the audience. The curtain was loudly rung lown, but it did not come down. And it was while Miss Davenport was still insisting upon being let out of the box, and 'her father and St. Julian were. still insisting upon   keeping her in it, that a quick cry from Miss Rivington made them turn with an instinct of some filrther disaster. Then they saw that Madame Alvarez, in endeavoring to escape from the stage, had been caught in a d(raught near the side-scenes, where the flames had suddenly rushed upon and enveloped lier. For a second-it was scarcely longer than a heart-beat, yet it seemed an age-they ail stood paralyzed-all ex- cept Bertie Lallriston. The fire had hardly caughlt that slender, shrinking figure in its deadly enrltace, when he snatched an opera-cloak hanging on the back of Miss Riv- ington's chair, and before a voice could be Hifted or a hand extended to detain him, mounted the front of the box an(d. let himself drop from thence to the stage-a distance of fifyv ten feet. 'M  ' Good Heavens, Bertie, are you mad?" exclaimed St Julian, wildly starting forward; but he was too late to stop Bertie-too late to do other than to turn to Miss Rivington and demand, almost fiercely, "Why did you let him go?" "How could I help it?" she answered. "I had no idea' what he meant to do; but if I had known, I could not have; stopped him. You did not see his face- when he snatched that cloak." "The fellow is mad!" repeated St. Julian; and then, to the astonishment of his companions, he also sprang on the front of the box. "Are you mad, too, St. Julian?" cried Mr. Davenport, catching hiss arm. "If Lauriston chooses to risl- his l1 . in the attempt to save a doomed woman, is that any reain i Jwhy you Should do the same thing? Better stay wiel   vou are. You'll certainly break your neck if you jump down there!" I   It does not matter at all if I do," returned St. Julian, coolly. "Let me go, Davenport; I must see after that crazy boy."  "There's absolute danger in it." "Let me go, I s a!" There was no witstanf3ing that tone of command, and Mr. Davenport accor H ly released his hold. St. Julian immediately dropped, even more lightly than Bertie had done, from the box to the stage, and followed the latter  as quickly as possible to the spot where lie hl:d by this time wrapped Madame Alvarez in Miss Rivingtou's cloak.  This cloak, however, was not sufficiently heavv to ddo  more than slightly smother the flames; aitd since there was nobody else on the stage, and the ae, wliclh was now roaring and cracklin- amonf the scenery, 'entirely cut off the rest of the compDany (even if nmo t of themn had not been too busy-in securing thleir own safety to think of the great "star"), it is likely that Bertie's at- tempt at rescue would, after all, have availed very little but for St. Julian's timely app)earance, laden withl a lheavy table-cover, which lie seized in passing. "By Jove, I think I oulgit to go, too!" said Mr. Daven- port. "It'is monstrous tliat, out of a lwhole liouse, those two young fellows are the only ones to make an effort to save the woman from  being burned to a cinder. If it was not for you, girls-" "Oh, papa, yon shall not think  of such a thing- " cried Amy, fairly hysterical through fright and alarmn. What on earth would become of us? Oh, Alice, don't -don't let him go!" "There is no need for him to go," said Alice, quietly. " Some of the company have reached Madame Alvarez now, and yonder are a number of the audience coming to the rescue. See! they are. tearing down the box-cur- tains with which to extinguish the flames." "They might have done it before, I think," cried Amy, indignantly.                   ' "How could they?" said Alice.  "They came as soon as they knew that there was need to come. It was. our position which enabled us to see the accident the instant it occurred.  If the poor woman's life is-saved, she will cer- tainly owe it to Mr. Lauriston."  "And your opera-cloak," said Amy.  "I never saw anything as cool as the way lie seized it, without even say-  ing By your leave,' and it such a beautv, too." "The curtain would have served his lpurpose better if he had only thought of it," said Mr. Davenport. "But his presence of mind does him great credit. The  poor fellow must be badly burned lhimself, by the bye. Her dress was all in a liglt blaze when he wrapped  the cloak around her."   "But how did she take fire?" asked Amy. "It really 1 looked almost like spontaneous combustion." ,It was as quick as thought," said Miss Rivin rto.  A   current of air just as she was passing behind the t wings blew the fire so directly down upon her that she  absolutely seemed enveloped in a sheet of flame."  i There is little hope for her, then,' said Mr. Davenport a gravely. "But, thank Heaven! here are the firenlemen and the gendarmes. Now we may hope to get safelv out with- M out being crushed or trampled to death."  ' By this time, however, it began to be understood that a the  fire was only in the scenery, and the panic had in a e great measure subsided before the appearance of these welcome auxiliaries on the scene of action. The force of the theatre had already brought the fire somewhat under control, and the danger to Madame Alvarez lhad d for a  minute turned people's thoughts from the danger. f to themselves. When it was officially announced that a the flames were in a  fair way to be extinguished, and u that they might depart in safety, accompanied bv the f i sincere regrets of the manager for the untoward accident p which had cut short their evening's entertainment tle vast majority refused  to stir until  they had heard the  extent of the injuries which had befallen their favorite ti actress. They were quiet but obstinate, and it was not ic   until a well-known physician, who had chanced to be in the house, appeared and made a grave announcement , to the effect that Madame Alvarez' injurie s were very t severe, that the audience finally and slowly withdrew. Among the last to leave was the Davenport party. Mr. Davenport had insisted upon looking after Bertie, though Amy was nervosly anxious to be gone; and whlen he found I that the young fellow was indeed very baidly burned, lie in- sisted still more strenuously upon carrying'him back with I them to the H6tel du Louvre. "Don't talk to me aboutt his own apartments," he said to St. Julian, who was totaely opposed to this move. "He lhas nobody there to nurse him; while if he goes with me, mnly wife will be very glad to do anything in her power to make him comfortable" I am nobody, I suppose," said St. Julian. "But Ber- tie must decide for himself." This, however, Bertie seemed incapable of doing. In truth, he was suffering acutely, and lie could only murmur faintly that they must settle it between them. iHe was only anxious to avoid giving trouble to anybody. "Stuff!" said St. Julian. "A man in your condition must of necessity give trouble to somebody, and it had better be to me than to Mrs. Davenport." But in this view of the question Mrs. Davenport's hus- band utterly refused to coincide, and the discussion end-ed in his triumphantly carrying his point. "Bessie is a famous hand at dressing hurts and burns," hle said to Ber- tie, and Bertie acknowledged it was just such a lhand he needed at that time. So, to St. Julian's disgust, the mat- ter was settled. Lauriston 'was driven off in the Daven- port carriage, and he was left behind with strct injunctions to ascertain Madame Alvarez' condition as soon as possible, and report the same at the Hotel du Louvre. Several hours passed, however, before he made his ap- pearance. A  physician lhad beeu called in, Bertie's burns had been dressed, and he lhad been consigned to bed, when St. Julian was finally shown into the salon of the Daven- port apartments.  Here, to his surprise, he found Miss Rivington. She was still dressed as hhe had seein her at tle theatre, and sitting by the fire with a book, from whichh she looked up at his entrance. "I am glad to see you, Mr. St. Julian," she said, quietly, before lie could speak. "Your friend has been so anxious for your arrival that lie has with dificulty been kept quiet. He absolutely refiused to take the opiate Dprescribed by the doctor, fearing he might be asleep when you carne. Tiere- fore my  aunt has been hoping that you would come soon and set his mind at rest." "Except in the sense of knowing the worst, I am unfor-  tunately unable to set his mind at rest," St. Julian an- swered, gravely. "Madame Alvarez' injuries are fittal." There is, then, no hope?" "Absolutely none. I have seen two of the physicians at- tending her, and they say that only deatlh can end her present torture." "Ah, how horrible!"' cried Miss Rivington ; and invol- untarily she raised her hands to her eyes, as if to shut out the terrible picture which his words presented. "What an awful tragedy! How it dwarfs a  words that we can utter!-almost everything that we ca{eel! A few hours ago so beautiful, so touching, so magnificent, and now-" "We   cannot realize it," said St. Julian, sitting down with an air of exhaustion, his handsome face so pale that he absolutely seemed unlike himself. ".I cannot realize it. although I have been within her apartments-near enough even, to hear her cries of agony." "Her suffeing, then, is beyond all relief?" "Utterly beyond all relief, save the relief of death." There was silence for several minutes. Miss Rivington did not even wonder how it was that he, a stranger and a foreigner, had been admitted to the apartments of the great actress. She could think of nothing save that awfil agony which seemued brought  so near and was yet so far, even from imagination. It was only after several minutes had passed that she said, "But you must not tell this to Mr. Lauriston-at least ;? hot to-night. His injuries are very severe, and he will cer  taiinly not sleep at all if mental distress is added to phys.-  ical pain."'    "I have no desire to tell him," said St. Julian, " but Iow can I avoid it? There is no possible room for equiv- ocation or evasion." "You must not see him," said Miss Rivington, decidedly. "I will call my aunt, and she can judge what it will be best to do." She left the room before St. Julian couldiprotest, and in a few minutes returned with Mrs. Davenport, who had evidently been roused from slumber for the purpose. "Pray don't make any apologies," she said, good- naturedly, to St. Julian, who began to make themn at once. "I only lay down to sleep until you came, Alice being kind enough to volunteer to stay awake. I knew it would never do for you to see that excitable boy-that is, unless you brought very good news, for which we scarcely hoped." "I suppose you have heard from Miss Rivington that I bring very bad news instead," he said. "So I am sorry to hear," said Mrs. Davenport; but she said it in that way which we all adopt when we speak of a calamity which does not in any way come near us-a natural enough tone, considering that she had never even seen Madame Alvarez, but one which jarred, nevertheless, on the ears of both her companions. It was decided, therefore, that Bertie should for that night be left in ignorance concerning the tragical fate of the woman whom he had tried to save. "I will go to his room," said Mrs. Davenport. "I insisted on his taking the opiate, and he may be asleep, therefore. If so, there will be nothing to do but to let him alone. If he is awake, I shall tell hiim--anything. In such a matter as this my conscience is elastic. If there was any import- ant. reason why lie should know Madame Alvarez' condi- tion, it would be different; but of course it is nothing to him one way or another, save as a matter of sympatphy." "That is all," said St. Julian. Bolt he said it hesitat- ingly-so hesitatingly that Alice Rivington's eyes turned on him with instinctive curiosity. He spoke as if with a reserve, she thought; and beingt girl whose wits had been trained to great keenness in rather'a questionable school, she was quick to hear and to suspect things which others passed unnoticed. Just now she had a fancy to test whether or not she was right. "How long will Madame Alvarez probably live?" she asked, calmly, addressing St. Julian, who was pulling his moustache and looking rather absently into the fire. He started as if somewone had given voice to his own thoughts, and glanced at her with quick surprise. "I do not know," lie answered; "the doctors could not tell. Perhaps only a few hours, perhaps several days." "But she will probably live until to-morrow?" "So they think."  .- "And therefore, if any one wished very much to see her before she died, to-morrow would be time enough for the purpose?" "Yes," said he, with another look of such uncontrollable astonishment that she smiled to herself, thinking how clev- erly she had divined his thoughts. It was none of her business why Bertie Lauriston should need or desire to see the actress before she died-and to do her justice, she did not trouble herself with conjectures concerning it-but she liked to " see through " people as she had seen through St. Julian now. St. Julian himself had a suspicion that he had under- -gone this process, and it did not tend to increase his natu- ral amiability. As we are well aware, there was nothing uwhatever in Bertie's interest in Madame Alvarez which reguired a cloak of mystery, but he felt provoked with. Miss Rivington for discovering that there was any interest beyond that "' matter of sympathy" of which Mrs. Daven- port had spoken. "Confound her I why can she not mind her own business?" be thought, impatiently, frowning in a quick way common enough to his face, as he turned to the elder lady. 'Perhaps it will be best if I leave the affair entirely in your hands," he said, "though I regret that you should have so much trouble. I still think it would have been wiser if Bertie hiad gone with me to his usual lodgings." "And I think that he is infinitely better where he is," said Mrs. Davenport, quickly. "I am sure you are the   best of friends, and would make the best of nurses, Mr. St. Julian', but we women are sufficiently conceited to think that the sick-room is our province par excellence, you know, and that no man can dress a wound or smooth a pillow as we can." "Begging your pardon," said St. Julian, "I am not by any means the best of friends, and IqSlm sure that I should be very far'indeed from being the bEst of nurses; but since Bertie is in a measure in my hands, I thought it only right that I should have the trouble of taking care of him. He has judged differently, however, and so there is nothing more to be said.. It is certainly true that I couldl not dress his wounds and smooth his pillows as you will no doubt kindly do." There was a slight accent of sarcasm-in his voice-an ac- cent which suggested that he would not have fancied or been grateful for this feminine coddlinig--whichl made both the listening women feel how very "disagreeable" he could be when he chose. "I have had some experience in nursing," said Mrs. Davenport, stifflv. "I hope that I shall not harmn your friend, at least, Mr. St. Julian. Can you tell me, by the way, where Mrs. Lauriston is? Shle, too, has been abroad for some time, I believe." "Mrs, Lauriston is in London," St. Julian answered. "She came abroad, as you are probably aware, for medical treatment, and found the physician whom she liked best in that metropolis. If the doctor thinks that Bertie's injuries are at all serious, I must write to her to-morrowl" le added. "She exacted a promise to that effect from me when I saw her last. But I am detaining you thotl," he said, suddenly, "'and it is very late. I shall see Bertie in the morning; and meanwhile, Mrs. Davenport, tell him anything you please.' "Thanks for the carte-blanche, " said Mrs. Davenport, smiling. Then he shook hands with her, bowed distantly to Miss Rivington and left the room. When he was out in the now sinewhat silent but still bril- liantly-lighted streets, he drew forth a cigar and shrugged his shoulders. "It is easy to see her game," he thought, " and a very nice game it is for'a handsome, motherly lady, with a rich young invalid on her hands and two marriageable daugii- ters, to play. She had better be carefil, however, or that beautiful niece will step in and walk off' with the prize. Slie looks fully equal to it, and Bertie always was a fool about pretty women. By Jovel how his Alvarez furor has ended! But is it ended yet? Thhat is the question." Meanwhile, Mrs. Davenport had also shrugged her shoulders when the door closed on Mr. St. Julian's retreat- ing figure. "The girls are certainly right," she said. "A more dis- agreeable man I never encountered. He can be exceed- ing uncivil, too. Upon my word, his very glance is a' sneer." Alice Rivington laughed a little. "He thinks lie is very cynical," she said, " and lie h:li certainly been very much spoiled. I fancy people in gen- eral are afraid of hinl. Now, I am constitutionally incapa- ble of being afraid of anybody, and I should not object to measuring a lance with Mr. St. Julian." "I cannot say that I admire your taste," her aunt an- swered. "I confess I should only like to measure dis- tances with such a very unpleasant person. How strange what Bertie Lauriston sees in him'!" "My dear aunt, we don't fancy the people who are like, but those who are unlike, us," said Miss Rivington, smil- ing. "'Two forms which differ in order to correspond,' is Coleridge's definition of the word counterparts. No doubt these two natures differ in order to correspond." "They certainly differ," said Mrs. Davenport, dryly. "But it is rather late to be discussing people and their natures just now. I must see if Bertie Lauriston is awake, and you, Alice, had better go to bed." "I am not sleepy," said Alice. "How can one sleep when one thinks of that poor woman's agony?" "How can you sleep every night," said Mrs. Davenport, "when you might know, if you thought of it, that some-   body somewhere-in fact, hundreds of people everywhere -are enduring agony of Very kind in every degree?" "But one has not seen that," said the girl, with a shud- der. She said good-niglt, hl wever, and went to her chamber, where, having exch nged, her silk dress for a robe de cham- bre, she stood erect before the mirror, leaning her white arms, from which the wide cashmere sleeves fell back, on the toilet-table, looking the while intently yet absently at the face which looked as steadfastly back at her from the shadowy depths. She was not thinking how beautiful a face it was, nor yet how hard a face for all its beauty it seemed just then, but she had fallen into a reverie as she combed out her hair, and it always helped her teflections to look in the glass, as it very often helps men's reflections to smoke tobacco. "I am twenty-five," she was thinking. "Twenty-five! If I were a man, that would mean that I am young; since I ain a woman, it means that I am old. It also means that I have deferred the evil day as long as possible, but that it has come at last. I must lnarry. And since I must marry-since with all my beauty, all my brains, all my many gifts, the world does not offler me one single path which I can clioose in preference to tliis-why sliould I wait longer? Here is this prize to. gain which Amy and Belle are ready to make any sacrifice-tilis handsome, com- monplace young millionaire-lwhy should I not marry him?  What do r gain by waiting? I can scarcely hope for a more brilliant matcfh, and I sliould be mad indeed if at my time of life, and with my knowledge of the world, I hoped to find a man whom I can love in a man w1iho  I can marry.  The two things are incompatible. Tlhe man we love is the man we cannot marry. The man we nmust marry is the man we can never love. O   God, help women!" she said, suddenly, and with an accent of inde- scribable bitterness. "God hlelp them in a world which   does not give to the best of them one single avenue of es- cape from this degradation. Oh, the vileness of it, the vileness of it I Am I better or worse than others because I feel it so? Is it because I am stronger or weaker that I rebel where other subnit? Is it because I know that I have powers which might aid a great man to climb to finme, but which will sink utterly, or else consume me witl the fever of their secret strength, whllen I am tied for life to some com- monplace creature born to live and die in mediocrity? Why do I think of these things?" she went on, impatiently. "'Could anything be more utterly useless, more utterly hopeless? I am beautiful, I am well born, I am cursed with a love for the things which only wealth can give, and I am poor; hence nmy path is clear. I must marry a rich man; and since this Bertie Lauriston is here at hand, I will marry him!   How incomprehensibly fortune is given in this world!" she added, with a slight weary sigh. "Now, why is not lie the poor man, and the other-the man with the eyes and brow of a poet-the one who is rich? I almost think that if this were so, I might fall in love with him. I could be able to atnbrd such an expen- sive luxury as the grande passion in that case." She said the last words with a smile whcll made her face seem harder-one might almost have said more bit- terly cynical-than before. Then taking hier hair in both hands, she was twisting it into a heavy coil in preparation for the comb lying before her on the marble table, when in voice speaking in a low tone near her door made her start. Almost unconsciously she crossed the floor and opened it, thus, to his great surprise, facing St. Julian, who was advancing down the corridor with a servant. "aiss Rivington!" he said. "Are you1 still up?". "What is the matter?" she asked. "What has brought you back?" "I hlave come for Bertie," he answered. "Madame Al- varez is dying, and lhas sent for him."   "WH'Y DID YOU NOT SAVE MY MOTItHEE.'   CHAPTER V. BERTIE'S TRUST. ' MADAME ALVAREZ is dying, and has sent for him! Rt Would be hard to say whether Alice Rivington was :- more shocked or amazed at this information-shocked to  hear that thie great actress was indeed dying, amazed to , ..hear that Bertie Lauriston had been summoned to her bed- 'side. But-but he is not able to g " she said, as soon as she - could speak at all. "The doctr insisted--left positive : orders-that he must be kept quit."   "Able or not, he must go," St. Julian answered. "I will take the responsibility of disobeying the doctor. I am sorry to have disturbed you, Miss Rivington," he added. "I loped to get him off without waking any of your party. I have brought his own servant with me." "You did not disturb me," she answered. "I have not been asleep. I am sorry to hear such terrible news of Madame Alvarez, and I am sorry that Mr. Lauriston should be forced to exert himself; but if it must be, of course you have no alternative but to rouse him. Do you need anything? Can I be of use in any way?" "In no way whatever," he answered, a little curtly. "As I mentioned, I have Bertie's own servant. Thanks for the offer, however; and now, if you will excuse me-" "Pray do not let me detain you," she answered, quietly He bowed, and at once passed quickly on. She re-   mained standing in the shade of the door, watching him until he entered Bertie's chamber, which was not far off. Then she stepped back and smiled a little. "He is insufferable," she said. "Rich or poor, I think I shall have'to teach him better than to treat me like this." When Bertie waked with a start out of that deep sleep into which opium had thrown him, and found St. Julian standing by his bedside lamp in hand, he was naturally not a little surprised. "What is the matter?" he cried, springing up in that half-startled way common to those who -are roused unex- pectedly out of sleep, but almost instantly lie sank back again with a sharp cry, for he- had -forgotten'his injured hands and armi. "Take care," said St. Julian, in a tone the very quiet- ness of which was reassuring. "Don't hburt yourself; re- member you are a wounded man. Nothing is the matter except that you are wanted." "Wanted! By whom?" "By Madame Alvarez," said St. Julian, knowing that lie must make short work of his explanation, since there had already been more delay than could possibly have been counted on. "She is very severely burned, Bertie-the doc- tors think dying, in fact-and she has sent for you." "Severely burned- dying!"  repeated Bertie, half stunned. "Why, Mrs. Davenport told me-" "Mrs. Davenport was mistaken," interrupted St. Julian- 'that is, the extent of Madame Alvarez' injuries was not known at first. , They are fatal, however; and when Dr. C-   sent for you by her request, he added that it would be well if you came at once, since she could not possibly survive many hours." "And she-she wishes to see me?" "Yes. Are you ready to come at once? It is hard on you, I know, but-" "Never mind about me," said Bertie. "Help me to get up and to get dressed. That is all." "I have brought Louis with me." "So much the better." Very little more was said on either side. In fact, Ber- tie's hurried toilette did not occupy many minutes,.,al- though even the little that was done must have cost him a great deal of acute suffering. He uttered no sound, how- ever, until a sudden sharpD cry was forced from his lips when Louis strove to draw the coat-sleeve gently on his right arm. "It won't do," he said. "I can't stand that. Let it go, Louis, and make a sling of some kind for this arm. It- it is terrible!" "Bertie, my poor fellow, I am afraid you are suffering very much," said St. Julian. "Never mind about that," said Bertie. "I'm all ready now, I think. Find my hat and put it on me, Louis. Don't you know I have no hands?" "H can't find any hat, sir," said Louis, after a fruit- less search of a minute or two. "It was left behind at the theatre, I suppose," said Ber- tie. "You have one, haven't you? Well, put it on me. Now, St. Julian, are you ready?" The drive from the hotel to the apartments of Madame Alvarez did not occupy many minutes. Once within those apartments-which t  lhev had entered so differently a few hours before--the young men were received bv one of the most eminent of the medical faculty of Paris. "I regret very much to have summoned you at such an hour, monsieur," he said, with a compassionate glance at Bertie's pale face and bandaged hands, "but I had no alternative. As soon as Madame Alvarez learned that her injuries were fatal, she desired that you might be called to her, and in the intervals of suffering she has asked in- cessantly for you." ("Can I go to her, then, at once?" asked Bertie. "Yes, at once," the physician answered. As he spoke, he touched. a bell near his hand; and when a servant an- swered it, he sent a message to the maid of Madame AI *  1 varez. In a few minutes the latter, a pretty Frenchwoman, i who had wept herself almost ugly, entered the room.  Madame would see Mr. Lauriston at once, she said. So  t 4   Bertie found himself following her through the spacious empty salons into that charming boudoir where the beauti- ful actress had received him so graciously a little time be. fore, where Godfrey Lauriston's portrait had startled him . and where she had listened to his story of the inheritance which was, and yet might not be, his. Instinctively, Bertie's foot stopped here-half from awe, half from a cowardly fear of facing what lay beyond, since he knew that the curtained doorway before him must lead to the chamber of torture where the life lately so brilliant, so fiull of genius and of richest promise, was drawing to its close. He did not pause long, however. The maid held back the drapery with one hand, saying, "Entrez, mon- sieur;" and he had no alternative but to pass within. It is doubtful whether the scene on which lie entered ever faded from Lauriston's memory. It was not half so ghastly a scene as he had feared or fancied that he might see, but none the less was it one which le never forgot. Many lights were bup'ning-indeed, the room was more brilliantly illurninated than those through which he had passed-and the effect was more dazzling because this radi- ance was given back on every side by mirrors, which were even more numerous than is usual in French apartments. As one remembers the details of a vivid picture, Bertie afterward remnenibered the whole aspect of the room-the spacious windows, With their silken hangings, the toilet- table glittering with cut-crystal and white-and-gold, a wardrobe door half open, showing a flow of bright rai- mnent within, a deep easy-chair, before which lay a pair of dainty slippers, and as the centre of all this bright lux- ury, a richly-carved bedstead, on which lay a swathed and moaning wreck of womianhood-she for whose loveli- ness and grace this had seemed but yesterday a fitting shrine. On one side of the bed a tall woman, evidently a  professional nurse, was standing. On the other, a slight, dark figure was half kneeling, half crouching, shaken now  and then by stormy sobs.               .. Again Bertie paused. He could scarcely think that he had indeed been summoned to anything so solemn and so terrible as this. But as he paused, a voice-weak and faint, yet the same which a few hours before had thrilled to the farthest corner of a crowded theatre-bade him ad- vance. The next moment he was standing by the bedside, looking into the dark eyes which alone remained of all the magic beauty over which Paris had raved. "Mon ami," said the actress, faintly-and despite the sharp tension of agony heroically repressed, there was much of sweetness still in those failing tones-" you risked your life to save mine. Although I amrn dying, you must believe that I thank you for your generous efforts as much as if they had availed to save me. But I grieve to see that  you hlave suffered, as I feared you must have done." She looked at the bandaged hands and the coat hanging; loosely over the burned arm with a glance that went to  Bertie's heart. It touched him inexpressibly that in the ] midst of her own great anguish she should think of him  and yet he felt almost indignant that his " paltry injuries "  (so he termed them to himself) should be obtruded at such  a time.  "Madame," he said, in a voice that was almost choked ; "do not, I beseech you, waste a thought on me. Do not think that I suffer because my hands were a little scorched  by the cruel flames that have killed youl Ah, would to Heaven," cried he, in a tone which bore its own warrant of sincerity, "that I had suffered indeed, so that you might lhave been spared!" "Be satisfied," she said, gently. "You did your best. But for you, they tell me that I should not have had even these few hours of life; and I am very grateful for them- so grateful that I would have'done much and suffered  much to gain them. And yet, my friend, I cannot even touch vour hand to thank you for this."     ,  "Your eyes thank me, madame," said Bertie, simply, "and that is enough."                : "Not nearly enough," she answered, "but I have one here who will thank you for me. Carmensita," she added, i-- in her liquid Spanish accent, "look up, my infant, and e  the brave man who gave thy mother time in which to blr! thee once more."   At the words "thy mother," Bertie -looked in the direc- tion of her glance, expecting, instinctively, to see a child. Instead, the bowed figure which he had noticed on his first entrance raised its head, and he saw a girl with a pale, tear-stained, grief-drawn face, who looked at him out of wistful, passionate, imploring eyes. f  "Monsieur," she said, brokenly, "I-ah,- I ahm very ; grateful to you; but if you were there, why did ybu not save my mother?" "Mademoiselle, I did all that I could," said poor Bertie, humbly. "Heaven knows I would have been ready-to save her, at any cost." "Look at him, my Carmen," said(the faint voice of the actress, " and thou wilt see wheterr not he was redy- whether he will not pay dearly yet for these hours of life he has given me." "Ah, I can only look at thee, my mother, my darling, my best-beloved!" cried the girl, with a burst of such pas- fiionate grief that it made Bertie turn away shuddering and sick at heart. ( I can only think of thee-of thy life, which had grown so bright and glorious, cut short like this -of my own desolate, broken heart I Mamma, mamma!" she cried, with a wail than which Rachel's could not have been more piteous and bitter when she wept for the chil- dren who "were not," "how can I live without thee'I Ah, my only blessing, tell me to come with thee, and I will-I will I Anything is better than being left here alone 1" "I shall not leave you alone, my Carmen," said the mother, with a thrill of pathos in her words more tender and more deep than even the, girl's wild passion. "But even if this were so, have the ghod nuns taught thee so lit- tle, my infant, that thou dost not think of the Father who is left thee even after thy mother is gone?" "I can only think of thee," repeated the girl again. "When thou art taken from me, I shall have nothing- nothing!" "Hast thou not a Mother who stood by the cross of her Son, my child?" "But she is in heaven," said the passionate voice, " and I want my mother upon earth." I "Thy mother upon earth thou canst not have, my poor little one," said the dying woman, with a quiver of anguish in her tone. "But I die in peace, Carmen, in so far that I do not leave thee unprotected, if alone. Thou hast a kinsman who, I am sure, will not prove less noble and generous to thee than he hlas been to thy mother." "I a kinsman I Ah, my mother, thou knowest that, in all. the world, I have no one but thee!" "Nay," said Madame Alvarez, gravely "I, too, thought so too, but I thank Heaven that I have learned the truth in time to save thee from such a life as mine. Carmen, my own, look up again at the man who strove to save thy mother, and thou wilt see this kinsman-one of thy own father's name and blood l" As the girl looked up, amazed at the words, awe-stricken - by the tone, Bertie Lauriston looked at the dying woman, whose solemn, pathetic eyes were turned, not on her daugh- ter, but on himn. She thought that he would have been as- tonished, perhaps incredulous, at the announcement she 'had made; but abrupt though it was, he scarcely started. Somehow he knew now that he had expected this all the time. "Madame," he said, as gravely as herself, " was Godfrey Lauriston your husband?" "He was my husband," she answered; " and this"-she looked at the bowed head which she could not touch-" is bis only child!" "And heir," added Bertie, quietly. But at those words the dark eyes of the actress gave a alight flash. "We will speak of that," she. said. "Carmen, send every one-every one, dost thou hear?-from the room, and do thou, my infant, go into the boudoir. I must speak with M. Lauriston alone for a few minutes."       \ The girl at once obeyed. :A few low words sent the nurse and the maid from the room; then she herself  i glided without any demur into the boudoir, the heavy cur- tain dropping noiselessly after her.   Then Madamind Alvarez beckoned Bertie to come closer, for her voice was very faint; and bending down, he saw that there was an almost feverish eagerness in her manner and eves. "Mon ami," she said, "I have not much time in which to speak, for I know by the cessation of agony, and by t-he numbness and faintness which has come over me, that the end is drawing very near; and I must save sufficient breath to make my confession when the good priest for whom I have sent comes to reconcile me to God; but still there is somethinc, which I must say to you. Do not in- terrupt me, but listen. I am the widow of that Godfrey Lauriston whose story you told to me yesterday; and if I did not acknowledge the fact to you then-a fact which is my highest honor, and which I have never for one moment desired to conceal-it was only [in ause you spoke of an inheritance which had come to you from your father, yetwhich Godfrey Lauriston's heirs, if living, might claim. Now, as I told you, it did not seem to me right that you should be forcedl to resign this, and for myself, I should never have accepted, far less have claimed, it. If I hes- itated a little while you spoke-if I gave you any hope of finding Godfrey Lauriston's heirs-it was only because I doubted whether or not I had a right to refuse the inher- itance for Carmen as well as for myself. But after you were gone, a little reflection assured me that I did possess this right, inasmuch as her father lhad never claimed the fortune for her, although she was growing into womanhood when he'died." "But no doubt he thought himself disinherited," said Bertie, quickly. "Pardon me, madame, but hlow could he know of his fither's will? And even if he had known, he had no right to debar his child from the inheritance which he did not choose to enjoy himself." "He had more right to do this than I should have had to claitm what lie resigned, and wrest from you that which you have held since your birth," she answered. "Therefore I decided to be silent. I should have been glad to claim you as a kinsman, for my heart warmed toward you from the first; but I saw plainly that you would insist upon re- signing your inheritance if you knew where to turn for Godfrey's heirs, so I had no alternative but to leave you in ignorance. Since I had ben successful on the stage, money flowed in upon me lavishy, and I did not think that Carmen could need the heritage of her father while my name was sufficient to fill theatres to overflowing. Ah, my friend, pity me, pity me!" she cried here. "That was only a few lhours ago; and now-look at me now! Has God struck me down because I trusted so arrogantly to my own power? I know not. I only know that I thought far more of her, the child, than of myself. I wished to shield her, to guard her, to hedge her about with love, to smooth her path from the bitter thorns of poverty. Yet see-ah, my God, only see!" "Madame," said Bertie, scarcely conscious what he said, caring only to soothe the dying woman's anguish, "can you not trust me to do a little of this? I swear to you, by the God who keeps a stern account of all such oaths, that from to-night this girl--your child, madame, and my cousin, besides-shall be to me as a dear and tenderly- guarded sister. I can never give her-no one on earth can ever again give her-such love as yours; but all that watchful care can do to make her happy and to shield her from pain I .will do, on my faith as a Christian and my honor as a gentleman." She looked at hint with a gratitude that he never forgot shining in the eyes where the flickering spark of life seemed to have concentrated all its power as in a last stronghold. "' I know that you are brave and I feel that you are true," she said; " but you are young-too young to do all this." "I am  not very young," said Bertie, gravely, "but you need not fear that Carmen will Snot have better pro- tection than I can give. MY mother is living, and will gladly take her under her care when she knows who she is. Besides," smiling a little gravely, "in America at least. madame, the heiress of Lauriston will never lack friends.' "The heiress of Lauriston!" repeated Madame Alva-   rez, quickly. "But that is what she must never be. Have I not told you so yet? Nay, do not answer nor argue with me. Remember that I am a dying woman and that she is my child, my one lonely lamb, whom I leave behind in a cold world. Do you think I would do or say anything to harm her if it would give me admittance into paradise the moment my soul had left the body? My friend, I am selfish, as all mothers are, and I think less of you than of my darling, when I charge you not to resign this inheritance to- her. She must not have it. The weight would be too heavy for those tender shoulders, which have yet to bear the lightest burden." "Madame," said Bertie, turning pale, "I do not under- stand you. It iJ impossible. You cannot mean to request or desire that I should be dishonorable enough to retain your daughter's inheritance. Rather let me promise you that I will be the first to secure to her the last farthing of her legal rights." "But it is these rights which she must not have, of which she knows nothing now, of which she need never know anything," said the actress, with an almost passionate earnestness. "My friend, I am speaking more seriously than any one in the world ever spoke to, you before, for I am a dying woman, and it is my child's future life that I place in your hands. You see how entirely I trust you; but Heaven guides mothers' instincts, and I do not think I am wrong. You have already promised to take her as your sister. That is all that I ask of you. Care for her now as you would for your own sister, remem- bering always that she is Godfrey Lauriston's child; and when she comes of age, settle a small portion upon her- not enough to embarrass her with cares or to attract for- tune-hunters around her, but enough to render her inde- pendent of the world, as every woman should be, and as I never was. This, and this alone, I charge upon you, by your faith as a Christian and your honor as a gentleman." "But this cannot be," said Bertie, more shaken and agitated than ever. "You honor me with a trust so great that it overpowers me. I cannot consent to this. Let me implore you to suffer me to call in your daughter, your physician, your priest, if he is here, and in their pres- ence declare yourself the wife of Godfrey Lauriston. Think for a moment, mame. How shall I have any warrant for assuming the guardianship of your daughter unless you do this?" "There will be no one to dispute it," said she. "The daughter of a dead actress will not be rich in friends. I will speak to Carmen-the rest is useless. If you desire proof that I was the wife of Godfrey Lauriston," she added, "it can easily be found in the marriage records of 18-. He bore habitually the name of Wyverne--prin- cipally, I think, to sever all connection with his former life and his former friends; but he made no\ mystery of his own to those who knew him well, and it was under it that he was married." "I never meant to ask for any proof of your assertion," said Bertie, quickly. "I was thinking only of your daugh- ter when I objected to the unlimited power over her future life which you place in mr, hands. Madame, you should not trust me so; I may be '(he worst of villains for aught   you know to the contrary,:' cried lie, almost, vehemently. But he was startled by the faint, shadowy suggestion of a smile whichhllame over her face. "LMon amii," she said, mole faintly thani she had spoken yet, " when a woman has been tossed about the world as ' have been for nearly half a century, she learns to know 9 villain when she sees him. I trust you." She uttered the last words clearly, but so feebly that s quick fear lest the flickering taper should be about to gc out came over Bertie, hushing all further words of pro. test on his lip, and making his heart beat withl a great^ sickening throb. "Madame," he cried, horror-stricken by the look of un- seelming blankness which began to steal into her eyes, "da you--do you see me?" "Yes, I see you," she answered, faintly, "but why is it growing so dark? Did I not tell them to light all the lamps? Have any of them gone out?" "None," lie answered, with a sharp pang, for he knew well the neaning of this demand-lie knew how often the  last word of those who go down into the great darkness is for more light. Then lie rose to his feet, recognizing that tlhere was no time to lose. "Madame," he said, "I will call your daughter."  "Not my daughter," she whispered-" the priest. Surely he has come." He had come. Bertie met him in the doorway. as'lhe was leaving the room, and a word was enough to make him hasten at once to the bedside of the dying woman. In the boudoir beyond, Bertie found Carmen, standing before the low mantel with her arms crossed thereon and her head bowed upon them. She did not lift her face nor utter a word, and he passed by as silently, his head bowed as we bow it in the presence of a grief so mighty that it may almost be reckoned otin of God's sacraments, the mute pathos of her attitude tpuched him more than even her passionate anguish had 'done, and after he left the room, he could not forget the rigid and most piteous im- mobility of the young figure, drooping under the stern weight of the sorrow wlhichl often crushes stronger shoul- ders to the earth. St. Julian, who had grown weary, though not impatient, . with waiting, started suddenly when he looked up and saw Lauriston standing before him, pale as a ghost and trem- i bling in every limb. "Bertie," he cried, springing up, more alarmed than he would have cared to acknowledge, " for Heaven's sake, my dear fellow, what is the matter? On myv word, you look horribly. Don't you think you have had almost too much of this?" "H am   afraid I have," answered Bertie, faintly. Then he put out his left hand as if to grasp a support;  and when St. Julian caught him, lie looked up vaguely. "Madame A lvarez is dying," he said, "and I think I aiti going to faint, like a sick girl." He uttered the last words contemptuously, but a minute later he had fulfilled his own prediction. When the birds were beginning to carol their- first nmatin song among the trees of the Tuileries, Madame Alvarez died.         : '?^   'OH, BERTIE, YOU WILL BREAK MY HEART."   "THAT is all very true, mother," said Bertie, wearily; "but if the thing is right, it must be done." - "If it is right," said Mrs. Lauriston, "but oh, my dear boy, you are taking so much for granted; you are crediting  .o: much on the mere assertion of a woman-an actress- :. to whom you foolishy told the story of Archibald Lauris- ton's will, and who thought that it would be a good way o of providing for her daughter if she claimed on her death- - bed to be Godfrey Lauriston's widow. For my part," pur- sued the lady, decidedly, "I have not an idea that God- frey Lauriston ever was married-to her or to anybody else." Bertie sighed still more wearily. They had been over this ground so often during the last week-his mother and himself-that everything connected with it had come to be unutterably distasteful to him. He had so clearly made Up his own mind to the sacrifice which was demanded of  him that he was unable to conceive why his mother could not make up hers as well. "It is so plain," he said to : her again and again. "An honest man can do only one  thing." But in this view of the matter Mrs. Lauriston : utterly declined to coincide. "You are mad," she would reply. If there is any legal claim, let it be carried into an American court of law, and let us see if there is a jury   in the State that will take Lauriston from you to give it to the daughter of a Spanish actress." For the fiftieth time, per- haps, she repeated this now, and Bertie answered it as he had answered it'often before: "But that actress was the wife of Godfrey Lauriston." "You have no proof of it beyond her word," said Mrs. Lauriston, vehemently. "Pardon me," her son answered, gravely, "but I have proof of it beyond her word. For some reason-probably to baffle any inquiries which might be made for him- Godfrey Lauriston bore usually an assumed name, but he was married under his own. Everything relating to birth, death and marriage in France is susceptible of proof, and St. Julian, who has undergone the trouble of looking into the matter, says that both the civil and religious records bear his own name in full, together with those of his parents, and the place and date of his birth. There is no doubt of the marriage, mother; and the sooner you resign yourself to accept the inevitable, the better. Everything is so clear that it would be indisputable evidence even in an American court of law." "Let it be taken there, then," said Mrs. Lauriston, almost fiercely. "We are the Lauristons, and possession -the possession of two generations-cannot, I am sure, be set aside. Oh, Bertie, oh, my son, do not give up the inheritance of your father without a struggle! Ahl, if I were a man," she cried, passionately, "I would fight for it to the last gasp!" "Fight whom, mother?" asked Bertie, with a chord of pain in his voice. "A desolate girl, who, so far fromn claiming her rights, does not even know of their exists   ence? There would be scant fighting needed. Only a little silence, a little deception, a little holding fast to what is not rightfully ourn own, and thie work would be done. Carmen Wyverne is as ignorant to-day as I was a month ago that she is the sole heiress of 7Eauriston." "Then let her reniain in ignorance," said his mother, eagerly. "Oh, Bertie. my darlin  bovy, do. not look at me like that! Only listen to me patientlv for one minute-- only let me explain what I mean. She is a mere girl, you say. Then why should you think it necessary to burden her with responsibilities which her father resigned, and which are ftr too great for any woman to bear? Acknow- ledge her as your cousin, if you desire to do so, and either leave her to be educated in the convent where her mother placed her, or, if you prefer it, let her accompany us when we return to America. I will undertake to care for her, train her, and bring her otlt in society with every advan- tage which I could give to my own daughter. Then, whether she marries or whether she remains single, settle on her such a portion as you would have given your own sister. Surely this is better than the quixotic sacrifice vhiich you propose to make. Surely this is all that any jne could expect of you." "It is certainly a convenient form of compromise, mother," said Bertie, in rather a hard tone. "So far as I can see, it is only open to one objection, but that, I confess, appears to me insurmountable. It is dis- honest." "Bertie "' "Why should we hesitate over plain terms?" he asked, almost sternly. "I have not told you, what is none the less true, that Madame Alvarez proposed exactly the same thiing to me, but I, for my part, cannot see that either you, or she, or I, have any right to assume the place of Provi- dence in allotting to Carmen just that degree of prosperity which will be best for her. If she is a girl now, she will not always be one. Some day she will be a woman-she may marry, and she may have children. Mother, if so, how could I look them in the face?" "You are a Lauriston: your right is as good as hers," she said, with a vehemence that seemed as if it strove to convince itself. "Yes, I am a Lauriston," he answered, "and with the Lauristons personal honor Hias always been a distiiguish- ing trait. I have never been particularly remarkable for pride of blood," he added, quietly, " but I should not like to be the first Laulriston who put a stain on the family name for the sake of retaining the fanmily property." "Oh, Bertie, you will break my heart!"Mrs. Lauris- ton cried, with a gasp, and then, poor woman 1 she burst into tears. For some time her sobs were the only sound, in the room. It was nearly dusk, but Bertie, who, although convalescent, had not left his chamber, lay on a low couch within the circle of the flickering firelight, which showed his pale face, and the burned arm still hanging pse- less in its sling. It would never again be the strong right arm which it once had been, the doctors said. Some im. ortant muscle or tendon-pelrhaps more than one-had een shrivelled .away hy the flames which had scorched the sound young flesh almost to the bone; and so far as active strength was concerned, it would always be useless. Bertie, proud from earliest boyhood of his muscular skill, had felt this deeply, though no one had heard him utter a word of complaint. "It might have been a great deal worse," he said to all who condoled with him. Despite this philosophy, however, the blow told severely-all the more because so much besides the strength of his arm had 4 -one from him on that eventful night when he stood by the deathbed of the actress for whom all Paris mourned with the intense yet short-lived grief common to this fitfulf metropolis. All that was most brilliant in intellectual  France had bowed around the bier of the beautiful Span-  iard, and followed her funeral cortege; but although slie had been resting scarcely a week in PNre la Chaise, the t story of her tragic fate had already been swept aside bv y new sensations. Even the burned stage had been refitted,  and the theatre opened again with a new " star." Bertie a Lauriston's crippled arm was perhaps the most tangible 1   1 thing remaining of that short and terrible real tragedy?. t which had been enacted there. AP or Bertie himself, it was scarcely wonderful that so many causes--both physical and mental-operating to- gethier had thrown him into a state of depression strangely foreign to his usual disposition-a weary lassitude which even his mother's tears were unable to dispel. He heari them with a dull sense of pain and annoyance, but what could he say? Only one assulrance would have comforted i her, and that assurance he could not give. She was the I most devoted of mothers, but she lhad been anything save -- a cheerful nurse for hirn during these eight days of pain.. Wr hen she first came to his bedside-sunlmoned from London by a telegram of St. Juilian's-he had relieved his mind by telling her the whole story of Godfrey Lauriston's marriage, and it is safe to say that there had not been a day, nor scarcely an hour, since that he had not found ample cause to regret his own folly in having done so. Yet, poor fellow! he certainly had been the chief sufferer from the folly. In season and out of season, Mrs. Lauris- ton had exerted all her powers of argument and eloquence against the resolution which he l;lhad formed of reiigning the estate to its new and, as yet, unconscious clainmaqnt. But Bertie--suqally the most easily led of mortal men".- now developed a degree of obstinacy which nearly drove her frantic. Her words seemed to fall upon his ears like water poured on-granite. Woman-like, she refused to r. cognize that her cause was hopeless, and she argued and pleaded it with a perseverance which, in itself, might almost have been said to deserve success. But succez never came. Morning, noon and( night Bertie's answer was the same, until she spoke literal truth when she s1aid that it seemed as if her heart would, break over the blank and terrible prospect before her. Lauriston taken firom : them, or, more than taken, tamely resigned to the daulgh.-- ter of a socialist and an actress! Bertie's fortupe and posi- tion gone! The plans and hopes of a lifetime brought to naught!! "Ah, I cannot bear it l" she cried out, suddenly, her voice smiting sharply on the soft, firelit stillness. "Bertie, you had better have killed me than given me such a blow ": as this. I cannot bear it. Foolisih, headstrong, ungrateful ' boy, do you know thlat when wol resign Lauriston in this' absurd fashion, you will leave yourself almost penniless?" "I know it, mother," Bertie answered out of the shadowy corner where lie lay. "But you are provided for-your own fortune is settled on you; and as for me, I am a man. I shall( do very well."  . "And do you think that you will be able to live on the income of my fortune as you have lived on the income of' the great Lauriston estate?" she asked, bitterly. "No," he answered, quickly, and the indignant chord in - his voice almost startled!uer. "You might do me more justice than to imagine for'a moment that I should ever toluch your income. I should not halivedone so if you'had . cheerfully encouraged me to make the sacrifice -of the es- tate; but in the face of your opposition, I should doubly despise myself if I disregarded your advice only to be-, come a burden on you." "Oh, Bertie, oh, my boy, I did not mean that," she cred, overcome with remorse. "I scarcely know what I am  saying; but when I think of yoursurrendering--even with-  out a strutggle-the fortune to which you were born, is it. any wonder that my head and my heart both fail me?" - "They are certainly hardly tried," he said, gently. "I almost wish I could feel as you do, but I cannot. I fear it is true that as a general rule men have stronger sentiments  of personal honor than women."  "Your sense of honor is morbid," said she, quickly. , "Oh1Bertie, if you would only be reasonable-if you wour. only be content with doing what her own mother asked, with giving her the portion that would have come  to her if she had been your sister!"       -  "Hush, mother," he said, a little hoarsely. "Don't ,-- tempt me any further. This matter is between God and 1-.: my own conscience; and although I should De a richer .' man if I listened to you, I am sure that, as far as honor* ^ able principle goes, I should be a ruined man from that  hour."'   .   . .:. ..   y;:: -There was something so grave and authoritative-so : strangely unlike Bertie-in the tone of his voice, that for ; :.'oance Mrs. Lauriston was silenced. She caught her breath ,:. :quickly, as if in pretest, but she said nothing more, and : Tio they were still sitting when there came a soft tap at :i .the door a few minutes later. : i' St. Julian, I suppose," said Bertie, adding, in a louder ,' 'tone, ." Come in." Tile door opened, and a man entered, who, when he crosse' the floor to the flickering circle of firelight, proved indeed to be St. Julian. He nodded pleasantly to Bertie, and after exchanging a iew compliments and inquiries with Mrs. Lauriston, sat down. He was as variable in his appearance as in everything else, this eccentric man, and this evening lie looked unusually handsome, as well as un- usually animated, seeming to bring a breath of the bright outer world with him in his air, as well as in the cluster of violets at his buttonhole. "Are vou not tired of playing invalid like this, Bertie?" he asked. "Do you know I think it would do you good if you plucked up spirit or strength, or whatever it is you need, and ventured out a little? I lhave never seen Paris more charming than it is just now. The Bois was a sight worth seeing this afternoon. I thought of you and wished for you, mon cher, whch is more than you would. have done for me if our positions had been reversed." "Don't be too sure of that," said Bertie, smiling lan- guidly. "I am not so selfishh as you think, St. Julian. We have been comrades too long to forget each other at a moment's notice. Even a misanthrope like you cannot break the chains of habit readily. So you were on the Bois?" he added. "With whom?" 1 "With Duchesnil," answered St. Julian. "He knows , , everybodly in Paris, and is rather an entertaining compan- : ion consequently; but he talks too much. When I have p i parted fromn him, the drum of my ear fairly aches from the i indessant stream of sound which lias been pouring upon it. '.. By the by, he was raving this afternoon over our blonde "?'beauty below stairs. She is a magnificent-looking crea- ture, and her carriage costume to-day was perfect. I con- f.- Xltf I like to see a woman dress well." -- Miss Rivington, I suppose you mean?" said Bertie. "I :, repmember her face as if it belonged to a dream. You , know I saw her first and last on that terrible night; but if I am not very much mistaken, one does not often see such a face, even in a dream. Does Duchesnil know her?" "Not yet, but he is very anxious to enjoy that distinc- tion. As you are aware, however, I am a disobliging man about presenting people. \ He is counting on you for the purpose, I think, and looking anxiously, therefore, for your recovery." , 'How disinterested of him I That accounts, then, for his card and his compliments having come up so frequently of late." "Interested motives are at the bottom of most things in this world," said St. Julian, philosophically. "Here am I, for example, who have come to you in the character of a social visitor, yet in truth I am the envoy of the Davenport 'family, interestedlly bent on inducing Mrs. Lauriston and yourself to walk down stairs and join their party this evening. Whlat do you say, my dear madam?" lie went : on, turning to the lady. " 'Thgi)od people below are very anxious to see you, and I think a little briglit society would help Bertie amazingly." "'St. Julian is at the bottom of the whole thing, mamma," said Bertie. "He hlas been plotting to draw me out of my shell for three days past. I hope you will go- a little bright society will do you good; but I shall frus- trate his kind endeavors by staying where I am." "It is no endeavor of Inine that you will frustrate, mon, :     ni," answered St. Julian, good-naturedly. "I rarely make * endeavors even for you. I was waylaid by Davenport as I was coming up here, and carried into their salon, where ,.Mrs. Davenport begged to know if I did not think you :might be induced to come down to them  this evening .They are quite concerned about you, quite anxious toseeyou, ? quite grieved lest you should injure your health andspirits :with close confinement. ' A little pleasant society would 'do the poor fellow so much good, Mr. St. Julian,' the good   lady said; and I quite agreed with her,. Therefore I con.- sented to become the ambassador for the nonce." "Don't you think you feel well enough to go, Bertie?" asked Mrs. Lauriston, a little anxiously. "I am sure it would cheer Vou a little." "And I am sure it would not," said Bertie, ungrate- fully. "I am in no humor to be 'cheered,' which means having a fuss made over me. I abominate a fuss," said the young man, petulantly. "So do I," said St. Julian, coolly. "Therefore, Master Bertie, I shall not waste any more words on you. I have made up my mind that you must come out of this shell; and if it cannot be managed otherwise, I shall ring for Louis, and between us we will carry you into Mrs. Daven- port's salon." "Try it," said Bertie. "My right arm is not good for much, but I think I could knock a man or two down with my left." "In that case, Mrs. Lauriston," said St. Julian, "had you not better let me conduct you down stairs? I will re- turn for this belligerent invalid." "But if Bertie does not mean to come," said Mrs. Lauris- ton, hesitatingly. "Bertie. is going to come, my dear madame. I pledge you my word for that." "Go, mamma.," said Bertie. "I have a novel of Balzac's here which I shall read while vot are away. It sets one up in the world'with such a stock of pleasant, healthful philosophy. When I have sufficiently cultivated this branch of literature, I may blossom forth into a second St. Julian. Who knows?" "No one, certainly," said St. Julian, dryly. "And therefore Mrs. Lauriston will not think of thwarting such an honorable ambition by her presence, I am sure." Mrs. Lauriston looked doubtfuil. She evidently felt it her duty to stay with Bertie, as a model mothler, and "cheer" his solitude; but the strictest sense of duty could not disguise the fact that it was very dull in this invalid chamber, and that the prospect of brightness and pleasant society to be found in the Davenport apartments was cer- tainly alluring. The matter ended, as might-have been expected, in her allowing St. Julian to escort her down to the apartments in question, at the door of which, considerably to her sur-  prise, he left her. "I am going back for Bertie," he said ; and before Mrs. Lauriston could say that she really did not think it at all worth while to attempt to change Bertie's resolution, he was gone. She consoled herself by giving the Davenports no hope whatever of seeing the interesting young invalid. "Mr. St. Julian has gone back for him," she said, "but it is really quite useless. Bertie is terribly obstinate. I do not know what has come over him of late." And then she shook her head with an air that suggested fearful things concerning Bertie's change of disposition. So the group of expectant ladies who had resigned themselves to disappointment, and said a great many civil things-which, as it chanced, for once in a way, were also sincere things-concerning their regret at Mr. Lauriston's absence, were very agreeably surprised when the salon door opened after a while, and Bertie himself, escorted by St. Julian, walked in. They were so much surprised that for a minute thlev almost forgot to be pleased. Then they greeted the young man with a .rush of welcome which quite atoned for the first involuntary pause. After all, Bertie found that a "fuis" was not by any means so disagreeable as he had fancied, especially when it was made by pretty women who, witli all their cordiality, had too much tact to be effusive. They -could not shake hands with him, for his own were too tender vet for that amusement, but they gathered round him with their bright eyes and sweet tones; and although he felt a little uncomfortable concerning the incense- of hero-worship which they were obviously tendering him, he could not but own that even this was a pleasant ex- change for his sofa and Balzac. It was only after the first stir of congratulation and inquiry had a little subsided, after he had been established in a charming chair, which Miss Belle wheeled near the ,   fire for him with her own fair hands, after the lights had ceased to dazzle and the voices to confuse him-after he had even found time to notice how unusually pretty the girls were looking in their fresh Paris dresses-that he glanced round the salon as if le were searching for some face which he had not yet seen. "Are you looking for papa?" asked Amy, who was hov- ering near, like a ministering angel. "I am so sorry that he is not here, but we hardly hoped to see you; and since he came abroad, he has become so very dissipated that an evening at home bores him to death. So he went out when he found that we could not be induced to stir even for the opera." "Not even for Patti?" asked Bertie, smiling a little, yet thinking withl a sharp pang of the place where he had seen them last. "Not even for Patti," said Amy, shaking her head with a laugh, her eyes adding, "Not even for Patti, when there was a hope of seeing you." "We have been engaged on such a round-of sight-seeing ever since we came to Paris," said Belle, chiming in, "that we were really glad to be a little quiet, especially since this quietness gave us a hope of beguiling your mother and yourself down to us, Mr. Lauriston." "You are very kind," said Mr. Lauriston, " but I could not feel other than terribly selfish if I thought you staved at home merely for the sake of brightening a dull invalid like myself." "But we are glad to stay," cried Amy. "' If one wants to know how domestic one really is, I tfiink one ought to be exceedingly dissipated for a while. One learns to value home and quiet, and seeing one's friends at one's ease, then." "So your recipe for making a thoroughly domestic 'young lady would be to send her to Paris and surfeit her with gayety?" said Bertie. "I fear it would prove a kill- or-cure practice; don't you thinlk so, Miss Belle?" "I am sure it would never cure anybody who loved gay- ety as well as Amy does," said Miiss Belfle, with lnction. "[ never saw anybody like her. Long after I am liter- ally tired to death, she is ready and anxious to go on. If I gave you an account of all she does ipi one day, Mr. Lauriston, you could hardly credit it." "Don't give it to him, then" said Amy, laughing. "I don't want him frightened so that he will never ac- company us on any of our expeditions. Oh, Mr. Lauris- ton, it was too bad of you to get burned just as we came to Paris!" she cried, pathetically. "As soon as I heard you were here, I counted on you for such a pleasant cicerone; and then-   Oh, pray excuse me," she stam- mered, hastily, as the change that came over his falce re- buked her heedlessness. "I really forgot how it was." "You forget everything, Amy," said Belle, severely. ' Mr. Laulriston, you would scarcely believe that she met Mr. Wolfe on  the street just before we left home, and absolutely stopped him to inquire how his wife was, after she had been buried three weeks. And we were alwavs suchl friends with the Wolfes, too, hllichl made it the more atrociouls." "You should not tell such things on me, Belle," said poor Amy, flushing. "]But my tongue is very heedless," she went on, looking at Bertie, "so I hope pon will for- give me. It was not because I had:l forgotten that awful scene and your great bravery that I spoke so lighitly. It is because I am bewitched, I think." "Only your tongale, then--not your heart, I am sure," said Bertie, smiling faintly. This check to the conversation gave him an opportu- nity, however, to change tie subject, and make that inquiry for Miss Rivington which had 'trembled on his lip when Amy took it for granted that he was looking  for Mr. Davenport. "I hope your cousin is well?" he said. "Has she gone out also?' "Alice?" answered both the girls at once. "Oh no; she only stepped on the balcony just before you came in." "Where Mr. St. Julian followed her, of course," said Amy.   "For the y are really almost inseparable," added Belle. "Indeed," said Bertie, genllinely astonished. "I-as-St. Julian taken to open flirting?i-he who usually denies any charge of the sort ai-I milght deny highway robbery?" "To tell the truth, it wolld be a strange kind of man who could avoid flirting with Alice," said Belle, confiden- tially. "I cannot understand how she became so-so very fast in her manners, when she was reared in France, where only married women are allowed to flirt, yodu know." "Was she reared in France?" asked Bertie, vaguely conscious of a jealous stirring at his heart, as he thought of the beautifiil, clear-cut- face into which St. Julian was at that moment, no doubt, gazing with his dangerous poet's eyes, while he--Bertie-must needs sit by the fire and talk gossip with a pair of commonplace girls. "Her parents always lived abroad," said Miss Daven- port, with a significant shade of reserve in her tone-a shIade meant to imply that, for some cause not explained, these parents were people only to be mentioned under pro- test to ears polite. "Alice is perfectly familiar with Paris. She took Amy down a narrow street the other day, and showed her a dingy old house where she used to live." "And absolutely said that she was happier there than she is now," said Amy, in a tone which expressed, "Be. lieve it if you can." "Alice is very clever, and inclined to be literary-that is, to like literary people," said Belle. "Therefore I thought from the first that Mr. Et. Julian would exactly suit her. I confess that lie quite overpowers me." "St. Julian is a geniuis," said B1rtie, warmly; but as he spoke, the jealous pain stilrred a little more, for he was per- fectly conscious that he was not even "clever." "So Alice says," remarked Amy. "And yonder they both come now. On parle du soliel et en voici les rayons  They must have found it cool on the balcony, or Alice means to sing." "Does Miss Rivington sing?" asked Bertie. Then against his will-for he was not a little piqued by the neglect of' this fair yren-  e turned his eyes in the direction of tihe balcony. As he did so, St. Julian drew aside the drapery of a long window, through which a woman even more stately and magnificent than he had imagined stepped into the room. Having entered, she, paused for a second, glancing roulnd, as if the blaze of light dazzled-lher, even thoughll she had been overlooking a bril- liant street; and as she paused, Bertie involuntarily uttered an exclamation. "What a superb carriage Miss Rivington has '" he said. "Whoever sees her understands what Tennyson meant by- the phrase 'divinely tall.'" "Alice is horribly tall, I think," said Amy, flushing a- little. "Really, I often feel sorry for her. It is so very inconvenient to be such a giantess." As she spoke, the giantess in question crossed the floor with that grand sweeping step which some tall women posr ses--the step with which we fancy Diana following a stag over the green slopes of Thessaly-and came directly up to Bertie. "How glad I am  to see you, Mr. Lauriston!" she said, frankly and warmly, holding out a white, slender hand, which she drew back, however, when a glance showed her the condition of his; " how glad I am to know that you are recovering from your injuries! . Are you one of the people who don't like sympathy?" she went on, smiling. "I confess that I have scarcely dared to pity the suffering which was so bravely incurred; but I may'be very happy to learn that it is ended, may I not? I hope-I trust- that the worst at least is over with vou." "You are very kind, Miss Rivington,'"Bertie stam- mered.  "Yes, I think the worst is over with me." He felt that he ought to have said something better and more graceful, but in truth, he was wholly overcome by. this gracious sweetness, following so immediately after the  neglect which had piqued him.   CHAPTER VII. UNDER FIRE. ' "BUT you have not told me yet," said Miss Rivington, ' whether or not you object to sympathy." '"Does anybody object to sympathy?" asked Bertie, smiling; " especially when it is offered by you," he would have added but for the many listeningr ea ars around. "Indeed, yes, I have known a great many people whom athiing more exasperated," answered Alice, smiling in turn. "I did not think you would be one of them, how- ever. I fancy they are almost always people who, if not exactly ill-natured, are usually described by their friends  as ' eccentric' or 'cross-graned. " " Like me," said St. Julian, who had also joined the ; group by,this time. "That is what my friends say of me, g.: Miss Rivington, and I prove the truth of the description by abhorring sympathy." ' "Have you any friends, Mr. St. Julian?" asked Miss Rivington, opening her eyes. "I really thought that ; was one of the luxuries of life with which you wholly dispensed." 4'.,'"nind yet you esteem yourself a judge of character," '"sa he, with a slight inflection of good-natured contempt in his voice. "I am a judge of character," she answered, quickly. "I 'have told you that your cynicism and misanthropy are all on the surface, but still I thought you honestin practicing your creed. Now, I cannot fancy Timon transformed into Damon and Pythias." "But as it chances, I am not Timon, nor yet Damon or Pythias," said he. "Cannot one be allowed to be one's self, and not a reproduction of any character, good or bad, who may have lived and died inl history or fiction?" "With all my heart," answered she. "But I submit the question to Mr. Lauriston whether, in being one's self, one ought not also to be consistent?" "And I submit to you, Miss Rivington, whether there would be any spice in life if one was not allowed to be in- consistent?" answered Bertie, laughing. "Why, the mere thought is appalling." "I suppose I may be allowed to suggest," said St. Julian, " that a man cannot well be inconsistent unless he has some decided opinions and principles to contradict. Now I have none." "Oh, Mr. St. Julian!" cried Belle. "No opinions or- or principles 1" Socially speaking, none," answered St. Julian, coolly. "I take it for granted that we are speaking of social mat- ters. Of course," he said, with a shrug, "it is nobody's affair that I have a few rules of taste which I am often compelled to violate. Not to talk of thyself is one of them," he added, dryly.  "I am in fault for your doing that, am I not?" asked  Miss Rivington, smiling. "Let us changre the subject, then, and talk of Mr. Lauriston. He has just been good enough to utter a plea for inconsistency, which I will stake my reputation as a judge of cliaracter-of which I am very proud-that  he has no personal need to do. Mr. St..Julian, 1 appeal to you: is he not unusually con- sistent?" "You should not have asked the question in his pres- ence," answered St. Julian, smiling. "I am so little used to complimenting Bertie, that it may turn his head if he hears me say that he is one of the few--very few-thor- oughly consistent people whom I have ever known." ' St. Julian," cried Bertie, aghast, "H never heard anything as monstrous I Don't believe a word of it, Miss Rivington," he went on, turning to that young lady. "The fellow is absolutely perjuring himself. Why, any- body who knows anything about me knows that I am a perfect weathercock. I scarcely ever think the same thing, or believe the same thing, for a week at a time." :t You are very much of a weathercock in your fancies   and your tastes," said St. Julian. "But we judge a man's consistency by the tenacity with which he adheres to his opinions and principles-those things in which Miss Davenport is shocked to hear that I am wholly lack- ing; and jucdged by that standard, my dear Bertie, Miss Rivington is right. You are unquestionably con- sistent." " What is the good of principles if one does not act up to them?" asked Bertie, flushing. "I cannot see why a man should be entitled to any credit for that. You might as well praise him for not picking locks and cut- ting throats."' "And don't we praise him for that?" asked Miss Riv- ington, smiling. "Don't we all say again and again that 'an honest man is the noblest work of God'? But I beg your pardon for having given the conversation such a per- sonal turn, Mr. Lauriston. Only, when one conceives an, idea about the character of a new acquaintance, one likes to learn whether or not one is right, you know. I see Belle is looking quite shocked at the freedom of my researches." "I have always heard that it is very ill-bred to discuss people's characters before their faces," said Belle. "Well, now," said Miss Rivington, "I should think it was infinitely better than discussing them behind their backs." "Infinitely preferable to the person discussed, cer- tainly," said Bertie, laughng. "What a good thing it would be, to be sure, if we could only bind over our friends to talk of us while we are present, instead of indulging in that amnlsement during olr ablsence!" "Good Heavens!" said St. Julian. "Don't look startled, Miss Davenport. -I ami not going to be prolfane if I can help it. But you cannot expect one to remain cool whiles Bertie enunciates such horrible sentiments. Why, what would become of us if one of the few sources of genuine enjoyment which we possess was rllthlesnsil cut off'? It would make a worse revolution thhan the triumph of the socialists!" "Speaking of socialists," said Amy, "we heard such a romantic story the other dayt about that poor Madame Alvarez--don't you rememter, Belle, Mr. Wayne was telling us?-how she fell in love whlen she was a young, beautifuil girl, at the height of her fame, with one of these socialists-a queer enough idea it was, too, for they wear blouses and smoke pipes all the time, don't they?-and how she left the stage uand married him, and was poor an lE struggling, and had an altogether dreadful time, for I din';p know how long, till He was shot or hanged or somethin jit; Did you ever hear the story, Mr. St. Julian?" "I have heard it," 'answered 'St. Julian. He had his face under perfect control, and he flattered himself that i was about as expressive as a dead wall just then. But Bertie lhad never acquired this enviable power of stolidity, and his change of countenance was so marked at the first sound of Mad-ame Alvarez' name that Alice SRiv- ington's keen glance at once perceived it. She was scarcely surprised-for she had known ever since the night of the accident that there was some tie between Bertie and the actress-but her curiosity was interested, and besides her curiosity, that natural bent for analyzing character and motives which some people possess in extraordinary degree. "Have you ever heard the story, Mr. Lauriston?" she inquired. Yet a moment after she felt almost sorry foi having asked the question, when she met Bertie's eyes- eyes with a look of pain in them, though they were so quiet and grave. "Yes, I have heard it," he answered, as St. Julian had answered before him, and somehow the first tone of his voice-indifferent though he strove to make it-" put an end at once to the discussion. Even Amy felt that she had made another blunder, though it was hard to say how or in what. It was fortunate that just then the door opened, and two or three visitors were announced. Their arrival made a, diversion for which nobody was sorry. Bertie was not "nice" at all since he had been burned, Amy indignantly thought; and she was very glad to welo' instead a   young gentleman with a hay-colored moustaclhe, who was of their own "set" at home, and knew all its gossip- gossip much pleasanter to her than all the topics Paris could fiurnish. Meanwhile, Bertie, having run a gauntlet of congratula- tions, condolences, compliments and inquiries which mnight have tried the patience of even a more amiable man, rose to his feet. "I fear that I am more of an invalid than I supposed," he said to Miss Rivington. "This is rather too muchl for me. I think I better say good-night, and go back to my shell." "This is rather too much for Vou, I have no doubt," said she, with an almost imperceptible glance round the gayly-talking circle. "But need you go back to your shell in consequence? None of these people are friends of mine, so I have no hesitation in asking you to come to the other end of the room and give me your opinion of some prints we bought to-day. Would you like it? Pray say no candidly if you would not." "Is it possible that I would not like it?" said Bertie. "You are very kind. I will say yes candidly if you please." So they moved away, and there was little question but that Alice Rivington-a sorceress of no mean order when she chose to exert her many gifts for that end-made good use of her time for the next hour. Bertie had never be- fore met such a woman-one who dazzled, fascinated and commanded all at once; and it seemed like a pleasant en- chantment to sit, with a portfolio of pictures open on his knee, listening to the stream of graceful talk which she knew how to make so rarely attractive even while it seemed so light, and watching the constant play of ex- pression on the fair face, with its matchless curves and tints, the white forehead, lovely as St. Cecilia's, with the glory of golden hair waving around it, and the "Shining eyeS with antique jewels sit in Parian statue-stone." It was the opening page of the old story-tranquil and charming as such opening pages mostly are-St. Julian thought, watching the progress of affiairs keenly enough from his position on the other side of the room. He had fallen under the tender mercies of a young lady fresh in Paris, and bubbling over with the facile enthusiasm of eighteen about all things whatsoever-the promenades, the drives, the pictures, the churches, the opera, the e; mpress, the fashions and the weather; but while the tide fjof rapture rippled on with many " ohs " and " ahs," he kept l his attention on Bertie with a perseverance which would have surprised that young gentleman had he been aware of it. In truth, St. Julian was seriously disquieted and uneasy. Not with jealousy, as may perhaps be supposed, but with sincere and honest anxiety for his friend. He had seen enough of Alice Rivington during the last eight days to appreciate her power as it deserved, and to also appreciate-for he was a keen observer and clear-headed judge of women, as well as of many other things--her thorough worldliness and uncompromising ambition. "If Bertie falls in love with that woman just as he is about to lose his inheritance," he thought, "there is no really telling what trouble will ensue. She is laying her nets for him now, but she would throw him overboard then as coolly as I would drown a rat. If she were an ordinary kind of woman, it would be no matter, but--confound her!-she is the farthest in the world from an ordinary woman. Just the woman, indeed, for a boy like Bertie to conceive a hopeless grande passion for. At any cost, the thing must be stopped. I shall carry Bertie off to-night  and lf necessary, I will speak to the fair enchantress ber- self, and tell her the story of Godfrey Lairiston and the actress' daughter who is the heiress of the fortune for which she is angling." Pursuant of this resolution, he rose, and with a careless excuse to the rapturous young lady, who confided to her friends afterward that that Mr. St. Julian was a perfect bear in his manners, crossed the floor to the pleasant nook where Miss Rivington and Bertie were looking over prints at an average of one print every twenty minutes. "Bertie, my dear fellow," he said, "I hope Miss Riv-   ington will excuse me, but I am sure you will never lave strength of mind sufficient to tear yourself away, so I must play the part of doctor and nurse in one, and order you off. It is high time for an invalid to be'saving good-night." "I am not an invalid," said Bertie, petulantly. "Yon know I am not, St. Julian, and I detest the name as much' as the thing." "Your convalescence has been of remarkable rapidity, then," said St. Julian, drylyv. "You were not only too un. well to appear in public when I first proposed ai little go- cial dissipation, but hot much nlore than an hour ago I heard you- proposing to say good-night on this very ground." "I was afraid of being bored then," said Bertie, with charming frankness. "Take my advice, and be afraid of being ill now," re- joined the other. "Seriousl, you ought to go. What db you suppose the doctor will say if he comes to-morrow and finds you with a fever?" "He is about as likely to find me with hydrophobia," said Bertie, impatiently. "Nonsense, St. Julian, don't bother. Miss Rivington has just promised to sing for me, as soon as those people yonder go." "But you can hear me sing at any time," said Miss Riv- ington. "And I am sufficiently unselfish to beg you not to let such an inducement as that detain you, if Mr. St. Julian thinks you ought to go." "St. Julian is absurd," said Bertie, with ill-concealed irritation. "I am as well as-as a horse. Have I taken your place," he added, turning sharply to St. Julian, " that you are so anxious to get rid of me?" a' My dear fellow," answered St. Julian, severely, "I am not sufficiently fortunate to claim or possess any place whatever; but if I had one, and if you had trespassed upon it, you may be sure I should find better means of ejectment than a proposal to send you to bed on account ,of your health." Then De turned and   coolly sauntered toward the piano, indulging himself in a slight shrug as he went. "The young fool!" lie thought. "He is farther gone than I fancied. To think of his imagining that I am jealous of him!" Meanwhile, Bertie looked up in the face of his compan-  ion, half penitently. "Forgive me,"' he said. "I know I should not have spoken so, but I never knew St. Julian do anything like this before." "Perhaps he may be right, after all," said Alice, a quick throb of gratified pride at her heart sending a glow of 'bright color to her cheeks. She, too, thought that-St. . Julian was jealous, or, at least, anxious to dispose of Bertie in order to enjoy her society himself; and since it was the first proof of her power which she had, wrung, from  this impassive man, her elation of triumph, and perhaps, also, something better than triumph, was great. "Perhaps he may be right, after all," she said, again, looking at Bertie with her gem-like eyes. "Perhaps yofu ought to go. In that case I really could not assume the responsibility of letting you remain, especially since I detained  you when you were about to leave an hour. ago." "I am very grateful that you did," said the young man. "What a dreary feeling I should have carrietl away if I  had left then, while now-" He broke off' abruptly. "If youl think I ought to go, I will, how- ever," he added. "After all, I can' see you to-morrow, - can I not?" "Certainly," she answered, frankly. "At any time you please, when I am disengaged. Come down in the morn-, ing, and I will sing for you until you are tired." "Thank   you," said he, with effusion. "I shall cer- tainlv come. But to-night; will you not sing one song for me to-night? I will not be unreasonable enough to ask for more, but you know gourmands often take a morsel to whet the appetite in anticipation of a feast."  "But how if the morsel should assure you that it will be a very indifferent feast?" said she, smiling.  "I have heard you speak," answered Bertie. "'Them.' fore I have no fear of that."        '    ^ . F A.   "T SEEMED LIKE A PLEASANT ENCHANTMENT."   She smiled again, and rising, crossed the room to the ' piano, where St. Julian was standing, turning over some ' sheet-music half absently. Bertie followed, as in duty bfund, not sorry either for an opportunity to make the namende honorable for his late petulance. ," "t 'I am going to be a good boy, St. Julian, and go ;a *to bed as soon as Miss Rivington has given me a suglar- ; plum in the shape of one song," he said. "You ;cannot -;, grudge me that." - . "Children must be bribed, I suppose," said St. Julian. :! . "Let me only hope that Miss Rivington will not make her : song very long." '  "Are my songs ever long?" asked Miss Rivington. "If 1 you have found them so, Mr. St. Julian, it is time that they were curtailed-for you." ItWe will discuss that question to-morrow, said St.  Julian, coolly. "Meanwhile, what shall I have the honor of placing before you?" ' "Nothing there," she answered, with a glance at the pile of music. Then she turned to Bertie. "To-day," ^- she said, "I chanced upon a magazine in which I found a '  ,little poem of Mr. St. Julian's, which pleased me so much t I could not banish it from my memory. You may 1 k4now it, perhaps-it is called 'An Idle Dream,' and has a r;! :feaim which rings in one's ears, and from its rhythm ? .i:; to suggest music. I found an air for it before j logP-whether my own, or a mere recollection of some ; ot r melody, I know not, but you shall hear what you '- ":. Then, before either of the two young men could speak, i :hetouched tne key-board and began binding together i. - -   some soft minor chords into a prelude. It was a minute or two before she uttered her first notes on a low key-a key which precluded all possibility of "showing off" the high range of her voice, but which was the key of all others for a pathetic strain like the one she began to sing. As it clanced, Bertie had never seen the poem, but he was not surprised at its charming and tender grace. He knew well that none of St. Julian's cynicism ever found its way into his art, but that every fragment of verse which came from Iis pen had its own fresh, idyllic beauty, like a draught of clear, pure water springing from the great bosom of Mother Earth. The song in question was short and simple, but quite perfect in its way, and had, as Miss Rivington said, a refrain which seemed made for music. The melody to which she had arranged it was singularlr sweet and very well harmonized-so well that St. Julial;, listening in this, as in everything else, with the ear of a critic, could scarcely credit that the work therein involved had been her own. He could not refrain from expressing this doubt after the song was over, and his thanks had been paid for the compliment she had rendered him. "It is not at all difficult to harmonize song-melody," she answered. '"At least not difficult to any one who has ever studied the science of harmony." "But very few people, outside the ranks of professional musicians ever do study that," said he. "I was reared witliin those ranks," she answeired, quietly. "I was never professional myself, but my father was always. He taught me both thorough-bass and coun- terpoint so well that I think I could stand an examination !t -k   in either to-day. But because I know how to arrange melody, I do not therefore fancy that I am able to com- pose it. On the contrary, I have no doubt but that the strain to which you have listened is a mere echo of the composition of some one else." i"Like the poem," said St. Julian, a little bitterly, " with its mock pathos and passion." "Its real pathos and passion," she said. "You were tot sneering when you wrote that, Mr. St. Julian, and so it has power to touch the heart--even as cold a heart as mine. Only it is so hopeless." "The story of life, either in dreams or out of them, is hopeless," he answered. "But since his song has been sung, I suppose Bertie will be willing to go now. Good- night, Miss Rivington; and believe that I am very grateful for the honor you have done my poor verses." "Good-night, Miss Rivington," said Bertie; "and since this has been St. Julian's song, I am coming to-morrow for mine. The morsel has whetted my appetite as much as I knew it would." Miss Rivington extended her hand to St. Julian; to Bertie she gave a glance so kind and gracious that it quite thrilled him. "I hope that we shall see you both soon again," she said. Then she turned back to the piano; and as they made their other adieux and left the room, they heard her modulating soft chords and harmonies to her- self, as a practiced musician often does in accompaniment to thought. The two friends mounted the staircase in silence, and it was not until they found themselves again in Bertie's room that the latter spoke. "What a charming woman Miss Rivington is!" he said, sinking back to his old place on the couch, while St. Julian sat down opposite. "I know you think that I am always raving about some divinity,"-he went on, smiling, "but you must acknowledge that in this instance even I could scarcely exaggerate. It is not often one meets a woman who unites so many gifts and attractions to such extraordinary personal beauty." "She is very beautiful, and she has plenty of sense-too much for her good, perhaps," answered St. Julian, in his cool fashion; "but for those very reasons, Bertie, she is more dangerous than most women, and I should advise you, of all people, to steer as clear of her as possible." "Advise me!" repeated Bertie, lifting himself up a lit- tle. "And pray may I ask whtat you mean by that? Why should I, of all people, be advised to steer clear of Miss Rivington?" "I should think you might know why without asking," responded St. Julian, quietly. "Alice Rivington is beau- tiful and clever, and amlbitious to the core-a woman who will never marry at all if she cannot marry as brilliantly as she fancies she has a right to do. You are a nian who falls in love at a minute's notice, Bertie, and who, in a week, will be ready to put your heart and your life, and any- thing else you may have convenient, at liher feet. Now, if you mean to remain Mr. Lauriston of Lauriston, I lhave nothing to say against this; go in, and win her byhv all means. I fancy it would not be difficult to do. But if you mean to resign your inheritance, you will be wise if you never see Alice Rivington's face again." He spoke very gravely, but with greater consideration than usual, for he felt 'more sorry than he would have cared to acknowledge for the young fellow who had not yet half realized the extent of the sacrifice hhe was about ts make, and who looked up now half startled, with paling "H-I did not think of that," he said. "It is hard to grow used to a great change at once. I have been Lauris- ton of Lauriston all my life, you know, and I have not been able to realize the other vet." "I am  sure of that, my lear boy," said St. Julian, kindly;" but you will realize it too soon and too bitterly if you singe your wings in the flame of that beautiful light down stairs. Bertie, I don't often give advice, as you know, but I wish to Heaven you would listen to me now, and let this girl alone. She is a dangerous woman for a man in your position to trifle with. I know more of the world and of womew han you do, besides wlhichl, I have   the incomparable advantage of a cool head, and I Wtlyo'i60 that the wider berth you give her, the better." "But you are taking her worldliness and her ambition for granted," said Bertie. "How can you tell whom . she would or would not marry? It is very unjust to believe that every beautiful woman is of necessity mer- cenary. I am not thinking of marrying, myself," he went on, shrugging his shoulders. "You are right in saying that my change of prospects renders it impossible, even if I had a mind that way. But I can surely admire Miss Riving- ton and enjoy her society with as much safety as-as your- self, for example." "But I am not in love with her." "Heavens and earth, man! neither am I." "You will be, then, which amounts to the same thing. When will you learn that you are one of the men who are born predestinate fools of women, Bertie? Now, this Riv- ington girl is one of the women who delight in making fools; and nothing would please her better than to make first a fool and then a slave and finally a ruined man of you. I speak plainly,. you see, which is not my usual cus- tom, since it involves more trouble than I am willing to take for many people; but I made up my mind to-night, when I saw her spreading her toils for you, that I would  make one effort to save you if I could. You were foolish enoigh to think that I was jealous when I came over and interrupted your flirtation. You may think so now, for aught I know. But I have discharged my conscience, and the rest is with yourself. I have told you, and I tell you again most forcibly, that you. cannot too soon begin to avoid this woman. If you see much of her, you will fall in love with her, as certainly as the sun will shine in the heavens to-morrow; and to fall in love with Alice Riving- ton and to resign your inheritance are two incompatible things. I cannot impress that upon you too plainly or strongly." "Are you tempting me to retain the inheritance?"' asked Bertie, hoarsely. "God forbid! I am -only warning you of a danger-. which you may avoid now, but which a few days hence'it. may be too late to avoid." "But why am I tried like this?" asked. Bertie, sharply. "Why are other men spared such contests and sacrifices? Even you, St. Julian-you who preach to me-have no such necessity for murdering all your own prospects and hopes of happiness laid upon yo[." "No, my poor fellow," said St. Julian, almost tenderly. He had risen to his feet a few minutes before this, and now he laid his hand on Bertie's shoulder. "Forgive me if I have preached as one who did not feel," he said. "I only desired to warn you. This pain is great, but it might be' infinitely worse. The sacrifice is hard upon you now, but - it might become even more intolerably bitter than you can , conceive. Bertie, if I could only think that you would heed me!" "Don't, St. Julian, don't!" said Bertie, shrinking awav. ' "I cannot talk any more about it now."  St. Julian's hand dropped, a little sadly. He felt that -,; he had said all that he could say, and that it had proved . almost, if not altogether, useless. He felt instinctively that --. Bertie distrusted him-distrusted the motives and the sin: Ck cerity of his appeal; and this consciousness made him -^ more sad than indignant. "I can do nothing with him, , -? nothing," he thought. "Even such power as I had is at ' an end, since he conceives the absurd idea that I am jeal*  ous of him."   '               ' % It was while the two men were still standing thus that /: Louis came in to see if his master had not returnedi and  was not ready for bed. "Yes, it is quite time you WetL! said St. Julian to Bertie. So he bade him good-night, s took his departure from the room.       *3 He had certainly meant to takei:his departure frobm ilh hotel as well; but as he was passing the door of the I,: venport apartments, he suddenly paused- struck appar: tI ently by a strange thought-and glanced at his watch.; J a : ,i, "It is not so late as I thought," he saiWialf ' j^: "There is time to go in and see how mademoiseflle t look when she hears the true and authenti tory f6 ' Lauriston estate. It is the last chance to ae Beritiet    !ft:'ohe gets him into her hands again under the belief that ';. /he is the owner of Lauriston, he will be bewitched beyond -: all hope of cure." CHAPTER VIII. "EAVE MNE HONOR FREE." WHEN Bertie entered the Davenport salon the next morning, he found it empty. The servant who admitted him told him that Miss Rivington was at home, though the other ladies were out, but he found no sign of her. The windows were open to the bright:sunshine of a spring day-brighter in Paris than anywhere else, it seems; there were violets on the table, and notes and cards; a new song 'was standing open above the gleaming key-board of the piano, a light shawl was thrown across a sofa, the're were ;mose signs of cheerful occupation everywhere which give so pleasant an aspect to an apartment. Empty though it was, it suggested bright faces and the ripple of gay tones,  and Bertie felt his desponding mood lifted away as if by magic when he entered. He even forgot his lost inherit- ance and his useless arm. Tile atmosphere was full of buoyant life, the air which was stirring the sap of dumb trees stirred also his healthy young blood with a thrill of e'0yment; the sunlight which was making the birds sing : asaif, tley would burst their throats made himr uncon- sciouly, nsmile as he had not smiled before for davs. Crotssing the floor to the window, he stood idly watching -.the brilliant street, and a body of troops marchinl past -'atfi-glittering bayonets and martial music. Then wan- :';dering back to the piano, he sat down, and although he could not touch the keys, began to study-for he was not particularly quick at reading score-the notes placed above them. It was while he was engaged in this way that a door at the farther end of the apartment opened, and Miss Rivington entered the room. He was not aware of lher presence until she reached liis side, and in her clear, bell-like voice said, "Good-morning, Mr. Lauriston." Then he started, sprang to his feet, and turning, faced her. "Good-morning, Miss Rivington," he said, bowing. "Pray excuse me, but I did not hear you enter. Surely you must be shod with silence, to steal upon me unawares soi oftly." "Not by any means," she answered, "but you were very much absorbed. Was it in thought or in the m  0aic?" "n neither," her," he answered. "I was only trying to divert my mind and, keep myself from being impatient :tfll you came. I am an impatient person," he added, / 'smiling, "and never good at waiting for anything." - "That is an inconvenient characteristic, is it not, con- sildering that the vast majority of mankind spend their -:lives in waiting for something?" asked Miss Riving- ton. "But perhaps some good fairy presided at your 'birth and made you an exception to the general rule." UI don't know that there was any fairy in the case," he 'anwered, "but certainly I have never had to wait for ainything of importance-yet." He added the last word dikfther a short pause, and in a different tone, for just then a jI th0ught of his changed prospects came over him, and he ::remembered that waiting is, as a general rule, one of the chief occupations of a poor man's life. ;. 'You have never had to wait for anything-yet," re- Ipeated Miss Rivington. "Let us hope, then, that you :ay never n'eed tobegin. That it is 'a far from pleasant amausement I can testify from personal experience, for no "good fairy presided over my-cradle, Mr. Lauriston, to ezxemrpt me from this curse of mortality." '.The fairies who came gave you so much that they could afford to dispense with that," said he, in a tone of sincere eIairnetness. But the beautiful face at which he was looking hardened a little. / All gifts are useless when fortune is denied," she said, :an aivoice which had hardened also. "Do I need to .tell .   you that, Mr. Lauriston? But then I forget fortune was not denied to you." "No," said Bertie, but he said it in a tone which had changed also-suddenly, blankly, wholly changed. It was true enough. Fortune had not been denied to him when he 'was born-lhad been his, indeed, in bolinteouH measure up to this time; but was it not to be denied now? Would it not have been better never to have known it than for it to be wrested from him just when the glory of youth was at its freshest, and manhood's brightest and fairest hopes were quickening at his heart? Hel had shaken off these depressing thoughts when he entered, but they all came thronging back at those last words of Alice Riving- ton's, and he was indulging a vague wonder concerning the fatality which had given the conversation such a turn, whlen her voice broke the pause which had fallen over them: "Will you not come and sit down, Mr. Lauriston, in preference to standing there leaning against the piano in that 'uncomfortable manner'? If I knew what nerves were-which Belle will assure you in a tone of great con- tempt that I do not-I should say that you made me nervous. Are you anxious for me to stop talking and sing at once? Is that why you cling so persistently to the instrumnient?" "Not at all," said Bertie, moving with alacrity to the couch where she was sitting, and where she moved aside her drapery-a blue morning-dress that fitted the beautiful figure as if it had been moulded to it, and enhanced the fairness of her skin and the turquoise ihue of her eyes, until she looked like a lovely incarnation of the morning-to make room for him. "On the contrary, much as I like-to hear you sing, I like still better to hear you talk. You are uttering your own words when you speak, not the words of another; and then your voice is music it- self." "I am afraid you cannot care very much for music, or you would not talk in that manner." "I do not care for it extravagantly, but I trust that I know how to appreciate it when it is good." "Like mine? Pray be obliging enough to give my vanity the benefit of saying so." "Of course I meant it," he said, eagerly. "You do not need for so poor a critic ias I am to tell you what an ex- quisite voice you have, or how-perfectly it is cultivated. One rarely hears such a voice in private life." "Mine was not meant for private life," she said, quietly. "I told you last night that I was reared among professional musicians, but I did not tell you-what is nevertheless true-that I always expected to be one of them. I was in training for my debut'on the lyric stage when my father died, and my uncle came for me." "And you gave up your intention, then?" "Yes. I was young, and my uncle was very kind. I yielded to his wishes, and have been sorry for it ever since." "Whv?" asked Bertie, quickly, too much interested to think of the incivility of these direct questions. "Because I should have been free, independent of every- body and everything, if I had once succeeded, as every competent musician who ever heard my voice declared that I should succeed. Think!" said she, smiling; "instead of singing for ignorant, inappreciative people in society drawing-rooms-people who say, 'What a fine voice MAiss Rivington has I It reminds me of Miss Smith's, who sings in our church choir,' and then ask for 'Under the Daisies'-I should have been singing for the audience whlo will greet Patti to-night-I should have won fame and money, and the power to live always in my beautiful Paris!" "nd you like all these things?' said Bertie, wistfully, A month ago they would all (excepting the fame) have been his to give, or at least to offer, her. BNow he could as soon have plucked down the stars from heaven had she had a fancy to desire those. "Who does not like them?" asked she. "Are any of us so philosophical, so cynical or so devout that we can honestly say we do not desire wealth, or at least the power an d -the freedom which wealth can give? You who were born to it," said she looking at Bertie, "you to whom it 4 , ' s A-.*  ^   llas come like the air you breathe, can never understand whot a magic talisman to all thing.4 it is." "Not to all things, surely," said poor Bertie, on whom every word was telling with a power which even she who weighed them well could but dimly understand. "There are a few things in the world which cannot be bought, Miss Rivingtop. Love is one of them."    I  "Yes,' said she, calmly, "love is one of them. But there is a spurious article which passes current very well in the market, and obtains such ready sale that this fact is really of small importance. You know 'The hearts of old gave hands; But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.'" "In that case," said Bertie, brightening a little, " a poor man would have this incomparable advantage over a rich one-that if a hand was given to him, lie might be sure a heart went with it," "If a hand was given to him," said Miss Rivington. "But how many a poor man has been debarred by his poverty from winning either a heart or a hand whichh might, perhaps-who knows?-have been his if he had only dared to claim it!" "The man is a coward, rich or poor, who does not dare to claim any heart or hand wlhiclh might be his," said Bertie, almost fiercely. "Allow me to suggest, Mr. Lauriston, that you have never been poor," said-Miss Rivington, very coolly. "You are not, therefore, able to appreciate that there are su'ch vulgar needs in the world as food and raiment and shelter. Men, however, who have known wlhat the wolf of pov- erty is, may be excused if they hesitate before asking the woman whom they love to share privation and struggle with them." "But -are women never willing to share these things?" asked Bertie. "Good Heavens, Miss Rivington! do you mean to tell me that women always estimate the length of a man's purse before they think of marrying himn?" "On the contrary, Mr. Lauriston, you will find any number of foolish women who are willing to embrace pov- erty with the man they love-that is the correct phrase, isn't it?-and then, after the honeymoon is over, to make his life miserable with regrets and repining. But do you think you would care a great deal for such love as that? Not much more, I fancy, than a sensible wornman would care for the selfish passion that asked her to share sordid anxieties and cramped desires." "Good Heavens!" said Bertie, again. He was quite aghast. This cold, keen, feminine philosophy was almost worse than St. Julian and St. Julian's unconmpromising advice, he thought. The poor fellow's heart sank down into his very boots. He felt instinctively that the beauti- ful goddess who preached such doctrines would not be likely to cast her sapphire eyes low enough to see him or any love he had to offer after he had stepped from the pedestal on which wealth and position placed him. "You do not know what you are saving, Miss Riving- ton," he said, at last, in a low tone. "'You do not know how mercilessly you close the door of hope in the face of all men to whom the accidental gifts of fortune have not come, or from whom they have been taken away." "I close the door of hope on them!" said Miss Riving- ton, laughing lightly. "But, my friend, I am not a dicta- tor, a lawgiver or a queen. I thought we were merely dis- cussing an abstract question, and I gave you the benefit of my observation and my opinion. That is all." "It was more than an abstract question to me," said Bertie, hastily, carried away by an impulse, as impulses were very apt to carry him away.  Then he looked ap- pealingly into her face. "The question of the disabilities. of poor men interests me," he said, "because I am one of them." "You!" said Miss Rivington, starting. She had held this point in view from the first-had, indeed, led the con- versation up to it with singular adroitness; but now that it came. it startled her not a little. So it was true, after all-not, as she had been half inclined to fancy, merely a jealous manoeuvre of St. Julian's to direct her attention from  Lauriston but so true that. all her hopes, the airy   castles on which she had built so much, were worse ti \ dreams. She was not a woman, however, to surrenders even a losing battle. She girded up herself, as it ere, - with a remembrance of her own power over such impres- sionable material as the man before her, and. looked at him with a dazzling smile in her blue eyes. "In sympathy, perlaps you mean," she said. "I have- heard of rich men who sometimes amused themselves in that way," "I mean that I am a poor man in fact," he answered, quietly-"a poorer man, Miss Rivington, than you can well imagine or I well realize." "Bu t how can this be?" asked she, who knew perfectly well how it could be. "Are you not jesting, Mr. Lauria- ton? You I How can you possibly be a poor man?" "One is not likely to jest on such a subject as this," said poor Bertie, a little ruefully. "No doubt you are sur- prised, Miss Rivington, but everybody will hear the story before long, and H thought I would let you know how much of personal interest I had in all that you said." t"You should not have let me say it without telling me this, if it is true," she said, almost angrily. Whyllv not?" asked he. "Can you not imagine-you, who are evidently so quick at imagining-that I was glad to learn something of the prospect before me-glad to know whether there was any hope of the poverty which I go to meet being cheered by a woman's smile or a woman's love? It is as well to realize, at once that even to dream of such a thing is only selfish passion." "Mr. Lauriston, youl are unjust," said she, gravely. "You have no right to make a particular application of a general remark." "But you made it without reservation," said lie, "and it proved to me that for. once St. Jlulian's cynicism was true worldly wisdom," At the solllnd of St. Julian's name her eyes gave a slight flash. It was as if a new interest carne into them. "Does lie preach such philosophy also?" she asked. "I don't know that he preaches such philosophy in his own person," Bertie answered, " but he holds that it is the philosophy of a great many women-yourself, Miss Rivington, among the number; and you have proved the justice of his opinion by giving me the benefit- of your sentiments, in language as cynical as he could have imag- ined, during the last hour." "And pray when was Mr. St. Julian kind enoughfto canvass my possible or probable sentiments-of which 1 do not remember that I ever gave him the benefit-in this manner?" asked she, haughtily. "Last night," answered Bertie, frankly. "You must not think that he said anything against you," he added,  quickly, fearing lest he might do St. Julian an injury. He was only warning me with a sincerity which I appre \ l ciate now better than I did then. He represented what/! you were likely to think more mildly than you- have ex.- pressed it yourself, when he told me that you were not a . woman whom a poor man could afford to-to know." "In otler words, he was warning you against me?" "Yes, he was warning me against you."     ?, "And may I ask why such a warning was esteemed ":', necessary?"                    ? "Only because he did not wish me to throw aways m  heart without any hope of return," said Bertie, flushing :'  "Pardon me, Miss Rivington, but you asked the quwl$ tion." ' "And therefore cannot complain of the answer whichi :-: have drawn upon myselft;" said she, coldly. -True.: enoughl."                     -- "But you see his warning came too late," said Berfte. - "It mu st be an old story, and perhaps a wearisome storyQ,"  to you, that men should fall in love with you at fAi^t sight," he went on; "so you will not wonder that I did; it.  But Vou may pity me a little in that it has added, and wi(i!  yet add, much additional bitterness to the sacrificey oftofi:c tune wlhich I am compelled to make; and that in resign- ;i my inheritance I must also resign all hope of winnfib you, as otherwise I should at least strive to do." - It was the absolute recklessness of despair-the senS that he could not harm a cause which was already hope*: who^   "'1 CANNTOT DO IT,' HE SAID, 'NOT EVEN FOR YOU."'   p less-that made the. young fellow speak like this. What 'did it matter whether or not he roused-Alice Rivington's anger? At lea st she should know, he thought, and so thin k- ing, looked up without any intention of appeal into her 'face.  The kindness of that face startled him. Tile lips were i  mailing a little, the eves had a certain dewy softness in Aheir earnest regard. Wllen he ceased speaking, she bowed  her golden head slightly, as if in acknowledgment. "Thank you for thinkingso well of me, Mr. Lauriston." she. said, quietly but sweetly. "Of course it is Inot worth while to .discuss what you have said, since we were stran- gers yesterday, and this is something which you may very readily forget to-morrow. Nay," as Bertie was about to interrupt her, "I do not mean to doubt the sincerity of your declaration, but you have spoken on an impllse, and  impulses are generally best forgotten. I cannot be sorry,  however," she went on, quickly, "that yoi have given me :: an opportunity to ask you why you are standing on thle : brink of poverty, why you think it necessary to rob your- self of your inheritance and-and of any hopes of happi- ness which the filturji*ay offer you." Her tone said mo/e than her words. Her eves said w more than her tone. As they looked full at Bertie's, lihe gave agasp.  Was it his own wild fancy, or did they say, ! Wyh do you think it necessary to rob yourself of your inheritance and of me?" (He had thought before that it was hard to resign all hope of winning her, but now the A- conviction went suddenly-home to him like a flash that it :: Wrns not hope only which he woild resign, but herself. In -'a moment he knew that this womnla, would marry him if   he came to her as the master of Lauriston, but in the same moment he felt that St. Julian was right in telling him he had never realized before that he was not the master of Lauriston, nor likely ever to be again. His heart beat as if it would suffocate him, and his throat felt dry and parched, as he strove to answer her, so that it was fully a minute before he spoke. Ir will tell you why," he said, hoarselv. And then he told her the story which of late he Ihad told so often that it began to seem like a horrible nece ssity which had been imposed upon him by the cruelty of fate, as if a man sen- tenced to death should be ordered to execute the sentence on himself. Shle listened with the closest attention-lis- tened as if she were noting every particular in her mind, and seeking perhaps for some discrepancy with the same story already told-but she did not interrupt him  by a single comment or question at any point of the narra- tive. She was even silent for so long after he finished that lie spoke again. "You see there is no help for it," he said, a little wist- fully. "I feel ashamed of regretting thie necessity as I do, but at least I recognize that there is no alternative. The sacrifice must be made, let it cost what it may." 'Must it be made?" she asked.   Her voice was very low, and sweet as that wind of the western sea concerning i which Tennyson wrote, but it thrilled him to the core. Must it be made?" she repeated, gazing at him with eves so perilously lovely that his resolution almost melted like wax exposed to steady flame.  "Do you not think that yon are looking at the matter from  a very generous-a rarely generous-but a very quixotic, point of view?"   "I am looking at it from an honest point of view," said Bertie; and he could not help a certain cadence of hard- ness in his tone, of which he repented the moment after. "Women do not understand these things," he said. "It is a matter of legal right. I have no power to retain Lauriston if I wished ever so much to do so." "But it is yours," said Miss Rivington. "I am a woman, as you say, but I am fully capable of understand- ing the legal question involved, and I am sure that you are wrong to think of surrendering the inheritance which came to you fettered by no condition whatever. Why is not your right to the family property as good-nay, far better-than this foreign actress' daughter of whom you speak? Is not your Lauriston's blood as pure as hers?" she asked, almost haughtily. "Quite as pure," hle ansrwered. "But purity of blood does not give legal right of possession." "I think you are wrong," she said-" nay, I am sure that you are wrong. Mr. Lauriston, does anybody-do any of your friends-advise you to take this step?" "I have spoken to no one but my mother and St. Julian," he said. "She does not advise me to do it. As for St. Julian, he is non-committal, and has offered no opinion of any kind. But I do not need advice," he said, with a sudden light coming into his eyes. "I know what is right, and I must do it." "You think you know what is right," corrected Miss Rivington, " and you- have elevated your own thoughts into standards of action. Mr. Lauriston, this will not do. If no one else will extend a hand to stop you, I must try to do so;" and she did literally extend her hand, and laid it on his arm, where it looked like a fragment of rare mar- ble on the dark coat-sleeve. "We have not known each other very long," she went on, in a tone full of sweetness which was allied almost to tenderness,."blt. I think youl will let me speak to you as one who cares for your inter- est; I hope you will heed me when I beg you not to cast away your inheritance for a vision-an idea-a chimera of honor like this. Ah, if you only knew how terrible a life of poverty and struggle is! Ah, if you only knew what you are throwin, away!"Then she bent a little closer. "Promise me," sihe said, "that vou will not do this. Promise me that you will not resign your position and your fortune." Her eyes were turned in pleading bennty to his face, the light touch of her hand on his arm thrilled it to the bone; as she bent forward, the faint fra rance from her hair rushed over and unnerved him. He felt as if his senses were absolutely reeling under the temptation, for he knew that he had only to say, "I promise," and the bargain between them would be virtually ratified; the woman who pleaded like this for his inheritance would never refiuse to share it with him. There was a minute's pause. What hung on that minute, who can say? Who can estimate the results flowing from our least actions or our lightest decisions? and here the decision was one which would revolutionize two lives at least, and change no one could say how many more.., "Do not tempt me like this," he said, hoarsely, at last. "It is tearing the 'heart out of my breast to say no to you, but I cannot promise not to do what is honest and just." "Can you not do whatever is honest and just-can you not care for this girl as your cousin-without resign- ing your rightful inheritance and ruining your life?" she   asked, her voice taking a tone of deeper earnestness a6d passion. How they all-said the same thing! There seemed to Bert tie a kind of fatality in it. Madame Alvarez herself hiad bidden him care for her daughter "as his sister;"Mrm, Lauriston had proposed such a compromise; and now this enchantress, with her tongue of music and her eyes of be- guilling magic, whispered the same suggestion. After all, were they right, and was he alone wrong? Were they sane, reasonable people, and was he a mad fool? The young man asked these questions half vaguely, but the; answer was as clear and definite now as it had ever been. Lauriston belonged not to him, but to the daughter of Godfrey Lauriston. No sophistry could mistake or dis. guise that fact. He was not one of the people who could juggle or mislead himself into believing anything he liked, this Bertie Lauriston. Nature had not given him what is commonly known as "brilliant parts," but she had given him a certain power of distinguishing truth from error (not in people, but in principles), and a certain ten- acity in adhering to the former, which is worth all the brilliant parts in the world, when we consider that man is infinitely more important as a moral than as al} intellectual being. Just now he was tempted as few men, fortunately for themselves, are tempted, on a point where duty and inclination clash, but he scarcely wavered. He only looked up at Alice Rivington with an infinite wistfulness in his eyes. "I cannot do it," he said-"I cannot, not even for yon. You can never know how hard this is to me. I would give you anything else in the world that I have-God knowsI would!-but I cannot give you my honor  Yon do not feel as I do-you are a woman, and cannot understand; but when I tell you that my honor is at stake, surely yo  would not wish, surely you could not ask me, to forfeit it that I might be rich?" - He spoke with a passionate earnestness impossible to describe-a pleading as if for one word of encouragement, on his thorny road of sacrifice from the lips which had spoken so many to hold him back. But that word did not come. On the contrary, the white hand lightly dropped from the arm it had thrilled, and the lovely lips parted, to smile faintly. "I see that you, like many others of your sex whom I: have known, Mr. Lauriston, are profluse in tendering every. sacrifice save that which is asked of you," she said. ' Per- haps I ought to beg pardon for having ventured to suggest a proper course of action in a matter -so personal to your- self. It was presumptuous, undoubtedly, and my sole ex- cuse is that I have known so well what you have yet to learn-the bitterness and hardships of poverty. Now, Shall I sing a song or two, and try to make you forget this dis- agreeable topic?" "Not now," said Bertie, following her eagerly, as she rose. "Oh, Miss Rivington, pray do not end everything like this! Listen to me for one minute Give me one minute to tell you, to prove to you--" "Hsh!" said she, almost sharply. "Do you not hear a, voice? Some one is coming! And so you havesuch very bad taste that you do not like Schumann?" she said, in a; different tone, reaching the piano, and beginning to turn- , over the music, as the door opened. '      : "We left Alice at home this morning; I do not think she has gone out," said Belle Davenport. "No; here she is, with Mr. Lauriston. Walk in, Mr. St. Julian."   SHE LOOKED A LITTLE SURPRISED AT THE SCENE BEFORE HER."'   CHAPTER IX. THE HEIRESS OF LAURISTON. NOT more than half an hour after St. Julian walked into the Davenport salon, Mrs. Lauriston, who was writing a letter to her brother, detailing with many -woeful excla- mation points the sad story of Bertie's determination to resign his estate, was a little startled by the sudden ap- pearance before her of her son, looking pale and resolute. '"Bertiel"-she said, starting, as she glanced up at liim. My dear boy, what is the matter?" "Nothing is the matter, mother," answered Bertie, sit- /   ting down in the first convenient chair, and looking as a man might who was on the "dead-beat" .point of exhaus- tion. "But I have sent Louis for a carriage, and I want you to put on your bonnet, if you please, and go out In it.' "Go out in it " repeated Mrs. Lauriston, a little blankly. "Go out in it where tand for what? If yogii want anything, Bertie, of course I shall be glad to get it for you, but I assure you I do not care to go out on my own account." "I do want something," said Bertie. "I want you to go to the convent-I -forget the name, but I have it noted down-where Carmen Lauriston is staying, and bring her here. I would do it myself, only you are the more proper person for the purpose; and I hope you will not object ti, going."   "Bring her here " repeated Mrs. Lauriston, aghast. "Gfood Heavens, Bertie; for what?" "to tell her once for all whallt her rights are, and to take her with us when we return to America," he answered, curtlv. "Oh, Ber-" "Not a word, mother," interrupted Bertie, more sternly than he had ever spoken before. "I will not listen to an- other word. I have heard too many already. I have been tempted, and I have listened to the temptation until -God knows-if I do not do this thing immediately, I may not have sufficient strength to do it at all. I have no intention of inflicting anything disagreeable upon you, however," he went on. "If you do not wish to go for the girl, Iwill do so; but one of us must go at once." "I will go," said Mrs. Laurieton, meekly. She was always meek when Bertie took this tone. "I will change my dress and go at once, Bertie. You shall never be able to say that I have given .you trouble. I spoke for your own good, but you did not choose to heed me, and that is an end of the matter. I shall not 'tempt' you any farther." "Thank you," said Bertie, very sincerely. So the matter ended. With the air of a martyr going to the stake, Mrs. Lauriston took her departure when Louis announced the carriage, and St. Julian, coming up a few minutes later, found Bertie standing by an open window looking very disconsolate indeed. "I had the honor of putting madame votre mare into her carriage," he said, smiling, "and she told me where she was going, in a tone that would have suited the announce- ment of your execution, Bertie. I think you are quite right to have sent for Mademoiselle Carmen, but what is the meaning of this about going to America?" "The meaning is that I am going to start to-morrow," answered Bertie. "Why should I not?   Have I the means to be living'here in Paris? You know as well as- I do that I have not. You know that every dollar I spend is a dollar that is no longer my own. You were right in saying last night that I had not yet realized my changed circumstances, St. Julian, but I think I realize them now." "Helped thereto by Miss Rivington," thought St. Ju- lian, with a mental smile, though his voice was grave enough when he added, "It is a good thing that you should realize them, Bertie, but don't run into foolish ex- tremes. Remember that the income of the estate is not only legally yours until you have formally resigned it, but it is rightfully yours as well. You could not know by instinct when you came to Europe that you would find Godfrey Lauriston's heir here. Therefore you are entitled to sufficient means for all your expenditures. By the bye, we are such old friends, you won't mind(, I tm sure, if I ask what your prospects are after you go back 1o America?" Bertie laughed a little-not a very pleasant or cheerful laugh to hear. "It is a pity all questions were not as easily answered," he said. "My prospects are-nothing." "What do you mean to do?" "Heaven knows-I don't." "Have you thought of nothing"? "Of nothing. What can   I think of? With fortune gone, po-ition gone, even this gone"-and he touched  his right arm bitterly-" what is left out of which to  carve a new beginning of life?' I am not eligible as a  coal-heaver." "Don't talk nonsense," said St. Julian, sharply. "You  have had a heavy fall-nobody knows that better than I I do-but the world has not come to an end for you  I yet, Bertie, and you should not feel as if it had." 8 "Hasn't it?" said Bertie. "That is rather a pity than e otherwise; don't you think so? When one considers how ( I shall be cast adrift-as useless and helpless as any log- t one might be pardoned for thinking that the sooner the s world came  to an end, so far as I am concerned, the f better." "This is not like you, Bertie," said St. Julian. "I 1 fancied you would have more pluck even in the face of t 6   a knock-down blow like this. Why, heavens and earth, man, haven't you your brains and your hands and your friends left?" "Have I?' asked Bertie, in a tone of still tiore reck. lesR gloom. "But as you are well enough aware, my ' brains are not brilliant, my hands are those of a useless idler, and my friends were the friends of Mr. Lauriston of Lauriston." "So you are turning cynic," said St. Julian, with a sigl of resignation. "But neither despair nor cynicism suits you at all. Lauriston was a very fine place and a very pleas- ant place while it was yours, but you should not let the loss of it embitter your life." "Do you think it is the loss of Lauriston which embit- ters me?" asked Bertie, with a flush. "Of course it is not agreeable to resign it, but that alone would not prove such hard lines to me. It is my mother's despair, the realization of my own utter incapacity for any kind of labor and-and the conviction that the door of more than one hope has closed in my face for ever, which has un- nerved and made a coward of me like this.9" "I know all about it," said St. Julian. "But I know also' that the sooner you shake off these thoughts, the better for you. Come out for a walk. There never was a brighter day, even in Paris; and if you go no farther than the Tuileries, it will do you good." "I am in no humor for a walk." "All the more reason why you should take one. Come, and perhaps by the time Mademoiselle Carmen arriveo, you will be able to face her with something besides the tragic gloom of Hamlet." "One can afford to laugh at the misfortunes of other people," said Bertie, a little piqued. "By Jove, I never was farther from laughing in my life!" said St. Julian; "though -I think a good laugh would be about the best thing that could happen just now. Seriously, Bertie, I insist upon you coming. After you have been out for a while, you will feel like a differ- ent person." "Any other person would be an improvement," said Bertie,.smiling faintly. He felt too thoroughly indifferent to contest the point any farther, so they set forth. It certainly proved more good natured in St. Julian than people in general would have given himn credit for, to burden himself with such a listless and moody companion as Bertie was that morn- ing. The young fellow seemed full of a reckless despair which even the bright scenes of the bright outer world could not dissipate. That more than half this gloom was attributable to a woman whom   he had scarcely seen until the night before in nowise' lessened its intensity. Such things seem absurd enough. to those who have efo part in them, but to the immediate sufferer they are full of the gravity of fate itself. It was the loss of Alice Rivington more thaa the loss of Lauriston which was weighing upon Bertie. It was the consciousness that in resigning his inheritance lie also resigned all possible hope of winning the fair, proud woman who rated her price at something like a king's ransom which lent so much darkness to his fiture. He said nothing of this to St. Julian, partly because he remembered the conversa- tion of the night before, and disliked (as human nature  will dislike) to justify so completely the opinion which he had then disputed, and partly because he had an in- stinct that St. Julian would judge more severely than he had done of the eager pleading for his inheritance which Alice Rivington had made. The pleading had not re. volted Bertie as it might have revolted some men, for lie was firmly persuaded, in the first place,. that women do  not "understand" a  man's code of honor; and in the second place, like many another of his sex, he was leni- ent to the spirit of words which were whispered by lips of coral and seconded by eyes of azure. He  was ready to forgive almost anything  which came  from. such a source, more especially since it was dictated by thought :: for him.  Now, it may readily be supposed that a man who has :i lost his fortune and his right ariam just as he chances to - have fallen  headlong into a hopeless 9'-unde pauion is l OnI   i not likely to be cheered even by the resplendent bright- ness of Paris on a bright spring day. Go where they would-and they went to many places-do what they would-and they did many things-St. Julian found that Bertie remained so hopelessly wedded to his own gloomy thoughts that as they rose fromn luncheon at their favor- ite caf6-the same cafe where Duchesnil had told them the history of Madame Alvarez--he proposed their return to the h6tel. "You will probably find Mademoiselle Carmen there," he said. "By the bye, Bertie, would it not be an easy path out of all your difficulties if you married the heir- ess of Lauriston? I wonder you have not thought of that. Is she pretty? We must take it for granted that the daughter of Madame Alvarez cannot be other than charming." "I have not an idea what she is," said Bertie. "Do you think I was looking to see whether or not she was pretty at such -a time as-as that when I saw her? As for marrying, I would not talk nonsense, St. Julian', if I were you." "But why should it be nonsense?" said St. Julian. "It seems to me that it would be the most suitable thing in the world." "And you may add, the most unlikely," retorted the other. "Unlikely things are the things most proverbially likely to happen," said St. Julian. But Bertie -was not to be beguiled from the stern facts of the present by such fancies with regard to thie future as this. On the contrary, he shrugged his shoulders and thrust them aside with an impatient "Stuff! One would really think you wrote novels, St. Julian'. That would be a novel-writer's solution of the ivhole difficulty, but such things don't occur in real life." "There you are mistaken," said St. Julian. "A novel- writer of the sensational school would quite scorn any- thing so humdrum as that the dispossessed heir shlould marry the pretty girl who comes into the property. He might perhaps endeavor to marry her, being a design- ing villain of the deepest dye, but sle would repulse him so scornfully that he would have no alternative blt to take to some other mode of recovering his rights-poi- soning by the Medicean or Borgian method, most probably. He could not ask anything better for his purlpose, by tihe bye, than to have such undisputed and uncontrolled pos- session of the heiress as you will have for some time to come. Doesn't it almost tempt you to thinvl how neatly and cleverlyv you might dispose of her, and no 'ques- tions asked,' as they say in advertisements about stolen property?"               " "' What an amount of nonsense you do talk!" said Ber- tie, with another shrug. "What an unreasonable person you are!" said St. Julian. "Neither sense nor nonsense appears to suit you." "Nothing suits me to-day," said Bertie, with perfect truthfulness. Under these circumstances, it was not remarkable that the former speaker nmade his adieu when they reached the Hotel du Louvre. "I'll look in this evening to see if you etill think of taking wing to-morrow," he said, and then lie went his way, truly glad to have shaken off such an in- cubus as the companion he left behind. "It is to be hoped he will leave to-morrow," he thought. "Another day sac- rificed like this on the shrine of friendship Would make an end of me, while another interview with La Rivington would make'food for the fishes in the Seine of hm. It, would really be laughable, if it were not pitiable, to see how she has bewitched him. What the deuce did she say to him this morning, I wonder? Poor Bertie's face told me that something tragic had occurred as soon as I entered the salon.; but what it could have been, the devil only knows, for la belle was scarcely likely to have brought matters to an issue with a penniless man." Bertie, meanwhile, passing through the crowd of loitering couriers and servants about the grand entrance of the htel, had mounted with a somewhat lagging step to his own apart- ments. He knew that his motlher must have returned long before this, anld lie telt conscious of shrinking nervously   from meeting the girl whom he had seen last at her mother'l deathbed, and who was the innocent cause of all his present suffering. It was a relief when he entered the salon to find it empty, though the first thing which he did was to cross the floor and ring the bell, the next to inquire of Louis, who answered it, if Mrs. Lauriston had returned. Hear- ing that she had done so, and that "a young lady had accompanied her," his interest seemed at an end. "Very well," he said, and sat down quietly, sure that his mother would soon enter an appearance of her own accord. i No doubt he would have been justified in this belief, if, as it chanced, some one else had not entered an appear- ance first. But as he sat with Galignani before him, read- ing a little and thinking still less of what he read, the door of the apartment adjoining slowly opened, and looking up, he saw a slender, black-clad figure standing framed in the doorway. In a second he knew who it was, and in a second also he rose to his feet. He had not fancied that he should meet her so soon and so unexpectedly; but having met her, there was no retreat possible. She hesitated a moment,-evidently startled by his appearance; and as she hesitated, Bertie advanced with his best bow and his best French. "Mademoiselle," he said, "I am very happy to see you-I am very happy to know th;at you are with us, !"-it is i ipossible to deny that Bertie stammered a little-"I am very glad my motler was able to induce you to return with her at once. Only my illness has pre- vented her from seeking you and offering her protection sooner." "I have been at home, monsieur," answered she, quietly. "My convent is almost the only home I have ever known. I have needed no protection. No doubt it was better that I should be there-at first. I have ac. cepted your mother's kindness, however, and come to you because it was my mother's dying request that I should do so. Farther than that I know nothing, and," added she, with an inflection of unconscious pathos in her voice, "I care very little." "You are aware, however, that you have come to your kindred?" "So she told me. Until then I did not know that I possessed any kindred." "You- have never heard your father's story then, ma- demoiselle?" "I saw it," she answered, looking at him with some surprise. "I was not a child when l' y father died, mon- sieur. His life of struggle and his death in prison are well known to me." "I mean his early story," Bertie answered--" his story before he came to France or met your mother? I thought it scarcely probable "- as she shook her head-" that you ever had. Will you come and sit down while I tell you the story?" lie went oil. "I thought my mother would li ve been here, but perlllps it is as well that I should speak to yourself alone." "Is it a story which I need to hear, monsieur?" "It is one which you certainly need to hear, else you cannot understand the position in which you are at present placed." "If you mean the dependent position," said she, flushing a little, "that needs no explanation. I was reared in poverty, and I do not feel it a hardship to be ,dependent for a time on one who strove to save my mother's life." "Dependent on me!" said Bertie. "I see that my mother has told you nothing. You are not dependent on me nor any one else, mademoiselle. Instead of that, you are an heiress in ,?i, own right." "I, monsieur?" "You, mademoiselle. Now," said he, smiling, "will you come and listen to ne?" She came at once, moving across the floor with an elas- tic step that reminded him of her mother-almost the only thing in her personal appearance which did-and taking her seat with singular self-possession for a French convent-bred girl. But then Carmen had not been " bred"   in a convent. Fourteen years of her life had been passed in the midst of a very Bohemian freedom from all social restraints; and although she had taken kindly to the quiet seclusion which, as she said, made almost the only home she had-ever known, she had not caught the timid reserve of those o had lived among those green shades from earliest childhood. Something in her manner seemed, in- deed, to s ggest that in health and happiness she might be frank nd daring to a fault, but just now the pathetic dignity and quietness of sorrow was set upon her like a seal. Looking at her-at the pale, wan voung face, with its hollow eyes and faded lips-Bertie saw that sighs and tears had been her meat and drink for many days. Every- thing suggestive of bloom and brlghtness'had been wept away; for who weeps like the young? What grief is like the grief of youth? The tornado may not last for ever, but as it sweeps over the soul, it leaves desolation behind, not peace. "I have no more tears to weep," Carmen had said only the day before to one of the nuns, but now, as ' she gazed at Bertie--not only at his bandaged hands, but at X his face, which she had seen last in her mother's death- chaimber-a sudden keen throb of anguish bevond all words came over her, and the rain of tears sprang forth again, piteously as ever. "Oh, forgive me!" she said, through her sobs. "I know I am paining you, but can I fail to think of when we met last? Ah, I see her-I hear her-I live the agony all over again! Monsieur, is it not strange that one can live through such agony? But I am strong, oh, so strong! Nothing could kill me, I think. I should have been glad -more than glad-to die with her, but you see I am here. Ah, why was I not in your place?" she cried, passion- ately. "Whly was I not able to rush into the flames and save her or die with her? Monsieur, your mother tells me that you have suffered very inuch for her. I am her daughter, but I  cannot thank you. Thanks are not for such service as that. But I feel all that you did in my heart, as I feel nothing else on earth. I pilace my gratitude to you next to my gratitude to God, and I woulid freely die to prove it." "Do not talk so," said Bertie. "I did; nothing more than any one would have done who was near as I, and, alas! it was very little-too little to be remembered. Let me tell you the story of your father," he said, qllickly, to change the subject. "These other thoughts are too terri- ble for you to dwell upon yet." "Very well," she answered, sinking listlessly back. So again-for the second time that day-poor Bertie began his oft-repeated tale. Of all who had heard it, this listener--the most deeply interested-was the most indifferent. It was not until he had gone over the prin- cipal part of the narrative twice that she even compre- hended what she heard-comprehended that her father's inheritance was hers, or that what she gained Bertie would lose. Then all indifference vanished from her face, and her eyes turned on him with a  light that almost startled him. "Did my mother know this, M. Lauriston?" she said. "If so, how came it that she said no word to me of it- that ghe only told me she had commended me  to your 'care'?" "Your mother knew the whole story," lie answered, and spoke to me of it that night. If she only told you that she had commended you to my care, it was doubtless because she knew that 'care ' meant justice." But the eyes fixed on him were very keen for eyes so young, and a certain change of his face even while he an- swered thus had not escaped them. "M. Lauriston," said she, directly, "did my mother re- quest you to resign this fortune to me?" "Your' mother did not think that necessary, mademoi- selle," he answered. "Slhe trusted that I was an honest man, and that I would not retain what was not justly mine." "Did she request, then, that you would not resign Her eyes were fastened on him in point-blank appeal, and Bertie. vexedly conscious of flushing under them, could only stammer,   "Mademoiselle, why-why sihould you imagine suchi  thing?" "I imagine it because I know my mother, mon- sieur," she answered, gravely, " and I know that she could never have wished you to resign your inheritance to me." "But you mistake," said Bertie. "Women will mis- take. The fortune of which we are speaking is no inherit- ance of mine. Since you--thefdaughter of Godfrey Laur- iston-are living, I have no more right to it than the merest gamin in the streets. It is yours, your father's in- heritance." "Monsieur," said she, with sudden energy, "when my mother sent every one away to speak to you alone as she was dying, did she not ask you to retain this fortune?" "If she did, mademoiselle," said Bertie, seeing that concealment was, useless, "she had no authority to do so. You are the heir of the estate, and she had no more, right to bestow it upon me than I should have to bestow it upon some man who had not a drop of Lauriston blood in his veins." "She had authority in my eyes, monsieur," said the, gill, in a tone of almost stately dignity. "Her last wishes are sacred to me, whether the law would recognize her right to speak them or not. I was sure that, she could never have desired to deprive you of your fortune-you who risked your life to save hers; and I, who owe you a debt I can never repay, would have refused it even if she had left no request which is as binding on me as if a hun- dred lawyers had written and witnessed it. Monsieur, I absolutely decline to accept this fortune, which is yours, and not mine." "Mademoiselle, excuse me if I say that you are talking utter folly," said Bertie, provoked by this unexpected op- position from the quarter he had least expected. "Your mother had no possible control over the fortune, and nei- ther have you at present. You are a minor, and of no more legal importance, so far as any act of your own is concerned, than if you were six months, instead of sixteen years, old." "I am eighteen," said she, with dignity. "You have no more power at eighteen than at sixteen to say wXhat you will or will not accept?' "And when shall I have this power?" asked she, impa- tientlv. "When you are twenty-one." "Then wilen I am twenty-one I will refuse this fortune." "We will defer the discussion until youl are twenty-one," said Bertie, shruigging lis shhoulders. "Now let us change the subject; and tell me how you should like to leave Paris to-morrow for A erica?" "It makes little difference to me," Fhe said, sadly. "Besides her, grave. I shall leave nothing which I need regret." "Then you would be willing to go?" "When you please," she answered, like a child. "You will go to your f;lther's old home," he said, smil- ing a little. "Do you renmember him muchl? Tell me something about him. Do you know that we are the last of the family-you and I? We are such near cousins, too, that you must not call me 'monsieur,' as you have been doing. Your mother said that you were to be my sister; and sisters call their brothes; by their names, do they hot?  Mine is Bertie." "Bertie," she repeated ; "I never heard it before." "It is the diminutive of Herbert," he explained. "We Anglo-Saxons are not like you Spaniards, who, when you want to diminish a name, iLdd a syllable or two. 'We alwavs shorten, if potible." "We mean to express affection," said she. "You, per. haps, are only thinking of sparing-time." "You are right enough," said he, smiling. "Now, the diminutive of your name, for example-" "Is Carmensita." "Which is certainly longer than Carmen, but infinitely sweeter, inasmuch as it is full of 'syllables that breathe of the sweet South.' How  unlike our English names 1l-.:. much as you are unlike English or American girls." "Am I unlike them?"   "Is a lily unlike a rose, or a magnolia unlike a daisy?" She glanced at him a little curiously, and would prob- ably have asked a farther question or two relative to this distinction, if the door just then had not opened, and Mrs. Lauriston entered the room. Shle looked a little surprised at the scene before her-the tte-a-t-te beside the window through which a glow of sunset came-but there was no trace of this emotion in her voice when she advanced and began an apology for her absence. "I am sorry vou did not find me whlen you came in,"   she said to Bertie; " but Mademoiselle Lauriston had laiq down, and I thought would be likely to rest after her fatigue, so I went down to Mrs. Davenport's apartments for a short visit. I have been gone longer than I in- tended, but you know how they all talk. They were quite shocked to fhear that you think of leaving to-morrow, Ber- tie, and have promised to look in upon us for a while this evening.", "I am very sorry to hear it," said Bertie.   "OVE ME-All, PRAY LOVE ME A LITTLE."   CHAPTER X. THE FLOWER OF HOPE. THE Davenports weres as good as their word. Sbon after dinner, anybody in the neighborhood of the grand Staircase might have heard a great chattering, of English voices-that is, of voices speaking English-as a gay party ascended en masse, and were shown by Louis into Mrs. Lauriston's salon. "It is a mark of respect," Mrs. Davenport had gravely remarked at dinner. "When  .         .   anybody has to endure such an affliction as Mrs. Lauris- ton, her friends ought to show their sympathy by every possible attention. I confess I never felt more sorry for any one. She talked to me this afternoon with tears in her eyes." "' To think of Bertie Lauriston being poor!" said Belle and Amy, who for the last few hours had seemed bristling with exclamation-points like a porcupine with iquills. "Oh, to think!" they said on an average every half min- ute-" to think of Bertie Lauriston being nobody, after all!" "He is a Lauriston," said Mrs. Davenport, who was able to afford' high ground, since she knew that her daugh- ters were quite as likely to think of marrying a felon as a poor man. "But of no more importance than anybody else," said   Amy. " 011, to think of it I What will the people say at honie! And all the girls who have been trying so hard to marry him I Oh,' Belle, think of Florence Gale I Won't she be glad now that she did not succeed?" "It would have served her right if she had," said Belle, vindictively. "When a girl goes so far out of all bounds to court a man as she did Bertie Lauriston, she deserves anything." "She trusted to her yellow hair and to her blue eyes," said Amy, " knowing Bertie's weakness for blondes. Oh, Alice, what a chance for you this has spoiled!" "You were very careful not to say so while there was a chance," Alice thought; adding aloud, in a slightly cold anslid more than slightly proud voice, "That is, if I had cared to take advantage of it, Amy." "I thought you seemed to care very well last night," said Belle. "You quite threw poor Mr. St. Julian over- board. Perhaps his star will rise again now." In this way Bertie's shipwreck was discussed among his friends, as all our shipwrecks are discussed more or less by all our friends. Alice Rivington listened with a sense of scorn for the chatterers, and a still greater senseof scorn for the man who had rejected her counsel for this. She did not refuse to accompany them on their visit of condo- lence and curiosity, but the haughtiness of her face scarcely softened, even when St. Julian unexpectedly joined them as they were ascending the stairs. "Oh, Mr. St. Julian," cried Amy, attacking him at once, "do you suppose we shall see the heiress? Oh how I hope she will give us a glimpse of her at least! And oh, is it true that she is the daughter of that charming Madame Alvarez who would have been burned to death on the stage but for Mr. Lauriston? I never heard of such a romance in real life before, did you?" "Everybody on the next floor will hear you, Amy, if you don't take care," said Belle, severely. "I wonder you 'don't remember that loud talking is the most vulgar thing in the world." They brought a rush of sound if not of sense with them, as they entered Mrs. Lauriston's salon, seeming to fill it with the sweep of their draperies, the echo of their gay voices. The lights were low, and their number seemed multiplied infinitely to Carmen, sitting like a shadow in her deep black dress by the still open window, and think- ing how the moon, just then silvering all the roofs-and spires of the brilliant, glittering city, was shining into the high-walled convent garden and across that silent, new-made grave in Pare la Chaise.- Some reflection of her thoughts was on her face, as Bertie watched it turned up- ward; and seeing the sadness legible thereon, he had re- frained from speaking for some time. Mrs. Laulriston, trying to distract her mind over the last number of Le Fol- let by the fire, had not noticed how silent the two at the ' window had grown. And so it was that the entrance of the t Davenport party-not contemptible in point of numbers certainly, for even Mr. Davenport had been captured and pressed into service-made quite a change in the aspect of the apartment. Amy gave Belle's arm  a little pinch, as they entered, through sheer gratification at the appearance of Carmen's black dress. "Oh, there she is, after all," the vivacious young lady whispered. Site was there, undoubtedly, but she did not leave her seat or make any effort to mingle in the tide of conversa- tion which ensued. That shyness had nothing to do with this reserve was evident at a glance. The pale, quiet face had no shade of embarrassment on it; the thoughtful eyes were comprehensive, and not a little keen in their observa- tion of the new-comers-so keen, indeed, that one or two of them felt slightly uncomfortable. It was not the first time that people had winced under Carmen's glance. Nature and experience had both conspired to render her singularly -.. slrewd; and none of us like to be read too closely or too clearly by the acquaintances we chance to meet. "She is not pretty at all, that girl," said Miss Riving- ton aside to St. Julian, "but there is something unusual in her face. Don't you think so?" "There is an absence of self-consciousness, and con- sequently a presence of self-possession, very unusual in one so young," he answered, glancing at the face in question, E   ah he had glanced more than once before, with great inte- rest. "The girl must be a born actress. It is only born actresses who have the gift of forgetting themselves so en- tirely without an effort."         - "What a pity that she should not be in her natural place, then!" said Miss Rivington, a little bitterly. She betrayed herself by that accent, as the words of her companion the next instant showed her. "It is a pity for Bertie, certainly," answered St. Julian, coolly. "But wealth is a great snare-we learned that in our copy-books, didn't we?-and a great means of falling into snares, too; so perhaps it is as well that such a sim- ple-hearted fellow as Lauriston should be deprived of -it until he hias tided over the dangerous whirlpools of youth into the still waters of middle life?' "A poet may be pardoned metaphors, I suppose," said the young lady, in a tone of cool disdain, " but don't lou think yours is a rather lame one? It appears to me that instead of saving Mr. Lauriston from the 'whirlpools of youth,' the loss of his estate is much more likely to plunge him into them. ' And then how about those stiller waters of middle life? They are not likely to be very still, are they, unless' he finds or makes a fortune before he reaches them?" "Fortunes may be won as well as found or made," said St. Julian, oracutlarly.  . But the wonlan at his side was quick enough to read even a deeper oracle tlaun this. "Par droit d'anmour?" asked she, laughing; but despite its clearness and sweetness, it was not altogether pleasant, that laugh. "A  very good idea, Mr. St. Julian. Is it yours or Mr. Lauriston's?" "Mine altogether," said St. Julian. "But could any- thing be more natural and suitable than Bertie should win back his inheritance by such a means?" '"Nothing, certainly," answered she, quietly. But he saw her beautiful eyes sweep with a certain majestic dis- dain over the pale face of the girl on the other side of the room.  "Your firiend wivlnot be the first man to sell him- self because lie cannot work and to beg he is ashamed," she added, scornfully. "Don't hold Bertie accountable for my fancies," said St. Julian, quickly. "He has no share in them. I am sure there is nothing he would relish less than-such asuggestion at present; but time and necessity work wonders in chang- ing our ideas and our hopes." "Is it not fortunate that they do?" said Miss Rivington. After a time Bertie found himself near his goddess, who received -him with dangerous and intoxicating kindness. It was not often that an impulse of pure coquetry seized Alice Rivington, or that she felt any desire to win a slave or keep a slave solely for the sake of possession. But to- night, something which was, and yet was not, coquetry, stirred within her. She felt an irresistible inclination to bind Bertie Lauriston in chains which his utmost efforts would be unable to break, and this less because she cared for that consciousness of power which is so sweet to some women, as that a very lioness seemed roused within her at the thought which St. Julian had suggested. Whatl after having resigned the fortune and resigned her, should Ber- tie win the possession and enjoyment back again by the simple expedient of marrying the heiress? After having scorned her advice and  herself, should'the poverty which he madly courted be spared to him at last? Alice Riving- ton was not an excitable woman or a  passionate woman usually, bult just now a perfect tumult of passion seemed to rush over her. No   one had the least suspicion-she scarcely even acknowledged to herself-how bitter the Lauriston disappointment had been to her; and now was Bertie to reap the romantic fruits of his generosity like this?  She registered a deep Vow in her heart that it should never be. Rich or poor, married or single, he had lost her; and he should be miserable, if the torment of hopeless love could make him so. Therefore, when he ap- proached, she smiled-that bright, cruel smile which, if men's eyes were not blinded by a glamour, they could see on many a  fair face-and beckoned-him to her side. "I have been waiting for you," she said. "Are yon angr.,- with me?. Is that why you have not come to me   s ' foe aner? Have you not glessed that I wanted to tell you how sorry I am for-for this morning? I thought of you too much in all that I said. Can you forgive me? I see thit you were right to consider honor and not happiness in what you did." "Forgive you for thinking of me 1" said Bertie. "You must not ask me to do anything but thank you for that. I can never tell you what it has been to me to realize that you thought of me in what you said," he went on, quickly. "It has at once sweetened and embittered the blow which has come to me, till I can scarcely tell whether it is most sweetness or most bitterness. Not that I should hesitate, not that I should not know, if-if with fortune I did not also feel that I must surrender hope." "Hope of what.?-of fortune?" asked Miss Riving- ton, laughing softly. "But, mon ami, why should you sur- render hope of that? Are you not young, and is not the world all before you? Have you no sword with which to open its shell?" "Not one, unless you give it to me," he answered low, emboldened, as even a more timid man might have been, by the light in her eyes. "But how can I dare to hIope for that? - Did you not tell me to-day that the poor man who asks a woman to marry him is--" "I told you a good many things which I did not mean you to apply to'yourself, nor yet to take au pied de lettre," interrupted she. "We were not talking of marriage, how- ever, but of fortune, I thought-that is, unless one is as suggestive of the other to you as to your friend Mr. St. Julian. He has just been entertaining me withl a very pretty and romantic plan by means of which you are to possess Laurislon, after all." "Surely he might have found something better with which to entertain you," said Bertie, coldly. "St. Julian is so true a friend of mine that he lets his friendship run away with his discretion when lie utters such an absurdity as that." "But is it an absurdity?" she asked. "I could not but agree with him that it would be at least an admirable arrangement." "And you could believe so poorly of me as to think that I would entertain such an idea?" he asked, fllsh- ing, impetuously. "You have not known me long, AMiss Rivington, but you might have known me better than that." "Don't be indignant," said she, smiling. "Suppose I say that I knew you better ; woutl it be paying voiu a com- plhment? You must remember that I was reared in France, Mr. Lauriston. Perhaps tlia:t is why mariage de conven7nce does not seem very horrible to me." "Does not seem horrible to you?" asked he. "I shouildC think that it would seem thrive as horrible to a woman as to a man, and it seems horrible enough to me." "It-is horrible," she said, almost passionately, " but then to a woman there is often no alternative. It is that or de- pendence and poverty all her life." "And yet you say that if a man has only love and effort to offer he mulst not do so." "That would depend upon so ...any circumstances that it is scarcely worth while to discuss them," she-answered. Tell me if it is true that you are really going back to America?" "Have I any choice?  Lauriston must be surrendered to its rightful owner, and I must find some means of making sy bread." "Is it true, then, that this blow deprives you of every- thing?" "Of everything-except courage, I should have said an hour ago. Now, may I add, hope?" As he asked the question, he was bending forward- bending as if to examine a cluster of violets in her dress- so no one but herself heard the passionate quiver in his voice, or read the eager, wistful pleading in Ins eyes. She had gone a little farther than she intended-she had not meant to bring matters to such an issue as this-but, after all, 'what did it matter? She had read Bertie Lauriston thoroughly, she was sure, and a man more absolutely inca- pable of achieving any success in the world, or of gaining any position beyond that to which he was born, could not   be imagined. Therefore a hope held out to him, or a promise given-with success, of course, as a necessary con- dition--might be reckoned absolutely nil. Poor Bertie,' hanging on the breath of those lovely, hesitating lips, would have been amayj indeed if he could have seen how coolly all this was bein gcalculated within the graceful, Psyche-like head. "Well," he said, after a minute, drawing his breath quickly, "you cannot tell how much of my future effort depends on the answer to that question. May I carry one single flower of hope with me as I set forth to climb the steep hill of fortune?" , "Flowers of hope should be blue, should they not?" she asked, with a smile. "I ought to have a myosotis for you, but perhaps a violet will serve as well. You can give it back to me when you reach the summit of the hill." Now, while the violet in question was changing hands, and Bertie, with, a flushed face and a rapturous heartd was storing it away in the most secret recess of a fragrant Pus- sian-leather pocket-book-feeling that with such a talisman the Iill of fortune would be easily climbed, even if it were steeD as the famous mountain of glass in the charming old fairy tale-St. Julian, with the calm, philosophical curi- osity of a student of nature, was devoting his attention to the young heiress. He had been struck by her face, as well as by her manner. "There is something more than ordinary in her," he thought; and he had done what very few girls of her age would hlave tempted him to do-he had crossed the room to "draw her out." As it proved, however, Carmen needed very little drawing out.. Even this handsome stranger had no power to abash or overawe her frank simplicity and self-possession. She talked to him readily, gracefuilly, and with an almost startling free- dom from anything which bore the most remote resem- blance to embarrassment. "If she had been thirty-five and a grande dame in her own salon, she could not have been more wholly at her ease," St. Julian said, afterward, though he recognized in a moment that it was a different kind of ease to that which society teaches. The stamp of her Bohemian rearing was on the girl, though there was nothing in it which could possibly have shocked or re- pelled the most fastidious. The daughter of Madame Al- varez, and the pupil of the elegant ladies du Sacre Coeur, need not have shrunk from the most rigid scrutiny of "so. ciety," yet unconsciously to herself there was a certain in- dividuality about her which rendered her markedly differ.- ': ent from the ordinary rank and file of women. It wa, ' this individuality wliclh gave her a flavor that pleas. i St. Julian. She did not belong to the insipid, little-great world of society, lie thought, but to the world of profes- sional effort and struggle, where she had been born, and which she was leaving behind. He absolutely compassion- ated the girl in her changed circumstances, as he looked at her square, firm jaw-adding so much to the character, detracting-so much from the beauty, of her face-and at the broad, expansive brow, so clearly indicative of intel- lect. She was strikingly like the portrait of her father; but, naturally enough, the face, which had been very hand- some and commanding in a man, was too decided for a woman, and a pair of lovely Spanish eyes was all she had inherited of personal beauty from her actress-mother. To St. Julian the fearless, strongly-marked young face was very attractive; but seen just then, lacking even the usual bloom of youth, there were few people who would have hesitated to call it unequivocally plain. "She is a perfect fright," Belle and Amy Davenplort confided to each other. Meanwhile, Carmen was saying to St. Julian: "They are all pretty, these American ladies, but the one yonder-the blonde to whom Mr. Lauriston is talking-is the most lovely. What is her name? She ought to be painted, she is so beautiful." "Her name is Miss Rivington," St. Julian answered; "and she is certainly very beautiful. Such statuesque women-are very fine studies as works of art, but for anything .else--"He broke off, shrugging his shoulders a little. "You do not mean to say that she--I did not catch her name-is only a work of art?" said Carmen, evidently sur-   prised. "I havebeen thinking what a noble face, as well as what a beautiful face, it is. Surely, monsieur, that woman is worth studying for more than her perfect features." "She is clever," said St. Julian. "Not exactly intellect- ual, nor yet brilliant, but clever. Do you understand tile force of that term?" "Oh yes," said she, smiling. "I have met many Eng- lish people, and I have heard it before. It means some- thing which is nothing, does it not?" "Exactly. It describes an order of mind which there is no other means of describing. Well, Miss Rivington is clever-very clever. She is a woman, with capabilities. All she needs is a field." "And can she not obtain it?" "That remains to be seen. I think it very likely that she will obtain it. A woman so beaultifill and so ambi- tious is not likely to fail in the object of her ambition." "M. Lauriston is attached to her, is he not?"Carmen asked, after a moment. "Why should you think so?" asked St. Julian, not a little impressed by the discernment of this convent-bred maiden. "He admires her. So do I, but I am   not 'at- taclhed' to her." "I did not think you were," she answered, looking at him calmly with her dark eyes. "Indee]d, as soon as I saw you with her, I knew that you were not." "By Jove!" thought St. Julian. "One has need to be on one's guard before a pair of eves that see as clearly as these." He did not have much more time in which to study their idiosyncrasies, however, for the Davenport party made their adieux before long; 'and since Bertie thought it his duty to escort them down to their apartments, and hear a few last songs from Miss Rivington, St. Julian did the same, whether actuated by friendship, jealousy, or love of music, it is impossible to say. Whichever it mayv lave been, the result was that Car- men and Mrs. Lauriston were left alone together for the first time since the girl had heard of her changed fortunes. This fact being vividly present in the minds of both, there was a pause of some length after the guests had departed- a pause which proved a  little awkward, and which Mrs. Lauriston broke at last by moving toward the bell, and murmuring something about fatigue and retiring, when Carmen spoke quickly: "One moment, madame. May I     speak to you? I h6ulld like to do so." ,'mSpeak to me?" repeated Mrs. Lanriston, a little start- led. 'Then she turned somewhat stiffly, and came back. "Certainly," she said, coldly. "I thought vou were prob ably tired, but, of course, I am at your service if you wish to talk." "It is only a few words," said Carmen, a little wistfully. "Your son told me  to-day sonmething which surprised me very much. He said that 1--that he-that is, that there is a fortune which has been his, and yet is mine. Madame, is tlis true?" .  "Whatever my son told you is certainly true," said Mrs. Lauriston, with dignity. "Legally, the fortune of which he speaks is no doubt vours," she went on, with suppressed bitterness. "Only it seems hard-  It came to my husband because your father resigned it; and now Bertie, who has nothing else-who has never even been reared to any. pro-  fession--mlst surrender it to you because you are your father's heir." "So he told me," said Carmen, humbly.   "It seems to i me, too, very hard; and what I want to ask you, madame, t is can it not in some way be prevented?" "  Prevented!" said Mrs. Lauriston. She was so amazed that she gave a little gasp, and stared at the girl. I Yes, prevented," repeated Carmen, quietly. "Perhaps vou are not aware of it, madame,'. she went on, with a I dignity which surprised Mrs. Lauriston, "but nv molther did not desire to claim the fortune for me; and even   apart from her wishes, I should feel little disposition to impoverish the man to whom I -owe so much-Ithe man who strove to save her. When I told him this, however, he said that I had no right-that I would have no right for years to come-over the property,. that it was mine whether I desired it or not." "That is true enough," said Mrs. Lauriston. "The mis. chief is done now. You have no power to resign the prop- erty; and if you had that power a hundred times over, Bertie would not accept it. It. is useless to speak of it, therefore-you can do nothing." "But can you do nothing?" asked Carmen, drawing a step nearer, and absolutely laying her hand on the frigid lady's arms. "I have been thinking of it, and I have seen, as you say, that I can do nothing. But yonu-he will heed you, will he not, if you tell him how much I desire that he should keep it?" "Heed me!" repeated Mrs. Lauriston, bitterly. She laughed a little. If Bertie had heeded her, would this girl have stood there, then, offering to give him what was his own?  "No," she said. "He will not lheed me. I have tested my influence. In any matter of this kind, I have none." "Then what is to be done?" asked Carmen, her large eyes waxing grave and startled. "I cannot wait until I am twenty-one to make him accept what is his, because all that time he will be deprived of the estate. You must help me, madame," she cried, impatiently. ," You must think of something. He is your son. Surely you do not wish to see him poor." "Is it likely that I do?" said Mrs. Lauriston. "But I can perceive no means of escape. He will not listen to reason. If there was anything else-"  Then she broke off suddenly and caught the girl's hand, holding it for a moment and gazing eagerly into her face. It was not a fair face, as we have said, but the hope which came to the gazer like a flash at that moment had  a power to brighten it into subtle charm. "Child," she said, quickly and impulsively, "there is but one hope for Bertie, and that hope is in you." "But I have said all that I could, madame," answered Carmen, simply, "' and he would not hear me. What can I say farther to make him do so?" "You can say nothing," answered the other, with almost feverish eagerness, " but you can do much, if you will. Ah, I should not speak of it, perhaps-I may work harm to him instead of good-but there is one way. Oh, Car- men, if I could hope for that, the rest would not be so bitter." For a  moment Carmen  looked surprised. Then the sudden flush that came to her face showed that she un- derstood.  She was not shocked, hlowever, or embarrassed. She had been reared in countries where marriage is almost universally a thing of arrangement, and the compromise, or rather fusion of her own and Bertie's conflicting rights, which Mrs. Lauriston plainly meant, seemed to her, after a minute's thought, the most obvious and proper thing in the world. Therefore she quite astonished the elder woman by the coolness with which she lifted her clear, frank eyes after a time and made answer: "If there is no other way, madame, and if your son is willing, I am in your hands." She was in her arms also, the next instant; for although a cold person usually, and one little given to effusion, Mr-. Lauriston was so much surprised and delighted by such docile acquiescence that mere words of acknowledgment seemed for once weak and tame. She gathered the as- tonished girl to her heart, and after one startled second, Carmen burst into tears. "Madame," she cried, "I am so lonely, so desolate. Love me-ah, pray love me a   little"!" "You shall be my  daughter-my own daughter!"Mrs. Lauriston said. And so the league between these two was struck.   "S THAT YOU, MADRE?"   CHAPTER   XI. AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL. "CARMEN, my de:,r," said Mrs. Lauriston, in a tone of reproof, "how can you sit there straining your eyes over such fine print at this hour of the evening, and letting that great dog lie on your dress?" For a minute after the lady's- voice died away there * was perfect stillness. Then thie girl whom she had ad- dressed looked up with a start and a laugh. ,   "Is that you, madre?" she said. "How softly you must have come out of the house! I did not hear voul at all. Did you tell me not to strain my eyes? Look what a bright sunset glow there is on mny page. I can see perfectly." "Sunset glows are not good for reading, however," replied Mrs. Lauriston. "What is it that you are so nimuch interested in? Poetry again?" as she stooped and looked over the girl's shoulder. "Child, you seem, to live on poetry." "Oh no," said Carmen, smiling. "Besides, this is not poetry, it is enchantment." "What is it?-the new book Bertie sent you the other dav?" "The Earthly Paradise-v-es. And oh, madre, what an earthly paradise it is! When one wakes from it, one   has to cause to wonder by what magic one has been brought back to the common things of the world." "Your eves have a look in them as if you had not come back yet," said Mrs. Lauriston, laying her hand tenderly on the young shoulder. "Take care, Carmensita, that you don't let fancy run away with you for good some day." '"Is it likely, with you to hold me in check and admin- ister doses of common sense occasionally?" asked the girl, turning her head so as to rest her soft cheek on the hand so near it. "Madre, you have been so good to me." "Who could help being, good to you?" asked the other; and though her tone was light, it was also unmistakably earnest. So they were silent for a minute, making a pretty pic- ture in the lovely crimson light of evening, if there had been any eyes but those of Hubert, Carmen's great New- foundland, to see them. Through the vines which draped one end of the portico on which they were, the glow that lighted up the pages of The Earthly Paradise fell also athwart Mrs. Lauriston's delicate stately figure, draped in a fleecy Shetland shawl, across the massive head of the dog and the light summer dress of the young mistress of Lauriston, as she sat on the highest step of a flight which led down to the lawn. This lawn sloped away on every side, for the house crowned a commanding eminence, over- looking a broad expanse of country, while at its feet rolled one of the fairest and most historic of southern streams, brilliant now with the reflection of the gorgeous sunset clouds which were floating slowly eastward from a sea of glory in the west. It was a very noble heritage to which the young stranger had come, impoverished in a measure though it had been by the vicissitudes of war, and she did not misbecome it, seen just then, with the flush of sunset on her proud young face, and the wistful light of romance in her passionate young eyes. Not that' she was any more beautifill now, this Car- men Lauriston, .than she had been in Paris eighteen months before. But there was something of classic dig- nity and grace about her-an antique charm, impossible to describe, in the mere poise of her head, the bearing of her figure-like that which lingers yet around many of the women of Italy and Spain. Grouped about the fountains of Rome, or kneeling in the great cathedral of Seville, we see such women, and Carmen was one of them. If she had been the child of a peasant, she would still have borne herself like a princess-a princess of the lineage of the Caesars, too; but in the conscious inde- pendence of her heiress-ship, she was a sight worth see- ing, as she moved with lher graceful tread through the stately rooms and'about the wide gardens of her father's home. Old friends of the-family were always struck by the resemblance to that father visible in the strongly- marked young face, but it was a face with a character of its own, despite this resemblance, and with a charm of its own, too, which promised to deepen with years. A handsome face unquestionably, but not a hard face, as the faces of intellectual women too often are. On the contrary, there was a lustrous softness in the eyes, fill at once of sweetness and of passion, and about the mouth an expression which was at times irresistibly winning. Sometimes those firmly-cut lips could be very haughty, but mostly their expression was one of frank good-fellow- ship with all the world which came under the influence of their smile. "Carmen," said Mrs. Lauriston, removing her hand after a while, and sitting down by the girl-a proceeding which surprised Carmen, for this lady was usually ac- customed to say that she could not imagine why people sat on steps when they might sit in chairs-"I have had a letter from Bertie." "I saw the mail as it was carried in," Carmen an- swered, "and recognized his writing on one of the lelters. Did he have' anything important to say? You announce the tfact as if it was very solemn, madre." "It is not at all solemn," said Mrs. Lauriston, "lut it is a little important. He says he is coming to pay us a visit before long, if we care to see him." "How good of him to condescend so far!" said Carmen, 7   lightly. But despite the lightness of her tone, a sudden wave of color swept into her cheeks-cheeks usually of the color, as well of the apparent texture, of marble. "It is the first time that' he has spoken of such a thing since he brought us here, more than a year ago." "But I have told you why he has not spoken of it be- fore," said Mrs. Lauriston, in a tone of eager apology. "He has been so hard at work lately, my poor Bertie I He was so determined to do something for. himself before-before he came back. I never fancied that he had half such power- of application and perseverance; but what will not a man do when he has an object in view? Carmen, you must not let his pride-pride which is foolish, but very natural--make you proud in turn." "Is that possible?" asked Carmen, with a bright, frank smile. "I like him all Phe better for it, madre. You know that. I have kept no secrets from you, have I? But? it is provoking of him," said she, imperiously. "With1y need he have studied hnd toiled and fagged himself nearly to death, as you know your brother writes that he has "Only because he is proud, my darling," said Mrs. Lauriston with a quiver--was it of conscience, poor woman?-in her voice. "He could not bear for people to say that he had made no effort for himself, and that his resigning the estate was only a form, since he turned round and married the heiress at once. He wanted to prove that there was something in him; and oh, Carmen, my dear child, I should be miserable if I thought you did not un- derstand how and why it was." "I do understand," said Carmen-" at least, I think I do," she corrected. "But, madre, sometimes I have thought that perhaps, after all, you and I are wrong." "Wrong!" repeated Mrs. Lauriston, turning..pale. "My child, what do you mean? How are we wrong?" "Wrong in thinking that he wishes this of which we have spoken," said the girl, flushing again. "If he wished it, would he not have said something-done something-. during all these eighteen months? I have been thinking a good deal lately, and H cannot help seeing that." "But it is not so!" cried' Mrs. Lauriston, eagerly, pas- sionately. "Carmen, if you wish to break my heart, you have only to talk like this. You are rich and Bertie is poor, m vdear-very poor. That is onereason why he has8 said nothing. Then you must remember that he did not see you to great advantage eighteen months ago." "I was in deep grief, and ugly," said Carmen, medita- tively. "Not ugly-you are never that-but not what you are now in manner or appearance. Carmen, if he sees you now-" But Carmen turned and laid her fingers lightly on the other's lips. "Don't, madre," she said, smiling sweetly, but a little sadly. "Don't make me hope too much. Is it wrong to talk of hoping?" she went on. "It does not sound ex- actly-exactly maidenly, does it? But then I am not in the position of other girls. One must consider that, must one not? I have taken Bertie's inheritance, and there is only one means by which I can give it back to him. Am I wrong, therefore, to desire that?" "You are never wrong," said Mrs. Lauriston, deeply moved. "Carmen, my darling, when I first spoke of this, I thought of Bertie. Now, if you were my own daughter, I could not think more of you. If it would give Laut riston to him a hundred times, I would never consent to such a thing if I did not think he would make you happy. But I know so well what he is-" "And should not I know?"Carmen asked, a light in- effably soft in her eyes. "Did lie not risk and nearly loe his life to save my mother?' Did he not surrender all this to me and condemn himself to poverty, when if he had only been silent no one would ever have known-would ever have guessed? Ah, madre, there is no need to tell, me, of all the people in the world, what he is."  There was a radiance on the noble young face which transfigured it. Just then it was grand and tender, both at once. Whether the light kindled witliin was of grati-; tude or of love, who could ask? The great soul sprang :   forward, like all great souls, to requite the generosity ,- which it had received with a generosity tenfold greater; and who could bid it pause to weigh and measure pound for pound and ounce for ounce, till benefit given should tally in exact proportion with benefit received? That it would have been wise to do so, who can doubt? but there- are some natures to which such wisdom is impossible. Carmen's was one of them. She put her whole self with- out reserve into all she felt, hoped or desired, making no reckoning, keeping back no secret board, for the day when disappointment and suffering should come. Looking at her now, even Mrs. Lauriston felt a pang to think how little Bertie, in his careless, commonplace lightness of nature, was able to return such passionate devotion as that which shone in the eyes before her. But if it is sad to see such things-if it is inexpressibly pitiable to behold love poured out like water on barren sand-it is also well to remember that blessed are those who give, even if in this world they are destined never to receive. '"I am sorry for one thing," said Mrs. Lauriston, after a pause. "Bertie says that if we have no objection, lie will bring his friend St. Julian down with him. He adds something about duck-shooting, but-I am sure it would be pleasanter for us if he came alone." "Pleasanter for us, but perhaps not pleasanter for him," eaid Carmen. "Men sometimes have a horror of being alone in a houseful of women.' "But we are not a housefill of women," said Mrs. Lauris- ton, a little indignantly. "' We are only two." "Enough to make him afraid of being bored, madre," said the girl, laughing. "Prly don't thwart him on his first visit. Let him bring Mr. St. Julian, by all means. He is a poet, is he not? 1 shall like to see a live poet for once." "Did you ever see a dead one?" asked Mrs. Lauriston, smiling; but she felt vexed with Bertie, and looked at Carmen a little suspiciously. St. Julian's handsome, in- tellectual face rose before her, and then he was a "poet"-I a man whose graceful verses, full of subtle fmancies and con- ceits, might well fascinate a girl of nineteen, quickening with fancies of her own which as yet lhad found no utter- ance, and wiorshipping with all her heart the silver-tongued Immortals of Song on their distant heights. Was Bertie mad, his mother thought, to bring such a man with him, after his own neglect?' Nothing had ever irked her more than this neglect, but at least she could not blame herself for it. She had done and said everything in her power, but Bertie had turned a deaf ear to all her argu-, ments and entreaties, until she had at last been obliged to desist from them through sheer fear of injuring her cause. Carmen had guessed nothing of this-she had taken care ' that Carmen should guess nothing; and now the time had come when it was to be seen whether she had done well or ill in this concealment. tier heart failed her a little sometimes; but when she looked at the young heiress, in her gracefull, stately youth, she could not bring herself to think that Bertie might not readily" love for -her own sake one so fail; so gracious, so well worthy of all love. How much harm she might have done, if this should not prove to be the case, Mrs. Lauriston rarely suffered herself to think. Perhaps it pressed upon her more this evening than it ihad ever done before. Carmen did not understand the meaning of the wistful looks which fell upon her now and then-looks which she met as the two ladles sat over their dainty tea-table together, and which she felt to be following her with strange persistence as Nhe bent over the open pages of The Ear thly Paradise by thei shaded light of the sitting-room lamp. It was a very pretty place, this sitting-room-a pretty, bowery apartment, such as women of taste and culture almost un- consciously make, with the-distant murmur of the river comling softly through the open window, and a stray fire- fly now and then wandering in and gleaming fitfully in the darker corners. To, Mrs. Lauriston, however, the very repose seemed full of the rush of coming events. ; She wondered how Carmen could sit so quietly, wrapped fromi all outer influences in the enchanted pages be/ore her, with her statue-like head bent, and the dark lashes   r shading her white cheeks. Even Carmen's quietness, how- ever, was more in seeming than reality. She was not only conscious of her compnnion's restlessness, but it communicated itself to her in the subtle fashion with t  4lich we are all acquainted. . At last she looked up. "Wihat is the matter, madre?" she asked. "Did Bertie say anything in his letter to disturb you? Something has unsettled you to-night." "Only the thought of his coming," said Mrs. Lauriston. "You know I have not seen him for so long. Read some- thing, Carmensita; let me try to forget it." So Carmen began to read one of the magical stories open before her, but it is doubtful if either of them heard more than the softly-breathing music of its rhyme, nor indeed were they destined to hear very much of that. While the girl's voice rose and fell'with the rare mod- ulation of one to whom elocution comes by nature rather than by art, there was a sudden sound of wheels on the gravel drive, of voices talking, and of a fast-trotting horse sharply bidden to "Whllo!" "Somebody is coming," said Mrs. Lauriston, rising and ringing the bell. "It must be Sydney Blandford, Carmen. I saw plainly the other day that he was ready to make a fool of himself, that young man." "Did you?" said Carmen, laughing, for no girl objects to hearing that men, young or otherwise, are ready to make fools of themselves about her. "Why did you not give him a warning, then?  Only it is a satisfaction to think that I shall probably do him very little harm. If it is Sydney Blandford," she added, "lie has certainly multi- plied himself, or else there is some one with him, for those are the voices of two orthlree people." "It is Bertie!" cried Mrs. Lauriston, with a sudden start, as the cadence of one voice floated into the room. "What on earth can be the meaning of it? He said he certainly should not be down for a week. But- it is Bertie." Then before Carmen   could speak, she had hastily crossed the floor and swept into the hall, where the wide doors stood open to the starry softness of the Sep- tember night. "Bertie!" she cried. "My dear boy!  Is it possible this is youl?" "It is I, mother, all right!"Bertie's cheery voice an- / swered, as crossing the portico with a stride or two, he met! her in the open door. "I have taken you by surprise, e haven't I?" leaid, with a laugh, as lie submitted to her eager embrace; It is seldom thlat Anglo-Saxon men do . other than submit to sucl greetings from their feminine relatives. "You  ought to have received my  letter, though, so you must have looked for me shortly." "Not for a week at least," Mrs. Lauriston answered, a -little bewildered. -"Where did you come from, Bertiev? The boat passed by this evening; why did you not stop at our own landing?" "I  stopped at Blandford's, above," Bertie answered. "Sydney has been kind enough to drive me over. Here he comes, and St. Julian." As well as she   could for the amazement which had overtaken her, Mrs. Lauriston welcomed the gentlemen, who   now advanced. But while she was bidding  Mr. Blandford good-evening, and hoping that Mr. St. Julian was well, she was inwardly puzzling over Bertie's eccen- tric conduct. To come a week before he was expected, and to stop at the Blandford landing! What did it mean? As a general rule, it would have sufficed to say that men were provoking and inconsiderate, especially with regard to arrivals and departures, but Bertie had never been either of these things, so Mrs. Lauriston really did not know what to make of such a freak. "I  suppose you have been to tea?" she was saying to him, meanwhile, with a   laugh. "Carmen and I were settled for the evening, .witU very little anticipation of visitors. Mr. St. Julian, will you come this way? Mr. Blandford, I hope your father's gout is better?" She led the way toward the room where the young mis- tress of Lauriston was still sitting by the table on which the shaded lamp burned, thro;ging its bright circle of lighll over her book and herself. She rose when they entered and so standing, white, slender, stately, within* the radi-   ance, while they emerged from the dark, made an impres- sion like a picture on the mind of each one of them. It was only momentary, however, for Carmen did not pose to be admired. Remembering that she was in her own house, she advanced with the frank ease which charmed all who ever entered it. "Where did the child learn such perfect manners?"Mrs. Lauriston could not help think- ing, with a thrill of admiration, as she watched her greet- ings. It did not occur to her to remember the actress- mother with whom the girl had lived through the impres- sionable years of childhood and early youth, nor yet to think--which would have been the truest explanation of the fact-that to some rare people "perfect manners" come by nature, and not by teaching. There is nothing niore ulnquestionable than that self-consciousness is essen- till to embarrassment, and self-conscious Carmen had never been since she was born. "Have vou explained the mystery of your sudden ap- pearance?'" she said to Bertie, with a smile, after the first salutations were over. "We were talking of yoell only a little time before you came, wlhich made your arrival quite startling. Poor madre looked as if she had seen a ghoht when she heard your voice. She did not expect you until next week, I think." "So she tells me," said Bertie, a good deal embarrassed and a little annoyed. "I fear I am scarcely welcome," lie went on, with a laghll. "People who arrive unexpectedly rarely are, I believe. I should not have spoken so poosi- tively as I did in my letter, for an hour after it was mailed I found that two ladies whom [ knew were coining on- the next boat to Mr. Blandford's, so St. Julian and I decided to accompany them, trusting that our premature arrival would not inconvenience you." "Inconvenience us!" she repeated. "How could it? Of course you knowhow gtlad we are to see you. I have felt as if you could not Forgive me for inheriting Lauriston while you stayed away so resolutely. You might have come before, if only to set my mind and poor madre's heart at rest." "But how was I to know that either your mind or her heart needed rest?" said Bertie. "I have been trying to work, and work and play don't go well together, you know. I have felt tempted to come down and look at the old place at least a hulndred times, but I always managed to resist the temptation like a man." "You had much better yielded to it like a woman," said she, with a smile. AMore than this neither of them found opportunity to say, for Mr. Sydney Blandford-who, whenever lie paid a visit, was in a chronic condition of having "only a few minutes to stay," whcll minutes sometimes lengthened unaccountably into several hours-claimed Mrs. Lauris- ton's attention just then to deliver a message from his sis- ter. As Carmen turtned to listen to this, she heard Mrs. Lauriston ask St. Julian who were the ladies whom Bertie and himself had accompanied down the river. "They are old friends of yours, both of them," this gen- tleman, cool and quiet as ever, answered. "One of them is Miss Davenport, the other, Miss Rivington." "Indeed 1" said Mrs. Lauriston,wiih a start so violent that even Carmen, who was suspecting nothing, noticed it. Then, after a minute, she hurried on, as if eager to cover this. "Belle Davenport of course you mean," she said. "Amy is married, I believe. I thought Miss Rivington would have been married also betfore this. It is true she has no fortune, but she is-or used to be-quite hand- somne." "She is as beautiful as ever," said Mr. St. Julian. "If Bertie were not near enough to lay violent hands on me, I should say that 'Time writes no wrinkles on her marble brow.' As 'for marrying, unless society gossip errs greatly, she might have married more than well long ago." . "Why did she not do it, then?" asked the lady, almost sharply. "Society gossip must err, Mr. St. Ju- lian. No woman of Miss Rivington's stamp would re- main single an hour if she could 'marry more than well.'" "I do not vouch for the reports," St. Julian said, shrug-   ginff his shoulders. "I know Miss Rivington moderately well, but not sufficiently to be admitted to her confidence concerning her affairs of the heartr or the hand, or the purse, whichever they may be called." "Affairs of the purse, I should say, undoubtedly," said Mrs. Lauriston, bitterly. Meanwhile, Carmen, who had overheard the first -part at least of this conversation, said to Bertie, as soon as Mr. Blandford safely delivered the message, in which croquet and boating were confuisedly mingled, '"The names of these ladies sound so familiar to me that I think they must be the same whom I remember meeting in vour mother's apartments the evening before we left Paris. Is it so?" "Yes," he answered, looking a little surprised. "I should have mentioned their nam es, only I did not fancy you would remember them." - "But I do," said she, smiling. "I remember perfectly the two brunette sisters who talked so much and so fast, and both together, and the beautifil blonde who talked to nobody but yourself and Mr. St. Julian." ".You do remember well," said lie, flushing--"better than I should fancy, after such a lapse of time; and people, too, whom you saw only once." "But I have a good memory, and I take a lively interest in observing human nature," said she. "I did not know that your sister was expecting visitors," she added, turning with frank directness to young Blandford. "Why did. she not tell me about them when she was here with you the other day?" "I don't think Clara was expecting them," answered this young gentleman--"at least not particularly. She went to school with Miss Davenport, and they have? known each other a long while; but I think she was a little surprised to receive her letter saying that she and Miss Rivington were coming down for a few weeks. I don't mean that she was- not glad to receive it," he added, hastily, "but she was-a-not expecting it, you know." "The ladies made up their minds quite suddenly, I think," said Bertie. And there that subject ended. All subjects end after a while, fortunately, and so do all visits, even the visits of a gentleman who announces at the beginning that lie can only remain a few minutes. When Mr. Blandford at last prevailed upon himself to take his departure, it was close upon that hour known in the country generally and somewhat indefinitely as "bed- time." Then Bertie inquired if the smoking-room was still the smoking-room, and hearing that it had been kept sacred to that purpose, proposed to St. Julian to adjourn thither. "We must not cause dissipation in the iouse- hold on the night of our first arrival," he said. "We have a month before us in which to say anything that we lhave a mind to, witliout robbing my fair cousin of a single hour of her 'beauty-sleep.' -As for you, Miamma," ihe added, with a laugh, "you are more than ready for a go - sip-I see it in your eyes-but I am thwarting you for your good when I send you inflexibly to bed. To-morrow I promise to be as obliging as possible, and tell you 'everything about everything' to your heart's content." So they said good-night, and parted full of laughter and jest on either side; but Carmen did not understand why Mrs. Lauriston, when she said good-night to her, caught her to her heart and kissed her with such wistful and pas- sionate fondness. She thought that it was because Bertie had come, and as she entered her chamber, she smiled to herself. Bertie had come. At last the long waiting and suspense were over, and all would soon be right. Of course he would not have come if he had not meant that all should be right-if he had not meant to take back his own in the only way possible. When she knelt down to pray, his name was on her lips, as it had been every night sine  tlhe night they stood face to face for the first time by her mother's deathbed; and when she composed herself for that "beauty-sleep" which came so readily to her young,:-. untroubled eyes, there was a bright smile lingering on th.:! same lips--an echo of the prayer, perhaps-which might : ;, not have been there if she could have seen the grave, trout-: bled face with which Mrs. Lauriston was just then staring ::   I . into her mirror, looking, under the strain of anxiety and i : i hought, ten years older than she had looked an hour 4 before. CHAPTER XIL MORNING ON THE RIVER. ST. JULJIAN was not usually an early riser, but almost any one who goes to the country for the first time after many months of city residence is apt to find something Alluring to wakefulness in the first charm of the morning. i There is a beauty in it impossible to describe-a beauty fur the most part grown stale to the habitual dwellers in ihe coantry-which seems to open a new world of sensa- tion and observation to all who are not hopeless sluggards. It is not only the birds, that gladden the air with their full-throated song or fill it with that sweet, happy twitter which sounds so sociable, and is, no doubt, bird-conversa- tion, that render sleep impossible. The stillness through which one seems to hear the countless rustle of leaves is in itself enoughobish that divine .nepenthe which milk- carts rattling over stony streets erstwhile assailed in vain. Then, when the heavy lids are once lifted, who can resist the entrancing charm of the long shadows stretching over dewy turf, of "the sun's bright lances" routing the mists which still hang with purple softness over the distant hills, of the myriad diamonds glittering in the golden light on every vine and spray? St. Julian, at least, could not, and therefore it was still early-earlier than he had roused himself in many a long day before-when he took his way across the lawn down to the river. He had made up his mind that a bath and a swim would be "just the thing" for such a glorious morning; so it was something of a dis- appointment when he reached 'the little pier jutting out into the water, with its trim bathing-house in near neigh- borhood, to find a young lady and a large dog already in the field, and deep in consultation with a negro carpenter over a disabled boat. Although he had been descending the path, and was very near before he perceived them, they were so much interested that not even the dog had observed him, and he was on the point of skirting away to some more secluded   spot, when the freshness and brightness of the little scene made him pause. Perhaps it struck him with especial force just at that moment because the girl, standing there with the glory of early sunlight streaming over her, turned her head for some reason, and a line of poetry, not his own, flashed instantly into the gazerts mind. "Her face The mirror of the morning seemed," he said, half aloud. Then adding after a minute, "Now, why is it that I should have remembered that line? Cer- tainly it did not strike me particularly when I read it, for I had never seen a face that seemed 'the mirror of the morning' then. Is it true that one remembers things lun- consciously, and that thoughts and memories often lie dor- mant till the fitting opportunity calls them forth? I almost wish I had imagined that conceit-it describes so perfectly the face yonder. After all, I can take a swim any time; I think I shall wait just now for another glimpse of it." So he stood leaning carelessly against a tree, watching the broad current of the river sweeping grandly by, the hills on the farther side softened by mist which the sun was momentarily dispersing, the silvery willows bending to kiss the water as it lazily eddied'under them, the little pier'with its upturned boat, the spare negro with his wrinkled, snuff-colored face bending over it, the dog crouched near by looking wistfully at the water, which he had plainly been forbidden to enter, and thetgirl with her shaft-straight carriage and classic head listening atten- tively while the mechanic pointed out the flaws of con- struction or the injuries from service of the craft in hand. It was certainly a pretty "bit" of animated nature set in the fair framework of still-life-a commonplace picture enough, but one which added its own charm to the fresh. ness of the early morning. It pleased St. Julian so much that, feeling an unusual impulse to social intercourse, quickened, perhaps, by the unusual virtue of early rising, he threw his cigar away after a little while, and followed the path which he had first been pursuing down to the pier.   CARMEN STARTED AT THS UNEXPECTED SALUTATION, AND LOOKED ROUND."    CHAPTER XII. (CONTINUED. MORNING ON THE RIVER. "GOOD-MORNINO, Miss Lauriston." Carmen, bending at that momfent above the boat, and following with, great interest the snuff-colored finger moving over it, and tapping it with a condemning motion here and there, started at this unexpected salutation, and looked round. "Good-morning, Mr. St. Julian," she answered, with an involuntary glance of surprise. She had turned round,   flushed and eager, thinking in the first second that it might be Bertie; but when she saw who it was, the look of ast. tonishment which came into her eyes was irrepressible, "You?" it seemed to say, and it was this which St. Julian answered. "Why do you let your birds make such a noise, Miss Lauriston?" he asked, in a tone of injury. "I found it really impossible to sleep after daylight this morning, Converting necessity into a virtue, therefore, I came out for a constitutional, and I am glad to find that I have apparently fallen into the habit of the household." "If Hubert and I constitute the household," said shei smiling. "We are always early risers, but no one else, scarcely even the servants. You would have followed the habit of the hlousehold more exactly if you had closed your blinds and slept until nine o'clock, Mr. St. Julian." - 7 ,    "But the day is so aggressively bright," said he, in a tone of protest. "How is it possible to close one's blinds in the face of a world so jubilantly wide awake? I can- not conceive how anybody can sleep on such a morning as this."   Such a morning as this!",she echoed, with a laugh. "Why, there is nothing particularly bright in the morn- ing. From May to November you can scarcely find one which is not quite as fresh and as radiant.; I have always observed, however, that people who habitually sleep lhte think that nature does them the honor of holding a high festival on the rare occasions when chance or caprice rouses them before mid-day."' "I am not so conceited, I assure you," said St. Julian, bending down to caress Hubert, who had thrlust his cold nose into his hand, ao a hint for some attention. "I thought I had waked bcause the morning was bright- not that the morning was bright because I waked. At least, however, common or uncommon, you will allow that it is beautiful." !  "It is always beautiful," she answered. "Few things in + the world are so beautiful as the dewy freshness and fra- grance'of an early summer morning. People rave over sunset.. Well, it is beautiful, but it is also sad. The death of day is always full of mournful thoughts, I ; think, while the birth of it is full of brightness and re- e oicing, and jubilant, as you said a minute ago, with  happiness." "You are quite right," said he, looking at her a little curiously. "But it is not every one who feels the distinction." Just here the carpenter lifted himself and remniarked that he would go after his tools. "I'll do my best toward making her fit for service, Miss Carmen," he said; " but if you take my advice, ma'am, you'll get a new boat. Her best day's over, and it were never a good one, fur she ain't shaped right, nohow." "She is not shaped after the model of your boats, Gar- rison," said Miss Lauristonl, "but lle is a very light, trim little skiff, and easily managed. ie has got into a bad trick of leaking, however, and that is' hat 1 want you to rectify." "I'll do my best, ma'am," he said; but ihe shook his head, and so-shaking it, walked off. "Your ship-carpenter seems to think your vessel unsea- worthy," said St. Julian. "lMay I ask who takes you on the river?" "I take myself generally," she answered, smiling. "Sometimes I have an oarsman, and sometimes madre trusts herself to me, but mostly Hubert and I go alone." "Do you take that great dog into this cockle-shell? Ie might upset it, and. pitch you 'into the river." s Oh, he is very obedient and very quiet; but if he did upset it, he would be at hand to rescue me, you know. That is why he is so big.  Madre would not let me rest until I had secured a water-dog, since I insisted upon going so much on the water. I told her she had better let me drown in peace. It would be so much better for Bertie." "You are mistaken about that," said St. Julian, with the utmost gravity. "I am speaking as Bertie's sincere friend when I say that the best thing which ever happened to him was the loss of Lauriston. It has made another man of him. You would scarcely believe-I could scarcely tell you-how steadily and well he has worked during the past year." "Has he?" said she. A   sudden glow came to her heart, if not to her face, as she stood there gazing out over the broad, sunlit river, dappled softly with shadows near the banks. It was so pleasant to think that Bettie had  labored to prove, as his mother had said, "that there was something in him," before he would come to claim lhis inheritance. It cost her a pang, and yet it thrilled her like a noble strain in music, or a noble thought in poetry.  It was worthy of him, she thought; nobody would be able to say now that he married the heiress because there was nothing else for him to do. Ease and wealth might have been his a year before, but he had chosen all this labor and poverty instead; and   even she saw now that it was better-oh, far better- so. It had caused her pain-pain to think 'that she was possessing that to which he had been born; but the pain was turned now into that pure joy of a noble heart which overflows with gladness when it finds that the object of its devotion is even more worthy than it fan- cied of all honor and all love. After a minute she turned with a low soft laugh to St. Julian: "I am so glad to know that I have not worked Bertie harm," she said. "I have been so afraid of it, and it would have made me miserable, since but for him I should never have seen Lauriston, you know." "And do you like Lauriston?" asked St. Julian. Though she might have been a young princess, as she stood before him, he could not forget the pale, acute girl, full of quaint self-possession and Bohemian freedonm, whom he had last seen in Paris. "It is a noble old place, for America, but I should think the monotony of a life here would weary you." "But there is no monotony," said she. "That is just it. There is something to interest and give me occupation every day. My life is full of aims and interests, and I like them all. Sometimes I think it is too bright to last," sihe added, smiling. "I never expected to wake up and find myself a fairv princess. Sometimes I have to pause and wonder if it is really true that all this"--she swept lher hand lightly aroundl-" is mine." "And when you realize it, you do not find it disagree- able, do you?" She shook her head: "How could I?  Does not every- body like to be rich and happy and important?" "It must be very pleasant," said St. Julian. "I have never been tried myself with riches, or happiness, or im- portance, but I suppose they are all rather agreeable than otherwise." Then he stooped and began examining the skiff at his feel. "I don't think there is anything serious the matter with this craft, Miss Lauriston," hle said. "If I put her afloat, will you trust me to take you down the river a little way? Since you tell me that your hlou sehol( is a late one, I suppose there is no immediate question of breakfaist?" "None at all," said Carmen, quietly. So the skiff was put afloat, and they stepped in. "You need not be afraid to let Hulbert come;"Carmen said, as St. Julian looked doubtfully toward hirm. "He never makes an incautious movement." "I should not be surprised if I got my plunge balth, after all," St. Julian thought; bult it was scarcely his place to demur, and so Hubert was allowed to go. It was magically bright and beautifill they found when they were once fairly afloat on the great breast of water, with the sparkling glory of the September morning all around them.  The land seemed laughing with loveliness and gladness, as it lay under the kiss of its golden dav-god, rich with shadowy woods, and ringing with a soft echo of rejoicing life. For a time nothing was said. St. Julian, lookingat Car- men, saw that she was leaning back with a lighlt bright as the sunlight, yet-which was not the sunlight, on her face, and instinctively he kept silent. He was struck by the happy tenderness of the radiance. Of what was the girl thinking? he wondered--wondered so much and so often that at last his curious glance caught her attention. She smiled a  little, then with the frank directness which cha- racterized all she said or did asked of what he was think- ing. "Of you," he answered, frank and direct as herself. "I  know that,"she answered. " But what of me?" "Of the expression of your face." "Was it peculiar in any way?" "So peculiar, that I am tempted to ask of what vou were thinking, if you do not object to telling that wlich is sometimes so sacred and often so subtle." "  But how can I ?" she asked, flushing a little. " Even if one felt inclined, one cannot always put one's thoughts into words. I  think mine had gone off wool-gathering, as people say. That is such a strange expression, by the byve. What possible connection is there between thinking a(nd gathering wool?  Can you imagine?"   !"Not unless it lies in the fiact that lie who went out to gather wool would be very likely to return with empty hlands," he answered, smiling. "I hope that is not the case with your thoughts, however." "Always, I fear," she said, shaking her head. " And so, as they glided along between shadowy banks and over softly rippling water, they advanced toward some- thing which was almost friendly intimacy. There was from the first an intangible sympathy of comradeship be- tween them, which St.-Julian understood, though Carmen did not. She was to him what she was to every one- frank, unembarrassed, direct to a fault, looking at him with calm, level eves which had never (drooped in awe from any living face, speaking her-own thoughts in her own lan- guage, without any shade or flutter of the fear which would have beset most girls of her age. It was in him that there was a change altogether remarkable. The peo- ple who shrank from his caustic tongue would hardly have recognized the St. Julian whom they knew in the man who, rowing lazily along in the bright sunlight of that September morning, talked pleasantly, cheerfully, some- times with enthulsiastic admiration, then again witi sound criticism, of the books which made the chief interest of the girl before him. It was a wide range of topics over, which they wandered, for Carmen had been an absorber of books from her childhood, and she was not ill-ve'rsed in the lit- erature-especially in the poets-of three languages. Even St. Julian, student from his cradle and literary man by profession, was startled at the extent and richness of these treasures, gathered in desultory fashion though they had been, and inexpressibly charmled by the grace and lightness of imagination with which she now and then in- vested them. Not that there was anything of that faculty whichh we call cleverness in anything which he'said. This is something that belongs pre-eminently to the children of the world, and of them Carmen was not. Indeed, up to this time, no one had known--herself least of all--how far sihe was removed from them. St. Julian. was the first to suspect what forces might lie slumbering bellind that white brow, what divine spark resting in the depths of those lus- trous eves. But even to him the revelation only cafie in part. If he suspected the whole, lie did not give a name to the knowledge that came toWliim. He only thought: "Life is a strange juggling game, even under its brightest aspect. It is sad to think that all this wealth of delicate perception and subtle fancy will probably be bestowed upon Ber-tie Lauriston, to whom it will be as valuable as-a hoard of fairy gold, which in mortal hands turns to moss and leaves." Meanwhile, the gentleman thus highly complimented wa. walking impatiently to and fro in the breakfast-room at Lauriston, comparing his watch with the clock over the mantel, and occasionally ringing the bell to inquire wlien breakfast would be ready. "Breakfast is ready now, sir," said Willis, at the third repetition of this performance. Willis was a servant who had been brought up in the Lauriston dining-room, and who told the cook, wlio was a new-comer, that lie " knew Mass' Bertie's way. "But since nobody's ready but you, sir, I suppose you don't want it brought in to get colld. It's true I could bring you a piece of steak, sir, and some waffles and coffle, if you is in a great hurry." "Nonsensel" said Bertie. "Of course I don't want breakfast brought in for me alone. But don't they ever get up here?" "Miss Carmen was tlp and down at the river three hours ago, si ," answered Willis, in a tone of subdued triumph, for lie knew that such a pitch of virtue as this was qiuite beyond Bertie. "Mistis' is always late, sir. 1 reckon you remember that." "And how long does Miss Carmen stay down at the river,; as a general rule?" "She's mostly back .before this time, sir." "Well, find me a newspaper or something to divert my mind. Don't they take any newspapers Ihere?" Some late newspapers were found on the sitting-room table; and thus provided, Bertie sat down by an open win- dow, and with one eye on the lawn, and one on a leading article in which he took not the least interest, managed to   divert hil mind for ten minutes, when he wa,* gratified by the sounn of a pair of high femininhe leels descending the staircase. A moment later Mrs. Lauriston entered the room. "Why, where is Carmen?" she asked, when the first salutations were exchanged. "I thought of course I should find you all at breakfast. It is the rarest thing in the world when she is not ready." "Carmen went down to the river three hours ago, Willis says," Bertie remarked. "I cannot vouch for the state- ment; since I only came down half an hour ago, but he annoulnce d-it as a fact." "That is likely enough," said Mrs. Lauriston. "fShe always rises early. and she very often goes down to the river; but why she is not back I do not understand. It is later than usual," with a glance at the clock. "Really, Bertie, I wish you would walk down and see what has b;e come of her. Shle is so imprudent about going on the water that she keeps me in constant terror lest she should' be drowned." "If she is in the habit of going on the water, mother, I see no reason to fear that she is drowned because she hap- pens to be a little late. Instead of walking down to the river, if you have no objection, I will ring for breakfast. X confess I am hunglry." "But I heard Carmen say only last niglit that the boat had taken to leaking dreadlfully." "Then you may be sure that she has not gone out in it, and there is still less reason for my setting forth on an empty stomach to look for her. Breakfast, Willis." ' Willis, send one of the servants to look for Miss Carmen," said Mrs. lauriston, in a sharp tone of, vexation. "Quite unnecessary, Willis," said Bertie, who had turned again to the windllow. "Yonder she comes now, and St. Julian with her, by Jove!" "St. Julian!" repeated Mrs. Lauriston, starting for- ward. It was St. Julian indeed-a glance showed her that- sauntering along by Carmen's side, as they crossed the lawsn together, both talking with that air of animation which is so significant of interest in a conversation, while lHubert marched behind with drooping tail and the general aspect of one on whom much of grave respon- sibility rested. "Good Heavens!" said Mrs. Lauriston, "what a sight I Oh, Bertie, what a sight! And voeu tand here with a paper in vyour hand and look at it." "Wlhat should I have in my hand, mother?"' asked Bertie, laughing. "A pistol? But, tlen, St-. Julian hlas a right to rise with the lark, if he chooses. I never knew him to do shch a thing before, however; and Carmen, being the lady of the manor, can certainly be allowed to walk with whom she pleases across her own lawn." "But it is your fault-all your faiult!" cried Mrs. Lan- riston. "If you tried to exasperate me and-and break my heart, Bertie, you could not do it any better I After the manner in which you have acted about Carmen your- self, to bring such a man as St. Julian here. I carlpot imagine what you were thinking of!" "Mother," said Bertie, growing white and stern in a second, "once for all, this must end. I have told you before-I tell yolu again, most positively and finally-- that Carmen is noticing to me--nothing. Can you not understand this, and cease building hopes which bring you only disappointment and vexation?" "Bertie!" said she, with a gasp. "Bertie l"She grew so pale that Bertie involuntarily put out his arm to sup- port her, but she caught it eagerly, almost violently, look- ing as he had not seen her look since she implored him not to surrender Lauriston to an actress' daughter. "Ber- tie," she said, "you are mad-you do not underolt This on which I have set my heart must be! You i- . know what you are saying I It must be I "It is you who do not know what you are saying, mother," answered Bertie, coldly. " 1 know, perfectly. It can never be. The sooner you realize this, the better,? he said, walking away from her, as Willis came in. The poor woman, thus left, sat down, looking like one /                ,   s tufnned. It was true enough that she had, heard it all before : ,-heard it more than once in those letters the true con- ?' tents of which had never transpired; but then she had !-t hoped so much when Bertie should have seen Carmen. AShe had watched the girl during all this past year with ouclh eager, anxious eyes, thinking, as every new grace of ^ person or mind unfolded itself, and every winning charm 'came to light, how each would prove only a fresh chain to bind Bertie's heart. And now- What she would have said in her bitter disappointment there is no telling, if just then Carmen herself had not appeared, withl the freshness and brightness of the morning on her radiant young face. i"Oh, madre, how sorry I am to be so late!" she said, as she entered the room. "Did you not wonder what had become of me? But it was so lovely on the river. Mr. St, Julian was kind enough to take me out, and we went farther than we intended. It is easier floating down the *current, you know, but of course we had to pull all the way back, and the boat leaks dreadfully. Look at my skirts." "I did not fancy that Mr. St. Julian was so matutinal in his habits," said Mrs. Lauriston, saluting that gentle- man with rather a forced smile, as he came in. Then the usual morning greetings and inquiries were exchanged as they sat down to breakfast. Notes were compared about the respective soundness of their sinm- bers, opinions given about the brightness of the morning, the loveliness of the river, the proper means of managing a boat, and various other things, till at last, in a lull of the general conversation, Bertie turned to Carmen. "I hope you will be able to drive over to Mr.- Blandford's to-day," he said. "The ladies who arrived yesterday remember you perfectly, and are very anxious to see you again." He tried to speak indifferently, but he was provoked to feel that he did not succeed at all-that, being conscious of his mother's pained, wistful gaze, there was a certain chord of restraint, almost of defiance, in his voice. It was a chord over which St. Julian arched his brows a little, and which made Carmen lift her eyes to his face in surprise. i "The ladies at Mr. Blandford's?" sihe said. "Yes, we siall call, of course, shall we not, madre? I did not think of going to-day, however. It is true Clara Blandford sent me a message about croquet this afternoon; but I thought that-that since it was your first day, we would lpend it at home." "You are very kind, I am sure," said Bertie, with a laugh which had also a cadence of constraint in it. "But unfortunately I promised Miss Clara to go over to her cro- quet this afternoon; and therefore, although it would' be wery pleasant to be lazy and domestic under one's own roof-tree, there is no escape. It is a question of civility to go." s "Then I suppose we shall go too," said Carmen, hesi- tatingly. She did not quite understand Bertie's tone or Mrs. Lauriston's looks, and she glanced from one to the other in a half-puzzled doubt which was strange to her. What did they mean? What did Bertie want to do? She even looked at St. Julian for an explanation, but St. Ju- lian, understanding everythng perfectly, hardened his face into impassive stolidity, and saw nothiing but the egg he was breaking. "You can go if you choose, Carmen," Mrs. Laurlston said, after a minute, too angrily indignant with Bertie to make any attempt to conceal her feelings. "I am not aware, however, that either Miss Davenport or Miss Riv- ingithnt has any special claim on my consideration, or that there'is any reason why I should drive five miles to see them on the day after their arrival in the country." "I-of course I did not mean to go if on -think it best not," the girl said, a little bewildered ; and then she glanced at Bertie, who was looking very black indeed. "If the fact of their being my friends can give them no claim on your consideration, mother, I have no more to say" he remarked, haughtily enough. I should never think of calling on young ladies be- cause they were your friends, Bertie," said Mrs. Lauriston.   "I don't recognize friendships between young men and vyoung women. They were not the fashion in my day. Mrs. Davenport is an old acquaintance of mine, however, and I shall. pay them some civility on her account. But civility does not mnean going to see them the day after they arrive. Next week will be quite time enough to call." "Why not next month?" asked Bertie, sardonically. Tlhen there was a pause. The mother and son had never-not even over the question of the Lauriston estate -been so much exasperated with each-other as now; and the strife of their adverse wills and desires seemed to make ,at once a tumult and a constraint about the pleasant break. fast-table, with its china and silver and flowers. Bertie cut the meat on his plate almost savagely, while Mrs. Lau- riston stirred her coffee round and round with a cheek filusl- ing deeper every second. Carmen felt uncertain what to make of it all. St. Julian indulged himself in a quit shrug. "Easy enough to see how the wind is setting," he thought. After breakfast the two gentlemen walked to the stables while they smoked their cigars. "By George! if I can find a decent mount, I'll go over to Blandford's for the day," Bertie said, savagely, break- ing silence for the first time when they had left the house about a hundred yards behind them. "No, you won't," St. Julian answered. "However an- gry you may be with your mother, you owe something to your cousin, and I should scarcely call that civil treat- ment. Seriously, Bertie, had you not better stop and con- sider what you are doing and what you mean to do?" "Consider! what the d-1 should I consider?" asked Bertie, in a fume. "The insane folly of a silly woman's schelne! By Jove, St. Julian, you know as well as I do that the whole thing is worse than nonsense." "Why should I know it?" said St. Julian, after a min- ute's pause. "Of course I see very plainly what your mother wishes-what any mother would wish; and I also see, Bertie, that if you were reasonable, it would be the best thing in the world for you. "In all my life," he added, with energy, "I have never seen a lovelier woman than your cousin." "Indeed!" said Bertie; and he forgot himself so far, that the word was almost a sneer. "Then why don't you fall in love with her yourself, my good fellow? Here is Lau- riston waiting for you. It is not more certain that the sun is shining yonder in the heavens than that not an acre or timber of it will ever again belong to me." "You cannot tell that." "But I can tell that, whlen there is only one way by which it can belong to me!" he said, fiercely. "'St. Julian, I see plainly what you think. You think that Alice Rivington is only making a fool of me, and that nothing will ever compe of my passion for hler, as God knows it is probable enough nothing may. But if she cast me off to-morrow, it would make no difference here. That girl yonder may be sweet and good and all that my mother says she is, but if her face brings anything to me besides indifference, it is dis- like-dislike, not because she inherited Lauriston, but be- cause she has been so constantly and persistently thrust upon me in such an obnoxious manner." "That is not her fault, however."*" "Who said it was her fault? Don't think that I am such a brute as to blame her. Perhaps she feels the same tlhing about me. It would be natural enough, if my rmother lhas tormented her as she lhas tormented me. fHere we are, however. Come in, St. Julian. By Jovel how strange it is to remember the day whbn all these stalls were filled with horses of Imine! Let us see if we can find anything now fit to go under saddle." The hostler who met them, however, shook his head mournfully. "Nothin' like the stud there were when you was here, Mass' Bertie," he said. "Only the carriage horses, sir, and Miss Carmen's mare, and a pony for her phaeton. Them's all the pleasure hosses, sir. It's quare to me, -who've bin here sence I was a boy, sir, to remember the day when I've seen fifteen or twenty a-standin' in them stalls. It isn't like it was in your day, Mass' Bertie." "If it was my day again to-morrow," said Bertie, "I   shouldn't be able to afford fifteen or twenty pleasure horses. Colfound it!-that was: before the flood! Bring out the mare. Let us see what she looks like. Who bought her?" 4Mr. Allen, sir." This was the "manager"-overseers having gone out of fashion-of the Lauriston plantation, though it may he premised that the chief income of the estate was not derived from its broad lands, but from certain investments in city property which Arcllibald Lauriston had made, and which yearly rose in value. After an hour spent in smoking, in criticising the horses and in loitering about the grounds, the two young men took their way back to the house. "I fairly hate to go in," said Bertie. "My mother has made everything so uncomfortable by her folly." "Is that any reason why you should make it still more uncomfortable by your temper?" asked St. Julian. "And here comes your cousin to meet you. Bertie, do you remember a line of Browning's which runs somewhat thus: 'And when I saw that woman's face, Its calm simplicity of grace--' What comes next I don't remember, but your cousin has kept that and a dozen other lines from a dozen other poets in my hlead this morning." "I never read Browning," said Bertie. "Unintelligible stuff, isn't it?" The woman over whom seemed breathed the antique charm of that "calm simplicity of grace" of which St. Julian had spoken met them in 'the lihall as they, en- tered.                     "Have you been to look at the horses?" she said, with a smile, to Bertie. "You ought to have ordered them for this afternoon. Madre and I are going to call on the ladies at Mr. Blandford's." CHAPTER XI1I. SOMETHNG BESIDES CROQUET. AFTER Carmen's olive-branch, the morning passed pleasantly and smoothly enough-at least to outward seeming. It is true Mrs. Lauriston was cold to Bertie, and Bertie himself was restless and somewhat ill at ease; but still a stranger looking in would have thought it a charming and cheerfill group who were assembled in the pretty sitting-room, with its soft couches and India matting, and the breeze blowing in, waving the curtains and fluttering the leaves of the books on the table. Contrary to his usual habit, St. Julian took most of the burden of entertaining and harmonizing the party on his shoulders. He made Bertie, who had a very good tenor, oice, and was not averse to exhibiting it, sing song after shng; he told Mrs. Lauriston all the society gossip he could remember or invent, and then-to recomnpense himself for the latter feat of amiability, perhaps-he bored everybody but Carmen by reading aloud one of the dreamy, magical, lovely legends of The Earthly Para- dise. It was when lie finished this last that Bertie said in a suspiciously somnolent tone from the sofa where lie had thrown himself, "Isn't that the book you told me not long ago was worth reading, St. Jullian?" "It is very likely," St. Julian answered, coolly. "I have no recollection of the fact; but I should certainly feel justified in telling anybody it was worth reading." "The Earthly Paradise!" 'repeated Bertie, dreamily. "Yes, I know that was it, for I bought it the next day and sent it down to Carmen, since I judged from her orders for books that she was fond of poetry." "Oh!" said Carmen, in a quick tone of regret, and a, most of mortification. "Is it possible you had never read it yourself? Ah, why did you tell me? It added so much to my enjoyment to think that you had en- joyed it before me. Every beautiful line seemed to me more beautiful because it was full, not only of beauty, but of-of somebody else's appreciation." "Well," said Bertie, lazily; "I am sure it was full of St.- Julian's appreciation, and of a great many other people's, 8   too, I dare say. As for me, poetry is not in my line. To tell the truth, I cannot understand it. Even St. Julian- manages to make his verses thoroughly incomprehensible to anybody who is not as mystical as himself." "Tlhere will be a Saul among the prophets, indeed. when I become mystical, Bertie," said St. Julian, dryly. Then he turned to Carmen. "I see you have the late magazines on your table," he said. "Have you noticed a little poem of mine in one of them? I should like to hear your opinion of it." "I noticed it, and I have been wanting to tell you how much I like it," she answered, glancing up quickly, "but I fancied you would scarcely care for the opinion of one who knows so little of criticism, and who can only appreciate." "And do you think people who can appreciate are com. mon?" he asked, smiling. "If ,I cared only for the opin- ion of critics, I should have but a limited and carping audience for my efforts. It is on the class of uncritical readers that all writers save the most purely 'esoteric' must base their hIope&." "Then, since I belong pre-eminently to that class, I feel half inclined to tell you how much I have enjoyed your poems," she said, flushing a little at her temerity in speaking thus to a " poet," but laughing also, and looking rarely lovely, the poet in question thought. "Pray tell me," he said, eagerly. "I should like to Lear what you think of them. I am glad they have given you pleasure." "Carmen is exceedingly fond of all poetry, Mr. St. Julian," said Mrs. Lauriston, thinking it high time to in- terfere in suchl a conversation as this. "Don't give me such a character, madre," said Carmen, witl a little grimace. "What will Mr. St. Julian think of my admiration of his poetry, if lie hears that I am fond- of all poetry, without regard to author or excellence?" "Miss Rivington has set several of St. Julian's poenms to very pretty music," said Bertie. "Did you ever see a lit- tle sea-song of his about sailing to the evening star and all that kind of thing? She has written a beautiful air for thlat. It goes this way," said he, walking to the piano and' beginning to touch some chords. "Miss Rivington had a professional education, I think," said Mrs. Lauriston, striking vindictively with her fan at an unfortunate fly near by. "All the professional educations in the world will not give talent like llers," said Bertie, flushing. "Besides, what is the harm of a professional education? A lady can be a lady, I suppose, even if she is a singer or ain ac- By Jove!" he said, in a lower tone to himself, stop- ping short. There was a short pause. Everybody felt a little un- comfortable. It was Carmen who spoke first, very quietly and simply. "I think you are quite right. A lady is a lady, let her life be what it may. No education could harm some women. There was my mother, for example," she said, her voice faltering a little. "Your mother was an angel, a princess-anything-- everything most beautiful and noble!" cried Bertie. "I have never seen any one to compare with her-never I If I wanted an argument in favor of a professional life for women, I should point to your mother." "But it was not the life which made her what s4#- was," said Carmen, looking at him gratefully. "Sh" would have been the same in any position., It was her- self." "And so would Miss Rivington have been the same in any position," said Bertie-a conclusion which irked Mrs. Lauriston's soul, but which she dared not deny. In conversation such as this the morning wore away. It all looked smooth and pleasant enough on the surface, but of the quicksands beneath, Carmen was perhaps the only person wholly unconscious. Dinner was served early, on account of the afternoon visit, and after dinner the two ladies went to their toil- ettes. "Look your' prettiest, my love," said Mrs. Lauris- ton to Carmen, with that same wistfulness again in her eyes. "Wtar something specially becoming, though, in-   deed,you look well in anything," she ended, with a short Sigh. That sigh was for the general perversity of human tastes. Let Carmen look ever so well, St. Julian would no   doubt perceive and admire it, but Bertie-Bertie would have eyes for no beauty save that of his golden-haired enchantress.   \WOULD BE MUCH MORE LIKELY TO BE WORTH LESS THAN THE DUST UNDER YOUR FEET."   CHAPTER XIII. (CONTINUED.) SOMETHNG BESIDES CROQUET. WHETHER it was on account of Mrs. Lauriston's rec- ommendation, or whether it was owing to the new, dainty dress she wore, Carmen certainly did look unushually well when she came down to the front portico, where they were all assembled, waiting for her. She wore no colors yet; so her whole costume was made up of that white and black which is so effective, and has become so popular that it has lost all the distinction of "half mourning" which it once   possessed. It was as mourning, however, that Carmeli wore it, as her crape hlat and jet ornaments proved, and ij its freshness and elegance the whole toilette was as differ- ent as possible from the made-up costunmes of white nli.: lin and black silk with which we are all so familiar. "I hope I have not kept you waiting long," she said, with a pretty little glance of apology, as she appeared. "How shall we go, madre?" she asked, looking at the car- riage and the trim pony phaeton, both of which were stand- ing before the door.      v "If Mr. St. Julian will accept a seat in the carriage with me, you can drive Bertie," said Mrs. Lauriston, turning with her most gracious smile to the former gentleman, who of course bowed and said that he would be most happy. But Bertie interrupted. "St. Julian detests close cati   riages, mother," he said. "I have heard him say so a hundred times. Let Carmen give him a seat in her phae- ton, and I will come with you." It is scarcely necessary to say, however, that St. Julian had sufficient tact to decline this obliging offer. He did detest close carriages, but, for the matter of that, he de- tested country visiting and croquet-parties still more; and since he was "in for" the chief disagreeable, he philosoplh- ically thought that the lesser one scarcely, mattered. Be- sides which--though Mrs. Lauriston would not have cred- ited this-he was honestly anxious that Bertie should have an opportunity to see how charming Carmen really was. "There is no counting on consequences," lie thought. "The fellow. used to be as fickle as the wind. She may put his yellow-haired divinity wholly out of his Ihead.' So having put Mrs. Lauriston into the carriage, lie fol- lowed her himself, giving scarcely a glance of envy to the neat little pllaeton as it bowled by, with Bertie installed on its low luxurious seat. The drive of five miles to the Blandford place was not disagreeable even in a carriage on that soft, golden Sep- tember afternoon. The road was delightfilly smooth, and wound like a long yellow ribbon past broad fields and through woods, into whose cloistered greenness the sun- shine streamed with something pathetic in its glory, com- ing also, now and then, in view of the river flowing lazily and serenely along between its deeply-shadowed banks. Even with his companion to entertain, St. Julian would not have cared if the five miles had lengthened into ten. This succession of fair country scenes was certainly better than a lawn full of croquet-lloops and chattering women and vapid men, for this was his complimentary manner of summing up the company whom he was likely to meet. Bertie, meanwhile, found, that a tete-d-tefe with Carmen was not half so formidable as he had fancied it wold be. If lie did not find her so charming as St. Julian hoped that he might, it was because his thoughts were too wholly preoccupied with an absorbing passion for another woman; but at least he acknowledged that she deserved all the en- comiums which his mother had bestowed on he,. Some- thlling of remorse for all his impatient thoughts concerning her stirred at his heart when he met the lovely Spanish eyes-eyes which had inherited all their light and softness from the beautiful actress who hadonce fascinated him. "I could be so fond of her," he thought, " if only this con- founded folly had not come between us. It was her mother herself who said she was to be my sister." His own mother being absent, he managed to forget the "confounded folly" for a little while, hlowever, and with that soft voice and ihappy laugh to win him in spite of himself to pleasant thoughts, they drove along as frank and gay as a pair of children through the still charm of the mellow afternoon to the gates of Beechdale, as the Blandfords called their place without any relevance whatever. There was not a beech within miles, nor a dale anywhere niear; but then the name sounded well, and that was all which was essen- tial. The world would come to an end indeed if people were obliged to consult common sense in christening their towns, or their houses, or their horses, or their children, of any other of their possessions. ;' "I fancy our friends Ware at the croquet-ground," Car- /ien said, as a sound of voices came to her ear when she entered the gate, and was driving around the gravel sweep I6 the front of the house. "Not all of them," said Bertie, "for yonder are some ladies on the piazza." He was right. Carmen saw a glint of light drapery within the leafy arches of the verandah, as they ap- proached; and when she drew up before the entrance, Mrs. Blandford came forward to receive them. "Clara hoped so much you would come, my dear," she said, meeting the young heiress with that effusive cor- diality with which the world in general makes a point of greeting heiresses. "But Sydney said you would not promise certainly, so she did not' like to delay the game. She will be so delighted to see you, though, and your cousin." (The time had been when Bertie would scarcely have been lugged in at the end of Mrs. Blandford's wel- como like this, as he felt with a certain grim amusement,   standing by.) "I hope Mrs. Lauriston is coming," this lady went on, " and Mr. St. Julian? Ah, yes, I see the carriage yonder. Pray sit down, my dear Miss Lauries&- ton. But I beg pardon: here is an old friend of yours whom I suppose I need scarcely introduce." She turned, as she spoke, and out of the green dim- ness of a vine-embowered nook 4 lady came forward. A lady! A goddess, rather, Carmen thought, as the fair, graciolus presence advanced with smiling eyes and ex- tended hand. "I am not sure that there is no introduction needed, my dear Mrs. Blandford," she said, in a voice so clear anal pure and sweet that it almost startled those who heard it for the first time. "Miss La:uriston may have forgotten tle." "No," said Carmen. "I remember you perfectly, Miss Rivington." She might have added that she remembered also the single meeting on which the claim of old friendship was based, and how the only recognition of -her presence on that occasion had been a few critical and slightly disdain- fill glances from the beautiful eyes now shining with such cordial light; but, then, what aid it matter? She felt a slight inclination to laugh at the gracefll empressement of the stranger who had been indeed such an entire stranger; but she was fill of kindly feeling for all the world, and ready even to "make believe" that this daughter of the gods, with her exquisite, clear-cut face and sapphire eyes, without a stain of neutral color in them, had been an ac- quaintance, if not an "old friend." So they stood to- gether, saying the pleasant commonplaces of meeting, while Mrs. Blandford informed Bertie that it was a very charming day and not at all warm for the season, and Mrs. Lauriston and St. Julian were agreeing that croquet- parties were the greatest bore of modern civilization, as thev drove around the well-gravelled sweep. Fifteen minutes later, a quartette composed of Miss Riv- ington, Carmen, St. Julian and Bertie, took their way across the lawn to the croquet-ground, Mrs. Lauriston having kindly excused the young lady on whom she had come to " call." St. Julian was attending the divinity in question, though hlow it came to pass nobody exactly knew-Bertie least of all. The latter had taken his place by her side, as they moved off; but when the natural division of the group came, he found himself with Carmen-how, he could not tell. It had been cleverly done by somebody-St. Julian, he fancied; and he gave him a savage look in acknow- ledgment, for the old jealousy was not quite dead yet in Bertie's breast, but on the contrary,had burst into fresh flame recently. Whoever was to blame or to thank, however, the fact remained the same; and so it'happened that when they reached the croquet-ground, and were received by Miss Clarat with an effusion even greater than that of her mother, Carmen and Bertie had no alternative but to join the game, while Miss Rivington and t;3. Julian coolly .sat down on some chairs which had been placed near by for any elders who might care to overlook the remarkable lively amusement of seeing a set of balls knocked through a row of hoops. "Miss Rivington is more beautiful than ever," Carmen said to Bertie, in one of those intervals which occur so often in croquet when people have nothing to do but lean on their mallets and talk or flirt or look bored or look pretty, as their taste inclines. "Or is it that I had forgot- ten how beautiful she is? If I were a painter I would paint her, if I were a sculptor I would carve her, if I were a poet-like Mr. St. Julian-I would write verses which should tell all the world of her loveliness." "And what would you do if you were none of those things?" asked Bertie, watching with pained, jealous eyes St. Julian's near neighborhood to the perfect profile and graceful golden head outlined against the dark green hedge behind them. "Suppose you could only love her-nothing else; what would you do then?" She glanced at him quickly. Something in his tone surprised her, though she did, not suspect the truth. She was facing the sunlight, and could not see the expression  of his face. If she had seen it just then, it might have   1  told her everything, without any need of further develop- ments. But she did not see it, and so she answered more lightly than she would otherwise have done: "I could at least tell this love to her, could I not? It might be worth more-if it were true love, it ought to be worth more-than all the paintings and sculpture and poetry in the world." "It would be much more likely to be worth less than the dust under your feet," he said, bitterly; and then he inflicted vindictive chastisement on a ball which was just then at his mercy, sending it flying over the smooth green turf with astonishing celerity. Meanwhile, Miss Rivington was saying to St. Julian, "Has that cousinly arrangement de convenance which every. body seems to expect been brought into the class of ac- complished facts yet? How clear-sighted you were when you prophesied it eighteen months ago in Paris!" "Did I prophesy it?" he asked, coolly. "I thought I only said that it would be a good thing if it came to pass. I still think that it would be a good thing; but I regret to say that I see no immediate prospect or hope of its coming to pass." "Then all the friends of the Lauriston family will be grievously disappointed," said she, laughing. "It seems to be reckoned on as something quite certain to take place; and since it is so desirable as to enlist even your sympathy, may I ask what is the obstacle?" He looked at her with those limpid eyes of his, in which just now not the poet but the man of the world was visi- ble. "Do you need to ask, Miss Rivington?" he said, rather curtly. She flushed a little, the lovely color in her face deepen- ing under lhis gaze, but the lids did not droop over her eyes. On the contrary, a faint smile stirred about her lips. "Don't look so indignant," she said. "What have I done? Is it my fault if I am the obstacle? I take it for granted that is what you mean." "Is it not your fault?" he asked. "If it is not your fault, I know not whose it can be." "You mean that but for his foolish infatuation for me that foolish boy yonder would have fallen into the kind plans of his friends for his welfare?" "I mean just that. Why should he not? You might see that his cousin is a woman whom any man might well learn to love for herself" "Yes, I see it," she answered, frankly. She was too beautiful, and perhlaps too sensible, this Alice Rivington, to adopt the foolish plan, common enough among women, of denying the charm of another woman, as if the denial had any power to alter the fact. "And Bertie is easily influenced," St. Julian went on, "or was easily influenced before he met you. What spell you have cast over him you only know ; but whatever it is, I wish you would unbind and let him free. What vour object in keeping him has been, I cannot understand,"' he said, half musingly. "He is not a man wl!  coId possi- bly prove attractive to a woman like yourseffs an( you are not a woman--or, at least, I did not think you were a woman-to care for the empty reputation of an empty conquest, more or less." '"Are you trying to flatter me into doing what you de- sire?" she naked, flushing again, and more deeply, at his last words. "It is scarcely worth while, Mr. St. Julian. I have no desire to keep your friend bound to my chariot- wheels; why should I have? But I do not clearly see  by what means you propose that I should give him his freedom." , If you desired to give him his freedom, you would be at no loss for the means," St. Julian answered, almost imrn patiently. "No man out of a romance, Miss Rivington, ever remained devoted to a hopeless passion, and it would be especially impossible for a man of Bertie Lauriston's character to do so. He is living on hope, whether as small as a mustard seed or as great as an oak tree Heaven knows and you know, I suppose. I don"t. I only know that if you really desire to set him free, I can tell you how to do it in three words-end that hope." "But how cant I possibly tell a man that he must sur-   render certain visionary dreams which he may never have breathed to me?" "A woman as clever as you are will know very well how," said he, shrugging his shoulders. "You are very kind to take my cleverness so obligingly for granted when it suits your, convenience to do so, said she, a little mockingly. "But if I gave the bird his free. dom, do you think he would fly to the hand Which is ready for him?" "Look yonder," said St. Julian, nodding slightly across the croquel-ground. She turned her head, and looked. The two cousins were standing a little apart from the other players, talking to- gether. What they were saying may not have been-and in truth really was not-at all remarkable or confidential but the surroundings of some scenes seem to suggest in- finitely more than the scenes themselves realize- and it was the case here. Bertie was standing with his straw hat in his hand, lightly fanning himself, and looking down irto the bright, flishe'd face uplifted to him. Certainly, whether it had meaning or not, the little picture was very pretty. What with the green grass, the flickering shadows, the tender blue sky, the glory and beauty of the whole golden afternoon, it seemed a fitting time and place for the idvl which might, perhaps-who knows?--have taken place if Fate had only been propitious. "It does not look as if there was much need for my in- terference," said Miss Rivington, with ler low, musical laugh. "But your interference-if you choose to give it that name-woull make a certainty of all that at present seems only a possibility," said St. Julian, quickly. "If you saw this as plainly as I do, perhaps-  Indeed, I can scarcely think that I should need to plead much more." Then she turned and looked at him. "You seem very much in earnest in your pleading," said she, with a surprise which she made no attempt to conceal. "I am in earnest," lie answered, in a tone that bore un- mistakable testimony to the truth of the assertion. Then there was a second's pause. Much hung on Alice Rivington's next words, and she knew it. Indeed, she fan- cied that more hung on them than was really the case. A sudden hope rose up in her heart that St. Julian, in plead- ing for Bertie's interest, was in reality pleading his own cause. The thought seemed to tingle through her like th6 charge of an electric battery, quickening her. pulses and making her eyes gleam with new lustre. It was impossi- ble-nay, it was absurd-to suppose that the mere ques- tion of Bertie's marrying or not marrying his cousin could excite so much interest in a man usually so cold and re- served both in feeling and expression. The true secret of this earnestness, then, must be-herself. She was not a vain woman, for all her beauty-she was a woman whose wits were too keen, and. who had'been trained in too severe a school, for that-and it was not, therefore, the weakness of fancying herself irresistible that led her to this conclu- sion. It was worldly wisdom whichl refused to credit such a degree of disinterested friendship. And in this, as in many other things, worldly wisdom was right, so far as it went. It was not disinterested friendship-which induced St. Julian to make this last effort to secure for Bertie the freedom which the poor infatuated fellow had not sense enough left to desire for himself, but neither was it the love or the jealousy which- Alice Rivington was inclined to fancy. It was something she would scarcely have cred- ited, if she had known. It- was a sympathy so pure and tender that he scarcely owned it to himself by any tangible name--a sympathy which had been called forth that morning when Carmen had betrayed to his quick eye and quicker intuition more than once the secret of her heart. He read the whole story at a glance, for nature had not made him a poet for naught, and so reading it, had felt as if he could almost lay his heart in the dust before the ten- der, noble creature who held back nothing in the dedica- tion of self which she felt to be at once her duty and her glory. It was for her sake that he had brought this peti- tion to the feet of the enchantress who had charmed Ber- tie's ears against the voice of reason, and it was for her   sake that he waited anxiously now for the reply on which so much depended. When it came at last,-it surprised him. "This thing which you ask me to do is more difficult than you imagine," said Miss Rivington, in a low-voice; "but since it is you who ask it, since it is you who desire it, I will endeavor to do what I can. It is the first favor you ever asked of me," she said, looking at him with a smile that might have dazzled a brain one degree less sober. "See how quickly I grant it." "You are indeed very kind," he said. "I scarcely know low to thank you. Great favors dwarf thanks, you know; and this, if you accomplish it, will be a very great favor." (Then aside to himself, "Confound the woman! Does she think she can make a fool of men  The first favor 1 Yes, and, by Jove, the last, too.")       . CHAPTER XIV. &       A DINNER-PARTY,. "CARMEN," said Mrs. Lauriston, " where is Bertie?" Tile question was very like that one of old to which the answer was, "Am I myv brother's keeper?" but Car- men-stopped in the hall as she was passing through by the sudden appearance of Mrs. Lauriston in the sitting- room door-made no isuch reply. "He took Bonnibelle"-this was her mare-"and rode over to Beechdale a little while ago, madre," she answered. "I saw him as he was starting, so I gave him a book for Miss Rivington which I promised to send her." "What book?" asked Mrs. Lauriston, a little sharply. "A magazine with a review of Mr. St. Julian's poems," Carmen answered, looking surprised. "My dear," said Mrs. Lauriston, somewhat anxiously "I hope you have not taken any sudden fancy or friend- ship, such as girls sometimes do, to Miss Rivington. I noticed that you talked a great deal to her yesterday even- ing." 'I think she is beautiful enough to worship, and very charming and clever," said Carmen. "If that is taking a 'sudden fancy or friendship,' I have certainly done so. I was very glad that you asked them to dinner to-day. I want to see more of her." "I asked them to dinner merely because it was civil to do so," said Mrs. Lauriston, " not because I think Alice Rivington a desirable acquaintance in any respect." She spoke with so much emphasis that Carmen, never fond of darkness or mystery in the least degree, was about to ask an explanation, when, to the surprise of both ladies, St. Julian appeared in the library door, which was not far from the spot where they were standing. It had not been a slight effort for him to rouse himself from a comfortable couch in a charming bay-window, with green leaves rug- tling without, and a view of the river and the distant hills softlv dappled with lights and shadows; but if people woulk talk in the hall, there was nothing to do but to show them that he was within earshot, he thought, and so forced himself to the exertion, conscious by one of his quick in- stincts that if he delayed five minutes it would be too late to appear--too late for anything save great awkwardness if he was discovered. So he came out, a picture of nonella- lant coolness, with his unruffled manner and handsome, languid face. "I have been trying to read the novel you recom- mended, Miss Lauriston," he said; "but whether it is because I have grown dull, or because the novels have grown stupid, or because French fiction has spoiled my taste for the English school, with its inevitable orthodox love-story, I cannot tell. I know that few things except a geological essay interest me now. There is more imagina- tion in that than in anything else with which I am ac- quainted." "What a pity some geologist could not hear you!" said Carmen, laughing. "He would be rather complimented than otherwise if he knew what I meant. Have you ever read any of their books? If you ever have, I am sure you must have been fascinated by the wonders described and the vivid imag- ination exhibited. Think of the tropical scenery they   find in the coal-beds, for example. Think of the glacial epoch alone. Let me recommend you to go to geology when you want a new sensation, Miss Laurilton. It is even better than the Arabian Nights; and when I am bored be- yond everything, I' always turn to ' Bagdad in the golden prime of good Haroun Alraschid.' "If Tennyson had never written anything but that, I don't think we could ever let his memory die," said she, smiling. "But it is too lovely to stay in the house to-day, Mr. St. Julian; and since the boat is under repair, I have . ordered the phaeton. You said yesterday that you would like to see the old mill I spoke of. Since Bertie hlas for- saken us, and there seems no better amusement, would you like to drive there?" - "I should like it of all things," said he, eagerly, though his quick eye caught the dark shade that came over Mrs. Lauriston's face. There was reason in all things, he thought, however, a little indignantly. He had done his best for Bertie; and, if Bertie was obstinately bent upon doing the worst for himself, that was no reason why he (St. Julian) should not gather the roses which were offered to him by lips as sweet and eyes as soft as those of his young hostess. So from thie window where she always sat and read, or talked, or sewed, Mrs. Lauriston had the dissatisfaction of seeing those two drive off together in the pretty pony- carriage, Carmen gathering up the reins and St. Julian installed on the seat beside her. St. Julian, not Ber- tie!"Oh, that wretched boy!" llis mother thought, clasp- ing her hadds. "Is this to be the end of all my hopes? Is Lauriston to pass away from us for ever? And it is no fault of Carmen's-at least, not much. Whatever comes to pass, I shall always be just enoughl to remember that she was more than anxious, poor child I to do all that lay in her power. It is Bertie's fault-Bertie's entirely! . After all my efforts, all my patience, all my hopes, this is the end. Heaven knows," cried she, bursting into a sudden passionate flood of tears, " it is almost enough to make me wish that he had never been born 1" It was quite enough, the same exasperated lady thought when the long bright day had waned into evening, and the party from Beeclidale were gathered in the draw- ing-room at Lauriston-a long, lofty, old-fashioned room, fill just now of softly-toned shadows and crimson sunset light-waiting for dinner. The "wretched boy" was, if possible, conducting himself in a more provoking manner than ever. Though Carmen was a sight worth any man's admiration in her exquisite toilette-Mrs. Lauriston had herself superintended that toilette-and her sweet, stately, Spanish grace, Bertie had eyes only for Alice Rivington, who looked as if she had .descended from Olympus itself, as she stood near a western window with the marvellous glow of the incarnadine sky falling over her magnificent figure, her pure, perfect, clear-cut face. His infatuation seemed to have reached its climax, his mother and St. Julian both thought, watching him. When he was not hovering near his goddess, he was absent and absorbed to a degree which attracted the attention of every one present. "We are all astonished to perceive how much Bernie has changed," Mr. Blandford confided to Mrs. Lauriston with that delightfill tact which some people possess to such remarkable, and display to such conspicuous, degree. "I was saying to my wife to-day that I have rarely seen a young fellow so altered. I should never think that he was the same person who used to be so full of life. The loss of the property was a very hard blow to him, and I am afraid he has not quite got over it." "Bertie has been working very hard," said Mra. Lauria- ton, in her stateliest manner. "My brother wrote to me some time ago that he was afraid his excessive application would injure his health. Since he came down here, I can see plainly that it has injured his spirits." "It would not be likely to improve any man's spirits to look at such a property as this, and think that it had once been his," said Mr. Blandford, shaking his head. "I don't know of a finer estate anywhere;, and of course Bertie feels it the more from having been born to it, one might say. What a good thing it would be now," 'said the hon-- est gentleman, with the air of one who suggests a very   bright expedient, "if he and Miss Carmen would make a match! To tell you the truth, my dear Mrs. Lauriston, the whole county seems to expect it." "Things which are expected are generally the last things to come to pass," said Mrs. Lauriston, with a heroic at- tempt to smile. Over a photograph album, meanwhile, Miss Clara Blandford' was discussing the same subject with St. Julian. "We ate all perfectly amazed at the change in Bertie Lauriston," said she. "He used to be the most delightful person in the world-frank and pleasant and without a grain of affectation-and now he might really be Hamlet and Lara melted into one. Look at him yonder, will you? saying 'hal' and 'indeed!' while Belle Davenport talks to him, and never taking the trouble to show even a decent interest in what she says. Now, you know, Mr. St. Julianj that Bertie Lauriston never used to be like that." "Are you and I exactly what we used to be, Miss Blandford?"St. Julian ventured to suggest. "Time changes, as well as ages, all of us." "But not to such an extent.," said she. "This is a very -a very radical change. What is the meaning of it, Mr. St. Julian? I am anxious to know, ,ecause we each have a solution of our own at home. Papa says it is the loss of the estate, Sydney-very ill-natured of him, too-says it is because Bertie became such a great swell abroad, mamma says he is in love with his cousin-whom we are all in love with, by the bye--and I say--" "Well?" said St. Julian, smiling, as she paused. "What do you say?" "That he is the victim of a grande passion for Alice 'Rivington," said she, looking at him sharply, with the evident intention of reading in his face how far right her solution was. But it would have taken sharper eyes than hers to read St. Julian's impassive countenance. "I hav e a grande passion for Miss Rivington myself," lie said, laughing. "Did you not know that? Bult she is made of 'marble--heart and all. This is nmeant for a photograph of,yourself, is it not, Miss Blandford? It does not do y6 julstice at all." After dinnfer- the twilight was lovely. A crimson glow seemed lingering in the air; and although the moon had not yet risen which was to light the Blandford party home a few hours later, one or two golden stars had gleamed into sight through the soft sapphire of the upper skies. The :atmosphere was full of fragrance, for there is not a leaf or blossom which does not exhale its sweetest odors at this magical twilight hour, and the murmur of the river seemed to add a soft element of rhythm to the scene whichl completed its witchery. "How charming l" everybody said in chorus, and then separately, half a dozen times each, as they emerged from the house to the lawn. Chairs were brought out and rugs spread. The lamps and the moths had the drawing-room all to themselves; it was far too delightful to stay in-doors even the elders said. While the rest sat down, Miss Riv- ington and Carmen strolled away toward the old-fashioned garden, fuill of faint, dewy perfume, with the notes of tile mocking-bird rising from more than one hedge or sounding in the leafy depths of the trees. "What an exquisite scene!"Alice said, looking over the fair prospect around them-a sylvan picture painted in the softest tints, and veiled in the tender half obscurity of summer gloaming. "And what a noble place!" she added, after a short pause, turning her glance to the house,  standing with a certain air of stately pride among its old oaks. "Do vou not feel almost incredulous sometimes to think that it'is all yours?" she said, with-a smile, to the girl at her side. "It is very seldom that a woman is so richly endowed and so independent." "It seems more natural than you would imagine," Car- men answered. "I wonder sometimes myself that I am not more surprised at a transformation so like a fairy tale. But then one grows easily used to any change for-the bet- ter," she added, with a soft laugh. "It is change for the   worse that we find difficult to realize and almost impossible to bear." "Ah, that is very true," said the other, as she gath. ered uy her filmy, sweeping skirts from the dewy path. "There is Mr. Lauriston, for example. I wonder if he has quite realized yet that this beautiful old place is no longer his?" "I cannot tell," said Carmen. Her face and her tone clhanged all in a moment, as it were, a pained look came to her eyes, a faint flush to her cheek. "It must be very hard to realize," she said. "No one knows that better than I; no one can feel it half so much. It has put a sharp thorn in all the pleasure of my wealth and independ- ence," she added, a little wistfully, " to think that what I have gained Bertie has lost." "How hard such things seem, do they not?" said Miss Rivington, with a little pathos in the philosophical tone of her voice. "And yet there is no possible help for it. What one gains another must lose, I suppose. It seems a law of life. That which makes one happy to-night will make some one else miserable to-morrow." "It is not always the way," said Carmen. "I often feel as' if this-as if Bertie's case was one of peculiar hardship. I have felt from the first that my claim, which was legally greater, was morally less, than his. If he had only con- sented to keep the estate--" She broke off here, for her companion laughed-a low but rather hard laugh. "My dear Miss Lauriston," she said, " your -cousin is a man of honor. How could he, therefore, consent to keep what was not his?" "But it was so hard," said Carmen. She spoke with in- finite wistfulness, for in truth this was the perpetual bur- den of her thoughts. It was so hard-so hard that Bertie's bright young life should have been clouded over at its bright- est hour, so hard that his honor should have taken part against him, forced him to give a death-blow to every vhope and interest of his life, so hard, above all, thatshe should have been the cause of such a sacrifice. As they walked side by side along the gariden path in the soft summer dusk, it was strange to consider how near together, and yet, how far apart, these women were, albeit their thoughts were on the same theme-Bertie, and Bertie's surrender of Lauriston. How it had changed life not only for him, but for both of them!"If he had listened to me that day in Paris, I should be mistress of all this now," Alice Rivingtoin was thinking, as she had thought from the first hour she crossed the threshold of the house, or swept lier eyes over the beautiful and far-reaching prospect around. It was just the place which would have suited her -just the place and the position in which her fair, stately beauty, her clever worldly wisdom, could have done so much for her. Bertie himself, lounging on the lawn which for twenty five years had been his own, felt no such sense of  outraged bitterness in the loss of it as Alice Rivington did. "It might have been all mine," she thought. It was her inward commentary on everything. It had been the first reflection in her mind when Carmen's pretty, toy-like phaeton had driven up to the door at Beechdale. Even that should have been hers. "To think of that night at the theatre when I saw that famous actress burned to deatli! lIf I could have imagined-" Then she turned, and looked at Carmen, who seemed to her at that moment more like Madame Alvarez than she had ever seemed before. "Has it never occurred to you that there is one way in which Lauriston could be given back to your cousin?" she said, pausing abruptly, with a certain chord, like the string of an instrument out of tune, in her sweet voice. "For- give me if I am impertinent, but I only wondered if you had ever thought of one way." Carmen started a little, but she did not seem in- clined to be offended by this frankness of her new acquaint- ance. The girl was so simple and direct herself that sim- plicity and directness never surprised her. "It would be folly to pretend that I do not understand what you mean," she said, after a minute  "But -of   "AS THEY L4TTNCnED AND GLIDED OFF.)   course I need not remind you, Miss Rivington, that it is not my place to think of such a thing as that." "Ah, but you are a sort of princess, you know," said the other, with a faint laugh, " and your cousin is a disin- herited knight. Of course he would hesitate to come for- ward without a token, a hope." "I don't think any man ever hesitates to-come forward when he desires to come," said Carmen, flushing, and stab- bing herself with her own words in a way familiar to uts all. "MAen are too quick at overriding the greatest obstacles, when passion takes possession of them, for even a woman's credulity to believe that a mere scruple would in itself hold any of them back." "But still--" began Mss Rivington, eagerly. "But still," interrupted the girl, gently but decidedly, "we will not talk of it, if you please. I am. sure you are a kind friend of Bertie's, but some thngs must take their own course, you know. Not even the kindest friend can help them. Is not this a lovely rose? I think it is one of the most beautiful varieties of the tea." By this time they had made something of a half circle in their walk, and were approaching aga in the group on the lawn. "How pretty they all look!" said Carmen. "People can scarcely help looking pretty out-doors in sumnler-time. A stretch of green grass, a shadow of a tree and a woman's dress make a combination of which we never tire." "I am not very fond of pastoral s," said Miss Riving- ton. "When one has seen under the surface much, one doubts them exceedingly. I confess I never looked at one of Watteau's charming picnic scenes, for example, without wondering how many disagreeable ithings the smiling chev- aliers were thinking and feeling about each other. The beauty in the hblue hat wag at daggers-drawing with the beauty in the Dink one, you may be sure, and Drobably   tlhev had each appropriated the other's cavalier, like thie untortunate people in ' Counterparts. ' "What an unpleasant view of things!" said Carmen, laughing a little. "But do you think that in real life the beauty in the blue hat is always at daggers-drawing with the beauty in the pink one?" "Let us be honest between ourselves, and answer, always," replied the other, dryly. "It is a necessity of tle, nature of things. Men blame women a great deal for such feelings; but if they would only be reasonable, and consider the question in its true light, they would see that it is natural enough. D'A they feel amiably toward their. rivals in whatever path of life they are? Would Napo- leon have looked kindly on another Napoleon if such a being had arisen in France? It is the old story," said she, shrugging her shoulders. "Man has a thousand paths-woman has but one. Would it not be strange if she loved her rivals in that one?" Carmen answered nothing. This cool, frank cynicism startled and perhaps a little revolted her. We are often revolted by tilings which we feel and know to our inmost heart to be true. Worldly wisdom teaches us mamny un- palatable facts from which the young and generous turn impatiently away. "If it be true, let us not believe or acknowledge it," they say, but that the flacts remain facts all the same, those who have learned them to their cost know fill well. "If this be true," Carmen said, suddenly, "all women ought to hate you, who are so beautiful and so fascinating. Yet I, for one, have felt only inclined to admire and like you.' "But I am not your rival," said the other. Her con. science gave her a sharp stab, as she uttered the wordn  but then, in a measure, were they not true? Instead of desiring to possess, was she not at present very anxious to   resign, Bertie, who had grown, indeed, a heavy burden on her hands? They had now reached the group on the lawn, and found it reinforced by the gentlemen, who had come out from their wine and cigars while the little promenade exchange of sentiment was going on. "We were just talking of going in search of you," more than one voice said out of the gloaming as they approached. "It is a good thing you have arrived," Belle Davenport added, in that tone of forced lightness which so ill conceals real vexation, "else I think the rest of us would have been uite deserted by our cavaliers. Mr. Blandford and Mri Lauriston were both anxious to follow you, while Mr. St. Julian--" "Declared that he -was exceedingly comfortable where he was," that gentleman's voice remarked out of the dusky shadows where he had thrown himself on the grass, heed- less of his evening-coat or of Mr. Blandford's solemn as- surance that the dew would infallibly give him rheluma- tism, "I knew they would be sure to come back after a while-all the sooner, perhaps, for being left alone." "Of course it is an understood thing that woren must always bore each other to the verge of extinction," said Miss Rivington, with a ring of sarcasm in her voice. Dropping into seats, however, which Sydney Blandford on the one hand and Bertie on the other eagerly placed for them, the two new-comers dropped also, readily enough, into the conversation. Nothing extraordinary of any kind was being said. It was that light, pleasant, ram- bling talk in which a set of people who are for the most part sympathetic in their ideas and tastes generally in- dulge when they are informally gathered together under soft, summer skies and in balmy summer air. In such a scene and at such an hour, with the mellowing glow of old wine still expanding the heart and quickening the tongue, who could possibly be stiff or dull? To be charm- ing and brilliant is not of course within the power of most of us, but to be easy and genial can usually be compassed by those who desire to do so. Hence just now there was no constraint in the conversation, which glanced as lightly hither and thither from point to point as the fireflies that were gleaming in their soft fitful way against thfe dark background of the neighboring hedges. After a while Bertie began to hum Schubert's "Serenade," and then arose a demand for some music. "Miss Rivington sings so beautifully," Clara Blandford assured Mrs. Lauriston. "I heard Miss Rivington sing once, and I should like - very much to have the pleasure again," the elder lady said, graciously; for she was grande dame to her finger- tips, and would have scorned to show in word or tone how little she desired that "pleasure," or indeed any other, save the absence of the fair musician. "Let us send Alice and Mr. Lauriston in to sing for us," suggested Miss Davenport. "They have practiced so much together that their voices accord charmingly, and they sing quantities of duets. We can hear them perfectly if we stay here while they go to the piano." "Shall we go?" asked Berlie, turning eagerly to Alice. There was a cadence in his voice which she knew well how to interpret. She mostly kept him at arm's length, this devoted suitor of hers, and the prospect of a ttte-d-tlte in the deserted drawing-room was, to say the least, there- fore, exceedingly attractive. "'Don't you think they are asking a great deal of us?" she suggested; in reply. "While we are obliging enough to go into a warm, lighted room and sing for them, they will sit here in the lovely darkness and coolness and listen when they have-nothing better to do. Instead of that, I propose an al fresco concert. Have you a guitar, Miss Lauriston? It does not matter at all that it is an instru- ment which bas gone out of fashion, when one needs it as an accompaniment for the voice on occasions like this." "Yes, there is a guitar," said Carmen, " but I am afraid it needs strings. Guitars are always in a chronic condi- tion of needing strings, are they not? Don't say anything sagainst it as an instrument, please," she went on, smiling. "Somehow, I feel as if it was a part of Spain, and there- fore I love it. AI am Spanish born as well as of Spanish blood, you know."   "Nobody could look at you and doubt the blood, " said Miss Rivington. "I have not an idea of saying a word against the guitar, either. It is a very charming and a very graceful instrument in its way. Mr. Lauriston, if you will bring the one of which your cousin speaks, we will try and sing a little, since we are invited to do Ro." Somewhat crestfallen, therefore, poor Bertie had noth- ing to do but take his way across the lawn into the draw. ing-room in search of the guitar, which he found in the stringless condition that Carmen had predicted. Then of course he had to spend at least half an hour in looking through the cabinet-drawers and various other receptacles of drawing-rooml odds and ends for the strings; and when the strings were found, they had to be put on the instru. ment, all of which required time and patience-timE which St. Julian was probably spending at Alice Riving- ton's side; patience which Bertie had begun to feel had ceased to be a virtue. IThe young fellow's face was a study, as lie sata in the large, deserted drawing-room with the steady glow of the lamplight falling over him, work. ing diligently at his strings. Everything was wonderfully still in the house; but now and then the light tones and laughter of the group on the lawn floated in through the wide-open windows. How little they were thinking of him I How coolly Alice Rivington had sent him off alone on this troublesome errand, when she might so easily have come to the piano, standing invitingly open with its gleaming ivory key-board!"And she would have come, bv Heaven! if there had been anybody but me in the ques- tion," he thought, bitterly. Then it flashed across him how differently he would probably have been treated if all this noble heritage had still been his. "I should not have been likely to ask in vain then," he said, with a short, hard laugh. Somehow, the reflux of the tide had suddenly come in thi's mad passion which for eighteen months had held him in thrall to a woman's beauty. The guitar fell unheeded at his feet with a clang of its strings, as he sat there staring moodily yet absently at a picture on the wall before him. "I have been a fool long enough," he thought; " would not a little sanity help me now? I have given her my life, my love, everything I had to give, and what have I received in return? I have licked the dust at her feet, and she has given me a little faint tolera- tion sometimes, avoidance like this often, and a faded violet. Is not that the whole sum?" .And as he sat going back over the past with a suddenly awakened sense of stern bitterness in his heart, a strange, absorbed figure in the midst of the luxurious, brilliant room, a slender, white-clad form came in through the open window. "Bertie," Carmen said, and the clear tone of her voice made him start, " what are you doing? Have you for- gotten that you came for the guitar?" "No, I have not forgotten," said Bertie, looking up. "But after I found the guitar, I had to put strings on it, and then-well, then, thought overtook me. It is so sel- dom that thought ever does sulch a tiling," said he, shrug- ging his shoulders, ' that I could afford to be overtaken for once." "You did not look as if it was very agreeable thought when I first saw you through the window," said she, com- ing nearer and standing by the table at which he was sit- ting. "Indeed, you looked as if -it was very much the re- verse of agreeable," she added, after a minute. "Bertie, I hope nothing is wrong?" "Nothing of any importance," said, Bertie, with ta smile. "Nothng that concerns anybody but myself," no added, as lie saw the look of solicitude on her face. "It is good of you to feel any interest, but I assure you it con- cerns nobody but myself." "Nobody but yourself!" repeated Carmen. "What a thing to say! As if any trouble which concerns you must not necessarily concern other people!" "Nobody but my mother, that I know of," said Bertie, watching a moth dash itself into the flickering flame of tile lamp, and feeling a savage satisfaction in the fiery death which overtook it. "It was as great a fool as I am, and deserved its fate,' he thought. "Nobody but my mother," he repeated aloud; "and if she knew that I wt as mnis erable as-w Job, Pile would say that I deserved it all." - .x   "How little you know your mother!"Carmen said, in- dignantly. "You are everything to her; and if she knew that you were miserable, she would be thrice as miserable herself. But it is not your mother only that is concerned about you,"' -she added, steadily, though a quick glow burned on her face. "I am concerned also, Bertie. You may have forgotten all that I owe to you, but I can never forget it. Even now you cannot tell how I felt when I stood outside that window and saw you sitting here in the home which should be your own, looking so wretched." "But do not people often look wretched in homes which are their own?" asked he, trying to speak lightly. "My dear cousin, do not think so poorly of me as to imagine that I was sitting here thinking or grieving over anything in the past connected with the loss of Lauriston. I pledge you my honor--" '; It is not necessary to do that," said she, laying her ihand almost unconsciously on his arm. "I did not fancy for a moment that you were grieving over the loss of Lau- - ridlon ; but I cannot forget that this loss has revolutionized your whole life, and the other troubles which may have come upon you, you would never have known but for that. Is not this so?" He could not deny it. But for. the loss of Lauriston most assuredly his present trouble with Alice Rivington would have had no existence. In all human probability, she would have been his wife long before this, and tihe mistress of the house in which and to the possession of which he had been born. "I have feared this," said Carmen, after a minute; and there was a pang of sharp pain in her voice which went to his heart. "I have feared that it is the loss of Lauriston wlhich is at the bottom of all this great change in you that everybody is remarking. Oh, Bertie, have pity on me, if you will have none on yourself," she cried, "and take it back: It is too much for me. I cannot bear it. I cannot live here and enjoy your inheritance, while you-" "Carmen, my dear cousin,"said Bertie, taking her hand in both his own, " this is all nonsense. In the first place, you ought to know that there are no possible circumstances which would render it possible for me to take back the prop- ertv, which is legally yours; and in the second place, you are wrong in fancying that my trouble--which would be no trouble at all if I was in my right mind-lias any more connection with the loss of the property than-than that every, event is in ascertain measure the sequence of some- thing else," said Bertie, growing philosophical for once in his life. "Nothing stands by itself, you know. If you think about it, we are all the slaves of circumstances, and-" " Oh, I know, all that," said Carmen, "but it does not help the fact that this circumstance-this loss of Lauriston -has worked you harm, and that I am the cause of it. I can see no escape from that," said she, leaving her hand in liis clasp, but gazing away from him down the long room with eyes full of a wistful pathos sadder than tears. Then, looking at her, as she stood there, fair and sweet and full of passionate regret for the cloud her existence had cast over his youth, his mother's plan came to Bertie for the first time with ah air of possibility. It flashed across him like an instinct of the future that some day, perhaps, lie might ask this girl to be his wife; but it never occurred to him for one moment to do it then. He was'not in any re- spect brilliant, this Bertie Lauriston, but he was a gentle- man, and he would have felt ashamed of himself if fie had offered to the cousin who would give him everything a 1 heart flll of passionate love for another woman. Some 1 dav, perhaps-that was as far as his thought went. Even i thills was vague. Alice Rivington's lover could see but dim 1 sunshine on any path unbrightened by the magic of her I eyes. "How can I tell you in words of sufficient force not to X vex yourself over such a fancy as this?" lie slid at last. E "Carmen, my sweet cousin, I swear to you that I believe c the loss of Lauriston will in the end work me good instead of harm.  Now, shall we take the guitar and go out to the f others?  I am an egotistical brute to have kept you here d so long." 1 "Don't call yourself names," said she, smiling a little   sadly. "It is I who have kept you. It was inconsiderate, though, for they are waiting for us. They mean to take the guitar and go down to the river." "We must not keep them any longer, then," said lie, picking up the instrument. They walked across the room together; but as he held aside the curtains for Carmen to pass out of the window, she paused a moment and looked at him. "It is too late, I suppose, to talk of it now," she said, "but I am sure I have some dramatic talent, and it would have been better-oh, so much better-if you had left me to follow my mother's profession." CHAPTER XV. FROM AN ISLAND. THE moon was just rising, showing her queer, one- sided face-she had been on the decline for several nigrllts -through the fringing trees on the eastern bank, when the boat containing the party from Lauriston pushed out into the stream. It was not the little skiff in which Carmen and St. Julian had made their first voyage, but a large boat requiring several oars to propel it, and holding read- ily the eight persons who filled it. Not such a boat as the members of any boating club would be apt to view with sentiments of lively admiration, but one that did its busi- ness in the world very well, nevertheless-a boat somewhat clumsily fashioned, perhaps, and not capable of cutting the water with the ease of an out-rigger, but a very good pleasure craft, in which to float lazily down a moonlit stream, with no particular need to look after the oars or take care lest an unguarded movement should capsize ves- sel and crew. Belle Davenport had indeed expressed some fears of this kind on taking her seat, but Sydney Blandford' quickly reassured her. "You could as soon upset a tub," he said. "Nothing , short of dancing a hornpipe, could possibly do it. In fact.;';:- I doubt if a hornpipe would." So, as they launched and glided off, the elders, left be- hind on the lawn, heard first their laughing tones, then the tuning of a guitar, and finally two voices rising together in song. There are no words to say how melodiously the sweet strains of tills last sounded on the magical stilness of the summer night, blent with the deep voice of the river, and caught up by the echoes of the distant hills. Even after thie boat had rounded a bend of the stream, and was far out of sight, stray wafts of melody came floating back, full of almost fairy-like sweetness. In truth, Alice Rivington, who always sang more than well, was to-night singing like one of the sirens against whom Ulysses stopped his ears. Such a voice as hlers is rarely heard out of professional life; and when it wa.- % taken in conjunction with the silver light flooding all:i'! things, the soft, suggestive ripple of the water, the gliding motion of the boat and the mystical dreamy beauty of the whole scene, it mighlt have bewitched even the royal wan- derer himself had lie been there to listen, But it was not Alice alone who sang. Out there on the stream in kindly fellowship with each other, no broad light or solemn audi- ence to dread, the whole party developed more or less of musical power. Bertie, after one or two duets with Miss Rivington, sang several solos. Then Mr. Sydney Bland- ford and his sister piped up and gave two or three duets in listening to which nobody was critical about such trifles as time or harmony. Then St. Julian and Bertie sang together. Then Miss Davenport and Miss Rivington sang together. Then they all sang in a  grand chorus that roused the echoes finely, and so it went on.. Everybody knows how song leads to song on occasions of this kind, and how a party of people on the water will sing them- selves hoarse with the greatest apparent enjoyment. Car-. men was the only one who did not join in the amusement. She laughed and shook  her head when she was pressed to do so. "You know I   never sing," she said to Sydney, Bland- ford. "I  have too much respect for music to attempt to do poorly what I  cannot do well. If I had a voice like Miss Rivington's, now--" "If we all waited for voices like Miss Rivington's, who   would sing?" asked Sydney. "For my part, I know I am not a nightingale--no, nor a lark-but still it gives me pleasure to air my lungs now and then." "Nobody objects," said she. "In fact, I have heard people sing much worse than you do. But don't try to force others to air their lungs also when they have no voice." "But how do you know you have no voice?" said Miss Rivington. "People often make great mistakes in such matters. And you are named 'Carmen.' " "Yes, but the name signifies a different kind of song," said the girl, smiling; and she involuntarily looked at St. Julian, who was sitting nearest her. "I thought of the signification of the name as soon as I saw you," he said. "It struck me that I had never before known a name so appropriate. It is a queer sort of coin- cidence that it should have been given to you," he added, after a moment. "It was my mother's name," she said. "I know; but still it was strange that it should come to you. You, of all people!" he repeated. "I am not alone of all people in loving poetry, am I?" she asked, smiling. "Very far from it," he answered, gravely. "But to love poetry and--and to impress people as you do are very different t:hings." "To impress people as I do!" she repeated, with a tone of amusement in her voice. "Excuse me, but that is such a very ambiguous phrase that I cannot help asking you to explain it."  "Time shall explain it for me," said hle-" time, that a few centuries hence will make people speak of one Carmen as they speak now of one Sappho." She smiled, but a flush that showed even in the moon- light came over her face. "You should not talk to me like that, " she said. "It is unkind, and you will make me as much afraid of you as other people are." "You could not be afraid of anybody," said he, smiling. "But as for your being afraid of me, I do not think there is any danger of that. You know that I am earnest-that I would not mock you for the world. If you are not a born poet, I have studied all the signs of temperament and of genius in vain," lie added, earnestly. "Am I not right, therefore, in saying that it was a strange coincidence which named you Carmen?" "You are a poet yourself, and you fancy things," sihe   said. "You don't know how horrified poor madre would be if she heard you. I think her greatest fear in connec- tion with myself is that I may some day become 'literary' in even the least degree." "She might as well expect that the eagle will consort with barn-door fowls any longer than his wings are grown," said the young man, with that quick esprit de corps which in him deserved a better name, based, as it was, on a pro- found belief that the highest and noblest service in the world was the service of that ideal beauty to which he had given his life with but scant remuneration. But Carmen shook her head. "You are wrong, all wrong," she said. "If I had been a poet-don't laugh when I say that I have sometimes dreamed of being one- I should have known it before this. As it is, my fancies and the subtle thoughts which every aspect of nature seems to suggest to me can neither find nor make for themselves a means of expression. So I know it is not so. But if I had a proper opportunity, I could be an actress," said she, wistfully. "I am conscious of that capability."                \ "I can judge nothing of that power," said St. Julian, "but I would wager my soul onl vour possession of the other." "What itlhat you are ready to wager your soul on, Mr. St. Junan?" asked Miss Rivington, interposing here. "I)on't you know it is very improper to say such. things as that? What are you two talking about so s6lemnly and in such a low tone? Forgive me if I am rtide; but you seemed so much absorbed, and the night is too beauti- ful to think of anything but its beauty. Look at the moon- light on the middle of the river, and the dense, dark shad- ows along its banks. One might fancy mermaids all about us, only mermaids don't live in fresh water, do they?" "Thley live in the sea," said Carmen, "but they some- times nlake excursions up rivers into the land. Don't you remember that one of the princesses in Andersen's story of 'The Little Sea-maid' took a voyage of that kind?" But as it chanced, nobody present except St. Julian had ever read the story in question, being all people 'with little taste for such fair, fancifil lore. "Tell it to us," said Sydney Blandford, who thought the sound of Carmen's voice sweeter than all their music. "It is just the night for a story, e specially a story about a mermaid," Miss Rivington said, trailing her white hand through the water   "THEY TUJRNED AND WENT AS THEY CAME."   CHAPTER XV. (CONTINUED.)         ' FROM AN ISLAND. So Carmen began and told it--the charming story which we all know so well of the little sea-maid who loved an earthly prince, and of all the hitter pain and sacrifice site underwent to win his heart and an immortal soul for her- self. A more pathetic fancy was never conceived, nor one with a truer, deeper meaning. As Carmen told it very simply, but with a certain poetic grace, there was a thrill in her voice which seemed to sink to her listeners' hearts.   After she finished, there was a moment's pause, broken only by the gurgle of the water along the sides of the boat and the distant, mournful note of a whippoorwil on the bank. "Poor little sea-maid!" said Alice Rivington then, withI a thrill in her voice. "How foolish she wast As if a king's son ever trod the earth worth all that terrible sacri- fice! Yet how natural it was that she should have made it, and made it in' vain!" "It is gratifying to reflect that the princess whom lhe married could never possibly have loved him half so, much," Miss Blandford said, a little vindictively. "If I mav be allowed to enter a plea for the king's son," remarked Sydney, "I should say that he could not possi- bly know that this dumb foundling was a princess from the sea who was walking on knives and had given an oldU,-   witch her tongue, besides various other disagreeable things, for his sake. Therefore it is rather unreasonable to resent his not knowing it, isn't it?" "All women who love are dumb," said Alice Rivington. "Of course we know it is very improper of them to love without due encouragement, but they will do it sometimes, and then the result is very much like the little sea-maid's hopeless passion-they give all, and receive nothing." "And do men never give all and receive nothing?" asked Bertie, suddenly, his tone cutting sharply on the light, careless ripple of talk. "It seems to me that is the more common of the two." "Nobodv knows how common the other is," said Belle Davenport. "Besides, a man need never be dumb, at least." "There is certainly a great satisfaction in feeling that one has the power to speak," said he, a little savagely. "I fancy the poor little sea-maid would have felt it a satisfaction," said Miss Blandford. "Carmen, you have not told us yet what you think of her sacrifice?" "I think that you all forget one thing," Carmen an- swered. "She made her sacrifice not only for the prince's love, but for an immortal soul. Dear little sea-lnaid! It is good to think that she gained it, after all, though it was through the bitterness of sacrifice, and not through the sweetness of love." There was only one ear -quick enough to catch the in- flection of pain in those last words-only one eye able to read the meaning of the shadow on the young face whose mingled sweetness and power seemed to come. out more clearly than ever under the silvery lustre of the moon- light. "I think the witch must have presented the tongue of the princess to Miss Rivington," the fourth gentleman of the party remarked. "Didn't you say, Miss Lauriston, that she had the sweetest voice under the sea?" "That is very kind of you, Mr. Braxton," Miss Riving- ton said, laughing. "Let me see if I can bring her sisters to the surface, then ;" and without touching the guitar or taking her hand from the water, she began to sing the ex- quisite invocation from "Conius." "Sabhrina fair, Listen where thou art sitting Under the glassy, cool, translucent wave, In twisted Irailds of lilies cknitting The loose train of thy ambtler-dropping hair; Listen for dear honor's sake, Goddess of the silver lake, Listen and save!" And one person at least, watclling her, as she sat there in her strangely perfect beauty--beauty to which the sur- roulndings lent, if possible, aldded magic-could not but think, with a burning, passionate, angry heart, that the "goddess of the silver lake" herself could not have been fairer to look upon had she arisen. Not by him. how- ever, but by Mr. XBraxton, something equivalent to this was said.  '  "I went toaga fancy ball once as Sabrina," Miss Riving- ton said. "tiltilnce a dozen people at least asked me who Sabrina was, I decided that the character-was not very much of a success. Mr. St. Julian, you were there that night; do you remember?" "I remember perfectly what an entire success your cos- tume and appearance were," St. Julian answered, honestly. "Lauriston was there also; were you not, Berti?" "Yes, I was there," Bertie answered, in a constrained voice. How deeply and sharply some things which are so little that they seem absolutely insignificant cut I! He had not only been there, but he had been Alice Rivington's shadowi all night; he had pictured her to himself, the mo- ment before she spoke, in her filmy dress of sea-green, with the pure, pale water-lilies drooping from her amber hair; and then she turned from him to address St. Julian with the pleasant sympathy of a pleasure remembered in com- mon which binds people so closely together! Tl,e young fellow gave his oar a savage dash in the water, which made the boat lurch sharply to one side and elicited a scream from Mis& Davenport. "Don't expend so much energy, Bertie," said Blandford.   "We'll need it whlen we are pulling against the current. Can anybody tell, by the bye, whether we are going to turn back at all, or keep on straight to the mouth of the river?" "Is the mouth of the river far off?" said Miss Daven- port. "Let us keep on, by all means. Such heavenly nights as these are not made for sleeping." "It is not very far off," said Bertie. "We might reach it by daylight if we kept on. By Jove! we are farther down, even, than I thought," he exclaimed, suddenly. "Here is Swan Island just ahead of us." "By Jove! so it is," said Sydney Blandford, in a tone of dismay. He was not fond of pulling a heavy boat up stream, this young gentleman, and the prospect of bear- ing his share in the labor of doing it for several miles was, tlherefore, not entrancing. But the ladies all exclaimed over the beauties of Swan Island, a pretty little bit of verdure lying in the stream ahead of them, and insisted upon landing to explore it. "How about snakes?" Belle Davenport asked, fearfully; but being reassured by Mr. Braxton, who knew quite as much of the state of the island on the snake question as he did of the population of China, she consented to disenm- bark. There was not much to explore, they found, but still there was a certain pleasure in wandering, as much as the undergrowth would permit, over the wild little spot, a certain charm in pausing now and then to listen to tile strange, solemn monotone of the river, as it swept past. It was true that they might have wandered instead over a well-kept garden, and heard the voice of the river with equal ease, without having floated down to Swan Island for the purpose; but it is in human nature to despise the things that are near and reach after those that are far off, even if sometimes the latter be of inferior quality. "What is the reason that islands have such an attrac- tion for most of us?" Carmen was saying to St. Julian, as they wandered a little apart from the rest. "Is it because human nature naturally inclines to the thought of isola- tion?-but that can't be, since we are told that man is nat- urally a gregarious animal-or is it because of Robinson - Crusoe?"  "Of Robinson Crusoe, I fancy," he answered, smniling- "Robinson Crnsoe and his man Friday, who has been lately transformed, you know, into a young lady with an incipient consumption, and not greatly improved there- by." "A young lady who skimmed along the ground like an antelope, and managed a boat like a sailor, and was finally dismissed to happiness with a ruby as large as an egg," said Carmen. "Truly, it was a falling off from our dear old Friday. Had you ever the heart to read 'Robinson Crusoe' after Friday's death? I never had." "Nor I," said lie. "Do you know I think we are very much alike in most of our tastes and feelings?" "Are we?" said she, simply. "Then I must have bet- ter tastes than I fancied. Look, Mr. St. Julian! Is not that stretch of moonlight on the river yonder beautiful?" She paused, as she spoke, and pointed. They had reached the lower end of the island, and the stream, uniting into one again, seemed to sweep on with a grander flow than ever. There was something almost majestic in the scene as they gazed, the broad current and the shaded banks melting away into the silvery mist of moonlit distance, and toned by that charm of ineffaibly still softness which fills the midnight of such summer nights as this. They stood for a few minutes silent, neither speaking, both full of that subtle feeling which is a mental emotion, yet scarcely deserves to be called thought, and so stand- ing, suddenly heard a voice on the other side of the tan- gled undergrowth, which just here ran into a point, break on the quiet with that thrill of passion in its tone which startles the calmest when they hear it unexpectedly: "And is this to be the end-the final end of all? Did you give me that flower in Paris, which I have worn like an insane fool next my heart ever since, only to lead me on until love had grown part of my very life, that you might dash it into despair like this? Do you know-but of course you know-that if you had not given me hope   of winning you then, I might have forgotten your face be- fore this, and found happiness elsewliere? But now--what have you left me now? God knows, if I could tear you out of my heart at the cost of the fiercest anguish ever known to man, I would do it; but how can T.? False and cruel as you are, you have done your work too well for that." "Bertie, listen to ine for one moment," a sweet, clear voice said. "Spare your bitter words, and listen. You see how it is-that I must be reasonable for both. If vou were the master of Lauriston, everything would be very different; but as it is, I cannot marry a poor man, and you cannot marry a poor woman. It would be simple suicide. Therefore I spoke as your best friend when I tried to end the hope of which you talk. There is your cousin-" "Do not mention my cousin," he said, almost fiercely. "Kind and sweet and noble as she is, I have almost grown to hlate her name, it has been forced upon me so often in this connection. Alice, Alice, for God's sake stop a min- ute and think; surely this is not to be the end?" What answer was given to that question, almost agonized - in its intensity, neither of the two listeners heard. It was just then that Carmen, who for a moment had stood spell- bound, laid her hand lightly on St. Julian's arm, and drew him away. They turned and went as they came, neither uttering a word until half the length of the little island had been traversed. Then they paused, or, at least, Car- men stopped, and her companion followed her example. "I am sorry we overheard them," she said, speaking so quietly that she fairly startled him. "It was not our fault, but I am sorry. I think, however, that the best thing to do will be to say nothing about it. I don't mean to others," as St. Julian quickly unclosed his lips; "of course there is no question of that. I mean to them.- Do you-do you think it is necessary that we should tell them?" she said, looking at him with the wistfiul earnest- ness of a child. "Surely not," he answered. "Why should I think it necessary? It would only be very awkward, and serve no .. possible good end. If vou will let me say so, H shollul advise you to forget it,'" he said, hastily. "I nam terribly sorryv that you heard anything of it. This was an ol'd in- fatuation ot Bertie's which will end to-night, and a better, healthier, happier life begin for him." "Do you think so?" she said, still speaking very quietly, and looking at him with a gaze so intent and searching that even he, who prided himself on his perfect command of countenance, felt that lie winced a little. "I hope you are right, but did you Lear what he said? I cannot for- get it already, you know. HHe said that this love had grown such a part of his life that to end hope now would be to end everything for him." "Men always say such things when they are in Bertie's position," answered St. Julian, a little uneasily. "Bu!t he said it as if he meant it," she replied. "It was the tone even more than the words which struck me. It is a little strange that I should have heard this just now," she went on. "It explalins sometlhing which happened just before we left Lauriston. Do you remember when I went in to see what had become of Bertie? Well, I found him sitting in the drawing-room quite alone, cand looking so horribly wretched that I could not help asking him what was the matter. He did not tell me, but lie admitted thlat he was very miserable-assured me, however, that it was nothing connected with Lauriston. How could le do it?" she cried, with a sudden sharp pang forcingD itself, a s it were, through the calm of her voice. "O1 how could he do it?" "How could lie help doing it, rather?" asked St. Julian, coolly. "What possible connection can exist between Laurniston and his absurd infatuation for Miss Riving- ton?" "You know as well as I do what connection can and does exist," she said, a little impatiently. "Why should you try to blind me? You heard what she said. If he-' was the master of Lauriston, all would be diffirent." "Very different indeed," said St. Julian, dryly. "I grant you tkfat. But whether better or not is quite an- other question. That woman is merely amusing herself   with Bertie, Miss Lauriston. She cares no more for iiim than I care for this twig"--ie snapped one in two, and flung it on the current flowing by-" but if he was rich, she would marry him to-morrow. You and I, therefore, as Bertie's true friends, ought to thank God that he is ,ot rich." "But if his happiness-" "His happiness is a thing subject to the caprice of the moment," said St. Julian, a little contemptuously. "I have known Bertie all his life; and unless Alice Rivington has Niorked a most strange and sudden transformation in his character, he will forget her within three months." "But love does work sudden transformations, and he has known her-how long?" "Ever since he was in Paris," said St. Julian, a little reluctantly. "Did he know her-was he in love with her-when he first heard of me?" she asked, eagerly. "It is likely," her conpanion answered. "But why do you ask these questions? However long Bertie has known her, it does not alter--" "It alters more than you think, perhaps," said she, gravely. "Don't be impatient with me that I am trying to arrange the facts clearly in my mind. Then Bertie not only knew, but was in love with, Miss Rivington when he was called upon to surrender his estate to me?" "Yes," said St. Julian, almost doSggely, finding that there was nothing else for him to stiy. "He knew her, and he was far enough in love with hlr for her to feel personally injured at his loss of property'I am sure, in- deed, that she used all her influence to prevent his surren- dering the estate. Tlhat will show you whether or not she is a wontan to be regretted." She was silent for a moment. Watcling her face keenly in the white moonlight, he tried to fathom her thoughts, but for once his usual power of intuition seemed gone. Seetmed! It was gone, gone for ever, as far as Carmen Lauriston was concerned. Standing there now, lie recog- nized this ]imself. He knew that the changes and the meanings of that face affected hini too vitally for him ever again to read them clearly. It was the old story-old as humanity-of the passionate mists of the heart rising up to obscure the cool juldgment of the brain. Watch her as he might with eves which for once were more tender than searching, he could not read anything deeper than the pain so clearly legible on the young face. Pain assuredly, and yet was it all pain? Something seemed to light it up like an inner glow when she turned to him at last. "An hour ago I did not think that my debt to Bertie could be increased," she said, simply. "It seemed to me then greater than any words could possibly express. But what you lhave told me does increase it, or, if not increase it-for that is truly imloossible-shows me how much more lie sacrificed than even I imagined. And yet," said she, clastping her hands passionately, "I can do-nothing for him. I must keep the property whether I will or no, and ruin his life." "You were never more mistaken than in imagining that by keeping the property you will ruin his life," said St. Julian, with energy. "Can nothing reason you out of such a fallse impression? If you had only seen him as I have done during the past eighteen months, full of energy, and as clifferent as possible from the luxurious idler lie was before, you would never doubt that it was in every respect a loss for the better." "Ah!" said she, with a little sharp sound like a cry of pain, "but you forget what he said a minitlte ago. He was working because he had a hope of winning her." "Which was all such sheer folly that it is a good thing it is ended," said St. Julian; "and having learned to work for one purpose, he will work on for another. My dear Miss Lauriston," he said, advancing suddenly and taking her hand, " have a little patience and a little hope. Don't judge Bertie by those words of insanity which you over- heard a few minutes ago. They would not be his sane utterances even now.  You have seen him at his worst lately. He really is not quite a fool," this honestly gen- erous but somewhat exasperated friend added. What reply Carmen would have given it is impossiblp   to say. As it chanced, she did not have time to give any. "They must be somewhere," a voice just behind them said; and then, before St. Julian could change his suspiciously. lover-like position, there came an "Oh!" subdued in tone, but charged with as much significance as ever was ex- pressed even in that expressive interjection. A flush came over Carmen's face, but she turned with a self-possession which elicited her companion's highest ad- miration. "Is that you, Miss Davenport?" she said, as she saw a white-clad figure, attended by a dark-clad one, in the shade of the undergrowth, which, as it will be seen, was very convenient for ambuscading purposes. "Are you looking for us? I hope we have not detained you." -"I beg pardon, I am sure," said Miss Davenport, though the breeding to which she was entitled should have taught her better than such a vulgar blunder as those words con- stituted. "But we have all been assembled at the boat waiting for you for some time; and since you did not re- turn, Mr. Blandford and I volunteered to come in search of you. I hope we have not interrupted-" 'You have interrupted nothing of any importance," said Carmen, quietly. "I am sorry to have kept you waiting. Shall we go now?" So they went and embarked, and it was a very sober company indeed--though noliody could tell exactly how or why-that pulled against the current back to the Lau- riston landing. CIIAPTER XVI. THE DITTY OF A PRINCESS. OUT of four pairs of eves which opened to the bright } September snnshine on the morning after the dinner at Lauriston and the moonlight row on the river, it would be difficult to say to which of them most quickly a cloud of painful and embarrassing thought came. First, there was Carmen, to whose -trouble, being of a very complicated nature, the palm of precedence must be yielded; then there was Bertie, who had spent the greater part of the night consuming countless cigars and reason- ing himself into a half-reckless, half-lphilosophical firame \ of mind, which to his dismay he found entirely vanished when he waked with a sore throb of pain at his heart even before he remembered what caused it; then there was St. Julian, pondering in the early slunlight, as he had pon- dered through much of the late moonlight, on the strange problem of life that gave to one man what he did not want, and held for ever beyond the reach of another the same thing, perhaps, which to him would be more pre- eious than all the wealth of earth; and lastly, there was Alice Rivington, stung into consciousness sooner than usual by the recollection of some words whch her cousin had spoken the night before, and which, lightly as she had treated them, had been enough to banish all save the most troubled sleep from her eyes. Bertie's stabbed love scarce- ly cost her a thought; but could it be true that St. Julian --her St. Julian, or at least the St. Julian whom she had determined should be hers-meant " anything serious" by his devotion to the young heiress? Reflecting on many little things--mere trifles of manner, but enough to wake the suspicion of a worldly-wise woman-she might almost have been inclined to fear as much, if she had not remem- bered how earnestly he had pleaded for Bertie's fieedom in order that he (Bertie) might marry his cousin. "It can- not be," she said then. "It is only Belle's malice." But there was enough of evident truth in the malice in ques- tion to stir her heart with a jealous and anxious pang; for although Alice Rivington's feelings had not been of suffi- cient importance to be distinctly analyzed before, it may be said here that there was something beyond vanity in her desire to add St. Julian's name to the long list of her victims.      -  It would be hard to tell, therefore, whether she was most impatient in mind or restless in body during the long morning, which wore away without any sign whatever from Lauriston. What she expected she scarcely knew. Cer- tainly not Bertie, whosedismission she had given with such cool decision the night before; scarcely St. Julian, whose devotion had never been sufficiently great to lead her to   imagine that he would ride five miles through the sicken. ing heat of a September sun for the pleasure of exchang- ing commonplaces with a set of people, or even with a single person, from whom he had parted only a few hours before. Clearly, thien, there was nothing to expect; and yet Alice Rivington, with all her sangfroid and worldly experience, was sufficiently restless to draw upon hersele more than one sharp remark from the lips of her cousin Belle. "How nicely you paved Mr. St. Julian's way with the heiress!" this amiable young lady remarked when they found themselves alone on one occasion. "If you hail done it out of pure friendship, it could not have been bet- ter managed. Of course, if you had let Bertie Laliriston alone, his mother would have mar'ried him long ago to the girl; but as it was, you kept him dangling in your train- Heaven knows what for-and so Basil St. Julian has found his way clear. It was the most lover-like tableau in the world last night. I wish yon could. have seen it." "No doubt it was enminently worth seeing," said Alice, a little sarcastically. "You have certainly talked of noth- ing else since then." "It was because I enter into your feelings," said Miss Belle. "And then it is certainly astonishing that they should leave progressed so far and so fast in-how nany days is it? He was holding her hand just so, and gazing into her face like-well, I dare say you know like what." "In the light of a ten years' experience of such looks, I ought to know," answered Alice, calmly. But her heart was sore, very sore, for all her calmness. Was it trlue indeed? Had her own folly brought this sharp stroke upon hler? If she had sent Bertie Lauriston adrift, as she should have done, in Paris, eighteen months before, would it all have been spared?" I never yield to an impulse that I do not regret it," she thought, ignoring all that her impulse had cost its unhappy victim, and only thilking that it ihad worked retribution indeed to herself if it proved indirectly the means of throwing Basil St. Ju- lian at Carmen Lauriston's feet. St. Julian! Thle only man for whom she had ever felt anything approaching to tenderness, for whose sake she had refused more than bne brilliant offer, and whom she had been so certain of winning in the end, having measured herself well with ordinary women, and knowing that her cleverness exceeded theirq as ,much as her beauty did. Whllere would St. Ju- lian find another woman half so lovely or so intellectual? she had asked more than once, blind to the fact tlat to a man of St. Julian's cast of mind clever women are not usually the most attractive. Cleverness, as I have said before, is of the world, and the better part of these men do not live in the world. Even cleverness as cultured and graceful as Al- ice Rivington's had the breath of the world upon it, and could not enter into that charmned circle of fancy and imagination where Carmen wandered free. So it will be seen that the lives of the four people who each waked to anxiety on that September morning were interwoven, unconsciously to themselves, in the crosswise, perplexing fashion which Fate sometimes adopts. It is the fashion that makes the foundation of half the comedies on the stage-the wrong man loving the wrong woman, and the wrong woman perversely setting her heart on the wrong man-yet even in the lightest comedy, are there not sometimes materials for the deepest tragedy? What is sadder than to see hearts whch in themselves would be priceless possessions thrown away upon unworthy or un- conscious objects, or than true devotion, tender sacrifice, loyal affection, met and thwarted by false sentiment, petty vanity or selfish passion? Tragedy which is all tragedy, where great ends, however sad, are achieved by great ob- jects, has something so noble in its pathos that evenjwhile we mourn we cannot pity; but tragedy which is mingled with and lowered by comedy, where tears come in between set smiles and laughter, where hearts are broken and lives wrecked by agencies which seem too frivolous even for con- tempt-where in the wide world shall we find anything more deserving of pity than this? At Lauriston, meanwhile, the day passed rather uncom- fortably. There was a sense of constraint, and even of smouldering storm, in the atmosphere, though nothing   "overt" was said or done. Mrs. Lauriston herself was conscious of it, though all her questioning failed to elicit anvtBing from Carmen. Bertie she dared not approach, for Bertie was truly terrible to look upon, as heshut himself in the smoking-room with a cigar and a French novel. As for St. Julian, the sunshine which brooded over the warm earth might have concentrated all its brightness on that particular spot, for all evidence to the contrary in his appearance or manner. Even the keen glance of his host- ess could detect nothing in him on which to base suspicion or excite inquiry. There were no excursions out of the house that day. Everybody agreed that it was 'warm- very warm; so a little talking, a little reading and a great deal of lounging wore away the morning. In the after- noon a thunder-storm, with torrents of rain, came up, re- freshing the parched earth and eflectually quenching all Miss Rivington's hopes of hearing from Lauriston. Dur- ing the whole afternoon it poured without intermission, but at sunset the clouds broke away, and a golden glory flooded the drenched world, quickening a magical lustre on every lakelet and tiny -pool, glancing back from the raindrops glittering on every leaf, and 'wakening the rejoicing of a multitude of feathered choristers immediately. Carmen, who had been dressing for dinner-for they al- ways dined late at Lauriston-was standing at her cham- ber window when this marvellous transformation came over the face of nature. It did not surprise but it thrilled her, as only people of her temperament can be thrilled by the changes of the outer world. Like the earth, her whole nature seemed to rise up to meet and receive the wonder- ful glory which came from heaven. After all, were tings indeed as dark and hopeless as they had looked all day.? That was her first thought, for she was of a naturally buoyant disposition, and turned readily to that brighter side of events concerning which some of us hear so much and see so little. Standing there looking out -over the sunlit earth, her thoughts were very little with her own aching hleart. Many a girl would have concentrated her whole attention on, that, but it was not so with Carmen. It had all been a mistake-a great and terrible mistake-she felt, with something like a quiver in every nerve; but still, it had not been Bertie's fault, and Bertie was Bertie still. He was still the hero of her imagination-the young knight who had disinherited himself to make a princess of her, Indeed, strange as it may seem, the discovery of his passion for Alice Rivington only served to set him on a higher pedestal in the fancy of this strange girl. Sihe forgot to resent the slight which, with or without reason, a woman is usually quick enough to resent, of the rejec- tion of herself. There had been a pang whichl seemed as if it would rend her very heart in twain when Bertie said   he had almost learned to hate her name, so persistently had it been thrust upon him-a pang of tortured love and wounded pride impossible to describe; but even at that bitter moment she had seen the disinterested nature'of his sacrifice thrown, as it were, into clearer relief than ever. Instead of dreaming fronm the first, as his mother had hinted, of a marriage which would restore to him all that he had lost, he had been straining every- nerve to win the fair, proud woman -who "could never marry a poor man," wlhom he had known and loved when the cruel necessity of resigning the estate first came to him, and who had used the magic of her influence to make him keep what might almost have been esteemed rightfully his. Bertie, who had never dreamed of heroism in connection with the simple principle of honesty invblved in the trans- fer of the estate to its legal heir, had little idea of the supreme height on which his cousin had enthroned him. He would have been astonished had lie known it-aston- ished and surely touched; but, alas I to most of us the knowledge never comes on earth of how the base metal of our weak deeds lhas been translmuted by the wondrous alchemy of love into the purest gold. At dinner things were a little better than they had been all day. Perhaps the clearing up of the material atmo- sphere had also cleared the moral atmosphere for others besides Carmen, or perhaps they were all heroically bent upon mlaking an effbrt. However this was, even Bertie in changing hs coat had changed his manner, anld seemed like himself, though there was a look of pain tiunder Ilis brightest smile which his mother's eye was quick enough to catch. Poor womai I She was nearly frantic with a curiosity which nobody would gratify and an anxiety which nothing could appease. Even Carmen for once turned a deaf ear to her. The girl did not exactly resent the deception which lhad been tacitly practiced upon her in regard to Bertie's intentions and hopes, but she was suf- fering too keenly from the same deception to be exactly in charity withl the aunthor of it. So Mrs. Lauriston, dis- mayed to find that she was stopped abruptly that morning when her conversation had taken its ordinary turn and tone, had no resource but that of keeping her eyes open, and adding two and two together as best she could. To do her jllstice, she was remarkably quick at this kind of arithmetic, and she was bulsily engaged'withl it even while she sat at the lhead of the pleasant dinner-table, in a room full of mellow evening light, with open windows looking out over the wet, fragrant, glittering garden. Notling of particular brilliancy was said by any of the quartette, but conversation flowed with sufficient ease, and the restraint so painfuilly evident in the earlier part of the day had apparently vanished.      ,   CHAPTER XVI.--Continued. "WHAT a pity it had not cleared off' a little sooner!' Carmen remarked, after a while, looking out to where a clump of tall trees caught the last red gleam of sunlight on their crests. "Nothing is pleasanter than a ride or -drive after one of these refreshing showers." "Do you call what we had this afternoon a shower?" Bertie asked. "I should call it a flood. You would scarcely have found the roads fit for driving, I think, espe- cially in that toy plhaeton of yours." "For riding, then. Bonnibelle carries one like a bird. Did you notice what a good pace she has? You were on her yesterday." "She is a capital lady's horse," said Bertie; but some- thing in his tone brought the conversation to a dead halt. Perhaps it was the recollection of where he had been on yesterday which introduced that something-a slight jar, it seemed-into his voice. Soon after this the ladies retired. "You will- find us in the sitting-room when you have finished your wine and cigars," Mrs. Lauriston said. "The drawing-room is so large that it is rather depressing to a small party like So in the sitting-room-always bright, pretty and sug- gestive of ease-St. Julian found them after a short time. He at least had not lingered long over the wine and cigars; but when Mrs. Lauriston asked for Bertie, she was told that he had gone out into the garden to smnoke. "Out into the garden 1" she cried, filfl of dismay. "Wliat, on this wet niglit! Why, he will kill himself." "So I told him," said St. Julian, philosophically. "But lie is amazingly obstinate; he would go." "But he has had terrible sore throats ever since he was a child," said Mrs. Lauriston, "and I am sure he will give himself one of them. Out in the garden this wet night! I must certainly send for him. If he does not come. I shall have done my duty at least. Mr. St. Julian, if you will be kind enough to ring the bell-" "There is no good in that, madre," said Carmen, look- ing up from her book-she had been reading by the same table, within the same bright circle of lamplight where St. Julian had seen her on the night of his first arrival; "you will only worry Bertie. Men always are worried by such messages. 1 will go for him. Perhaps I mav bring him to a sense of his imprudence sooner than Wilfis." "You!" said Mrs. Lauriston, quite aghast. "But, my dear, if the garden is too wet for Bertie, how can you pos- sibly think thlat I will let you go into it?" "But I fancy Bertie has not overshoes, and mine are in the hall," interrupted Carmen; "so you see that alters thdie state of the case. It does not sound very romantic to talk of one's overshoes when one is going into the garden like Maud, does it, Mr. St. Julian? But if you choose, you can come and put them on for me." "Carmen '" said Mrs. Lauriston, with i slight gasp. Sihe ilooked after the girl a little blankly as she 1 ft the room, followed by St. Julian. What did it mean?  Was Car- men growing "fast," that she invited one young gentleman to come into the hall and put on her overshoes by way of preparation for setting forth in search of another? Of course she was glad of anything like an advance toward Bertie, the puzzled lady told herself; but still, what did it mean? It meant that Carmen was saying to St. Julian as he ^pUlled the overshoes over her daintily-booted foot-it iA to J be feared that Miss Lauriston was not ignorant of the fact ? that she had the world-renowned foot and ankle of a Span- ish wolan--a   few words which explained why she had 'asked this service of him. "Thank you for not offering to go after Bertie yourself, or trying to prevent my  doing so, or-or anything else that a  stupid man would have done," she said. "I have made tip imy mind to have an explanation with him, and try at least to put matters on a better footing. Whlat is the good of being a princess if one mav not do that?" she asked, smiling brightly but a little sadi1y. "1 am afraid, my princess, that thele is not much good for you at all," he who was kneeling at ler feet answered. "You have taken so much care on your shoulders With   your inheritance that it has brought you more of trouble than aught else." L  "But care comes with all inheritances," said she. "One t cannot be a princess for nothing, you know. Even Co- r lombe's birthday was far from one of sunshine." "But she found one faithful heart on it," he said eagerly. "You hlave not forgotten that, I am sure. Va- lence was not the duke wlho was the rival claimant, but-" "I remember," she said, but her change of tone showed him that his own had expressed too much. Somehow, lie had forgotten himself. Kneeling there at her feet, with her dress touching him and her sweet, sad eyes looking down at him, he had let a thrill of passion creep into his voice Which startled her. Shedrew back alittle. "Thank you very much," she said, with evident allusion to thle shoes. "But I have only one pair of feet," she added, with a cadence of laughter in her tone. At this hint he rose. After all, it was not an attitude which suited him, though he could not help wondering if Colombe liad looked at Valence with such lovely, wistfill eyes as had gazed down at him. If so, it was no wonder that the advocate's heart surrendered at discretion, he thought. When he spoke, however, it was in a very imat- ter-of-fact tone. "Notwithstanding the overshoes, I don't think you ought to stay long in that wet garden," he said. "If you want to talk to Bertie,i make him come into the piazza. Nobody shall disturb you, for I am going to play a game of chess withl Mrs. Lauriston." "How good of you i" sle sai(d. ("To bore yvourself" was added in glance, though not expressed in words.) "No, I shall not stay in the garden unless Bertie is intractable about the piazza, but I must speak to him." Then they parted-St. Julian going back to Mrs. Lau- riston, who had begun to wonder if a search in the garden for Bertie meant a tlete-a-tfte in the hall with lhimself, while Carmen passed through the dining-room and across a side verandah out into the starlit, rain-scented dusk. Everybody knows how full of sweet iodors a garden is after a rain, and it seemed as if the garden of Lauriston might have borne away the palm for excellence in this respect. At all times and all seasons it gave its wealth of perfume lavishy forth, but after a rain it was almost impossible to imagine the rich burden of mingled scents which loaded the air. As Carmen walked now along the damp paths and between the dripping shrubs, more than one of which gave her a quick shower-bath, she felt as if she were in a very paradise of fragrance. Fresh and sweet, this incense of nature seemed a return of thanks for the bounteous rain which had brought refreshment to every blossom and bud. Tile garden was large, and she wandered up and down its paths for some time before site found Bertie. At last, however, an odor, not of rose or jasmine, honeysuckle or. magnolia, but of a cigar good enough to mingle not un- pleasantly with these, warned her of his near vicinity. Tile next moment a turn of the path brought her in view of a glowing spark and a dark figure sauntering slowly along. "I came in search of you," she said, quietly, as he started and stopped short at sight of her. "Madre says it is too damp for you to be out. You must come into the house." "Too damp for me!" repeated Bertie, in amazement. For a  minute le was struck dumb, then he burst into a ringing laugh.  "By Jove!" he said. "Too damp for me, and you have come out to tell me so! Has my mother lost her senses, to send suclh a message by such a meswn- ger?" "Slle is afraid you will take a sore throat and be despe- rately ill, and die, perhaps," said Carmen, coolly. "You must make allowance for her anxiety. As for me, I have on overshoes, which I am sure is more than you can sav." "If you had on a hundred oversloes," said Bertie, "you have no business out here in the wet after me. By Jove l wlhat could my mother have been thinking of?" "If you  must know, it was not your mother, but my own   will, that sent me," said Carmen. "I wanted to speak to you, and I thought this would be a good oppor- tunity. Don't be frightened," as he started a  little.   bThere is nothing very serious in question; but vou must come in. I cannot stay here in the damp. No, don't don't throw away your cigar; I like the odor of it." "It is a very good cigar," said Bertie. Her manner surprised him a little, it was so much cooler and more de- cided than it had ever been before; but he said nothing further. He only turned, and with his cigar between his fingers strolled by her side along the damp paths through a dilm, invisible world full of starry lustre and sweet odors toward the house. The windows of the dining-room were open as they approached, showing the vacant apartment within, and letting the light stream freely across the vine- draped verandah. They Pat down on some chairs which were placed con- veniently-for, as it chanced, St. Julian and Bertie had been smoking here before the latter wandered off-and then Carmen spoke, quietly enough, to all appearances, but with a little quiver of nervousness in her voice which a quick ear would soon hlave detected: "Bertie, I have something to tell you for which you must forgive me; it was really not my fault, nor the fault of anybody else. I suppose there is such a thing as pure accident sometimes, is-there not? Well, this was pure ac- cident. You know when we were all on the island last night?  You were talking to Miss Rivington, if you re- member, and I chanced to overhear a little of what you said."  In a moment he understood her, as, indeed, he would have been more than stupid if he had not; and a dark red flush surged over his face. What man likes to know that he has been overheard in a love-scene, even under the most agreeable circumstances amid by the most insignificant person?  So it was scarcely remarkable that Bertie was not delighted at the intelligence that the unfortunate cli- max to his folly had been overheard by his cousin, of all women. He was stunned for a second; then like a flash it came to hm to wonder wIhat she had overheard. "I remember that I was speaking to Miss Rivington last night," he said, a little hoarsely, "but H did not fancy there was any one near enough to overhear what was said." "It was only for a minute," said Carmen; and if she had been the most deliberate of eavesdroppers, she could not have spoken in a tone of more humble regret. "I was standing on the point of the island, notthinking of any- thing but the moonlight, and you came on the other side of the thicket. It was only a minute. We-that is, H- turned and went away at once." "We!" he repeated, quickly and sharply.  "Who was with you?" "Only Mr. St. Julian," she answered, deprecatingly, "and we went away at once.   I should not have men- tioned anything about it, only the few words I hleard told( me what-what I   suppose I might have seen before if I had been used to such things." "They told you, then, that I am the greatest fool on earth,' he said, almost violently. "And how much of my insane raving did you hear? By Jove!" with a short, un- mirthful laugh, " it is pleasant to consider that St. Julian and yourself were standing there listening to me."' "But we were not listening to you," said she, indig- nantly. "I have told you that we went away immedi- ately. How can you think so poorly of us as to suppose E we would have listened?  I only heard a few words; but F you know a  few words can sometimes tell a great deal. I e think I  understand the Whole story," she said, calmly, looking at him;  "and now, if you will not be offended 3 with me, I  should like to- ask, Is there nothing which can r be done?" -  "Nothing which can be done," repeated Bertie. For a minute lie could say no more. Then he turned his face V away with a   short, hard laugh. "I know of nothing r which can be done," he said, "unless I drown myself, and I I  am not exactly desperate enough for that."   t( "I hope not, indeed," said Carmen, gently. "Whly v should you be desperate at all, Bertie?" said she, leaning s forward and laying her hani on his arm; "L what I want k to say to you is this: Why should you let the foolish talk w :nd-and wishes of others stand between you and me?  h 10   Why should you not think of me as your cousin and ; friend? Why should you not feel, as I do, that it is part of my inheritance to have a right to help you? Bertie l" -no words can express the pleasing s6ftness of her tone- whyi do you not remember how much I owe to you, and that it would only be generous to let me help you?" 4"But nobody can help me," said Bertie, touched, melted, overcome, all at once. "My dearest, kindest cousin, if you were a queen or a magician, you could do nothing. I am a fool, and worse than a fool; that is all which can be said for me. Good Heavens!" said he, impatiently; " if I were not a fool, and a savage besides, should I have pa- raded my trouble, such as it is, until you thought it neces- sary to come and talk to me like this?" "You are mistaken," said she; " it is not because you have paraded it that I have come to you. I should not have suspected anything if I not overheard those few words last night. But having overheard them, I could not refrain from asking if nothing can be done. Bertie, I heard Miss Rivington say that if you were the master of Lauriston, everything would be different." "Did you?" said Bertie, with a certain reckless indif- ference. "Very likely everything would be different with her. But you see Hhave no more claim to be master of Lauriston than I have to be king of Tartary. One inher- itance concerns me quite as much as the other." "Don't talk that way," said she, with a tone of pain in her voice. "You know it is not so; you know that Lau- riston was yours before it was mine. You know that if you had not been born to it, if you had not grown up pos- sessing it, the world would not be the hard thing which it is to you to-day. You would not be at the very foot of the ladder of professional life, nor so poor that a prudent woman dare not venture to marry you. Ah, I have thought it all over; nobody coulds'ee the whole sequence of cause and effect more clearly than I." "Thinking it over will do no good," said Bertie, mood- ily.  He had thought it over himself, and he knew that. "It is true enough, of course, that circumstances have treated me rather hardly-that I have been thrown on my own resources to begin the world when most men have conquered it; but it is neither your fault nor mine that this is the case." "It is my father's fault, however," she said, in a low tone. She lhad thought it all over, as she said, pondering the whole subject in every light through the long hours of the day, and the more she thought of it, the more she saw that it was her duty to "hlelp"Bertie as far as he would be helped. During these eighteen months she had been thinking of one way by which this help might be given; and since it was now evident that this was hopeless, that it was never, never to be thought of again, it behoved her to find another. "It was my father's fault," she repeated, after a minute. "Bertie, if vou will think of that, you will know how I feel, you will appreciate the cruel position in which you place me. How can I   bear to retain all the inheritance, and know that you are not only suffering poverty and pri- vation, but that you are hopelessly separated from- the woman you love? It is asking too much of me. I cannot do it." "My dear cousin, your father's fault was not your fault," said Bertie. "Don't let us reopen the old, hopeless discus- sion about Lauriston. It is yours, not mine, and that is an end of the imatter." "Bertie!" cried she, in a sharp tone of sufferirng, "do you mean that it is an end of the matter, that there is nothing I can do for you? Oh, Bertie, surely you are not so cruel as that." "Mv   dear Carmen," said Bertie, "you don't understand. Women never do understand. It is utterly impossible for me to take Lauriston or anything else from you; but for Heaven's sake, don't worry yourself about it. If I choose to make a   fool of myself and fall in love with a woman who lhas no more heart than a glacier, and would sell her- selt to-morrow to a millionaire, that is my owl fault, you know, and I  take a savage enjoyment in my very s fferings which might surprise you. I  would fling all thought of her to the winds like that, if I could," he added, pitching   "CHLD, WHY DO YOU THNK SO MUCH OF THAT MAN?"-P. 76.   the cigar, which up to this time he had still held between his fingers, out among the flower-beds. "Since I cannot, however, it is not you who should suffer for it. Now come in, like a dear girl, and let us have sonme music. I want to show you that my heart at least is not broken." His tone of forced lightn/ess did not for a moment de- ceive the girl who was listening to him. As he rose, she rose too, but it was to clasp both hands over his arm and look up at him with a quivering, beseeching face. "Bertie," she said, "oh, Bertie, stop and think a min- ute. Do you mean that you will take nothing?" "I mean exactly that," Bertie answered, in a tone of mingled pride and resentment. "Forgive me if I say, also, that the subject must end here." Then she dropped his arm. Somehow there was an expression as of hopelessness in the gesture which struck him at thetime, and which li he remembered long after- ward. "I think you will be sorry some day, perhaps, though never as sorry as I am now," she said, simply, and so passed into the house. CHAPTER XVII. COUTE QUI COUTE. THE morning after thie rain was very bright and fresh- so bright and fresh and tempting to ont-door exercises that the ladies at Beechdale were canvassing the pros and cons of a call at Lauriston when the phaeton of the young mis- tress of Lauriston drove up to the door. "Oh," Clara Blandford said, who caught sight of it first, "here is Car- men now, coming to see us." And then there was a little   flutter in the dovecote, for each member of the group was anxious to know who Carmen brought with her. It was a disappointment to them all when she came in alone. After Belle Davenport's highly-colored version of the scene on- Swan island, everybody was anxious to know "which gentleman" would be in attendance, ready to argue anything and everything from the presence of either one, and, lo! it was neither. If Carmen had understood the meaning of the glances which after she entere*vent back to the door, as if thinking that a masculine preence must follow, she would certainly have been amused, and' perhaps a little indignant. As it was, however, she was preoccupied, and did not notice or understand them. After the first commonplaces of meeting were over, after inquiries had been reciprocated and a few brilliant re- marks about the heat and the rain and the state oft the roads exchanged, the young heiress frankly stated the pur- pose which had brought her thus unexpectedly into the Beechdale drawing-room. "It is so lovely this morning, she said, "I Could not stay in the house, and I thought I might find a companion for a drive lhere. Miss Riving- ton," turning with a smile to that young lady, "what do you say? I am a very good whip, I think; will you trust yourself with me?" "I should like it very much," Miss Rivington answered. She was taken slightly by surprise, for women did not usually seek or particularly fancy her society; but the in- vitation was given in a tone which made it impossible to refuse, even if she had been inclined to do so. In truth, however, she was inclined as much as possible the other way. It was very tedious work killing time at Beechdale, and she was glad of any excuse to escape from the society   of people who suited her so little and bored her so imclh. Besides which, she had her own reasons for desiring to see Carmen, and, if possible, to see her alone. Therefore there was more truth than often 'lies in society formulas when she said, "I should like it of all things," and leav- ing the room, came down before many minutes had elapsed in carriage costume. "I feel as if I were going to drive in the chariot of Queen Mab," she said, as Carmen drew aside to let her step into the dainty little phaeton. "What a gem it is! Did you choose it yourself, Miss Lauriston?" "No; my cousin chose and sent it down," Carmen an- swered, following her and drawing the gayly-striped car- riage wrap over them. "Are you sure your dress is well covered, Miss Rivington? We shall go through a good deal of mud. It is a pity that nobody is likely to meet us, she added, with a smile. "Your costume. if you will excuse my saying so, is lovely enough for the Bois." "AhM" said the other, with that quick lighting up of the face which shows when a pleasant string or association of memory has been touched. "So your heart is in Paris too. Is there any place like it in the world? And do you not wish that we were going-you and Hto drive on the Bois? It would be bettelr than wasting one's costume and one's beauty on such hopelessly desert air as tiis, would it not?" But Carmen shook her head. "Paris is everything-tliat is delightful and charming," she said. "But I like Lau- riston too well to admit that this is desert air. It seems to me that these Septemiber woods are even better worth seeing than the Bois." "They belong to you, do they not?" Miss Rivington. asked, with that subtle accent known as a well-bred sneer in her voice.  "Of course that essentially alters the view witlh which one regards them. I have niever tried being lady of the manor, but it must be very pleasant. If I were an envious person, Miss Lauriston, I think I should envy you your inheritance." "Pardon- me if I say you would be very foolish, then," said Carmen, smiling a little sadly and fficking her pony !llightly with thile whip. "My apparent inheritance has been the wide fields and woods of Lauriston; but I have had another and a more real one, wlhiclh has consisted of the deepest pain and sadniess." "TYou!" said the  other, a little incredulously. She- looked at the girl in amazement. Was she distraugtht? The heiress of a  noble estate and a proud old name young, and certainly not ill looking, to talk of inheriting the "deepest pain and  sadness"! .It sounded melodra- matic and unreal, Alice Rivington thought, watching the face beside her suspiciously. But that face, though pale and a little sad, was neither affectedly sentimental nor morbidly gloomy, she could not but acknowledge. The dark eyes gazing gravely anti-med- itatively ahead, were not eves likely to fill with idle tears of faneiefl sorrow, nor the steadfast lips likely to exhale sighs i for the mere pleasure of being melancholy. After a while  she spoke aloud:                    i "You are almost the   last person in the world from 1 whom I  should have expected to hear such words. Pain t and sadness seem things quite apart from your life, at least as yet. Your inheritance certainly looks as if it I were one of unshadowed piosperity and brightness."   t "Do   you think so?" said Carmenll. "Yet I should im- s 'agine that almost any one might see one shadow at least ( in it. I  should insgine that almost any one might won- der if I did not feel something of pity and sympathy for  the dispossessed heir, the man who lost all that I gained." c "My dear," said the other, "who ever wastes a thought c in this easy, pleasant world of ours on dispossessed heirs? p Is that your shadow?" Shze laughed a  little. "I assure v )you that you might have puzzled all your friends finely if you had only asked them what they imagined it to be. a -Not one would have guessed correctly, I am sure." "But you," said Carmen, turning and looking at her, . you would  have guessed, would?oU not? You must  tl feel how  hard it was on Bertie to be dispossessed just st when hle felt the need of wealth and position most."  A "Does one feel the need more at one time than at an- fc    other?"Alice asked, on her guard instantly against the e searching glance of the eyes which were regarding her. e She felt a little puzzled by that glance and the words which had preceded it. What did it mean? Did Cir- men suspect anything between herself and Bertie? Was I she trying to make -her betray herself, or was she feeling her ground? or was it, as St. Julian had hinted, that Ber- tie had only to ask and to receive, so far as his cousin was r concerned? or-or was St. Julian himself in some manner ! at the bottom of it? St. Julian just then was at the bot- tom of everything with Miss Rivington, and for a cool woman of the world her thoughts were very much con- fused in consequence. I "I think that at the time Bertie was called upon to sur- render the estate hle must have felt tihe sacrifice much more deeply than he could possibly have felt it at any earlier period," Carmen responded, quietly, to the last question. I do not suppose that I need to tell you why I think this, Miss Rivington." Alice started,. and a wave of color swept into her face; but she was not a woman to betray herself under any cir- cumstances. If an awkward discovery is made, it cannot be helped, but never assist it by a single admission, was one of her maxims, to the spirit as well as to the letter of whclh sle was alwalys faithful.      ! "Your cousin felt tie sacrifice very much of course," ,she answered, a little coldly. "It would have been strange if he had not; don't you think so? But I fancy he would have felt it quite as deeply any time after he was old enough to understand his position in the world." "But he had not known you ever since he was old enbugh to understand his position in the world," Carmen said, simply. "Forgive mne," she said, as something like a look of hauteur came into the beautiful face beside her., "Perhaps you consider me impertinent to speak of this; but I owe so much to Bertie that anything touching his happiness is to me of inestimable importance." "Nothing concerning mne can possibly involve a ques- tion concerning his happiness," said Miss Rivington, more proudly than truthfully.  Then she thought, "Has he actually been fool enough to make a confidante of her, or has St. Julian played the part of informer?" "Nay," said Carmen, gently, nowise resenting the tone of the last remark, "I think that his love bfor you at least makes something concerning you involve a   uestion of . lhis happiness." Then with the frankness and directness which always characterized her she added, "' Will you be kind enough to take it for granted that I know the whole stolry of my cousin's attachment to you, Miss Rivington? And will you allow me to ask a  question which I should not venture to ask if I did not fill a position that in Eu- rope would be called  'the head of the house, and if it were not-part of my inheritance to care for Bertie's interest and happiness?" "I will grant you permission to ask the question, but I must reserve the right to answer it," Miss Rivington said, astonished, yet smiling, as, indeed, who could have re- frained from smiling to hear this girl of nineteen adopt a tone and assume responsibilities which would have suited threescore? "The question is very simple," Carmen said, "and I hope you will answer it. As I said before, I do not mean to be impertinent, andI have no interest of my own  to serve. It is only this: Why did you refuse to marry my cousin, Miss Rivington?" "Good Heavens, what a question!" said Miss Rivington. Slhe was so much amazed that she absolutely sat upright on the seat and stared at her interlocutor. "Why, be cause hhe was poor!" she answered, too thoroughly sur-  prised to be diplomatic, and speaking a bold truth for once withl a facility which astonished herself. "Do you think" -a   slight laugh here-" that I am the sort of woman foi a poor man's menage f" "Very far from it," answered Carmen, honestly, yet with a certain pang stirring at her heart, as she looked at the beautiful proud face. "I think you much better suited to the menage of a  prince," she said, "and in an American way poor Bertie was something of a prince be- fore-before I came into his life."   "But you came, and his principality went," -said 4he other, shrugging her shoulders. "We deal with what is, not with what might have been. If we once began to dis- cuPs possibilities, past, present or future, where would it end?' "But some possibilities may be darkened and appar- ently lost for a time, and yet be fulfilled at last," said Car- men, in her wistful tone. "Are you quick at reading rid- dles, Miss Rivington? I wish you would read this. My cousin Bertie's principality may seem lost just now, and yet it may come back to him in the end." "I hope so," said Miss Rivington, cordially, "and I think I can read your riddle far enough to guess how. There is but one way," said she, with a little soft laugh. for she was thinking, "After all, she has not an idea of St. Julian." But to her surprise Carmen's face flushed with the deep, painful flush of one who has been wholly misunderstood. "Miss Rivington," she said, almost indignantly, "how can you even hint such a thing as that after what I have said? How can you think that I would marry a man who loved another woman as Bertie loves you, even if he wished to marry me, which he does not? You see I do not hesitate to epeak openly," she added, "because Hand, alas! he also-have heard this plan. on all sides. It is more than absurd--worse than foolish, however. You can scarcely imagine anything which would not be more probable." Then I confess your riddle seems to me a very mean- ingless one," said Miss Rivington, coldly. "L If yoll do not marry your cousin, how is he to recoverwhat was his?" "I shall find some wav of securing it to him," said Car- men. "Upon that I am determined. I have not thought of a plan yet, for he is very, very proud; but I shall find it in time. Besides," said she, gravely, "lie is my heir. When I die, it must all come to him any way." "Your heirsl" repeated Miss Rivington. She started for a minute, as if she thought the speaker had really lost her senses. Then leaning back, she laughed as it had not chanced to her to laugh in many a long, day before- laughed until the arching woods through which they were driving absolutely rang, and the pony, pricking up his ears, wondered what on earth his mistress was about. His mistress was blushing, as it chanced just then, and looking a little annoyed. It is not exactly pleasant under any circumstances to be laughed at in such fashion as this but to be laughed at when rou lhave nlmade a statement of great gravity is not a little trying to the best tempers. "I merely mentioned a fact," she said, after the mirth of her companion had subsided a little. "Any lawyer would tell you the same thing.  I suppose you think because I am young that it sounds ridiculous to talk of my heir. But one may die at nineteen as well as at ninety; and if I died to-morrow, the estate would go back to Bertie." "But, my dear, you. don't mean to die for the pleasure of giving it back to him, I am sure," said Miss Eivington; "and otherwise, you know, when you marry-" She stopped, for Carmen looked full at her with eves of strange earnestness. "I shall never marry," she s:aid, quietly. And common as the words were--for how many foolish girls utter theln who would marry the next hour if an eligible parti presented himself?-they were charged in this instance with a force and meaning which impressed their sincerity even on a woman who had lived long enough in the world to know how little such protestations are usually worth. Her heart gave a leap, for she was thinking of St. Julian, and then she said "Forgive me if I ask, Why not?" For more than one reason," answered Carmen, looking again ahead with her grave, meditative eves. "Princi- pally, however, because I intend that Bertie, or Bertie's heirs, shall inherit Lauriston if he will not take it. I think, however, that when I am of age and when he un- derstands this as I shall make him understand it, he will be forced to accept again the inheritance to which he was born-the inheritance which has brought me so much pain and so little happiness." There was silence for a  minute. The little phaeton bowled pleasantly over a sandy, shaded stretch of road just   \here, the shadows flecking Lancelot's satin coat and making 1im look like a dappled pony as he trotted along*; and Alice Rivington leaning back in her corner felt more puzzled by the strange girl at her side than she had ever been puzzled by any one before in her life. Was all this romantic gene- rosity genuine in its absurdity-absurdity to equal it Miss Rivington mentally decided that she had never known-or was it only the effervescent folly of an enthusiastic girl? She would have decided unhesitatingly in favor of the latter explanation if it had not been for the steadfast reso- lution on the strong, young face, the thrill of earnest pur- pose in her voice. There was no mistaking these signs, and Alice proved that her worldly wisdolm was worth something when she accepted them as genuine. "There must be a screw loose in the minds of all these Lauris- tons," she thought, recurring to Bertie's obstinate deter- mination to beggar himself and remembering. the folly of Carmen's father. "He lived a socialist and died in prison when he might have had all this," she thought. "How much better a lunatic asylum would have suited him, and his daughter too, I think!"And it was just then the daughter spoke: "I hope you do not think that I have questioned you about your affairs and told you mine merely for the sake of talking, Miss Rivington. I have had quite another ob- ject in view, though I llave taken some time to reach it. You tell me that yonu refused to marry Bertie because he was a poor man. Well, I have tried to show you that he will not always be a poor man. He is the heir of Lauris- ton, and I pledge you my faith," she cried, with shining eyes, " that he shall be the master of it again as soon as I can compass it; you may trust me for that. And now I must ask you-oi, Miss Rivington, I must ask you-if you will not give him a little hope again?" "How can I give him hope?" said Miss Rivington. Slhe wals astonished, and yet she was touched more than Bertie himself had ever touched her by the imploring face j raised to her. "Child," she said, suddenly and almost sharply, "why do you think so much of that man? He is not worth it; no man is worth it. I am older than you are. Listen, and let me tell you a piece of hard-earned wisdom: it is not the women who are tender and loving and self-sacrificing who win the passionate devotion of men, but women who are cold, capricious, and even cruel, as I am." "But you are not all those things," said Carmen, smil- ing faintly. "And I am the last person in the world to wonder that men should love you; you are so beautiful. As you sit there- now you make such an exquisite picture that if I were a man I could not do other than put my heart at your feet, let what would be the consequences." "But there are some men who look at me and never dream of putting their hearts at my feet," said she, bit- terly. "They must -be very few I  am sure," said Carmen. "And do you know there is something else I want to ask you? You will think that I grow more and more unrea- sonable in my requests, but Bertie is so unhappy; and I thought perhaps you would come to Lauriston and spend a  few days with us? We would try to make it pleasant for you, and then you could give him a little hope." "I see you are thinking only of Bertie," said Miss Riv- ington, smiling. But as she said it, she was thinking of St. Julian. The prospect of being in the same house withl him for a  few days was a pleasure too tempting to be re-- sisted, even though it was gained at the price of giving a "Iittle hope" to Bertie. It is to be feda , indeed, that she would have consented to give not only a little, but a great deal, of hope to the latter if there had been no other means of obtaining the end which had already made her heart beat. "I see you are thinking only of Bertie," she repeated; " but still you are soivery kind that I will come with pleasure. You cannot tell how charming it will be to escape from Beechdale," she added, with a shrug. "Of course I would not say so to any one beside yourself, but it is dreadful there. One finds it hard to tell whether the gossiping of the feminine part df the household or the joc- ularity of the masculine portion is most intolerable. You know them, however, so I need not describe their traits."   "'They have always been so very kind to me," said Car- men, coloring a little, " that I have never discovered these disagreeable things." Miss Rivington shrugged her shoulders. "Is it likelv they would not have been kind to the lady of Lauriston?' slihe asked, a little mockingly. But she had too nmtch good taste to pursue the subject any further. "What a lovely stretch of distance yonder!" she said. "The river and the hills and the woods dappled with that shifting sunlight make a scene worthy of Tur- ner's brush. Did you ever see any of his landscapes? You have been in London, have you not?" So they drove along between the rich September woods and the pleasant, far-stretching fields, talking of many things at home and abroad, untilol lwhat to Miss Riv- ington's surprise, they found themnselves at the gates of Lauriston. "I did not know that we were coming here," she said. "I scarcely knew it myself when we started," Carmen answered, smiling; " but I have been following the roads in such a will-o'-the-wisp fashion that they have brought us here; and since I see that it is time for luncheon," glancing at her watch, "I hope you will not object to coming in." "How refreshing it is to hear of luncheon again!" said Miss Rivington. "At Beechdale they dine at two o'clock. Is it not horrible?" "They think us horrible that we dine at six," Carmen answered, laughing. Nobody but Bertie was surprised to see the beautiful stately figure, all clad in shimmering silvery gray, which followed Carmen into the dining-room, where luncheon "was going on," as Willis informed his young mistress at tthe door. Both Mrs. Lauriston  and St. Julian knew whvllere Carmen had gone, but Bertie had been too indolent t ask, even thlough he had seen the phaeton bowling away Several hours before with only one slender, erect figure in it. "Hence he was surprised and apparently not well pleased, lfor his manner was exceedingly stiff when Carmen came and sat down by him.  "We have been driving all over the country," she said, a little deprecatingly, "and I thought I would bring Miss Rivington in to get some luncheon before she goes back to Beechdale." , "You must want to knock your pliaeton all to pieces," ,said he. "Certainlv taking it out over such roads as these iris a good way to do it." ,t "The roads are not bad. There is some mud, but they Were mostly beaten hard by the rain; and the day is de- lightful." t  "I know what the day is, for I have been out on the 1, river. That is the place to enjoy such weather." ) "Yes," said Carmen, a little wistfully. She would have liked to have been on the river too; but instead of that, she had been "knocking up" her phaeton in the cause of the gracious young gentleman who gave her Such warm thanks and appreciation for it. "It must have been pleas- ant on the river," she said, with a faint sigh, and then she caught St. Julian's glance across the table. He, at least, understood her, for his look was full of almost tender kindliness. "It will be still pleasanter in the afternoon," he said. "May I take you out then? I see that your boat is fit for service again." "I am going to drive Miss Rivington back to Beeclldale this afternoon," Carmen answered. But Miss Rivington interposed just here. "Why should you take that trouble?" she asked, in her pure, sweet voice. "A row on the river would prove much pleasanter, I am sure. Cannot somebody else drive me  back? Mr. Lau- riston, for instance," she said, with a full, direct look from I her turquoise eyes to Bertie. And under the magic of that look all Bertie's pride and l anger fled. The poor fellow was certainly bewitched, for N in a  minute he was ready to go back into the chain of his r bitter-sweet slavery. His heart gave a great leap, his eyes f an expanding flash. If-she had bidden him follow her I barefoot to the end of the earth instead of merely drive a her in a  pleasant pony-phadton over to Beechdale, he i would have done it after one such look as that. "I shall   be very happy," he said, with a quickening thrill in his voice which told everybody round the table exactly what had happened. As for Miss Rivington, she felt a little contempt for him and a great deal of pity for herself. She was a woman on whom mere adulation palled, and Bertie had little besides to offer. She thought enviously of Carmen, who would be floating on the lovely sunlit river with St. Julian wliile she was driving along a stupid country road with Bertie. But thHs was. the price she must pay for the invitation which had been given, and she consoled herself with tile reflection that when she was domiciled at Lauriston there would be boating for her too. In this way it was settled, to St. Julian's satisfaction at least, thollgh lie could not help wondering a little over Miss Rivington's change of tactics. He had never trusted her to keep her word, however, he thought, and so-well, it did not matter. He did not confess even to himself how more than resigned he had grown to the manifest failure of his match-making plans. As for Mrs. Lauriston, she had a dul sense of despair pervading her all the time which was scarcely deepened by this fresh instance of the perversity of circumstances. Everything was going wrong, so a little more or less scarcely mattered. -That was her view of it. Something like an explanation came, however, to St. Julian when lie and Carmen were floating on the river which was quite as lovely and sunlit-and shadow-deepened as Miss Rivington had pictured to herself. "I could not bear to see Bertie so miserable," Carmen said. "Every look at his face went like a dagger to my heart, for I thought all the time, UIt was my fault.' So I explained to Miss Iivington about the inheritance, and how it will certainly come to Bertie in the end, and-and how he will not always be the poor man whome she could not afford to marry." "Will vou excuse my saying that you did a very foolish tiling, then?" said St. Julian, pulling his hat over his brows to conceal their frown of deep annoyance. "Everything would have been right with Bertie in a little while if you had left him alone, but now you have only prepared much greater unhappiness for him. Miss Rivington is too clever a woman not to see, when she comes to think of it, that it is impossible for him to accept your generosity, even if he desired to do so, and she will cast hiim away with as little compunction as you would cast away an old glove. Like the man in the parable, his second state then will be worse than his first." "That would be all true enough," said Carmen, "if there was any reason for her to cast him away; but there is none. You think, perhaps, that I am talking romantic nonsense when I speak of giving Bertie back his inherit- ance, Mr. St. Julian. But I am in earnest. I mean to do it." "It is not practicable for you to do it, however," said St. Julian, " and, indeed, if you will pardon me, it is ro- mantic nonsense. Bertie has no more right to the inherit- ance than- I have." He saw her mouth set itself, giving a square and more resolute look than ever to the lower part of the face. Just such a look her father might have worn when he turned his back on his native land for ever, and went into exile for the sake of a  visionary "humanity." Perhaps Miss Rivington was right. Perhaps there was "a screw loose" in these Lauristons, after all. Certainly as a family they did not bow down in quite such servile adoration before the golden calf as is the general fashion of this day of ours, though there was much to be taken into consideration in Carmen's case besides abstract contempt of wealth. She had not only inherited a nature lavishy generous and prone to self-sacrifice--trials which "run in the blood" more often than people think-but she loved the man whose interests she was bent on serving with that loyal, unselfish passion which such natures are alone capable of feeling; besides which, she had- never forgotten how he had risked his life to save her mother from a fiery death and surrendered all his earthly possessions, without the faintest hope of return, to herself. "Even if such a  sacrifice were practicable, and even if   Bertie would accept it, you have no right to make it," St. Julian said, after he had rowed a long distance in silence, "You have your own life to consider. When you marry-" She interrupted him here, as she had interrupted Miss Rivington. "I shall never marry," she said, quietly. He started. Such words from most women's lips'would only have made him smile, but he started and looked- at her. She made a lovely picture just then, sitting with her straw hat in her lap, the tender evening light falling on her uncovered head and graceful figure, one white, gleam- ing hand dabbling in the transparent water, and her dark eyes fastened on the glowing western sky. Did she have any suspicion what a sharp stab her words had given? Instinct sometimes serves women in good stead, and it is at least certain that she did not look at the face gazing so eagerly at her. "You cannot be sure of that," St. Julian said, after a minute, a little hoarsely. "Many women have thought they would never marry, and yet--" "Changed their minds," said she, smiling a little; "but I shall not change mine. .Some things one only imagines, other things one knows. I know that I shall never marry." After this nothing more was said. They floated on in the lovely evening light and stillness, with the water softly rippling all around them; but to one, at least, much of the brightness and beauty had suddenly vanished from the scene. CHAPTER XVIII. A LOST HOPE. THE next day Miss Rivington and her trunk arrived at Lauriston. St. Julian met the latter as it was taken up stairs, and regarded it sardonically. "That does not look very much like a visit of a few days," he said to himself, unaware, in his masculine ignorance, how much a fashion- able woman requires even for a visit of a few days. Miss Rivington had selected the contents of this trunk from two others of much greater magnitude, and, ais she said to her cousin, had taken nothing which she "did not"absolutely need." Of course it was true that her grandmother's ' whole wardrobe might have been packed into half the space which three or four dinner- and morning-dresses filled here; but if civilization advances, and fashion heaps Pelion upon Ossa in the way of flounces, overskirts and furbelows, who is to blame but "tlhe car of progress" and the milliners? This trunk certainly" furnished its proprietor with a very becoming toilet in which to make her appearance at dinner that day. Even St. Julian was forced to admit that lie never saw her look. more beautiful than as she entered tile drawing-room all in a billowy cloud of blue and whte, with one ornament gleaming at her throat and another nestling among the rich masses of her hair. "She is too large for my taste," he said aside to Carmen, "but certainly I have never seen a more magnificent type of beauty. It is impossible to say whether she reminds one most of the Iliad or the Niebelungen Lied." "You are determined to put her far enough back in the past, at all events," Carmen answered, smilingly; " but I think she suits the present sufficiently not to need to re- mind us of anything." "She is too substantial certainly to be remanded to a shadowy era," said he. "Do you know she is exactly the kind of Woman over whom Englishmen rave? If they don't buy their wives by weight over there, they ought to do so." After dinner the woman over whom Englishmen would have raved, and of whom it was suggested by implication that her chief value lay in her weight, went to the piano unbidden and began to sing. Carmen followed her; and they were together at the instrument, one seated, the other standing, when St. Julian and Bertie. came in. The latter at once joined them; the former passed by Mrs. Lauris- ton, who was sitting alone near an open window with a neglected novel in her lap. It was a charity certainly to take the poor lady's thoughts a little from the trouble which was oppressing lier; aind althouigh she bad no kind   feeling for St. Julian, seeing clearly where his hopes pointed and his fancy was placed, she could not resist the winning charm which was his when he chose to exercise it. As for him, he gained his point in leaving matters to take their own course at the other end of the room. He understood perfectly the glance which Miss Rivington threw over her shoulder when she saw that he had not followed Bertie; but although it would have drawn some men like a magnetic charm, it did not draw him. 1O the contrary, he plunged immediately into a horticultural dis. cussion with Mrs. Lauriston, and since the room was long and they talked in a low key, kept it up even while the music war going on-a fact which exasperated Miss Riv- ington not a little. "Does Mr. St. Julian always devote himself to Mrs. Lauriston in the evening?" she asked Carmen after a while, Bertie having been sent to rummage among some music on a stand not far off. "I never knew him so ex- emplary before." "He is alwavs courteous and attentive to her," Carmen answered. "I often wonder how it is that he las acquired such a reputation for being disagreeable, as Miss Daven- port tells me that he has. Certainly since lie has been here no one could have been more pleasant or unpretend- ing." "Most of his acquaintances would scarcely credit the transformation," Miss Rivington said; "and to see him sitting there during the heaviest kind of social 'duty- work,' I can scarcely believe that it is indeed St. Juliap. Forgive me," she added, with a laugh, "if I am not very complimentary to Mrs. Lauriston. She is a very charnlm ing, high-bred lady, I think; but do you suppose that Mr. St. Julian takes any very active interest in evergreen hedges? for that, I hear, is what they are discussing." "I cannot find the song," said Bertie, coming back .be- fore Carmen could answer. "One never can find what one wants. But here is a lovely thing of Abt's. Do you know it, Miss Rivington?" In this manner the evening wore away. Miss Rivington found that even one of his own songs proved powerless to wile St. Julian to her side, and after that she made no fur. ther effort. She wa, not a woman to endanger anything by rashness, but on the contrary was capable of biding her time with great coolness and patience, knowing how many marvels time works. It was not until just before they separated for the night that she found the opportunity which she desired of saying a few words to him. They chanced to be standing at one of the large windows-watching the moon rise-the same mnoon, -though with a greater slice taken off the side, which had lighted them down the river a few nights before. "What a melancholy look it has!" she said. "When one sees it rising in that way-well advanced in decline- one can credit all the traditions and stories of its baleful influence on men and things. Don't you think so?" "It certainly has a strange, weird kind of look," he said. "But the stories are easily credited even without that, I think. At least I find no difficulty about them. But then I am a credulous person." "Aie you? It is the last character I should have thought of giving you." He shrugged his shoulders a little. "I told you long ago that you know nothing of me," he said. "It is not re- markable, however, since the subject is not one of particu- lar interest." "But I think I do know something of you," said she. "Why should I not? I have had the honor of your ac- 1quaintance some time, and certainly you are not inscru- table." "Neither are you infallible." "Believe me, I never imagined myself to be so. I have only trained the observant faculties which Nature gave me until I find that they rarely deceive me. I wonder if you can say as much for yours:?" "Tilere are few people whom I think worth the trouble of observing," he answered, coldly-so coldly that if Car- men had seen his face or heard 'his voice just then, sle would not hlave wondered how people could call bhim "disagreeable."   Alice Rivington flushed. She was quick enough to read his meaning'and not likely to misconceive it, for a prouder woman never lived; but she was a woman who was also able to hold her pride in check when there was need to do so.' Having an end in view, she held it in check now. "How courteous you are!" she said, laughing slightly. "I can scarcelv fancv you are the same person of whose exceeding amiability' Miss Lauriston was speaking a little while ago. Is it only for your old friends you reserve your incivility?"Then before he could answer she stepped through thie window. "Come," she said, "I think we can see the moon better from the lawn." He followed her-not because he felt inclined to do so, but because it would have been more uncivil tlian even he cared to be to refiuse such an invitation. They walked to- gether silently for a short distance, pausing when they reached the head of the slope which led down to the river. Tile sweet smell of moist earth, of dewy flowers and grass, was all around them; the murmur of the river seemed full of strange meaning as it filled the silent night, and the mournful moon, rising slowly from a bank of clouds which her light had silvered, sent her long, palke beams across the earth to where they stood. St. Juliah forgot his companion for a minute. It was like a poem to him- this solemn silence and sadness of the midnight, with Na- tlre chanting one grand monotone to the listening earth. He was not enough of a poet to grasp its fill meaning and embody it in words, but he was enough of a poet to feel it and be thrilled by it to his inmoct soul. Miss Rivington's voice startled him a little wlhen she spoke; pure and sweet as it was, it did not seem to suit the time antl scene. "You are surprised to see me here, are you not?" she said, for she could not afford to waste time over her expla- nation. "I have fancied as much from your mnanner." "Surprised to see you- here at Lnluriston!" he repeated. "Pardon me, but I have no possible right to feel or ex- press surprise at anything of the kind." "Do we generally wait for a r il,ht to be surprised?" asked she. "That is nonsense, Mr. St. Julian, and I have no time just now for nonsense. You were surprised to see me yesterday, you are surprised to see me to-dnv, and it is not remarkable that you should be, remembering, as you do and as I do, the promise I g;ave yoll a week ago." "You are very kind," said St. Julian, dryly; "but a week is too long to expect that a woman will keep a prolm- ise, even if she remember it."' "Is it?" said she, and she laughed a little. It was jeal- ousy after all, she thought, which had made him so cold and reserved.  "But you see that is nonsense again. I not only remember, but I have kept the promise to the best of my abilitv." "Indeed!" said he; and it would be difficult to express polite indifference and incredulity better than it was ex- pressed in. that monosyllable. "You do not believe me," said she, quickly. "Appear- ances are a little against me, I grant, but the other night- on the island-" "Pardon me," he said, interrupting her here, "but it is quite unnecessary to tell me that after a fashion you gave poor Bertie his coup de grace on the island, for-I heard you." "You heard me?" "Shocking, wasn't it? But when one takes to intriguing, one is apt to end in eavesdropping, and perhaps even in worse things, you know.  Yes% I heard you, and I think you did it very well, if that is any consolation to you." "At least I did it completely. If you heard anything, you nlllst have heard that." "I did hear that." "Andl-and, therefore, you are puzzled, perhaps, to ac- count for my being here and for several things which have happened since that night." "I am  puzzled to account for nothing!" said he, em- phatically.  "I have seen too much of the folly of men not to understand the infatuation which has led Bertie back to your feet." "A;d I suppose," said she, coolly "that you think you have als('seen too much of the vanity of women not to un- derstand why I have allowed him to return?"   "No," answered le, coldly; "I am better informed than you imagine. I know perfectly well why you have allowed him to return." She started and looked at him. The moon had by this time risen high enough to throw a broad light across their faces as they stood clear of full-shadowing trees. "What do you mean?"- she asked. TIhre was a slight quiver in her voice which for once she could not help. "I mean," he answered, "that having rejected Bertie for his poverty, you llave bidden him back to your side again when you find that his cousin is ready to sacrifice her own interests to enrich him. If you wish to know why she went to you and spoke as she did yesterday," he added, "Iet me tell you that she too overheard you on the island that night." "How many more?" asked Miss Rivington. She tried to laugh, but her face had grown very pale. "So vo:i know the whole story of her romantic offers," she s:aid. "But you must fancy me as absurd as site is, Mr. St. Ju- lian, if you suppose that I attach any value to theim. How could she possibly transfer her fortune to her cousin? And if she transferred it and lie accepted it a hundred times over, it would -make no difibrence to me. You have known something of, me during these past eighteen months," she said, proudly, almost passionately. "You might know whether I need to grasp at such a visionary hope of wealth as that offered by the erratic impulse of a foolish girl." "I know that you have more than once rejected greater wealth than that involved here," he said; "but a woman's caprice is an enigma I have long since ceased to make any effort to solve." "Sometimes, however, it may be worth solving," said she. "Sometimes it may not be so much of a caprice as it seems." Then she stopped.  How could she say more? and yet how little of comprehension there was in his face! "Do youi know one thing?" she said, hastily. "When I spoke to Bertie Lauriston on the island that night, I did it because I had promised you, and yet you have only words of coldness and blamle for me." "Because you promised me!" lie repeated. He flushed a little and laughed somewhat bitterly. "You were very kind.'[ lhe said, "but it 1has not availed much." "Not vet," slte .answered(, almost eagerly. "But in the end, if I show Bertie h hollopeless all this is, after a while he will turn to his cousin, and then-" Slie stopped short. It has been already said that the moonlight was streaming filll on St. Julian's face. At those words, "he will turn to his cousin," something came over that face which told Miss Rivington wlhat she had .' desired vet dreaded to learn. She gave a little gasp; a cold allnd seemed to clutch her heart. Was it fancy or;: truth?  For a moment she determined to know. "Perhaps, lhowever," she said, with a faint, forced smile, ",such anticipations are not very pleasant to you. Perh a-ps yo I have regretted your philanthropic plan for securing the heiress and the inheritance to your firiend?" "No, I have not regretted it," he answered, slowly. "I would still do it if I could. But, all the same, I love Car- men Lauriston myself." He uttered the words with singular quietness--uttered them almost as if they struck blim with the force of a new : idea on which he was meditatihg; but to Alice Rivington  it seemed as if thev had literally annihilated-the ground benealth her feet. iFor a minute there was silence. What passed in that minute who can tell?  Thought, as we know, has lightning wings, and sensation of the moral order recovers fronm a numbing blow more quickly than ' that of the plhysical. She mlust have felt and thought much before she startled him with a laughl-a laugh more nearly approaching discord than any sound he had ever- heard from hler lips. "Wlhat a gtme of cross-purposes we seem to have been playing l" she said. "So you are in love with Carmen Lauriston; but (do you chance to know-what I discovered yesterday-that Carmen Lauriston is in love with her Cousin?" " Yes, T know it," lie answered, gravely. "I have had no hlope fromn the first-I have no hope now; but still-- love lier."   He did not care who knew it; He would have told it just then to the whole world, for even he, the cool, impas- sive St. Julian, had reached that point of love's madness when men are ready to proclaim their follv from the housetops. "I love her," he said, with the air'of supreme gratitude which hopelessness sometimes gives; and as he said it he looked, not at the face of the woman beside him, but at the distant moonlit hills melting into vague indis- tinctness far away. "Yes, you love her because you have no hope," this woman said, breaking the stillness with sudden bitter, pas- sionate tones. "How like a man that is! How like you in especial, Basil St. Julian I She does not love you; she has no thought for anybody save that thrice commonplace cousin of hers, whom we both know so well. But you will idealize and dream, and write poetry of her, while all the time, perhaps, a love which you might have had was Iving unheeded at your feet. Again I say, how like a nan!;' The scornful voice, vibrating, quivering, full of the keen thrill of disappointment, ceased as suddenly as it had be- gun. Then feeling how entirely she had betrayed hlerseFf, the proud, passionate, wounded woman turned, and with her light, flowing draperies -trailing unheeded over the dewy grass, passed swiftly across the lawn and into the house. When St. Julian came back into the drawing-room through the window a few minutes later, Carmen looked up at him with wondering eyes. He did not notice for a second that she was alone in the room until she spoke. "What is the matter with Miss Rivington?" she asked. "Has anything happened? Why did she go up stairs so hastily and strangely, without. bidding any one good-night or even entering the room?" "Indeed I cannot tell," answered lie. "We were on the lawn together, and she left me rather abruptly, but I did not observe. Did she not come in helre?" "Not at all," said Carmen, looking at him  intently. tShe passed through the b1all quickly and went up stairs. I had only one glimpse of her face, but it was very pale- so pale that I was in the act of going to ask if anything was the matter when Bertie anticipated me. He went out, but she would not allow him to stop her. , She said some- thing about not feeling well, and went on up the staircase. We heard her chamber door shut, and-that is all." "And wheie eis Bertie?" asked St. Julian; ignoring very coolly the account of .Miss Rivington's abrupt departure. "In the smoking-room, I think; at least he turned off in that direction." "And is Mrs. Lauriston in the smoking-room too, that you are left quite alone?" "She went to bed with a headache some time ago." "And you have been alone ever since?" "Oh no; Bertie was here until Miss Rivington came in. Mr. St. Julian"--a slight pause-" do you know that lie is jealous of you?" "Is he?" said St. Julian, with a  short laugh. The whole thing was so irresistibly like a-comedy, so absurdly perverse, so wretchedly tantalizing, that it struck him in an almost ludicrous aspect. How often had he seen just such crosses and misunderstandings on the stage! But there was  always a loophole by mealns of which these things might be 1 brought straight there. Here there was none. Even with his cool brain, lie could not see a single means of escape from the entanglement of cross purposes and cross desires r in which they-were; lhe could not see, above all, how sun- 1 shine was to be brought back to the pale, pathetic youting l face looking at him. It was one of those hlopeless things ! of which life is full-one of those comedies that turn to l saddest tragedy before our eyes.           t "So Bertie is jealous of me with regard to his Peri," he i said. "Well, that is nothing new. He has been spasmod- ically in that condition whenever he was not more jealous t of somebody else, for eighteen months past. However, ln- r less he is Jelplessly absurd, I think I can set him straight now. -I shall take the trouble for your sake, not for his," , he added, quickly. "My  princess, you are letting these t things trouble you too much." .           ' She flushed quickly. He had called her by this name before, and she had scarcely regarded it; bLut there wa,   something in his tone now, an almost caressing tenderness, which seemed to give new meaning to the!title. Instinct. ively she rose and held out her hand to bid him good. night. The window was open behind her. A waft of fragrance was borne in on the breeze which made all the candles flicker and the curtains gently sway. The little scene came back to St. Julian long afterward with the same curious thrill and pang which it cost him then. As she stood before him, the words of the lover in Browning's "Lost Mistress" flashed across his memory. He could almost have spoken them aloud: "To-morrow we meet the same, then, dearest; May I take your hand in mine? Mere friends are we--well, friends the merest X Keep much that I resign." "Good-night," she said, softly. "You are very kind. Don't think me ungrateful, whatever else you may think me." The words were commonplace enough, but so was not the tone. It was to the latter that he made his reply when he bent his head and kissed the hand lie held. "I can never'think other than the best of you, my princess," he said, making no effort to restrain the pas- sionate cadence in his voice. And sQ, without another word, they parted. Half an hour later-half an hour which he had spent in pacing up and down the long, empty drawing-room--St. Julian entered the smoking-room, where Bertie sat before an open window, his feet on the sill, a cloud of smoke about his Ilead and an odor of tobacco and honeysuckle strangely mingled in the atmosphere. It is safe to say that if he had gone thither expecting any very cordial welcome, he would have been grievously disappointed. Bertie, who had been nursing his jealous wrath after the most approved fashion, gave him the benefit of something much more nearly approaching a scowl when he entered, "I hardly expected to see you here to-night," he said, after a while. St. Julian, having lighted a cigar, settled himself comfortably and remained quiet. "May 1 ask wlyv not?" was the cool response. As Ber- tie knew w ell, it was useless to attempt to "aggravate" thllis impassive man. Lot's wife after she was changed into a pillar of salt could scarcely have been more stolid. "Oh 011, you had so much that was pleasant on hand," said the jealous one, irritably. "A flirtation on the lawn and another in the drawing-room might be supposed to fill a man's time, I should think. Pray, have you finished both of themn off satisfactorilv?" "Are you not tired of that nonsense?" asked St. Julian, a little irritably in turn. "Upon my word, I think you ought to be. Youl know it is stuff. I have never had'the faintest disposition for a flirtation with Miss Rivington-- she is not a woman who has ever been in the least degree attractive to mne; and so far as your cousin is concerned, it is worse than nonsense. It shows astonishing want of respect for her." "By Jove!" said Bertie. He let his feet drop to the floor, and absolutely took his cigar out of his mouti "You are amazinglv kind to instruct me in the degree uo respect due to my own cousin," he said, in a tone meant to be very sarcastic, but which was rathter too angry to accomplish the coolness necessary for successful sarcasm. "See here, St. Julian!" lie went on, quickly. "I give you my   word, I don't understand you. One while I think that it is because you are in love with Alice Rivington" yourself that you hlave urgded me so strongly to marry my cousin; another wlile I amn inclined to believe, with my mother, that you are going in seriously for Carmen. But the devil himself might be puzzled to tell which it really "You are delightfully candid," said St. Julian', puffingi the smoke slowly out of his mouth; "but suppose it is neither?"  "I should say that was not likely. You have been a good friend of mine always--nobodv knows that better than I  do; but even the best of friends don't interest them- selves in each other's affairs as vou hIave done in this." "And your theory of explanation is-" "Half an hour ago my theory of explanation was that   "WHAT A PITY I COULD NOT SEE MY COUSIN WITH YOUR EYES!"   , Alice Rivington was at the bottom of it," said he, half fiercely. "There was no mistaking the expression of her face when I met her in the hall. Something had hap. pened, and it must have been a strange something to shake such a woman' as that so entirely out of her ordinary calm. She looked as unstrung as--as a girl of sixteen who thinks she has seen a ghost. Now, I had seen her standing on the lawn with you ten minutes before. Will you tell me what I am to think of that?" . "Anything you please," answered the other, coolly, "ex- (.t that I had any active hand in making her look like a ': st, or as if she had seen a ghost either. Once again, BSrtie: when will you have done with all this nonsense? Save that I heartily distrust, and in a measure dislike , her, Alice Rivington is nothing to me-literally nothing. When will you believe that? As for mentioning her in comparison with your cousin, such a thing seems little short of sacrilege, for they are no more to be compared than the false lights from the marsh will bear comparison with the eternal stars in the arch of heaven." "By Jove!" said Bertie again. The passionate vehe- mence of the latter part of this speech amazed him. It was so seldom that St. Julian was excited, or that he in- troduced anything approaching to poetry into his conver- sation. "What a pity I could not see my cousin with your eyesl" he said, after a minute, half piqued, half amused. "Everything would be much easier then." And although St. Julian could freely have pitched him out of the window for the speech, lie felt its truth. Every- thing would be much easier if he could only give Bertie his eyes with which-to regard the young' heiress of Lau- riston. A fierce sense of wrathful indignation seized him "   -a sense of the everlasting cruelty and hardness of fate, that the prize for which he would have dared and suffered so much should lie so readily within reach of this other's careless, indifferent hand. "Is it always so?" he thought, half bitterly, half disdainfilllvy. "Do the best gifts of life always come to those who have done nothing to gain them and who are wholly unable to appreciate them?"Then he turned to Bertie with a look and a tone which, graved as they were on his memory by quickly-succeeding events, the latter never forgot. "Take my word for it," he said, "the time will come when you will see your cousin with my eyes, and when you will marvel over, and, it may be, even curse, the blindness which keeps you from her now." CHAPTER XIX. AFLOAT. WHEr Miss Rivington came down the next morning. she found only Carmen and Mrs. Lauriston in the break- fast-room. Her first involuntary glance around the room being significant of surprise at the marked absence of the masculine element, the elder lady explained that the two gentlemen had gone out duck-shooting. "They are going some distance down the river, so they started early, and will probably not be back until late this evening," she re- marked; "I am sorry, therefore, that you will be likely to have rather a dull day." Miss Rivington laughed a little and looked at Carmen. "Shall we have rather a dull day?" she asked. "I think sometimes it is quite a relief to be rid of gentlemen, and to be able to do what one pleases and wear what one pleases. If only Sydney Blandford does not come now-"   "Sydney Blandford went with Bertie and Mr. St. Ju- lian," Mrs. Lauriston said. After this something of a cloud seemed to pass from Alice's face. She was undoubtedly relieved by the ab- sence of the two young men. Carmen saw that plainly- saw it, and wondered in her own mind what it meant. Was it Beitie or was it St. Julian whom she was glad not to meet? It was impossible to forget her strangely abrupt departure of the night before, and the girl caught herself more than once speculating curiously regarding it. Now and then she looked at the beautiful face opposite, as if trying to read the riddle on the clear-cut features or in the lovely turquoise eyes, but they baffled her with a serene im- passiveness perfect as that of any sphinx; not so perfect in reality as in appearance, however, had she only known it. Miss Rivington understood the glances and felt a little uncomfortable, knowing how far she had betrayed herself the night before. "I believe I ought to make my apologies for having retired without bidding any one good-night," she said, after a while, with a light laugh. "I thought after I was in my room and in my dressing-gown, quite too late to come down again, that it must have looked very uncivil. I be- lieve Mr. Lauriston tried to speak to me as I passed through the hall, but I was suffering with a sudden attack of neuralgia, brought on by the damp of the river-mist, and could not stop. Do, you ever suffer from neuralgia, Mrs. Lauriston?" "I have been a martyr to it for years," answered Mrs. Lauriston. "Migratory neuralgia of the most severe kind. Does yours migrate?" she asked, sympathetically. "Mine is sometimes in the chest, then in the head, then again in -the face or in the eyes. Dampness is terrible for it, and so are draughts, etc." Neuralgia proved quite a godsend in the way of a topic for conversation. It was Mrs. Lauriston's pet malady, and she gave Miss Rivington the fill history of an ex- haustive course of medical treatment which she had lun- derghne for it; "Not that it has ever done any good," she concluded, with a sigh. "Every time that the weather :grows damp I suffer as much as ever. There must be a ,change at hand now, since you felt yours last night," she went on, looking meditatively at the young lady. "I wonder mine has not warned me of it. Perhaps that last course of treatment may hlave done some good, after all." The day did not prove so quiet, neither pleasantly quiet nor dully quiet, as the two ladies had fancied it would be. Soon after breakfast Miss Blandford and Miss Davenport arrived, "to spend the morning," they announced. "We knew the gentlemen were away, so we just wore anything and brought our work," they said. The work in question  did not amount to much, being the crude beginning of a many-colored afghan on which they were engaged in com- mon; but they soon had cause to regret having worn the old dresses graphically described under the head of " any- thing." In the course of the morning several elaborately- dressed visitors called, mostly ladies, who, had solemnly driven from eight to ten miles to ,pay two or three visits of ceremony, and who appeared at Lauriston on their way from Beechdale. "So sorry to have not found you at home!" was their first salutation to the Beechdale ladies, mingled, however, with rejoicing at having found them at all. It was hard on Bella and Clara in their old dresses; but Alice was in a toilet fraiche et simple enough to make up for their shortcomings, and looked as much like a "queen in a book" or a goddess in a poem as ever. Most of the visitors, coming in late, remained to lunch- eon, and left many regrets and kind invitations for Mr. Lauriston when they took their departure. This was not only because they felt an honest cordiality for the young fellow who had just been dispossessed so suddenly and so strangely before their eyes, but also because it was known far and wide all over the country-side that there was a match impending between thie heiress of Lauriston and lier cousin. "The best arrangement in the world," they all said, as they drove away; "but somehow she was look- ing paler than usual to-day, and plainer., Perhaps, how. r ever, it was only by contrast with that beautiful Miss Riv- ington. She would make any woman look plain."   The beautiful Miss Rivington retired for her siesta as soon as the last of the goodly company had rumbled away. "Good Heavens, what an exhausting day! she thought, as she shut herself into the green dimness of her chamber. "Is this what I came for? To exchange stupid common- places with a set of silly women? I shall make some ex. cuse to-morrow for going back to Beechdale, and after that endeavor to persuade Belle into returning to the city as soon as possible." - At dinner the gentlemen'had not yet returned. "They have gone down to the marshes near the mouth of the river, no doubt," Mrs. Lauriston said, placidly. "That is the great place for ducks, and Bertie told me they would be late in getting back." "I:am sorry they are not here," Carmen said, looking a little wistfully at her guest, whom she felt as if she had entrapped into an atmosphere of petticoats, to which she was suited as little as a lioness to a society of tame kittens. "I thought we should go on the river this evening, it is so lovely at sundown; but of course you would not find it pleasant just with me." "And why not just with you?" asked Miss Rivington, ,smiling, being ready on her part for any change from the ennui of the house and Mrs. Lauriston's platitudes. "Did you not tell me that you can manage a boat? and I know something of it myself. My education might very well be described as a liberal smattering of everything. How far is it by the river to Beechdale? Could we take the skiff and go there?'- "With a boatman, readily," Carmen answered. "I fear we could scarcely pull so far against the current ourselves. But there is the phaeton, if you would like-" "Oh, indeed no; it is the river I should like, and I only spoke of going because Belle told me that I had some let- ters there which she had forgotten to bring. Probably thev are not of the least importance, but you know one is always anxious to see one's letters." "So I suppose," said Carmen. "I have never been tried that waly, for I have no correspondents; but I can sympathize with your impatience, so we will take Sam and go by the river to Beechdale after dinner." Then she turned to Willis and bade hinm send a message to Sam, this being the last of a crew of trained negro boat- men who in ante-bellum days had made the Lauriston boat famous on the river. The message having been duly sent, and dinner at last being over, the two ladies pre- pared for their excursion. "We must take a wrap or two, 'since we shall be in the night returning, and it is always cool on the water," Carmen said; "and had you not better change that pretty, fresh dress, Miss Rivington? It seems a pity to ruin it in the boat." The pretty, fresh dress was accordingly changed, and, provided with a light shawl apiece, they took their way down the lawn to the river bank. It was not quite sunset yet. "Look, how beautiful!"Carmen said, pointing to a mass of foliage across the stream illumined by the red glory of the sinking sun. When they reached the pier they found, instead of Sam, a very diminutive specimen of black humanity awaiting them. "What is the matter?" asked Carmen. "Is Sam not able to come?" "Pap's sick abed," piped the ebony Tom   Thumb. "He's been down wid de fever-an'-aga three days, an' he had a chill dis mornin'." "Indeed!" said the young lady, coolly.  Then she turned to Miss Rivington. "What is to be done?" she asked. "There is no telling whether or not he really has fever and ague; but we can't go and see, you know. Shall I send for somebody else, or shall we go back and order the phaeton?" $' Neither," answered the other. "Never mind the let- ters. We can send for them to-morrow morning. Let us go out on the river, up or down, it does not matter which, so that we are afloat." "That certainly is the great point," said Carmen, smil- ing; and she stepped into the little skiff that lay moored near the spot where they were standing. Miss Rivington followed her, and in a few minutes they were afloat. Just as they pushed out into the stream, Carmen managing the   oars with great ease and dexterity, Hubert came at ffll[ gallop down to the pier, and, seeing himself, left behind, indulged in a sound between a bark and a howl. "Poor fellow!" said his mistress; "shall we go back for him?" "Go back for him-that great dog?" said Miss Riving- ton, horrified. "He would simply upset us." "He has never done such a thing, and I take him on the river with me constantly." "It is a very great risk, then. No, indeed; I am sorry to be so disobliging, but I really cannot consent to such a passenger." "You must stay where you are, Hubert," his mistress called out, her voice falling softly ans clearly through the evening air. "Go back to the house, like a good fellow." But this Hubert stoutly declined to do. He was indig- nantly aggrieved, and he manifested his sense of injury by a series of astonishing yelps and barks as he kept abreast with them in their passage down stream by trotting along the bank. "That creature is going to jump in and swim to us after a while," said Miss Rivington. "He will do no harm if he should," Carmen answered. "He is too well trained to think of attempting to get into the boat." "He would undoubtedly capsize it if he did," the other said, a little apprehensively; "and then lie could only save one, you know." "But that one should certainly be you," said Carmen, smiling. "'Can you doubt it?" "Of course I doubt it," was the rather blunt reply. "The dog is yours, and he would naturally make your rescue his first object." "Not, however, if I told him to save you." "How very likely you would be to tell him!" "Do you think I would not?" asked the girl, quickly, flushing a little. "I have no idea that you would," the other coolly an- swered. "We are all prone to think that we should be very heroic and self-sacrificing till the moment of danger comes. Then, when it is an issue of life and death, we find the instinct of self-preservation is too strong, and we think only of ourselves. You have heard in shipwrecks of women dragging those whom they loved best-men who, unburdened, might have saved their lives-down to death with them; of brothers unloosing the death-clasp of their sisters; and even once I read of a man bidding his wife release him or they would both drown, and she-released him and sank." "Yet you say that in a moment of danger people think only of themselves." "He thought only of himself." "But the wife did not, since, despite that instinct of self- preservation of which you talk, she was capable of such an act of sacrifice. There is little use in discussing the ques- tion, since Hubert is not likely to capsize us; but I think I should consider your life before my own, Miss Rivington, in any event. You are not only my  guest, and, I hope, my friend, but your life is of importance to many. My life is of importance to nobody." "Your life is of importance to nobody! How can you possibly say such a thing?" ': It is as true as that we are floating here this moment and that the sunset yonder is streaking the west with glory. If you count embarrassment and trouble importance, I may be fairly said to represent a great deal," she said, smiling faintly, "but not otherwise. You see it is not as if I had anybody belonging to me, or as if I belonged to-anybody. When my   mother died, everybody died on whom I had any claim. Mrs. Lauristono has been verv kind to me; but of course her heart is with Bertie, anid you know I have taken Bertie's inheritance." "  But there may be others who care for you," said Miss Rivington. The words nearly choked her, for she was thinking of St. Julian; but she spoke them with a pur- pose. "  There are no -others who matter," said Carmen, in a i low voice. "No   others who would not forget my exist- ence within a  month."   Nothing more was said after this for a minute. The boat swept on with the current, and the two sitting in it were each of them  deep in their own thoughts, when a sudden splash in the water near the bank startled them. "Good Graciousl the dog is coming," said Miss Riv- ington, turning her glance in that direction. Carmen looked round also, and, truly enough, Huiberts large head was visible above the water swimming leis- urely toward them. "I am sure he will do no harm," she said, reassuringly. But Miss Rivington was much alarmed. "He will upset us," she said, seizing quickly one of the oars which Carmen had drawn out of the water and lid in the bot- tom of the boat-there being no need for it Since they were merely floating on the current, and one was sufficient with which to steer. With this she began to keep off Hubert, who had now nearly reached them. "Take care!" Carmen said, warningly. "You will upset us yourself, or you will lose your balance and go overboard. For Heaven's sake, take care!" She uttered the last words quickly, for, in consequence of a desperate lunge in the direction of the dog, Miss Riv- ington did nearly lose her balance, and the. little boat rocked ominously. "Hubert, go back to the shore!" his mistress cried authoritatively, but as she said it her heart gave a leap into her throat, for something worse than any. possible danger from  Hubert occurred. The oar with which Miss Rivington was fencing him   off suddenly slipped from  her grasp. She made a fruitless effort to recover it, another, and yet another, but all in vain. Every second it drifted farther beyond her reach. "Hubert, bring it here!"Carmen said, seeing in a min- ute that it was only through the dog that they could hope to recover it. But Hubert by this time was thoroughly cowed and frightened.  He heard tie tone, but mistaking the words, he turned  and swam toward the bank. His mistress called after him, but her voice was only a  means of making him accelerate his pace, if there be such a thing as swimming pace. Awav he went, making no pause or delay; and away the oar went also, drifting from them farther and farther on the breast of the stream, "We must have it," Carmen said, with compressed lips. "How are we possibly to get back with only one oar? Try, Miss Rivington; see if you cannot recover it while I steerin that direction." But, expert though she was in rowing, ,Miss Lauriston did not prove equally expert in steering. eShe turned the boat round and round, but she could accomplish nothing more. As for approaching the missing oar, that became a thing of greater impossibility every minute. It had been caught in an eddy, and as they looked it was carried down stream with a rush, one end under water, the other bob- bing up and down like a piece of cork. "Oh, how   unfortunate!" said Miss Rivington, quite agijhast; "and all the fault of that dreadful dog. What on earth are we to do?" "Go to the bank," answered Carmen, briefly. "It is our only resource." "And walk back to the house?" "I only hope nothing worse may befall us."' "But do you think you can reach the bank?" "I can try." Slhe did try, and for a little while it seemed as if she would succeed-the skiff being light and easily managed even with a  single oar-but suddenly an accident occurred more unexpected, unforeseen and unfortunate than the other. The single oar broke, whether from awkward use or from being old and unfit for service it is impossible to say. One fragment remained in Carmen's hands, and the other followed the example of its predecessor and floated off down stream. As it snapped a slight cry sprang from two pairs of parted lips, and two pairs of eyes gazed in dismay at the- drifting fragment. Then they looked at each other. "What is to become of us now?" they seemed to say. Carmen spoke first.- "I ought to have emaembered-   :  .     .               L Mr. St. Julian said the other day that oar was not fit for use. It was thin and cracked." "But whatever it was, it was something; and what can we do now?" "Float down the stream until somebody picks us up, I suppose," said Carmen, with a faint laugh. "I really do not think any harm can come to us. Madre is sure to send as soon as she finds it is growing dark and we do not return." "But she thinks we have gone to Beechdale." "So she does!" with a start. "' But even that makes no difference, for'we are sure to meet Bertie and Mr. St. Ju- lian before long." "All," said Miss Rivington, with a slight wave of color sweeping into her face, "I had forgotten that." "So you see there is no need to be uneasy." "N-o, I suppose not; but it is singular and uncomfort- able to feel that one can do nothing for one's self." It was singular and uncomfortable, but the fact remained the same. They could indeed do nothing for themselves, and they sat quite passive in the little boat, which now started pensively on its course down stream. Everybody who has seen a boat drifting without any oar or guiding rudder can imagine how this boat drifted now in the soft light of the crimson sunset which was dyeing earth and sky. "We must meet somebody before long," Carmen said; but somehow the river and the bank had never seemed so entirely deserted. As they floated along, not even a canoe was visible nor a human figure in the dis- tance. Silence and gathering twilight had all the scene to themselves. Neither of the two said Inuch. They sat face to face in the boat, watching eagerly on either side for any sign of life. Now and then one or the other tried to speak lightly of their position, but it was little better than failure, any attempt at mutual deception on this point. After a while, however, they ceased even this attempt to conceal their alarm from each other. Twilight was fading into night; only a faint stain of color was left to show, where the gorgeous sunset tints had so lately burned, and star after star had gleamed into sight in the misty depths of sky until all the 'arch above them was spangled. Yet still the boat swept on with the current, past silent banks grow- ing indistinct in the waning light, and still the only sound that broke the stillness was the rush of the river in their ears. "How singular that we have not met Bertie and Mr. -St. Julian!"Carmen said, after a while, with a tone of sup- pressed alarm impossible to describe, but strangely to be. felt, in her voice. "I did not fancy they would be so late as this." "Perhaps we may not meet them at all," her companion said, in a tone as full of quivering awe and foreboding as her own. "But if they are on the river we must meet them." "They may not be on the river, however. I have been struck by the number of streams. elnptying into it as we passed-one marshy creek in especial I thought was just the place for ducks. They may be there, and we-we may have passed them." "Impossible!  They were going down to the marshes, madre said, and the mlarshes are below us. But they ought to be on their way back before this." She took out her watch and glanced at it in the waning light. "It is seven o'clock," she said. Now, seven o'clock in September means very nearly night, and nearly night it was. The two faces began to look very pale and awestruck as they gazed at each other in the gathering dusk; but they were both women of courage and coolness, and they broke into none of the foolish sobs-and cries which are thie resort and relief of weaker natures. It is doubtful, indeed, if two men of the  highest metal could have asked each other more quietly, with a  significant, tense chord in their voices thoughl, "What is to be done?" 1"We  must make a noise of some kind," Carmen said. "We   have floated along too silently. Let us cry for help. Somebody may hear, though there are no residences im- i mediately on the river below Lauriston."       1 So they sent their cries for help ringing far over the ] t   water and the silent fields and woods, which gave back their answer in a low echo inexpressibly full of weird ex- pression. Human answer, human sight or human sound there was none. When they had exhausted themselves, they paused and looked at each other again. "It is useless," Alice Rivington said; "nobody hears or is likely to hear, and night is on us. What are we to do?" The other answered nothing. What could she say? They were afloat in a light skiff, without an oar or the least thing which might be made to do duty for an oar; they could not in any way retard or even direct their progress and they were hastening on to they knew not what through the solemn silence and darkness of the night. Truly, it was a strange and awful position for two helpless and delicatelv-nurtured women. But helpless and delicately-nurtured as they were, they had high hearts; and wrapping the shawls which they had so fortunately brought around them, they sat silent, hoping, yet against all hope, for the welcome sound of voices and the dash of oars which would tell them that they had met the duck-shooting party. But these sounds did not come. Only night deepened into royal majesty all around them. The last gleam of day faded from the western horizon where it had lingered so long. The steel- blue dome overhead grew bright with all its myriad stars marshalled in bands and clusters, reflected in the dark water of the flowing river, and sending a faint lustre through the wide world of space, to show the two women the shadowy outlines of each other's face and form. "What will become of us?"Alice Rivington asked once more; and her voice, usually pure and sweet, was now tense and hard. "If the boat keeps afloat and does not run upon a snag, which would tear it to pieces in a' minute or two, where slall we be by morning?" "At the mouth of the river, probably," Carmen's grave tones answered out of the shadowy quietness. "I do not know exactly how manly miles distant it is, but I remenm- ber the night we all went to Swan Island that Bertie said if we kept on we would be at the mouth of the river by daylight." "Somebody will certainly find us then, will they not?" "I should think there is no doubt of it; but what a prospect-to pass the night on the river in an open boat!" "But surely," said the other, feverishy, "something will occur. You cannot mean that there is no hope of help till morning?" "God only knows. I hope there may be. I am hoping and praying every minute. But look around yourself; do you see any prospect of the kind?" "I see nothing but those dark banks, which we have no possible means or hope of reaching. You have forgotten one thing, however, whether it means danger or whether it means holpe-the steamer comes up the river to-night." "No; she passed this afternoon." "And on a navigable river like this, can it be possible that we can float miles and meet nothing?" N"At night it is very likely. If we are not picked up before daylight, hiowever, we shall probably come across some fishing-boat near the mouth of the river." "And is that our only hope?" "So far as I can see, the only one." Silence again, and such silence-silence which meant to count the beatings of their hearts; to feel the throb of sick anxiety and nameless terror in every pulse; to hear the hoarse murmur of the water all around them;   to watch the quivering reflection of the stars below or their fixed, steady radiance above; to strain their ears for any sound which should tell of the neighborhood of man, yet shrink and dread to hear it; to listen to the strange, weird voices of the forests and Mrarshes through which they passed, the hoarse notes of/water-fowls, the melancholy hoot of the owl, the croakirg of frogs, the sway and mur- murs of'rustling foliage, and to feel their own utter impo- tence and helplessness amid it all. After a while they found that it was better to talk; any- thing was better than thinking and listening. So they began to speak of such subjects as the time and their own position naturally suggested, to tell each other some of    those tales of wonderful hairbreadth adventures which we have all read, and which invariably end so fortunately. "The people who are lost do not write their accounts," Miss Rivington said, in a voice that cut sharply on the air. "No," Carmen answered. Then after a minute's silence she added, suddenly, "Do you know it strikes me that this would be a pleasant way to leave life and all its responsi- bilities behind? One feels-do not you feel?-as if one was floating softly away, to a better country, perhaps. Somehow it seems the best end for--everything. I cannot feel as if I shall ever retrace this distance over which we have passed any more than we can relive the hours spent in passing it." "Do not talk so- horribly," her companion said, with a shiver which shook the little skiff. "It is folly-an awful folly. Do you mefn that you would like to be lost?" "God forbid! 3nt if I was lost without any active agency on my own part, it would cut the Gordian knot of many difficulties which else I see no means of solving." "Do you mean about your inheritance?" "Yes, I mean about my inheritance, from the burden of which my mother was so wise in endeavoring to save me. It has been too much for me," she said, slowly and gravely. Then she added, in a tone her companion never forgot, "And Bertie is the heir." "Are you mad, to speculate like this on our being drowned, or perishing horribly in some other way?"Miss Eivington cried, with an hysterical sound in her throat. "And all for Bertie. Good Heavens! how little lie is worth such thought!" Carmen did not answer, and they were silent again. In this way, between talking and silence, hour after hour- hours seeming each an eternity-passed. Far on in the  night the moon rose with something balefull in the look of her one-sided disk, and showed them their position. The river had widened out on either side, and in the dim, ghostly light they could see nothing save marshes stretch-. ing away into vague, shadowy distance. Looking at her watch, Carmen saw that it was two o'clock. "Heaven grant that we may not reach the month of the [ river before daylight," she said, "else the current may carry us out to sea." "Impossible," the other answered, quickly. "We :should probably ground on one of the sandbanks about the inlet, even- if the morning tide was not certain to bring us back to the shore." CHAPTER XX. 5WITH  THE TIDE. WHEN morning broke, it showed a little boat, rudderless F and oarless, yet containing two pale women, drifting on  the current which set seaward from the mouth of the river. s Exhausted by the weariness of their long night's vigil and full of terror regarding their fate, these women were little able to appreciate the beauty of the pearly dawn as it c mounted in the sky, banishing the cold light of the moon s which hung yet in the western heaven, and lighting with a' warm glow the wide expanse of rippling water all around c them.   Besides this water there was little to be seen. The banks of the river had widened farther and farther away, until n they were now only visible in misty distance on each side, ih and the light was not yet strong enough to show the sand- banks lying low on the water-line. Shivering in the cool, f( fresh air, the two who had borne each other company tl through the long watches of the night swept the horizon fi on every side with eager, anxious glances searching for p rescue. On the fragment of oar which Carmen still re- o, tained they had tied their handkerchiefs, and of this they were prepared to make a  signal if there was a boat of any kind' in sight. But their hearts sank when they found that ol the river at midnight had not been more wholly without ol any sign of life than the scene the dawn showed. Here hI and there a  sea-bird was skimming evir the waves. Be- n( sides this they saw only the softly-flowing water around, and the low, marshy shores stretching far away.   T Carmen gave a   sigh as she gazed. It had been weary ca   re work keeping hope and patience alive during all the long y. night, and she had watched and prayed for daylight, hoping that with daylight aid would come. But save that ie the uncertain terrors of the night were gone, their position seemed little better now than it had been all along. "If we could only stop the boat!" she said, suddenly, is aloud. "Our absence must be discovered this morning; - and they will certainly come for us. If we could only stop e 'this horrible motion and wait for them." 3.  ; I have been wishing the same thing," Alice Rivington It said, lifting a pale, haggard face from her hands. "I e  always thought the motion of a boat pleasant before; now t I feel as if I shall go mad if we cannot be still for a min- ute. Would it not be something for which to be grateful a  if we could only stop? and is -there no means of accom- l plishing it?" Tile other only smiled a faint, hopeless smile. To such ea question no answer was needed. Would they have been floating with the current during all that long, horrible night if there had been any means of stopping the boat? Would thev now be hastening withl every minute toward the open sea if it were possible to say, "Be still" to the, elittle cra t which bore them along so buoyantly? "We can do nothing," she said, in a tone of apathy, wrapping her shhawl more closely around her, and looking with weary, heavy-lidded eyes at the splendor kindling in the east. '  If we could only gain that," said Miss Rivington, after a while, pointing to an object rising out of the water not far ahead of them-a rock, it seemed, or perhaps the un- covered point of a sand-bank. Carmen turned her head and looked. She saw what -her companion meant, and she saw also-for she had keenly-observant eyes-that it was likely the sweep of the current would carry them very much in the direction in- dicated. Seeing this, something like hope seemed to flash across her. A  moment's reflection told her that if they could possibly gain even'such a refuge as that, it would be better than tossing to and fio at the mercy of waves and tides and currents. It was impossible that they could be left there long. Any, one going or coining to or from the mouth of the river must inevitably perceive and rescue them. "We can try to gain it," she said, quickly. "Oh for an oar, a rudder-anything with which to steer ' Is there nothing? They say necessity spurs men's brains to inven- tion. Why cannot necessity spur mine?" She looked round with almost passionate eagerness, but there was nothing to reward it. No fragment of any kind was floating near them on the rippling, gilded water, "If we could only tear up one of the seats, it, might serve for something," she said, bringing her gaze back to the boat. t "Bult, alas! it is impossible; we are not strong enough for such a feat." "And would likely upset the boat besides," said Alice. "This would not serve any purpose, I suppose," she added, drawing, with a faint smile, something from beneath her seat. It proved to be a  sunshade of elaborate make, with a carved handle curved into the shape of a hook-a pretty, dainty toy, over which Carmen shook her head. "It is too slight to be of any use," she said, taking it, nevertheless, and plunging its silken folds remorselessly into the water. It proved of a little use not long afterward, however; for when in the course of the next half hour they found themselves drifting in a particular aimless manner to and fro near the rock-it was a rock-which Miss Rivington had perceived, by aid of the parasol, together with the broken oar, Carmen managed to propel the boat nearer than it Tould otherwise have gone-so near, indeed, that, having io hook nor anything else with which to grapple, she was obliged, at the imminent risk of drowning, to grasp a point of the rock as they passed, and with torn and bleeding hands held the boat fast for a minute by means of this novel anchorage. "Qulickl" she said to Miss Rivington; "spring out! Take care and don't fall, for it is deep water liere, and I cannot swim."   She who was thus addressed needed no second adjura- tion. She made one quick spring to the rock, which just here was very little above the water, then turning like lightning caught the prow of the boat and held it fast while Carmen landed. After this, they both sank down breathless, and as the skiff floated away looked at each other. The question now was, Had they done well or ill for themselves? They answered the question unhesitatingly by a hearty congratulation as soon as they had. recovered sufficient breath for the purpose. After nearly twelve hours of continuous motion, they were stationary, as they had so short a time before desired to be. After long sit- ting in an intolerably cramped position, they, were able to move and stretch their limbs, albeit in very limited space; and after uncertainty and alarm concerning how far they might drift and how long it might be before they were rescued-if, as their fears added, rescue came at all-they found themselves in a safe position, commanding a full view of the mouth of the river and any boats which might appear therein. Surely-so they thought and said-there was good and sufficient cause for congratulation in all this. "I have the piece of oar," Carmen said, after a minute, showing this trophy, which she had brought out of the boat. "Since it has, done its duty as a rudder, we must tie the handkerchief back on it and find some way to set it up as a signal. I wish our St. Helena was larger and higher." "We must be content with it as it is," said Miss Riv- ington. "It is a great thing to feel that we are safe-that, however much inconvenience we may suffer, we are out of danger. Certainly this is not more than a convenient seat for a mermaid," she said, with a slightly hysterical laugh -such a laugh as comes from a great revulsion of feeling- "but I think we may be glad to possess it in common. It is better,than drifting out into the ocean Heaven only knows where." "Do you remember the little sea-maid?"Carmen asked, looking at the placid water stretching around them, the water dimpled, brightened and glorified by a thousand magical tints from the incarnadine east. "Perhaps it was on such a rock as this that she used to sit and watch the lights tin the palace of the prince." "You would rather think of her than of the Lorelei, I suppose," said Miss Rivington, with a smile which the other did not understand; " but for my part, I prefer the enchantress who lured men to death rather than one who gave her heart and her life, and wellnigh her soul, in vain to a man who never heeded it." "Is anything ever given in vain?" Carmen asked, in a low voice, gazing with wistful, level eyes at the horizon where the sky-line and the sea-line blended. She said nothing more than that, but Miss Rivington -knew of what she was thinking; and since a jarring, bitter chord in her own heart answered to the words, she was silent for some time. Then Carmen rose, and climbing an eminence of the rock-a sort of jagged peak which barely afforded foothold for one person-looked eagerly far and wide for a sign of life, a moving boat or distant sail. But in all the expanse of water nothing was visible save their own skiff, which by this time had drifted to a considerable distance. Carmen watched it with half-regretful interest for a minute, even before she noticed in what direction it was floating. When she did so, however, she caught her breath with a sharp cry, which made Miss Rivington spring to her feet, exclaiming, "Are they coming?" For answer the other pointed to the boat, drifting before their eyes toward the land. "Do you see that?" she said. "Do you know what it means? Ah, why did we not have our senses about us? Why did we not remember that the tide i, coming in?" Alice Rivington clasped her hands as she had never in all her life had better need to clasp them before. "Were we mad?" she said. "Why did we not think ,that that was why the skiff' seemed drifting so strangely? ,It had met the tide which was just beginning to come in. Oh, were we crazy? Oh how could we do it? Oh, to   think that we might be carried straight ashore if we had only stayed where we were!" "We did it for the best," said Carmen, after a minute- a minute of sharp struggle with her own desire to cry out on the folly which had indeed been so mad. "Do not, therefore, let us waste our time in vain regrets. Of course we ought to have thought, but we did not think. And although we may have a tedious time of waiting here, at least it is something to thank God that we are safe." "Safe!" repeated the other, in a sudden and inexpressi- bly thrilling tone. "Safe! Do you not see that instead of being safe, we have been doubly mad? Look here!- the water has risen over the spot where we landed! Carmen stood still, as if frozen. In a second, like a lightning flash, she saw it all. They had left thie boat, in which they were safe, to place themselves on a roFk which would be-covered by the rising tide. There are some things which are indescribable, which are almost unimaginable. The sensations of the two who now faced each other were of this kind. They said noth- ing. What could they say? Their blanched lips sprang apart, but no sound issued forth beyond an almost voice- less appeal to Heaven for deliverance from this new peril- this peril which dwarfed the other into utter insignificance. What was even the solemn midnight on the river to this strange, terrible isolation in the broad light of day, amid the green, rejoicing waves, gilded each with a crest of glory by the rising sun? "Perhaps the tide will not come over the rock," Carmen said; and then she stopped, for she suddenly remembered how she had once come with a party in a sail-boat to the mouth of the river-how a spring-tide had been flowing, and there had been no sign of any rock where they now stood, but how she had heard them speak of one as a hidden danger to be avoided. Oil why had she forgotten it all? "Look!"Miss Rivington answered, pointing to the water, pretty baby waves leaping over each other and washing higher and higher before their eves. These eyes met again with a glance like and yet unlike those which they had exchanged the night before; then Carmen turned quickly and scanned the horizon-east, west, north and south-as far as her eye could sweep; but she scanned it in vain. Even the mouth of the river, to which she most eagerly directed her gaze, had not a sign of life to show in return. Her heart sank heavily. It was impossible to disguise from herself that their situation was one of undoubted peril. Of course she could not judge how high the tide would rise; but it was at least certain that it was rising momently, and that it would soon make their lodgment on the rock one of extreme in- security. She did not fear that it would sweep them away -the gently incoming water seemed to smile at such a thought-but it would rise all around them; and when the ebb came, they might have lost in its cold embrace all power to cling to their rocky point, and so be quietly swept out to sea. Thoughts like these were in her mind, though not ou her lip, as she stood gazing with eyes of passionate longing far over the water, hoping, desiring, praying for one sign of man's coming, one token of man's aid. But there'was absolutely none. The blue sky above, in its marvellous, pearly beauty, flecked here and there with clouds fleecy enough for the plumage of an angel's wing, was not more unresponsive, not more blank, than the wide expanse of innumerably rippling waves chasing one an- other toward the land with a light sea-breeze to cap their tiny crests with foam. When she turned from the beautiful yet at that moment, inexpressibly desolate picture, she saw that even in the few minutes she had spent thus the waves had risen higher over the rock and weib striking against it momently with a soft, musical plash which at another time would have been pleasant to hear. It has been already said that there was only room for one person on the little jagged pinnacle where she stood and over which the water would probably not mount very high. This eminence, the two points of which rose out of the water like cones, and had attracted Miss Rivington's attention at a considerable distance, pos- sessed one advantage not to be lightly estimated in such   an emergency as the present. It was of uneven surface, and between the two points there was a nook where the feet might be planted with sufficient firmness to resist any ordinary action of tlme waves. In this respect it differed from the other portion of the rock, which was quite smooth, and afforded no foothold whatever, besides form- ing verv much of an- inclined plane. Recognizing at a glance the full force of this advantage, Carmen stepped down at once and laid her hand lightly on her compan- ion's arm. "When one wishes to plant a signal," said she, smiling slightly, "one must have a point on which to plant it. Now, there is no point here, so we must substitute some- thing by means of which to attract attention. You are larger and taller than I am, Miss Eivington; you must be that something. Will you take my place on that -emi- nence?" In a moment Alice Rivington understood what she meant, and all the little color which the anxiety of the night and the terror of the last few minutes had spared to her face faded out of it, leaving a sudden ghastly white- ness behind. She gazed at the speaker for one moment, and then looked round. The waves had reached nearly to their feet, and the only point apparently likely to be left uninvaded was the point which Carmen asked her to occupy. But that point would only hold one. There was a minute's pause. They faced each other silently, there in the midst of the rising tides, these two women who had so crossed each other's paths and marred the best hopes of each other's lives, yet whom the tie of common danger had drawn into such strange comrade- ship. "But if I take that place," Miss Rivington said at last, almost in a whisper and with parched lips, "what will you do? All this will soon be covered with water." "I shall do very well," the other answered, quietly. "I will come as near you as I can; and even if the water mounts very high, it cannot be -worse than surf-bathing, you know." "You think there is no danger of-of being washed away?" "I scarcely think so. See how softly the water comes; and then the tide ought not to be running very high just now-the moon is on the decline." '"I don't know much about tides," Alice said, quickly; "but I think I have heard that a spring-tide rarely comes when the moon is at the full, but generally two or three days later." "At all events, it cannot be a spring-tide now, and it will scarcely cover this highest point of the rock to any great depth.  We must not mind getting a little wet." "A  little!" repeated the other. She wrung. her hands together with a sudden passionate gesture, all the more striking from the resolute calm which she had . preserved up to this time. "Carmen," she said, almost sternly, with something like a  dry click in her throat, "is there any reason why you and I should not face the truth? Is there anything to be gained by trying to deceive each other with regard to the danger which we know to be upon us? We are not fools, so we are aware that all the cries and tears in the world will not help us. Our own folly hlas placed us in this position, and we must abide by the consequlences; but we both know that if help does not come within an hour, we shall both be drowned." "One of us, perhaps," said Carmen, "but not necessa- rily both. By clinging to this point of rock you may save yourself. As for me"-she paused a second, then added, in a  tone of inexpressible calmness-"God's wila be done." "But it is not God's will that your life, so rich, so full of promise, should be cast away like this," Alice said, with a look of strange determination coming over her white. sculptured face-a look that seemed to ennoble the beauti- ful features into something almost majestic. "I am older than you are, and it is my place to bear the brunt- of what- Over comes. I have done harm enough in my life to you and to many others; for Heaven's sake, let me do one good act before I die." "It is impossible!"Carmen said; and if the face of the other was determined, hers was like granite in its resolu-   tion. "Your life has some value in the world, mine has none. I only say this to reconcile you to the necessity which may come. It may not come, however. We are ignorant; we cannot tell how much we over-rate or under- rate the danger. In any event, there is your place, here is mine." "It shall not be," Alice answered. "It is folly to talk of your life having no value; it has more value in the eyes of God and man than mine. But if it had none," cried she, passionately, "this is my place, and I will keep it." "No, you will not keep it," Carmen said, quietly; " be- cause if you do, you will force me to keep the one where I am now, and which is much more exposed. Look! do you see how these waves are rising? If you stay whereW you are, I cannot keep my foothold here half an hour longer." O' Then take the place where you wish me to go." "That I shall not do. There are no words which could induce me, no power which could force me, to take it." Then there was another pause. Higher and higher rose the water round them as they stood in this strange attitude of combat and struggle. There was no token of yielding in the face or form of either; both were pale as death, both rigid as marble, but there was this great difference between them-one knew what she meant to do, the other knew what she wished to do. It was the latter who spoke first. The water was now high over their feet, but in the excitement of the con- test they scarcely heeded it. "What can I say to move you?" she cried. "Is there no way of showing you as plainly as I see it that if one of us must perish I. should be the one to go? Let me tell you all that you owe to me. It is I who have kept your cousin from you all these months; it is I who have made his life wretched ever since we met in Paris; it is I who inspired him with hope which I never melant to fulfil, only to prevent his marry- ing you and winning back the inheritance he gave up when I strove to make him keep it; it is I who have'made a tool of you and of him for other uses and other hopes; it is I who was false to every promise I made to you the other day, and filser still in every smile I gave to him; it is H   All, I could go on, but is not this enough? Do you not see now how little I deserve the sacrifice of your life for mine?" "You are telling me all this for a purpose," Carmen said; but she recoiled a little. "It is not true-" "It is true!" the other interrupted, passionately. "True or false," said the girl, calmly, "it does not mat- ter. Tlhe issue is the same. NQ life shall ever be given for mine, nor any life lost that I can save. Miss Riving. ton, if you were my worst enemy or my best friend, I should tell you again to take that place before it is too late." "And see you perish before my eyes?  Ah, I am not wicked enough for that." "Everything is in God's hand," said Carmen.  "If he wishes to rescue us, he can do it even yet; but if the work of either or both of us is over in the world, he may let us pass softly away out of it on these rippling waves. Could they come more gently if they were indeed messengers from hIis presence?" she asked, with a tone sweet and yet full of awe in her voice which the other never forgot. Then she lifted her eyes and looked out over the dazzling sea toward the low-lying land.  "I fancied or dreamed last night that I should never go back," she said. "But Bertie is the heir."      *  The tide which was sweeping over and around them now had almost reached their knees, when, after a pause- it might have been a minute or it might have been an hour for aught either of them   knew-Alice Rivington spoke again: "Instead of being the heir, Bertie might come to possess it all in a different way," sfie said, in a voice which no human ear would have recognized as her own.  "Carmen, I know him well, and I am a woman of the world. After : I  go out of this life, he will turn to you with a love truer and more tender than he ever gave me. Will you throw this hope away too?  Quick!"She seized her arm. "We .  'y   talked last night of the instinct of self-preservation. God only knows what that instinct may make me do in another minute if you are not quick in taking that place. See! The water scarcely does more than cover it even now." "So much the better for you," the girl said, softly. A great calm seemed breathed over her as she took the other in her arms and kissed her. To her dying day Alice Riv- ington kept the memory of that kiss as enlkeep the mem- ory of a divine sacrament. "God ble. Iu!" she said. "You are very good to think so much otmne, but 1 shall do very well. Perhaps to-morrow we shall laugh over this at Lauriston. Climb as high as you can, and plant your feet between those rocks; they will steady vou." And so the contest ended. In truth,.at that lmoment they saw, or thought they saw, a speck on the water far away, which ended it before they remembered all that hung on it. Miss Rivington climbed in a moment to the pinnacle with the signal in her hand; and although the speck proved only a sea-bird flying low across the waves she did not descend again. Why should she? If Carmen was determined, it was useless, indeed, that both should be lost when there might be a hope for one. Only a hope, however, for higher and higher even here the tide was rising. She clung to the jagged points of rock with all her strength, and strained her eyes gazing through all the merciless, laughing grlare of sunlight to the distant land for the hope and the help that never came. Broken words of prayer-tlhe first, likely enough, which she had uttered in many days-came from her lips now and   then, but that was all. The gathering water seemed to paralyze all else as it came softly rippling and breaking in tiny waves against her. Carmen, meanwhile, in her lower position, grasped also, as well as she could, the points of rock which tore her al- ready wounded and bleeding hands. She, too, tried to look . over the blinding expanse of sunlit water for the aid which even yet might come; but the pitiless excess of light weighed down her eyelids as with a fiery kiss, and she could see nothing. Intense weariness, as well las the cold embrace of the water, now nearly at her waist, seemed stealing away all strength and all possible power of resistance from I lier. She strove lo pray, but her lips could scarcely fash- ion the words of which her heart was fill; but she remem- bered-not being too weary for that-how it is of the heart and not of the lips that God takes heed. Slhe made the familiar sign of the cross; and clasping her hands as only little children and dying people do, she commended her soul into the loving care of Him who had died for her. "Lord, into thy hands I  commend my  spirit," she mnr- mured, as she felt that in another minute her footing must be lost, when suddenly a wild cry rang far out over the , river.                        I "Carmenl"Miss tivington exclaimed; "oh, Carmen, keep hope and strengthl They are comling!"  "Where?"Carmen asked. She knew that they would be too late for her-that in another second the tide lmIst I of necessity carry her off' her feet; but still a light flashed into her eyes. She had been forced- to loose her hold on the rocks, but she grasped now-grasped as if for life or t death-the skirts of the woman above her. "   Where?" i she gasped.                     t "  Yonder, at the mouth of the river," the other answered. a l'Can you not see them? Ah, they see us! They are waving their hats and their handkerchiefs. Tihank God! 1 oh, thank God! We shall be saved!  Carmen, keep your o hold; they are coming!"        .  "I cannot," said Carmen; "  the water is washing me off  my feet. If I  keep my hold, you will be drowned too. It n is as I  said-the waves are bod's messengers. lie means ri me to go, or he would have brought this rescue a little b sooner. As it is, I  do thank him for vou."     si She released her hold of the dress as she said those s words, for she felt that her feet were slipping-that the st insidious water was bearing her awny-and she knew that v to retain her grasp woul only be to draw her companion with her.      /                 t "Carmen!"Alice R    vington cried, in a wild tone of th terror. She turned as she spoke and caught the slight ti figure before the tide could bear it away; and so tihey a   stood for one second, clinging and swaying together in the er midst of the rippling water, on the very verge of death, yet eI with safety and rescue coming with every stroke of the strong arms bending on their oars so near at hand, yet so A far away. ar  In another second they must both have yielded to the v- force of the water rising around them if Carmen had not a- spoken with quick decision, yet as calmly as if they had   been standing on dry ground. "Dear friend, let go. We " shall both be lost if you do not. You cannot save me; it 3r is impossible. Let me go, or it will be too late!" At  The clear command was uttered none too soon, for at the same instant Alice Rivington felt that if she wished to it save her own life, she must obey it. To the day of her r death she never ceased to reproach herself with what she t did; yet it was all which could be done. She felt herself le losing her footing. The blind instinct of self-preservation e asserted itself. She caught at the rock, and in so doing of , necessity released the girl to whom she clung. "Give my love to Bertie," Carmen faintly said. Then e came a murmur, in which the name of God was heard and then something, which Alice Rivington turned faint to see, was carried past and borne swiftly away by the f rippling tide. Half an hour later the boat from Lauliston released one terror-stricken woman from the rocks to which she clung, but of the other the broad expanse-of sunlit water showed no sign. The half-maddened searchers rowed far and ; wide, incredulous, unbelieving that she had perished be- fore their very eyes-perished with rescue so near at hand; but far as they rowed, eagerly;passionately as they searched, they found no trace of her who had been swept away. More than once, indeed, they bent every straining nerve and muscle on the oars, thinking they saw in the distance - a  floating fragment of drapery; but there was nothing save the laughing, mocking waves to greet them when they reached the spot. Only in one instance was anything tan- gible found. That was a handkerchief knotted to the end of a  broken oar which Miss Rivington said Carmen had in her hands when she was washed away. Beyond this the sea rendered up no trophy of its victory. Yet despairing as they were, they would not own to their despair-these men with their pale, set faces and compressed lips. Their untiring arms plied the oars swiftly through the sparkling water; their eyes searched the wide expanse with an intensity of gaze that almost seemed as if, through the sheer magnetism of hlumaan will, it might have forced the treacherous sea to surrender that which it held. But the retreating tide which now began to go out, smiled defiance at them. When, save in its own good time and at its own pleasure, had the sea ever yielded up aught of hurman treasure that had come to it? No voice of passionate love, no cry of wild entreaty had ever made its green waves open and -surrender the fair form or the rich argosy over which they had closed. The tide, ebbing as softly as it had flowed, bore along with it to the mysterious ocean, which-is an ever-living type and sign of eternity her to whom it had come as "God's messenger," and the rock- ing boat, with its freight of anguish and despair, sat on the water, helpless as the hands stretched forth in vain appeal to stay the parting soul. When hlours of wain effort and search had passed, they had no alternative but to recognize this. Then, at their own request, St. Julian and Bertie were landed and lest on the shore, while Sydney Blandford and the boatman, who had thdie other oar, rowed Miss Rivington, who was nozw exhausted to a  dangerous point of prostration, up the river to Lauriston. They and others returned, however, before the tide came in at evening. Then, as the sun was sinking, and the waves, reddened by his last beams, were washing higher and higher on the beach, they waited in strange, pathetic silence, grouped here and there at inter. vals, for what it might bring. For what it did bring. St. Julian and Bertie were standing together, looking silently out over the water, when they first caught sight of an object borne on the incoming tide toward'the land. What it was instinct told their in a   moment. A  slight breeze was blowing,' the sun had   gone down in a bed of glory, every ripple on the advan. cing waves seemed washed with color, the whole expanse of water was a sight of which to dream as it flowed gently toward the land, seeming to bear the lustre of sunset on its breast. And as it came, it toyved idly, lightly, and yet tenderly, with the object it bore along. There was some- thing ineffably caressing in the motion of the waves around the passive form, for that it was a form the watchers on the shore saw plainly now. Nearer and nearer it was borne. They stood motionless. Not a word was uttered, scarcely a breath was drawn. Nearer and nearer. The waves seemed loath to relinquish their prize. When it had almost reached the shore, they gathered it back to them- selves for a moment. St. Julian uttered a sharp cry. Then, gently as a mother would surrender a sleeping child, they swept it softly forward and cast it on the shore. It was Carmen, in an attitude that might have been sculp- tured for serene repose,-with a divine smile on her pale face. Of the two men who knelt beside her, it would have been impossible to say whose heart was torn by the fiercest auguish. To St. Julian life and all life's hopes seemed at an end; but to Bertie the most terrible revelation of earth came in the smile of that dead face-the revelation of his own blindness and folly, the remembrance of the tender-   ness which had passed for ever beyond the reach of earthly love and earthly regret. And so to that inheritance which the poorest of us may claim and must some day possess-a grave in the kind bosom of Mother Earth-the young stranger who had pos- sessed for so short a time her father's heritage was borne. To say how she was mourned, and how one faithful long remembered and wrote of her to the world, matters 'little. Her story is told; and if it follows of necessity that Bertie reigned again -at Lauriston, it may be added that Alice Rivington did not reign with him. Hands may clasp over a grave when it is a great passion which impels their union, but to most forms of human love the touch of death is fatal. With these two there had only been infatuation. on one side and ambition on the other. Between them now seemed rolling for ever the rising tide that carried Carmen out of their path. In time, no doubt, Bertie will bring a bride to the old house, which at present he rather shuns; but however happy his life may be, it is scarcely likely that there will not be moments when regret can find a place, or when he may not be sharply forced to remember how rare and precious was the light which once shone for him unheeded in his cousin's tender eyes.   \    TO-DAY/8 *s  Has achieved the most remarkable success of any paper of its class ever issued, having, in a little over six months, secured an actual circulation-mostly to regular yearly subscribers- equalled by few of the old-established weeklies of the day. THE   SECOND    VOLUME began with the number issued July 5, at which time the size of the paper was largely increased, and several new and important features were added. These improvements, however, are only the forerunners of other and greater ones which will be made as fast as our constantly-increasing circulation will warrant. AS A THOROUGHLY AMERICAN ENTERPRISE, already won the distinction of being the most original and best-conducted journal in the land, while its extremely low price-when the quality of its contents, the superiority of its material and  execution are considered-places it within the reach of all appreciative readers, and is destined to make it a WELCOME GUEST IN EVERY HOME. TLI  M Al n D I 1E Q! R D I A I !Tn R1V "CARMEN'S INHERITANCE," will soon be followed THE nO IB DLE SOElL    TORY 1 u  by others from the same gifted pen, and our already brilliant staff of contributors is being constantly augmented by the addition of other well-known writers who appreciate the liberality and high standard of excellence which governs our editorial department. THE SHORT BUT POINTED ARTICLEC             S and the "ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS" by the Editor-in-Chief, DR. DIO LEWIS, are of themselves worth many times our subscription price, for they give sound and sensible advice in regard to preserving or restoring health. OHE f Max ADEL Will continue to THE HUMOROUS CONTRIBUTIONS enliven our columns, ile our UNEQUALLED CORPS OF ARTISTS, embracing Messrs. W. L. Sheppard, Alfred Frederickl Rich. N. Brooke, Frederick B. Schell and others; and our Engravers, under the direction of Mr( J. Dalziel, will adorn the pages of TO-DAY with illustrations in the highest style of art. IN ADDITIT   M TfO  ALL THSQ Twe present to each subscriber a chpy of the IS ADDi I 10pl^ IU ALL I I Chromo produced expressly for us, from Mrs, Anderson's masterpiece, entitled  which if it could be obtained in any other way, would readily command from five to six dollars.  $xLrb$$&iom  : We Qsl To: P1u$ and 1f$t c            prd airniai, SAMPLE COPIES SENT ON RECEIPT OF STAMPS. AG-ZNTS WANTED in every city, town, village and hamlet, and most liberal commissions allowed. Address To-Day Printing &    Publishing Co., BRBANCH OFFICES:  '      No. '33 SAVSOM    STREEIT 3 School St., 1 712 Broaway, 1 118,115,117 E. Madison St.,   PHLADELBPHA. Boston, I New York I    Chicago.    
         
       
   
