
    ----CITATION----
        Warner, Susan, (1819-1885). Say and Seal, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8219
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Say and seal, vol. 1 
            
               SAY AND SEA L.

,
, "'                ' r.
.-
ti1 w
r
+
.
!y

4

BY

THE   THOR OF "WIDE WIDE WORLD,"

AND

THE AUTHOR EF "DOL ARS AND CENTS."
4                          K
"If any man make religion as twelve,,and the world as thirteen, such a one
hath not the spirit of a true New Englandman."--IGGINsoN.

/I/

r

VOL. 1

v; A;V':

PHILADELPHIA:
J. B. LIPPJNCOTT &amp; CO.
I660.

'1

(

I
0  0

T

o

O                                                                    i

_'


*PRE FACE.

k

I

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by
J. B. LIPPINCOTT &amp; Co.,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

Ilk
V.                                                     ,1r
P~
" h  ,4

'   1 x XM,
if
I, i

IT is a melancholy fact, that this book is somewhat larger
than the mould into which most of the fluid fiction material is
poured in this degenerate age. You perceive, good reader, that
it has run over.
Doubtless the Procrustean critic would say, "Cut it of,"--
0-
which point we waive.
The book is really of very moderate limits-considering that
two women had to have their say in it.
- It is pleasant to wear a glove when one shakes hands with the
Public; therefore we still use our ancestors' names instead of
our own,-but it is fair to state, that in this case there are a pair
of gloves !--Which is the right glove, and which the left, the
Public will never know.
A word to that "dear delightful" class of readers who believe
everything that is written, and do not- look at the number of the
last page til they come to it-nor perhaps even then. Well
they and the author know, that if the heroine cries-or laugls-.
too much, it is nobody's fault but her own! Gently they quarrel
with him for not permitting them to see every Jenny happily
married and every Tom with settled good habits.  Most lenient
readers!-when you turn publishers, then will such books doubt..
les b written! Meantime, hear this.
Tnhhady, sunshiny town, lying within certain bounds-geo.
1*              (     v

IV 249
t, c


vi

I

PREFACE.

graphical or imaginary,-these events (really or in imagination)
occurred. Precisely when, the chroniclers do not say. Scene
opens with the breezes yhich June, and the coming of a new
school teacher, naturally create. After the fashion of the place,
his lodgings are arranged for him beforehand, by the School
Committee. But where, or in what circumstance( the scene
may close,-having told at the end of the book, we do not incline
to tell at the beginning.

I-f

,r4

SAY -AND SEAL.

ELIZABETH WETHERELL.
AMY LOTHROP.

NEW You;,RK b. 1,1860.

CHAPTER I.

T HE street was broad, with sidewalks, and wide grass-
grown borders, and a spacious track of wheels and
horses' feet in the centre. Great elms, which the early
settlers planted, waved their pendent branches over the
peaceful highway, and gave shelter aid nest-room toy
numerous orioles, killdeer, and robins; putting off their
yellow leaves in the autumn, and, bearing their witer
weight of snow, in seeming quiet assurance that spring
would make amends for all. So slept the early settlers in
the churchyard !
Along the street, at pleasant neighbourly intervals-not
near enough to be crowded, nor far enough to be lonely-.
stood the houses,--comfortable, spacious, compact,-- "with
no nonsense about them." The Mong lay like a mere blue
thread in the distance, its course often pointed out by the
gaff of some little sloop that followed the bends of the river
up toward Suckiaug. The low rolling shore was spotted
with towns and spires: over all was spread the fairest blue
sky andlotinig specks of white.
.kand     sounds were astir,-the robins Whistled, thief-
like, o    e cherry-trees; the killdeer, from se  igh
twi       north his sweet clear note; and now arnda E' a
pair    wheels rolled softly "along the smooth road: e
rush4the wind filled up the pauses. )Anybody we -was
down bAthe Mong might have heard the soft roll   di

,1

M
/ /iJ I

0s

;


SAY AND SEAL.

8              SAY AND SEAL.

blue waters,--any one by the light-house might have heard
the harsher dash of the salt waves.:
I might go on, and s'ay that if anybody biad been looking
out of Mrs, Derrick's window he or she might have seen-
what Mrs. Derrick really sawI' For she was looking out
of the window (or rather through the blind) at the critical
moment that afternoon. It would be too much to say that
she .placed herself there on purpose,.-let the reader sup-
pose what he likes.
At the time, then, that the village clock was striking four,
when meditative cows were examining the length of their
shadows, and all the geese were setting forth for their
afternoon swim, a stranger opened Mrs. Derrick's little
gate and walked in. Stretching 9it one hand to the dog
in token of good fellowship, (a classical mind might ave
fancied him breaking the cake by whose help Quickear got
past the lions,) he went up the walk, neither fast nor slow,
ascended the steps, and gave what Mrs. Derrick called "con-
siderable of a rap" at the door.. That done, he faced about
and looked at the fy off blue Mong.
Not more intently did he eye and read that fair river;
not more swiftly did his thoughts pass from the Mong to,
things beyond human ken; than Mrs. Derrick eyed and
read-his back, and suffered her ideas to roam into the far
off regions of speculation. - The light summer coat, the
straw hat; were nothing uncommon ; but the ,silk umbrella
was too good for the. coat-the gloves and boots altogether
extravagant!
rvHeain't a bit like the .Pattaquasset folks, Faith,"
she skid, in a whisper thrown over her, shoulder to her
daughter.
aMoth er-"
Mrs. Derrick replied by an inarticulate sound of inIerro-'
gation.
gI wish you wouldn't stand just there:i Docome
away!"'
La, child,' said Mrs. Derrick, moving back about half
an inch, "he's looking off into space."
"But he'll be in.-"
"Not till somebody goes to the door," said Mrs. Derrick,
"and there's not a living soul in the house but' us tWo).n .

'Why didn't you say so before ?  Must I go, m  her ?"
"He didn't seem in a harry," said her mother,-."'d I
wasn't. Yes, you can go if you like, child-and if you
don't like, I'l go.
With a somewhat slower step than usual, with a slight
hesitating touch of her hand to the smooth brown lair
which lay over her temples, Miss Faith moved through the
hall to the front door, gently opened it, and stood th re,
in the midst of the doorway, fronting the stranger. By no
means n uncomely picture for the frame; for the face- was
good, tie, figure trim, and nit only was the rich hair
smooth, but a little white ruffle gave a dainty setting to
the throat and chin whieh rose above it, both themselves
rather on the dainty order.
I say fronting the stranger,-yet to speak truth the
stranger was not fronting her. For having made one more
loud appeal to the'knocker; having taken off his hat, the
better to feel the soft river breeze, he stood as before
looking off into space ;" but with one hand resting more
decidedly upon the silk umbrella.
Faith. took a minute's view of decidedly pleasant outlines
of shoulders and head-or what she thought such-glanced
at the hand which grasped the umbrella handle,-and then
lifting her own fingers to the~ knocker of the door, caused
it gently to rise and fall.
A somewhat long breath escaped the stignger-as if the
sound chimed in with his thoughts-nothing more.
Faith stood still and waited.
Perhaps that last sound of the knocker had by degrees
asserted its claim reality; perhaps impatience .bgan to
assert its claim; perhaps that lopg elm-tree shadow which
was 'creeping softly on, even to hf&amp; very feet, broke in upon
the muser's vision. Certainly he turned with a very quick
motion towards the door, and a gesture of the hand which
said that this time the 'knocker should speak out. The
door however stood open,-the knocker beyond his reach ;
and Miss Faith so nearly within it, that he dropped his
hand even quicker than he hd raised it.
"I beg your pardon !" he said, with a grave inclination
of the head. -"I believe I knocked."
"Yes, sir-I. thought you had forgotten," said Faiths


10

SAY AND SEAL.

not with perfect demureness, which she would like to have
achieved. "Will you please to come in ?" And somewhat
regardless.of consequences, leaving the hall door where it
stood, Faith preceded her guest along the hall and again
performed for-him the office of door-opener at the parlour,,
ushering him thus into the presence of her mother.
Mrs. Derrick was seated in the rocking-chair, at the
furthest corner from the window, and perfectly engrossed
with the last monthly magazine. But she came out of
them'all with wonderful ease and promptness, shook hands
very cordially with the new comer; seated 1im in her corner
and chair before he could make much resis  e, and would
also have plunged him into the magazine-but there he
was firm.
"If you would only make yourself comfortable while I'
see where your baggage is !" said the good lady.
"But I can tell you where it is, ma'am," said he looking
up at her,-'"it is at the station, and will be here in half
an hgur."
"Well when did you have dinner ?" said Mrs. Derrick,
resolved upon doing something..
"Yesterday," was his quiet reply.. "To-day I have been
in the cars."
"0 my ! my !" said Mrs. Derrick,-"then of course we'll
have tea at once. Faith !"
"I'm here, mother. I'll go and see to it, right away."
But in some mysterious manner the stranger reached the
doorway before either of the ladies.
"Mrs. Derrick-Miss Faith-I told you that I had had
no dinner, and that was true. It is also true that I am
in not the least hurry for tea. Please do not have it until
your usual time." And he walked back to his seat.
But after the slightest possible pause of hesitancy, Faith
had disappeared. Her mother followed her.
"Child," she said, "what on ear is his name ?"
"Mother,-how should' I kno ? I didn't ask him."
"But the thing is," said Mrs Derrick, "I did know,-.-
the Committee told me all. about it. And of course he
thinks I know, and I don't-no more than I do my gf-eat-
grandmother's name, which I never did remember yet." -

SAY AND SEAL.

Ii

"Mother-shall I go and ask him? or wait till after
supper ?"
"0 you shan't go," said her mother. "Wait till after
supper and we'll send Cindy. He won't care about his
name till he gets his tea, I'll warrant. But w hai .made
you so long getting the door open, child ? Does it-stick ?"
"Why," said Faith, baring her arms and entering upon
sundry quick movements about the room; "it was open and
he didn't know it."
"Didn't know it 1" said .Mrs. Derrick,-"iny! I hope he
ain't short-sighted, Now Faith, I'm not going to have
you burn your face for all the school teachers in Connecti-
cut. Keep away, child,--I'll put on the kettle myself.
Cindy must have found her beau again--it's as tiresome'as
tiresome can be."
"It's just as well, mother; I'd rather. do it myself. Now
you go in and find what his name is, and I'll have every-
thing together directly. The oven's hot now."
"I'll go in presently," said Mrs. Derrick; "but as to ask-
ing him what his name is-la, child, I'd just as soon ask
him ,where he came from."'. And in deep thought on the
subject, Mrs. Derrick stepped briskly about the kitchen.
"Faith;" she said, "where shall I ask him to sit?7"
"Will you pour out tea-or shall I, mother ?"
"What's that to do ?"
"Why I was thinking-but it don't matter where you
put him. There's four sides to the table."
"Don't talk of my putting him anywhere, child-I'm as
afraid of him as can be."  And Mrs. Derrick went back
to see how time went with her guest.
It went fast or slow, I suppose, after all, somewhat
according to the state of his appetite. One hour and ten
minutes certainly had slipped'away-if he was hungry he
knew that another ten minutes was following in train.-
when at length the parlour door opened again and Faith
stood there, with a white apron on and cheeks a good deal
heightened in colour since the date of their last appearance.
"Mother, tea's ready. Cindy hasn't got back." ,And
having made-this gentle announcement, Faith disappeared
again, leaving it' to her mother to nhew the way to the
supper-room.


SAY AND SEAL.             13

This was back of the parlor and communicated with the
kitchen, from which Faith came in as they entered, bearing
a plate of white biscuits, smoking hot, in her hand. The
floor was painted with thick yellow paint,' smooth and
shining; plenty of windows let in plenty of light and the
sweet evening air; the table stood covered with a clean
brownish table-cloth,-but. what a.supper covered that!
Rosy slices of boiled ham, snowy rounds of 'milk empty-
ings' bread, strawberries, pot-cheeses, pickles, fried pota-
toes, and Faith's white cakes, with tea and coffee!
Now as Faith had laid the clean napkin for the stranger
at the foot of the table, opposite her mother, it cannot be
thought presumption in him. that he at once took his seat
there; thus relieving Mrs. Derrick's mind of an immense
responsibility. Yet something in his manner then made
her papse and look at him; though she did not expect to
see him bow his head and Isk for a blessing on thelmeal be-
fore them. If that was presumption, neither of his hearers
felt it so,-the little flush on the mother's cheek told rather
of emotion, of some old memory now quickened into life.
Her voice even trembled a little as she said,--
"Will you have-tea or coffee, sir ?"
And Faith offered her biscuit.
"Or there's bread, if you like it better, sir."
"The biscuits.are best," said her mother,.-"Faith's bis-
cuits are always good."
And he took a biscuit, while a very slight unbending of
the lines of his face said that the excellence of faith's
handiwork was at least not always so apparent.
"Miss Faith, what shall.I give you in return that is be-
yond your reach and (comparatively) within mine ?"
Possibly-possibly, the slight grave opening of two rather
dark eyes.confessed that in her apprehension the store thus
designated, from which he might give her, was very large
indeed.. But if that was so, her lips came short of the
truth, for she answered,--
"I don't want anything, thank you."
"Not even butter ?"-with his hand on the knife.
Faith seemed inclined+not to want butter, but finally
submitted and held out her plate. Whereupon, having

1

helped her and himself, the stranger diverged a little, with
the rather startling question,-...
"What sort of a Flora have you in this neighbourhood ?"
"There isn't any, mother ?" said Faith, with a doubtful
appeal towards the tea-tray.
A pleasant look fell upon her while her look went away---
a look which said he would like to tell her all about the
matter, then and there; but merely taking another of the
white biscuits, he weft on to ask whether the roads were
good and the views fine.
"The roads are first-rate," said Mrs. Derrick. "I don't
know much of views myself, but Faith thinks they're won-
derful.
 "I don't suppose they are wonderful," said Faith; "but
it is pretty up the Mong, and I am sure, mother, it's'pretty
down on the shore, towards the sunsetting.'
"And how is it towards the sunrising ?"
"I never saw it---we never go down there then,P Faith
said, with a very frank smile.
"Faith always stays by me," said Mrs. Derrick; "if I
can't go, she won't. And of course I never can at that
time of day. It's quite a way down to the shore."
"What shore ?"
"It's the sea-shore-that is, not the real-sea-shore-it's
only the Sound," said Faith; "but there is the salt-water,
and it;{pas good as the sea.
"How far off ?" said  he stranger, bestowing upon Faith
a saucer of strawberries.
Faith would have asked him to help himself, but taking
notice mentally that he was extremely likely to do so, she
contented herself with relying, "It's about two miles."
"And what are some of the 'good' things there ?"
"Perhaps you wouldn't think it much," said Paith
modestly ;--"but the water is pretty, and I like to see the
ships and vessels on it going up and down; and the points
of the shore and the wet stones look such beautiful colours
when the sun is near set."
"I like stones--whether wet or dry," said her ques-
tioner.
'Most people here don't like them," said Faith. "But
voL- 1.                 2

j

j2.            ° SAY AND SEAL.


I

14

SAY AND SEAL.

there are plenty down by the sea-shore.-And plenty on
the farm too," she added.
"Ah, people like and dislike things for very different
reasons, Miss Faith," he answered ; "so perhaps your
neighbours and I are not so far apart in our opinions as you
may think. Only I believe, that while there is 'a time to
cast away stones,' there is also 'a time to gather stones
together'-and therein perhaps they would not agree with
S me."
Faith looked up, and her lips parted--and if the thought
had been spoken which parted them, it would probably f
have been a confession that she did not understand, or a
request for more light. But if her face did not say it for
her, she did not say it for herself.
If anybody could have seen   s. Derrick's face while
these little sentences went back aid forth, he would have
acknowledged it was worth the sight. Her awe and ad-
miration of every word uttered by the stranger-the intense
interest with which she waited for every word spoken by
Faith-the slight look of anxiety changing to one. of per-
fect satisfaction,-was pretty to see.
"Faith," she said when tea; was over, and her guest had
walked to the front door 'to take another look at 'space
"Faith, don't you think he liked his supper ?"
"I should think he would-after having no dinner," s id
Faith.
"But it was such a mercy, child, that you hadn't gone
out to supper anywhere-I can't think what I shou14 have
done. There's Cindy this minute !.Lrun and tell her to go
right away and find out, what his name is-tell her I want
to know,-you can put it in good words."
"Mother !-I'd rather ask Ihim myself."
But that did not suit Mrs. Derrick's ideas of propriety.
And stepping.out into the kitchen she despatched Cindy
on her errand. Cindy presently came back from the front
door, and went into the dining-rooni, but not finding Mrs.
Derrick she handed a card to Faith.
"It's easy done," said Cindy. "I just asked him if he'd
any objections towards tellin'his name-and he kinder operied
his eyes at me and 'said no. -Then I said,'says I, Mis'

SAY AND SEAL.                  15
derrickk do' know, and she'd like ter. 'Miss flerrick!' says
he-and he took ou t his pencil and writ that. But I'd
like to know what he cleans his pencil with,'asaid Cindy in
conclusion, for I'm free to confess I never see brass shine
Faith took the card and read,-
JOHN. ENDECOTT LINDEN.
She looked a little curiously at the pencilling, at the
formation of the capitals and of the small letters; then laid
it down and gave her attention to the dishes of the supper
table.

)

f

,    .
..         .;  _  _.


CHAPTER II.
THE next day was Saturday. The morning opened with
T grey clouds, covering the sky, but which were light
and light-broken and promised to roll away entirely as
soon as the sun should reach a commanding position in the
heavens.  The sun however was still quite distant from
such a position; in fact was not much more than an hour
high, when Lucinda, who was sweeping the front door
steps, was hailed, from the front door by a person not one
of, the party of the preceding eve ing, and very unlike
either of them. It was a lady, no young, of somewhat
smell fire, trim, and nicely dres ed. Indeed she was
rather handsomely dressed and in somewhat French taste;
she had showy gold earrings in her ears, and a head much
more in the mode than either Mrs. Derrick's or her
meughter's. The face of this lady was plain, decidedly; but
redeemed by a look of sense and shrewdness altogether un-
mixed with ill nature. The voice spoke alertiand pleasantly.
"So Lucindy, you had company last night, didn't you ?"
"May be we did and may be we didn't," said Lucindy,
brushing away with great energy at an imaginary bit of
lint at the end of the upper step. " I do' knowbtw'
just" as good call him one of, the family."
"So much at home already ?  I missed seeing him last
night-.--I couldn't get home.. What's he like, Cindy? and
what'has he done ?"
"'Done ?" said Cindy-" well he's went out a'most afore
.I was up. And as to like, Miss Dilly-just you look at him
when lie comes in. - He looks dome like folks, and yet he
don't; neither."
"He's out, is he ?"
"Yes," said Cindy, reducing a large family of spiders to
temporary starvation and despair,--" he's out--if he ain't
gone in nowheres. Miss Dilly, if you'll stand just inside
the door I can wash the steps just as well. ..
(16)

SAY AND SEAL.
"What's the gentleman out so early for ?  Maybe he'
missed some of his luggage, Cindy."
"Hope he ha'n't got no more-without its lighter, said
Cindy.  "However, he carried it upstairs himself; 'r free
to confess. I guess'twarn't for luggage he went put,'ause
he asked about breakfast time, special."
"If he means to be out till then he'll have a good walk
of it."
It wantedfive minutesof breakfast time, and Mrs. Det'
rick--what with stepping into the kitchen to oversee Cindy,
and stepping to the front window to oversee the street--
was warm enough for a cooler morning.
"Faithshe said, referring as usual to her daughter,
"Faih.   htshall we do if he don't come ?"
"I guess he'll come, mother ;--he knows the time. The
things won't hurt much by waiting a little."
As she spoke, the little front gate swung softly to, and
the person in question came leisurely up the steps and into
the hall. Then having just glanced into the parlor, he at
once-with a promptitude which bespoke.him too punctual
himself to doubt the punctuality of others--advanced to
the dining-room door and walked in.
Mrs. Derrick's face shewed gratification mingled with
her good nature. Faith smiled ; and Miss Dilly was duly
introduced as Miss Delia Danforth, Mrs. Derrick's aunt,
then on a visit at Pattaquasset.
"You've taken an early stroll this morning, sir," said
this last lady. 1"View the country ?f1
"tNo," said Mr. Linden, "I have been viewing the
town."
" Ah! Well I call that viewing the country. Town and
country, all's one here; and it makes a very pleasant sort
of place. But .what do you call the town, sir ?.-Doyyon
drink coffee "
The town,", said Mr. Linden, in. answer to the first
question.---receiving his coffee-cup from Mrs. Derrick by
way of answer to the second,-"means in 'this instance,
Miss Danforth, that spot of country which is most thickly
settled. Yes, ma'am--I.. drink coffee."
"Very bad for you, sir ;y don't you know it ?n


18                 SAY AND SEAL.
"Bad for ime as one of the human race ? or as an indi-
vidual specially marked out not to drink it ?"
"Dear me 1" said Miss Danforth sipping her, own tea,-
"I don't know what you are 'marked out' for. I think it's
a mistake for everybody to think he is 'marked' for some-
thing special.-they set the mark themselves, and generally
it'don't fit."
"But the fact that a man often gets the wrong mark, by
no means proves that there is no right one which belongs
to him' said Mr. Linden, looking gravely at Faith as if he
meant'she should smile.
Faith seemed' to look at the question however rather
seriously, for dropping her knife and fork she asked,
"How shall a man know his mark ?"
"By earnest consideration and prayer," he answered,
really grave this time. " I know of no other way, Miss
Faithn"
What a remark that was i it silenced the whole table.
Knives and forks and spoons had it alone, with only words
of necessity; till Faith asked Mr. Linden Wf he would not
have another cup of coffee.
"ICertainly 1" he said, handing her his cup. "There is
so much to be saidon both sides of that little bit of china--
I must not be partial in my attention."
"But you can't study both sides of a subject at once,"
said the coffee-hater.
"Then take them alternately--and (figuratively) walk
rounA your coffee-cup, surveying its fair proportions from
different points of view. If the coffee is strong and you
are neryous-that's one thing. Again, if the coffee be
weak and you be phlegmatic-that's another."
"The coffee's not strongg to-day," said Mrs. Derrick with
a regretful shake of the head.
" Nor am I phlegmatic,"-with the slightest possible
indication of a smile.
"Do you think," said Miss Danforth, "a man is better
able .to decide questions of common judgment for having
studied a great deal ?.--learned a great many things, I
mean:"                                      .     .
" That depends very much upon what effect his studies
have had upon his judgment. Mrs. Derrick--are you trying

SAY AND SEAL.             19

to break me off from coffee by degrees ? this cup has no
sugar in it,"
"0 my " said Mrs. Derrick, colouring up in the greatest
confusion. "I do beg your pardon, sir 1 Faith, take the
sugar-bowl, child, and pick out some large lumps."
"You will get more praise from Miss Danforth, than
blame from me, ma'am," said Mr. Linden, submitting his
cup to Faith's amendment and watching the operation.
"I don't know," said Miss Danforth goodhumouredly.
"Maybe he can stand it.-If he takes two cups I should
say he can. How do you like the profession of teaching,
sir ?"
Now to, say truth, Mr. Linden did not know--not by
actual practice, but it was also e truth which he did not
feel bound to disclose. He therefore stirred his coffee with
a good deal of deliberation, and even tasted it, before he
replied,
" What would you say to me, Miss Danforth, if I pro-
fessed to be fond of teaching some ,people some things ?
Miss Faith, that lash lump of sugar was potent."
"What sort of people, and what sort of things, for in-
tance ?" said the lady.
" The things I know best, and the people who think they
know least-for instance" he replied.
"I should say -you know definitions," was Miss Dan-
forth's again goodhumoured rejoinder.
"What did you say was the matter with the sugar, sir ?"
said Faith.
"I said. it was potent, Miss Faith,-or I might have
said, powerful. . But indeed it was not the sugar's fault.-..
the difficulty was, there was not enough coffee to counter-
balance it."
" I put in too much 1" said Faith, making ,a regretful
translation of this polite speech.
"Yes"-said Mr. Linden with great solemnity s he set
down the empty cup,--"but too much sugar is at east not
a common misfortune. With what appreciation I shall
look back to this, some day when I have not nough!
What did you think of the sunrise this morning ?"L
" Do you mean, because the sky was covered with e ouds 7"
said Faith. " But there was enough--the sun looked


20    '            SAY AND SEAL.
thigough; and the colours were beautiful. Did you see
them ?"
J   I wonder when you did, child 1" said Miss Danforth;
--."up to your elbows in butter !"
"Yes, I saw them. Then you are true to your name,
Miss Faith, and find 'enough' in a cloudy sky ?--Pray, Miss
Danforth, what depth of- butter does a churning yield in
this. region?"
"I guess," said Miss Danforth laughing, "you never
saw much.of farmer's work-did you,?"
"Is butter-making farmer's work ?" said Mr. Linden
with a face of grave inquiry.
"Here's the trustys"--said Cindy opening. the door;
"at least that's what they said they be, but I'm free to
confess 'tain't nobody but Squire Deacon and Parson
Somers."
"])Po they want me ?" said Mr. Linden looking round.
"I guess likely"-said Cindy. "The Squire does come
here to see Miss Faith, but I guess 'tain't her he wants this
time."
And Cindy vanished.
"What do the trusteeswant ?" said Miss Danforth.
"Upon the testimony of Cinderella, they want me," said
Mr. Linden. "Miss Faith, may I have a glass of water ?
What they want to do with me, Miss Danforth, is a little
uncertain."
"uWell," said Miss Danforth, " I think you'll be able to
prevent them I"
IHe rose to take the glass from Faith's hand, and then
merely inquiring whether the ladies were coming to second
him, left the room.
Parson Somers was a young-looking, good-looking, affa-
ble gentleman, who pressed the ladies; hands very cordially
and was very happy to see them. Squire Deacon was
younger, and likewise good looking, but affability he had
never been charged with. r Over the handsome cut of face,
the strong well-built figure, he wore a manner as rough
as a bear's great-coat ; only at some times and fCor some
people the roughness was brushed down. It never would
stay, any more than the various elegant phrases with which

SAY AND SEAL.

21

Squire Deacon sometimes seasoned his speech, would take
root there and spread.
"Quite an agreeable variation,"said Mr. homers,---"ha..
insuch a place as Pattaquasset-...-to have a new. arrival
among us. Mr. Linden-I hope you will like our little
town. You have a pleasant experience of us to begin
with."
"Yes but, Parson, don't make him think we're all like
some," said Squire Deacon,-and as he turned towards
h     the beaming of his face seemed almost reflected in
hithbassbuttons.  "Dreadful gloomy morning, Miss
"Mr. Linden has probably seen too much of the world,"
said Mr. Somer,-." not to know that---ha !--too great a
preponderance of good is not to be looked for."
"May as well look for as much as you can find," sai
Miss Danforth. ".A good deal's lost by not looking fo
"Ah," said the Squire, with another glance at Faith,
it's not so hard to find things, neither, Miss Danforth,
You remember Sinbad the sailor lookin' down into the vale
of diamonds ?"
"Don't remember him a bit. What did he see there ?"
"Nothin' but diamond jewelry," said Squire Deacon in
a sentimental tone. "Miss Faith, you doubtless recollect
the tale ?"
"I hope," said Mr. Somers,-...." ha !-friendDeacon-.you
don't mean that Mr. Linden should look for a valley of
diamonds in Pattaquasset ?"
"dWhereabouts does the valley lie, sir ?" said Mr. Lin.
den.
But the Squire, as if a new idea had struck him, replied
somewhat brusq ely,
It don't lie nowheres, sir, nowheres but in fancy's field."
"I suppose," said Mr. Somers smiling blandly, "Mr.
Linden's peculiar course of business don't lead him much
into that field."
"You can strike into it 'most anywhere," said Miss Dan-
rth. "Mr. Lden's an early man-he'll find the valley
of diamonds, if it's in the town."

I

Aft


22                 SAY AND SEAL,
'Miss Faith told me there were stones enough here,"
he said, "but she did not hint that aff them were pre-
ciofls."
"We shall expect," said Mr. Somers, "to seeasome of
ou stones-I mean, some of our hardL'eads and thick
heads--grow precious, or-a-improve !.-under Mr. Lin-
den's. management."
praysair,"said Squire Deacon, suddenly recollecting
that he was a 'trusty' "what do you consider the best
plat for=the instructionof youth? what is fur method ?"
*Mr. 'Linden looked contemplatively out of the window.
"I think sir, if the boys are very rough I should first
teach th~'m' manners. If they are smoother boys, I should
teach them spelling,-.if they have already learned spelling,
I shqp4d let them read."
The Squire bowed   i
Quite satisfactory, sir. Mr. Somers-I think perhaps
Mr. Linden would like to visit our little temple of lit-
I should be very gratified to accompany Mr. Linden
in vIew shouch of Pattaquasset. I trust, Mr. Linden,.
in viewinghsoemtha--the moral and religious teaching, of
the youth here, will no be quite overlooked in your system."
The reply that first rose to Mr. Linden's lips came not
forth. He checked himself-rather perhaps  i deference
to the subject than anything else, and simply answered,
'Itrust not,si.
And with many low bows from the Squire, the two gen-
tlemen went into the hall, Mr. Linden following. But he
comeback the next moment to ask the diner hour.
cmWe are as apt to have it at noon as any time," said
Faith. "Will that do, Mr. Linden? we could have it
later."
"That will do perfectly. Only if the temple of litera-
ture' opens and swallows me up, Miss Iaith, dont wait--
thand   ith a smile that was a strong contrast to the face
he had bestowed upon the trustees, he went. after them.

CHAPTER III.
11ONDAY morning came, with its hands full of' work.
vi  They were willing hands that were outstretched to
receive the load,--strong hands too, and skilful; but: it
may be, better suited to other work. Cer.tainly as the
days passed Endecott's gravity took a deeper tinge, and
his words became fewer.' Still maintaining his morning.
walk, and a like tasting of the air at night,-ever punctual
at meals, and when there displaying an unruffled equanim--
ity and cheerfulness,-the even tones of his voice shewed
sometimes a little weariness, and his step grew more
thoughtful. And so the week rolled on, and the afternoon
sun of Friday began to near the horizon.
It was a warm afternoon, soft and balmy; a little haze
on the sky, the least veil uponsthe Mong's further shore;-
the summer roses hanging their heads, heavy with sleep
and sweetness. The' honeysuckles on the porch grew
sweeter and sweeter as the sun went down, and the hum-
ming-birds dipped into those long flagons, or poised them-
selves in mid-air for a survey.
In the porch sat the three ladies. Each had been busy,
influences.. The warm breeze was softly rubbing Faith's
cheek with its rouging fingers, and her mother gazed--nor
could give one look to humming-birds or roses.
Her thoughts however, took greater range---or the low
chiming of the village clock sent them off; for she pres-
ently said,
"Faith, my dearwhat have we got for tea ?"--.that meal
being under Faith's special superintendence.
" Very good blackberries, mother, and beautiful. rasp-
berries; and I cut my cream-cheese; and Cindy is ready
bake the bannoeks. Butter's as sweet as it can bethis
churning.  Will that do ?--Mr. Linden likes raspberri
an  ream," she added a little lower.
rs. Derrick~ gave 'a comprehensive "Yes, chid, dq

I


24                SAY AND SEAL.
both parts of Faith's reply, and then stopped and looked
away up the street. For down the street at that moment
came Mr. Linden, walking leisurely, his head bent towards
one of his older scholars who had both hands clasped
round his arm. The boy's upraised eager face shewed
even at a distance how earnestly he was talking.
"There he comes !" said Miss Danforth.
"Who is that with him ?" said Faith.
"Reuben Taylor, child," her mother answered.
Then as they came near the gate, and stopped and
shook hands, Reuben cried out (in answer to words which
they did not hear)
"Let me go I do, please, Mr. Lipden !".--and went ; while
his teacher opened the gate, picked one of the drooping
roses, came up the steps and taking off his hat bowed to
the assembled ladies.
"Well, Mr. Linden," said Miss Danforth, "how do you
find the Pattaquasset diamonds ?"
"I find, madam, that they shine-as is the custom of
diamonds."
"IAre you going to let Reuben Taylor go ?"
"Whither ?" said Mr. Linden.
"Why, where he asked you. Is he one of Mr. Somers'
precious stones ?"
"1He has gone," was the smiling reply. "Precious ?.
..-..yes,-everybody is precious in one sense."
"You haven't been to college for nothing," said Miss
Danforth, who would talk about anything. "I should like
you to find-out in what sense I am precious. I've a good
many friends-but there isn't one of 'em that wouldn't eat
and drink just as well with me out of the world a1 in it."
He smiled a little-though rather soberly, and stood
watching the changing colours of clouds and sky for a
minute or two without speaking. Then, half to himself
-as it were, low but very distinctly, he repeated--
"'And they shall be mine, saith the Lord, in the day
. when I make up my jewels.'"
The answer to this was only in pantomime, but striking.
Miss Danforth did not speak, and instead thereof turned
her head over her shoulder and looked away steadily over
the meadows which stretched north -of the house into the

SAY AND SEAL.

distance. Faith's eyes fell to the floor and the lids drooped
over them ; and as plain a veil of shadow fell upon her face;
Mrs. Derrick's eyes went from one to the other with a lodk
which was not unwonted  with her, and a little sigh which
said she thought everybody was good but herself.
"Bain't ye never comin'in to supper ?" said Cindy, framy
ing herself in the doorway. "I want to get out after
supper, Miss Faith," she said dropping her voice,.-.- "I do,
real bad."
"Is all ready, Cindy 7"
"Yes marm," said Cindy. "I'm free to confess-there's
a pile o' cakes baked."
"Miss Faith, when do you mean to shew me the shore ?"
said Mr. Linden turning round.
"You have been so busy all the week," said Faith,.-..
"and then you didn't speak. of it, Mr. Linden--I can go
any time."
"My dear," said Mrs. Derrick, "there comes Squire
Deacon. Maybe he'll stay to supper. I'll go and. put on
another cup."
Mr. Linden gave one glance at the opening gate, and
followed Mrs. Derrick into the house.
"Miss Faith," said the Squire, " do you think the night
dews conducive to-to your comfort ?"
"When they are falling," said Faith 'abstractedly
"Why not, Mr. Deacon ?r                         d
" To be sure !" said the Squire gallantly,......"honeysuckles
and such things do. But what I mean is this. Cilly's
going' to get up a great shore party to-morrow, and she
says she couldn't touch a mouthful down there if you didn't
go. And like enough some other folks couldn't neither."
"Mother's gone in to tea. Will you come in and ask
her, Squire ?"
"Couldn't stay, Miss Faith-Cilly's lookin' out for me
now. But you can tell-..your mother 'll go if you -do.,-o
you can go if she don't, you and Miss.D'anforth. It's
good for you now, Miss Faith,-the saline breezes are .o
very-...-different," said the Squire.
"When are you going, Mr. Deacon ?"
"Soon as we can tackle up after dinner, Cilly thought
voL. 1.


26b                SAY AND SEAL.
But fix your own time, Miss Faith---I'll call for you any
4 hour of the twenty-six.",
Faith hesitated, and pulled a leaf or two from the honey-
suckle; then she spoke boldly.
But you forget we have a gentleman here, Squire;--
we can't go without Mr. Linden."
"I don't want his help to drive my horse," said the
Squire, with a little change of tone,-.-."but whoever hin-
ders his goipg, I don't. The shore's wide, Miss Faith,-
it don't matter how many gets onto, it. There's no chance
but he'll go if you ask him. Who wouldn't !" said the
Squire, relapsing, into his former self.
"1We'll come down then some time in the course of the
afternoon," said Faith, "and see what you are doing."
"Then.I sha'n't drive you down, sha'n't I ?" said $quire
Deacon. " Never mind-it's no matter, come when you
like, Miss Faith, we'll be glad to see youT1yhow."  And
the Squire closed the little gate after him energetically..
" Cinderellit is in despair, Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden
as Faith entered the dining-room. "Miss Danforth--how
could you keep Squire Deacon so long, and then send him
home to supper !" .
"It's all your fault, sir," said Miss Danforth cheerfully.
"And I guess the Squire has got his supper."
"He must be a man of quick despatch," said Mr. Lin-
den; while Faith aft r a glance to see if her bannocks
were right, made her announcement.
" Mother, there's a shore party to-morrow."
"Who's going, child ?"
"Squire Deacon and Cecilia-and I don't know who,
else--nd he came. to ask us. Will you go and take tea
with us at the shore, Mr. Linden ?"
"Does that mean that my tea is to be transported to the
shore, and that I am to go there to find it, Miss.Faith ?"
"You have a very puzzling way of putting things," said
Faith laughing, though her look bore out her words. "I
dcn't think it means that. Your tea won't be there before
you are, Mr. Linden. Wouldn't you like to go ?"
-"The Squire says there is .roOm enough on the shore,"
suggested Miss Danforth. " I suppose he. wants a good
deal for himself or he wouldn't have thought of it."

SAY AND SEAL.

0
,i
f
r
4t
'yam
'J
f
te$
" '.  f
1
a  e5
^i$
"k+{{Y
her
"'fi
.' 1
A
h

" Perhaps he thinks I want a good deal,".said Mr. Ling
den. "Well---in consideration of the width of the shore,
I, think I will go. Is not that your advice, Miss Faith?
What are-the pros and cons.--if you were to state them
fairly ?"
"Well," said Faith, "you \Vill have a pleasant ride, or
walk, down-whichever you like;-I think it is very pleasa-
ant. You can go in the water, if you like, which every-
body does; there's a beautiful shore ; and I suppose that
would be pleasant. .You'll see all that is'pretty about the
place while the people are digging clams and preparing
supper ; and then you'll have supper ; and then we shall
come home;qand I think it is all pleasant, except that there
will be too many people. I like it best with just a few."
"As if we were to go down there to-night in the moon-
light.---Now Miss Faith--what is the other side ?"
t "Just that--the too many people. 'There isn't a chance
to enjoy anything quietly. I can enjoy the people too,
sometimes, but not the other -things at the same time so
well. Perhaps you can, Mr. Linden."
"I can sometimes enjoy the other things at the same
time-better."
Faith again' looked a little puzzled, 'but° answered with
a simple
"Then I dare say you will like it."
"What I am puzzled about," said he smiling, "is, how
you-are to shew me the shore. Miss Danforth-why is that
bread-plate so  tfractive to me, while I am like the reverse
end of the magnet to it ?"
"But my dear," said Mrs. Derrick, for the bread-plate
was suggestive,-" ain't you going along with the Squire's
party ?".
"I said we would come after, mother"
"The Squire only said there was ro m on the shore,"
added Miss Danforth.
" Is the shore wide enough for us to drive down there ?
or must we walk ?" asked Mr. Linden.
"But you'll eat supper with them, o course," said Mrs.
Derrick.
"Of course, mother. The wagon must go, Mr. Linden.
There's room enough for anything."

r

'I

c
4
i
I

'WIe


SAY AND SEAL.             29

Mr. Linden made no comment upon that, and finished
his tee in comparative silence. Then went forth, as was
his custom, to the post-office, and-as was not his custom--
returned very soon. Mrs. Derrick and Miss Danforth had
gone out to see a neighbour, and Faith sat alone in the
twilight parlour. It was very twilight there, but he walked
in and stood waiting for his eyes to discover what there
might be.
"There is nobody here but me, Mr. Linden," said a
very soft and clear voice. "Do you want anything ?"
"I wanted to see you--and am foiled by the darkness.
Are you tired, Miss Faitli ?"
"Never. I wasn't sitting in the dark for that."
"Would you object t9 coming into the light ?"
"Not at all," said Faith laughing. "Which way ?"
"There is to be a fine illumination to-night, which I
should like to have you see."
"An illumination !  Where is' it?  Shall I want my
bonnet ?"
"You will be better illuminated without it,--but you may
perhaps take cold."
"How do you makeyour scholars understand you ?"
said Faith. "I am sure I must need illuminating.-,--So
much, that I had better leave my bonnet, Mr. Linden ?"
" I think you may--if you will take some light substi-
tute. Why my, scholars are my scholars, Mist Faith."
"What then ?" said Faith stopping short.
"Why then I am their teacher."
"I half wish I was a scholar too," said Faith with a
tone which filled up the other 'half'-"I don't know
much, Mr. Linden."
"About illuminations?  I will promise you some light
upon that point."
With which encouragement, Faith fetched the scarf which
was to do duty for a bonnet if desired, and they set out.
"Now Miss Faith," said her companion as he closed
the gate, "if you will shew me the road, I will sh6w you
the shore.-=Which will not at all interfere with your shew-
ing it to me to-morrow.
"The .shore !" said Faith. " To-night ? Are you in
earnest ?"

S   "Very much in ea~rnest. You prefer some other road ?"
"No indeed-it's beautiful, and I like it very much.
-indy," she said to that damsel whom they opportunely
pissed at the entrance of the lane-"you tell my mother
I am gone to take a walk."  And so they passed on.
The way was down a lane breaking from the high road
of the village, just by Mrs. Derrick's house. It was a
quiet country lane; passing between fields of grass or
grain, with few trees near at hand. , Here and there a
house, small and unnotable like the trees. Over all the
country the moon, near full though not high, threw a gen-
tle light; revealing to the fancy a less picturesque land-
scape thin the sun would have shewn ; for there were no
strong lines or points to be mademore striking by her
partial touches, and its greatest beauty lay in the details
which she could not light up. The soft and rich colours of
grain and grass, the waving tints of broken ground and
hillside, were lost. now ; the flowers in the hedges had
shrunk into obscurity; the thrifty and well-to-do order of
every field and haystack, could hardly-be noted even by
bne who knew it was there... Only the white soft glimmer
on a wide pleasant land; the faint lighting of one side of
trees and fences, the broader salutation to a house-front,-
and the deeper shadow which sometimes told of a piece of
woodland ,or a slight hilly elevation.
Then all that was passed; and the road descended a lit-
tle steep to where it crossed, by a wooden bridge, a small
stream or bed of a creek. Here .the moon, now getting
up- in the sky, did greater execution; the little winding
piece of water glittered in silver patches, and its sedgy
borders were softly touched out; with the darke' outlines of
two or three fishing-boats.
And so on, towards the shore. Now the salt smell met
and mingled with the perfume of woods and flowers, and
the road grew more and more sandy. But still/the fields
waved with Indian-corn, were sweet with hay, o furrowed
with potatoes. Then'the outlines of sundry frame bathing-
houses appeared in the distance, and near them the road
came to an end.
The shore was improved by the -moonight,-its great
rocks, slippery with sea-weed, glittered with a wet sheen.

SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.             31

s0              SAY AND SEAL.

The Sound wore its diamonds royally, and each tiny wave
broke in a jewelled light upon the sand. Far in the dis-
tance the dim shore of Long Island lay like a black line
upon the water; and sloops and schooners sailed softly
On their course, or tacked across the rippling waves, a
fleet of "Black spirits and white."
"What do you think of the illumination, Miss Faith ?"
said her companion, when they had sat still for five min-
utes.
"What do you think of it, I think I should say. Mr.
Linden, I have chewed you the shore !"
"You!"-
"Who else ?"
"Were you ever here before by moonlight ?"
"I don't know-No, I think not. Were you ever here
before at all ?n"
" Is it owing to you hat I am here now
"sYou couldn't h got here without me," said Faith,
stooping to turn-over some of the glittering pebbles at her
feet ;-"and I couldn't have got here without you. I am
willing to allow that we are square, Mr. Linden. I must !
--for you will .turn a corner faster than I ean -catch
you."                  2
" If you really suppose that first proposition to be true,"
said Mr. Linden-raising 4is eyebrows, "why of course there
is' no more to be said. Miss Faith, how would you like to
be sailing about in one of those phantom ships?"
"I should like it very well," said Faith, "in a good
time. I went to Pequot in one once. It was very pleas-
ant. Why do you call them phantoms ?"
"Look at that one standing off across' the moonlight
towards the other shore,-gliding along so silently with her
black sails all' set,--does she look real ?.--You cannot even
hear the creaking of a rope."
Faith looked, and drew an interrupted deep breath,
She had lived in a world of realities. Perhaps this was
the first 'phantbm' that had ever suggested itself-or been
suggested-to her imagination. Possibly something of
the same thought passed her r mind; for she drew her
breath again a little short as she poke..
"Yes !-.it's beautiful !-But I live in such a different

world, Mr. Linden,-I never thought of such a thing be.
fore."
He smiled-pleasantly and thoughtfully. "How came
you to see the sunrise colours the other day, Miss Faith ?"
"0 I see them always. And that puts me in mind
of something I have been wanting to say to you every day
all the week ! and I could never find a chance. You asked
me that morning, Mr. Linden, if I was true to my name,
finding enough in acloudy sky. What did you mean?
What did you mean by being 'true to my name'? "
"I shall have to use your. name a little freely, to tell
you," he said. "It is faith's privilege to be independent
of-ircumstances. Faith always finds something wherein
to rejoice. If the sky be clear,
'Far into distant worlds she pries,
And brings eternal glories ne%.'
If cloudy, faith uses her glass as a prism, and none little
ray of light finds all the colours of the rainbow."
"I don't know what a prism is," said Faith somewhat
sadly.
"A prism, in strictness, is a piece of glass cut in a para
ticular way, so that the colourless sunbeams which pass
through it are divided into their many-coloured members.
But pther things act as prisms,-the rain-drops in a show-
er----the lustres upon your church chandelier. You have
seen the colours there ?"
" Well, how do they do that ?"
"I must takesome other time to tell you,-it would be
too long a matter to-night. And I doubt whether you
ought to sit here any longer."
"1But this Faith don't do as you say," she said, as she
slowly and rather unwillingly rose from her seat. "And
I don't understand how any faith can."
"This Faith must study the Bible then, and do what
that says."  The tone was encouraging though the voice
was grave.
He was not answered; and the homeward walk was be-
gun. But 'Faith stopped .and turned again to look before
she had gone three psces.


SAY AND SEAL..

"I am  in no hurry," Mr. Linden said,-" take your
own time-only do not take cold."
Faith turned away silently again, and began trudging
along the sandy road which led back to. the lane. The
moonlight shewed the way better now. Passing. on, as
they neared home one- house after another shewed its
glimmer of light and gave forth its cheerful sound of
voices. From one, however, the sound was not cheerful.
It was Squire Deacon's.
"Well, you'll see to-morrow, Cilly-if the sky don't fall,-
you'll see. Folks thinks the water down to! the shore's
mighty deep-'way over their heads--till they've made its
acquaintance; and then. they find out they can wade round
in it 'most anywheres. "-.
"What's the matter with the Squire ?" said Faith with
a slight laugh, as these strange statements reached her
ears..
" I should think-to use his own phraseology-he must
be 'over his head' somewhere," replied Mr. Linden.
Whereat Faith's laugh deepened, but the low sweet
tone of it only sounded an instant.
" My dear !" said Mrs.-,Derrick, running fut as they en-
tered the gate, "ain't you very imprudent? Wasn't she
very imprudent, Mr. Linden ?"
"Very prudent, ma'am for she wore a shawl.
"And didn't want tha4 mother," said Faith.

CHAPTER IV.

THE illumination lasted throli the night-until
"Night's candles were burnt out, and jocund day
Stood tip-toe on the misty mountain tops."
Very jocund she looked, with her light pink veils wreath-
Ingabout the horizon, and the dancing white clouds which
hurried up as the sun rose, drivel by a fresh wind. Mr.
Linden declared, when he came in to breakfast,, that the
x:  day promised to equal the preceding night.
"And whoever wants more," he added, "must wait; for
I think it will not surpass it."
With which, Mr. Linden stirred his coffee, and told Miss
Danforth with a little look of defiance, "it was particularly
good-she had better try a cup."
Miss Danforth instituted a fierce inquiry as to the direc-
tion of the g$eceding evening's walk ; to which Faith gave
an unsatisfactory answer.
"Did you ever look at coffee in eonnexion with the
fatigues of life ?" pursued Mr. Linden.
"JI shall, probably, in future,"- said Miss Danforth.
"Now Mr. Linden, I ask you; you're a nice man to give
a straight answer;-where did you and Faith go ?"
"I am glad I am a nice man," said Mr. Linden,' "but I
can scarce'give a straight answer to that question."
"Why not, for pity's-sake ?".
"It must needs travel a crooked road."
"Did you ?"
"It has left a meandering sort of recollection in my
mind."
"Where did it lead to ?"
"It led to another."
"What I want to know is," said Miss Danforth "where
,did you find y urselves when you were furthest from
home."
(38)

32

I


34              SAY AND SEAL.

"Let me shew you," said he. "Suppose your plate to
be a rock, and this tumbler of radishes a tree, and the
table-cloth grass,-the moon over your head, crickets under
your feet. Miss Faith walks round the rock, I follow her,-.
and we both follow the road. On the way, the still night
air is enlivened with owls, grasshoppers, family secrets.
Our attention is thus divided between the moon and sub-
lunary affairs. Miss Faith-what shall I give you ?"
Miss Danforth's curiosity seemed for once willing to be
satisfied with fun; and Faith's hunger was in the same
predicament.
"But child," said Mrs. Derrick, who had bent her atten-
tion upon the diagram at the other end of the table; " I
don't recollect any such place !"
"Mother 1" said Faith,-and her gravity gave way hope-
lessly.
"Squire Deacon sends his best compliments of the
season," said Cindy opening the door a while later, "and
he says they'll be to take supper percisely at four. I'm
free to confess he do4't look much sweeter than common,"
added Cindy.
"Pray Miss Faith," said Mr.aLinden as they left the
table; "what is the precise depth of water down at the
shore ?"
Faith had very nea  roke down again, for she laughed
and blushed, a good deal more than her wont; and at last
replied that "it depended on how far people went in-.-she
never went very far herself."
"1I was naturally curious," said he.
After a dinner somewhat more hasty than usual, Mr.
Linden and two of the ladies set off for the shore. The
blackberry jam, og some other hindering cause, kept Mrs.
Derrick at home.
The country by daylight looked rich and smooth. At
hot a very great distance a slight. hilly elevation bounded
the horizon line, which nearer seen would have been found
bristling with stern grey rock, itself a ridge of rock, one of
the ribs of the rigid soil. But where the lane led down to
the water, fair fields and, crops extended on every side,
spotted very picturesquely with clumps of woodland. All
looked genial in th~smmrlight. If the distant rocks

spoke a stubborn soil, the fine growth between said that
man had overcome it; and the fine order everywhere ap-
parent said too that the victory had been effectual for man's
comfort and prosperity. The stone walls, in some places
thin and open, told of times when they had been hurriedly
put up; moss on the rail fences said the rails had been long
doing duty; within them no fields failed of their crops, and
no crops wanted hoeing or weeding. No straw lay scat-
tered about the ricks; no barrack roofs were tumbling
down; no gate-posts stood sideways;. no barnyards shewed
I rickety outhouses or desolate mangers. No cattle were
poor, and seemingly, no people. It was a pretty ride the
party had, in the little wagon, behind an old horse that
knew every inch of the way and trotted on as if he were a
part of it.
.aiHow do ypu like Pattaquasset, Mr.Linden ?" said
Faith, leaning forward to reach him where he sat alone on
the front seat.
"I like. it--well," he answered a little musingly.
They cme to the, bridge and stream; and now they
could see that 4wasee. River did not fill its sometime
channel, but flowed in a bottom of alluvial soil, rich in
bright-coloured marsh grass, which stretched up the country
between two of those clumps of woodland they had seen
from a distance. A little further on, just where the sandy
road branched off to the shore, there stood a farm hose,
with a conglomerate of barn\ and outhouses, all painted to
match, in bright yellow picked out with red.
"Do you see that settlement of farm-houses ?" said Faith
leaning forward again,-" of all sizes, in uniform ?"
" Is it the fashion here to put 'earmarks' on buildings?"
he answered with a smile.
"Mt. Linden! .You should ask Mr. Simlins that. I see
his wagon there--he'll be down at the shore very likely
He's a characters He lives a mile and a halt further on,
just where the road turns off to Mrs. Somers."
" Simlins !" was the only reply.
" He's a good sort of man, but he's funny.'
" Whait is a good sort of man, Miss Faith ?"
. The-old horse was walking quietly along the sandy road,

goI

SAY AND SEAL.            35


3$             ,   SAY AND SEAL.
and the smell of the salt water was becoming pleasantly
perceptible.
pI suppose I mean by it," said Faith thoughtfully, "a
man who is not very good, but who is on the good side of
things."
I don't call that a good sort," said Mr. Linden,-then
looking round with a little smile he said, " You ought to
say'sot o god.'"
sFaith looked serious and as if she felt half rebuked.
"But," she said, "you would not call that a bad sort ?"
"Then you mean that he is in the same road with what
you call the best people, only not so far advanced ?"1
"No," said Faith doubtfully, " I don't mean so much as
that.--I on't think Mr. Simlins is in the same road with
you."/
youomany best roads are there to the same place ?
As for instance-does it matter which of these two I take
to the shore ?"
"Only one leads to the shore," said Faith.
"Yet they seem to lie near together at the outset. The
same is true of 'the other'shore.'
Faith sat back in her place with a face exceedingly un-
like a young lady who was going to a merry-making.
But they were near the shore now ; not only the salt
Anell proclaimed it, but they could see the various bathing
and other houses collected at the place, and the flag which
floated high from the flag-staff, telling all who were not
concerned that it was a gala day. A piece of ground im-
mediat.ely surrounding these buildings was feiced in; as
they neared the gate, it was opened for them, and a tall
farmer-looking man, whose straw hat shaded a sensible
face, nodded as they passed.
"1That is Mr. Simlins 1" said Faith.
Mr. Simlins seemed for the present to be king of the
castle.. Horses there were, and wagons, standing here and
there, and one or two oldish faces looked out from the
windws of one long shanty; but the rest of the birds had
flown--into the water ! It was the time of low tide, and
the long strips of rippling water,which lay one beyond the
other, were separated by sand banks nearly as long. In
these little tide lakes were the bathers,-the more timid

SAY AND SEAL.

near shore, taking almost a sand bath; the more adven-
torous going further and further out, till the last party
bathed beyond the list sand bank. Not dressed in the latest
Cape May fashion, nor the latest fashion of any kind; for
each had brought some dress too old to be hurt with salt
water. Calico frocks, of every hue and pattern,-.-..caps, hand-.
kerchiefs, sun-bonnets,-s-gave additional force to the cries
and shouts and screams which were wafted inshore.
But when they began'to come in !---and when the bathing
dresses were hung on the fence to dry !--and when mermaid
visions appeared at the windows !--who shall describe the
scene then ? Over all, a blue smoke now began to curl
and float, rising from the stove-pipe of the eating-house.
Mr. Linden had driven up to one of the fenceposts, and
fastening his horse stood a while watching the show, till
the bathers began to draw in from the water. Then helped
the ladies out.
"Which of these baskets contains my tea, Miss Faith ?"
he said. "I feel a particular interest in that basket."
"Perhaps your tea is in some other basket," said Faith;
"but both of these must come into the eating-house. 0,
takyou, Mr. Linden !"
The eating-house was a long shanty, built for the express
purpose of feasting picnic and other parties. At one end
of it, within the house, was a well of excellent water; at
the other end a door opened into a cooking-house, which
held a stove ; and through the lengtlif the apartment a
narrow table of boards was erect , ready to be covered
with any description and any succession of table-cloths. In
this room Mr. Linden with Faith's help .deposited her
baskets; while Miss Danforth looked on. At the door of
the shanty coming out they met Mr. Simlins. Faith made
the introductions.
"Happy to have your acquaintance," said Mr. Simlins.
This is a piece of Pattaquasset, sir, that we all of us
rather cord'ally like. You haven't seen it before ?"
"Yes, I don't wonder you like it," said Mr. Linn{
"The sea-shore is no novelty to 'me, sir-such   are
party is."
Ihope you'll enjoy it, as the rest of us do. .We all do
vs   . lie, Mr. Linden-I hope you'll. use the grounds is

(

c

"'A


38

SAY AND SEAL.

your own. We have the flag flying, sir, and it ratifies
liberty to all who amuse themselves under it."
Mr. Linden looked up at the stars and stripes, with an
acknowledging smile for the benefits thereby conferred.
"Faith ! Faith Derrick !" called out half a dozen mer-
maids from the bathing house ; and 'Faith was obliged to
go,-while her companions walked up the green slope,
and entered into a deep discussion of the crops and the
weather.
A while after, when Faith was busy about the supper
table-twenty young voices chiming around her, another
voice that she did not know spoke close at her elbow.
"'Miss Faith-I am Reuben Tay*r     Mr. Linden told
me to come to you and make myself useful. Is there any-
thing I can do ?--would you like some round clams ?
.-Father's out there in the boat."
The earnest eyes said how gladly he would do 'any-
thing.'
"Who is your father ?" said Faith, a little surprised.
'My father's a fisherman."
"The very thing !" said Faith-" if you'll help me roast
'em, Reuben. I guess nobody else'll want to do it, but I'd
just hs lieve. Can~ you have 'em here quickly? and I'll
see and have the stove ready."
" O I'll fetch 'em-and roast 'em too, Miss Faith. I'm
used to it," he added, with a half bashful half admiring
glance at her face.
Faith had, the fire ready by the time Reuben returned
with the clams. The kettle was on to hoil, and nothing
else was wanted of the fire, as it happened, by anybody;
least of all to roast clams, that neessarily making a kitchen
prisoner of the roaste{; so Fait and her new c adjutor
had the field-i.e. the cooking house-all to the selves.
Miss Danforth was to leave Pattaquasset in a day or tvwo,
and was busy talking to everybody. Readily the clams
opened their shells on the hot stove-top ; savourily the
odour of steaming clam juice spread itself abroad; but
Faith and Reuben were 'in' for it, and nobody else cared
to be in.
So when Miss Cecilia Deacon had finished her toilet,
which was somewhat of the longest, as it had been one of

SAY AND S AL.39
the latest, she found nobody but her brother to apply to on
the score of her hostess duties.
"Sam !" said the young lady pinching  er bro her's
arm,-"I haven't been introduced to Mr. Lind  "
"He'll keep," was the encouraging reply.
"Yes, but supper won't. See, Sam !-I haven't een in-
troduced to him, and I must."
The Squire nodded his head politely, and began to
whistle.
" Come !-you' Sam--you've got to, and in a hurry. I
can't find Faith, or I'd make her."
" Well--I can't find him," said the Squire pettishly. "I
haven't got neither of 'em in my pocket-nor the crown of
my hat," he added, taking off that useful article of dress for
the express purpose of looking int it. "My deliberate
judgment is to have supper."
"Don't be a, goose, Sam! What's the use of asking him
if you didn't mean to conduct yourself ?"
"Didn't ask him."
"XWho did ?"
"I didn't hear anybody," was the Squire's reply.
"Don't you mean to introduce me, Sam Deacon ?" said
his sister in a tone which was rather over the verge of
patience.
"Jem Williams !" said the Squire, calling up a spruce
embodiment of blue cloth, brass buttons, and pink cravat,-..
" I say ! here's Cilly off the hooks to get hold of the new
teacher. Whereabouts do you s'pose he is ?"
- "Really Squire !" said Jem Williams, with a silly little
laugh, "I couldn't testify !- Reckon he knows Miss Cilly
'd keep hold on him ef she got a chance !"
"Sha'n't speak to you in a month, Jem !" said the
lady with a toss of her head and some heightening of
the really pretty colour in her cheeks. "You may fix it as
you've a mind tq, among you, and let anybody that likes
bring him in to supper ! I'm going in, out of the way,
myself."
Whither she went, on the spur, as good as her word;-
nor shewed her pretty face again outside.
Meanwhile Reuben and Faith had worked on through
their basket of clams, and now the last were sputtering on

0


I

40

SAY AND SEAL.

the stove. The work had been done almost in silence, for
though the excitement now and then made Reuben break
into a low whistle of some tune or other, he always checked
himself the next moment with a very apologetic look. For
the rest, if he had not done all the work himself, it cer-
tainly was not his fault. Now, watching quietly the open-
ing shells of that last dozen of clams, Reuben remarked,
"I hope Mr. Linden won't forget about supper !"
" Why what about it ?" said Faith. "Why should he
forget ? or what if he does ?.
The-last sentence seemed to puzzle Reuben.
"I don't know, ma'am," he said,-" it's better before
everybody eats it up."
" Who's going to. eat it up ?" said Faith. "Where is
h4 ?"
" He went down on the sands witl me," said Reuben,
"but he didn't come up again. Maybe he has now. He
liked it down there, real well."
Faith went, to the shutter windowgnd flung it open, and
looked to see whether or no the missing gentleman had
returned to the shore. It was a fair view that lay spread
before her. The low beams of the sun gave a cool after-
noon look to everything ; the sloop sails shone and gleamed
in the distance.; down by the muscle rocks one little boat
lay rocking on the advancing tide, which was fast covering
the sand banks and connecting the strips of water ; and the
freshening breeze curled the little waves as they came danc-
ing in, and brought a low sweet murmur to the shore.
One or two gulls sailed floatingly about, and ,a brown
mink--perceiving that the company had retreated to higher
ground-came out and aired himself on one of the rocks.
But Faith saw none of these things,-.-for in swinging
open her shutter (which the wiod caught and clapped up
against the house) she so nearly swung it against Mr.
Linden that her first look was a startled one.
"Miss Faith1" he said, turning round, "what can you
possibly be about !"
" I beg your pardon, Mr. Linden !"-said Faith.
"Is that all you are ahout ?",
"You were anxious about -your. supper, Mr. Linden--
Are you ready for it 7"

SAY AND SEAL.

41

"Much more ready than anxious, Mids Faith."
"How do you like the shore to-day ?" said Faith, drop-
ping her voice, and giving a glance of her eye to the fair,
cool sunlight colors on the water and shore and ship-
ping-fresh as the fery sea-breeze itself, and glittering as
the water's thousand mirrors could make them.
He turned and looked again, drawing in the breeze with
a deep breath that more than answered her question.
" How do you like this ?" he said, handing her through
the window a little miniature tree of red sea-weed. Then,
while she examined it, he repeated,-.
"'When descends on the Atlantic
The gigantic
Storm-wind of the equinox,
Lhndward in his wrath he scourges
The toiling surges,
Laden with sea-weed from the rocks;
"'From Bermuda's reefs; from edges
Of sunken ledges,
In some far-off, bright Azore;
From Bahama, and the dashing,
Silver-flashing
Surges of San Salvador;
"'From the tumbling surf that buries
The Orkneyan skerries,
Answering the hoarse Hebrides;
And from wrecks of ships, and drifting
Spars, uplifting
On the desolate, rainy seas;--
"'Ever drifting, drifting, drifting
On the shifting
Currents of the restless main;
Till in sheltered coves, and reaches
Of sandy beaches,
All have found repose again."'
Faith's eye was ujon the sprig of sea-weed while these
verses were repeating,-then she looked up at the speaker
with an intenseness in which oddly mingled some strong
feeling of sorrow or regret.
"It's beautiful!"-.she said,.-" beautiful !-l-both the one
and- the other. But there are a great many things there I


SAY AND SEAL.j   43

don't understand,"-she added once more with a smile. '" If
there was time -but there isn't. -Mr. Linden, Reuben
and I have been roasting. clams."
"Yes, Miss Faith," he said answering the smile and
stepping nearer the window. "So one of my senses informed
me. Do you know what that is in your hand ?"
"It's sea-weed, isn't it ?"
"Yes. And moreover-Miss Faith, that is part of your
marine Flora. Now what about the clams ?"
"1My what ?" said Faith. "First tll me, please, what
you said."
"Your marine Flora.'"
"What is that ?"
"The particular department of life in the sea, of which
this is a specimen."
Faith looked puzzled, and amused.
"You don't mean to enlighten me more than you can
help," she said. "But why do you call it Flora? you
used that word before. And oh Mr. Linden-You can't
tell me now, for supper's all ready."
Hiseyes looked amused too, and laying a clover head
on-the window, he said,
"That is part of your land Flora,"-then pushed the
shutter to rather quick, but softly; and Faith heard the
reason thereof as follows.
"Wal sir--ef this be you, I've looked all over for you."
"How was it that you overlooked me then, sir ?" was
Mr. Linden's reply.
"Don't jes know," laughed Jem Williams,-" but Miss
Cilly Deacon wants you the Worst kind."
"And where shall I go to receive her commands ?" said
Mr. Linden.
Faith heard their retreating steps, and turning to take
off her apron saw the dish of hot clams still on, the stove,
.and that Reuben had removed himself outside the door,
quite beyond the conversation but not beyond call. He
.stood looking thoughtfully out towards the muscle rocks.
"Oh Reuben! there you are. Come!" said Faith; "you're
going in with me. You're going to have some' supper tO-
night, whoever el does. You open the .door; and Il
take in this dish You keep by me, Reuben,"

"Please let me take the dish, then, Miss Faith,-I can
open the door first."
.    But Faith had her own way, and followed by.Reuben
I carried the clams into the supper room, where some of the
company were already seated, and others stood waiting.
Squire Deacon had not only given the desired eintroduc-
tion, but had (self-denyingly) placed Mr. Linden next Miss
Cilly at the table,-where he stood.
"Here's a contribution," said Faith,-."if somebody ?ll
make a place for it. Thank you, Mr. Deacon. Now
Reuben,-come here."
And refusing more than one offer of a place at the
table, Faith made .her way down to the 'well end' where
there was room for two--at a remote distance from the tea
and coffee.
What else was there not, upon that table !
- "Won't you take a seat, Mr. Linden ?" said Miss Ceci-
lia. "I hope you've got room there. Jerushy, can't you
shove down a little? .I hope my coffee-pot's not disagree-
able:"
"I hope not !" said Mr. Linden, surveying the coffee-
pot. "How long does it take to declare itself, Miss Dea-
con?"
"0! it won't do anything, but. spout coffee," said the
young lady,-" if you don't mind that. Won't you be helped
to what you like, Mr. Linden ? I hope you have enjoyed
our shore party this afternoon."
" Thank you"-said Mr. Linden, feeling perhaps that it
was nqt their pqrty he had enjoyed,--." there has been a
combination of leasant things. As far as I could judge
the bathers enjoyed their particular expedition."
" 0 yes, it was delightful - invigorating.. Mr. Sim-
lins, I think Mr. Linden will like a piece of that cherry-
pie with his clams. Do you take cheese, Mr. Linden? Is
your coffee agreeable ? There is the cold' tongue by you,
Jerushy.-I hope you like Pattaquasset."
" Ask Mr. Linden whether Pattaquasset ain't a good place
for handsome gals," said Mr Simlins, as he handed over the
piece of cherrypie. "He knows by this .time. T say
there's a con-cateination of beauty now here this arternoon.

42             SAY AND HEAL.


44

SAY AND SEAI.

If you look from the top to the bottom of the table, now,
ain't it true, sir?"
Mr. Linden certainly looked from the top to the bottom
of the table, and then, setting the plate of cherry-pie as far
from his clams as he could, he said,
"Miss Deacon-let me .help you,-tell me where these
cups belong, and I will convey them to their destination."
"I thought they'd shove down somehow," said the young
lady. "Jerushy, do pass-the coffee ! They're for anybody
down there who'll take coffee. Tea'll be along presently,"
added Miss Cecilia, raising her -voice a little to give the
information. "Don't you trouble yourself, Mr. Linden "
But Mr. Linden secured one, and carrying it down to
Taith, requested her to stir it and taste it, and not give
him the trouble of coming back with the sugar-bowl.
"What will you have ?" he said while she obeyed his
directions. "Here are all the pies that can be thought of
except the t'nusical one recorded in history."
"And so," said Faith with a laughing flash  f her usu-
ally soft eye, "you immediately give me a  desire for the
one not here I It's like you, Mr. Linden. No, thank you-
I'll 'have none of these. I believe Reuben has a desire for
some of the-clams he and I have roasted."
, "I'm afraid I cannot get them away from Squire Dea-
con 1" he said, "but I'll try."
The Squire however held fast to the dish, and rising
from his place midway at the table, insisted upon taking it
to Faith himself.
"Miss Faith," he said, "you have ruined my supper by
sitting down here. My appetite has quite forsaken me,"
(whereupon Jem Williams observed, "that warn't strange.")
:..-"and the worst is," added the Squire, "I can't maintain
the constant supervision of your plate which my feelings
prompt. I am too far off"- -he concluded in a melancholy
tone.
"I say, Squire !" said Jem Williams, "you bain't mor'n
as far agin as he"-with a nod towards the upper end of
the table.
Squire Deacon lowered, but for the present his feelings
were restrained.
" Mr. Simlins," said Endecott, when he had resumed his

SAY AND SEAL. 45
seat, "I ask you-.--as one who knows the country-where-
abouts does the concatenation you spoke of reach a climax ?"
"The star:you look at is always the brightest," said the
farmer. " However, I think the clams is the best thing at
table-or near the best,"' with a slight glance towards
Squire Deacon and the dish at- the 'well end.' "I've a,
legendary attachment to beauty, .sir; my father married
the three prettiest wives in the country."
"I say, Squire;" said Jem Williams, "Mr. Simlins says
your hot."
" Hot ?" said Squire Deacon, flushing up very much, and
setting down the clams,-" that dish is. I'm as cool as all
these cucumbers accumulated into a heap."
"Hope you'll stay where you are, then," said Mr. Sim-
lins. "I'm cool too. Don't come near me, or we shall be
in a state of concentration."
Mr. Linden remarked that that was an excellent point
when reached.
"What point ?" said Squire Deacon, who had returned
to his seat with the strong impression that everybody was
laughing at him, under the special guidance of the new
teacher. You know mighty little of the points round here,
I tell you.,'
"The point of concentration is found in various places,
sir," said Mr. Linden; "though I grant you it is rare."
"What do you know about Pattaquasset points ?" re-
peated the Squire,-" or Pattaquasset people-or Patta.
quasset water either, for that matter? Just you go down
here when the tide's in--and afore you know where you are
you'll find yourself wading round over your head."
"No sir-never,". said Mr. Linden with great assur-
ance.
"Why not? how're you goin' to help it ?" said Squire
Deacon.
" When I reach that point," said Mr. Linden,'"I shall
swim."
And Faith heard Reuben Taylor's smothered laugh of
great gratification.
"RHope you haven't spoiled your own supper, Squire,"
said Mr. Simlins, "by your complacency in carrying about
them hot clams. Have somethin' this way ?"


46              SAY AND SEAL.

While this question was getting its answer, Faith sat
back in her chair and looked up and down the length of
the table. It presented a distinguished 'after-supper'
view, but the demands of the company had not yet ceased.
Mr. Simlins was still discussing cheese and politics; Jem
Williams was deep in cherry pie; plum cake was not out
of favour with the ladies.- The Squire was hard at work at
his supper, which had been diversely and wickedly inter.
rupted.. He was making up for lost time now; while his
sister, much disengaged, was bending her questions and
smiles on Mr. Linden. Faith tried to see Mr. Linden, but
she couldn't; he was leaning back from the table; and her
eyes went out of doors. It was too fair and sweetthere
to be cooped up from it. The sun had just set. Faith
could not see the water; the windows of the eating house
looked landward; but the air which came in at them said
where it had come from, and breathed the salt freshness of
the seat into her face.
Kt presently every chair was pushed back. And now
there was no more silence, nor quiet The busy swarm
poured out of the supper room; the men to .lounge or
tackle their horses, the women to gather up the bathing
dresses from the fence, to look round, laugh, and go in
again to pack up the dishes. It would seem that this last
might be a work of time, each had to find her own through
such a maze of confusion. There was a spoon of Miss
Cecilia's providing, in a cup of Mrs. Derrick's, beside a'
plate of Mrs. David's, and, before a half-eaten cherry pie
which had been compounded in the distant home and by
the fair fingers of Miss Jerusha Fax. However, most
people know their own at least; and as on the present oc-
casion nobody had any particular desire to meddle with
what was not her own, the difficulty was got through with.
The baskets and hampers, were packed again and stowed
in their respective wagons; and everybody was bidding
good bye to everybody. Noisy thanks and praises fell lib-
erally to the share of Miss; Cecilia and her brother, and the'
afternoon was declared to have been "splendid."

4

CHAPTER V.
}OR some weeks the little town of Pattaquasset held
on its peaceful way as usual. Early summer passed
into harvest, and harvest gave way to the first blush of
autumn, and still the Mong flowed quietly along, and the
kildeers sang fearlessly. For even tenor and happy spirits,
the new teacher and his scholars were not unlike the smooth
river and its feathered visiters. Whatever the boys were
taught, they certainly learned to be happy; and Mr. Lin-
den's popularity knew no bounds in his own domain.
Neither did it end there: those fair members of the Patta-
quasset society who thought early wdlks good for their
health, felt their sleepy eyes well paid, for keeping open
when they met Mr. Linden. Those who were fond of even-
ing expeditions, declared that his figure in the twilight was
'quite a picture,' and made them feel 'so safe,'-a great
slander, by the way, on Pattaquasset. Mr. Simlins was
his firm friend, and many another-known and unknown.
Squire Deacon, I regret to say, was an exception.
Squire Deacon declared (confidentially) that he never
had thought the newiteacher fit for his business, no how.
As far as he could hear, Mr. Linden had never taught
school before, and in that case what could you expect?
"Moreover," said the Squire, "I am creditably informed,
that the firstday he kep' school here, he begun by asking
the boys who made them !--as if that had anything to do
with geography. Of course it's nat'ral for a man to ask
what he knows he can answer if the boys don't," added
Squire Deacon in the way of kind explanation.
Whereupon, Jonathan Fax, the Squire's right hand man,
requested to be informed, "why ef a man was poor didn't he
dress as though he felt so,-and why ef he warn't rich did
he act as though he war ?" And thus, by degrees, there
was quite an opposition party in Pattaquasset-if that
could be opposition which the object of it never opposed.
By degrees too, the murmurs became more audible.
(47)

oA

f-

I1

('


48

SAY AND SEAL.

"Faith, child," said Mrs. Derrick in- a cautious whisper;
coming out where Faith sat on the porch, bathed in the
late September light: "Faith, child, where's our Linden
tree ?" (Mrs. Derrick thought she had concealed her mean-
ing now, if anybody did overhear.)
Faith started, more than so gentle a question seemed to
call for.
"He's gone down to the post-office, mother."
Her motherstood still and thought.
"Child," she said, ".I never thought we had any fools in
our town before."
"I didn't know there were so many," said Faith. "What
new, mother ?"
"Child," she said, "you know more than I about some
thingswhat do you s'pose fools can do? Isn't he a whole
tree of knowledge ?"
"There is no fear of him, mother !" Faith said with a
smile, which if the subject of it valued any faith in the
world but his own it would have gratified him to see.
" They can't touch him. They may vex him."
Mrs. Derrick shook her head, softly, behind Faith's
chair, then turned and went back into the house; not
caring,. as it seemed, to spread the vexation. Then after
a little interval of bird music, the gate opened to ad-
mit Reuben Taylor. He held a bunch of water lilies-
drooping -their fair heads from his"hand; his own head
drooped a little too. Then he raised it and came firmly
on.-
"Is Mr. Linden home, Miss Faith ?"
"No,, Reuben-He will be directly, I guess. Do you
want to see him ?"
" No"-said Reuben,-" I don' know as I do, more
than usual. I have seen him all day. He wanted some
pond lilies, Miss Faith-at leastNhe told me to bring 'em.
Maybe it was you wanted 'em."
"I'll give them to him, Reuben. What's the matter
with you ?"
But Reuben stood silent,--perhaps from the difficulty of
speaking,     .
" Miss Faith," he said at last, "is Squire Deacon all the
trustees of our school, besides Mr. Somers. "

SAY AND SEAL.

49

"No. Why?     What about it ?"
"He 's doin' all the mischief he can," said Reuben con-
WThat mi cjf has he done, Reuben ?" said Faith,
waiting upon the oy's answer with an anxious face.
"Well"-said Reuben, as if he could not put it in plain
words,-" he's tryin' to turn'folks' heads-and some heads
is easyturned."
" How did you know this ?-and whose head has he
turned, Reuben ? Not yours ?"
"They'd have to turn my heart, Miss Faith," was Reu-
ben's subdued answer. Then he looked up and listened-.
hearing a step he well knew. Nor that alone, for a few
pow notes of a sweet hymn tune, seemed to say there were
pleasant thoughts within reach of at least one person. Then
Reuben broke forth.
"They can't keep him out of heaven, anyway!-nor me,
neither," he added softly. But he ran down the:steps and
out of the gate, passing his teacher with only a bow;. and
once beyond the fence, Reuben's head dropped in his hands.
" Reuben! I want you.!"--said Mr. Linden.-. But Reu-
ben was out of sight. Faith stood between the house and
the gate.
"Where is he ? can't you make him hear ? I Want that
boy !" she said.
"I can run after him-with doubtful success."
"The foolish fellow brought these for you, Mr. Linden,"
said Faith, giving the lilies where they belonged.
"Complimentary, Miss Faith !" said "Mr. Linden, taking
the lilies and smelling them gravely.
"He is," said Faith, "and you speak as if I wasn't."
" Will it redeem my character-or Reuben's-if I bestow
the lilies upon you, Miss Faith? I think that was their
destination."
Faith .took the lilies back again, with a slight smile and
flush, and stood attentively turning them over for a while.
Then suddenly said "Thank you."
"What did you want of Reuben Taylor?" said Mr. Lin-
den. "Cannot I do as well ?"
"I should 'be sorry to think you wanted, Mr. Linden,
~what I wanted to give him."
vor. 1.                 5


SAY AND SEAL.             51

SAY AND SEAL.

"That sounds terrific!- But Reuben is under my juris..
dictin-I don't allow anybody to scold him but myself.
So deliver it to me, Miss Faith, and I will give it to him-..
duly pointed and sharpened up."
No," said Faith smiling, "you couldn't do it so well as
I. I wanted to say two words to him to put nonsense out
of his head."'
"Nonsense !" said Mr. Linden, looking grave,-" I am
as anxious on that point as you can be. What nonsense
has he got in his head?"
Faith hesitated, flushed and paled a little, and looked at
her lilies.
"I don't know whether I ought to speak of it," she be.
gan,' with much less than herusual composure of speech.
"Perhaps it is not my business. Please forgive me if I
speak wrong. But I half think you ought to know it. "-
"I'll try to bear the knowledge," he said smiling-" if
you will promise to speak' the cabalistic two words that were
to have such effect upon Reuben. So you want to put
nonsense into my head, Miss Faith?"
"Perhaps you know it. already?" said Faith. "At any
rateI think I should feel better satisfied if you did know
it. Mr. Linden," she said speaking low-" do you know
that Squire Deacon has been trying to do you mischief?"
"Just suppose for a moment that you are one of my
scholars, and give me a definition of mischief."
To judge by the unbent lines of Faith's brow, there was
nothing very disagreeable to her in the supposition. Yet
she had a look of care for the 'definition,' too.
'When a man is meaning toodo harm, isn't he doing
mischief?"
"Only to himself."
"But do you mean that one can't .do harm to others in
this world ?"
"You said 'when a man is meaning to do harm."'
"Ah," said Faith laughing, "I should want a great deal
of teaching before I could give a definition that would suit
you ! Well then, isn't harm mischief ?"
"I'm afraid I must yield that point."et
" Then,". said Faith simply, but very modesly,-" w
come back to where we started from.?.

"What shall we do there ?" said he smiling.
"Nothing, perhaps," said Faith with the same simplicity.
"I only thought it right to put you there, Mr. Linden."
"Thank you, Miss Faith. Now will you please pro-
nounce over me the two words intended for Reuben ?"
Faith laughed a little, but then said gravely, "Mr. Lin-
den, I should be very sorry to think you needed them."
"It's impossible always to avoid being very sorry: I
want them, at all events. Haven't you just been putting
nonsense into my head ?"
"1Have I ?"1 said Faith.
',"Do you suppose there was any there before ?"
"I-don't-:-think,"---said Faith, surveying his face,...-..
"there is much there now. I guess you don't need the
two words, Mr. Linden. I was going to tell Reuben he
was a goose for thinking that that man could hurt you."
His face changed a little.
"Poor Reuben !" he said-then with the former look-.--
"On the whole, perhaps it was well he did not come back.
If you put those in water they will open their eyes to-
morrow. Fresh water-not salt," he added as he followed
her into the house,-" they are not part of the marine
Flora."
Tea was ready, with its usual cheer of eatables and
pleasant faces; not quite with its usual flow of talk. Mrs.
Derrick certainly had something bewildering on her mind,
for she even looked at her guest two or three times when
he was looking at her. The pond lilies were alone in the
twilight parlour.
That was probably the reason why Lucinda introduced
Parson Somers into the tea-room, the parson happening to
call at this identical time.
Parson Somers was always in a genial state of mind ;--
always, at least, whenever he came into Mrs. Derrick's
parlour; by the testimony of numbers it was the same in
manyother parlours. He came in so now ; gave a smile
all round ; and took an empty chair and place at the table
like one who found it pleasant.
"Well, I declare, Mrs. Derrick," said Mr. Somers when
he was seated,.-" I don't think there's-a-a more cheer-
ful room in Pattaquasset than this one ; why, you always


52                SAY SAND SEAL.
have everything agreeable. here. A cup of tea, now-I
didn't expect it."
"Why we always do have tea, Mr. Somers," said Mrs.
Derrick, "but it don't seem strong to-night. Lucindy-.
take the teapot and make some fresh."
"These baked apples are strong-in numbers at least,"
said Mr. Linden, as he bestowed one upon Mr. Somers.
"Thank you !-it's all strong enough, Mrs. Derrick-
thank you !-very good. And Mr. Liiden-...how are you-
a--getting along with your juvenile charge? Confining
work, sir,-isn't it ?"
"Rather, sir-to the body."
"Not to the mind, eh ?  Well-I should have thought
ghat to a gentleman like you it would prove---a-rnore
deleterious to the mental faculties. But I suppose you
find yourself rewarded by your pupils' improvement and-
regard!~"
"Yes sir-their regard is very precious to me," was the
quiet reply.
"I should think so ! Why there's that boy Reuben Tay
lr-strange fatlPer that boy has-fisherman ;-.I met that
boy this evening, in the street, and he was crying,-down
a little below here-he was going home. I asked him-
ha-if Mr. Linden had bee dealing hardly with him ?-and
I declare !--I didn't know  ut Reuben would have attacked
me on the spot."
"Has Mr. Linden a character in the village for cruelty?"
said Faith.
"I-I declare -not t at I know of,, Miss Faith.  I
should think it could not lie deserved. That boy's attach-
ment is certainly-ha-ve y warm. My dear Mrs. Derrick,
how well Miss Faith is looking ! She always looks well;
but to-night--ha-the colpur of her cheeks is.-to be re-
marked.".
"You will get a charter for cruelty, Miss Faith,"
said Mr. Lindep, "if you ask about my character before
my face.n"                        ,.
Faith looked up as if she would willingly have asked a
question ;. but that being in present circumstances impos-
sible, she merely uttered a quiet little 'no,' and went on
with her tea and with a colour still fur-ther improved A

SAY AND SEAL.

quiet little 'yes,' of about equal prominence, did not divert
the attention of Mr. Somers from his own remarks.
"It's delightful to see-really," said that gentleman.
"But Mr. Linden-ha---.I am sorry to find that you haven't
the good will of our neighbour, Squire Deacon. The
Squire's a valuable min--very !-the Squire's a 4alable
man in the town. I am sorry. Do you know,    r. Lin-
den-ha-how it has happened ?"
"Have you asked the Squire himself, sir ?" said Mr.
Linden.
tWhy-no, sir, I haven't. I-ha-wanted to get at,
the truth of it, that I might, if possible, do something to
heal the breach. Now you are doing a valuable work
in Pattaquasset, sir.-I should be sorry to see it inter-
rupted--very-and I thought the best way would be to try
to find out what the matter was, in order if possible to
its being removed. And to get at the truth it is often best
to hear both sides."
"But I have no side to tell, sir," said Mr. Linden-..-
smiling in spite of himself. "I cannot deny that Squire
Deacon seems to withhold his good will-I think it is for
him to tell his reasons."
"Then you really have no idea what it can be about ?
and I may tell him so ? Because that would be a great
point."
"No sir, you may not tell him that."
"Then you have an idea what t  matter is ?" said Mr.
Somers eagerly. " Then, sir, if yo will b so good as to
let me know what it is-I have no d  bt I entertain no
doubt-we shall be able to smooth it a I away, and have
peace."
"You cannot prove one man's ideas by another man's,"
said Mr. Linden.
"Then you can give me no help ?" said Mr. Somers re-
gretfully. "But Mr. Linden-ha-it strikes me that it
would be useful for me to know your view of the cause of
offence--whatever it is-before I know his. One may cor-
rect the other."
" There has been no offence given sir," said Mr. Linden.
" That the Squire has taken offence we both know,-why
he has taken it-/ I know-I have no right to tell you.


SAY AND SEAL.

Squire Deacon might justly complain of me if I did. It
is from no disrespect to you, believe me."
"I say !" said Cindy coming into the room with a basket,--.
"here's Sam Stoutenburgh been and fetched some Stouten-.
burgh Sweetenings-for his teacher, he says. I'm free to
confess," added Cindy as she set down the basket by Mr.
Linden, "he said if he w uld like to do anythin' better
with 'em, it would just b to shy 'em at Squire Deacon's
head-so I guess they aint over and above ripe.  .,
"Ha !-Very pleasant, certainly !.-very  gratifying,"
said Mr. Somers rising. "' Mr. Linden-.I have no more
to say. You are a gent eman, sir, and understand these
matters. I will see what I can do.. Mrs.' Derrick-I
thank you for your tea, ma'am-I am sorry there should be
anything disagreeable,-but I have no doubt it will all be
set right--The Squire is a good-feeling man--I have no
doubt of it. Miss Faith--ha !-why Mrs. Derrick this
colour is too deep,-it is 't natural. It looks feverish 1"
"Do the Pattaquasse ladies use any rouge but their
own sea breezes ?" asked Mr. Linden.
"Ha ! we do get the sea breezes here-pleasantly,"
answered Mr. Somers. "Good evening 1"-     .
Mr. Linden accompanied thyvisiter to the little gate,
and returning paced up and dowi1 the- moonlit porch,
followed ohly by his shadow.

54

CHAPTER
W   HILE    Mr. Somers was enjoying his cup of unex-
pected tea at Mrs. Derrick's, Squire Deacon and
Miss Cilly had a sociable tete-a-tete over theirs; for Joe
Deacon, who was in the full enjoyment of some fourteen
years of boyhood, scarcely made a third in the conversation
itntiL his appetite was satisfied.
Conversation indeed hardly existed during the first por-
tion of the meal. Miss Cily poured out her tea and
broke her biscuit with a certain prim sort of elegance
which belonged to that young lady.-as at least she be-
lieved. But sipping tea and nibbling biscuit went on in
company with thoughts.
"Sam, what are you bothering yourself about Mr. Lin-
Sden for ?"
"How long since you was made a trustee ?" said the
Squire, beginning his sentence with an untranslatable sort
of grunt, and ending it in his teacup.
"Give us the sugar bowl down this way, Cilly," said
Joe,---" this apple sarce is as sour as sixty."
"I've been your trustee ever since you was up to any-
thing," said his sister. "Come Sam-don't you begin
now. What's made you so crusty ?"
"It aint the worst thing to be crusty,," said the Squire,
while Joe started up and seized the sugar bowl. "Shews
a man's more'n half baked, any how."
Miss Ciily vouchsafed a rather sour smile to these inani-
festations of disposition on the part of both her brothers.
"Well, what has he done ?"
"Sure enough," said the Squire, (he kept his small stock
of big words for company) " what has he done ? That's
just what I can't find out."
"What do you want to find out f'or ? What ails him ?'
."Suppose he hasn't done nothing"-.--.said the Squire,-.--
"is that the sort o' .man to teach litteratur in Patta-
quasset ?'
(65)

. I
t
f
i
f
f
E
r
i
r                   4
E
r
i
c
i
q
I
E
1
i
{i


SAY AND SEAL.

56              SAY AND SEAL.

"Lit-what ?" said his sister with an arch of her head,.
"Anything you've a mind to," said the Squire sulkily.
"I wouldn't say anything against Mr. Linden's litera-
ture, if I was you; because it's my belief, Sam, it'll stand
any pecking 'you make at 'it. What's given you such a
spite at him? You're a goodnatured fellow enough in
general."
"The whole temperature of Pattaquasset's come about
since he come," replied the Squire comprehensively.
" He's a gentleman !" said Miss Cilly brilling again.
"He won't hurt anybody's manners-not the best-if they
was to copy him."
" He didn't hurt mine," said Joe patronizingly. " To be
sure I didn't go to him long."
" Do the boys like him, Joe ?"
" Well I daresay they wouldn't if they could help it,"
said Joe, "if that's any comfort. Some other folks likes
him too,-besides Sam."
"Aint he a good teacher ?"
" Firstrate--" said Joe,-" taught me all I ever learned.
I didn't go but four weeks, and Sam thought 'twarn't no use
for me to hold on any longer. My! Cilly-he'd make you
roll up your eyes in arithmetic 1"
"Now Sam Deacon, whpt do you expect to do by all
this fuss you're making ?" said his sister judicially.
"What's the use of'cross-examining a man at that rate ?".
said the Squire restlessly. " When I do anything, you'll
know it."
"You'll make yourself a fool, one of these fine morn-
ings ; that's what I count upon," said Miss Cecilia. "He's
a match for you, I have a presentiment, Sam."
"He won't be for you," said the Squire with some heat.
"There's Mr. Simlins goin' along," said Joe, who having
finished his supper was gazing out of the window. " 0 my !
if he was cut up into real -simlinses, what a many there'd
be!"
"You hush, Joe !" said his sister wrathfully. "He's
coming' in."
And Mr. Simlins' tall figui-e did indeed come through th
gate and up the walk, from which a very few more steps
and minutes brought him to the tea table.

"Well, Mr. Simlins !" said Miss Cecilia as she gave him
his cup,-you've got back.. I heard you were returned."
"Yes !" said the farmer deliberately stirring his tea,-.
"I've got back! And I'm glad; for one. I've been visit-
ing my relations in New Jersey; and I've made up my
mind that the Simlinses made a good, move when they
come to Connecticut."
"You found then all well ?" said Miss Cecilia po-
litely.
"Well, no, I didn't," said Mr. Simlins. ,"How's a man
to find five hundred and fifty people all well? 'Taint
nature. How's things with you, Squire ?"
"Wheat's done well-corn middlin'," replied the Squire,
while Joe got behind his sister's chair and whispered,
"There's another name in the diction'ry sounds like
your'n, though they aint spelled just alike."
"Goin' to school, Joe?" growled Mr. Simlins.
"No sir," said Joe. "'Mr. ILinden teached me all he
knowed in a jiffy,-and all I know, too."
" Well-are the other boys learnin' yet ?" said Mr. Sim-
lins, as he spread a slice of bread pretty thick with butter.
" S'pose so "-said Joe,-" all they kin."
"It's hard work !" said Mr. Simlins.  "i feel it now!
Never ploughin' made my back ache like learnin'. I wonder
whatever they made me school trustee for, seeing' I hate it
like pison. But I s'pose we mustn't quarrel with onerous
duties," said the farmer, carrying on sighing and bread
and butter and tea very harmoniously together.    "I
shouldn't mind takin' a look at your last copy-book, Joe,
if it would be agreeable."
"0 Mr. Linden kep' that," said Joe unblushingly,
"'cause it was so good lookin'."
"He way so fond of you ?" said. Mr. Simlins. "How
come he to let you go ?"
"I staid away;" said Joe, drumming on the back of Miss
Cecilia's chair. "Cilly's got the rest of the copy-books--
she' likes the writin' too."
"Joe, behave yourself!" said his sister.., "Mr. Simlins
knows better than to believe you."
"Did you ever get flogged, Joe, for bad writin'?" said
the farmer.


58                 SAY AND SEAL.
"Worse'n that !" said Joe, shaking his head,-" I've had
to do it over !
"Now you've got to do it over for me," said Mr. Simlins.
"You write your name for me there-the best you kin-..
and 'Pattaquasset, Connecticut'-I want to see what the
new school's uip to."
"No "-said Joe-" I aint agoin' to do it. You ask one
of the other boys. It wouldn't tell you nothin' if I did,
'cause I learned writin' afore,-and I didn't go to him but
four weeks, besides." And Joe at once absented himself.
"Is it workin' as straight with all the rest of 'em as it is
with him ?" said Mr. Simlins. "You and me's got to see to
it, you know, Squire-seem' we're honorary individuals."
"Yes," said Squire Deacon,. rousing up now, Joe was
gone-he had a wholesome fear of Joe's tongue-"Yes,.,
Mr. Simlins,-and it's my belief it wants seem' to-and
he too."
"Joe,"-said Mr. Sinlins.  "Ne-ver fear--he'll see to
himself."
"Here's some of his' ritin'," said Joe, returning with a
spelling book. "All the boys gets him to write in their
books."  And laying it down by Mr. Simlins, Joe took his
final departure.
"What do the boys want him to write in their books for ?"
growled Mr. Simlins, surveying the signature.
"I believe," said Miss Cecilia, "he is very popular in the
school."
"Well, Squire," pursued .Mr. Simlins, "can Joe clinch
this ?"
"He aint with me-if that's what you mean," said Squire
Peacon. "A man's writing don't prove much."
"Don't go no furder," said Mr. Simlins assentingly.
"Well Squire-if you'll go furder I shall be wiser."
And freed from the fear of contradiction, the Squire
had not the least objection to going further.
"He's not the man to have here," said Squire Deacon,--
"I saw that the first, day I saw him. I tried him,-and he
didn't toe the mark."
" How did you try him?" growled Mr. Simlins. " I'd
like to know how much he's up to. I haint found it out
yet."

SAY AND SEAL-

59

"I tried him, sir," said the Squire, "I tried him with a
classical story. Now Miss- Faith gave in at once, and
said she didn't know what it was ; but 'tother one made
believe as though he knew all about it. And if a man
aint classical, Mr. Simlins, what is he?"
"I aint classical," growled Mr. Simlins again, "but then
I don't set up for to be. I s'pose that makes difference,
Squire; don't it?"
Some people 's more than they set out to be, and some
people 's less," replied the Squire.
Well,-does he set up for to be classical in school?
What does he teach 'em?"
.I reckon he sets up for 'most everything he ever heard
spoke of, Mr. Simlins. Teach 'em ? why he .teaches 'em
out of all sorts o' superflus books !"
"Does !"-said Mr. Simlins with a surprised look. "Our
boys don't want none o' your superficies. Th y've got
their bread to make. Give us an invoice o' them books,
Squire."
"Just you look at 'em for yourself, Mr. Simlins-then
you'll know. Step down there some day in school time
and look over the boys. Now I can understand figures
with any man, but what 's the use o' crosses and straight
lines and Vs turned wrong side up ?"
Mr. Simlins pushed back his chair and rubbed his chin.
" Well Squire-you and me are trustees-what in your
judgment and opinion had we ought to do, in these pre-
cedents ?"
" Get rid on him-I say," replied the Squire promptly.
Then here he is, leadin' all the girls round town, and for
all any one of 'em knows he's a. married man."
" Humph ! think so ?--What do the folks say of him?"
said Mr. Simlins. "There's Mrs. Derrick - what does
she say of him--he's in her house, she ought to have an
idee. And Faith=-now I'd take that gal's judgment on
almost anything-What do they think about him, Squire ?"
"Never asked 'em a word," said the Squire stoutly.-
nor heard 'em say one, neither. But he gets fur'n letters
al the time, Widow Stamp says-and female writiri' too.
Wh nows but he's got a wife in some fur'n country ?--or.
two"--added the Squire, without specifying where the


SAY AND SEAL.            6I

60    (          SAY AND SEAL.

plural belonged. "I'm a justice of peace, Mr. Simlins,
and this shouldn't be let-go on."
Mr. Simlins looked.   from  under his brows with a
queer look at his hos
"If he has two, he must want the school-bad !"-said
he. "Well Squire, I'll go along and see what can be
done. If I was you, mean time, I'd not say much to no
one. There's Judge Harrison, you know ;-we can't act
without him. Good night t'ye ! Squire, I guess he haint
two?-Anyhow, I wouldn't let fly no warrants till I saw
my bird sitting somewhere. It's bad to have 'em hit in a
wrong place."
And it was well it was darkish and nobody to look at
him; for Mr. Simlins went grinning pretty much all the
way between Squire Deacon's house and the house of Mrs.
Derrick, where Mr. Linden was entertaining his shadow in
the moonlit porch.
"Good even to you !" growled Mr. Simlins as he came
up. The grin was gone, and the farm r stood with his
wonted solemnity of face and manner. ' Where's the rest
o' your folks ?"
"The rest of my folks are a good way off, Mr. Simlins,"
said the person addressed, giving the questioner his hand;
while his shadow exchanged civilities with the shadow of
Mr. Simlins. "When did you come back? I am glad to
see you?"
"I'm glad to see myself," said Mr. Simlins. " There's
no State like Connecticut, sir. Where's your bringin' up
place ?"
"No one place has had that honour, Mr. Simlins,-I have
been brought up from one to an her."
"Not Connecticut, eh ?"
"Not altogether .-I am here just now, as you see,-
getting a part of my education. I am  one of the Say
and Seal people in a way. Won't you come in, Mr. Sin-
lins ?"
Well-I'd as lief see Faith and Mrs. Derrick as a'most
any other two folks in Pattaquasset,-but they're a long
ways off, you say ?"                            .a
"No further than the parlour, I believe."
Mr. Simlins was willing to go as far as the parlour, and

so the party on the porch adjourned thither. A bright
lamp lit the room, by which -Faith was mending stockings ;
while Mrs. Derrick sat in an easy chair a little further off,
rocking and knitting.
"Well," said Mr. Simlins, "when the sun goes down I
think it is time to' knock off work; but womenkind don't
seem to think so."
"I guess when the sun goes down your work's knocked
off, Mr. Simlins," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Fact, Mrs. Derrick, when I'm to home; but when a
man's visiting he has to work night and day. Moonlight's
moonlight now. I declare, in Jersey I thought it was
broad sunshine.-You haven't been down to my place yet,
Mr. Linden ?"
"No sir, not within the gate."
"The Simlins' have held that place, sir, off and onffor
nigh three hundred years. We're a good many Simlins'--.
and we're a good set, I'll say it ! a pretty good set. Not
thin-skinned, you know,-we can take a scratch without
being' killed-.---but we never would stand being' trampled on.
We're soft-hearted too ; plenty o' what I may call tendrils,
ready to take hold of anything; and when we take hold we
do take hold. ie cover a good deal of ground in the
country, here and elsewhere--in the various branches. My
mother was a Mush; and my' grandmother was a Citron ;
good families those, sir; can't do better than take a wife
from one. of them, Mr. Linden, if you are so disposed ;--.
you haven't got one already, have you ?"
"What, sir ?" said Mr. Linden, with more sharpness
than he often showed, and which made Mrs. Derrick drop
her knitting and look up.
" I, thought you wasn't a married man--are you ?" ,said
Mr. Simlins, the grin just showing itself again on his face.
"Is that one of the charges brought against me ?" said
Mr. Linden, a little too roused himself to pay much heed
to Mr. Simlins' questions.
"Well I didn't know as you'd think it a 'charge,'" said
Mr. Simlins with an unchanged tone. "I guess you mean
to make it true sorg day, don't you ?"
The question fell unheeded-.the charge did not; it
voL. 1.                6


SAY AND SEAL.

62              SAY AND SEAL.

'' i,4,
;i

touched him deeply; touched the proud sense of character;
though no words gave evidence of the fact.
"Faith, child," sdid Mrs. Derrick in that moment of
silence, her whisper as low- as she thought would reach
across the table, "ought we to be here ?"
But a very emphatic "Yes !" from the window, prevented
the need of Faith's answer.
"I was only recommnding," said Mr. Simlins, "in case
you wanted help to make up your mind. The Citrons are
all gone to New Jersey-there's a few of the Mushes
ramblin' round Connecticut yet. Well Mr. Linden-.I
hope you and your boys get on commodiously together ?"
"Just look into that basket on the table, and see what
one of 'em brought him to-night," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Those are Stoutenburgh Sweetings, Mr. Simlins."
Mr. Simlins looked at the Sweetings and then looked
towards the window.
" I'd like to hear you speak a little on that point," he said.
"Fact is, there's been some winds blowin' about Pattaquas-
set that aint come off beds o' roses ; and I'd like to find-
where the pison is and clap a stopper on it for the future.
It's easy done.".
Mr. Linden looked up with his usual expression, only
the smile was grave and a little moved, and answered,
"I could say a good deal on that point, Mr. Simlins.
Yet I had rather you should ask the boys than me."
"Don't want to ask the boys nothin, bless you I'" said
Mr. Simlins. "What I want to say is this ;-what's the
matter between you and the Squire ? I've been askin' him,
and he says you learn the boys to make a V wrong fide up.
ward-I can't make nothin' of that," said Mr. Simling, with
again the'approach to a grin ;-" 'taint over easy to tell
whether his V's are one side up or 'tother. Now I'd like
to know from you where the hitch is. The Squire aint
likely to set the Mong in a configuration just yet-but if
he's swingin' a torch round, I'd jest as lief put it out afore
the sparks fly."
But Mr. Simlins, don't you think it is rather hard
measure to ask me why people dislike me 7"?
" Well--I don't see) as I do," said Mr. Simlfrhs placidly;
.--" 'cause I know pretty well it's some chymistry idee of

his own; and if I could get hold of it, you see, I should
have a better handle. I guess the school never went on
better than it's going ; he don't know beans."
" How do you know that I do ?" said Mr. Linden smil-
ing. " Why dou't you ask him? I think at least half his
ill will arises from a mistake."
"Have asked hin," said Mr. Simlins-"just come from
there;-but he's pretty much like them V's we were speak-
in' about; don't spell nothin'. What's his mistake about
then? if I knowed that, I could bring things to a con-
cert."
"Why," said Mr. Linden with grave deliberation, "sup-
pose he wants to buy your house? and takes a walk up
that way to set forth his terms."
"Well-- suppose he does"-said Mr. Simlins atten-
tively.
"He finds you and Judge Harrison in the porch, you
talk about the crops and the weather, and he tells you he
wants your house. What do you say to him ?"
"I tell him I don't sell it to no one but a Simlins-nor
that neither till I can't live in it no longer myself."
" Is that your fault-or Judge Harrison's ?" said Mr.
Linden, setting the basket of Stoutenburgh' Sweetings on
'the little table in the full light of the lamp. "Miss Faith,
if thole are 'sweetenings,' they may as well do their
office."
The farmer sat with his elbows oh his knees, touching
the tips'of his fingers together in thoughtful fashion, and
softly blowing the breath through his lips in a way that
might have reached the dignity of a whistle if it had had
a trifle more of musicalness.
"Is them the sort of lessons you give in school ?" he
said at length without stirring.
"Why ?" said Mf. Linden with a little bit of a smile.
"Ingen-uousgs s4id Mr. Simlins. "It's as good as a
book. Mrs. Derricl ," added he glancing up at the rocking
chair, "is Squire D acon wantin' to buy your house ?"
"My I" said Mrs. Derrick, again laying downher kn't-
ting, "can't he be content with his own ?  [T hope he don't
-want ours," she added, some fear mingling with her sur-
prise.


SAY AND SEAL.               ,65

"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "do you think if I gave
you an apple you would give me a knife ?"
"I hope he don't," growled Mr. Simlins as he rose up.
I never heerd that he did. Miss Faith-them Stouten-
burgh Sweetings is good eatin'. " Faith after setting a
pile of plates and knives on the table, had taken up her
stocking again.
"Yes Mr. Simlins-I know they are."
"Then why don't you eat one ?"
"I don't want it just now, Mr. Siiilins-I'd rather finish
my work."
"Work !" said the farmer taking an apple. "Well-
good evening! I'll go and look after my work. I guess
we'll fix it. There's a sight o' workin the world I"
With which moral reflection Mr. Simlins departed.
"There'll be more work than sight, at this rate," said
Mr. Linden when he came back from the front door.
"Mrs. Derrick, how many stockings does Miss Faith abso-
lutely require for one day ?"
"Why I don't know sir-and I don't believe I ever did
know since she was big, enough to run about," said Mrs.
Derrick, her mind still dwelling upon the house. d
"Miss Faith, my question stands transferred to you."
"Why you know," said Faith, intent upon the motions
of her needle,--"I might require to mend in one day
what would last me to wear a good many-and I do."
"But,
'The day is done-and the darkness
'Falls from the wing of night.'"
"I never mend stockings till then," said Faith smiling
over her work. "Are Sam's apples good ?"
"By reputation."
"I thought you were trying them! Why you asked me
for a knife, Mr. Linden-and I brought it."
"I'm sure I gave you an apple. Perhaps you thought
it was a ball of darning cotton."
"No, I didn't," said Faith laughing. "But what use is
my apple to your knife, Mr. Linden ?"
"Not much-it has served the purposes of trade."
"But what is the purpose of trade, Mr. Linden, if the
articles aren't wanted ?"

"I see you are dissatisfied with your bargain," he said.
"Well, I will be generous-you shall have the, knife too;"
and Mr. Linden walked away from the table and went up-
stairs.
The parlour was very still after that. Faith's needle,
indeed,:worked with more zeal than ever, but Mrs. Derrick
rolled up her knitting and put it in her basket, sighing
a little as she did so : then sat and thought.
"Faith, child," she said after a long pause, "do you
think the Squire would ever take our house ?"
Faith hesitated, and the answer when it came was not
satisfactory.
"I don't know, mother."
Mrs. Derrick sighed'again, and leaned back in her chair,
and rocked ; the rockers creaking in rather doleful sympa-
thy with her thoughts. Then an owl on a tree before the
door hooted at the world generally, though Mrs. Derrick
evidently thought his remarks personal.
"I can't think why he should do that to-night, of all
nights in the year !" she said, sitting straight up in her
chair. "It never did mean good. Faith-what should
we do if he did ?"-this time she meant the Squire, not the
owl. p
"Mother !"-said Faith, and then she spoke in her usual
tone.--" We'd find a way."
"Well !-2-" said Mrs. Derrick, rocking back and forth.
Then she started up. "We've got to have biscuits for
breakfast, whether or no ! It's good I remembered 'em !"
And she hurried out of the room, coming back to kiss
Faith and say,
"Don't fret, pretty child, whatever happens. Go to bed
and to sleep,-I'll make the bli"y' And alert and busy
she left the parlour.
Faith's sleep was quiet, but not unbroken. For at that
time when all well-disposed people, young or old, are gene-
rally asleep (in such a well-ordered community as Patta-
quasset) it pleased the younger portion of said community
to be awake. Yet they were well-disposed-and also ill !
For repairing in a body to Mrs. Derrick's house they gave
her nine cheers for her Iodger,-thence departing to Squire
Deacon's, they gave him as many groans as he could rea-

64              SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

sonably want for himself. After which the younger part
of the community retired in triumph.
It was said, by one adventurous boy, that falling in with
Mr. Simlins they impressed him-that his voice helped on
the cheers, but not the groans: and indeed-the whole story
needs confirmation.
Faith heard the groans but faintly, owing to the dis.
tance, but the cheers were tremendous.
It is painful to add that Joe Deacon was vociferous in
both parties.

CHAPTER VII.
T   HOPE your rest was disturbed last night," said
T Faith rather gaily, as she came in to the breakfast-
table with a plate of biscuits and set them down' before
Mr. Linden.
" Thank you ! you have reason to be quite satisfied in
that respect."
"But did you hear them after theft left our house ."
"I heard them-really or in imagination-all night, thank
you again, Miss Faith-and am 'as sleepy this morning as
you can desire."
"It wasn't I," said Faith. "Now what notice, Mr.
Linden, will you think it proper to take of such a proceeding?"
"That was one thing which kept me awake."
"But as you are sleepy now, I suppose the point is de-
cided ?"
"You are as quick at conclusions 'as Johnny Fax," said
Mr. Linden smiling, "who always supposes that when I am
not using my pen myself I am quite ready to let him have it."
"Does he get it ?"
"What should you advise ?"
"0 Mr. Linden!1" said Faith,-" I should advise you to
do-just what you do,!"
"Unsound !" he said,-"I thought you were a better
adviser. But about this matter of the boys-I shall pro-
bably read them a lecture, wherein I shall set forth the risk
they run of- getting sick by such exposure to the night air;
also the danger I am in of being sent away from my pre-
sent quarters, because ladies prefer sleep to disturbance.
Having thus wrought up their feelings to the highest pitch,
I shall give them a holiday and come home to dinner."
Faith laughed her little low laugh of pleasure; at least
it always sounded so. It might be pleasure at one thing
or at another; but it was as round and sweet a tone of
merry or happy acknowledgment, as is ever heard in this
world of discordances.
(67)

66


SAY AND SEAL.'69

' in

"But are you really sleepy, sir.?" said Mrs. Derrick.
"I'm so sorry ! I thought they were doing nothing but
good. I never once thought of their waking you up."
Mr. Linden laughed too,,a little.
"I shall get waked up"- he said,-" in the course of the
day. Unless somebody has drugged my coffee."
" fudge Harrison was here this morning, Mr. Linden,
.with a message for you," said Faith} "Mother, will you
tell Mr. Linden what Judge Harrison said ?"
" I'd rather hear you, child, by half," said her mother,
with a smile whereon the house cast a little shadow. "Tell
him yourself, Faith."  And Mrs. Derrick sighed, and took
her napkin and rubbed off a spot on the coffeepot.
"Judge Harrison came--" said Faith, and paused.
"And went away"-said Mr. Linden.
"Yes," said Faith. " He stopped on his way some-
where, and came into the kitchen to talk to us.  He said
he would like, if' you would like it, he would like to have a,
great exhibition of the boys-he knows about the school,
he says, and there hasn't been such a school in Pattaquas-
set since he has been here himself; and he would like to
shew it up to the whole town.' So if Mr. Linden approved
of it, Judge Harrison said, he would have a gathering of
all the countryside in some nice place-the Judge has
plenty of ground and can get anybody else's besides; and
the boys should have a great examination, and after that
there should be an entertainment .under the trees, for boys
and all. And he wanted mother to speak to Mr. Linden,
and see whether he would like it. And mother wouldn't,"
said Faith as she finished.
Mr. Linden raised his eyebrows slightly-then let them
fall and likewise his eyes. Then sent his cup to be re- 2
plenished, gravely remarking to Faith that if she had any
drugs, she might -put them in now!-
"What kind of drugs would you like, Mr. Linden ?"
said Faith.
"Any that are deeply sedative."
"Sedative ?" said Faith, with that look which he often
drew from her, .-. very earnest, half wistful, half sorrow-
ful,-" I don't know what it means, Mr. Linden." -
"It means," said he, his face relaxing a little, "'such as

diminish the physical energy, without destroying life,'--such
in short, as might qualify a man for the situation of a tame
monkey on a pole."
Faith's look changed to a sort of indignant little glance,
and her lips parted ; but they closed again and her eyes
went down to her plate.
"What were you going to remark, Miss Faith?"
Faith blushed a good deal, however the answer came stea-
dily. "I don't think any drugs would do that for you."
"I am in a bad way, then," said Mr. Linden with un-
moved gravity.  "Because if I survive this trial of what I
can bear, I intend to advertise for the afore-named situa-
tion.. Have you heard of any vacant pole, Miss Faith?"
Faith looked at him with a grave, considering wonder,
j which gradually broke into a sense of 'fun; and then she
laughed, as she did not often laugh.
Apparently Mr. Linden was well enough pleased with
such answer to his words, for he not only made no attempt
to stop her, but even remarked that it was good to be of a
sympathizing disposition.
The day passed as usual; only of lite it had got to be.
Faith's habit to spend a good deal of time shut up in her
room. It had never been her habit before. But now
after going through her early household duties, of whie
Faith had plenty, she used to be out of sight often for an
hour before dinner; unless when the dinner required just
that hour of her attention. Nothing was left behind her
to call her down. Her dairy, her bread and cake, her pies
and cream-cheeses, her dinner preparations-.-whatever the
things might be-.-.were all ready for the day's wants; and
then Faith was gone. After dinner it was sti] more surely
the same. Yet though all this was true, it wa so quietly
and unobtrusively true that Mrs. Derrick had h rdly ob-
served it.
It happened this afternoon that Faith lingered upstairs,
-not until teatime, but until she heard her mother 'call.
Reuben Taylor wanted to see her. He was at the gate.
" I didn't want to disturb you, Miss Faith. I told Mrs.
Derrick so. It's only some clams,-which I thought maybe\
you'd like," said Reuben modestly.- "I left 'em in the

SAS' AND SEAL.

68

~,
i  tai~ .


70                SAY AND SEAL.
"Thank you, Reuben-I like them very much. Do you
feel better than you did yesterday ?"
"Yes, ma'am-" said Reuben rather slowly,-" I felt a
great deal better last night."
"And to-day-don't you ?"
"Yes, ma'am," Reuben answered as before.
"But not so well as last night?  What's the matter,
Reuben ?"
"Didn't you hear what they did last night, ma'am ?"
"To be sure I did, but what has made you feel worse to.
day ?"
"Why you know, ma'am," said Reuben, "last night I
forgot all about everybody but Mr. Linden. But oh Miss
Faith! I just wish you could have been in school to-day
for one rainute !-when Mr. Linden came in! You see,"
said Reuben, excitement conquering reserve, "the boys
were all there-there wasn't one of 'em late, and every one
had a sprig of basswood in his hat and in his buttonhole.
And we all kept our hats on till he got in, and stood up to
meet him (though that we do always) and then we took off
our hats together and gave him such a shout !--You know,
Miss Faith," added Reuben with a smile both expressive
and sweet, "basswood's a kind of linden."
" And what did Mr. Linden do ?" said Faith with a
smile of her own that very well reflected Reuben's.
"He didn't say much," said Reuben,--" he looked a good
deal."
"Well, you foolish boy," said Faith gently, "don't you
feel well now, after all that ? What's the matter ?"
A heavy, shoe-leathery step came down the street--it
was Squire Deacon. Reuben knew who it was before the
Squire came near, for he flushed up, and for a moment
stood with his back resolutely turned towards the gate;
then with an air as resolute, but different, he turned round
and bowed as courteously as he knew how-far more so
than the Squire did to him; for the combination of Faith
and Reuben did not seen to fall pleasantly upon Squire
Deacon's organs. of vision; nor indeed could he have quite
forgotten last night.
" Reuben, come ini," said Faith -touching his shoulder
and smiling,-." I want to speak' to you. But* first answer

SAY AND SEAL.                   'I
h my question-why don't you feel quite well now?  You
i ought, Reuben."
"Yes, Miss Faith---I know I ought,-at least I oughtn't
to feel just as I do," Reuben answered.  " Mr. Linden
told me so to-day."
"Then why do you feel so ?" Faith asked with increased
earn stress.
X4uben coloured and hesitated.
"Folks vex me--" he said in a low voice. "And.-and
Mr. Linden ays I love him too well if I'm not willing to
let him g    n God pleases. And I know it's true.-.
but-." an Reuben followed Faith into the house without
another word.
"What do you mean about Mr. Linden's going ?"
"Just that, ma'am," said Reuben simply. "Because we
can't make ourselves feel well by thinking things are going
just as we want 'em to.-he says that's not strong enough
ground to rest on."
j ."But does he talk of going away, Reuben ?"
"0 no ! Miss Faith I never heard him,--he only talked
so to me because of what other folks said."
"Well," said Faith with a change of tone, "you're a
foolish boy. You come and see me whenever you-get feel-
ing bad again. Folks can't hurt Mr. Linden. Now look
here---Wait a niinute, will you !".
Faith ran upstairs ; speedily came down again with a
little bluecovered book in her hand.
"Is this the arithmetic you study ?" she said softly,
coming close to him.
Reuben took the book with some  . rise in his face.
"Yes, m&amp;'am, this is the one." An he looked up at
her as if to ask, what next.
"How far have you gone ?"
"I am through thi now," said Reuben, "but some of
the others are here-nd here."
"Then you can tell me," said Faith. She turned over to
a certain page, far on in the book too, and putting it into
Reuben's hands, said quietly,
"I am studying it, and I cannot make anything of this.
Do you remember how it was explained ?"
"The book's wrong," said Reuben, after a glance at it,--


SAY AND SEAL.

'I remember, Miss Faith.  See-it ought to be so-and
so-" Reuben went on explaining. "All the books we
could get here were just like it, and Mr. Linden said if
tie found any more mistakes he would send to Quilipeak
nd get good ones. He chewed us how this ought to
"That's it !" said Faith. "Thank you, Reuben. And
you needn't tell anybodyI asked you about it."
Reuben looked a little surprised again, but he said "No,
ma'am," and made his bow.
It was Faith's turn, to be surprised then, for stepping
into the tea-room to look at the clek, she found not only'
the clock but Mr. Linden,-the former ticking sundry
minutes past teatime, the latter enjoying the sunset clouds
and his own reflections, and (possibly) his book. Mrs.
Derrick, favouring the atmosphere of the little wood fire,
which had burnt itself out to coals and ashes, sat at one
coiner of the hearth; taking up the stiches round the heel
of her stocking ; which precarious operation engrossed her
completely. Mr. Linden however looked up, and took in
the whole of the little picture before him. Apparently the
picture was pleasant, for he smiled.
Faith's look was startled.
"I am late !" she said with a compunctious glance at the
clock. And as soon as it could be made the tea came in
smoking. As Faith took her seat at the table she put
her question.
"When did you come in, Mr. Linden ?"
"About a quarter of an hour before you did."
"By which way?"
"Why !-by the door. It is simpler than the window."
The next few seconds seemed to be employed by Faith
in buttering -bread and eating it, but in reality they were
used for carrying on a somewhat hurried calculation of
minutes and distances which brought the colour in her
cheeks to a hue of pretty richness.
" Did I run over anybody in my way ?" asked Mr. Linden.
"What gives the question its interest ?"
"I had thought7 you were out," said Faith quietly.
"I know a shorter way to the store than you do," said
Mr. Linden with equal quietness.

SAY AND SEAL.                    73
"To the store !" Isaid Faith, eye and lip quite putting
quietness out of the question.
"Yes, I found your footprints there the other day, and
I have been wanting to tell you ever since that it is not
anything like so far up to my room. Let me recommend
that way to you for the future."
Faith's colour was no matter of degrees now, for it
rushed over temples and cheek in a flood. And seemed
inclined to be a permanency.
" There you may take what you like," he went on, with
a smile that was both amused and° encouraging, "and I
shall be none the wiser-unless you tell me yourself. If
you do tell me, I shall be very glad. lIow Miss Faith.-.
what shall we do about Judge Harrison ?"
Faith hesitated, and struggled perhaps, for it did not
seem very easy to speak with that deep flush on her brow;
and then she said rather low,
"I am not ungrateful, Mr. Linden."
"Neither am I-but this proposal of his gives me some
trouble. I think if he would have all the fun, without any
of the shewing off, it would answer every good purpose
and avoid all the bad ones. And if you will intimate as
much to your mother, Miss Faith, and persuade her to
convey the information to Judge Harrison, it will perhaps
be the best way of reply. Of course as trustee he has
still the right of doing as he likes.",
"Mother, do you hear ?" said Faith, "or do you want
me to repeat it ?"
"No, child,"-sail her mother abstractedly; "I didn't
hear, to be sure,  ow should I?   Faith-what do you
suppose makes Cindy break the noses 'off all our milk
pitchers ?"
This was an irresistible question. Faith's own face came
back, and during the rest of supper-time she was like her-
self, only with a shade more than was usual upon her brow
and manner.
The short September -day had little twilight to lengthen
it out. .The cool westrn horizon still outshone the setting
stars with its clear light, but in the east and overhead
others came out, 'silently, one by one.' Mr. Linden went
voL. 1-                 7

r
':"
(r
G
s''
1'


74                SAY AND SEAL.
to take his evening walk, Faith to light the lamp in
the parlour, watched and gazed at by her mother the
while.
"Child," said Mrs. Derrick, "what makes you stay up.
stairs so ? I never thought of it till I went to call you to
see Reuben-but seems to me you are up there a great,
deal."
Faith smiled a little and also looked grave, as she was
putting on the shade of the lamp.
"Yes, mother "-she said,-" I am."
"What for, pretty child ?" said her mother fondly.
Faith was pretty, in the look with which she answered
this appeal. Her smile dropped its gravity, and only love
came in to make the confession.
"Mother, I am trying to learn. I want to be wiser."
"Learn 1" said Mrs. Derrick in utter astonishment, and
rousing out of her resting position. "Trying to learn,
child ?"
" Yes, mother-what about it ? I don't know anything;
and I want to know-a great deal1-
"Why you know everything now !" said Mrs. Derrick.
"What don't you know, Faith1?-1 should like to 1"
Faith smiled.
"Mother, I don't know anything !"-and then she added
more brightly, "I've begun with arithmetic, for one thing."
" Arithmetic I" said Mrs. Derrick; and she paused, and
leaned back in 'her chair, rocking gently to and fro, with a
shade of soberness stealing over her face.
"You never did have .much chance,"-she said at length,
"because I couldn't give it to you then. My heart was
broke, Faith, and I couldn't bear to have you out of my
sight for a minute. But somehow I thought you knew
everything." And she sat still once more, looking at Faith
as if trying to reinstate herself in her old opinion. Nor
altogether without success ; for with a little smile coming
over her face, Mrs. Derrick added,
"You won't be any sweeter-learn as much as you will,
child,-you needn't think, it ;" and the rockers would have
certainly come into play again if Cindy had not opened
the door and claimed attention. -
"I s'pose likely you don't want to go down to Widder

SAY AND SEAL.                , 75
Stamp's ? she said.  Cause she wants you to come. I'm
free to confess she's got the high-strikes wonderful."
"Mother," said Faith, giving her one or two kisses as
Mrs. Derrick rQse to prove the contrary of Cindy's supposi-
tion, "I shall be a great deal happier;-and I am getting
along nicely.
Which sent Mrs. Derrick off in triumph. But when she
was gone, Faith did not take her basket of stockings nor
yet her arithmetic; but sat down by the 'table with her
head in her hands and sat very still. Still, until Mi. Lin-
den came in, laid one paper on the table at her side, and
sat down to read another. -Faith's darning-needle came
.:into play'then, and worked quick and silently  Mr. Lin-
den glanced towards it as he laid down his paper.
L "I see you evaded my question last night," he said,.--
"there could not be such a constant supply, if there were
not also a constant demand."
"Mr. Linden," said Faith, her colour a little raised and
her voice changing somewhat,-."I want to ask you some-
s  thing--if you are not busy about anything."
"I am not-but you might ask just as freely if I were."
F {  "I couldn't," said Faith. She drew' her hand out of
her stocking and put her thimble on the table.
Mr. Linden," she said without looking at him,-." a
while ago, when you were speaking of faith and a cloudy
day, and I told you I wasn't like that,-you said I must
read the Bible their, and do what that said. I have been
tyng to do it."--.Z
Shading his eyes with his hand, he looked at her-as if
waiting to hear more.
"And I don't understand it," she said.-" I don't know
how to get on."
"Do you mean, with the Bible ? Is it that you do not
understand ?"
"I don't understand some things-I don't know exactly
what I ought to do."
"In what respect ?--where is the difficulty ?' Some
things in the Bible you never will understand, perhaps, in
this world, and others you must learn by degrees."
"I don't understand exactly what makes a Christian---.
and I want to be one."


SAY AND SEAL.

It was spoken i  and timidly; but Faith was in earnest.
Mr. Linden sat silen a minute, without changing his posi..
tion.
"A Christian is one, who trusting in Christ as his only
Saviour, thenceforth obeys him as his only King."
Faith hesitated and thought. "I don't understand," she
said folding her hands,-"about the trusting."
"Suppose there was s mething you wanted done---too
hard for your strength but not for mine,---would you know
how to trust it in my hands ?"
She bowed her head and said, "Yes !"
"Suppose I consented to do it only upon condition that
for the rest of your life myawill and pleasure should be your
only rule of action,-would the great work still be yours
or mine ?"
"Why, yours," she said, still looking at him.
"Cannot you see Christ-standing between God .and
man, offering his own bloo where justice demands ours,
and with his perfect righteo sness covering our imperfect
obedience ? So 'that God may be just, and yet the justifier
of him that believeth in Jesus.' Can you apply any wor s?
Can you see that Christ only is 'mighty to. sav&amp;.-Are
you willing to trust yourself in his hands ?"
Faith dropped her eyes for a minute or two, but the lines
of her face were changing.
"I know what you mean now," she said slowly. "I
couldn't see it before." Then with a little smile she went
on-"Yes, Mr. Linden, I am willing. But what must I
do ?"
"'Only believe-"'he answered. "Do what you say you
are willing to do."
"But," said Faith, looking at him with a face which
certainly spoke her near the 'little child' character which
Christians do bear,-" there must be something else. I
must not be like what I have been. I want to know vhat
I ought to do."
"Christ's own words tell you better than I can,-' My
sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
me'-Mthat is the description of a Christian on earth. And
then it follows-' I give -unto them eternal life, and they

shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of
my hand."
There was silence; and then Faith said,
"But how am I to follow him ?"
"How did the people do'to whom he said those words
when he was on earth ?"
"I don't know!"
"'They arose, and left all, and followed him.
"Well, Mr. Linden ?"-
"It is just such a following that we are called to now-..
only that it must be in heart and life instead of actual foot-
steps. Just so must we rise up from doing our own will
and pleasure, fix our eyes upon Christ, and follow him !"
"But how are we to know-how am I to know," said
Faith, "what Iought to do ?"
"Study Christ's summing up of the ten commandments,-
does not that cover the whole ground ?  And then-do
every little duty as it comes to hand. If we are truly
ready to do God's will, he will-send us work,-or if not-
They also serve, who only stand and wait."'
Faith looked an earnest, wistful, sorrowful look at him.
"But then," she said,-" I don't do anything well-how
can I know that I am right? You know what you said-
of the two roads only one led to the shore. I keep think-
ing of that-ever since."
"A traveller in the right road," said Mr. Linden, "may
walk with very weak 0and unsteady pace,-yet he knows
which way his face is set. Which way is yours ?"
Faith's face was in her hands. But Mrs. Derrick's step
just then sounding at the front door, she sprang away
before it could reach the parlour.
7

$

f E
1
i
i
(
i

SAY AND SEAL.

x
L^


SAY AND SEAL.            79

CHAPTER VII.
T HE decision of Mr. Linden on the school question was
duly communicated t9 Judge Harrison ; and the time.
fixed was Thursday, the jfifth of October. The place
chosen, after much care, was the Judge's own house and
grounds adjoining, which were spacious enough, and af-
forded good opportunity for setting tables and also for
spreading them. So all that was fixed; and all Pattaquas-
set was a tip-toe; and Mr. Linden submitted to what he
could not help, with as good a grace as he might. And
September was sliding off into October with the gentlest,
sunniest, softliest grace.
With much the same sort of grace Faith Derrick walked
up and down in her mother's household; from the dairy
where she made her butter, to Mr. Linden's room which it
was her care to keep in order ; and where she might if she
chose amuse herself with Mr. Linden's books. If she did,
it was unknown to their owner; he surely found every vol-
ume lying where he left it. There was chance enough for
Faith, in his long absences from the house; and the books
offered temptations. There were a good'many of them,
stowed in old-fashioned corner and window cupboards;
good editions, in good bindings, and an excellent very
choice selection of subjects and authors. There were books
in various languages of which Faith could make nothing-
but sighs; in her own mother tongue there were varieties of
learning and literature "enough to distract her. All how-
ever that the owner could know of other hands about his
books, was that there was no dust upon them.
Perhaps he had a mind, to know more-or that there
should be more to be known; for about this time. two re-
markable things happened. One was, that Faith found a
little French book ensconced among the stockings in her
basket,-and the very next morning as Mr. Linden was
setting off for school, he stopped at the threshold and
inquired-
(78)

"Miss Faith-whereabouts are you in Prescott ?"
That sane colour flushed in Faith's face; it did not rise
to her temples this time, but glowed richly in her cheeks.
She looked down and up, and down; words seemed con-
_t. founded in their utterance.
"You do not mean that you have finished it already ?"
he said with an excellent look of astonishment.
"I have almost,"-said Faith. "Mr. Linden, how could
you tell ?-I don't know what makes me do so !" she said
putting both hands to her cheeks,-"there's no shaug in
it."
"I didn't suppose there was," he said smiling, and
closed the door.
= 'Very oddly, in spite of morning duties, Faith's next
move was to go to her basket; pull out that little French book
and examine it all over inside and out. Not one word of
it could she read, not one sign of it did she know; what
was the meaning of its place in her basket?  Faith pon-
dered that question probably while her cheeks were coming
back to their usual tint; then the book was slipped back
again and she hurried away to help her mother with the
dishes.
do"You needn't come, child," said Mrs. Derrick,-" whatY
do you think I'll make of such a handful of things as that ?
To be sure Cindy's cleaning up to-day, but I'm pretty
smart, yet. Go off and study arithmetic if you want to.
Have you got through that yet ?"
"Almost through, mother," Faith answered smiling.
"Well why don't you go and finish ?" said her mother.
"Mayn't I finish these first ?" said Faith, through whose
fingers and the towel the, cups and saucers slipped with a
dexterity that was, to say the least of it, pretty. "Why
Mother, you were not, so keen after arithmietic the other
day."
"Keen after it !" said Mrs. Derrick,-" la, child, I don't
pretend to be keen. But I never could bear to see a thing
half done,-I'd rather do it 'twice over."
There was something else running in Faith's mind; for
after abstractedly setting down one after another several
saucers, polished from the hot water and huckaback, she

(


80

SAY AND SEAL.

dropped her towel and flung both aims round her mother's
neck.'
"Mother !.-.-there is one thing I want you to do-I want
you to be 6 Christian !"
There was persuasion in the soft head th  estled against
her, if Faith's words lacked it.
To the words her mother gave no ans    r, but she re-
turned the caress with interest; wrappin   ith in her
arms, and drawing her down to the next chair, as if liter.
all she could not stand that..
retty child !" she said-and more than onear fell
upon Faith's bright hair,-"you're the best child that ever
was !-and always were 1"
"No, mother," said Faith kissing her.-"But will
you ?"
"I don't know !" said Mrs. Derrick,-" that's what your
father used to say, Faith,-and I used to think I'd like to,
to please him,-but somehow I never did."
"Never wished it for your own sake, deKmother ?"
"Yes-sometimes-when I saw him die-" said Mrs.
Derrick. "Hush child-don't say another word to me
now, for I can't bear it." And giving Faith an embrace
which took off all thought of roughness from her words,
Mrs. Derrick rose up and went about her dishes again.
And Faith tried to do as much; but the dropping tears
were too fast for her towel; her hand sought in vain to
forbid their coming; she laid down her work and went
away.
Truth however is always at one with itself, and so is right
feeling, and so is duty. Faith as well as her mother had
plenty of business on hand that morning; and it was not
long before she was as hard at work in the kitchen as if
there were no other interests in the world. There was
bread to make. That was done.: There was an elaborate
chicken pie to concoct for dinner, which Faith would not
leave to her mother to-day. There was a certain kind of
muffins which Mrs. Derrick suggested Mr. Linden would be
apt to like, and which they had never had since he was in
Pattaquasset. To hear was to obey, and Faith compounded
the muffins. Then fresh yeast must be made, and Faith
always did that. Let it not be thought that Mks. Derrick

SAY AND SEAL.     "

81

was idle while thus indicating floury fields of exertion to
her daughter. Very far from it. There wasallth  house
and all the rest of the dinner to see to; besides'Cindy; who
was one woman's work. The butcher was to be met, and
farm questions settled with the farmer; and Mrs. Derrick
was still deep in vegetables when Faith quitted the kitchen.
How much time she had left for study before dinner it
doesn't appear.
After dinner, this day, there was small study chance-or
at least small chance to get books; for it was Wednesd
and Wednesday was in every Pattaquasset sch o -'alf
holiday. Indeed that arrangement of thing    ex nded
beyond the schools; and on this particular Wednesday, Mrs.
Derrick.devoted the holiday time to a far-off neighbour-.
declaring that she "felt like a good long walk." And after
her departure the dreaminess of a warm fall afternoon set-
tied down upon the house and its inhabitants. Faith sat
sewing by the parlour window, or reading-stealthily; for
Mr. Linden with his book sat in the porch not three feet
from her; but it is not too much to say that neither made
great progress. Who could read or work-or think-vigi--
lantly, in that hazy sunshine ?-the very bees took a siesta
on the wing, and rocked to and fro in the soft air.
About the middle of the afternoon a small white-headed
boy was seen revolving down the main street of Pattaquas-
set. I say revolving-for the slight suggestion of a small
stone in the road-or a spot of particular dustiness--was
enough to make the boy break the monotony ofr his walk
with a somerset ; by which style of progress he at last ar-
rived at Mrs. Derrick's door, entered the gate and came up
the steps. There he paused and gazed at Mr. Linden.
"What is your name ?" inquired that gentleman, with
the benevolent ides of setting the boy's thoughts in motion
in a straight line.
"Charles twelf'" replied the boy promptly.
"Charles twelfth 1" said Mr. Linden. "Are there eleven
tnore of you ?"
The boy put his finger in his mouth but brought forth no
answer.
"Miss Fait "aid Mr. Linden, "are you the planet
which has attract this small star out of its usual orbit ?"

)


10

82

SAY AND SEAL.

Faith came to the door.
"Who are you, little fellow ?" said she, eyeing the dusty
white head.
"Who ly you ?" said the boy.'
"The c ntre of your solar system at present," said Mr.
Linden. "Is that the way satellites generally ask ques-
tions ?"
" What a queer man !" said the boy looking at Mr. Lin-
den.
" What a queer boy-" said that gentleman gravely.
"iWhat do you want ? ' aid Faith, biting her lips and
laughing at both of them.
The boy gazed at hpr, but he also gazed at the scraper !-..
and the attraction of that was irresistible. Down went his
white head, and over went his dusty feet, and then Charles
twelfth was himself again.
"My ma's kep' your ma to supper," he said. "And she
says you may come too, if you want ter-and bring him.
We've got lots o' pies." And stimulated by this recollec-
tion, the boy turned without delay and began his revolu-
tions homeward. Faith ran down the two or three porch
steps and laid hold of the little invader.
"Here! You Charles twelfth !-who are you, and where
does your ma' live?"
"She lives down to our house."
"Where's that ?"
"Down the woody road-" said the boy,.-"nekt after
you come to Capting Samp's' blackberry field. There's
sunflowers in front."
"Then you are Mrs. Seacomb's boy ?  Very well," said
Faith, letting him go. "Mr. Linden, there is an invitation
for you."
"Is there a carriage road into Sweden ? or do we walk ?"
he replied
"Sweden ?"-said Faith, - "it is in the woods, two
or three miles from here. A woman lives there -the
widow of a man that used to sail with my father. My
father was captain of a ship, Mr. Linden. Mr. Seacomb
was one of his mates, and very fond of him; and we go to
see Mrs. Seacomb once in a while, I don't think, perhaps,
you would like it. It's a pretty ride."

SAY AND SEAL.
That is a kind of ride I do like."

83

"But I don't know whether you would like it all. If
you say so, I will have up the wagon."
"Thank you-that I should not like.  I prefer to have
it up myself, Miss Faith-if you will have up your bonnet."
Faith's face gave way at that, and the bonnet and the
wagon were up accordingly.
The way led first down the high road, bordered with gardens
and farms and the houses of the village-if village it were
called, where the neighbours looked at each other's distant
windows across wide tracts of meadow, orchards and grain
fields. The road was reasonably dusty, in the warm
droughts of September; nevertheless the hedgerows that
grew thick in many places shewed gay tufts of autumn
flowering; and the mellow light lay on every wayside object
and sober distance like the reflection from a butterfly's
wing. Except the light, all changed when they got into the
woody road.
It was woody indeed !-except where it was grassy; and
woods and grass played hide and seek with each other.
The grass-grown road, its thicker grass borders-where
bright fall flowers raised their proud little heads; the old
fence, broken down in places, where bushes burst through
and half filled the gap; bright hips on the wild rosebushes,
tufts of yellow fern leaves, brilliant handfuls of red and
yellow which here a maple and there a pepperidge held out
over the road ; the bushy, bosquey, look which the uncut
undergrowth gave the wood on either hand ; the gleams of
soft green light, the bands of shadow, the deeper thickets
where the eye looked twice and came back unsatisfied,-.
over all the blue sky, with forest leaves for a border. Such
was the woody road that afternoon. Flocks of little birds
of passage flitted and twittered about their night's lodging,
or came down to feast on wintergreen or cedar berries; and
Mrs. Derrick's old horse walked softly on, as if he knew
no one was in a hurry.
"'With what a glory comes and goes the year'!" Mr.
Linden said.
"And stays all the while, don't it ?" -said Faith rather
timidly and after an instant's hesitation.
"Yes, in a sort--.though to my fancy the other seasons


84             SAY AND SEAL.

have rather beauty and splendour, while autumn keeps the
glory for itself."
"I think it is glorious all the year round," said Faith;.
"though to be sure," she added with a sudden check, "per-
haps I don't use the word right."
"Yes, it is glorious, - but I think 'glorious' and
'glory' have drifted a little apart upon the tide of human
speech. Glory, always seems to my mind a warm, glowing,
effulgent thing,-but ice-peaks may be glorious. The old
painters encircled the hpads of their saints with a 'glory '
and you could not imagine that a cold light."
Faith listened, with the eyes of one first seeing into the
world of wonder and beauty hidden from common vision.
She did not answer, till her thoughts came back to the
road they were travelling, and catching her breath a little
she said,
"This isn't a cold light."
"No, truly. And just.so far as the saints on earth walk
in a cold light, so far, I think, their light is less glorious."
"I don't see how they can,"-said Faith timidly.
"They do-sometimes,-standing aloof like those ice-
peaks. You can see the white garments, but no glory
transfigures them. Such a face as Stephen's, Miss Faith,
is worth a journey to see."
Faith thought so; wondered how many such faces he
had seen. Her meditations plunged her too deep for
words.
"What are you musing about ?-if I may ask," Mr
Linden. said presently.
She coloured but answered, "I was thinking what one
must be, to have a face like Stephen's."
"That is the promise, you know-' from. glory to glory.'
'From grace to glory' must come first. 'What one must
be'-yes, that is it. But it is good to measure the promises
now and then."
Faith laid that last remark up in her heart, enshrining
it in gold, as it were. But she said nothing.
"How is it with you ?" he said turning his eyes full upon
her,-L"you have not told me lately. Are the clouds all
gone ?" ,
Her look met his, wistful, and simple as her answer.

"I see the light through."-
"'Unto the perfect-day'!" Mr. Linden said; his smile-
slight as it was-bringing, a sort  illumination with it.
4 After a few minutes he t rned to er again.
"Miss Faith, one w o  Christ has called into his army
should wear his uniform.
"What, sir ?"-.she sai  e colour starting readily.
"With the private v   of allegiance, there should be
also a public profession."
"Yes,"'-she said, "LI suppose so..---I am willing-I am
ready."
Timid, modest, even shrinking as she was, more in view
of the subject than of her adviser, her face was as frank as
the day. His hand quitted the reins a moment taking
hers and giving it a sort of 'right-hand-of-fellowship'
clasp, glad and warm and earnest, as was his look.
"I am not going to ask you any more questions," he
said,-"you will tell eme if there are any you wish an-
Sswered."
Her " Thank you" was a little breathless.
For a while the old horse jogged on in his easy way,
through the woods and the fall flowers and the sunny glow;
and the eyes of the two travellers seemed to be busy there-
with. Then Faith said with a little timid touch upon her
voice,
"Mr. Linden-I suppose it was y u that put a little
green book in my basket last night ?"
S"Jumping at conclusions again !" he said. "What sort
Sof a little green book was it ?"
"I don't'kow ! I suppose you can tell me."
[i"Do'you suppose I will ?"
S"Why noti What did you expect me to do with it,
Mr. Linden ?"
S"Find out what sort of a book it is."
S"You know I can't~ read a word of it," said Faith
rather low,
S"Look at that old house," said Mr. Linden.
They were passing a cleared field or two, one of which
seemed yet under cultivation and shewed corn stalks and
pumpkin vines, but the other was in that poverty-stricken
state described by the proverb as'I once had.' The house
voL. 1.                8

SAY AND SEAL.            85


i,
',
i'
f

86                   SAY AND SEAL.
was a mere skeleton. Clapboards, indeed, there were still,
and shingles ; but doors and windows had long since been
removed-by man or Time,-and through the open spaces
you could see here a cupboard door, and there a stairway,
and there a bit of partition wall with its faded high-coloured
paper. No remnant of furniture-no rag of old clothes or
calico ; but in the dooryard a few garden flowers still strug-
gled to keep their place, among daisies, thistles and bur-
docks.  The little field was bordered with woodland, and
human voice or face there was none. The sunbeams which
shone so bright on the tinted trees seemed powerless here;
the single warm ray that shot through one of the empty
window frames fell mournfully on the cold hearthstone.
"Yes," said Faith.-" I don't know who ever lived there.
It has stood so a good while."
The road grew more solitary still after that, passing on
where the trees came close upon either hand, and arched
their branches overhead, casting a deep and lonely shadow,
.The flowers dwindled, the briars and rank grass increased.
"'  "As to 'Le Philosophe sous les toits,' Miss Faith," said
Mr. Linden, touching the horse with his whip, "there are
just two things to be said. In the first place-with the
help of another book or two which are not beyond reach--
you may make his acquaintance quite comfortably by your-
self., In the second-no, I shall not tell you the second,--
that you may find out by yourself too. There is Charles
twelfth-and all his subjects one might judge."
For on Captain Samp's blackberry hill-albeit black-
berries were bygone things-a troop, a flock of children
were scattered up and down, picking flower poden rod
and asters and 'moonshine,' filled the little  teo-clean
hands, and briars and wild roses combed the 'unkempt'
hair somewhat roughly. Whiteheaded youngsters all of
them, looking (but for small patterns of blue calico and
nankeen) not unlike a drove of little pigs. .Next, appeared
an imposing array, of sunflowers, below which prince's
feather waved in crimson splendour, and the little brown
capital of 'Sweden' stood revealed. Or I should say, par-.
tially; for the house stood in the deepest corner of the
shade, just where the road took a sharp turn towards the
sunlight.; and Mr. inden alighted and tied his horse to

SAY AND SEAL.                   8T
a tree, with little fear that anything woigd happen to him
unless the darkness put him to sleep.
" Charles twelfth has the best of it just now,1YIiss Faith"
he said as he opened the gate for her. "Why do people
build houses where they cannot see the sun !"
They were met at the door by Mrs. Seacomb.
"Do tell !" she said-" why if this aint you ! But what
made you come so late ? and how slow your horse did come
when he was' about it. I've been watchin' you this age.
Well Faith-I declare-you're as pretty as a posie!  And
this is the. teacher I s'pose-Guess likelyyou haint been down
this way afore, sir,-it's a good ways, and the road's lone-
some, but it's a fine place when you're here-so retired and
shady."
All Mr. Linden's command of countenance only enabled
him to answer the last remark 'with a strong affirmative.
"Yes sir," said Mrs. Seacomb, "it is; and there's a
good many of the trees is evergreens, so the shade never
goes off. I do s'pose, if I could keep the children more to
home they wouldn't get nigh so brown as they do; but if
I was to run out in the lot and whip 'em home every half
hour they'd be back again afore I could count one. Now
Genevievy-she does stay round under the trees a good
deal, but then she's fond of flowers. She'll be real glad to
see you Faith, and so'll your mother"-and Mrs. Seacomb
at last got her visiters into the parlour.
The parlour was as brown as the rest of the house. The
visiters had not time to remark more particularly; for their
attention wa claimed by a tall girl of about Faith's age,
with a loo built, strong jointed frame, in as marked
contrast as possible to the (lean outline and soft angles of
the other. She shook hands very cordially with Faith, but
made a reverence to the 'teacher.'
"Won't you take a chair, sir," she said, setting one for
the gentleman. "Aint-it an age since we've looked at you,
Faith! Your mother's been here a long spell. Ma' was
proud to see her come it. You haint been here, seems to
me, ever before 1"
"How do you do, Genevieve ?"
"I'm respectable well. Can't do nothin' uncommon, you
know, down in this 'eclusion., I guess it's as good to see


SAY AND SEAL.             89

o

company as blackberries. We don't get it though.-I hope
you don't mind a lonely sitiwation, sir?" The last words
with deep gravity and a bending head.
"It agrees well with a contemplative mind," replied the
gentleman, resolving that the young lady should not talk
'high english' alone.
"It does !" said Genevieve admiringly, taking him all
in with her eyes. "There is always something to look at
to make you contemplate.--Then you don't think it an
objection, sir, to4ive so far away from society as this ?"
"I have lived further away from society than this," said
Mr. Linden. "I have seen regions of country, Miss Sea-
comb, where you could not even hear of anybody but your.
self."
"I declare !--And war'u't it awful still, sir ?"
" It was beautiful, still," said Mr. Linden.
"1 reckon it was !"           .1
At this juncture Charles twelfth made his appearance,
and Mr. Linden at once turned to him-
"Well sir-how are the Turks ?"
To which Charles twelfth, being taken much by surprise,
replied,
"They're pretty well."
"Genevievy," said her mother, "if you'll make your-
self agreeable, I'll go hurry tea afore the rest of the chil-
dren comes. They will all come to table, and there's so
many." And Mrs. Derrick as in duty bound, followed her
to help.
"I'll go tell 'em1" said Charles twelfth as Mrs. Seacomb
went out.                               .
"No you will not"-said Mr. Linden,-"you will not
go out of the house again till I give you leave. Why
don't you come to Sunday school and learn to behave
yourself ?"
" What else ?"-said Charles twelfth.
"What else 1" said Mr. Linden,-" that will take you
some time. Afterwards you will learn all the lessons your
teacher gives you."
"Who'll he be ?" said Charles twelfth coming a little
nearer. "You ?"..      ,
"No indeed," said Mr. Linden, "I have quite enough

SAY AND SEAL..

88

to do now. I dare say this lady will take you into her
class-if you ask her politely."
It was worth while to see Faith's face now, for the little
stir and the flush and the sweet gravity that was in it.
Not so much as a glance went to Mr. Linden, but leaning
forward towards the young enemy of Peter the Great, she
said in her sweet tones,
"Will you come ?"
Charles twelfth looked up at her rather earnestly, though
his finger was in his mouth the while ; and then having
ended his scrutiny gave a grave little nod of assent, and
moved round and stood at her side.
"Look here," said Faith,--" don't you want to shew me
how the sunflowers grow in your garden ?"
"They bain't mine-" said Charles twelfth.-" I'll shew
you my house--if he'll let me go."
That difficulty being got over, Charles twelfth trotted out
of the front door, and on through the long grass, to a re-
markable edifice of clam shells, broken earthenware, moss
and corn cobs, which was situated close by the- fence.
Faith commented and asked questions, till she had made
herself slightly familiar to the young woodsman's mind ;
and then it was agreed that he should come Sunday morn-
ing bright and early to Mrs. Derrick's and he and Faith
would go to Sunday school together. By the time this
arrangement was thoroughly entered into, the summons
came to tea.
"Now do just set down and make yourselves at home,"
said Mrs. Seacomb, "and eat as if you were 'home too.
Faith," she added in a good sized whisper-" I did like to
forgot all about it !--and your mother could have telled
me, too, but you'll do just as well,-does he always take
cold pork and potatoes toihis supper ?"
Faith's eyes involuntarily opened ; then as the meaning
of this appeal broke upon her she answered with a very
decided "No, ma'am."
"'Cause we've got some handy," Mrs. Seacomb said.
"Now Mr. Simpson, he staid with us a spell, and he
couldn't do without it-if I had pound cake and plum cake'
and mince pie for supper, it made no differ-and if there
warn't but one cold potato in the house it made none
8*


'11
I i ;

SAY AND SEAL.

either ; he wanted that just the same. To be sure he was
easy suited. And I didn't know but all school teachers
was the same way. I never had much experience of 'em.
Genevievy.-just lock the front door and then the children
can't get in,-the back door is locked. I do take to peace
and quiet !"
"Is Charles twelfth much like his brothers and sisters,
ma'am ?" said Mr. Linden.
"Well no-"said Mrs. Seacomb, dealing out blackberry
jam,-" he always was an uncommon child. The rest's all
real sponsible, but there's none of 'em alike but Americus
Vespucus.-It's fresh, Faith -the children picked the
blackberries in Captain Samp's lot.-.-Charles twelfth does
act sometimes as if he was helped. I thought he took a
turn awhile ago, to behave like the rest-but he's reacted."
And having emptied the dish of jam Mrs. Seacomb began
upon the cheese.
"Which is Americus ?" said Faith. "Is he older or
younger than Charles twelfth Mrs. Seacomb ?"
"1Well he's older," said Mrs. Seacomb ;-"that's him,"
she added, as a loud rattling of the back door was followed
in an incredibly short space of time by a similar rattling at
the front, after which came the clatter of various sticks
and clods at the window.
"I guess you won't care about seeing' him nearer," said
Mrs. Seacomb, stirring her tea composedly. "Only don't
nobody open the door-I- do love peace and quiet. They
won't break the window, 'cause they know they'd catch it
ifthey did."
"1Children is a plague, I do s'pose,"remarked Genevieve.
"Is your tea agreeable, sir ?"
Which question Mr. Linden waived by asking another,
and the meal proceeded with a peace and quietness which
suited no, ideas but Mrs. Seacomb's. At last tea was
over; the ladies put on their bonnets again, and the old
horse being roused from his meditations, the party set for-
ward on their pleasant way home.
Doubly pleasant now, for the sun was just setting; the
air was fresher, and the glow of the sunset colours put a
new 'glory' upon all the colours of earth. And light and
shadow made witching work of the woody road as long as

SAY AND SEAL.

91

the glow lasted. Then the colours faded, the shadows
spread; grey gathered where orange and brown had been;
that glory was gone; and then it began to be shewn, little
by little, as the blue also changed for grey, that there is
"another glory of the stars." And then presently, above
the trees that, shaded Mrs. Seacomb's retreat, the moon
rose full and bright and laid her strips of silver under the
horse's feet.
Were they all exhausted with their afternoon's work? or
was this shifting scene of colour and glory enough to busy
their minds? Mr. Linden found his way along the road
silently, and the two ladies behind him seemed each to be
wrapped in her own thoughts; and moonlight and star-
light favoured that, and so on they jogged between the
shadowy walls of trees tipped and shimmering with light,
and over those strips of silver on the road. Out of the
woods at last, on the broad, full-lit highway; past one
farm and house after another, lights twinkling at them
from the windows ; and then their own door with its moon-
lit porch.
The old horse would stand, no fear; the reins were
thrown over his back, and the three went in together. As
Mrs. Derrick passed on first and the others were left be-
hind in the doorway, Faith turfed and held out her
hand.
"Thank you, Mr. Linden !"-she said softly.
le took the hand, and inquired gravely, "whether she
was taking leave of him for the rest of his natural life ?"
Faith's mood had probably not been precisely a merry
one when she began; but her low laugh rung through the
nall at that, and she ran in.

90

i 'F


SAY AND SEAL.             93

CHAPTER IX.
M   R. SIMLINS stood on his doorstep and surveyed such
portion of his fair inheritance as his eye. could reach
from that point. Barns and outhouses already in good order,
Mr. Simlins favoured with a mental coat of paint; fences
were put up and gate-posts renewed, likewise in imagina-
tion. Imagination went further, and passed from the stores
of yellow grain concealed by those yellow clapboards, to
the- yellow stubble-fields whence they had come; so that
on the whole Mr. Simlins took rather a glowing view of
things, considering that-it was not yet sunrise. The cloud.
less October sky above his head suggested only that it
would be a good day for digging potatoes,-the white frost
upon the ground made Mr. Simlins 'guess it was about time
to be lookin' after chestnuts.' The twitter of the robins
brought to mind the cherries they had stolen,--the exquisite
careering of a hawk in the high blue ether, spoke moun-
fully of a slaughtered chicken: the rising stir of the morning
wind said plainly as a wind could (in its elegant language)
that 'if it was goin' to blow at that rate, it would be plaguey
rough goin' after round clams.' With which reflection, Mr.
Simlins turned about and went in to his early breakfast of
pork- and potatoes,-only, as he was not a 'teacher,' they
were hot and not cold.
Thus pleasantly engaged-discussing his breakfast,-Mr,
Simlins was informed by one of his 'help,' that a boy wanted
to see him. Which was no uncommon occurrence, for all
the boys about Pattaquasset liked Mr. Simlins.
"just as lieves see him as not," said Mr. Simlins-"if he
don't want my breakfast. Come in, there, you1"-
And Dromy Tuck presented himself.
"'Early bird catches the worm,'" said Mr. Simlima
"Don't want my breakfast, Dromy, do you ?"
"Had mine afore I started," replied Dromy. "But the
things' here.  Mr. Linden says as how we wants your
nuts off o' them trees over to Neanticut-and hie says if

you don't want 'em, why it'll fit, he says. And if you do,
why you may keep 'em-that's all."
"What's Mr. Linden goin' to do with the nuts, s'pos'n
he gets 'em ?"
"He aint agoin' to get 'em," said Dromy -"it's us
us and him. You see we did somethin' to please him, and
so now he said as how he'd like to do somethin' to please
us, if he only knowed what it was. And there wasn't a boy
of the hull on 'em as didn't say he'd rather go after nuts
B than any other livin' thing whatsomedever."
"And now I s'pose you're asking' for them particular
nuts to please me. It's a round game we're on," said Mr.
Simlins. "How're you goin' to get to Neanticut ? same
way Jack went up his bean ?-won't pay."
He didn't tell-"said Dromy. " He don't say every-
thing to-oncet, commonly."
"When 'you goin'?"
"Don' know, sir. Mr. Linden said as how we'd better
go afore the nuts did. And Saturday aint fur off."
Saturday-well ! You tell Mr. Linden, if he'll send
Reuben Taylor here Saturday morning, he can take the big
wagon; it'll hold the hull on ye, and I guessJ'll do with-
out the team ; and if he wants ,to go into the old house
and make a fire in case you want something to eat afore
you get home, there's not a soul in it and no wood nother-..
but you can pick -it up; and I'll give Reuben the key.
Now don't you splice the two ends o' that together by the
way. "
Great was the stir in a certain stratum of Pattaquasset
that day ! Many and startling were the demands for pies
cheese, and gingerbread, to be answered on the ensuing
Saturday. Those good housewives who had no boys at
school or elsewhere, thought it must be 'real good fun' to
help them get ready for such a frolic,.-those who had
boys-...wished they had none! As to the rest, the disturb-
ance spread a little (as. disturbances are wont) from its
proper sphere of action. Two boys even invaded Mrs.
Derrick's peaceful dwelling, and 'called down Faith from
Conquering Peru. These were Reuben Taylor and Joe
Deacon; for Joe with a slight variation of the popular
adage, considered that 'once a scholar, always a scholar.'

I


SAY AND SEAL.             95

Reuben seemed inclined on his part to leave the present
business in Joe's hands,but a sharp nudge from that young
gentleman's elbow admonished him not only to speak but
to speak quickly. Reuben modestly preferred his modest
request, guiltless of any but the most innocent arrangement
of his words.
"We boys are a'll going over to Neanticut nutting, next
Saturday, Miss Faith," he said, "and we thought as Mr.
Linden was going, maybe you'd like to go too-and we'd
all enjoy it a great deal more."
"There aint room in the wagon," put in Joe-"but I
s'pose you kin fix that."
"Joe !" said Reuben flushing up. "There's plenty of
room, Miss Faith-there isn't one of us that wouldn't find
it, somehow. I could walk easy enough, I know that."
Faith flushed up'too on her part a little, unconsciously;
and asked who else was going.
"Sam aint "-said Joe, as if that was all he -cared
about.
"Only the boys, Miss Faith," said Reuben with another
glance at his comrade. "But it's a pretty place over there,
-and so's the ride. There's room for Mrs. Derrick too if
she'd like it," Reuben added,-" I suppose we shall be gone
all day."
"It's very good of you to come and ask me, both of you,"
said Faith, evidently in perplexity ;-"and I should like to
go dearly if I can, Reuben-but I am afraid I can't, I am'
glad if the wagon's big enough to hold you all without me.
You'll have a great time."
"You may say that !" said Joe-while Reuben looked
down, disappointed.
"We didn't know whether you would," he said-"but Mr.
Linden said you wouldn't be displeased at our asking. We
asked him first, Miss Faith-or we shouldn't have made so
free. And you shall have some of the nuts, anyway !"
A little cheered with which view of the subject, Reuben
made his bow, and Joe Deacon whistled after him out of
the gate.
Faith looked after them, disappointed too. There was a
grave set of the lines of her mouth, and it was with rather
a thoughtful face that she looked down the road for ami-

ute. Then remembering the volume of Prescott in her hand,
which her finger still kept open, she went up stairs again and
set herself down to finish her treasure.  Faith's reading-
place, it must be known, was no other than a deep window-
3 seat in Mr. Linden's room. That was a large, old-fashioned
room, as has been said, with brown wainscottings and corner
and window cupboards; and having on two sides a pleasant
exposure, the light generally made it a winsome place to
look at. Now, in this October weather, it came in mellow
and golden from a softened sun and changing foliage; the
brown wood and white walls and dark old furniture and
rich bindings of books, all mingled in the sunlight to make
a rich sunny picture.
There were pictures outside too and pleasant ones. Film
the south window, straht down the'street, the houses and
4 trees and the brown spire of the Methodist church stretched
away-roofs and gable ends and the enormous tufty heads
of the elm trees that half hung over them. At the back
of these houses, the eye went uninterruptedly over meadows
and fields to the belt of woods which skirted at a little dis-
tance the line of the shore from the Lighthouse to Barley
Point-here and there a break through which a schooner
might be seen standing up or down the Sound; elsewhere
only its topsails might be discerned above the woods. The
western window took in the break where Barley Point lay;
and further on in the southwest a distant glimpse of the
Sound, with the little brown line of Monongatesak Point.
The lane leading to the shore ran off due west, with houses,
gardens, orchards, bordering it and spotting the country
generally. A fair country-level and rich-all the range
west and northwest was uninterrupted smooth fields.; the
eye had full sweep to the wide horizon; the dotting of trees,
barns, and houses, only enriched it, giving the sweet air of
peaceful and happy occupation.
Faith's place was the deep low sill, or seat, of that west-
ern window. There often Faith's book rested, while on the
floor before it the reader sat. This time the book was near
finished, and a few more leaves- turned over changed the
'near' into 'quite'. Faith stood then considering the books.
The name of Prescott on another volume had tempted her,
for she had taken it down and .considered the title page ;

94      1        SAY AND SEAL.


96                 SAY AND SEAL.
before settling to it, Faith laid her hand on one of another
set not yet much examined; a set of particular outside
beauty. But what was the inside ?  For Faith stood by
the cupboard door, not looking here and there, but leaf by
leaf walking into the middle of the book. Faith rested the
volume on the shelf and turned over more leaves; and at
last dropped down by her window seat, laid the book there,
put her cheek on her hand as usual, a cheek already flushed,
and lost herself in the very beams of the afternoon sun.
It might have been a dream, it might have been a vision
(only that vision it was not)-it might have been reality;
wrapped up in her book, what should Faith know? Yet
when some crisis was turned over with the leaf; and the real
world began to supplant the unreal, Faith started up and
looked round. Had she heard a step? a rustling of paper
on the table ? The door was firmly shut, the shadowy cor-
ner near by had lost the sunbeams, but was else unchanged;
the table looked just as before-unless-'Had there been a
letter lying there when she came in ?.-Faith never could tell.
The door opened now, however, and Mrs. Derrick en-
tered-peering in somewhat anxiously.
"Why here you are, pretty child 1" she said, " I began to,
think you were lost ! Mrs. Somers has been here, and so's
Miss Harrison, and they wanted to see you ever so much.
I don't think that's a good cheese we cut last night, Faith,-
I guess I'll cut another."
Faith wag an image of innocent guilt; and without
daring to ask if it was tea-time, she ran down stairs. Her
mother followed and stood by, not with any thought of
overseeing but for the pleasure thereof.
"Well child," she said, "are you learning all the world
up ? What's in the oven now?"-
"Don't you think that is good ?"- -
The question had reference to the freshly cut cheese, of
which Faith presented her mother with 'a smallemorsel.
Mrs. Derrick tasted-critically, but the first topic was the
most interesting.
" What's made your cheeks burn ?" she said laying her
hand softly against the rose-colour. " If you're going to
study yourself into a fever, Faith, i'm not going to stand
by and see it."

*t

SAY AND SEAL.                   97
"No fear, mother. I forgot myself. Is Mr. Linden come
in ?"
" He must .be-he always is by this time. Miss Harrison
says the Doctor's got back, Faith."
Faith took up her cheese and walked in with it. The
tea-table stood alone. But the tea hour being come, and
Mr. Linden known to be surely there within five minutes
of the tea hour, the te, was made-and not a minute too
soon.
Faith was not on this occasion talkative, nor anybody
else. The meal proceeded rather silently. Spoons spoke
in low tones, knives made themselves busy; and Cindy put
her head in at the door and withdrew it with the mental
ejaculation,
"My ! if they baint settin' there yet !"
At this point Mr. Linden spoke. "And so, Miss Faith,'
you have no fancy for nuts to crack ?"
Faith flushed a little and hesitated.
"I didn't say so, Mr. Linden."
"Have you any dislike to Neanticut ?"
"Not the least," she said laughing.
"I dare not go further, and inquire as to the company,
Don't you know how to drive, Miss Faith ?"
"And what if I do ?" said Faith.
"Is there any insuperable objection to your driving Mrs.
Derrick over to Neanticut Saturday morning ? It would be
so comfortable to know there were people there-and fires--
in case it was a cold morning," said Mr. Linden demurely.
"I could send Reuben with you, and the key."
" 0 that's good !" cried Faith clapping her hands.
"Mother, will you go ?"
"Why don't I always, just where you want me to, child ?"
said her mother. "I should like to go to Neanticut, be-
sides. I haven't been there this long while. But I guess
you and I can open the house, Faith, without Reuben
Taylor."
"After all, Mr. Linden," said Faith, "there is a great'
objection to my driving mother over there,-because she'll
drive me."
" There is a great objection to your opening the house--.
for Reuben has the key-or will have it ; and keys you
voL. Lx-                  9

1777


98-                SAY AND SEAL.
know, are matters of trust, and not transferable. I don't
know but Mr. Simlins would make an exception in your
favour,-but I shall not ask him."
" I am glad to have Reuben along," said Faith. "And
I suppose we must take our dinner with us, Mr. Linden ?"
"I have no doubt there will be dinner enough from other
quarters," he answered, "but how much of it will be like
Mrs. Seacomb's tea I cannot say. I think it would be safe
to take a very little basket-such as would suffice for two
ladies."
"0 with'Reuben we can manage nicely," said Faith joy-
ously. He looked at her--pleased with her pleasure.
"Don't make any grand preparation for me," he said,-.
"you know I must eat in commons-for the same reason that
I cannot offer to drive you over."
"Does that mean that you will have to take a piece out
of everybody's basket ?"
"As near as possible 1"
Faith shook her head, but made no further remark.
Early Saturday morning, before any other steps had
brushed the dew from the grassy roadside, Reuben Taylor
was on his way from the rocky coast point where he lived
to the smooth well-ordered abode of Mr. Simlins. Recei-
ing from that gentlemadi the key of the old house at Nean-
ticut, and having harnessed the horses to4he big wagon
under his special directions, Reuben drove down to the
village, put horses and wagon in safe keeping, and reported
himself at Mrs. Derrick's. All things there being in readi-
ness, that small turnout was soon on its way; leaving Mr.
Linden to look after his own much larger consignment.
And despite the presence of Reuben Mrs. Derrick chose to
drive; because, as she said, "when she had the reins in her
own hands, she knew which way the horse was going."
The road for awhile went on towards Mrs. Seacomb's, but
passing the turn into the woods kept on its uneven way to
the ferry. The natural hedges-all glittering with dew--
shewed little colour but in the leaves. The fair clethra and
the sweet clematis had ended their short -reign and were
gone, and high-coloured sumachs flamed out in insurrection.
Now the country became more hilly, and where the eastern
portion of Pattaquasset lay close upon the Mong, the road

SAY AND SEAL.                   99
went down by a succession of steep pitches to its shore.
Then the road ran on through a sort of balf drained marsh
-varied in its course by holes and logs and a little bridge,
and then they were at the ferry.
Now the ferry between Pattaquasset and Neanticut was--.
and is, as I trust it will always be--propelled by wind power.
No plodding horses to distract one's eyes from the surround-
ing peace,-no puffing steam to break with its discord the
sweet rush of the water,--but a large, flat-bottomed boat,
a white saif, and a Yankee steersman. The only evil attend,
ant upon these advantages is, that the establishment cannot
be upon both sides at 'once-and'that the steersman, like
other mortals, must take his dinner. This time it happened
to be breakfast; for having been much interrupted and
called for at the hour when he should have taken that refresh-
ment, long Tim declared "he would have it now, and no
mistake 1" The little fact that two ladies were waiting for
him on the other side, did not in the least affect his appetite
or his deliberation.
"Faith," said her mother when they had waited about a
quarter of an hour, "if 'tother wagon should catch up we
shouldn't get there first !"
Faith laughed and said, "Well, mother !"
"Well, child," said her mother cheerfully, while Reuben
waved fresh signals to the obdurate ferryman, "I'm sure I
don't mind, if you don't."
"He's coming out now !" -said Reuben,-"or his wife is
---and that's just as good."
And so it appeared; for a short vision of a red petticoat
and blue jacket on the other bank, was followed by the ferry-
man himself,-the white sail rose up above the little boat,
and she floated smoothly over. Then Mrs. Derrick drove
carefully across the boat bridge, and long Tim pushed off
into the stream. How pretty it was ! the winding river
above, with its woody banks, and villages, and spires; and
its broader bends below, towards the Sound. They were
about midway in the stream when Reuben suddenly cried
out--6
" Look, Miss Faith !"-
And there came the great wagon, at not the slowest
possible rate, over the long marsh road.

r r.
1 r i    I
Y ' i
'kJ
}      ;    #
_)
i       }
5
i'    ." '  t4' ,
i,;
s   :t,
j ti _7
,   k

1
'k i Lf5
e
t
i;
./v .A Ft
t,  _


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

The first sight of the ferryboat and her freight was the
signal for a simultaneous shout from the whole wagon load
-which long Tim took for a summons to himself.
"'Taint no sort o' use hollering' ike that," he said, with a
little turn of his steering oar, *"'h cause I paint a going' back
till I get somewheres to go back from-nor then neither
mabbe. I kin count dollars whar they kint count cents,
neow."
And 'neow' the little wagon was beyond pursuit,-up
the hill from the ferry, on over the farm road, drove Mrs.
Derrick-somewhat at the quickest; until the old unten-
anted house rose just before them, and Reuben sprang down
to take the reins and help the ladies out.
It was a pleasant old farmhouse that, in spite of its de-
serted condition. They went to the kitchen, bright with
windows looking out to grass fields and trees. Mrs. Der-
rick stood at open door and window, recalling scenes and
people she remembered there, or watching for the big
wagon to make its appearance; while Reuben and Faith
went to the outhouses, and finally by dint of perseverance
found a supply of wood in an old rotten tumbled-down
fence. Mrs. Derrick proclaimed"that the wagon was com-
ing, as the foragers returned ; but there was a splendid
blaze going up chimney before the aforesaid conveyance
drew up at the door, and the whole first party turned 'out
to see it unload.
The wagon was unloaded in the twinkling of an eye;
then came rummaging for baskets ; then so many boys and
so many baskets hopped and hummed round, like a little
bevy of wasps-with nothing at -east of the bee business-
character about them.
" Mr. Linden, be we going to stop here ?"-
"Is here where the trees be, Mr. Linden ?"-
" Mr. Linden, Joe Deacon aint behaving nohow !"1
"Mr. Lindnwill we leave our baskets and come back
to the house ? or will they be to go along ?".-inquired a
more sober tongue.
While others were giving their opinion in little asides
that it was 'prime'-and 'fust-rate'-and arguing the com-
parative promise of chestnut and 'hickory trees. And one
of the bigger boys of the party, not distinguished for his

general good qualities, sidling up to Reuben, accosted him
under breath with a sly,
" So you druv Mr. Linden's sweetheart.  Aint you
spry ."
If Reuben had been in that line, he would probably have
sent the offender head first down the bank,-as it was, he
said quietly,   ,°
"I wouldn't let Mr. Jinden hear me say that, Phil, if I
was you."
"Don't mean ter. Aint you great ! But I say,-Joe
Deacon says you did."
"Joe Deacon's made a mistake for once in his life," said
Reuben rather contemptuously-'"and it isn't the first, by
several."
"Reuben," said Mr. Linden approaching the .group,
"you may all go and find where the best trees are, and then
come back and report to me. I put you in charge. Under-
stand"-he added, raising his voice a little, "Reuben Tay-
lor is leader of the search-whoever does not obey his
orders, does not obey mine."--And in a minute. the court-
yard was clear. Then Mr. Linden turned and walked up
to the house.
"Now what are you ladies going to do with yourselves ?"
he said. " Will you come out and sit under the trees and
look on-taking the chance of being hit by a stray nut now
and then ?"
".We can't-go wrong to-day," said Faith, with whom the
spirit of enjoyment was well at play. "When mother feels
in the mood of it we'll come. We can find you-we know
where to look. Weren't you obliged to us for doing the
waiting at the ferry ?"
"And for looking so picturesque in the distance,-it was
quite a thing to be grateful for. I think you will have no
difficulty in finding where we are- there will be noise
enough to guide you. I hope you have not brought a book
along, Miss Faith."
" Why, Mr. Linden ?"
"The 'running brooks' are good letter-press," he said--.
"and the grey stones, and that white oak in the meadow.
And is not that woodpecker a pretty illustration ?"
"I have looked at thgm often," said Faith. "I don'V

I

101

100

l'rFi
P -    r
y   q'r5r
t ,1 1
f      1E  { _   t
r       f   y     +
t       r   ly
,t   i Ilx}  .
Qt _    i    , E  -E 1, ..7x

+  ,
_;;
j
_ i,
, ,
',
i
i    j
t
N    '
t~+
'r
,)
itl
f '
r
yr.
;'
.
' .
.
"  3  '
i   .


102             SAY AND SEAL.

103

know how to read them as you do. There isn't any brook
here, though, that I know of, but Kildeer river. You'll
like Neanticut; Mr. Linden. Pm so glad you let us come.
I'll read everything-that I can."
"I don't know how long everything'll last you, child-.
at the rate you've gone on lately," said Mrs. Derrick who
stood in the doorway.
Faith smiled again, and shook her head a little at the
same time as her eye went from the woodpecker to the
green leaves above his head, then to the bright red of some
pepperidge trees further off, to the lush grass of the
meadow, and on-to the soft brownish, reddish, golden hues
Hof distant woodland. Her eye came back as from a book
it would take long to read thoroughly.
" I am so glad it is such a day.1" she repeated.
"I see my boys are doming back," Mr. Linden said, with
a smile which hardly belonged to them,-" I must go and
get their report. Au revoir, Miss Faith." 'And he went
forward into the midst of the little swarm-so manageable
in his hands, so sure to sting anybody else.
"Child," said Mrs. Derrick, looking over Faith's head
from her more elevated position of the door-sill (looking
at it too); "Child, why 'don't you get-" and there, for
the firs and last time in her life, Mrs. Derrick stopped
shor   the middle of a sentence.
" XV4'at, mother?"
But Mrs. Derrick replied not.
" What 4o you want me to get, mother ?"
" I don't know as I want you to get anything, child-
you've got enough now for me. Not that he wouldn't like
it, either," said Mrs. Derrick musingly -" because if he
wouldn't, I wouldn't give much for him. But I guess it's
just as well not." .And Mrs. Derrick stroked her hand
fondly over Faith's head, and told her that if she stood out
there without a bonnet she would get sunburnt.
"But mother !" said Faith' at this enigmatical speech,
"what do you mean ? Who wouldn't like what?"
"What does it signify, child ?-since I didn't say it ?"
" But motherr" persi~ed Faith gently, " what had I
better get that I haven't ?"  ---
" I don't know as you had better get it, child-and I
9*

never said he wouldn't like it, I'm sure," said Mrs. Derrick
with a little self-vindication.
"Who, mother ?"
"Why-nobody," said Mrs. Derrick,-' who's talking of
anybody ?"
"Dear mother," said Faith, "don't you mean to tell me
what you mean ?"
"I guess it's just as well not," her mother repeated.
"The fact that he'd like it don't-prove anything."
Faith looked at her, coloured .a little, laughed a little,
and gave up the point.
The morning passed on its pleasant way in quietness ;'at
least with the old farmhouse and its two occupants. Mrs. *
Derrick was not without her knitting, and having come
from the door sat comfortably click-clacking her needles
together-and her thoughts too perhaps-before the cheer-
ful blaze of the.fence sticks. Faith had a book with her-
a little one-with which she sat in the kitchen doorway,
which looked towards the direction, the nut party had
taken; and apparently divided her attention between that
volume and the one Mr. Linden had recommended. For
she looked down at the one and looked off at the other by
turns, in a sort of peaceful musing and note-taking, alto-
gether suited to the October stillness and beauty. Now
and then she got up to replenish. the fire. And then the
beauty and her musing got the better of the reading, and
Faith sat with her book in her hand, looking out into the
dream-provoking atmosphere. No sound came from the
far-off nut trees ; the crickets and grasshoppers and katy-
dids alone broke the stillness of the unused farm. Only
they moved, and the -wind-stirred leaves, and the slow-
creeping shadows.
When these last were but an hour's length from the tree
stems, Faith proposed an adjournment to the nut trees
before the party should come back to lunch. The fire was
inended, the pot of coffee put on to warm; and tkey locked
the door and set out.
It was not hot that day, even under the meridian sun.
They crossed an orchard, and one .or two farm fields, on the
skirts of which grew single trees of great beauty. White
oaks that had seen hundreds of years, yet stood'in as fresh

y         ((i
"y'r jf. ,r7  l
I ,  I , '}   1'~ilia i
r    d y .I I'1,';
Lw     t''If f'  '' 1
'        1 , le   ,Alt

SAY AND D SEAL.


104             SAY AND SEAL.

and hale green youth as the upstart of twenty; sometime
a hemlock or a white pine stretching its lithe branches fa
and wide and generously allowed to do so in despite o
pasture and crops. Then came broken ground, and beyoi
this a strip of fallow at the further border of which stood
a continuous wall of woodland, being in fact the. crest o
the bank of the little river Faith had referred to.
And now, and truly for one or two fields before, th
shouts and cries of the nut-hunters rang through the ai
For just edging, and edging into, the border of trees la
spoken of, were the great chestnuts and hickories ; a
underneath and among them many little dark spots wei
flying, about; which spots, as Mrs. Derrick and Faith caim
up, enlarged into the familiar outlines of boys' cap
jackets, and trowsers, and ran about on two legs apiece.

ir
If
d
d
)f

CHAPTER X.

HE two ladies paused at a safe distance,..-there seemed
e   to be nothing but boys astir  boys and nuts; and
r.     these last not dropping from t/he tree, but thrown from hand
st     to hand (hand to head would ;be more correct) of the busy
d   throng. Some picking up, spme throwing stones to bring
re      down, others at some flat stony 'shucking,' others still filling
1e     their baskets. And four boys out of five, cracking and
's     eating-whatever else they were about. The grass, trodden
down by the many feet, lay iniprostrate shadow at the foot
of the great tree; and the shadows of other trees fell and
met in soft wavy outline. From the side of- one old tree a
family of grey squirrels looked out, to see the besiegers lay
waste the surrounding country; in the top of another-a
tall hickory, full clad with golden leaves, Mr. Linden sat-.
to view the same country himself; well knowing that he had
given the boys full occupation for at least fifteen minutes.
He was not very visible from below, so thickly did the gold
leaves close him in ; but Faith heard one of the boys call
out,
"You Johnny Fax! if you throw stones in that tree,
you'll hit Mr. Linden."
"Trust Johnny Fax for not never throwin'so high as he
is," said Joe Deacon.
"I don't want to-" said Johnny Fax-" I don't want to
fetch him down."
Whereupon there was a general shout, and "Guess you'd
better not, Johnny !"-" lie might come, if you didn't just
hit him," vociferated from various quarters.
" My !" Mrs. Derrick said, surveying the golden hickory,
"how on earth did he ever get up ?-And how do you s'pose,
Faith, he'll ever get down !"
Faith's low laugh was her only answer ; but it would have
told, to anybody who could thoroughly have translated it,
Faith's mind on both points.
Apparently. he was in no haste to come down--certainly
(105)

,,.   ; } .
,
'    L   i    I.    ' i 1     '
'        ,l iJ'  +'i If       r
I  ;I, j  l   ::
i          i     '    i
i,,ff l=i, ,{,.  f
E'    ,  t,;'    '-1 i


106

SAY AND SEAL.

meant to send the nuts first; for a sudden shower of hickory
nuts and leaves swept away every boy from the tree near
which Faith and her mother stood, and drew them all into
its vortex. Drop, drop, the nuts came down, with their
sweet patter upon the grass; while the golden leaves fell
singly or in sprays, or floated off upon the calm air.
"'Child," said Mrs. Derrick, "how pretty it is ! I haven't
seen such a sight since-since a long while ago," she added
with a sobering face.
"I want to be there under the tree," said Faith looking
on enviously. "No mother-and I haven't seen it before in
a long time, either. It's as pretty as it can be !"
"Run along then, child," said her mother,-".only take
care of your eyes. Why shouldn't you?  I don't want to
pick up nuts myself, but I'll go down and pick you up."
Faith however kept away from the crowd under the hick-
ory tree; and went peering about under some others where
the ground was beaten and the branches had been, and soon
found enough spoil to be hammering away with a stone on
a rock like the rest. But she couldn't escape the boys so,
for little runners came to her constantly.. One brought a
handful of nuts, another a better stone-while a third told
her of 'lots' under the other tree; and Reuben Taylor was
ready to crack or climb as she chose to direct.
"If you'll cone down the otier side, Miss. Faith," said
Reuben, "down by the bank, you could see it all a great
deal better."
Faith seized two or three nuts and jumped up, and Reu.
ben led the way through the leaf-strewn grass to the other
side of the mob.  But mobs are uncertain things! No
sooner was Faith seen approaching the hickory, though yet
full three feet from the utmost bound of its shadow, than
a sudden pause in the great business of the day was followed
by such a tumultuous shout of "Three cheers for Miss
Faith Derrick !-the prettiest girl in Pattaquasset !"-that
she was well nigh deafened. And promptly upon that, Joe
Deacon stepped up to Reuben and whispered,
"That'll fetch him down1"
Faith did not hear the words-she only heard Reuben's
indignant,
" Joe Deacon! behave yourself. What makes you

SAY AND SEAL.

107

always leave your manners home? that big basket of
yours would have held 'em all, easy."
"I didn't know but Sam might want 'em," replied the
unabashed Joe, dashing back into the midst of his com
panions, whije Reuben at last reached the pretty look-out
at the edge of the woods where Faith could see the whole
meadow and its scattered trees. And having placed .her
there ran off again. Standing half hidden by the oaks and
chestnuts, she could see the whole group clustering about
the climber now, for he had come down from his high post.
"Boys," he said, "I am going back to the house to din-
ncr. Any boy who prefers nuts to dinner may stay and
pick them up."
A sudden recollection came over Faith that her fire was
probably well down and coffee not in a state presentable)
Taking a survey of the ground, and calculating that so
large a company would want a little time to get under
weigh, she slipped round to where her mother sat, and
giving her a word, set off fleetly and skilfully under cover
of some outstanding chestnuts across the fallow. If she
had known it, Faith need not have shunned to shew her
running, for prettier running could not be. She was soon
hidden in the further woodland.
The rest of the party took it more leisurely, so their
outrunner easily gained her point; and having put the fire
in order stood at the door to watch the progress of the
coming invasion. It looked enough like that. For though
excellent order of march had been kept for most of the
way, the main body of the troops ~maintaining a proper
position in the rear of their captain who was quietly escort-
ing Mrs. Derrick over the meadows, no sooner did the
whole band come in sight of the distant place of lunch
baskets, than it became manifest for the hundred thousandth
time that liberty too long enjoyed leads to license. Scat-
tering a little from the direct line of march, the better to
cover their purpose or evade any check thereto, as if by
concert, first one and then another set off on a run,-..
sprang the orchard .fence, - and by the time the mid-
orchard was reached all of Mr. Linden's force with the
exception 'of one or two of the very steadiest, were ahead
of himn and straining in full run, if not in full cry, for the

"  1  +         4
-JE
n Ali
_         .a
Fit      L t+,
,      a        , x at
r  . j{f  " v
F   r1.
l     S- 1
B's

I i.!Y4           I


108            SAY AND SEAL.

109

now near-at-hand farmhouse quaii'y. Beyond all call or
hindrance. Standing at the kitchen door, Faith watched'
their coming; but discerning beyond the runners the one
or two figures that did pnot indeed 'bring up the rear' but
that covered it, and supposing that the invaders' object was
to storm the wagon in which the lunch baskets were hid,
she stood her ground ; till she perceived that the foremost
of the band were making straight for the kitchen door, and
all the rest in their order. Faith gave back a little and
the whole horde poured in. The fire was in a brisk blaze-
the table had nice white cups and naperies on it; the nose
of the coffee-pot was steaming. It looked altogether ani
inviting place.,- Down went hats and caps on the floor,
from some of the party, and the whole of them with
flushed faces and open mouths took the survey.
"Ain't itjplly here !"
"I wonder if he'll let us take our dinner in here. There's
lots o'.room.".--
"It's good shady."
"It's a long sight better under the trees."-.
" Coffee !-mI'in blessed !"-said a+ fifth speaker bending
over the fireplace; while a sixth began slyly to inspect
what lay under Faith's napkins on the table.
"Charley," said Mr. Linden's quiet voice from the door-
way, "did Miss Derrick desire you to uncover her dishes ?"
The hand slipped from what it touched, as stealthily the
boy's eye went to the face of the speaker, in the one place
if not in the other 'to see what there might be.'
"I will bear witness that you have 'carried' the house,"
Mr. Linden went on,-" now I should like to see you tarry
the wagon. It will be a more useful enterprise than this.
Only remember that one of the first duties of a surprise
party is to go forth softly."
"Where will we carry the wagon to, sir ?" inquired one
of the party.
"As far from the house as you can," said Mr. Linden,
with a little glance at Faith. "Come ! be off !-great
enterprises are never finished till they are begun."
"I'd like to begin dinner, anyhow," said one,catching up
his cap and leading~ off.
As quick and more quick than. it had been filled, the

room was cleared ; and laughing Faith watched the busy
swarm as they poured towards their magazine. Then re-
membered her own and came back to offer it.
"You may as well rest, Mr. Linden," said Faith as she
offered him a cup of coffee. "I'm sure they are all com-
fortable. Besides, ,you particularly desired a fire and some-
body in the house, you know."
"Miss' Faith," he said, (taking the cup however) "I'm
afraid your notions of duty are very slack ! What sort of
a captain would you make to, a beleaguered city? I shall
make you read the story of Catherine Douglass."
"Will you ?" said Faith looking very pleased.' "And
what is 'beleaguered,' Mr. Linden ? in the meantime."
"'Beleaguered' means, to be beset with a swarm of in-
vaders who want to come in and ought to be kept out."
"I didn't know I ought to keep them out," said Faith
laughing, "or I'd have done it."
Mr.; Linden shook his head doubtfully. "I saw you give
way !" he said,--"I 'doubt whether there was even a show
of resistance. Now Catherine Douglass-But I must go.
No, don't tempt me with apple pie-you have no idea of
the pies in that wagon. Perhaps if I get successfully
through them, I'll come back and dispose of yours. What
are you reading to-day ?-.-'Le Philosophe' ?"
A little soberness came over Faith's smile as she shook
her head and said no.
"I can't stay to ask a question upon that-but I'll ask
you two by and by to pay for it."
And he went out to that little cluster of life that hung
about the great wagon, making himself at once the centre
of pleasure and interest and even fun, as Faith's eye and
ear now and then informed her.  It was pretty, the wyg
they closed in about him-wild and untutored as they were,
--pretty to see him meet them so easily on their own
ground, yet always enticing them towards something better.
Mrs. Derrick thought so too, for she stood in the doorway
and smiled very pleasantly.
"He's a real nice man, Faith," she said. "I don't won-
der the boys like him."
Faith did not wonder at it, but she did not answer,
though she too stood looking.
vot. 1,                10

1  '4;
l., ',
k , .
S.
't  S
!       .
T i
;i
S    3
F E ,.
.  ,{   _,
2'
a

SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

The ladies had finished their lunch, and Mr. Linden had
perhaps not finished his, for he came in again to take
another cup of coffee while the boys were disposing of that
very ragged piece of time which the end of a boys' feast
invariably is. So much peace and quietness he gave him.-
self, if he did not give himself a sandwich-of which I am
not certain.,
"Mr. Linden," said Faith,   want to ask something-.
will you tell me if you don't like it ?"
"Don't like to have you ask me, do you mean? I do like
it."
"Then," said Faith half laughing, " will you tell me if
you don't quite like what I mean ?".
I'll see-" Mr. Linden replied with a smile. "It's not
safefor teachers to commit themselves."
"But I must commit myself," said Faith. "I want to
go and pick up nuts with the boys under the trees-may I?"
She looked for her answer with an eye that thought he
might possibly find an objection where she saw none.
He paused a little before he replied,   -
"I hink you may-if I could be among them and
answr for their good behaviour I should not need to think
about it; but you know a man loses power when he is too
far above the heads of his audience. Yet I think I may
trust them-and you," he added with a little smile. "Espe-
cially as the first tree touched this afternoon is yours."
"What does that mean?" said Faith, her doubt all gone.
"Do you think I shall so far forget my office as to let
them pi   up nuts for nobody but themselves?  Therefore
the first   this afternoon is for you-or if you please for
your mother; the second for Mr. Simlins. If' that will
take away your desire for 'the fun,' why I cannot help it."
"I have no objection to pick up nuts for mother, nor
even for Mr. Simlins," said Faith smiling. "And I am not
afraid of the boys - I know half of them, you know.
Thank you, Mr. Linden!"
"You might, if I could take you up into the tree-top.
There is fine reading on those upper shelves.?,
Her eye showed instantly that she liked thatjhigher' fun
best-not the tree-top, verily, but the reading, that she
could not get at. Yet for Faith there were cirarms plenty

below the tree-tops, in both kinds; and she looked very
happy.
"Well".-Mr. Linden said, "as the successful meeting of
one emergency always helps us in the next,-and as it is
quite impossible to tell what you may meet under those nut
trees, -let me give you a little abstract of Catherine
Douglass, before you read it and before I go. The said lady
wishing to keep the door against sundry lords and gentle-
men who came with murderous intent against her sovereign;
and finding no bar to aid her loyal endeavours,--did boldly
(thrust her own arm through the stanchions of the door.
To be sure-'the brave lady's arm was soon broken,'-but
after all, what did that signify ?"
And with a laughing gesture of farewell, he once more
left the house. With which cessation of murmuring voices,
Mrs. Derrick awoke from her after dinner nap in the rock-
ing chair. Faith was standing in the middle of the floor,
smiling and looking in a puzzle.
"Mother, will you go over to the nutting again?."
"I'm a great deal more likely to go to sleep again," said
Mrs. Derrick rubbing her eyes. "It's the sleepiest place I
ever saw in my life-or else it's having nothing to do. I
don't doubt you're half asleep too, Faith, only you won't
own it."
The decision was, that Mrs. Derrick preferred to sit
quiet in the house; she said she would maybe run down by'
and by and see what they were at. So Faith took her sun-
bonnet, kissed her mother; and went forth with light step
over the meadow and through the orchard.
The nutting party she found a little further on in the
same edge of woodland. It seemed that they had pitched
upon a great chestnut' for her tree; and Faith was half
concerned to see what a quantity of work they had given
themselves on her account. However, the proverb of 'many
hands' was verified here; the ground under the chestnut
tree was like a colony, of ants, while in the capacious head
of the tree their captain, established quite at his ease, was
whipping off the burrs with a long pole.
Faith to*a general view as she came up, and then fell
upon ghe chestnut burrs like the rest of them; and no boy
there worked more readily or joyously. There seemed

SAY AND SEAL.

110

111"

r ;5  Si4
i Is-
e^      " t i.'j
sae
"r ,        1 V .tf  V 1 j"  ' 1
APO
'     "    _  t viF
'r ire=


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

little justification of Mr. Linden's doubts of the boys or
fears for her. Faith was everywhere among them, and
making Reuben's prophecy true, that 'they would all enjoy
themselves a great deal better' for her being there; throw.
ing nuts into the baskets of the little boys and pleasant
words at the heads of the big ones, that hit softly and did
gentle execution; giving sly handfuls to. Reuben, and then
hammering out for some little fellow the burrs that her
hands were yet more unfit to deal with than his; and doing
it all with a will that the very spirit of enjoyment seemed
to have moved. She in any danger of rude treatment from
those boys! Nothing further from the truth. And so her
happy face informed Mr. Linden, when he at last descended
to terra firma out of the stripped chestnut tree.
lie did not say anything, but leaning up against the
great brown trunk of the chestnut took a pleased survey of
the whole-then went to work with the rest.
"Boys !" he said-"aren't there enough of you to open
these burrs as fast as Miss Derrick cart pick out the nuts?
You should never let a lady prick her fingers when you can
prick yours in her place."
There was a general shout and rush at this, which ma.
Faith give way before it. The burrs disappeared fast; thf
brown nuts gathered idto an immense heap. That tree
was done.
"Hurrah! for Mr. Simlins !"I shouted all the boys,'
throwing up their caps into the air,-then turning somer-
sets, and wrestling, and rolling over by way of further
relief to their feelings.
"The chestnut beyond that red maple for him," said
Mr.. Linden, flinging a little stone in the right direction;
at which with'nother shout the little tornado swept away.
"Will you follow, Miss Faith? or are you tired ?"
"No, I'm not tired yet. I must do something for Mr.
Simlins."
"Well don't handle those burrs-" he said. "They're
worse than darning needles."
"Have you seen Kildeer river yet, Mr. Linden ?"
"I have had a bird's eye view."
Faith looked a little wistfully, but only said;,
"We must look at it after the nutting is . done.9

112

'? ;  ,r
i,
.~
y
-t
-1
_  '
,
s
,q
siY.
S."
F

'J

113

That's a bit of reading hereabout you ought not to pass
over."
"I mean to read 'everything I can,' too," he said with a
Mile as they reached the tree.
"Now Mr. Linden," said Joe Deacon, "this tree's a
whapper ! How long you suppose it'll take you to go up ?"
"About as long as it would you to come down---every-
one knows how long that would be. Stand out of my way,
boys-catch all the burrs on your own heads and don't let
one fall on Miss Derrick." And amidst the general laugh
Mr. Linden swung himself up into the branches in a way
that made his words good; while Joe Deacon whistled and
danced 'Yankee Doodle' round the great trunk.
Half at least of Mr. Linden's directions the boys
obeyed;-they caught all the burrs they well could, on
their own heads.  Faith was too busy among them to
avoid catching some on her own bright hair whenever her
sunbonnet declined to stay on, which happened frequently.
"he new object lent this tree a new interest of its own, and
boys being an untiring species of animals the sport went
on with no perceptible flagging. But when this tree too
was about half cleared, Faith withdi'ew a little from the
busy rush and bustle, left the chestnuts and chestnut burrs,
and sat down on the bank to rest and look. Her eye wan-
dered to the further woodland, softest of all in hazy veils;
to the nearer brilliant vegetation; the open fallow; the
wood behind her, where the trees closed in upon each
other; ,oftenest of all, at the 'whapper' of a tree in which
Mr. Linden still kept his place, and at the happy busy
sight and sound of all under that tree.
And so it happened, that when in time Mr. linden
came down out of Mr. Simlins' chestnut, besides the boys
he found nobody there but Mr. Simlins himself.
"Well!"-said that gentleman after a cordial grasp of
the hand,-."I reckon, in the matter of nuts you're going
to reduce me to penur'ousness! How you like Neanticut ?"
"It's a fine place," said Mr. Linden.-"And for the
matter of nuts,.you need not take the benefit of the bank-
rupt act yet, Mr. Simlits."
"Over her~ to see a man on business," . Mr. Simling
went on in p~4lanation,-"and thought I'd look at

Ilion
lost
al tt} oK t$'
t  M 3 !
f  4+r
I     1
5          3
ftt
L     ,j


114

SAY AND SEAL.

(

you by the way. Don't you want to take this farm of
me ?"0
"I might want to do it-and yet not be able," was the
smiling reply; while one of the smallest boys, pulling the
tail of the grey coat which Mr. Simlins wore 'on business,'
and pointing to the heap of nuts, said s cinctly,
"Them's yourn 1"
"Mine !" said Mr. Simlins. "Well where's yourn? What
have you done with Miss Faith Derrick ?"
"Why we hain't done nothin' to her," said the boy.-
"she's done a'heap to us."
"What has she done to you, you green hickory ?"
"Why-she's run round, firstrate," said little Rob,--"and
she's helped me shuck."
"So some o' you's 'thanked her. 'Twan't you. Here,
yo sir," said Mr. Simlins, addressing this time Joe Dea-
con, "what have you been doing with Miss Fa'th Der-
rick "
" bain't Sam," was Joe's rather cool rejoinde , with a
slight relapsing into Yankee Doodle.
"Hollo !" said Mr. Simlins-" I thought you'd learned
all school could teach you, and give up to come?"
" Only the last part is true, Mr. Simlins," said. Mr. Lin-
den, who while Joe spoke had been himself speaking to
one of the other boys.
Mr. Simlins grunted. "School ain't all 'nuts to him,'
he said with a grim smile. "Well which of you was it?--
'twas a fellow about as big as you-here, you siF-!"-ad-
dressing in a more assured tone another boy who was swag-
gering near,-" you! what have you been doing to Miss
Faith?  It was you."
"'Twan't me, another !" said. the boy surlily; "nor I
hain't done nothin'! but minded my own business." ,
In a tone which implied that Mr. Simlins was not acting
on the same laudable principle.
"What has been done ?" said Mr. Linden. And cer-
tainly his tone implied that he was minding his own busi-
ness.
"Well," said Mr. Simlins, "I don't kno tas they've done
much of anything ; but I guessed they'd been* givin' her
some sass or vexin' her somehow; and as she's a kind o'

SAY AND SEAL.

115

favourite o' mine it riled me. I was too fur to hear what
'twas."
"Where was she ?"
"She was round yonder-not fur-There had been some
sort of a scrimmage, I guess, between two of 'em, a little
one and this fellow; and she parted 'em. She had hold o'
this one when I see 'em first-you couldn't have done it
better," said Mr. Simlins with a sly cast of his eye;-"you
can set her to be your 'vice' when you want one. I was
coming' up from the river, you see, and came up behind 'em,
aid I couldn't hear what they said; but when she let him
go, I see her give a kind o' sheer look round this way, and
then she put up her hand to her cheek and cleared for home
like-a gazetteer !"--said Mr. Simlins, who had given this
information in an undertone. "Made straight tracks for
the house, I tell ye!"
"A little one and which one ?" was the next inquiry.
Mr. Simlins went peering about among the crowd and
finally laid hold on the identical shoulder of little Johnny
Fax.
"Ain't it you ?" said .Mr. Simlins. "Ain't that red
basket yourn ?"
Johnny nodded.
"I knowed the basket," said Mr. Simlins returning.
"That's about all that makes the difference between one
boy and another! what sort of a basket he carries. "The
other fellow is the one I was speakin' to first-I can swear
to him-the big one."
Mr. Linden took out his watch.
"Thank you, Mr. Simlins," he said. "Boys-it is half
past four,-get your nuts and baskets and bring them up, to
the house. ReubeyTaylor-do you see that it is done."
With which words Mr. Linden also 'made tracks' for the
house-and 'straight' ones, but with not too much notice-
taking of the golden leaves under his feet.
The truth about Faith was this. While sitting on the
grass, taking the pleasure of the place and time, the peace
was at length broken by discordant sounds in her neighbour,
hood; sounds of harsh voices, and scuffling. Looking round
for the cause and meaning of all this, she found that the voices
came from behind a thicket of sumach and laurel at her


116             SAY AND SEAL.

back, and belonged to some of the boys. Faith went round
the thicket. There were a big boy and a little boy tugging
at a basket, both tugging; the little fellow holding to it
with all his might, while the big boy, almost getting it
from him with one hand, was laying the other very freely
about his ears and shoulders. Faith 4ieard. the little one
say, "I'll tell-"
And the other, a boy whose name Faith had learned
only that morning, shouted in answer,
"You tell! You tell if you dare! You tell and I'll kill
you !-Leave hold !"-
A round blow was given with the words, which told, but
the little boy still held on to his basket.,
"For shame, Phil Davids! you a big boy !"-said Faith.
There was a stay of proceedings while they looked at
her, both parties keeping fast hold however, and both
tongues at once combating for hearing and belief. The
little boy, Johnny Fax himself, paid the nuts were his;
which the elder denied.
"Let him have his nuts, Phil," said Faith gently. "He
must have them-they belong to him."
"He aint a goin' ter, though," said Davids,-"and you
can't do nothin,' if you air Mr. Linden's sweetheart. You
air-Joe Deacon says you be. Leave hold, you1!-."
Thinking Faith quelled perhaps, Phil began the struggle
again fiercely, with grappling and blows. But Faith laid
hold suddenly on the arm that was rising the second time,
and bade the boy sternly behave himself and let the basket
go. It was not immediately done. He had strength much
more than hers, but something withheld him fromn exerting
it. Nothing withheld his tongue.
"Aint you 4Ir. Linden's sweetheart?" he said insolently.
"Joe Deabon says you be."
"No sir!" said Faith; "and you are a bad boy.';
"Joe Deachn says you be.!"
But Faith did not relax her hold, and spoke with a steady
voice and for that time at least with a steady eye of com-
mand which was obeyed.'
"Let him go !-Johnny, run off with your basket and be
quiet; that's a good boy. Davids, you'll be quiet the rest
of the day for your own sake."

SAY AND SEAL.                  11
The boys parted sullenly, Johnny to run off as she had
bidden him; and Faith turned from the green bank, the nut
trees, and the frolic, and laying one hand upon the cheek
that faced that way, as if to hide its burning from eyes too
far.off to see it, she went into the house.
She put the brands together which had burnt out, and
built the fire up on the strictest principles, though no fire
was wanted at present; the day had mellowed into warmth.
Perhaps Faith recollected that after she had got through,
for she left the fire to take care of itself and sat down
again on the doorstep looking towards the nut-tree field.
For a good while her cheek wore its troubled flush; her
hand went up to it once or twice as if to cool it off, and
her brow bespoke her using other and more effectual
measures. It cooled at last, ipto complete quietness and
sweetness; and Faith's face was just like itself when the
first of the party came back from the nut field.
That first one, as we have seen, was Mr.-Linden. He
found both the ladies in the farmhouse kitchen; Mrs. Der-
rick very comfortably at her knitting. Faith was doing
nothing; but she looked up, when she looked up, with just
her own face; not certainly in the happy glow he had seen
under the nut tree, nor with the sparkle of busy pleasure it
had worn in the morning; but as it was every day at home.
Mr. Linden arranged the fire and then stood considering
it-or something-for a minute in silence; until Mrs. Der-
rick inquired "if he had found as much as he expected ?"--.
but upon his replying somewhat dryly, "Rather more"-the
conversation dropped again.                         .
"You ought to be tired now, Mr. Linden," Faith said
gently.
"I am afraid you are."
"No,".she sai4,-1"I am not at all."
"Well then-why show n't we have our look at Kildeer
river? You said we must."
"0, if you like it 1" said Faith, a bright Jittle tinge of.
pleasure coming into her cheek, and her sunbonnet was in
hand immediately. "But aren't you tired ?" she added
doubtfully as they were passing out of the door. "You've
been hard at work."
"You -will have~ to pay for saying you are not, Miss

a      I{
5


SAY AND SEAL.

118             SAY AND SEAL.

Faith,-I mean to make you run all the way down to the
bank."
And holding out his hand to her, Mr. Linden half made
his threat good; for though his own pace was not much
more than a quick walk, by means of skilful short cuts and
long steps, Faith had a gentle little run a good part of the
way. Not down through the crowd of boys and baskets,
but skirting the meadow-passing from the shelter of
one great tree to another, till they reached the bank and
saw the blue waters of Kildeer river at their feet. There
she was permitted to sit down and rest. A little laughing
and a little flushed, her happy look was almost brought back
again. But she sat and gazed down at the pretty stream
and its picturesque banks without saying anything; letting
Mr. Linden take his own view of them. His own view
was a peculiar one--to judge by his words.
"Miss Faith, I suppose you are not much acquainted
with law forms,-yet you perhaps know that an important
witness in an important case, is sometimes put in prison
until his evidence Is obtained."
Faith looked up at him in pure astonishment, the corners
of her mouth indicating that she expected another puzzle,
or rather was, already engaged in one. The look made,
his gravity give way a little.
"I thought you might like to know your position at
present," he said.
"I don't know it yet, Mr. Linden."
"   dIt is that of the unfortunate prisoner to whom I
referred."
"A prisoner 1-" said Faith looking up at him very much
amused. "Well, Mr. Linden?"
He looked amused too, yet with a difference.
"Well, Miss Faith-You are a prisoner, for political
purposes. There is no practicable way for you to get
back to the house save through the witness-box."
"Where is the witness-box ?" said Faith.
"Are you in a hurry to be in.it ?"
"No," said Faith with a very unshadowed smile, "I am
not in a hurry for anything." -
"Then tell me what you. have been reading to-day," heo
said, throwing himself down on the grass beside -her.

i ,; " Sf
a ?4s"
. y

.

She looked athim, hesitated, then said with a lowered
tone,
"I have been reading what you told me to read-and
my testament."
Mr. Linden lifted his hat a little, replaced it-rather
more down over his brows than before, looking steadily
down at Kildeer river the while.
"Why did you look grave when I asked you if you had
brought 'Le Philosophe'?"
"I didn't know I did !" said Faith simply. "I had brought
only my testament."
" Only-" Mr. Linden repeated. "Well, from 'only' a
testament and only such a scene-a skilful reader may get
much." Then turning and looking her full in the face, he
said, "Miss Faith - what have those boys done to vex
you?"
A sudden, painful, startled flush answered him. She
did not look now; she said earnestly,
"Please Mr. Linden, don't speak of it!"
I must know-" was his only answer.
" No," she said gently but troubled,-"you mustn't know,
and there is no need you should. There is no need," she
repeated eagerly.
"There is another true little witness I can call upon-.
but I would rather have your account."
"How did you know ?-how did you know anything
about it ?" said Faith, facing round upon him in her
turn.
"Gentlemen of what Miss Danforth is pleased to call
'my profession' must know things occasionally," said Mr.
Linden.
"What do you think you know, Mr. Linden ?" she said a
little timidly.
His answer was gentle though resolute.
"I don't think I know anything. What I know, I know
----what I do not, I will."
Faith'sA head half drooped for an instant, and the flush
which had faded came back painfully. Then she looked
at him again, and though the flush was there she spoke as
usual.
"You won't try, Mr. Linden-because I am going to ask

119

'  .'
I  'ii
.s   ,
i;1i  ,)  3i l!11
,i''1  }1j' I
.'     , ,
;i:  i {    i
,  ."k


120                SAY AND SEAL.
you not. It is nothing you need take up-it was nothing
but-what perhaps I was foolish to mind. I don't mind it
now-much-"
But there was a grave falling off in the tone of that
'much.' She felt it herself, for she rallied and said with
her own quiet frank smile,
"I shall not mind pit at all to-morrow."
Mr. Linden looked at her while she spoke, gravely and
intently enough; but then he looked away at the river
again, and probably read problems in its soft rippling
waters, for he spoke not. Overhead a hawk sailed noise-
lessly to and fro, on spread wings,-in the trees close at
hand a squirrel chattered and barked with his mouth full,
The afternoon light left Kildeer river step by step, and the
shadows crept after.
Now the one white speck of cloud reflected in that peace-
ful stream was no break in its beauty,-it marred nothing,
nay, even brought ak little glow of its own to replace the
sunbeams. Yet at that speck did Mr. Linden take aim-.
sending his pebble so surely, so powerfully, that the mirror
itself was shattered to the remotest shore! Then he stood
up and announced that it was time to go.
Faith stood up, but stood still, and waited somewhat
anxiously upon the answer to her question.
"Then, Mr. Linden, you will not speak of it any more ?"
"The witness is discharged," he answered lightly, and
walking on.
She sprang after and placed herself directly in his way.
"Mr. Linden-please give me your promise !"
He looked down at her with eyes that were a little
moved.                                         /
"Miss Faith," he said, "please give me yours !"
"For what ?" said Faith.
"That you will trust me-and not ask what I do."
"Yes,"-said Faith,-"but-You must trust me, Mr.
Linden," she said smiling at him,-" and believe me that
this is nothing for you to take up-mere nonsense;-
nothing at all to-morrow,-it is nothing to me now. I
want your word."
She wanted it very much, it, was 'easy to see; but beyond
that, her face dide4ot belie her words.

SAY AND SEAL         .121

"I don't suppose Mrs: Derrick ever called-you 'naughty
child"'-said Mr. Linden,-" but if ever she did she might
to-night. Look where the sun is-and where I am,-and
guess where those boys are ! Come-" and it was not easy
to resist the hand that again took hold of hers, nor the
quick pace at which he went forward.
And for some fields' length Faith yielded and went as
fast as he pleased. Then as he stopped to put up a bar-
place shy said again, very gently but firmly too, standing
before him,
"Mr. Linden, I think I have a right to ask this. I know
what I ask, but you do not."
"I never questioned your right, Miss Faith."
"Then you'll not deny it to me ?"
"What is your idea of trust ?" said Mr. Linden, replacing
the last bar.
"That it is something I ought to have just now," said
Faith, smiling a little.
He stood leaning on the bars and looking at her-a kind
look, that she might well trust.
"Child," he said,. "you don't know what you are talking
about-and I do. And if .you will not trust me any
further than you can see ine, you don't dc )erve to be called
Miss Faith any longer ! Now don't you think I have a
right to get home and attend to my duties-?"
She yielded utterly at that, but with a set of her lip
which he had never seen before; it was trembling. She was
turning-to go on, when as if to make amends for that-or
to .ask forgiveness generally-or to give assurance of the
trust he had claimed,-she stretched out her hand to him
and went by his help again until the orchard was reached
and other eyes might be expected to be on the look-out for
them.
"Do you like to read letters written from other countries
by people you have never seen ?" Mr. Linden said when
they reached that point.
Faith's eyes opened slightly as was their way when sud-
denly astonished, and a little colour started too, of surprise
or pleasure.
"I never did read any," she said,-"I should like it."
"Well, Miss Faith, I[think Mrs. Derrick and Reuben
VOr,. .               ni

TTF  w {
Ali
pill,
J lr--t"-r-ti 7 -, f
,i "
(                     'I'  r         fr 1
f( iti   Y
li       fl  "J  '  n
)! 4
';  I; t311Y. ?1116


SAY AND SEAL.

122

can manage that brown horse-especially as he has had no
oats to-day-and I want you to take 'possession of the
whole of the back seat, put yourself in a comfortable posi..
tion, and spend the rest of the daylight in Italy with my sister.
When it gets dark you may go to sleep. And here is the
talismanic paper by whose help you must make the
journey. "
What a colour thanked him! what a rosy flush of plea-
sure and gratitude ! To say 'thank you' Faith nearly
forgot. But it was said.
There was no more delay of any kind after that.
Wagons were ready, and baskets, and boys,; also Mrs.
Derrick; and Faith was ready first of all. So the two
parties, now getting under weigh, went fairly hpmewards,
by an evening sky and a night full of stars. Only one
incident need be recorded.
The ferry-was passed, and four of the six miles between
that and the central town of Pattaquasset, when Mr. Linden.
suddenly checked his horses. Turning half round, and laying
a pretty imperative hand on the collar of Phil Davids, he
dropped him outside the wagon--like a walnut from its
husk.-remarking that he had seen enough of him for one
day, and did not wish to hear of him again till next
morning.
*0

CHAPTER XI.

LITTLE Charles twelfth did not come to meet his $pun-
day school teacher, as had been arranged, the Suhday
precedingthe'Neanticut expedition. Faith waited for him
in the morning-waited gnd hoped,--but was not greatly
surprised to find that she had waited in vain. Charles the
twelfth, whether or not he was to follow during life the
erratic andwilful course of his namesake, was that day at
least not to be led by her. So Faith went to church, medi-
tating a sometime' descent upon Mrs. Seacomb's shady.
domain, there to meet and recapture the heart of her little
charge. For so he seemed to her now. But on her return
from the morning service, she found Charles the twelfth,
crest-fallen and repentant, in his turn waiting for her.,
The -matter was, his brother Americus Vespucius had shut
him up, so that he couldn't come; and as soon as he was
set free Charles the twelfth had used his freedom and his
legs in 'making tracks,' to use Mr. Simlins' expression,
for Mrs. Derrick's abode; and on this occasion he had
made many fewer 'tracks' than the afternoon, of his pre-
viously recorded invasion ; as being somewhat burdened in
spirit he had stopped for no somersets, and had been lured
aside by no tempting invitations of a dusty place or a mud-
puddle.
Faith heard his story gravely and sympathizingly; com-
forted him up; encouraged him to hope that the discoverer
of America would not prove so adverse to his making dis-
coveries another Sunday; gave him a little talk and a good
dinner, and sent him home cheerful and determined. The
very mood for success; accordingly the next morning after
the return from Neanticut, being Sunday, Charles the twelfth
presented himself at  the house in brave good time ; and
Faith and her little charge, for the first time in their lives
both of them, went to Sunday school.  The child very im-
portant and expectant; the teacher very gentle and very.
grave indeed.
(123)

rtk [I  r 4

Sf..
-     1
-3
' ; -
_
Jj
~ 'l.
' .r" i
,i ,
f  ' . a
i


SAY AND SEAL.

124

Faith had made her arrangements the Sunday before;
so she and Charles twelfth proceeded at once to the place
assigned her. At the opening services the king of Sweden
stared mightily. Faith looked at nothing.   She had a
feeling that other children and other teachers were nearer
to her than she wished they were ; and she was a little un.
certain how best to take hold of the odd little piece of
humanity intrusted to her care. However, when the read-
ing and the singing.were over Faith began a long low talk
to him about some Bible story, diverging as she went on to
an account of the other world, and the two ways that lead
to it, and the two sorts of people that travel them. And
becoming exceedingly interested herself, she fastened the
eyes of Charles the twelfth in a way that skewed his
thoughts were cleaving to hers. Faith's own thoughts
were cleaving elsewhere. The things she said were simply.
said; her words were the plainest; her illustrations just at
his hand ; but the voice in which they were given would
alone have won the ear of a child ;. and whatever other
impression her words made upon his mind; the fixed conclu-
sion in which he was left at the ending was, that whatever
way she was travelling was the right one !
It was a beautiful fair first of October; still and sunny;
but if it had not, it would probably have been a fair day to
Faith after that beginning of it., She.looked as if it was,
in the church, and on the way home, and at the quiet din-
ner table ; her face was a transcript of the day; still and
sunny. It seemed to be true, her promise that the annoy-
ance of yesterday would be nothing to her to-day. There
was no shadow of it in sight. If there was a shadow any-)
where at the table, it was upon Mrs. Derrick,- a half
jealous fear that her child would be less hers by becoming
a Christian-a half uneasy feeling of the new state of things,
did cloud her heart a little, though almost unknown to her-
self She would not have confessed to any such cloud-and
practically it was not there: no straw of hindrance did she
put in Faith's way; indeed she seemed rather fearful of
touching the matter in any wise. It was rather from curio-
sity than anything else, that she said-as they were both
getting ready for afternoon church,
"Well child, how did you like going to Sunday school?

Faith's answer was subdued, but earnest. "I liked it
very mugh, mother."
" How many's in your class ?" said. Mrs. Derrick, tying
her bonnet.
"Only one yet-but 4Tt was enough for me to begin
with.-I hope I shall gnome more soon."
"Only one I" said M   Derrick-" besides you, do you
mean, child ?"
"Mother !"-said Faith.    Then smiling she added,
"Yes, mother-only one besides me. That one is little
Charley Seacomb-and I am trying to teach him."
"Why I thought you were in Mr. Linden's class !" said
Mrs. Derrick, facing round.
But Faith's face flushed, and what was very uncommon
with her, the tears came too.
"So I am, mother," she said ;-" bub I am one that he
teaches at home. I have learned all I know from him,"
she said, covering her eyes with both hands.
"Why child, hus !" said her mother softly-"I didn't
mean to say anything,-how should I know ? So you're
teaching Charley Seacomb, hey ?-well I'm sure he wants
it bad enough. I guess I'd better go too, next Sabbath,-
it was real lonesome with you all gone. And that makes
me think, child-I wonder if you could go a little way for
me after meeting ?"
"Go to Sunday school, mother !" said Faith chewing
her bright wet eyes. "Will you teach some children,
mother?"
Written letters don't give the intonation of these words.
"I guess they could teach me, some of 'em," said her
mother.. "But I thought maybe, Faith, you'd take Sally
Loundes some medicine-she sent word for it, and I don't
know as Ican get so far to-day. Mr. Linden does have a
class, don't he ?"
"I can go just as well as not, and like it very much,
mother. 0 yes-he has a class of course-a class of some
of the biggest boys-a large class."
'I wonder what he does with himself after meeting,"
said Mrs. Derrick. "Folks do say he goes strolling round
but I don't believe it." 1

,
'F'
e _ '
'
t
~i'
'F
:, '
1\
f  }}} }
F
. /ij
1!e
'',   n
{ C
F
f
l
.  ,
f!   '
,(

t ,

I

S I
AY AND SE.Uf

125

t s
f        "*
,!      [.a'n 33
:'.  ° 1;
m                       ' t          n
_  :,
S           '.
' (      .  .


SAY AND SEAL.

126  '          SAY AND SEAL.

"Mother ! Folks say everything, I believe. ie knows
what he does."
"Maybe you wouldn't like to be seen out on Sabbath ?"
said Mrs. Derrick, with sudden thought. "Because if you
wouldn't, Faith, I'll go myself to Sally's-can or no can."
"No, mother-" she said brightly,.-" I would like to go.
If I know I am doing right, I don't mind about being seen.
I wish people had as good reason for telling tales about
me, as they have for some others."
"I guess your class 'll fill up,-" said her mother, with
her fond, wistful look at the only thing she had in the
world.
It was the fairest, still, sweet afternoon, when after
church Faith got the medicine for Sally Loundes and set
out to take it to her. So fair and lovely, that Faith hardly
considered much the features of the road she travelled; in
that light, any piece of ground was beautiful. The road
was very lonely after a little part of the village had been
gone through. It left the main street, then bid farewell to
a few scattering distant houses and approached what was
called Barley Point;-a barren piece of ground from which
a beautiful view of the Sound and the ocean line, and per-
haps porpoises, could be had. But at the foot of this field
the road turned, round the end of that belt of woods spoken
of; and getting on the other side of it ran back eastward
towards the Lighthouse point. Between the woods and
the sea, on this side, was a narrow down that the farmers
could make little of; and here the road, if desolate, had a
beauty of its own.. On Faith's right was this strip of roll-
ing downs, grown with nothing but short grass and low
blackberry vines; and close at hand, just beyond its undu-
lating line, the waves of the sea beating in. Very little
waves to-day, everything was so quiet.
At the Lighthouse point, a uile or more on, was a little
settlement of fishermen and others; but only one house
stood on-the way, and that hardly disturbed the monotony
or the solitude ; it was so little, so brown, And looked so
of a piece with the barren country. That  Sally Loun-
des' house. Faith met nobody till she got  ere.
When Faith came out of the house, the sun's place
warned her she would have no time to spare to get home.

She set off with quicker pace, though lowise concerned
about it. There was no danger of anything in Pattaquas.
set. But she had gone only a little part of her wild home.
ward way when she met Mr. Simlins. Now Mr. Simlins
was accustomed to take an afternoon Sunday stroll and
sometimes a long one; so it was no matter of surprise to
meet him, nor even to meet him there, for Mr. Simlins was
as independent in his choice of a walk as in everything else.
But he was surprised.
"Hullo! my passenger pigeon," he exclaimed. "Why
are you here all alone, in this unfrequent place ?"
"It's a very nice place,".said with. "And it's not dis-
agreeable to be alone-though I am willing to meet you,
Mr. Simlins."
"Haven't been quarrelling with anybody, have you?"
"No," said Faith, giving an amused look to this view of
the subject. "Do I look quarrelsome, Mr. Simlins ?"
"I don't know how you look !" said the farmer. "I
aint anything of an exposition. You'll have to ask some-
body else. There's some words too hard for me to spell
and pro-nounce. Where have you been ?"
"Just to carry Sally Loundes some medicine mother had
for her."
"Where are you goin' now ?"
"Home."
"Goin' alone ?"
"Why, yes. Why not ?"
"Don' know," said Mr. Simlins,-"only I'm going part
way, and I'll see nothin' happens to you as long as I'm in
your consort."
It was a wild place enough to make company pleas-
ant. Dark clumps of forest-trees on one hand grew near
together, and the spaces between, though cleared, looked
hardly less wild; for vines and sumach and ferns had
taken possession. The sun's rays yet lay warm on the
rolling downs, the sere grass and the purplish blackberry
vines, and sparkled on the waves beyond ; but when Mr.
Simlins and Faith struck into the woods for a 'short cut,'
the shadowy solitude closed'them in on all sides. Softly
their steps moved over the fallen pine leaves, or rustled
through the shreds of autumn finery that lay beneath oak

I

127


SAY AND SEAL.

S

and maple, and nothing else but birds and squirrels broke
the stillness till they were near the further edge of the wood,
There they heard a soft murmur of voices.
"Who lives here ?" said Mr. Simlins.
But Faith held her breath.
" There's mortality here, where I thought there was
nothing but animals and vegetation," said Mr. Simlins step.
ping softly and cautiously forward.  "Let's see-don't
make no noise more'n the leaves 'll let you. I shouldn't
think anything would come to a meetin' here but a wood-
chuck-and they're skeered if they see a shadow."
On that side the trees ceased abruptly, and the open
sunshine of a little clearing replaced them; and there were
the speakers.
Tallest among the group sat Mr. Linden, and around
him-in various attitudes of rest or attention-a dozen
boys basked in the sunshine. Most of them were a size
.or two smaller than his morning class at the Sunday
school, though several of those were stretched on the
grass at the outskirts of the circle,. as honorary members.
Little Johnny Fax, established in Mr. Linden's lap, di-
vided his attention pretty evenly between the lesson and
the teacher; though indeed to his mind the separate in-
terests did not clash.
The little glade was very green still, but sprinkled
with the autumn leaves which. came floating down at
every breath; and the bordering trees stood some in
deep green hemlock and. some in paler pine, and thrust
out here and there a glowing arm into the sunlight. The
boys-listening and looking,--some playing the part of
young Nebuchadnezzars, some picking and breaking up the
asters and golden rod within their reach,-giving little side
nods of assent to each other, or bending a more earnest
gaze on Mr. Linden; pushing back their caps-or pulling
them down with a quick brush across the eyes;--the hand
with which Johnny Fax stroked back from 'Mr. Linden's
forehead any stray lock of hair which the wind displaced,
or laid on his shoulder when there was nothing else to do;-
mad altogether a picture the like of which Mt. Simlins
hanot seen bef'ore-nor even Faith. The sun might leave
clearing and betake itself to the tree-tops, and thence

to the clouds,--there was light there which came from a
higher source.
Not Faith's silent attention was more silent and motion-
less than that of her companion; he did not move or stir.
But) er deep, deep, rapt gravity formed part of the subject
is contemplations, for one or two keen sidelong glances
fell upon it. Else, his eyes were busy uninterruptedly with
the scene and took in the whole effect of it; hers hardly
wavered from one point.
A little stir among the boys roused both the lookers-on
from their muse; but they stood still again at the first.
notes of a hymn-as Mr. Linden's deep voice began, and
the young choir with its varied treble chimed in.
"I want to be an angel,
And with the angels stand,
A crown upon my forehead,
Aharp within my hand;
There, right before my Saviour,
So glorious and so bright,
I'd wake the sweetest music,
And praise him day and night.
"I never should e weary,
Nor eve   ed a tear,
Nor ever now a sorrow,
Nor ever feel a fear;
But blessed, pure, and'holy,
I'd dwell in Jesus' sight,
And with ten thousand thousand
Praise him both day and night.

"I know I'm weak and sinful,
But Jesus will forgive,
For many little children,
Have gone to heavn to live.
Dear Saviour, when I languish,
And lay me down to die,
Oh send a shining angel
To bear me to the sky!
"Oh there I'll be an angel,
And with the angels stand !
A crown upon my forehead,
A harp within my hand.

i
'

SAY AND SEAL,

128


SAY AND SEAL.             131

130             SAY AND SEAL.

And there before my Saviour,
So glorious and so bright,
I'll wake the sweetest music,
And praise him day and night ."
The two listeners stood still while the hymn was singing,
still as the air; but Mr. Simlins got' no more sight of
Faith's face. They stood still when the hymn was finished,
as if they lingered where the last vibrations had been. But
as a general stir among the hymn party proclaimed that
they would soon be on the move, the twQ who had watched
them, as if by consent, turned short about and. silently
picked their way back through the darkening wood to the
nearest point of road they could reach. It was far from
home, and even out of the wood the light was failing; they
walked with quick steps. Mr. Simlins could get glances
now at Faith's face, but though it was quiet enough, he
seemed for some reason or other in a disagreeable state of
mind.  It made itself manifest at length in a grunt of con-
siderable power.
"Ugh !--this is a complexions sort of a world to live
in !"--was his not very clear remark. The contrast of the
tone of the next words was striking.
"Dear Mr. Simlins, there is something better."
"What do you call me 'dear' for ?" growled he. "You
never did before."
"I don't know," said Faith.  "Because I want you to
be as happy as Iam."
"Be you so happy ?"~said the farmer inquisitively..
Faith said yes. It was a calm and clear yes; a confident
yes; one that felt its foundations strong and deep; yet
Faith's mother or dearest friend, if gifted with quick ap-
prehensions, would hardly have been satisfied with it. Was
Mr. Simlins so gifted?
"Not so happy you couldn't be happier ?" he said in a
tone that assumed it.
"No," said Faith, looking at him with a sunshiny smile;
I want to be better, Mr. Simlins."
"Better 1"-growled Mr. Simlins. "You go hang your-
self_!.-I wish you'was better.  If you aint happy.-.I wish
the Simlins' may be--an extant race In"          -
The extraordinary combination of wishes in this speech

took away Faith's breath for an answer. She waited for
imething more.
"What was that fellow doing there ?" growled the
farmer after a while.
"I suppose he was teaching Sunday school," Faith said
after a little hesitation.
"Why, is one to be forever teaching Sunday school ?"
said the farmer in a discontented tone.
"Why not ?" said Faith,-"as long as there are people
to be taught ?"
"Don't you want to take hold and teach me now ?" said
Mr. Simlins.
Faith did not know at all what to make of this question;
and before she had found an answer that would do, she was
saved making any. For Mr. Linden, with even brisker
steps than theirs, came up behind them; and after a bright
"Good evening, Mr. Simlins," uttered a somewhat sur-
prised "Miss Faith !"
"Yes," said Mr. Simlins, "here she is; and I'm goin'.
along to see that nothing happens to her. She goes to
take care o' somebody else,--and I come after to take care
o' her; so we go. We all give each other a deal o' trouble
in this world !"
"Am I expected toy take care of you, Mr. Simlins, by
the same rule ?--I came after."
"Well ! -I don't know," said the farmer "I guess
there'll be nobody to take care of me. I'm past' taking
care of."
"What does-that mean ?" said Mr. Linden.
"How would you like the job ?" said Mr. Simlins.
"Think it 'ud be easy?"
"Why I should like to know a little more about the job
before I express any opinion."
"I have an opinion," said Mr. Simlins,"that you don't
know much o' farming. Ghess it's correct, aint it ?"
"What kind of farming ?" inquired Mr. Linden again.
"I don't know more'n one kind. Tillin' the earth, to
bring out the produce of it."
"I have seen something of another kind,"'said Mr. Lin.
den; "it is this :-' Sow to yourselves in righteousness,
reap in mercy; break up your fallow ground: for it is time

9


132

SAY AND SEAL.

to seek the Lord, till he return and rain righteousness upon
you.'".
Mr. Simlins wasn't quick to answer that, and there was
silence for a minute or two, only broken by their footsteps.
" Well-" he said slowly at length,-" suppos'n a piece
o' ground bears as good a crop as it has soil for, hadn't
you ought to be contented with it ?"
"Yes," said Mr. Linden; "but I never saw such a piece
of ground, yet."
Mr. Simlins paused.
" Do you believe some folks can be better than they air
already ?" he asked.
'I believe all folks can."
"You believe in cameras, then. How're you goin' to
work ?"
"To make people better ?-set them to work for them-
selves, if I can."
"What sort o' ploughs and harrows would you want 'em
.to take hold of?"
"They'll find out, when they set to work in earnest to
make the ground yield the right sort of fruit," said Mr.
Linden.
"What do you call the right sort ?" said the farmer, now
thoroughly engaged. "Aint as good as a man can do, the
right sort?"
"Why yes," said Mr. Linden again, "but I tell you I
fever saw that sort of fruit ripe-and I'm not sure that I
ever shall in this world. For the best fruit that the ground
can yield, includes not only the best seed and cultivation,
but the perfect keeping down of every weeA, and the un-
checked receiving of all sweet heavenly influences."
"That's a camera !" said Mr. Simlins something shortly.,
"You can't have all that in this world."
"The fact that people cannot be perfect in this world,
does not hinder their being better than they are."
"Well, I say, how're you goin' to work to make it, when
they're doin' the .best they can do, already ?"
"'Who is?"
"I am inclined to be of the opinion you air," said Mr.
Simlins slowly. "I won't say I be-but I don't know how
to do no better."

SAY AND SEAL.

"Thank you, Mr. Simlinsi-" was the somewhat sorrowful
reply,-"you may see what I do, but you do not see what
I know. And for you, my friend-pray to know !---there
can be no mistakes in the advice that comes from heaven."
There was a minute's silence, till they came to a turning.
"I'd be glad tQ see you," said Mr. Simlins in a somewhat
lowered tone,-"ary one of you-down to my house, any
time. You can take care of her the rest of the way.
Good night !"-
He turned off abruptly down a road that led his way.
They had been walking with slackened steps during this
conversation, and the lingering memory.of it still checked
the pace of the two now left together:
"Silence accompanied; for beast and bird.
They to their grassy couch, these to their nests,"
had all retreated. And when Mr. Linden spoke it was
not in his own words.
'"'I thank thee, uncreated Sun,
That thy bright beams on me have shined
I thank thee, who hast overthrown
My foes, and healed my wounded mind !
I thank thee, whose enlivening voice
Bids my freed heart in thee rejoice!
3 "'Thee will I love, my joy, my crown!
f3f             Thee will I love, my Lord, my God!d
Thee will I love-beneath thy frown
J Or smile, thy sceptre or thy rod!
s What though my flesh and heart decay,
Thee shall I love in endless day'!
The silence of the evening fell again unbroken. Unless
a breath caught somewhat interruptedly.so gentle a
break-might be said to break it. Faith said nothing,
except by that caught breath. Mr. Linden's step was the
only one heard.  Silently then he gave her his arm, and
they went on at a quicker pace.
After a while Faith broke the silence. She spoke in a
very quiet voice ; as if choosing her words; and hesitated
a little sometimes as if timidity checked her.
"Mr. Linden, I want to ask you about something that
troubles me--I don't know what is right. I know I know
Very little-I know I cannot say much or can't say it well
VOL. i.                 12

.33

t   r      rjti 1  7
'4 ,t cl $1'
F  i
1     i
t      : r tix:
JY NQ
'Jy
f   , 7      ca*
t:
_   e'
i          _
x
}
,_         e ..
.
1,i'ti
t
t    ir
"       '):
r, f ;.
iY
7
1
1
.,t;_

i ;
.
ii
1 '
: f
.
'     ..
.I  '
"    .,
.
,
r _.,


134                SAY AND SEAL.                                          SAY AND SEAL.
..-but I feel sometimes as it I must speak to everybody I  little party were gathered at that pleasantest, quite
can reach, and tell them what I do know, and beg them to  tea-tables--that which is spread at the close of a h
be safe and happy. And then something tells me that if I  Sunday.- It had been such to two at least of the fa
do so, people will think me crazy, or be offended,-that it  sitting there, albeit Faith's brow was unusually grave;
is not my business and I can't do it well and that I had  it had not been unhappy to Mrs. Derrick.  She ent4
better not try to do it at all.-Is that 'something' right or  by hope and sympathy, too earnestly and thoroughly
wrong ?"                                                everything thaticoncerned Faith-rested too much of
"Let him that heareth, say Come,'" Mr. Linden replied,  everyday life upon her, to be unhappy when she smiled
"It is part of the sailing orders of every Christian to speak  After tea, as he often did, Mr. Linden went out ag
every other vessel that he can,-which does not mean that  and the two were left alone. Mrs. Derrick occupied
he should go out of his own proper course to meet them,  self with reading in the old family Bible, where she tu
nor that he should run them down when met."            over leaf after leaf; but Faitl, on a low seat, sat lo
"Nor, I suppose," said Faith, "that he should trouble1 into the remains of the little fire which had been kin
himself about his voice being very low or very hoarse. I  in the supper room.  Looking at the glowing coals
thought so. Thank you, Mr. Linden."                    grey flickering ashes, with a very grave, meditative, thou
"The voice of true loving interest is generally sweet-.  ful gaze.
and rarely gives offence," he said. "If people never spoke  "Mother-" she said at length, turning her face tow
of religious things but from the love of them, there would  Mrs. Derrick's Bible.
be an end to cant and bad taste in such matters."        "Well child ?" said her mother a little abstractedly.
She sid nomore."I wish, mother, you would ask Mr. Linden to read
"How does Charles twelfth behave ?" said Mr. Linden  pray at night-and let Cindy and Mr. Skip come in?
as they neared home. "Has he 'reacted' again-or does "Why Faithl!"-said Mrs. Derrick,-now fully rouse
he gie yo bot hans ful ?""how you talk, child ! Wish I'd do this, and wish I'dc
"eHe behavedLnicely !" said Faith.  "As to filling my  'tother--don't I let you and Mr. Linden do pretty m
hands, I suppose they wouldn't hold a great deal to-day;  what you've a mind to ?"
but I hope to have them fuller before long." It was incomprehensible to Faith that her mother's
buTIhoe to avendyuaohrshlr?                         mission should have to do with anT of Mr. Linden's acti(
T "0 yes " said Faith. "Have you one for me ?"      but she merely repeated,
"Perhaps two, if circumstances make my hands too      "I wish you'd ask him, mother.
fall."                                                  "I guess I will !" said Mrs. Derrick-" when I do y~
"Do I know them ?"                                  know it, and he too. Ask him yourself, pretty child,"
"I am not sure how well, nor whether you-know them  added, looking at Faith with a very unbent brow.
at all by name; but you will like to teach them for different "But mother," said Faith with a little tinge in
reasons. At least I have."                            cheeks,-"it would be much better that you should
"JI don't know".-said Faith. " If you have taught them, him. You are the person to do it."
Mr. Linden, they will be very sorry to come to me i"    "I should like to see you make that out," said Mrs. I
" Then you may have the pleasure of making them niek. "I don't think I'pn such a person at all."
glad."                                                  "Only because yuak the head of the family, moth
She laughed a little, but soberly ; and they reached their Faith said with a little fainter voice.
own gate.                                               "Well? if I'm the head of the family I'll do as I l
It was past the usual Sunday tea time; and soon the for once," said Mrs. Derrick. "I'd like to hear him,

135
st of
ap py
tmily
and
ered,
into
her
1.
ain;
her-
rned
king
dled
and
fght-
ards
and
d,
I let
such
per-
ons;
ou'll
she
her
ask
)er-
ike,
I'm


SAY AND SEAL.

136

sure, child-it would seem like old times,-but I wouldn't
ask him, for a kingdom 1"
Faith looked at her, half laughing and grave too-..
but gave up the point, seeing she must.
"And while you're about it, Faith, you can just ask him
to make his boys behave. Sam Stoutenburgh did nothing
all meeting time but look at you. So' I guess the sermon
didn't do him much good."
Faith went back to the contemplation of the fire. How-
ever, she apparently had not made up her mind that she
was 'the person,' or else was not ready to act upon it; for
when Mr. Linden was heard opening the front door Faith
ran away, and came down no more that night.
c;

CIlIA PTER XII.
« JT occurs to me, Parson Somers," said that gentle-
- man's lady wife, as she salted and sugared his morn-
ing bowl of porridge; "it 'occurs to me, that Pattaquasset
is getting stirred up with a long pole."
"Ah, my dear ?" said Mr. Somers-" 'Stirred up.' Well
-what makes you think so?"
"Why-" said Mrs. 'Somers tasting the porridge--"Jen-
ny! fetch some more milk. How do you suppose Mr.
Somers is going to eat such thick stuff as that ?-and when
do you suppose he is going to get his breakfast, at this
rate? If you let your head run upon Jem Waters in this
style, Jenny, I shall forbid him the house. I always notice
that the day after he's been here Mr. Somers' porridge is
too thick."
"Well, my dear," said the parson,-" ha-the porridge
will do very well.' I thought you were speaking of Patta-
quasset when you spoke of something being 'stirred up.
"So I was," said the lady, while Jenny blushing beyond
her ordinary peonic hue, ran about in the greatest confu-
sion, catching up first the water pitcher and then the mo-
lasses cup.  "'Do very well ?'-no, indeed it won't !--but
men never know anything about housekeeping."
"Well, my dear, but about Pattaquasset? - I know
something about Pattaquasset. Is there any trouble in the
village ? It's a very peaceable place," continued Mr
Somers, looking at his distant breakfast dish,-" always
was-ha-I wish you'd let me have my porridge. Is there
any trouble, my dear ?"
" an't tell,-" said Mrs. Somers, adding critical drops
of   ,-   see for yourself, Mr. Somers. If there isn't,
there may be.-One set of things is at sixes, and another
at sevens. There--that's better, though it's about as far
from perfection as I am."
"We're none of us perfect, and so-ha-my dear, we
can't blame the porridge," said Mr. Somers with slight
12*                (187)

e 1
!"
r
t
t,
,ji;
j+t
;}!  ;
.f i'.
'1 i  3
'"!
}; ;j
i,   i
!  .

«'  }!

~ , i.
'
,,....


8AY AND SEAL.

jocularity which pleased at least himself.  "But Patta.
quasset is about as near the impossible state as most places,
that I know. What have you heard of, Mrs. Somers? You
deal in rather-a--enigmatical construction, this morning."
"Who said I had, heard anything ?" said the lady,-"I
only said, use your eyes, Mr. Somers,.-open your -study
window and let the light in. Just see what a rumpus
we've had about the school, to begin."
"Ha! my dear,". said Mr. Somers, "if opening the win-
dow of my study is going to let trouble, come in, I'd rather
--ha-keep it shut! Judge llarrison~thiiks the teacher
is a very fine man-and I've no doubt he is!-and the.
Judge is going to give him a great celebration. I have no.
doubt we shall all enjoy it. I think the disturbance that
has been made will not give Mr. Linden any more
trouble."
"Why who cares about his trouble ?" said Mrs. Somers
rather briskly,-" I dare say he's very good, Mr. Somers,
but I shan't fret over him. I'm not sure but he's a little
too good for my liking-I'm not sure that it's quite natural.
Jenny! fetch some more biscuit !-how long do you sup-
pose Mr. Somers and I can live upon one ?"
Parson Somers eat porridge and studied the philosophy
of Mrs. Somers' statements.
"My dear," said he at length,-"I am not sure that you
are correct in your view-indeed it seems to me-a-rather
contradictory. I don't know what the stir is about; and I
don't think there is any occasion, my dear, for you-a-to
fret, about anything. Not about Mr. Linden, certainly.
The disaffection to the new school was-a-confined to
very few! I don't think it has taken root in the public
mind generally. You will be better able to form a judg-
ment on Thursday."
"Bless your heart ! Mr. Somers," said his wife, "what's
Thursday tQ do?' If you think I've said all I could say---
why there's no help for it. Now there's Sam Deacon--
don't come to meeting half the time lately,--and to match
that, Faith Derrick walks into Sunday school with one of
those Seacomb children tagging after her."
"Well," said Mr. Somers looking exceedingly mystified,
-" what's the harm in that ? If Miss Faith chooses to do

it, it shews, I am sure, a-a charitable disposition,-praise-
worthy !1
"Mr. Somers !"-said the lady.  "Is it possible you can
think for one moment that I mean what you mean? If she
came to Society too, I should know what to make of it, but
when people work alongside of some folks, and not along-
side of others, why it's as long as it's broad. Then Maria
iDavids says she drove those boys over to Neanticut 'tother
day-or helped drive 'em. What do you think of that,
Mr. Somers ?"
Mr. Somers looked as if his wife was too fast for him..
"My dear," said he however, plucking up,-" I think I
would trust Faith Derrick as soon as Maria Davids, or-.
any other young lady in Pattaquasset! If she. did go to
Neanticut I presume it was all as it should be. Squire
Deacon never was-a-very remarkable for being a reli-
gious man or anything like that; and you can't help folks
working alongside of each other-they will do it," said Mr.
Somers relapsing into his-jocular mood. "I am a man of
peace, my dear, and you should be a woman of peace."
"Why you don't suppose I believed what Maria Davids
said ?" replied. Mrs. Somers. "Her words are not worth
their weight. in gold-and she isn't a bit too good to be
jealous. But the thing is, if Faith didn't do that, what
did she do?  Jenny! fetch in the tub of hot water, And be
spry !
With Jenny and the hot water walked in a somewhat
rough-looking boy, who declared without much ceremony,
beyond doffing his cap, that "'ma sent him to find out where
the sewin' meetin' was to be this week."
"Who are you ?" said Mrs.,Somers, dipping a cup in the
hot water and wiping it with a 'spryness' that was quite
imposing. "Is your name Bill Wright ?"
"No 'taint," said the boy. "Guess again."
"You'll never pay anybody for much trouble that way,"
said Mrs. Somers dipping in the corresponding saucer.
"Jenny-did you ever hear of anybody's getting along in
a dish-tub without a mop ?"
"Who is it wants to know, sir ?" said Mr. Somers po--
litely. "Who is your father ?"
"He's farmer Davids."

SAY Ali D SEAL.

0


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

"Oh! and are you Phil ?"
"Yes ! What be I goin' to tell her ?"-This interroga.
story being sent in the direction of the dish-tub.
"Why you can tell her two things," said Mrs. Somers,
eying. Phil from head to foot. "In the first place, the So.
eiety'l1 meet down at Miss Bezac's; and in the second, as
soon as your mother'll teach her children how to behave
themselves I shall be very glad tosee them."
"The Society'll meet down to Miss Purcell's ?"
"  iss Bezac's"- said Mrs. Somers, preserving a cheer.
ful a d brisk equanimity in the midst of her sharp words that
wa quite elightful. "Pay more attention to your lessons,
P i1 D ,ids, and you'll be a better boy, if you look sharp."
"What lessons ?" said the boy blackly.
"All you get-at home and abroad. You go to school
I ny," replied Mrs. Somers.
The boy glanced towards the clock and began to move
off, answering by actions rather than wards.
"You were over at Neanticut, I suppose, Saturday,"
said. Mr. Somers affably. To which the answer was a
choked and unwilling 'yes.'
"Well who drove you over?"
"He druv," said Phil. "I'm going..--'
"And the ladies--weren't there ladies along?"
"Yes-They druv too."
"Did you have a fine time ?" said Mrs. Somers.
"Yes! I did," said Phil very gloomily.
"Why what did you do more than the rest ?"
"I didn't do nothing !" said Phil, blurting out,-"and
he went and took all my nuts away. He's the devil-!"
The boy looked at the minute as if he was a young one.
"Hush, hush !" said Mr. Somers. "Yoq.---you opghtn't
to speak that way-don't you know? it's not proper."
"I hope he boxed your ears first," said Mrs. Somers-....r
"I'm c 'n you deserved it. What made him take your
nuts away "
"He w   ted 'em to make a present to you".-said the
boy; and with another glance at the hands of the clock, he
darted out of the house and down the road towards the
schoolhouse, as if truly he had expected to meet there the
character he had mentioned.

"My dear-" said Mr. Somers --" do you think it is
quite-a--.politic, to tell Mrs. Davids she don't bring up
her children right? Mrs. Davids is a very respectable
N woman-and so is Farmer Davids-none more so."
S   "I don't know what you call respectable women-" said
Mrs. Somers-" I should be sorry to think he was. But I
just wish, Mr. Somers, that you would preach a sermon to
the people about cutting off their children's tongues if they
can't keep them in order. I declare! I could hardly keep
hands off that boy."
And with this suggested and suggestive text, Mr. Somers
retired to his study.
It had been a busy day with more than Mr. Somers,
when towards the close of the afternoon Faith came out
upon the porch of her mother's house. She had not read
more than one delicious bit of her letter on the ride home
from Neanticut; the light failed too soon. After getting
$ home there was no more chance. Saturday night, that
Saturday, had a crowd of affairs. And Monday had been
a day full of business. Faith had got through with it all
.at last; and now, as fresh as if the kitchen had been a
bygone institution-though that was as true of Faith in the
kitchen as out of it-she sat down in the afternoon glow
to read the letter.. The porch was nice to match; she took
a low seat on the step, and laying the letter in her lap
rested her elbow on the yellow floor of the porch to take it
at full ease.
It was not just such a letter as is most often found in
biographies,-yet such as may be found-' out of print.'
A bright medley of description and fancy-mountains and
legends and scraps of song forming a mosaic of no set pat-
tern. And well-read as the writer was in other respects, it
was plain that she was also learned in both the books Faith
had had at Neanticut. The quick flow of the letter was
only checked now and then by a little word-gesture of affec-
tion,-if that could be called a check, which gave to the
written pictures a better glow than lup the originals.
It was something to see Faith read that letter -or
would have been, if anybody had been i there to look.. She
leaned over it in a sort of breathless abstraction, catching
her breath a little sometimes in a way that told of the in-

/

141

340

t 'fir
f «
.    '       ,
,
.   '
.
'    I        '.
a.
i       ,
't


SAY AND SEAL.            143

terest at work. The interest was not merely what would
have belonged to the letter for any reader,-it was not
merely the interest that attached to the writer of it, nor to
the person for whom it was written; it was not only the
interest deep and great which Faith felt in the subjects and
objects spoken of in the letter. All these wrou ght with
their full power; but all these were not enough t account
for the intent and intense feeling with which Faith bent
over that letter, with eyes that never wavered, and a cheek
in which the blood mounted to a bright flush. And when
it was done, even then she sat still leaning over the paper,
looking not at it but through it.
A little shower of fringed gentian and white Ladies'
tresses came patting down upon the letter, hiding its deli-
cate blhek ma s with their own dailty faces.
"These are our means of transport back to Pattaquas.
set," said Mr. Linden. Faith lookedup, and rose up.
"1I had come back," she said, drawing one of those half
long breaths as she folded up and gave him the letter. "I
can't thank you, Mr. Linden."
"I thought you were not reading, or I should not have
ventured such an interruption. But I am in no hurry for
the letter, Miss Faith. How do you like Italy ?"
"I like it-" said Faith doubtfilly,.-" I don't know it-
Mr. Linden," she went on with sce difficulty and flushing
yet more,-"some time, will you   11 me in what books I
can find out about those things ?-those things the letter
speaks of."
"-Those which concern Italy, do you mean ? I can ar-
range an Italy shelf for you up stairs-but I am afraid I
have not very much here to put on it."
"No indeed !" said Faith looking half startled,--"I
didn't mean to give you trouble-only some time, tif you
would tellme what books-perhaps-"
"Perhaps what ?" he said smiling, -" perhaps I
wouldn't ?"
"No," she said, "I mean, perhaps you would; and per-
haps I could get them and read them. I feel I don't know
anything."
That Faith felt it was very plain. She had that rare
beauty----a soft eye. I do not mean the grace of insipidity,

' nor the quality of mere form and colour; but the full lus-
1; trous softness that speaks a character strong in the founda.
tions of peace and sweetness. Many an eye can be soft by
a turns and upon- occasion; it is rarely that you see one
where sweetness and strength have met together to make
that the abiding characteristic. The gentleness of such an
eye has always strength to back it. Weakness could never
be so steadfast; poverty could not be so rich. And Faith's
eye shewed both its qualities now.
Mr. Linden merely repeated, "I will arrange it for you-
and you can take the books in what order you like. Per-
haps I can send you another journey when they are ex-
hausted," ha added, turning the letter softly about, as if
the touch were pleasant to him. She stood looking at it.
"I don't know how to thank you for letting gne read
that," she said. "It would be foolish in me to tell you how
beautiful I thought it.
"She is-" her brother said, with a tender, half smiling
half grave expression. And for a minute or two he was
silent-then spoke abruptly.
"Miss Faith, what have you done with your 'Philosophe'?
You know, though the rooms in the great Temple of Know-
:: ledge be so many that no one can possibly explore them all,
yet the more keys we have in hand the better. For some
locks yield best to an English key, some to a French; and
it is often pleasant to take a look where one cannot go in
and dwell."
She flushed a good deal, with eyes downcast as she stood
before him; then answered, with that odd little change of
her voice which told of some mental check.
"I haven't done anything with it, Mr. Linden.
"That requires explanation."
"It isn't so hard as one of your puzzles," she said smil-
ing.  "I mean to do something with it, Mr. Linden, if I
can; and I thought I would try the other day; but I found
I didn't know enough to begin-to learn that yet."
"What other key are you forging?"
"What other key ?" said Faith.
"I mean," he answered with a tone that slpr.ed a little
fear of going too far, "what do you want th~earn before
that ?"

,{
j {
,
I i;{     ,f(,IF
;f °  ,  ,',li'E
t , 1!    ,i  tkS{t
+ii'f ? }pp  ttU{
}11     e,4   t  t

142            SAY AND SEAL.


144                SAY AND SEAL.
"I don't know," said Faith humbly.-" I suppose, Eng.
lish. It was a grammar of yours, Mr. Linden, a French
grammar, that I was looking at ; and I found I couldn't
understand what it was about, anywhere.  So I thought I
must learn something else first."
"Never was philosopher so put in a corner!" said Mr.
Linden. "Suppose you take up him and the dictionary
and let me be the grammar-do you think you could under.
stand what I was about
The blood leapt to her cheek; part of her answer Faith
had no need to put in words, even if he had not seen her
eyes, which he did. The words were not in any hurry to
come.
" When you have been teaching all day already "--she
s 'd in a tone between regretful and self-reproving. "It
wo dn't be right."
"Mayn't I occasionally do wrong ?-just for variety's
sake !"
"You may---nd I don't doubt you would.  I was~hink.
ing of my ow part."
"I am glad you don't say you have no doubt I do," saidV
Mr. Linden. "I suppose you mean that I would if suffi.
cient temptation came up, which of course jtnever has."
Faith looked an instant, and then her gravity broke up.
"Ah, but you know what I mean," she said.
"You will have to furnish me with a dictionary next,"
he said smiling. "Look at my watch-Miss Faith, how
can you have tea so late, when, I have been teaching all
day ?--it isn't right,-and cuts off one's time for philoso-
phizing besides."
Faith ran into the house, to tell the truth, with a very
pleased face ; and tea was on the table in less time than
Cindy could ever understand. But during tea-time Faith
looked, furtively, to see if any signswere to 'be found that
little Johnny Fax lfid been made to yield up his testimony.
Whether he had or no, she could see none; which how-
ever, as she justly concluded with herself, proved nothing.
The new grammar was far easier understood than the
old. Although Mr. Linden unfolded his newspaper, and
informed Faith that he intended to read 'uninterruptedly'-.
so that she 'need feel no scruple about interrupting him '---

SAY AND SEAL.
yet he probably had the power of reading two things at
once; for his assistance was generally given before it was
asked. His explanations too, whether Faith knew it or
not, covered more ground than the French exigency als-o-
lutely required,-he was not picking this lock for her, but
giving her the grammar key.
But Faith knew it and felt it; and tasted the help thus
given, with an appreciation which only it neetled to do all
its work; the keen delight of one seeking knowledge, who
has never been helped and who has for the first time the
right kind of help. Indeed, with the selfishness incident
to human nature, she forgot all about Mr. Linden's inten.
tion to read uninterruptedly, and took without scruple or
question, all the time he bestowed upon her. And it was
not till some minutes after she had closed her books, that
her low, grateful "You are very good, Mr. Linden !"reached
his ear.
Now the fact was, that Faith had been much observed
that afternoon,-her reading-dream on the steps had been
so pretty a thing to see, that when Squire Ieacon had seen
it once he came back to see it again; and what number of
views he would have taken cannot be told, had he not been
surprised by Mr. Linden. Naturally the Squire withdrew,.-..
naturally his enlarged mind became contracted as he thought
of the cause thereof; and not unnaturally he walked down
that way after tea, still further to use his eyes. The house
was in a tantalizing state. For though the light curtain
was down, it revealed not only the bright glow of the lamp,
but one or two shadowy heads; and the window being open
(for the evening was warm) low voices, that he loved and
that he did not love, came to his ear. Once a puff of
wind floated the curtain in-more tantalizing than ever!
Squire Deacon couldesee Mr. Linder bending aside to look
at something, but what the Squire could not see; for there
came the edge of the curtain. In a warm state of mind he,
turned his face homewards, proclaiming to himself that he
didn't care what they did !-the result of which was, that
in ten minutes more he was knocking at Mrs. Derrick's
door, and being promptly admitted by Cindy entered the
parlour just as Faith had shut up her book and uttered her
soft word of thanks.
vo. 1-                 13

i


146                SAY AND SEAL.
It was something of a transition ! But after a moment's
shadow of surprise on her face, Faith came forward and
ave the Squire her hand. She would have let him then
explain his own errand; but as he did not seem very ready
to do that, or to say anything, Faith stepped into the
breach.
"How is Cecilia, Mr. Deacon? I have not seen her in
a long time."
" She's firstrate," said the Squire, colouring up; for Mr.
Linden's "how do you do again, Squire Deacon ?"'not only
implied that they had lately met, but that the occasion was
not forgotten.
"It's a sort of suffocating evening," added the Squire,
wiping his forehead. "I don't recollect so warm an October
for a year or two. Cilly's been out of town, Miss Faith,
and since she come back she's been complainin' of you."
Faith was near saying that she hoped the warm weather
would last till Thursday; but she remembered that would
not do, and changed her ground.
"I am sorry anybody should complain of me. Is that
because I didn't go to see her when she was away ?".
"I'm sure the rest-of us could have stood it, if you had
come when she was gone, Miss Faith," said the Squire
gallantly. "Seems to me we haven't seen you down to our
house for an age of Sundays."
"I will try to come of a week day," said Faith. "I
think you never saw me there Sunday, Mr.Deacon."
"I suppose an age of Sundays must be seven times as
long as any other age," said Mr. Linden. "Isn't that the
origin of the phrase, Squire Deacon ?"
"Very like," said the Squire -who didn't care to be
interrupted. "I don't know much about origa1s,Wh---eln
a man has a position to fill, ir,1she can't study knick-knacks.
What a handsome book,     iss Faith! such a becoming
colour."                /
"Don't you like the inside of books too, Mr. Deacon ?"
said Faith."te
"I daresay I should that one," said the Squire,-al"t
outside's like a picture-Or a view, as some people cal it
Looks just like a grain field in spring. What's- the nameO
of it, Miss Faith ?"

SAY AND SEAL.             147

Half prudently, half wickedly, Faith without, answering
took the book from the table and put it in Mr. Deacon's
hand.
The Squire's face looked like anything but a grain field
in spring then-it was more like a stubble in November;
for opening the book midway and finding no help there, he
turned to the title page and found the only English words
in the book, in very legible black ink.
"So !" he said-."it's his'n, is it !"
"Yes, it is mine," said Mr. Linden,-"almost any man
may have so much of a library as that."
The Squire glanced suspiciously at Faith, as if he still
believed she had something to do, with it; but he did not
dare press the matter.
"Miss Faith," he said, calling up a smile that was meant
to do retrospective work, "have you heard tell of the queer
things they've found down to Mattabeeset ?"
"What things, Mr. Deacon ?"
"Some sort o' bird's been makin' tracks down there,"
said the Squire leaning back in his chair, with the look of
one who has now got the game in his own hands; "makin'
tracks criss-cross round; and they do say the size on 'em
might have come out of the ark, for wonder."
"How large are they, Mr. Deacon? and what sort of
bird is it?"
"Well if I was a descendant of Noah, I s'pose I could
tell you," said the Squire with increased satisfaction--
"I'm sorry I can't, as it is. But if you're curious, Miss
Faith (and ladies always is in my experience) I'll drive you
down there any day or any time of day. I want to see 'em
myself, that's a fact, and so does Cilly. Now Miss Faith,
name the day!"
The shortest possible smile orf Mr. Linden's face at this
sudden and earnest request, did not help Faith to an
answer; but the Squire was happily forgetful for they
moment that there were more than two people in the
room, and leaning towards Faith he repeated,
"The sooner the quicker, always, in such cases!1 because
Folks can never tell what may happen."
"No," said Faith, "they cannot-especially about wea-
ther; and I have got some particular work to attend to at


d

148

SAY AND SEAL.

home, Mr. Deacon, before the weather changes. I wish you
and Cecilia would go down and bring us a report. I should
like that. But for the present Mr. Skip and I have some-
thing to do."
"It's good. you want Mr. Skip, for I don't," said the
Squire, stiffening a little. "Is that one of the new-
fashioned ways of saying you won't go, Miss Faith ?"
"What's your objection to Mr. Skip ?" said Faith plea-
santly. "I am glad nobody else wants him, for we do."
"Well, I say I'm glad you've got him," said the Squire,'
relenting under the power of Faith's voice. "But what
ails you Miss Faith, to go tackin' round like one o' them
schooners against the wind?  Aint it a straight question
as to whether you'll take an excursion to Mattabeeset?"
"Very straight," said Faith smiling and speaking gently.
"And I thought I gave a straight answer."
"Blessed if I can see which road it took !" said Squire
Deacon,-"save and except it didn't seem to be the right
one. 'No' 's about as ugly a road as a man can foller.
Guess I spoke too late, after all," said the Squire medita.
tively. "How's your furr'n news, Mr. Linden?   Get it
regular?"
"Yes-" said Mr. Linden,-"making due allowance for
the irregularity of the steamers."
Faith look d up in no little astonishment, and took the
eye as well as the ear effect of this question and answer;
then said quietly,
"Have yo4 any business in the post-office, Mr. Dea-
con ?"
"Not a gr at deal, Miss Faith," said the squire, with a
blandness on one side of his face which but poorly set off
the other.  "I go down for the paper once a week, and
'lection times maybe oftener, but I don't do much in the
letter line. Correspondence never was my powder maga-
zine.  I shouldn't 'know where to put two or three femi-
nine letters a week-if I got 'em."
If he had got what somebody wanted to give him at
that moment 1-Squire Deacon little knew what risk he'
ran, nor how much nearer he was to a powder magazine
than he ever had been in his life.
"A sure sign that nobody will ever trouble you in that

v/   SAY AND SEAL.

149

way," Faith said somewhat severely. But the Squire was
obtuse.
"Well I guess likely," he said, "and it's just as good
they don't. I shouldn't care about living so fur from any-
body I was much tied up in-or tied up to, neither. I
can't guess, for one, how you make out to be contented
here, Mr. Linden."
"How  do you know that I do, sir ?"
There was a little pause at that-it was a puzzling
question to answer; not to speak of a slight warning
which the Squire received from his instinct. But the
pause was pleasantlyended.
"Faith !" said a gentle voice in the passage--."open the
door, child-I've got both hands full."
Which call Mr. Linden appropriated to himself,, and not
only opened the door but brought in the great dish of
smoking chestnuts. Faith ran away to get plates for the
party, with one of which in defiance of etiquette she served
first Mr. Linden ; then handed another to the Squire.
"I hope they are boiled right, Mr. Linden. Have you
seen any chestnuts yet this year, Mr. Deacon ?"
"I've seen some---but they warn't good for nothing,"
said the Squire rather sourly. "Thank you, Miss Faith,
for your plate, but I guess I'll go."
"Why stay and eat some chestnuts, Squire Deacon !"
said Mrs. Derrick. " Those are Neanticut ch tnuts--
firstrate too."
"I don't like Neanticut chestnuts-"said Squire Deacon
rising--"never did,-they're sure to be wormy. Good
night, Miss Faith-good night, Mr. Linden. Mrs. Der-
rick, this room's hot enough to roast eggs."
"Why the windows are open !" said Mrs. Derrick-..
"and we might have had the curtains drawn back, too, but
I always feel as if some one was looking in."
Which remark did not delay the Squire's departure, and
Mrs. Derrick followed him to the door, talking all the way.
During which little 'passage' Faith's behaviour again
transcended all rules. For she stood before the dish of
chestnuts, fingering one or two, with a somewhat unsteady
motion of the corners of her mouth; and then put both

t


150             SAY AND SEAL.

her hands to her face and laughed, her low but very merri-
ment-speaking laugh.
"Miss Faith," Mr. Linden said, "I think Job was an ex-
traordinary man !-and the chestnuts are not so bad as
they are reported, after all."
Faith became grave, and endeavoured to make trial of the
chestnuts, without making any answer.
"Child," said, Mrs. Derrick returning, "I don't think the
Squire felt just comfortable-I xpnder if he's well ?"
Which remark brought do n the house.
"By the way-" said Mr. Linden looking up,-" did you
lose a bow of ribband fr m your sunbonnet, the other day at
Neanticut ?"
Faith owned to having lost it somewhere.
"I found it somewhere-" said Mr. Linden with a rather
peculiar look, as he took out the bow of ribband.
"Where did you find it, Mr. Linden?"
"I found it here-in Pattaquasset."
"Where ?"
But he shook his head at the question.
"I think I will not tell you-you may lose it again.
And all Faith's efforts could get no more from him.

CHAPTER XIII.
HE Thursday of the great school celebration arrived;
and according to Faith's unexpressed wish, the
weather had continued warm. It was the very luxury of
October. A day for all the senses to disport themselves
and revel in luxurious beauty. But the mind of Patta-.
quasset was upon the evening's revel, and upon the beauty
of white cambric and blue ribbands. The mind of Faith
Derrick was on somewhat else.
"Mother," she said, "do you know there must be a fire
up in Mr. Linden's room as soon as the weather gets cold?"
"Of course, child."
"Well there is nothing in the world up there to put
wood in."
"It used to lie on the floor-" said Mrs. Derrick, as if
the past might possibly help the future. " That does make
"It's not going to lie on the floor now," said Faith. "I
am going to get Mr. Skip to make me a box, a large box,
with a top-and I will cover it with some carpet or dark
stuff, if you'll give me some, mother. It must be dark, be-
cause the wood of the room is. I am going to stuff .the
top for a seat, and it will look very nice."
"Anything does that you take hold of," said her mother.
'Yes, child, I'll give you all I've got,-you can look for
yourself and take what you like best."
The immediate work of the day was to 'clear ship'-in
-other words, to do all the-day's wbrk in the former part
thereof, so as to leave time for the unwonted business of
the afternoon. Mrs. Derrick even proposed that Faith
should get dressed. But Faith said there was time enough
after dinner; and that meal was gone through with as
usual.
With this slight variation in the table talk. Mr. Linden
suggested to Faith the propriety of philosophizing a little,
(151)


{11  11t  I   i ,,
4i ,  '
, ,,
,;;
11i1,'
; ,
., ,
.!
:

as a preparative for the dissipation of the evening; and de.
clared that for the purpose, he would promise to bring his
toilette within as narrow bounds as she did hers.
Faith's face gave answer, in the'sort of sparkling of eye
and colour which generally met such a proposition, and
which to-day was particularly bright with the pleasure of
surprise.
"But," she said warningly, "I can dress in very few
minutes !"
So she did, and yet-and yet, she was dressed from head
to foot and to the very point of the little white ruffle round
her throat.  Hair, bright as .her hair was, and in the last
degree of nice condition and arrangement, the same perfect
presentation of hands and feet and white ruffles as afore.
said;-that was the most of Faith's dressing; the rest was
a plain white cambric fock, which had its only setting off
in her face and figure.  The one-touch of colour which it
wanted, Faith found when she went down stairs; for upon
the basket where 'Le Philosophe' coihmonly reposed, lay a
dainty breast-knot of autumn tints,-fringed gentian with
its delicate blue, and oak leaves of the deepest red, and a
late rose or two.
It is a pity there was nobody to see Faith's face; for its
tints copied the roses. Surprise and doubt and pleasure
made a pretty confusion. She held in her hand the dainty
bouquet and looked at it, as if the red leaves could have
told her what other hand they were in last; which was
what Faith wanted to know.
A step on the porch-a slight knock at the front door,
naturally drew her thoughts and feet thither, but whatever
Faith expected she did not expect to see Sam Stoutenburgh.
One might almost go further and say he did not expect to
see her, for he gazed at her as if she had been an appari.
tion-only that his face was red instead of white.
"How do you do, Sam," said Faith, coming back a little
to everyday life. "Do you want tosee Mr. Linden ?"
"0 no, Miss Faith !" said Sam-as if it were the last'
thing in the world lie wanted to see.
"Well Sam-what then ?"
But Sam was slow tofsay what then-.-or indeed to say
anything; and what would have been his success is to this

day unknown, for at that moment Mr. Linden came down
stairs.
"Do you want me, Sam ?" he said, approaching the
front door.
"No, sir," said Sam (playing both parts of an unwilling
witness)-" I-I thought you were out, Mr. Linden."
"0--" Mr. Linden said. "I beg your pardon!" And
he not only went into the parlour but shut the door after
him.
To no purpose ! With him went the emnant of Sam
Stoutenburgh's courage, if he had had To begin with,
and after one more glance at Faith e fairly turned his
back and fled-without striking his colours. Faith went
back to the parlour.
"What is the matter with the boy ?" she said, "I couldn't
get anything out of him, Mr. Linden."
A somewhat peculiar smile came with the words,
"Couldn't you ?"
Faith noticed it, but her thought was elsewhere. She
came back to the table, took up the flowers, and said a
little timidly,
"Do you know who put these here, Mr. Linden ?"
The look changed. "I think I do," he said.
Her look did not change; except to a softened reflection
of the one with which she had first viewed them. She
viewed them still, bending over them doubtfully; then
glancing up at him she shook her head and said,
"You are dressed -before me, after all, Mr. Linden P"
And ran away. She was back again in three minutes,
with the flowers upon her breast; and if there had been but
one adornment in the world that would have fitted her just
then, the giver of the flowers had found it. Faith had
altered nothing, she had only put them in the right place;
and the effect was. curious in its beauty. That effect of her
flowers was probably the only one unknown to Faith her-
self, though it was with a face blushing with pleasure that
she came in and sat gravely down to be a philosopher.
She gave her teacher little trouble, and promised to give
him less. She had excellent capacity, that was plain; with
the eager desire for learning which makes the most of it;
both the power and the will were there to appropriate and

153

SAY AND SEAL.

152

SAY AND SEAL.

i


154                SAY AND SEAL.
use every word of Mr. Linden's somewhat lawless but
curiously skilful manner of instructing her. And the sim-
plicity of her attention was perfect. She did not forget
her flowers, probably, during this particular page of philo-
sophizing, for 'a little tinge on her cheek never ceased to
speak of pleasure all through the time; but that was the
sole sign of distraction, if distraction there were. Less
grave, but more intent, than Mr. Linden himself, the in-
formation that Mr. Skip had driven the little wagon round
before the door, came to her ears all too soon.
The drive to the Judge's was not very long; it might
have. been three quarters of a mile; so even at the old
horse's rate of travelling they were soon there.
Judge Harrison's house was large and old-fashioned, yet
had much more style about it than any other house in Pat.
taquasset pretended to; and the same was true of its arrange.
ments and furniture. It was comfortable and ample; so
was everything in it; with besides that touch of ease and
fitness and adaptation which shews always-or generally-.
that people have lived where there is a freedom from fixed
standards. It was so here ; for Judge Harrison's family
during the life-time of his wife had always spent their
winters and often part of their summers away from Patta-
quasset-in one of the great cities, New York generally
or at some watering-place. There was also however an
amount of good sense and kind temper in the family which
made no difference, of intention, between them and the rest
of Pattaquasset when they were there; so that they were
extremely popular.
Mr. Skip and old Crab were in very good time; there
were not more than, half assembled of all the good com-
pany asked and expected this afternoon. These were all
over, in the house and out of the house ; observing and
speculating. The house was surrounded with pleasant
grounds, spreading on two sides in open smooth lawns of
considerable extent, and behind the house and the lawns
stretching back in a half open shrubbery. On one of the
lawns long tables already showed their note of preparation;
on the other there was a somewhat ominous array of
benches and chairs; and among them all, round and about
everything, scattered the people. -

SAY AND SEAL.

Mrs. Derrick and Faith went upstairs to the unrobing
_ room, where the latter was immediately taken into consul-
tation by Miss Harrison on some matters which promised
to keep them both busy for some time. Mr. Linden mean-
while received a very cordial welcome from Judge Harrison,
who was cordiality itself.
"Well, Mr. Linden ! we've got a good day ! Good for
the boys and good for us. We've ventured to depart a
little from your-instructions! but-I hope-in such a way
: as not to compromise you. My son and daughter have
managed it.' I'll introduce him to you"-said the old gen-
tleman looking about,-" but he's somewhere just now."
"I should like to know first, Judge Harrison, what my
instructions were," said Mr. Linden, as his eyes likewise
made search for the missing doctor.
"0," said the Judge, "all right ! I understood your
feelings exactly. I used that word 'because the right one
didn't come. I have to do that often. I've heard of the
'pen of a ready writer'-I'm sure I'd rather have the tongue
of a ready speaker; but it don't matter for me now. My
friends take me as they find me, and so will you, I have
little fear. Julius !-Here's my son, Dr. Harrison, Mr.
Linden."
Dr. Harrison must have a word of introduction to the
reader, though he was one of those who need very little in
actua life. He was a handsome man, young but not very
you g, and cameup at his father's.call and honoured the
int oduction to his father's guest, with that easy grace and
ad ess which besides being more or less born with a man,
tell that much attrition with the world has been at work
to take away all his outward roughnesses of nature. He
was handsomely dressed too, though not at all in a way to
challenge observation. His coat would have startled no-
body in Pattaquasset, though it might have tol another
that its wearer had probably seen France, had proba ly seen
England, and had in short lived much in that kind  f so-
ciety which recognizes the fact of ,many kinds of coats in
the world. His greeting of Mr. Linden was both simple
and graceful.
"1 am very happy to see you," he said as he shook
hands. "I should certainly have come to see you before,

H

'155


SAY AND -SEAL.          157

but I am more a stranger in Pattaquasset than anybody. I
have hardly been at home since I returned; business has
drawn me to other quarters-and I am only fortunate
enough to be in time for this occasion. It's a good time
for me," said he looking round,-" I can renew my old ac.
quaintance with everybody at once-I think all Pattaquas.
set is here."
"Not grown out of your remembrance, has it ?" said Mr.
Linden. " How long have you been away ?"
"Well-it's had time to grow out-of everything ! espe-
cially out of my memory. I have not been here for five
years-and then only for a few days-and before that at
College; so I may say I have hardly been here since my
boyhood. I don't know anybody but the old ones. I shall
apply to you, if you will allow me," said he, drawing him-
self and Mr. Linden a little mor apart from the centre of
reception. "Who, for instance, is that very--well-dressed--
young lady just entering the hal ?.-good-looking too."
The doctor's face was very quiet-so were his words;
but his eye was upon Miss Cecilia Deacon, who in a low.
necked blue silk, with an amber necklace and jet bracelets,
as paying her respects to the Judge and his daughter.
With equal quietness Mr. Linden made answer.
"By the way," said the doctor suddenly, " I believe we
owe this pleasant occasion-very pleasant I think it is
going to be-to you."
"Accidentally and innocently, I assure you."
"Yes-of course,"-said Dr. Harrison, with the air of
one who needed no information as to Mr. Linden's view of
the subject, nor explanation as to its grounds. "But,"
said he speaking somewhat low,-" my father has the in-
terests of the school-and indeed of all Pattaquasset--
truly at heart, and my sister has entered into all his feel-
ings. I am a kind of alien. I hope not to be so.-But,
as I was saying, my father and sister putting their heads
together, have thought it would have a good effect upon
the boys a d upon certain interests of the community
through the and their parents too, to give some little ho-
nours to the best students among them.--or to the cleverest
boys-which, as you and I know, are not precisely synony-
mous terms. Would you think well of such an expedient?

I

My father is very anxious to do nothing which shall not
quite meet your judgment and wish in the matter."
"I shall leave it in Judge Harrison's hands," said Mr.
Linden' after a moment's silence: "I should be very sorry
to gainsay his wishes in any respect. And some of the
boys deserve any honours that can be given them."
"Do they ?" said the doctor. "Can you indicate them
to me ?"
"No," said Mr. Linden smiling.  "I shall leave you to
find out."
"Leave me"-said the other. "How did you know what
office they had charged upon me? Well-I am making as
long a speech as if I were a member of Congress. By the
way, Mr. Linden, can you imagine what could induce a
man to be that particular -member of the body politic ? it
occupies the place of the feet, I think; such members do
little but run to and fro-though I remember I just seemed
to give them the place of the tongue-unjustly. They
don't do the real talk of the world."
"The real talk?" said Mr. Linden.  "Indeed I think
they do their share."
"Of talk?" said the doctor with an acute look at his
neighbour.; "Well-as I was saying-my sister has pro-
vided I believe some red and blue, or red and something,
favours of ribband--to be given to the boys who shall
merit them. Now to find out that, which you won't tell
me, I am to do, under your pleasure, some more talking-
to them in public--to see in short how well they can talk
to me. Do you like that ?"
"Better than they will, perhaps-as merit is sometimes
modest."
"I assure you I would happilyyield the duty into your
hands--who would do it so much better-but I suppose
you would say as somebody else-'Let my friend tell my
tale.'--Who is that ?" said the doctor slowly and softly,-.
"like the riding pole of a fence-as little to spare-and as
rigid-isn't he ?-and as long ! Don't I remember him ?"
"You ought-that is Mr. Simlins."
"Yes"-said the doctor musingly-."I remember him!
1 incurred his displeasure once, in some boyish way, and if
1 recollect he is a man that pays his debts. And that
VOL. 1                  14

.Y56            SAY AND SEAL.

a'
- r'


SAY AND SEAL.              159

158           1 SAY AND SEAL.

unfortunate -next -looks like the perspective of a
woman."
But this lady Mr. Linden did not know. She was little,
in form and feature, and had besides a certain pinched-in
look of diminutiveness-that seemed to belong to mind as
well as body, temper, and life-and. had procured her the
doctor's peculiar term of description.
"The next thing is," said Dr. Harrison, as his eye slowly
roved over the assembled and assembling people-" who is
to give the favours ? My sister of course does not wish to
be forward in the business-and I don't-and you don't.
I say, the prettiest girl here."
"I think the hands that prepared the favours should dis.
pense them," said Mr. Linden.
"But she won't do it-and- ladies have sometimes the
power of saying no-they're generally persuadable !-Who's
that ?" said the doctor with a change of tone, touching Mr.
Linden's arm,-" the one in white with a red bouquet de
corsage-she's charming ! She's the one 1"
"That is Miss Derrick."
"She'll do,"-said the doctor softly to his companioinas
Faith paused for a quick greeting of the Juqge'and then
passed on out of sight;;--"she's charming-Do you sup.
pose she knew what she was about when she put those red
leaves and roses tog4ter ? I didn't know there was that
kind of thing in Pattaquasset."
"Yes, they look very well," said Mr. Linden coolly.
"Julius !" said Mrs. Somers, laying hold of the elbow of
the suggestive coat, "what do you mean by keeping Mr.
Linden and yourself back here. That's the way with you
young men-stand off and gaze at a safe distance, and
then make believe you're fire proof."
"Don't make believe anything, aunt Ellen," said the
.young man lightly. "Prove me. You can take me up to the
cannon's mouth-or any other !--and see if I am afraid of it."
" I shall prove you before I take you anywhere," said
Mrs. Somers. "You needn't talk to me in that style.
But it's a little hard upon the boys to keep Mr. Linden
here out of sight,-half of them don't know whether
they're on their head or their heels till they see him, J call
tell from their faces."

"Mr. Linden," said the doctor with a gesture of invita-
i tion to his companion,-"shall we Ago? Does it depend
z upon your face which of the positions mentioned is to be
assumed ?"
The two gentlemen accordingly threaded their way to
= the scene of action; passing, among others, Squire Deacon
and Mr. Simlins wiom Mr. Linden greeted together. Mr.
Simlins' answer was a mighty grasp of the hand. Squire
Deacon's deserved little attention, and got it.
The party were now on the lawn, at one side of which
the boys had clustered and were standing in expectation.
"I think, Mr. Linden,'said the doctor, if you will ex-
plain to the boys what is to become of them in the next
hour, I will go and see about the fair distributor of the
favours-and then I suppose we shall be ready."
It was well Dr. Harrison chose such a messenger,-no
one else could have brought quietness out of those few dis-
mayed minutes when the boys first learned, what was 'to
become of them'; and the Judge would have felt remorseful
; about his secret, had he seen the swift wings on which
" Pleasure took her departure from the little group. It took
, all Mr. Linden's skill, not to enforce submission, bu to
bring pleasure back; perhaps nothing less than his half
laughing half serious face and words, could have kept some
of the boys from running away altogether.  And while
. some tried to beg off, and some made manful efforts not to
J feel afraid, others made desperate efforts to remember; and
some of the little ones could be reassured by nothing but
the actual holding of Mr. Linden's hand in theirs. So-
they stood, grouped in and out the trees at the further
edge of the lawn, till their teacher disengaged himself and
came back to the house, leaving the parting directions-to
say what they knew, and not try to say what they knew
not.
a Meanwhile Dr. Harrison had found his sister, and after
a little consulting the two had pressed their father into the
service; and then the three sought Faith. She was dis-
covered at last on the other, lawn, by one. of the tables,
Miss Harrison having d'smayfully recollected that she had
asked Faith to help he? dress them, and then had left her
all alone to do it. But Faith was not all alone; for Mr.

,;
'1+ 4' J
li   1
1
1 i'
I 'j ifj
ii 11
1
I  J it
),  }J'1
!'
I  ' ,j
!i 4 ;t
1:, ,
,,'~E i
I; ;il
r f l
i.l
..
,  ;
s
fi  ;j
,,1 ~ ;
,;,
;
.;i
' ' li l1
,.i ,
11


I

160

SAY AND SEAL.

Simlins stdod there like a good-natured ogre, watching her
handling and disposing of the green leaves and late flowers
with which she was surrounded, and now and then giving a
most extraordinary suggestion as to the same.
"Faith," said Miss Harrison after she had introduced her
brother,-"I want you to give these favburs to the boys.
Somebody must do it, and I can't-and you must !"
"You see, my dear," said Judge Harrison, "Sophy and
Julius want their fete to go off as prettily as possible; and
so they want you to do this for them because you're the
prettiest girl here."
"Then I can't do it, sir," said Faith. She blushed very
prettily, to be sure, but she spoke very quietly.
"Faith ! you will do it for me ?" said Miss Harrison.
"I can't, Sophy."
"Nobody would do it so well as you-half!"
"But I can't do it at all." And Faith went on leafing
her dishes.
"I dare put in no petition of my own," said the doctor
then; "but I will venture to ask on the part of Mr. Lin.
den, that you will do him and the school such a service."
Faith's dark eyes opened slightly.  "Did he ask you,
sir ?"
"I cannot answer that," said the doctor, a little taken
aback. "I have presumed on what I am sure are his
wishes."
He did not know what to make of her smile, nor of the
simplicity with which Faith answered, in spite of her vary-
ing colour,
"You have been mistaken, sir."
he doctor gave it up and said he was very sorry.
'Then who shall do it ?" said Miss Harrison. "Miss
Essie de Staff?"
"She'll do," said the Judge. And the doctor, raising
his eyebrows a little, and dropping his concern, offered his,
arm to Faith to go to the scene of action. So it happened
that as Mr. Linden entered the hall from one side door, he
met the whole party coming in from the other, the doctor
carrying the basket of blue and red favour which he had
taken to present to Faith. But he stood till to let them
pass, taking the full effect of the favours, the doctor, the

SAY AND SEAL.

161

. red leaves and their white-robed wearer; and then followed
in his turn.
All the inhabitants of the house and grounds were now
fast gathering on the other lawn. Miss Sophy and her
father separated different ways, the former taking the
basket to commit it to Miss de Staff; and the doctor being
obliged to go to his place in the performance, left his charge
where he might. But nobody minded his neighbour now;
Faith did not; the boys were drawn up in a large semi-
circle, and the doctor taking his place in front of them, all
in full view of the assembled townsmen of Pattaquasset,
proceeded to his duty of examiner.
He did it well. He was evidently, to those who conid
see it, thoroughly at home himself in all the subjects upon
which he touched and made the boys touch ; so thoroughly,
that he knew skilfully where to tohch, and what to expect
of them. He skewed himself a generous examiner too;
he keenly enough caught the weak and strong points in the
various minds he was dealing with, and gracefully enough
brought the good to light, and only skewed the other so
much as was needful for his purposes. He did not catch,
nor entrap, nor press hardly; the boys had fair play but
i they had favour too.
The boys, on their part, were not slow to discover his
good qualities; and it was certainly a comfort to them to
know that they were acquitted or condemned on right
grounds. Beyond that, there were curious traits of charac-
ter brought to light, for those who had eyes to read
them.
The two head boys-Reuben Taylor and Sam Stouten-
burgh, though but little apart in their scholarship were
widely different in the manifestation thereof. Sam Stouten-
burgh's rather off-hand, dashing replies, generally hit the
mark; liut the steady, quiet clearheadedness of Reuben not
only placed him in advance, but gave indications which no
one could read who had not the key to his character. He
coloured sometimes, but it was from modesty;y while part
of Sam Stoutenburgh's blushes came ,from his curls. Little
Johnny Fax, by dint of fixing his eyes upon Mr. Linden's
far-off form (lie had been petitioned to stand in sight) went
bravely through- his short part of the performance; and
14*


162            V SAY AND SEAL.

proved that he knew what he knew, if he didn't know
much; and.of the rest there need nothing be said.
Among the lookers-on there were also indications. To
those who did not know him, Mr. Linden's face looked as
unmoved as the pillar against which he leaned,--yet the
varying play of light and shade upon the one was well re-
peated in the other. Squire Stoutenburgh nodded and
smiled, to himself and his neighbours, and made little aside
observations -"That told, sir !"-= "Always was a good
boy !-studious."-"Yes--Reuben Taylor does well--very
well,-considering who his father is."
That father the while, stood alone-even beyond the out.
skirts of the gay party. With Miss Cilly's blue dress he
had nothing in common-as little with Faith's spotless
white. Dark, weatherbeaten', dressed for his boat and the
clam banks, he stood there on the green turf as if in a
trance. Unable to follow one question or answer, his eager
eye caught every word of Reuben's voice ; his intent gaze
read first the assurance that it would be right, then the as-
surance that it was. The wholb world might have swept
by him in a pageant-and he would scarcely have turned
to look!-
There was one other listener perhaps, whose interest was
as rapt as his; that was Faith. But her interest was of
more manifold character. There was the natural feeling
for and with the boys; and there was sympathy for their
instructor and concern for his honour, which latter grew pre-
sently to be a very gratified concern. Then also Dr. Har-
rison's examination was a matter of curious novelty ; and
l5ack of all that, lay in Faith's mind a deep, searching,
pressing interest in the subject mattersof it. What of all
that, she knew,--how little,-and' how much the boys;-
how vastly much Dr. Harrison; what far-reaching fields of
knowledge.there were in some people's minds. Where was
Faith's mind going?   Yet she was almost as outwardly
quiet as Mr. Linden himself.&amp; All her shew of feeling was 1
in the intent eye, the grave face, and- a little deepening.
and deepening tinge in her cheeks.
The questioning and nswering was over-the boys were
all in their ranks-the e was a little hush and stir of ex-
pectaucy,-and Dr. Harrison gave his hand to a very bright

lady with a basket and led her to a position by his side,
filling the eye of the whole .assembly. Faith looked over
to her with a tiny giving way of the lips which meant a
great self-gratulation that she was not in the lady's place.
There she stood, very much at home apparently,--Miss
Essie de Staff, as fifty mouths said at once. She was rather
a little lady, not very young, nor old; dressed in a gay-
coloured plaid silk, with a jaunty little black apron with
pockets, black hair in curls behind her ears, and a glitter
of jewelry. It was not false jewelry, nor ill put on, and
this was Miss Essie de Staff. S belonged to the second
great family of Pattaquasset ; he too had been abroad and
had seen life like the ilarrisons; but somehow she had seen
it in a different way; and while the de Staffs had the shew,
the Harrisons always had the reality of precedence in the
town.
And Dr. Harrison, raising slightly again his vo'e, which
was a melodious one, said,
"The ladies of Pattaquasset intend to honoui with a
blue ribband the five elder boys who have spoken best; and
with a favour of red ribband the five little boys who have
w done the same on their part. Miss Essie de. Staff will do
us the honour to bestow them. --Reuben Taylor, will you
come forward-here, if you please."
4 The 'favours' made a little stir among the group; and
Reuben, who had been too much absorbed in the examina-
tion for its own sake to think much of the question of pre-
cedence, came forward at first with hesitation-then steadily
and firmly.
Miss Essie stepped a little forward to meet him, gave
her basket to Doctor Harrison, and taking a blue favour
from it she smilingly attached the same securely to the left
breast of Reuben's coat.
"Don't leave your place," said the doctor to him in a
low to-ie ;-" L mean," he added smiling,-"go back to it
and stay there.---Sam Stoutenburgh 1"-
The doctor spoke like a man a little amused at himself
for the part he was playing, but he did it wellenevertheless.
And Reuben, who would fain have put himself and his blue
ribband out of sight behind the rest, went back to, his
-place; while Sam stepped briskly forward, and received the

N'

SAY AND SEAL.           163


SAY AND SEAL.             165

i
I    1
5

decoration in turn. Very different his air from Reuben's,-
very different Reuben's grave and grateful bend of the head
from the way in which Sam's hand covered at once his heart
and the blue ribband. The four boys next in degreeto
Reuben were severally invested with their blue stars.
"Johnny Fax!"-said Dr. Harrison.   "Miss Essie, you
are laying us under nameless obligations.-Johnny, come
and      our ribband."
Johnny came-looking first at Dr. Harrison and then at
Miss Essie, as if a little uncertain  what they were going to
- do with him; but" apparently the fluttering red favour
pleased his fancy, for he smiled a little, and then looked
quite away over Miss, Essie's shoulder as she bent towards
him. For which neglect of the lady's face his youth and
inexperience must account. But when the favour was on,
Johnny's eyes came back, and he said simply,
"Thank you, ma'am.   Shall I keep it always ?"
"By all means 1" said Miss Essie.  "Never part with it."
The five little fellows were made splendid; and then
there was a pause. Miss Essie stepped back and was lost.
Doctor Harrison made a sign with his hand, and two ser-
vants came on the lawn bringing between them a table
covered with a red cloth. It was set down before Dr.
Harrison and his sister came beside him.
"iMy dear friends," said the doctor raising his voice
again,. and giving his sister at the same time the benefit of
a slight play of face which others were not so situated they
could see,-" You have all done yourselves and somebody
else, a great deal of credit. I hope you will thank him;-.
as we wish to shdw-our pleasure to you. It was not to be
expected that everybody would be first this time-though
on the next occasion..I have no doubt that will prove to be
the case ; but as we could not of course in consequence
give stars to all, we will do the best we can. Reuben
Taylor-"
Again Reuben came forward; the doctor hak pulled off
the red cloth, and a tempting pile of books, large and
small, and nicely bound, rose up to view upon the table.
And Miss Harrison as Reuben came near, chose out one
of the best and handed it to him, saying softly, "YOU
have done very well."

t

Now Miss Sophy Harrison was, as everyone knew and
said, thoroughly good and kind, like her father. She
had chosen the books. And the one she had given Reuben
was a very nice copy of the Pilgrim's Progress. She
might have felt herself repaid by the one earnest look his
eyes gave her,-then he bowed silently and retired.
The list would be too long to go through. 'Every one
was pleased this time ; the Harrisons had done the thing
well; and it may only be noted in passing, that Johnny
Fax's delight and red ribband were crowned and finished
off with an excellent Robinson Crusoe. Then broke up
and melted off the assembled throng, like-I wanta simile,
--like the scattering of a vapoury cloud in the sky. It
was everywhere and nowhere directly-that which before
had been a distinct mass.
"Faith," said Miss Cecilia, almost before this process
of dispersion c mmenced, - "where did you get such a.
pretty nosegay this time of year ?"
"They grew--" said Faith .smiling.
"Did they come out .of your own garden."
"We don't keep oak trees in our garden."
"I declare ! it's elegant. Faith,, give me just one of
those red leaves, won't you? I want it."
"No indeed !" said Faith, starting back and shielding
the oak leaves with her hand, as that of Miss Deacon ap-
proached them. "What are you thinking of ?"
"Thinking ofI" said Cecilia colouring.  "So, Faith, I
hear you've set up for a school teacher ?"
"I've one little scholar," said Faith quietly. "That isn't
much 'setting up,' Cecilia."
"One scholar !" said Cecilia contemptuously. "Didn't
you go over with all the boys to Neanticut the other day?"
"Yes,"said Faith laughing, "indeed. I did; but I assure
you I didn't go to teach school."
"Miss Derrick,"-said Dr. Harrison, offering his arm to
Faith,--"my sister begs the favour of your assistance-in-
stantly and urgently-you know I presume for what ?"
"Yes, I know, Dr. Harrison," said Faith smiling,-"I
left it unfinished"
And the two walked away together.
"'Seems to me, Mr. Simlins," said Squire Deacon, watch-

164             SAY AND SEAL.

(


166             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

ing Faith and her convoy with a certain saturnine satisfac.
tion; "I say it seems to me, that the Judge aint making
the thing right side upwards. The boys get all the prizes
--without Dr. Harrison thinks he has, and the teacher
don't seem to. be much count. Now what a handsomer
thing it-would have been to make the boys get him some.
thing with their own hard cash,--a pleasure boat--" added
the Squire, "or a Bible-or anything of that sort. I
thought all this philustration was to set him up."
Mr. Simlins gave a kind of grunt.
"It haimt pulled him down much,". he said,-"as I see.
And I suppose Judge Harrison thinks that drivin' wedges
under a church steeple is a surrogate work-without he
saw it was topplin'."
Without getting any too clear a notion of the meaning
of these words-it took a lively imagination to follow Mr.
Simlins in.some of his flights, the Squire yet perceived
enough to stay his own words a little; and he passed away
the tedium of the next few minutes by peering round the
corner of the house and getting far-off glimpses of Faith.
"She looks 'most like a spectral illusion," he said ad-
miringly. "The tablecloths aint bleached a bit whiter 'n
her dress."
"She aint no more like a spectre than I'm like a ghost,"
said Mr. Simlins. "Washin' and ironin' 'll make a white
frock for any woman."
Then stalking up to Mr. Linden accosted him grimly,
after his fashion. "Well Mr. Linden-.what   you think
of that farm at Neanticut ? don't you want-t6 take it of
me.?"
"There are too many fences between me and it," was
4he smiling reply.
"It's good land," Mr. Simlins went on; "you can't do
better than settle down there. I'd like to have you for a
tenant--give you the land easy."
"Let me pay you in nuts ?" said Mr. Linden.
But then came up other farmers and heads of families to'
claim Mr. Linden's attention; men whose bays were at the.
school; and who now in various states of gratification, but
all gratified, came one after another to grasp his hand and
thank him f the good he had done and was doing them.

"You're the first man, sir,"said one, a broad-shouldered,
tall, strong man, with a stern reserved face,-"you're the
first man that has been able to make that boy of mine-
Phil.-attend to anything, or- go to school regular. He
talks hard sometimes,-bit you do what you like with him,
Mr. Linden! I give you my leave. Hle's smart, and he
aint a bad boy, at heart; but he's wild, and he has his own
way and it aint always a good one. His mother never had
any government of him," said the father, looking towards
the identical person whom Dr. Harrison had characterized
as 'the perspective of a woman,' and who certainly had
the air of one whose mind-what she' had-was shut up
and shut off into the further extremities of possibility.
Then came up Judge Harrison.
"Well, Mr. Linden, I hope you have been gratified. I
have. I declare I have !-very much. You are doing a
great thing for us here, sir; and I don't doubt-it is a gra-
tification to you to know it. I haven't made up my mind
what we shall do to thank you-we've been thanking the
b ys,-but that's, you know,-that's a political expedient.
Mty heart's in the other thing."
"Squire Deacon was givin' me about the same perspec-
tive of the case," said Mr. Simlins,-"only he thought he
warut the one to do the thankin'."
Mr. Linden's face, through all these various gratulations,
had been a study. One part of his nature answered, eye
to eye and hand to hand, the thanks and pleasure so
variously expressed. But back of that lay something else,
--a something which gave even his smile a tinge,-it was
the face of one who
"Patiently, and still expect ant,
Looked out through the wooden"bars."
sometimes grave, at others a' queer sense of his own posi-
ion seemed to touch him; and his manner might then re-
Amind one of a swift-winged bird-who walking about on
the grass for business purposes, is complimented by a com-
pany of crickets on his superior powers of locomotion.
And it was with almost a start that he answered Judge
Harrison-.

fe

1,67


7

SAY AND SEAL.

169

168                SAY AND SEAL.
"Thank me, sir ? I don't think I deserve any thanks."
"I am sure we owe them,".said the Judge,-" but that's
another view of the case, I know. Well-it's a good kind
of debt to owe-and to pay !-"
And he was lost again among some other of his guests.
In the gradual shifting and melting away of groups, it
happened that Mr. Linden found himself for a moment
alone, when the doctor again approached him. '
"Did I do your office well ?" he said gently, and half
putting his arm through Mr. Lindens as if to lead him to
the house.
The answer was laughingly given-
"'What poet would not mourn to see
His brother write as well as he?,"
"Well," said the doctor, answering the tone, "did I hit
your boys ?-the right ones ?"
" My boys in point of scholarship ?-yes, almost as care-
fully as I should."
"I am glad you were satisfied," said the doctor;-"and
I'm glad it's over !-What sort of a life do ou lead here
in Pattaquasset?  I don't know it. Hod can one get
along here ?"
He spoke in a careless sort of confidential manner, as
perfectly aware that his companion was able to answer him.
They were very slowly sauntering up to the house.
"One can get along here in various ways-" said Mr.
Linden,--"as in other places. Onecan (if one can) sub-
side to the general level, or one can (with the like qualifi-
cation) rise above it. The paths through Pattaquasset
are in no wise peculiar, yet by no means alike."
"No," said the doctor, with another side look at him--
"I suppose as much. I see you're a philosopher. Do you
carry a spirit-level about with you ?"
"Define-" said Mr. Li). en, with a smile which ce
tainly belonged to the I t philosopher he had been i'
company with.
"I see you do," said the doctor. "What's your opinion
of philosophy ? that it adds to the happiness of the world
in general ?"

t
', ;i
!
,+
i
i   !  '
li~
! i
I
/                  ,(+1
r
{f, ,
i',llh '
' i;,
f                                                 ,e.!
'n' ,
, ;
I III it
. f,'1 I i
' 't ,l
v                                                 +'f~E
i
4
,  ,  {
Z'  '
{.
i 4  i
,),
,

You ask broad questions, Dr. Harrison-considering
the many kinds of philosophy, and the unphilosophical state
of 'the world in general."
The doctor laughed a little. "I don't know," aid he,-.
'I sometimes think the terms have changed sides, and that
'the world in general' has really the best of it. But do
you know what particular path in Pattaquasset we are
treading at this minute ?"
"A path where philosophy and happiness are supposed
to part company, I imagine," said Mr. Linden.
"Pre-cisely-" said the doctor. "By the way, if any-
thing in my father's house or library can be of the least con-
venience to you while you are travelling the somewhat un-
furnished ways of Pattaquasset, I hope you will use both
as your own.-Yes, I am taking you to the supper table-
or indeed they are plural to-night-Sophy, I have brought
Mr Linden to you, and I leave you to do what'you will
with him!1
[   VOL. I.               15

I
;{
:r
~
'
' .
±!it.
i
_    {1
t
1'  y.
'.
r

,,3, ,,     . i
+ l    r
_ + il,
s
} j, ,'Fr
"
t,
s .  ;,:
i ,   .
t     "    i'=
;F
" V
r
i         r.
o
t{'
rat.
1         li
47'
,
'j
I        2r
}
1       '  '
I
f
E       ji7
.f:
=t
,  ,

;I
I'


SAY AND SEAL.          1n

/i

X

CHAPTER XIV.

W     ITH p slight congee the doctor left them and went
back again; and then came the full rush of all
the guests, small and great. Miss Harrison claimed Mr.
Linden's assistance to marshal and arrange the boys at
their table-one being given specially to them; and then
established him as well as circumstances permitted at
another-between Miss Cecilia Deacon and Miss Essie de
Staff.. Miss Harrison herself did not sit dovn. The
guests were many, the servants far too few; and Miss llar~
rison and her brother with one or two helpers, of whom
Fpith was one, went round from table to table; attending
to everybody's wants. The supply of all eatables and
drinkables was ample and perfect enough; but without the
quick and skilful eyes and hands of these educated waiters,
the company could not have been entirely put in possession
of them. So Faith's red oak leaves did after all adorn the
entertainment, and publicly though most unconsciously on
her part.
"Reuben," she whispered at his shoulder, "there are no
roast clams here-shall I give you some jelly?  I see you
have got substantials."
"No thank you, Miss Faith," said Reuben-adding with
some hesitation, "I believe it's ungrateful in me, but I
don't want to eat."
"Are you eating your book all the while ? I am so glad,
Reuben! Whee i   qur father ?"
"I think he's home, Miss Faith-he must be by this
time."
"Home! I'm sorry. I've been looking for him. Sam
what can I get you ? coffee ?" .
"Miss Faith !" said Sam standing up in his place, "I'
rather have one of those leaves you've been wearing ll
day than all the coffee that ever was burnt !"
Leaves ! you foolish boy" said Faith, her own colour
in an instant emulating them, and as before her hand went
(170)

up to shield them. "I can't give you one of these, Sam--..
Il bring you some coffee.
Away she ran, coming bac  presently with.a cup and a
piece of jelly cake, bestowing a fellow piece upon Reuben.
"You can get plenty of oak leaves anywhere, Sam," she"
said laughing a little.
"But you haven't worn 'em, Miss Faith-and I can't
keep this !" said Sam sA-veying the cake with a very serio-
comic face.
"Well, who wants to ?" said Joe Deacon. "Hand us
over the other cake, that's got nothing between. If you're
settin' up to get round anybody, Sam Stoutenburgh, you'll
find there's two or three in a bunch-I tell you." Which
remark Faith was hqppily too far off to hear.
"Faith," said Mrs. Somers, leaning back and stopping
her as she passed;" do you know why I let Sophy keep
you running about so ?"
"I like to do it, Mrs. Somers."
"Well that's not the reason. You ought to sit up at
the head of the table for your skill in arranging flowers
I didn't know it was in you, child."
And Mrs. Somers bent closer to Faith, to take the
breath of the roses, but softy for she loved flowers herself.
Faith bore it jealously, for she was afraid of another in-
vading hand; and blushing at the praise she could not dis-
claim ran away as soon as she was free. But as the tide
of supper-time began to ebb, the doctor arrested Faith in
her running about and saying that his sister had had no
supper yet and wanted company, led her to the place his
aunt had spoken of, a clear space at one end of the table,
where the doctor also discovered he had taken no supper.
The rest of the party sat at ease, or began to scatter again
about the grounds. A new attraction was appearing there,
in the shape of Chinese lanterns, which the servants and
others were attaching in great numbers to the trees and
shrubbery. The sun went down, the shades of evening
were fast gathering. At last.Miss Harrison rose.
"When the lamps are lit, Miss Derrick," said the doctor
as they followed her example, "there is a particular effect
which Iewill have the pleasure of shewing you-if you will
alo 'm.

K-

I

l
i


172               SAY AND SEAL.

" Dir.Harrison, how do you do !" said a voice that
sounded like-perhaps as much like the bark of a red
squirrel as anything ; and a little figure, with everything
faded butcher ribbands,tand everything full but her cheeks,
looked up with a pair of good, kind, honest eyes into the
doctor's face. "It makes a body feel young-.or old-I
don't know which, to see you again," she said. "Though'
indeed I know just how old you are, without looking into
the Bible. Not but that's a good place to look, for various
thi gs. And there's a great variety of things there,---if a
body had time to read 'em all, which I haven't. I used to
read like a scribe when I was young-till my eyes got bad;
but a body can't do much without eyes, especially when
they have to sew all the time, as I do. I always did think
it was one indemnification for b ing a man, that a body
wouldn't have to sew. Nor do m ch of anything else---for
'man works from sun to sun, but a woman's work is. never
done.' And I always think the work after sundown comes
hardest-it does to me, because my eyes are so bad.-Well,
Miss Cilly! don't your dress fit !"-It may be proper to
mention that this last sentence was a little undertone.
"You have given me, Miss Bezac," said the doctor,
"what I have wanted all my life until. now-an indemnifi-
cation for being a man !"
"Is that the way they talk over in France ?" said Miss
Bezac-"well, it don't make. a body want to go there,
there's that about it. And there always is something about
everything. And I've something to say to you, Faith, so
don't you run away. You've done running enough for one
day, besides."
Faith was in no danger of running away. For while
Miss Bezac was running .off her sentences, a little low voice
at Faith's side said "Ma'am !"-by way of modestly draw-
ing her attention to Johnny Fax and his red ribband.
Faith stooped down to be nearer the level of the red
ribband.
"You did bravely, Johnny. And you got a book too.,
I guess Mr. Linden was pleased with you to-night," she
added softly.
"0O he's always pleased with me," said Johnny simply.
"But I wasn't brave, ma'am,--I was frightened." Thea

SAY AND SEAL.                 173
in a lower tone, as if he were telling a great secret, Johnny
added,
"I'm coming to you next Sunday if it's cold weather "-...
N  and looked up in her face to see the effect oo this mysteri-
ous announcement.
"You, Johnny I" said Faith, with a flash of remembrance
of the time she had last seen him, which made her almost
sorrowful. " Well, dear-we'll do the best we can," she
added in a tone which was sweet at least as tenderness
could make it. The child looked at her a little wistfully.
"Mr. Linden says he don't think I'm big enough to keep
warm out of doors any more," he said with childish inex-
plicitness.
"I don't think you are," said Faith. "Well, Johnny-.
you come to me next Sunday, and we'll try!"--And she
2   gave him, what Sam Stoutenburgh would probably have
mortgaged his life for,-.-a soft touch of her lips upon his
cheek. And Sam Stoutenburgh was not far off.
"Miss Faith I" he said as she rose to her former posi-
tion, --"stand out of the way, Johnny, there's a good
5  boy! -mayn' I see you home to-night ?    Please don't
refuse me everything !"
"There isn't room in the wagon, Sam," said Faith.  -
"0 are you going to ride ?" said Sam. "But I may go
with you to the wagon ?"
"Yes if you like," said Faith looking a little puzzled
and amused.  "I suppose you may."
"Are there any more to come ?" said Miss Bezac, hose
patience had outlasted that of Dr. Harrison,-" because if
there are, I'd rather wait-I -don't like to be stopped when
once I begin. And if I was you, Faith-(how pretty-you
look1!)...-I'd keep still and not let my head be turned ; the
old direction's the best ; and after all directions are more
than dresses. For what's the odds between an embroidered
vest and a plain one ? Not that it's much to embroider it-
used to fiddle faddle many a one, till I lost my eyes; and
'll teach you to do it in a minute, if you like." With
which kind and lucid proposal, Miss Bezac .put her hand
softly on Faith's waist and smoothed out an imaginary
wrinkle in the white dress.
~"Dear Miss Bezac," said Faith, not losing her amused


Pt 4¢              SAY AND SEAL.
look,-" I don't want to embroider waistcoats. What are
you talking of ?"
"I know-" said Miss Bezac "and I suppose. that's
enough., If folks don't know wlat you mean they can't
say anything against it. But you don't know what you
want, child,--any more than I did. And do you know,
sometimes I wish I'd never found out?  But whenever you
do know, you can come to me; and I'll fix you off so you
won't know yourself. It's a pleasant way to lose a body's
identity, I can tell you. Now give )me a kiss and I'll go,
t for I live 'tother sire of creation-where you never come;
and why you don't come, -and bring him, I don't see-but
I've seen him, in spite of you. Here he comes, tQo"--said
Miss Bezac, "so I'll be off."7
There was such a variety of confusions in this speech
that Faith was hopeless of setting them right. She stood
looking at the speaker, and did not try. However, every-
body was accustomed to7Miss Bezac's confusions.
"Are you pledged to stand still on this particular spot ?"
Mr. Linden said at her side.
"No indeed," said Faith with ready smile,-"but people
have been talking to me-"
"Yes, and there is no telling how many I shall interfere
with if I take you away now."
"I don't care-" said Faith. "Only Dr. Harrison said
he wanted to shew me something when the lamps were
lit."
"When they are lighting ? oer when they are lit ?"
"When they are lit, he said."
"Well they are not lit yet," said Mr. Linden, "and
before they are I want you to get a view of people and
things in twilight perspective. For which purpose, Miss
Faith, I must take you to the extreme verge of society and
the lawn-if you will let, me."
"I would like to go anywhere you please, Mr. Linden."
And Faith's face gave modest token that she would like i
very much.
He gave her his arm, and then by skilful navigation
kept clear of the groups most likely to interrupt their pro-
gress; passing rather towards the boy quarter, making Sam
Stoutenburgh sigh and Joe Deacon whistle, with the most

SAY AND SEAL.

175

frigid disregard of their feelings. The shrubbery at the
foot of the lawn was in more than twilight now, and its
deeper shadow was good to look out from; giving full
t effect to the dying light on earth and sky. The faint rose-
coloured clouds hung over a kaleidoscope of dresses, which
was ever shifting and making new combinations, passing
into black spots in the shadow of the trees, or forming
a broad spread of patchwork on the open lawn. The
twilight perspective was far more witching than the sun-
light full view.
"How pretty that is!" said Faith delightedly.  "Thank
you, Mr. Linden. I don't believe Dr. Harrison will shew
me any effect so good as this. How pretty and odd it is1!"
"Don't you know," he said, "that you never should thank
me for doing pleasant things ?"
"Why, Mr. Linden ?" she said in a tone a little checked.
"Why?-because I like to do them."
"Well,"she said laughing slightly, "that makes me want
to thank you more."
"It don't make me deserve the thanks, however.  Do
you perceive the distant blue .of s Miss Cecilia's dress?
does it make you think of the blue ether over your
head ?"
"Not the least !" said Faith much amused.   "What
makes you ask me that, Mr. Linden ?"
"I should like to hear why it does not ?"
"The two things are so very, very far apart," Faith said,
after a moment's consideration.  "I don't see what could
make me think of them together. The only thing is that
both are blue, but I should have to think to remember
that."
"You haven't answered me yet,"he said smiling. "Why
are they far apart ? -your blue gentians 'there, are as far
below the sky in number of miles-yet from them to the
sky the transition is easy."
"Yes-" said Faith looking down at her blue gentian.
'Why is it, Mr. Linden? But this is God's work too," she
dded softly.
"I suppose that is the deep root of the matter.  The
ruined harp of man's nature yet answers to a breath from
heaven as to no other touch. Then blue has been so long

' ,..  , EY
F ~
'rt .}  .
p. a
.t "_
f i       }
.    IS ?;
'         ; '
:
rr'--_
{i
* k^''
1
                        4i  '{
,

'i              it
'   i''''i          ,{
i i;
I  SI' ,i  i '  i  'i
n  i i r f    ' ''+1
'i  ij           ii
Iii,'  1  f  i  !  1,'
'iij    j  ii'     r i
'  I  i  i  r   1'
i   'j)I  4
i. ,  ;  ,'1
i  '   I ,r
'I I'   il         i '
i           '
'' ) f+!j i'i   7  Ji
ti   I Itii       i
,{, 'ii'i r ,
ti  ,I  i i  r
' II  1i         'i


SAY AND SEAL.         .    1'7

the emblem of truth, that separated from truth one can
scarce, as you say, realize what colour it is."
"Then Mr. Linden," said Faith after a moment's silence,
with the tone and the lool of quick: pleasure,--"is this
what you mean by 'reading' things ?"
"Yes--" he said with a smile,
To rightly spell
Of every star that heaven doth shew,
And every herb that sips the dew."'
"But how far can you read ?" said Faith. "And I
never thought of such reading till-till a little while ago!
How far can you read, Mr. Linden ?"
"I don't know-" he said,-"because I don't know how
far I cannot read ! Yet if 'tie invisible things of God'
may be known 'by the things which are seen,' there is at
least room for ample study. To some people, Miss Faith,
the world is always (with the change of one adjective) an
incomprehensible little green book; while others read a few
pages now, and look forward to knowing the whole here-
after.".
There was a pause, a little longer than usual.
"And you say I must not thank you ?"-Faith said
very low.
"I say I think you have no cause."
She was silent.
"Has the day been pleasant ?" Mr. Linden asked, as
they walked up and down.
"Yes, very pleasant. I liked what you didn't like, Mr.
Linden-all that examination business. And I was very
glad for Reuben and little Johnny."
"How do you know I didn't like it ?"
"I don't 'know'-I thought you didn't," she said looking
at him.
"You don't like to say ivhy ?"
"Yes! -I thought you didn't like it, Mr. Linden, whe
Judge Harrison first proposed it. You wished he wonl
give us the pleasure without the shewing off."
"iWell, did you also know," he  said with a peculia
little smile, "that one of my best scholars~ was not ex
ammned ?'

S "No-who do you mean ?" she said earnestly.
He laughed, and answered
"One who would perhaps prefer a private examina-
tion at home - and to whom   I have thought of pro-
posing  it.
."n
"An examination ?  said Faith, wondering and with
co siderable heightening of colour, either at the proposal
o at the rank among scholars assigned her.
"You need not be frightened," Mr. Linden said gravely
"if anybody should be, it is I, at my own boldness. I
am a little afraid to go on now-though it is something I
hav long wanted to say to you."
fhat is it, Mr. Linden ?" she said timidly
"I have thought-" he paused a moment, and then went
quietly on. "You have given me reason to think, that
there are other, desirable things besides French of which
you have no knowledge. I have wished. very much to ask
you what they are, and that you would let me-so far as I
can-supply the deficiency."  It was said with simple-
frankness, yet with -a manner that fully recognized the
delicate ground he was on.
The rush of blood to Faith's face he could see by the
lamplight, but she hesitated for an answer, and hesitated,
-and her head was bent with the weight of some feeling.
"I should be too glad, Mr. Linden !" she said at last
4 very low, but with unmistakeable emphasis.
"Then if you will let me see to-morrow what you are
doing with that other little book, I will see what compan-
ions it should have."  And warned by the kindling lamps
on every side, he led the way a little more into the open
lawn, that Faith might at least be found if sought. That
allowed him to seetoo, the look he had raised in her face;
the little smile on the lips, the flush of colour, the stir of
deep pleasure that kept her from speaking. Yet when
hey had taken a few steps on the broad lawn- and other
ople would soon be nearing them, she suddenly said,
ftly,
"What 'other' book do you mean, Mr. Linden ?"
"I don't know how many there may be, Miss Faith, but
Meant one which I tried to get at the store one day, and
found that the last copy had passed into your hands."

4

176            SAY AND SEAL.


1'8            SAY AND SEAL.

"The arithmetic !" said Faith.  "That was how you
knew it.-There is Dr. Harrison looking for me !" she
added, in a tone which gentle as it was would have turned
that gentleman to the right about if he had heard it-- .
which he did not-and if he had not been indifferent on
the point of all such tones,-which he was.
. "Stars shine, by their, own light I" said the doctor as he
came up. " I have no need to ask, 'Where is Miss Derrick?'
Your Quercus rubra there is brilliant at any distance, with
a red gleam. You have Mars on your breast, and Hes-
perus in your eye ! It is heaven on earth !"
Faith could not choose but laugh at the mixture of gal-
lantry and fun and flattery in the doctor's manner, though
his meaning was, to her, doubtful. Other answer she made
none.
"And so," said Mr. Linden, "you make the stars shine
by their' own light, and IIiss Derrick by the light of the
stars !"
"Advances constantly making in the sciencesI" said the
doctor with a wave of his hand.  "I dare say you are a
better astronomer than I am ;-I haven't kept up with the
latest discoveries. But Mr. Linden, may I interfere with
your heaven for a moment, and persuade these stars to
shine, for that length of time, upon less favoured regions?
With another revolution of the earth they will rise upon
you again."
"I shall not persuade the stars for'you," said Mr. Linden.
" I will endeavour so far," said the doctor turning to
Faith. "I had the honour to offer to shew Miss Derrick the
peculiar effect of Chinese lanterns in Pattaquasset--may I
hope thdt she will allow me to fulfil my promise ?"
He took possession of Faith, and with a graceful "Au
revoir !".-to Mr. Linden, led her away.
The effect of the lanterns was very pretty, and to her
eyes very curious. So were the lanterns themselves, be-
fore one and another*of which Faith stopped and looked
with charmed eyes, and the doctor nothing loth gave her
charming details.
"After all, it is only child's play," he said as he turned
away.  "Why should we yant Pattaquasset to look like
China ?"

S
f
t
;
.
1
5
f_
r

"For one night?" said Faith.
i"Well, for one night," saidthe doctor. "But you haven't
got little feet on, have you ?' said he looking down at the
edge of Faith's white dress in mock alarm;-' I shouldn't
like the transformation to go too far."
Faith laughed.
"Reassure me," said the doctor. "Nothing can be more
unlike the Mongol type than the pure Circassian I have
before me,-yet let me see the slipper.  I want to be sure
that all is right."
He persisted, and to stop the absurdity of the thing,
Faith chewed him, not indeed her slipper, but the most
un-Chinese, un-French, neat little shoe thick enough for
walking, in which she had come to Judge Harrison's
party.
"Alarmingly near !", said the doctor peering at it--"but
the proportions are perfect. It is not Chinese. Thank you.
I have seen so many odd things in my life, Miss Derrick,--
and people,-that I never know what to expect; and any-
thing right from head to foot, is a marvel."
They moved 'on again and sauntered round and round in
the paths of the shrubbery, Faith hardly knew whither. In
truth the doctor's conversation was amusing enough to
leave her little care. Very few indeed were the words he
drew from her; but with all their simplicity and modesty,
he seemed to be convinced that there was something behind
them worth pleasing; at least he laid himself out to please.
He easily found that what she knew of life and the world
was very little, and that she was very ready to take any
glimpses he would give her into the vast unknown regions
'so well known to him. Always in his manner carelessly
graceful, Faith never dreamed of the real care with which
he brought up subjects, and discussed them, that he thought
would interest her. He told of distant countries 'and
scenes-lie detailed at length foreign experiences-he dea
scribed people-he gave her pictures of manners/and cusy
toms,-all new to her ears, strange and delightful; and sd
easip yet so masterly given, that she took it all in an easy
full flow of pleasure. So it happened that Faith did not
very well know how they turned and wound in and out

t ,_r
f 1) ilk
r1"
1 1iH
1 Il lf
a I ti
1, !j
4  }1
r1   11
k
rat
yilf
f ity;
t1;4

NJ

)

SAY AND SEAL.

It
!fit
.    r


180

SAY AND SAL.

through the walks; she was in Switzerland and at Paris
and at Rome, all the while.d
She came back pretty suddenly to Pattaquasset. As
they paused to watch the glitter of one of the lamps on the
shining leaves of a holly tree, several of the boys, seeking
their own pleasure, came sauntering by. The last of these
had time to observe her, and swaggering close up under
her face said, loud enough to be heard,
"You aint, neither !--I know you aint.  Reuben Taylor
says you aint."
The lamplight did not serve to reveal Faith's changes
of face and colour, neither did Dr. Harrison wait to observe
them.S
"What do you mean, sir ?" he said, catching hold of the
boy's arm. "Why do you speak so to a lady ?.--what isn't
she ?"
"Somebody's sweetheart," said the boy resolutely. "She
aint. Reuben Taylor says she aint."P
"You'll never be, my fine fellow," said the doctor letting
him go,-"if you don't learn more discretion. I must tell
Mr. Linden his boys want a trifle of something besides
Algebra. That don't give all the relative values of
things."S
"Pray do not! don't speak of it, Dr. Harrison!1" said
Faith.    %
He tried to see her face, but he could not.
"Hardly worth while," he, said lightly. "Boys will be
boys-which is an odd way of excusing them for not being
civilized things. However-if ,you excuse him, I will."
Faith said nothing. She was trying to get over the sud-
den jar of those words. They had not told her anything
she- did not believe-she thought no other; but they gave
her nevertheless a keen stir of pain-a revival of the pain
she had quieted at Neanticut; and somehow this was worse
than that. Could Reuben Taylor talk abort her so ?.-.
could Reuben Taylor have any authority for doing it?
But that question would not stand answering. Faith's red
oak leaves were a little 2Egis to ,ber then, a tangible pre-
cious representative of all the answer that question would
not wait for. No sting of pain could eater that way. But
the pain was bad enough; and under the favouring shadowy

SAY AND SEAL.

181

light of the lamps she strove and strove to quiet it ; while
the 'doctor went on talking.
"Indeed,"- said he-going on with the subject of Phil's
speech,-" I am obliged to him for his information-which
was of course incorrect. But I am very glad to hear it
nevertheless. Other people's sweethearts, you know, are
'tabooed'-sacred ground-not to be approached without
danger to all concerned. But now-if you will allow me,
I think I shall claim you for mine."
Whatever look the words may have, they did not sound
rude. They were said with a careless half-amused, half
gentle manner, which might leave his hearer in doubt
whether the chief purpose of them were not to fall plea-
santly on her ear and drive away any disagreeable re-
mainders of Phil's insolence. But Faith scarce heard him.
She was struggling with that unbidden pain, and trying
with all the simplicity and truth of her nature and with the
stronget- help she had learned to seek, to fight it down.
She had never thought such an utterly vain thought as
that suggested in Phil's words ; in her humility and mo-
desty she chid herself that it should have come into her
head even when other. people's words had forced it there.
Her humility was very humble now. And in it she quietly
took up with the good she had, of which her roses were
even then breathing sweet reminders in her face; putting
from her all thought of good that did not belong to her
and she could not deserve.
The uncertain light favoured her well, or Dr. Harrison
would have seen too much of her face-play. They had
been going on and on, and the doctor had been as usual
talking, and she had managed now and then to seem to
give an answer-she never remembered to what ; and her
part in the conversation all along had been so modestly
small that the doctor hardly knew when or whether she had,
cease. to comprehend him. But they emerged at last upon
the lawn, where Faith was taken possession of and marched
off by the old Judge, nothing loth.
. The doctor casting about for another fish to throw his
line at, spied Reuben Taylor, standing alone, and eying
as Mr. Linden and -Faith had done the gay scene about
the house, nowgay with the many-coloured lamps.

y
r,
t'
T
.
1,
-
t
S  '
7
1
't
(A"
4
J

16

I

I

+ i3
Ott
tki{, t .
{11
r JI
st.S
I , s
{ } 4i
ris
.;III
rs
=t  t
3!' 1
tt}= ,
1i+14
11 =
t    11
s}_

! j
fill;
}   t
t
I it
Ell
t
s i
r
S

VL. I.


182             SAY AND SEAL.

"Well, my man, said the doctor easily accosting him as
he stood there, "you did very well this afternoon. How
long have you been at the school ?"
Reuben made answer with his usual respectful courtesy.
"Are you a friend of Miss Derrick's ?"
"I think Miss Derrick. is my friend, sir," said Reuben
with a little flush.
"Is she ?" said the doctor. "Well don't you think that
comes to the same thing ?"
"No sir."
"No? What's the difference? I'm not examining you
now-I am asking for formationn..
"I think you must know, sir," said Reuben, respectfully
but firmly, after a glance at his questioner.
"Do you ?" said the doctor laughing slightly. "Well,
if you are.aot her friend, it don't signify. I was going to
remark to you,'if you were, that ladies don't generally care
to have their private affairs talked about, and however
much you may know, it is not always -worth while to tell
it."
"I neither know nor have said anything, Dr. Harrison,"
said Reuben, drawing himself up a little, and looking full
in the doctor' face.'
" You're Reuben Taylor, aren't you ?"
" Yes sir-I'm not anybody else though."
"No," said the doctor carelessly. "Well, it isn't neces-
sary you should be, for present purposes. I heard you
quoted as authority just now, on something which touched
that lady's affairs, whose friend you say you are not-and
I think, your friend though she may be, she was not par-
ticularly gratified with your interference."
"Miss Faith knew it was a wrong quotation," said Reu-
ben quietly.
"You are sure of that ?"
"Quite sure, sir-if it was anything about her which I
ought not to have said." -  .
"Don't know that it was," said the doctor ; "it's well
enough sometimes to set people right when they are
wrong-what I say is, that ladies don't always thank one
for it."
Reuben flushed a little.

tI

}
{
t
{
t
t

"You don't knew me, Dr. Harrison," he said-" I can't
expect you to take my word ; but I have nothing to add to it."
"And I have nothing to add to mine,"' said the doctor
lightly. "I heard you quoted-that's all; 1 supposed you
would know what for."
"Who did you hear, sir ?"
"Don't know, really," said the doctor-"only he was a
rude fellow-if you can tell one by such a description among
your mates, it was he."
And the doctor strolled away.
Reuben on his part seemed to recognize the description,
for taking a sort of intuitive bee-line through people and
trees, he suddenly brought up with the question,
"Phil Davids, what have you been saying about me ?"
"I s'pose you think.folks, have nothing to do but talk
about you now. You're a long way out !"-. was the care-
less answer.
"What did you say I said ?" said Reuben.
"I never heard you say anything, as I know, that was
worth tellin' over. When I do, I'll let somebody know it,
I tell you."
"I suppose that means that you won't answer my. ques.
tion," said Reuben. "What I want to know is, not what
I said, but what you say I aid."
"About what?"
"About Miss Faith Derrick."
"I don't say you said nothing about her-I never heard
you call her name, as I know."
"Like enough," said Reuben, with a sort of resolute
patience; "but what did you say I said that had to do with
h'er in any way?
"Who do yo think you air ?" said Phil.
"I tell you what, Phil Davids," said Sam Stoutenburgh,
who had heard the last question or two, "if you don't keep
your tongue off Miss Derrick, I'l pitch you up into, a pine
tree so far that you'll see stars before you come down-or
I'm not Stoutenburgh nor stout, neither 1" and Sam-who
was a little of a young giant-backed Phil up against the
tree that was nearest in a sort of preparatory way that was
rather breathless. Phil however was as tough as shoe
leather.

I

Ili
sE
iFF tN l{
t1;1,
rr
t1t
rG
i 2kk1 {
{ Jl,
lfr,
! err
-      rat
(tlll-j .
tIil
u
lai
+1  t

tt
l    !IL

SAY AND SEAL.           18 3


V

.
,
;,
r'
ti
..;
,
h'
a
t- .
r
;

184

SAY AND SEAL.

"Suppos'n you keep eyes off her, then," said he strug-
gling. "It's a poor rule that don't work both ways."
"What have you been about ?" said Sam,-"come, own
up for once-just to try how it feels."  t
"What have you?",,said Phil. "I aint up to half as,
many shines as you, Sam Stoutenburgh."-
"I should think not !" said Sam disdainfully.
"0 let him alone, Sam !" said Reuben--"what's the use ?"
"Little enough use-" said Sam, "or matter either,-
everybody knows phil Davids. Pity he wouldn't make his
own acquaintance !" And releasing his prisoner Sam
turned disdainfully aiid Reuben sorrowfully towards the
house. But Reuben did not go very near. A wistful look
or two towards the lighted front and the clusterin'g guests,
and he paused, leaving Sam to go on alone.
Sam's bashfulness was happily not of the uncompromising
kind, therefore he not only found Faith, but she found him-
ready to claim her promise-the very moment she was
ready to go,
"But I don't know whether the wagon is here, Sam,"
said Faith. Other wagons were come, and driving off, and
a little procession of colours was setting forth on foot, up
and down the street from Judge Harrison's. The hall was
full of people, getting hoods on and taking leave.
"Well, Miss Faith," said Sam, "we can walk to where
it ought to be, and if it isn't th re maybe you'll let me go
further."
"But I can't go without seeing my mother, Sam, and I
don't know where she is."
"Sam Stoutenburgh !" said Mr. Linden's voice, while
the speaker laid both hands on the boy's shoulders, "what
are you about ?"
"Miss Faith said I might go as far as the wagon with
her, sir," said Satn looking down.
"The wagon is not here," said Mr. Linden,-" Mr. Skip
is probably asleep."
"Then I may see you home, Miss Faith?" was the joyous
comment.
"Sam Stoutenburgh 1" said Mr. Linden again, prevent-
ing Faith's reply, and giving Sam a gentle shake. "Isn't
one favour a day enough for you ?" he added presently.

"No sir!"- said Sam boldly.
"I suppose I must give way before a blue ribband," said
Mr. Linden smiling, yet as if hwas much inclined to lift
Sam out of the way. "Miss Faith, the matter is in your
hands."
But Faith did not smile, and looked, or was it his fancy ?-
ever so little careworn.
"What matter, Mr. Linden ?" she said simply,
"Whether you will take charge of this boy as far as his
father's gate. I will try and take care of you, after that. P
"Will that do, Sam ?" said Faith pleasantly, as she
threw her scarf over her head.
"I'm glad to go any distance with you, Miss Faith,"
said Sam, but half content---or a quarter I for that was the
distance assignedhim.
"Well behave'yourself then," said Mr. Linden, removing
his hands. A   parting injunction -Sam's dignity would
have dispensed with.
16*

i
4
I
a
7
f
f_
t
I
, r
.t4s
tt1
"%1
4
fi¢
rk}
:
ti
d
r +''
¢
rk

1

;,
;;
i,
,r
jt,
f  ,
a~.
fu
, ~
,,
,
1'
;
i
( If1h
l
1 ;;
t
};
11
{ }'
t
f11
,it

I

SAY AND SEAL.

185


CHAPTER XV.
T HE evening was very still. A little too cool for insect
voices, a little too late in the season for night birds,
the soft dropping of the yellow leaves scarce stirred those
already fallen. )ew sounds came from the houses; for all
Pattaquasset had been out, and that portion which had got
home was tired and thinking of bed, while the few strag-
glers yet abroad were far from the late scene of action, on
their lonely homeward roads.  Squire Deacon, with Joe
for a thorn in his. side, was opening his own door for Miss
Cecilia, and Miss Bethia Bezac, at 'the other side of crea-
tion,' mused over the possibility of again (without eyes)
embroidering wajistcoats. Thus when the clock struck
eight, the earth seemed asleep and the stars at watch Over it.
At about that point of time, Sam Stoutenburgh and his
fair companion were near the parting gate; and Sam, not
supposing. himself within range of other eyes, had bent
down over Faith's glove in a very demonstrative manner;
and she would certainly have received an unwonted proof
of his devotion, if Mr. Linden-who had in .truth been all
the time not very- far off-had not just then been very near.
"Take care, Sam-" he said,-"you are exceeding direc-
tions." A remark which sent Sam through the gate with
more baste than coolness, while Mr. Linden stepped for-
ward into his place.
"Your mother rode home with Mrs. Somers, Miss Faith,
and this little shawl was requested to walk home with you,"
he said, wrapping it round her; for which he received
quiet little "Thank you." He put her hand on If
and once past the gate walked very slowly; moder
steps to hers, and taking the most leisurelypace;
to give her the full sedative effect of the night.
faint breaths of air, that soft hush of everything, that cle
starry sky,-so high, so still,-there was balm in them a
And for a while Mr. Linden let them do their wor
alone,--then he spoke.;
(186)

SAY AND SEAL.                  18
"One of my scholars is very tired to night. I'm afraid I
have done wrong in letting her walk home."
"Q no !" said Faith with a little start,--" I"like to walk
very much, Mr. Linden; it's very pleasant.-And I am
not tired," she added in a soft quiet voice.
"what is the difference between being tired, and being
in want of rest?"
She looked at him again, and her words did not come at
once.
"Isuppose the difference is, that in one case you can
get what you want-and in the other, you have to wait for
"Till when ?"
She laughed, somewhat uneasily, and asked him what he
meant.
"I hardly know how to make my question plainer, Miss
Faith. I suppose I am of an impatient disposition, but
the idea of waiting an indefinite time for rest is not plea-
sant to me."
"But can you always get it as soon as you would like to
have it ?"-Faith asked with a kind of timid doubt, as not
knowing but his power mio-ht extend so far.
"Why not ?-seeing rest is like some sweet wind, which
cannot blow its soft gale till there is- a clear space for it,
why should it linger when the space is clear ?-why not
rest when we are weary ?"
"But can you always get the clear, space for it ?" Faith
asked, looking at him wonderingly.
He smiled.
"I am talking of what may be done, Miss Faith-not of
what I do. But I wish you would let me try my powers
for you to-night. How comes there to be a demand?-.
w comes there not tolbe a supply ?"
£ rest ?" said Faith.  "Oh there is! At least," she
reluctantly,-"there will be.  There is now, Mr.
"Equal to the demand ?"
"Why do you ask me ?" she said, a little troubled.
"I believe I have a bad habit of asking questions," said Mr.
Linden-and his tone was apologetic in its very gentleness.
"It is partly my fault and partly Pet's.".


188             SAY AND SEAL.

"Partly whose? Mr. Linden," said Faith.   "I don't
think it's a bad habit. Whose fault, did you say ?"
"Pet's-my sister's,-into whose company I hope to
send you soon again."
" Oh-I mustn't thank you !"---Faith said, beginning and
stopping herself somewhat comically.
" I don't know whether you will thank me for taking
you past your own gate, which I was about to do," said
Mr. Linden. "And I don't know whether the social and
astronomical days ought to agree-but Hesperus set some
time ago."
"I don't understand, Mr. Linden-" said Faith pausing.
"You must not expect to understand all astronomical
things till you have studied astronomy," he said with a
smile. "The practical application of my words is to sleep-.
-"' That knits up the ravelled sleeve of care;
Worn labour's bath; balm of hurt minds.'"-
With which soporific potion he bade her goodnight;
and Faith went to her room marvelling what could have
put into Mr. Linden's head just those particular words; and
whether he had a quality of vision that could see through
flesh and blood; and a little in doubt whether or not in the
circumstances to find the words or the surmise 'balmy.'
But if she wanted rest that night, or seemed to have
wanted it, she had found it the pext day, for she was all
like herself. To speak with her own scrupulosity, there
was perhaps just a shade of quieter gravity on her face and
touching her smile, than there had been the day before
And that shade she kept.
It is a notable fact, that when Pleasure with her wand
has roused into lively motion the waters of some mortal
lake, she straightway departs; taking with her the sparkle
the dancing foam, and leaving the disturbed waves t
posit at their, leisure the sediment which she has stir
Withered leaves flung upon the bank, a spot here an
of discoloured froth,-4these are what remain. Thus in
quiet nooks and corners of Pattaquasset were trophies no,
too bright of the celebration.  Thus did Pattaquasse
people behold some of the hidden evil in their neighbours,'
and ,likewise in themselves. The boys indeed maintained

SAY AND SEAL.                  1g9
their serenity and kept Pleasure with them; but in other
quarters there '4ere some heartburnings-most of all at
Squire Deacon's. Relieved at first by the idea of a new
rival-then by some intuitive belief thrown off that ground
of comfort ; the Squire was much in the condition of the
man who wanted to commit an assault upon every small
boy he met-for, boys were to him representatives. But
deprived by law of this.manly way of expressing his feel-
ings, the Squire sought some other. For the boys, they
laughed at him-and at pretty much everything else ; and
having as I said managed to keep Pleasure with them, the
faces that greeted Mr. Linden on Friday morning were
unusually bright.
Yet there were one or two exceptions. Sam Stouten-
burghj was a little shamefaced in broad daylight-a little
afraid of being laughed at ; and Reuben Taylor, the head
of the blue ribbands, was under a very unwonted clou.
It even'seemed as if the day (no thanks to Pleasure) ha4
done some work for Mr. Linden: perhaps he was consider-
ing how long he should be within reach of such ceremonies;
or (perhaps) how soon he could be willing to put himself
out of reach. And when he came home in the afternoon,
it was with the slow, meditative step which reminded Faith
of his first week in Pattaquasset.
"You are tired now, Mr. Linden,".she said with a smile,
but the burden of her remark in her eyes, as she met him
in the porch.
"Boys are an extraordinary. commodity to deal with !"
he said i oking at her, but answering the smile too. "I
think you are bewitching all mine by degrees. Why can-
not you confine your conjurations to the black cats of the
neighbourhood ?-like some of the real, respectable Purl-
an witches.?"
aith blushed very much at the beginning of this speech,
1ughed at the last.
"What have I done, Mr. Linden ? there are no black
ts in the neighbourhood."
"Is that' it ?" said Mr. Linden-" I shai ave to. import
afew. You give me a great deal of trouli e, Miss Faith."
" I, Mr. Linden ? I am very sorry ! What have I done ?"
"1 don't know I-or at least but partially. There is


SAY AND SEAL.

Sam Stoutenburgh, making as much ado over his lessons as
if his wits had forsaken him-which perhaps they ha4
There is Reuben Taylor-I don't know what is the matter
with Reuben," he said,.his tone changing, "but his last
words to me were a very earnest entreaty that I wou  per.
suade you to see him for five minutes; and when I wanted to
know why he did not prefer his own request, all I c uld get
was that he was not sure you would let him. Which gave
me very little clue to the sorrowful face he has worn all
day."
Once more, and this time with the keen tinge of pain,
the blood rushed in a flood to Faith's cheek and brow; and
for a second- she put her hands to her face as if she would
hide it. But she put them down and looked up frankly to
Mr. Linden.
"I am sure Reuben Taylor has done no wrong !" she
said. "You may tell him so, Mr. Linden."
"Wrong !" he said-"to you ?"-and the tone was one
Faith did not know. Then with a manner that was like
enough to the flinging of the little stone into Kildeer river,
he added, "Yes, I will tell him. Miss Faith, I shall be
down again directly, and then will you let me see that
book?"- And he passed on upstairs.
The book was on the table in the parlour when he came
down, but Faith met him standing. With a. little timid
anxiousness, she said,
"I have done wrong now. Mr. Linden, I said I was sure
Reuben had not done any, and you will not speak to him
as if he had ?  Please don't speak to him at all-I will see
him myself."
The answering smile broke through some little cloud of
feeling, in spite of him.
"Ypu need not fear," he said,-"I know Reuben T
lor. But you have got something else to think of just no
Then placing a chair for her at the table, Mr. Linden;.
up the little book and began his work of examination.
perhaps it is not too much to- say that even Dr. Harris
might have learned somewhat from the way it was carried
on. A skilful and kind way of finding out what she did.
not know, from what she, did; initiation and examining so 4
carried on together that Faith found herself kn'owing where

she thought she was ignorant,-more still, perhaps, a kiid
of separate decision what 'she ought to learn, and ho*;
which saved her the trouble of acknowledging and confess-
ing; and all as gently done as if he had been dealing with
some delicate winged creature, whose downy plumage
would come off with a touch,-such was the threatened
examination. She might flntter a little under his, hand,
but the soft wings were unhurt.
" Tell me first, Miss Faith," he said turning over the
leaves, "what you have been doing here by yourself."
"I have been all through it," she said; 'fluttering' sure
enough,. yet as much with plesure as with timidity ; not
at all with fear.
"Will you work these     or me-" and he gave her
half a dozen different tests on 'a bit of paper.
She coloured, and he could see her hand tremble ; but
she was not long doing them, and she did them well, and
gave them back without a word and without raising her
eyes.
"Well," said Mr. Linden, smiling a little as he looked at
the paper, "if it takes half an hour to hear Charles twelfth
his lesson, and Johnny gives you but one quarter the
trouble, and Rob Waters about twice as much a 'Johnny,
how much time will you spend upon them all ?"
"It will be  bout an hour-wanting an eighth," she
said without raising her eyes, but with a bit of a smile
too.
"I hear you and Johnny have arranged preliminaries,
Miss Faith."
"Yes," said Faith looking up brightly, "he came to
shew me his ribband and to tell me last night. But I was
almost sorry, Mr. Linden,-that you should send him away
km you."
For Johnny's sake, or my own ?"
For his sake-certainly."
'You need not speak so assuredly.there were two
arties to the question-besides you. But I have him
still, you know, in a way. What has been in hand since
his little book was finished ?"
" Nothing.-except the Philosophe,-and-.."
"Well ?-isn't that blank to be filled up ?"

t.
;(

SAY AND SEAL.

190

191


192           - SAY AND SEAL.

"And Shakspeare," said Faith casting down her eyes.
" I cannot let you confine yourself to the study of human
nature," said Mr. Linden,-." that will never do. Charles
twelfth and Shakspeare want ground to stand upon. Did
you ever read anything of Physical Geography ?"
She shook her head. " I don't know what that is, Mr.
"Then I will   ave the pleasure o  introducing you.
Ordinary er      y is but a shell without it. And if we
accidentally go deeper down han the stratum of geography,
I will try and bring you back safe. But Miss Faith, you
have not done with this book yet-the subject-matter of it.
I want you to carry that further."
"Well," she said smiling,-"I like it. I am ready.
What comes next, Mr. Linden ?"
"Did you pay any attention to the algebra part of the
examination yesterday ?"
"9Yes, I believe so. I paid attention to it  all-I didit
understand what some of it was about, but I believe I know
what you mean."
How should you like to work with letters and signs
instead of figures? By the way, Miss Faith, your sevens
are too much like your nines, and if you drew a check for
$500 with that five, you might find yourself paying out
$800"
She coloured again, but bowed her head in assent, quite
ignoring in her interest in the subject the extravagance of
the supposition by which he illustrated it.
"You shall not say that again, Mr. Linden."
"Don't pledge yourself for me," he said smiling,-" I am
a lawless kind oA person, as perhaps you have found out.
But if I were to spend one minute well on the first day of
the year, and each succeeding day add to my well-spe
minutes so many more as the year was days old-how m
of December would be well spent ?"
But Faith could not tell.
"You see what is before you-" Mr. Linden said:"
must work that out, Miss Faith, in more ways than one.
Well tell me this-Which is nearest to us now.--my sister:
Pet or the Khan of Tartary,-supposing her ini Rome and
him in his own dominions?1"

SKY AND SEAL.                 193
Faith coloured again, a good deal, and with some sorrow
"I am glad you asked me," she said ;-."I want you
should know4,-but I don't know anything abort that,
Mr. Linden. I know a little, of course," she said correct-
ing herself, "but I couldn't answer you."
"But why can't you understandd," he said looking at her,
"that I am just some old, torn, dog-eared book of ques-
tions that you are looking into for the first time ? I don't
like to be made to feel like a bran new schoolbook."
Faith looked at him, and probably the words "old, torn,
andc dog-eared" made a peculiar contrast, for her eye
flashed and in spite of everything she laughed, her musical
little laugh.
"That sounds reasonable," said Mr. Linden. "I like to
be laughed at. But Miss Faith-just suppose' for a mo-
ment that there were tears in your eyes,--what could keep
them from falling?"
Faith's eyes opened and she took a little time to consider
this proposition.
"If I were very determined, I think I could do it," she
said.
"Suppose they got so far as the tip ends of your eye-
lashes?" he said, with a little play of the lips.
"They must come down, I am afraid," said Faith look-
ing and wondering.
"Because my determination couldn't reach them there, I,
suppose," she said in unmitigated wonder. "There would
be nothing to keep them up."
"Unphilosophic !" he said gravely,-"I shall have to
teach you both why your tears fall, and why they don't."
She smiled, as very willing to be t ought, but with a face
t looked as if it had had few to experiment upon either
will try and not tire you out," Mr. Linden said, "but
rent things go on pleasantly together. Some I should
e to have you study for me when I am away, some
drectly with me. And-"
* And what, sir??" she said with the gentle intonation of
on to whose ear every word is pleasant.
"How much time have you in the course of the day that
voL. i.                17

} i(


194             SAY AND SEAL.

can and ought to be spent upon all these matters-without
disturbing Shakspeare and his companions 7"
"I will make time, Mr. Linden,--if I don't find it. I
have a goo I deal. You won't tire me."
"You must not make time out of strength. Will you
write me a French exercise every day, among other things?
Yes Cindy," he said-" I understand,"-apparently quite
aware that Faith did not.
"I will try," said Faith, with a colour again that was not
of French growth.
"Well baint you coming? " said Cindy, who stood still as
if she liked the prospect before her.
"Yes, but I can find my own way," said Mr. Linden; at
which gentle hint Cindy vanished. And Faith sprang
uyp.                       .a                   ,
"; Teaching all day," she said, and no tea either !",--
And she was about to run off, then paused to say,
"That is all, Mr. Linden ?N-odo you want to say any.
thing more?.
"It was not tea, Miss Faith,-Reuben is at the door.
Will you see him?  Shall I bring him here or will you go
there ?"..
"I will go there," said Faith hurriedly. But Mr. Lin-
den followed "her.
"Reuben," he said, "Miss Faith will hear you-and I am
ready to answer for your word with my own;"--then he
went back into the sitting room and closed the door.
But those words seemed to touch at least one sore spot
in the boy's heart-he had to struggle with himself a mo-
ment before he could speak. Then it was low and humbly.
"Miss Faith-I don't know just what Phil has said
about me,--I can't find out. But whatever iti1 there isn't
one word of it true. I never said one word about" yo
Miss Faith, that I wouldn't say to you, just the sam
And Reuben looked as if he would have confronted
I am quite sure of it, Reuben," Faith said very gent
"I didn't need you to come and tell me so."
He'looked up at her with both gladness and thanks in
hI shouldn't have troubled you with my trouble at all,

Miss Faith-only he said you were displeased with me--
and I was afraid it night be true."
"Who said I was displeased with you ?"
An involuntary glance of Reuben's eye towards the
closed door, seemed to say he did not want his words to go,
far.
"Dr. Harrison, Miss Faith. At least I thought he said
so.n
'"Did he speak to you ?"
"Yes ma'am-'and just pushed my word ou't of the way
when I gave it,-said it might be well enough to tell
people but he didn't think you liked it.  And so I got
vexed. I'm so used to Mr. Linden," Reuben said-as if
in excuse.
"Are you satisfied now, Reuben ?" said Faith, giving
him a good look of her eyes.
A little qualified his look was-perhaps because he had
been too much troubled to have the traces go off at once;
but there was no want of satisfaction in his,
"0 yes, Miss Faith-I can't tell you how thankful I am
to you! Goodnight, ma'am.
Faith went back to the parlour. And then Mr. Linden,
taking from his pocket a piece of broad dark blue ribband,
and laying it lightly round Faith's shoulders, told her
gravely, "that she was entitled to wear that for the rest of
the evening."
Faith matched the blue with red, and stood eying the
ribband which she had caught as it was falling from her
shoulders, seeming for a minute as if she had as much as
she could bear. Rallying, she looked up at Mr. Linden
to get a little more light as to what he expected of her, or
-wbat he meant. But unless she could read a decided
pinion that the two 'favours' looked better together than
parate, his face gave her no information.- Then smiling
said;
"I don't mean that you must wear it-merely that you
have the right."
Faith gave another glance at his face, and then without
more ado tiedather bl  neribatn rhind her waist, where a
she still wore the white dress of yesterday, it skewed to

SAY AND aEAI,.             x;95


196                SAY AND SEAL.
very g6o advantage. She said nothing more; only as she
was quitting the room now in earnest to get tea, gave him
an odd, pleasant, half grateful, half grave little smile. Too
many things however had been at work to admit of her
coming down into quietness immediately. The red left her
no more than the blue for the rest of that evening.                    CHAPTER     XVI.
ATURDAY was but' a half holiday to Mrs. ID
little family-unless indeed they called the
play, which some of them did. It was spent thus.
By Mrs. Derrick, in the kitchen, in the bed-ro
over the house generally-with intervals at the ove
By Mr. Linden in the sitting-room, where Fait
from time to time as she got a chance, to begin some
with him and learn how to begin others by herself
morning glided by very fast on such smooth wh
action, and dinner came with the first Natural Phi]
lesson yet unfinished. It was finished afterwards h
and then Mr. Linden prepared himself to go forth o
expedition, of which he only said that it was a lon
"I am going to petition to have tea half an ho
than usual to-night, Miss Faith," he said.
"Just half an hour later, Mr. Linden ?" she said s
"You shall have it when you like."
"I hope to be home by that time-if not don't w
me. You will find all the materials for your Frenc
else on mytable.
Which intimation quickened Faith's steps about th
she had beforehand to do, and also quickened a tr
beating of her heart. It was not quiet-timidity an
sure were throbbing together, and throbbing fast, wh
turned her back upon the rest of the house and w
Mr. Linden's room. She would have a good uninter
time this afternoon, at any rate. And the material
here,' as he had said,-all the materials; from book
and shut, to the 'delicate white paper, and a pen
might be the very one Johnny Fax thought 'could
itself. Faith stood and looked at them, and then sa'
to work, if ever such a determination was taken by
She~ had been a good while absorbed in her b
17*                (19'

errick's
ir work
oms, all
n door.:
h came
things
f. The
eels of
losophy
however,
n some
g one.
ur later
mailing.
vait for
h exer-
ie little
ifle the
d plea-
ien she
ent to
rupted
Is were
s, open
which
trite of
t down
human           '
usiness
101


198               SAY AND SEAL.

when a knock came to the front door, which Faith did not
hear. Cindy however had ears to spare, and presently in-
formed Mrs. Derrick that a gentleman wished to see her.
And in the sitting-room Mrs. Derrick found Dr. Harrison.
"You haven't forgotten to remember me, I hope, Mrs.
Derrick," he said as he took her hand. He looked very
handsome, and very pleasant, as he stood there before her,
and his winning ease of manner was enough to "propitiate
people of harder temper than the one -he was just now
dealing with.
"No indeed !" said Mrs. Derrick; "I remember a great
many things about you,"- (as in truth she did.) "But I
daresay you've changed a good deal since then. You've
been gone a great while, Dr. Harrison."
"Do you hope I have changed ?-or are you afraid I
have ?"
"Why I don't think I said I did either," said Mrs. Der-
rick smiling, for she felt as if Dr. Harrison was an old ac-
qupintance. "And I suppose it makes more difference to
you than to ,me, anyway." Which words were not blunt
in their intention, but according to the good lady's habit
were a somewhat unconscious rendering of her thoughts.
"How's Miss Sophy, after her holiday? I always think
play's the hardest work that's cone."
" I am very sorry you found it so !" said the doctor.
"You needn't be-" said Mrs. Derrick, rocking compla-
cently and making her knitting needles play in a style that
certainly might be called work,-" I've got over it now.
To be sure I was tired to death, but I like to be, once in a
while."
The doctor laughed, as if, in a way, he had found his
match.
"And how is Miss Derrick ?" he asked. "If she was
tired too, it was my fault."
"I guess that 'll never be one of your faults, Dr. Harri-
son," said Mrs. Derrick,--"it would take any amount of
folks to tire her out. She's just like a bird always. 0
she's well, of course,-or I shouldn't be sitting here."
"And'so like a bird that she lives in a region above
mortal view, and only descends now and then ?"
"Yes, she does stay 'upstairs a good deal," said Mrs.

Derrick, knitting away.  "Whenever she's got nothing to
do down here.  She's been down all the morning."
"I can't shoot flying at this kind of game," said the doc-
tor;-"I'll endeavour to come when the bird is perched,
next time. But in the meanwhile, Miss Derick seemed
pleased the other night with these Chinese illuninations-.-
and Sophy took it into her head to make me the bearer of
one, that has never yet illuminated anything, hoping that it
will do that office for her heart with Miss Derrick. The
heart will bear inspection, I believe, with or without the
help of the lantern."
And the doctor laid a little parcel on the table. Mrs.
Derrick looked at the parcel, and at the doctor, and knit a
round or two.
"I'm sure she'll be very much obliged to Miss Harrison,"
she said.  "But I know I shan't remember all the message.
I suppose that won't matter."
-Not the least," said the doctor.  "The lantern is ex-
pected to throw light upon some things. May I venture
to give Mrs. Derrick another word to remember, which
must depend upon her kindness alone for its presentation
and delivery ?"
Mrs. Derrick stopped knitting and looked all atten-'
tion.
"It isn't much to remember," said tie doctor laughing
gently.  "Sophy wishes very much to have Miss Derrick
go with her to-morrow afternoon.  She is going to drive
to Deep River, and wished me to do my best to procure
Miss Derrick's goodwill, and yours, for this pleasure of her
company.  Shall I hope that hertwish is granted ?"
Now Mrs. Derrick, though ,not quick like some other
people, had yet her own womanly instincts; and that more
than one of them was- at work now, was plain enough.
But either they confused or thwarted each other, for laying
down her work she said,
"I know she won't go--but I'll let her come and give
her own answer;" and left the room. For another of
hey woman's wits made, her never send Cindy to call Faith
from her studies. Therefore she went up, and softly open-
ing the door of the study room, walked in and shut it after
her.

SAY AND SEAL,            199

j; .
;i
'  ,
i,


' SAY AND SEAL.             201

"Pretty child," she said, stroking Faith's hair, "are you
very busy ?"
"Very, mother !"-said Faith looking up with a 'burning
cheek and happy face, and pen pausing in her hand:
"What then ?"-
"Wasn't it the queerest thing what I said that day at
Neanticut !" said Mrs. Derrick, quite forgetting Dr. Harri-
son in the picture before her.
"What, dear mother ?"
"Why when I asked why you didn't het Mr. Linden to
help you. How you do write, child !"-which remark was
meant admiringly.
"Mother !"--said Faith. "But it can be done"-she
added with quiet resolution.
"I'm sure it never could by me, in that style," said Mrs.
Derrick, -I"my fingers always think they are ironing or
making piecrust. But child, here's Dr. Harrison-come
for nobody knows what, except that Sophy took it into her
head to send her heart by him-as near as I can make out.
And he wants you to go to Deep River to-morrow. I said
you wouldn't-and then I thought maybe you'd better
speak yourself. But if you don't like to, you sha'n't. Z
can deal with him."
"I don't want to see Dr. Harrison, mother !-To-more
row ?" said Faith. '."Yes-I will see him."
She rose up, laid her pen delicately out of her fingers,
went down stairs and into the sitting-room, where she con-
fronted the doctor.
Faith was dressed as she had been at the party, with the s
single exception of the blue ribband instead of the dPoak
leaves; and the excitement of what she had been abou was
stirring both cheek and eye. Perhaps some other stir was
there too, for the flush was a little deeper than it had been
upstairs, but she met the doctor very quietly. He thought
to himself the lanterns had lent nothing with their illumi-
nation the other night.
"No, sir," she said as he offered her a chair,-"I have
something to do;-but mother said-"
"Will the bird perch for no longer than this?" said the
doctor, turning w'th humourous appeal to Mrs. Derrick who
had followed he .

"My birds do pretty much as they like, Dr. Harrison,''
said Mrs. Derrick. "They always did, even when I had
'em in cages."
"Then this bird is free'"now ?"
"I guess you'd better talk to her-" said Mrs. Derrick,
taking her seat and her knitting again.
'"Miss Derrick !" said the doctor obeying this direction
with an obeisance,--"you are free to command, and I can
but obey. Will you go with Sophy to-morrow to Deep
River? I am not altogether uninterested, as I hope to
have the honour. of driving you; but she sends her most
earnest wish."
"To-morrow is Sunday, Dr. Harrison."
"Well-isn't Sunday a good day ?"
"It isn't mine," said Faith gently.
"Not yours ?" said the doctor. "You have promised it
away, and we are so unfortunate ?"
Her colour rose a little, but it was with an eye as steady
as it wassft that she answered him.
"The day belongs to God, Dr. Harrison-and I have
promised it, and myself, away to him."
The doctor looked astonished for a minute.  And he
gazed at her.
"But, my dear Miss Derick, do you think there is any-
thing contrary to the offices of religion in taking a pleasant
drive, in a pleasant country, in pleasant weather? that is
all."
Faith smiled a little, gravely; it was-very sweet and-very
grave.
'There are all the other days for that," she said. "God
as given us his work to be done on his day, Dr. Harrison;
there is so much of it to do that I never find the day
enough."
/'You are right !" he said--"You are quite right. You
are a great deal better than I am. I am sorry I asked
you,-.and yet I am glad.-Then Miss Derrick, will you
forgive me ? and will you some other day shew that you
forgive me and be so good as to go with us?"
But Faith's interest in the subject was gone.
"I am very busy, sir," -she said. "I have work to do
that I do not wish to put off."

4

'goo             SAY. AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

202             SA  N   EL                                                             0

"Cannot you go with us at all? We will wait and make
it any day?"
"Do not wait," said Faith. I could go, but I could not
go with pleasure, Dr. Harrison. I have not the time to
spare, for that, nor for more now. Please excuse me."
And she went.
"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor musingly, "this is a
winged creature, I believe-but it is not a bird 1"
At which Mrs. Derrick looked at him with a mingled
satisfaction that he had got his answer, and curiosity to
know what he thought of it. For the further she felt her.
self from her child's high stand, the more presuming did.
she think it in an  one to try'to bring her downfrom it.
"If I thought, as I came here, that I walked on a higher
level than the generality of mankind, as perhaps in the
vanity of my heart I did,-I feel well put down on the
ground now," pursued the doctor. "But Mrs. Derrick,
when may I hope to see this winged thing gf yours
again ?"
It must be confessed that Mrs. Derrick did not admire
this speech,-' a winged thing,' as she justly thought, was a
somewhat indefinite term, and might mean a flying grass-
hopper as well as a canary bird. Therefore it was with
some quickness that she replied,, .
"What sort of a winged t     are you talking of, doc-
tor?"
"Nothing worse than' a heavenly one, madam. But
angel or cherub are .such worn-out *terms that ,I avoided
them."
He was standing yet where Faith left him, looking down
gravely, speaking halflightly, to her mother.
"I don'tknow who l see her when she's an angel," said
Mrs. Derrick, with a little flush coming over her eyes;
"But she wouldn't thank you for calling her one now," she
added presently, with her usual placid manner. "Won't
you sit down again, doctor ?".
" May I ask," said he eying. her, somewhat intent upon
the answer,-." why she wouldn't thank me for calling her
one now ?-by which I understand that it would incur her
displeasure.".   .   .
"Why-why should she ?" said Mrs. Derrick, who

having dropped a stitch was picking it up with -intentxress
"True !" said the doctor in his usual manner. "Angels
don't thank mortals for looking at them. But Mrs.. Der-
rick, when may such a poor mortal.as I, stand a chance of
seeing this particular one again ?"
Mrs. Derrick laid down her work.
"Well you have changed.!" she said, "there's no doubt
of that! ,I'don't recollect that you used to care so much
abut seeing her when you were here before. If I don't
forget, yoi set your dog on her cat. And as to when you'll
see hgr again, I'm sure I can't tell, doctor. She's- a busy
child, and folks out of the house have to do without seeing
her till shefgds time to see them."  Whereat Mrs Der-
rick smiled 4iion-Dr. Harrison with the happy conscious-
ness that she was one of the folks in the house.  .
The doctor stood smiling at her, with a half humqiiis
quite pleasant expression of face.
"Set my dog on her cat !" he exclaimed. "Tkat iswhj
she would be angry with me for calling her a cherub !-
"'Tanta3 ne animis celestihus irsz I'
The doctor sat down.
"What shall I do !" he said. ".Kdvise me, Mrs. Derrick."
"I know what I should have done if I'd got hold of
you," said Mrs. Derrick. "I thought I never would speak
to you again--but you see I've got over it."
" I'm not sure it," said the doctor meditatively.
.  'Folks out of the ouse'-well! It strikes me I've been.
ii to little purpose this afternoon. "-He rose again.
jWhere is Mr. Linden? is he 'out,' or 'in,' this fine day ?"
"out this afternoon," said Mrs. Derrick.. "I was
thinkin o ask you if you wanted to see him, and then I
knew ivwas no use."
"Yes,  should like to see him," said the doctor. "but
as he is a mortal like myself, I suppose I can find him
another time by the use of proper precautions."
.And Dr. Harrison took his departure.
Mrs. Derrik on her part went upstairs again, and open-
ing the door merely peeped in this time.
.What is it,. mother'~

203

SAY AND SEAL.


.1

204

SAY AND SEAL.

"Are ypu busy yet, child ?"
"Not quite through."
"I thought," said Mrs. Derrick stepping softly into the
room, "that we'd go down to the shore this afternoon, and
maybe dig some clams. I don't know but it's too late for
that-we might ride down and see. You're tired, pretty
child-and other people won't like that a bit more than I
do."
"I'd like to go, mother -I'm almost done, and I'm
not tired," Faith said. pith happy eyes.  "There is time, I
guess, for Mr. Linden don't want tea as early as usual. I'll
come soon."
Mrs. Derrick withdrew softly, and again Faith was en-
tirelylost in her business. But she had nearly done now;
the work was presently finished, th books putup in order,
and the papers, with the exercise o, top; and Faith stood,
a moment looking down at it.. Not satisfied, but too
humble to have any false shame, too resolute to doubt of
being satisfied and of satisfying somebody else, by and by.
And the intellectual part of her exercise she thought, and
with modest reason, would satisfy him now. Then she
went down to her mother, quite ready for the beach or for
anything else.
It was one of those very warm October days which un-
leged people call Indian summer,-the foreground land-
scape yellow with stubble fields and sered forest, the dis.
tance blue with haze.  So soft and still, that the faint
murmur of the wheels as they rolled  ng the sandy road
sounded as if at a distance, and the twittering birds alone
set off the silence. Now and then came a farm wagoit
loaded with glowing corn, then the field where the bereaved
pumpkins lay among the bundles of cornstalks....ts-
men passed with, their guns, schoolboys with their n  gs,
and many were-the greetings Faith received; for ince the
day at Neanticut every boy thought he had. a rightto take
off his hat to her. From the midst of his cornfield, Mr.
Simlins gave them a wave of his hand,-from the midst of
its blue waters the Sound sent a fresh welcome.
"I declare, child," said Mrs. Derrick, as they neared thee
shore, "it's real pleasant !"
" The tide's out, mother," said Faith, who had the spirt

SAY AND SEAL.

205

of action upon her to-day-" we can get .some clams now,
if we're quick.
"I don't know but you're learning to be spry, among
other things," said her mother looking at her. "I thought
you were as spry as you could be, before. What haven't
you done to-day, child 1"
-Faith laughed a little, and then jumping out of the wagon
and helping her mother down, was certainly 'spry' in get-
ting ready for the clam-digging. Her white dress had
been changed for a common one and that was carefully
pinned up, and a great kitchen apron was put on to cover
all but the edges of skirts as-white as the white dress, and
with shoes and stockings off, basket and hoe in hand, she
stood ready almost before her mother had accomplished fas-
tening up old Crab to her satisfaction. Mrs. Rerrick on
her part prepared herself as carefully for work (though not
quite so evidently for play) and the two went down to the
flats. The tide was far out,-even the usual strips of water
were narroV-and far apart. Wherever they could, the little
shell-fish scrambled about and fought their miniature bat-
tles in one-inch water; but at the edge of the tall shore-
grass there was no water at all, unless in the mud, and the
shell-fish waited, by hundreds, for the tide. Here was the
scene of action for the two ladies. Walking daintily over
the warm mud with their bare feet, which however white
and twinkling at first were soon obliged o yield to circum-
stances; disturbing the little shell-fish  who in turn dis-.
turbed them, by very titillating little attacks upon the
aforesaid feet,-Mrs. Derrick and Faith marched up to the
edge of the grass and there sought for clam holes. The
war went on after this fashion. A clam hole being found,
the hoe was struck far down into the mud to unearth the
inhabitant; which the clam resenting, spit up into the in-
truder's face. But the intruder-proof against such small
fire--repeated the strokes, and the clam was soon brought
to light and tumbled ignominiously into the basket,-to be
followed every second or two by another of his companions ;
or the clam holes were many. The basket was soon full,
but not before the cool ripple of the tide had passed the
liuscle rocks and was fast coming in-shore.
S" Well I do think play's hard work !" saidl Mrs. Derrick,

I

i
f ,;
i, :,

voL, r,

18


SAY AND SEAL.

206

bringing herself once more to an erect position-" I told
Dr. Harrison so this morning. How you and Mr. Linden
stand it, Faith, I don't know."
"What, mother ?" said Faith, maki g a descent upon
another promising clam shell. But M s. Derrick always
preferred to go on with her remarks.
"1It's good he's doing it, for his own sake, I guess," she
said,-" he's done nothing but work ever since he came to
Pattaquasset."
"Doing what, mother ?" said Faith. "What are you
talking of?"
"Why I'm talking of you, child !" said her mother,-.
"you and Mr. Linden. Ode of you played all the morning
and the other's going to play all the afternoon. But I
think you've done enough, Faith-it won't do to get sick
so long as we've nobody but Dr. Harrison to depend on.
I don't believe he's much of a doctor."
"Played all the morning ?" said Faith taking up her
basket,-" it was better than play to me. I wish I could
do something for him, mother !"
Very gravely, and-even a little sorrowfully, the last words
were said.
"Why yes," said-Mrs. Derrick stoutly. "Never tell me
it's anything but play to te h ou, child-he didn't look
as if it was, neither. I though he got his pay as he went
along."
Faith knew he had looked so; but that was not Faith--.
it was Mr. Linden, in her account.'
"Dr. Harrison ought to be a good.doctor, mother," she
remarked, leaving the subject. " He has had chance
enough."
"La, child," said Mrs. Derrick, untying her apron,
"chance don't prove anything. A man may have just as
good a chanceAo kill as he has to cure. By which I don't
mean that he has, for I don't know."
"The tide is coming in, mother. We came just in the
very point of the time. How pretty it is !-" said Faith;
standing in the blue mud, with her bare feet, and with the
basket of clams in her hand, but standing still to look off
ate the flats and. the dark water and the hazy opposite
shore, all with the sunny stillness and the soft enveloping

haze of October lying lovingly upon them. ,Faith thought
of the 'glory' again, and watched to see how water and
shore and flats and sky were all touched with it. One or two
sails on the Sound could not get on; they lay still in the
haze like everything else; and the'glory' was on them too.
She thought so. It seemed to touch everything. And
another glory touched everything,--the glory of truth Faith
had only for a little while come to know. She recognized
it; there was 'light from heaven' in more senses than one;
the glow of joy and hope unknown a while before; the
softening yeil of mind-peace over whatever might be harsh
or sharp in actual reality. She did not run out all the
parall1, but she felt it, and stood looking With full eyes.
Not full of tears, but of everything pleasarit beside.
Then came the drive home, with the air darkening every
minute, but notwithstanding this, Mrs. Derrick stopped by
the way.
"Faith," she said, "hold the reins, child-I won't(be a
second, but I've got something to see to in here;" and
Faith was once more left to her meditations.
Not for long ; for as she sat gazing out over old crab's
ears, she was 'ware' of some one standing by the wagon:
it was Squire Deacon.
"I    commence to think I'm a lucky man, after al l!"
- ai  e Squire. "I was coming down to see you, Miss
Faith,.--and couldn't just resolve my mind to it, neither.
I wanted to pay a parting visit."
"Were you?.-are you going away, Squire Deacon ?"
"Why yes," said the Squire, looking down at his gun.-
for he had been shooting,-"I've had considerable thoughts
of taking a turn down to York. Cilly says she don't think
it's worth my while-but I guess she don't know much
more 'n her own concerns. Pattaquasset's a good deal
come round this season," he added, without specifying
which way.
"Do you mean that you intend to forsake Pattaquasset
entirely ?" said Faith, noticing the comfortable supply of
ducks in the Squire's bag.
"Well I can't just say-I'm not free to certify," said the
Squire. "I said I thought it was worth my while to go,
and so. I do. I should like to know from your lip's, Miss

r_

SAY AND SEAL.

207


SAY AND SEAL.             209

Faith; whether you'll make it worth my while to coa
back."
Faith was very glad it was so dark-..
"I don't see how I can touch the question either way,
sir," she said gently and with not a little difficulty.-.
"Wherever you are, I hope you'll be very happy, and very
good, Squire Deacon."
"I should like something a little better grown than that,
ma'am," said the Squire, striking his gun on the ground.
"I can't just tell whether that's wheat or oats. It's likely
my meaning's plain enough."1
Faith was dumb for a minute.
"I believe I understood you, sir," she said in a low voice,
"I meant to answer you."
"Well what's to hinder your doing it, then ?" said Squire
Deacon.
"I. thought I had done it," said Faith. "I have nothing
to do with the question of your coming or going anywhere,
sir,-and can't have,--except to wish you well, which I do
heartily."
"That's your ultimate, is it, Miss Faith ?"
"No, sir," said Faith, conquering the beating of her
heart. "Squire Deacon, I want to see you in heaven."'
And she stretched out to him her little hand frankly
over the side of the wagon.
Squire Deacon took it for a moment--then dropped it
as if it had burnt his fingers. And then with a voice in
which whether sorrow or anger prevailed Fait* could not
tell, he said-
"Well-i don't blame you,-never did and never shall.
Cunning's been too much for me this time." And he took
up his gun and strode off, just as Mrs. Derrick opened the
house door and came out to take her place in the wagon
again.
"Dear mother !" said Faith,-"why didn't you come
sooner !"I
"Why I couldn't, child I" said Mrs. Derrick. "That
woman al ays will tell one every pain and ache she's had
since the y ar one. What's the matter ?-why didn't you
tie Crab iid come in, if you were lonesome." '
Faith Was silent.

"What's the matter?" repeated her mother,-'have
you been getting sick after all I said to you?"
"Squire Deacon has been hefe talking- to me," said Faith
in a low tone.
"Well then you hacompany, I'm sure. What did he
talk about ? Come, Cra !-get on, sir !"
"He says he is going away'from Pattaquasset, and he
lays it to me, mother," she said after some hesitancy again.
"What does he lay it to you, for ?" said Mrs. Derrick.
"I don't believe he's going away, to begin with."
"He wanted me to say something to bring him back
again," said Faith lower yet.
"0 is that allI" said Mrs. Derrick composedly. "I
knew that gun was loaded, long ago. Well what's the
harm if he did ?-it's not dangerous."
"I'm sorry," said Faith. "But mother, do make Crab
get on 1-it's time."
"It's riot late," said Mrs. Derrick. "And don't you fret
about Sam Deacon, child,-he always was a little goose-
till he got to be a big one; but you needn't think he'll ever
shoot himself for love of you,-he loves himself better than
that."
And at this point, Crab-roused by the thought of his
own supper-set off at a good round trot which soon brought
them home. There was nobody there however, not -even
Cindy; so the need of haste did not seem to have been
urgent. Faith soon had the kitchen fire in order, and her
clams in the pot, and was for the next half hour thoroughly
busy with them. Then she made herself ready for tea, and
the mother and daughter sat together by the lamp, the one
with her knitting the other with her book. But the extra
half hour was already past.
"Faith," said Mrs. Derrick at last, "why wouldn't Mr.
Linden do the other thing you asked him to ?"
Faith looked up suddenly from her book, as if not under-
standing the question; then her head and her voice drooped
together.
"I haven't asked him yet, mother.
"I didn't know but he''d some objection,"said Mrs. Der-
rick. "Well I wish he'd come-I want my supper. I'm
as tired as tired can be, paddling round there in the mud.

.208             SAY' AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.            211

How -did you like your lantern, child ?" she said as the
clock struck half past seven.
Faith raised her head and listened first to the clock and
for any sound that mightobe stirring. near the house; then
answered
"I haven't looked at it, mother."
"What do you think of having supper ?"
"Before Mr. Linden comes, mother ?-well, if you like
it, I'll get you yours-the clams are ready."
"I don't care," said her mother,-" I'm more sleepy than
hungry.  I'll just lie down here on the sofa, Faith, and you
,can wake me up when you hear him." And disregarding
the cooked clams in the kitchen, Mrs. Derrick went to
sleep and dug them all over again.
The clock ticked on,--softly, steadily, from the half hour
to the hour, and from the hour to the half.  Out of doors
there was nothing stirring, unless the owl stirred between
his unmusical notes, or Mr. Skip's dog did something but
howl. Hardly a wagon passed, hardly a breath moved the
leaves. Cindy, on her part, was lost in the fascinatiogof
some neighbouring)kitchen.
And Faith at first' had been lost in her 4kudy. But the
sounding of eight o'clock struck on more than the air, and
she found, though she tried, she could not shut herself up
in her book any more. Mrs. Derrick slept profoundly; her
breathing only made. the house seem more still. Faith
went to the window to look, and then for freer breath and
vision went to the door. It was not moonlight; only the
light of the stars was abroad, and that still further softened
by the haze or a mistiness of the air which made it thicker
still. Faith could see little, and could hear nothing, though
eyes and ears tried well to penetrate the still darkness of
the road, up and down.   It was too chill to stay at the
porch, now with this mist in the air; and reluctantly she
came back to the sitting-room, her mother sleeping on the
sofa, her open study book under the lamp, the Chinese lan'
tern in its packing paper. Faith had no wish to open it
now. There was no reasoib to fear anything, that she
knew; neither was she afraid; but neither could she rest.
half past eight struck. She went to the window again,
and very gravely sat down by it.

She had sat there but few minutes when there camera
rush of steps into the porch, and Cindy burst into the,, little
sitting-room, almost too out of breath to speak.
"Here's a proclamation !" she said-" Mr. Linden's been
shot at dreadful, and Jem Waters is down to fetch Dr.
Harrison. I'm free to confess they say he aint dead
yet."
With which pleasing announcement, Cindy -rushed off
again, out of the room and out of the house, being seized
with a sudden fear that Jem Waters would forestall her in
spreading the news. The noise had awaked Mrs. Derrick'
and she sat looking at Faith as if she was first in her
thoughts. Faith stood before her with a colourless face,
but perfectly quiet, though at first( she looked' at her
mother without speaking.
"Come here, pretty child," said her mother, "and sit
down by me."'.                        -    '
"Mother," said Faith,-but she would not have known
her own voice,-"something has happened."
But the way Mrs. Derrick's arms came round her, said
that shy too had heard.
"Where can he be, mother ?" said Faith gently disen-
gaging herself.
"I don't know, child."
Faith was already at the door.
"Faith !" her mother said, following her with a quick
step,-" stop, child !"
Faith put back a hand as if to stop her--she was list-
ening.
There was nbt a sound. Faith went down the steps and
stood at the gate. Not a sound still; and her mother said
softly, "Faith, you must not go out."
She put one hand on her mother's arm, and clasping it
stood without stirring; her other hand on the gate. In
mingled sorr9gw and fear her mother stood, not knowing
well what to do or what to say,-.-in that emergency where
woman can only endure-where she is powerless but to
suffer. Faith stood without moving head or )and.
And so they- remained, they knew .not hown101g, until
Cindy once more presented herself and told her story more
at length.

210            SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

"You see I was down to Mis' Somerses, and so was Dr.
Harrison; and Jem Waters come there for him. And Jern
he makes up to Mis' Somerses Jenny, and to-night he
wouldn't hardly speak to her-wouldn't no how tell what
he come for. So then Jenny got mad and she went and
listened; and she said Jem wanted to catch up Dr. Harri-
son and run off- with him-and the doctor 'he wanted his
horse. I don' know how they settled it-but I'm free to
confess I'm sleepy-" and Cindy once more disappeared,
and the stillness settled down over all.

I

CHAPTER XVII.

N that eventful evening, Mr. Simlins had a husking bee;
and in his barn were met a fair representation of the
Pattaquasset men and boys-especially boys. And with
busy hands and tongues the work went on,.Mr. Simlins
himself among the busiest. But in the midst of work and
merriment though the fair stillness of the night was un-
heeded, the sudden interruption which came brought every'
one to his feet; it was a loud shriek frdm the house, 'a
woman's shriek.
"Hold on !" said Mr. Simlins-r" you all go ahead and
Il go quiet the distractions. I suppose Mrs. Hummins
has seen another rat in the dairy. No-thank'ee-I like
to kill my own rats myself and then I know they air
killed."
So letting nobody follow him, Mr. Simlins Jeft the barn
and went over to the house. In the kitchen he found the
full array of female servants, of his own house and the
neighbours', one of whom hiding her face was rocking back
and forth with the most incoherent exclamations ; while all
the rest, standing by in various attitudes, seemed to have
got an extra pair of eyes apiece for the express purpose of
looking on.
"Well !"-said Mr. Simlins-"where is it ? I've got my
stick ready. Hain't bit anybody, has he ?-O  has some-
body got my silver spoons? What's to pay ?"
Now silver spoons there were none in Mr. Simlins' econo-
my, and this was a proverbial expression well known in the
household.
"0 Mr. Simlins ! Mr. Simlins !" cried the hysterical one,
with a shudder, "there's a murdered man at the front door !
--and I did shut it, but he might come round this way !"
"You be hanged ! and shut up !"-was Mr. Simlins' re-
mark in answer to this statement; and flinging down his
stick on the kitchen floor with a rattle, he strode, to the
(213)

2-12


214             SAY AND SEAL.

front door and opened it, having had the precaution to take
a candle with him.
There was certainly a figure there, not standing, but jt.
ting on the bench in an attitude that spoke of faintness;
and of all the men in Pattaquasset, Mr. Simlins was per-
haps most surprised  to see that it wad Mr. Linden. A
white handkerchief ineffectually bound round his arm, but
served to shew why he had tried to secure it there.
Mr. Simlins surveyed it all with his candle in about three
seconds, and then said hoarsely, "What's this?  Can you
speak to me
But the power for that Was gone, though a little parting
of the lips spoke the intent.. Mr. Simlins set down his
candle and-went back to the kitchen.
"Get some brandy, you fools.!" said he. "Here's a friend
o' mine got faint for want of his supper -been too long
out shootin'. Fetch a glass of water here too!1 Jenny
Lowndes, you go tell Jem Waters that 'ere plaguey black
heifer has got outi of the yard. You send him to me, and
if y.ou spile the frolic with your story I'll have nothing
more to do with you, I give yu my word1"
Mr. Simlins was obeyed. He himself went back with the
water and the brandy, which he tenderly applied to Mr,
Linden's forehead and lips, and seeing the handkerchief's
ineffectual disposition had taken it off and bound it on tight
by the time Jem Waters, one of his farm    hands, had
reached the porch.  The two then taking the sufferer in
their arms carried him into the house and into Mr. Simlins'
room, which was on the first floor, where they laid him on
the bed. Jem Waters was then despatched for Dr. Harri.
son, with orders to hold his tongue and not say what he was
sent for. A    Jem Waters, the swiftest runner in Patta-
quasset, set o  and ran every step of the way, till the doc-
tor was found,
The cold applications, the resting posture, seemed to do
their work, and Mr. Simlins was rewarded with a smile from
both eyes and lips. He did not speak again however till
he had seen a spoonful of brandy enter the lips ; then with
a grave concern that did not seem like Mr. Simlins, he said,
in a subdued tone,
" How do you find yourself? Can you speak now?"

"Not much-" Mr. Linden answered with some effort,
"I find myself in very kind hands."
"Are you hurt anywhere else ?"
"Somewhat-the shot scattered, I think,"
There was a smothered execration, and then it was a
very kind hand that renewed the touch of cold water to his
forehead, though a big, brown and rough one.
"I've sent for the doctor-and now I'll get you a nurse.
You keep quiet, till you can do something else."
Mr. Simlins gently went forth; and in a minute after was
in the midst of his husking party in the barn.
"Reuben Taylor !" said the farmer-" You don't mind
takin' a run, do you ? Wouldn't you just as lieves help me
catch that black heifer--afore she gets to Pequot ?"
Reuben started up, and signified his ability to catch any-
thing whatever. He was not alone; for half a dozen others
volunteered to be.equally ready.
"You keep where you be !" said the farmer with a wave
of his hand- to the half dozen. "I don't let everybody
chase that 'ere heifer-you've got to catch her by the head
and not by the foot, I tell you! Reuben, you come along."
And getting him well outside of the barn and half way
towards the house; Mr. Simlins said in a very low growl
indeed,
"Mr. Linden's here -he's been hurt, somehow, in his
arm-and he's kind 'o faint; I want you to stay by him till
the doctor comes, and then let me know. If I don't keep
in the barnthey'll raise Plute-or they'll come in-and I'd
as lieves tlrey'd do one as 'tother."
By this time Mr. Simlins had reached the door of his
room, and ushered Reuben in. He heard-and long re-
membered-the smothered cry which seemed to come no
further than Reuben's lips as he stepped within the door;
but after .that the boy might. have been made of iron, for
his strength and steadiness. He walked up to the bedside
and knelt down by it, with a look which again Mr. Simlins
could not soon forget; but his face was quite calm, except
in the first moment when Mr. Linden looked at him. The
farmer was a man of iron too, yet his voice was low and
changed from its usual wont when he spoje.
"it's only loss of. blood, I guess," he said. "He'll get

SAY AND SEAL.           215

1 7
1         '
r,.   +.


SAY AND SEAL.            217

216             SAY -AND SpL.

along.. You give him brandy, and water, Reuben, if he
wants it; and call me when Dr. Harrison comes. Can
do anything else ?"  The last wbrds were gently, even ten,
derly, addressed to the sufferer.
"No-" Mr. Linden said, with that same pleasant look
of the eyes.  "I think there is not much lie matter-ex.
cept what you said." (
Mr. Simlins stalked off and was rather more grim than
usual in the barn. The huskers had returned to their mer.
riment, and the slight sound of wheels in the roil from
time to time of course attracted no attention. Kfter one
of these signals, however, Jem Waters appeared at the
front door.
" Mr. Simlins there's a gentleman wants to see yer. I'll
take yer place."
Very few strides did Mr. Simlins make between the barn
and the house, and slight was his stay of greeting to IDr,
Harrison.
"He's in here-" said he leading the way.
Reuben was just as Mr. Simlins had left him,-it seemed
as if he had not once taken his eyes from the calm face
before him. For very calm it was-reposeful; with not a
line disturbed except where a slight contraction of the
brow told of some physical discomfort. But he was not
asleep, for he looked at them the moment they entered;
and Reuben rose then, and stood leaning against the bedpost.
"I'm sorry to see you so," said the doctor. "What's the
matter? and where ?"
A little smile, a glance towards the bandaged arm,
seemed to say there was nothing very bad, but that what
there was it would be easier for him to have the doctor find
out for himself.
Nor further did the doctor ask, but proceeded to work.
And it appeared soon that Dr. Harrison at play, and Dr.
Harrison at work, were two people-yet the same ! The
doctor did not indeed play at his work ; yet the work was
done with the same skilful ease that he brought to his play;
an ignorant eye could see as much ; and Mr. Simlins jeal-
ously looking on, felt very soon at ease as to the doctor's
part in the scene before him. Dr. Harrison knew his busi-
ness, and knew it well.

Mr. Linden's coat was removed, in the course of which
operation a keen glance of the doctor's eye over at Reuben
shewed that he recognized, him; but then he attend;l to
nothing but his patient. He found that a number of dqek
shot had been lodged in Mr. Linden's side and arm, the
latter of which was somewhat lacerated, and this was the
principal wound. The others were slight, the shot having
taken a slanting direction and so rather grazed than pene-
trated. Dr. Harrison with care and skill went on to extract
the shot and dress the wounds, which he did after the happy
and simple regimen of modern discoveries; .and ordered
certain restoratives which he judged his patient needed.
He did not. sp ak except on- business till he had seen
these doing th  Ir work and Mr. Linden able to reply to
him. And then his first words were to the farmer ; who,
not asking a question, had stood by as silent and watchful
as Reuben himself; nearly as grave.
"There's nothing the matter with him, Mr. Simlins," he
said. "He'll be able to shoot you in a day or two --if he
has a mind. What have you beef doing to him ?"
"Me! I've been actin' the part of the good Syrian. to
him," growled Mr. Simlins; -"only I always thought
before, the oil and wine went on the outside instead of
the inside."
"I dare, say," said the doctor lightly, probably not
understanding the allusion. And then he seated himself
on the side of the bed, looking down at his patient very
much in his usual manner.
"You'll have made yourself the hero of Pattaquasset,
Linden," he said. . 1"There won't' another fellow stand a
chance to be looked/at for a month to come-from here to
Quilipeak. You ought to be indicted for breach of the
public peace."
"Don't try it-" said Mr. Linden. "I should doubtless
prevail with the jury too."
"Ha ?..-" said the doctor with another glance over at
Reuben.  "Now how did this come about ?"
"Quite suddenly-as I was walking home.'"
"Where were you?"
"About a mile from here, in the open road."
"Who was fool enough to be shooting ducks in the open
VOL. 1.                19


218                 AY AND SEAL.
road and mistake you for a specimen ?.-You are not at all
the sort of man I should ever think of making game of"."
"I tried hard to find out who it was," said Mr. Linden,
.---"but he was  better runner than I, or else my strength
gave out."
"Why how did the thing happen?" said the doctor.
"Run !-you don't suppose the fellow meant to hit you?"
"He meant to run-" said Mr. Linden.
The doctor looked at Mr. Simlins, with a serio-comical
expression.
"Worse and worse !" said he. "It is a full-grown, rega.
lar built adventure; and this is a hero from head to foot."
"Which way did the fellow run ?" said Mr. Simlins, with
a growl that was ominous.
"Straight ahead-till he got into the woods," said Mr.
Linden, smiling at his host. "But he probably turned
there, Mr. Simlins."
"I'll have him 1" said Mr. Simlins-" I'll foller his tracks,
if they lead me to the two poles of the axletree! You tell
me where you see him, and I'll set runners on, that won't
give out neither."
" They'd be as likely to run against each other as any
way, in this mist to-night," said the doctor.  "You'd
better leave all that till the morning.  I'll see you again
to-morrow," said he holding out his hand to Mr. Linden.
"I suppose they don't know what is become of you at
Mrs. Derrick's-I will stop there as I go home and make
myself as famous as I can. Though 'the first bearer of
unwelcome news' does not recommend himself to favour,
yet if they have heard anything, on the whole they will
thank me. I'll take my risk."
"I am a little inclined to ride down, with you," said Mr.
Linden.
"Folly !" said the doctor.  "Mr. Simlins is acting a
good part by you, he says,-which I presume is true,
though I did not understand his terms; but I have no
doubt- he'll prove himself good for a day or two's board
and lodging. I wish I had had the pleasure of finding
you at my own door, iunstead of his having it!"
"The question is whether I shall be good for a day or
two-I have no doubt of Mr. Simlins." -

SAY AND SEAL.             .219

"Does that mean you are going,to disobey me? You
grudge me that little bit of famousness ?"
"I shall hear the orders before I disobey--"
The doctor looked at him a minute. "Linden,"-said
he,-you're alarmingly well! but you must remain in quar-
ters for another night or two. It would be dangerous to
let you go. I can't allow it. Good night !-.-."
Either the stimulus of the doctor's presence had been
strong, or the effort to appear well had been fatiguing;
and Dr. Harrison would have pronounced another verdict
had he seen his patient ten minutes later. When Mr. Sim..
lines came back into the room, Mr. Linden looked pale and
exhausted. He roused himself however, at once.
"Mr. Simlins," he said, "will you drive me into Patta-
quasset to-night."
"You aint a goin' to do that ?" said the farmer.
"That was my intention. Why not ?"
"You aint fit for it, no ways !  Can't you stop, here one
night and be peaceable ?"
"Yes, both," said his guest smiling. 4But if I do not
go, I must send," he added after a minute's silence, diiring
which perhaps some feeling of weakness came in aid of the
doctor's orders.-"And I do not think it would hurt me
to go."
"Send !" said Mr. Simlins-" there's lots to send. Here's
Reuben, and Sam Stoutenburgh-the boys.aint gone yet--
and here's me. Who do you want to send to ?"
"I want to send for two or three things out of my room.
Reuben can go-and Sam may sit here with me, if you
will sleep any better for it, Mr. Siinlins. That is what you
must do," he said with a look of warm interest and kindness.
"Sleep !" growled Mr. Simlins.  "It's about all I'm
good .for !" (Which was not at all Mr. Simlins abstract
judgment concerning himself-but purely comparative, on
the present occasion.)  "Well-you tell Reuben what you
want him to do, and he can take the blown mare-Jem'll
have her ready-and I'll send Sam to you; and after I get
rid of all creation, I'll come myself. You'd think all crea-
tion was just made, and the chips about"
After which setting forth of the state of his affairs Mr.
Simnlins went forth.


220                 SAY AND SEAL.
"I guess, sir," said Jem Waters when he had done his
task with the mare, "I guess I'd as good sleep in the front
porch to-night. ' Cause if there'll be one here, there'll be
forty."
"What'll the forty do ?"
"Knockthe house down, sir, if there's nobody there to
stop 'em. Bless you, sir, all Pattaquasset 'll come to hear
how Mr. Linden is, afore day. There won't one on 'em
wait two minutes after he hears the tale. It's all about'
by this time--I made one gal mad by not tellin' her, and I
guess likely she's made it uo for herself and other folks
by now."

CHAPTER XVIII.
DR. HARRISON did not find anybody at Mrs. Der-
rick's gate. The two, mother and daughter, had
stood there, even after Cindy had come in with her report;
unconscious, or unregardful, of the chill thick mist which en-
veloped everything and fell with steady heavy fall upon the
bright hair of one and the smooth cap of the other. They
had not spoken' to,each other all that while, unless an
unfinished word or two of Mrs. Derrick's reached ears that
did not heed them. It was Faith herself who first moved,
perhaps reminded by the increasing chillness that her
mother was feeling it too. She took her hand from the
gate, and passing the other round Mrs. Derrick, led. her
into the house, and into the sitting-room and to a chair;
and then went for wood and kindling' and built up a fire.
She went to the kitchen next. That fire was out too, and
that fire also Faith rebuilt, and coaxed till a blaze was going
up round the cold tea kettle. Cindy sat with her head on
her arms on the kitchen table, fast asleep. Faith did not
wake her. In half an hour she brought into the sitting-
room a tray with tea made, and clams warmed, and all
things that .should accompany the one teacup and saucer,
and mutely set it before her mother. She did not then ask
her to eat, except by this pantomime; and she herself im-
mediately went again to stand in the porch. But again
her mother followed.
"Child," she said, "you mustn't stand here. You'll be
sick next. You must come right in and drink some hot
tea."
Faith's quick answer was to put her hand upon her mo-
ther's lips. Her mother went on, softly angi steadily, in
spite of that slight obstructions Yet not in spite of it, for
her voice was very low.
"I know who'd say you ought to--" and she paused a
little, as if to let her words have their full effect. Then
19*((221)


SAY AND SEAL.            223

with a dirious sort of instinct she herself har1Ifdperceived,
Mrs. Derrick added,
"Dr. Harrison'll be sure to come-andiou mustn't be
standing here then."
For the first time Faith's head drooped, and she turned,
but it was to pass her mother and go upstairs; laying her
hand for an instant as she went, with a kind of caressing
touch, on her mother's arm; then she was gone.
Mrs..Derrick stood where Faith left her, the still mist
before her- out of door, the still house behind her. And
there she stood until her ear caught the distant smooth
roll of wheels. Softly it came, nearing her every minute,
till Mrs. Somers' little wagon stopped at the gate, and Dr.
Harrison jumped down and came towards her. Another
had seen him, for Mrs. Derrick knew that a light step had
come swiftly down stairs, but whither it went she knew not,
The doctor spoke eerily.
Nasty thick evening I My dear Mrs.'Derrick, do you
stand at the door to shew your hospitality in welcoming
your friends, all night ?"
"It is late," said Mrs. Derrick. The doctor's words were
too slippery for her to get hold of; she waited for himnto
speak again. -a                             f   h
"If it is late, my dear madam, why are you here? I
don't want you to see me ever for anything but pleasure.
Is it so late I mustn't come in ?"
Mrs. Derrick stepped back into the hall-then stopped
and turned.
"I was there to watch, Dr. Harrison. Whit  he4e you
got to tell me? ~-One story has come already."
"Has it! Then I can tell you but half a one. I was
thinking to make my fortune. Mr. Linden is spending the
night at a friend's house, my dear Mrs. Derrick-that is all.
He is as well as you are -though perhaps just at this
minute not quite so strong as I am. But I am afraid he
can boast more than that in another few days."
That Mrs. Derrick felt at once relieved, doubtful, unsat-
isfied, was clear. But the relief-slight as it was-brought
back her hospitality; 'she led the way into the parlour.
"What has been the matter ?" she said. "What is the
matter ?"

"I don't know," said the doctor. "He fell in with some-
body carrying a gun-which was very likely to happen,
seeing I have met -a great many myself; but I never fell out
with any of them yet-perhaps my time will come.-This
fellow however, let off his gun in the wrong place and some
of the shot hit Mr. Linden in the arm, and before he could
get to Mr. Simlins, where I found him, he was a little faint.
So-I commanded him to stay where he was till morning.
That's all. He's perfectly well, I give you my word. I
came now on purpose to relieve you from anxiety.  He
wanted to come down with me, but I wouldn't let him."
"Why didn't you let him ?" said Mrs. Derrick.
"Well, I came near letting him," said the doctor,-"for
I didn't know at one time that I could help it. It wouldn't
have hurt him seriously. But he'll see you with more
pleasure to-morrow."
"I can't think how you made out to hinder him at all!"
said Mrs. Derrick, looking a littk puzzled. "But I'm much
obliged to you, doctor, for coming."
"Is he such a difficult person to deal with ?" said the doc-
tor, glancing at the different doors of the room.
"I never tried," said Mrs. Derrick with very simple
truth.
"I must try, some time," said the doctor abstractedly:--
"I like to deal with difficult people.-B-ut I remember you
remarked it was late !--" And he started up and was
about to take his leave; when his purpose met with an in-
terruption. For the swift trot of a horse upon the road
came to as quick a pause at Mrs. Derrick's gate, and Reu-
ben Taylor came up the steps and in at the open front door
before Dr. Harrison had finished his compliments.
"I see I" said the doctor,-" you don't keep open doors
for nothing, Mrs. Derrick. Here's another.. You're not
riding after me, my friend, are you? You don't let the
grass grow 1"
"No sir," said Reuben. "Good evening, Mrs. Derrick-.
may I go up to Mr. Linden's room ?"
"How is he now, Reuben ?" said Mrs. Derrick. "0 yes,
you/can go up, of course."
'1 Thank you, ma'am-he said he was more comfortable
when I came away." And with an almost imperceptible

'
+;
i Si
!l
n' 1 1

222

SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

glance round the room he was in, Reuben tu ried and
bounded lightly up the staircase. But all was d alrk there
and in Mr. Linden's room. Reuben could not execute his
commission so; and was turning to come down stairs again,
when he encountered in the dim entry-way a white figure.
"How is Mr. Linden, Reuben ?" said a voice which he
knew, though it was in a very low key.
"Miss Faith !" Reuben said with a little start-" I0 am
so glad to find you !"-Then repeated gravely his former
answer-"He said he was more comfortable when I came
away, ma'am."
"Is he much hurt?"
Reuben hesitated.
"I don't rightly know, Miss Faith," he said, so, low that
she could scarce catch the words. "He says he's not-and
Dr. Harrison says not,-I suppose- I'm easy frightened."
"What makes you frightened, then ?" she said quickly.
"I was frightened-" Reuben said, drawing a long
breath, and with a sort of awe-stricken voice, as if the
fright was upon him yet;   "and it takes a while to get
over it. Maybe that's all. He wrote that, Miss Faith-"
and Reuben laid a tiny folded paper in her hand. "And
may I have a light, ma'am, to get some things from his
room ?" He spoke eagerly now, as if he grudged the mo'
ments.
Faith directed him to the kitchen, and when Reuben
came up, followed him into the room and stood waiting
while he sought what he wanted. Then suddenly remem-
bered that her paper might contain a request for something
else, and bent 'over the candle to read it. It contained
mpre than one.
/"Miss Faith," it said, "if any of my scholars are anxious
about me, tell them, from me, that there is no cause. Bid
them take rest-without 'waiting for it.'-I am sorry that
exercise must wait !-but I shall hope to see two on Mon..
day. .J.E.L."
Faith's head was bent a long while over the candle.
"Have you got what you wanted, Reuben ?" she asked at
last.
Reuben had heard her voice often, but he had never heard
it like that-nor any one else. What had passed through

it, clearing it so? it was like the chiming :of silver bells.
$le came at her word, bag in hand; and-with the freedom
a mutual sorrow gives,.--held out his other hand to her.
Then ran quick and softly down the stairs.
"Hollo, sir!1" said the doctor, as Reuben passed the
open doorway. "A word with you." Reuben paused, then-
camne back a step.A
aSo you are Mr. linden's friend, are you ?" said the doc-
tor in a careless manner.
"Did you want anything of me, sir ?" Reuben said.
"Why yes-I commonly want an answer to a question."
'"I don't just know what you mean by a friend, Dr.
Harrison," said Reuben respectfully.' "I might answer
wrong."
"oSo rather than do that -You like to be on the safe
side. Suppose you ask Mr. Linden to teach you defini-
tions, among other things? And look here--keep him
quiet and don't let anybody talk him out of his sleep to-
night. That's all." And the doctor followed Reuben im-
mediately.
With a feeling of satisfaction certainly, Mrs. Derrick at
last locked and bolted the front door, shutting out the
driving mist and all that might hide within it; and then
went to look after the only treasure the house contained.
She wasn't far to seek, for as the locking and bolting
sounded through the house, Faith.came down and went
with her mother into the'sitting-room.
"Have you h d nothing to eat yet, motherI" she ex-
claimed as her ey' fell on the orderly tea-tray.
"No child--nor sha'n't want it, till I see you have some-
thing.
Faith smiled a little, came and put her arms round her
and kissed her; and then set about the whole work of get-
ting tea over again. It was with a very pale face yet; only
the silver ring of her voice told the change of the mental
atmosphere. Her mother looked at her-but was perhaps
afraid to ask any questions to disturb the quiet.
"Reuben's a good boy !" she said, feeling that remark to
be perfectly safe.
"I'm glad he's there," Faith answered gravely. "I heard
all Dr. Harrison said, mother."

224

i

225


SAY AND SEAL.            227

.4 {,j
    4!
1I'
1,  .
1  ,
1
r
i.,,

"Yes child," said her mother---as if she knew that before,
--" I thought you'd-see Reuben too."
"Reuben said the same, mother. And Mr. Linden him.
self sent word there was no cause to be anxious."
Faith did not say he had written that word to her.. Per-
haps her own consciousness might have made her shy of the
subject--or perhaps what she judged to be people's false
reports had left a sore spot in her heart and she was afraid
of touching that. But she did not speak of the little note'
which had come to her. She was preparing her mother's
tea with all speed, while Mrs. Derrick on her part peeped
into the;sugar-bowl to see if it wanted filling, and began to
cut the bread-
"I'm glad to rear it, .child," she said. "Dr. Harrison's
too smart for me-I can't get a bit of good out of him.
My, Faith! I suppose Mr.' Linden can manage him, but if
I had that man buzzing round me, I shouldn't know
whether I was sick or well. When is he coming back,
child ?"
"I don't know, mother.".--Then with the invincible in-
stinct of truth, she added, "He wants my work to be ready
for him Monday."
"Reuben's got a great deal of gumption !" said Mrs.
Derrick, her heart quite expanding with the pleasure of
hearing Faith talk once more. "Now half the boys in
town would have blurted that right out to me and Dr.
Harrison together,--and I wouldn't trust him for not ask-
ing, questions. B t I'm sure I'm glad, child-it seems as
if he'd been gone  month. Do you think he'll come to-
morrow ? Maybe he meant you should send your work
down to him."
"I sha'n't do that," said Faith, as she gave her mother
at last-a cup of tea that was to be' drunk.' But she had
poured out none for herself. She sat before the tea-tray,
still and pale. Her mother looked at~Jer.
"You must take some, child."
"I don't want it, mother."'LAnd she brought everything
that was on the table round her mother's plate.
"You must-" Mrs. Derrick repeated. "I sha'n't, if you
don't,.-or else I'll get you a glass of wine. Why child,"
she said, with a half sober, half smiling look, which Faith

K

for once did not read,.-"he's better. You ought to eat
and be thankful."
"I am thankful,"-Faith said, her head sinking for a
moment.
Mrs. Derrick deliberately got up, went to the pantry, and
fetching thence a tiny cup and plate set them before Faith.
"Eat, pretty child" she said.  "You know I'm right.
If you don't look out, Mr. Linden'll be worse scared when
he comes home than he's been to-day, I guess."~
Faith gave her a look, both grateful and appealing, and
very innocent of belief in her statement;-and did honour
the little cup so far as to fill it with tea which she swallowed.
But the plate she left clean.
"I can't to-night, mother," she said in answer to Mrs.
Derrick's look.  "I'll eat breakfast."

226. )

S41Y AND SEAL.


f  il
'   1
11
'   1
,
'  1 '
,
,,i
~  ,i
,,.,
,°
;f,.  l
;ti' ,f

11 1
1  4
N,
;; :
,,
;; ,
,+
i-,}
,,'r
,.
:;
,
'
1
,
.1 1
I;j
+f
I
iE

CHAPTER XIX.
T T cannot be said that sleep came to Faith's eyes unbid.
den,-- yet once come, sleep rested there sweetly, even
beyond her usual time; and the first disturbing sound, in
that misty Sunday morning, was the stopping of a wagon
at the front door. But if Faith ran to the window with
any special expectations, they were disappointed,--there
was nothing at the door but Crab, his companion the little
wagon, and Mrs. Derrick composedly getting out of the
same. Which was at least surprising enough. The good
lady's next appearance was a very noiseless one in Faith's
room.
"Dear mother ! where have you been ?"
"Why I've been trying to get ahead of Dr. Harrison,"
said her mother sitting down; "and I did it too. I should
have been home before if I hadn't been afraid of meeting
him-so I had to take a cross road." Mrs. Derrick seemed
tired..                               '
"Yoe needn't look at me so, child," she said, taking off
her bonnet.  "It's enough to see one pale face in a morn-
ing. I did see him, Faith, though I didn't speak to him."
"How did he look, mother?"
"I don't suppose he really looked bad-considering,"
said Mrs. Derrick, with the tired look on her own face;
"but I am not used to seeing him pulled down. It sort of
upset me to see him lie there and those two boys keeping
watch of, him. I declare, Faith ! I wouldn't like to be the
one to touch him with them sitting by !"
"But how is he, mother? who did you see
"I didn't see anybody but them-Mr. Simlins wasn't up.
They said he seemed better, dear--and that if I'd seen hip
last night I'd think he had quite a colour now: so I sup-
pose he is better. Only I haven't got theSheart of a kitten'
sometimes-" and a little motion of the lips warned Faith
that if her mother was sparing of details it was because
she could scarce give them.
(2'28)

"But isn't  as well as the doctor said? lHe would look
pale, you kno"
"I shouldn't have known from what the doctor said, that
he'd anything more than a scratch on the tip end of his
little finger !" said Mrs. Derrick,--" so I believe I didn't ex-
pect even to see him look pale. And all the while, the
doctor was staring at the pantry doors-I didn't know but
he'd get up and open 'em and look in."
You said two boys were there who beside Reuben
Taylor ?"
"0 Sam Stoutenburgh was 'tother side," said Mrs. Der-
rick, "and wanted to know how you were. I'd a great
mind to tell him it was none of his business. I suppose he
thinks his heart is as large as he is, and can hold every-
thing at once."
A shadow of something seemed to cross Faith at the
mention of Sam's name. She turned away and, began
dressing herself.
"'Don't stir again, mother," she said. "I'll come down
and see about breakfast."
"It'll rest me to go with you, child,-I told Reuben I'd
come again and stay if Mr. Linden would let me, and Reu-
ben will send me word. So I want to see you in the mean
time. But I don't think they'll send."
The breakfast was a quiet meal, though Faith but poorly
performed her, promise of eating. How Faith spent the
hour after breakfast her mother could but guess;. then she
came out with her bonnet on and kissed her before setting
off to Sunday school. The thick mist yet filled the air,
growing yellow now with the struggling sunbeams. She
walked quick and met nobody.
Till she. came to her place, and there she found not
Charles twelfth alone, but the two other little additions to
hOy charge that had been promised her. For though it was
by no means 'cold weather'-the warm sunny days linger-
ing yet and this Sunday promising to be a good specimen,
it happened that Johnny and his companion had received
a special injunction to come, as Faith found out, and were
tere accordingly.
-And 'if Johnny regretted his old place in another class,
VOL. 1.                20

"'q  $AY AND SEAL.

29 c

'1

,

3  -  ,


SAY AND SEAL.

, j
'   ,   ,
'i  '
I',
..
il.,i
?;  '.
',
I'
,1
, i
'I    ,
"'
I,
i
j;,
,
;,
,
;:
i 'i,
, t,
{.
:{ i'
31 'i{
{,'  F
If  ;

it was not for the reason his new teacher had feared.
Faith's face was very pale,-that of itself touched the cliil'
dren; and her words this day came in a tone that won
all the recesses of their hearts.  She had forgot about
other teachers or children being in her neighbourhood; on
those three her stores of love and tenderness poured them'
selves out. She told them with warm lips, of Christ and
his love and his leading,-of the safety and joy of his sheep,
-of her wish that her little charge should be lambs in that
flock, and what sort of lambs they must be. Faith spoke
to her children very much as if she had been a child her.
self. They knew instinctively, with very sure knowledge,.
that she belonged to the fold of which she was joyously
telling them.
The children, on their part, met her variously. Johnny
-with his clear childish eyes, the flower-like unfolding of
his little heart to that warm sunshine-gave her, more help
than trouble,-she understood the liking to teach him for
her own sake. If his thoughts sometimes wandered a little
from her words, the downcast look, the slight quiver of his
childish lips, told Faith where they had gone; and she
could forgive him. But though at such times Robbie Wa-
ters always remembered to look grave too, yet he displaced
Faith's gravity once by whispering to her (in the midst of
her earnest admonitions to charles twelfth) that 'she knew
she was pretty'; and was in general in an easy, docile state
of mind, and much interested and amazed at the 'deport-
ment' of his little neighbour, Charles twelfth. When Faith
came out of the school,,.she saw that all the seats of Mr.
Linden's class were vacant; and with that little reminding
touch, went to her own place in the church.
It was between nine and ten o'clock, while Faith vas yet
lost in her little charge, while Mrs. Derrick at home was
thinking of her, and Mr. Siml as taking his late brea-
fast, that Dr. Harrison's curri  ched the farmer's gate.
All was quiet without-the hous  at when Jenny Lowndes
admitted the doctor into the hall, the array of hats and
caps upon the table might have startled a less professional
man; might have even suggested the idea that Mr. Simlins
was giving a breakfast pa rty.
"Let me see Mr. Linden," said the doctor-.

Jenny hesitated-then her fear of Dr. Harrison over-
coming her scruples, she walked softly to the door and
opened it. But if the doctor wanted to see his patient, he
was obliged to wait a little; for the group of boys-some
standing, some kneeling--.around the bed, hid everything
else. The room was very still, very earnest; even Dr.
Harrison could feel that; the sound of words, very low-
spoken, was all he could hear. The closing door made
itself heard, however,-several boys turned round, and at
once stepped aside; and the doctor saw- his patient,4not
dressed but lying as he had left him the night before. Mr.
Linden smiled-and saying some words to his class held
out his hand towards the doctor; but this was -fastened
upon at once by so many, that the doctor again had to wait
his turn; and it was not until everyone else had touched
that hand, some even with their lips, that he was left alone
with his patient.
"What are you doing ?" said he, in a sort of grave tone
which did not however mean gravity. "Holding a levee ?-
and do you receive your courtiers at diff4'ent hours accord-
ing to their ages ? in that cake I have come at the wrong
time."
"No, you shall have the time all to yourself."
"I see I have it 1 Are the juvenile, members of society
in Pattaquasset accustomed to pay their respects to you at
this hour in tihe morning ?"
"Not always. Once a week we meet to talk over plea-
sant things."
"Have I interrupted the pleasant things now ?"
"No, I could not talk very long this morning. The
boys were just going."
"I wish I had come a little sooner," said Dr. Harrison.
"I'm not a boy, to be sure, but I don't know that they are
privileged to monopolize all pleasant things. If they are,
I an against monopolies. However, if you can't talk, you
mustn't talk. How do you do ?"
"I do well-if a man can be doing well when he's doing
nothing. I will talk as long as you please-about pleasant
things."
The doctor however diverged to the state of his patient's
health, nor would talk of anything else till his investigations

i
I !
,; i
'{ ,
'
i

230

SAY AND SEAL.

231

:I


., -

' 71 4rL   a
%' r.
's
fc         I
'j r
"    ', t

SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

on that. point were made. The result of them seemed to
be satisfactory.
"Now Linden," he said, in a tone that indicated they
were free. to ask and answer,-." who was that fellow last
night? have you any idea?"-
"It is difficult to identify a man when you are only
within gunshot of him-.-and after sundown," said Mr. Lin.
den smiling.
"Difficuit--yes, it may be,--but you gathered some-
thing ?"
"I gathered a run."
"That is," said the doctor looking at him, "you have an
opinion on the subject and are not willing to risk it ?"
"No," said Mr. Linden, "I have had risk enough for one
night."
"You are mistaken, Linden. A hint might be quite
enough to bring out the certainty. My father is very eager
about the matter, and is only waiting for you to empower
him to act."
"I shall give you no Ihint," said Mr. Linden.  "I might
be willing to risk my own opinion, but not another man's
character."
The doctor looked at him keenly and curiously.
"What possible motive !"-he said. "For it is evident
that the shot was fired of intent, and evident that you your.
se f think so. It is unheard-of !"
" Were you bred to the bar, that you sum up evidence
before it is given ?" said #r. Linden, with a good-humoured
raising of his brows at the doctor.
"But the man ran 1"
" So did I-he could hardly think I was much hurt."
" don't want to have such a fellow abroad in Patta-
qua set," said the doctor. "But suppose we go back to
the pleasant things. You must start the subject, Linden.
Rousseau says a man can best describe the sweets of liberty
from the inside of a prison-so, I suppose, you being shot
at and laid on your back, can have no lack of theme."
Mr. Linden smiled-the smile of a most unfettered spirit.
"Liberty !" he sai.'j. " es I have realized since I have
lain here, that-  /                   .   -
" 'My soul is free, as ambient air,'-

"My sense of liberty comes from the possession-not the
want."'
"Prospective possession,"-said the doctor. "Unless
indeed," he went on with a humourous play of the lips-
"you mean that my orders ,to you to lie still, merely gave
zest to your triumphant knowledge that you could get up
if you had a mind. A riotous degree of self-will that I
believe I do not possess. Was that what good Mrs. Der-
rick meant when she said she wondered how I had hindered
you?"
"No," said Mr. Linden smiling-"she meant that she
did not think you had."
"She didn't mean a thing of the kind! She spoke in
pure wonder, and made me begin to wonder in my turn."
Which wonder Mr. Linden did not inquire into.
"I am very sorry I wasn't a boy this morning !" said Dr.
Harrison,- after standing and looking down athim a little.
"Can't you sit down and say why ?"
"I should have heard so much !-which now I am not
to hear. For if I had 'been a boy, I should certainly not
have been missing at your levee."
"0 you deceive yourself, -if you were a boy nothing
'short of my authority would bring you, in the first place."
"I have not the slightest doubt the power would have
been found equal to the resistance," said the doctor bowing.
"Neither have I."
'"Well 1--" said the doctor laughing a little peculiarly,-
"in that case I should have been here. Now I have a fancy
to know what you call pleasant things, Linden. You.
speak with a mouth full-as if there were plenty of them."
"Yes, there are plenty," Mr. Linden said, moving a little
and resting his face on his hand as if he felt tired ; "but we
were talking of only two this morning,-heaven, and the
way thither."
Dr. Harrison looked at him steadily.
"You are tired," he said gently. "You shall not talk
any more to me now, and I shall forbid your holding any
more levees to-day. After which," he added, the humour-
ous expression coming back, "I shall expect to hear a pro-
elanmation going through Pattaquasset, that, like the knights
pf old, you are ready for all comers !-.Well.-PIll come and

232

233

' ','f ,
di  '
I' ,14
,,  '
(.
i j }
;t;.  j ,
, i,'r      5w
'1 ,i
! '  117t
li,,, {
41'

4  ad ,
IIf4'i. .
I 1w,
r    K I  i yt  }.(


SAY AND SEAL.

!;
;

t!( aii
lit

see you to-morrow; and as long as you'll let me, as a friend;
for the pleasure of talking. , You can have itall your own
way, with a few ma6te days' strength. Will you have a
levee to-morrow at the same hour ?"
A little play of the lips came with the answer-
"Will that suit you ?-I'll send you word." Then look.
ing up at the doctor with a different expression, he added,
"What do you think of my pleasant things ?"
"Hardly in my line--" said the doctorwitha careless.
ness which was somewhat dubious in its character. "It is
very well for those who find the subject pleasant. I confess
I have never studied it much."
"Then you have but half learned your profession." But
the words were so spoken that they could not give offence.
Neither did the doctor seem disposed: to take offence,
"I'll ask you what you mean by that to-morrow," he said
very pleasantly. "I thought I had learned my profession,
Have you learned yours ?" The last words were with a
keen eye to the answer.
"Some peoplendignify my present business with that
name," Mr. Linden said.
"Well, you shall discourse to me more at length to-mor-
row," said the doctor.  "Shall I come later ?"b
"I don't expect to be in school to-morrow, so you may
name your own time," Mr. Linden said with a pleasant
look. "But remember,-a physician who has no skill to
feel the pulse of the mind,, no remedies that can reach its
fever or its chills,-is but half a physician. If I had never
studied the subject,-one word about heaven and the way
thither would be worth more to me than all the science of
medicine ever discovered ! It is now-" he said in a low
tone, as the flush passed away. And then holding out his
hand to Dr. Harrison, Mr. Linden added, "-I fully appre-
ciate your skill and kindness-you need not doubt it."
The hand was taken, and grasped, cordially but in si-
lence.
Whether the doctor went straight from Mr. Simlins'
house to church-where he was not a very constant attend-
ant--it does not appear. What is certain about the mat-
ter, is, that he was outside of the church door after service
just at the time that Faith Derrck found herself there, and

234

r

235

SAY AND SEAL.

that he assumed a place at her side and walked with her
towards her mother's house instead of taking the other
direction towards his own., Faith was alone, Mrs. Derrick
having chosen to stay at home in case she should be sent
for. The mist had .cleared off completely, and the sunny
warm air invited to lingering in it. Faith would not have
lingered, but the doctor walked slowly, and she could not
leave him.
o I have been wanting to see you, ever since my inoppor-
tune proposal yesterday," said he in a low tone,-"to make
my peace with you."
"It is made, sir," said Faith, giving him a smile.
"How do you do to-day ?"
"Very'well!1" she told him.
The doctor listened to the sound of her voice, and thought
with himself that as regarded the moral part of he, nature
the words were certainly true.
"Let n~e have the pleasure of relieving you of that,"-
he said, taking Faith's little Bible gently away from her.
"I am going your way.' Miss Derrick-.-.you spoke yester-
day of particular work to be done on Sunday. Have you
any objection to tell me what you meant by it? I confess
to you, your words are somewhat dark to me.. That is my
fault, of course. Will you give me light ?" It was a gentle,
grave, quiet tone of questioning.
"Others might dotit far better, sir," said Faith.
"I would far rather hear it from you I"
The colour came a little into Faith's cheeks, but her
words weregiven with great simplicity.
"The other days are taken up very much with thework
,of this world.-Sunday is meant more particularly or the
work that belongs to the other world."
"And what is that? if you do not object to tell me. I
confess, as I tell you, I am ignorant."
She forgot herself now, and looked steadily at him.
"To learn to know God-with whom we have so much
to do, here and there;-to learn to know his will and to do
it, and to bring others to do it too, if we can...---And if we
know and love him already, to enjoy it and take the good
of it,"---.she added a little lower, and with a softening
of expression.-

bit


SAY AND SEAL.

t
c
i
,
l' ,  ,
i!"
,
,
f,''.
i

Dr. Harrison read her look fixedly, till she turned it
away from him.
"And are these what you call pleasant things ?" said he
somewhat curiously  .
But Faith's answer rang out from her heart.
"Oh yes!1"-
She stopped there, but evidently not for want of what to
say.
"You are a happy thing," said the doctor, but not in a
way to make his words other than graceful. "I wish you
would make me al good as you are."
She looked at him, and answered very much as if she had
been speaking to a child.
"God will make you much better, Dr. Harrison, if you
ask him."'
He was silent a minute after that, without looking at
her. When he spoke again, it was with a change of tone.
"You are of a different world from that in which I live;
and the flowers that are sweet to you, belong, I am afraid,
to a Flora that I have no knowledge of. What, for instance,
would you call pleasant things to talk about-if you were
choosing a subject of conversation ?"
Faith looked a litt1surprised.
"A great many things are pleasant to me," she said
smiling.
"I am sure of that!. But indulge me-what would you
name as supremely such, to talk about ?"
"If they are talked about right," said Faith gently, "I
don't know anything so pleasant as those things I was
speaking of-what God will have us do in this world, and
what he will do for us in the next."
"'Heaven and the way thither'-" said Dr. Harrison to
himself.
"What, sir?" said Faith.
"I should like to have you answer me that; but I am
sorry, I see Mrs. Derrick's house not far beyond us.-I saw
our friend Mr. Linden this morning."
"Is he better ?" said Faith simply.
"He's doing very well. I told him he'd be a terribly
famous man after this. And it's begun. I fotind near all
the boys in Pattaquasset assembled there this morning.".

/

(

"His Bible class-" said Faith, with a feeling which did
not however come into her face or voice, and Dr. Harrison
watched both.
"Here is your Bible," he said as they stopped at the
little gate. "Do you always look so pale on Sundays ?"
he added with a look and tone of half professional half
friendly freedom.
"Not always," Faith said; but there came at the same
time a little tinge into the cheeks,.-that Dr. Harrison
wished away.
"May I come and earn your forgiveness for yesterday's
stupidity ?"
"Certainly !" Faith said,-" but there needs no forgive-
ness-from me, Dr. Harrison."
He left her with a graceful, reverential obeisance; and
Faith went in.

I

SAY AND SEAL.

236

237

V r


SAY AND SEAL.            239

' ,ii,,
',  ,
t(; ! ,
,,, ;,
.. r; ,,I
,, ,  ,; ;
,;,   ,
, ,  ,
lt,,j
ii , ,

..9
CHAPTER XX.
D R. HARRISON had but little left Mr., Linden that
morning, when Mr. Simlins came in. He had hardly
seen his guest yet that day, except, like Mrs. Derrick, when
he was 'asleep. For having: watched himself the greater
part of the night, for the pure pleasure of it, Mr. Sim.
lins' late rest had brought him almost to the hour when
the boys came to what the doctor called Mr. Linden's
levee.
"Well how do you find yourself?" said the farmer, stand.
ing at the foot of the bed and looking at its occupant with
a kind of grim satisfaction.
"I find myself tired, sir-and at the same time intending
to get up. Mr. Simlins, are you going down to church
this afternoon ?"
"Well, no," said the farmer. "I think it's as good
church as I can do, to look arter you."
"You can have both," said Mr. Linden smiling,-"I
should go with you."
"You aint fit," said the farmer regretfully.
"Fit enouglj-i'll come back and stay with you another
day, when I a  well, if you'll let me."
"Will you ?" said the farmer. "I'll bottle that 'eie pro.
mise and cork it up; and if it aint good when I pull the
cork-then I'll never play Syrian again, for no one. But
s'pose I aint goin' to church ?"
"Then I shall have, to take Reuben."
"You sha'n't take no one but me," growled Mr. Simlins.
"I'd rather see you out of my house than not-if I can't
see you in it."
The bells were ringing out for the early afternoon ser-
vice when they set forth; not ringing against each other,
as which should give the loudest call for its own particular
church, but with alternate strokes speaking the-same thing
-the one stepping in when the other was out of breath.
(238)

The warm sunshine rested upon all-" the evil and the
goo" and spoke its own message though not so noisily.
Alg the road Mr. Simlins' little covered wagon (chosen
for various reasons) went at an easy pace; with one to
drive, and one to bear the motion as best he might; and a
third who would almost have agreed to be a pillow or a
cushion for the rest of his life, if he could have been one
for that day. What there were of that sort in the wagon,
or indeed in the house, were to Reuben's eyes far too thin
and ineffectual.  A little excitement, a very earnest desire
to get home once more, did partially supply the need; and
by the time the houses were empty and the churches full,
the wagon stopped at Mrs. Derrick's gate.
"I guess nobody's home," said Mr. Simlins as he with
great tenderness helped Mr. Linden to alight-"but any-
way, here's the house all standin'. Reuben, you go ahead
and see if we can get in."
But before Reben touched the door, Mrs. Derrick had
opened it from the inside, and stood there-her usually
quiet manner quite subdued into silence. Not into inaction
however, for her woman's hands goon made their superior
powers known, and Mr. Simlins could only wonder w4y
this and that had not occurred to him before. Quick and
still and thoughtful,,she had done half a dozen little things
to make Mr. Lindecomfortable before he had been in the
house as many minutes, and assured the two others very
confidently that "he shouldn't faint again, if he wanted to
ever so much 1"
"Well, I was sorry to let lhim go," said Mr. Simlins,
"and now I'm glad of it. It takes a woman ! Where's
somebody else ?"
"There's nobody else in the house," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Faith's gone to meeting, and Cindy too, for all I know."
"I'll send Dr. Harrison word in the morning where I
am," said Mr. Linden,-which Mr. Simlins rightly under-
stood to mean that the fact need not be published to-night.
He took gentle leave of this lost guest and went to
church; excusing himself for it afterwards by saying he
felt lonely.
If Faith had seen him there, she might have jumped at
conclusions again ; buit she did not; and after the service

4

;,
i'
Y


SAY AND SEAL.

walked home, slowly again, though nobody was with her,
A little wearied by this time with the night and the dahy'
work, wearied in body and mind perhaps, she paced home.
wards along the broad street or road, on which the yellow
leaves of the trees were floating lazily down, and which was
all filled from sky and wayside. with golden light. It,
brought to mind her walk of last Sunday afternoon--and
evening;-t1Ehymn, and those other lines Mr. Linden had
repeated and which had run in her head fifty times since,
And Faith's step grew rather slower and less lightsome as
she neared home, and when she got home she went straight
up to her room without turning to the right or the left
Her mother was just then in the kitchen and heard her not,
and shielded by her bonnet Faith saw not even that Mr,
Linden's door stood open; but when she cane out.again a
while after, the full stream of sunlight that came thence
into the passage drew her eyes that way. And Faith did
not wonder then that her mother had been startled, and
unprepared by the doctor's words for the sight of what
she now saw. The chintz-covered couch was drawn be;
fore the window, in the full radiance of the sunlight, and
Mr. Linden lay there looking out; but the sunlight found
no glow in his face, unless one as etherial as itself. The
habitual sweet pure look was there-a look that reminded
Faith of the one Johnny had worn in the morning; but
the face was perfectly colourless. The bandaged arm was
supported only by a sling, upon the other hand his cheek
rested wearily. Faith looked, hesitated, thenstepped lightly
into the room and stood before him; with a face not indeed
quite so pale as his own, but that only the sunlight hin.
dered his seeing was utterly-without its usual colour. She
found nothing to say, apparently; for she did not speak,
only held out her hand. He had turned at, the first sound
of her step and watched her-at first smiling, then grave-
as she came near; and taking her hand as silently as it
was given, Mr. Linden looked up at her face,-perhaps to
see whether his instr actions had been obeyed.
"Ishave had men    hands about me so long," he said,
"that yours feels like-" he did not specify what, but held
it a minute as if he were trying to find out. "'Miss Faith,
you want to be rocked to sleep."

Could he see that her lips trembled ? He could feel how
her hand did; but her look was as frank as ever.
"Are you less well to-day ?"-she said at last, in a voice
that was little above a whisper, and stopped short of his
name.
"Less well than yesterday at this time-not less well
than this morning. A little more tired, perhaps."  He
spoke very quietly, answering her words and letting his
hand and eye do the rest. "Has Mrs. Derrick a cradle in
the house that would hold you ?"
PerhapI Fakh hardly heard the question, for she
did not acknowledge it by so much as a smile. She
wished to ask the further question, whether the assur-
ance of last night was still true; but his appearance
had driven such fear to her heart that she dared not
ask it. She stood quite still a minute, but when she
spoke her words were in the utmost clear sweetness of'a
woman's voice.
"Can I do something for you, Mr. Linden ?"
"You are doing something for me now-it is so pleasant
to see you. But Miss Faith, I shall have to reclaim some
of your scholars; you have been teaching too piuch to-
day."
"No-" she said,-" I have had no chance."
"No chance to teach too much? And whf?"
"Why," she said,-" I had only the usual hour this
morning. I could do no more."
"You look as if you had beenteaching all day-or
taught, which is but another branch. What did my boys
say to you?
"I think they thought they were saying to you, M;.
Linden,-they behaved so well."
He smiled.
"I don't believe even your conjuring powers could bring
about such a hallucination, Miss Faith.-What a day it
has been! Lookat that sunlight-and think of the city
that hath 'no need of the sun'I"
She looked where he bade her, but the contrast was a
little too strong just then with the earth that had so much
'need' of it! Only the extreme gravity of het face how-v
voL.1I.                21-

{     l(r  ry;i71
i1          1
;  , r'':'
;'   1
;1    , i  ' i ,
.t,,,,'-
;
Ii f  t.
r     ,
I t  t     .Y

240

SAY AND SEAL.

241'


SAY AND SEAL.            243

ever indicated anything of the. struggle going on. Her
eye did not move,-nor eyelid.
"That is the only rest we must 'wait for," Mr. Linden
said. "That 'remaineth.'
Faith answered nothing. But after a little while the
shadow of that sunlight passed away from her face, and she
turned to the couch again and asked with her former gentle
expression,
"Will you have tea up here, Mr. Linden ?"
"I'm afraid I must," he said, looking up at, her with eyes
that rather questioned than answered.
"Does mother know what you would like to have ?"
"Miss Faith-I wish you would tell me just what is
troubling you."
The question flushed her a little, and for a moment her
face was a quick play of light and shade; then she said,
"It troubled me not to see you looking better."
He took the force of her words, though he answered
lightly.
"I suppose I do look rather frightful! But Miss Faith,
I hope to get over that in a few days-you must try and
brace up your nerves, because if you cannot bear the sight
of me I shall have to deny myself the sight of you."
"Don't do that," she said, the light coming into her eye
and voice as .if by an actual sunbeam. "Then it is true,
what you wrote me last night, Mr. Linden ?"
"Well !" he said-"I am not much in the habit of main-.
taining my own words,-however, in this case I am willing
to admit them true. If it will be any relief to your mind,
Miss Faith, I will promise to remain in seclusion until you
say I am fit to be seen down stairs."
The answer, to that was only a rosy little smile, like the
sunlight promise of fair weather on the last clouds that
float over the horizon. But perhaps his words had brought
her mind back to the question of supper for she asked
again,
"What are you to have for tea to-night, Mr. Linden ?"
"May' I take a great liberty ?" he said with a look as
grave as before.
"I don't know how you can,"-she said and with eyes

somewhat surprised, that said in their own way it was im-
possible.
A little smile--which she scarce saw-came first, and
then her hand was brought to his lips. But it was done
too gravely and gently to startle even her.
"Now you must go and rest," Mr. Linden said "I
want nothing for tea that shall cost one extra step."
Faith went about as silently and demurely as a cat that
has had her ears Ioxed and been sent out of the dairy.
Only in this case she went to her dairy; from whence in due
time she emerged with cream and butter and made her ap-
pearance in the kitchen.
"Well child!" said Mrs. Derrick. "When did you get
home? and what did you do with yourself?  I've looked
and lookedfor you till I was tired, and if you'd staid five
minutes more I should have run all over town after you."
"Why mother !" said Faith,."I was in my own room for
a good while. I got home in usual time."
"Well !"-said her mother, "I hope next time you'll say
as much-that's all. Do you know we've got company,
Faith ?"
"Who, mother ?-.--O I've seen Mr. Linden."
"I meant him," said Mrs. Derrick.    "I'm sure the
house seems as if it had twice as many in it since he came."
"He ought to have tea, now, mother. Isn't Cindy home
yet ?"
"No, but that's no matter--I'll take it up in two minutes.
Where's the teapot-"
"I think, mother," said Faith as she was-adding the last
touches to the tray which was to go up stairs, -"I must
have put Mr. Linden in mind of his sister, or somebody,
this afternoon. I am afraid he misses them now."
"What do you meat by somebody ?" said Mrs. Derrick.
"Some of his own family, I mean. I thought so."
"I don't believe you ever pit anybody in mind of any-
body else," said, Mrs. Derrick confidently. "What made
you think so, child ?"
"Something made me think so,"-said Faith rather ab-
stractly. "Now mother-it is ready, and I'll take it up
stairs if you'll take it then."
"I guess I'm up to as much as taking it all the way,'"

242             SAY AND SEt1L.


244             SAY AND SEAL.

said her mother, lifting the tray. "I'll be down presently,
dear,-you must want your tea." And up stairs she
went..
Reuben came to stay all night, so the ladies had only to
take their own much needed sleep, in peace; and a note
of information was left at Dr. Harrison's door next morn.
ing, some time before that gentleman was awake.                         CHAPTER XXI.
KNOW what I have to do. to-day," said Faith the
next morning. "Mr. Skip has got the box made,
mother, and now I want the stuff to cover it."
"W ell that's  ready-irin  my  pantry, child."
Whereupon Reuben offered his services; but all that was
given him to d6 was to carry up Mr. Linden's breakfast.
This was hardly well over when Dr. Harrison came. Hie
was shewn into the sitting-r9om, just as Faith with her
arms full of ;,brown moreen came into it also from the
pantry. The doctor was not going to lose a shake of the
band, and waited for the brown moreen to be deposited on
the floor accordingly.
"You are looking more like yourself to-day," he said.
"I will call mother," said Faith. Which she did, ldaving
the doctor in company with the brown moreen.
"Mrs. Derrick," said he, speaking by no nieans without
a purpose, "I have cause of complaint against you! What
have you done to allure my patient down here against
orders ?"
"He's better here," said Mrs. Derrick with a cool dispos-
ing of the subject. "What did you want to keep him up
there for, doctor ?"
"Only acted upon a vigorous principle of Mr. Linden's
nature, madam.-If I had ordered him to come, he would
have stayed. May I see him ?"
And Mrs. Derrick preceded the doctor up stairs, opened
the door pf the room and shut it after him. Mr. Linden
was on the couch, but it was wheeled round by the side Qf
the fire now, foi- the morning was cooL A little heap of
unopened letters and post despa'ches lay before him, but
the white paper in his hand seemed not to have come from
21*                 (245)

Q
f
i' I
{
1.  i
,t
I
1
I y
: ''
1
i
1         i   }
I+i r{
i  ,
,
{
}'
;; i'
l
t, t
i
S
{  '
!
i'
t
tt i
Jii
i it
l , ,
kS f
i,
#'f; ,
; }
' , '
;;:
,., :,
.
1
.,,
.;


N

246

SAY AND SEAL.

the heap. As the doctor entered, this was folded up and
transferred to the disabled hand for safe keeping.
Mr. Linden had that quality (much more common among
women than among men) of looking well in undress; but
let no one suppose that I mean the combination of care.
lessness and disorder which generally goes by that name,
and which shews (most of gall) undress of the mind. I
mean simply that style of dress which Sam Weller might
call 'Ease afore Ceremony;'-in it delicate particularity,
Mr. Linden's undress might have graced a ball-room; and,
as I have said, the dark brown wrapper with its wide sleeves
was be niing. Dr. Harrison might easily see that his pa.
tient was not only different from most of the neighbour.
hood, but also from most p le that he had seen anywhere;
and that peculiar repose look was strongly indicative of
power,
"Good morning !" said the doctor. "Do you expect
me to behave well this morning?"
"Why no-" said Mr. Linden. "My experience hitherto
has not led me to expect anything of the sort."
The doctor stood before the fire, looking down at him,
smiling almost, yet with a keen eye, as at a man whose
measure he had not yet succeeded in takis.
"What did you come down here for, without my leave?
And how do you do ?"    For you see, I mean to behave
well."
"I came down because I wanted to be at home," said
Mr. Linden. "And I did not ask leave, because I meant
to come whether tr no. You see what a respect I have for
your orders."                      ,
"Yes," said the doctor,-" that is a very ancient'sort of
respect. How do you do, Linden ?"
"I suppose, well,-as to feeling, I should not care to go,
through the Olympic games, even in imagination; and the
various sensations in my left arm make me occasionally wish
they were in my right."
The doctor proceeded to an examination of the arm. It
was found not to be taking the road to healing so readily
as had been hoped.
"I am afraid it may be a somewhat tedious affair," said

SAY AND SEAL.

247

Dr. Harrison, as he renewed the bandages inthe way they
ought to be.  "I wish I had hold of that fellow! This
may take a little time to come to a harmonious disposition,
Linden, and give you a little annoyance. And at the same
time, it's what you deserve 1" said he, retaking his disen-
gaged manner as he finished what he had to do. "I almost
wish I could threaten you with ra fever, or something
serious; but I see you are as sound as that 'axletree' our
friend spoke of the other day.  There it is! You have
learned to do evil with impunity. For I confess thishas
nothing to do with the exercise of your lawless disposition
yesterday. Why didn't you let me bring you, if you wanted
to come? That old fellow can't have anything drawn by
horses, that goes easier than a harrow !"
"Let you bring me !" said Mr. Linden. "Would you
have done it against your own orders ?"
"Under your authority ! which is equal to anything, you
know."
"Well," said Mr. Linden, "will you take a seat under
my authority, and then take the benefit of my fire? What
is going on in the outer world ?"
"I haven't any idea !" said the doctor.  "Pattaquasset
seems to me to be, socially, at one extreme pole of the
axletree before-mentioned, and while I am here I feel no
revolution of the great mass heaving beyond. It takes
away on 's breath, does Pattaquasset."
"You re making it akin to 'the music of the spheres,"'
said Mr. Linden.
"Is that what gou find in Pattaquasset ?" said the doctor.
"Your ears must be pleasantly onstituted-or more agree-
ably saluted than those of other mortals. The only music
I know of here is Miss Derrick's voice. Does she feed
upon roses, like the Persian bulbul ?"
"I should suppose not-unless roses impart their colour
in that way," said Mr. Linden, softly turning the folded
paper from  ide to side.
"This is a nice place," said the doctor surveying the
room-"and ybu look very comfortable. I should like to
take your invitation and sit down-but I mustn't. Won't
you try and put a good opinion of me into the head of Mrs.
Derrick ?"

(

i ' i;,, ;'
;}   ;,
{,I
,  ,'
I  4 l '
i', ij
,,,
.; ,,,
, }  i iic
'  '{- ;

'      1   r l
1
ti Ir~ h\
lie,
t       fir  (7r     ,  i  ,,'


248             SAY AND SEAL.

249

"What an extraordinary request !" said Mr. Linden,
laughing a little. "Pray what am I to understand by it?
And why mustn't you sit down ?--.here is something to re-
joice your heart with a few of the aforesaid upheavings of
Society;" and he handed the doctor an unopened foreign
newspaper.
"Absolutely irresistible !" said the doctor, and he broke
the cover, took a chair and sat down before the fire; where
for awhile to all appearance he also made himself 'comfort.
able'; and certainly turned and returned and ran over the
paper in an artistic manner.
"After all," said he, "it's a bore! this alternation of
knocking each other down which the nations of the earth
practise,-and the societies,-and the men! It's a pugil.
istic world we live in, Linden. It's a bore to kep up with
them,-for one must know who's atop-both in Europe
and in Pattaquasset-where you are just now the king of
men's mouths-And all the while it don't a pin signify,
except to the one who is atop ;-I beg your pardon !"
"How long 'must I, being 'atop,' lie here?  All this
week ?"
"What will you do if I say more than that ?"
"Why. I'll listen respectfully. Do you know I like to
see you sitting there ?-Here is another paper for you."
The doctor looked at him with an odd, frankly inquisitive
smile ;but he only took the paper to play with it.
"I wonder if I may ask a roundabout favour from
you ?"

"You may ask anything-" said Mr. Linden. "I
would rather have it in a straight-forward form."
"Can't," said the doctor, "because it is crooked. I sup-
pose at this hour .every lady in Pattaquasset expects that
her friends will not call her away from her affairs; and I
stupidly forgot to deliver my message when I had a mo-
ment's chance thf morning. Now as it is possible you may
4     see this-if she cannot be called th  silver-fQoted Thetis,
she is certainly the silver-tongued you would know how
to address her?"                b
"Thetis !-probably, when I s  her."
"I may presume you will kn w her when you see her,-
and that brings me to my poi t. I have got some good

microscopic preparations--which I am to have the pleasure
of exhibiting o-night to some friends of my sister. Now
it would great y add to her pleasure and ,mine, if this mor-
tal Polyhymni will consent to be of the number.-and this
is what I was 'oing to ask you, if you please, to communi-
cate to her or to her mother, in whose good graces, as I told
you," said the: doctor with a funny smile, "I don't think I
have the honogt to stand high. Sophy would have written
this morning, but I gave her no chance. I Ai-call for
Miss Derrick this evening if she will allow me."
Mr. Linden took out his pencil aid made a note of the
facts.
"First," he said, I am to common ate, then you are to
call, after that to exhibit. Do you call that crooked ?-why
it's as straight as the road from here to your house."
Dr.l Harrisonlooked-and for a minute did not anything
else.
"For your arm, Linden," he said then getting up from
his chair, and 3 smile of doubtful comicality moving his lip
a little-" we shall know better about it in two or three
weeks; but certainly I think you must be content to stay
at dome for double those-that's undoubted."
Mr. Linden gave the doctor a quick glance, but the
smile which followed was 'undoubted' in another way.
"When two opposing forces meet at right angles, doc-
tor," he said, "you know what happens to, the object.
Not contented inertia."
"Contented ! no, very likely,-not when it is this object.
But you will find a third force will establish the inertia."
"What is your third force ?"
"The necessity of the case," said the doctor seriously!
But to that Ir. Linden made no reply.  he conversa-
tion had bee kept up not only kg ' st weakness but
against pain, a d he lay very Mtill and colourless for a long
time after the doctor closed the door.
Meanwhile Faith, busy at her brown moreen, made her
mother's job of mending seem like embroidery; but by de-
grees Mrs. Derrick's face became thoughtful, and she said,
rather emphatically,
"Child, have you been up to see Mr. Linden to-day ?"
Faith's hammei- dropped, and her hands too..

,
,E ' ;',
t1      ~   ,
.j      ,     ,
;, i
-  , ,f,
;
,
;,   ,
i        ,
i    '. t  'i  Y  1   i
,  ,  '
'  _ "

..
,   ,''
};  +
,  ,
'
i '      1
yi't,'i   'i    ii
t      t    4     s

SAY AND SEAL.

1
I


250             SAY AND SEAL.

"No, mother," she said, looking at her.
"Why child!"-Mrs. Derrick began,-then she stopped
and began again. "I guess he'd rather see you than
that box, child, -if the doctor hasn't talked him to
death."
Mother, do you think he would like to have me come
up and see him ?"
"Like it ?" said Mrs. Derrick, her mind almost refusing
to consider such an absurd question. "I'm sure he likes
to see you when he's well, Faith. Didn't he like it last
night?"
Faith looked a little bit grave, then she hastily pushed
her brown moreen and box into a somewhat more orderly
state of disorganization, and went up stairs, with a quick
light step that was not heard before her tap at Mr.
Linden's door. And then receiving permission she went
in, a little rosy this time at venturing into the charmed
region when its occupant was there; and came with her
step a little lighter, a little slower, up to the side of the
couch and held out her hand; saying her soft "How do
you do, Mr. Linden ?"
He was lying just as the doctor had left him, with the
unopened letters, and the white paper which Faith felt
instinctively was her own exercise. But eye and hand
were ready for her.
"Courageous Miss Faith !" he said with a smile. "And
so, 'She's gentle and not fearful' ?".
She smiled, with an eye that took wistful note of him.
"How do you feel to-day, Mr. Linden ?"
"Not very well-and not worse. Miss Faith, do you
know that we have a great deal to do this week? You
may lock up your stocking basket."
"Please let me do something for you, Mr. Linden ?" she
said earnestly.
"That's just what I'm talking about. Do you think,
Miss Faith, that if you brought that low chair here, and
set the 'door wide open so that you could run out if you
got frightened at my grim appearance, you would be,1-ll
ing to philosophize a litl -"
"Not to-day, Mr. Linden," said Faith. "Don't speak

SAY AND SEAL.                  251
so! I haven't any stocking basket in the way. Can't I
do something that would do you some good ?"
"It would do me a great deal of good to get up and set
that chair for you, but that is something I must ask you to
do for me. I see you want coaxing"-he added, looking
at her. "Well.-if you will do half a dozen things for me
this morning, you shall have the reward of a letter and two
messages."
Faith looked down doubtful,-doubtful, whether to do
what would please herself, and him, would be just right to.
day; but the pleading of the affirmative side of the ques-
tion was too strong. She gave up considering the pru-
dential side of the measure, thinking that perhaps Mr.
Linden knew his own feelings best; and once decided, let
pleasure have its full flow. With hardly a shade upon. the
glad readiness of her movements, she placed the chair and
brought the book, and sat docile down, though keeping a
jealous watch for any sign of pain or weariness that should
warn her to stop. And from one thing to another he led
her on, talking less than usual, perhaps, himself, but giving
her none the less good a lesson. And the signs she sought
for could not be found. Weary he was not, mentally, and
physical nature knew its place. Last of all, the little exer-
cise was opened and commented upon and praised--and
she praised through it, though very delicately.
"Have I tired you ?" he said, as the town clock struck
an hour past the mid-day.
"Oh no !-And you, 1r. Linden ?"
In what a different tone the two parts of her speech were
spoken.
"I have not hurt myself," he said smiling. "!Perhaps
by and by, this afternoon, you will lets me see you again.
Dr. Harrison threatens to keep me at home for two or
three weeks, and I want to make tile most of them,-I may
not have such a time of leisure again."  And then Mr.
Linden gave the doctor's message-a message, very strictly,
and as near as possible mi the doctor's own words, receiving
asltl  inge as it well could from the medium through
Which it passed.
"The other message," he said, givmghralte,"o
will flnd'there."ighralteyo

eo4 am
1"

H  1: ~

jvl
,,,    '
I.
i   - ,
, ,f Il
,  " i
j    {,
,,  .,
; !  '  ,,
i


252

SAY AND SEAL.

"A message ?"--said Faith doubtfully and flushing with
pleasure-"isn't this one of your sister's letters ?"
"Yes. Mayn't she send you a message ?"
A very modest and very happy smile and deepening
blush answered that; and she ran away with a sudden com.
punctious remembrance of Mr. Linden's dinner.
After dinner Faith had something to do in the kitchen,
and something to do in other parts of the house, and then
she would have read the letter before all things else; but
then came in a string of company-one after the other,
everybody wanting the news and much more than could be
given. So it was a succession of flourishing expectations
cut down and blasted ; and both Faith and her mother
grew tired of the exercise of cutting down and blasting,
and Faith remembered with dismay that the afternoon was
wearing and Mr. Linden had wished to see her again. She
seized her chance and escaped at last, between the adieu of
one lady and the accost of another who was even then
coming up from the gate, and knocked at Mr. Linden's
door again just as Mrs. Derrick was taking her minister's
wife into the parlour. Her first move this time on coming
in, was to brush up the hearth and put the fire in proper
order for burning well; then she faced round before the
couch and stood in a sort of pleasant expectation, as wait-
ing for orders.
"You are a bright little visiter !" Mr. Linden said, hold.
ing out his hand to her. "You float in as softly and alight
as gently as one of these crimson leaves through my win-
dow.   Did anybody ever tell you 'the real reason why
women are like angels ?"
"I didn't know they were," said Faith laughing,
and with something more of approximation to a crimson
leaf.
"'They are all ministering spirits'," be said looking at
her.. "But you must be content with that, Miss Faith, and
not make your visits angelic in any other sense. 'What do
you suppose I have been considering this afternoon?-
while you have been spoiling the last Pattaquasset story
by confessing that I am alive ?"
"Did you hear theni coming in ?" said Faith. "I didn't

SAY AND SEAL.

253

know when they were going to let me get away.--What
have you been considering, Mr. Linden ?"
"The wide-spread presence and work of beauty. You
see what a shock you gave my nervous system yesterday.
Will you please to sit down, Miss Faith ?"
Faith sat down, clearly in a puzzle; from which she ex-
pected to be somehow fetched out.
"What do you suppose is beauty's work in the world ?-
I I don't mean any particular Beauty."
Faith looked at the crimson leaves on the floor.--for the
window wd6 open though the fire was burning; then at the
fair sky outside, seen beyond and through some other crim-
son leaves yet hanging on the large maple there,-then
coming back to the face before her, she smiled and said,
"I don't know-except to make people happy, Mr.
I Linden."
"That is one part of its use, certainly. But take the
thousands of wilderness flowers, and the thousands-of deep
sea shells; look at the carvings on the scale of a fish, which
no human eye -can see without a glass, or those other ex-
quisite patterns traced upon the roots and stems of some
of the fossil pines, which were hid in the solid rock before
there was a human eye to see. What is their use ?"
To the wilderness and to the deep sea, Faith's thought
and almost her eye went, and she took .some time to con-
sider the subject.
"I suppose-" she said thoughtfully-" I don't know,
Mr. Linden.
"Did you ever consider those words which close the
account of the Creation-' God saw everything that he had
made, and behold, it was very good'."
"That is what I was going to say !" she said modestly
but with brightening colour,--"that perhaps he made all
those things, those you spoke of,i for himself?"
"For himself-to satisfy the perfectness of his own cha-
racter. And think how different! the divine and the human
standards of perfection ! Not the outward fair colour and
proportion merely, not the perfect fitness and adaptation,
not the most utilitarian employment of every grain of dust,
so that nothing is lost,..-not even the grandest scale of
working, is enough ; but the dust on the moth's wing must
VOL. i.                 22

I/

{,
-,
,'
;
,
, ,r
r ?'i-
e   i r     t
' f      {if     i
..   f{

'.
44i '
'J'1'', ,
)1'il
t      t
,  ,' '
,,',  ,
'    1,
I i fl1'
1 ;i
.1111 i'i
ii1'.


254        .4     SAY AND SEAL.

'a
,
i'',I
, i f
, i,. i
,, ,  ,
;'i,
,

be plumage, and the white chalk cliffs must be made of'
minute shells, each one of which shines like spun silver or
is figured like cut glass. Not more steadily do astrono.
mers discover new worlds, than the microscope reveals
some new perfection of detail and finish la our own."
Faith listened,- during this speech, like one literally see.
ing 'into space,' as far as an embodied spirit can, for the
first time. Then with a smile, a little sorrowful, she
brought up with,
" I don't know anything of all that, Mr. Linden! Do
you mean that chalk is really made of little shells ?"
"Yes, realy-..-and blue mould is like a miniature forest.
You will know about it"--he said with a smile.  "But do
you see how this touches the standard of moral perfection?
--how it explains that other word, 'Be ye also perfect'."
Faith had not seen before, but she did now; for in her
face the answer flashed most eloquently. She was silent.
"That is the sort of perfection we are promised," Mr.
Linden went on presently,.-" that is the sort of perfection
we shall see. Now, both glass and ey~e are imperfect,..
specked, and flawed, and short-sighted; and can bu4 faintly
discern 'the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works
of him that is perfect in knowledge.' But then I.-..
'When sin no more obstructs our sight,
When sorrow pains our hearts no more,
How shall we view the Prince of Light,
And all his works of grace explore!
What heights and depths of love divine
Will then through endless ages shine!"'
The words moved her probably, for she sat with her
face turned a little away so that its play or its gravity were
scarce so well revealed.  Not very long however. The
silence lasted time enough to let her thoughts come back
to the subject never very far from them.
"You are tired, Mr. Linden."
"By what chain of reasoning, Miss Faith ?"
"I know by the sound of your voice. And you eat
nothing to-day. Do you like - cocoa, Mr. Linden ?" she
added eagerly. .
He smiled a little and answered yes. -
" Then I shall bring you some!"

Faith stayed for no answer to that remark, but ran off.
laif an hour good had passed away, but very few minutes
more, when her soft tap was heard at the door again and
herself entered, accompanied with the cup of cocoa and, a
plate of dainty tiny strips of toast.
"Aunt Dilly left some here," she said as she presented
the cup,-"and she says it is good; and she shewed me
how to make it. Aunt Dilly has lived all her life with a
brother who has lived a great part of his life with a French
wife-so Aunt Dilly has learned some of her ways-and
this is one of'them."
But Mr. Linden looked as if he thought 'the- way' be-
longed emphatically to somebody else.
"And so I am under the rule of the blue ribbands still 1'
he said as he raised himself up jo do honour to the cup of
cocoa. "Miss Faith, do you knOw you are subjecting your-
self to the penalty of extra lessons ?"
"How, Mr. Linden ?"
"Don't you know that is one of the punishments for bad
conduct? It's a great act of igsubordingtion to bring one
cocoa without leave."
She laughed, and then paid her attentions to the fire
again; after which she stood by the hearth to see the cocoa
disposed of,, till she came to take the cup.
"Are you in pain, much, Mr. Linden ?" she asked as
she did this.
"Not mental.-" he said with a smile; "and the physical
can be borne. Miss Faith, that cocoa was certainly better
than I ever had from the hands of anybody's French wife.
You must have improved upon the receipt."
"When Dr. Harrison comes for me this evening, shall
he come up and see you again ?"
"If he wishes-there is no need else."
"How did it happen, Mr. Linden ?" she said with a very
serious face.
"On this wise, Miss Faith. I, walking home at a rather
quick pace, was suddenly 'brought to' as the sailors say,
by this shot in my arm. But as for the moment it affected
the mind more than the body, I turned and gave chase,-
wishing to enquire who had thus favoured me, and .why.
But the mind alone can only carry one a certain distance,

SAY AND SEAL:             25=5

,       l+ t             1
1  I'       u     ,I
i':,l1,11117;'  :
;i   Sty'; I  yil  '
t                 +
tt'A      i   t+
j  1+1 ail  ,
t11
1          1 !            I  "
!      S1

,+,'
,  ,: ,r


1 '
' : ,:
;,, . , ,

; ,  ti
i
!
j!i   1
.  ;+
+.'   ,
iii i.
,   3,;  ,
. ','i.

,1;'' I
°'' ,j,,,
1
.  +,
..4
e~ 1 ,
;
,. ;  ; '  ;
;,     I,    ;
j ,+   1
J , 1    III'
'{I,,
d      I  ,1,,
d. !li''If l
t    t ';'  i
i' !
i 1iI
j          I,
Ii   i1' ,1   ,
'r.   i;
'        . !
ire  iif  I (
I
r  II  1'  1 1
'i  "' 1

SAY AND SEAL.

and before. I had caught my man I found myself in such
danger of fainting that I turned about again, and made the
best of my way to the house of Mr. Simlins. The rest
you know."
"What did the man run for ?"
"There is no thread in my nature that just answers that
question," said Mr. Linden. "I suppose he ran because
he was frightened."
"But what should have frightened him ?"
"The idea of my displeasure probably," said Mr. Linden
smiling. "Have you forgotten my character for cruelty,
Miss Faith ?"
"But-" said Faith. "Why should he think he had dis-
pleased you?  He wasn't near you, was he ?"
"Why I am not supposed to be one of those amiable
people who like to be shot," said Mr. Linden in the same
tone.
"But'how near was he, Mr. Linden ?"
"Within gunshoPrange, of course-the precise distance is
not easily meas ed at such a moment."   -
"But if he was not near," said Faith, "how could he
think that his shot had touched you ? He couldn't see it-
and your running wouldn't seem like a man seriously
injured ?"
"He might think I disapproved of discharging a gun at
random, in the public road."
"You don't suppose it could have been done on purpose,
Mr. Linden 1" she said in a changed awe-stricken tone.
"I have no right to assume anything of the kind--.there
are all sorts of so-called accidents. But Miss Faith! if
you look so frightened-I shall begin to think you are an
accomplice! What do you know about it?" he added
smiling.
"Nothing-." she said rather sadly, "except a little look
of something, I don't know what, in your face when you
said that, Mr. Linden."
"You must not look grave-.-nor think twice about the
matter in. any way," he said with a sort of'kind gravity
that met hers. "Is there light enough for you to read,
that first chapter of Physical Geography, and talk to me'
about it ?-.-it is your turn to talk now."

. @4
j'     ti   ; '
'
, ,

26

SAY AND SEAL.

25'7

"Do you mean, aloud ?-or to myself, Mr. Linden ?" she
asked a little timidly.
"I mean, to me.
Faith did not object, though her colour rose very visibly.
She \placed herself to catch the fading light, and read on,
talking where it was absolutely necessary, but sparing and
placing her questions so as to call forth as few words as
possible in reply. And becoming engaged in the interest
of the matter she almost forgot her timidity ;-not quite,
for every now and then something made it rise to the sur-
face. The daylight was fading fast, sunlight had already
gone, and the wood fire began to throw its red gleams un-
checked; flashing fitfully into the corners of the room and
playing hide and seek with the shadows. A little rising
of the wind and light flutter of the leaves against the glass,
only made the warm room more cheerful. Faith made the
fire burn brightly, and finished the chapter by that, with the
glow of the flickering flame dancing all over her and her
book in the corner where she sat. But pages of pleasure
as well as of prettiness, all those pages were.
"Thank you, Miss Faith,'Mr. Linden said as she closed
the book. "I only wish I could give you a walk now in
this bright evening air; but I must wait for that."
A little tap at the door 'came at this point to take its
place in the conversation. It was Mrs. Derrick.
"Child," said the good lady, "here's Dr. Harrison down
stairs." And stepping into the room, Mrs. Derrick walked
softly up to the couch, and not only made enquiries but felt
of Mr. Linden's hand to see if he had any fever. -Faith
waited, standing a little behind the couch head.
"I'm not quite sure-" she said,-"your hand's a little
warm, sir-but then it's apt to be towards night, -and
maybe mine's a little cool. If you could only go to sleep,
it would do you so much good !"
And Mr. Linden laughingly promised to try, but would
not guarantee the success thereof.
Faith went. down stairs, a little afraid that she had been
doing harm instead of good, and at the same time not see-
ing very well how she could have helped it. .She found
Dr. Harrison in the sitting-.room, and gave her quiet rea-
sons for not going out with him. The doctor declared "he

i ;
,'     ~   k   ;
j
r       , i"   i  ,
         1
;
. ,


SAY AND SEAL.

should be in despair-but that he had hope !" and having
made Faith confess that: she would like to see his micro.
scope, gently suggested the claims of the next two even.
ings; saying that he nust be in Quilipeak for a day or two
soon himself, and therefore was not impatient without reason,
Faith did not know how to get off, and gave the doctor to-
understand that she might be disengaged the next night,
Having whicp comfort he went up to see Mr. Linden.
Then followed Mr. Linden's tea, with cresses and grapes
which Dr. Harrison had brought himself.
"Mother,".said Faith, when the two ladies were seated
at their own tea-table,--"did Dr. Harrison dress Mr. Lin.
den's arm again to-night?"
"Yes child-and I guess it was good he did. I think
Mr. Linden was almost asleep when I went up."
Do you know how to do it, mother? if it was wanted
when the doctor is not here ?"
"I don't know-" said Mrs. Derrick thoughtfully,-"no,
child, I don't know how-at least not so I'd like to try.
Do you, Faith ?"
"No, mother-but could, you learn ?"
"Why-I suppose I could, child," said her mother, as
if she disliked to admit een so much.  "But I'd about as
lieve have my own arm shot off-I'm so dreadfully afraid
of hurting people, Faith-and I always was afraid of him,
Why can't the doctor do it ? he can come six times a day
if he's wanted-I guess he don't do much else."
Jf       Faith said no more on the subject, but hurried through
her tea and sat down by the lamp in the sitting-room to
read her letter. A minute or two she sat thinking, deeply,
with her cheek on her hand; then dismissing everything
else she opened the precious paper at last.
It was another Italy letter, but took her a very different
journey from the last. A little graver perhaps than that,
a little more longing in the wish to use eyesight instead of
pen and ink; and as if absence was telling more and more
upon the writer. Yet all this was\ rather in the tone than
the wording-that was kept in hand. But it was midway
in some bright description,:that the message to Faith broke
4       forth.
" Tell Miss Faith," she said, "that I would rather have

seen her roasting clams down at 'the shore,' than anything
I have seen since I heard of it,-which is none the less
true, that I should have wanted to stand both sides of the
window at once. And tell her if you can (though I don't
believe even you can, John Endy) how much I love her for
taking such care of one of my precious things. I feel as
if all my love was very powerless just now ! However-
you remember that comforting old ballad-
'Where-there is no space
For the glow-worm to lye;
Where there is no space
For receipt of a fly;
Where the midge dares not venture,
Lest herself fast she lay;
If love come he will enter,
And soon find out his way!'
"So, Miss Faith, you may expect to see me appear some
time in the shape of a midge !..-Endecott will tell you I am
not much better than that now."
So far Faith got in reading the letter, and it was a long
while before she got any further; that message to herself
she went over again and again. It was incomprehensible, it
was like one of Mr. Linden's own puzzles for that. It was
so strange, and at the same time it was such a beautiful
thing, that Mr. Linden's' sister should have heard of her
and in such fashion as to make her wish to send a message !
Faith's head stooped lower and lower over the paper, from
her mother and the lamp. - It was such a beautiful message
too-the gracious and graceful wording of it Faith felt in
every syllable; and the lines of the old ballad were some of
the prettiest she had ever seen.  But that Faith should
have love sent her from  Italy-and from that person in
Italy of all others !-that Mr. Linden's sister should wish
to see her and threaten to do it in the ;shape of a midge !
--and what ever could Mr. Linden have told her to excite
the wish? And what of this lady's precious things had
Faith taken care of ?-'such care' of!  "Mother !"-Faith
began oncs, byway of taking counsel, but thought better
of it, and went on pondering by herself. One thing was
undoubted-this message in this letter was a matter of

1:

;
;1 ; ;
' , i{           s
,i

SAY AND SEAL.

259

258

.
-
t
,3
.,
,;
, ; ,


260                SAY AND SEAL.
great pleasure and honour! as Faith felt it in the bottom
of her heart; but in the midst of it all, she hardly kne
whence, came a little, little twinge of something like pain,
She felt it--yes, she felt it, even in the midst of the mes
sage; but if Faith herself could not trace it out, of cours
it can be expected of nobody else.                                     CHAPTER XXII.
HIL DAVIDS, taking his morning walk thr
pleasant roads of Pattaquasset, engaged in
of-school amusements of hunting cats and frighten
dren, was suddenly arrested in the midst of an
face ('got up' for the benefit of Robbie Waters) b
roach of Sam Stoutenburgh. In general this yo
tieman let Phil alone, 'severely,' but on the pres
sion he stopped and laid hold of his shoulder.
"Phil Davids! I've a warrant against you."
"Hands off, Sam! and let a man alone, will yo
do you mean by that ?" said  hil gruffly.
C "Yes-I'll let him alone-when I find him, if
you," said Sam with great coolness and some Ii
tempt. "But if you're tired of your own face, P
don't you make up a handsome one, while you're
eep out of his way, Robbie! can't you?"
"Ges you don't know what folks says o' you
yo ?" said Phil, wriggling his shoulder from up
hand. "I do!"
"I guess I know as much as is good for me,"re
undaunted Sam.- "But that's none of your bus
now. Mr. Linden wants to'see you, Phil-and it
anybody does that, so you'd better make the mo
chance." With which pleasing sentiment, Sam
Phil, and taking a sharp run after Robbie Water
him into a long confidential conversation about
Sunday school teacher. In the midst of which h
came again.
'Twon't hurt you Sam-jest listen once. r
Sam Stoutenburgh would have been a Lady ap~
hadn't grown to be such a Swar, and all the while
he's a Seek-no-further. That's what folks says. ]
like it ?"
"Firstrate !" said Sam-" glad I missed the Lad
(2

ough the
his out-
iing chil-
alarming
ytheap-
ung gen-
ent occa-
u! What
he's like
ttle con-
~hil, why
about itt
irn! Do
er Sam's
plied the
iness just
aint often
st of the
released
s enticed4C
his new
ill's voice
They say,
ple, if he
hie thinks
EHow d'ye
ly apples,
61)


SAY AND SEAL.

I u  I  111
, '   I  !11 ,    1
I
I'  t

anyhow,-and as for 'tother, never thought myself one yet
-don't like 'em well enough. When you get through pay,
ing me compliments, Phil Davids, you'd better go and see
Mr. Linden."
"Guess I will !" said Phil swaggering off,-" when Iwant
to see him; and that aint to-day, by a long jump."
" He said you were to come-" Sam called after him,
"If I wasn't a Stoutenburgh sweeting, Phil Davids, I'd
teach you to talk of him so! If I only was!--" Sam added
sotto voce, wouldn't I pack myself up in a basket! Rob.
bie, what sort of flowery did Miss Faith have in her bonnet?")
At which interesting point the two turned a corner out of
Phil's sight.
But Phil pursued his way; decently regardless of threats
or invitations, and having a wholesome opinion of his own
that in holiday time Mr. Linden had nothing to say to him,
In no possible time had he anything to say to Mr. Linden
that he could help. So it happened, that coming in soon
after Mr. Linden had dismissed his breakfast, Faith found
Mr. Linden alone. She brought to his side a basket of very,
fine-looking pears.
"Mr. Davids has sent you these, Mr. Linden."
"IHe is very kind," said Mr. Linden. "That is more
thai I asked for. He hasn't sent Phil in the basket too,
has he ?-as the easiest way of getting him here."
Faith rather startled, and passing over that asked Mr.
Linden how he did. Which point, having learned all he
wanted upon the other, Mr. Linden was also ready for.
Faith then leaving the basket by the couch side, went
to the fire and hearth, and put them more thoroughly
to rights than Cindy's delicacy of touch, or of eye, had
enabled her to do; and going on round the room, care-
fully performed the same service for everything in it gener-
ally. This work however was suddenly stopped in the
midst, and coming to the head of the couch, rather behind
Mr. Linden, Faith spoke in a low and ill-assured tone.
"Mr. Linden-will you let me be by this morning when
Dr. Harrison dresses your arm ?"1
There was a moment's silence, and then raising himself
up and turning a little so as to see her, Mr. Linden an-
ewfpred, gravely though smiling,

"No, Miss Faith !"
She coloured very much and drew back.
"I asked--" she said presently, speaking with a good
deal of difficulty,-"because he spoke of being away-and
then there would be no one to do it -and mother is
afraid-"
And there Faith stopped, more abashed than anybody
had ever seen her in her life before. He held out his hand,
and took hers, and held it fast.
"I know-" he said,-"you need not tell me. When is
the doctor going away ?"
"I don't know," she said almost under breath-" he said
perhaps--or I thought-I understood him to mean in a few
dais."
"Miss Faith !"-and the tone was half expostulating,
half scolding, half caressing. "Come here and sit down by
me," he said,gently drawing her round to the low chair at
his side, "I want to talk to you. Do you need to be told
why I said no ?"
She sat down, but sunk her head a little and put up hei
other hand to shield the side of her face which was next
him. The answer did not come at once-when it did, it
was a low spoken "no." Her hand was held closer, but
except that and the moved change of his voice, Mr. Lin-
den took no notice of her fear.
"I would not let Pet do-it--" he said gently, "if I could
help it. My child, do you know what a disagreeable busi-
ness it is? I could trust you for not fainting at the time,
but I should ill like to hear of your fainting afterwards.
And then if you chanced to hurt me-which the, doctor
often does-you would be unhappy for the rest of the day,
--which the doctor by no means is. That is all-I would
a great deal rather have your hands -about me than his, but
a thing that would give you pain-would give me very
doubtful relief. I had rather go with my arm undressed."
He had gone on talking-partly to give her time to re-
cover; but the silent look that was bent upon that shielded
face was a little anxious.
She dropped the hand that shielded it presently, and
chewed it flushed and wistful, yet with a tiny bit of smile
beginning to work at the corners of the mouth.'

I

SAY AND SEAL.

262

263

;; ,
Y. f
f       4
i    t      _; i
{          1,
(       it   +
t   L'. t 5 ,
1    i '
, r ,'


264

SAY AND SEAL.

'+
,)'I 1{
;'
i4
'
;('' i  '

SAY AND SEAL.

265

"Then Mr. Linden," she said almost in the same tone
and without turning her face,-" if you have no other oh.
jection-please let me come !"
"But that one is strong enough. You may send Cia.
derella up to take a lesson."
"You said that was all ?" she repeated.
"That is the only real objection-I would not raise ede
that in a case of greater need. But I suppose unskilful
hands could hardly do me much mischief now. So if yon
will send Cinderella," he added with a smile, "she may en.
large her world of ideas a little."
"Mr. Linden,"-said Faith looking at him now' fear.
lessly-.--"I am going to come myself."
"You are !" he said, looking at her-and then his eyes
went from her' to the fire, and back again to her face,
"Then if you faint away, Miss Faith, and I jump up to
take care of you (which I shall certainly do) I may faint
myself-at which stage of the proceedings Dr. Harrison
will have his hands full."
"I shall not faint-before nor after," she said, shaking
her head.
"I should not like to count too much upon your unfeel.
ing disposition," said Mr. Linden, in whose face different
currents of thought seemed to meet and mingle. "And
then you see, my senses may be guilty of as great a breach
of politeness as the warder in a German story I was read
ing yesterday."
" What was that ?"
"It fell out," said Mr. Linden, "that a lady of surpassing
beauty arrived at a certain castle; and next day, the lord
of the castle brought before her his warder, bound in chains,
for a great breach of politeness; he having failed to give
his lord notice of the lady's 'approach ! The warder thus
defended himself: he had indeed seen the lady, but hi
dazzled eyes mistook her for another sun! So," added 1Mr
Linden smiling, "if my eyes should mistake you for a sn-
beam or a maple leaf, I might forget myself, and not keep
my patience so perfectly as I ought under the hands of such
'a chirurgeon."
"What is going to try your patience, Mr. Linden ?-?"
--said Faith, now indubitably in a puzzle.

'i
,
,
,  ,
t,.
#;
.3
+ r,
7

I

"Do you really want to do this for me ?" he said in a
different tone, looking at her with that same grave, kind
look which sue had seen before.
"J think I can-and I should like to do it; Mr. Linden,
if you are perfectly willing," Faith answered.
"I am willing, since you wish it,-and now you must get
the doctor's leave-or rather I must get it for you; but in
the mean time, Miss Faith, we may go on with some of our
studies, if you are at leisure."
Faith went to get the books, but returned without them
and with a disturbed face.
"Mr. Linden, one of the boys wishes to see you."
"I suppose it never was heard that a boy came at the
right time," said Mr. Linden. "Well Miss Faith-I believe
I must see him-will you write another exercise for me?
Here is your pen and paper-I will try not to be hindered
long."
Faith mutely took the pen and paper, and went out with
a divided mind, for the boy whom she let in, Cindy being
nowhere visible, was Phil Davids. Phil had thought better
of his determination, and wisely judging that if Mr. Lin-
den wanted to see him he probably would accomplish the'
measure some time, concluded the shortest way was to see
him as smoothly as possible. So in he walked and made
his bow, grimly civil, but civil.
Mr. Linden's opening remark, after he had given the
boy his hand (which even he liked to touch) was at least
peculiar.
"Phil-do you know what a smart boy you are ?"
And the answer was a strictly true, though blundering,
"No, sir.
"I don't know how smart you could be, myself," said Mr.,
Linden, "but I know you are very smart now. You always
make me think of the man who found a bag of jewels lying
in the road and didn't know what they were."
It occurred to Phil's mind that not to know jewels when
they were seen was a doubtful proof of smartness; so he
answered with a somewhat surly, "How, sir ?"
"This man," Mr. Linden went on, "instead of having his
jewels set in gold, to wear or to sell, went round the town

it      }
1               i
t
1
I
1
+      1      I3
i

4VOL.. I

23


SAY AND SEAL.

flinging them at his neighbour's windows-or his neigh.
bour's cats,--as you do, Phil, with your very bright powers
of head and tongue. Why don't you make a man of your-
self-and use those powers for something worth while ?"
"You never see me doing' it, sir !" said Phil, answering
the most interesting part of Mr. Linden's address.
"iDon't I ?" said Mr. Linden,-"I see and hear a good
many things. But nobody can get on in the world after
such a prickly fashion,-why even a porcupine smooths
himself down before he tries to go ahead. If you were to
be a lawyer Phil, you'd fight your clients instead of helping
them fight,-and if you were a farmer, you'd be like the
man who burnt up three stacks of his hay because the fourth
got wet."
Phil reddened,;though he couldn't help smiling, and was
evidently getting angry.
"That 'ere farmer was a big fool !" he said.
"Yes, we are agreed upon that point," said Mr. Linden,
-"I daresay he would have said so himself next day.
Well Phil-this was not what I wanted to talk to you
about to-day-much as I like to see smart boys make the
most of themselves. I want to know exactly what it was
that you heard Reuben Taylor say about Miss Derrick."
Phil's eyes opened unmistakeably.
"I never heerd him say nothing about her!" he said
boldly.
"'Then why did you say your did ?" said Mr. Linden,
with the cool fac of one who knows his ground.
"I didn't!" sad Phil. "I'm blessed if I did."
"No you are not-" said Mr. Linden gravely,-"people
are never blessed who do not speak truth. And you have
shut both doors by which such a blessing might have come
in this case, Phil."
"Who, said I ever said so, sir ?" Phil asked confidently.
"You told D   Harrison, for one," said Mr. Linden.
"1I never spoke a word to Dr. Harrison.-" Phil began
andchecked himself. " I never said anything but the
truth, sir !"
What truth did you say to him ?" said Mr. Linden'
"I wish you would .do the same for me. The- roughest

266

,SAY AND SEAL.     L26
truth, Phil, is pleasanter to my ears than the oothest
falsehood."
fI said nothin' but what was truth, sir,".said Phil, per-
plexedly, as if he felt caught in a snare. "I didn't t ink
you meant that."
"That is precisely what Ii meant."
"'Twarn't nothing but the truth, sir."
"Well-" said Mr. Linden,-" I never was afraid of the
truth yet, and I don't mean to begin now. You didn't say
I had cut your ears off, 'Aid you Phil "
"I didn't say nothin' about you, sir, good or indifferent."
"That's something," said Mr. Linden with unmoved
gravity. "What else did you say ?"
" It was down to Neanticut, sir," said Phil-" I told Reu-
ben Taylor as how he'd druv her down, Joe Deacon said
lie had; and Reuben said Joe had made a mistake. That's
the hull of it, sir.'?
t Who is her ?" said Mr. Linden.
"She--Miss Faith Derrick, sir."
Phil was getting very uncomfortably red in the face.
"Well whydid you tell Miss Derrick that Reuben didn't
drive her down ?.-would not she have been likely to know."
"I didn't, sir."
"I thought not. What did you tell her ?"
"She knows what I told her !"-said Phil, looking ab-
stractedly at the corner of the couch on which Mr. Linden
lay.-" I don't know as I can recollect. But that's what
Reuben said, sir. "
"Well tell me as near as you can recollect-." said Mr.
Linden. "And also just the words you used to Reuben."
Phil took time to reflect.
"I don't want ter," he said.
"No, I see you don't-but I want to hear them," said
Mr. Linden very quietly. "But tell me the truth this
time, Phil."
"F~olks has a right to speak," said Phil, stating a broad
lproposition,-" but they hain't a right to tell all they say !"
"Well ?"---said Mr. Linden, waiving that.
"'Twarn't nothin' !" said Phil-" and it 'll just make
folks mad-and I durstn't-"
"Dare not repeat what you have dared to say? how is

,
V
t  Y
-
1

.,      i
i.'
i
' [;.
'  '   '' l .ft ;i i
''         ,'
i   1  i 'c.
'     ,'  ,fi'   '
'   t .
,
i   ' 'i;1 ,
!   ['ile
I         , 'i    J
'  ; 1, t
, ,    i4  '
,i -i
E .
,   7
',f    r       S
1
' i
t     { i
3                 ,


268             SAY AND SEAL.

that, Phil? But my forgiveness always meets confession
half way, as 'you know," said Mr. Linden.
"Well," said Phil, "L jest told Reuben he'd druv her
down, and Reuben said Joe was mistaken. It was Joe
said it first."
"And what did you say before Dr. Harrison ?"
"I said what Reuben said,"--said Phil feeling poorly.
"And what was that ?"-Mr. Linden was as untireable
as a minority juror.
"I said Reuben said she warn't what Joe said," Phil
got out at last in a lowered'tone.
"And what was that?"
"Well-" said Phil desperately-" Joe said she was-.-"
Mr. Linden waited. So did Phil.
"This is the house that Jack built," Mr. Linden re-
marked. "What did Joe say she was ?"
The answer came in articulation pretty well smothered up.
 "Joe said she was Mr. Linden's sweetheart."
"0 !.-." said Mr. Linden, with a tone Phil felt to the
tips of his ears,-" that was'it ! I really did not know,
Phil, that you and Joe took an interest in such matters.
Have you had much experience ?"
Phil shuffled and looked exceedingly embarrassed, but
words found none. He had exhausted his stock, of more
than words.
"Well!" said Mr. Linden,-"you will find, Phil, that it
is generally safe to study arithmetic'before you begin alge-
bra.  "There's a little mistake here. Reubenr did not
drive anybody down to Neanticut-Mrs. Derrick drove the
whole way. That explains his words. As for yours,
Phil-I wish," said Mr. Linden, looking at him gravely,
but gently too, "I wish I knew something you would like
very much to have. Can you tell me ?"
If ever in his life Phil Davids mentally stared, (physi-
cally, too) he did it now. 'Something he would like very
much to have'? What could Mr. Linden want to know
that for?  In his confusion Phil didn't know himself. To
take in Mr. Linden, all over, was all he was competent to.
"Well ?" said his teacher with a smile-it was rather a
faint one, for he was tired, but very pleasant still. "What
is there, Phil?-.M-I am in earnest.".

"I'm sorry I said it, anyhow !" burst at last from the
boy's reluctant lips. That seemed to be his ultimatum.
He could see that his words gave pleasure, though they
were not directly answered.
"I must sehd you away now," Mr. Linden said, taking
his hand again. "I am not strong enough to talk any
more. But Phil-if you will learn to speak the truth-so
that at the end of six months you can truly say, 'I hate
every false way'- I will give you then what you like,-you
shall choose your own reward. I would give anything I
have in the world if I could make you fear to displease
God by telling a falsehood, as much as you fear to displease
me by owning it !"
It was as much as Phil could do, to take his teacher's
hand, and that was done more humbly than certainly any
previous action of his life. Speak he could not; but so
far as Mr. Linden's influence and authority were concerned
that boy was conquered. Whatever he became in after
times, and whatever his mates found him still,-and they
were not open-mouthed in praise,-for his teacher that boy
was a different boy.
On his way out of the house he chanced to pass Faith,
and did so without a sign of recognition, giving her about
as wide a berth as if she had been a ghost. At the door
he met Dr. Harrison coming in; but the doctor perhaps
did not recognise him. Once clear, Phil ran for it. And
at the stair-foot the doctor found Faith.
"Dr. garrison," she said with grave simpleness, "if you
will allow me, I should like to see you dress Mr. Linden's
arm. If you go to Quilipeak there will be nobody to do
it,-and I think I can learn. Mother is afraid, and it
would be very disagreeable to her."
"And not to you ?" said the doctor.
"Not so disagreeable. I think I can do it," she answered,
meeting his look steadily.
"You must not !" said he. "You were dot made for
such things.  Could do it !  I don't doubt you. could do
anything. But if I go, I will send Dr. Limbre in my place.
There is no need for yoi to do disagreeable work. Now
it's pleasant to me 1"!
"Dr. Limbre I shouldn't like to have come into the

(

i        t1     Y
Ills     i','     f
SEii   !     1
I'Il   t  1 1'1,  t
t)   ( E
I
t' t t V
l  l 5 it{j l !
III)  Ii ilE{Sf ii
filli!! Iiit1,11'

SAY AND SEAL.           269


270

SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

271

house," said Faith.  "And you know he can't leave his
own house now-he is sick. I will go up with you, if you
please."
Dr. Harrison could but follow her, as she tripped up the
stairs before him; but there is no reasonable doubt he
would have sent her on some, other errand if he could,
Faith tapped at the door, and they entered the room
together.
"How do you do ?" said Dr. Harrison rather gravely,
approaching the couch.
Now the fact was, that those two previous interviews
had been both long and exciting; and the consequent pros,
tration was greater than usual; so though Mr. Linden did
take down the hand which covered his eyes, and did meet
the doctor's look with his accustomed pleasantness, his
words were few. Indeed he had rather the air of one
whose mind has chosen a good opportunity to ride ram.
pant over the prostrate flesh and blood, and who has about
given up all attempts to hold the bridle. Whether Dr.
Harrison perceived as much, or whether there might be
some othertreason, his words were also few. He addressed
himself seriously to work.
"Will you permit me to introduce an apprentice ?" he
said, in a more commonplace way than was usual for him,
as he was removing Mr. Linden's wrapper from the arm.
Faith had come quietly up to the head of the couch and
was standing therq.
"Is not that the doctor's prerogative ?"
"Hum-"-said the 'doctor doubtfully; but he dic not
explain himself further.
Faith had come close to the head of the couch, but stood
a little back, so that Mr. Linden could not"see whether she
looked like fainting or not. There were no signs of that,
for the. lessening of colour in her cheeks, which was de.
cided, kept company with a very clear and intent eye.
One little caught breath he might hear, when the wounded
arm was first laid bare; but not another. The doctor
heard it too, for he looked up, but Faith was gravely and
quietly busy with what she had come there to see;'giving
it precisely the same simplicity of attention that she brought
to her physical geography or her French exercise; and

'      '  t f1 1R 1
'{'Y
3     ' '
a        T'.
1     ,P  t'
' ,   ,;
z,.;,a',
1ri  i
'
Y
.

that was entire. She did not shrink; she rather pressed
forward and bent near, to acquaint herself perfectly with
what was done; and once or twicgked a question as to the
reason or the use of something. Dr. Harrison glanced up
at her the first time-it might have been with incipient im-
patience-or irony,--but if either, it disappeared. He
answered her questions straightforward and sensibly, giving
her, and with admirable precision, exactly the information
she desired, and even more than absolutely that. For
everything else, the work went on inlence. When the
doctor however was standing at the table a moment, pre-
paring his lint or something else, and Faith had followed
him there and stood watching; he said to her over the
table in a sotto voce aside--but with a sharp glance-
"Was the information true, that we received the other
night ?-under the lanterns ?"
"What a singular question !" said Mr. Linden from his
couch.
"Pourquoi ?" said the doctor as simply as if the original
words had been addressed to Mr. Linden himself. "Well,
it may be a singular question, for it was singular informa-
tion. Was it well-founded, Miss Derrick ?"
"No-at a venture," said Mr. Linden, with just the sort
of air with which a sick person puts in his word and as-
sumes superior knowledge.
The doctor looked at one and at the other; Mr. Linden's
face told him nothing, any more than his words; Faith, by
this time,4W  covered with confusion.  That at least it
might be visible to only one person, she moved back to her
former place.
"Were you behind us ?" said the doctor;-"or were you
French enough to come by invisibly ?"
"Is that the last new method ?" said Mr. Linden. "You
have been in Paris since I was."
"Nlver got so far as that though, I am sorry to say,"
said the doctor coming back to the couch. "But after all,
that was very vague information-it didn't tell one much-
only I have a personal interest in the subject. But I am
glad you spoket...he man that can tell the dream should be
,able to give the interpretation. What did it mean, Lin-.
'den ?"

' ' P   ;
'   t,,  . {
' i  1 i ;
~  ? ,
a~ .y.
,  .

(
y
t
.
j
' '
f ,


SAY AND SEAL.

272            SAY AND SEAL.

"Behold a man of an enquiring turn of mind !" said Mr,
Linden with the same half listless half amused air. "ie
asks for truth, and when that tarries demands interpreta.
tion."
"I don't know what sort of a man I behold !" said the
doctor, moving his eyes with a double expression for gn
instant from Mr. Linden's arm. to his face.
"I should think you were a German student in pursuit of
'the Idea'!" said-Mr. Linden taking a quiet'survey of the
doctor's face. "Have you completed the circle, or is there
still hope the Idea may seize you ?"
"The idea seized me a good while ago," said the doctor,
with a most comical mock confessional look.
"Well then," said Mr. Linden in a sort of confidential
tone, "what is your opinion upon the great German ques.
tion-whether it is better to be One and Somewhat, or to
be Nought and All ?"
"You see,"-said the doctor, standing back and suspend.,
ing operations, --"everybody can't be One and Some.
what !"
"Then you choose the comprehensive side--" said Mr.
Linden. "That is without doubt the most difficult,-the
One and Somewhat is called egotistical, but to be Nought
and All !--one must be-what do you suppose ?"
"A philanthropist, I should suppose !" the doctor an-
swered, with a change of expression not agreeable. And
returning to his work, for awhile he behaved unusually like
other people; not hurrying his work, but doing it with a
grave steady attention to that and nothing else--answering,
Faith, and saying no more. Perhaps however he thought
silence might be carried too far; or else had an unsatisfied I
mood upon him; for as he was finishing what he had to do,
he looked up again to Faith and remarked,
"What do you think of this for our quiet town, Miss
Derrick?  Has Mr. Linden any enemies in Pattaquasset-
that you know ?"
It was merciless in the doctor; for through all this time
she had been in a state of confusion-as he knew-.that
made speech undesirable, though the had spoken. And she
didn't answer him now, except iby a quickly withdraw
glance.

"Who do you suppose loves him well enough," pursued
the doctor, "to send a charge of duck shot into him like
that?"
A sudden little cry of pain, driven back before it was
well begun, was heard and but just heard, from Faith. The
doctor looked up.
"I was afraid this--Are you faint ?" he said gently.
"No sir,-" she answered; and she stood still as before,
though the overspread colour which had held its ground for
a good while past, had given way now and fluttered pain-
fully. Butthe doctor's words brought Mr. Linden, for the
first time since his accident-to a perfectly erect position
on the couch-with a total disregard of where his arm
went, or what became of its bandages.
"What are you about!"'
"I declare, I don't know !" said Dr. Harrison, standing
back., "I thought I was just disposing of you comfortably
for the day-but I am open to conviction 1"
The left hand let go its grasp of'the couch-taken so
suddenly, and for which the wounded arm took swift ven-
geance; and Mr. Linden laid himself down on the cushions
again, the colour leaving his cheeks as fast as it had come.
"What's the matter, Linden ?" said the doctor with
rather a kind look of concern. "You have hurt yourself."
Faith left the room.
"I fear I have disarranged some of your work."
The doctor examined and set to rights.
"I'll see how you do this evening. What ailed you to
pitch into me like that, Linden ?"
"I think the 'pitching in' came upon me," he answered
pleasantly.
."It seems so, indeed. I hope you won't try this kind of
thing again. I am sure you won't to-day."
And so the doctor went. A quarter of an hour or a
ile more had gone by, when the light knock came at Mr.
Linden's door that he had certainly learned to know by
this time ; and Faith came in, bearing a cup of cocoa.
The troubled look had not entirely left her face, nor the
changeful.colour; but she was not -thinking of herself.
. "I knew you were tired, Mr. Linden-Would you like
this-..-or some grapes-or wine-better ?"

,

; ; i!
,,i! 4 i
c.
I  .         i
,''' j      4
{
!    i      '
I
I,  '  {   '
1      ,
}~  ;        .I
.i,     ' i

'  i,  ' f ,
I          ;
i   "   ' i   ;
ir   3
A                  '          4f'
' ,.      ,,,t  t ,
j     it  ,
r     ,i ,
Y'        ',  i


1iw 1 1i'  'I,
Ilt'i''
t' ;1
i
1      4
f iii. II
)

SAY AND SEAL.

The most prominent idea in Mr. Linden's mind just the,
was that he had already had what he did not like; but that
had no place in the look which answered her, as he raised
himself a little (and but a little) to take the cup from her
hand.
"Pet would thank you better than I can now, Miss
Faith."
She stood looking down at him, with a little sorrowing
touch about the lines of her mouth.
"Do you know how much better two cups of cocoa are
than one ?" said Mr. Linden.
"I don't know how you can have two at once, Mr. Lin.
den."
"Then I will bestow one upon you-and wait while you
get it."
"I am well-" she said, looking amused through her
gravity, and shaking her head. "And besides, I couldn't
take it, Mr. Linden." And to put an end to that subject,
Faith had recourse to the never failing wood fire; andfrom'
thence went round the room finishing what she had failed
to do in the morning; coming back at the point of time to
take Mr. Linden's cup. He looked at her a little as he
gave it back.
"You are too tired to go over all those lessons to-day-
which do you like best? will you bring it ?",
"I am not tired at all," she said with some flitting
colour,."but you are, Mr. Linden. "Won't you rest-
sleep-till after dinner-and then, if you like, let me come?"
"I will let you come then-and stay now," he said
smiling.
"Let me stay and be silent then-or do something that
will not tire you. Please, Mr. Linden !"\
"Your line of action lies all within that'last bound," he
said gently. "But'you may read French if you will-or
write it and let me look over you,-or another geographic
chapter. Neither need make me talk much."
The hint about looking over her writing startled Faith'
amazingly, but perhaps for that very reason she took it as
the delicate expression of a wish. That would be a trial,
but then too it wouht call for the least exertion on the part
of her teacher. Faith was brave, if she was fearful, and

274

SAY AND SEAL.                  275
too really humble to have false shame; and after an instant's
doubt and hesitation, she said, though she felt it to her
fngers' ends,
"ity exercise is all ready-it only wants to be copied-
but how could you look over me, Mr. Linden ?"
"Could you do such an inconvenient thing as to use that
small atlas for a table? and bring it here by me-I am not
quite fit to sit up just now."
Faith said no more words, but went for her exercise and
sat down to write it, as, desired, under an observing and
she knew a critical eye. It was well her business engrossed
her very completely; for she was in an extremely puzzled
and disturbed state of mind.  Dr. Harrison's words about
the occasion of Mr. Linden's accident, carelessly run on,
had at last unwittingly given her the clue her own innocent.
spirit might have waited long for; apd grief and pain
would have almost overcome her, 'but for a conflicting feel--
ing of another kind raised by the preceding colloquy between
the two gentlemen.  Faith was.in a state of profound un-
eertainty, whether Mr. Linden's words had meant anything
ar nothing. They were spoken so that they might have
meant nothing-but then Phil Davids had just been with
him-what for ?-and whatever Mr. Linden's words might
have meant, Faith's knowledge of him made her instinc-
tively know, through all the talk, that they had been spoken
for the sake of warding off something disagreeable from
her-not for himself. She tried as far as she could to dis-
miss the question from her thoughts-she could not decide
it-and to go on her modest way just as if it had not been
raised; and she did ; but for all that her face was a study
as she sat there writing. For amid all her abstraction in
her work, the thought of the possibility that Mr. Linden
might have known what he was talking about, would send
a tingling flush up into her cheeks; and sometimes again
the thoughts of pain that had been at work would bring
upon her h.p almost one of those sorrowful curves which
are so lovely and so pure on the_ lip of a little child-and
rarely seen except there. All this was only by the way;
it did not hinder the most careful attention to what she was
about,'nor the steadiest working of her quite unsteady fin-


SAY AND SEAL.            277

gers, which she knew were very likely to move not accord.
ing to rule.
For a little while she was suffered to go on without in.
terruption, other than an occasional word about the French
part'of her exercise; but presently Mr. Linden's hand
began to come now and then with a modifying touch upon
her pen and fingers. At first this was done with a gentle
"forgive me !" or, "if you please, Miss Faith,''-after that
without words, though the manner always expressed them;
and once or twice, towards the very end of the lesson, he
told her that such a letter was too German-.or too sophist.
ticated ; and shewe d her a more Saxon way. Which ad-
monitions he helped her, as well as he could, to bear, by a
quietness which w.s really as kind, as it seemed oblivious of
all that had disturbed or could disturb her. And the words
of praise and encouragement were spoken with their usual
pleasure-taking and 'pleasure-giving effect. All this after
a time effectually distracted Faith from all other thoughts
whatever. When it was done, she sat a moment looking
down at the paper, then looked up and gave him a very
frank and humble "Thank you, Mr. Linden !" from face and
lips both.
If Faith liked 'approbation-that clover-honey to a
woman's taste, so far beyond the sickly sweets of flattery
and admiration -she might have been satisfied with the
grave look of Mr. Linden's eyes at her then.
"You are a brave little child !" he said. "I wish I
could do something to give you a great deal of pleasure("
"Pleasure !"-said Faith, and what was very rare with
her, not only her face flushed but her eyes, so that she
turned them away,-"why it is all pleasure to me, Mr.
Linden !"-'Such pleasure as I never had before,'-she
was near saying, but she did not say.
"Well I must not let you tire yourself," he said with a
smile, "for that would not be pleasant to one. Have you
been out to-day ?"
"No," said Faith, thinking of her brown moreen.
"Nor yesterday-that will not do, Miss Faith. I am
afraid I must give you up to the open air for a good part
of this afternoon."

"What shall I do there ?" said Faith smiling.
"Let the wind-take you a walk-I wish I could be of the
party. But the wind is good company, Miss Faith, and
talks better than many people,--and the walk you vent."
"So I want to finish my wood-box," said Faith, looking
at the corner of the fireplace. "And I should think you
would be tired of seeing the wood lie there, Mr. Linden. I
am. I have got to go out this evening too-" she said
with a little hesitation,-" to see that microscope."
Mr. Linden was silent 'a moment.
"The microscope does make'some difference," he .said,--.
"as for the wood-box, Miss Faith, I don't think I can per-
mit it to have any voice in the matter,-you may leave it
for me to finish. But if you are going up there this even-
ing-there are two or three things I should like to talk to
you about first."
"Then shall I come by :and. by ?" she said. "I must do
something else before dinner."
VOL. I.                24

276

SAY AND SEAL.

f'
li
''li.,
'
'         r
i
1 r-   ,
'         ,1
;   } ;
,;
f '
;,
;
. if   .r
, ,,,
;; i..
;'
,      ,
,; 5,


SAY AND SEAL.           2'9

CHAPTER XXIII.
W    ELL child !" said lyrs. Derrick as they took their
.      seats at the dinner-table, "what have you been
about all day.? I've just spent the morning looking over
those apples, so I've had no chance to look you up. How's
Mr. Linden? does the doctor think he's getting better?"
"He is, I hope, mother; the doctor didn't say anything
about it." And a little shudder ran over Faith's shoulders,
which she was glad her mother could make nothing of if
she saw. "I'have been as busy as you have, mother.-so I
couldn't look you up-nor my wood-box either."
Learning all the world 1" said her mother smiling,
though there was a little touch of regretfulness not quite
kept down. "I think I'd rather sit and look at you, child,
than eat my dinner. What are you going to do this after-
noon ? ,".
"I'ves got a little ironing to do after dinner, mother, and
something to make for tea-and Mr. Linden wants to see
me for something. I'll get ready for Judge Harrison's,
and then "after I ar through up stairs I'll come down and
see to you and my box together. I "wish you were going
with me, mother."
And Faith leaned her head on her hand.
"Don't you want to go, pretty child ?" said Mrs. Der-
rick fondly.      .
"No, mother-but I couldn't help it. I found I should
have to go sooner or later."
"I'd go with you in a minute," said her mother, "if it
wasn't for Mr. Linden. I don't care a pin whether they
want me or not, Faith, if you do. And I dare say some
of the boys will be here"-.Mrs. Derrick looked perplexed,
as at the feeling of some unknown possibility. " Shall I,
pretty child ?" she said with an anxious face,-" what are
you thinking of, child ?"
Faith came behind her and put both arms round her and
kisses fist one side of her face and then the other.
(278)

"Mother !" she said with those silvery tones,-" I don't
want anything ! I suppose I shall like to see the micro-
scope-but I'd rather stay at home and learn my lessons.
Don't look so!"-Which with another kiss upon her. lips,
finished off Mrs. Derrick's anxiety.
The ironing and the 'something for tea' Faith despatched
with extra diligence and speed, and then dressed herself
for the evening. It 4was not much extra dressing; only a,
dark stuff dress a little finer than ordinary; the white ruffle
round the neck and wrists was the same. And then, giving
a few minutes to the seeking of some added help to quiet-
ness, for Faith's mind had been strangely disturbed, she
went again to Mr. Linden's room. A gentle vision she
was, if ever one was seen, when she entered it.
"You say I mustn't thank you, Mr. Linden," she said
giving him back his sister's letter ;-"but-.--will you thank
her for me
"Ih don't think she deserves many thanks," he said with
a smile, "but I will tell her."
The course of study that afternoon was peculiar, and
eminently a talk. Mr. Linden called for none of the usual
books at first, but began by giving Faith a very particular
account of the whole process of circulation; thence diverg-
ing right and left, in the most erratic manner as, it seemed
to her,.-passing from the bright crystal poiiits in chymise
try to the blue mould on a piece of bread, and then ex-
plaining to her the pemIliar mechanism of a fly's eye. Two
or three times he sent her to the cupboard for some book
to shew her an illustration of the subject, but if there was
any connecting link that she could see etween one and
an ther, it was simply the wonderful minute perfection of
tie world. And she needed none-for the different things
were touched upon so clearly and yet with such a happy
absence of needless details, that they stood forth in full re-
lief, and set off each other. The daylight was already fail-
ing, and the red firelight was playing hide and seek with
the shadows in Mr. Linden's room, before he gave her a
chance to think what time it, was. When she saw it, Faith
started up
"I told mother I would come and see her before I
went !"-she said, drawing a long breath like a person in

.1

1J


SAY AND SEAL.

tv      j     !,  ,    ,1
,.,  i M, ,JI  , ;,
,  ; (rI 1',, j
4l~ i  ,i ,l
'';   ;;
I   j'Ij1 !
,, ''.i'
,.     ,
.,,,; :.
E; ;;
;,    ,
, '  ,
,,,
,, ; ,
5 t ,  'd

an atmosphere he ca't get enough of. Then with a little
change of,tone,'after standing a minute looking at the fire,
she went on.-"All Ican do, is to drive the nails into that
wood-box-but I'll do it before to-morrow." She held out
her hand as she spoke.
"No you must not," Mr. Linden said, as he took the
hand. "To-night you will be out, and you must not give
me a late breakfast, Miss Faith 1-therefore you must go to
bed as soon as you come home, and leave the box to me."
Faith ran away and did not go to her hammering just
then. She brought a low bench to her mother's feet, sat
down there ; and taking Mrs. Derrick's hands from what-
ever they were about, wrapped both arms round herself,
laying her head on her mother's lap.
"Mother," she said caressingly,-" I couldn't come down
before. I war so busy and so interested, I didn't in the
least know what time it was; and I hadn't a chance to
think."
"I'm sure I'm glad, pretty child," said her mother, bend-
ing down to kiss her. 0 "I think sometimes you think too
much. But you look just like a baby, for all that. PIm
sure .I shall always love Mr. Linden for pleasing you so
much," said Mrs. Derrick stroking Faith's hair, "even
though he does please himself too."
Faith secured that hand again an    held them both
wrapped round her; but further words for a moment spoke
not.
"I shall come home as early as I can," she said;--."ino-
ther, time enough to do everything for breakfast."
"You sha'n't do a thing, child," said her mother. "You
may come home as early as you like, but I'm going to keep
you out of the works. I feel so 'grand when you're up-
stairs studying-you can't think ! You wouldn't know me,
Faith."
Faith laughed, the laugh that was music to Mrs. Der-
rick's ears, and indeed would have been to any, and held
the hands closer.
"I feel a little grand too,"-she said,-"-." sometimes-in
a way-"
This did not seem to be one of the times, or else feeling
grand had a soporific effect; for Faith's eyelids presently

drooped, and when t r. Harrison came to the house and
for some time befo, she was fast asleep on her mother's
lap.
"Psyche !".-exclaimed Dr. Harrison as he discerned by
the firelight the state of the case. Mrs. Derrick gave him
a little reproving glance for speaking so loud, but other
reply made none, save a low-spoken polite Offer of a
chair.
"Thank you-I am going up to see Mr. linden. Miss
Derrick was so good as to promise she would go with me to
see my sister this evening. In these circumstances,"-said
Dr. Harrison in his softest voice-"do you think it would
be presumption to wake her up ?"
"Well go up,, then," said Mrs. Detick, "and I'll wake
her up before you'come down."
Which arrangement took effect; and in a very few
minutes thereafter, Dr. Harrison's horse making much
better- speed than old Crab could do now, Faith was de-
posited safely at Judge Harrison's door.  There she was
received with open arms and great exultation by Miss So-
phy and with great cordiality and pleasure by the Judge;
and with a certain more uncerta' amount of both by Mrs.
Somers, whom Faith found there the only addition to the
family party ; while the doctor st od complacently on the
rug, in silence; surveying everybody, like a man who has
gained his poirt.
"Well Julius," said Mrs. Somers, "how's Mr. Linden
to-night? did you see him ?"
"Yes ma'am-I saw him."
"Well how is he ?" repeated Mrs. Somers.
"He is-very happily situated," said the doctor.  "I
should like to b e in his place."
"What do you go there twice a day for? Do you think
him worse?  You began   it  going once," said Mrs. So-
mers.
"Always begin gently," said Dr. Harrison. "You get
on faster."
"How soon do you expect to take up your abode there
altogetIher, at that rate ?"
"At what rate, aunt Ellen ? You are too fast for me."
"Nonsense!'" said Mrs. Somers, " do you suppose I want
24*

281

t ,'   :
'   "    -i
;.
,. .

280

SAY AND SEAL.

i
" i
''
't,
,,   '


SAY AND SEAL.            283

to be told what you go there for ?-what I do want to
know, is whether he's like to get well,. and how soon."
"He will be conquering Pattaquasset in a few weeks,"
said the doctor.
"I wonder whether he'll conquer Phil Davids," said
Mrs. Somers. "I should like to see that done. Julius,
did you ever find out anything about the man that fired the
shot?" i
"Really, aunt Ellen, I am not a detective"-said the
doctor carelessly, looking at Faith, who kept as quiet as a
dormouse. "If it had been my business I suppose I should
have found out."
"I think I heard you opine that Mr. Linden knew"_....
said Mrs. Somers. "And I think somebody ought to find
out-unless you want the thing done over again. Don't
you think so, Judge Harrison ?"
"Well my dear," said the Judge," I understand Mr. Lin.
den to have been actuated by a every benevolent motive-I
understand his feelings. . He wouldn't run the risk of ac.'
casing a man unjustly-I can't blame him. It's right, I
think, though it's provoking. What do you think, Miss
Faith ?"
Faith lifted her eyes, but perhaps the doctor saw in her
changing cheek some token of the pain he had stirred in
the morning. He prevented her reply.
"Ladies don't think about these things, my dear sir!-
Aunt Ellen is so sharp she gets ahead of her sex. Let me
have the honour of suggesting a pasanter subject of medi.
tation. I have seen to-night, aun\ Ellen, the most exqui.
site and valuable jewelry I have ev/r seen in my life !"
"Here in Pattaquasset I" said h  sister.
"In Pattaquasset-or perhaps in the world." '
"Don't excite yourself, Sophy," said Mrs. Somers,--
"let's hear what they were, first."
Faith, like everybody else, looked for the doctor's answer,
though she hardly knew what she was looking at.
"A lady, aunt Ellen," the doctor went on, glancing at
her,-" had made a necklace of her mother's arms,-,and a
cross, more precious than diamonds, of her mother's hands;
and clasping this cross to her breast, adorned with this
most exquisite and rare adornment, had-gone to sleep !"

"And for once," said Mrs. Somers," you preferred the
wearer to the jewels and-.went into a trance ! I can
imagine you !"
"I? not I !"-said the doctor-"I went up stairs. But
you have no idea of the effect."
Faith had been experiencing some of the scattering fire
of society, which hits no one knows where and no one
knows when. First the name of Phil Davids had ploughed
up the ground at her right; then the question abotit the
man who had fired the shot had ploughed up the ground
at her left; and shaken first by one and then by the other
.he had welcomed the doctor's change of subject and now
was smiling as pleased as anybody.
"I didn't suppose the trance was a long one," said Mrs.
Somers, with a little raising of her eyebrows. "Faith, my
dear, what have you done to that little Seacomb child ? I
can't get over my astonishment at his transformation."
"Iam afraid there isn't much transformation yet," Faith
said. " He listens very quietly and behaves well in school
-but I don't know how he is at home."
"You are not a school teacher too?" said the doctor.
"It isn't a bad trade," said Faith, though her cheeks
had answered for her another way.
"Not a bad trade-certainly-bat one may have too
many trades. Aunt Ellen-I had the honour-do you be-
lieve it ?-of giving Miss Derrick lessons this morning."
"I think she was very good to permit it," said Mrs.
Somers-composedly.
"She was very good-" said the doctor demurely. "I
am afraid that is her character generally 1"
He was called off by his father, and Miss Harrison seized
Faith and planted her bet een herself and Mrs. Somers
on the sofa.
"Don't mind his nonsense, Faith! Julius never can
talk like anybody else. Why haven't you been here this
age?"
"I've been busy, Sophy."
"Why wouldn't you go to ride with us? Julius wouldn't
go after what you said. Why wouldn't you ?"
"It was Bunday, Sophy."
"Well-what if it was ?"

I

282            SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.            285

"Sunday isn't my day-I can't use it for my own
work."
"But taking a little ride isn't work ?"
Faith hesitated.
"Isn't it work to the horses, Sophy?  And if it is only
pleasure-Sunday has its own pleasures, dear Sophy,..
can't have both."
"Why can't you ?"
"Because,-if I take these, God will not give me those,"
Faith said 'very gravely.
"But Faith !"-said Miss Harrison looking disturbed,....
"you didn't use to be so religious ?"
Faith's face flushed a little and was touchingly humble
as she said, "No-I didn't."
"What's changed you so ?"
"It isn't a bad change, dear Sophy!"
"I don't believe any ring's bad about you," said Miss
Harrison kissing her,- 'but don't change too far, dear;
don't forget your old frie ds."
"I want them to change too," said Faith looking at her
winningly.
"That's right Faith, stand by your colours !" said Mrs.
Somers, with a tone and manner that came quite from
the other side of her character.- "Sophy-your mother
wouldn't know her child, to hear you ask such ques.
tions."
Miss Harrison looked troubled, and left the room. Dr.
Harrison immediately took her place, and almost as immie.
diately tea came in.
That is to say, tea and chocolate were handed round,
together with a sufficient abundance and variety of deli.
cate substantials to suit the air and the style of a country
town. Judge Harrison's was the only house in Pattaquas-
set where tea was served in this way,-except perhaps the
De Staff's; though there was this difference to be observed;
-the De Staffs never had tea carried round unless when
they had company; at the Harrisons' it.was never carried
round unless they were alone.
Dr. Harrison attended politely to his aunt, but he was '
eyes and hands for Faith; finding at the same time very
agreeable occupation for her hears. If people ebuld be

content with being agreeable! But in the midst of cold
tongue and chocolate the doctor broke out again.
"After all," said he,-"what about that piece of curious
information, Miss Derrick ? You know I was balked this
morning and led a Will o' the wisp chase after the Idea!
Is Mr. Linden in the habit of spoiling people's fun in that
manner?"
Faith said simply she did not know. She did, not, but
in private she thought it likely enough.
"Well, about the question," said the doctor helping her
to something at the same time,-" what was the truth of it,
Miss Derrick ?  You see I am interested. Was our little
informant correct ?"
Now Faith had no mind, even in the dark, or about any-
thing, to set her 'yes' against Mr. Linden's 'no.' Besides,
she knew that the doctor had heard no names, and what-
ever might be the extent of Mr. Linden's knowledge, he
knew nothing. And she was very willing to take the shelter
of the shield which had been thrqwn round her. The
deep, deep dye-of her cheeks she could not help; but she
answered with tolerable quietness, behind-that shield,
"I hoped you had got enough of the subject this
morning."
The doctor had enough of it now! He changed his
ground with all speed, and for the rest of the evening Dr.
Harrison shewed himself at his best.
So soon as the removal of tea things gave him a clear
field, he brought out his microscope; and from that in-
stant Faith almost forgot and forgave him everything.
She forgot everything present -the Judge, Sophy, and
Mrs. Somers; and came to the table so soon as the bright
brass of the little machine caught her eye. The machine
alone was a wonder and beauty; it seemed to Faith like
an elegant little brass gun mounted on the most compli-
cate and exquisite of gun carriages-with its multiplica-
tion of wheels and screws and pins, by which its adjustment
might be regulated to a hair; with its beautiful workman-
ship and high finish, and its most marvellous and admirable
purpose and adaptation.  Dr. Harrison had never ad-
justed his microscope with more satisfaction, perhaps, than
with those childish womiinly eyes looking on; and neither

281

SAY AND SEAL.

I               {'
'              t
1             r
j
"i             1
j f
7 ',      '
i  ,
!   '+ '       i
i
1
.4'
,     ;
i,''; f ',   7 i
I  ,              ,
!  ,;   ,    S
jig               ;
!r , , ,, '
' ''1S t   i   I
.;


286                SAY. AND SEAL.
he nor many other people ever performed better thesubse.
quent office of exhibiting it. He troubled Faith now with
nothing; his very manner was changed; and, with kind.
ness and sense most delicate, most thoughtful, most grace.
ful always, gave her all he could give her.
He was a trifle surprised to find that the amount of that
was not mno, There was no lack indeed; he could t,
and she could listen indefinitely-and did ;--nevertheless
he found ome of his channels of communication stopped,
off. At the   st thing he skewed her, Faith looked for a
instant and then withdrawing her eye from the microscope
and facing him with cheeks absolutely paled with ecite
ment and feeling, exclaimed rapturously,
" Oh !-are those the chalk shells ?"
The doctor hadn't counted upon her knowing anything
of chalk shells..
"Aunt Ellen-" said he, as he looked to shift or adjust
something-"do you think Miss Derrick has ever lived
upon anything worse than roses?"
"Upon something stronger, I fancy," said Mrs. Somers,
a little surprised in her turn, but well pleased too, for Faith
had come nearer her heart that evening than ever before,
and the voyage of discovery was pleasant.
"I should certainly think I was in Persia !" said the
doctor,.-"only the bulbul knows nothing of scientific dis.
coveries, I fancy."
But Faith was in no danger of hearing, or caring, if she
had understood; she had gone back to the chalk shells,
and back still further, from them, into the world of those
perfections which God had made for himself. .A new
world, now for the first time actually seen by her, and for
a moment she almost lost her st ending in this. Mrs.
Somers watched he   miling and c rious.
She drew back presently with     breath, to give the
other ladies a chance; but Mis      on had looked all
she cared to look, and Mrs. Som     as not new to the
thing. They took a view occasion y, one for form,-the
other for real interest; but for the most part Faith found
the exhibition was for her and she and the doctor might
have it all their own way. A long way they made of it;
for the doctor found a good deal of talking to do, and Faith

."i
-i
+
r
;
i'
,',
1
,,i  i
I   r
I
'i
i
i,
t,  i
,
,,
~   ,
'   ;
i
1
,
'   i  E
r l
'    '  1
V

SAY AND SEAL.             287

was most ready to hear. He talked well and gave her a
great deal of what she liked, with a renewal every now and
then of his first surprise; for in the midst of some elaborate
explanation he was launching into for her benefit, most in-
nocently and simply Faith would bring him up with. a
gentle 'yes, I know,'--not spoken with the faintest arro-
gance of knowledge, but merely to prevent him going into
needless detail; and herself too rapt in the delight of the
subject that occupied her to have any heed of the effect of
her words.
"I have kept the best for the last," said the doctor, when
this exhibition had lasted a much longer time than Faith
was aware of;-"]I thought you would like to see the cir-
culation;-and I have sent all over town for a frog-found
one at last, by great happiness."
"All over town !" said Mrs. Somers,-" do try out of
town next time, and save yourself trouble."
"Have you got to kill the frog, Julius ?" said Miss Har-
rison with a disturbed face.
"I hope not !" said the doctor gravely. "That would
rather interfere with our purposes than otherwise, Sophy.
.-Aunt Ellen, I never learned the real extent of 'town' yet
-when I was a boy it seemed .to me to have no limits;-
and now it seems to me to have no centre. Tell James to
bring in that frog, Sophy."
Miss Harrison retreated from the frog; but the doctor
assured Faith that he was in very tolerable circumstances,
shut up in a little bag; and that he was only going to be
requested to exhibit a small portion of the skin of his toe,
and to hold himself still for that purpose; which benevo-
lent action the doctor would help him to perform by put-
ting him in a slight degree of confinement. The holding
still was however apparently beyond the frog's benevolent
powers, and it was some little time before the doctor could
persuade him to it.  Then Faith saw what she had never
seen nor fully imagined before.
"0 Sophy !-9-0 Mrs. Somers !"--she exclaimed,-"look
at this 1"
She stood back with a face of delighted wonder. Miss
harrison looked an instant.


.SAY AND SEAL.

,   i',"  I i,
; ;
,
,.,, ,
,,  .
,,,,.
.;   ,
,s,
;.
.
, , .~
; ,
' t - ,   ;
h"             ,

"It is curious---" she- said. "What are those litter
things, Julius ?"
"You have heard of the 'circulating medium,' said the
doctor. "That is it."
Faith evidently had never heard of the 'medium'-referred
to. Turning to her, the doctor began a clear full account
of the philosophy of what she saw going on in the frog's
foot. But the' she met him again.
"Yes, I kndw, Dr. Harrison,"-she said with the simple
tone of perfect intelligence. The doctor bit his lip, while
Faith stooped over the microscope, and read, and read;
what was to be seen there.
"Faith," whispered Sophy, "it's cruel of me--but I am
afraid your mother will be anxious, and Julius will never
let you know-"
"What time is it?" said Faith starting up.
"About-hajf an hour-after eight-" said the doctor,
"After ten, Taith."
Not another look did Faith give, but for her bonnet, and
went home as fast as the doctor would walk with her.
Whether Mrs. Derrick was anxious or no, she did not
say, but glad she certainly was to see Faith back.
"Well child," she said, undoing the wrappers from
Faith's ad and neck, "I hope you've had a grand time?"
"Yes mother, very-only I didn't mean to stay so late,
I meant to be home in good time. I have seen everything,
mother 1"
"Everything I" said her mother,--"I guess at that rate
I might say I'd been everywhere."
"Where have you been, mother? anywhere ?"
"I've been out to tea !" said her mother, with the
manner of one who has a remarkable secret on hand.
"You have! Where, mother ?"
"Guess"- said Mrs. Derrick smiling at her. "I went up
stairs to tea, I'aith !-what do you think of that? What'll
you expect to hear of my doing next ?"
"Oh mothe !" said Faith laughing,.-.''I am glad ! That
was the best  ing you.could have done."
"It wasn't my doing, though," said Mrs. Derrick. "But
when I went up with Mr. Linden's tea, he asked me if you
ha~ gone, and I said yes, and he said since there was no-

body better worth seeing down stairs he wished I'd come
and drink tea with him. So I went, child,  nd it was real
pleasant too. And I don't know how it w s, but I staid
there all the evening,-only I wouldn't let him talk to me,
and h'e just went to sleep as if I hadn't been there. I think
he was very tired, Faith. So then I felt very comfortable,"
added Mrs. Derrick smiling, "and I sat there and watched
him till Reuben came-a little while ago."
"Was he tired !" said Faith, the light in her face
changing. "He had been talking to me all the'afternoon !
.-Mother, half the pleasure I had to-night he gave me, for
he was all the afternoon preparing me for it." She stood
looking at the fire reproachfully.
"Why child," said her mother, "I suppose his arm pains
him a good deal-and that tires one, you know. He didn't
talk to. you a bit more than he wanted to, I'll warrant.
Why he even talked to me all tea-time 1" said Mrs. Derrick,
as if she felt quite proud in consequence.
"Well mother, we must go to bed now, for I must be up
very early to finish that box."
VOL. i.                25

K

'1-P
{jt  1
t'
ti

SAY AND SEAL.

288

289

!
I"'        i
,       -  l
,
'  '
, '      ,       i
,
.!  I
,!
',It ,
'ii
1 (      ;
i
'
'
;ii t

till';


CHAPTER XXIV.'

V ERY early it was, when Faith's hammer was at work
again on the brown moreen, and short interruption
did she give herself from anything that could be spared,
till the box was done. It suited her well when it was done,
The cover was stuffed, old-fashioned brown binding was
lapped over the edges and seams, and fastened off with rows
of brass-headed nails; which made it altogether an odd,
handsome, antiquated-looking piece of furniture. With
this, when her morning work was done and her exercise
prepared, Faith went up to Mr. Linden's room; to see
it brought in and placed properly.
"I shall have to put a stop to this state of things !" he
said,-" that blue ribband will work me mischief yet. Miss
Faith, how can you take advantage of my disabled condi-
tion ?"

"Are you better this morning, Mr. Linden ?"
"The time has not quite come yet for me to be much
better. But Miss Faith, if I had known that you would
3 wake yourself up early this morning, what do you think I
should have done ?"
"I can't think, Mr. Linden," she said looking merry.
"I should have invited you and Mrs Derrick up here to
breakfast!-which I only did not do, because I could not
take the extra trouble upon myself, and because I knew
you ought to sleep, till this time.
Faith shook her head a little, perhaps sorry to have
missed the breakfast; then went off and brushed away the
dust. and chips left round the wood-box. Then came and
sat down.
"I saw almost everything, last night, Mr. Linden"
"Well before you go off to last night-will you come tO
morrow morning ?  Now .what did you see ?"
(290)

SAY AND SEAL.                 291
The bright smile and flush and sparkle answered the in-
vitation; and perhaps Faith thought no other answer was
needed; for she gave nqmother.
"I know now," she said after an instant, "what you were
doing all yesterday afternoon, Mr. Linden!1"
"I know what you were, MissrFaith."
She smiled innocently and went on,
"All that just fitted me, as you meant it should, to take
the good of the evening-and I had a great deal," she
said gravely. I saw almost everything you spoke of-and
other things. I saw the chalk shells, Mr. Linden1-and
the circulation in a frog's foot; and different prepared
pieces of skin; and the moth's plumage! and the silver
scale-armour of the Lepisma, as Dr. Harrison called it; and
more."
"And with very great delight-as I knew you would. I
am very glad!1"
"Yes," said Faith-" I know a little better now how to
understand some things you said the other day. I am very
glad I went-only for one thing.-"
"What was that?"
"Dr. Harrison asked such a strange thing of me as we
were walking home-at least it seems to me strange."
"May my judgment be brought to bear upon it ?" Mr.
Linden said after a moment's silence.
"Yes indeed," said Faith; "that was what I was going
to ask. He wants me to go with him to see a woman, who
is dying, he says, and miserable,--and he'wants me to talk
to her. He says he does not know how." And half mo-
destly, half timidly, she added, "Is not that going out of
my way
A quick, peculiar smile on Mr. Linden's face, was suc-
ceeded by a very deep gravity,--once or twice the lips
parted, impulsively.-then took their former firm set; and
shading his eyes with his hand he looked into the fire in
profound silence.
Very soberly, but in as absolute repose of face, Faith
now and then looked at him, and meanwhile waited for his
thoughts to come to an end.
"Dr. Harrison said," she remarked after a little while,

S
t,1
U,
a

L j'      t
It  '    !
Qjj
1
I
4
!r
r
{t i
y
i A  tl
1


292                SAY AND SEAL.                                       SAY AND SEAL.
"that you once told him he had but half learned his r  "I'm afraid I must let you go-" Mr. Line
fession."                                           rently, smiling a little too, as if it were no use
"What did you say, Miss Faith ?  I mean, not to tha  any longer. "I'm afraid I have no right to
but to the question ?"                               If I had, I would. Some other time I will tell;
"I didn't know what to say !-I didn't want to go at all the wherefore, but the less I say to you before
--I don't know whether that was wrong or right; but a  better. About that,-"he added in his usual m
last I said I would go. Do you think I was right, r  think we might write another exercise.
Linden ?".                                             She started up, but
"Did you promise to go with him"                     "Mr. Linden,"-she    d.
"I didn't know aby other way to go," said Faith. "r. would not be here this  midly, W d. your
don't know where the woman lives, and he said I could  nefirst-it would beohere to       you 1
find it; and old Crab has a lame foot. Dr. Harrison asked  e afrtit what e donpere?"
me to go with him. I don't think I should have minded  He answered at firos for youik
going alone."                                        sort of pleasure it was.
"'Neither should I mind having you," said Mr. Linden  "0 no !.-i can wait,-it cannot sigmfy v
with a look more doubtful and anxious than Faith hd   And then with as quick a recognition of the re
often seen him wear, though it was not bent upon her.  it would be, after all, Mr. Linden compounded
"Do you think I said wrong then, Mr. Linden'? I did  "I am afraid, Miss Faith !-Iam naturally ti
not like to go-but I thought perhaps I ought."         "What does that mean?" said she coming
"I don't think you did wrong," was the somewhat des.  and looking with an inquisitive smile. "I
nite answer.  "I wish I had been alongside of you when  Mr. Linden 1"
the request was made."                                  "Do you expect me to explain such a humi
A wish which he had not been th first to know. Faith  fession ?"
was silent.                                             "No, certainly.-I thought, perhaps, you w
"You   ade a fair promise ?" he said--" and feel bound  to it, after all.
by it ?"                                                "I am a little afraid for you. What do yo
"I said I would go,"-she said looking at him with her  shall dothis afternoon while you are gone ?"
fair, grave face.  "If you thought it was wrong or that I  "I don't know-" she said, lookig a little
was putting myself out of my way, I would. not, Mr. Lin-  "I shall lie here and study that ood-box.
den. He asked if he might come for me at two o'clock,  carry out my principles, Miss Faith-I have
and I said yes."                                      you for it.y
"Miss Faith-you must not make such a promise again    "I don't think you'll study it ver
She looked at him enqiringly  very soberly, and then  "there isn't much in it.
her eyes went to the fire and mused there. Mr. Linden  ."Somebody has said," replied. Mr. Linden
was looking at her then, though with eypi still shielded,  every subject there is inexhaustible meaning,-
SOnce indeed the hand came with a soft'touch upon her             in it what the eye brings means of seeing.' Y
hair, drawing it back where it had fallen a little; but the  limit my power of eyesight."
I motion was quickly checked. She started, looked round         ."If you wouldn't limit my power of somethi
with a little frank smile and colour, and instantly went back she said' with gentle persistency.
to her musing.                                   ,      He looked up at her.
"I will not, Miss Faith-then will you pie
1  25*

293
n said pre-
td be grave
hnder you.
you part of
you go, the
anner,-" I
son said he
ike to have
ou are not
knew what
ery much.
al pleasure
matters.
mid."
before him
[on't know,
iating con-
uldn't keep
I Suppose I
wistfully.
You see I
bt thanked
id Faith,-.-
"that 'in
the eye sees
ou must not
ng else ?"-.
ase perform


- SAY AND SEAL.

ii

your kind office at once? It will be a great comfort to
me, and I shall be the better able to do something for you
afterwards." And the manner almost made Faith feel as
if the proposition had come from her at first.
She went about it, not this first time without some tren-
bling of heart,. but with also a spirit that rose above and
quite kept down that. She knew exactly and intelligently
what was to be done; it was only the h ads that were un.
wonted, and therefore she feared unskilful. But there are
things that some women have by nature, and a skilful land
is one of them; and it was Faith's. Her womanly love
and care were enough for all the rest; she made no
mistakes, nor delays; and her soft fingers inflicted no
pain that it was in the power of fingers to spare. A
little longer th n the doctor she way1 perhaps about
it; not much, a d not more awkward; and that is saying
enough.
So soon as that was done, Faith went for her exercise,
and sat d wn as yesterday to write it.  ,-'
He too went on witg the exercise; but watching her,
lest relief might be wAnted in another quarter. There
was nothing of that, though. Quiet and very great satis.
faction, was the result of the matter in Faith's mind; at
least it was all she permitted to be seen; and now she gave
herself happily to the connexion of her nouns and adjec-
tives, and to watching against the 'german' or 'sophisti-
cated' letters in her handwriting. The exercise indeed was
fast taking a very compound character; so much so, that
Faith might well begin to suspect there had been a two-.
fold reason for proposing it. But Mr. Linden had a peen-,
liar way of teaching-especially of teaching her; and made
her almost forget in the pleasure of learning, the fact that
she had need to learn. And as for his memory on the sub-
ject, or his perception of how it might touch. her,-th,.ey
were out of sight: she might have been a little child there
at his side, for the grave simplicity and frankness of his in.
structions.. And so exercise and reading and philosophy
followed on in a quiet train, and the surface of the earth
revealed new wonders, and the little French book was
closed at the end, of a' pretty chapter. '.
"Whenever I get about my duties again, Miss Faith?"

Mr. Linden said, "I shall make one very stringent rule for
our future intercourse."
"What's that, Mr. Linden ?" she said, with the face of
quick deep pleasure she always wore when about any of
her studies with him.
/  roiinhe time when I /come home to dinner till I go
off again, I will neither speak nor be spoken to, Miss Faith,
except in French. That is, you may speak-but I shall
not answer."
Faith started a little, looked puzzled, and looked terri-
fled,-as much as she ever did; but rather closed with
looking as if it was impossible.
"I should make the rule at once," said Mr.-Linden smil-
ing, "but I foresee that you would absent yourself entirely.
Now when I an1lown stairs you will have to see me--
whether you wantto or not."
'"But I don't know one word !" said Faith breathlessly.'
"I am afraid I shall not say, or hear, much, Mr. Linden."
"0 you shall hear a great deal-I will take that ypon
myself."
Faith shook her head, gave the fire a final mending, and
ran off; for it was again an hour past: the mid-day. Mr.
Linden's dinner came up, and was hardly removed before
Dr. Harrison followed.
"Well, Linden!" he said coming jauntily in,--" I' hope
you haven't missed me this morning."
"Not in the least."
"I am glad of that.  How do you do?   I will try and
put you in condition not to miss me this evening-though
it is benevolentI!"-added the doctor, pulling off his left
glove. "It is a great secret-to make oneself missed !"-
"It is a secret your gloves will hardly find'out, by my
fire," said Mr. Linden. "How-well you look, doctor !-
not a bit like Nought and All."
"No,"-said the doctor,-" I believe I disclaimed that
particular sphere of existence yesterday. One had need
be One and Somewhat in this wind-if one will keep a
place in a wagon, or elsewhere ! But fire mustn't tempt
me, Linden. I'll. see to you and be off, and decide what
Il be afterwards."
"You may be off without preamble."

$

1, ,r
1(
1
{tt i }f{s ',
,%           Ji'1 it it
I

294

295

SAY AND SEAL.

F
i
i       y
ii,+
f,      {   '
,     ;,
i,   ''ti
,
;li' ,'' ; ,';_
'"' '"
;  ; .

{f;
1 1,i
' ,
,i
f


296'               SAY AND SEAL.
a you mean to dismiss me ?" exclaimed the doctor
raising his eyebrows. "Have I said that you must accept
my poor services ?"
"Why* no !" said Mr. Linden,-."doubly no ! I am most
happy to see you, doctor."
"The happiness will be mutual when I have the felicity
of understanding you," said the doctor, settling himself in
an attitude. Mr. Linden surveyed him from head to foot,
"I perceive indeed that you are One and Somewhat!"
he said,--"you still need 'the four azure chains.' Do you
need explanations too?"
"If you'll be so good !" said the doctor. "Or-ha! you
don't mean that, do you ?"
"My arm has been dressed," said Mr. Linden quietly.
"Never trust a woman 1" said the doct  heeling round,
"I thought she had got enough of tha   yesterday. Did
she do it well?"
"Excellently well."
"Your face says so as well as your tongue," said the
doctor, with ar. odd manner of despair. "I have lost-...
not my occupation, for I never had any !-but I have lost
my power over you; and she has got it I-I don't know'
how to whistle, or I suppose I could take comfort in that."
Mr. Linden did not whistle, nor laugh, nor speak,-all
that could be said of him was that be lay there very quiet,
with his eyes open, looking remarkably well.
"Let a woman alone for doing what she has a mind to1"
the doctor went on, in his usual manner now, putting on his
gloves. "I tell you what, Linden.--they're the hardest
creatures to manage there are;-boys aie nothing to them!
Well, good morning I"
"Good morning,"-said Mr. Linden. "I hope you will
be ile to manage the wind."
The Dr. Harrison who had been up stairs was not at all
jDr. Harrison that met Faith in the hail and escorted
her to the carriage. Grave, gentle, graceful, but especially
grave, for some reason or other, he was; and not the less
for that agreeable, she thought. Faith was in a sober
mood herself; for she was about an undertaking she did
not much like; and which Mr. Linden had liked even less.
Faith pondered, as tiley drove swiftly along, what the par.

SAY AND SEAL.

29'

ticular objections had been which he had not chosen to tell
her; and now and then thought a little uneasily of .the
coming interview, with the doctor's patient, with Dr. Har-
rison himself for auditor and spectator. She did not like
it; but she had honestly done what she thought right, and
Mr. Linden had said she was not wrong. And she was
bound on the expedition, which she could not get rid df;
so though these considerations did floi t over and over her
mind they did not shake what was neve itheless a very happy
peacefulness. Faith was glad the doctor was pretty well
engaged with his horses; and let her own musings run
upon the pleasant things of the morning, and of yesterday,
with glances at the delightful new 'world of work and
knowledge into which she had entered, or was entering; and
happy resting   n on the foundation for all joy so lately
known to her. hirled along on smooth going wheels, in
that bright brisk day, little interrupted with 'talk, these
thoughts and meditations took fair little flying passages
through her head;- chasing and succeeding each other, put
in and put out by the lights and shadows, the hills and
fields, sky and trees and wind-clouds, as the case might be,
and mixing up with them all.
Dr. Harrison had come for her this time in an easy
pleasant-going curricle, drawn by beautiful animals, and
who felt beautifully in that gay wind. They. looked s ,
certainly, every motion fro m ears to -tail telling of life a d
the enjoyment of it.
"You are not afraid of anything, I know," said Dr.
Harrison, one time when he had been obliged to hold them
in with a good deal of decision; -"or I would have
brought the old family trotter for you."
"What makes you think so, Dr. Harrison ?"
"I have had proof of it," said he looking at her. :Faith
shook her head a little, and could have told him several
things; but did not.
"You are not afraid of these fellows ?"
She said no.
"There is no pleasure in handling what gives you no
trouble ;-don't you think so?"
Faith sought for illustrations of the subject in her own
experience ; did not find them.

t
j ,
i ',
I j'  ,
~r
tt i
f
iii
t (tt
! i"
y  }
t a }
" t
,,
,

a                ,r
'
;
'.t
,
i
.

!
t
, 1,
S'
,i 3


298                SAY AND SEAL.
"Now look at those fellows," the doctor went on. "They
are fit to fly out of their skins; but a little bit of" steel in
their mouths-and a good rein-and a strong hand at the
end of it-and they are mine, and not their own," said he,.
giving them a powerful check at the same time which
brought them  on their haunches;-'"and they know it,
Now isn't there some pleasure in this ?"
"It is rather a man's pleasure," said Faith;-"isn't it?"
"Do you think so ?" said the doctor. "Ah, you know.
better. Do you mean to say," he added softly, "that a
woman doesn't know the pleasure of power ?"
"I don't think I do," said Faith meeting his eyes with a
smile. He smiled too, a different smile from what was
usual with him.
Theive was long-.much longer thangfaith had counted
upon, lthough they went so fast. "Down by the river"--_
the doctor had said; but it appeared not yet what part of
the river he was aiming for. Still it was beautiful; the
broken country, open and free, with the cloud shadows and
the brilliant sunlight driving across it, and grey sharp rocks
everywhere breaking it, and tufts and reaches of brown or
sear woodland diversifying it, was not easy to weary of.
Nor did Faith weary. The doctor's words had sent her.
off on a long journey of thought, while she travelled over
all that open; sunlight and shadow, country. Starting
from the words, "Behold we put bits in the horses' mouths,
that they may obey us";--she had gone on to moral gov.
ernment and suasion; the means and the forces of both,
not failing to illustrate largely here from personal experi.
ence; and on and up to the one great and strong hand
that holds the reins of all, and makes even sunlight and
shade, rock and hill, do his work and his bidding.
But now in all that broad picture of life and life work,
appeared a little dark spot ; which, small as it was, formed
for the moment the vanishing point, where every line of
beauty and sunlight met and ended. For with that strange
recognizing of unkndwn things, Faith saw before her the
house where the dyn'oa lay,.-apd knew it for that,
before the doctor spoke. A plain, brow i, unpainted house;
straight and square, with no break of piazza or window
blinds; tapestried on the front with frost-.bitten gourd

SAYD AND SEAL.            299

vines, the yellow and green fruit yet unscathed. The usual
little gate and dooryard common to such country houses;
the usual remains of autumn flowers therein; the usual
want of trees. Yet by the universal law of indemnification,
the house was more picturesque than painting and archi-
tecture could have made it.  Neighbours it had -none, for
contrast; but a low woody point of land stretched off
behind it, reaching out even into the Mong.    And the
Mong itself-with its cool sharp glitter in the stirring
wind, and the swash of its blue waves at the very foot of
the little paling about the house; its white-sailed craft, its
white-winged sea gulls ;--
"Our lives are rivers, gliding free
To that unfathomed, boundless sea,
The silent grave !
Thither all earthly pomp and boast
Roll, to be swallowed up and lost
In one dark wave.
"Thither the mighty torrents stray,
Thither the brook pursues its way,
And tinkling ril.
There all are equal. Side by side
The poor min and the son of pride
Lie calm and still."
Of the two that now entered that little dooryard, one
felt all this and one did not.  The one who had felt "the
power of an endless life," perceived the narrow bounds of
this,-to the one who had nothing beyond, its domain was
vast. And as is often the case, the man went first and the
angel followed.
The doctor stepped up to the bedside and made some
general enquiries. But it did not appear that there was
much he could do for her.
"Mrs. Clusters " said he presently, "you know I pro-
mised I would bring, if I could, a lady to see you. Here
she is-Miss Derrick."
Faith came to the side of the bed. Little her quiet face
shewed how she was trembling.  In her soft sweet way she
asked the sick woman how she did. And Mrs. Ousters
turned her head a little, and gazed up into the blooming

r

itt,,t,    I     1
r
I
i          1 1
I''I 1r     r
Ifs 'f+ 'i

I
t


300

SAY AND SEA

;ry1l05f; f 't11+'j
irk ( 1 I11 ; ' r,
ti G  lf,

SAY AND SEAL.

301

face with strange, eager, feverish eyes--eyes that thirsted,
but with no bodily thirst. Then she closed them again
and turned dher face away, but said nothing.
"Have you been sick long ?" asked Faith.
She did not answer, then; though as if the tones of
Faith's voice were making their way, there came presently
a slight quiver of the face, and a bright drop or two that
the closed eyelids could not quite keep back. But she was
at that point of time where the fear of man has lost its
power,-where the doctor loses his supremacy and visiters
their interest: where men and things are pushed like sha-
dows into the background, and the mind can see no object
save "the great white throne."  This was what the silence
expressed,-it was not dislike, nor churlishness; but those
surface questions failed to reach her where she stood,
The next gentle and tender "Vhat is the matter ?"-was
so spoken that it found her even there. Her eyes came back
to Faith's face with the sort of look they had given before.
And then she spoke.
"Where would you be going if you were lying where I
be ?"
Faith heeded not the doctor then, nor anything else in
the world. She waited an instant; she had drawn herself
up on hearing the question; then leaning forward again
she said slowly, tenderly,
"I should be going-to be happy with my divine Re-
deemer. Are not you?"
"What makes you think you would ?"
"Because I have his word for it," said Faith. "He
says that whoever believes in him shall not perish, and that
every one that loves him shall be with him where he is;-I
believe in him and love him with my whole heart; and I
know he is true. He will not cast me awaye'A Slowly,
clearly, the words were spoken; so that they might every
one enter and be received by the ears that heard.
The-woman looked at her,-.scanned her, examined her,
-looked down towards the foot of the bed at the doctor-
then back at Faith.
"Do you believe all that?" she said.
"I know it !"-said Faith, with a tiny bit of joy-speaking
smi46

L  3t.fr

Again that intent look.
"Well he don't," she said with a motion towards the
doctor. "Which of ye am I to-believe ?"
"Don't belieVe either of us !" said Faith quickly, her
look rather brightening than otherwise, though the play
of her lips took a complicate character-."Believe God !
Don't you know his words ?"
"I s'pose I do-some of 'em. I can't believe anything
with him down there lookin' at me !? she said impetuously.
"He said he didn't believe-and I keep thinkin' of that."
"Will, you believe him, rather than God ?-rather than
the Lord Jesus, who came and gave his very life for us, to
bring us to heaven. Do you think he would tell us any-
thing but truth after that? His words are, "'He that
believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live.'
"Well I'm 'most dead-"' said the woman in a sort of
cold, hopeless tone.
"Let, Jesus make you live I" said Faith, in a voice as
warm and loving.
"The doctor said he couldn't," she answered in the same
tone as before. "He believes that, apyhow."
Faith answered,
"'My sheep hear my voice, and.1 know them, and they
follow me. And I give unto them eternal life; and they-
shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out
of my hand."
That same little quiver passed over the face, but it
changed into an irrepressible shudder.
"Sit down here on the bed," she said, looking up at
Faith, "and put your face so I can't see his'n-and then
you may talk."
And with that fair head for a screen, as if it really
warded off some evil influence, Mrs. Casters lay and lis-
tened quietly for a while; but then her hands were clasped
over her face, and she broke into a low sobbing fit-as if
mind and body were pouring out their griefs together.
Not loud, not hysterical; but weary, subdued, overpower-
ing; until the utter exhaustion brought sleep.
Faith got off the bed then,-looked at her, looked at the
doctor,---and then by an irrepressible feeling, sutik on her
knees. Leave her, go out of the house with him, she could
VOL. L.                263


fI'

.1

not, until she had put the cause of them all into the
hand she knew her friend and wished theirs.     A few
moments' motionless hiding of her face, during which, as
indeed during the whole conversation, Dr. Hairrison was
nearly motionless too, and used his eyes silently; and
Faith rose from her knees.   She gave another look at
the poor weary face that lay there, and then led the
way out of the house. The doctor followed her, having
perhaps got more than enough of the result of his ride,.
But as he was unfastening his horses, or rather after he-
had done it and was waiting to hand her in, Faith addressed
him.
"Dr. Harrison, on whose errand do you go telling that
woman that God's word is not true ?"
She spoke gently, yet as the doctor faced her he saw
that her soft eye could be steady as an eagle's. He did
not answer.
"Not for God's service," she went on answering herself,
-"nor for 'yours.  See to itI"
She turned and let him put her into the carriage and
they set off again. But the drive homewards promised to
be.as silent as the drive out had been.  The doctor was
grave after another fashion now, with a furtheridown gray-
ity, and scarce looked at anything but his horses; except
when a glance or a hand came to see if Faith was well
wrapped up from the wind, or to make her so. And either
action was done not with his accustomed grace merely, but
with even a more delicate tender care of her than ordinary.
Faith was in little danger of cold for some time. Grief
and loving sorrow were stirred and stirring too deeply
for thought or feeling of anything else; only that be.-
neath and with them her heart was singing, singing, in
notes that seemed to reach her from   the very harps of
heaven,-
"I thank Thee, uncreated Sun,
That thy bright beams on me have shined!"
As they went on, however, and mile after mile was passed
over again, and the afternoon waned, the wind cloud

SAY AND SEAL.

303

seemed thicker and the wind more keen; Faith felt it and
began to think of home. The horses felt it too, and per-
haps also thought of home, for they travelled well.
"What are you meditating, Miss Derrick ?" the doctor
said at length, almost the first word he had spoken.
"I was thinking, just at that minute, sir, of the use of
beauty in the world."
"The use of beauty 1" said the doctor, looking at her;
he would have been astonished, if theuppermost feeling
had not been of relief.  "What is its use ?  To make the
world civilized and habitable, isn't it ?"
"No-" said Faith,-."1AI should think it was meant to
make us good. Look at the horses, Dr. Harrison !"
The carriage had turned an angle of the road, which
brought the wind pretty strongly in their faces. The
horses seemed to take it as doubtful fun, or else to be in-
clined to make too much fun of it. They were all alive
with spirit, rather excited than allayed by their ,miles of
quick travelling. The doctor tried to quiet them by rein
and voice both.
"They get a little too much oats for the work they do,"
said he. "I must take them out oftener.  Take care of
this wind, Miss Derrick;-I haven't a hand to help you.
What's that ?-"
'That' was a bunch of weeds thrown into the road just
before the horses' heads, from over the fence; and was just
enough to give them the start which they were ready for.
They set off instantly at full run.  The road was good -and
clear; the carriage was light; the wind was inspiriting,
the oats suggestive of mischief. The doctor's boasted rein
and hand with al the aid of steel bits, were powerless to
stop them. In vai he coaxed and called to them; their
speed increased ev y minute ; they had made up their
minds to be frightened, and plunged along accordingly.
The doctor spoke once or twice to Faith, encouraging or
advising her; she did not speak nor stir.
They were just nearing the brow of a hill, when an un-
lucky boy in the road, thinking to stay their progress,
stepped before them  and waved his hat over his head.
Faith heard an execration from the doctor, then his shout

302

.;  .
1+ f ;
,s
,,
,.
t, ;
t1,F i
t
i
{':  i

SAY AND SEAL.


I

304

SAY AND SEAL.

,to her, "Don't stir, Miss Derrick !"-and then she hardly
knew anything'else. The horses plunged madly down the
hill, leaped carriage and all across a fence at the bottom
of it, where the road turned, overthrew themselves and
landed the doctor and Faith on different sides of the car-
riage, in a meadow.
The doctor picked himself up again, entirely unhurt, and
going round to Faith lifted her head from the ground.
But she was stunned by the fall, and for a few minutes
remained senseless.
In these circumstances,n ouse being near, the doctor
naturally shouted to a cap or hat which he saw passing
along the road. Which cap also it happened belonged to
Sam Stoutenburgh, who was on an errand into the country
for his father.
If ever .Dr. Harrison was unceremoniously put aside, it
was then. Sam had come rather leisurely at first-.-then
with a sort of flying bound which cleared the fence like a
thistle down, he bore down upon the doctor, and taking'ap
Faith as easily as if she had been a kitten, absolutely ran
with her to a spring which welled up through the long
meadow grass a few yards off. There the doctor found
him applying the cold water with both gentleness and skill,
for Sam Stoutenburgh had a mother, and, her fingers had
been so employed about his own head many a time.
"You're a handy fellow!1" said the doctor with a mix-
ture of expressions, as he joined his efforts to Sam's.-
"That will do it 1"-
For Faith opened her eyes. The firstword was "Mother!"
-then she sat up and looked round, and then covered her
face.
"Are you hurt?" said Dr. Harrison after an instant.
"No sir, I think not-I believe not."
"Can you stand up?"
With the help of his hand she could do it easily. She
stood silent, supported by him, looking on the prostrate
horses and shattered curricle; then turned her grave eyes
on the doctor.
"Don't stand too long, Miss Faith 1" said Sam earnestly,
with tremb ' g lips too, for the manhood in him had not
got very fa . "Are you sure you're not hurt ?"

SAY AND SEAL.

305

t
a

I1

"Sam !" said Faith giving her hand to him.-" I didn't
know it was you who was helping me."
"I only wish I'd been here for you to fall\upon!" said
Sam, with a queer mingling of grief and pleasure. "Seems
as if folks couldn't always be in just the right place."
"I am not hurt," she said with a little shudder.
"Now, how are you going to do to get home ?" said the
doctor looking much concerned. "Shall I-"
"I will walk home," she said interrupting him.
"You are not able ! We are three miles, at least, from
Mrs. Derrick's house. You could not bear it."
"I can walk three miles,  he said with a faint, fair
smile. "I will go home with Sa  and you can take care
of the horses."
"That would be a tolerably backhanded arrangement!"
said the doctor.-."Young man, will you bring these horses
into town for me-after I get them on their legs-to Judge
Harrison's, or anywhere ?-I must take care of this lady
and see her safe."
"Yes-I'll bring 'em into town," said Sam, "but Miss
Faith's to be seen to first---if they don't get on their legs
all night!  That '11 be a work of time, I take it. Miss
Faith-could you walk just a little way ?-there's a house
there, and maybe a wagon."
"You don't understand me," said the doctor. "I asked
if you would do me the favour to bring my horses into
town. I will take care of the lady."
Sam considered a minute--not the doctor but things.
"Miss Faith," he said, "I can ruir faster than you can
walk, beyond all calculation. If you'll keep warm here,
I'l run till I find a wagon-for if you don't ride and tell the
story some one else will,-and then there's two people will
be worse hurt than you are. You'd get home quickest so."
Faith was about to speak but the doctor prevented her.
"Then you refuse to take care of my horses ?" he said.
"I told you I would take care of the lady."
"Bother the horses!1" said Sam impatiently,-"who's to
think about horses with Miss Faith here frightened to
death ?  Im ready to drive 'em all over creation, when I
gjet ready, Dr. Harrison !"
Faith in her turn interposed.

it

t

} 4,
_ j. ,
'     i  it.
i  ;;      'r
y 1.
1   ,4 ,
r:,
f,, ."
":
;i' i
't
'  i


SAY AND SEAL.

"I would rather walk than wait, Dr. Harrison. If Sanm
knows some house near by, I would rather walk so far with
him than wait for him to go and come again. We could
send some one to help you then. Sam, you'll help pr,
Harrison get the horses up."
So much Sam was willing to do, and the doctor with such
grace as he might, accepted ; that is, with no grace at all,
The horses with some trouble and difficulty were raid to
their feet, and found whole. The carriage was broke too
much to be even drawn into town. Faith then set out with
her escort.
"How far is your house, Sam ?"
But Sam shook his head at that-the nearest one "f any
sort was a poor sort of a place, where they sometim s had
a wagon standing and sometimes didn't. "But we can try,
Miss Faith," he said in conclusion. Sam's arm was a strong
one, and certainly if he could have induced his companion
to lean her whole weight on it his satisfaction would have
increased in proportion; as it waste gave her good help.
And thus they had walked on, in the fading afternoon light,
more than what to Faith was "just a little way," when the
first house came in sight.
Fortunately the wagon was at home; and before it stood
an old horse that one of the men said "he should like to
see run !"-but for once such deficiency was the best recom'-
mendation. Another man set off on foot to find and help
Dr. Harrison, and the owner of the slow horse gavp the
reins to Sam. The wagon was not on springs, an the
buffalo skin was old, and the horse was slow !-beyond a
question; but still it was easier than walking, and even
quicker. Sam Stoutenburgh did his best to make Faith
comfortable-levying upon various articles for that purpose,
and drove along with a pleasure which after all can ever
be unmixed in this world ! Even Sam felt that, fdo his
long-drawn "Oh Miss Faith !"-said much, and carried
Faith's thoughts (she hardly knew why) to more than one
person at home.
" Sam," said Faith, "I don't want to say anything about
this to-night."
" Well, ma'am-I won't say a word, if I can help it. Do
you mean to anybody, Miss Faith ?"

t

I           rr3
t      rr)     t   ,{}   { ly! r

306

SAY- AND SEAL.

307

"Not to anybody. I mean, not to any one at home "
-I won't if I can help it," Sam repeated.  "But it's my
night to stay with Mr. Linden."
" Is it ?.Well.-What if it is ?"
"I don't know-" said Sam dubiously,--" he has a funny
way of reading people's faces."
"But what is going to be in yours, Sam ?"
"I don't know that, neither," said Sam.  "But the fact
is, Miss Faith, he always does find out things--and if it's
anything he's got to do with you may just as good tell him
at once as to fuss round."
A pretty significant piece of information ! Upon which
Faith mused.
It was not so late when they reached Mrs. Derrick's door,
that the good lady's anxiety had got fairly under way. At
that moment indeed, she had quitted the front of the house,
and gone to hurry Cindy and the teakettle ; so that Faith
was in the house and her escort dismissed, before Mrs.
Derrick appeared.
"Why pretty child !" she said-"here you are ! I was
very near getting worried. And I went up and asked Mr.
Linden what time it was, lest the clock should'nt be right ;
but he seemed to think it wasn't worth while to fret about
you yet. You're tired to death !" she added, looking at
Faith. "You're as pale as anything, child !"
"Yes mother-I'm very tired." j
And very glad to get home, she'would have said, but her
lips failed it.
"Well do sit down, child," said her mother, "and I'll
take your things up stairs. Tea's all ready-that'll do you
good, and then you shall go right to bed."
But that did not seem what Faith was ready to d'o ;instead
of that, she preferred to sit down by her mother, and wrap
her arms round her again and lay her head in her mother's
lap. Even then: she did not sleep, though s  was by no
means inclined to talk and answered Mrs. Derrck's fond or
anxious words with very few in return, low and quiet, or
with quiet caresses. And when her mother was silent, to
let her sleep, Faith was silent too.
SThey had sat so motionless for awhile, when Faith changed


SAY AND SEAL.

her posture. She got up, sat down on a chair by her
mother's side, laid her head in her neck and wrapped arms
round her in turn.
"Mother-" she said most caressingly,--." when will you
begin to follow Christ with me ?-.--I want that,-I want
that 1".-.

fI

I   ,j'   I      y#"'
e      '      +}   1     it 5j f
-   j        1 i    4,
!  t'S'e
Ir      ;         qty   ..
ty                1 i '  t
i Ih.

CHAPTER XXV.
HILE Dr. Harrison was sleeping off the effects of his
exertions, mental and physical, of the preceding
day; and his horses in their stable realized that the reap-
ing of wild oats has its own fatigues; Mrs. Derrick was
stirring about with even unwonted activity, preparing for
that unwonted breakfast up stairs. An anxious look or
two at Faith's sleeping face had assured her mother that
the fatigue there had been nothing very serious; and Mrs.
Derrick went down with a glad heart to her preparations.
There Faith joined her after awhile, and as breakfast time
approached, Mrs. Derrick suggested that Faith should go
up and see that the table was all right, and receive the
breakfast which she herself would send, up. Cindy was
already there, passing back and forth, and the door stood
open to facilitate her operations.
If Faith had felt curios as to the success of Sam Stout-
enburgi's efforts at concealment, her curiosity was at once
relieved. The room as she saw it through the half-open
door was bright with firelight and sunshine; the spoons
and cups on the little table shone cheerily in the glow; and
all things were in their accustomed pretty order and dis-
order. But the couch was empty, and Mr. Linden stood
by the mantelpiece, leaning one arm there, his face bent
down and covered with his band.
Faith had no need to knock-the door being open and
Cindy in full possession; but as her light step came near
the fire he turned suddenly and held out his hand to her
without a word. Then gently pushing her back to the
corner of the couch, Mr. Linden bade her "sit down and be
quiet-" and he himself took a chair at her side. She
could hardly tell how he looked-the face was so different
from any she had ever seen him wear.
For a minute she obeyed orders; then she said, though
with an eye that avoided meeting his,
"I mustn't be quiet, Mr: Linden-I must see to the
breakfast table."

Y1
t /
}
W
G
r
4'
:
"  I
A
,C
f
i
ry

808

I

(309)


310

SAY AND SEAL.

If his first motion was to hinder that, he thought better
of it, and suffered her to go and give her finishing touches;
watching her alP'the time, as she felt, but without speaking;
and when Cindy shut the door and tramped down stairs, the
room was very still. Only the light crackling of the hickory
sticks in the chimney, and those soft movements about the
table. If ever such movements were made with pleasure..
if ever a face of very deep peacefulness hovered over the
placing and displacing of knives and forks, plates and salt.
cellars,--it was then. Yet it was not a very abstracted
face, nor looked as if the outward quiet might be absolutely
immovable. The last touch put to tlfi table, Faith glanced
at the hickory sticks on the fire; but they wanted nothing;
and then her look came round to Mr. Linden, and the smile
which could no longer be kept. back, came too; a smile of
touching acknowledgment.
"Miss Faith, will you come and sit down ?"   -
She came, silently.
One deep breath she did hear, as Mr. Linden arranged
the cushions and with gentle force made her lean against
them, but either he did not feel himself able to tone di.
rectly what they were both thinking of--or else tho ght
her not able to bear it. His tone was very quiet, the rest
of his hand upon her hair hardly longer than it had been
yesterday, as he said,,
"What will my scholar be fit for to-day ?--anything but
sleep ?"
For a momeiW it was a little more than she could bear,
and her face for that moment was entirely grave; then she
smiled up at him and answered in a tone lighter than his
had been,
"Fit for anything-and more fit than ever, Mr. Linden.
I only rest here because you put me here."
- The next remark diverged a little, and was given with
darkening eyes.
"How DARED he take you with those young horses !"
"He thought he could do just what he pleased with
them-" said Faith, shaking her head a little.
"And with you-" was in Mr. Linden's mind, but it
came not forth. " Where is your mother?-does she
know ?"

SAY AND SEAL.

311

"Mother's coming," said Faith raising herself from the
cushions,--"as soon as she sends up the breakfast. She
doesn't know yet. I told Sam not to tell you, Mr. Linden.'-
"How do you do to-day ?"
She answered him with a bright fair glance and in a
tone as sweet as happiness could make it,
"Very well!"
Mr. Linden's eyes went from her to the opening door
and the entering dishes.
"Sam was not in fault, Miss Faith,-I heard you come
home."
In the train of the dishes came Mrs. Derrick, and looked
with a little amaze at Mr. Linden off the couch and Faith
upon it. But if the first didn't hurt him, she knew the
second wouldn't hurt Faith, with whose appearance her
mother was not yet quite satisfied. And when they were
all at the, table, Mrs. Derrick might wonder at those words
of very earnest thanksgiving that they- were all brought
together again, but they needed no explanation to any one
else. In all her life Faith had never known just such a
breakfast. That sweet sense of being safe - of being
shielded, - of breathing an atmosphere where no evil,
mental, moral, or physical, could reach her,-how precious
it was !-after those hours of fear and sorrow. If her two
companions had visibly joined hands around her, she could
not have felt the real fact more strongly. And another
hand was nearer and more precious still to her- apprehen-
sion; even the one that made theirs strong and had brought
her within them. Faith's face was a fair picture, for all
this was there. But Faith's words were few.
How many Mr. Linden's would have been, of choice,
cannot be known; for Mrs. Derrick's mind was so intent
upon the last night's expedition, so eager to know howthe
poor woman was, and what she said, and where she lived;
and how Faitlir enjoyed the drive, and what made her get
so tired,-that he had full occupation in warding off the
questions and turning them another way. In compliance
with her wishes he had taken his usual place on the couch,
and there made himself useful both with word and hand;
the particular use of breakfast to him, was not so apparent.
It was over not a bit too soon; for Cindy had not

i   ji Ti{.
r
r           .1
21
tl
7  r       },
"  t,
"          1,
F
i,
r
i
ti
f


312             SAY AND SEAL.

finished the work of removing it before she brought up word
that the doctor was come and wanted to see Mis' Derrick,
Faith judged the enquiry was meant for herself and ran
down stairs accordingly. The doctor was satisfied that she
was none the worse of her ride with him, but had brought
a very serious face to the examination.
"Have you forgiven me, Miss Derrick ?"
"I have nothing to forgive, sir !" Faith told him with a
look that gave sweet assurance of it.-" I am not hurt. I
am very glad I went."
"May I say," said the doctor, and he looked as if he was
uneasy till he had said it,-"that you misjudged me yester-
day from that woman's words. I did not choose to inter.
rupt her-and the severity of your remarks to me," he said
with a little smile which did not want feeling, "took from
me at the moment the power to justify myself., I3ut Miss
Derrick, I have not done what you seemed to supposo-
and fairly enough, for she gave you to understand it.' I
never set myself to overthrow her belief in anything. I
have hardly held any conversation with her, except what
related to her physical condition; if I have said anything
it has been a word intended to quiet her. I saw her mind
was very much disturbed."
Faith had looked very grave, with eyes cast down, during
the hearing of this speech. She rised them then, at the
end, and said with great gentleness,
"There is but one way to give quiet that will stand, Dr.
Harrison."
"I am sure you are right," he said looking at her with
an unwonted face, nearer to reverence than Dr. Harrison
was often known to give to anything "I hope you will
go and see that poor creature again and undo any mischief
my careless words may have done."
"Won't you undo them yourself, Dr. Harrison ?"
"I will endorse yours, so well as I can !" he said. "But
won't you see her again ?"
"If I can,-I will try to go."
"May I see Mr. Linden ?" was the next question in a
lighter tone; and receiving permission the doctor moved
himself up stairs. ~He entered Mr. Linden's room with a
quiet, composed air, very different from the jaunty manner

of yesterday; and applied himself with business quiet to
Mr. Linden's state and wants. And the reception he jnet
was not one to set him a talking. It was not tinged with
the various feelings which the thought of him had
stirred in Mr. Linden's mind that night and morning,-if
they lived still it was in the background. The grasp of
his hand was firmer than usual, the tone m re earnest,
which said, "I am very glad to see you !"-nd yet the
doctor felt that in them both there was more--a d also less
.-than mere personal feeling.
He had nearly finished the arrangem  ts of Mr. Linden's
arm when he remarked, "Did you h eithe result of our
expedition yesterday ?"
A grave 'yes,' answered him.
"You see," said the doctor, "I couldn't manage the
wind !"
But to that there was no reply.
"It was just that," said the doctor.  "Those horses had
been taking whiskey, I believe, instead of oats; and the
wind just made them mad. They ran for pure love of run-
ning !-till a little villain threw up his hat at them-and
then indeed it was which'could catch the clouds first."
If the doctor wanted help in his account, he got none.
He drew back and took a survey.
"What's the niatter, Linden ?-you look more severe at
me this morning than Miss Derrick does;-and I am sure
she has the most reason."
"I have a prudent fit come over me- once in a while,"
said Mr. Linden goodhumouredly, but with a little restless
change of position. "I'm afraid if I talk much upon this
subject I shall.get out of patience-and I couldn't lay all
the blame of \that upon you."
"What blame-do you pretend-to lay upon me, as it
is?" said the doctor not illhumouredly.
"Thereell be no pretence about it-when I lay it on,"
said Mr. Linden.
"Enact Macduff-and lay on1" said the doctor smiling.
"Let it suffice you that I could if I would."
"The shadows of strokes suffice me!". said the doctor.
"Am I a man of straw ? Do you take me for Sir .Andrew
Aguecheek ? 'horribly valiant', after- his fashion. . What
VOL. 1.                27

4

SAY AND SEAL;

313


SAY AND SEAL.

315

have I done, man ?" He stood, carelessly handsome and
handsomely careless, before the couch, looking dowrupon
Mr. Linden as if resolved to have something out of him.
A part of the description applied well to the face he was
looking at---yet after a different fashion ; and anything less
careless than the look Mr. Linden bent upon him, could not
be imagined. It was a look wherein again different feelings
held each other in check,--the grave reproof, the sorrowful
perception, the quick indignation-IDr. Harrison might
detect them all; and yet more, the wistful desire that he
were a different man. This it was that answered.
"What have you done, doctor ?-you have very nearly
given yourself full proof of those true things which you
profess to disbelieve."
" How do you know that I disbelieve anything ?" said the
doctor, with a darkening yet an acute look;-"much more
that I profess to disbelieve ?"
"How do I know whether a ship carries a red or a blue
light at her masthead ?"
"You don't, if she carries no light at all; and I do not
remember that I ever professed myself in your hearing on
either side of the 'things' I suppose you mean."
"What do you say of a ship that carries no light at all?"
"Must a ship always hang out her signals, man?"
"Ay--" said Mr. Linden,-." else she may run down the
weaker craft, or be- run down by the stronger."
"Suppose she don't know, in good truth, what light
belongs to her ?"
"It is safe to find out."
" Who has told you, Linden, that I believed or disbelieved
anything ?"
"Yourself."
"May I ask, if any other testimony has aided your judg-
ment, or come in aid of it?"
"No," said Mr. Linden, looking at him with a grave,
considering eye. "I am not much in the habit of discuss
ing such points with third' parties."'
The doctor bit his lip; and then smiled.
"You're a good fellow, Linden. But you see, I can
afford to say that now. I have you at advantage. As long
as you lie there, and I am your attending physician--whiCh

latter I assure you I look upon as a piece of my good for-
tune-you can't knock me down, if you feel disposed. I
am safe, and can afford to be generous. As to the lights,"
said the doctor taking up his hat, " I agree to what you
say and that's more of a concession than I ever made on
the subject before. But in the atmosphere I have lived in,
I do assure you I have not been 4ble to tell the blue lights
from the red 1"
"I believe you," said Mr. Li den,--"nor was it alto-
gether the falilt of the atmosphere  Even where the colour
is right, the glass is sometimes dim. What then ?"
"What then ? why the inference is plain. If one can-
npt be distinguished from the other, one is as good as the
other 1"
"And both shine with a steady clear ligt upon the
heavenward way ?"
"There's no question of shirgng," said the doctor half
scornfully, half impatiently. "If they shew colour at all,
it is on a way that is murky enough, heaven knows !"
"Then what have they to do with the question ?" said
Mr. Linden,-"you are applying rules of action which you
would laugh at in any other case. Does the multitude of
quacks disgust you with the science of medicine ?-.-does the
K dim burning of a dozen poor candles hinder your lighting
a good one ?  You have nothin to do with other people's
r lights,-let your own shine 1"
Dr. Harrison stood looking at his adviser a minute, with
a smile that was both pleased and acute.
"Linden "-said he,-"it strikes me that you are out of
your vocation."
" When I heard that account last night,"-Mr. Linden
went on-and he paused, as if the recollection were pain
ful,-" the second' thing I thought of was your own words,
that heaven 'is not in your line.'
"Well?-." said the doctor swinging his hat and begin-
hing to pace up and down the room, and speaking as if at
once confessing and justifying the charge laid tohim,-..
"Now and then, I believe, a bodily. angel comes down to
the earth and leaves her wings behind her-but that's not
humanity, Linden I"
" True servant of Goll, is as fair a name as angel," said

I                                 }
I f

SAY AND  AL.

314


SAY AND SEAL:

317

Mr. Linden; "and that is what humanity may be and often
is.  'Though crowns are wanting, and bright pinions
folded.'"
" I don't know-" said the doctor. "I shouldn't have
wondered any minute yesterday to see the pinions unfold
before me." Which remark was received in silence.
If such an angel were to take hold of me," the doctor
went on meditatively,-"I believe she might make me and'
carry me whither she would. But I wonder if I shall be
forbid the house now !"--He stopped and looked at Mr.
Linden with a face of comic enquiry.
"You may come and see me," said Mr. Linden, with
comforting assurance.
"Do you think I may ?" said the doctor. He sat down
and threw his hat on the floor.-" What shall I do with
Mrs. Derrick?  She will want to send me off in a balloon,
on some air journey that will never land me on earth !-or
find some other vanishing medium most prompt and irrevo-
cable--all as a penalty for my having ventured to leap a
fence in company with her daughter !"
But the prudent fit had perhaps come back upon Mr.
Linden, for except a sudden illumination of eye and face,
the doctor's speech called forth no opinion.
"The best driver on earth can't be a centaur, man!
Horses in these days will have heads 'of their own." But.
then the doctor rose up and came gracefully and gravelyU
again to take his friend and patient's hand.
"I agree to all you say !" said he, looking down with a
goodhumoured wilful expression to Mr. Linden's face;-
"and I know no, other man to whom I would own as much,
after such words and such silence as you have bestowed on
me. Good-bye. But really, remember, a man is not an-
swerable for all his horses-or all his wits--may do."
The doctor went; and then there was an intervalof some
length. Faith had found several things to do in her down
stairs department, which she would not leave to her mother;
especially after the shock Mrs. Derrick's mind and heart
had received from the communication of what had happened
the day before. So it was a little later than usual when
the light tap was heard at Mr. Linden's door and Faith and i
a cup of cocoa came in. She set the cup down, and then 4

went out again for a dish of".grapes and pears-Tudge
garrison's and Farmer David's sending---which she brought
to the table.
"1 didn't know which you would like best, Mr. Linden;--
so I brought both."
"I should like to be waNng on you," he said,-" Miss
Faith, you ought not to be waiting on me. I shall bestir
myself and come down stairs."
There was expression in the kind of happy silence that
answered him, as she offered the cocoa.
"I don't know where to begin to talk to you this morn-
ing," said Mr. Linden,-" everything demands the first
place. Miss Faith, when you feel that you can, will you
tell me all about yesterday ? I wish I could give you this
couch again, but I suppose in prudence I ought to lie still."
She saw him served with what he would have; then sat
down, and a shadow of sweet gravity came over her.
"The ride out was all very pleasant. There wasn't much
talk, and I could just enjoy everything. It's a long way,
Mr. Linden," she said glancing at him-she spoke generally
with her eyes bent somewhegre else ;-."it 41ust be ten or
twelve miles, for we went very fast ; and it was beautiful,
with the wind and the driving clouds and shadows. So I
enjoyed all that part, and I wasn't afraid of the horses, or
not much afraid-though they went vry fast and I saw
they felt very gay. I liked the going fast and I thought
the doctor could manage them." She paused.
"Are you sure you want to talk of this now ?" Mr. Lin-
den said. "You know we have other things to do-this
can wait till you chos.
"I. like to tell it," she said withnother quick glance and
a quick breath,-" but the visit comes next-and I don't
know how to tell you of that. Mr. Linden, I wish you
could see that woman 1-And if you can't soon, I must,-
somehow."
"If I can't-or if I can, I will find you the 'somehow,'
if you want to go. And if you will let me," he added.
"Is she really dying ?"
" She.says so-" Faith said low. And was silent a bit.
" Then we set out to come home, and all went very well
till we were half w y on the road; but then the horses
27*

I

AND SEAL.

316

r                 i  t   a
{ jo


318                SAY AN;       V
seemed to .grow more friky than ever-I think the wind
excited them; and Dr. Harrison had his hands full, I could
see, to hold them in, especially after we turned Lamprey's
corner and the wind was in their faces. I think it was
something suddenly flung over the fence, that started them
off to run-and then they ran faster and faster, and reins
and bits were of no use at all."
Faith was excited herself, and spoke slowly and low and
with hindered breath.
"I saw they were getting more and more furious,-and
there were a. few minutes, Mr. Linden, when I thought I
should maybe never see home again.-And then I thanked
you in my heart."
"ie ?" he said with quick emphasis, and looking at her,
Faith did not look at him, but after a pause went on very
quietly.
"I mean, on earth I thanked you. The end of it was,
they took a new fright at something, I believe, just at the
top of a hill; and after that it was all a whirl. I hardly
knew anything-till I found myself lying on the ground in
the meadow. The horses had jumped the carriage and all
clean over the fence. The fence was just below the foot
of the hill; the road took a turn there.--Sam told you the
rest-didn't he, Mr. Linden ?"
' He said "yes," and not another word, but lay there still
with those closely shielded eyes ; and lips unbent from their
usual repose, with grave humbleness and grief and joy.
The silence lasted till Faith spoke again. And that was
some little space of time. A shade' graver and lower her
tone was when she spoke.
"I shall never forget after this, that it is 'part of ae'
Christian's sailing-orders to speak every vessel he meets.'
.-I think I shall never forget it again."
Mr. Linden did look then at the little craft that had begun
her voyage so undauntedly under -the Christian colours,
though what he thought of her he said not ; apparently his
own words were not yet ready, though he spoke.
"Be strong and of a good courage; he not afraid, neither
be thou dismayed : for the Lord thy God is with thee
whithersoever thou goest.'" -
Faith spoke no more. She sat in the absolutest quiet,

SAY AND SEAL.

319

of face and figure both ; looking into the fire that played
in the chimney, with a fixedness that perhaps told-in the
beginning--of some doubtfulness of self command. But
the happy look of the face was in nowise changed.
A knock at the door was the first interruption, a knock
so low down that the latch seemed quite too high to match
it; but by some exercise of skill this was lifted, and Johnny
'fax presented himself. He looked very wide awake, and
smiling, and demure, as was his wont, though to-day the
smiles were in the ascendant ; owing perhaps to the weest
of all wee baskets which he held in his hand. Coming close
up to Mr. Linden, and giving him the privileged caress,
Johnny stood there within his arm and smiled benignly
upon Faith, as if he considered her quite part and parcel
of the same concern. Who smiled back upon him, and
enquired " where he had come from ?" .
Johnny said "From home, ma'am," and looked down at
his tiny basket as if it were a weight on his mind that he
did not know how to get rid of.
"Johnny," said Mr. Linden, "what have you got in that
basket ?"
"You couldn't guess !" said Johnnywith a very bright
face.
"I couldn't guess1" said Mr. Linden. "Don't you sup-
pose I can do anything ?"
"Yes--"said Johnny shaking his head,-.." but you can't
do that."
"Then I shall not try," said Mr. Linden, ",nd you'll
have to tell me."
Johnny put his face close down by Mr. Linden, and
whispered, but not so low that Faith could not hear-
"It's two white eggs that my black hen laid for you,
sir!"
"Well I never should have guessed that !"-said Mr.
Linden smiling. "I didn't suppose there was a hen in
the world that cared so much for me. I don't believe
she would if she was not your hen, Johnny. "-Which last
sentence Johnny understood just well enough to feel de-
lighted; and stood with a glad little face while his teacher
opened the- basket, and taking up first one egg and then
the other, commented upon their size and whiteness.

.4
f
5.
t    4,
5  t  '
t  ;
1
+I  !
!i  ,,,
'F rt


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

"As soon as I can get out I shall come and see that hen,"
said Mr. Linden, drawing the child closer and giving hiu
another kiss.-which Johnny thought was worth a whole
basket of eggs;-"Jso you must tell her to have her feathers
in good order.   Now what have you to say to Mis
Faith ?"
" 0 she talks to me," said Johnny.
"Does she ?" said Mr. Linden,-"is that the division
of labour ? What does she talk about, Johnny ?-.--let me
see how well you remember." It was said with a little
acknowledging look that he was asking that to which
somebody would demur-but also with a wilful assumption
that somebody would come to no harm. So though Faith
flushed and started, she sat back in her seat again without
making any word interposition. Johnny stood and thought
--...for he was a real little literalist.
"She talked about heaven-' he said slowly,--"and.how
to get there,-and said she was going-and we must too.
That's what she said Sunday. And at Judge Harrison's
she said she was glad I'd got a red ribband-and down to
Neanticut she told me to run away."
"I'm sure that was a gentle way of dismissing you "said
Mr. Linden, stroking the child's forehead. "Well J y
-are you trying to follow her in that way to heave she
told you of?"
The "yes" was given without hesitation, and came with
strangely sweet effect from those childish lips. Then after
a minute Johnny added, as if he feared some inisunder-
standing,
T "It's the same way you told me, sir."
"Yes, I trust you will see me there too," Mr. Linden
said, with a rather moved look at the little face before
him.
What made Yaith, at those last words of Johnny's, jump
up and spring to the fire? And after a most elaborate
handling of the sticks of wood, she did not come back to
her seat; but stood still with her back turned to the couch
and the little witness who was testifying there. He was
not called uplon for any more evidence, however. Mr. Lin-
den talked -or let him talk-about various important
things in Johnny's daily life and experience, and gave a

promise that he himself would be at school as soon as the
doctor gave his permission.
Mrs. Derrick's softknock and entrance came now, she
herself looking in good truth as if a "tear-storm" had
passed over her. But she brightened up a, little at the
sight of Faith.
"Pretty child !" she said, coming up to 1er, "and so
you're here? I couldn't rest any longer wi hout seeing
just where you were."
Faith put one hand on her shoiJder as she stood, and
then clasped Ahe~ther upon that.
Pretty child 1" her motherarepeated, in a tone that
spoke more of pain than pleasure-and Faith could feel
the shudder that passed over her then. But she controlled
herself. "Do you know it's dinner time, Faith ?  How is
Mr. Linden ?"
"There he is," said Faith smiling. "I don't know,
mother."
"He'don't look to me as if he had ever been asleep,"
said Mrs. Derrick, -but whether that skewed want of
sleep, or the reverse, was, as Mr. Linden remarked, quite
doubtful.
Mrs.Derrick looked at him, met his smile-then her
whole heart answered to something it said.
Sh Mr. Linden! think of her being in such danger I"
an here was a minute of deep silence.
"Na v" he answered softly-and the face was beautiful
in its c  ing expression,-"think of her being so safe!"
Mrs. Drick could bear neither word nor look after that.
The two ladies went down together, leaving Johnny to
dine with his teacher.

'321

320

1i,


SAY AND SEAL.            323

CHAPTER XXVI.
THE dinner up stairs was a very quiet and- uninter.
rupted one. The dinner down stairs was destined
not.to be so.
The first break was the entrance of Cindy with a bunch
of flowers-which the doctor had sent to Miss Derrick,
with the desire to know how she was. Faith received the
flowers with a dubious face and put them in water on the
dinner-table, where they looked splendid. Mrs. Derrick
could hardly see their splendour.
"He needn't think to come round me that way," she
said. "Child ! I wouldn't let you go off with him again
for twenty kingdoms 1"
"Not with those horses, mother."
"Nor with any others. I sha'n't ever want to have you
go with anybody again, Faith."
"What's goin' on here ?" said a growling voice which
they knew, before Mr. Simlins entered the door' of the
dining room. "That gal o' yourn wants me to stay po ' y
'n the parlour yonder-but I ain't polite-and I c to
e you; not your doors and windows nog' the pr  paper
on your walls. What are you algbou',1irs. .fick? I
hear the very spirit of turbidness has got iAto ~ house"
"There's not much spirit in me to-day," said Mrs. Der-
rick, "nor spirits neither. I've lost what little I had
Anybody could knock me down with a straw.   Sit down,
Mr. Simlins, and take some dinner."
"I'n afeard, if it's done so easy, I might occasionally do
it with one o' them posies," said Mr. Simlins standing and
surveying the bouquet as if he didn't know what to m06'
of it. "Do you eat the grass of the field atyour noon-
spell ?"
"You may ask Faith," said Mrs. Derrick; "she put 'em
there."
"Sit down, Mr. Simlins," said Faith.'
(322)

"I ain't goin' to sit down! I've eat my dinner.  I've
k just come in, Mrs. Derrick, to see if you're all overturned,
or if there's anything left straight yet."
It's all straight," said Faith smiling up at him. "Sit
down, Mr. Simlins."
"What's the truth of it, Mrs. Derrick? This child ain't
all straight, is she?"
It followed that, bit by bit, Mr. Simlins got out the
story of the accident, for neither Faith nor Mrs. Derrick
was forward to speak about it. He then enquired, with an
9 unsatisfied grunt, why Faith was "postin' round with
Dr. Harrison ?"  Whereat Mrs. Derrick felt justly indig-
nant.
"Why she ain't! Mr. Simlins.   She went down there
on business, and there was noboq'y else at hand to take her
} just then."
"'What'do you call being' at hand ?" said Mr. Simlins.
"I've got two hands, and more'n two horses-that won't
run away neither.  It's only my cows do that!-Where's
Mr. Linden ?"
"0 he's up stairs--" said Mrs. Derrick. "He's not
been down yet. Faith, don't you think he's some stronger
to-day ?"
"And so," said Mr. Simlins turning to her again re-
proachfully,-"while he's lyin' up there and can't stir, you
go drivin' over the country with 'tother one !"
But that brought out Faith's round low laugh, so incon-
trovertibly merry and musical that it changed Mr. Simlins'
face on the instant.  It came to an end almost as soon, but
short as it was it was better than the warble of any nightin-
gale; inasmuch as the music of a good sound human heart
is worth all the birds in creation.
"When's Mr. Linden going to be down stairs, where a
body can get sight of him?"
"The doctor says he mustn't go out for a long time yet,"
said Mrs. Derrick. "When are you going to find the man
that shot him ?-that's what I want to know."
"When I get a composition from the only witness," Mr.
Simlins answered.  "And as the witness ain't particular
about testifying, I'm afeard it'll be a spell o' time yet.- It'll
come out. I should think the fellow'd ha' made tracks,

/I

a
5-
}-
,.
,-
i'
.
.z'


SAY AND SEAL.

fust thing; but I 'aint heerd of any one's begin' mission' from
to wn,-except--"
Mr. Simlins suddenly started, stopped, and gazed a
Faith with a most extraordinary expression.
"Did you look at my flowers, Mr. Simlins ?" said Pait
quite quietly, though without meeting his eye.
"I've seen nosegays afore," growled Mr. Simlins in
very uninterested manner. "I don't see as this is no more
nor less than a nosegay. Do you s'pose I might go up an4
see somebody up stairs for two minutes, without creating
any confusion ?"
Mr. Simlins went up and shortly afterwards went away
But if Faith anticipated a good long lesson that afternoon
to make up for the morning and afternoon in which she
had had none-lbeit the morning had been better tha ni
lessons--she wa to be disappointed. Hardly was the din.
ner over, and the muffins mixed which she was determined
should make amends for Mr. Linden's poor breakfast, when
Miss Harrison came; full of sorrow, and sympathy
hope.    .r                             s
"Faith don't look a bit the worse, ma'am," she said to
Mrs. Derrick.
"She couldn't look any way but just so," her mother
said with a fond glance.        -.6
"Why she could look pale, but I don't see that she does
even that;-unless, perhaps, just such a tiny paleness as
is rather becoming than otherwise. Dear Mrs. Derrick, I I
hope you have forgiven Julius ?"                    }..
It was a sorrowful smile that met her words, and eyes I
that grewr dim and looked away. A
"I suppose I could forgive the whole world--.since he
didn't do any more harm," Mrs. Derrick said with her
wonted gentleness. "But I wouldn't see her go with him
again, Miss Sophy-if that's what you call forgiveness.",
"Why not? Dear Mrs. Derrick,!"-
"Why not ?"--said the good lady.-" why Faith's used
to being taken care of, Miss Sophy..and I'm used to see.
ing it,"
"My dear Mrs.Derrick !"-Missarrison exclaimed out
of breath,-"do you think she was not taken care of?
Julius knows his horses, and he is a capital hand with

them; he says himself he thinks he should have brought
them to, if that little wretch of a boy hadn't thrown up his
hat before their eyes. No horses would stand that, you
know. And the best man in the world, and the best driver,
can't'be certain of his.horses, Mrs. Derrick.' Not take
care of her 1-
"I don't mean to say that he didn't mean to," said Mrs
Derrick quietly, "but I don't think he knows how. You
needn't look so, Miss Sophy-I'm not saying a word
against your brother. But Faith's only part of the world
to him-and she's the whole of it to me. He should have
taken horses he was sure of," said Mrs. Derrick with a
little flush on her cheek.
"I don't know," said Miss Harrison softly, and looking
at Faith,-" I don't know just what part of the world
she is to him-but I think, and am very sure, he would
have thrown himself out rather than her. Can anybody
do more ? Can any mark do more, Mrs. Derrick ?" she
said smiling. "I know you are her mother; and though
I am not her mother, I think of her just as you do."
~ "I can't say what any man'can do," said Mrs. Derrick
pleasantly,-" I haven't tried many. And you can't tell
how I feel, Miss, Sophy-it isn't cross, if it sounds so.
How long has Dr. Harrison had those horses ?"
"Why, not very long," said Miss Harrison,-"he hasn't
been home long himself. But he's a good judge of horses,"
she said, a little less sure of her ground than in the former
part of the conversation. Perhaps she was not sorry to
have it interrupted.
"My dear Mrs. Derrick !" said Mr. Somers entering,-
"I have come to congratulate you!  Miss Harrison, I see,
is before me in this pleasant-a-office. Miss Faith !-I
am glad to see you looking so well after your overthrow."-
Mr. Somers went round shaking hands as he spoke.-" Mrs.
Somers will be here presently to join me-she stopped a
few minutes by the way. Mrs. Somers always has more
business on hand than I can-a-keep up with. Mrs.
Derrick, I have rejoiced with you, indeed, ma'am."
Mrs. Somers had managed to keep up with her business
and him too, for she came in before Mr. Somgrs had well
taken the measure of his chair. She walked up to Faith
VOL. 1                 28

.       5 it} 1
-            l .
{
t    It    )         S f
+f      }         14 }  t
i                        ,
4                 I }  3((
,

325

324

SAY AND SEAL.


326             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

and kissed her, with a sort of glad energy, gave her a com.
prehensive glance from head to foot, and then turned to
Mrs. Derrick with,
" There's nothing amiss with her, after all.-Sopi,
what excuses have you brought in your bag ?-it seemsto
be full."
"I wish you'd make some for Julius, aunt Elle -I can
see Mrs. Derrick has only half forgiven him."
"Has she got so far as that ?" said Mrs. Somers.
"I don't know. Faith, you might come and say some.
thing-you know if it isn't true; and Mrs. Derrick will
heat' you."
Faith was busy giving Mrs. Somers a chair, and cer.
tainly looked as if she had nobody to forgive anything in
the wide world.
"What do you want me to say, Sophy ?"
"Why, that Julius wasn't to blame."
"I find it is stillan disputed point, whether a man has a
right to break his own neck," said Mrs. Somers. "I think
he hasn't, myself, but most people don't agree with me.
Mr. Somers thinks people may run away alone or together,
just as they've a mind. I don't know whether it's the fees
or the freedom that takes his fancy."
"I suppose, my dear," said Mr. Somers, "a man may
lawfully set out to take a ride without intending to break
his own neck, or anybody else's; and find it done at the
end, without blame to himself. I never was, I hope, a
promoter of-ha !-flighty marriages-to which you seem
to allude."
"If he finds it done at the end, it isn't done very
thoroughly," said Mrs. Somers. "But Pattaquasset's grow-
ing up into a novel-last week furnished with a hero, and
this week with a heroine,-the course of things can't run
smooth now.   So we may all look out for breakers-of
horses, I hope, among other things."
"Oh aunt Ellen !"-was Miss Harrison's not gratified
comment on this speech.
"I hope Mrs. Somers don't mean that we are to look
out for breakers of hearts, among the other things," said
Mr. Somers.
"Look out for them? to be sure !" said Miss Harrison;-

"always and everywhere. What would the world be with
out them?"
"The world would not be heart-broken," said Mrs.
Somers. "Faith--which of you came to first? who picked
you up V
yI don't know, Mrs. Somers. Sam Stoutenburgh was
passing just at the time and Dr. Harrison called him -I
don't know who picked me up."
"Sam Stoutenburgh !" said Mrs. Somers,--" well, he's
made, if nobody else is! He'll bless Julius for the rest of
his life for giving him such a chance. Do you know how
that boy watches you, Faith ?-I mean to speak to .Mr.
Linden about it the very first time I see him."
Something in this speech called forth Faith's colour.
She had spoken Sam's name herself with the simplest un-
changnig face; but now the flushes came and came abund-
antly.
"I don't know what good that would do, Mrs. Somers."
"Nor I--till I try," said the lady smiling at her.  "But
if the mere, suggestion is so powerful, what may not the
reality do ? I'll say one thig for Mr. Linden-he makes
all those boys come into church and get seated before the
service begins--which nobody else ever did yet; if they
ever tried. I was curious to see how it would be last Sun-
day when he wasn't there--but they were more punctual
than- ever. It's quite a comfort-if there's anything I do
hate to see, it's a troop of men and boys( outside the door
when they ought to be in. What are you afraid he'll say
to Sam, Faith ?"
Faith's eyes were looking down. The question brought
them up, and then her smile was as frank as her blushes
had been. "I am    not afraid he'll say anything, Mrs.
Somers."
"I don't know why he should, my dear," said Mr. Somers.
"We all like to use our eyes-you can't very well blame a
boy."
"0 Mr. Somers !" said his wife-with that air which a
woman ,puts on when she says she believes, what she
wouldn't for the world say if she believed, -.-" of course you
think that! Don't I know how you broke your heart after
a green veil when you were in college ? I don't think it's

827

i ;    }:
,
,
;S .
,.
r
,;
E .;}
; .
,    .
.',.

,   1
;
;
!' ,
?',;;
;'


328

SAY AND SEAL.

J

been right whole since. Now I have some feeling for Sa
--or his future wife."
"Well Mrs. Derrick, what shall I tell Julius ?" said Miss
Harrison as she rose to go.
"Tell him ?" said Mrs. Derrick enquiringly. "ge
wouldn't care to hear anything about me, if you did tell
him, Miss Sophy."
"Well !-he'll have to come and talk to you himself"
said Miss Harrison.  "Faith, stand up for the right."
Faith went to the door with her and returned ushering
in a new-comer, even th  Te of Farmer Davids.     g
"Husband wanted m    o co   and see how Mr. Linden
was," she said in meek ex nation of her appearance. "He
would have come hisself, bu ie was forced to be in the
field, and he said he wisht I'd come myself. How is hei
ma'am ?.
"I hope he's better,"-said Mrs. Derrick, giving her new
visiter a kind reeption and a seat.  "le don't get strong
very fast. How are you all at home, Mrs. Davids ?"
"We're considerable comfortable, ma'am," said Mrs.
Davids taking the chair 4n an unobtrusive spirit. "I am
happy to have the occasion to make your acquaintance
better. Husband would have come hisself, only he couldn't,
Mr. Linden don't get strong ?"
"Not very fast," said Mrs. Derrick. "I don't know just
when the doctor '11 let him go to school again. I suppose
you're anxious about Phil, Mrs. Davids. But all the boys
have to be out, now."
"Yes ma'am, we're anxious-and husband is anxious
about Mr. Linden, and he sent me to know. But there is
such a change in Phil, ma'am,"--she said turning to Mrs.
Somers,-" such a change, you wouldn't believe ! he never
would go to school before-not regular-not for nobody-'
not for his father, nor for me; and it was mor'n my life
was worth. My husband, he said it was my fault; but I
don't know how 'twas! And now sir, he don't want a
word spoke to him! he's off before it's time in the morning
-and he learns too, for I catch him at it; and my hus-
band don't think anything in the world is too good for Mr.
Linden; nor of course, I s'pose, I don't. But however he's
managed or overcome it, to make Phil draw in harness, I

SAY AND SEAL.

329

don't know, and husband says he don't. And ma'am, was
pears good? or what does Mr. Linden like ?  If it's
on the farm he'll get it."
It would have taken more conversational skill than Mrs.
Derrick possessed, to give a summary answer to all this;
but her simplicity answered as well, after all.
«I guess he'll like what you've been saying better than
anything, Mrs. Davids; I'll tell him."
"Do," said Mrs. Davids. "I wisht you would. Hus-
band would have said it completer. He thinks ma'am,"
(turning to Mrs. Somers again) "that Mr. Linden is a won-
derful manI And I'm of the opinion lie's handsome."
Faith had been sitting, quiet and demure, for some time
past, hearing what was going on; but this last sentence
drove her to the right about like lightning. She found
something to do in another part of the room.
"Did you ever hear anybody say he wasn't ?" said Mrs.
Somers. "Mr. Somers, it's time we were going. Ah.-
there's Squire Stoutenburgh! Faith-come here !"
And Squire Stoutenburgh, appearing in the doorway
like the worthy father of his stout son, bowed to the com-
pany.
"Well Mrs. Derrick-" he said,-"go'od day Mr. Somers
.-and Mrs. Somers! I beg pardon-Well Miss Faith!
I'm glad it is well, I'm sure. My dear, how do you do ?"
"Why very well, sir !" said Faith.
"Why so it is !" said Squire Stoutenburgh taking hold
of both her hands and looking at her. "Sam said you
were as pale as a ghost when he carried" you down to the
spring-but 'Sam don't always see straight when he's ex-
cited. You needn't be frightened if I kiss you, my dear-
you know I always do, and always have-since you were a
year old," said the Squire as he took his wonted privilege.
Faith gravely submitted, not letting the Squire however
get any further than her cheek; which ought to have con-
tented him.
"Sam was very good to me yesterday,.sir," she answered.
"I think, Squire," said Mr. Somers, "your son was-a-.
in luck, as we say. A fortunate chance ! What iost
people would have thought no-a-disagreeable office."
"Sam's a good boy-" said his father,-" a very godd

ii
1f   '

'   'i P ,
,  .
, ; f
'r;i'
1      ,  '   I1I i'
r    rIr  r
.1  }f
j          it
1 fi irS      tr
',  ,'";' J   ,tf
t,  ili!;{f   i (  i rfi
jf il iSf  R  i 1S


SAY AND SEAL.

boy-always was. He does crow a little over Dr. Harrison,
I must say. But what shall we do with the doctor, M.
Somers ?-what does he deserve for running away with our
Pattaquasset roses and turning them into meadow lilies?
Yes, yes, Miss Faith-you may look as pink as you please
now-it won't help the matter. What shall we do with
him, sir ? My dear," said Squire Stoutenburgh seating
Faith by his side and dropping his voice, "you're growing
wonderfully like your father !"
A changed, sweet glance of Faith's eyes answered him
"Yes !"-the Squire repeated meditatively and looking
at her.-"Ah he was a fine man! 1 used to think he
couldn't be better-but I s'pose he is now. My dear, you
needn't wonder when I tell you that I thought more of your
mother last night than I did of you. But you don't remem.
ber all about that. Well-I shall go home and tell Mrs.
Stoutenburgh that you're as pretty as a posie, and then she
won't care what else is the matter," he said, getting up.
again. "Mrs. Somers, I see the parson durstn't say a word
about Dr. Harrison before you."
"I-I declare I don't think Dr. Harrison is very much
to be blamed, Squire," said the parson thus called upon.
"And Mrs. Somers is so well able to speak for herself-..I
have no doubt, Squire Stoutenburgh, if it wasn't for Mrs.
Somers,--I dare say I might like to do as much as the doctor
did, myself I"
"Bless my life !" said Squire Stoutenburgh, "I can't stay
to be a party to confidences of that sort !-I must go !-."
and he departed, laughing and followed by the two others.
But even as they went, Faith, who with her mother had
accompanied them to the door, vas electrified somewhat
doubtfully at the vision of Miss Deacon just within the
gate. Miss Cecilia came forward, also with some doubt
upon her spirit, to judge by her air. But Faith's greeting
of her was so pleasant and kind, though she could not pre.
vent its being grave, that the young lady evidently took
heart. Being reassured, she sat and talked at leisure, and
at length, using her eyes as well as her tongue; thus making
herself mistress of all the truth she could get at, and of
some more. She was thorough in her investigations as to
all the drama of the last seven days, and all and each of the

actors therein; and at the close of her visit declared that
"Sam had been a great fool to go away, and that she had
told him so before "; and departed at last with her head full
of Dr. Harrison.
But detentions were not over. Miss Bezac came before
Miss Deacon was quit of the parlour; and before Miss
Bezac had been two minutes there, other members of the
Pattaquasset community came pouring in. Everybody
must see Faith, hear particulars, discuss realities and possi-
eilities of the accident, and know how Mr. Linden was
getting along. The hours of the afternoon waned away;
but people came as people went; and it was not till long
shadows and slant sunbeams began to give note of supper
time, that the influx lessened and the friends gathered, in
Mrs. Derrick's parlour began to drop away without others
stepping in to take their place.
"Faith," said her mother when they were at last alone,
"I can't bear this any longer ! I shall go crazy if I hear
that story one other time to-night !"  And she put her
arms round Faith, and leaned her head wearily on her
shoulder. "I'll sit up to tea," she went on presently, "and
then if the rest of the town comes, you'll have to see 'em-
for I can't !"
Faith gently put her into a chair and holding her in her
arms stooped over her.  "Mother "-the words were as soft
as the kisses which came between,-" you mustn't mind it
so much.  Sit up to tea !  Why I have made some of the
best muffins that ever were seen."
"Child !" said her mother in .a low voice, "I felt this
morning as if I had been as rear death as you had !"-and
if the words needed any emphasis, they had it in the way
Mrs. Derrick leaned her head against Faith and was silent.
But not for long., She got up, and kissing Faith two or
three times, said, "My pretty child !" in a tone that indeed
told of possible heartbreak; and then half holding her,,
half held by her, drew her on into the tea-room.

:1 t'   ; f
K i'f'iS

330

SAY AND SEAL.

831


CHlAPTIR XXVII.
IT so happened that the first griddleful of muffins did not
do credit to their raising--(or to their bringing ups
elegant reader !)-therefore Mr. Linden's teatray waited for
the second.  Of course the other tea waited too. Mrs.
Derrick walked out into the kitchen to see what'was the
matter with the griddle; Faith discovered that one spoon
on the tray looked dull, and went to the spoonbasket to
change it. Thus occupied, and giving little reprehensive
glances at the spoons generally, and mental admonitions to
Cindy, with the open closet door half screening her from
the rest of the room, she was startled-not by the opening
of another door, but by these words,---
"Miss Faith, shall I carry this tray upstairs ?"
To this day it is uncertain what sort of a spoon Faith
brought back !-or indeed whether she brought any at all.
There was one flash of gladness in her cheek and her eye,
with the exclamation, "Mr. Linden !"-then she came from
the closet just her old little self.
"Are you well enough to be down stairs, sir ?"
"In whose estimation, ma'am ?"
"Because if you are, Mr. Liqden," she said with a face
of laughing pleasure, "won't you please come into the
other room ?"
"I think not," he said, laughing a littteToo,-if the ex-
ertion of coming down' had inade him pale, the pleasure
partly concealed it.  "I will take a chair here, if you please.
Am I alone, of all Pattaquasset, to be forbidden to pay my
respects to you to-night? Miss Faith, how do you do ?"
"I am very well. But Mr. Linden, if you will please
come into the other room, there is an easy chair there.
Please do! this room is cold, for the fire got down while we
were seeing people."
She led the way as she spoke, without waiting for another
denial; pushed the table and a great chair of state, or of
ease, in the sitting-room, into closer neighbourhood; and
(332)/

SAY AND SEAL.

renewed the brilliancy of the fire. Then lit up the lamp
and cleared books away from the table; all done with quick
alacrity.k
"That will do almost as well as the couch, won't it ?"
she said; and then repeated in gentler tones her question,
"Are you well enough to be down, Mr. Linden ?"
"I don't know, Miss Faith!--I am well enough to want
to be dowij. How can you let the charms of society divert
your mind from your books for a whole afternoon?  Have
you been so studious for the last few days only because yon
had nothing else to do ?"
She laughed at the question, and went off, leaving Mr.
Linden in a region of comfort. More comfort came soon
in the shape of the teatray, borne by Cindy; then Mrs.
Derrick; and lastly Faith herself appeared-bearing a plate
of the muffins, perfect this time, and delicate as they had
need to be for a delicate&amp; appetite. Mr. Liden was pres-
ently served with one of these and a cup of smoking tea;
and Faith thought, and her look half said it, that being
down stairs would do him no harm.  Certainly the surprise
and pleasure of such company to tea did Mrs. Derrick good,
whoever else missed it; though it is presumable no one
did. The pleasant sighing of the wind round the house
and in the chimney (it sighed alone for that evening) the
sparkling of the fire, the singing of the maple or hickory
sticks, the comfortable atmosphere of tea and muffins dif-
fused, like the firelight, all through the room; gave as fair
an assemblage of creature comforts as need be wished; and
the atmosphere of talk was as bright, and savoury, and glow-
ing too, in its way; though the way was quiet. Mr. Linden
amused himself (and Faith) by giving her little lessons in
the way she would have to talk in those French "noonspells"
she had in prospect: making Mrs. Derrick laugh with the
queer sounding words and sentences, and keeping Faith
i interested to that point, that.if he had not attended to her
tea as well, she'would scarce have got any.
"I shall not be hard upon you at first," he said smiling,--
"when I see you sitting-in silent despair because you want
something at my end of the table, I will help you out w th
a 'que voulez-vous, mademoiselle ?' and perhaps within a
'voulez-vous ?' this or that. But after a week or two, Miss

,r
i
i
-I
-
S     f  :
y

333


334

SAY AND SEAL.

Faith, if you go without any dinner, it will not move me.
the least."
Faith looked as if she would gladly forego her dinner to
escape the French asking for it, and yet not quite so neither.
But this ordeal was more terrible to her by far than all the
rest; she could face them, indeed they had ceased to be
anything but pleasure-or pleasure with a spice that en.
hanced it; but at this she trembled. To the above speech,
or threat,.-she simply answered,
"I shall be so glad to see you come home to tea, Mr.
Linden I"
"And so glad to see me go away from dinner !"
"I didn't say that."
"You will-" said Mr. Linden,-" I can imagine you
falling back in your chair and exclaiming, 'Ah, quand
voulez-vous partir, monsieur !'-which of course will make
it extremely difficult for me to remain a moment longer."
"I don't think you can imagine me doing it," said Faith
laughing.   I can't imagine, myself."
"That proves nothing. Only don't ever say to me,
'Monsieur! partez a instant !'-because-"
"Because ,what, Mr. Linden ?" said Faith seriously.
"Because we might disagree upon that point," he said
with rather a demure ardh of his eyebrows. Faith's full
silver rang out, softly.
"You see !" she said. "It's beginning already. I don't
know in the least what you are talking about 1"
"No-you do not," was the laughing reply. "But Miss
Faith, if I am kept at home long enough, and society keeps
at home too, instead of coming between us and our
exercises, those conversations will seem less terrible by the
time. they begin. I should certainly get you a pocket dic-
tionary, but I prefer to be that myself. How far can you
ride on horseback at once ?"  (2
"On horseback ?" said Faith, aas if those words had
been also French, or an algebraical puzzle.
"That was what I said."
"I know that was what you said-I didn't know what
you meant, Mr. Linden. I have never been really on horse-
back but a few times in my life-then I rode a few miles--
I don't know exactly how many." .

SAY AND SEAL.                  335
I wonder people don't do it mor4'--said Mrs. Derrick.
"When I was a girl that was the common way of getting
about; and nobody ever got thrown, neither."
"Wouldn't that be the pleasantest way of getting to
Mattabeeset ?" said Mr. Linden.
An illumination answered him first; then "Oh, yes.
want you to see what is to be seen over there," he
said,-"shall we go some day, if I get well enough before
cold weather?"
Faith's quiet words of agreeing to this proposal were
declared to be a sham by her eyes, cheeks, lips and brow,
every one of which was giving testimony after a different
fashion.
At this moment the door opened. It happened that
Dr. Harrison had encountered Cinidy at the hall door,
where she was either loitering to catch snatches of indoor
conversation, or waiting to entrap Jem Waters. But there
she was, and being asked for Mr. Linden replied that he
was down stairs, and without more ceremony ushered the
doctor in; and entering the whole view lay before him in
its freshness. Mrs. Derrick, complacent and comfortable,
sat behind the no-longer-wanted tea-tray, listening and
playing with a spoon. Faith's face, though considering
her unfinished muffin, was brilliant with rosy pleasure;
while the fire which she had for some time forgotten to
mend, lay in a state of powerful inaction, a mass of living
coals and smoking brands. In the glow of that stood the
easy chair, and therein Mr. Linden,-although with the air
and attitude of one wanting both rest and strength, was
considering with rather unbent lips no less a subject than
-One and Somewhat!-further the doctor's eyes could
not read. The precise direction of those other eyes, was
shaded. The doctor came up and stood beside them.
"Did I order you to stay up stairs?" he said in soft,
measured syllables, without having spoken to anybody else.
"Good evening, doctor !" said Mr. Linden offering his
hand. "As I m      .eet you half way, please excuse me for
keeping my seat."
From that hand, the doctor passed to Faith's; which
was taken and held, just enough to say al he wishes  to
say; which, be it remarked in passing, was a good deal.

'  Y.
/      '                i,       ' '; i u
IS ; ii  2
i '    k
' ,= .:
1
s       ',  t ,  .
C!!  ,    S  '
    ,
'    l
r    i,  +   .
;  ' ,,
' ' 1
;   ,
.k
.' ,
t
,i
i
;
,,
;;
!,
,
i
,
..
{           i"
. ,
r- .'
t _;
t .
'k '
'           :;
',
'
ti,
,.
'c
s
' i;
;;  1
,i
'c
'           ,k
1'
'ii
f  :
r   .."c
4 ,     t
'i
,   i     i,  ;
1,1  l
'      1   ' I
'       ~ %    I
, ,  ,
'  "
,         ; ;,;
,
i  1  If
;
~}, ; I
' ,
,
k_;
'~
''
,
~
;,'r
k
} i ;'
;i,,
;
,;
,,
1'
Ik',
i;
,',
i,

'
11        I,  ,i      ,
, f' E  I 2, i  i i1i'
t   lj  it'  ,  r
illi#;1 3    {'1   ?


SAY AND SEAL.

S 1

"May I approach Mrs. Derrick ?" said he then, turning
round to Mr. Linden, with a cool, funny, careless, yet good.
humoured, doubt upon his face.
"What is the present state of your nerves ?"
"Depending upon your answer, of course !-which the
ordinary rules of society forbid me to wait for.  Madam !_
are you in sufficient charity with me to give me a cup of
tea ?"
"Yes, doctor-if the tea's good enough," said Mrs. Ier.
rick with her usual quietness. "And if it isn't I'll have
some more." So saying she got up and went towards the
kitchen to call Cindy. The doctor skilfully intercepted this
movement, placing himself in her way.
"May I ask, where you arp going ?" he said with a sort
of gentle kindliness he did nit always put on.
"Why to get some tea that's fit to give you, doctor. I
don't think this is."
"Will you give me something else ?"
"I'll give you that first," said Mrs. Derrick-" I'll see
about the rest." And passing out into the kitchen she
gave her orders about the teapot, and a quiet little injunc'
tion to Faith to go in and sit down.
"Mother, you're tired," said Faith. "Let me see about
the tea !"
"I guess I will!" said Mrs. Derrick.  "I'm not going to
have the house stand up on one end just because Dr. Hiar.
rison wants his tea. You go off, pretty child,-if you stay
here he'll think you're baking muffins for him, and I don't
choose he should."
"Why I would do it, mother," said Faith. She went
off, however, into the other room and sat down gravely,
quite the 'other side of the fireplace from the tea-table.
Dr. Harrison was standing on the rug with his back to
the fire, and followed her with his eye.
"How do you do ?". he said in a softened voice, stepping
a step nearer to her. She looked up and gave him a
frank and kind "very well"
Was it altogether professional, the way in which he took
up her hand and held it an instant ?
" Cool, and quiet," he said. "It's all right. I didn't
frighten you out of your wits yesterday in"

The "no, sir," was in a different tone.
"Do you suppose," he said, "that your mother will ever
bear the sight of me again ?"
"Why I hope so, sir," said Faith smiling.
"I don't know !" he said. "I wonder if I have been so
much more wicked than I knew of? I don't think I have.
I couldn't have punished myself any more."
Mrs. Derrick came in, followed by teapot and muffins,
and having with her usual polite-ness requested, the doctor
to take a seat at the table, she proceeded to pour him out
a cup of tea, nor even stinted him in sugar.
if I stay at home according to your orers," said Mr.
Linden, "I shall have all the trustees after me."
"You aren't just the person they ought to be after,"
said the doctor. "Mrs. Derrick, I don't know why we
never hare anything at our house so good as this."  The
doctor w s discussing a buttered muffin with satisfaction
that was evidently unfeigned.
Mrs. Derrick knew why-but she wouldn't tell him,
though exulting in her own knowledge. A low knock at
the parlour door announced Reube Taylor.
"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Derri -" he said,-"but I
rent-
"I am here, Reuben," said Mr. Linden.
The boy stayed not for more compliments then, but pass-
ing the ladies and the doctor with a collective bow, and
"good evening, Miss Faith," went round with a quick step
and a glad face to Mr. Linden. And kneeling down by
him, with one hand on his shoulder, gave him the post
despatches,. and asked and answered questions not very
loud but very earnestly. That was a phasis of Reuben
Dr. Harrison had not seen before. He took good and
broad note of it, though nothing interrupted the doctor's
muffin-or muffins, for they were plural. Neither did he
interrupt anything that was going on.
"Are you better, sir? are you really well enough to be
down stairs ?"-Dr. Harrison would hardly have known
the voice. And the answering tone was of the gentlest
and kindest, though the words failed to reach the doctor's
ears. Some directions, or commissions, apparently, Mr.
Linden gave for a few minutes, and then Reubel rose to
voL.1I.                29

f *1

;i;; F
t d ; ;n}1'' ,
!    r.    .f''  ' 4t i
,      r, sfti ,
., S,:t
r i     ;;.,
s'     t:
i   'i
h   t       i
tt   ,t
'    ,
.
t               i;f,'_

336

SAY SAND' SEAL.

337


338             SAY AND SEAL.

his feet with a long breath that spoke a mind very madh
relieved. He paused for a moment on his way out, oppN
site Faith, as if he wanted a word in that quarter; but
perhaps the doctor's presence forbade, for all the congratu,
lation that Reuben gave her was in his face and bow,
That did not satisfy Faith if it did him. She jumped up
and gave him her hand, almost affectionately.
"You see I am safe and well, Reuben."
"I am so thankful, Miss Faith !"  And the words said
not half.
The doctor had finished his muffins and was standing
before the fire again. "Have you found out yet, my man,?
he said in a somewhat amused voice,-." whose friend you
are ?"
The words jarred-and the colour on Reuben's face was
of a different tint from that which had answered Faith,
It was with his usual reserved manner, though nothing
could be more -civil, that he said, "No sir-no more than I
knew before." But the respect was from Reuben as a boy
to Dr. Harrison as a man. Faith's eye glanced from one
to the other, and then she said, "What .do you mean, Dr.
Harrison ?"
"Only a play of words," said the doctor lightly. "This
young fellow is very cautious of making professions-.as I
have found."
"He has no need, sir,".said Faith. She quitted as she
spoke, the boy's hand which she had held until then, and
came back to her seat. The words were spoken quietly
enough and with as gentle a face, and yet dith somewhat
in the manner of both that met and fully answered all the
bearing of the doctor's.
"You need not wait, Reuben," said his teacher-..." I shall
see you again by and by."
"Who is that ?" said the doctor as Reuben went out.
"One of my body-guard," said Mr. Linden, with lips
not yet at rest from their amused look.
"Are you waited upon by a Fehm-gericht? or may the
members be known by the uninitiated?"'
"I beg pardon !" said Mr. Linden,-" but as you seemed
to know him, and as you really did know his name a week
ago-That is Reuben Taylor, Dr. Harrisog."

f  "So do I beg pardon ! His name I do know, of course-.
I have had occasion; but the essence of my enquiry
remains in its integrity. Him I do not know. Where
and to whom does he belong?"
"le is one of those of whom we.spoke this morning,"
said Mr. Linden.  "True- servant of God is his title-to
Him does Reuben belong. His home here is a little hut on
the outskirts of Pattaquasset,-his father a poor fisherman."
There was a minute's silence, all round.
"May I ask for a little nlightening, Miss Derrick"?"
said the doctor. "What d~ you mean, if you will be so
good as to let me know,-by a person who 'does not need'
to make professions."
Faith hesitated.
"Will you please say first, Dr. Harrison, justwhat you
mean by 'professions*?'" she said somewhat timidly.
"I shall shelter myself under your meaning," said he
looking at her. "Fact is, I am not good at definitions-I
4 don't half the time know what I'm saying myself."
Faith cast an involuntary glance for help towards Mr.
Linden; but getting none she came back to the doctor
and the question, blushing a good deal.
"I think," she said, "professions are telling people what
you wish them to believe of you."
SThe doctor looked comical, also threw a glance in the
direction of Mr. Linden, but put his next question seriously.
"Why do you say this Reuben Taylor does not need to
make professions? according to this definition.
"Because those who know him know what he is, with-
out them."
"But do you mean that there ino use in making pro-
fessions?  How are you to know what a man is ?"
"Unless he tells you ?" said Faith smiling.
The doctor stood,.half smiling; evidently revolving more
thoughts than of one kind. With a face from which every
shadow was banished he suddenly took a seat by Mrs. Der-
rick.
"Do you know," he said with gentle pleasantness of
manner and expression, "how much better man I should
be if I should -come here and get only one definition a day
from your little daughter ?"

SAY AND SEAL.

839

1      1
1
Irr   j
f,1 S i'
rr  1  '
i ffits  Its
Nit'
ilt 1 r,


340             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

"What one has she given you now ?" said Mrs. Derrick,
whose mind evidently stood in abeyance upon this speech.
"One you didn't hear, ma'am. It was a definition of
me, to myself. It isn't the first," said the doctor gravely,
"Mrs. Derrick, are you friends with me ?"
"As much as I ever was," said Mrs. Derrick, smilingly,
"I always thought you wanted putting in order.".
"How did you know that ?"
"Why, because you were out of order," said Mrs. Der.
rick, knitting away. The doctor uttered the lowest of
whistles and looked down at his boot.
"It's because of that unlucky dog !" he muttered. "Lin.
den-" (glancing up from under his eyebrows) "when I
was  a boy, I set my dog on Miss Faith's cat."
"Felt yourself called upon to uphold natural antipa-
thies-"
"Miss Faith, have you a cat now ?" said the doctor
looking over to her.
"No, sir."
"And I have no dog 1" said the doctor. "I have only
horses. If I could manage to do without animals alto,
gether,-Mrs. Derrick, have you forgiven me ?" This last
was in a changed tone.
"I don't want to talk about it, doctor," said Mrs. Der-
rick very soberly.
"About forgiving me ?" he said as soberly.
"And I don't mean to."
"Nor I," said the doctor quietly; but you are going to
inflict more punishment on me than I deserve."
"What am I going to do ?" said Mrs. Derrick. "If
you know, I don't."
"Refuse to give me your hand, perhaps."
"I never did that to anybody, yet," she said pleasantly.
"Then you must let me do as we do in another country."
He bent his face to her hand as he spoke, and kissed it.
There was no mockery in the action. Done by some peo-
ple it would have been ridiculous. By Dr. Harrison, in
the circumstances, it was in the highest degree graceful.
It spoke sympathy, penitence, respect, manly confession,
and submission, too simply not to be what it certainly was
in some measure, a true expression of feeling. Mrs. Der-

rick on .her part looked amused,.-her old recollections of
the boy constantly tinged her impressions of the man; and
perhaps not without reason.
"You're as like yourself askever you can be, doctor 1"
she said, smiling at him.  "How you used to try to get
round me ."
"I don't remember 1" said the doctor.. "I am sure I
never succeeded, Mrs. Derrick ?"
"I'm afraid you did, sometimes," she said, shaking her
head. -.He smiled a little, and turned the other way.
"Linden, I've been considering the German question."
"Will it please you to state the result ?"
"This 1" said the doctor.  "I have come to the conclu
sion,-that in order to be One and Somewhat, it is neces-
sary to begin by being Nought and All-- Thus ranging
myself in security on both sides of a great abyss of meta-
physics. What do you think ?  Unphilosophical ?
"Unsafe-" said Mr. Linden. "And impossible."
"Hum ph ?"--said the doctor.  "Nothing is impossible
in metaphysics-because- you may be on both sides of an
abyss, and in the bottom of it !-at once -and without
knowing where you are.  The angel that rode Milton's
sunbeam, you know, was no time at all going from heaven
to earth; and I suppose he went the other way as quick."
"I don't see the abyss'in that case," said Mr. Linden,-
"but
'Uriel to his charge
Returned on that bright beam'-
so probably he did."
"Yes"-said the doctor.-"And my meaning skippe the
abyss,-also on a sunbeam. It referred to the unsulstan-
tial means of travelling in use among metaphysicians."
"And among angels."
"That reminds me," said the doctor. And quitting his
stand on the rug, which he had taken again, he went over
to Faith and sat down by her.
"Is the Nightingale flourishing on her rose-bush to-
day ?"
"What, sir ?" said Faith, her eyes opening at him a
"I beg pardon !" said the doctor. "I have been living

341

;
j .
i      t
t.
i
i               '

.,
, ,  (,
,I f
(  i
I  i      i
j' { I'I  Y
'  f  i  f     i
,
ji 'r
3 ! !  i
" i  i! .!
fj +'r  i;; f
i{ i   ;t
,.tl:i i.i


SAY AND SEAL.

in a part of the world, Miss Derrick, where it is the fash,
ion to call things not by their right names. I have got -
foolish habit of it. Do you feel quite recovered ?"
"Quite. I'm a little tired to-night, perhaps."
"I see you are, and I'll not detain you. Mrs. Clusters
wants to see you again." - He had dropped all banter, and
was speaking to her quietly, respectfully, kindly, as he
should speak; in a lowered tone, but not so low as to be
unheard by others than her.
"I will try to see her again soon---I will try to go very
soon," she answered.
"Would you be afraid to go with my father's old stand.
bys ?-they are safe !"-
"I cannot do that, Dr. Harrison-but I will try to see
her soon."
"Can you go without riding ?"
"No," she said smiling; "but I must find some other
way."
"I won't press that point," said the doctor. "I can't
blame you.. I must bear that. But-I want for my own
sake to have the honour of a little talk with you-I want
to explain to you one or two things. Shall you be at lei.
sure to-morrow afternoon ?"
"I am hardly at leisure any time, Dr. Harrison. I do
not suppose I shall be particularly busy then."
"Then will you take that time for a walk ?"
Faith hesitated. "I have very little time, sir."
"But you take time to go out ?"
"Not much.'
"I will not ask much. A little will do; and so much
you owe to skyey influences.  You will not refuse me
that ?"
"I will go, Dr. Harrison," Faith answered after an in-
stant a little soberly. He rose up then; proposed to
attend upon Mr. Linden, and they went up stairs to-
gether.

CHAPTER XXVIII.
AITI was half ready to wish the next day might be
rainy; but it rose fair and bright. She must go to
walk, probably; and visiters might come. The only thing
to be done was to despatch her ordinary duties as quick as
possible, prepare her French exercise, and go to her teacher
early. Which she did.
She came in with a face as bright as the day, although"
little less ready to look in everybody's eyes. There were
enough things ready for her. Lessons were pressed rather
more steadily than usual, perhaps because they had been
neglected a little for the last two days-or hindered; and
it was not till one book and another had done its work, till
the exercise was copied and various figure puzzles disposed
of, that Mr. Linden told her he thought a talking exercise
ought to come next,-if she had one ready he should like
to have the benefit of it.
"You are tired, Mr. Linden !" said Faith quickly.
"You may begin by giving me the grounds of that con-
clusion."
'   "I don't know," she said half laughing,-"I don't see it;
but that don't make -e know. I was afraid you were tired
with this work."
"Very unsafe, Mis Faith, to build up such a superstruc-
ture upon grounds that you neither see nor k ow. I was
immediately beginning to question the style of ay own ex-
planations this morning."
"Why, sir?"
"If I seem tired, said explanations may have seemed-
tiresome."
She looked silently, with a smile, as if questioning the
possibility of h s thinking so ; and her answer did not go
to that point.
"You didn't seem tired, Mr. Linden-..I had no reason
for thinking so, I suppose. I was onlyrafraid. I was
going to ask you what Dr. Harrison meant last night by
(848)

i {    Y       1 t    !{i
1!t                 t  Jtili
? 7            J  t  t  ja

342

,   i.


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

the angel riding upon a sunbeam ?   I s    ou lnew what
he meant.'
Mr. Linden got, up and went for a book-then can
back to his couch again.
"Precisely what Dr. Harrison meant, Miss Faith, I
should not like to say. What he referred, to, was a part
of Paradise Lost, where the angels set to guard the earth
have a messenger.
"' Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even
On a sunbeam, swift as a shooting star.'
"Who is Uriel ? an angel?"
"Yes. He is called,
"'The archangel Uriel, one of the seven
Who in God's presence, nearest to his throne,
Stand ready at his command, and are his eyes.
That run through all the heavens, or down to the earth,
Bear his swift errands over moist and dry,
O'er sea and land."'
Faith listened, idently with a pleased ear.
But I suppos    the angel could come as well without
the sunbeam as wit it?"
"I suppose so !" he said smiling. "In my belief, angels
go where the sunbeams do not. But Milton chose to name
fUriel as the special regent of the sun, and so passing to and
fro on its rays."
"What do you mean by 'regent,' Mr. Linden ?"
"A regent-is one appointed to rule in place of tlie king."
"But that don't seem to me true, Mr. Linden,"'said
Faith after a little meditation.;
"What, and why ?"
Faith blushed at finding herself 'in for it,' but went on.
"I don't suppose the sun wants anybody to rule it or to
take care of it, under its Maker ?"
"Yet it may please him to have guardian spirits there as
well as here,-about that we know not. In the Revela-
tion, you know, an angel is spoken of as 'standing in the
sun,' and from that Milton took his idea. Part of the de-
scription is very beautiful, at least ;.--.

" So spake the false dissembler unperceived;
For neither man nor angel can discern
Hypocrisy, the only evil that walks ,-
invisible, except to God alone,
By his permissive will, through heaven and earth.
And oft though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps
At wisdom's gate, and to simplicity
Resigns her charge, while goodness thinks no ill,
Where no ill seems: which now for once beguiled
Uriel, though regent of the sun,*and held
The sharpest sighted spirit of all in heaven.'
"Who is the person spoken of in the first line, Mr.
Linden ?"
"Satan-applying to Uriel for guidance to the new created
earth and its inhabitants, on the same plea that Herod
presented to the wise men."
"But that's a story ?" said Faith.
 "Yes. The Bible only tells the work done by him after
he got here."
"Mr. Linden, will you read that over once more for me."
She listened with a face of absorbed intentness while it
was read; then looked away from the book with an.uncon-
scious, but very audible sigh.
"Well ?" Mr. Linden said, skiing as he looked at her.
"I like .it very much !" was Faith's answer.
"Is that what mad' you sigh ?"1
"Sigh!" she said starting a little and colouring.  No,
-I didn't mean to sigh."
"The fact is more than the intention. Whence came
that ?"
"It was only-Please don't ask me, Mr. Linden. I can't
tell you."
He made no answer to that, but turning over the leaves
read to her here and there without much comment,-then
asked her if she was tired of hearing about angels.
"I think I should never be tired !" said Faith. 4"1But
you must be, Mr. Linden. Please," she said putting her
hand gently on the book,-"don't read for me any more.
Is all the look like that ?"
"Not quite all-I have given you some bits that I par-
ticularly like, but there is much more. You need not be
uneasy about my being tired," he said smiling; "if I were,

344

345

i  l
I   r41
t li'i 11
t lrl
;i,,

,
i111
' T!
,4,
'

i 4   ?- Siirril    y   f      f yyyyyy......
l   '1 j  2ti"S
, ,    j   4  t3
f ,   _,      t' ;  i  ' t,
°     ~ ,        1} fi t
,t, j',
;t   !-
"v         ,1 )I j'  j "' I
9   j   1
f  "rJ
{  ; t
;
i      r
'
,;' ,j'
r
;-
. i
:t


346             SAY AND SEAL.

by your own shewing I can have rest. However, Mi
Faith-lessons being the order of the day-.wil you read
French to me ?"
In her reading, Faith came ,to the description of the
philosopher's perplexity in finding that the birds would not
pick up the crumbs he threw to them on the roof as usual,
He concluded the feathered things were not more reason.
able than mankind, and had taken fright for nothing.
"J'allais fermer ma fenetre sur cette reflection, 'quand
j'apergois tout A coup, dans l'espace lumineux qui s'etend
a droite, l'ombre de deux oreilles qui se dressent, puis une
griffe qui s'avance, puis la tete d'un chat tigre qui se motitre
a l'angle de la gouttiere. Le drole stait h en ambuscade
esperant que les aniettes lui ameneraient-du gibier.
"Et moi qui accusais la couardise de mes h6tes! J'etais
sir qu'aucun danger ne les mena9ait ! je croyais avoir bien
regarded partout! je n'avais oublie que le coin derriere moil!
"Dans la vie comme sur les toits, que de malheurs arrivent
pour avoir oublie un seul coin-!"
Faith closed the book then, very much amused with the
philosopher's "chat tigre&amp;"
"But often one can't see round the corner," she re-
marked.
A little gesture of lips and brow, half asserted that if
one could not, one could: but Mr. Linden only said,,
"Most true ! Miss Faith. Nevertheless, the knowledge
that there are corners is not to be despised."
"I don't know. I shouldn't like to live always in fear
of seeing the shadow, of a cat's ears come in."'
"Have you quite outgrown the love of cats ?" said'Mr.
Linden smiling.
"No, but I was talking of the fear of corners," she said
with an answering smile. "I don't think I want to re-
member the corners, Mr. Linden."
"I don't think I want you should. Philosophers and birds,
you know, go through the world on different principles."
She laughed a little at that, gave the hearth a parting
brush, and went off to dinner.
Business claimed its place after dinner, business of a
less pleasant kind, quite up to the time when Faith must
put on her bonnet to walk with Dr. Harrison.

Faith had no great mind to the walk, but she couldn't
help finding it pleasant. The open air was very sweet and
bracing; the exercise was inspiriting, and the threatened
talk went well with both. There was nothing whatever
formidable about it; the words and thoughts seemed to
play, like the sunlight, on anythin  t came in their way.
Dr. Harrison knew how to make a    or a talk pleasant,
even to Faith, it seemed. What     e had at any time
seen in him that she did not like, was out of sight; plea-
sant, gentle, intelligent, grave, he was constantly supplying
ear and mind with words and things that were worth the
having. Probably he had discovered her eager thirst for
knowledge; for he furnished'her daintily with bits of many
a kind, from his own stores which were large. She did
not know there was any design in this; she knew only that
the steps were taken very easily in that walk. So pleasant
it was that Faith was in no haste to turn, in no mood to
quicken her pace. But something else was on her mind,-
and must come out.
"Dr. Harrison,"-she said when they were in a quiet
part oufthe way, with nobody near, "may I speak to you
about something ?-that perhaps you won't like ?"
"You can speak of nothing I should not like-to hear,"
he said with gentle assurance.
"Dr. Harrison-" said Faith, speaking as if the recollec-
tion touched her,-" when you and I were thrown out in
that meadow the other day and came so near losing our
lives-if the almost had been quite, if we had both been
killed,--I should have been safe and well, I believe.--How
would it have been with you ?"
Dr. Harrison looked at her.
"If I had gone in your company," he said, "I think it
would hardly have been, ill with me."
"Do you know so little as that ?"-she said in such a
tone of sorrow and pity as might have suited one of the
'ministering spirits' she had been likened to.
"I don't think I am as good as you are," the doctor said
with a face not unmoved.
"Good !" said Faith. "What do you mean by goodness,
Dr. Harrison ?"
"I shall have the worst of it if I try to go into defii

I
i        i
 
1          f   i
'
i
l  Y
,,   ,,.
,;
!      ;  ,,.
',,,
iii  '  ,''
1f     ;f;'j
'  E; ,+,
F'r        i' li
tt       ;;II  I
r           'i
1   'i

SAY AND SEAL,            347


SAY AND SEAL.

349

tions again," he said smiling. "I think you will find wha
Imean, in consulting your own thoughts."
"Goodness ?" said Faith again. "Do you remember the
silver scale-armour of that Lepisma, Dr. Harrison? To
is perfection. That is what God means by goodness-..not
the outside things    very eye, or your own, can see;
out when the far-d  4rback thoughts and imaginations
of your heart will     ch looking at and be found fault-
less! Less than that, God will not take from you, if you
are going to heaven by your own goodness."
He looked at her. They had changed sides; and as
fearless now as he, she was the speaker, and he had little
to say.
"I don't know much about these things, Miss Faith,"he
answered soberly.
"I don't know much, Dr. Harrison," she said humbly,
"But think what you were near the other day."
"I ton't know !"-said he, as if making a clean breast
of it. She paused.
"Dr. Harrison, will a wise man leave such a matter in
uncertainty ?"
"I am not wise," said he. "I am ignorant-in this."
"You know you need not remain so."
"That is not so certain ! I have seen so much--of what
you have seen so little, my dear Miss Derrick, that you can
scarce understand how light the weight of most people's
testimony is to me."-                         '
"But there is the testimony of one higher," said Faith.
"There is God's own word ?"
"I don't know it."
"Won't you know it, sir ?"
"I will do anything you ask me in that voice," he said
smiling at her. "But after all one reads people and
people's professions, Miss Faith;-and they make the first
impression."
"I dare say it is often not true,"-said Faith sadly.
"You are true," said he; "and you may say to me what
you will, on this subject or any other, and I will believe it."
They walked a little distance in silence.     -
"What are you thinking of?" said the-doctor in a very 1
gentle accent of enquiry-.i

"I am sorry--very sorry for you, Dr. Harrison."
"Why ?" said he taking her hand.
"Because it seems to me you are not caring in earnest
about this matter."
He kissed the hand, without asking permission. But it
was done with a grateful warm expression of feeling.
"I will do whatever you tell me to do !" he said.
How Faith wished she could send him to another ad-
viser ! But that she could not.
"Tell me," he repeated. "I will do it." The look and
tone were earnest, moved, and warm;. she had hardly seen
the like in Dr. Harrison before.
"Then, Dr. Harrison, I wish you would read the Bible,
with the determination to do what you find there you ought."
"I will," he said smiling. "And if I. get into difficulty
you must help me."
The rest of the way was extremely pleasant, after that;-
only it seemed to Faith that they met all the world ! First
there was Cecilia Deacon, whose eyes took good note, she
thought, of both the walkers from head to foot. Then they
met at intervals every one of Faith's Sunday school scholars;
for every one of whom she had a glad greeting and word
which she must stop for, somewhat to the doctor's amused
edification. Miss Bezac happened, of all people, to be
going up street when they were going down; and her eyes
looked' rather with some wistful gravity upon the pair, for
all her pleasant nods to both. Then Mrs. Somers.
"Well I think you are Faith!"-was her brisk remark,-.
"or faithless-which is it ? Julius, I heard a remarkable
story about you yesterday."
"Aunt Ellen-I like to hear remarkable stories. Espe-
cily about anything remarkable."
"Well this isn't one of that sort," said Mrs. Somers.
"I am sure you said-However, let's have it, of any
sort."
"I heard you had your pocket picked of a good oppor-
tunity," said Mrs. Somers. "Does Mr. Linden expect to
be out next week, Faith ?"
"I believe Dr. Harrison will not let him, Mrs. Somers."
A little unverbalized sound answered that, and Mrs.
VO.1.                  30o

+.  "a.}  .
f (
1;     ,t
.   ;?
t       1
w     J
i   F  t1,
t  1
~      ,   t-
i        4    ;
+ ,
G   e
_
,i
' 1 i
;i'i
i f
-
4
:}_
rf ,

348

SAY AND SEAT ,

it  ,'  ,
'   {
;I
f     ' .
,    ' ,
,,
    t~
; - ',
,,     '
'
!?;
4(     iii
j.

J


350)            SAY AND SEAL.

Somers said good evening and walked on. Faith thought
that was the end, as they were near her own door. But
Dr. Harrison followed her in; and entering the sitting-,
room, Faith found that her meetings were not over. There
was no 'less a person-than Mrs. Stoutenburgh, and there
also, regaling her eyes and ears, were Mrs. Derrick and
"    Mr. Linden.
Mrs. Stoutenburgh was a fair, pretty, curly-haired woman,
a good deal younger than the Squire, intensely devoted to
her own family, and very partial to Mr. Linden-whom she
had taken under her wing (figuratively) from his first coming
to Pattaquasset. The first sound Faith heard as she
opened the door was Mrs. Stoutenburgh's merry laugh at
some remark of his-then the lady jumped up and cane
towards her.
"1My dear Faith, how do you do ?-Dr. Harrison-.I half
said I would never speak to you again! Faith, how can
you trust yourself with him for one minute ?"
"Mrs. Stoutenburgh," said the doctor,-" I half thought
I would shoot myself!"              .
"I guess that's as near as you'll come to it, on purpose,"
said Mrs. Stoutenburgh. "You needn't think I shall forget
it-whenever I want Faith to come and see me I shall tell
Mr. Linden to bring her. He's safe-or supposed to be,"
she added laughingly.,
"I hope that's as near to it as I shall ever come on pur-
pose, or otherwise, Mrs.' Stoutenburgh 1" said the doctor,
"I think you ,should judge me safer than Mr. Linden,-as
appearances, go."
"Squire Deacon used to tell very hard stories of him
when, he first came," said the lady-" and I have heard a
report or two since. I do love to talk to him about it --
he always looks so grave, I think he likes it."
The laugh was-mutual, whether the delight was o0 no.
"Who is Squire Deacon ?" said the doctor. "I should
like to make his acquaintance."
Faith took off her bonnet, and then pulled off her gloves,
deliberately, and bestowed them on the table.
"0 he's a Pattaquasseter," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh-
"haven't you seen his sister?  She admires you-more than
I think she need," she added mischievously. "'But the

Squire's been away for awhile,--he just got home this after-
noon."
Faith had recourse to the fire. The doctor came round,
took the tongs from her and did the work; after which he
took asomewhat succinct leave of the assembly.
"By the way, Linden," lie said pausing by his chair a
moment,-" I expect to be in Quilipeak for a few days-.I
am very sorry, but I must. You won't want me, I think.
Limbre can do all that is necessary. I shall see you Mon-
day or Tuesday again."
"Doctor !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh-" I want you to take
me home. Mr. Stoutenburgh always makes such a fuss if
I'm out after dark and don't bring anybody home to-tea,
that I never dare do it."
"Will you trust yourself with me, Mrs. Stoutenburgh ?"
said the doctor standing in comical doubt.
"Just'wait a minute," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, as she
went round with her pretty, free, womanly manner, and -laid
her hand on Mr. Linden's forehead and hands, just as if he
had been one of her own boys. "I tell you what-I 'don't
think you cure him up half fast enough among you. If I
had him up at my house I'd take better care of him."
"No, Mrs. Stoutenburgh, even you could not do that," he
said looking up at her. She stood still a moment.
"You shouldn't look at me so," she said,-" I shall go
home and feel real bad for all the nonsense I've been talking.
You know," she added, with the mischievous look coming
back, "I never did believe one word of it-except--." and
the sentence was finished softly. "Now I'm ready, doctor--
0 Faith, I had a message for you, but Mr. Linden will tell
you. Good-bye. No, doctor-I'm, not going to trust
myself with you,-you're going, to trust yourself with
me."
Dr. Harrison was for once quiet, and went off without a
repartee.
Other eyes looked with a different anxiety at Mr. Linden
then, and another voice, more grave as well as more timid,
asked, at his side, "Are you not so well to-night, Mr. Lin-
den?"
Hie smiled, and gave' her his hand by way of answer,
before he spoke.

/

SAY AND SEr1,L.           851


852             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.            353.

"I think I am, Miss Faith--you know Mrs. Stoutenburgh
has not seen me before since I was.quite well."
She brought both hands to test the feeling of his, for an
instant, without speaking.
"Mr. Linden, I heard what Dr. Harrison said.-.-Don't
you think I can do instead of Dr. Limbre ?"
"Yes, Miss Faith-if you will be so good," he answered
without hesitation and with the simplest tone and manner.
Her brow lightened immediately ; and happy and quiet as
usual, and that was very happy, she began to make her
preparations for tea, clearing the table and rolling it to its
last night's position. In which last operation she had as-
sistance. Then she went off for her tea-and the lamp
and the fire-light shone again presently on the pleasant
scene of last night.
"Don't you want to hear your message, Miss Faith"
Mr. Linden said.
KtYes, but I wasn't in a hurry, Mr. Linden. I supposed
it would come."
"It is in three parts. The first is nothing new; being
merely that the birthday of the young heirs of the house of
Stoutenburgh occurs on the 29th of November. Whether
the- second part is new, I-being a stranger-cannot tell;
but the day is to be graced with various suitable festivities."
"It's all new to me," said Faith laughing.
"Of the novelty of the third part you also must judge,"
said Mr. Linden with a smile.  "The aforesaid young heir
will consider the festivities entirely incomplete without your
presence-nay, will perhaps refuse to have his birthday
come at all, and wish that these 'happy returns' had never
had a beginning."
Faith's laugh came with its full merry roll now, and she
withal coloured a little.
What must I do then, Mr. Linden ?"
"I generally incline to the merciful side, Miss Faith-I
believe I should advise you to go. Then I, not having
such power in my hands, may not appreciate its fascinations."
"Such power,? As what, Mr. Linden ?"
I ought in conscience to tell you-" he went on without
answering her,-" it has been on my mind ever since, that
te-other night .--and the look was grave for a minute-

the trophy of a broken rosebud was picked up where you
fell. eAnd I had not the heart to reclaim it, Miss Faith,"
Mr. Linden said, with a submissive air of confession.
She looked at hitm, with the prettiest look in the world,
of grave, only half conscious enquiry; and then the lost
rosebud was more than replaced in her cheeks.
"That is the'state of the case," Mr. Linden said, as
gravely as if both rosebuds had been out of sight and mind,
"but your mother refuses to go. And it seems that I also
am wanted on the 29th; so if you please, Miss Faith, I
aml try to see that you make the journey both ways in
sI should like to go," said Faith quietly. "They are
pleasant people."
The tea-things were withdrawn, and Cindy was no more
needed there, and Mrs. Derrick also had gone into' the
other part of the house to attend to some business. Faith
stood before the fire looking meditatively into it.
"I wish," she said slowly and soberly,-" Dr. Harrison
would please to talk to you instead of to me, Mr. Linden !"
Talk to me ?" Mr. Linden repeated, looking at her.
"Aboutprofessions ?"
"No indeed !" said Faith, first astonished and then smil-
ing, -"I mean very different things. About religion, and
what he thinks of it?"
Ratherhsoberly the words were received, and soberly
answered, not at once.
"Do not let him say much to you on that last point,
Miss Faith."
"flow can I help it, M. Linden ?" she said instantly.
"Forbid him, if need be. If he asks for information,
and you choose to give it, that is one thing,-you are not
obliged to hear all the skeptical views and arguments with
which he is furnished. Your statement of the truth has
nothing to do with the grounds of his unbelief."
Faith got no further. She stood thinking of that after-
noon's talk, and of the certain possible hindrances to her
following such advice
"I am talking a little in the dark, you know," Mr. Lin-
den said,-." I am only supposing what he may say and


SAY AND SEAL.

ask you to say; and I do not think much of such conver.
sation between any parties. Press home the truth---and
like David's pebble it may do its work; but in a fencing
match David might have found it harder to maintain his
ground. And his overthrow would not have touched the
truth of his cause, nor perhaps his own faith--yet the
Philistine would have triumphed."
"Thank you, Mr. Linden," she said with a gratefIu
smile. "That is just the truth. But, do you think Dr.
Harrison is-exactly a Philistine ?"
"Not in all respects," he said smiling. "What do you
mean by a Philistine ?"
"I thought you put him in the place of that Philistine,"
she said.
"Yes, for the illustration. But I do not know him to
be strictly a champion of unbelief, although he avows him.
self on that side. His conversations with me have left me
uncertain how far he would go."
Faithwas silent and looked thoughtful.
"Have I touched any of your difficulties? May I hear
any more ?"
"No-" she said. "I believe you have said all you can
say. And it is good for me.""
"I have not said all I could say, but it is not easy for me
to talk to you about it at all. You see, Miss Faith," said
Mr. Linden smiling, "there cannot be such an anomaly in
nature as a philosophical bird-so what am I to do?"
Faith smiled a little and thought that as long as he gave
her the benefit of his philosophy, it did not much matter.
Which recondite view of the subject she did not put into
words.
The days began to roll on smoothly once more, subsid-
ing into their old uneventful flow. ,The flow of talk indeed
had not quite subsided; but as nothing came to throw any
light on the point ofthe unknown sportsman who chose
his sport so strangely, curiosity took a modified, condensed
form; and the whole matter was stowed away in people's
minds as the one Pattaquasset mystery. Happy Patta-
quasset!
Even Mr. Linden's protracted confinement, to the house
*made little difference to most, he had been so little seen

when he was able to be out: only the boys had had his
daylight hours; and where he had spent those times of
twilight and evening when he was not at home, no one
knew but the poor unknown class who mourned his absence
as they had blessed his presence, in secret. The. boys were
not silent,--but they had the indemnification of going, to
see him, and of watching-or sleeping.-in his room at
night, according to their various dispositions.  There"
came all his scholars on Sunday,-met by Faith on her
contrary way; there came the whole school by turns, and
at all hours. Indeed when once the embargo upon visitors
was taken off, the supply was great !-and without careful
measures on the part of Mr. Linden, French exercises
would have been put aside with a witness. But he made
two or three rules, and carried then out. In the first
place he would see nobody before dinner, except the doc-
tor; nor anybody after tea, save the same privileged idi-
vidual. In the second place, when lie was able to be out
of his room without too much fatigue, the lessons were
carried on down stairs,-in the dining-room generally, as
being more private. There could both parties cude and
go without observation; and often when Mrs. Derrick was
entertaining a roomful, a sudden fall of the thin partition
would have revealed the very people they were discussing,
deep in some pretty point of information. Pretty those
lessons were ! Faith's steps,-arithmetical, geographical,
or what other,-were swift, steady, and sure; herself
indefatigable, her teacher no less.  If Mr. Linden had
not quite come to be in her eyes "an old school book," she
was yet enough accustomed to his teaching and animad-
versions to merge the binding in the book; and as to him,
she might have been one of his school boys, for the straight-
forward way in which he opened paths of knowledge and
led, her through. The leading was more careful of her
strength, more respectful of her timidity,-was more
strictly leading than pushing,-that was all. Of course
in two weeks, or even in four, the best of teachers and
scholars could make but a begin ing; but that was well
made, and the work went steadily on from thence-despite
"teaching all day," despite the various other calls for time
and strength.

;.;
f
a

354

SAY AND SEAL.

355

.0

MTV
i t     rT
'      Orl li


hi   :.;
.i(      .i
Iii   ;i ';
i.     .?
I'
' EE , ,
,;,  E ,
,
,,1    ,
'{,- .
.    i F'
{ ,
h
i ,i . ,
'' '  ~
i ; "I
,t:

SAY AND SEAL.

And Faith was as docile and obedient as Johnny Fax
himself, and as far as those qualities went, very much in
the same way. If the denial of Phil's information and
Mr. Linden's manner the day after her overturn, had raised
a doubt as to the real abstractness of his regard for her,
Faith's modesty and simplicity put the thought well into
the background. She did not care to look at it or bring
it up; in the full, happy, peaceful hours she was enjoying
she had enough, for the present; and so Faith went on
very much after her old fashion.. A little quieter, per,
haps, when not called out of it; a little shyer of even inno,
gently putting herself forward; but in speech or action,
speaking and acting with her wonted free simplicity.
The only breaks in these weeks were one or two visits
to Mrs. Custers, and the doctor's comings and goings.
He could not be shut out.
The Monday evening after the doctor's absence atQuili..
peak, the little party were as usual in the sitting-room;
and a pretty chapter of Physical Geography was in pro.
cess of reading and talk, when the doctor's quick wheels
at the door announced not only his return but his arrival,
And Mr. Linden announced to his scholar, that it was
needful now to return to the surface of the earth and
attend to the flow of conversation-and to put the book
in his pocket.
"Are you glad to see me back ?" said the doctor as he
took the hand of his patient. He looked rather glad
himself.
hiIf I say yes, that will be to confess that I have reason.
You perceive my dilemma," Mr. Linden said, but with a
smile that was certainly as kind and trustworthy as any
the doctor had seen since he went away.
"Do-you mean-that you have no reason to be glad ?"
said Dr. Harrison slowly, eying the smile and giving it,
to judge by his own, a trustful regard.
" Certainly not ! It's a comfort to -have somebody at
hand who is ready to fight me at any moment," said Mr.
Linden.
"What have you been doing since I went away ?"
" Reading, writing, and considering the world generally."
"Frarm this Pattaquasset centre !" '

SAY AND. SEAL.

"Why not?-if lines meet and make it one.
"How do you get the ends of the lines in your hands!"
said the doctor. "A centre, I feel it to be-but very like
the centre of the earth-socially and politically. You see,
I have just emerged to the surface, and come down again.
Who has taken care of you ?"
"I feel quite equal to the task of taking care of myself,
thank you, doctor."
"You don't mean to say, man, you have dressed your
arm yourself?"
"What do you suppose my powers are equal to ?"
"That is a matter," said the doctor, "upon which I stand
in doubt-which gives me an uncomfortable, troublesome
sort of feeling when I am in your presence. It must be
superstition. I suppose I shall get the better of it-or of
you !-in time. Meanwhile, who has dressed your arm for
you?"
The answer was given very quietly, very simply, not
very loud. "The lady whom you had the honour of in-
structing in the art, Dr. Harrison."
"Did you do it well ?" said Dr. Harrison somewhat
comically, wheeling round before Faith.
She was a contrast; as her face looked up at him, rather
pleased, and her soft voice answered,--" I think I did, sir."
"I don't doubt you did ! And I don't doubt you would
do anything. Are you preparing to be another Portia ?
And am I to be Bellario ?"
"I don't know what you mean, Dr. Harrison."
"Do you know the story of Portia ?-in the Merchant
of Venice ?"
"I never read it."
"She was a dangerous character," said the doctor.
"Portia, Miss Derrick, wishing to save not the life but
the character and happiness of a-But what a way this
is to tell you the story ! Is there a Shakspeare here ?"
"We haven't it," said Faith quietly.
"I'll bring the play the next time I come, if. you will
allow me," he said sitting down by her ;-" and indoctrin-
ate you in something more interesting than my first lesson.
How shall I thank you for doing my work for me ?"
"It became my work."

356

357


ill y,!; r
,; ,
{  ;
irk    F   
' k
.
fir {{1.
('t
I;'t t4F
'i
f
t
(

358                SAY AND SEAL.
am in your debt nevertheless--more than you can
know   ithout being one of my profession. I have some.
thing that I wish to submit to your inspection, and to take
your advice upon, too. It will be fit to be seen, I hope,
by the day after to-morrow. If I could I would bring it
here-but as that is not possible-Will you go to see it ?"
"Where is it ?"
"Not far; but it will cost you the taking of a few steps."
Faith declared she had hardly time to go to see any.
thing; but was obliged finally to yield to persuasion, and
Thursday was the day fixed. The thing, whatever it was,
however, was not ready when the day came, and the exhi.
bition was put off indefinitely.

F  ;  11 t
;,ft ,''
Nil- if
Ii f  i'flri 1'
nn'
ii+jdi;l li} f
krl'f, jr  ( ii,
it
I;
1

CHAPTER XXIX.
r HOSE weeks, like others, came to an end. And then Mr.
,   Linden gave notice to all and sundry of his scholars,
that his time of seclusion was at an end-only giving way
to advice so far, as to accept the daily use of Squire Stout-
enburgh's lose carriage, until his health should be in a more
assured state. Monday morning he was to take up his old
routine of school duties; though done too fit for it, in the
estimation of some people,-the doctor said it was a month
}  too soon. And no -one could look at him and forget the
last month's work,--a little exertion made the work very
apparent; and as they sat at breakfast .Monday morning,
9 Mrs. Derrick made up her own mind privately that Dr.
r Harrison should have found some means to keep him in the
house anl from work yet longer.  u the result of her
meditations was not put in words; the effect betrayed itself
in the extra care bestowed upon cups of coffee.--the only
4 thing within her reach.
It was a cold morning, true November, with its driving
grey wind clouds, through which the cool sunbeams strag-
gled fitfully; with trees shorn of their golden honours, and
brown branches waving and twisting in the wind, and only
mere specks of blue here and there overhead. The guills
sailed to and fro above the Mong as if they rejoiced in the
fierce gusts of northern wind'; the vessels shortened sail, or
ran under bare poles. The wind shook the village windows,
and poured dry leaves in every porch, and swept up the
world generally-not much to the comfort of the same. In
Mrs. Derrick's little eating-room indeed, it was warm enough,
and the floor swept after another fashion; yet even there
did the wind rush in, whenever the kitchen door opened,
after Cindy and the hot cakes.
"Mr. Linden," said Faith after her eye had gone explor-
ingly to the window, the wind and the clouds,-"-I wish
you would give the boys only half a day to day 1"
(359)

I;
,4 t,;
'!
1- ,.
;  '
'  .''  r


360  SY ANDEAL.SAY AND SEAL.                                                  36

"I fancy you could have your wish seconded thirty
times," he said smiling. "No-not thirty times, but perha?
twenty."
"I don't think those wishes would be worth minding.;
but I think mine is, Mr. Linden. I mean the reason of ity
"I think yours is-if I could mind it. What is thA reaso,
Miss Faith ?"
"I am afraid you are not quite fit for a whole day's work,
In school," she added' smiling.
"You don't know what you are asking !-if I stay at
home I shall talk nothing but French the whole afternoon.,"
"Well," said Faith laughingly, "1 shouldol  esi.
I could bear that."                  ldol    6sil
"I couldn't-and you wouldn't. But you need not be
uneasy, Miss Faith-I must not be at home." .
She looked grave, but said no more.
The wind was not more busy out of doors that.day, than
the people within. Diligent and quick hands moved about
in dairy and kitchen; and a quick and diligent, spirit as
earnestly--(for in Faith's mind it was all one work; that
was on the way to this).--dealt with problems and idioms
in the study room that Faith liked best and where she was
most secure. _But long enough before dinner she was help-
ing Mrs. Derrick in the kitchen again.
" Mother," she said, "you can't think how I dread to see
Mr. Linden come home to-day! He won't speak one word
of English to me."
"I guess he would, if you wouldn't speak one word of
French to him," said Mrs. Derrick sagaciously. "What
kre you afraid of; child ?"  .  .
"I am afraid just of that," said Faith sighing. "Of
having to speak those French words."
"Why you've been reading them to him, I'm sure," said
her mother. "I didn't know anybody was afraid of him
but me, Faith.. But if you don't like it, why don't you tell
him so?".
Faith however negatived that proposition with a dubious
shake of the head; which meant, probably, that neither
Mr. Linden nor herself would be satisfied with such a mode
of procedure; and confined her present attentions to the
dinner preparations. In which and other matters she be-

caeso engaged that she forgot her fears; and going into
thedining room some time after with a dish in her hands
Sad finding Mr. Linden there, Faith asked him earnestly
Sand with great simplicity, "how he felt after his morning's
an wrk." Then remembering, or reminded by something in
his face, she started away like a deer before any answer
could be given; and only came back demurely with her
~iother- -to receive his grave reverence and "Me voici,
nnademoiselle !"-given just as if he had not seen her before.
The half grave half laughing flash of Faith's eye spoke as
much of amusement as of fear ; yet afraid she certainly was,
for she did not so much as .speak English to her mother.
The language of the eye was all she ventured; nor that
boldly. It had to come, however, fear or no fear,--.the
English might be dispensed with but not the French. She
could not but try to understand the remarks or bits of in-
formation which were given her-sometimes gravely some-
times laughing; and if Mr. Linden was evidently waiting
Sfor an answer-what could she do but try that too ! He
Swas an admirable dictionary, very quick at seeing and sup-
Splying her want pfa word, and giving his corrections of her
Phraseology and pronunciation so gently and by the way,
That fear partly lost itself in interest. His own speech was
singularly smooth and perfect; and whenever Faith found
Herself getting frightened, she was sure to be assailed with
such a volley of swift flowing syllables, that she could do
i  ohng but laugh,-after which Mr. Linden would come
Back to the slower utterance which she could better under-
Sstand. After all, Faith's words that first time were few,
and it may safely be asserted that she did not in the least
know what she was eating, and made no sort of a dinner.
Of that last fact her instructor was well aware, but as his
first "Mais mademoisplle, mangez I" received but little at-
tention, he postponed that point till just as he was going
away, and then made a rather stringent request to the same
Soothe afternoon passed on, and eJlew itself out, and the
sun went to bed and night began /to light her candles.
Faith, standing at; the window (it was too cold to be out)
saw the red gleam fading from earth and sky, and the cold
bright stars coming one by one into view. Then the boys
VOL. 1. 8

800

361


362

SAY AND SEAL.

began to pass by,--some together and some alone; walking
or running home, or playing ball by the way. Mr. Linde'
carriage was a little behind them all, but he came at last,
and gave her a bow and a smile from the gate though she
thought herself standing too fa~r back to be seen.
"Now Mr. Linden," said Faith when he came in,--"Iam
so glad to speak to you againI How do you do ?" The
question was not lightly given.
"Miss Faith, did you finish your dinner ?"
"No-" said Faith hesitating,--"but I am going to have
some tea by and by. Aren't you well tired, Mr. Linden?"
"Pretty well-Why didn't you ?"
"I wanted to be doing something else,"-said Faith,
giving the easy chair a little push into place, and then
brightening up the fire. "I shall have tea in here to-night,
Mr. Linden. But we must wait a little while for it, for
Cindy is out. You won't be sorry to rest first."
She was summarily, though very respectfully put in the
easy chair herself.
"By what rule of right and wrong did you do anything
else first?  Do you know, Miss Faith, I did not finish mine
either-I wanted another piece of bread, and could not
get it!"                                          r
"Why not, Mr. Linden ? I am sure there was bread on
the table. But I am glad if you are hungry, for I have got
something that you like. Now please rest !" she said spring-'
ing up and beginning to arrange the table.
"I am sure I asked you for it politely," he said with a
smile, as he yielded to her "please rest." "What have you
been about all day ?"
"I have been learning my lessons-and trying how well
I could get on by myself."
"Get on by yourself ?" he said rather slowly and inquir.-
ingly. "In what ?"
"In the books-in my studies, Mr. Linden."
"Are you tired of my help, Miss Faith ?"
She gave all her eyes to the answer, both in their sweet.
ness and their gravity. "Do you think I could let you
spend all your time upon me, Mr. Linden when your
whole day is given to such work ? I'll come to you for
help whenever I can't get on without it;" she said with a .

SAY AND SEAL.

smile, not exactly an enjoying one,-" but I know I can do
Sa good deal by myself.-
His eyes were given to the answer too, a little intently,
but the smile that followed was different.
"I think you will let mie do what I shall do, Miss Faith."
"I suppose that t" said' Faith with a bright gleam in her
eyes. She went out to see if Cindy had come back; but
returned immediately, sat down and looked gravely into the
fire.
"What is the use of startling people in that way ?" Mr.
Linden said, looking at her. "1 didn't know but you were
going to send me to take up my abode at Mrs. Seacomb's!"
"Startling, Mr. Linden!" said .Faith opening her eyes
at him. "I saig itAecause I thought it was right. I
didn't think it w6s pleasant."
-,-   "Well," said he, "we were agreed upon that point.
F  Now Miss Faith, as my time is precious, and I cannot well
give any of it to people who have enough of their own-
would it disturb you if I were to read aloud a little here
for my own'amusement ?"
She changed her place to come nearer, without saying
anything, but with a face of quiet delight only half revealed.
"What do you think of the relative and respective charms
ofMirth and Melancholy, Miss Faith ?-I mean their
charms to inward perception, not outward sight."
"The pleasure of them ?" said Faith.
"Yes-pleasure and satisfaction."
"I-never thought there was any pleasure in Melancholy,"
said Faith smiling at the idea, but smiling inquiringly too.
In answer, Mr. Linden opened his book and gave her
the Allegro and Penseroso,-gave them with not only a
full appreciation, but with a delicate change and suiting
of voice and manner-and look, even-that made them
witching.
And if ever a hearer was bewitched, that was Faith.
She lent her ear to the music, her eye to the eye, her thought
to the thought, in utter forgetfulness of all else. At first
she listened quietly, sitting where she was, looking some-
times at the fire, sometimes at the reader; but then she
abandoned herself to full enjoyment, left her chair for a low
seat near Mr..Linden, almost at his feet; and with upraised

863


SAY AND SEAL.

li , 
t .y~-,
.  ,
'
",. ',
~ : ,
i ;  ' ''
,'i
;,; ;; ; , .
'
1        i
i  "
'  '
,
o ''         I
;       ,
',
,    ;,
,f

It wasn't made at first. Her look had come round slowly
to the fire and slowly subsided. After sitting a minute so,
she made her remark.
"Buit Mr. Linden, none of that seemed much like Melan.
holy to me ?"
"That may be called the ideal of Melancholy," he said
smiling.
"What is an 'ideal'? But oh," said Faith starting up,
"it-is time to have tea !--What is an 'ideal,' Mr. Linden ?"
It was impossible not to laugh a little-but equally un-
possible to take that laugh amiss.
"The particular mental standard of perfection by which
every person measures other people and things; and as that
is generally more perfect than reality, the ideal is supposed
to exist only in the idea."
She stood pondering the answer, with a somewhat hum.
bled brow.
"I think I know," she said shaking her head a little -..
"but I shall have to ask what exactly you mean by a
standard, Mr. Linden. B  and by-I must see toCindy
now."
And she ran off.  Cindy presently brought in the tray;
and Faith followed, arranging and setting in order every-
thing. The tea did not immediately follow, perhaps the
fire had got low, or Mrs. Derrick was not ready, for Faith
did not seem expectant. She stood on the rug before the
fire, looking into it very soberly and ponsideratively. There
was a little abstraction in her figure and- air. Suddenly
she faced round where she stood.
"Do you feel very tired indeed to-night, Mr. Linden ?"
"Not very-now," he said smiling. "I have been rest.-
ing. I was a little more tired than usual when I came
home."

SAY AND SEAL.

365

face and intent eye and varying play of lip, devoured it all,
Sometimes the poetry certainly got beyond the bounds of
her stock of knowledge; but that mattered not; for when.
ever the reading failed, the reader filled up all the gap and
Faith listened to him.  Precisely, what it was to have jus
such a hearer, was best known to the reader himself; bit
he closed the book silently. Faith's comment was pecti.
liar.

364

lowly and deliberately she came round behind his chair
l and stood leaning upon the back of it.
"Mr. Linden-I want to ask you something.
The tone was low and peculiar. It was a very common
thing for her to be more or less moved by a little timidity;
but now plainly Faith was afraid. It changed her voice,
beyond the slight sweet touch that timidity often gave it.
"You know I like to have you, Miss Faith."
"I wanted to ask-if you would like,--or if you wouldn't
dislikeif you would have any objection, to read and pray
at night-----here, with us, --and let Cindy and Mr. Skip
come in?"
"I will, certainly,"Mr. Linden said: "how could I have
any objection ? Miss Faith-will you please to come round
here and sit down ?-Why are you so much afraid of me.?"
She did not leave her position.
"I didn't know whether you would like it," she said in a
very low voice. "I asked mother to ask you, but she
wouldn't,.-though she said she would like to have you do
it. I wanted it particularly for mother's sake."-The last
words were said little above a whisper.
"I don't.see where the fear came from, yet."
She was quite still, quite motionless, behind his chair
He turned a little, so as to see heir face, and laid his hand
upon hers.
"Will you come round here and tell me, Miss Faith? I
shall not let you stand up all the evening."
She was looking, when he saw her, with the least bit of
a smile upon .a mouth all unbent, and eyes that were full;
a very happy, stirred face. It quieted down as soon as he
turned; except the smile which played rather more.
"Tell you what, Mr. Linden ?" she said not leaving her
place.
"What have I done to make myself such an ogre ?"
"What is an ogre, Mr. Linden ?"
"A ferocious sort of anomaly that everybody is afraid
of."
"I don't know what you've done, Mr. Linden," she said
half laughing. "I. am not enough frid to In.t s*n-
thing."

Alsol
In'i
_t  1 r  ' a1
171
1 ,: l Y 1
Sl  i,
'i ti t:


, ,z -
.l,..  , ,
;,i;  '  '
l{ ,
'       ;
)S" 'I
1     i
i  "i1              y
I

SA.Y AND SEAL.

"EnQugh to hurt me-I don't care about any other
thing."
A grave glance of her eye was regretful enough.
"But it's true, Mr. Linden! I was a little afraid to ask
what I wasn't sure you would like-that was all."
"Well," he said with a reassuring smile, as he got up
and took hold of both her hands and brought her out of
position, "I am not much hurt yet-but I desire that the
fear may not increase. And therefore, Miss Faith, I want
to have you sit here in the firelight, so that I can keep
watch of it."
She smiled, as if it were beyond his ken now, but her
words went to another point.
"What time would you like, Mr. Linden ?"
"Whatever suits you."
She was silent for a minute or two, with a very happy
face, till the door opened. Then she sprang up and re-
ceived and placed the tea and things which Cindy~ad
brought in. There was a dainty supply to-night, perhaps
in consideration of Mr. Linden's first day of out-door work,
and in delicate sympathy and reward thereof. And Faith,
in her happiest mood though as quiet as a mouse, was an
excellent 'ministering: spirit' of the tea-table; to-night pa'.
ticularly, for every sense and affection seemed to be on the
alert.
"How do you find all the boys, after their month out of
school, Mr. Linden ?" she said, when waffles and cups of
tea were fairly under weigh.
"Very glad to see me-very much afraid I should tire
myself; and some a little afraid they might share the
fatigue. So things correct each other !-if they had not
shewed the last fear, I might have felt the first."
"How did that work ?" said Faith laughing a little.
"It worked-" said Mr. Linden. "Is that intelligible,
Miss Faith ?"
Her smile and shake of the head said that it was.
"Is Joe Deacon staying home yet ?" said Mrs. Derrick,
"No, he began school again to-day."
"I wonder whether the Squire is going off again," said
Mrs. Derrick,-" or whether he's going to stay home."
"I hyve heard nothing of his going away."

SAY AND SEAL.

367

"You were going to tell me what exactly a 'standard'
- is Mr. Linden ?  At least !"- said Faith correcting her-
f self,-" I was going to ask you."
"There is a very intimate connexion between the two
things," said Mr. Linden smiling.  "A  standard, in this
sense, is-simply some fixed rule of the ought to be, by which
the ismust be tried. Standard coin is that made according
to the precise government regulation, and is the test of all
other in the realm, as to size, weight, and alloy. So of
standard weights and measures. For some things we have
the Bible standard,-for most, each person has his own."
"Then Mr. Linden," said Faith, "I think my 'ideal' of
Melancholy is something disagreeable."
"I don't believe you have any !" said he laughing.
"You mean your idea, Miss Faith."
"Do I ?" said Faith. "But perhaps you have such a
9 thing, Mr. Linden'; isn't it disagreeable ?"
"Not at all-and besides I haven't any. But the ideal
of Melancholy is about as much like the reality, as a pic-
ture of the Tragic Muse is like the fifth act of a tragedy."
$.That Faith did not know the meaning of tragedy, was a
fact which she wisely and self-denyingly kept to\ herself;
and for the present turned her attention to supplying her
. mother with a fresh waffle. And so with various bits. of
talk, tea came to an end, and Mrs. Derrick was called out
. to discuss some important matter with Mr. Skip.
"Mother," said Faith finding her opportunity, "I asked
Mr. Linden, and he will do that."-A little shadow came
over Mrs. Derrick's face.
S"Well, child ?" she said gently.
"Mother-I have asked hin,-will you speak to Mr.
Skip and Cindy ?"
"I can't child-" said her mother, with the same tone
and look. I'll go in myself, but I can't try to do any
more."
"Dear mother.-" said Faith,-" I wish you would !"
Her mother turned and kissed her, but the difficulty was
clearly not one to be overcome. The whole subject seemed
to bring up some painful association.
"He'll call them in himself; if you ask him, child."
"Would it be right to ask him, mother ?"

366


368                SAY AND SEAL.
"WtIy yes !" said Mrs. Derrick-" I don't see why not.
One of you must."
With this thought Faith went back to the sitting-room.
Clearly there was some strong feeling against her being
the one, for after a little sober silent waiting, she spoke.
"Mr. Linden-would you rather I should ask Cindy
and Mr. Skip to come in ?-or will you ?"
He knew, better than she did, how well the question
shewed her own wish, and how simple a matter it was to
him.
"I will, Miss Faith, if you please. Is this the hour you
have fixed upon ?"
"I think so," she said,-"if you like it; because by and
by they will be sleepy." And Mr. Linden at, once pro.
ceeded to the kitchen.
A busy murmur of tongues, and bright firelight glancing
from keyhole and crevice, guided him through the narrow
passage which, sooth to say, he had never trod before, to
the door of the kitchen; the latch of which yielded on
slight persuasion, and Mr. Linden walked in. Supper was
over there, too, and the dishes were washed and put away,
and Cindy with dishcloth in hand was rubbing down the
kitchen table. In one corner of the hearth sat Mr. Skip
on a half bushel measure, a full corn basket beside him, an
empty one in front,l his hands busy with the shelling pro-
cess; this hard work being diversified and enlivened with
the continual additions he made to a cob house on the
hearth. But, cob in hand, Mr. Skip paused when Mr.
Linden came in, and looked up at this unusual apparition
from under an extraordinary hat which drooped on all
sides of his face, as if like its wearer it.had long given up
all idea of keeping up appearances. The face itself was
strong, shrewd, apt. And so Mr. Skip looked at Mr. Lin-
den. Cindy on her part, did nothing but wring the dish-
cloth and shake it out again, entirely oblivious of the greet-
ing with which Mr. Linden favoured both parties; and
she listened to the 'words he said about the ' corn, as if
they had been Greek-double distilled. Those words were
few.
"Mr. Skip," he said then, "I think that so long as God
keeps us here together every day, we ought to thank him

SAY AND SEAL.369

for it together every night. I want you and Cindy to
come into the parlour and let us begin to do it now."
"Hey ?" said Mr. Skip, between want of understanding
and want of belief in the testimony of his ears. Mr. Linden
repeated his words, with a composed distinctness that could
leave no manner of doubt.
"Well1!".-said Mr. Skip. "What do you want us for
to do?"
"Come into the parlour."
"I s'pose we'll be to come,'"-said Mr. Skip, dropping
his cob and getting up and straightening himself. "Will
you have us in now ?
"Yes," Mr. Linden answered, and led the way.
"Go along, Cindy !"   said Mr. Skip in ugrtone.
"S'pose it don't take fur to see into this."
Cindy obeyed, but without seeing 'fur' into anything-..
even the parlour, though she tried for it. There was not
very much to see. Mrs. Derrick (with a little shadow of
recollective sorrow) had placed the old Bible by the lamp,
and now sat leaning her head on her hand and did not look
up as they came in. Faith's face was one of grave joy;
but the gravity was so quiet that the joy was beyond the
ken of so dull a vision as Cindy's. She sat with clasped
hands on a low seat beyond the fire. And Cindy at last
fixed her attention upon Mr. Linden, with only an occa-
sional roll of her eyes towards Mr. Skip.
It was a long time since such a service had been in that
house,---a time at first swept by a storm of sorrow, then
calmed and quieted into a stillness which had grown more
and more bright, year by year. Whatever sunshine those
years had seen, came from Faith; but that other faith,
which should make even her more precious, had been un-
known. And the words of the reading and prayer to-night,
were to Mrs. Derrick like the renewing of things so long
past, that, she could scarce bear it; and different as Mr.
Li den was from any one she had ever known, that Chris-
tian family likeness almost, to her feeling, transformed him.
It was a very simple matter to him, truly,-vhy not?.-
Why should it ever be anything else ? or why, when the
fear of God is on the tongue should the fear of man be in
the heart? Yet it was even more the love of dod than


370             SAY AND SEAL.

the fear, that his hearers perceived that night. Simple in
word and tone cand manner, it was the simplicity of a feel.
ing so full and strong that it needed no capillary tubes of
speech to carry it upward. The prayer ended, and the
retreating steps on their way along the kitchen passage,
Mrs. Derrick came up to Faith, and putting her arms
round her kissed first one cheek and then the other-then
turned and left the room.  And Faith sat still, with that
joy filling her heart so full that her head bent with the
weight of it.
One other comment she was destined to hear that night.
"I must say, Miss Faith," said Cindy, "I like these new
notions firstrate!  I always did say my prayers afore I
went     ed, and I'm free to confess this saves a deal of
trouble.

CHAPTER XXX.
SHE quiet of that very peaceful evening was for a short
time interrupted by a call from Dr. Harrison. The
doctor came, he said, to see how Mr. Linden felt after his
day's work; and to tell Faith that his exhibition was in
readiness for her and only waited a sunny day and her pre-
sence. It was agreed that if the sun did not fail of shew-
euing himself the next afternoon, Faith should not.;
Tuesday was fair, and the afternoon came ont  liant
with sunbeams. But the doctor's steps did not reach Mrs.
Derrick's floor by some minutes so soon as he had pur-
posed they should.
Passing down the main street of Pattaquasset, Dr. Har-
rison descried before him the well known figure of Squire
Stoutenburgh, and the less familiar outlines of Squire Dea-
con. And the doctor's near approach procured him the fa-
f your of an introduction to the latter gentleman,-either be-
cause the Squire desired it, or because the other Squire was
tired of his companion and wanted to be off-which he
was, as soon as the introduction was over. For in Mr.
Stouthburgh's eyes the buttonhole of Dr. Harrison's soft
coat was no more precious (to say the least) than that of
his own grey Rough and Ready.
"Squire Deacon is anxious about the state of Mr. Lin-
den's health, doctor," he said,-" I refer him to you."
The doctor made a slight inclination, graceful as all his
inclinations were,' but also slight; intimating that he would
have the honour of satisfying Mr. Deacon's inquiries but
desired nothing more of him.
"How's he getting along ?" said Squire Deacon-feel-
ing the social duty thus imposed upon him.
"There is hope that he will be restored to his pristine
state of strength in the course of a few weeks, sir."
"A few weeks 1" said Squire Deacon. "Why he's in
school again, ain't he ?"
(371)

I


SAY AND SEAL.

372             SAY AND SEAL.

"He has gone in a carriage," said the doctor, who-for
some unaccountable reason had taken a fit of perversity,,
"I understand he was in school yesterday."
"Did you know him afore he come here, doctor ?"
"I had not that honour, sir, till I came here myself."
"Well I never saw anybody as did," said Squire Pea.
con.-" I s'pose he comes from somewhere."
"I ioubt it," said Dr. Harrison with the slightest possi.
ble elevation of his eyebrows for an instant. Squire Dea.
con, however, was not just the fool Dr. Harrison took hinm
for; of which fact a little gleam in his .eyes gave notice,
"'Taint extraordinary you don't like him, doctor," h
said    lessly.  "Mr. Linden's a fine man, but 'most any
pair     eels is one too many in some roads.7
"I never followed a wheelbarrow, sir," said the doctor.
"I suppose, from your allusion, you have. May I be hon-
oured with your further commands ?"
"Wheelbarrows have only one wheel, mostly," said
Squire Deacon composedly.
"You know better than I, sir. Might I enquire why
you are anxious about the state of Mr. Linden's health?"
"Don't know as I said I was anxious.-" said Squire
Deacon.   "When a man's lived in a place as long as he
has, it's nothing wonderful if folks ask whether he's going
to hold on. All the women in my house think he's dead
and buried, now."
"Ah! He's a favourite 'in that line, is he ?"
"Other lines just as much-for all .I know," said the
Squire. "Can't say I ever just went in for all Mr. Sin.
lins says-nor all Parson Somers says, neither,-cap't help
that, doctor, if he is one o' your folks."
"What have you against him ?"
"I don't say nothing against him7" said Squire Deacon,--
"except he's a fine .man.  Maybe you think that is."  ..
"Is there anything further you would like to say on any
subject, sir?"
"Not much,, I guess, if that's the time o' day," said
Squire Deacon looking at him with a queer little bit of a
smile. "'Taint useful to get stirred up that way, doctor,
just because a raan wishes you a good journey. But I can,
just as easy wish you another-overturn -I s'pose you're

I

prettY sure to get one or t'other out o' the horses. It's
all one to me-and I dare say it is to everybody else."
"What is your name, sir?" said the doctor standing and
looking at him in a sort of mazed consideration.
"My name's Sam Deacon,"-,-said the Squire with his
peculiar sort of sullen composure. "Your father and I've
always been friends, anyhow."
"Then.Mr. Deacon will you have the goodness to under-
stand that I am not an agent for thei transaction of Mr.
Linden's affairs; but as I am a friend of his, I will inform
him that you are interested in the subject. That is all,
"I11 go bail for the first part of that !" said S ' e Dea-
con. "But it's your affairs I'm talkin' of--not  And
I s'pose I've as good a right as all the rest of aquas-
set-and give no offence, neither. I was goin' to make
you my compliments, doctor-that's all; and if you don't
think you'll ever want 'em, why there's no harm done-and
enough said. All I want to know is, what do you get so
stirred up for ?"
"Is that all ?" said the doctor, as if he had a mind to
know the whole before giving an answer.
"All what ?" said Squire Deacon.
"All that you wish to communicate ?"
"I haven't communicated anything y t," said the Squire.
"I guess you knew all that before."
"Well," said the doctor, half laughing, though his ex-
pression had changed more than once during the last five
minutes,-"then my answer is easy. In the first place,
Mr. Deacon, I have no affairs-therefore it is impossible
to talk about them. In the second place, when I am in
want of your compliments I will -send you mine. In the
third place,-I declare I am at a loss how to answer you;
for the nly thing I ever get stirred up for, is my break-
fast!  ood afternoon!__"
Staring no more civilities, the doctor made the best of
his way to Ms. Derrick's. Faith was ready for. him, and
more gently with.: her he set out on the road back again.
It was not a time of day to meet people-one familiar face
however they did meet, -Squire Deacon. -His eye did
voL.1i.                32

!'
(r
'  1.      }i
j :', ; sip
.r


374                 SAY AND SEAL.
not seek Faith's face, but rested on the doctor with full
effect.
Arrived at the Judge's house, the doctor led her to the
library, and there unlocked the door of a little cabinet
room. On a table in the window, standing in the full sun'
shine, was the object of their visit. It was simply a fine
little Aquarium.  More delightfully new to Faith's eyes
nothing could be; as the same eyes shewed. While they
explored the wonders of the box, the doctor at his ease
proceeded to unfold to her the various meanings of them.
le enlarged upon the habits and characters of the several
inmates of the Aquarium; he explained to her the phi-
losop    f keeping the balance of vegetable and animal
life a   hereby preserving both; he told which cre ture
lived    n lwhi  other; what office they severally, s ie
of them, perfor ed for the small section of Ocean in which
they lived and its vitrified shores; and then taking up the
subject of Sea anemones, the doctor told stories, of nata-
ral truth, that with these living specimens before her en-
tranced Faith out of all knowledge of place or time. Dr-
Harrison asked no more. He gave her what she liked,
and with admirable tact abstained from putting himself
forward; any further than a quick eye, excellent speech,
and full and accurate mind must make themselves known,
and most gentle and graceful attention make itself felt.
"Do you suppose," said he, when Faith was absorbedly
watching the Anemones feed,---"that Mrs. Derrick would
give  is thing house-room ?"
Faith looked, but half comprehending.,
"I am not always. here," said the doctor carelessly, as
he was supplying another bit of flesh to the voracious
flower,-" and I should like to have it somewhere that it
would be taken care of. If I left it to Sophy for a week,
I should expect to find on my return that the vegetables
and fishes had eaten up each other. Don't you admire
that crab ?"
"Very much," said Faith.  "This little fish is just like
some of the shells down on the shore."
4' He came from the shore somewhere," said the doctor,--.
"little monster I The ocean world isn't much better than
the world of earth, apparently, Miss Derrick."

SAY AND SEAL.

375

"Do you think the earth-world is like that ?" said Faith.
"Don't you ?"
"I don't know what it is like."
"If you will permit me to say so, I hope you never will.-.
any further than as you choose to make this a miniature of
that. And things in miniature-are much less," said the
doctor abstractedly, looking at the Anemone. 'Would
you like to have this little ocean box in your house for
awhile, Miss Faith ?-it could just as well as not. Indeed
it would be rather a benefit to me."
"0 I should like it !" said Faith. "But I should be
afraid of its getting broken, Dr. Harrison."
"I am not afraid," said he. "It would be in 1  ,danger
there than here. As I told you, Sophy neither  s nor
cares anything about such things; and she wo  either
kill them with kindness or forget them altogether-most
likely do both alternately. But with you they would be
safe, for the simple reason that you love them."
The sunbeams had left the window before Faith was at
all aware of the passing away of the afternoon. And then,
for once to her joy, Miss Harrison could not be found.
They set out to walk home, and had got half way when a
little rush of footsteps came up behincj/them, and Reuben
and Sam passed by, arm in arm; o  ather half by-then
paused and said good evening.
" have you seen Mr. Linden to-night, Dr. Harrison ?"
said Sam.
"Good evening, sir I" said the doctor. "Have I the
honour of knowing you?"
"I should think you might," said Sam, in a tone not At
*  all displeased-"but it don't signify much. Have you seen
'  him to-night, doctor?"
"I should think I might, too," said Dr. Harrison looking
t coolly over the 'young giant.' "Allow me to observe,
i that 'to-night' is not come yet."
"Did you ever 1" said Sam in an aside to Reuben, who
* had stood perfectly still without speaking. "Well any time
since he got home then, sir ?"
"No, sir."
"Have you, Miss Faith ?" said Reuben.

"' }    i
F l
''   ,'   i
i ; +k
,
~ ,r
:,  . ,
F,  f.
+j 3   ;
F
4' i'
S ;iii
i   r
,  i + ,
. ,


r
376

SAY AND SEAL.

"No, Reuben--I am just going horpe What's the
matter ?"
"Why he fainted in school--.wthat's all," said Sam,. "he
said there was nothing the niatter.  Only we were go
down to see how he got home, and I thought maybe
doctor might tell us first." And not staying for more word
the two boys walked on a few steps, then set off and soon
ran themselves out of sight.
The other two quickened their walk, the doctor mode
ating his steps however to suit the strength of his com"
panion.. But she soon took the lead, and Mrs. Derrick's
house was reached in as short a space of time as the ground
might be travelled without a speed which Faith did not dare
assumear
There vas nothing alarming in the little parlour. Mrs.
Derrick sat knitting; Mr. Linden had been reading  rs'
Ik                              gn, but
now was talking-half laughing, half chiding--with the
two boys who stood before him. Reuben stood silent,
smiling a little; Sam's energy was at work.
Faith came in quietly, with a face to which all her quick
walk had not brought back the colour. She said noth-
ing. But the doctor's tongue was free.
"Why what's this Linden ?"
"T-i- -s'id -h't
This is-Liden-" said that gentleman coolly. "No
boys-go off,-.I think I can live without seeing either of
you again till to-morrow. What's the 'matter, Dr Harri.
son ?"
"Just and precisely what I was asking," said the doctor;
while Faith glided to her mother and sitting down by her
whispered enquiry. But Mrs. Derrick knew nothing-had
heard nothing, apparently.
"It's for you to state the case-""said Mr. Linden "You
speak as if you had a warrant of arrest in our pocket "
"Why " said the doctor, standing and looking down upon
him,-" here's a wind that has blown from nowhere! Do
you want me to lodge information against yourself ?"
"I don't wish to lodge any."
"Linden," said the doctor changing his tone to one of
serious kidly interest, while Faith's eyes from her more
disan set w ainorth daanswer,-"what is the matter?

SAY AND SEAL.

377

"What nonsense have those boys been talking?" s id
Mr. Linden-but his look carried the charge a little beyond.
the range of his words. "I was faint for awhile-not quite
in a 'deadly swownd,' however."
"That young -scapegrace said and declared . you had
fainted."
"They are so used to their own red cheeks, they think
red is 'the only colour," said Mr. Linden. "However, I
believe he spoke true-but it was nothing worth speaking
of, after all."
"What was the c  se?".
"I presumed a little upon the successful way in which I
got through yesterday-tried to do a little too much to-day,
had one or two things to try me-and so. Which of my
boys do you honour with that title of scapegrace ?"
"You musn't do so again," said the doctor seriously.
There was no malice prepense to-day," said Mr. Linden.
"What have you been about all the afternoon ?-I expect
to hear that you have sailed up the Great Pyramid in a
canal boat, or coasted Japan in a Chinese lantern."
5  , "Nearly right," said the doctor. "We have been enact-
tifinhe part of the wise men of Gotham-I can't imagine
where I ever heard of them !.-.-who went to sea in a tub."
"Went to see-what ?-" said Mr. Lindenlaughing.
"Went to Se-vast-a-pooll!" said the doctor with
perfect gravIly. "I hope you're better !"
P "Don't I look well ?"
"If I were to take the votes on that subject," said the
i   doctor, "I presume the verdict would be unanimous. But
looks are proverbially-unsatisfactory! Do you know what
y  damage you have done me by your exploit this afternoon ?'
"I should be very glad to hear."
"Why you have brought me into discredit and disfavour
with half Pattaquasset, man, because I have let you go out
too! soon-don't you see ? Mrs. Derrick has already laid
it to her account against me-which is getting to be a score
I shall never dare to foot up."
Faith had left the room for a minute, and coming back
agan began to make ready the table for tea. Dr. Harrison's
eyes followed her. She was not looking as she had looked
at his anemones; quiet, sweet, and grave, she went rouno.
32 *

StSP f

"      f
g"'  F
I
,
j  1
f


SAY AND SEAL.             379

gathering up the books, and arranging the cups and plates.
But the doctor, though asked, would not stay. He went
off and the tea was brought in.
"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "if you are half as ready
for that exercise as I am, we shall get on superbly to-night."
She almost started.
"You, Mr. Linden!, Oh you're not fit for it !"
"Not fit for it !-Miss Faith, how can you say that to
me?"-
"Let it be so to-night, Mr. Linden !"
"I shall do nothing of the kind, Miss Faith, by your
leave. You know I can rest here most comfortably, and
make you work-after the same fashion, I hope. J am a
little afraid," he said looking at her, "that you are working
too much."
"Why, Mr. Linden? How could I ?"
"By not keeping your studies well balanced with fresh
air."
"0 no !" she said smiling. "The work is a great deal
better than the fresh air. Besides, I have been out to-day."
"You might as well say that bread is a great deal better
than water. Yes, you have been out to-day, that is one,
good thing. And I shall try to throw somewhat into that
scale myself, if I live. But I want all 'the books to-night,
Miss Faith-and to-morrow, you know, is a half holiday,
but you need not expect to have one."   *
Faith's tea went on after that in a manifestly different
manner. Expeditiously the table was cleared after tea!
And if ever Faith wrought with eager care to do perfec-
tions and save her teacher every word and thought that
could be spared, she did it then. So the exercise was.
written, with most earnest guarding against anything 'ger-
man' or 'sophisticated' in her letters.  Indeed Faith's
handwriting, by dint of taking pains, was fast growing into
stiff correctness-not without a certain beauty, of promise
at least, but stiff still. And with all her other lessons, of
thought or memory; what earnest quick effort could do was
done that night, and done upon the back of a sound prep-
aration.                  ,.
Mr. Linden however did not spare mself words, not
much, and care not at all: watching and guiiding his pretty

scholar with equal gravity, gentleness, and attention; rarely
,   diverging from the business view of the subject, unless
Faith grew timid or frightened, in which case he indulged
 himself with making her laugh, and so brought her back to
business again. What views Mrs. Derrick took of the two,
thus engaged, it would be hard to say; save that they were
wondrous pleasant ones-a little puzzled, a little thoughtful,
loving and pleased to the last degree.' How much she
studied those two faces !-not Faith herself bestowed more
care upon what she was about. But Faith came to con-
clusions-Mrs. Derrick never did; wanting help from the
very person who cleared the path of learning for herdaughter.
His face-its gravity, its changes-she could not read; but
she liked the study.
The doctor's plan about the Aquarium was excessively
distasteful to Mrs. Derrick. She read the meaning and
grounds of it, which Faith entirely failed to read; but then
to give them to her was hardly an advisable thing. So
the Aquarium came, after a few days; and Faith having
found that Mr. Linden could give her some help, if necess
sary, in the care of it, relieved her mind of all concern about
the responsibility and took the full good of the trust. In
a sunny window it was placed, and many a happy minute
between the times of other things Faith stood or sat there
to watch the unfolding and shrinking Anemones, and the
restless, eager, wild lives of the other and more distinctly
animal inhabitants of this little section of Ocean. The
only uncomfortable thing about it was that other people
sometimes saw it and heard how it came there; and other
people, Faith knew, drew very ridiculous inferences from
nothing. And though ridiculous they were disagreeable.
But however, she knew best how it came there and how
simple a matter it wag; and it was never the way of her
simplicity to trouble itself overmuch about ridiculous things.
Another person, it may be remarked, knew how it got
there; and he found it pleasant to come and see it some-
times. This was generally in the afternoon, now, when Mr.
Linden was not at home and Faith was not occupied in
household duties. Pleasant talks were held over the Aqua-
rium; for there was never an end of things that might be
told of old and new discoveries codnne cted w th what was

3"t8           SAY AND SEAL.


380             SAY AND SEAL.

in it. The conversations diverged often to other matters,
religious or scientific as the case might be; and were clever,
bright, interesting, or amusing accordingly-and invariably.
And so the time wore on towards the 29th. But in the
fourth week of Mr. Linden's return to school duties, Faith
began to have a new lesson-or rather she had it once and
practised upon it many times.  That once was at the end
of a Wednesday afternoon, in exquisite Indian summer
weather; when other subjects being dismissed for the time,
Mr. Linden gave his scholar an interesting and precise
account of the process of respiration; passing thence to the
obvious benefits of fresh air, 'and finally requesting her to
put on her things and come out and take them. After which,
it may be observed, Faith was never heard to say that studies
yere "a great deal better than fresh air,"-often as the walk,
was repeated.
The other lessons made beautiful headway. Even the
French talks at dinner. That was harder to Faith than
any other trial to which she had been put. She shrank
from it with great shrinking. But the desire to please her
teacher overcame even fear.  Rather than not do that,--
Faith ventured, right or wrong; and once fairly launched,
of course, with his good help and her own endeavours, soon
got into smoother sailing.
Mr. Linden and the doctor now met not often; the doctor
making his visits, as has been said, during school time. They
met oftenest where the doctor went seldomest,-in those
rooms where Dr. Harrison did sometimes let his profession
call him, where Mr. Linden was drawn by somewhat beyond
profession.  Sometimes this intercourse was only of the
eye,-sometimes they walked home together; the curious
friendship between them deepening, as it seemed, from all
sources.
Come home when Mr. Linden would, his room looked as
if somebody had just stepped out of it. The fire was always
in its best beauty; the hearth guiltless of ashes; the tem-
perature genial whatever the weather out of doors might
be ; the books, the papers, the table, in their wonted order
or disorder, as fresh as if dust never fell  But the fairy of
the place was always oiut of sight. *I

CHAPTER XXXI.
T HE 29th of November came on Wednesday, which per-
mitted Mrs. Stoutenburgh to have her dinner at an
earlier hour than would else have been possible. To this
dinner the two older guests were invited-the boys were
only to come to supper; and four o'clock was the time.
Till near three, studies and reading were in full force,
but then other duties claimed attention.
"If I could only sit next you at dinner, Miss Faith," Mr.
Linden said as he shut up the books, "we could talk French
all the time 1-but there is no hope of that. And Miss
Faith-" he said as she turned to go upstairs, "do. you
know that all the things on my table are not in their proper
place?"
Very much wondering, Faith was for a moment at a
loss.
"What is wrong, Mr. Linden ?"
"I would not give it so harsh a name, Miss Faith-only
I thought perhaps you would go in there before I come up
and see that all is left just as usual,-if you would be so
good."
Faith went up, querying with herself whether Cindy
could perhaps have been in there and committed some dire
damage-or what it could be.
What could it [-if ever a room was scrupulously in
order, that was; and. the table-it, had not been stirred,
nor a book upon it, since Faith's arranging hands ha been
there. - Even writing implements were not laid abo t, as
they often were,-the table was just as usual. Unless
Yes, in front of the books stood a glass of water, and
therein one dark velvet rose, truly of a 'Cramoisi supe-
rieure,' failing to support itself upon its own green leaves,
laid its face half coquettishly and half wearily upon dark
sprigs of heliotrope and myrtle. Thence it looked at Faith.
And Faith looked at it, with a curious smile of recognition,
and yet of doubt,.-whether that could possibly be what he
meant. But she was to see that all things were 'left just as
(381)

i
gttQS
.J
t
i
i
f


SAY AND SEAL.

f y ryi
, -
*' e
i} :
r,{ ' ,.
ii'
X11 , ,. ,°.
! ;   }
! i A  i
i  ''/_
f
f ,  ;.
''  .
t +' ,
; '
I', ',
(  '- t
I4 .
IjtFi,
...=
i      y'
'
-'ti
,  ,
4i,
;
*', ; i.
'k
,:
:
;   ,,
''
,,

,.
r
;,,
P
-

L; t , ;
,
Y
,'
y
7
1,
I.

383

usual'; it did not admit of a serious question. So lifting
the glass and the rose, Faith and it went off together.
IPaith's best dress, of course put on for this occasion, was
a black silk. She had thought that a little extravagant at
the time it was got; but Mrs. Derrick would have it., It
was made with the most absolute plainness, high in the
neck, where the invariable little white ruffle graced the
white throat; but the sleeves were short, and similar white
ruffles softened the dividing line between them and the well
rounded fair arms. Her hair was as usual, her feet were
as usual, only the shoes were of fresh neatness; but when
Faith had with eyes that saw only them\, not herself, fast-
ened the rose and myrtle on the bosom of her dress, a little
figure stood there that in its soft angles and exquisite pro.
priety of attire would have been noted in any circle of splen.
dour, and might have satisfied the most fastidious lover of
elegance. Wrapped up and hooded Faith went down
stairs, and Mr. Linden put her in the Stoutenburgh car-
riage, which rolled off to the mansion of the same name
in a very short space of time.
In solitary grandeur Faith was ushered into Mrs..Stout.
enburgh's bedroom, where first the fire kept her company,
and then Mrs. Stoutenburgh herself came in from another
door and both unwrapped her and wrapt her up ! But
when all that could be done was done, Mrs. Stoutenburgh
ran off again, and told Faith, laughing, that she hadn't
seen her yet-and was all ready for her in the parlour.
Faiti being left to herself stepped out into the passage,
where Mr. Linden was standing with folded arms before a
window that looked out upon the closing November day.
Faith came softly up beside him.
"I've seen Mrs. Stoutenburgh," she said; "but she says
she hasn't seen me. Are your flowers right now, Mr.
Linden ?"
"Miss Faith ! why do you wear velvet shoes ?"--he said
turning full upon her. "You have not been down stairs ?"
"No, certainly. I saw Mrs. Stoutenburgh up here.n"
"Then shall I have the pleasure of taking you downy?-
I see nothing that is not right," he added smiling.
It was rather an odd new thing to Faith, to be taken
owor. in, anywhere. The form of having a gentleman's

SAY AND SEAL.

382

arm was something rather startling. But she did not-shew
it. Down stairs they went, into the glowing parlour,
where Faith was met and greeted by Mrs. Stoutenburgh de
nouveau.
"Ah Miss Faith !" said the Squire as he gave her his
salutation, "how extravagant you a e to add roses to roses
in that style ! Don't you know it' a waste of material ?"
"No, sir. I shall use it all up."
-     " I should like to see you after you get through !" said
Mr. Stoutenburgh laughing., "Ask Mr. Linden if it's not
waste."
Mr. Linden however entirely declined to assent to any
such p oposition,-nay, even hinted that if any one was to
be changed with wasting roses just then, it was the Squire
himself.
"Yes, I think so too!" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh,-"but
how funnily you always see through things and turn them
about!"
"Roses are not very opaque things to see through," he
answered smiling, while Mrs. Stoutenburgh rescued Faith
and putting her arm round her drew her off towards the
sofa. Where Faith was glad to get at a distance from the
rose-consumers. She felt rather nervous.
"Where is Sam ?" she asked. "This is his day, isn't
it?"
"lHe was here a minute ago," said his mother,-" I guess
he ran off when he heard you coming. He takes fits of
being bashful once in a while,-they don't last long. Your
mother wasn't afraid to let you come with our horses, was
she0?"
"No ma'am," Faith said,-"not at all. But she hasn't
got back her old trust in horses and carriages generally.
I wish she had.
I don't-" said Nrs. Stoutenburgh,-"they're not to
be trusted generally, child. Has your horse got well yet ?"
"Not well. Mr. Skip says he's better, but we can't use
him."
"Well I wanted to talk to you about that-Mr. Stouten-
burgh's been at me to do it this month. You know we've
always got more horses on hand than we can use-anzd
there's one of 'em that would just suit you. Won't you


384/

-SAY AND SEAL.

let him stand in your stable this winter ?-and give Crab a
[          chance."
" 0 no, Mrs. Stoutenburgh !.-.thank you !" said Faith,
"I dare say C ab will get better-it won't be necessary;
and you know  re don't ride much in winter. You're very
kind to think of it."
There- you are-as usual !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh.
"I'm always afraid to ask you anything, you keep such
magnifying glasses. But now Faith, listen to reason. Not
ride in winter !-why it's the very time for riding, if there's
snow; and you could drive Jerry, or your mother could,
just as well as Crab-he's as quiet as he can be. At the
same time," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh with a little dance in
her eyes, "if anybody else drives him, he can go a little
faster."
"I'll tell mother how good you are, Mrs.; Stoutenburgh.
It isn't my business to give answers for her. But did you
ever see me drive ?"
"Not horses," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughing.
"Not anything else, I am sure ? I used to want to go
after the cows, but mother never would let me."
But whatever Mrs. Stoutenburgh meant she did not
explain, for dinner was announced, and the Squire came
up to take possession of Faith again;.receiving his wife's
little whispered "I've done it !" with all her own satisfac-
tion.
In the dining-room Sam was at last visible, but the bash-
ful fit had not gone off, and Faith's black silk was even
more distracting than her white muslin. Her greeting of
him was simple enough to have been reassuring.
"I hope.you will be as happy a great many times as you
are to-day, Sam," she said as she shook hands with him.
"On the 29th of November, I mean."
Perhaps Sam thought that doubtful-perhaps impos-
sible,-perhaps undesirable. At all events his. words were
ew; and though he was permitted the post of honour at
faith's side, he did not do much for her entertainment at
first.
The dinner itself, service and style and all included, was
sufficiently like the Squire and his wife. Handsome and
substantial, free, bountiful, and with a sort of laughing an'r

SAY AND SEAL.

385

'   of good cheer about it which more ceremony would have
overed up. There was no lack of talk, either,-L-all the
company having the ability therefor, and then, at least, the
inclination. But if Mr. Linden now and then called Sam
out of his abstraction, so did the Squire attack Faith;
giving her a little sword play to parry as best she might.
"Miss Faith," he said, "do you know to what a point
you are, day by day, winding tip the curiosity of this town
of Pattaquasset ?"
"I, sir !" said Faith, apparently, by her eye and air,
occupying the lace of the centre of motion to all this
curiosity ;-the point of absolute rest.
"My dear,"sal the Squire, "they sa  wo things about
you! The first is that you never go o . Now don't
trouble yourself to contradict that, but just tell me the
reason. We're all friends here, you know."
"Why I go out very often indeed, Mr. Stoutenburgh!"
said Faith.
"Didn't I tell you not to contradict me ? AhhMiss
Faith !-young ladies never will take advice ! Well-the
first thing is, as I said, that you never go out. The second,"
said the Squire laughing, "is-that you do 1"
"Well sir," said Faith merrily,-"they can't both be
true-and there isn't anything very bad about either of
them. Nor very curious, either, I think."
"What I should like to know," said Mr. Linden, "is,
who keeps watch at the gate ?"
"Squire Deacon does, for one," said Sam promptly. "I
see him there often enough."
"When you come to relieve the guard ?" said Mr. Lin--
den smiling. And the laugh was turned for the moment,
rather to Sam's confusion.
"So that's what the Squire's come back for, is it ?" said
Mr. Stoutenburgh. "I thought somebody was .to blame
for his going away."
"Nobody was much to blame," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh.
"I had a long talk with Sam the other day-Sam Dea-
con, I mean," said the Squire, "and he was keen to get
acquainted with Dr. Harrison. And as the doctor came
along just then, I gave him a chance. I guess the doctor
blessed me for it !-I did him. By the way, Miss Faith,

;
i{
_' I
,;,  t
1
,, ,
{ {{i
'y
;,  l i
r 9 i
;
}t}
%+
I'
.a

}
t  .
f  f
f
1 '
,
IT
f

33

VOL. I.


 f R

387

I s'pose you've got acquainted with the doctor by this
time ?"
Yes-sir-very well-" Faith said quietly, though she
felt the ground uneasy and unsafe.
"Well what sort of a chap is he ?--up to anything be'
sides running away with all he can lay his hands on ?"
"Don't you know him, Mr. Stoutenburgh ?"
"Can't say I do, Miss Faith,-it rather strikes me he's
not anxious I should."
"How can he be anxious, sir, when you are not ?" said
Mr. Linden. "Isn't that expecting too much ?"
The Squire laughed.
"I don't expect too much of him," he said,-" and don't
you expect too little. After all, I'd as soon take a boy's
mind as a man's-and he Pnt popular among the boys. I
thought he would be, after that exhibition-but he aint."
Which remark Mr. Linden knew to be true,. though he
did not say so.
"Well, Mr. Stoutenburgh! if you don't like him why do
you talk about him ?"said his wife. "Faith-you can play
blind man's buff, I'm sure ?"
"Wait a bit,-wait a bit," said the Squire-" I'm not
ready to be blinded yet, if she is. You ladies are always
in such a hurry ! Now Mr. Linden and, I want to have
our ideas ,cleared up. What sort of a man is the doctor,
Miss Faith? You say you know him 'very well,'--.do you
like him 'very much'?"
This shot brought Fith to a stand and obliged her, to
be sure, to 'shew her \olours,' which she did bravely.
Nevertheless she faced th Squire and answered steadily.
"I like him a good deM1, Mr. Stou:tenburgh-.in some
respects very much."
" Hum-" said the- Squire, as he cut a persuasive piece
of duck and putit on her plate  "Well wouldn't you like
to tell me, my dear, what you mean by 'some respects' ?--
That's Mrs. Stoutenburgh's word, and I never could find
out yet."
"I suppose it means different things in different cases "
said Faith smiling.
"Did you ever ?"-said the Squire, taking a generpd sur-
vey of the table, which began with Faith and ended with

Mr. Linden. "Aint that half of creation up to anything ?
I tell you what, Miss Faith, if I'd been in that meadow
otherr day, I'd have made Mazeppa of the doctor in no
time,-Sam hasn't learnt to put his history in practice yet.
And besides,"-said the Squire, with a peculiarly slow, inno-
cent enunciation, "he never likes to do anything that would
displease Mr. Linden !"
"Mr. Stoutenburgh !" said his wife, though she was
laughing merrily herself, "Can't you be quiet?  Faith,
why don't you answer me
"What, Mrs. Stoutenburgh ?"+Faith turned towards
her a face from which, gentle as it was, the smile had dis-
appeared.
ap"You play blind man's buff, don't you, dear ?"
"When I can," skid Faith.
"The real question, Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, whose
grave unmoved look---unmoved unless by a little fear that
she might be annoyed-would have been some help to her
during her cross-examination if she had seen it,-"the real
question is, whether you are willing to play to-night."
"I am as willing as can be," said Faith.
"I don't know whether they'll want to play it," said
Mrs. Stoutenburgh, "but they may; and Sam's never con-
tent unless I'm in the fun, whatever it is."
"Of course Miss Faith will play," said the Squire,-
"she never refuses to please anybody."
"Mr. Linden said he would," said Sam.
"But how shall you and I manage, Faith ?" said Mrs.
Stoutenburgh. "They'd tell us in a minute by our dresses
-as there are only two of us."
Faith pondered this difficulty with an amused face.
"Sam must lend us some of his jackets or coats, Mrs.
Stoutenburgh. Our heads are the worst,-or mine is-
you and Sam might be mistaken for each other."
'But there'd be no use in Miss Faith's disguising her-
self;" said Sam naively, "because she's so sweet."
"You wouldn't have her disguise that, would you, Sam?"
said Mr. Linden laughing.
"What a boy 1" said his mother,-"and what a reflec-
tion upon me !"
"Why I meant her flowers !" said Sam,-"yof needn't

SAY AND SEAL.

886

SAY AND SEAL.

;'i.

'J ji
. !' f
r'


i ..  "
Pi,
I  , '
i
f11l°v  4
f
h t   ''        +'
z '
.p

SAY AND SEAL.

all laugh so. I don't mean either that I didn't mean-,,)
but what more he meant Sam left unsaid, which did not
much stay the laughter.
"'I will appoint two or three boys to play the part of
the pigeon in hawking," said Mr. Linden, -"Miss Faith
might get tired of being caught, if not of running away."
"How do you know that, Mr. Linden ?" she said a little
archly.
" Truly," he answered, "I know it not-but most things
are possible, even in blind man's buff. And all boys are
not provided with silk gloves. But you shall not comnplaiu
of not being caught-I promise you that."
"Again !" she said with another soft flash of her eye,
though now she coloured. "Don't you understand, Mr.
Linden, that I don't intend to let anybody catch me ?--if
I can help it."
"Miss Faith, I have the most entire confidence in your,
intentions !"
Faith kept her energies for action, and said no more.
And in a very harmonious temper the whole party left the
dinner table and went back to the fire-lit parlour. All but
Sam, who went to be ready for his particular guests in
another room.
His place was presently supplied by a new-coiner. There
was a step in the hall-then the parlour door opened, and
a little lady with a shawl round her shoulders, came in.
"Good evening !" she said in a very cheery voice. "Why
I didn't expect to find so many of you ! Is it a party,
Mrs. Stoutenburgh,-and shall I go away ? or will you let
me come in, now I've got here ?"
"Come in, come in, Miss Essie, and make it a party,"
said the Squire; while Mrs. Stoutenburgh took off the
-shawl and answered,
"Go away? why of course not ! It's only Sam's birth-
da--you're not afraid of boys, I guess."
"I'm not afraid, of anything," said Miss Essie, and her
bright black eyes said it.too. "Isn't that Mr. Linden ?-.yes,
I thought so. And Faith Derrick !-my! child, how you're
dressed. What sort of a party have you got, Mrs. S.?".
" Why, boys!1" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, while Mr. Lin-
-den said,
33*

SAY AND SEAL.

rK
At

389

"Good evening, Miss Essie-you know I am one of
them."
"Are you? I don't know much abou you, except by
hearsay, you know. I am glad you are ere to-night. I
shall study you, Mr. Linden."
Mr. Linden bowed his ack  wledgments.
"Will you want myhelp, Miss Essie ?"
She laughed. "Come1" said she-" don't get on too
fast! I am beginning to like you already. What are the
boys doing, Mrs. Stoutenburgh?  Sam's birthday, did you
sayn"
" Yes, it's Sam's birthday,--I don't suppose they're
doing much yet except coming," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh.
"What they will do, no mortal can say."
"And you'll let them do anything ! It must be a nice
thing to be a boy, with such a mother as Mrs. Stouten-
burgh, Mr. Linden."
His "yes" came readily enough, but was unaccom-
panied with -any other word whatever.  Mrs. Stouten-
burgh's "Do hush !"-was sufficiently energetic though
very low.
"How old is Sam ?" was the instant question, as if the
whisper had referred to him.
"0 Sam can't get beyond fourteen till he's twenty," said
Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughing. "I suppose by that time I
sha'n't care how old he is."
"I know who thinks he's a handsome fellow !" said Miss
Essie shaking her head,-" and that's not you, Mrs. S. ' I
know he's a smart one, for I pinned a blue ribband to his
coat once. I wonder if he loves me properly for it.--
Faith Derrick, how come you to be here, child ?"
"Why because Mrs. Stoutenburgh asked me," said Faith,
answering this sudden address with some surprise.
"Wrong1" said Miss Essie. "There's some mistake
about it. I've just come from hearing you talked of."
"Whom did you hear, Miss Essie ?" said the Squire.
"Come-give up your authority."
"I was at Judge Harrison's," said Miss Essie, after a
considerative look of her black eyes at the Squire;--"and
that's all I am going to tell you, Mr. Stoutenburgh! Mr.
833*'

388

7
_z ,
,
'1,
:t
;;
;;  ,
S}t
t t  r
i
;f  ,
S
e2e
91


SAY AND SEAL.

Linden, what do you think of the propriety of people's
talking about people ?"
"I think well of the propriety, when it exists."
"Well what do you think of its existence?  Honestly,
now. I want to get at your opinion."
"I think its existence is rather limited and precarious,
Miss Essie," said Mr..Linden smiling.  "It is. one of those
things that may be said to have a delicate constitution."
" Well," said Miss Essie again, smiling too, both with lips
and eyes,-" how could people get along in such a place as
Pattaquasset, for instance, without it ? People must talk.
And it is so pleasant toknow that Mrs. Stoutenburgh's
son Sam is fifteen years old and had a party on his birth-
day; and that Mr. Linden and Miss Derrick were there
and eat roast turkey; -and to know that Miss Essie de
Staff went to New York to get a new carpet for her best
room and what the new style is;-and that Miss Faith
Derrick was run away with and brought home again, and
went through adventures. How could we do without talk-
ing of these things? Now perhaps you will say it's im-
moral; but I'm in favour of a possible morality; and I
say, how could Pattaquasset get along without all this ?"
"Pattaquasset could get along without some of the
things, to start with," said the Squire. "I don't know
what you call 'pleasant,' Miss Essie, but I never was so
angry in my life-since some rascal told me Mrs. Stouten-
burgh was going to marry somebody else," he added laughing.
"But- I say," said Miss Essie, "how could Pattaquasset
get along without tallcing of these things ?and I ask Mr.
Linden. I want to know his opinion."
"I will not say that it could," said Mr. Linden.-"Miss.
Essie, you knew Pattaquasset better than I do."
"Well do you think there is any harm in talking of
them ?
"What do you think of the modern definition of a young
lawyer, Miss Essie-' a man who is where he has no busi-
ness to be, because he has no business where he ought
to be'?"
Miss Essie laughed, and laughed.
"Don't Sam get along fast with his reading and writing,
Mr. Stoutenburgh ?"

"Always did-:" said the Squire; "and with everything
else too. What are you talking about?  I lost that. I'd
gone off to that rascal-"
Miss Essie's laugh rang out again and her eyes danced.
"That rascal!  Now for shame, Mr. Stoutenburgh!
You know better.   I wonder if you. never had young
horses yourself, and took Mrs. Stoutenburgh to ride, too.
Now I like him very much. Mr. Linden, you know. Dr.
Harrison, don't you?"
"I should-a little."
"Well aren't you a judge of character'? Do you think
he deserves to be called a rascal ?"
But Squire Stoutenburgh prevented the answer. "I
wish you'd jus stop and let me catch up with you, Miss
Essie," he said. "Now before we go any further, whoever
said he was a rascal ?-I didn't."
"Did you mean somebody else, Mr. Stoutenburgh ?"
"That's the way you talk over pleasant things !" said
the Squire. "If I hadn't hallooed after you, Miss Essie,
.I should have had a challenge from the doctor before morn-
ing-or a shot,-that's getting to be the fashion."
"Do you think Dr. Harrison is that kind of man ?" said
Miss Essie. "Mr. Linden, what kind of man do you
s  think he is?  You can tell better than the Squire, and I,
want to know."
i     "Miss Essie !-he is my friend and I am his,-you can-
not expect me to give you Dr. Harrison's components-
'each with its Latin label on'!"
"Not at all! but in general, how would you characterize
him, if asked what sort of a man he was !"
"I should perhaps decline.
Miss Essie had no. chance to push her question, for Sam
came with a demand for Mr. Linden himself, which was at
once obeyed.
A little while passed, and then Mr. Linden came back
again; and walked composedly round to the back of
Faith's chair. "Mrs. Stoutenburgh," he said, "will you
let me take this lady away for five minutes ?--Miss Faith,
will you come ?"
Nothing loth, if the truth must be told, Faith rose up

A

SAY AND SEAL.            301

;
1  ,,
,  ,
,i  ,r .


/  Y J
II
I
V
Ir
r

392                  SAY AND SEAL.
to follow his leading; which was out of the parlour and
through the hall.
"Miss Faith," he said as he shut the door, "have you
been conjugating the verb s'ennuyer?"
"No," she said. "I was amused to h ar you and Miss
Essie talk."
"What singular ideas people have on the question of
pleasant things !" said Mr. Linden. "Come in here, Miss
Faith "-and he opened the door of a mingled library,
study room, and office,-".I want to give you (before we
go any further) the whole quotation which I did not dare
to give Miss Essie, though it would not have been meant
for her, if I had." And he took down one of the books,
and read-
"'Her eye,-it seems a chemic test,
And drops upon you like an acid;
It bites you with unconscious zest,
So clear and bright, so coldly placid ;
It holds you quietly aloof,
It holds,-and yet it does not win you;
It merely puts you to the proof
And sorts what qualities are in you,' &amp;c.
'There you are classified: she's gone
Far, far away into herself;
Each with its Latin label on,
Your poor components, one by one,
Are laid. upon their proper shelf
In her compact and ordered mind,' &amp;c.
'0 brain exact, that in thy scales
rCaest weigh the sun and never err,
For once thy patient science fails,
One problem still defies thy art;-..-
Thou never cast compute for her
The distance and diameter
Of any simple human heart.'
That's comforting doctrine-isn't it ?" he said smiling as
he put up the book.
"How good that is !" said Faith, as much in the spirit
of enjoyment as of criticism. 'But it isn't just Miss Essie.
It's more like ".- She stopped.
"Well-who ? No, it is not Mis*s Essie."
"I was going to say, Mrs. Somers-but it is not Mrs,.
Somers, either. She is more kind than that.n"

SAY AND SEAL.                 393
"Yes, I think so-though she keeps her kindness under
lock and key, like her sweetmeats. Miss Faith, shall I
give you a loophole view of those boys-before you ven-
ture yourself among them ?"
She said yes, with a bright face that skewed her primed
for any enjoyment, or anything else perhaps, he might pro-
pose. He knew the house, apparently, and led her out of
one door and in at another, giving her little undertone
remarks by the way.
'"I know you and I agree in some of our notions about
pleasant things," he said,," or I should not presume that
you would find this one. To some people, you know,
boys are mere receivers for Latin and Greek-to  e they
are separate little pieces of humanity. I study them Lite as
much as they do their lessons. Now you shall se them
off their guard. This room is dark-but I know the way."
He took her hand as he spoke, and led her through the
darkness to a spot of shaded light at the further end of
$ the room, whence too came laughter and voices; then drew
back the curtain from a sash door and let her look in.
It was pleasant, as he said,-the room was glowing with
light, the boys in a knot about the fire; some sitting, some
standing, one or two couchant upon the rug. Sam was
the spokesman just then-the rest listening, interrupting,
applauding; the flashing firelight sewing such different
faces ! such varied indications 1-they looked like a little
Congress of representatives.
"What are they doing, Mr. Lindn? Sam is having a
good time !-and all the rest of them for that matter."
"I am not quite sure what they are doing, Miss Faith,-
Sam looks as if' he might be recounting some of his own
exploits-for the twentieth time."
"But Reuben, who never would recount one of his, is
five times as much of a nan."
Yes,-I wonder what Miss Essie would say of the two,
Srespectively. She means to study me to-night, you know,"
he said smiling-" and I- mean she shall! There comes
Mrs. Stoutenburgh-now I shall take you in.".
Not by the sash door, but round again by another way
they came upon the little company. Mrs. Stoutenburgh
had been in before, and her reappearance had not made

i !
t  z
+'  ;
,A c5-
, ,1  ,
;',i    ,        ,
r-?  I;,                ,
., ,  ,        it  ,   ,
li i,    '            '

i iii  i          ,
i
,   i i    k ;
,i , '   If      '1       1
11  ,    '  ,  i
V. 1f           i'      i
;i  l
~d jE
'I ;J,   ,
,            
4 ,1  i'      I
,,  ,           ,
i
°            i,
f                       ,
i  ;   f
'{'  'i ,.its     i' ,
(     tt1',  ,  1  f    f
i              '   '
I   '      ,  'fi      t
I '++1         +'  ,
i" 1      :1'  '   I I
1 11    (''     ,   '
iI ~ 1  i Z   '  '   /
I ,i  I  i  C  ,f    ,     I
Itd   ftf'I'    I
I  b    4 1 , I    }
11I i  '' I
I i 1   q ', +i,


f     ;  j ,
;,
'Ik  : (Y(6 "'     '
'pr  .'  , , ,
;   ';
r  ,
it  f5y
t j  t   t
,  C£f','
;  r ,'
tf         t      '
k.i
~
,
ti             ,,

much change in the order of things; but when Faith came
in every boy rose to his feet, and the admiring looks were
only bounded by the number of eyes. They fell back right
and left as she came on towards the fire; and once seated
there in an easy chair, those who knew her came up to pay
their respects-those who did not stood still and paid them
at a distance, whispering and touching each other with,
"My ! a'int she handsome !"-
All of which amused at least two of the lookers-on.
One or two of the boys Mr. Linden brought up and pre-
sented. Faith however was presently out of her chair of
state and wdund in and out among them, speaking to.
thpse whom she knew or remembered at Neanticut. She
wis in a little gale of good-fellowship by the time Mr.
Linden with Miss Essie. returned to the room.
"Well!1" said Miss Essie. "Now what's the first order
of things?  Mr. Linden, these are all your boys, I sup.
pose ?".
"These are all and not all, Miss Essie."
"Yes. Do they always do what you tell them ?"
"They are extraordinary boys !" said Mr. Linden. "Not
one of them has a will of his own."
"Oh !" said Miss Essie. "What has become of their
wills?  Have you stolen them?  Now I am going to put
that to the proof. Sam Stoutenburgh-you are not twenty
years old yet, your mother says; have you a will of your own?"
"Mother says I have," replied Sam.
"Ah !-you see !" said Miss Essie. "You sir,-I know
you but I don't remember you,-your teacher says you
haven't a will of your own-now is it true ? I want to
know."
"A will of my own, ma'am'?" Reuben repeated, looking
doubtfully from Miss Essie to Mr. Linden. "Against whose,
if you please ?"
"Well-" said Miss Essie, a little surprised, and laugh-
ing-" upon honour, will you tell the truth ?"
"I'll try, ma'am."
"Against . r. Linden's. Now upon honour !-I'll go
bail for you."
The bail was not needed. Reuben's quiet "No, ma'am,
and don't want to have," was very forcible. -

"I declare !" said Miss Essie turning to Mr. Linden,.-
"you're a wonderful man !-For of course Sam's word is
his mother's word, and that's nothing in the circumstances.
I wish I had been so happy as to be a boy and go to
school to you, Mr. Linden! All my life my trouble has
been a will of my own; and I never found anybody that
could deprive me of it."
"Nor yourself ready to give it up ?"
"Of- course ! but I never could, you know. It was
stronger than I."
"I'll tell you what," said Mrs. Stoutnburgh, coming
up, "if you two people want to talk any more, you've got
to stand out of the way,---Faith and I are going to have a
game with these boys."
"What sort of game ?"
"Why blind man's buff," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh. "Sam
.-go to my room and fetch that plaid ribband that lies on
:4  the bed."
"Now I'll tell you," said Mps Essie, "you must play
this game as they do it up at Shckiaug. Any game wants
a stake, you know, Mr. Stoutenburgh, to make it thoroughly
interesting. You must play it this way. Everybody that
e is caught and found, must answer any question the person
catching chooses to ask. And if he refuses to answer, he
r must answer some other question and give a reason for it.
That'll make 'em fly round I"
In the midst of a little general bustle that ensued, Faith
was startled at finding that her rose and myrtle were gone.
The next instant a hand'presented them unceremoniously
under her face, and an abrupt voice announced, "Here's
your flowers !"  It was even Phil Davids who had done it.
Faith seized her flowers, and then sprang after Phil and
thanked him very gratefully ; rightly hailing this civility as
an omen for good. The flowers were next bestowed care-
fully in a glass of water, to be in safety tilfthe play should
beaver.
Now began the fun of robing and disrobing. The ladies
pinned up their silk skirts into order and quiet compass, and
pulled on over their arms and shoulders whatever boys'
gear would fit. Faith was jaunty in a little cloth jacket
which covered her arms; Miss Essie wrapped about her

SAY AND SEAL.

394

SAY AND SEAL:

395


SAY AND SEAL.

t

,,,

lh

a plaid travelling shawl of the Squire's. Mrs. Stouten.
burgh deferred her disguising till she should need it, being
in the first place to be the catcher, not the caught. Mr,
Linden on his part chose to rely on his own resources for
safety, but two or three of the boys tied on shawls and
scarfs-soon discarded in the melee.
If Sam's intent was to have a steady game of running;
never to produce results-unless fatigue and laughter....h
had well chosen the first 'catcher.' Mrs. Stoutenburgh's
powers of entangle ent lay not in that line, though she
ran about with the /nost utter good will and nierriment.
But how the boys jumped over her arms !-or dived under
them ! How Sam caught her round the waist, and even
kissed her, regardless of danger ! She might have been
playing till this time, if Mr. Linden had not interposed
and gallantly suffered himself to be caught.
"We'll have to step round now, I tell you!" said Qne of
the boys,-"this'll be another guess sort of a run !"
"Look out for yourself now, Miss Faith.!" said Reuben
--both which things were profoundly true and necessary.
.And Faith soon found out that she was the quarry-and that
pigeons were of no avail. Whether Mr. Linden had heard
her steps about his sick room till he had learned them by
heart,-whether the theory of 'spirits touching' held good
in this case,-he gave her a swift little run round the room,
and shut her up gracefully in the corned. Then with the
simplicity which characterized most of his proceedings,
disregarding jacket and cap, he took hold of her hand and
inquired,
"Miss Faith-do you consider yourself disguised ?"
The soft laugh which it was impossible to keep back,
answered to his ear, as the flush which overspread Faith's
face answered to eyes of the rest of the company.
"That will do to begin with," he said as he took off the
plaid ribband, while Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughed and
clapped her hands after her own lively fashion.
"But Miss Faith !" said Sam-"don't tie up your head,
please 1-if you shut your eyes it will do just as well."
"You can't see her eyes if they're shut, you foolish boy,"
said Mr. Linden,-J'go oftf and attend to your own affairs.,
Miss Faith, shall I tie this on-or do you wish for a deputy?"

896

SAY AND SEAL.

397

There is a great deal of character that comes out in a
play! Miss Essie might have had excellent opportunity
Y= for prosecuting her 'studies,' if she had not been busy on
her own score. For Faith did not play like Mrs. Stouten-
burgh. She played like herself-with a gentleness that
never overstepped delicate bounds; but her foot was light
and true, and her movements fearless ahd free as those of the
very boys. It was a pretty game that she played. It would
have been a short one, but that it was so hard to identify
her captives. One boy after another Faith caught,"-to the
feeling they were all alike ! At last her hand seized an-
other prize, and her voice exclaimed, Mr. Stoutenburgh!
There was a sharp change about now between the older
and the younger people. Faith did her be t not to be
caught again. But after half a dozen cha ges between
Mr. Linden and the boys, he again had the pie sure of in-
vesting her with the plaid ribband.
May I give her the question ?" whispered  's Essie
at Mr. linden's ear.
"No indeed !" said.Mr. Linden.. "Miss Faith, what is
the difference between a bird and a philosopher ?"
Somewhat to the surprise as well as amusement of the,
company, the answer to this was the heartiest, merriest bit
of a laugh; then she said,
"One looks round the corner, Mr. Linden !"
"Well you won't see round the'corner now," he said
softly and laughing as he tied on the ribband. "Miss
Faith! do you mean to say I did ?"
. She said 'no,' and ran away. But Faith was not in
luck this time, for she caught Miss Essie. And Miss Essie
in a few minutes got the chance she wanted at Faith. She
wouldn't have had it, for Faith ran too well and vanished too
skilfully; but a little knot of the boys getting into a knot
just in her way and at the wrong time, Faith fell a prey.
"Now," said her captor unbinding her ribband, "what do
you think I am going to ask you ?"
Faith was very doubtful on the subject, and waited in
silence.
"Only a matter of taste," said Miss Essie. " Who do
you think".-(speaking slowly)-"is the handsomest mein
in Pattaquasset ?"
voL. 1.                84


398             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.            899

The colour mounted in Faith's cheeks too distinctly to
leave any room for the doubt that no other answer was at
hand. She avoided Miss Essie's black eyes.
"Come !" said that lady.
"I can't tell you,"-said Faith, amid the laughter of
some of the company, which was enormous.
"You can't !" said Miss Essie. "Now you are at my
mercy. You have got to tell me something else and give
your reason. What do you think is the best profession a
man can follow ?"
"Any one is good that is used right," said Faith, look-
ing down and speaking with difficulty,-" but I suppose the
best is a minister's."
"Why ?" said Miss Essie, disappointed.
"Because the business of that profession is to lead men
to heaven;-that of others is only to fit them for earth."
"My dear, you're a fine girl !" said the Squire--willing
Faith sh uld say anything that cut out Dr. Harrison.
"Miss Esie, what do you mean by asking her such a string
of questions ?-how can she tell who's the handsomest
man?   She wouldn't like to hurt Mr. Linden's feelings by
saying me, nor to make us both mad by saying anybody,
else if there was anybody else to speak of."
"iou hush, Mr. Stoutenburgh !" said Miss Essie. "Don't
you know how to ask questions? Now Faith Derrick-
run off with yourself." Faith obeyed with a trifle less than
her usual spirit; but the game presently called it back
again. Darting about, like some gentle-hearted hawk,
among those flying pigeons, she had seized one boy and an-
other with her usual bad success in the matter of identify-
ing, when the boys suddenly cleared away a little-anxious
perhaps that Mr. Linden should be caught again; for of
all the players he gave them the most fun. And so effec-
tually did they clear the way-so ineffectually did he pro-
tect himself! that the next grasp of Faith's hand was upon
his arm. And her voice gravely announced that she knew,
it.
"Now Faith !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, "do puzzle him
if you can-give him a hard question."
"She does not want to ask me any questions," said Mr.
Linden as he untied the ribband. "You forget, Mrs.

Stoutenburgh, how many she can ask every day. Now
'~with Miss Essie the case is quite different."
wery quiet and pleasant was the lookbent on Faith,-
veycool and undisturbed the manner.  &amp;is5 Faith, are
you tired ?-I must be philosophical enough to inform you
that there is a shadow of puss-in-the-corner wn
And a very plain expression of gratitude was in her
eyes and smile as she answered, "No, I'm not tired, Mr.
Linden-but I would as lieve look on as play."
That seemed , to be the general grown-up mind; but
before the looking on had lasted long, everybody was-called
into another room to supper. There the boys were left
somewhat to themselves at one end of the table, and the
half dozen others stood or sat in the warm fireplace corner
at the other. Mr. Linden indeed, and Squire Stoutenburgh,
were both 'boys' very often; but their returns to the ladies
were frequent and prolonged. Faith was enthroned in a
great chair, and there petted by Mrs. Stoutenburgh, while
everybody brought her things by turns-a privilege highly
prized by some of the boys.Neither, could Miss Essie
complain of want of attention, while Mrs. Stoutenburgh
and Mr. Linden took laughing care of each other between
whiles.
" Miss Essie," he said as he brought her a cup of coffee,
"where are you in the pursuit of knowledge ?"
Miss Essie laughed; yet not a triumphant laugh, nor
even a satisfied one; it might be considered doubtful.
"I think,"s she said, "you are one of a sort I don't much
understand, Mr. Linden-perhaps because I don't know
them much. Aren't you one of what I may call the good
sort?"
Faith's laugh, which was indeed very low but unavoid-
able, was the first testimony.
"I hope you may-" said Mr. Linden,-" the words sound
pleasant. I am not quite sure what they mean."
"AhI There you are again" said Miss Essie. "As diffi-
cult to catch at other things as at blind man's buff. Well
I'll be frank with you, for I don't mean to offend you. . I
mean, the sort of people ivho are called 'rigidly righteous'
.--people who think it incumbent on them to be better than
their neighbours."

;r'   . j'
;,;,   ,  ,
,  ' '
,
,,  , Ir;,
;      ,
,,
;;;
I r;          1
1!        +    ;
I   I
%rl     '  .I  ii 1
1   '111{   i  ii1  1
A  l         I       ;
1               1
{'  1     1     i
I        It   '   ,
1   'll  't        :
J1   4i  !I  'li  s} t
I,  ,i1  j{   I     ''
;         1
i      {
1      11i      ;
1     t .,I
i       1     1  )  1
t    I   1   1±    I
).       '
. 1       II
1 ,  f,

,jl  I,
1(     i
i :i
; -r I .
; ! ',
E,{I i  ,
' Ij'       ,
+,
Fii  j i''
in1 {  ,!
,i I '
'I'i Ic
f I


"0 no-" said Mr. Linden,-" I quite disclaim that.
only think it incumbent on me to be better than inyself."
"Yes, but you are one of the people I mean---.aren't
you ?"
"Not according to that term, Miss Essie. May I ask
what you mean by the other ?"
"Rigidly righteous ?"1
"Yes."
"Why I told you-people that pretend to be better than
people in general. People in general, you know, get on
without pretending much to be good at all: and of course
it's disagreeable to be brought short up at every turn with
you ought not,' and 'you ought;' and whether it is said
or acted don't make much difference. Now here's this
child, a little while ago, thought she mustn't say anything
was good but a minister.
"Do you mean Christians ?" said Mr. Linden. .
"Well-" said Miss Essie, "I hope we're all Christians,
---aren't we?  We're not heathens."
"I mean the followers of Christ. Is that what you
meant ? I do wear the badge of that 'Legion of Honour.'"
Miss Essie looked fidgeted. Faith was letting her ice-
cream melt while she listened. Mrs. Stoutenburgh in the
midst of supper-table attentions gave an anxious eye and
ear to the conference, which she would not interrupt.
"Well now tell me what you mean by that ?" said Miss
Essie, feeling herself in some confusion, of terms at least.
Can I find plainer words ? You know what was meant
by a follower in the old feudal times ?"
"No I don't, said Miss Essie beginning to sip her coffee
again. "Tell me !"
"A follower was one who binding himself to the service
his lord required of him, thenceforth paid it-in peace or
in war,-to the end of his life. .And the terms of agree-.
ment were two-fold,-fidelity on the one side, protection
on the other. 'They follow me,' says Christ, 'and I give.
unto them eternal life'."
"Yes, but," said Miss Essie, "do you think it is required
that we should put ourselves so much out of the way to be
good I think people were meant to enjoy themselves."
"I enjoy myself-" said .Mr. Linden smiling a little-.

SAY AND SEAL.             401

"What think you makes the lark fly circling up into the
r sunbeams, singing as he goes ?-is it duty ? is it to
rise above the robins and sparrows ?"
"I don't understand id you !" said1 Miss Essie respectfully.
"That is just the inner life of many a Christian,-hip
very heart-cry is,
'Nearer, my God, to thee;
Nearer to thee!
E'en though it be a cross,
That raiseth me. '-"
"Well you think nobody can be safe that don't live just
so?" persisted Miss Essie.
"In whom such a life is not at least begun ?-How can
it be, Miss Essie ? Safe ? without the blessing of God ?"
"Well there we differ," said .the lady. "That's what I
mean by being rigidly righteous. I think every one must
judge for himself."
A little more erect Mr. Linden stood, drawing himself
=  up slightly-it was his wont sometimes under a touch of
excitement, and spoke with his deep emphasis these words-.
"'This is life eternal, to know thee, the only true God,
and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.'.-Miss Essie, where
is your permit for free judgment against the Bible ?"
sr   "I didn't mean that," said Miss Essie, lowering her crest.
"But I mean that everybody can't be good after your strict
S       nwa"
"I am not standing up for myself, you know," said he
pleasantly, "nor denying that you have described me right;
but what a follower of Christ ought to be, is no more rigid
than sunlight-or than the wings of angels. Yet both
sun and angels 'always do his commandment' who made
them both."
"Oh people can't be sunlight-nor angels neither, in this
world. You're Utopian ! That's what I said.
" They can be 'burning and shining lights,"' said Mr.
Linden. "Miss Essie, will you gainsay the Bible ?  Why
can they not ?"
"They can be-.-.but I suppose they aren't obliged to be;
or what is to become of us all ?" said Miss Essie, half
seriously half defiantly.
3*

400

SAY AND SEAL.

1. ,  l  1
,,1  Il    ' It


4 'V1t

i02

SAY AND SEAL.

" That will depend upon whom we follow," he answered
gravely.
"Well now, Mr. Linden, how nany people in the-world
are 'followers' in the way you have described them ?--and
are all the rest going to destruction ?  Take the people in
this room now, for instance,-boys and all here's twenty of
us perhaps. How many do you suppose are here of your
way of 'following'? You're one-who's another?  Stand
off there, and see whom you can get to join you !"
"Stand off and say with Moses-'who is on the Lord's
side ?'-there would be several, Miss Essie."
"Well count up," said Miss Essie. "I suppose they
have no objection to shew themselves. You are one-who's
another ?"
"I am another," said Faith, rising and setting down her
ice cream.
"You !"-said Miss Essie turning the black eyes upon
her,--'you look like it, child !"
"You must put the 'rigid' out of your head," Mr. Lin-
den said, with a smile which changed as he spoke.
"Well who else ?" said Miss Essie, for some reason or
other in an impatient temper. "Tell them your definition,
will you, and ask who'll stand by you. Mrs. Stouten-
burgh !-make them all stop and attend."
"If I askthem you may think they come to please me."
"No, no, you know how to say it. Mr. Stoutenburgh !-
boys !-listen. I want to know how many there are here
of a particular kind of people-Mr. Linden will tell you
what kind."
He spoke then-as Faith had once or twice heard him
speak,.sending his voice through the room almost without
raising it.
"Miss Essie de Staff wishes to know how many there are
here of a particular kind of people-those that 'have sworna
unto the Lord, and will not go back.' Whoever is of that K
number will please come over to this side."
There was. a little astonished pause. Mr. and Mrs.
Stoutenburgh, just then at the further end of the room, had
moved at Miss Essie's summons, hut stopped short at the 
first sound of Mr. Inden's voice, and looked in a sort of i
maze,--he clearly was not jesting, that was all they could

SAY AND SEAL.

403

make out. That too the boys saw: but for a minute they
stood like statues,-then Reuben stepped from the group
and walked quietly, deliberately, over to where Mr. Linden
K stood; the covenant-signing in his face glowing with the
Free Church addition-'until death!'
One and another followed him-one after' another,-
Faith was surprised to see how many: ranging themselves
about Mr. Linden. But something in it all touched him-
stirred him,-something perhaps personal to himself and
them; for after the first three or four had come he looked
no more,-his eyes fell, and the firmly compressed lips
could not quite conceal their trembling. He stood as
statue-like as the boys had done.
In the interest of a moment and a. scene that she never
forgot, it was a simple thing that Faithliost thought of her
own standing. Perhaps Miss Essie shared her oblivion of
self for that minute; her look of uneasy curiosity changed
to a sobriety that was almost awe. Perhaps self-recollec-
tion came back; for after eying the dumb show with uncom-
monly blank black eyes, both they and she suddenly started
. into action.
"That will do," she said with voice and gesture,-"you
may go back-scatter ! and be boys again. Mr. Linden,
what I complain of is, that you say you are on the Lord's
side and that everybody else is not !"
His thoughts came back slowly, as from some far-distant
region,-he even turned to Faith and wheeled up a chair
for her before he answered.
"No, Miss Essie-.-those last words I believe I never said.
But the 'Lord knoweth them that are his'-let each one
have answering knowledge for himself."
Miss Essie's look was not comfortable. She abandoned
the point in hand, and swallowed her cold coffee.
"What are you talking about ?" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh
coming up t9 them. "What sort of a game was that, Miss
Essie ?"
"Nothing,"-said Miss Essie. "I said I would study
Mr. Linden-and I have. I've found out two things about
him."
"I wonder if he's 'been studying too !" said Mrs. Stout-
enburgh.-" What are the two things? 'Miss iEssie, your

FLIP
S, ' 1
ily    ,'i II ?Its; +  '
l   j''' 11, 1 " ' 1 1
not  l! +   l lj'i t ill
1   {  I'C  ti '  t
ii  I+'
JIM
a w l
li   i;
Alf
iis" i I I'll!

;
;i r
,f  l;
,' ;   ,
;.,


SAY AND SEAL.             405

SAY AND SEAL.

coffee's just as cold as Faith's ice is warm !-that comes of
talking when you ought to be eating. Mr. Linden-just help
Mr. Stoutenburgh with that little table, please--and I'll
have the coffee-pot here and be comfortable."
"And I shall yell Miss Essie a story about fishes," said
Mr. Linden as he obeyed.
Mrs. Stoutenburgh sat down behind her coffee-pot, while
the gentlemen went back and forth between the two tables,
bringing cups and cake and what else was needed for this
'German cotillion,' as Mr. Linden called it. During which
interlude Miss Essie, after taking an observant view of
Faith, gave her a significant private admonition, that
'somebody' would not like lher being there. Faith in vain
endeavoured to get some light on this dark information;
Miss, Essie was startling but enigmatical, and suddenly
turned from her and asked Mr. Linden "what was the
story he had promised ?"
"Not much of a story, though I called it one. It has
to do with the way different races'of fishes wear their
bones."
"Well?" said Miss Essie, using her eyes; while Faith
forgot her flushed cheeks and used hers.
"You are perhaps aware," he said smiling, "that even
fishes have their inflexible points; in other words, a region
of bone somewhere."
Miss Essie bowed her head, mentally ejaculating, "You
have !"
"And all the fossil tribes, as well as those which now
exist, are divided into two great classes, -those which
wear their bones on the outside, and those which wear
them within. The first have a perfect plate armour-
jointed and fitted and carved, piece by piece; but the inner
framework is merely cartilaginous. The others, while they
shew nothing but pliant flesh, have an internal structure
of bone which can outlast ages."
"Curious 1" said Miss Essie, eying him all the while
carefully.  "Then I suppose we are all fishes !"
" I was thinking---apropos to our talk awhile ago-of
the intangible, unseen nature of a Christian's strength.
The moment his defence is worn on the outside, that mo-
ment there is a failure of strength within. His real armour

of proof is nothing more 'rigid,' Miss Essie, than 'the
girdlof truth,'the breastplate of righteousness,'and 'for
girdle oofalvio.",,
a helmet the hope of salvation.
Very   ood armour," said Miss Essie; "but can't he
wear it without being unlike other people ?"
"i wtCan he?"
"Look here," said Squire Stoutenburgh, "what have
you been about? If you've been studying anatomy, Mr.
Linden, 'll go learn dancing 1
And the conversation diverged.
"1lYvrI

ij,,      'i,
Gi;i'    ' I     ,
," '       ;,   '
t;l }^ 'r i'
. ih  '_r fflrf

404

i ',
~ '


407

SAY AND SEAL.

CHAPTER XXXII.
FAIT     pondered probably Miss Essie's enigmatical
[ words; but she said nothing on the subject even to
her mother. Other people's words and looks had produced
their share of disturbance at the time; disturbance that
Faith did not like to recollect. And she would not recol-
lect it, practically. It left no trace on her face or behaviour.
The simplicity of both, unchanged in a whit, testified for
her that her modesty would not take such hints from other
people's testimony, and that there was no folly in her to
be set fluttering at the suggestion.
The next Wednesday morning was one of great promise,
--fair and soft and quiet, with November's sunshine soften-
ing November's brown dress.
"I think, Miss Faith," Mfr. Lindkn said before be went
off after breakfast, "that you should take a short run or
two, before you try that long one to Mattabeeset."
"A run, Mr. Linden? Didn't I have one last night ?"
"Truly yes,--.-but I mean on horseback. Will you take
such a one to-day ?"
"Yes1" said Faith, looking different things, especially
pleasure,." but Mr. Linden, I don't know where I am to
get a horse. Crab can't go now."
"Well, as I am to play the part of page, and run by
your side," said Mr. Linden, "I am rather glad he can't 1-.
no disrespect to-his other good qualities. When will you
be ready, Miss Faith ?"                            i
The hour fixed upon had need to be early, for the days
were short; so though books had a little time after dinner,
it was but a little. Then the horses came; and Mr. Lin-
den took Faith in charge, with words from her mothe that
might have been very useful if they had been needed,-
which in his case they hardly were. .A fact Which his re-
ply, or the manner of it, seemed to impress upon Mrs. Der-
rick's mind, for she saw them ride off with nothing but
pleasure.
Other people saw them with a variety of emotions. All
(406)

I

t
E
1
h
h
.
.
i
L
S
S
s
i

the boys they met (except Sam) looked unqualified delight,
.-from her window Mrs. Stoutenburgh gave them a gay
wave of her hand; Miss Bezac on the sidewalk absolutely
turned to look again. They rode leisurely up the grassy
road, hardly beyond a walk at first, and it was not till the
houses grew few and the road mire open, that Faith had
her promised run-: which was but an easy trot, after all.
"You must begin very gently, Miss Faith," said her
companion as they walked their horses up a little hill.
"Look how those topsails mark the water line !"
"Yes--don't you like to see the white sails peeping over
the trees?  I always do. But Mr. Linden, I don't get
tired easily-you needn't be afraid. I can go just as fast
as you like." She looked enough in the mood.
"You know I am interested in the matter,-if I should
come home to-morrow and find you gone to sleep at mid-
da-.I should lose my French lesson! Now you may
have another run."
This run was rather a long one, yet came to an unex-
pected end, for turning a woody point in the road the two
riders saw a wagon before them, so directly in their way,
that the run changed to a walk even before'they perceived
that the wagon was in distress. Some bit of harness, some
pin, had given way, and the driver had dismounted to re-
pair damages. But moody, or intent upon his work,
Faith's horse was close upon him before he looked up-
then she saw it was Squire Deacon. He looked down
again as suddenly, with only a slight motion of his hand
to his hat.
Faith's first impulse would have been to rush on; but
she checked that. Her next would have been to wait and
leave somebody else to speak first; but she overcame that
too. So it was her very clear gentle voice that asked,
"Are you in trouble here, Mr. Deacon ?"
The Squire had no time to give his answer, and scarce
a moment wherein to concoct it, for Mr. Linden had dis-
mounted and now came between Faith's horse and the
wagon, with,-" What is the matter, Squire Deacon ?-can
I help you ?"
The Squire looked up then, full, with a face that dark
ened as he looked.

a
r
K

jS'      -
i i 1 { t   ..
r ''.':
I  } , ',
t. --
,  r'
;:
i"

{
;{ {71
-r'


408

,AY AND SEAL.

"It's you, is it ?" he said slowly. "I thought it was
Dr. Harrison !"
"Can I help you ?" Mr. Linden repeated--and the tone
was a little peremptory.
Sullenly and slowly the Squire told the damage-the
broken harness, the lost lynch-pin; and. let Mr. Linden
take the first out of his hands, and do what he chose with
it; looking on the while-then by degrees taking hold
himself and working with him as with any other man, but
throwing off jealously the kindness of his _ helper's words
or manner. It was a grave kindness, certainly, but it did
not belie the name. Faith sat looking on. After awhile
her voice broke the silence.
"Did you say a lynch-pin was wanting, Mr. Deacon?"
"There's one gone."
"I should like to be doing something to help. Will you
lend me your knife, Mr. Deacon ?-and I'll try." But that
brought a hand on her bridle.
"I cannot trust your horse out of my sight, Miss Faith,.-
I will get what is wanting."
"There's no use in anyone's doing anything," said Squire
Deacon, by way of a settler; and the harness work went on
in silence.
Faith waited a little.
"I am not the least afraid," she said then, leaning over
her horse's neck but speaking no name. " There's a place
only a little way back where I think I can get a lynch-pin,-
if anybody will lend me a knife. I'lease let me go and be
doing something! I want to go."
"This cord," said Mr. Linden, taking one up from the
bottom of the wagon-" is it wanted for any special purpose,
Squire Deacon?"
"I guess if you ask Joe he could tell you," said the Squire
with a glance that way. "'Twas good for something, but
he's tied it in forty knots-just to see if I'd be fool enough
to pick 'em out."
"It would be very useful about this harness," said Mr.
Linden,--"will you try and get rid of the knots ?"-and
he handed Faith the cord, with a smile which said she must
make that do instead of the lynch-pin-.
Which Faith did not particularly like, for she had a strong

SAY AND SEAL.

409

hankering for the ride back to the bushes. She dropped
the bridle upon her horse's neck, and began to exercise her
patience and skill upon the knots.
"I wish I had a knife !" she said as she did so, "and I'd
shew you that I am not afraid."  And a little colour rose
in her face, which rather grew.
" That's easy," said Squire Deacon, looking suddenly up
and extending his hand. "Here's one as'll cut through
most thing .  Mr. Linden's head was bent over the har-
ness,-nei her eye nor hand stirred from his work.
"Thank you, Mr. Deacon," said Faith, feeling the blood
rise to her brow,-" but I won't go for it now.-I'll do this
first." In her confusion Faith did not see another person
that joined the group, till he was standing at her horse's
side.
"What sort of a bee are you gettin' up here on the
high-way ?" said Mr. Simlins in his good-humoured growl
(and he had a variety.)  "What air you doin' on horse-
back ?"
"There's harness to be mended here, Mr. Simlins-and
I'm making rope for it."
"You go 'long !" said he.  "Who are you makin' rope
for ? Give that to me ?" But Faith held fast.
"'No, Mr. Simlins, you can't have it-I am bound to get
out these knots. There is work doing round here, that
perhaps you can help."
Mr. Simlins stooped under her horse's head and went
round to the other side, and then for the first time he got a
full view.
"That's the way you perform actions !" he said; seeming
too profoundly struck to be at all wordy. "'Say and Seal'
I guess you be ! What's the matter with you, Squire ?"
"If anything is, I haint heard of it," said Mr. Deacon,
with the knife lying heavy against his ribs. "Mr. Linden's
turned harness-maker-that's the last news."
"0 are you there, Mr. Simlins ?" said the new mechanic,
looking up from his work.
"Can't be more unlikely than you," said the farmer, be-
ginning on his part to finger the broken harness. "Iow
you come to be here passes all my imagery. That'll do
smartly. Where did you learn all trades ? I don't see,
vo. 1. 3

Ft
j,
't
i  -   ,
S
"A       t
i .
Ft   ]i


SAY AND'SEAL.

Squire Deacon, but he's as good at mendin' as you be at
marrin'. What do you think ?".'
"I don't see as one man has much to do with another,"
said Mr. Deacon lucidly.
"Yes, that will do," said Mr. Linden. "Now Miss
Faith-give me that cord if you please, and you shall go,
after the lynch-pin."
"No," she said pleasantly,..-"it'll be done in a minute-..
I want to finish it."
"When did you get back from York, Squire ?" said Mr.
Simlins-." and what took you away? I haint heerd yet.
I never believed you were gone for good-though folks
said it."
"'Taint generally worth while to believe what folks says,"
replied the Squire. "I've been back three weeks, I guess.
Shouldn't wonder if I went again though."
"Shouldn't wonder if you did," said Mr. Simlins. "I
would if I was you-if I wanted to. Mr. Linden, it was a
providential thing, that you should come along at this idio-
matical moment. There aint another man in Pattaquasset
would ha' done this so good as you"
"There is another line of business open to me then,"
said Mr. Linden, who had begun upon the other end of the
piece of cord with opposition fingers.
"What aint open to you ?" said Mr. Simlins. "Do you
know of anything? Give us that cord-will you ?"
"Yes, you may have it now-the knots are all out," said
Mr. Linden, as he put the disentangled cord in the hands
of Mr. Simlins and himself in the saddle. "Now Miss
Faith, you shall have a 'lesson in lynch-pins-s'il vous
plait."
"You do beat all !" said Squire Deacon looking up from
under his hat, and with a voice that kept his eyes com-
pany.
Faith looked very pretty as she turned her horse in obe-
dience to- the intimation given her, with a somewhat demure
smile and blush upon her face. Mr. Simlins looked, as well
as the Squire, with a different expression.
"Well, I guess you're about right!" was his answering
remark. "I do believe he can get the whip hand of most
things. He's a Say and Seal man, he says." To which,

however, the Squire deigned no response. Stooping over
his harness, fingering and fitting, he was silent a little; then
spoke in a careless,-half inquiring half assenting sort of
way.
".What wonders me is, why he don't marry that girl out
of hand. I reckon she'd follow him down that road as easy
as she does down others. What's he waiting for ?"
"I guess he haint pitched upon a likely place to settle
yet,".-said Mr. Simlins, in a manner equally careless and
devoid of reliable information. Squire Deacon gave a little
inarticulate reply.
"He'd better hurry up-" he said,-"Dr. Harrison's
giving chase."
"Is he ?" said Mr. Simlins. "lHe'll be where the dog was
when he chased the wolf-if he's spry. I shouldn't won-
der."
"0-you think he's a wolf, do you ?" said Mr. Deacon.
"Well-the doctor's chance paint much the worse of that."
"Don't look very carnivorous," saidMr. Simlins, "but I
paint sure.  I wouldn't be so quick in my presumptions,
Squire. You'll shoot the wrong game one of these days-
if you haintaiready."
"Think so?" said the Squire. "Well, I paint after the
game they are, any way, so it don't matter to me which of
'em gets her. Most folks say it's like to be the doctor,-
she seems tryin' 'em both by turns."
The riders, on their part, had al short run back on the
road they had come, to where there kvas a hedge and thicket
and trees together; and Faith's horse being led close up to
the side of the 'hedge, and she herself provided with a knife,
she was free to cut as many lynch-pins as she chose. But
at this point Faith handed back the knife. "I can't do it
half so well;" she said. "I would rather you did it, Mr.
Linden."
"You would rather not dO it ?" he said looking at her.
"Is no bread pleasant but that 'eaten in secret'?"
Faith coloured very much. "I didn't care about doing
it, Mr. Linden, except to be useful, and for the enterprise
of going o for it by myself. And I didn't care about
that, more than two minutes."
"You know I had a charge about you before we came

)

S    }' f
'   n;
.it ;, ;
s4'   t,, .
;Y[    i   k
;1 .  I''
St        t
f;      -  ,
i    '.T
ir i
..;
1         a
4      Lie  ''
p
iF        'j
'4i ;
,i. r ,
r          i
it    °I, iP,
2!t   Rf°
i       ,s  ''
t
nRt;
t
2.lt
(!     r
t

IiWk
i;

410

SAY AND SEAL"

411


SAY AND SEAL.

out," he said, taking the knife and bending down towards
the hedge to use it. "But for that-or a like one in my
own mind-you should have had your enterprise. There--
I think that may serve the purpose."
The lynch-pin being delivered, the riders left the distressed
wagon behind; and again the free road stretched before
them; the soft air and light filled all the way and even the
brown tree stems with pleasantness. The horses felt they
had had a rest and pricked up tkeir ears to be in motion
again, and the minds of the riders perhaps felt a stir of the
like kind.
"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "a German writer says,
that 'one should every day read a fine poem, look upon an
excellent picture, hear a little good music, and, if possible,
speak a few sensible words."'
"Why do you tell that to me, Mr. Linden ?"
"I consider it my duty to keep you well informed as to
yours."
"But then !" said Faith, who by dint of trotting had got
into as merry a mood as her gentleness often wore, "I hope
you will also think it your duty, Mr. Linden, to tell me
hokv I can perform mine. Will you ?"
"Of course !-please speak a few sensible words to me
at once."
"You begin with the easiest thing !" said Faith.
"Yes, I am generally considerate. But as it is paiLof
my duty to hear a little good music, I am willing you should
sing first."
Music he had, though not exactly of the specified sort;
for Faith's laugh rolled along the road, like the chafing of
silver pebbles in a brook.
"Now for th next part," said Mr. Linden smiling.
"11 think   ve done too much already," said Faith
growing gray "Besides," she added, the corners of her
mouth all alive again, "I don't remember what the next
part is, Mr. Linden."
"Why the sensible wordsl!-.-what are the most sensible
you can think of on a sudden, Miss Faith ?"
"I don't know that I could think of anything very sen-.
sible on a sudden, Mr. Linden. Is it my duty to do it on
sudden ?"

413

412

E
4
a

"It might be, Miss Faith. Indeed I think it is now!"
"What would you like them to be about, Mr. Linden ?
and .I'll try."
"Nay, you may choose: sense is of universal applica.
tion."
"If I should say what was uppermost," said Faith, "it
would be, How very pleasant what we are doing now, is I"
"Which part?"
"Both parts !-Every part! One makes the other more
pleasant."  And Faith's happy face looked so.
"Very sensible words" said Mr. Linden smiling, "I
agree to them perfectly,-.which is, y-ou know, in every mind,
the great test of sense. The picture, Miss Faith, we have
before us."
"Yes,-isn't it lovely to-day, Mr. Linden? and hasn't it
been lovely ever- since we set out ? Except that broken
harness-and I don't think that has hurt anything, either."
"No, I am not sure that even the harness was much the
worse. And 'it' has been very lovely. As for the poem,
Miss Faith, you cannot be trusted with that-and must re-
sign yourself to hearing it read. What shall it be ?"
"I don't know," said Faith. "I know hardly any poe-
try, Mr. Linden, except what I have heard you read.
Will you read some, perhaps, this evening ?"
"Yes-every evening, if you like,--if we are to follow
Goethe's rule. Just before tea is a good time, don't you
think so ?"
"Yes indeed I" said Faith, whose colour rose from pure
pleasure, as her thought went back to L'Allegro and I1 Pen.
seroso. "I don't think there is any time pleasanter for it.
But they're all pleasant.-I've dropped my 'whip, Mr./
Linden!"-
"I will get it for yaou," he said checking his horse, "if
you will promise not to run away! I afraid of your
'enterprising' spirit, Miss Faith."
But her look at .him was a little touched and deprecat-
ing. They turned their horses together and went back a
few steps. There was no troble ii finding the whip, for
just where it had been dropped, a boy stood holding it on
high for Faith's acceptance. The boy was Phil Davids.
" Thank you, Phil !" said Faith, surprised and gatefu1.

SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

"I see it go out of your hand," said Phil.
"Yes," said Mr. Linden-whose smile and word of
thanks had accompanied Faith's,-..-"Phil has singularly
quick eyes. They have done me good service before."
As they turned again, Farmer Davids stood at their
horses' heads. They were just at the farmer's door, and
he so entreated them to come in 'and rest,' that there was
no refusing his hospitality. It was large, and various--.
Pumpkin pies and cider, and much pouring forth of grati.
tude and admiration for Mr. Linden's success with Phil.
"What have you done to that fellow ?" his father re.
marked admiringly to Mr. Linden. "You never see such
an alteration in a boy. He used-oncet--to talk hard
words agin you, sir;-you won't mind hearing it now; but
he's come all about, and lately there's, nothing to Phil's
mind can equal up to Mr. Linden. He don't say much
about it, sir, but it's evident. And he's been at me and
his mother this fortnight or two, to give him something to
make a present toy you-the boys do, he says; and he'
wants the best thing on the farm should go, and so do I,
sir, if we knowed oncet what would be most favourable. It
would be a kindness, sir, as I should be grateful for,-if
you'd say what would do you most service or be most plea-
sure-of anything that is on the farm;-fruit. or vegetables
or dairy. We're plain folks, sir; I say what I mean.
Take some pie, Mr. Linden!-some cider, sir ?".
Answering these various questions and demands as best
he might, Mr. Linden contrived to convince Mr. Davids
that Phil himself was the thing "on the farm" that he
cared most about; and his goodwill, better than any spe-
cial maliifestation thereof; giving at the same time full and
grateful thanks for the other things that had come to him
when he was ill.
"Yes," said Mr. Davids, smiling one of his grim and
rare smiles,-" all that don't help our difficulty, you see.
Well, Phil and I'll have to put our heads together. But
there's one person can send nothing that will tell half his
good feelings- of gratefulness to you,-and that's me."
And a very unwanted softening of the stern man's eye and
brow shewed that he spoke a gentle truth-.
Kind words answered him,-words of personal kindness

and interest, and deep pleasure too.t but Mr. Davids knew
it was a pleasure, an interest, a kindness, that had each
(like Samuel Rutherford's hope) "a face looking straight
out unto that day !"
Truly, "a ci4 that is set on an hill, cannot be hid 1"
And the farmer felt it, and his manner softened, and his
interest grew more wistful and intent with every minute
they stayed.
Faith was on horseback and Mr. Linden about to ol-
low, when Farmer Davids arrested him with a low r mark
and question.
"She's a fine-faced girl-looks as her father ne n't ha'
been ashamed of her. Looks good-like he di    Is she
going to marry the son of Judge Harrison, sir ?
"Dr. Harrison has told me nothing of the k4 ."
"I heerd it "-said the farmer. "I didn't kno nothing,
how it might be.  Good day, sir !  I hope y u'll 1ome
again."  And they trotted off at last, with  gain the
renewed feeling of liberty and pleasure of motion. But
'the sun had descended perceptibly nearer to th horizon
than he. was when they dismounted. However here was
nothing to do but to ride, for the proposed route as a cir-
cuit and they were passed the first half of the wa already.
"That was good, Mr. Linden," said Faith.
"Which part of it this time ?"
"I don't mean the pumpkin pie and the cider," s e said
smiling.
"Do you feel rested ?"
Oh yes ! t Rested and"'tired too. At least, quite re dy
to move on again."
"Yes, so am I. But do you know Goethe left but on
very important item in his daily directions ?"
"What was that?"
"One should, if possible, every day give some one else
a little pleasure."
"Yes!1" said Faith. "And it's so true, and so easy.
How much you gave there just now, Mr. Linden 1"
"It was rather of their taking than my giving. But
Miss Faith,
.-' How necessary is it now-a-days,
That each body live uprightly in all manner ways?'"

' i
e y  1 f  i+
f     7    1
ts'    qy4
;:,
; ,'=
'tf   -
S   (   )  ,
Z  !  , i  rf
1  '  1 J  N
jet
_     i ,
t   {
i
j.,,
,
'

414

SAY AND SEAL.

415

,
'i
C   3
I    1
i ,
#}
I
Y
1
1.
!
i .
f
i
I
',sl


SAY AND SEAL.            417

SAY AND SEAL.

"Yes, Mr. Linden ! What are you thinking of?"
"Just that-" he said smiling.   "A   thought of the
darkness makes one want to trim the lights. Did you ever
notice, Miss Faith, that many things which were written
in a mere worldly sense, will bear a very sweet Christian
application ? Take this for instance :--
'Thus would I double my life's fading space,
For he who runs it well, runs twice his race.
And in this true delight,
These unbought sports, that happy state,
I would not fear nor wish my fate,
But boldly say each night,-
To-morrow let my sun his beams display,
Or in clouds hide them; I have lived to-day.'"
She listened with a b ight face at first; then as.the quo-
tation was ended her fa e flushed, she turned, her eyes away,
and a grave look of sorrow crept over her lips. But in a
little while she looked again.
"How many k6oks do you carry about in your head,
Mr. Linden ?"
"If I should tell you, Miss Faith, then you would
know-and then I could never delude you any more ! Now
we must quicken our pace, or we shall scarce get our poem
before tea."
For awhile the trotting was pretty brisk, then they
drew bridle again and went gently on, but now towards
the setting sun, whose bright rays were caught and held
by the white sails that gleamed here and there in the dis-
tance. Now they met lines of cattle, driven byisome bare-.
footed boy or sunbonneted girl, and ploughmen trudged
along the road behind their teams. Thicker curls of smoke
from wayside chimneys spoke of supper, and where a house
stood in the shadow of some bit of forest, lights were
already gleaming from the windows.
" How many things by season seasoned are
To their right praise, and true perfection !"
Which bit of excellent eulogy might also have been true
of Quapaw creek and the bridge -over it, which they
reached in seasonable time. -Quapaw creek was here a

416

little bit of a river, and the bridge over it was an  iig-
P ficant little bridge -'no count,' in Squire Deacon'' lan-
guage. But now, of all times in the year, the little bridge
was already full of more than it could hold, literally, for,
it couldn't hold what was upon it. A heavy farm-wagon
loaded with some sort of produce had got fairly upon the
bridge some hour or two before and then broken through;
men and teams had for the present deserted it, and there
was the way pretty effectually blocked up. What was to
be done? They were not more now than a mile or two
from home, but to go back and round by the nearest way
would be several miles. The water was not very broad,
ior generally deep; but the bank  and the bed of the
stream were uneven and strewn   ith rocks and stones,
small and great. It was fordable, certainly; a good rider
might cross well enough; but a good rider would scarce
choose to trust an unskilful one there. What was to be
done ?
doWe shall have to go back, Mr. Linden," said Faith;-
"and you ,mustn't mind my riding fast now, or mother will
be uneasy."
Mr. Linden took the case into consideration.
"Will you mind riding before me, Miss Faith ?"
"What, sir ?" she said, not understanding.
"Will you let me take you across ?"
"How can you, Mr. Linden ?" she said, looking a little
startled, and flushing.
"Very easily-on my horse. Stay where you are a
minute, and let me try the ford." And-not waiting for an
answer to that, he rode down the bank and into the stream.
It.was easy enough, for a man who knew what to do with
his horse's mouth; not easy, nor perhaps safe for another.
The footing needed to be chosen by the hand of the rider;
so chosen it was good. Mr. Linden rode to the other side.
and came back.
"Will you try, Miss Faith ?"
"Yes," she said, putting her horse in motion,-" I am
not afraid.  I will follow you. It will be better than
going round." But his horse did not stir.
"I shall not follow you, Miss Faith,-and yet if you
cross it must be before me. No other way is safe for you.~

!s
1
f


418             SAY AND SEAL.

"Well, we can go round, can't we ?" said Faith.
"Yes," he said,-as the sun dropped down behind the
low horizon, and the cool shade fell on everything but the
tree tops. "You know it is about six times as far. Are
you afraid of my horse ?"
"No, not when you hold him. I will do just what you
please, Mr. linden," she said, though her colour mounted.
"Then do not be afraid of me," he said, dropping his
own bridle and gently disengaging the hand from hers.
"Please take your foot out of the stirrup, .]liss Faith-.."
and the transfer was made in a moment: she was lifted
across the little space between the two horses, and seated
in front of Mr. Linden, and held fast.
"Are you afraid ?" he repeated, looking gravely down
at her.
"No sir.-Not a bit, Mr. Linden," she said, throwing a
little more warmth into her words, for the first had been
spoken somewhat under breath. So leaving the one horse
fastened to a tree-branch, the other set forward with his
unwonted burden, which indeed at first he did not much
approve; pricking his ears, and sideling about, with some
doubtfulness of intent. But being after all a sensible horse,
and apprehending the voice and rein suggestions which
were made to him, he began to pick his way slowly and
carefully among the stones on the bank, and then through
the stones in the river; setting down his feet with great
judgment and precaution, and paying no heed to the rush-
ing and splashing of the little stream, except by his ears-..
which certainly worked, for once., And so the dangerous
"pass" was soon behind them, and Mr. Linden dismounted
and lifted Faith down, and seated her on a grey stone on
the bank, while he went back for her horse. Which cross-
ing, it may be observed, was accomplished much quicker
than the last. The twilight was falling fast, and the little
river, and the two horses as they forded its swift-current,
looked shadowy enough; set off by the white foam on
both. The evening wind began its fitful str, and swept
the dry leaves past Faith's feet, and shodk the cedar
boughs above her head; and so she sat there, and watched
the crossing.
"I have had the best picture to-day, Mr. Linden," she -

id when she was placed in the saddle again.     "You
ou ht to have seen the river, and you and the two horses
coming over it, in this light, as I did. You don't know
how pretty it was.  Now you'll let me ride fast, won't
you ?-for mother will be looking for us."
"As fast as you please-but after all, you have not seen
my picture," he said smiling.
~
Faith profited by the per mission given and put her horse
a pace that proved she was very much in earnest to pre-
vent that 'looking for them' on Mrs. Derrick's part. She
got out of the trot into a canter-or her horse did-and
then away they flew; too fast to see or be hindered by any
more friends or foes; till they drew bridle at home.
It was too late to have the reading before tea. So to
have tea as speedily as possible was the next object. And
then they adjourned to the fire-lit sitting-room, where
Faith lighted the lamp in uncertainty whether reading or
studies was to be the next move.  Mr. Linden, however,
went for his book-a little old volume, of which. Faith had
never taken notice; and began, without doubt, the prettiest
description of a garden that ever was written ;-
"How vainly men themselves amaze,
To win the palm, the oak, or bays::"-etc.
The reader paused a moment, to tell more particularly
what these leafy honours were, and then went on.
r              "Fair Quiet, have I found thee here,
And Innocence, thy sister dear?
Mistakenlong, I sought you then
In busy companies of men.
Your sacred plants, if here below,
Only among the plants will grow.
Society is all but rude
To this delicious solitude."
At which words precisely, the spirit of contrariety
opened the door and ushered in Dr. Harrison. All he saw,
was Mr. Linden with a book, in one easy-chair; Mrs. ]Ier-
.rick with her knitting in another; and a little further off,
Faith, sitting on her low cushion and apparently doing

SAY AND SEAL.            419

Tv.
i   -   .
s  _   .
Sy
1  5
7
1' t s f" i T+R
., ;3 ' LryI
ssX w ill,
xT Y  : ,r
SA
,.
{Ir l kt
s, , Its
j t"_

i j
f!(f
,
;+


420             SAY AND SEAL.

nothing.  Probably for that reason the doctor made up
to her first. He sat down beside her, and enquired in a
low tone how the fishes were?  Faith answered that they
were well; only one of them had been eaten up by the
others.
"You are a little tired and are feeling remarkably well
to-mnigt," the doctor went on. "What have you been
doing?"
"I have been trying to do my duty," Faith said colour-
ing and laughing.
"Don't you always do that ?" said Dr. Harrison looking
at her enquiringly.
"But I didn't know what it was till to-day."
"You are doing what is very uncommon with you," said
the doctor;--"fighting me with my own weapons."  His
smile was pleasant though acute; but Faith coloured ex-
ceedingly.
"I can't tell you exactly what duty I mean," she said,
"but Mr. Linden can."
"Do you take your notions of duty from him7"
"To-day,"..--said Faith with a smile, sweet and with
spirit enough too.
"I maintain that duties are facts, not-notions," said Mr.
Linden.
"Hum.-" said the doctor turning,-" Now you are too
quick for me. May one not have a notion of a fact ?"
"One may. What are your notions about society and
solitude ?"
"Of duty in those regards?"
"Not at all,-your notions of those facts."
"Confused-" said the doctor,--"Incomprehensible-.
Melancholy-and Distracting !"
He had got up and assumed the position he seemed to
like, a standing-place on the rug, from whence he could
look down on everybody.
"What do you say to this ?--
'Two paradises were in one,
To live in Paradise alone.'-
I suppose that meets your 'notions.'"
"No,"   'tlsaid the doctor,.--"not unless Eve were the para-

V,
' I
- ;
Y  ya,

dise. And even then, I shouldn't want her any more to
myself than to let all the world come and see that she was
mine."
"It is a grave question," said Mr. Linden, "whether
paradise becomes smaller by being divided. In other words,
whether after sharing it with Eve, Adam still retained the
whole of it for himself!"
"Just the other way 1" said the doctor,--" it was doubled
..or trebled.  For in the first place he had Eve; she was
a second paradise;--then all her enjoyment of paradise
was his enjoyment; that was a third;--and in short I
should think the multiplication might go on ad infinitum-
like compound -interest or any other series of happiness
impossible to calculate."
"Simple interest isn't a bad thing," said Mr. Linden.
"Yes," said the doctor with an answering flash of his
eye, "but it never contented anybody yet that could get it
compound-that never I heard of. Does Miss Derrick un-
derstand arithmetic ?"
"Miss Derrick," said Mr. Linden, "how many angels
can stand on the point of a (darning) needle without jost-
ling each other ?"
"Don't be deluded into thinking that is arithmetic," said
the doctor. "Some of them would get their feet hurt.
What duty has Mr. Linden been persuading you to do
to-day ?"
"Mr. Linden can tell," said Faith.
Which appeal Mr. Linden answered by deliberately
finishing his poem aloud, for the benefit of the company.
"'What wondrous life is this I lead!
Ripe apples drop about my head;
The luscious clusters of the vine
Upon my mouth do crush their wine.
The nectarine, the curious peach,
Into my hands themselves do reach.
Stumbling on melons, as I pass,
Ensnared with flowers, I fall on grass.'
'Here, at the fountain's sliding foot,
Or at some fruit-tree's mossy root,
Casting the body's vest aside,
My soul into the boughs does glide:
VOL,. I.                86

SAYAND SEAL.             421


I' 4.

422

SAY AND SEAL.

There, like a bird, it sits and sings,
Then whets and claps its silver wings ;
And, till prepared for longer flight,
Waves in its plumes the various light.'." etc.
The doctor listened, faithfully and enjoyingly; but his
finishing comment was,
"What a pity it is November !"
"No," said Faith-"I think I enjoyed it better than I
should in July."
" Rousseau's doctrine," said the doctor.  "Or do you
mean that you like the description better than the reality ?"
"It was the reality I enjoyed," said Faith.
"What have you got there, Linden ?"
''Various old poets, bound up together."
"What was that you read ?"
"Andrew Marvell's 'Garden."'
"It's a famous good thing !--though I confess my soul
never 'glided into the boughs' of any tree when my body
didn't go along. Apropos-Do you like to be on the back'
of a good horse ?"
"Why yes," said Mr. Linden, "when circumstances place
me there."
" Will you let me be a circumstance to do 'it ?  I have
an animal of that description-with almost the facility of
motion possessed by Andrew Marvell's soul. Will you try
him ?"
"Can he run ?" said Mr. Linden with comic demureness.
"Fleetly. Whether away with you depends, you know,
on what I have no knowledge of; but I should think not."
"I should like to know beforehand--" said Mr. Linden
in the same tone. "Eowever-Is it to be on simple or
compound interest, doctor ?"
"I never take simple interest," said Dr. Harrison. "I
want all I can get."
"Well if; I take your horse, what will you ride alongside
of me?"
"That is easily arranged," said the doctor. smiling.
"This fellow is a new-comer, comparatively, and a pet of
mine. I want to know what you think of him. When is
your next time of leisure ?"

SAY AND SEAL.

423

"My daylght leisure is pretty limited now. Part of
Saturday Ikould take."
"Then you'll hold yourself engaged to me for Saturday
norning,-and I'll hold myself engaged to give you some-
thing pleasant to do with it. The roads hereabout are
good for nothing but riding-you can have the pleasure
of motion, there isn't much to take your thoughts away
from it."
"Except emotion ?"
"If you're another Marvell of a man, and can send your
soul into the boughs as you pass;-as good as stumbling
on melons," said the doctor. "iUnless your horse stumbles I"
"I see his character is coming out by degrees," said Mr.
Linden smiling.
"He's as sure-footed-as you are ! Here comes emotion
.-in the shape of my aunt Ellen. Isn't Mr. Linden a
careful man ?" he asked whimsically in a lowe voice, return-
ing to his place by Faith. The question touched Faith's
feeling of the ludicrous, and she only laughed at the doctor.
Which he liked very well.
Mrs. Somers' errand was to invite the younger portion
of the- company to spend Christmas evening with her.
And having succeeded in her mission, she made the doctor
take her home.

,

in
r   b  ?
Z. .
t:
4

J ff.
T- r{
Ja
. J, Sy
Ls
r
r l'''


SAY AND SEAL.

CHAPTER XXXIII.
THE week thereafter passed with the usual quiet business
of those days. Friday evening, however, when the
lamp was lit, instead of opening her books at once, Faith
took the doctor's station on the rug.
"Dr. Harrison has been here this afternoon, Mr. Linden;
and asked me to go with you and him in the ride to-morrow."
"Well, Miss Faith ?"
"I was afraid at first that it might hinder the good of
your ride, if I went; but Dr. Harrison said no; and he put
it so that at last I said I would. But I am afraid of it still."
"How did he put it ?"'
"I don't know," said Faith half laughing ;.- in a way
that left me no excuse ; as if he thought it would be more
pleasure both to you and to him, to have me along."
"Miss Faith, if you go, you must give me leave to keep
very near you. I trust my own care better than Dr. Har.
rison's. You will understand why I do it ?" Faith did not
understand very well.
"I supposed of course, Mr. Linden, you would be very
near ! I knew mother would not let me go to ride with
Dr. Harrison, but with you I thought she would not be
afraid."
He looked at her a little doubtfully-as if he wanted to
say something; but whatever it might be, it was not what
he did say,-a quiet
"I will try and take care of you, Miss Faith." Which
words were afterwards enlarged upon.
"Miss Faith, may I trust that you will not fall behind
my 'fleet' horse to-morrow ?"
"Do you mean, if he goes very fast ?" said Faith, with
questioning eyes.
"His speed shall not put you to any inconvenience.
Indeed it may chance that he will be obliged to go slower
than you like,-in which case, Miss Faith, I hope your
liking will change."
(424)

fq'         .
(f
;i
i
'!!!},; J
~-,1

The doctor came the next day in a gay mood.
"I told you," said he, "I shouldn't be .content with
simple interest-I wanted compound. I hope you approve
4 of my addition to our plan ?"
"So far so good," Mr. Linden said smiling.
They went out, and Mr. Linden'stfirst move was towards
the horse with the side saddle; not with the 'intention of
mounting him, however: but a more particular, thorough,
systematic examination of every buckle and strap of his
harness, that particular horse had never had. Then Mr.
Linden tre and held out his hand to Faith.
She gave him hers with a facile readiness that quite pre-
cluded interposition, and testified either that she ater
pecte i t or head not expected it; most probably the latter.
Dr. harrison bit his lips, but that was a second's emotion;
his next step was to dismiss the groom who stood at the
horse's head and take that office on himself.
You are more careful than is absolutely necessary in
this case," said he smiling. "This horse, Miss Faith, is
the mate, presume, of the one Job used to take his exer-
cise upon. I chose him, for you; thinking of Mrs. Derrick.
-Give 'Stranger' to Mr.yLinden !"-The last words being
a direction to the groom.
A very different creature was Stranger! If it had been
Sthe purpose of Dr. Harrison to give his friend so much to
do with his own particular affairs that he would have no
leisure to bestow on those of other people, he had chosen
the horse at least well. A very fine and beautiful animal,
he deserved all the-praise given him for facility of motion;
no feet could disdain the ground more daintily; no carriage
be more absolutely springy and soft. But the mischief and
spirit of both the runaways combined would not match his
case. He did not indec ppear to be vicious, and that en
than a most vehement  sire to pleasehislantatn
taamotvhmn            sietopeshislaall manner of eccentric ways, totally irrelevant to the pur-
pose of gettIng Thead on the road or serving the will of his
rider, might be called vice. It rather seemed the spirit of
power in full play. However it were, there was no lack of
either 'motionI or 'emotion' during the.fithalfmileofthef
way; for Stranger's manner of getting over so much of

c=hrV.e
ti?
1
k {s t;rF
T

425


SAY AND SEAL.            427

the ground was continually either calling Faith's blood into
her cheeks, or driving it out from them.
They were well matched, 'however, the horse and the
rider,-and the spirit of power in equal exercise. Neither
did Mr. Linden seem averse to the play-though Stranger
presently found that what play he indulged in, was clearly
matter of concession; his name, as regarded his rider, soon
lost its point. On the whole, the performance came as near
the ' Centaurship' declared impossible by Dr. Harrison, as
most things have in modern times; but so far as the doctor
had any stake depending upon Stranger's antics, so far he
lost. Mr. Linden had never seemed more absolutely at
leisure to attend to other people's affairs, and had rarely, it,
may be said, attended to them more thoroughly, than during
that 'springy' half mile. An occasional Pas seul round
the minuet of his companions, rather heightened the effect.
On another score, too, perhaps the doctor lost; for what-
ever efforts he made, or she made, it was simply impossible
for Faith to attend to anything else whatever with any show
of consecutiveness, but the said horse and his ride  An
attention sufficiently accounted for in the first place  the
startled changes of colour in her face; latterly the clour
rose and became steady, and- a little varying play of s1ile
on lip and eye during the third quarter of a mile attested
the fact that other "emotions" had displaced that of fear.
Clearly the doctor had lost upon Stranger.
"How do you like him ?" he said at last speaking across
Faith who was not "good" for conversation.
"Very much."
"I see you'do-and he likes you, which is, to be sure, a
correlative position. As I see he don't fill your hands, may
I impose upon you the care of my sister? We are an un-
even number you are-aware, and as I thought it desirable
not to look odd, I gave her permission to go with us."
Dr. Harrison did not see-if Faith did-the tiniest bit
of a glance that sought her face while he was speaking;
but nothing could be easier than the terms in which Mr.
Linden declared himself ready to take charge of any
number of ladies,-it was only equalled by Stranger's hound
the next minute-.
How dismayed one of the party was at this addition of

,5
l ; i
! ttl
+
i   t
dr
j;
.,
Y~
,,,,,
-,,
r ,f
E  r  ,1
il,''
(i''}
t11 '
f   JI
f t}
fff .'
t "
i   "
i 7
1  i
r(t4
' i'
Y " t
S } y l
q#u' ;
#'
i
,;1,

Miss Harrison's company, nobody guessed. They turned in
at Judge Harrison's gate, and found Miss Sophy all ready for
them. But to Faith, the play was suddenly taken out of
"the play." She and Dr. Harrison set forward to be sure,
over a pleasant road, in delicious weather; the doctQr was in
one of his balmiest moods; and though quietly, she was very
well mounted. It was pleasant, or would have been pleas-
ant; but all the while, what was Stranger doing behind her
that she could not see I Then in answering some kindly,
graceful remark of the doctor's, Faith chid herself for un-
gratefulness, and roused herself to give and take what good
was in her power.
The ride was pleasant after that! The air in all its calm
sweetness was well tasted; the barren landscape, never
barren to Faith's eyes, was enjoyed at every step. Her
horse went agreeably, and the talk between her and Dr.
Harrison grew interesting and enlivening.
Meanwhile Mr. Linden's horse and his companion were
at the antipodes-of each other. Thoroughly good and
estimable as Miss Harrison was, she never left the beaten
track,-and Stranger never kept in it. Between these two
opposites Mr. Linden amused himself as best he might.
To do him justice he tried his best to amuse his companion.
Several miles of way lhad been passed over, when in a
broad grassy reach of the road, the two riders ahead fell
back upon the rest of the party; Faith taking Miss Harri-
son's side, while the doctor drew up by Mr. Linden.
"How does it go ?" he said good humouredly.
"What is the impersonal in this case ?" said Mr. Linden,
while Stranger snorted and bounded, and by every means
in his power requested the doctor to keep at a distance.
"A conglomerate, for whichI found no better term. You,
Stranger, and my sister, and the world generally."
"Stranger is in a sufficiently ardent mood, for his share-
he gives me a fine view of the country," said Mr. Linden,
as the creature brought himself to a tolerably erect position,
and seemed to like it so well as to be in no hurry to come
down ; and when he did, took the precaution to take his
hind feet off the ground before the fore feet touched. "Miss
Faith-how does, this agree with your ideal of Melan-
choly ?"

426            SAY AND SEAL.

4      !
'2i=.
:.;
{r
^
?'A
7   Y


SAY AND SEAL.             429

Faith forgot to answer, or thought answers impertinent.
"That horse frightens me out of my wits," said Miss
Harrison.  "I have been jumping out of the saddle half
the time, since Icame out. Sometimes he'll go very quietly...
as nice as anybody---and then he'll play such a caper as he
did then. That was just because Julius came up alongside
of him. He had been going beautifully this last mile. I
wish he'd have nothing to do with such a creature !"
"I suppose he's very pleasant to ride," said Faith eying
the creature.
Perhaps Stranger--with his full, wild eyes, took note of
this look of partial favour, for he backed a little from the
doctor, and came dancing round by Faith, and there danced
along at her side for a few minutes; evidently in an excited
state of mind. His rider meanwhile, gave Faith a quiet
word of admonition about keeping so loose a rein, and asked,
in the same half undertone, if she felt tired?
"0 no !" Faith said with a look of thanks and pleasure.
"That piece of care I must trust in your hands-d-on't
forget that I do so trust it. How would you like to cross
Quapaw creek on this piece of quicksilver ?"'
"I don't think you'd like to have me 1" Faith said very
decidedly. "I never saw anything so beautiful, quite, Mr.
Linden-that I recollect at this minute," she added smiling.,
"I want to dance with you to-day-more than I ever did
before," he answered, smiling too. "Miss Faith if you
have not yet said the 'few sensible words,' or if you have
any left, won't you please say them to me ?"
" That question comes like a constable upon all'iny sense,"
said Faith laughing, "and it feels as I suppose a man does
when he is clapped on the shoulder."
"But then the man cannot run away, you know."
"Nor my sense don't," said Faith,-"that I know of-
but it feels as if it hadn't possession of itself; Mr. Linden."
"Well see if it is equal to this demand --.What would ben
the consequences if you and I were to start off and scour
the country 'on our own hook,' as people say ?"
"I think our 'hook' would draw two people after usn"
said Faith, looking very much amused and a little afraid of
being overheard.,
" That is a melancholy fact ! And my self-indulgence

needs to be kept in check. Miss faith," he said dropping
his voice still more, "Stranger regrets very much that he
must now go through that figure of the cotillion called
'Ladies change '1" And with a low and laughing bow, Mr.
Linden reined back his horse and returned to his former
place with all the soberness that circumstances allowed.
There was no soberness whatever in the face with which
Faith recommenced her tete-a-tete with Miss Harrison.
Thy doctor was perfectly in order.
"I have been thinking," he said, "since my question of
how the world went with you, what a very insignificant
thing, as to extent 'the world' of any one person is."
." Compared with the universe," said Mr. Linden.
"What sort of a world have you got into?" said Dr.
Harriskn somewhat impatiently. " No-the actual extent
of yourand my consciousness-of that field of action and
percep on which we magnificently call our world! What
a mighty limited field it.is 1"
"I think you describe it correctly," said Mr. Linden:
"it is both mighty and limited. A little space railed off
for every man-and yet larger than that man can ever fill."
"It seems to me too insignificant to be worth filling."
"There is a little outlet on every side that makes it im-
possible to fill ?"
"What do you mean ?"
"I mean, that while our action at every step touches other
people, and their consequent action moves on with like effect,
the limits of our power in this world can never be known."
"Will you think me impertinent if I ask once more what
you mean ?-or rather, ask you to enlarge a little ?"
"If a man plants the first clover seed or thistle-down
in some great continent," said Mr. Linden, "from whose
little field is it, that in a hundred years the whole land
bears thistles or clover ?"
"It won't,",said the doctor, "if a hundred other things
are sown at the same time. And so it seems to me in life-
that one action is counteracted by another, urliversally,-.
and nothing makes anything !--of any avail."
" If noting is of any avail, things don't counteract each
other. You are proving my position."
The doctor smiled, not unpleasantly.

428              SAY AM  SEAL.

,
.,


SAY AND SEAL.  AL.         431

"I see," he said, "you can maintain any position you
choose to take,--on the ground or in the air ! I must give
way to you on this ground."  And Dr. Harrison reined,
back his horse and came into Faith's neighbourhood.
"Miss Derrick, the road is getting too contracted for such
a procession--will you draw bridle ?"
"I don't want to ride behind, Dr. Harrison," said Faith
looking laughingly back at him. "I'll go on in front."
Which she did, so briskly that the doctor had to bestir
himself to come up with her.
"I didn't know," he said, and he spoke somewhat in
earnest,--"I didn't know that you cared anything about
eminence or preeminence."            t
" Didn't you, Dr. Harrison ?"
"Do you?"      '
"I don't know-" said Faith gravely. "Eminence?.--
yes, I should care very much for that, in some things. Not
for preeminence, I think. There's Mr. Simlins !--and I
must speak to him." Faith's horse which had been on, an
easy canter, came to a stand; and so must the doctor. Mr.
Simlins too was on horseback.
"Mr. Simlins," said Faith after giving him her hand,
"will you have half a day's leisure Monday or Tuesday?"
"Leisure ?" said the farmer with his best growl-" no, I
sha'n't have it if you take it."
"Do you think I may take it ?"
"I don't suppose there's anybody that can hinder you,"
said Mr. Simlins--"without excepting my own identity. I
can't. Do you want to go up yonder again ?"
The doctor interposed to make offers of his father's
horses, carriage, and servants; but Faith quietly negatived
them all.
"How did you get home the other night ?" said the farmer.
"Did you get over the river ?" Then shifting his ground
as Miss Harrison and Stranger came up into the group, he
changed his question.
"I say Mr. Linden1.-I heerd Quapaw creek was choked
up the other night-how did you get home ?"
"The same way I expect to now," said Mr. Linden.
"How did you, Mr. Simlins." .
" The harness was all right," said Mr. Simlins--." if any.

thing else was in a disorganized state, 'twas somebody's
fault besides your. That lynch-pin made trouble though;
it didn't fit more places than one. Did you get across
Quapaw creek on your horses ?"
"Do you suppose I crossed on foot ?" said Mr. Liden
smiling. "Do you take me for a witch, Mr. Simlins ?"
"I haven't just made up    mind about that, said the
farmer. "I've a temptation   think you air. What's-
that you're on?"                      .A.
"Only a broomstick in disguise, Mr. Simlins. As he
belongs to Dr. Harrison, I am willing to own so much.
"ie's as well-shaped a broomstick as ever I see, said
the farmer consideratively. "I shouldn't mind puttin' him
in harness. Well good-day   I'm glad this girl didn't
have to go all round again the other night-I was afeard
she had. I'll take you over creation," he sung out after
her as they parted company,-"and I'll be along Mponday.
"Quapaw creek ?" said Dr. Harrison, as the iterrupted
procession took up its line of march again,- I think
remember that. What was the matter ?"
"The bridge was broken, with a loaded wagon upon it,
Faith explained.
"And you crossed by fording ?"
S"Yes."
"Isn't it rather a difficult ford?  If I remember right,
the bed of the stream is uneven and rough; doesn't it
require some guiding of the horses?"
"I believe so-yes. It isn't safe for an ignorant rider."
S"I didn't give you credit," said he looking at her, for
S)being such a horsewoman. That is quite a feat for a lady."
Faith coloured high. But she was not going a second
time to fight the doctor 'with his own weapons.' A very
little she hesitated, then she said boldly, though not in very
bold tones it must be confessed,-
"I am not a horsewoman-Mr. Linden carried me over.
The doctor looked very moody for a few minutes; then
his brow brightened. Faith's straightforward truth had
served her as well as the most exquisite piece of involution.
The doctor could not very wl see the face with which her
words were spoken and had to make up his mnd upon
them alone.

430            SAY AND SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

"It is so !" - his settled conclusion. "She has only a
child's friendly liking for him-nothing more-or she never,
simple as she is, would have said that to me with that
frankness !"..
Moodiness returned tothe doctor's brow no more. $e{
left Qiapaw creek in, the distance-and talked of all manner
of pleasant things. And so, with no second break of the
j    order of march, they went on and went home.
"Mr. Linden," said Faith when she was lighting the lamp
for study in the evening,-"you'll never ask anything of me
so hard to do as that was to-day."
"Hard ?" he replied. "Why ?"
"To keep in front, where I could not see you and that
horse."
"Miss Faith! I am very sorry !-.But you know I had
you in charge-I felt hound to keep you in sight."
I know,"..-she said; and sat down to her work.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

HERE was no more riding after that-the weather
T    grew too cold, and Mattabeeset was put off till
spring; but with walks and talks and,, reading aloud,
G osthe's maxim was well carried out. For there is music
that needs no composer but Peace, and fireside groups that
are not bad pictures in stormy weather. And so December
began to check off its short days with busy fingers.
There came a sudden interruption to all this, except De..
cember's part of it. For a letter arrived from Miss Delia
Danforth, at Pequot, begging that Faith would come and
spend a little time with her. Miss Delia was very unwell,
and suffering and alone, with the exception of her brother's
French wife; and she wrote with longing desire to see
Faith. Mr. Danforth had been some years dead, and
the widow and the sister who had lived so long together
with him, since his death had kept their -old household life,
in a very quiet way, without him. But now Miss Danforth
longed for some of her own kindred, or had a special liking
or desire for Faith's company, for she prayed her to come.
And it was not a call that Faith herself a moment doubted
about answering. Mrs. Derrick's willingness lingered, for
various natural reasons; but that too followed. It was
clear that Faith ought not to refuse.
The day before she was to go, Mrs. Derrick made here
self unusually busy and tired,.so as to spare Fait's study-
time; and thus it fell out, that when night came and
prayers were over, Mrs. Derrick went straight to bed;
partly from fatigue, partly to be ready for an early start
nest day; for she was to drive Faith over to Pequot.. No
such need or inducements sent Faith to bed; and the two
students planned a longer evening of work than common,
to anticipate lost time. But when the hours were about
half spent, Cindy came to the door and called out, "Miss
Faith !"-Faith left her book and went to the door, which
she held open.
VOL. 1.                 37                  (433)

3

i  #-
f  'i  + i+
. 'k}
_ 1+F lA
t+d
'+u
1. ',t
, _
2
,t  }
is,
4    ,  .
+, _  ,
l

432

..   .

!'
f,
t. I
4  i  ,1
f   .  1
it  i,
it ,
''
' , ,,
'
e,  r;
-
1  r   '
,
,
1  ',
ii
,+
,   ,
l
};
t , '
,,
!'
t,
,,
j
i
,
C
;:°
,
}r
'  :   f
},
r,
h;; ,,i'
,,,.,,
' yi%1,.


} " ,I'
i    t, ;
'  '
{  ,
p11  -
1       '
t 1  i  t   ,
+,  '
jF
[;
!       '

SAY AND SEAL.

"There, was a boy come to-night," said Cindy, "from
that old starvation creator down by Barley point, and he
says she's more in a box than ever.  Haint a crumb of
bread for breakfast-nor supper neither, for that."
"Is the boy here now ?"
"Why sakes no t" said Cindy. "1He come while youwas
to supper. I s'pose I might ha'telled ye before, but then
again I was busy bakin' cakes--and I'm free to confess I
forgot. And prayers always does turn everything out of
my head. I 'can't guess how I thought of it now. Mr.
Skip's away' to-night, too," said Cindy in 'conclusion.
Faith shut the door behind her.
"It's too far for you to go alone. Can you find some-
body to go with you, Cindy? I'll put up a basket of things
for her."
"Aint a soul in sight-" said Cindy. "I'd as lieves go
the hull way alone as to snoop round, hunting folks."
"Then Cindy, if you'll get ready I'll go with you. She
must have something."
Cindy looked at her. "Guess you better get fixed first,
'Miss Faith. 'Taint hardly worth my while, I reckon. Who
shouldn't we have after us !"
"Just have your shawl and bonnet ready, Cindy, wll
you ?" said Faith gravely,-."and I'll be ready in a very few
minutes."
She went with business speed to pantry and cellar, and
soon had a sizeable basket properly filled. Leaving that in
. 1Cindy's charge, Faith went back to the sitting-room, and
came and stood by the table, and said quietly, "I can't do
any more to-nightt Mr. Linden. I must be busy in another
way. I am going out for a little while."
"May I ask-not from curiosity-with whom?" he said
looking up at her.
"With Cindy-to attend to some business she didn't
tell me of in proper time."  Faith had laid her books
together and was going off. Mr. Linden rose from the
table.b
"With me, if you please, Miss Faith. I will not intrude
upon your business."
"It's no business to be intruded upon!" she said with
her simple look into his face. "But Cindy and I can do

SAY AND SEAL.

435

S
l
t
1
.4
_ 1
r'
':
rs
.t
f.
.
Yin
4
Ry
;y
;
z

K
' .       '    ^t   r
fr          -        ;
1        ry
r                  %F
.
7
t                 '.1

it. Please do not let me take you away ! I am not afraid
...-much."
"Miss Faith, you want a great many lessons yet !-and
I do not deserve this. Don't you know that in Mrs/Derrick's
absence I am guardian of her house-and of you? I will
go with you, or without you-just as you choose," he added
smiling. "ff you would rather study than walk, you shall.
Is the business too intricate for me to manage ?"
"It's only to carry some things to an old woman who is
in great want of them. They can't wait till to-morrow. If
you will go, Mr. Linden,-.-I'll be. ready in a minute. I'd
like to go."
She ran to get ready, and-fMr. Linden went to the
kitchen and took the basket from Cindy, and then waited
at the front door till Faith came, and they went out into
the moonlight together. A. very bright moonlight, and
dark shadows-dark and still; only one of them seemed
to move; but that one made Faith glad of her change of
companions.  Perhaps it made the same suggestion to
Mr. Linden, for his first words looked that way.
"Miss Faith, you did not do quite right, to-night. Don't
you know-" with a gentle half smiling tone-"you must
not let anything make you do wrong ?"
Her look and tone were both very confiding, and touched
with timidity.
"Did I, Mr. Linden? I didn't mean it."
"I know that.-but you must remember for another
time." And he went off to other subjects, giving her talk
and information that were perhaps better than books. The
walk was good, too; the air bracing, and the village sights
and sounds in a subsiding glimmer and murmur. The
evening out of doors was worth as much as the evening
within doors could have been. Faith thought so. The way
was down the road that led to Barley point, branching off
from that. The distance to the poor cottage seemed short
enough, but if it had seemed long Faith would have felt
herself well paid-so much was the supply needed, so joy-
fully was it received. The basket was left there for Mr.
Skip to bring home another time, and at a rather late hour
in the evening the return walk began.
The night was sharp and frosty, and still, now, with a

j fi
fP x
is

434


SAY AND SEAL.             437

depth of silence. The moon, high and full, beamed down
in silver splendour, and the face of the earth was all white
or black. The cold, clear light, the sharp shadows angling
and defining everything, the absolute stillness-how well
they chimed !-and chime they did, albeit noiselessly. In
that bracing air the very steps of the two homeward bound
people seemed to sprin more light and elastic, and gave
little sound. They we ht on together with a quick even
step,-the very walking was pleasant. For a while they
talked busily too,-then Thought came in and claimed her
place, and words ceased.
They had left the. turn to the belt of woods, and were
now passing one or two empty fields where low hedges made
a black line of demarcation, and the moonlight seemed even
whiter than before. Faith was on the side next the road,
and both a little way out, for the walking was smoother
and dryer.
How it was done Faith could not tell-the next two
seconds seemed full of separate things which she remem-
bered afterwards-but her hand was disengaged from Mr.
Linden's arm, and he was standing before her and she be-
hind him, almost before she had fairly seen a little flash of
red light from the hedge before them. A sharp report-a
powdery taint on the sweet air, came then to give their
evidence-to what ?
That second past, Mr. Linden turned, but still stand-
ing so as to shield her, and laid both hands on her shoul-
ders.
"Are yoni hurt ?" he said, in a voice lowered by feeling,
not intent.
One bewildered instant she stood mute-perhaps with no
breath for words; the next minute, with a motion too un-
expected and sudden to be hindered, lifting both hands she
threw his off, bounded to one side to be clear of him,,and
sprang like a gazelle towards the spot where the red flash
had caught her eye. But she was caught and stopped
before she reached it, and held still.-That same shield
between her and the hedge.
"Did it touch you?" Mr. Linden repeated.
"No-Let me ! let me !"--she said eagerly endeavouring
to free herself.

Ike was silent a moment-a deep drawn breath the only
replyP but he did not loose his hold.
"My dear child;" he said, "you could find nothing-for
what would you go ?"--the tone was very gentle, even
moved. "You must walk on before me as quick as you
can. Will you promise to do it? I will keep you in
sight."
"Before you ?-no. What are you going, to do?  Are
you touched ?"--ller voice changed as she went on.
'"I am not hurt-and mean to do nothing to-night but
follow you home. But give me your promise, Miss Faith,
-you must not stand here."
" Why in front? will they be behind us ?"
"I must have you in sight-and I will not have you
near me." And letting go his hold he said, almost impera-
tively,
"I will trust you. Walk on before me 1-Miss Faith, you
must not delay a moment."
"I will go with you," she said low, and, clinging to his
arm ;-"Your safety is in being near me. I will not delay.
Come !"-
But the hand was taken off again, and held in both his
while he spoke.
"I will not have you anywhere near ine! If you do not
walk on far in front, I shall,- and keep watch of you as
best I can."  And he let go her hand, and stepped back
with a quick pace that soon put some distance between
them. She stood.still a moment, looking, and then sprang
back till she. reached him; speaking with a low vehemence
that did not seem like Faith.
"I will not do it, Mr. Lindyn-I will not ! I will not!
-Come, come! don't stay here !"
Whatever Mr. Linden felt at that appeal-and he was
not a man' to feel it lightly-lis words lost none of their
firmness.
"I shall not stir until you are ten yards in front of me!l-
unless I leave you as far behind."
She planted herself for an instant before him and looked
in his face, with eyes of quiet but most eloquent beseech-
ing.
"No"-he repeated-" you must go on and fear nothing.

i 4t;
;sip
_  -l "
1     y a
t "      '
;w t
-"} ;
rs '
_,f
,t =
+ .  .
.
_ f
.+s    y
i-     j
'      MY{
k' s
_  - ;t

43 6            SAY AND , SEAL.

1;
4
t.
l
i
i
1
f
i
.

!! .
I; r
i, , ,
;  -:
i e,.
flif
,,.


SAY AND SEAL.

Child-  there is no restraint to the Lord, to save by many
or by few.'
She did not answer, even by the little shake of the head
which sometimes with her stood in place of words. She
turned, went swiftly forward, with a straight, even, unslack-
ening pace, which did not falter nor stop for a long, long
piece of the way; how long it was by the-mind's measure-
ment it would be hard to tell. It was one breathless sense
of pain and fear; of which moonlight and shadows and
the points of the way all made part and were woven in
together. Her ears were tingling for that sound; her eyes
only measured unconsciously the distances and told off the
waymarks. Down the little pitch of the road where that
to Barley point forked off; then by a space of clear fences
where hedgerows were not, and a barn or two rose up in
the moonlight; through gates where the post shadows
were black and deep, by the skirting bushes that now and
then gathered about the rails. She walked as fast as she
could and keep her strength.  That was unconsciously
measured too. It had seemed to her, in her agony of
pleading before the commencing of this strange walk, that
it was impossible she should do it. She was doing it now,
under a force of will that she had not been able to with-
stand; and her mind was subdued and strained beyond the
power of thinking. Her very walking seemed to her me-
chanical; intensely alive as her senses were all the time.
There was a transient relief at corning into the neighbour-
hood of a house, and a drear feeling of desolation and in-
creased danger as she left it behind her; but her pace
neither faltered nor flagged. She looked round sometimes,
but never paused for that. Before the more thickly settled
part of the village was reached her step grew a little
slower, pi-obably from the sheer necessity of filling strength;
but steady it was, at whatever rate of travel. When at
last they turned the sandy corner into the broad street or
main way of -the village, where houses and gardens often
broke the range of hedgeway or fence, and lights spoke
to lights in the neighbouring windows, Faith stopped and
stood leaning against the fence. In another moment she
was drawn away from that to a better support.
"Are you faint ?" Mr. Linden said.

11cr 'no' was faint, buYthe  nswer was true for all the
rest of her.
He drew her hand within his arm, and went on silently;
but how glad he was to see her home, Faith might guess
from the way she was half carried up the steps and into
the hall, and the door shut and locked behind her. After
the same fashion she was taken into the sitting-room and
placed in the easy chair, And her wrappers unfastened and
taken off with very gentle and quick hands. She offered
almost as little help as hindrance, and her head sank imme-
diately.
He stood by her, and repeated his question about faint-

,Jk
.T
n
4
i

ness.
"0 no, sir.-I'm not faint. It's nothing," Faith said,
but as if her very voice was exhausted. And crossing her
arms upon the table, close to which the easy chair stood,
she laid her head down upon them. Her mother might
well say she had a baby face. It looked so then.
Mr. Linden's next move was to get a glass of wine, and
with gentle force and persuasion to make her swallow it;
that done, he stood leaning upon the back of her chair,
silently, but with a very, very grave face.
She kept her position, scarcely stirring, for some length
of time, except that after a while she did her face in her
hands. And sitting so, at last she spoke, in a troubled
tone.
"-What can be done, Mr. Linden ?-to put a stop to
this."
"I will try what can be done," he answered, though not
as if that point were uppermost in his mind. "I think I
can find a way. I wish ,nothing gave me more uneasiness
than that?"
"Do you think there is any way that you can do it,
thoroughly ?"
"Yes, I think so," he repeated. "There are ways of
doing most things. I shall try. Do not you think about
it, Missy Faith,-I have something now to make me glad
you are going to Pequot. Before, I could only remember
how much I should miss my scholar."
",Why are you glad now, Mr. Linden ?"  Faith's voice
was in as subdued a state of mind as her face.

04
A.Y AND :SEAL.

438

439,

;'
;
i:_
.  ,,  _
°;.
,
.'s
:


SAY AND SEAL.             441

j  i

few minutes to do this; and then Mr. Linden laid the books
together, and drawing the old Bible towards him once
more, he turned to the ninety-first Psalm and read it aloud.
Read it with full heart-felt effect; which made the words
'fall like the dew they are, upon the weary little flower
Faith was: Then he bade her once more goodnight.
Shewent refreshed; yet to become a prey to struggling
thoughts which for a while prevented refreshment from
having its lawful action. How much of the night and of
the early morning Faith spent in these thoughts, 'and in
the fruit of them, is uncertain; for the evening's work
would sufficiently have accounted for her worn look the
next day.

"Change of air will be good for you-till this air is in
a better state."
She made no answer. In a few minutes she rose up,
gathered her wrappers into one hand, and turning to Mr.
Linden held out the other to him; with a very child's look,
which however was rather doubtful about meeting his. His
look had lost none of its grave concern.
"Are you better ?" he said. "Will you promise to go
right to sleep, and leave all troublesome matters where
alone they can be taken care of?"
The faintest kind of a smile flitted across her face. "I
don't know"-she said doubtfully,---" I don't know what I
can do, Mr. Linden."
"I have told you."
"I'll try-the last part," she said with a somewhat more
defined smile as she glanced up !at him. It was as grave
and gentle a smile as is often known.
"You must try it all," he said, giving her hand the same
touch it had had once before. "Miss Faith, I may use
your words-I think you will never give me harder work to
do than I have had to-night !"
She could not bear that. She stood with eyes cast
down, and a fluttering quiver upon, her lip ; still, because
the effort to control herself was at the moment as much as
she could do. It was successful, though barely; and then,
without venturing another look, she said her low 'Good-
night, sir'; and moved away. She was accompanied as far
as the door, but then Mr. Linden paused, with his hand on
the latch.
"Shall you take any work-I mean book work-with you
to Pequot ?-or will your hands find too much else to do ?"
"I meant to take some-I meant to do a good deal-I
hope so."
"Then can you come back to the great chair for ten
minutes, and let me give you a word or two of direction ?"
She came immediately and sat down. And Mr. Linden
went back to where they had been interrupted early in the
evening, and told her what and where and how to go on in
the various books, till she should see him again; putting
marks here ande there to save her trouble, or pencilling
some explanation which might be needed. It took but a~

I

;
. "
:; ,
i  .
.   ,,;
;:,   '

440             SAY AND SEriL.


CHAPTER XXXV.

''/     UST   I go to Pequot ?" was the first thought
that entered Faith's mind the next morning.
And the advancing daylight, with its" clear steadfast
way of looking at things, said, "Yes, you must." "Is
there anything I-who know most about this business-.
can do to put an end to it ?" That was a second thrilling
question. The same daylight gave its frank answer ~
"No, you cannot-you cannot." Faith took both answers,
and tlen sought, in the very spirit of a child, to "leave
all troublesome things where alone they could be taken
care of.
"There is a faculty in this,'' saith Leighton, "that all
persons have not." But the spirit of a child can do it;
and the spirit of a Qhristian, so far as it is right, 'is none
other. Faith went down stairs, in spite of inward sorrow
and trembling, with a quiet brow. It was very much the
face of last night, for its subdued look, and in spite of the
night's rest, in its paleness too; though the colour played
there somewhat fitfully. Sorrowful note-of that Mr. Linden
took, or the pained look of last night had not passed off
from his face,-or bpth might be true. So far as the most
gentle, quick-sighted, and careful attention could be of
avail, the breakfast was pleasant ;--otherwise it was but a
grave affair. Even Mrs. Derrick looked from one to the
other, with thoughtfulness that was not merely of Faith's
going away.
There was little time however for observations. Directly
after breakfast the wagon was got ready; and when they
were bestowed in it and Mr. Linden's farewell had bade
Faith remember all his injunctions the night before, he
-turned and walked on to. his own place of work and the
mother and daughter set forth on their journey.
In a small insignificant house, in a by street of Pequot,
was the little, very od  household of the two, Miss and
Madame Danforth. The, kept no servant; they lived quite
(442)

'
f

I

)y

1
'
Y

SA"' AND SEAL.

443

to themselves; the various work of the household they
shared between them and made it as good as play; and no
worse than play seemed all the rest of their quiet lives.
But Miss Dilly was ill now and unable to do her part; and
what was worse,'and more, she had lost her wonted cheer-
ful and gay way of looking at things.  That the little
Frenchwoman never lost; but it takes two to keep up a
shuttlecock, and Faith was welcome in that house.
What work she did there for the next two or three-
weeks was best known-not to herself-but to the two old
ladies whose hearts she cheered. And they knew not all;
they did not know the leap of Faith's heart at the thought
of home, whenever, morning or noon or night, it came into
her head. She kept it out of her head as much as she
could.
And s   went about from the top to the bottom of the
house, ev n after the first day she came, the same sort of
sunbeam she was at home.  She took in hand Miss Dan.
forth's broom and duster, and did Cindy's part of setting
cups and saucers; but that was a small matter. The help-
ful hand which made itself so busy and the voice which ran
+  music all up and down the house, were never forgotten,
- even by the Frenchwoman. To Miss Danforth, feeble and
ailing, Faith ministered differently, and did truly the work
of an angel. More than once before the second day was
done, Miss Dilly repeated, "Faith, child, how glad I am I
sent for you !"-And Madame DInforth took to her mightily;
opened heart and arms without reservation; and delighting
to have her company, carried her down into the kitchen and
initiated Faith into deep mysteries of the science and art
the head quarters of; which' are there. Now did Faith
learn new secrets about coffee, about eggs, about salads and
about vegetables, that she never knew before; and for some
unknown reason she was keen to learn, and liked the half
hours over the kitchen fire with Madame Danforth so well,
that the little Frenchwoman grew proud other pupil.
It was the third day of Faith's being at Pequot. Faith
was engaged in some gentle offices about the room, folding
up clothes and putting drawers in order. Miss Danfortli's
eye watched her, following every movement, till Madame
D~anforth left the room to go out on business,~ Faith was

;, cil
:{
n    {                          I
1' f ,
'ti   ~d,
i
4       )
t   i  ,

I
I
I +1


h}t
i .i
?  P
' Z.
iA
.',

t

444

SAY AND SEAL.

1f  i 1     t,  ,
4     {',,'r  t .F
j  t1 '           1
i   L      J
t   ,   !
l. i.i.
1  1    tt
i    ,
s! ,

SAYAND SEAL.

summoned then to her aunt's side. It was the darkening
part of the afternoon. Faith sat down at the foot of Mi
Danforth's great easy chair, looked into the fire, and won,
dered what they were doing at Pattaquasset.
"And so, Faith, child, you're taken to new ways,
hear."
To Faith's quick ear, Miss Danforth's voice skewed a
purpose.  It was less brisk than its old wont.    Her
answer was as simple as possible. "Yes, aunt Dilly. It's
true."
"You don't think you're any better than you used to be
--do you ?"
"No, ma'am. Yet my life is better, I hope."
"I don't believe it.! How could it be ?"
"In this at least, that I am the servant of God now,
Before, I ne er thought of serving him."
"I never did," said Miss Dilly. "But",-
There was a silence. Faith's heart leapt to hear this
confession, but she said nothing and sat still as a mouse.
"How's Mr. Linden getting on in Pattaquasset ?"
"well."
"You like him as well as ever ?"
"Yes."
Alert questions. Rather faint answers.
"Do you remember what he said one night, about every-
body'being precious? Do you remember it, Faith ?"
"Yes, ma'am-.very well."
"I suppose I have thought. of it five hundred and fifty
times," Miss Dilly went on. "What were the words, Faith ?,
do you know 'em ?"
Faith did not move, only repeated, and if they had been
literal diamonds every word would not have seemed so
precious to her,-..
"'They shall be mine, saith the Lord, in the day when
Imace up my jewels.'
"That's it !" said Miss Dilly.  "Now go on, can you,,
Faith, and tell me what it means."
"It is spoken of the people that fear the Lord, aunt
Dilly-it goes on-
"'And I will spare them, as a man spareth his own
son that serveth him. Then shall ye return and discern

445

between the righteous and the wicked, between him that
serveth God and him that serveth him not."
'' Tell me more, Faith," said Miss Danforth presently
in a subdued voice. "I don't understand one thing about
it from beginning to end."
In answer to which Faith turned, took a Bible, and as
one did of old, preached unto her Jesus. It was very simple
preaching. Faith told her aunt the story even very much
as she had told it to Johnny Fax; and with the same
sweet grave face and winning tongue whi qh had drawn the
children.  As earnest as they,. Miss Pilly listened and
looked, and brought her strong sense to bear upon the
words. Not with the same ease of understanding. . She
said little, excepting to bid Faith 'go on,'.-in a tone that
told the quest she was upon-unsatisfied yet.
Faith went on, but preferred to let the Bible words
speak instead of her own. It brought Mrs. Custers to
mind again, though this time Faith's joy of heart .made
her words ring as from a sweet silverArumpet. So they
fell on the sick woman's ear; nor was there stay or inter-
ruption till Faith heard the hall door close below. She
shut the book then; then her arm came round Miss Dan-
forth's neck, and her kisses spoke well enough the glad
sympathy and encouragement Faith spoke in no other way.
One earnest return answered her.
From that time, to read the Bible to her aunt was
Faith's work; morning, noon, and tight, literally; some-
times far into the night. For Mist Danforth, embracing
what she had never known before, as the light gradually
broke upon her; and feeling that her time for study might
be made short, was in eager haste a d longing to acquaint
herself with the broad field of ties and privileges, all
new, now laid open before     Faith could not read too
much; Miss Dilly could   listen too long.
"Faith, child," she said one night, late, when they were
alone,--"can't you pray for me?"
"I do, aunt Dilly."
"No, no ! but I mean, can't you pray with me ?-now,
here. Can't you, Faith ?"
Faith kissed her ; hid her face in her hands and trembled;
and then knelt and prayed. And many a time after that.
VOL. 1.                38

sir
"r°
4   x i
+M
I E
!  ' U1ZiC
4
7y 1
g'.. of

;;
fi   s                           c
;,;    ,
,                                '
.  ,'

z


CHAPTER XXXVI.

T HE Saturday before Christmas, which was moreover
the day but one before, Squire Stoutenburgh went
over to Pequot; and having checked off his business items,
drove straight to Madame Danforth's. The door was
opened to him by the Frenchwoman, who took him into a
little room very like herself, and left him; and in another
minute or two Faith came in. Her exclamation was with
the unmistakeable tone and look of pleasure.
"My dear, I am very glad to see you!" was part of the
warm reply. "How do you do ?"
"I do very well, sir."
"Ah1!"-said the Squire,-"I suppose so. Well I'll
give you a chance to do better. My dear, I'm going to
carry you off,-you're wanted."
"Am I?" said Faith with a quick change. ' here's
nothing the matter ?"
"Nothing bad," said the Squire. "At least ope not !
Will you go home with me this afternoon ?"
"O yes, sir-and very glad ! But did mother send
for me ?"
"Sent for you if I could get you, Miss Faith. I don't
suppose she'll ever really interfere with your doings-if you
choose t go and live in the Moon, but she's half sick'for
the sigh of you. That's prevalent just now," said the
Squire, :'and she's not the worst case. The doctor went
off for ear he should take it;-but some people have
duties, ou know, and can't stir."
There was a tiny peachblossom tinge on Faith's cheek,
which the Squire was pleased to take note of. She stood
with a thoughtful face the while.
"I'll be ready, Mr. Stoutenburgh. When will you come
for me ?"
The time was fixed, and Faith made her explanations
to her friends; promising that if need were she would
come back again, or her mother, after Christmas. Miss
Dilly let her go very willingly, yet most unwillingly; and
(446)'

j I  ' ; (
hi ;

I J  't 5i ,

Madame Danforth's reluctance had nothing to balance it.
So it was that Faith's joy had its wonted mixture of gravity
when she met the Squire again.
"If you're not going to be glad to get home, I'm a rich
man if I'll go in with you 1" he said as he put her in the
sleigh and tucked her up with shawls and buffalo robes.
"That's the way 1-first get power and then abuse it."
"Power ! Mr. Stoutenburgh. What do you mean?    I
am very glad to go home. Don't I look so ?"  She cer-
tainly did.
I mean that I haven't seen anybody smile since you
went away," said Mr. Stoutenburgh, proceeding to tuck
himself up in like manner. "Except Dr. Harrison. He
kept himself in practice while he staid."
Faith was silent; eying the snowy road and the jingling
horse heads, with 'a bounding feeling of heart that she was
going home. She dared allow it to herself now.
"What do you guess made the doctor leave that fly-
away horse of his for Mr. Linden to tame ?" said the
Squire. "Has he any particular reason for wishing to
break his neck ?"
"Did he do that ?"
"Break his neck?-why no, not yet,-I suppose the
j doctor lives in hopes. You take it coolly, Miss Faith!
upon my word."
"Mr. Stoutenburgh !-I meant, did he leave the horse
for him. Dr. Harrison knew there wasn't much danger,
Mr. Stoutenburgh."
Mr. Stoutenburgh touched up his own team.
"I guess !"-he said slowly, "the doctor don't just know
how much danger there is. So Pattaquasset 'll have a
chance to come down on both feet-which that horse
don't do often. We've had all sorts of goings on, Miss
Faith."
"Have you, sir ?" The question was put quietly enough,
but there was a little tinge of curiosity, too.
"Yes," said the Squire, shaking his whip. "Sam Dea-
coh's gone away and Mr. Linden's grown unpopular. Aint
that news?
"What do you mean, sir ?"
"Why Sam Deacon's gone away.-" the Squire repeated

it

I

SAY AND SEAL. L

447

it
t f" - '
ft  t   ,
I{ I'
OV,
I.,,


448                SAY AND SEAL.
coolly. "He was getting rather too much of a sporting'
character for our town, so a friend of mine that was going
to Egypt-or somewhere--took him along. You needn't
be uneasy about him, Miss Faith -he'll be taken care of
I should have sent him a worse journey, only I was over.
ruled."
"And is he gone to Egypt ?" said Faith.
"Hardly got so far yet," said the Squire. A'But I
/thought it would be good for Sam's health-he's been a
little weaker than usual about the head lately."
"That was only half of your news, Mr. Stoutenburgh,"
Faith said after another interval of musing.
"'Tother half's nothing wonderful. Mr. Linden's getting
unpopular with everybody in town that he don't make up to
on the right side; and as there's a good many of them,
I'm afraid it'll spread. I've done my best to tell him how
to quiet the matter, but yiou might just as well tell a pep.
peridge which way to grow! Did you ever try to make
him do anything ?" said the Squire, facing round upon Faith.
The startling of Faith's eyes was like a flash; and some-
thing so her colour went and came. The answer was a
very orderly, "Yes, sir."
"Hum-I s'pose he did it,-guess I'll come to you next
time I want anything done. Are you cold, my dear ?" said'
the Squire renewing his efforts at wrapping up.
Faith's desire for Pattaquasset news was satisfied. She
manifested no more curiosity about anything; and so far as
appeared in words, was contented with her own thoughts.
That however would have been a rash conclusion.  For
thoughts do occupy that do not content; and Faith could
willingly have spared the hints in Mr. Stoutenburgh's last
speech-and indeed in several others. She by no means
understood them thoroughly; yet something of the drift
and air of them she did feel, and felt as unnecessary. There
had been already in Faith's mind a doubtful look towards
the last evening she had spent in Pattaquasset; a certain
undefined consciousness that her action that night might
have said or seemed to say-she knew not what. She could
find no fault with it, to herself; there had been nothing that
she could help; but yet this consciousness made her more
tender upon anything that touched the subject. She had

SAY AND SEAL.

449

thought of it, and put it out of her head, several'times in
these last weeks; and now Mr. Stoutenburgh's words had
just the effect to make her shy. Faith's mind however
had been fall of grave and sweet things of late, and was
in such a state now. The principal feeling, which the
Squire's words could not change, was of very deep and
joyous happiness; she was exceeding glad to go home; but
at the same time in a mood too quiet and sober for the
wine of joy to get into her head.
Squire Stoutenburgh too seemed satisfied,--perhaps with
the uncold hue of Faith's cheeks; and now drove on at a
rapid rate, talking only of indifferent matters. The horses
trotted quick over the smooth snow, and the gathering lead
Teolour overhead was touched with gleams of light here and
there, as the sun went down behind the Pattaquasset out-
lines. Swiftly they jingled along, crossing the ferry and
mounting the hill; past trees and barns and village houses
-then into the main street: down which the horses flew
with a will, thinking of oats and their good Stable, and un-
willingly reined in at Mrs. Derrick's door.
It was dark by that time-Faith could see little but the
lights glimmering in the windows, and indeed had no time
to see much; so suddenly and softly was she lifted out of
r the sleigh the moment it stopped. Then Mr. Linden's
voice said,
"Thank you, Mr. Stoutenburgh1"
"That's one way of thanking me !" said the Squire.
"However--I suppose it's all right,"--and gave his impa-
tient horses their way.
"Why Mr. Linden," said Faith half laughing, but with
a little of the old timidity in her voice,-"how could you
see me before I saw you ?"
"For various reasons, Miss Faith. How do you do ?"
He led her on, into the house and into the tea-room, there
to delight her mother's heart and make her mother's eyes
overflow.
"Pretty child 1" Mrs. Derrick said,-" I never will let you
go away again for anybody I"
Faith laughed, and kissed her and kissed her; but did
not take that moment to say what she thought-that Mrs.
Derrick would have to let her go again in a few days perhaps,

.:

i.
i
5 _;YV

I   .
!t

S~ _


SAY AND SEAL.

and for Miss Danforth herself. Then her eye glanced at the
tea-table, as it might at an *ungoverned kingdom--or a
vacated sphei-e; an  the fulness of her heart broke out,
"Mother !--Pm ad to be home again !" The tone said
it yet more than t e words. And then with a sudden
movement, she went off a step to Mr. Linden and held out
her hand to him, albeit ever so little shyly. The hand was
taken and kept, his eyes taking a quiet survey of her the
while.
"Miss Faith, you want to be set to work ! Some people
will neglect themselves if they have a chance."
"I haven't done much work since I have been away, Mr.
Linden."
He smiled -what was he reading in her face?  "You
don't know what you have done, child," he said. "But she
looks glad, Mrs. Derrick,-and we are very glad to have
her."  Whereupon F th was conducted to the tea-table
without more delay; Mrs. Derrick feeling sure that she
was starving both with cold and hunger.
Faith had no appearance of 'being cold; and though she
certainly did eat her supper as if she was glad to be at
home, it was not with the air of a person with whom his
bread and butter is the first thought. Gladness shone in
every look and movement; but at the same time over all
the gladness there was a slight veil; it might be gravity,
but it might not be all gravity, for part of it was very like
constraint; the eyes were moreready to fall than to rise;
and the words, though free to come, had a great facility
for running in short sentences. But Mrs. Derrick was too
happy to notice such light streaks of mist in the sunshine,
and talked away at a most unusual rate,-telling Faith how
Mr. Linden had ridden that 'wild horse,' and had found
time to teach her little class, and In general had done
everything else-for everything seemed to hinge upon him.
Mr. Linden himself-with now and then a word to qualify,
or to make Faith laugh, took a somewhat special and quiet
care of her and her wants at the table; all which seemed
to Faith (in her mood) very like little gentle suggestions
at that veil ;-othrwise, he was rather silent.
-Then followed prayers, with all the sweet warm infiu-
ences of the tIme; and then Faith, might sit and talk or 130

450

'.1
i

SAY I AtIh N  POt.            Ag.1
silent, as she liked; rest being considered the best work for
ithat evening. It would seem that she liked to be silept,---
;   if that were a fair conclusion from her silence. Her eye
took happy note of the familiar things in and about the
'  room; then she sat and looked into the fireplace, as glad to
see it again maybe,-or doubtful about looking elsewhere.
As silently, for a few minutes, Mr. Linden took note of her:
then he spoke.
"Miss Faith, will you let me give you lessons all through
the holidays ?"
She gave him a swift blushing glance and smile. , If
you liJ e to do it, Mr. Linden-and if IJam here."
here do you find those two 'ifs'?"
"I thought, perhaps, when I came away from Pequot
to-day, that I might go back again after Monday. I am
afraid aunt Dilly will want me."
"How much must people want you, to gain a hearing ?"
"There are different kinds of wanting," Faith said
gravely. "Aunt Dilly may miss me too much."
"And the abstract 'too much,' is different from the com-
parative. What about that other 'if'?"
"'The other if' ?-I don't know that there is anything
about it, Mr. Linden," Faith said laughing.
"Whence did it come ?.-before it 'trickeled,' as Bunyan
.says, to your tongue ?"
"I don't know, sir !"-
"Miss Faith!--I did not think you would so forget me
in three weeks. Do you want to hear the story of a very
cold, icy little brook ?" he said, with a sort of amused de-
mureness that gave her the benefit of all his adjectives.
She looked up at him with earnest eyes not at all amused,
but that verged on being hurt; and it was with a sort of
fear of what the real answer might be, that she asked what
he meant.
"Miss Faith, I mean nothing very bad," he said with a
full smile at her then. "When I really think you are build.
ing yourself an ice palace, I shall spend my efforts upon
thawing, not talking. What have you been doing all these
weeks ?"
With a little bit of answering smile she said, in a deli-.
berate kind of way,----"I have been running about house-...

QVxND('SEAL.

451

,
, ;'''
s    ,
,,
'  ;


SAY AND SEAL.             453

J1
S
1
1 It
t it
1
i'
t
{
46
i

and learning how to cook French cookery, Mr. Linden..
and most of all, I've been reading the Bible. I haven't had
time to do much else. "*
"Do you know," Mr. Linden said as he watched her,
"that is just what I thought ?--And so you have been going
step by step 'up the mountain'! Do you see how the road
improves ?---do you find the 'richer pastures' and the purer
air ?"
"0 sir," said Faith looking up at him,.--" I was reading
to aunt Dilly."
"I know,-.I understood that. Are not my words true
still ?"
Gravity and shyness, all except the gravity that belonged
to her and to the subject, broke away from Faith. She rose
up and stood beside Mr. Linden, moved, lappy, and glad
with. the gladness of full sympathy.
"It has been a pleasant two weeks, Mr. Linden !---though
I would have liked to be at home. Aunt Dilly has wanted
t" Bible, morning, noon, and night;-.and it was wonder.-
ff to read it to her! It has been my business, all these
days."
"My dear child! I am very glad !" he said, taking her
hand. "Wonderful ?-.--yes, it is wonderful to read, kP one
who wants it."
"She wanted it so much,"-.Faith said, catching her
breath a little. -"And understood it, Mr. Linden. Very
soon it was all-or mostly.--clear to her. I read, to her
sometimes till twelve o'clock at night-and sometimes
began at four in the morning."
Mr. Linden looked at her with a mingling of expressions.
"I am afraid that was not good for you,..-..if one dare
say it of any work done in that service. Do you know how
much the Bible is like that pillar of fire which guided the
Israelites, but to those who were not of Israel became a
pillar of cloud,-from which 'the Lord looked out' but 'to
trouble them' ?"
Faith's eye watched him as he spoke, and caught the
power and beauty of the illustration; but she did not
speak. Until after thinking and mn using a while she said
softly, "It don't trouble aui't Dilly."
Mr. Linden drew up a chair for her near his town, buit

made no other comment upon her or her musings at first,-
thn abruptly-----"And you think she will want you gain ?"
There is nobody else to do this for her," sai Faith;
and again was silent. "lHow do you suppose it al began
with aunt Dilly, Mr. Linden ?"
"As to means ?-I cannot tell.
.   It began from a few words, which I dare say you have
forgotten but which she and I remember,-words that you
siid one'evening when she was herd last summer, about
everybody's being  recious in one sense.-You repeated
that passage-   y shall be mine, saith the Lord,'-you
, know."
Faith did not know what a soft illumination was in her
eyes, or she would probably not have turned the light of it
so full upon Mr. Linden as at one or two points of her
speech she did. It was a grave, sweet look that answered
her; but then his eyes went off to the fire without further
reply.
Faith did not again interrupt the silence; a silence th
to judge by the faces of both was pleasant to both. Til
Mrs. Derrick came in, who indeed could not be very long
K absent. Then Faith left her place, sat down on a low seat
by her mother and caressingly took possession of her hands
Aand arms. She made no more startling propositions that
night of going back to Pequot again; and the minutes
of the evening flowed on-as such minutes do.
The Sunday which followed was one as quietly happy
as is often known in this world. And the next day was
Christmas.

452

SAY AND SEAL.


455

SAY AND SEAL.

v.V
CHAPTER XXXVII.
S o came the holiday week, wherein was to be done so
i much less than usual-and so much more. Mr.
Linden's work, indeed, was like to double on all hands;
for he was threatened with more tea-drinkings, dinners,
suppers, and frolics, than the week would hold. How
should he manage to give everybody a piece of him, and
likewise present himself entire to the assembled boys when.
ever they chose to assemble ?.--which promised to be
pretty often. How should he go skating, sliding, and
sleigh-riding, at all hours of the day and night, and yet
spend all those hours where he wanted to spend them? It
as a grave question; and not easy, as he remarked to
aith, to hold so.many feelings in his hands and hurt none
of them. So with the question yet undecided, Christmas
day came.
It was a brilliant day-all white and blue; the sky like
a sapphire, the earth like a pearl; the sunbeams burnished
gold.
" Ha' ye but seen the light fall of the snow,
Before the soil hath smutched it?"-
Such was Pattaquasset, Christmas morning.    And the
bright lily,
"1Before rude hands have touched it.,"
that was Faith Derrick when she came down stairs. The
dainty little crimson silk hood which Mrs. Derrick had
quilted for her, was in her hand, brought down for dis-
play ; but at present the sitting-room was empty, and
Faith passed on to her work-basket, to put the hood in
safe keeping. She found a' pre-occupied basket. At some
unknown hour of thi night, Santa Claus had come and
left upon it his mark in the shape of a package: a rather
(454)

--- ,
%      '
y,,
,    .
5%
Y v
e
4   :
iiY
i '
.
~ta
e _  .
f {,
f.  f
L

large and rather thin package, but done up with that in-
fallible brown paper and small cord which everybody knows
by instinct. Who ever looked twice at a parcel from that
w d doubted whence it came?
Faith's cheeks took an additional tinge, quite as brilhant
as if the crimson hood had been on. What doubtful fingers
lsfted the package from the basket!
The thing..--wHatever it was-had been done up care-
fully.  Beneath the brown paper a white one revealed
itself, beneath that a red leather portfolio-made in the
pretty old-fashioned style, and securing its contents by
means of its red leather tongue. But when Faith had
wtdrw   this, and with the caution always' exercised on
sith occasions 'had also drawn out the contents, she found
the prettiest continuation of her Italian journey, in the
shape of very fine photographs of all sorts of Italian places
and things, mingled with here and there an excursion into
the Swiss mountains.
A few almost awe-stricken glances Faith gave. How
good it was she was alone ! she would not have cared tq
have the door open and anybody come in, at that minute.
Then she put the photographs in the portfohleather
scarcely seen, and looked at the outside of the red  ,
felt of its smooth surface with admiring fingers that hardly
believed what they touched, and a face glowmg with a very
deep glow by this time.  Faith thoughtherself rich, e-
yond the imagination of a millioaire.  he could have sat
there with her riches nobody knows how long, and not
wanted breakfast; but she dreaded somebody's coming in;
and besides, gratitude and pleasure quickened her sense of
other people's wanting breakfast. So after a little mute
amazed consideration oher happis -e  fd    hed off
folito the kitchen to signalize the Christmas breakfast.-and
perhaps spend a few of her too manyadame Danforth's
preparation and production of on delicacies; and when
nice, but in Pattaquasset unheard Qf, Flai  and when
all the rest of the breakfast was ready, Faith demurely went
in with  her dish.           1d   m n  o   r  i d n
She had not a word of eknavedhimn or Mrnd Linenr
which was ungratefu. Sh gaehm      eranowvr

/

i'   F' P }
s5
.. ' 1 i,
'Fh}t
" r
mot.
jt
. t
4
t  "


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.            457

with a manner and look which were graceful enough; being
at once, open and shy, very bright, and yet veiled with a
shade of reserve. She had been over the fire, so her face
was naturally a little rosy. There was no particular reserve
about him,-his "Merry Christmas" was not only wished
but carried out, so far as breakfast time extended. Faith
might be as demure as she liked, but she had to be merry
too; so on the whole the breakfast room was beaming with
mere than sunlight. Yes, it was a merry Christmas V.
merry without and merry within,-.-that sort of merriment
which "doeth good like a medicine." Gay voices and steps
and snowballing on the broad street; gay snowbirds and
chickadees sin the branches; in the house glad faces; over
and upon all, clear sunshine and the. soft hush of a winter's
morning.
"What are you going to do to-day, mother ?" said Faith
towards the close of breakfast time.
"I'd rather look at you than anything else, child," said
her mother, "but I've got to go out, you know. What are
you going to do Faith ?"
"All sorts of things, mother. Mr. Linden ?"--
"All sorts of things, Miss Faith-therefore we shall
probably meet quite often in the course of the day," he
said smiling. "Will you give me any commands ?"
"Perhaps-if I can. Mother, how are we to get to Mrs.
Somers' to-night ?--is Crab well ?"
"O Crab's gone away for the winter, child, and we've
got Mr. Stoutenburgh's Jerry. To be sure-that's since
you went away."
aThe first thing for Faith was the Christmas dinner, into
which she plunged, heart and hand. - The turkey, the
apples, and the pies, were all seen to at last; and about
an hour before dinner Faith was ready to take off her
kitchen apron and go into the parlour. She longed for a
further touch and eyesight of that red leather.
She had it, for that hour; as dainty a luxuriating
over her treasures as anybody ever had. Faith pondered
and dreamed over the photographs, one after another;
with endless marvel and querying of numberless questions
springing out of them,-general and particular, historical,
natural, social, and artistic or scientific. -Questions that

All-
a
pro, I
. Yi
tbr'

sometimes she knew 'only enough to form vaguely. What
a looking over of prints that was ! such an hour as is
known by few, few of those who have seen engravings all
their lives. Nay, further than that;-such as is not known
by many a one that stands on the Bridge of sighs, and
crosses the Mer de glace, and sees the smoke curling up,
from Vesuvius. For once in a while there is an imaginary
traveller at home to whom is revealed more of the spirit of
beauty residing in these things, than hundredsof those who
visit them do ever see. Who
"Feels the warm Orient in the noontide air,
And from cloud-minarets hears the sunset call to prayer."
Before dinner time was quite on the stroke came home
Mr. Linden, who betaking himself first upstairs and then into
the sitting-room, brought Faith her Christmas breastknot of
green and red. Stiff holly leaves, with their glossy sheen,
and bright winterberries-clear and red, set each other off
like jewellers' work; and the soft ribbon that bound them
together was of the darkest possible blue. It was as dainty
a bit of floral handicraft as Faith had often seen.
"Will you wear it, Miss Faith ?" Mr. Linden said as he
laid it on the table by her.
Faith had come out of her dream, and gave the holly
and winterberries a'downcast look of recognition. It was
given in silence, but the pleasure which had been upper-
most for some time presently made her overcome shyness,
and looking up gratefully she exclaimed, "Mr.. Linden-
what pleasure yoi rpave given me !"-The soft colour which
had been in her cheeks before, mounted instantly to deep
crimson, and she added timidly, "Wasn't it you ?"
"What pleasure you give me!".-he said with a smile
at her-crimson and all. "Yes, it was I."
"It seems to me I have been at those places to-day,"
she went on, looking over at the sofa where her portfolio
lay. "I have been fancying your sister standing here and
there and looking at something I saw in the picture. Now
I can understand a little better what she was writing
about."
"I'am very glad you like them! Some time you must
vo.1.       18

456G

; r
3 1
t t ( ,
. t :

1.'I I i r!5
s   '
t


SAY AND SEAL.

R  II

let me give you any explanations they may need. What
have, you found for me to do this afternoon ?"
"Aren't you going to be busy, Mr. Linden ?"
"About something--your business shall come first."
"It can wait," said Faith very brightly.  "It was just
that, Mr. Linden.--I was going to ask you some time to
shew them to me. I have been looking at some of them
by myself, and going into a great many things over them
that I could not understand. But any time will do for
that-as well as to-day."
"And to-day as well as any time"--he said smiling;
"but I suppose we must wait till after dinner."
There was great satisfaction at that dinner, not to say in
it-yhich indeed the dinner merited. There was the re-
maining glow of the pleasant morning, and a little dawning
of the afternoon, besides the hour's own light. Faith
indeed was the radiating point of pleasure, which the two
others watched and furnished with new supplies. Then
after dinner came the Italian work, and she had as elabo-
rate and careful answers and information as she wished for.
Mr. Lindeif could go back and tell her where each place
got its name, and what had been its history, with many
stories of its climate and productions and traditions; and
so one by one Faith went over again her new treasures.
One by one,-until the short afternoon began to fade, and it
was time to dress for Mrs. Somers'; and they had made but
little progress into the portfolio, after all. Yet it was a
great 'progress' to Faith ;-a grand procession through
the years of history and the stages of civilization and the
varying phases of nature and humanity.
Very tenderly the photographs were restored to the
portfolio and the red leather tongue drawn through, with
a little breath heavy with pleasure, and Faith carried off the
whole to be put where profane hands should not get hold
of it. Then the comparatively ignoble business of dressing
occupied her. And Mrs. Derrick yet more, who of course
was there to help and look on; while Faith's head was er-
e ratically in her portfolio, or at Rome, or at Florence, or--
elsewhere,---as the case might be. Her dress was this
evening the same she had worn to Mrs. Stoutenburgh's, but
the knot of holly and winterberries transformed. her more

than the rose and myrtle had done; and she stood an un-
doubted guest of Christmas night. Faith herself took
somewhat of the effect, which her thought however concen-
trated.
"Mother," she said as she looked in the glass,-" I never
yaw anything so pretty !"
"Neither did I, child,", said Mrs. Derrick smiling.
Faith took still'closer note of the beauty of her breast-
knot; and then gathering up her crimson hood and cloak,
they went down stairs. It was not quite the hour yet for Mrs.
Somers'. Mr. Linden was ready and in the sitting-room;
but Faith did not this time call his attention to her bouquet.
She came in and sat down very quietly in a corner of the
sofa. Ile paused in his walk up and down the room how-
ever, noting her well as she came in and took her seat;
coming presently to take one at her side ; and then catch-
ing up a book from the table he proceeded to give her the
ice palace of the little brook, with which he had threatened
her before.-
'Down swept the cold wind from the mountain peak;
From the snow five thousand summers old"-etc.
"0," exclaimed Faith, "I have seen just such a brook! I
have played in it; when mother was afraid I should take
cold, and wouldn't let me stay. But that's as good as the
brook," she added timidly.
"without the danger of taking cold. You are quite
sure it has not chilled you, Miss Faith ? -do you feel 'win-
ter-proof'?"
I think I do, for to-day," said Faith. "If the evening
were to be even very dis agreeable, I think I could stand it."
Which remark was perhaps significant.
-   The tinkle of Jerry's bells now made itself heard at the
door, and Faith was shawled and cloaked and wrapped up
by her mother in the house and by Mr. Linden in the
sleigh. He was more skilful about it than Squire Stouten-
burgh; and contrived to enclose Faith in a little wigwam
of buffalo robes, without letting her feel the weight of
them. Then they dashed off- Jerry well disposed for
exercise after his five minutes' stand, and spurning the

.'e
" +
,  :

458

SAY AND SEAL.

459


SAY AND SEAL.

snow from a light enough pair of heels. How merrily the
bells jingled! how calmly and steadily the stars shone
down!   There was no moon now, but the whitened earth
caught and reflected every bit of the starlight, and made it
by no means dark ; and the gleams from cottage windows
came out and fell on the snow in little streaks of brightness,
Sleighs enough abroad !-from the swift little cutters and
large family sleighs that glided on towards the parsonage,
down to sledding parties of boys, cheered only by a cow-
bell and their own laughter. Tinkle, tinkle-everywhere,-
near by and in the distance; the dark figures just casting a
light shadow on the roadside, the merry voices ignoring
anything of the kind.
Mrs. Somers' house was a good long drive from Mrs,
Derrick's. The road was first on the Tway to Mr. Simlins';
from there it turned off at right angles and went winding
crookedly down a solitary piece of country; rising and
falling over uneven ground, twisting out of the way of a
rock here and there, and for some distance skirting the
edge of a woodland. There was light enough to see by,
but it was not just the piece of road one would choose of
a dark night; and Faith felt thankful Squire Neacon was
gone to Egypt.

rFt.
I
i"
LV
X
v

CHAPTER XXVIII.
N the dressing-room Faith was seized upon in the
warmest manner by Mrs. Stoutenburgh, who looked
very pretty in her dress of bright crimson silk.
"I'm so glad you've come back, dear. And how well
you're looking !--a little thin, though. But you'll soon
make up for that. You're just as lovely as you can be,
Faith-do you know it ?"
"No, ma'am."-Her flowers, she knew, were as lovely as
they could be. "Jerry brought us, Mrs. Stoutenburgh,
after all, and pretty fast too."
"0 he can go fast enough. You needn't look so sober,
child-of course no one thinks so but me, and nobody ever
minds what I say. That's pretty, I suppose you'll allow,"
she said laughing, and bending down closer to Faith's
holly leaves,--"what is it, Faith ? basswood ?"'
"Don't you know holly, Mrs. Stoutenburgh? And the
berries are winterberries."
"Yes my dear-I perceive. You mustn't get angry with
me, child-I tell you nobody does, not even your grave
escort. At least not for anything I do to him. Well I'll
go, down and electrify people with the news that you're
coming.' And the crimson dress floated off to the tune
of a light step and a merry voice. And more slowly and
more doubtfully the black dress and winterberries followed
her. Perhaps in very truth Faith would have been willing
that Mr. Stoutenburgh should have taken her under his
broad wing for that going down stairs. At least she was
as absolutely grave and quiet as anybody ever saw her,
and a little more inclined to be shrinking. But Mr. Lin-
den was alone in the hall at that minute, so there was no
one else to shrink from; and if Faith wanted to shrink
from him, she hardly could,-Lthere was such an absence of
anything to alarm her, both in his look and manner.
Therefore, though she had to go down stairs upon his arm,
and pass sundry people on their way up, Faith felt that he
(461)

it',I

i-
"        i
.,
f  4  i
r h f
C   i;"
z        u
+ 5
;}   'rai

4600


462             SAY AND SEAL.

was a shield between her and the glances and words which
he so little regarded. Eyes and tongues indeed ventured
but little in his presence; but that protection of course
extended only to the centre of the drawing-room, and the
welcome which Faith received from Mrs. Somers, --then
she must shield herself. Then truly, for a while, she was
taken possession of by Squire Stoutenburgh, who walked
with her up and down, and said all manner of kind things.
Faith had no particular skill toyshield herself from any.
thing, and indeed gave herself no thought about it. She
took what came, in, a simple and quiet spirit, which was
very apt to strike like a bee the right part of every flower;
or that perhaps carried its own honey along. So she walked
up and down with Mr. Stoutenburgh; and so she afterwards
entered into the demands of a posse of her old and young
friends who had not seen her for a good while
Amidst a little group of these people, collected benignly
around Faith, Dr. Harrison presently intruded himself.
Now Dr. Harrison was a lion, and the smaller animals
naturally fell off from him, which was precisely what he
expected them to do. The doctor hpd the field soot clear.
"What have you been doing to yourself?" he said to
Faith with the kindly, familiar manner which had grown
up between them.
"Taking good care,"--she said, in smiling answer to his
question.
"Who took the care? yourself?"
"Yes."
"I thought so."
"Why, Dr. Harrison ?"
"Excuse me," said he. "Anybody else would have done
it better."
"No," said she shaking her head,---"you are wrong."-
"You have been-" said he, looking at her,-"you have
been 'doing your duty' too hard."
"Can one do that, Dr. Harrison ?"
"Certainly !"
"I haven't been doing it this time."
"Do you remember," he said sitting down by her and
lowering his voice,--" what you said once about the flowers
of the wilderness ?"             ,-

"Yes."
"Would you like to see some of them ?"
"In the wilderness ?"
"No," said he smiling. - "I can shew you one family of
them, by their portraits, here-to-nght."
"I would like to see them in the wilderness or anywhere !"
said Faith.
"Then if you'll come with me"-
And the next thing was Dr. Harrison s walking off the
black silk and winterberries before all the eyes of the peo.
ple and through one room after another, till a little one-side
room was reached which was not a thoroughfare to any-
thing. In this little room was a table and a lamp, upon it,
and also several very large thin books. There was also,
which was singular, a very comfortable easy chair. In this
Dr. Harrison installed his charge close by the table, and
drew up one-of the volumes.
"I am going to introduce to you," he said, "the whole
family of the Rhododendrons."
"Rhododendron ?"--.said Faith. "I never saw them.
"It is their loss," said the doctor; "but here they are."
It was as he said ;-the whole family of the plant, in the
most superb style of portraiture and presentation. Full
size and full colour; one of the most magnificent of such
works. Faith had never seen a Rhododendron, and even
in her dreams had never visited a wilderness where such
flowers grew. Her exquisite delight fully satisfied Dr:
2 Harrison, and quite kept her attention from herself and the
fact of her being shut off from the rest of the company.
Now and then one. and another would drop:in and look
at what they were about, with curiosity if not with sympa-
thy; but Rhododendrons were not alluring to most of the
people, nor to'say truth was Dr. Harrison. With most
urbane politeness he dispersed any desire to remain and
look over his proceedings which might have been felt by
some of the intruders; or contrived that they should find
nothing to detain them.
It was a long business, to turn over all those delicious
portraits of floral life and give anything like a sufficient
look at each one. Such glories of vegetable beauty Faith
had never imagined. It was almost a new revelation.

r  '
.   I
' X3
1!
z I ;F

SAY AND, SEAL.            463"


SAY AND SEAL.

There were deep brilliant crimsons; there was the loveliest
rose-colour, in large heads of the close elegant flowers;
there were, larger still and almost incredible in their mag.
nificence, enormous clusters of cream-coloured and tinted
and even of buff. There were smaller and humbler mer.
bers of the family, which would have been glorious in any
other companionship. There were residents of the rich
regions of the tropics; and less superb members of the
temperate zones; there were trees and shrubs; and there
were little bushy, hardy denizens of the highest and bar.
renest elevations of rocks and snow to which inflorescence
ever climbs. Faith almost caught her breath.
"And these are in the wilderness !" she said.
"Yes. What then ?" said the doctor. Faith did not
say.
"You are thinking they 'waste their sweetness' ?"
"o no, indeed ! I don't think that."
"You are thinking something. Please let me be the
better for it."               -
"One ought to be the better for it," said Faith.
"Then I hope you won't refuse it to me" said Dr. Har-
rison gently laughing at her. 's-             D
"I was thinking, Dr. Harrison, what the Bible says,--.
'He hath made everything beautiful in his time';...and,.
'God saw Severything that he had made, and behold it was
'very good.'
'The doctor turned over the leaf to a new Rhododen-
dron. Faith's thoughts went to Pequot, and her heart
gave a bound of joy at the remembrance of the sick woman
there. .
Mrs. Stoutenburgh's crimson dress was so softly worn
f' and managed, that the wearer thereof' was close in Dr.
'rHarrison's neighbourhood for a minute before he was aware
of her presence; which quiet motions, it should be ob-
served, were habitual to Mrs. Stoutenburgh, and not at all
assumed for the occasion. Therefore it was with no idea
of startling anybody, that she said presently, "My dear
Faith, what are you looking at through those. Rhododen-
drons ?" Faith started, and looked up with a bit of a
smile.
"What do you see, Mrs. Stoutenburgh ?" said the doctor.

"0 several things," said the lady, passing her hand softly
over Faith's brow, and then with one of her sudden im-
pulses putting her lips there. '"Do you like them, Faith ?"
"Does not Mrs. Stoutenburgh like them ?" said the doc-
tor, as he placed a chair for her in the best position:left for
seeing.
"Thank you," said she laughing. "Icame here to be
seen this evening. And so ought some other people. How
much do you pay for the monopoly, doctor ?"
"I really don't knobV!" said Dr. Harrison with a very
slight rise of his handsome eyebrows. "I am in Patta-
quasset-which is to me a region of uncertainties. You
will know better than I, Mrs. toutenburgh."
"Well," said Mrs. Stouten  gh with a wicked look at
the doctor for his sole benefit,--" sp king of iRhododen-
drons, which you've seen often enough before,-.-don't you
admire this-which you have not seen before ?" and she
touched Faith's holly leaves with the tip of her little glove.
"I should think it must stir what Mr. Linden calls your
'nerves of pleasant sensation."'
"I am honoured by your estimation," said the doctor
laughing slightly. "Miss Derrick's taste is matchless. It
is an act of benevolence for her to wear flowers."
Faith's very brow crimsoned, till she bent it from view as
much as she could. In all her truth she could not rise up
there and confess that her skill was not the skill to be com-
mended. Sle wanted a shield then.
"Don't flatter yourself that you are an object of charity,"
said Mrs. Stoutenburgh turnings over another 'loaf to give
Faith employment.   " They're talking of games in the
other room, dear," she added in a gentle voice,-" may I
tell Mrs." Somers you will play too ?"
"Yes ma'am, certainly !"'
"They're not ready yet-sit still and enjoy your prints
-I'll see what they are about." And the lady left
the room. Dr. Harrison sought some particularly .fine
specimens and engaged Faith in talk about them and
their localities and habits, till her self-possession was
restored.
" Have you heard the news about Mr. Linden ?" he asked
with most nonchalant carelessness.

r

464

SAY AND SEAL

465

t a
i' 4
2


I~

F

SAY AND SEAL.

467

468                SAY AND SEAL.
"What news ?" said Faith, doubtful whether he meant
Squire Stoutenburgh's chapter or some other.
"Then he hasn't told you himself ?"
"No," said Faith.
"I thought you ought to be authority," the doctor went
on in the same tone.  "It is very good news--for him..I
hope it is true. They say-I have heard,--how beautiful
the droop of those petals is !---and the shade of colour is
rare---.They say, that he has a very dear friend abroad; I
mean in  urope, somewhere. Do you think it is true ?"
"Yes, said Faith. She thought it was not wonderful
news.
"I mean a lady friend ?" said the doctor..
"Yes," said Faith again. She knew now what the doc-
tor meant, but she did not feel inclined to enter into the
subject or to enlighten him at all. Then too Mr. Linden
might have more friends than one abroad !-It flashed upon
her like a curious illumination.
"Then the story is true ?" said the doctor.
"I don't know, sir," said Faith in some distress. "I
know nothing about it."
"But you don't know that it is not true ?" said he look-
ing at her.
"No,.sir. I don't know."
Dr. Harrison's further questions and remarks were cut
short by the entrance of the very person referred to; who
coming up with his usual light, alert step, held out his hand
first of all to the questioner.
"Good evening, doctor!-how do you do again ? Miss
Faith, may I take you away from these beauties ?" And
the released hand was offered to her.  She put hers in it
very willingly but very silently; Faith dared not say a word
to him about the Rhododendrons or about anything else.
"Ah, you have two hands again," said Dr. Harrison,
"and you turn-it against me !"
"Not that fact-" Mr. Linden said as he went off. And
then slackening his step, he talked or made Faith talk-......
and laugh--every inch of the way into the room- where all
the rest were clustered ready for blind man's buff. It was
a triumph of his skill,-or of his power',-for she had left
the Rhododendrons in a mood most shy and quiet, and dis.-

i

i;
L        « ;
C       i ,r
1. .
I
"a .

posed to keep so. Dr. Harrison had not followed them,Jbut
soon made his entrance upon the company by another door.
"What is going on? or off, Mrs. Stoutenburgh?" he
whispered to that lady.
"Why the bandage is going on, and we're going off,"
said she laughing. "Will you be blinded first, doctor ?"
e"Blind man's buff 1" said the doctor shrugging his shoul-
ders comically.  "Barbarous! I would rather 'go off' too
-but anything to please you, Mrs. Stoutenburgh. A game
to see how much a man without his five senses can do
against other people who have them." But the doctor
gallantly stepped up to Mrs. Somers.
"I represent the forlorn hope for the evening, aunt
Ellen. Has anybody volunteered to be the first victim?"
"You are the last person in the room that ought to vol-
unteer," said Mrs. Somers,.-"however, blindness is pro-
verbial in some cases. Miss Essie will bandage your eyes,
Julius-and use her own for you in the meanwhile, I dare-
say. Miss Essie, here is a candidate."
"Not for Miss Essie's good offices" said the doctor. "I
know her. I shall not trust her. I will put myself in safe
hands."-
And with an inexpressible air of carelessness and easy
pleasure-taking, Dr. Harrison carried his handsome person
across the room to where Faith yet stood by the side of
Mr. Linden ; stood looking rather sober. She had not
brought any of the rosy Rhododendron colour away in her
face; or else it had faded. The doctor came up and spoke
in an  ndertone as wilfully and gracefully independent as
his maner.
"If I ask you to do me the honour to put this handker-
chief over my eyes, Miss Derrick, I suppose you will not
know what it signifies ?"
"No, sir," said Faith, with a very slight smile and extra
colour.
"Where I have been," said the doctor,--"where we
never play it!--it is played in this way. My entreating
you to blind my eyes, signifies that without them I shall
endeavour to find you."
"Then I wish you'd get somebody else to do it, Dr. Har-
rison."


SAT AND SEAL.

++ii t '    I,  t
f . ,  ,
i'    j,, 3 , .
1 ,  .,;; -, ,,
ifs   tf   ,
t         ;   v  r
i
'r  !,
t'
,i ,
,,i    ,
{ ,,, ,
t  ff ;.  r
s f;
a,

"You are not in earnest ?" said the doctor.
"Very much in earnest."
"But I should observe," said he smiling, "that even the
unkindness of your refusal would not change my endeavour.
I only give you, as in honour bound, the chance of doing all
you can to prevent my succeeding. Will you do it ?"
He tendered the handkerchief. Faith coloured a little
more, but to put a stop to his absurdities, as they seemed
to her, and to her consequent prominence before the eyes of
people; she accepted the office. Dr. Harrison kneeled at
her feet, and Faith put the handkerchief round his eyes
and tied it on; endeavouring, to do her justice, to perform
the task thoroughly. She was not quite sure how well it
was done, after all,-for the doctor had interposed a gentle
'Softly,' as she was drawing the knot and had at the same
time also raised his hand to ease the bandage. But Faith
had to let it go so; and simply resolved to take care of
herself.
Many eyes, meanwhile, surveyed this performance with
much edification, glancing too at the motionless figure who
at Faith's side looked down upon it. But when the smile
in those eyes touched the lips as well, Mrs. Stoutenburgh
wag roused to a pitch of delight; 'and running into the
middle of the room to meet the doctor as he came to take his
stand, she clapped her hands exclaiming, "O doctor I doctor !
--how could you let anybody tie anything over your eyes"
" Is there treachery, Mrs. Stoutenburgh ?" said the doctor
with a comic stop.
"Where ?"-said the lady.
"Nay,-I know where," said the doctor. And turning
from her he addressed himself to the game.
. But though Dr. Harrison shewed himself a keen player
the game came to no sudden termination. And Faith
could not help doubting that her work had not been too
effectual. It was beyond question, even if she had not been
forewarned, that the doctor was endeavouring to find--or
endeavouring to catch her. In vain Mrs. Stoutenburgh's
crimson and Miss Essie's blue floated past him and rustled
behind him.   In vain Mrs. Somers'Lurple stood in his
way. The skirt of that one black silk could go nowhere
that some one of the doctor's senses did not inform him of

Cit Closely he followed upon her flight, and keen work
Faith found it, play as well as she would. She began to
get out of breath, and the amusement and fun grew
uproarious.
It was when her foot was failing that the doctor's gained
strength: between him and the prize there was now no
Iarrier; no leap could avail Faith in the corner where she
was at last hemmed in. Slowly and securely the doctor
advanced, first himself and then his hands, and caught-Mr.
Linden! Caught him unmistakeably too,-there was no
help for it; and Dr. Harrison in his astonishment forgot to
pronounce him somebody else !
"Confound you 1" said the doctor slowly and comically-
"how did you get here ?"
"Are you fatigued ?" said Mr. Linden, taking off the
bandage. "Miss Faith, you did this part of your work
very ill."
"How did you get here ?" repeated the dbctor, taking
hold of his arm and shaking it slightly. "I wasn't looking
for you, man."
"What were you looking for ?" said Mr. Linden, with a
laughing return of the doctor's gaze.     C
"Shall I put that on for you ?" said the latter with a sort
of complicate expression, which however never lost its
grace and ease. And then began another chase-but not
of Faith this time,.-perhaps Mr. Linden thought she
J needed rest. And the changes ran round the company,
but never (as it happened) including Faith or Dr. EIarrison,
until they reached the finishing round of the game. Then
it was Mr. Linden's turn again to wear the bandage, and
then he gave Faith the sort of run he had given her before
at Mrs. Stoutenburgh's,.-and with the same success.
"Haven't they played blind man's buff long enough ?"
Faith whispered, when the bandage was taken off her cap-
tor. She was flushed, a little, and sober more than a little.
"Yes-I will move a change," he answered in the same
tole.. Which he did, after a short consultation.
"Dr. Harrison.--you have' seen 'the Butterfly,' I sup-
pose?"
" The butterfly ?" said the doctor. "I have seen many
--of all colours; but the butterfly par excellence, I know
voL. I.                40

468

SAY AND SEAL.

469

. ;
i.
, [(
j' }  t
,) 1
1/'tt1
r  j  {
jE I
t; .  ,

},
i
, ,'
i
;;  ,
'l"
{ It


70

SAY AND SEAL.

Ij' ' , ,
S  SI

SAY AND SEAL.           471

not. Unless it is one with white wings a   black body,
and spots of -most brilliant red on the breast."
"The one I mean combines more colours," said Mr. Lin.
den.  "What were you doing in France, not to see it ?"
"Seeing other things, I suppose. However, now you
speak of it,,I believe that butterfly has flown over me.
sometime."
"Please to imagine yourself a gay rover for the nonce,"
said Mr. Linden, leading the doctor persuasively into the
middle of the floor. "Just suppose you are a Purple Em-
peror-will you doctor?   Miss Essie wants a story and
forfeits,-J shall leave you to gratify her."' But he himself
went to give Miss Faith a seat. That was done with a
very different manner from the gay, genial way in which he'
had addressed the doctor: it was genial enough, certainly,
but grave.°
"You do not feel well?" he said, as he wheeled up an
easy chair for her. It was spoken too low for any one
else to hear.
"Yes, I do,".-said Faith quickly. But he face flushed
deep, and her eye though it glanced towards him, failed
timidly of meeting his; and her voice had lost all the spring
of pleasure.
"then cannot you keep the promise you made about a
disagreeable evening ?" The tone was very low still-(he
was arranging her footstool and chair) a little concerned
too, a little-or Faith fancied it-but indeed she was not
quite sure what the third part was; and then the doctor
began his work.
For a minute or two she did not hear him, or heard
without heed. She was thinking over Mr. Linden's ques-
tion and struggling with it. For its slight tone, of remon-
strance perhaps, only met and stirred into life the feeling
she was trying to keep down. Her lip took one of its sor-
rowful curves for an instant; but then Dr. Harrison came
towards them.
"What insect on the face of the earth, Linden, will you
be? What does he resemble most, Miss Derrick ?"
"I am not particular about being on the face of .the ~
earth," said Mr. Linden,.-"the air will do just as well"
The doctor was waiting for Faith's answer. .Under the

exig en-  of the moment she gave it him, glancing up first
the figure beside her, perhaps to refresh her memory-
ar imagination-and smiling a little as she spoke.
"I don't think of any he is like, Dr. Harrison.
S"Do you think I am like a purple butterfly ?" said the
doctor.
"Yes, a little,"-said Faith. But it was with a face of
such childlike.soberness that the doctor looked hard at her.
"What do you think you are like yourself?" said he;
not lightly.
"I think I am a little like an ant," said Faith.
The doctor turned half round on his heel.
"'Angels and ministers of grace' 1" was his exclamation.
"Most winged,.gentle, and ethprial of all the dwellers in,
or on, anthills,-know that thy similitude is nothing
meaner than a flower. You must take the name of one,
Miss Faith-all the ladies do-,what will you be ?"
"What will you be ?" Mr. Linden repeated,-"Mignon-
'  ette ?-that is even below the level of some of your ant-
hills."
"If you please,"-she said.
"Or one of your Rhododendrons ?" said the doctor-
"that is better; for you have the art-or the nature,
indeed,-of representing all the tints of the family by turns
.-.except the unlovely ones. ,Be a Rhodora1"
"No"-said Faith-"I am not like that-nor like the
other, but I will be the other."
"Mignonette"-said the doctor. "Well, what shall we
call him? what is he like ?"
"I think," said Faith, looking down very gravely, not
with the flashing eye with which she would have said it
another time,-"he is most like a midge."
The little laugh which answered her, the way in which
Mr. Linden bent down and said,'"How do you know, Misa
Faith ?" were slightly mystifying to Dr. Harrison.
"I don't know,"-she said smiling; and the doctor with
one or two looks of very ungratified curiosity left them and
returned to his post.
" What are they going to play, Mr. Linden ?" said Faith.
The doctor's explanation, given to the rest generally, she
had not heard.


472

SAY AND SEAL.

(+j  f     J   S.1 t±
S  ;       {
(il  i       $
i ,,'
1      "      '  -
,
i J i ~ ,
i    JJ    J ,
t ,.
i  i  t       t
:   , , ,
,
, f! . ,.
t ,
1 i ,
, ,  ; . ,
} t  ,

SAY AND SEAL.

473

"Do you know what a family connexion you have give
me, Miss Faith ?--The proverb declares 'that 'the mother
of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing.'
An involuntary little caught breath attested perhaps
Faith's acquiescence in the truth of the proverb; but
the doctor's words prevented the necessity of her speaking,
"Miss Essie-Ladies and gentlemen! Please answer
to your names, and thereby proclaim your characters. Mrs,
Stoutenburgh, what are you ?"
"A poppy, I think," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughing,
"I like to be beforehand with the public."
"Will you please to name your lord and master ? He is
incapable of naming himself."
"I think you've named him!" said Mrs. Stoutenburo'h
with a gay toss of her-pretty head. "I'm not learna4
in insects, doctor,-call him anything that eats up butter-
flies."'
"Mr. Stoutenburgh-will you be a grub ?" said the doe.
tor. "Or a beetle?  I don't know anything else that I-.
as a butterfly--dislike more."
"No, I'll be a cricket-J'm so spry," said the Squire,-.
"and I'll be down upon you in some other form, doctor."
"You'll have to fly higher first," said the doctor. "Miss
Essie declares herself to be a purple Althama. Miss Davids
-an evening primrose. Miss Deacon-a cluster rose.
Miss Fax-a sweet pink. Miss Chester-a daisy.- Miss
Bezac-what shall I put you down ?" The butterfly was
making a list of his flowers and insects, and cards had been
furnished to the different members of the party, and pencils,
to do as much for themselves.
"I'd as lieve be balm as anything else, if I knew how,"
said Miss Bezac; "but I shouldn't call that putting me
down."
"That  fits, anyhow," said Squire Stoutenburgh.
"'Balm for hurt minds' "-said Dr. Harrison xVriting.
"Miss Julia De Staff is a white lily. Miss Emmons-a
morning glory. Mrs. Churchill a peony. Miss Derrick is
mignonette. Mrs. Somers-?"
"I may as well be lavender,"said Mrs. Somers. "You
say I am in a good state of preservation." .
"What is Mr. Somers ?"

"Mr. Somers-what are you?" said his wife.
i   "Ha1--I don't know, my dear," said Mr. Somers
blandly. "I think I am-.a--out of place."
"Then you're a moth," said the doctor. "That is out
of place too, in most people's opinion. Miss Delaney, I
beg your pardon--what are you ?"
"Here are the two Miss Churchills, doctor," said Miss
Essie--"hyacinth and laburnum."
"I am sure you have been sponsor, Miss Essie. Well
this is my garden of flowers. .Then of fellow insects I have
a somewhat confused variety. Mr. Stoutenburgh sings
round his hearth in the shape of a black cricket. Mr.
Linden passes unnoticed in the invisibility of a midge-
nothing more dangerous. Mr. Somers does all the mis-
chief he can in the way of devouring widows' houses. The
two Messrs. De Staff" (two very spruce and moustachioed
young gentlemen) "figure as wasp and snail-one would
hardly think they belonged to the same family-but there
is no accounting for these things. Mr. George Somers
professes to have t e taste of a bee-but luckily the garden
belongs to the butt rfly."
"In other words some one has .put Dr. Harrison in a
flutter," said Mrs. toutenburgh.
to fa  en't begun  et," said the doctor wheeling round
to face her; "when I do, my first business will be to cut
you up, Mrs. Stoutenburgh."
"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden while theroll went on,
"I have not forgotten your question,-they,- and we, are
going to play a French game called 'the Butterfly and the
Flowers; wherein I, a midge, am in humble attendance on
a sprig of mignonette. Whenever our butterfly gardener
chooses to speak the name of any flower 'or insect, that
Flower or-insect must reply: when he speaks of the.gar-
dener, you flowers must extend one hand in token of we-
come, we insects draw back in dismay: if the gardener
brings his watering-pot, or there falls a shower of rain,
you must hold up your head for joy-I must kneel down
for fear. If the sunshine is mentioned,. we are free to
rejoice together-standing up and making demonstrations.
You may reply, Miss Faith, either in your own words or
quotations, so that you mention some one of your com-
40*

ii
h,
A
nl
lr
;ki, , ,
;,t


SAY AND SEAL.

i ;         -
f  ' ,
1
.     ,
,
ifS
!      r
I t   ; ,.;.
t' j   ! i'  r    .
f i,',
'       i, F r
&amp;)    '
!  ,
t       ;  i     i
t       +,
f
j ~.,
, -     '1
i  r  ,j
'     ,
f '    ii    ' t
'i    1'    '
p 4 ',
111 !  i' :.} ''
{  !     i'ii' .

his voice for Faith's benefit,-" 'Two suns hold not their
courses in one sphere 1'."-Then aloud-"Invisibilityis a
great thing----.when you can make up your mind to it, but
Althea with the purple eye' looks on life differently."
"I look on it soberly," said Miss Essie-
"'Flutter he, flutter he, high as he will,
A butterfly is but a butterfly still.
And 'tis better for us to remain where we are,
In the lowly valley of duty and cake,
Than lonely to soar to the-heights above,
Where there's nothing to do and nothing to love."

panions; but if you fail to speak, or break any other rule,
you must pay a forfeit first and redeem it afterwards."'
"I may mention either insect or flower ?" said Faith.
"Yes, just what you like."
"If everybody is ready," said the doctor, "I will begin
by remarking that I find myself in an 'embarras de rich-
esses'-so many sweets around me that I-a butterfly..
know not which to taste first; and such an array of ene-
mies hostile alike to the flowers and me, that I know not
which to demolish first. I hope ,a demolishing rain will
fall sonle of these days--ah! that is gratifying ! behold
my enemies shrinking already, while the flowers lift up
their heads with pleasure and warm themselves in the rays
of the sun. What is mignonette doing ?"
There was a general outcry of laughter, for as the gen-
tlemen had kneeled and bent their heads, and the flowers
had risen to greet the sun,--Faith, in her amusement and
preoccupation had sat still. She rose now, blushing a
little at being called upon.
"Mignonette loves the sun without making any show for
it. She has no face to lift up like the white lily.
"The white lily isn't sweet like lavender," said Miss
Julia.
"And the lavender has more to do in the linen press
than among butterflies," said Mrs. Somers.
"It is good to know one's place," said the doctor.
"But the butterfly, seeking a safe resting place, flutters
with unpoised flight, past the false poppy which flaunts
its gay colours on the sight."
"And fixes its eyes on the distant gardener with his
watering-pot"---said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, 'stretching forth
her hand, sibyl-like, towards the now prostrate doctor,-.
"whereat the mignonette rejoices."
"All the flowers rejoice," said the mignonette, "and the
cricket jumps out of the way."
"Into the sunshine" -said Mr.' Stoutenburgh, laughing;
--" but the moth feels doubtful."
"The moth"-said Mr. Somers-."he-..--don't like the
sunshine'so well as the rain. He---ha--he wishes he was
a midge there, to get under shelter."
"A midge here he can't be," said Mr. Linden, dropping

"I'll flutter no more ! after that"--said the doctor.
"I'll creep into the heart of the white lily and beg it to
shelter me."
"It won't hide you from the sun nor from the rain," said
the white lily,-" and I'd as lieve. shelter a spider. be-
sides.'
Faith forgot again that she must welcome the sun; but
she was not the only one who had incurred forfeits. Nor
the last one who should. For while that interesting mem-
ber of society who called himself spider, made his reply,
Mr. Linden's attention naturally wandered-or came back;
and the lively dialogue which then ensued between Messrs.
Snail, Wasp, Beetle, etc. failed to arouse him to the duties
of a midge or the fear of the gardener: he forgot everything
else in the pleasure of making Mignonette laugh. Stand-
ing half before her at last, in some animated bit of talk,
more than one sunbeam and watering-pot had come and
gone, unnoticed by both midge and mignonette,-a fact of
which some other people took note and smilingly marked
down the forfeits.
"Mr. Linden"-said the voice of Miss Essie at his
elbow-" do you know what the doctor is saying ?-'The
mother of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing!1' You'd
better speak to him:"
Mr. Linden turned, with a laughing, recollective glance-
"Who speaks slightingly of the midge ?-let him have
a dose of syrup of poppies 1".  °
"I guess you can find balm," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh
gaily:

tl     _
,
tt    {
^R,   t
r

e K

qw;
S }  1
4-10

474

SAY AND SEAL.

,
z
r'
.  ,
.r


476

SAY AND SEAL.

"He shall have it if he wants it, said Miss Bezac_.
that is if I've got it,-ough I rather guess he's got it
himself,--I'm sure I don't know what he hasn't got. And
it don't strike me he looks as if he wanted it, either, if I
had. But it's funny I should and not the doctor--though
to be sure most things are,-and he's gone to 'the butter.
fly's ball and the grasshopper's feast. "'
"The grasshopper's feast being just now announced,"4
said Mrs. Somers stepping forward, "I shall hope to set
the flowers free from their natural enemies without mbe
delay."
"I shall not confess to that!" said Mr. Linden under-
tone.  "But will you come, Miss Faith-the insects are all
gone--
'Save the few that linger, even yet,
Round the Alyssum's tuft and the Mignonette.'"
The midge's prompt action had perhaps disappointed
several other people. Dr. Harrison at any rate contrived
with Miss Essie to be the immediately preceding coupletia
the walk to the supper-room,.
"I'm glad of some refreshment !" said the doctor; "but-
terflies cannot live on the wing. Linden ! have you been
singing all the evening, in the character of a midge ?"
"No," said Mr. Linden-"all the singing I have done
has been in my own character."
"I am glad to hear it. By the way," said Dr. Harrison
as they reached the supper-room and paired off from their
respective charges,-" I am sorry to hear that Pattaquasset
has no hold on you, Linden."
"Indeed ?" said Mr. Linden,-an 'indeed' which might
refer to the doctor's sorrow, or the supposed fact.
"Nay I know nothing about it !" said the doctor lightly
as he attacked the .supper-table-.'"but Miss Derrick tells
me it is true that your heart is in another place."
"Dr. Harrison !" Mr. Linden said, with a momentary
erectness of position. But he said no more; turning off
then towards Faith with her oysters. And the gentle re-
spect and quick attention with which she was served, Fai h
might feel, and take note of-yet not guess that its peculiar
tone this night was warring, hand to hand, within the injus

4 twice done her name. The doctor had unwittingly betrayed
at least one point of talk held-over the Rhododendrons-
furnished a clue he dreamed not of; and stirred a power
of displeasure which perhaps he thought Mr. Linden did
not possess.
ith did not indeed guessanything from the manner of
the latter to her, although she felt it; she felt it as his own,
kind and watchful and even affectionate; but like him, be-
longing to him, and therefore not telling upon the question.
With a very humbled and self-chiding spirit, she was endeav-
ouring to keep the face and manner which suited the) place,
above a deep sinking of heart which was almost overcom-
ing. Her success was like the balance of her mind-doubt-
ful. Gentle her face was as ever; all the crosses of the
evening had not brought an angle there; but it was sha-
dowed beyond the fitness of things ; and she was still and
retiring so far as it was possible to be, shrinking into a
very child's.lowness of place.
Ladies were in the majority that night and the gentlemen
were obliged to be constantly on the move. In one of the
minutes when Faith was alone, Mrs. Stoutenburgh came up.
"Faith," she whispered, "have you been doing anything
to vex my friend ?"
Faith started a little, with a sort of shadow of pain
crossing her face.
"Who is your friend, Mrs. Stoutenburgh ?"
"Hush, child !" she answered-"your friend, if you like
it better." And she added softly but seriously, "Don't vex
him,--he doesn't deserve it."
Faitl's lip was that touchingly sorrowful child's lip for
an instant.  She was beyond speaking.   Then came up
help, in the shape of Miss Essie; with questions about the
forfeits and about Mr. Linden. All Mrs. Stoutenburgh's
kindness made itself into a screen for Faith, on the instant,
-neither eyes nor tongues were allowed to come near her.
"Mr. Linden !" said Miss Essie as he just then came up,
"will you help us give out forfeits?  Who do you think is
best to do it?"
"Mr. Linden,"-said Mrs. Somners, "we are all very anx-
ions to know whether all the reports about you are
true."

,x.
_;
,     w
"  '
., 
, {   ;
wd
_"    '
. i'
P
y
i=
.4'
~

4i77

A' A D SEAL.


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

INV

Mr. Linden bowed to the anxiety, but gave it no further
heed.
"Are they ?" she repeated.
"Do all the reports agree, Mrs. Somers ?"
"I must confess they are at swords' points."
"Then they cannot all be true,-let them fight it out."
"But suppose some of the fighting should come upon
you ?"
"That is a supposition I have just refused to take up,"
said Mr. Linden, stepping towards the table a d bringing
a bunch of grapes to Faith's plate,
"Yes, but everybody hasn't the patience of Job," said
Mrs. Somers. "Julius, for instance."
".He has at least his own ways of obtaining inf'ormation,'n
said Mr. Linden, and Faith felt the slight change of voice.
"Miss Essie, what will you have ?"
"Has the doctor any forfeits to pay ?" was the somewhat
irrelevant answer. "I should so like to see you two set
against each other!  Dr. Harrison!-have you any for.
feits ?"?
"No," sid the doctor ;-" but as'severe service to per-
form as if had. Linden, we shall want your help-it's too
much for one man."
Faith edged away behind this growing knot of talkers,
and presently was deeply engaged in conversation with Miss
Cecilia Deacon, at a table in the corner, and alternating
her attention between grapes and words. Then Squire
Stoutenburgh walked softly up and.stood behind Faith's
chair.
"My dear, will you have anything more ?"
No, sir, thank you."
"Then I am going to carry you off!" said the Squire,--
"if I wait a quarter of a second more I shall lose my
chance. Come!"
Faith was very willing to come, indeed; and they Went
back to the drawing-room, all the company pouring after
them; and Faith feeling as if she hid got under a kind
of lee shore, on Mr. Stoutenburgh's arm. It could not
shelter her long, for the forfeits began.
The doctor and Mr. Linden, with Miss Essie and Mrs.
Stoutenburgh for coadjutors, were constituted the awarding

committee; and the forfeits were distributed to them indif-
ferently. There were many to be redeemed; and at first
there was a crowd of inferior interest, Messrs. Spider and
'Wasp, Mesdemoiselles White Lily and Cluster rose; who were
'easilydisposed of and gallantly dismissed. But there were
others behind.. One of Faith's forfeits came up; it was
held by Dr. Harrison.
"Please to stand forth, Miss Derrick, and hear your sen-
tence," said the doctor, leading her to a central position in
the floor; which Faith took quietly, but with what inward
rebellion one or two people could somewhat guess.
"Have the goodness to state to the company what you
consider to be the most admirable and praiseworthy of all
the characters of flowers within your knowledge; and to
describe the same, that we may judge of the justness of your
opinion."
;    "Describe the character ?" said Faith in a low voice.
/ "Yes. If you please."
She stood silent a moment, with downcast eyes, and did
not raise them when she spoke. Her colour was hardly
heightened, and though her voice rose little above its for-
mer pitch, its sweet accents were perfectly audible every-
where. The picture would have been enough for her for-
feit.
'The prettiest character of a flower that I know, is that
of a little species of Rhododendron. It is one of the least
handsome, to look at, of all its family; its beauty is in its
living. It grows on the high places of high ihountains,
where frost and barrenness give it no help nor chance; but
there, where no other flower ever blossoms, it opens its
flowers patiently and perseveringly; and its flowers are
very sweet. Nothing checks it nor discourages it. As.
soon as the great cold lets it come, it comes; and as long
as the least mildness lets it stay, it stays. Amidst snow
and tempest and desolation it opens its blossoms and
spreads its sweetness, with nobody to see it nor to praise
it; where from the nature of the place it lives in, its work
is all alone. For no other flower will bear what it bears.
'-Will that do ?" said Faith, looking up gravely at her
questioner.
.Very gently, very reverently even, he took her hand, put

478


SAY AND SEAL.

481

FpA I  !,  kf
4:

SAY AND SEAL.

it upon his arm and led her to a seat, speaking as he went
low words of gratified pardon asking. "You must foi.
give me 1" he said. "Forfesits must be forfeits, you know,
I couldn't resist the temptation."
"Now wasn't that pretty ?" whispered ~Iiss Essie in the
mean time in Mr. Linden's ear'
He had listened, leaning against the martelpiece, and
with shaded eyes looking down; and now to."Miss Essie8
question returned only a grave bend of the head.
"ifyou have been looking at the floor all this while, you
have lost something," said the lady. "Do you know your
turn comes next ?  Mr Linden-     ladiess and gentlemen !
is condemned to tell us what he holds the mst precious
thing in this world; and to justify himself in hns opinion by
an argument, a quotation, and an illustration !"-.
"Now will t e find means to evade his sentence!" said
Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughing.
"He has confessed himself addicted to witchcraft in m
hearing," said the doctor, who had remained standing by
Faith's chair.
"The most precious thing in the world," said Mr. Lin-
den, in a tone as carelessly graceful ashis attitude, "is that
which cannot be bought,-for if money could buy it, theii
perfecionney equally valuable. Take for illustration, the
"I don't understand,"--said Miss Essie; "but perhaps
I shall when I hear the rest."
He smiled a little and gave the quotation on that point
in his own clear and perfect manner.
"A sweet, attractive kind of grace;
A full assurance given by looks ;
Continual comfort in a face;
The lineaments of gospel books,--
I trow that countenance cannot lye
Whose thoughts are legible in the eye."'
The quotation was received variously, but in general
with vast admiration. Miss Essie turned to Mrs. Stouten-
burghand remarkepd , haf lo,,
"That's easy to understand. I was dull."
"Wha do ou hinkof i ?"said the doctor softly, stoop-

ing towards Faith. But if she heard she did not answer
him. She sat with downcast eyes that didmot move. She
had been wondering whether that was a description of
='pet,'-or of somebody else.
Faith," whispered Mrs. Stoutenburgh's kind mischiev-
ous voice in her ear,-"in whose face do you suppose he
finds 'continual comfort'?" But she was sorry the next
Sinstant,for the pained, startled look which flashed up at
her. Sorry and yet amused-the soft little kiss on Faith's
cheek was smiling although apologetic.
"Mr. Linden," said the doctor, who held the bag of for-
feits,--"it is your duty to punish Miss Essie with some in-
fliction, such as you can devise."
"Miss Essie," said Mr. Linden,- walking gravely up to
her, "if there is any person in this room towards whom
you entertain and pi/actise malicious, mischievous, and under-
hand designs, you are hereby sentenced to indicate the
2 person, declare the designs, and to 'shew cause.
"Why I -never did in my life 1" said Miss Essie, with a
mixture of surprise and amusement in her gracious black
eyes.°
"The court is obliged to refuse an unsupported negative,"
said Mr. Linden bowing.
IWe  " said Miss nEssie, with no diminishing of the
lustre of her black orbs,--" I had a design against you,
sir 1".                               .
"Of what sort?" said Mr. Linden with intense gravity,
while everybody else laughed in proportion.
"I had a design to enter your mmd by-private fraud, and
steal away its secrets;--and the reason was, because the
door was so terribly strong and had such an uncommon
good lock! and I couldn't get in any other way."
"I hope that is news to the rest of the company," said
Mr. Linden laughing as he bowed his acknowledgments.
"It is none to me ! Miss Essie, may your shadow never be
less !"-.
t you ashamed !" said Miss Essie reproachfully.
"Didn't such a confession deserve better ?+ Who's next;
Some unimportant names followed, with commonplace for-
feits according; then Faith's name came to Mr. Lindenb
voL.1.                41

480


482

SAY AND SEAL.

N

SAY AND SEAL.

483

Then was there an opening of eyes and a pricking of ears
of all the rest of the company.  Only Faith herself sat as
still as a mouse, after one little quick glance over to where
the person stood in whose hands she was. He stood look.
ing at her,--then walked wit great deliberation across the
room to her low seat, and   king both her hands lifted
her up.
"You need not be frightened," he said softly, as keeping
one hand in his clasp he led her back to where he had
been standing; then placed her in a great downy easy
chair in that corner of the fireplace, and drew up a foot.
stool for her feet.
"Miss Faith," he said, "you are to sit there in absolute
silence for the next fifteen minutes. If anybody speaks to
you, you are not to answer,-if you are longing to speak
yourself you must wait. It is also required that you look
at nobody, and hear as little as possible." With which
fierce sentence, Mr. Linden took his stand by the chair to
see it enforced.
"What a man you are !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh laugh.
ing.
"That's not fair play !''said Mrs. Somers.  "She don't
want to sit there-if you think she does, you're mis-
taken."
"She should have been more careful then," said Mr.
Linden. "Dr. Harrison, you have the floor."
Dr. Harrison did not appear to think that was much of
a possession;-to judge by his face, which cast several very
observant glances towards the chair, and by his manner
which for a moment was slightly abstracted and destitute
of the spirit of the game. Miss Essie's eyes took thesame
direction, with a steady gaze which the picture justified.
Faith sat where she had been placed, in most absolute
obedience to the orders she had received,-except possibly
---not probably-the last one. The lids drooped over her
eyes, which moved rarely from the floor, and never raised
themselves. Her colour had risen indeed to a rich tint,
where it stayed; but Mrs. Somers' declaration ne*erthe-
less was hardly borne out by a certain little bit-in smile
which lurked there too, spite of everything.. Otherwise
she sat like an impersonation f silence, happily screened,

by not looking at anybody, from any annoyance of the eyes
that were levelled at her and at the figure that held post
by her side.
Mrs. Stoutenburgh," said the doctor, "you have my
aunt Ellen."
Mrs. Stoutenburgh however was lenient in that quarter,
and told Mrs. Somers they would require nothing of her
but the three last items of Pattaquiasset news-which she,
as pastor's wife, was bound to know. And Mrs. Somers
was not backward in declaring them; the first' being the
engagement of two people who hated each other, the second
the separation of two people who loved each other; the
third, that Mr. Linden shot hiiself-to make a sensa-
tion.
"Mr. Linden," said the doctor, "you come next-and
you are mine. What shall I do with you ?"
"Why--anything," said Mr. Linden.
"Well-I am greatly at a loss what you are good for,"
said the doctor lightly,-"but onthe whole I order yondo
preach a sermon to the company."
"Have you any choice as to the text ?"
"I am not in the way of those things," said the doctor
laughingly.  "Give us the lesson you think we want
most."
The clear, grave look that met him -Dr. Harrison
had seen it before. The change was like the parting
of a little bright vapour, revealing the steadfast blue
beneath.
"Nay doctor, you must bid me do something else!. I
dare not play at marbles with precious stones."
There was probably a mixture of things in the doctor's
mind;--but the outward show in answer to this was in the
highest degree seemly and becoming. The expression of
Dr. Harrison's face changed; with a look gentle and
kind, even winning, he came up to Mr. Linden's side and
took his hand.
"You are right" said he, "and I have got my sermon
-which I deserve. But now, Linden, that is not your
fonrfi;--for that you must tell me-honestly-what you
tikof me."  There was always a general air of careless-
ness about Dr. Harrison, as to what" he said himself~ or

:
tLi4

4 :
.t
. y ~


A

484

SAY AND SEAL.

((}    "         mil'
tt(j   i;    l               ,
s; f        1   i
1j    I       '

SAY AND SEAL.

what others said in his presence. Along with this care.
lessness, which whether seeming or real was almost inva.
riable, there mingled now a friend's look and tone and
something of a friend's apology making.
"But do ydu want me to tell everybody else ?" said Mr.
Linden, smiling in his old way at the doctor. "Do you
like to blush before so many people ?"
"That's your forfeit !" said the doctor resuming also
his old-fashioned light tone. "You're to tell me--and you
are not to tell anybody else I"
"Well-if you will have it," said Mr. Linden looking
at him,-"Honestly, I think you are very handsome.!...of
course that is news to nobody but yourself."
"Mercy on you, man !" said the doctor; "do you think
that is news to me?"
"It is supposed to be-by courtesy," said Mr. Linden
laughing.
"Well---give me all the grace courtesy will let you,"
said the doctor; whetheraltogether lightly, or with some
feeling, it would have been hard for a by-stander to tell.
"Is Miss Derrick's penance out?  She comes next-.-and
Miss Essie has her."
"No,"--said Mr. Linden consulting his watch. "I am
sorry to interfere with your arrangements, doctor, but justice
must have its course."
" Then .there is a 'recess'"-said the doctor comically.
"Ladies and gentlemen-please amuse yourselves. "-.'
THe had no intention of helping them, it seemed, for
he.stood fast in his place and talked to Mr. Linden
in a different tone till the minutes were run out. No-
thing. could be more motionless than the occupant of the
chair.
"Miss Faith," Mr. Linden said then, "it is a little hard
to pass from one inquisitor to another-but I must hand
you over to Miss Essie."                      '°''
Faith's glance at him expressed no gratification. Mean-
while the doctor had gone for Miss Essie and brought her
up to the fireplace.
" Miss Derrick," said the black-eyed lady, "I wish yo
to tell-as the penalty of your forfeit-why, when you

485

.^ ,

thought the Rhododendron tle most perfect flower, you
did not take it for your name ?
If anybody had known the pain this question gave
Faith-the leap of dismay that-her heart made ! Nobody
knew it; her head drooped, and the colour rose again to
be sure; but one hand sheltered the exposed cheek and
the other was turned to the fire. She could not refuse
to answer, and with the doctor's weapons she would
not; but here, as once before, Faith's straightforwardness
saved her.
"Why didn't you call yourself Rhodora ?" repeated Miss
Essie. And Faith answered,-
"Because another name was suggested to me."
The question could not decently be pushed any
further; and both Miss Essie and the doctor looked as
if they had failed. Faith's own tumult and sinking of
heart prevented her knowing how thoroughly this was
true.
"And you two people," said Mr. Linden, come and
ask Miss Derrick why she chose to appropriate a cha-
racter that she thought fell short of perfection !-what is
the use of telling anybody anything, after that ?"
"I am only one people," said Miss Essie.
"I am another," said the doctor; "and I confess my-
self curious. Besides, a single point of imperfection
might be supposed, without injury to mortal and human
nature."
"Julius," said Miss Harrison, "will you have the good-
ness to do so impolite a thing as to look at your watch?
Aunt Ellen will expect us to set a proper example.
Dear Faith, are you bound to sit in that big chair all
night ?"
Then there was a general stir and break-up of the
party. One bit of conversation Faith was fated to hear
as she slowly made her way out of the dressing-room
door, among comers and goers: the first speaker was a
young De Staff.
"Since that shooting affair there's been nothing but
reports about you, Linden."
"Reports seldom kill," said Mr. Linden.
41*-

^  ITM
r    '
S
T-N
r-)trj
Ir-


I i

"Don't trust to that I" said another laughing moos.
tache,---"keep 'em this side the water. By the way.s
there any likeness of that fair foreigner going? Bow do
you fancy she would like reports ?".
"Wthen you find out I wish you would let me know,")
said Mr. Linden witha little accent of impatience, as he
came 'forward and took Faith in charge.

I

F .

c1   i

SAY AND SEAL

r
r
} Vi
iiF

I

CHAPTER XXIX.
T was pretty late when Jerry and his lite sleigh-load
got clear of the gates. The stars were as bright as
ever, and now they had the help of the old moon; which
was pouring her clear radiance over the snow and sending
long shadows from trees and fences. The fresh air was
pleasant too. Faith felt it, and wondered that starlight
and snow and sleigh-bells were such a different thing from
what they were a few hours before. She chid herself, she
was vexed at herself, and humbled exceedingly. She en-
deavoured to get back on the simple abstract ground she
had held in her own thoughts until within a day or two;
she was deeply ashamed that her head should have allowed
even a flutter of imagination from Mr. Stoutenburgh's
words, which now it appeared might bear a quite contrary.
Anse to that which she had given them. What was she,
to have anything to do with them? Faith humbly said,
nothing. And yet,-she could not help that either,-the
image of the possibility of what Dr. Harrison had suggested,
raised a pain that Faith could not look at. She sat still
and motionless, and heard the sleigh-bells without knowing
to what tune they jingled.
It was a quick tune, at all events,.-for the first ten or
fifteen minutes Jerry dashed along to his heart's content,
and his driver even urged him. on,.-then with other sleighs
left far behind and a hill before him, Jerry brought the
tune to a staccato, and Mr. Linden spoke. But the words
were not very relevant to either stars or seigh'-bells.
"Miss Faith, Ithought you knew me better."
They startled her, for she was a minute or two without
answering ; then' came a gentle, and also rather frightened,
"Why ?-.-why do you say that, Mr.. Linden ?"
"Do you think you know me ?" he said, turning towards
her with a little bit of a smile, though the voice was grave.
"Do you think you have any idea how much I care about
you(?"
(487)

i, (      i
,'
'{ l r
'1 (
r
i
{
{  ,±       ,
I,  fir',   f

s
i'
j
5
S
{r
K
L
SJ
5.
a1
.{3
.y
/         f

s'
Y
t
Z
6
Y
i
h
4
j     +

486


488

SAY AND SEAL.

think you do," she said. "I am sure ou do-very
much !"                                 youo-vey
"Do you know how much ?"-and the smile was
then, and followed by a moment's silence. "I shall notfuly
to tell you, Miss Faith; I could not if I'would-but tre
is something on the other side of the question which Iwane
you to tell me."
And Jerry walked slowly up the snowy hill, and the
slight tinkle of his bells was as silvery as the starlight of
Orion overhead.
Faith looked at her questioner and then off again,
rich colour was    mantling in her cheeks. But the
silence was breathless. Jerry's bells only announced it.
And having by that time reached the top of the hill he
chose.and was permitted-.to set off at his formerpace;
fligin of te sow igt and left, and toshis  mpace;
on the cool night air. Down that hill, and up the next
and down that--and along a level bit of road to te foot
of another,--then slowly.    .he
"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden when they were half way
up, "do you never mean to speak to me again ?"
A very low-breathed although audible "yes."
"Is that all you mean to say ?--I shall take it verycom-
prehensively."                          eivr     o-
She was willing probably that he should take it anyway
that e pleased; but to add was as much beyond Faith's
power at the moment as to subtract fro  her one word.
She did not even look.
"Do you know what this silence is promising ?" Mr. Lin-
den said in the same tone, and bending down by h   I
do---and yet I want to hear you speak once more. If there
is any reason why I should try not to love you better tha K
all the rest of the world, you must tell me now."
One other quick, inquiring, astonished glance her eyes
gave into his face; and then, as usual his wish  h  er
speak made her speak, through all the intense difficulty.
There was a minute's further hesitation and thenditheicrds,
very low, very simple, and trembling        words
"Do-if you can."
"Do try?" he said in a lower and graver tone.

SAY AND SEAL.                 489
"Try ?"--she said; then with a change of voice and in
very much confusion,-"O no, Mr. Linden 1"
"I should not succeed-" was all his answer, nor was
there time for much more ; for having now turned ito the
sain street where other homeward-bound sleighs were
flying along, there was nothing to do but fly along with
the rest; and a very few minutes brought them home.
ir. Skip was probably-reposing 'in parts unknown, for
there was no sign of him at his post; and when Faith had
been silently taken out of the sleigh and into the hall, Mr.
Linden went back to Jerry-telling her she must take good
care of herself for five minutes.
Bewilderedly, and trembling yet, Faith turned into the
sitting-room. It was warm and bright, Mrs. Derrick having
only lately left it; and taking off hood and cloak i a sort
of mechanical way, with fingers that did not feel the strings,
she sat down in the easy chair and laid her head on the arm
of it ; as very a child as she had been on the night of that
terrible walk;-.wondering to herself if this were Christmas
day--if she were Faith Derrick-and if anything were any-
thing !-but with a wonder of such growing happiness as
made it more and more difficult for her to raise her head
up. She dreaded-with an odd kind of dread which con-
tradicted itself-to hear Mr. Linden come in; and in the
abstract, she would. have liked very much to jump up and
run away ; but that little intimation was quite enough ti
hold her fast. She sat still drawing quick little breaths.
The loud voice of the clock near by, striking its twelve
strokes, was not half so. distinct to her as that light step in
the hall which came so swiftly and quick to her side.
"What is the problem now, pretty child ?" Mr. Linden
said, laying both hands upon hers,-" it is too late for study
to-night.  You must wait till to-morrow and have my
help."
She rose up at that, however gladly she would have hid-
den the face her rising revealed; but yet with no awkward-
ness she stood before him, rosily grave and shy, and with
downcast eyelids that could by no means lift themselves up
to shew what was beneath; a fair combination of the child's
character and the woman's nature in one; bothi spoken
fairly and fully. Mr. Linden watched her for a nute,

F'
" t1u
y;  S
All
cif.


SAY AND SEAL.

softly passing his hand over that fair brow; then drew he,
closer.
"I suppose I may claim Mr. Stoutenburgh's privilege.
now," he said. But it was more than that he took. And
then with one hand still held fast, Faith was put back in
her chair and wheeled up to the fire 'to get warm,' and
Mr. Linden sat down by her side.
Did he really think she needed it,when she was rosy to
her fingers' endsP But what could she do, but be very still
and very happy. Even as a flower whose head is heavy
with dew,--never more fragrant than then, yet with the
weight of its sweet burden it bends a little;-like that was
the droop of Faith's head at this minute. Whither had the
whirl of this evening whirled her'? Faith did not know.
She felt as if, to some harbour of rest, broad and safe; the
very one where from its fitness it seemed she ought to be.
But shyly and confusedly, she felt it much as a man feels
the ground, who is near taken off it by a hurricane. Yet
she felt it, for her head drooped more and more.
"Faith," Mr. Linden said, half smiling, half seriously,
"what has made you so sober all this evening-..so much
afraid of me ?"
The quick answer of the eye stayed not a minute; the
blush was more abiding.,
"You don't want me to tell you that !"-..she said in soft
pleading.
"Do you know now who I think has--..
'A sweet attractive kind of grace'?"
"0 don't, please, speak so, Mr. Linden 1" she said bow-
ing her face in her hands,---"it don't belong to me."-;And
pressing her hands closer, she added, "You have made me
all I am--that is anything."
" There is one thing I mean to make you---if I live," he
answered smiling, and taking down her hand. "Faith,
what do you mean by talking to me in that style ?---haven't
you just given me leave to think what I like of you ? You
deserve another half hour's silent penance."
.A little bit of smile broke upon her face which for an
instant she tried to hide witl4 her other hand. But she
dropped that and turned the face towards hin, rosy, grave,.

490

SAY AND SEAL.                491
and happy, more than she knew, or sh  aps would have
hidden it again. Her eyes indeed on y saw his and fell
instantly; and her words began and stopped,
"There is one comfort-"
"What, dear child ?"
"That you know what to think," she said, looking up
with a face that evidently rested in the confidence of that
fact.
"About what?" Mr. Linden said with an amused look.
"I have known what to think about you for some time."
"I meant that,"--she said quietly and with very down-
cast eyes again.
"I am not in a good mood for riddles to-night," said
Mr. Linden,-"just what does this one mean?'
"Nothing, only-" said Faith flushing,-"you said-"
She was near breaking down in sheer confusion, but she
rallied and went on. "You said I had given you leave to
think what you liked of me,-and I say it is a comfort that
you know what to think."
Mr. Linden laughed.
"You are a dear little child !" he said, "Being just the
most precious thing in the world to me, you sit there and
rejoice that I am in no danger of overestimating you-
which is profoundly true. My comfort in knowing what
to think, runs in a different line."
It is hard to describe Faith's look; it was a mixture of so
many things. It was wondering, and shamefaced; and curi-
ous for its blending of humility and gladness; but gladness
moved to such a point as to be near the edge of sorrowful
expression. She would not have permitted it to choose such
expression, and indeed it easily took another line; for even
as she looked, her eye caught the light from Mr. Linden's and
the gravity of her face broke in a sunny and somewhat ob-
stinate smile, which Faith would have controlled if she could.
"That penance was not so very bad,"-she said, perhaps
by way of diversion.
"I enjoyed it," said Mr. Linden,-"I am not sure that
everybody else did. Are you longing for another piece of
rest ?-Look up at me, and let me see if I ought to keep
you here any longer."
She obeyed, though shyly ; the smile lingering round her

if  ^  '  tt!      1
41 i
u     fit.        t
{I ; fll it
fit
;
fit
t d;' ;if I
iy14 It


SAY AND SEAL.             493

lips yet, and her whole face, to tell the truth, bearing much
more resemblance to the dawn of a May morning than to
the middle pf a December night. Mr. Linden was in some
danger of forgetting why he had asked to see it; but when
her eyes fell beneath his, then he remembered.
"I must let you go," he said,--" I suppose the sooner I
do that, the sooner I may hope to see you again. Will
you sleep diligently, to that eid ?"
"I don't know-" she said softly; rising at the same
time to gather up her wrappers which lay strewed about,
around and under her. Her lips had the first answer to
that ; only as lie let her go Mr. Linden said,
"You must try."
And a little scarce-spoken "yes" promised it.
It,was easier than she thought. When Faith had got to
her room, when she had as usual laid down her heart's
burden.-.-joyful or careful-in her prayer, there came soon
a great subsiding; and mind and body slept, as sleep comes
to an exhausted child; or as those sleep, at any age, whose
hearts bear no weight which God's hand can bear for them,
and who are contented to leave their dearest things to the
same hand. There was no 'ravelled sleeve of care' ever in
Faith's mind, for sleep to knit up; but 'tired nature's sweet
restorer' she needed like the rest of the human family; and.
on this occasion sleep did her work without let or hindrance
from the time ten minutes after Faith's head touched her
pillow till the sun was strong and bright on the morning of
the 26th of December. Yes, and pretty high up too; for
the first thing that fell upon her waking senses was eight
clear strokesof the town clock.
Faith got up and dressed herself in a great hurry and in
absolute dismay; blushing to think where was her mother;
and breakfast-.and everybody-all this while, and whit
everybody was thinking of her. From her room Faifh
went straight to dairy and kitchen. She wanted her han ls
full this morning. But her duties in the kitchen were do e;
breakfast was only waiting, and her mother talking to the
butcher. Faith stood till he was dismissed and had turned
his back, and then came into Mrs. Derrick's arms.
"Mother !-.why didn't you call me1"
"Pretty child !" was the fond answer, "why should I ?-.

I've been up to look at you half a dozen times, Faith, to
V make sure you were not sick; but Mr. Linden said hey was
t  i no hurry for breakfast-and of course I wasn't. Did,
y ou have a good time last night?"
"I should think you ought to be in a hurry for breakfast
by this time."  And Faith busied herself in helping Cindy
put the breakfast on the table.
"You run and, call Mr. Linden, child," said her mother,
"and I'll see to this. He was here till a minute ago, and
then some of the boys wanted to see him."
Faith turned away, but with no sort of mind to present
herself before the boys, and in tolerable fear of presenting
herself before anybody. The closing hall door informed
her that one danger was over; and forcing herself to brave
the other, she passed into the sitting-room just as Mr. Lin-
den reentered it from the hall. Very timidly then she ad-
;T vanced a few steps to meet him and stood still, with cheeks
as rosy as it was possible to be, and eyes that dared not
lift themselves up.
The greeting she had did not help either matter very
much, but that could not be helped either.
.'What colour are your cheeks under all these roses ?"
Mr. Linden said smiling at her. "My dear Faith, were
you quite tired out?"
"No-You must think so," she said with stammering
lips-" but breakfast is ready at last. If you'll go in-I'll
come, Mr. Linden."
"Do you want me to go in first?"
'(Yes. I'll come directly."
He let her go, and went in as she desired; and having
persuaded Mrs. Derrick that as breakfast was on the table
it had better have prompt attention, Mr. Linden engaged
her with a lively account of the people, dresses, and doings,
which had, graced the Christmas party; keeping her mind
pretty well on that subject both before and after Faith
made her appearance. How little it engrossed him, only
one person at the table could even guess. But she knew,
and rested herself happily under the screen he spread out
for her; as quiet and demure as anything that ever sat
at a breakfast table yet. And all the attention she received
was as silent as it was careful; not till breakfast was over
v01..1..

f, ft }}pp} ~r , t.
l[  !41''1, 1{4
.f fllf,'  ' i 1
", f11r.  , 1
A' ±   I jl     +I
try I'll   ,
i' I { 11,
,;f JJ
Vol
4.I ;lN li    r1,
1

492

SAY AND SEAL.


BAY AND SEAL.            49b

}ii

did Mr. Linden give her more than a passing word ; but then
he inquired how soon she would be ready for philosophy.
Faith's hesitating answer was "Very soon;"-then as
Mr. Linden left the room she asked, "What are you going
to do to-day, mother ?"
"O just the old story, "said Mrs. Derrick,--'"two or
three sick people I must go and see,-and some well people
I'd rather see, by half. It's so good to have you home,
dear !" And she kissed Faith and held her off and looked
at her-several feelings at work in her face. "Pretty
child," she said, "I don't think I ever saw you look so
pretty."
Faith returned the kiss, and chid h r face in her mother's
neck; more things than one were in her mind to say, but
not one of them could get out. SJe could only kiss her
mother and hold her fast. The wrds that at last came,
were a very commonplace remark about-"going to see
to the dinner."   'J
"I guess you will !" said Mrs. Derrick--" with Mr.
Linden waiting for you in the other room. I wonder what
he'd say to you, or to ine either. And besides-people
that want to see about dinner must get up earlier in the
morning."
The words, some of them, were a little moved; but
whatever Mrs. Derrick was thinking of, she did not explain,
only bade Faith go off and attend to her lessons and make
up fir lost time.
Which after some scouting round kitchen and dairy,
Faith did. She entered the sitting-room with the little
green book in -her hand, as near as possible as she would
have done three weeks ago. Not quite.
She had a bright smile of welcome, and Mr. Linden
placed a chair for her and _placed her in it; and then the
lessons went oh with all their old gentle care and guidance.
More, they could hardly have-though Faith sometimes
fancied there was more; and if the old sobriety was hard
to keep up, still it was done, for her sake. A little play
of the lips which she could sometimes see, was kept within
very quiet bounds; whatever novelty there might be in look
or manner was perhaps unconscious and unavoidable. She
might be watched a little more than formerly, but her wor~k

K   none the less; and Mr. Linden's -explanations and cor-
rections were given with just their old grave freedom, and
no more. And yet how different a thing the lessons were
to him !-
As to Faith, her hand trembled very much at first, and
even her voice; but for all that, the sunshine within was
easy to see, and there came a bright flash of it sometimes.
i   In spite of timidity and shyness, every now and then some-
thing made her forget herself, and then the sunlight broke
out; to be followed perhaps by a double cloud of gravity.
But for the rest, she worked like a docile pupil, as she
always had done.
Apparently her teacher's thoughts had not been con-
fined to the work, if they had to her; for when all was
done that could be done before dinner, he made one of
those sudden speeches with which he sometimes indulged
himself.
'"Faith-I wish you would   sk me to do half a dozen
almost impossible things for you."
What a pretty, wondering look she gave.fiim. One of
the flashes of the sunlight came then. But then came an
amused expression.
"What would be the good of that, Mr. Linden?"
"I should have the pleasure of doing them."
"I believe you would," said Faith. "I think the only
things quite impossible to you are wrong things."
"The only thing you ever did ask of me was impossible,"
he said with a smile, upon which there was a shadow too
-as if the recollection pained him. "Child, how could
you ?-It half broke my heart to withstand you so, do you
know that? I want the almost impossible things to make
me forget it."
Her lip trembled instantly and her command of herself
was nearly gone. She had risen for something, and as he
spoke she came swiftly behind him, putting herself where
he could not see her face, and laid her hand on his shoulder.
It lay there as light as thistle-down ; but it was Faith's
mute way of saying a great many things that her voice
oould not.
Very quick 'and tenderly Mr. Linden drew her forward
again, and tried the power of his~ lips to still hers.

494

SAY AND SEAL


SAY AND SEAL.

tii},! )        t     i
j,   fr  iy j      ;',  !',
j   )   a'i"+ i
'I ' ' St Il1 '   ,
t ,
!      '

"Mother !" said Faith startling.

"For what ?"

I

496

"Hush, dear child !" he said-"you must not mind any-
thing I say,--I am the last person in the world you oug It
to be afraid of. And you must not claim it as your pre-
rogative to get before me in danger and behind me at all
other times-because that is just reversing the proper,
order of things. Faith, I am going to ask an almost im-
possible thing of you."
"What is it ?" Faith was secretly glad, for afraid of his,
requests she could not be.
You will try todo it ?".
"Yes-certainly I"
"It is only to forget that 'Mr. Linden'is any part of my
name, he said smiling.
She -had been rosy enough before, but now the blood
reddened her very brow, till for one instant she put up her
hands to hide it.
"What then ?"-she said in a breathless sort of way.
"What you like"-..he answered brightly. "I have not
quite as many names as a Prince Royal, but still enough
to choose from. You may separate, combine, or invent, at
your pleasure."
There came a summons' to dinner then; and part of the
hours which should follow thereafter, Mr. Linden was
pledged    sp  d somewhere with somebody-away from
home. - Bu promised to be back to tea, and before that,
if he could; and so left Faith to the quiet companionship
of her mother and her lessons-if she felt disposed for them.
They were both in the sitting-room together, Mrs. Derrick
and the books,-both helping the sunlight that came in at
the windows. But Faith neglected the books, and came to
her mother's side. She sat down and put her arms round
her, and nestled her head on her mother's bosom, as she
had done in the morning. And then was silent. That
might have' been just what Mrs. Derrick expected, she
was so very ready for it; her work was dropped so in-
stantly, her head rested so fondly on Faith's. But her
silence was soon broken.
"How long do you think I can wait, pretty child ?"
she said in the softest, tenderest tone that even she could
use.

,'
3 +
'':+
b
T
-F
l_'
,i

SAY AND SEAL.                497
"Supose you tell me.
"Do you know, mother ?" said Faith in a low, changed
tone and drawing closer. But Mrs. Derrick only repeated,
"What, child ?"
"What Mr. Linden has said to me,"-she whispered.
"I knew what he would"-but the words broke off there,
d Mrs. Derrick rested her head again in silence as abso-
lute as Faith's.
For awhile; and then Faith lifted up her flushed face
and began to kiss her.
"Mother   -why don't you speak to me?"
It was not very easy to speak-.Faith could see that ; but
Mrs. Derrick did command her voice enough to give a sort
of answer.
*  "He had my leave, child,-..at least he has talked to me
about you in a way that I should have said no to, if I had
meant it,-.and he knew that. Do you think I should
have let him stay here all this time if I had not been
willing?"
Faith laid her head down again.
"Mother-dear mother !".--she said,-" I want more
than that!"-
She had all she wanted then,-Mrs. Derrick spoke clearly
and steadily, though the tears were falling fat.
"I am as glad- as you are, darling-.or as he 18,--I can-
not say more than that. So glad that you should be so
happy-so -glad to have such hands in which to leave you."
The last words were scarce above a whisper.
Faith was desperate. She did not cry, but she did
everything else. With trembling fingers she stroked her
mother's face; with lips that trembled she kissed her; but
Faith's voice was steady, whatever lay behind it.
"Mother-smother!--.why do you do so? why do you
speak so  i  Does this look like gladness?" And lps and
hands kissed away the tears with an eagernesse that was to
the last degree tender.
"Why yes, child !" her mother said rousing up, and
with a little bit of a smile that did not belie .her words,--
"I tell you I'm as glad as I can be!-Tears don't mean
anything, Faith,-I can't help crying'sometimes. But I'm
jUst as glad as he is," she repeated, trying. her soothing
42*

St


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.            499

*1.

powers in turn,--"and if you'd seen his face as I did when
he went away, you'd think that was enough. I don't know
whether I could be," she added softly, "if I thought he
would take you away from me--but I know he'll never do
that, from something he said once., Why pretty child!
any one but a baby could see this long ago,--and as for
that, Faith, I believe I love him almost as well as you do,
this mmIute."
The last few minutes had tried Faith more than she
could bear, with the complete reaction that followed. The
tears that very rarely made their way from her eyes in any.
body's sight, came now. But they were not permitted to
be many; her mother hardly kn w they were come before
they were gone; and half nestli ig in her arms, Faith lay
with her face hid; silent and quiet. It seemed to Mrs.
Derrick as if she was too far off still, for she lifted Faith
softly up, and took her on her lap after the old childish
fashion, kissing her once and again.
"Now, Pretty child," she said, softly stroking the un-
covered cheek, "keep your hands down and tell   e all
about it. I don't mean every word," she added sfiling,
"but all you like to tell."
But Faith could not do that. She made Very lame work
of it. She managed only with much difficulty to give her
mother a very sketchy and thin outline of what sh wanted
to know; which perhaps was as much as Mrs. Derrick ex-
pected; and was given with a simplicity as bare of additions
as her facts were. A very few words told all she had to
tell. Yes, her mother was satisfied,--she loved to hear
Faith speak those few words, and to watch her the while
--herself supplying all'deficiencies; and then was. con-
tent that her child should lie still. and go to sleep, if
she chose--it was enough to look at her and think: re-
joicing with her and for her with a very pure joy, if it was
sometimes tearful.
Faith presently changed her position, and gave a very
particular attention to the smoothing of the hair over her
mother's forehead.  Then pulling her cap straight, and:
giving her a finishing look and kiss,.she took a.low seat
close beside her, laid one of her study books on her mother's
lap, resting one arm there fondly, and went hai'd to work;

remarking however that Mrs. Derrick might talk as much
she liked and she would talk too. But Mrs. Derrick
either did not want to talk, or else'she did not want to in-
terrupt; for she watched Faith and smiled upon her, and
stroked her hair, and said very little.
Just at the end of the afternoon, when Faith was finish-
ing her work by firelight, Mr. Linden came. in. She did
not see the look that passed between her mother and him
--she only knew that they held each other's hands for a
minute silently,-then one of the hands was laid upon her
forehead.
"Little student-do you want to try the fresh air ?"
She said yes; and&amp; without raising her eyes, ran off to
get ready. In another minute she was out in the cool
freshness of the December twilight.

498


K    )l 1

CHAPTER XL.

J'  F  ^ 1 Fi  S ~
i,          _
it  yi   ti if   s    -
fi t I ,  ;/,
f1f  ',I,  , i  I  f
!i      '  1'
r                       ..

SAY AND SEAL.            501

THE walk lasted till all the afterglow had faded and all
the stars come out, and till half Pattaquasset had
done tea; having its own glow and starlight, and its flow
of conversation to which the table- talk was nothing.
Of course, Faith's first business on reaching home was
to see about the tea. She and Mrs.. Derrick were happily
engaged together in various" preparations, and Mr. Linden
alone in the sitting-room, when the unwelcome sound of a
knock came at the front door; and the next minute his
solitude was broken im upon.-
"Good evening !" said the doctor. "Three-quarters
of a mile off 'I heard the clarion of the unseen midge !' so
I thought it was best to come to close quarters with the
enemy.-There is nothing so annoying as a distant hum-
ming in ypur ears. How do you do ?". He had come up
and laid his hand on Mr. Linden's shoulder before the latter
had time to rise.
"What a perverse taste 1" Mr. Linden said, laughing and
springing up. "All the rest of the world Ithink a near-by
humming so much worse."
"Can't distinguish at a distance," said the doctor ;-_." one
doesn't know whether it's a midge or a dragon-fly. How
is Mignonette ? and Mignonette's mother ?"
"They were both well the last time I saw them. In what
sort of a calm flutter are you, doctor ?"
"Do you think that is my character ?" said the doctor,
taking his favourite position on the rug.
You go straight to the fire--like all the rest of the
tribe," said Mr. Linden.
"Is it inconsistent with the character of such an extra-
ordinary midge, to go straight to the mark ?"
"Nobody ever saw a midge do that yet, I'll venture to
say."
"And you are resolved, to act in character," said the
doctor gravely. "You have got clean away from the
(500)

point. I asked you last night to tell me what you thought
of me. We are alone now-do it, Linden!I"
"Why do you want to know?"
"I don't know. A man likes to talk of himself-cela
s'entend--but I care enough about you, to care to know
how I stand in your thoughts. If you asked me how I
stand in my own, I could not tell you; and I should like
to know how the just balances of your mind-I'm not
talking ironically, Linden,-weigh and poise we;-what
sort of alloy your mental tests make me out. ,No mat-
ter why !_-indulge me, and let me have it. I presume
it is nothing better than philosophical curiosity. I am-
every man is to himself-au enigma-a mystery;-and I
should like to have a sudden outside view-from optics that
I have some respect for."
"I gave you the outside view last night," Mr. Linden
said. But then he came and stood near the doctor and
answered him simply; speaking with that grave gentleness
of interest which rarely failed to give the speaker a place
in people's hearts, even when his words failed of it.
"I think much of you, in the first place,-and in the
second place, I wish you would let me think more ;-you
stand in my thoughts as an object of very warm interest,
of very earnest prayer. Measured-not by my standards,
but by those which the word of God sets up, you are like
your own admirablymade and adjusted microscope, with
all the higher powers left off. The only enigma, the only
mystery is, that you yourself cannot see this."
Dr. Harrison looked at him with a grave, considerative
face, drawing a little back; perhaps to do it the better.
"Do you mean to say, that you do such a thing as pray
for me?"
A. slight, sweet smile came with the answer.-"Can you
doubt it?"
"Why I might very reasonably doubt it,-though not
your word.- Why do you,-.-may I ask ?"
"What can I do for a man in deadly peril, whom my
arm cannot reach ?" The tone was very kindly, very earn-
est; the eyes with their deep light looked full into the
doctor's.
Dr. IHarrison was silent, meeting the look and taking


SAY AND SEAL.            503

I!  it      ii,       I
(r'  1 r i
t  a1d. ' i  r  ?  ,
,l,
SKY,

the depth and meaning of it, so far as fathomable by husu
The two faces and figures, fine as they both were, made a
strange contrast. The doctor's face was in one of its
serious and. good expressions; but the other had come
from a region of light which this one had never entered,
And even in attitude--the dignified unconsciousness of the
one, was very different from the satisfied carelessness of the
other.
"May I further ask," he said in a softened tone,- .." why
you do this for me?"'
"Because I care about you."
"It's incredible !" said the doctor, his eye wtgvering, how.
ever. "One man care about another ! Why, man I
be the worst enemy you have in the world, for aught you
know."
"That cannot hinder my being your friend."
"Do you know," said the other looking at him half
euriously,--"I am ready to do such a foolish thing as to
believe you? Well--be as much of a friend to me as you
can; and I'll deserve it as well as I can--which maybe
won't be very well. Indeed that is most likely !" He had
stretched out his hand to Mr. Linden however, and clasped
his warmly. He quitted it now to go forward and take
that of Faith-.
She came in just as usual, and met the doctor with her
wonted manner; only the crimson stain on her cheek tell-
ing anything against her. - She did not give him much
chance to observe that; for Cindy followed her with the
tea things and Faith busied herself about the table. The
doctor went back to his stand and watched her.
"Mignonette has changed colour," he remarked pre-
sently. "flow is that, Miss Derrick ?"
"How is what, sir ?"
f "Hiow come you to change the proper characteristics
of mignonette?  Don't you know that never shews high
brillhancy ?"
"  su  ose I am not mignonette to-night," said Faith,
returning o the safer observation of the tea-table.
"Are y u my flower, then? th Rhodora ?" he said
with a low red tone, coming near her. '
If Faith heard, she did not seem to hear this question.

502

SAY AND SEAL,

Her attention was bestowed upon the preparations for tea,
till Mrs. Derrick came in to make it; and then Faith found
a great deal to do in the care of the other duties.of the
table. It was a mystery, how she managed it; she who
generally had as much leisure at meals as anybody wanted.
Dry Harrison's attention however was no longer exclusively
given to her.
"Do you always have these muffins for tea, Mrs. Der-
rick ?" he remarked with his second essay.
"Why no !" said Mrs. Derrick,-" we have all sorts of
other things. Don't you like muffins, doctor ?"
"Like them !" said the doctor. "I am thinking what
a happy man Mr. Linden must be."
"Marvellously true 1" said Mr. Linden. "I hope you'll
go home and write a new 'Search after happiness,' ending
it sentimentally in muffins."
"Not so," said the doctor. "I should only begin it in
muffins-as I am doing. But my remark after all had a
point;-for I was thinking of the possibility of detaching
anybody from such a periodical attraction. Mrs. Derrick,
I am the bearer of an humble message to you from my
sister and father-who covet the honour and pleasure of
your presence to-morrow evening. Sophy makes me use-
ful, when she can. I hope you will give me a gracious
answer--for yourself and Miss Faith, and so make me use-
ful again. It is a rare chance ! I am not often good for
anything."
"I don't know whether I know how to give what you
call gracious answers, doctor," said Mrs. Derrick pleasantly.
"I'm very much obliged to Miss Sophy, but I never go
anywhere at night."
With the other two the doctor's mission was more
successful; and then he disclosed the other object of his
visit.
"Miss Derrick, do you remember I once threatened to
bring the play of Portia here-and introduce her to
you ?"
"I remember it," said Faith.
"Would it be pleasant to you that I should fulfil my
threat this evening ?"


504             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.            505

t"I don't know, sir," said Faith smiling,-" till I hea
the play.",
"Mr. Linden,.......what do you think ?" said the doctor,
also with a smile.
"I am ready for anything-if you will let me be impolite
enough to finish writing a letter while I hear the first part
of your reading."
"To change the subject slightly-what do you suppose,
Mr. Linden, would on the whole be the effect, on society,
if the hand of Truth were in every case to be presented
without a glove ?" The doctor spoke gravely now.
"The effect would be that society would shake hands
more cordially-I should think," said Mr. Linden; "though
it is hard to say how such an extreme proposition would
work."
"Do you know, it strikes me that it would work just the
other way, and that hands would presently clasp nothing
but daggers' hilts. But there is another question..-.How
will one fair hand of truth live among a crowd of steel
gauntlets ?"
"What ?" Mr. Linden said, with a little bending of his
brows upon the doctor. "I am wearing neither glove nor
gauntlet,-what are you talking about ?.-.And my half-
finished letter is a fact and no pretence."
"I sha'n't believe you," said the doctor, "if you give my
fingers such a wring as that. Well, go to your letter,
and I'll take Miss Derrick to Venice--if she will let me."
Venice !-That exquisite photograph of the Bridge of
Sighs, and "the palace and the prison on each hand,"
about which such a long, long entrancing account had been
given by Mr. Linden to her-the scene and the talk rose
up before Faith's imagination; she was very ready to go
to Venice. Its witching scenery, its strange history, floated
up, in a fascinating, strange cloud-view; she was all ready
for Shylock and the Rialto. Nay, for the Rialto,-not for
Shylock; him, or anything like. him, she had never seen
nor imagined. She was only sorry that Mr. Linden had
to go to his letter; but there was a compensative side to
that, for her shyness was somewhat less endangered. With
only the doctor and Shylock to attend to, she could get
along very well'.

Shyness and fears however, were of very short endurance.
To Venice she went,-Shylock she saw; and then she saw
nothing else but Shylock, and those who were dealing with
him; unless an occasional slight glance towards the distant
table where Mr. Linden sat at his writing, might be held
to signify that she had powers of vision for somewhat else.
It did not interrupt the doctor's pleasure, nor her own.
Dr. Harrison had begun with at least a double motive in
his mind; but man of the world as he was, he forgot his
unsatisfied curiosity in the singular gratification of reading
such a play to such a listener. It was so plain that Faith
was in Venice! She entered with such simplicity, and also
with such intelligence, into the characters and interests of
the persons in the drama; she relished their words so well;
shd weighed in such a nice balance of her own the right
and the wrong, the true and the false, of whatever rested
on nature and truth for its proper judgment;.-she was so
perfectly and deliciously ignorant of the world and the ways
of it! The fresh view that such pure eyes took of such
actors and scenes, was indescribably interesting; Dr. Har-
rison found it the best play he had ever read in his life. He
made it convenient sometimes to pause to indoctrinate
Faith in characters or customs of which she had no ade-
quate knowledge; it did not hurt her pleasure; it was all
part of the play.-
In the second scene, the doctor stopped to explain the
terms on which Portia had been left with her suitors.
"What do you think of it?"
"I think it was hard," said Faith smiling.
"What would you have done if you had been left so 1"
"I would not have been left so."
"But you might not help yourself. Suppose it had been
a father's or a mother's command? that anybody might
come up and have you, for the finding-if they could pitch
upon the right box of jewelry ?"
"My father or mother would never have put such a com-
mand on me," said Faith looking amused.
"But you may suppose anything," said the doctor lean-
ing forward and smiling. supposee they had ?"
"Then you must suppose me different too," said Faith
VOr,.1.                43     -


506             SAY-AND SEAL.

laughing.  "Suppose me to have been like Portia; and I
should have done as she did."
The doctor shook his head and looked gravely at her.
"Are you so impracticable ?"
"Was she ?" said Faith.
"Then you wouldn't think it right to obey Mrs. Derrick
in all circumstances?".
" {ot if she was Portia's mother," said Faith.
"   ppose you had been the Prince of Arragon-which
casket would you have chosen ?" said Mr. Linden, as he
came from his table, letter in hand.
"I suppose I should have chosenias he did," said the
doctor carelessly-"I really don't remember how that
was. I'll tell you when I come to him. Have you done
letter-writing ?"
"I have done writing letters, for to-night. Have I per-
mission to go to Venice in your train ?
"I am only a locomotive," said the doctor.  "But youth
know, with two a train goes faster. If you had another
copy of the play, now, Linden.-.-and we should read it as I
have read Shakspeare in certain former times---take dif.
ferent parts--I presume the effect would excel steam-
power, and befelectric. Can you ?"
Thiswas agreed to, and the "effect" almost equalled the
doctor's prognostications. Even Mrs. Derrick, who had
somewhat carelessly held aloof from his single presentation
of the play, was fascinated now, and drew near and dropped
her knitting. It would have been a very rare entertainmentE
to any that had heard it; but for once an audience of two.,
was sufficient for the stimulus and reward of the readers.
That and the actual enjoyment of the parts they were play-
ing.. Dr. Harrison read well, with cultivated and critical
accuracy. His voice was good and melodious, his English a
enunciation excellent ; his knowledge of his author thorough,
as far as acquaintanceship went; and his habit of reading
a dramatically practised one. But Faith, amid all her de-
light, had felt a want in it, as compared with the reading
to whic4 of late she had been accustomed; it did not give
the soul and heart of the author-though it gave everything
else.' That is what only soul and heart can do. Not that
Dr. Harrison was entirely wanting in those gifts either;

they lay somewhere, perhaps, in him; but they are not the
ones which in what is called 'the world' come most often or
readily into play; and so it falls out that one who lives
I there long becomes like the cork oak when it has stood
Flonguntouched in its world ; the heart is encrusted with a
monstrous thick, almost impenetrable, coating of bark.
When Mr. Linden joined the reading, the'pleasure was
perfect; the very contrast between the two characters and
the two voices made the illusion more happy. Then Faith
was in a little danger of-betraying herself; for it was diffi-
cult to look at both readers with the same eyes; and if she
tried to keep her eyes at home, that was more difficult
still.
In the second act, Portia says to Arragon,
"In terms of choice I am not solely led
Biy nice direction of a maiden's eyes," etc.
"What do you think of that, Miss Derrick ?" said the
doctor pausing when his turn came. "Do you think a
ladys choice ought to be so determined ?"
Faith raised her eyes, and answered, "No, sir."
"By what then? You don't trust appearances?"
Faith hesitated.
"I should like to hear how Portia managed," she said,
with a little heightened colour. "I never thought much
about it."
"What do you think of Portia's gloves, doctor ?" said
Mr. Linden.
"llum"-said the doctor. "They are a pattern !-soft
as steel, harsh as kid-leather. (hey fit too, so exquisitely!
But, if I were marrying her, I hink I should request that
she would give her gloves into my keeping."
"Then would your exercise of power be properly thwarted.
Every time you made the demand, Portia would, like a jug-
gler, pull off and surrender a fresh pair of gloves, leaving
ever a pair yet finer-spun upon her hands."
"I suppose she would," said the doctorcomically. "Come!
I won't marry her. And yet, Linden,-one might do worse.
Such gloves keep off a wonderful amount of friction."
"If' you happen to have fur which cannot be even stroked
the wrong way!"

SAY AND SEAL.           50?


508             SAY AND SEAL,

509

The doctor's eye glanced with fun, and Faith laughed,
The reading went on. And went on without much pausing,
until the lines-...
"0 ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
To seal love's bonds new made, than they are wont
To keep obliged faith unforfeited !
Who riseth from a feast,
With that keen appetite that he sits down?
Where is the horse, that doth untread again
His tedious measures with the unabated fire
That he did pace them first? All things that are,
Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed."
"Do you believe in that doctrine, Miss Faith ?" said the
doctor, with a gentle look in her direction.
"I suppose it is trueof some things,"-she said after a
minute's consideration.
"What a wicked truth it is, Linden !" said the doctor.
"There is 'an error i' the bill,'" said Mr. Linden.
Faith's eyes looked somewhat eagerly, the doctor's philo..
sophically.
"Declare and shew," said the doctor. "I thought it was
a universal, most deplorable, human fact; and here it is, in
Shakspeare, man; which is another word for saying it is in
humanity,"
"It is true only of false things. The Magician's coins
are next day but withered leaves-the real gold is at com'-
po~iind interest."
The doctor's smile was doubtful and cynical; jFaith's had
"Where is your 'real gold'?" said the doctor.
"Do  you expect me to tell you?" said Mr. Linden
laughing. "I have found a good deal in the course of my
life, and the interest is regularly paid 'in."
"Are you talking seriously ?"
"Ay truly. So may you."
"From any other man, I should throw away your words
as the veriest Magician's coin; but if they are true metal-
why I'll ask you to take me to see the Mint some day !"
"Let thme remind you," said. Mr. Linden, "that there are
forna set-ngs in Shakspeare.- What do you think of this,

SAY AND SEAL.

'Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out e'en to the edge of doom.
If this be error, and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man-ever loved.'"

"There's an error proved upon me," said the doctor,
biting his lips as' he looked at Faith who had listened de-
lightedly. "Come on! I'll stop no more.  The thing is,
Linden, that I am less happy than you--I never found any
real gold in my life!"
bAh you expect gold to come set with diaonds,--ald
that cannot always be. I don't doubt you have gold
enough to start a large fortune, if you would only rub it
up and make it productive."
The doctor made no answer to that, and the reading
went on; Faith becoming exceedingly engrossed with the
progress of the frama. She listened with an eagerness
which both the readers amusedly took heed of, asthe suc
cessive princes of Morocco and Arragon made their trial;
;r  the doctor avowing by the way, that he thought lie should
have "assumed desert" as the latter prince did, and received
the fool's head for his pains. Then they came to the beau-
tiful "casket scene." The doctor.had somehow from the
-   beginning left Portia in Mr. Linden's hands; and now gave
with great truth and gracefulness the very graceful words
of her successful suitor. He could put truth into these,
and did, and accordingly read beautifully; well heard, for
the play of Faith's varying face skewed she went along
thoroughly with all the fine turns of thought and feeling;
here and elsewhere. But how well and how delicately Mr.
Linden gave Portia! That Dr. Harrison could not have
done; the parts had fallen out happily, whether by chance
or design. Her ladylike and coy play with words-her
transparent veil of delicate shifting turns of expression--
contriving to say all and yet as if she would say nothing-
were rendered by the reader with a grace of tone every
.way fit to them. Faith's eye ceased to look at anybody,
and her colour flitted, as this scene went on; and when
Portia's address to her fortunate wooer was reached--that
very noble and dignified declaration of her woman's mind,
43*


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.            511

, ; . i" ' ,
.
^  it             I
',il;,! ;    ,.
J,     i,
VHil"i; _I  ill
i.. l'11 Y     '''l    't
11A"         If, 1
''S     ?ii    1 ,
.    i11
I}  i           '

when she certainly pulled off her gloves, wherever else she
might wear them;-Faith turned her face quite away from
the readers and with the cheek she could not hide sheltered
by her hand--..as well as her hand could-she let nobody
but the fire and Mrs. Derrick seeswhat a.flush covered the
other. Very incautious in Faith, but it was the best she
could do. And the varied interests that immediately fol-
lowed, of Antonio's danger and deliverance, gradually
brought her head round again and accounted sufficiently
for the colour with which her cheeks still burned. The
Merchant of Venice was not the only play enacting that
-evening; and the temptation to break in upon the one, made
the doctor, as often as he could, break off the other; though
the interest of the plot for a while gave him little chance.
"So shines a good deed in &amp; naughty world."
"Do you suppose, Miss Derrick," said Dr. Harrison
with his look of amused pleasure,--" that is because the
world is so dark ?-or because the effects of the good diedI
reach to such a distance ?"
"Both," said Faith immediately.
"You think the world is so bad ?"k
"1 don't know much of the world," said Faith,-.-"but I
suppose the shining good deeds aren't so very many."
"What makes a good deed shining ?" said the doctor.
Faith glanced at Mr. Linden. But he did not take it up,
and she was thrown back upon her own resources. She
thought a bit.
"I suppose,".-.she said,--"its coming from  the very
spirit of light.E
"You must explain," said the doctor good-humouredly.
but smiling,-t' for that puts me in absolute darkness."
"I don't know very well how to tell what I mean," said i
Faith colouring and looking thoughtful ;-" I think I know. i
Things that are done for the pure love of God and truth, I I
think, shine; if they are ever so little things, because really
there is a great light in them.' I think they shine more
than some of the greater things that people call very bril-
liant, but that are lone from a lower motive."
"I should like"-said the doctor-" Can you remember
an instance or two ? of both kinds ?"

c

510

Well Faith remembered an instance or. two of one kind,
which she could not instance. She sought in her memory.
"When Daniel kneeled upon his knees three times a day to
pray, with his windows open, after the king's law had for-
bidden any one to do it on pain of death,-" said Faith-
"I think that was a shining good deed!"
"But that was a very notable instance," said the doctor.
"It was a very little thing he did," said Faith. "Only
kneeled down to pray in his own room. And it has shined
all the way down to us."
"And in later times," said Mr. Linden,-"when the ex-
ploring shallop of the Mayflower sought a place of settle-
ment, and after beating about in winter storms came to
anchor Friday night at Plymouth Rock;--all Saturday
was lost in refitting and preparing, and yet on Sunday they
would not land. Those two dozen men, with no human
eye to see, with every possible need for haste1"
"That hasn't shined quite'so. far," said the doctor, "for
it never reached me.  And it don't enlighten me now!
I should have landed."
"Do you know nothing of' the spirit of Say and Seal,
as well as the province ?" said Mr. Linden.
"As how, against landing ?"
"They rested that day 'according to the commandment.
Having promised to obey God in all things, the seal of their
Obedience was unbroken."
"Well, Miss Faith," said the doctor-"Now for a counter
example."
"I know so little of what has been done," said Faith.
"Don't you remember some such things yourself, Dr. Har-
rison ?-Mr. Linden?"-The voice changed and fell a little
as it passed from one to the other.
"General Putnam went into the wolf's den, and pulled:
him out"-said the doctor humorously,-"that's all I can
think of just now, and it is not very much in point. I don't
know that there was anything very bright about it except
the wolf's eyes !-But here we are keeping Portia out of
doors, and Miss Derrick waiting! Linden-fall to."' And
with comical life and dramatic zeal on the doctor's part, in
a few minutes more, the play was finished.

'! i
i
! I
I'
s


512

SAY AND SEAL.

. t Ali   'i'
I       ,  ,    t,
i           ',
IS   j.,jE l    ,
;; , ; i; ,, ,,,
f.  .   _      ,,.

"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor gravely as he rose and
stood before her,-"I hope you approve of plays."
Mrs. Derrick expressed her amusement and satisfaction,
"Miss Faith," he said extending his hand,--.." I have to
thank you for the most perfect enjoyment I have ever had
of Shakspeare. I only wish to-morrow evening would roll
off on such swift wheels-but it would be too much. Look
where this one has rolled to!" And he chewed his watch
and hurried) off; that is, if Dr.1 Harrison could be said to
do such a thing.
The rest of the party also were stirred from their quiet.
Mrs. Derrick went out; and Mr. Linden, coming behind
Faith as she stood by the fire, gently raised her face till he
could have a full view of it, and asked her how she liked
being in Venice?
"Very much," she said, smiling and blushing at him,_...
"very much!"
"You are not the magician's coin 1" he said, kissing her.
"You are not even a witch. Do you know how I found'
that out?"
"No"--she said softly, the colour spreading over her
face and her eyes falling, but raised again immediately to
ask the question of him.
"A witch's charms are always dispelled whenever she
tries to cross running water !"-
She laughed; an amused, bright, happy little laugh, that
it was pleasant to hear.
"But what did Dr. Harrison mean,-by what he said
when he thanked me ? What did he thank me for ?"
"He said for a new enjoyment of Shakspeare."
"What did.he mean ?"
"Do you understand how the sweet fragrance of mig-
nonette can give new enjoyment to a summer's day ?"
She blushed exceedingly. "But, Mr. Linden, please
don't talk so! And I don't want to give Dr. Harrison
enjoyment in that way."
"Which part of your sentence shall I handle first ?" he
said with a langhing flash of the eyes,--"'Dr. Harrison'-
or 'Mr. Linden'?"
" The first," said Faith laying her hand deprecatingly on
his arm ;-." and let the other alone !"

7

i.'
t f ii tf'/

SAY AND SEAL.                513
f"How am Ito 'please not to talk'?"
"So-as I don't deserve," she said raising her grave
t eyes to his face. "I would rather have you tell me my
;wrong things."
He looked at her, with one of those rare smiles which
belonged to her; holding her hand with a little soft motion
of it to and fro upon his own.
"I am not sure that I dare promise 'to be good," he
said,-"I am so apt to speak of things as I find them.
And Mignonette you are to me-both in French and
IEnglish. Faith, I know there is no glove upon your
hand,-and I know there is none on mine; but I cannot
nfeel, nor imagine, any friction,...can you?
She looked up and smiled. So much friction or promise
of it, as there is about the blue sky's reflection in the clear
deep waters of a mountain lake-so much there was in the
soft depth-and reflection-of Faith's eyes at that moment.
So deep,-so unruffled ;--and as in the lake, so in the look
that he saw, there was a mingling of earth and heaven.
END OF VOL. .

..s,.


  
             
         
       
   
