
    ----CITATION----
        Thorpe, Thomas Bangs, (1815-1878). The Master's House .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8057
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The master's house 
            
               I

T H E M AS-T EIn.

I

THE~

MASTER'S HOUSE;

A

TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

LOGAN; psI?
U1 WA8 ALWAYS THEl FRIEND OF THlE WHIITEI MAN."

1LIVSTRATE~ I~Y

D RA WINGS FR OM N.A U R$.

NEW-YORK :
T. L. MotLRATHI &amp; Co., 17 SPRUCE STREET.
LONDON: JOHN CASSELL.
1854.

7
I


E~II'ERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by
L M~EL1~AT11 &amp; CO.,
In tbe Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Now-York.

AI
-1

PREFACE.
EVENTS of every-day life are constantly occurring,
which, if recorded, would make more thrilling hi~to..
ries than many of the volumes which aspire to have
no other character than' that of romantic interest, 4
produced at the sacrifice, if needs be, of every other
quality.
In the present volume, a truthful story of &amp;~th-
em life has been conscientiously recorded,-or~ ~~ot
unusual in the country of' its Iooation, yet~ ~~st
deeply' interesting, for the many morale it8 detailed
naturally suggest.
It is the privilege and the duty of the living  4
and responsible actors upon the stage of life to learn
from the experience of the past, akid make, infer-
ences of what may naturally occur in the' fQtui~e.


(i  PRFACEPREFACE.                                                                        7

If any thing be set down in the pages that follow
this imperfect preface which creates surprise in the
reader,-developes an unexpected phase in society,
-or exhibits an heretofore unfamiliar sentiment,-
the question that arises, can these things be true?
should be seriously thought over; and then should
come the inquiry, what are the extraordinary causes
that produce them in the organization of society?
What may be the effect of the "Master's
IXouse" upon the reader, the author cannot antici-
pate.; his own understanding of the purposes in-
tended is clear, and if he has failed, it has been
from a determination on his part to s~f~en his pic-
tures, rather than "to give them in their true, but
n6t unexaggerated colors.
lilt would sometimes seem as if the influence of
Christianity was fading from the world, or that its
ministers had lost their influence, when its plainest
precepts can be violated, without rousing a spirit of
condemnation, which, if impotent to eiitirely prevent,
might at least protest against the disregard of the
plainest precepts of the moral law.
~This volume is dedicated to the lovers of man-
kind,-to those who desire the highest development,

arid would, by having the evils of society exposed,
learn where to commence the necessary reform.
There are defects in ou~ social and political systems
that are working evils, which, if not checked, and
finally eradicated, must accomplish universal ruin.
The remedies, if of the right kind~ are neither in-
stant in their operation, nor revolutionary in their
character; the first advancement, is 'the admi~ion
that reform is needed, and then the manner of it8
accomplishment will readily suggest itself

6

PREFACE.

7


CONTEND
CHAPTER.
T.-~MALBEN ANI) ITS ASSOCIATIONS
The town-The old Hastings House
of~tu~shine-The students.
IL-CoLu3~oE ~1~XEROISES
Commencement day-Degrees confex
ble sentiments--The prophecies od
lJt-INOII~ENT5~ OF MILEMAY'S REALLY
The Mother-Sacrlflce for educatlo
resolution of the young 5tudent-~
IV.-MILDMAY PURCHASES "HERITAGE
Graham goes to Loulslana-.-Bteamb
Ulty-Fenwick makes a plea.~ant
flattering attenti~ns-A runaway r
on's sympathy for the suffering ne~
Y..~-~MAJou ThXON AND RIB
Dixon's business habits--his ohar~ote
-IAzRy, th~ negross-The "]?~oes~
VL-BEN BEADS THE STORY OP CHAEL
Interesting account of a fugIt1ve~ fro
DiXOn'S counnonta hereoa-~Cross
alone.
VII.-A VARIETY OF INOII)ENTS
Grahaiarenioyes to Louisiana-The ki
growth of cottoI~-Depre~slng eff~
of the' sweet potato crop-Tho P~
Transformation of the college stuM
Maiden-Annie Hastings.

Is
PA4~E.
13
-Coflego preferences--A ray
*       .       .     22
Ted-Graham Mlldmiiy-No-
rthe future.
ThaTOiw . . 30
n-Dr. Elliott's school-The
L~he pledge of affection.
PLACE"         .      38
tnit tr*weJjers-The Crescent
a~qna1ntanco-Ma.jor Dixon's
called to znind-M~Jor Dlx-
~ro.
*               .48
~-.desoriI4l9n of his ~'pen"
ES BROADAX
in the 5~toney~ille Gasette--
putposes-Dlfferent linpres.
*       .          69
Ltc~ie~i or~olewE~rsordIna~y
~ ~of ~ior~pnpr's description
~p~rtpi~e4-The Emigration-
sit~#~Tho night-watch on the
ce..-Tbepisnter-lleturn to


10                           OO~TP.l~TS.
OW1~ZR.                                                       PA(~E~
~ VIIL-..A   PLEASANT DREAM MADE REALITY         .       .     85
Dopartute from the o14 homestead--Journey down the Mississippi
-Unexpected 4ifficulties-A novel mode of travoU~ng-Arrival
at home.
IX.-AN    UNsuccEssFuL ENTERPIUsE         .               .  93
*          Dixon pr~pprea for action-The town of Stoneyville-A merry
teamster.-.LoquaoJous landior4..~Pleasantd1nner.-StOrY0CBefl
tom-Arrest of's fugitive-The result.
X..-4nE Quu~v CLOSE OF DAY            .              .     114
Southern domestic scenes-The 8un goes down-The sick negro-
The place of repose-The family altar-Pleasant dreams.
XT.-Aii ORDEAL DISOBEYED                  .       .       . 123
The proscribed lash-Col. ?rlce~s vlsit-"Electioneering tour"-~-
tThe boyJack-Mr. Toadvine receives ~ympatby and valuable
hdvlce from his friend-Efficacy of water.melons-4tubbs snd~
his p~U~J-An affecting remiz4scence.
The plea~antride~OOliipiliflent5 when servants meet-Arrival at
Mr. etou~&amp;-~Tiie matron at home-A perpetual motion-
Domestt~ scenes.
XIIL-EvERY     DAY INCIDENTS       '.       .      .       . 148
A convemation-ReminIscen~cs-The courtly Col. Lees-A visit to
- the quarters as valuable messenger-Effective Pantomime-A
precocious. child-Aunty's ~redictlons.
XIV.-Txn~ HQSPITAI3LE ]3OARD.            .      .       .    162
The lrrtiption-Order restor~d-A new version of an old story--
Childish amusements on' the lawn-Sagacity of the hound-
Pug~y Bill transported with joy-Return home.
XV.-Tur TrrLza DEED . -, . . . . 1'~O
7~squire Holiby-The purchaser-MIIdmSy pronounced upon by
competent judges-Worse cases known-Legal technicalltles-
Re~lhlb1tory~-~Critfral Examlnation-A preference expressed-
The Signature.
XVL-.~..DxXO~'s Ri~iionsn        .      .       .       .    185
Pleasant excItement a1~ l3eechland andvlclz~lty-ArrIval of Rev.
Mr. Go~liawk-The fair widow-.~The concourse at the church
~HappytfluencesofsUcb occasions-Effect on MajorDixon-
Re~oltitlons for the.fatnre~~..Sc2eneln the sick room-A consoling
friend-Black ghosts.

XVJL-DixN      ACQUIREs PEACE OF MINk        .-:    .
A knotty ques on propeunded~-An lmpre~s1ve sermon-4)Jxon's
surprise at *hat he heard-becomes reconciled.-8landers re- ~ -
futed-Dixon regenerated.
XVJIJ..-PJ~A~rx~ OF JACK    .      .       .       .       .    211
An impetuous horsemau.-The Ja1lei~s attempts ~o ~inolUfy~ his
guest-Toadvine's continued bad luck..~.-Voor J~ack has many
friends-Ails beliavIor.~.-Patriotic n~nslc-NightcIoses In as he
starts for home.

XX.-.THE REsCUE         .       .      .       .      .     ~29
The decision of the Jury-The object of v~engoanee-FutI1eat~
tempt to escape-The futal cord-Unexpected btefrupt1ozi.-.~
The appeal 1ir ]nercy-~-The result.
XXI.-ITNEX~ECTED RELATIONSUII.          .      .       .
Gen. Bledsoe-A cordial receptlon-Consangulnlty-old Dan-
1The fearful ride-The solitary funeral-The grace-.-Curlous di-
visibility-The retaining fee provided for.
XXJL-I3xxoN     JOURNEYS ON BusiNEss                .      . 261
Demand and supply-$lgnificant chirography- Dixon attends
church-Improves his opportunity-A "hard up" neighbor-
hood ruined by the Yankees-Receipt for "stsrtlngw~ll."
XXIII.-DIXON's UNEX~PECTED ~ucoxss .
Theindefatigable agent-Sensitive on the charactc~r of one's busIness
-Mister and Master-Prlvate coiTespondelc~-lts efi'ect-.--The
considerate owner-A bad education, and Its result-Tbe last
orders, and triumph.
XXLV.-ABSTRA0TIONS AN]) 1~EALITIES           -.     .
An aristocratic Institution-All menfree and equal-A good de-
bater jumping at a wrong eonelusion-Blacksmiths wanted-
Good suggestions-Wouldi~'t yisid oven a prejudice.
XXV.-THE Foi~s OF LAW                   .       .      .    ~28$
Entrance of the prisoner-Empanelling the jury-t)oughfaees.~.
Talesmen-Model jurors, by all means-The Industrious saddler,
part of the law-A principle of action.

XTX.-THE EXCITEMENT OF THE 1~OUR'        .       .      . 219
A dark deed-An extemporaneous Jury-Vague speculattoita-The
conclave-The decision.

h
1


12                          CO~NTS.
o~AmR.
X~VL-TII~ 1~JCS~ MONY         .     ,.,                     * 297
Qrci4I~ tI~ jailei~-~'he term. "lnteilcated" difficult to understand
ocuwity against eross.que6ttenlng-RunaWays. dangerous-
kstandlng w1tness-So~er as any~getxtlernau-Ready to take a
"sw'ar"-A mild, very mild ~uau-Puvper engounsj,~ewent to a
bashful man.
XZ~L~-A~i A&amp;niauoAN W~A~N1~ss                             .    826
Tli~piny woods-Candldat~ with a good c~-(~apt. Duffy White,
..~.An independent ~outpa'llst-Tflokniau's price-Look before
you leap-The Disappelutment-One passion displaced by
another.
The cballenge-~The fearful ~trnggle-ResponslbI1lty transferred to
another-The white rose-Governor's alarm.....Neglectofinstruc~
t1ons-~w. Moretoxi's co~irage-The picnic.
XXIX.-Th.n CATAs~rnor1rZ          .     ,~.                   358
Nature lnharmnlons.wtlIi mlu&amp;.'Huimblesympathy-Ui3avalling
.ffi~s for peace-The Cornbataute-An unpleasant donbt~re-
vlved'-.Th0 reminder-Sudden onthuslasm'-.Tbo thrilling mo-
ment~-.-The Catastropbc~
X~X.-TmjiWn~oW        ~i~D Oat'u~Ns.        .       .
Aunt M ret-~.Toots-M*~. Moreton's womanly fears-The car-
riages apprcach-'~flie suspense-The truth becomes known-
CoL Lee reptilsed~-.The re~ct1on-The imewaillng denuncla-
~lon~-~Tlxe'aiigel of merey~.-~0ne placid Aice.
Mlldmay returns from the ~eld-StartUn~ change-The mind con-
fused-The truth at last obtained-What Is tl~e f~ztu~e-~-A faint
hope of peace-Cd. Lee's sudden d9par0h~N1ghtthlL

xxxIL~~*. *'* * *

.3890

4

TilE MASTER'S ROUSE;,
A TAL~ OF. SOUThERN LIffE.~
C~AETER L
MALDI~lN A1W ITS ASSOCIATIONS.
~if-,
Tiiiau~ is not amoreeharming town in New ]iriglan4,~Iian
Maiden, so w~elebrated, and' so widely kudWii *~orits' in~U-
gent population, its interesting traditions, i~ud i~s mo~t ex-
cellent seat"'bf learning.'
JYntil recently, ~ald"ea xetain~d 4~ite a' zur~l ~ar-
ance, and presented a o1it~rzning tnirture of tasteful, cot.
tages, ornamented with choice slihibbery; and a few'grand'
old mansions, half hidden away among *hns more' t~han a
cenhiry old.
The students who find a temporary home gt ~al4en,'
bear patiently with many ini~gina~ grievances of coU~go
iife,, rather than abandon its boAutif~ili~eets, its ~8tiI~
respie highways and hospitahl~inh~1Lii~ant~.    . if' if.
Near the centre of one of the principal thorouEf&amp;~e~'Ai
is an old, yet noble koking bous~, which attracts attention

12

coNTENTS.

.


I,

14

TIlE MASTER'S HOUSE;

from the most superficial observer. It seems to stand out
from among the more pretentious residences by which it is
surrounded, as would John Hancock in his rich but quaint
costume, if suddenly thrust into a group of modern gen-
tlemen.
There is a width of front, and massiveness of stone-
work about this grand old house, a ludicrous largeness
about the knocker, and a mysterious symbolization about
the coat of arms wrought among the mouldings over t~ie
door-way, that tells a tale of men and sentiments whieh
have for ever passed away, yet there is left behind a mark,
well calculated to command profound respect.
The inhabitants of this old mansion were descendants of
a family whose members were famous among our Puritan
fathers, yet there was little left to them but the traditional
greatness of the past. They retained of a once splen-
did fortune, a 'simple competency, but with 'decreasing
wealth came increasing pride. They lived almost in the
seclusion of ascetics, and, cornplacent themselves, they had
apparently no desire to conciliate the goad will of the less
pretentious people about them, and thereby were almost
forgotten, or unobserved by the inhabitants of MaIden.
On summer days they ~could-be seen moving to church
with a stately manner, that shed a kind of chilling influence
about them, and having arrived at the. "house of prayer,"
they took their seats "for worship," with a grim 'smile of
satisfaction,' which would have done honor to the sternest
spirits of the "Protectorate."~
Upon week days they were rarely seen in 'the streets,
and then guarded from intimacy by a careful attention to

A TALE OF SOUT~IERN LIFE.

15

'dress, which seemed to render them incapable of performing
a hearty salutation, or indulging a genial smile, ~withoiit
deranging a personal appearance of so much importance~ to
be preserved, that it must be done, even at the sacrifice of
the symbolic language of courtesy and friendship.
The unsociabilityy of the hastings family," as hinted,
made little impression upon the town; it was kept before
the inhabitants more by the noble looking old mansion,
than by any thing else, and perhaps it would not have been
observed at all, but for, the fact, that Annie Hastings, the
only young person in this family, had, imperceptibly to her
staid guardians and to the community, grown into nn at-
tractive, laughing, hearty girl; but as she made acquaint-
ances with her s~li~olniates of her own age, and was beloved
by all whom she met, she shed over the previous dreary asso-
ciations of her household, a genial sunshine, so natural
to youth, and so contagious in spite of one's self.
Annie, although naturally of an enthusiastic tempera-
ment, had, insensihly to herself, adopted a quiet manner,
the natural result of the education she had received, and
the 'examples set before her; yet she was a' great favorite
with the few students' who were occasionally indebted to
the inmates of the Hastings House for a kind of formal
hospitality, given more because having company was a tra-
ditionary peculiarity, than a present necessity. She was
also an object of interest, because it was thought by many
a visionary youth, that Annie must be very miserable, im-
mured, as they imagined, a sort of prisoner, amongbthe
solemn people within' the heavy walls of the "old~ Hast-
ings House."

I

i


,A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          17

16              TUE MA8TER~S HOUSE

Among all the students of Maiden, Graham ~ildmay
was the only one who maintained the p~ition ~i a con-
s~ta~t visitor at the home of Annipliastings. lie was a
"Southern student," known to be the heir 'of a large es-
tate, possessed a tall and manly personal appearance, pleas-
ing aanners, and what is not uncommon to youth from his
'section of country, but yet' 'not characteristic, was of
rather a serious temperament.
It might be supposed that the constant visits of a gen-
erous hearted and noble looking young stranger, ~would
h~we created a sentiment in Annie's heart that would soon
ripen into love; but~ Graham Mildm~y was so courteouS, so
deferential in manner, that the fact of his being the most
distinguished student of his college, gratified Annie's pride,
called into action her intellectual faculties, but excited no
deeper emotions.
But' this was not all. Aunie~ Hastings was still very
young, and ~he was so educated to look upon herself; she
also had that proper appreciation of her own' merits and
position, that she never thought admirers would be dilUcult
'to obtain. But there was a difference of sentiment exist-
ing~bet*een Mildmay and herself, that had been the sub-
ject of a thousand conversations, and yet had never been
reconciled, and this disagreement involved a high principle,
that waS in Annie's feelings' only to be overcome by an in-
tensity of' love, still foreign to her heart.
'Mildmay, was cordially accepted among the, young
men. of- ttie college from his section of the Union, ~s "one
of' their'~own set," yet he never entered heartily into their
dissipations, or became :seriously involved in any way, with

their rqj~4~s am~jsements. lie was popular with all who
knew *~is'nian1iness, and seamed to happi~yeon~bine
industrious habits with the cultivated inanne~ and easy
bearing, so peculiar to the youth of the South. There was
a sense of innate worth, and ~pecuniary ability about Mild-
may, that so, frequently distinguishes the highly ecbxeatea
planter from the' mere busi~es~ man, which, joined with h*
acknowledged moral worthmade him a universal favorite.
His manners atoned for many thoughtless breaches of disci-
pimp, on the part of his fellow ~outheruer~, and he was
every where spoken of, as one destined to a high position
in the councils of his country, and assigned a leading place
as a future statesman of- the ~South.
With two or three of his intimate friends, Mildmay
sauntered down the principal street of Maiden; he was in
fine spirits, for he had carried ~off the "honors~ of his
class," and as "~aledictoric&amp;n," was the hero of 'the hour.
No one felt envious that he~wore the scholastic ctown.
Through four long years ~f study he bad been ui~iformly
at the head of his classes, had never maliciously broken a
college' rule, had originated no diiUojilty with hit
students, had always been' generous to prodigality;~ and all
the while, seemingly, the least ambitious student in the in-
stitution.
The group of young gentlemen as they pursued their
way, as if attracted by some magnetic in~uence, passed the
old and aristocratic mansion of the Hastings family; Ann'
nie was only partially visible at the window, for a ambi-
tious vine covered with ~ay flowers, crept luxuriantly over
the casement, concealing a full view of her fair face; while


18

THE MAS~R7S nous~~;

her hand, on which she leaned, was involved in her flaxen
curls. ~ Somewhat to her own astonishment, she was sad,
and felt it was because she was thinking of the olwnge that
~ould take place in her circumscribed world, by the break-
ing up of the Senior Class of the Halls of MaIden.
" I see," said Singleton Minor, looking archly at Mild-
may, ~'that you have brought us on a pilgrimage to your
own shrine, and will give us a chance at a respectful dis-
tance, to worship my lady of a thousand graces."
"Very natural indeed," quoth Reynolds Calhoun.
"Graham wishes us to see how pretty northern-sentiments
j~an be done up in angelic forms. I think my faith Would
be staggered, if pretty Annie Hastings would condescend
to give me a lecture on the enormous sin of o~ir 'peculiar
"And &amp; poor preacher indeed would she be," said
Adolph Marigny, heartily laughing, "for she would carry
into slavery an honest Christian youth of our own land,
and one nearly as fair as herself. I think," continued Ma-
rigny, seemingly very earnest indeed, "I think universal
emaucip&amp;tion must prevail, unless ~we can make out a special
case in favor of a particular individual; "and the gay Lonisi-
~nian looked knowingly at the victim of all this badinage.
- At this instant Annie looked up, and she was greeted
by respectful- salutations, that would have been gracefully
conspicuous at the~tournaments. of old.
"I think," said Mildmay, as the party passed on, "that
you are all quite merry with your tongues, but I see that
you are also very envious in your hearts, ~as you have cause
to be."

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.           19
"We are enviQus of course," said Marigny, "for
we have made sour calculations, what a cozy 1~iine you
will have of it,~with that fine old yellow brick mansion,
shining out fro~rn among the magnolias; it will be quite re~
fleshing in a new country to see a little hraldry, with the
legitimate excuse, that you inherited it,.forldoubtif Miss
Hastings would ever leave MaIden, unless she could take
the old ho~ise away with here"
"You will of course improve it with a wine-cellar and
a billiard-room," suggested Calhoun; "for these are things
that would in this Jericho pull down the walls but I
think," he continued, "that they would stand unharmed,
by such necessary associations, amid the free airs of the
Mississippi valley."
"And, besides, we might have expected this,"said Sin-
gleton Minor; "for you remember, boys, how very eloquent
Mildmay got, in the Society rooms, about the Goths com-
ing down upon the fair fields of Italy! He se&amp;ms to have
a taste for these incursions into foreign lands. If. I could
afford to sacrifice my inclinations to patriotisrn~I do not
know but' that some. of these fair descendants of the
'roundheads' might capture the last of a race of cavaliers.
I must confess I have had my-traditional prejudices terri-
bly shaken."
"The way was prepared for this somewhat," said Cal-
houn, turning to Singleton, "by your romantic affection
for the daughter of either old General Fairfax, or Oliver
Cromwdll,.-~--I forget which; you can turn to Carlyle at
your leisure, and learn the particulars,"
"And if you will leave the unintelligible author you


s

halve named, and read more English history," continued
Calhoun, "you will find that this same staid daughter
of Fairfax ~was, in time, the wildest duchess at the gay
cOurt of *'the dissipated Charles; and this fact is what re-
deem8* this puritanical human nature. The women are
always more intelligent, more facile, and more patriotic
than the men."
"Gentlemen!" said Mildinay fii~al'ly, with some feel-
ing; "your jests have the merit of wit, and perhaps of
con~pliment; yet they trench somewhat' on personal
gi~ound, 'because' suggested 'by, though not necessarily
alluding to, a particular lady. I aiu sorry, however, to
perceive," he continued, "that in spite of. your lon&amp; resi-
dence' here, you still make mental distinctions between the
people of this great republic. I am for myself determined
to kniw not1ain~ of the kind, and, above all; will 'I never
allow prejudiced to conti~ol me, which originated with' the
British nation centuries before we were "born."
"Patriotism is not wholly dead, in' spite of. what disap-
pointed politicians say," said Marigny, looking with real
admiration at Mildmay; "but it is after' all," he' con-
tinued, "the beautiful and good girls of this same sterile
New England, who make us feel our homes are the same,
w~iether North or South, and I say, may' Heaven bless
themall!"
".Treas&amp;n is rife,-the South is in 'danger,-the Ama-
zonsof the North conquer,-they rush upon' our defence.
'less cohorts, and capture husbands with a precision ~that
finds but a dim parallel in the red man lariating the wild
horse on the prairie," returned Calhoun, at the same time

taking the arm of Minor7 and gracefi~lly bowing, he turned
into7 an obscure street, leaving Marigny and Mildmay
together.
Miidmay was annoyed; there wasp something in 'the
half-concealed sneers of the reckless ~Calhoun, that caused
a dark cloud to 'pass over his face: hia companion noticed
it, and with some concern inquired,
"Has any thing happened to offend you?"
"Nothing,". said Mildmay, "that is personal to my-
self; yet, nevertheless, I feel the, deepest chagrin and
mortification that Calhoun, gifted as he, is, represents so
many of our Southern youth; possesse&amp;of abilities beyoiid
the ordinary standard of young men, he has passed through'
his college course without endingg it necessary to ever
seriouslyy arouse from his natural indolence. He will wheu
he goes home give no useful tone to hi~ comn~iity. . He
sees all the salient points of these ~ew Englandors, and
remembers for a contrast, all the superficially magnificent
qualities of his native State; but there ends his phi-
losophy."

4

N

20

A TALE O~ BOUTU~fl~T LIFE.           21

TH]~ MASTER'S I~oU~E;


22              THE M4STEU'5 HOUSE;                                                      A TALE OF SOUTH~ERN LiFE.           2S

CHAPTER II.
COLLEGE EXERCISES.
AT an early hour of the morning, the usually quiet town of
MaIden presented a scene of interesting excitement. Car-
riages and footpassengers lined the highways, all moving
towards one common 'centre. It was "Commencement
Day.."
The citizens generally -suspended business, that they
might do honor to the celebration. Among the throng
appeared grave and reverend gentlemen, who displayed a
singular knowledge of the streets and college buildings,
but were strangers to the citizens-these were "the boys of
former years:" their greetiiigs with each other were cor-
dial, and sometimes of painful interest; then there were a
younger aPd more vigorous race, who had still many asso-
ciations not destroyed by time, who still knew all the old
shopkeepers, and many of the permanent residents of MaI-
den: these were members of classes of quite recent times.
Then there were juveniles, who had just entered upon
their collegiate course, full of hope and full of fear, victims
of many practical jokes, but merry withal.

Then came the "boys in college," assuming airs fr&amp;m
their superiority of knowing what was, going on,-wheti
came off the speeches,-who were to make, them,-aud
what "societies" would gain the most distinguished
honors. Then there was the "graduating class,"-its
members generally happy, and over dressed, running to
and fro, as connected with ~all sorts of incomprehensible
committees; hunting up stray musicians, spurring on in-
dolent landlords and heavy carpenters, and fretting and
fuming generally, as they should, on such important oeca-
Bioris.
Prominent in the scene were the professors of the cal-
lege, arrayed in a suit that never made its appearance~
but once in a year,-looking ineffably pleased, and seem-
ingly as awkward and embarrassed in the confusion as the
just initiated freshmen themselves; laborious, and gener-
ally conscientious men, but who seem to feel it is no stretch
of truth to tell a thousand anxious parents, that "their
boys" are the best in school, and the only ones "that give
no trouble they looking the while careworn, and feeling
their souls sunken into despondency, by the undutiful
goings on of these very objects of so much maternal solici-
tude and professorial compliment. -
Lastly, there is the "old Prex," with his gray hair,
and frosty face, moving about like a father among his
children, relaxed from his usual dignity, for his heart is
really pained that he is soon to bid adieu to many that he
loves, however severe he may have seemed. Good and
generous old man! he moves across the college-green,----
the prGnAscuous groups drop their conversation,-the ban-


24               THE MASTEI~'5 HOUSE;

A TALE OF .S0UTHunN LIFE.

nera wave,-the music splits the ear with discordant
sounds,-and the procession forms and winds its way to
the church,' where the orations are to be delivered, and the
degrees conferred.
The gay throng passes by, and what a glorious sight!
They go not armed with the musket and sword, but with
the vivifying power of knowledge: there are before you
veterans in the cause of learning, as well as the just en-
listed volunteer.
We kept with them our joyous step, and remember well
the thrill of pleasure that filled our heart, as we performed
our part in the peaceful pageantry; we have since helped
make out the heavy tread of desolating soldiery; we have
shouted, as we have, aided in carrying our country's flag
upon the battlements of our nation's foes'; we have' wit-
nessed the fearful cost~ of such a triumph, and heard the
loud acclaim of a nation's admirLation ;-yet, for all this, the
sunshiny bands that issue annually from our collegiate
halls, and under the regis of peace, pursue their useful
triumphs, do more' for the real glory of their country than
all the more showy, and more attractive sons of war.
how gay the old church looks! The altar is hidden
by the well carpeted stage;' the galleries are crowded
with bright faces of beauty, and every where arc to be
seen the fond parents and the &amp;ting sisters, of those who
have allotted parts in the exercises of the day. Long it
seems they have waited, but anon the distant music is heard,
and the whisper goes through the expectant assemblage that
"they come;" presently, the faculty, the trustees, the
graduates, the students, each in turn, make their appear-

ance, and the body of the vast building is completely
filled. The band strikes up an enlivening air; the strains
die away% when some appointed patriarch rises from his
scat, and in solemn tones, offers upa prayer of thanksgiv-
ing to the common Father of all.
The student must, in his career through the world, act
in more exciting scenes; he may himself, in time, preside
over these very same ceremonies, or as a learned judge, or
powerful statesman, become involved in acts, the solemni-
ties of which are connected with more important relations,
'but he will remember more vividly than all else besides,
the opening of his Commencement Day celebration; it is
the first step he takes upon the road of life, where to turn
back is impossible, while yet the future is all uncertainty.
Reynolds Calhoun and Graham Mildmay were evidently
not only the popular orators with the students, but with
the people. The first named had selected for his theme
"The defence of the South;" the last mentioned, "The
importance of a liberal education t~ the American stu-
dent."
Jt had been whispered about, that both these young
men had, under different names, travelled over almost the
very same ground, and a deep anxiety was manifested, to
hear what was presumed would be the bold and brilliant
philippic of Calhoun, and the calm 'and close reasoning of the
deep, but more reflective Mildmay; it may be judged there~
fore, what was the disappointment of all, when the Presi-
detd announced that,
"Reynolds Calhoun was excused."
"As I feared," whispered Mildmay to Adolph Ma-
2

25

r

24


( ~

26               THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

rigny; "what a shame-the noblest sentiments, the most
profound statesmanship, and the happiest diction, charac-
terized his theme. Calhoun wrought it out under the heat
inspired by some unjust and bitter anti-southern remarks he
heard in the street, but the excitement gone, he has not
had energy enough left to repeat it here, where alone it
could be useful, and where alone he could make himself
felt in defence."
The degrees were conferred, the pleasant excitement
ceased, and Graham Mildmay stood before the audience.
As valedictorian, he had stamped upon himself, Without
creating envy or rivals, the claim of superior scholarship
over all the members of his class.-this was no small honor
-but he was, as we have already hinted, a favorite with
the people of the town, hi~ early history was known, and
it was more than usually interesting. From circumstances
peculiar to himself, he had. mingle{raore in society than
any of the other students, and the fact that he was so soon
by separation, to be almost entirely lost to his early friends,
gave unusual interest to his appearance.
Annie Hastings occupied a seat that commanded a per-
fect view of the stage, but was out of sight herself. As
th~ tall form of Nildmay rose before her, she felt con-
founded with herself, upon perceiving that her face burned
and her heart audibly beat.
"It must be the warmth of the rcom," thought she,
while endeavoring to catch more air from her waving fan,
for she continued,"II was never more oppressed in my
life."
Mildmay, in his address, rapidly and clearly surveyed

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.             2'7

what he conceived to be the popular prejudices of' the peo-
pie of the North against the South, and her peculiar insti-
tutions. He showed how slavery had been entailed upon
the States by no choice of those whom Providence had se-
lected to bear its responsibilities, and expatiated upon its
patriarchal7 and to the dependent, protective character.
He then treated of its moral influence upon society,
denied that it weakened a love of liberty in the master,
and illustrated his position by showing, that the leader*
of our revolution, and a galaxy of the highest names of
that interesting period of our national history, were of the
South.
He next dwelt upon the necessity of encouraging a pa-
ternal regard for the whole country, of taking liberal and
enlightened views of ~all questions which treated of the di-
versified interests which came under the notice of the
American citiren, and ~ongratiAated himself upon the fact,
that although his home and his worldly interests were in the
distant South, he had, by the accident of his education,
learned to love and understand the people of the North.
Addressing particularly the students of the college, he
said:
"Your leading and pervading thought should be, a
contemplation of the stupendous country of which you are
soon to be active citizens. If you find your sentiments
cramped by sectionality, contemplate its vastness; if you
lack enthusiasm, regard its glorious destiny.
"Remember that the fierce winds which revel about the
great lakes, and in winter sweep down the Aroostook, are
tempered in their southward course by the balmy airs of

4

27

26


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          29

28               THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

the Mexican Gulf, and the heats of the Rio Grande. We
hear the dashing surge of the wild Atlantic, as it beats
against ourrook.~bound coast on the east, and while we listen,
it is answered back in milder accents by the Pacific's wave
in the west.
But," he continued, "our physical strength, vast as
it is, extending over almost a continent, is surpassed in
interest and real importance by our moral culture. The
little school-house that nestles~in the corner of the road,
contains a hidden strength, which far surpasses in power
the wealth of our soil, or the mere geographical extent of
our empire.
"Education, the parent of liberty,-whose influence
withers kings, and consumes as with fire the power of the
oppressor, finds a place among us, whether it be in the cot-
tage of the poor man, or the pr6ud mansion of the rich.
"We walk forth in the ennobling consciousness of
sovereign power. We feel individually responsible for
the administration of our Government; its emoluments, its
honors, its glory, and its future, are in our individual keep-
ing. If we strive to perfectly perform our task, we will
leave as a heritage our own republican institutions."
Raving concluded his literary exercise, amidst the
wildest plaudits of a delighted auditory, he addressed sev-
erally the "Senate,"-the "Professors,".-then turning to
the venerable President, who was already dissolved in tears
of heartfelt admiration, he continued, "My father! to you
I owe an ever to be unpaid debt of gratitude. Your kind
hand has led me in safety through every seductive path of
youth, and your patience and example have inspired me

I:
K'
K'

with the necessity of wisdom, and the value of self-respect..
I leave you, sir, with i~he hope that I shall carry to my dis-
tant and future home, SUQIL a well-founded determination? to
honor your memory, that I shall in time, like yourself com-
mand the respect of my fellow-citizens, and have it ac-
corded to me, that I am not wholly useless in my day and
generation.
"To you; my classmates, what can I say? Fare-
well, is the most expressive word-but yet how feeble,
and how truly inadequate, to convey the feelings of my
heart. Remember, as you struggle for fame, the associa-
tions of to-day, and always feel, that we are a family of
brothers, scattered by necessity, not from choice-we have
already the responsibilities of American citizens resting
upon us, and if we fulfil them well, the most exalted dig-
nity is ours. Again I say, farewell! "..
Upon the breaking up of the vast assembly, Mildmay
was surrounded by innumerable well wishers, who shook
him by the hand, congratulated him upon his address, and
expressed admiration of his personal and intellectual quali-
ties.
For all these attentions he returned his thanks, with a
manner so charming and so sincere, that he captivated all,
as the most promising student that ever left the protection
of the old college; and while the young and enthusiastic
saw the future hero in Mildmay, the old and reflective
marked out for him a life of exalted usefulness, that was
one day, by its perfection, to make his name familiar with
the great and important interests of the world.

20

28


THE MASTER'S HOUSES
CHAPTER ilL
fl~~OIDENT5 OF MILDMAY'5 EARLY HISTORY.
Oi~i the evening following the exercises of "Commence-
ment," the residence of Dr. Elliott was thrown open, and
there assembled under its hospitable roof the friends of
the college of Malden, together with the alumni of the in-
stitution. The ceremony of reception being over, Dr.
Elliott, and a few old friends, found themselves~ seated
in a quiet place upon one of the spacious galleries that
surrounded the house, and there rested from the fatigues
of the day.
"You promised," said one of the visitors to Dr. El-
liott,"that you would give us some reminiscences of
young Mildmay, who has created such a sensation in his
favor, as the orator of the day; let us know something,
Doctor, of his personal history."
The kind-hearted instructor assented; an~ leaning
back on his well-cushioned easy chair, he related what
follows.
"It is now nearly twelve years ago, that I was one
evening sitting in my parlor, at my old boarding-school,

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIPE.           31
when I heard a knock, and getting up to~ see who wa~ de-
siring to come into the house, I met in the hail a lady,
dressed in deep mourning, and leading by the hand a deli.
cate-looking lad.
"After the usual compliments of meeting, she an-
nounced herself as a resident ok' North Carolina; she
stated that she was a widow, and that the lad was her
only son. She also said, that as he was heir to a large
estate, she felt the importance of his receiving such an
education, as would enable him in the best manner to dis-
charge the responsible duties that would eventually de-
volve upon him. She added, that through a respected
neighbor, a former pupil of mine, she was acquainted with
my capacity (she was pleased to say) t~ teach, and trust-
worthiness as a guardian of her child.
"Nothing she said would have enabled her to make the
sacrifice of being parted from him, although fully convinced
of its propriety, but the fact, that it was the often ex-
pressed injunction of Graham's father, that he should at a
suitable age be placed in a school at the North, and there
remain until his education was complete.
"The separation of the mother from her child was
one of the most painful things that I ever witnessed.
After repeated attempts to take formal leave, she was
finally obliged to steal away while he was asleep, and then
hurried from Mald~n for fear that her heart would compel
her to return.
"The lad I found of. a good, but at times self-willed
disposition; but as his mind expanded, he seemed to com-
prehend in a remarkable degree how much his mother had

I


32                                                                                       A TALE OF 5OUTI1EUI~T LIFE.         33

THE MASTER'S IIOUSE

sacrificed that he might receive the advantages of a good
education, and, it would appear, that lie had at an early
day determined to achieve a triumph.
"The declining health of the mother, who had each
successive year visited Maiden, finally~ assumed a' fatal
character; and by some temporary derangement of the
mails, the news of her decease did not reach Malden until
nearly two weeks after the sad event. From that time I
felt an additional interest in the success of Graham
Mildmay.
"Upon the very day on which he was examined and
declared to be well prepared to enter the freshman class
of the college, I was by the partiality of my friei~ds
elected to the honored office of its President, so that Gra-
ham still continued a member of my family, even up to
the present time; but to-day," said the Doctor? his voice
husky with emotion, "he has, with his college honors,
taken the place of a man in the wide world, and I lose
one of the best of pupils,-.and I will add, one of the
most esteemed friends it has ever been my fortune to
know.
"As a teacher, and I may say, parent of Graham, I
have endeavored to conscientiouslyxperform every promise
made to his excellent mother, and I think he now presents
to the world, a youth, of whom any fond father or doting
mother might be proud."
This exhibition of pardonable pride in the Doctor, as
he reflected upon the exercises of the day, and recalled the
triumph~ of his ~rot4g4, was sympathized in by all of his
auditors, and the conversation took a general character, the

I
{..
I

burden of which was, Graham's future, which was prophe-
sied would be a brilliant and useful career.
While the good Dr. Elliott was dwelling upon the
history of his muchdoved pupil, Mildmay was sitting in
the imposing parlor of the Hastings House. Years ago
had he first entered that old mansion, a thoughtless boy.
In all times since then he had beenreceived like a dis-
tant relation of the family, and was treated by the elderly
members almost as a child; but it seemed to him, that now
that he had graduated, a new spirit, and strange responsi-
bilities possessed him.
Instead of running up the steps, as was his usual cus-
tom, he walked as gravely as any Hastings could, into the
hall, where he met Annie,'and, involuntarily, he gave the
formal greeting of" Miss hastings."
"Miss, indeed," echoed Annie7 half amused, and half
surprised.
"Yes, Miss Hastings," said Mildmay, a strange sensa~
tion of bewilderment coming over his mind.
"Upon my word," said the fair girl, with one of her
merry laughs, "because you were the hero to-day, does it
necessarily follow that your language must move on. stilts."
"Not at all," returned Mildmay, as the two seated
themselves in the parlor, his voice softened almost to a
whisper, "but, Miss Hastings-Annie, I mean, are you
aware, that ]I leave MaIden to-morrow, and do. you think
that such a separation can be made. without any deep emo-
tion on my part?"
"I have no doubt you will feel deep regret at leaving
2*

$2


84              TUE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                   A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.           35

Dr. Elliott," said Annie, apparently very much occupied
in arranging a bouquet of flowers on a table near by.
," I shall, as you say, feel deep regret at parting with
Dr. Elliott, although I had not particularly recurred be-
fore to the fact," returned Mildmay, a little surprised him-
self at the reflection.
"~Then you are certainly very ungrateful," said Annie,
with a playfulness she evidently did not feel.
"Perhaps I am," replied Mildmay; "but Annie," he
continued, "with the necessity of leaving Malden, I have
most thought of leaving you. Malden has been for years
my home,-within its precincts are many of my most vivid
and pleasant recollections; but if I cannot take with me
the assurance that I am held in esteem by you, and also
the hope that I can return at some future time, and claim
a higher place than friendship in your affections, then upon
my departure will I be wretched indeed."
"You have certainly changed very much since yester-
day, Graham," said Annie, maintaining her presence of
mind, and controlling her feelings, "for to my knowledge,"
ehe continued, "you have been longing to get free from
the summons of the college bell-those hateful professors-
and, if your compliments at our tea table are not all pre-
tence, still more hateful commons."
"True," answered Graham, "such should be my re-
joicing, but it is not so; my ~fellow-students, when they
abandon their almc&amp; mctte~r, have warmer mothers to greet
them, and a thousand long-neglected home associations to
revive, but I have neither one nor the other. Away from
Malden, and I leave my most cherished friends behind me,

and shall be a perfect stranger, even where my worldly
interests are all centered, and where in the order of Provi-
dence IF must find a home."
"True, true," replied Annie, her face full of sympathy,
"what you say is true, but," she suggested, "will you not
soon be in your distant South, and there find charms
enough in those bright Hebe eyes we read about as so pe-
culiar to a tropical clime, to make you soon, very soon for-
get the chilly atmosphere of our cold climate, and the awk-
wardly expressed friendships of our colder hearts."
"Do not say colder hearts, Annie," said Mildmay, seiz~
ing her unresisting hand, "say not even iiidifferent ones,
for I have long indulged a hope that I may have awakened
an interest in your affections, that might in time change
from passing interest into love."
"Graham," said Annie, her eyes swimming in confii-
sion, "could I have been spared this acknowledgment on
your part, it would have saved me a great deal of paii4 but
how much more I should have felt, had you left Malden
without this acknowledgment of esteem, I dare not say."
"Say not esteem, Annie," returned Mildimay, "say
nothing if you can find no more genial word; rather let
your silence give me the hope your tongue would deny.~~
"Graham," said Annie, the tears ~struggling in her
eyes, "what hold in the future can our plain New England
home retain upon one who has so wide a field of active
life before him. I dare not indulge the thought, Graham,
that you will not illustrate the proverbial fickleness ofv col-
lege friendships.~~
"Then," said Graham, with an energy that startled


30              THE MASTER'S HOUSE~                                                   A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.           3'I

Annie almost with alarm, "then you are not prepared to
do justice to the truest heart that ever beat with love!
Annie, my sentiments, are not the growth of an hour, a
caprice of a day; almost from the time we first met, have I
indulged the ambitious hope of calling you at some future
time my own"
At this frank declaration, not altogether unexpected,
from the vague communings of Annie's inmost thoughts,
she withdrew her hand from Graham, and bent her eyes
for a moment on the ground, then recovering herself, she
said:
"You may ascribe my conduct, Graham, to coldness,
rather than education, but you know I have been raised to
cultivate a self.sacrificing spirit. I dare not be too enthusb
astic, dare not hope too much; therefore, Graham, speak
only of friendship, not of love.
"I will do all that you please," said Graham, his face
expressing joy; "only tell me," he continued, "that at
some future time you will give me hope."
"Two years hence," said Annie, placing her hand in
Graham's, "you will find me with a heart as free as now,
and still Annie Hastings. If at the end of that time your
college preferences are confirmed, in spite of your expe-
rience in the world, then Graham, and not till then, offer
me your heart."
"And may I, in that long probation, write to you,
Annie, from my southern home?" said Graham, staring
int&amp;her pure face as if he would see her very soul.
"You may write, Graham, as we have in times past
talked; we shall all be glad to hear from you, and I am

H
V

sure Dr. Elliott will let you often hear from your friends
in Nalden."
"Enough, enough," said Graham, passionately, press-
ing Annie's stilt imprisoned hand to his heart, and ii~i-
printing an unresisted kiss upon her forehead. "Enough,
Annie," he again repeated. "And now," he OQiltinued,
with animation, "the two long years of my probation
shall be laboriously, but, because of your existence, hope-
fully spent. - In that time I will have assumed full control
of my long neglected estate; the cares of business will be
lights because they. are to be crowned with such a reward.
I already feel-"
"No more!" said Annie, playfully interrupting him,
"let us talk of other things."
The many words that were spoken in the long conversa-
tion that ensued, would to others appear cold an4 common-
place, hut they were used only to beguile the ear of two
young and hopeful beings, who uttered their real thoughts
with their eyes, and responded through the deeper sympa-
thy of united hearts.

~.5
5~~


38              TIlE MASTER'S IIOUSE~                                                  A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.            39

OHAPTE1~ IV.
MILDMAY PURCHASES "HERITAGE PLACE.~~
MILDMAY, from the time that his mother died, had~ each
succeeding spring, passed two or three weeks on his plan-
tation, and in that way was somewhat acquainted with the
duties connected with his future career. His business had
been, in his long absence at the North, all things consid-
ered, carefully attended to; and upon his arrival~ at home,
after a due celebration by the negroes, of "Master's re-
turn," Mildmay was soon involved in the serious duties of
life, and the novelty of his situation softened any 8evere
regrets he felt for the scenes he had left at Malden."
Graham once at home, he occupied most of his leisure
time in writing letters to his old master, in which he gave
interesting details of his new pursuits, and at~ising de-
scriptions of the incidents of plantation life. These lef-
ters were received by the worthy Dr. Elliott, and carefully
perused, and then. quietly handed over to some member ~if
tht~ "Hastings family," with the remark, "that, perhaps,
something from our young friend, Mildmay, would not be
uninteresting."

With conscientious regularity, did, the Doctor answer
these friendly epistles. He had been made Mildmay's
confidant in all that related to Annie Hastings, and c~r~
dially approving of the proposed union, without inter-
fering, or in any way encouraging the intermediate steps,
he had promised to act as we have seen, as the mediinn of
communication, but not until fully authorized so to do, by
the family of the CC old Hastings House."
Whatever were 'Annie's feelings, no one but herself
knew; it was noticeable among the members o ~ her house-
hold, that upon receiving the Doctor's letters 'from Mild-
may, she spent a longer time than usual in her room, and
that those same epistles were never seen or hear4 of, after
being once given into her possession. But, as the Doctor
wrote to his former pupil, "Annie seemed entirely ab-
sorbed in household affair, and in reading, and of late had
visited even less than -usuaL" There was, in truth, a. quiet
and dignified calmness about her manner, that met with
the most cordial approbation from her staid relations.
Month after month quickly passed away, as Graham
each day found new matters to occupy his 'attention. His
confidential and trusty business man, Mr. Fenwick~'who
had so well managed the estate during Grah~m~s minority,
was anxious now to resign his trust into Graham's h~nde,
preparatory to commencing business upon his own account.
Graham also found, that'the lands he 'occupied, as well
as those about him, had been worn out by long cultivation,
and that he was really living in ,a deserted country. From
Mr. Fenwick he learned the fact, that his- fa1~har, at the
time of his death, had m~de preparations to remove farther


40               THE MASTERSS HOUSE;

A TALE OF. SOUTHERN LIFE.        41

south, and as such an act was more than ever demanded,
he determined at once to set about the necessary prepara-
tions.                     /
Graham, as will be seen, had no particular attachment
to the "home place," and he looked forward with romantic
interest to th~ founding of one himself, one worthy, as he
thought, of Annie; a home in a new and vigorous State,-.
where he could rise with its fortwies, and identify his name
with its prosperity.
With this noble ambition, and accompanied by Mr. Fen-
wick, and fortified with letters from the best men of his
native State, in the course of a few days, Mildmay was sail-
ing down 'the~river Mississippi on his way to New Orleans.
The solemn grandeur of the mighty Father of Waters made
a deep impression upon him, but still more was he affected
as he witnessed the evidences of progress, the rapid strides
of civilization. His soul fairly expanded as he contempla-
ted the developments of the future, and in the enthusiasm
of the moment he thanked 0od, that he had been born to
witness and take a part in the scenes around him.
Arriving at his place of destination in the month of
December, he could hardly realize the fact, that the same
season of year, whieh at Malden bound every thing in
ice and snow, in Louisiana decked every thing in the most
lovely vegetation, and breathed the balmy airs, of a ge-
nial spring.
For a few days Mildmay abandoned himself to the nov-
elties presented by the anomalous character of the south-
ern metropolis. His extensive reading prepared him to ap-
preciate the strange architecture he met in the older parts

[4

of the city, and his curiosity was excited and gratified by the
Babel-like confusion that prevailed among the tongues and
the people comprising the motley population.
Upon the broad and no-where-eke to be seen "levee,"
he beheld in amazement, the accumulating agricultural
wealth of the great valley of a mighty continent He saw
piled up before him for miles, the sugar, the cotton, the
corn, and the tobacco,~-treasures taken from the fields,
yet, in vying abundance, there reposed side by side, vast
piles of mineral wealth, of leat, of iron, of copper, dug from
the embowelled earth.
Assembled in the magnificent halls of his sumptuous
hotel, he found, constantly before his eye, representatives
of all nations, each endeavoring to best display his superi-
ority; Jut it was among the Southerners, who seemed to
carry their hearts in their hand, and who were, as the rep-
resentatives of the great planting interests, identified with
himself that he found the marked men of the multitude-
the cordially-acknowledged princes of the croWd.
To this latter class Mildmay, who resembled them in
person, was insensibly drawn by a thousand chords of sym-
pathy, that had heretofore slumbered in his breast. He
heard them speak of their crops, of their negroes, of, their
plantations; he saw their lavish expenditure of money; wit-
nessed the respect they commandedfrom all who conversed
with them, and there rose in his bosom a consciousness of
self-importance, which gave a new dignity to his carriage,
and a wider range to his thoughts.
Fenwick, who was a practical sort of character, very
soon made some. congenial acquaintances, and with them,


lie visited the neighboring plantations, and he could not
suppress his enthusiasm at the richness of the vegetation
he witnessed, and the easy' manner with which. they were
made to produce an abundant crop, compared to the more
sterile soil of North C~rolina.
It soon became knQwn among those interested, what
Mildmay's business was, and offers of land came pouring in
upon him, from a hundred quarters. Whole principalities
were offered him in Texas, at nominal rates. -Half opened
plantations high up some s1~ll unfamiliar river, upon any
terms he might choose to offer, but as the "location" came
nearer New Orleans, the prices increased, until at~last they
reached enormous sums.
*Among the acquaintances that Fenwick had picked up
about the hotel, was a tall and rather attractive-looking
individual, who rejoiced in the cognomen of Major Dixon.
This Major Dixon was exceedingly affable, knew exactly the
value of Degroes, the prices of cotton and sugar, and seem-
ed to be acquainted, from personal observation, with every
bit of available land that was for sale, not only in Louisia-
na and North Carolina, but in half the Southern States.
TQ Fenwick, the Major was particularly attentive;
though he did not seen indifferent, still he made no approach
to speak with Mildmay, and it was not until Fenwick had
dwelt in eloquent terms upon the value of the acquaintance,
that Mildmay permitted himself to }~e introduced.
Major Dixon had a dashing off-hand manner, talked a
great deal of good 'sense, but occasionally shocked Mild.
may's sensibilities by a remark, which showed either a want
of knowledge of the true use of words, or else an exceed~
ingly callous heart.

42

42              THE MASTER'S HOUSE:                                                      A TALE OF S0UThIER~T LIFE.          43

Upon the subject of purchasing a plantation Major
Dixon afforded much real information, for Mildmay found
that his opinions were verified by gentleman, to whom he
had letters of credit and introduction, and there soon sprung
up quite an exchange of time and conversation between Mild-
may and the affable) knowing, and always apparently at leis-
ure, Major Dixon.
That the acquaintance was respectable Mildmay 'did
not doubt, for he found that gentlemen, who had been point-
ed out to him by the communicative clerk of the hotel, as
some of the wealthiest planters of the State, frequently
were with Dixon in some obscure corner engaged in long
and apparently confidential conversations. Mildniay deter-
mined to solve the mystery, and commissioned Fenwick to
learn who the attentive Major Dixon was.
Each day that Mildmay spent in New Orleans, he en-
larged his circle of acquaintances, and finally accepted. one
or two invitations to visit wealthy planters living ~the
coast." The more he saw of the country and the people
the more he was delighted; and he returned to his hotel
from hi~ suburban trips, inspired with the determination
to select a place at the earliest practicable moment, hasten
home, and complete the laborious business of moving the
accessories of a large plantation. -
Among "the bargains" offered him, was ,one situated
some two hundred miles or more above New Orleans, not
directly upon the river, but presenting a remarkably fine
body of land, on one of the many tributaries emptying'into
the Mississippi.
To this place Mildmay was particularly attracted, frem

43


44               THE MASTERS HOUSE;

the fact, that it was placed for sale in the hands of an agent
of the most responsible character, had already built upon
it a fine mansion, and an abundance of negro cabins; in
faat required nothing, as the advertis aenti~erted, but a
"respectable force" to combine all the requirements of a
"first class place."
~NIIajor Dixon knew all about the piece of land alluded
to, and gave Mildmay a minute, and, as it afterwards proved,
correct description of it.
Ale stated that it was originally opened by a wealthy
man from South Carolina, Who had ideas of style rather
beyond his means1 and became so involved by bi~ many
improvements, that he at last abandoned the property in
disgust, and threw it upon the hands of those who had
been most liberal in loaning ifim money.
"With fifty good hands," said Dixon, in conclusion of his
remarks, "in two years the 'Heritage Place' can be made
one Df the most profitable properties in the country."
Mildmay and his companion Fenwick left New Orleans,
and with an agent of the owners of the "Heritage Place,"
they took a small steamer, and for more than a day pro-
gressed up the Mississippi River. Sometime in the night,
while Mildmay was asleep, the boat shot into "a bayou,"
and in professional parlance "laid up," until the following
morning, and soon after Mild may made his appearance, it
commenced moving between narrowing shores, along which
could occasionally be seen improved plantations, and the
innumerable laborers at their daily work.
The country, though flat, was as beautiful and as rich
in agricultural wealth as could be imagined. T4wards npon

44

A TALE OF SOUThERN LIFE.          45
the little steamer, that went but three or four miles an hour,
ran its bows into the landing at "Heritage Place," and
leaving Mildmay and his friends, passed on its way, with
the understanding, that in the course of the afternoon it
would pick them up as it returned back to New Orleans.
Two or three acres distant from the shores of "the
bayou," was a fine stately-looking dwelling, so massive, that
it really had an imposing appearance. It had never been
entirely finished, and already signs of decay were seen upon
the brick pillars that supported the capacious ver~ndahs.
In front and rear could be traced the old lines of what
was once carefully planted shrubbery; and one or two sour
orange-trees, in spite of neglect, were covered with ripened
fruit. The fences were more or less broken down,-iu
fact, every thing had a desolate appearance.
Some half mile, in the rear, were twenty partially
finished negro cabins, and other plantation out-buildings.
It seemed as if some enterprising, and more than usually
ambitious person, had commenced all these costly improve-
ments, and just as they were about being completed, had
suddenly abandoned them to destruction.
Fenwick, by the assistance of the agent, had borrowed
a couple of horses from a neighboring plantation, and he
and Mildmay rode over the "opened land."
They were gone some two or three hours, and the re-
sult of the ride had left upon both decidedly~a favorable
impression. Fenwick showed how little work it would be
to restore things to tolerable order, and~ how inaycaror
so, Mildmay could have a place, that would outvie any
thing he had ever dreamt of in his native State.


46               THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                 A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          4'1

Meanwhile, an overseer from an adjoining plantation
had come over to see what was going on; and meeting the
agent, and learning the particulars, he went in pursuit of
Mildmay, and offered his services, and volunteered any
information regarding the value of the property. This
person and Fenwick became* at once cosy and confidential,
and he gave not only a history of the plantation in ques-
tion, but also of the country round about.
It would~ seems that portions of it had been opened
many years, and was almost entirely occupied by wealthy
people, and in the vicinity were living some of the most
influential men in the country. Except in "high water," it
was rather an out-of-the-way place ("which was all the
better for the niggers"), yet near to New Orleans,-free
from any overflow to do harm, and inexhaustible in fer-
tility of soil.
Mildmay listened, and took down the names of the
dillerent persons who would naturally be his neighbors;
made evary possible inquiry of the facilities of society,-
not for himself, for he was in this connection thinking of
another, and rode back to the lonely-looking mansion.
Here was "the agent," a sort of madcap clerk of New
Orleans, who~combined a strange mixture of business tact
and knowledge of the world, and particularly of the world
in the interior of Louisiana,-with his trunk opened, a table-
cloth spreadupon the ground, and a most substantial dinner
set out, of boiled ham, chicken, bread,~ sardines, pates, and
excellent claret. ~Cumblers and plates he had borrowed
from the clerk of the steamer; and all the party, ad~'ter
Fenwick and Mildmay's astonishment had been expressed

4

at their agent's foresight, sat down on the ground, and
made a hearty meal, and with a better appetite, as Mild-
may said, "than he had ever had before in his life."
While thus engaged discussing their rural meal, they
observed a gentleman approaching on horseback, wh~ rode
up, and dismounting and throwing his bridle-rein into the
hollow of his left arm, in a graceful and confident manner,
announced that his name was Moreton, and that he was
the nearest neighbor to Heritage Place; that he had
heard from the captain of the steamer as it passed up the
bayou, that two gentlemen had stopped for the purpose
of examining the place, with regard to making a purchase,
and that he had instantly rode over to invite the gentle-
men to hi~ house, where he should be happy to have them
remain as long as it suited their pleasure.
From Mr. Moreton, Mildmay learned additional par-
ticulars relative to his proposed purchase, but declined to
accept at that time, the invitation to visit, whereupon Mr.
Moreton hitched his horse by the bridle to a "swinging
limb," and with Mildmay sat down on the trunk of a
fallen tree, declaring that he would remain until the
steamer came along.
In the conversation that ensued, Mildmay determined
in his own mind to make the purchase of the plantation.
Mr. Moreton had removed every possible objection he could
urge, and, with this feeling, he bid that gentleman adieu,
was taken up by the passing boat, and the following even-
ing was again ensconced in his city hotel.


48              THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                 A TALE OF SOUTHERN LlF]~.         49

*1

CHAPTER V.
MAJOR DIXON AND HiS ALBUM.

MAJOR DIXON; who showed so much ability and dispo-
sition to serve Mildmay and his friend Fenwick, was to
superficial observers a man of leisure, and of the class
termed gentlemen.
Persons, however, who studied faoes with success,
would have discovered something rather equivocal about
hi~ eyes, for by a curious conformation of the brow, they
were ordinarily almost hidden from sight; but let Dixon
look a person full in the face, and there 'were seen shots of
fiery red, mingled with the pure blue, whi~h suggested
that they could burn as if filled with internal fire.
People who had known Dixon for years, if asked to
draw his character, would probably never have agreed
upon any leading trait; for he possessed the ability in a
remarkable degree of not only being all things to all men
for his own purposes, but he could 'be the exact thing to
the person lie was at the moment with; and if Mildmay
and Fenwick had written down their impressions of this
man, they would have both drawn characters as suggested

fr:~
K

by their individual impressions, and that were most agree.
able to their positions as strangers in the "Qescent City."
Dixon was a man of first-rate business habits and ca-
pacity. He controlled large sums of money, for he was
secretly connected with many wealthy men, in operations
that involved great outlays of capital; his field of opera-
tions was confined to dealing in slaves,-in common par-
lance, he was a "negro trader." Dixon had been, by long
habit, made a very impersonation of his busin~ss. To
people of his own color he was often generous,-never
offensive; but for the negro he had apparently no sympa-
thy, no feeling whatever.
Sometimes for months together Dixon would live seem-
ingly a quiet and unexcited life, but it would appear from
subsequent acts, that these calms were only presages of &amp;
coming excitement; and as his business gave him every
facility for gratifying his passions when he pleased to do so,
he carried every thing to excess.
The appearance of a negro always excited Dixon's
animosity; let one of this race pass him accidentally in the
street, or even in the humblest manner address him "as
master," and hi~ eyes would burn with indignation, and
his hands clutch with nervous tremulousness.
He delighted in crushing those in his power, when they
resisted, and yet he was equally savage upon those who
were passive to his will. He was sometimes awed by a
negro that would rather die thar~ submit, but he was never
touched by the most heart-rending appeals for mercy.
The reason perhaps of his dislike to the negro, hide-
pendent of the feelings necessarily engendered by his
:3


0

50

THE MiAsTER's HOUsE;*,

making them subjects of merchandise, was the conscious-
ness he had, that he was not respected even by those who.
were most benefited by his business; and he had a kind
of monomania, that his degradation in the social scale was
owing not only to his buying and selling negroes, but
also to the influence of public opinion exerted on the
Southern mind by the people of the North, through the
sympathy of the Federal government : consequently, he
hated the people of the North, and the Union, with a bit-
terness that knew no bounds. " But for this public opinion
of the ' Free States,'" lie would sometimes groan through
his clenched teeth, " my calling would be as respectable
as any man's ; I should not then be made a scapegoat for
the sins of the. buyer, or be compelled to see myself /
shunned and avoided by really good people, as if there
were contagion in my touch."
Yet, although the thick veil of insensibility would some-
times be partially removed from IDixon's conscience, al-
though he would for moments get inklings of the true char-
acter of his position as set down by the great mass of the
people, these feelings only had the effect to render him
more callous in the end, for they were ever succeeded by
new outrages upon hiis hapless victiins, and by an accumu-
lation of renewed hate for the people he so much feared
and despised.
When Dixon saw Mildinay and Fenwick, he at once un-
derstood their relation and purposes, and with his usual
promptness he did all he could to assist them in their con-
templated purchase, from the ulterior object of their proba-
ble demand upon him for, slaves.

A TALE OF sOUTHERN LIFE.

51

~

He was intimately acquainted with every part of the
country, his pursuits favoring a most perfect knowledge of
the best lands, and the most wealthy neighborhoods, for it
was only in such places, that he found his best business
customers.
Near to Dixon's hotel was his "depot." Superficially;
it was a very high spiked fence, with a strong door in the
centre, and would never have attracted any particular notice
of the stranger. But once beyond that strong door, you
found yourself in a long room, perhaps a hundred feet in
depth, lighted from the roof, and lined on either side by
benches. Here Dixon displayed what the law pronounced
to be his "chattels."
In this den he would pace up and down among his
dependents, and fume and fret " that he could not expose
his merchandise unblushingly in the streets," "that he
could not hire a fine store in -the most exposed thorough-
fare, and thrust his goods into the-windows or doors, as did
the merchant who sold breastpins or calicoes."
Here it was that he gave vent to his wrath at the
occasional agitation in the Corporation Council of New
Orleans "as to the propriety of banishing 'slave marts' to
the obscure suburbs of the city." This restraint-this
eternal spirit of opposition, he felt to be like an incubus
upon him, and he rebelled at, and fretted under it, as if in
harness, and he believed that he could never himself be free
until " this false northern public sentiment," as he termed
it, "was done away, until no one was permitted in the South
to indulge in sickly sentimental notions of humanity."
A day or two after Dixon met Mildmay, he went to his-


52               TH~E MAST~R'8 IIOU~E                                                      A' TALE OF B0UTH~RN LIFE.            53

"depot," as he termed it., and sitting down in the little
office inside of the door, he took a scrap of paper from a
plethoric-looking purse, and laying it on the wooden table
before him, he seemed absorbed in a profound study.
"Graham Mildmay," said he, reading from the paper,
"where have I met with that name before?" and he rested
his head on his~hand as if in the very strait of perplexity,
and wondered where was his factotum "Ben.
Just at this moment, a miserable-looking wretch, a
white ~nan, who sometimes helped Ben at the depot, put
his head in at the office dpor, and said:
"Major Dixon, that 'gent' with the black coat and
white choker, has sent the girl ]IAzzy back."
"What for?" said Dixon, indenting his knuckles into
the top of the cypress table.
"Why," continued the deputy, scratching his head, "he
says he thinks she takes on so about bein' parted from her
child, that she won't do."
"Send JAzzy here," returned Dixon, now in a perfect
fury; and he growled, "if I'm troubled with her after
to-morrow, may I turn into a snivelling Yankee peddler,
and earn a living by singing psalms."
The girl approached the dreaded presence of the negro
trader, evidently convulsed in every limb, and almost speech-
less with fear.
~" low came you to tell that hypocritical chanting scoun-
drel I sold' you to, that you had a child?"
"I didn't tell him, so help me God !" said the girl, ready
to fall on the floor.
"You either lie, or you went snivelling about the hou~e,"

said Dixon, suddenly changing his maimer, and lighting up
his face with a smile.
"Ii said nothing, did nothing, but try to please; for I
didn't want to come back here, Master Dixon," said the
girl with emotion.
"Well," returned Dixon, with a calm and agreeable
voice, "go out in the hall, my dear, and to-night IL will give
you such a dressing, that afterwards, if I sell you to a sau-
sage-maker you will cry to be cut up into mince meat before
you will come back again on my hands;" and thus deliver-
inghimseli~, Dixon waved the girl to retire, and biting off
a huge piece of tobacco, he took up the before alluded to
bit of paper, and soliloquized,~" Where have I met with
the name of Graham Mildmay?"
At this moment, a well dressed, and rather pleasant-
faced man came into Dixon's presence, and pulling up a
chair and throwing his feet 'upon the table, he asked:
"Dixon, ~vhat'~s the row?"
"Why, the fact is, Ben," said Dixon, as if perplexed~
"I have met a young planter at my hotel, that's come out
here from North Carolina to buy a place. lle'~ got money,
and seems to be a clever and sharp' chap, and I'm thinking
I've heard his name beforebut when, where, or how, I can't
tell."
Now "Ben " was Dixon's confidential clerk, and business
man when Dixon was away. Ben. was understood 'by half
the town to own the depot. It was Ben who did all the ne-
farious work of the establishment, the trading, and, as he said,
"the lying and smartness of the wh6l&amp; concern," for Dixon
did very little in New Orleans ope~aly, beyond signing title

58

5%f


A TALE OF $O~TUE1V~I LIFE.           55

54              THI( MASTER'S HOUSE;

papers and receipting for money. With this intimate con.
section with Dixon, it is easy to see that he at once became
interested in Mildmay.
"What do you want to do for him?" said Ben, refer-
ring to Mildmay, and appearing anxious to get the cue.
"Why, I want to do him a favor,~~ said Dixon,, frown-
ing at the apparent insinuation that any thing else was in.
tended. "He's good next spring for twenty hands more
than he's got, and I want to show him that I'm his friend,
and in that way secure a sale."
- "Maybe he's got a runaWay out," said Ben.
"That's just it," said Dixon, brightening up," here," he
continued, "hand me, down my 'Free Sile Album,' perhaps
I can find out all about it)'
Ben, as ~requested, got on a chair, and from a wide
shelf very near the low ceiling, he pulled out what appear-
ed to have been a merchant's ledger, and opening it on the
table, displayed the once fairly written pages covered over
with innumerable scraps, evidently ci~jt'from the columns of
newspapers.
This "Free Sile Album," as Dixon called it, was per-
haps the best evidence in the world, that could be given,
to show how systematic he had been in carrying on his busi-
ness. There at a glance could be seen, every published
account of runaway negroes, who had escaped to the North
or Canada, for the last 1~fteen years.
By "the means of this book, Dixon had a very clear
idea ,of the whereabouts 'of many fugitives, and with the
assistance of spies, and occasionally his own interference,
he made unaccounted-for "captures," and ~frequently by
4.

buying, as he expressed it, "a nigger running," he. got
great bargains at little cost.,
Ben turned over the pages carefully, and at Dixon's
suggestion, endeavored to find, assorted with the runaways
mentioned, the name of Milclmay..-IDixon, meanwhile, sit.
ting by as if still uncertain, where the name occurred ~
finaXly, Ben looked up, and said, "Here's something mast
like it."
"What, is it?" inquired Dixon.
"Why,' 'Mayfield,'" said Ben, decisively.
"That's near the name; read what it says," directed
Dixon, whereupon Ben commenced as follows
"'On last Saturday morning a little 'company, consist-
ing of six fugitives from the land of handcuffs and cow-
hides, landed at this station of the under-ground railroad.
They were formerly kept and worked as the propertyy of
the Rev. Mr. Mayfield, near Memphis, in the State of Ten-
nessee. On the same day fifteen more came in the express
train of the above road. These last were mostly able..
bodied men from Missouri, cruelly held and treated as
property, by people otherwise respectable, and some claim-
ing to be followers of Christ oui~ Saviour, who died. for
all.' "
"That'll do, Ben," said Dixon, rising up from his
seat, and whirling round on his feet, perfectly red with
anger-" that'll do; who wants to, hear such infernal
stuff as that, I'd like to knQw? That comes from hav-
ing 'free~ States,' cuss 'em! Fugatives from the land of
handcuffs and cowhides! there's another slander en ~he
South."

55

54


50              TflE MASTER'S HOUSE;
"Well, there's no use getting mad about it," said
Ben, who had no other fear of Dixon, than self-interest
dictated. "M~be you'd like another varse or two; if so,
here goes."
"No, you needn't," said Dixon, cooling off. "I be-
hove I remember the sarcumstance, the nigger was off a
long time I suspect, before his' arrival was published; let
me see."
",Now what is the use of that 'crc book ?" asked Ben,
handing it over to Dixon, as if he was glad ~o get clear
of it.
"N~t much use," returned Dixon, "not much use;
but maybe you'd be astonished if I tell you, I made my
'Black RiVer cotton farm'~ off of that very book."
"Oh,)you're joking," said Ben, with an 'incredulous air.
"Fact, nevertheless," said Dixon, looking up with
complacency. "You see, Ben, you'll never make money
until~ you keep books, Now, since I've been in business
for myself, and afore that too, when I saw a notice of a run-
away in a newspaper, crowing over his freedom, I cut him
out, and pasted him in here; it don't cost much time,
nor flour, and it' finally gave~me all the money I made my
start with. You see that 'ere' notice," continued Dixon,
pointing to a particular scrap, "that 'ere notice marked
over with a pen, '$1000. "
Ben reached his head out of hi~ coat collar, and said,
LL
he did,"
." The particulars of making that 'ere cool thousand off
a nigger barber, named Hector, that got from Washington
to Canada, is very affecting.

/
A TALE 0~' 50UTHER~T' LIFEi       57
"So much money as that ! '? said Beti, more astonished
at the speculation in, a pecuniary way, than at the affecting
incidents.
"Sure," said Dixon "and no naistake; but that's no-
thing," he continued, in an excessive good humor.; "that
book, as I said~ has nearly paid for my 'Black River place,'
and them very little dirty scra~s,~and the Fugitive Slave
Law has put money in my pocket, like finding it in a
gutter.~~
"Fact?" said Ben, looking over the magical items, as
if he fancied he could see them turning to g&amp;ld or bank
checks.
"Fact!" echoed Dixon; "yes, more than fact, they've
been money and fun besides for II have not only,. by the
aid of that book, jerked up a dozen. niggers from the free
States in a year, but I have made the abolition scoundrels
howl like hyen~s, when 'they saw me and the' 'spread
eagle' on their tracks."
"That must have been fun," said Ben, rather in a
voice of irony.
"It was fin, fun alive!" continued Dixon, with enthu~~
siasm, "for," he continued, in his excitement, "itg~Veme the
only satisfaction I ever had in my life out of those enemies
of the South," and having thus uttered his senti~nents, he
fell to carefully examining~.the pages of the book.
3*

1
4 4


5$              rilE ~IA5T]~R'S HOtTS~;
CHAPTER VI.
flEN. READS TIlE STORY OF CHARLES ]3ROADNAX.
DIXON ha~4ng been born in a State where there were no
public~. schools, his early education had been lamentably
neglecteck; he was a man grown before he knew his~ letters,.
and, although he had after that time ~hown his usual de~
termination of character, in acquiring to read~ and write,
still he was an imperfect scholar, and madea stumbling
display whexi he attempted i~o give a listener an idea of
the meaning of a printed paragraph, so that when his ~ye
finally fell upon the very item he was looking for, he
handed the " Album" to Ben, and told him to read it
out, Dixon at the same time picking up a piece of pine
wood that was lying on the floor, and taking out a long-
bladed dirk-knife, commenced to whittle.
iflen took the "Album," and with a sort of comical
gravity, squared himself in his chair, and conimenced to
read as follows
"~ INT~ILESTING ACCOUNT OF A FUGATIVE2"
"~ T1~at's the beginning of the article, isn't it?" asked
Di~oii; pressing his knife deeply into the pine splinter in
hi8 hand.

A TALE OF SOUTHEI~b~ J2FE.
"Yes," said Ben, "that's the beginning, dbn't yo~i see
it is? 'Interesting account of a fugativ~2"
"Well, go on," said Dixon, impatiently.
"Look here, Major Dixon," said Ben, puttingthe Al-
bum down in his lap,-." do you want me to read the whole
of this 'ore interesting article?"
"Yes, every bit of it," returned ~Xxon, in the pure
spirit of contrariety.
"Very well," said Ben, again edging into the best pos-
sible position for comfort, "here goes.
Interesting account of a fugitive.'"
"You needn't read that line again," said Dixon, grow.
ing perfectly "feruchus."
Ben's eyes twinkled with mischief, but he said nothing,
and went on.
"'On a cold ~winter night of the year 18.-., a negro
man, evidently suffering from hunger; and poorly clad,
knocked at the door of a modest-looking cottage on the
edge of our town. It was, considering 1~le habits of our
people, quite late, being after ten o'clock.'"
"And where about was that town?" inquire4 Dixon, his
face filled with disgust.
"I suspect," said Ben, looking along the page, "that
it was Stonyvilip, Vermont, for it's tuck from the Stony.
vile (Vermont) Gazette." Ben continued: -
"'A benevolent-lo&amp;king, middle-aged woman: opened
the door, anti seeing the dark and care-worn face o~ a no-
gro, staring '~upon her, she uttered a scream of ~Xr~ki~e,
and dropped the candlestick eh~ heid in her hand
floor. In another instant a gentleman was at the lady's


THE ~4ASTER's HOUSE;
0Lde, and inquired, "Wife, what is the matter ?"the lady
pointed to the, negro; who now, in turn, became filled with
"What's the meaning of 'trepidation?'" inquired
Dixon, suspending his whittling.
"Kind of a scear," said Ben, with dignity.
"'The moment the gentleman saw the object of sur-
prise, he stepped. in front of the lady, and promptly de-
manded the reason of this unseasonable interruption."'
"I'd a hit him in his infernal black face!" said
Dixon, with impatience.
"Perhaps," said Ben, again laying down the book in
his lap (for in his peculiar way he took great pkasure in
annoying Dixon), "perhaps you don't want, to hear the
rest of. this 'ere nigger novel."
"Yes, I do," said Dixon, emphatically, for it was one
of his peculiarities of liking to be annoyed by those very
kind ofitems. It~appeared to give him pleasure in stimu-
lating his hatred of the places and sentiments that gave
them birth. Bew went on:
"'The negro replied that he was nearly perished with
the cold, and was almost starved to death, and after con.
siderable cross-questioning, acknowledged that like was a
runaway fr~rn the South, which last remark affected deeply
the sympathy ~of, Mr. Pendleton, for such was the gentle-
mau's name, and he asked the negro into the kitchen, and
with~his~a~niable wife, set about relieving the ~Wants of the
poor fugitive.'"
"There," said Dixon,~ blazing with wrath, and driving

A TALE\ ~0F SOUTHERN LIFE.
~
his knife an inch gt Jea~t into the top of the table before ~
him.
"There's northern rascality; that's for being fastened
on to the free $tates. Lord! how 1 wish we could get to
blows, I'd like to stop the wind of such a fellow as that
Pendleton2'
"lEnt there's too many of 'em," said Ben, keeping his
eyes deeply riveted on the printed document before him.
IDixon ground his knife around with his hand, and told
Ben to go on, and that gentleman continued. :~-
"'The poor negro was shiveringwith cold, and it seem-
ed as if he Would embrace the stove, when he felt the please
ant glow of* warmth it sent through his benumbed fr~m~."'
"I could have warmed that nigger up, without a stove,"
suggested Dixon, in a philosophical manner.
Ben pretended to be very much amused indeed, and
went on.
"'Mr. Pendleton felt satisfied that the negro told the
tt~th about having escaped from bondage, and was further
confirmed in the fact because the negro, ag~tin~t 1~fr. Pen~
dleton's wishes, would address him as Master."'
"Now what do you think of that?" inquired DixQn,
his face e1oqu~ent with contempt.
"Think of what ? ".asked Ben, honestLy at a loss.
"Why, of that fellow Pendleton's telling that rigger uot
to call him master."
"I think," said Ben, imitating Dixon'srnanner and voice,
"that Pendleton wa~ a~ chuckle-headed ass ;" and he pro.
needed .-
'"The negro, when he discovered lJaat Mr. Pendleton

L
s
I


02             THE MA5TER~S tboUsE;
knew he was from the South, begged that he should not be
taken back to his owner, which Mr. PendIeto~ promised, so
far as 1~e was concerned,~should not be done."'
"Now look at that," said Dixon, perfectly calm with
amazement, "look at that Pendleton, disobeying the laws
of the land, and violating the sacre~I constitution, by re-
fusing to send a negro ba&amp;k to his owner, and calling him-
self a Christian, perhaps; for them Yankees all go to
chur~,h."
"And don't you think he was Christian?" inquired Ben.
'~ A~ Christian," replied Dixon, his voice full of scorn,
"do yonn think that a thief canbe a Christian? Why, that
'ere Pendleton would have been sent to the Penitentiary
for keeping a runaway horse worth fifty dollars, and yet he
don't mind swindling a southern nian out of a nigger worth
a thousand."
Now Ben was very slow of comprehension on certain
subjects that deeply interested Dixon, and as he never could,
probably from the defects of his early education, exactly
confound a man and an animal together, he returned to his
book and read
"'The negro was aceommodatedwith lodgings that night,
and the next day, by the kindness of Mr. P. and other citi-
~ens, he got employment, and very soon established a c~iar-
acter for honesty and industry.
"It would be interesting, if we had time, to trace the
historyof this fugitive slave year after year in his north-
ern hon~e, and mark the rapid improvement made in intel-
ligence and usefulness, In six months time he learned to
rea4 quite fluently, and Soon arranging his varied experi-

A TALE O~ SOUTHERN~ LIFE.
ence, it was found he had naturally ~ strong apd well-bal-
anced mind, and unlike most of his race, he was frugal, and
took pleasure in saving money.
"By the advice of Mr Pendleton~ he hired a small
house, and opened a little store, for the disposal of such
nicknacks'as he was able to procure, and finally he started
what was much needed in Stoneyville, a barber'~ shop. In
this new character, Charles, for such was his name, really
had the head-quarters of news under lock and key, and his
shop kept so neat and clean in summer, and so warm and
snug in winter, was a favorite with all, while every one ad-
mitted that the negro was a model of good manners, and
respectful bearing.'
"Well, he got his manners in the South," said Dixon,
putting an enormous piece of tobacco in his mouth.
"'At the close of the third year of his living in ~toney-
ville," continued Ben, without noticing Diion's interrup.~
tion, "Charles met a well-behaved yonng woman of his own
color and unmarried, and as he had established a good char-
acter in the mean time as a member of the church, he was
married by the resident pastor, being previously baptized
by his request, with the surname of Broadnax."'
"A.nd- what does all that mean?" inquired Dixon, get-
ting confused with the details.
~' Why," said Ben, "he was married a~ Charles Bioad-
nax."
"'At last,' continued Ben to read, 'the old sexton of
the "first church" in Stoneyville died, and Charles was
unanimously elected to the office of taking cave of the sacred


64              THE MA5TIVE7S HotTSE;
edifice, the duties of which he filled to the satisfaction of
every one.?"
"Look here," said Ben, putting the book down in his
lap, and taking a long breath, "Major, if you don't put in
a word as I go along, I shan't x~ead."
"And haven't you finished ?" said Dixon, leaning over to-
Wards Ben, his eyes wide open with interests
"NO, there's another short item."
well, read it," said Dixon earnestly, "for you haven't
tome to the part I want to hear."
tWA           "Well~ here goes," said Ben, resuming the narrative.
"'We have published this very interesting account of
Charles Broadnax, as a refutation of ~the common charge
that negroes cax~not become useful citizens. This man, this
Christian, admits that until his old master, William Mild-
may, died, a gentleman Charles speaks of in the highest
respect, that he was happy and contented; but that, put un-
der the cJiarge~ of a brutal and irresponsible oversees'; lie
was compelled to escape."'
By the time Ben got thus far, Dixon started from his
seat, and dancing around the table, somethkg as Indians
do about a bloody scalp, he told Ben he needn't read any
farther, that he had found out all that. he Wanted to kiiow,
and that he could put the precious book out of sight.
Ben) who wa~ really fatigued, readily obeyed, and turn..
ing to Dixon, he said:
"So, you think Charles Broadnax, esquire, belongs to
the young man Mildmay, at the hotel?" -
Dixon leaned down on the table, made a few hiero~.
glyphic marks~ on a piece of paper, thou clapped his hat on
-:

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.
his head, and giving Ben a knowing look, he left "the
depot," and walked rapidly up the street.
As Dixon had anticipated when he left his "pen," he
found Mildmay in the rotunda of the hotel, quietly smoking
a cigar, and walking up and saluting him, as was h~s cus-
tom when talking to planters, he took a seat at a respectful
distance, and commenced conversation.
Dixon artfully approached his object, and led the un-
suspecting Mildmay on from one point to another so iix~
geniously, that he unfolded his business of slave-dealer
without exciting in his hearer any particular emotion.
This once accomplished, the advantages of the purchase
of "Heritage~ Place" were discussed, and Mildmay finally
learned with surprise, that Dixon himself had a plantation
in the neighborhood, and that he, Dixon, contemplated in
another year, "that he might possibly give ~ip 'any ~tive
participation in 'his negro-trading business,' and settle
down quietly on Lie farm."
From Dixon, Mildmay learned the best way of getting
his slaves on to Louisiana; it was decided that he should
bring them on to Washington, in the District of Columbia,
and there keep them until a vessel sailed directly to~~e~
Orleans, from which point, they could without difficulty
reach their final place of destination, At length, Dixon
reached the subject for the moment nearest his heart.
"I think," said he. in a careless voice, and apparently
about to leave, "that you have, Mr. Mildmay, a runaway
somewhere in the East."
"Not that I know of," said the young man, without dish.
playing any interest.


00              THE MASTER'S HousE;
"I tEink I have heard somewhere," continued Dixon,
~5' of a negro boy, called Charles, that belonged to a person
of yow name, that runaway is probably at this time
suffering, ~s all them runaways do, from hunger and cold.
I tell yow, sir," said Dixon, "a negro has a hard time of it
at the North in winter; ." and he assumedd a sympathizing
look.
* "A negro certainly thrives best in a warm climate,"
said Mildmay; evidently to IDixon's annoyance, not think-
ing of the runaway.
"Here's the facts," said Dixon, taking out a scrap of
paper from his pocket; "a negro boy, named Charles,
some years ago escaped from Washington, ~nd is now liv-
Ing in the North; he says he belonged to William~Mild-
nia~y,'Z~-and Dixon gave~ the best emphasis that he was
eap~b1e of to the name.
Graham started with surprise; "William Mildmay,"
said he, with emotion, "was my ~ name-what is it
that you connect it with?"
"Simply," said Dixon, with great coolness, "that he
was unfortunate in being robbed by them infernal North-
eners, of a good iiigger."
"~The accident of having a runaway, sir," said 'Mild-
may, with considerable sternness, "is a~ resi~ilt of a thou-
sand causes which I care not to discuss. Now I remem-
ber it, I have noticed upon the old plantation record, that
a; boy is set down as having run away while hired out' but
it was many years ago, and I have never heard it other-
wise alluded to before."
"Wouldn't you like to get him back?" said Dizon,

pretending to choke at the instant, to keep Mildmay from
seeing the expression of his face.
"I can't say that I would," replied Mildmay, relapsing
into an indifferent mood. "You know, Major Dixon,
that it is a proverb among planters, 'that a recaptured
runaway is unfit to associate with ~ I don't remem~
ber of ever hearing of one that the owner~would have
back as a gift?'
"But suppose, sir, that the boy was discontented,
suppose he knew that you had taken possession of your
property, and wanted to come back; what would you do
then?"
"If such were the fact," said Mildmay speculatively,
"why perhaps he might be a good servant,-especially as
he did not run off until my father died."
" Exactly," said JMxon, "that's just it; but wh~u lie
knows that he could come home, and live with you, why,
wouldn't it be cruel no~ to let him?"
"I might," returned Mildmay7 "then make a sacrifice
of my judgment, and receive him; but such improbable
circumstances I think never will occur.
"Would you \be willing~ that I sl~ouId bring him to
you, if I should meet him?" pursued Dixon, pressing the
matter with increasing earnestness.
"You can do as you please, sir," said Mildniay; then
hesitating a moment, he continued, "If I found. the boy
troublesome or discontented, I could certainly let him go
again."
"Certainly you can," said Dixon; and making this
re~nark, he bowed gracefully, and returned to his depot.

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.             0'7

0'l


2" ''2'

68

THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

Mildmay, who had received much valuable business in-
formation from Dixon, relative to his future plans, had
continued the conversation about Charles out of respect to
Dixon'~ seemingly earnest desire to talk, and not from
any interest or real knowledge of what was the con-
strued import of Lis language; yet when. Dixon and Mild-
may separated, the negro trader assumed that he had
Mildmay's authority to arrest Charles, if he could find
him,~ and bring him on to iloritage Place, while Mildmay
himself could not have conceived any thing farther from
his thoughts.
A few days only elapsed before Mildmay, much to
F~nwick's satisfaction, had completed the proposed pur-
chase. By a train of fortunate circumstances, he believed
he had secured a great bargain, which opinion was con-
firmed by subsequent examination. The arrangements
having been fully completed, Fenwick was desirous of hur-
rying away; and finding Mildmay disposed to carry out
his desire to visit the surrounding country, he took from
his employer some general directions, and rapidly pursued
his way to his old home, to make preparations for the con-
templated removal to Heritage Place.

39,

CHAPTER VII.
A VARIETY OF INCIDENTS.
THE difficulties attending the removal of Mildmay's "force"
from the "o1~d homestead," seemed to him at times to be.
almost insurmountable. His original intention was to
send the stoutest of his men under the care of Fenwick to
Richmond, and then send them by sea to New Qrleans; 1~ut
the negroes expressed the utmost horror at being separated,
and as he found it impossible to make them understand that
they were all to meet again in Louisiana, he determined
at whatever cost and trouble it might be, to keep them
all together, and personally superintend their exodus.
For several days the negroes were busy getting to~
gather "their plunder," and it was with some reluctance
that they abandoned their rude tables, broken chairs, and
clumsy hen-coops, when informed that they were too cum-
brous for exportation; and nothing, perhaps, would have
reconciled them to their loss, had they not discovered that
their master set them the example, by discarding ~every
thing not positively necessary for the long journey before
th4

A TALE 0~' SOUTHERN LIFE.


V'
~1Q            2~HE MA5TER~8 HOUSE;
Mildmay discharged his duties, however, with spirit;
he had very little local attachment for his birth-place, and
bu~ for the fact that the vicinity; was hallowed by the
~ne~ziory of his parents, he: would have left with scarce a
lingering look behind. Beside, the rich lands o en-
tage Place, their growth of gigantic m~ s, live~~oak,
and their teeming abundance,' contrasted' angely bright.
with the worn-o~it; and, originally sterile, soil of his native
State.
Go~verno~ was the oracle among the negroes; lie had
accompanied his master in his travels,~ and he alone of all
his fellow-servants could give information as to what they
were ~~to e~'peot iu~ the future; and 'half the bug nights
wouldIhe~ sit in' the~qu&amp;rters, 'with an anxiously listening
group ~ff sa~ie face~ ancistaring eyes' about him,'and detail
the wealth and 'magnificence 'that he witnessed" way~down
upoinVtE~;Mississippi.'?
~Governor,'in his 'official communications, was 'pattbiu-
lan1~ebocju~nt about' the growth of cotton, 'and ekpati~t~d
upon it witE never-tiring pedina~city. '.'
"You don't have to ~et down on ~rour knee~~n1~rs)" ~
said ~ one evening, in' his exaggerated~'mn&amp;od; ~ t~ Eu.nt
up cotton bells; a~' you, do on di&amp; North Car&amp;lina farm.
~o~n'. in 'Louziany de cotton' jisl "w~]ks up s&amp;ldgh, you
c~'t~reach i1~ 'widouta iadderYi~
Several old. "~~ickers)' shook th~iriheads 'dpubthi'
while the young and inexp'erienced shouted wi'th ecsta~y.                                      
C~ And how much does de nigge1~s down dan pick
a-day?" significantly asked 8 doubting "Tom,"                                                 '~
"Oh, de~ don't hurt '&amp; ~'inucE~at work                                '~

IL/Il
1/


Governor, laughing boisterously at his own wit; "dey just
pick until dey leab off, and de rest of the time dey hunt
pO55iU~1~8."
"Bless God for dat!" said a piously disposed field
hand; "bless God for fat possum!"
"But how's de sweet tater crap down dar?" inquired
an old servant-of-all-work, but more especially of the
kitchen garden.
"De fact is," said Governor, solemnly, a degree of sec-
tional pride rising in his bosom, "de fact is, men oh color,
dat de old 'North State,' as dey call dis place; can just
beat de world cl'ar, for 'sweet taters."'
A smile of the most intense satisfaction passed over
the faces of Governor's auditory, and Jack was so over-
come with joy, apparently, at this instance of local supe-
riGrity, that he fell over backwards in his delight, and
kicked Governor's bench from under him, both coming to-
gether on the ground.
This brought the conference to an end, and Governor,
making many impotent threats of vengeance upon Jack's
head, left in disgust.
"Aint dat mighty hard case, to hab no sweet taters
down whar masters gwine I" groaned the matter-of.fact
Tom, and suddenly impressed with an idea of vast impod-
ance to his mind, he hallooed after the retreating Governor.
"Does dey done hab pine knots down dar whar' mas-
ter's gwine?"
"Not a pine knot, not a pine knot, nebber heard of
such a thing, down dar whar master's gwine," replied the

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          J~fl

71


THE MA5T~R'5 HOUSE;

A TALE OF' SOUTHERN LIFE,

still indignant Governor, at the same time maliciously imi-
tatingwzenasai twang of Tom's voice.
'KNot a pine knot!" sighed the negroes in diorus;
"Oh Lord ! "they ejaculated~ as the fearful truth broke in
upon them, "what shall we do widout pine knots ?" and
the meeting broke up; the first really serious objection
against removing to Louisiana, having impressed itself
upon their minds.
At the proposed time for starting, five large wagons
were filled with camp equipage, cooking utensils, sick or
delicate women, and infant children. It was near noon
when the long procession of wheeled vehicles and footmen,
started from the old house, and gradually falling into line,
commenced winding their toilsome way along the road.
By nightfall, the "emigrants" had passed beyond
the familiar "vicinity" of their deserted home. A place
was selected for the ~~encampment,~~ and all was cheerful
bustle. The negroes went merrily t~ work to cook their
suppers, the fires blazed brightly in the open air, and sweet
sleep, long ere midnight, rested upon the eyes of all, save
those of the "young master."
From day to day the train pursuedits onwar&amp; but slow
progress. The care and responsibility that rested upon
Mildmay, hourly changed the giddy thoughts of youth
into the solemn reflections of sobered maturity. As he
rode ahead of his "helpless family," he could not, help
contrasting his position and duties with the lighter expe-
rience of his college days; and there were times when sor-
row and vexation came upon him, and then be envied those

whose birth had relieved them of the heavy resp~nsibi1i~
ties that had been by Providence placed upon I4~.
If the negroes became dispirited, he encouraged them;
if they were sick, he acted both as nurse and physician.
If the wagons broke, he it was that personally supe~rin-
tended their repair. In truth, Mildmay alone was the
thinking, responsible soul of the throng.
Week after week passed on, and Mildmay found him-
self approaching the end of the most laborious part of his
tedious journey. He had left the mighty pine forests of
North Carolina behind him, which, desolate as they seem,
contain untold wealth, as the reward of well-directed in-
dustry, and was descending into the romantic valley of.
the Cun~berland, in the State of Tennessee.
The change of vegetation and dimate was perceptible.
As the rich lands were met with, population increased, and
the refinements of life followed in the train of wealth. The
independent planters along the highways, often compelled
Mildmay to be their guest, and assisted him in the tern-
p~rary disposition of his negroes. Wherever he appeared
he commanded respect, and often did the generous-hearted
Tennesseans congratulate their sister State of Louisiana,
upon the acquisition of such a noble and intelligent young
man as one of her citizens.
As Graham neared the noble tributary of the Ohio, he
became involved with innumerable~ bodies of emigrants,~of
every condition of life, who were, like himself, struggling
on toward a new home.
The imagination cannot paint the scenes of misery and
distress, and yet of hope, portrayed by the different fami-
4

6
1


'14             THE MASTER'S HOUSE                                                 A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

lies as they moved along. Here were to be seen white m~.:,
as ignorant as their negroes, pursuing their way with the
dogged Airrnness of American energy, carrying from habit
their rifles on their shoulder; and~ followed by their wives,
whoso superior refinement and sensible ambition, mkde fa-
vorable contrasts with the sterner sex,
It would have afforded a curious example of Southern
life, to the people of Malden, could they have seen their
favorite student, their eloquent valedictorian, their refined
and carefully arrayed Qinaham Mildmay; ride along their
elm-embowered streets, as he now appeared at the approach-
ing termination of this arduous journey to his prospective
home.
if is overcoat, which he constantly wore, was soiled;
and hi~ hat, originally broadbrimmed, to protect his face
from the sun and rain, had wilted up under their com-
bined influences, and flapped rowdily over his face; ibis
thick, strong boots, were of a dingy yellow color, and
half concealed by the heavy straps that fastened on hi~
spurs. Around his waist was a belt, that relieved him
from some fatigue while riding, and at nightfall, while
he wat4ihed by the camp fire, held the protecting pistol.
Would Annie Hastings have discerned her ideal,
through that rough exterior? The admiring friends of
Maiden would not; yet we think, that the microscopic eye
of affection would have seen; in the ease of attitude,..-in
the centaur attachment to the noble horse,-in the firm
impress of the foot, though scarcely touching the stirrup,-..-
in the sovereign carriage of the he&amp;d,-4n the self-reliance
of the eye,-that such was indeed Graham, and that his

A
4

'I

real merits shone forth sublime, although undocked by
fashion's art.
Graham, after nearly two long, weary months, had the
pleasure of seeing, while at his night watch, the puffing
steam from a boat, that was gliding up the long-wished
or Oumberland. The sight filled him with pleasure; the
disagreeable part of his journey was at an end.
On the following morning, Fenwick, who had been dis-
patched ahead, some two or three days in advance, met
Nildmay, as had been appointed, at his present encamp-
ment, and gave him the pleasant information, that on the
second day following the flue steamer, "Great West,"
would be at "Ford's .lat~ding."
'" This is more fortunate than I could have expected,"
said Mildmay..
"Great luck," said the i~perturbahle Fenwick; "only
big boat in the river~ last one too, for they say the water is
going down, and they'll have to come to stain wheelers;"
and the faithful Fenwick seemed almost exhausted with his
volubility.
"How far ~re we from the ford~ Fenwiek?" asked Mild-
may with impatient interest.
"Not more than a day's journey, if we push up a little,"
and having said this, Fenwick, who had been awayfor three
days, without farther parley rode among the negroes,
who were lazily, doggedly preparing for the accustomed
start, and after bustling around, scolding, coaxing and order-
ing, informed them of the fact, that at night their foot
travels would be at an end; which fact had a marvellous
effect, not only upon the negroes, but apparently upon the

u


'16              fliE MA~TEi~s HOUSE;                                                   A TALE OF SOUTHERN{ LI~E.           ~tI7

jaded cattle, for every thing moved merrily away. There
was again heard the sounds of light-hearted laughter, and
Jack in stentorian voice struck up ~n extemporaneous re-
frain, with a tremendous chorus of-
"Master's going down de rubber,
Eigh 0, high 0,
Oh, he's de man wid a hundred niggers,
High 0, high 0,
Walk along steamboat, what yon waiting for-?
Whew-yaw, yaw, yaw.'~
In the course of the ensuing morning, Graham over-
took an old wagon drawn by two skeleton oxen. ZBefore
the animals walked a sallow-faced man, with hair as stiff and
colorless as hay. In the vehicle could be distinguished, in
spite of the hoop-stretched cotton top, a poor woman, that
seemed to be suffering intensely with the repeated attacks
of the ague.
"Where are you from, stranger?" asked Graham, riding
beside the man, and adopting, insensibly to himself, the
language of the road.
"From old North Caroline," said the man doggedly,
without looking up.
"And where are you going?" continued Graham, with
some curiosity.
"I'm swine to old Alabam," was the reply, whined
out.
"]3y land all the way?" said Graham, feeling in his
pocket.
"All the way, except I go to Notchee on the Massis-
sip.

"How came you to leave the old North State?" pursued
Graham, willing~to be interested in any passing event.
"Why you see," said the animated automaton, tipping
his poor oxen on the head with his whip, "Why you see,
the turpentine and cutting log business stopped on the Pc-
dee, and the mast crap failed, so the stock died and, I
thought I'd go to Alabam, and commence again.
"And why do you go to Alabama, my friend," suggest-
ed Graham delicately, "when;" he continued, "you pass
so much good land upon your route?"
"Why you see, I want to get into a healthy region, said
the man, glancing at his wife.
"Why, are there no healthy places save in Alabama?"
queried Mildmay, now decidedly interested.
"No pine lands elsewhar, as I knows on," said the man,
an air of intelligence for the first time brightening up his
vacant face.
"You have a long way before you," said Graham in
real sympathy; "and perhaps you will allow inc to loaxiyou
a trifle, as I'm a North Carolinian myself;" and Graham
held towards the man a few silver dollars.
"Not a cent," said the man resolutely, but casting his
eyes behind him, and meeting the gaze of his wife he said:
"Perhaps the ~ld woman will have 'em. She wants some
store medicine; "and with this remark he resumed his place
beside his cattle, as if fatigued by conversation.
Graham added to the amount he had proposed to give
to the man, placed the coins in the cold attenuated hand
of the poor emigrant's wife, and received a smile in return,

Yo


'18             TII~ MASTER'S IIOUSE                                                 A TALE OF SOUTIIERN LIFE.           79

* that he credited to Annie Hastings, and then with a light
heart galloped on after "his people."
It was ten o'clock at night before Mildmay reached" the
ford." It appeared as if his cattle and his negroes had
* just strength to. accomplish the journey, for they now all
appeared to be absolutely broken down; the task completed,
the spirit of the man no longer sustained his infirmities.
Very little p~dns was taken to arrange for the night
the horses were unharnessed where they stopped in the road,
and after being carelessly fed, the negroe's sat down, too fa-
tigued and too happy to think of eating, and in most cases,
while gazing into the clear blue water of the shining river,
fell asleep.
Graham with his own hands, assisted Fenwick in
making up a fire to protect his dependents from the night
air, and with a solemn joy he sat down and thanked Heaven
that t~he most dreaded task of his life had been so happily
accomplished.
Graham's journey down the Oumberland was character-
ized by no startling incident. He was exceedingly fortu-
nate in procuring a, boat larg&amp; enough to take his slaves,
wagons and other Property without difficulty on board. He
superintended the erection of temporary benches'behind
the engines as sleeping places for his negroes, provided
them with a large stove for cooking their victuals, and made
them, 'under the circumstances, very happy indeed.
For himself he selected a comfortable state-room in
th~ cabin, which he occupied most of the day, in resting
from the fatigues he had gone through with, in reading, and
what to him was of the greatest pleasurable importance,

in sketching an epitome of his "Wanderings through the
Wilderness," which was carefully sealed, and at on~ of the
way post~offlces along the~ river, wh9n. the steamer stopped
to procure wood, provisions or passengers,. was mailed to
Miss Annie Hastings, Maiden.
Fenwick had a comfortable bed prepared among the
negroes, and. at, night, at stated. times, Mildmay took
his w~ttch while Fenwick slept, to preserve them from
evil communications; from being enticed away; and for
their general protection.
Night after night, when Oraham's dependents were
wrapped in oblivious, care-dissipating sleep, would he pac.e
for long and solitary hours; a sentinel, who, not only guard..;
ed and defended, but had to think, act and provide for those
who were placed in his charge. The sickening mists of the
river would roll over his person, while he was at his p9st,.
the profane and reckless conversation of the deck hands
would salute his ear-all was rough, ungeriial, barbarous.
Once upon his new ~plantation, he soon became interest~
ed in the establishment of his force in their quarters, and in
providing his overseer with a house. There were mechan-
ics to employ, agricultural implements to be obtained, money
to be procured, and a thousand annoyances he could not ~J
anticipate, favorable as were his circumstances, eomp~red
with thousands who seek a new hcune in the Southwest.
Mr. Moreton occasionally rode over to see Graham, and
~issisted him by many useful suggestions; bu~ to return
these visits, Graham never went abroad except on business.
The summer and winter passed away, and spring came.
The crop was in the ground, the prospect of the future was

'18


bright, and as the necessity of exertion ceased, so did Gra-
ham relax from his cares; and begin to think of some re-
pose as a reward, for his unceasing industry.
It was now that his affection for Annie increased. He
now had a home to invite her to, he longed for her society,
he wished to hear her merry laugh ring through his house,
and see her grace his now solitary table. Fenwick was
competent and trustworthy, and, sooner than he intended,
Graham made his preparations to visit the North.
Judging from Annie's letters (for within the last year
Graham and Annie had directly corresponded with each
other), a responsive chord had been touched in her bosom.
The cold calm reserve of her first epistles, had given way
to a tone of unrestrained confidence.
It was these letters that gilded all of Graham's cares.
In the solitary musings of his journey through the "Old
North State," in hi~ repose by the side of his ~camp fire
among the rich lands and hospitable people of Tennessee,
at his midnight watch on the Mississippi, or hisf~olitary
hours at Heritage Place, Annie's letters had been his great-
est solace, and he exulted that he had awakened an iz~terest
in her heart, and that she was the chosen companion of his
life.
Every thing with Graham had gone well. The young~
planterfelt just pride as he rode over his broad acres, and
witnessed the improvements of llerita~e P1ac~. The neg-
lected Qut.buildings were now neat and eomfo#table, the
dilapidated fences were all repaired; and there were eviden-
cesof a c~o~ning reward for agricultural laborpur~ued under
his own observant eye.

80

Graham, in fact, seemed destined to great worldly pros-
perity. O~i the same day he received a letter from North
Carolina announcing his probable hoirship to a handsome
estate, left by a distant relative of whose existence he had
never before heard, and one from his commission merchant
in New Orleans, offering him a large advance on the origi-
nal amount he gtwe for Heritage Place
Nearly two years had passed since he left MaIden.
Now relieved of the pressure of business egres, he deter-
mined, even sooner than he had intended, to visit the North.
His arrangements were soon made, and leaving every thing
in charge of Fenwick, he set out upon his long anticipated
trip. Graham once upon his journey, was l~iimself sur-
prised at his~ own impatience. Night and day he had but
one idea, and that was, to speed oii his way.
Arriving at Malden he at once proceeded to his hotel.
As he rattled along its streets, he recognized the familiar  4
buildings as they appeared to dance when looked at through
the windows of the coach, and recognized the happy faces
of many merchants and, citizens witliwhom he was familiar.
There were students too, standing about in groups, whose
listless gait and abstracted airs brought old time feelings
to his heart. The coach~ rattled on. The familiar house
of Dr. Elliott, rising against the sky from its commanding
position, seemed to float by him as if whirling in a circle
of whieli he was the centre-anon there came familiar trees
and shady walks, then rushed by him the old Hastings
House, the window panes glistening like crystal, all quiet,
all repose, and he aank~back upon his ~shioned seat almost
suffocated with the swellings and throbbings of his heart.
4*

80              THI~2 MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                 A T~L~ OF 5OUTIIEft~ LIFE.         81

81


82              THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                    A ALE OF SOUTHERN ur~.             83

Another instant and the vehicle stopped. Its door wa~
opened, and Mildmay jumped out upon the pavement.
"Mildmay," "Graham,'.' shouted a dozen voices at once,
and he wa# overwhelmed with gratulations.
His fellow students, who had, a~ freshmen, ~~heard his
eloquent ~aledietory, but now growvinto solemn juniors,
fairly hugged him round the neek~ while the honest old
IandlorA of the "Hotel" stood by, and when he'~could get.
an opportunity helped Graham up the steps as if he were
his own long lost but now returned son.
It was the idle hour of the day at Maiden, an4 the
news spread from mouth to mouth, and ran along thestreets
with telegraphic quickness, that "Gr~ha~m. Mildn~ay~;had
come!"
There was an absolute sensation of pleasure that beat
like a pulse among all the people, so much was Graham be-
loved. Dr. Elliott caught the~ news, as he was working in
his flower~.garden, and by' twilight trimming into shape a
honeysuckle vine, and the good old man, just where he was,
fell upon his knees and returned thanks to Heaven, that he
was to see his " beloved child again."
Annie the while was in her own r~m, looking over
Graham's last letter. "He will certainly liei'e~'the day af-
ter to.rnorrow,'if he is not mistaken in the time he surely
would not delay on the way," she reflected, 'as the blood
mantled to her cheeks, and While thus engaged at her own
speculations and communing with her own thoughts, a.
favorite but statelT old female serv&amp;~t of the Hastings
family stole up to Armie's room and ge~itly pushed at the
doer, but finding it locked she stopped and said':

"Mistress Annie, he's come."
"Where?" said Annie, looking around vaguely.
"Not here yet, but *at the 'hotel," replied the 'solemn
old servant, walking away.
Annie sat ~a monie~it like one entranced. Her delicate
face grew red and i~le; and then crushing Graham's letter
to her face she found relief in deep, scalding, gushiug'te'M's.
As soon as Graham could do so, 'he slipped away from
his friends, and his first act was to write and dispatch a n&amp;te
to the old Hastings House, and half an hour afterward~ he
was rapidly threading the familiar streets of Maiden.
Annie, pale with excitement' sat in the old parlor, buried
in an arm-chair, with a book upside down in her hand, yet
one would suppose, from her intent gaze upon it, that she
was busy reading. The time since Graham had last seen
her had wrought many changes in, her appearance. 'She
was now in the full perfection of maidenly beauty~ She
was, too, somewhat grown in height, her form was full and
round, and' there was a thoughtful, responsible expression
about her eye, making it far mo~~e beautiful than in the
times that were past.
The grim old puritan female servant of the Hastings
family, had lived for years, it might almost be said for a
century, in the house, and had never in all. that~time shown
any more sentiment or geniality than would a pillar of ice.
She had known Annie from her infancy, and yet had in all
that time coldly and respec~tfulIy done her duty toward tie"
young lady, frowning down any thanks oi~ professions of love
as if they were mortal sins. But now she was roused. It
would seem that she had watched the love passages between

1


84               THE ~AsTm~'~ HotisE;                                                     A TALE OF 5OUTUERIi~ LIFE.           85

the young people, and for the first time to Annie's know-
ledge had she shown some symptoms of sympathy with the
affairs ~f the hea~'t; in announcing Graham's arrival, and
when he came upon the steps of the old mansion, before
even his impatient hand wa~ lifted, she opened the door~
and geutly~ letting Graham in, she pointed to the parlor
"She~ there,-alone,", and disappeared.
CHAPTER vnr.
A FLEA5A~T IALEAM MADE REALfl
Tim summer to Graham and Annie passed
and with the fall eame the preparations for "1
return to the South.
-~On the morning following the marriage, t
front of the old Hastings House a carriage, a:
miliar preparations for a long journey. Pres
opened and Graham, with Annie in her travel]
leaning upon his arm, made J~is appearance.
the group was filled up with a number of per~
faces smiles were seen struggling with tears.
* Th~ farewells had been uttered, the Ja~t en
As the carriage do~r clo~od upon Graham ~x
young Wife thrust her hand through thewin~
ed her adiens as long as those who had so ca:
o fondly kved her could be seen; bitt 50
her self-possession, she seized Mildmay's hafl~
in~ his face with childlike confidence, asked:
"how long, Graham, shall we b~ in gettk

rapidly away,
~he master~si~
here stood in
rid all the fa.
ently the door
Ling dress and
The rear of
;on~, inwhose
~brac~s given.
id Annie, the
Low,~ and way-
refully raised
on recovering
[,and looking


86               THE MASTER'S 110U5E                                                      A TALE OF SOUTHERN 'LIFE.           87

Graham, once on his wayi South, became anxious to reach
his journey's end, and by such progress as was not fatiguing
to Annie, he' was soon upon the Ohio, and rapidly descend-
ing the Mississippi.
The rivers were low, and the best class of. accommuoda-
tions were 119t to be had, but to Annie, this very want of
faciJitie~ proved a source of constant amusement.
Heritage Place, as has been described, was off the river
some twenty miles, and approached by a bayou, which in
the spring of the year was navigable. When Graham
landed at the point on the river nearest his plantation,
he found that he would have to make the rest of the jour-
ney by land, or in a skiff, as the bayou was now almost
dried up.
There were no families residing near "the lauding," and
no places of accomn~odation that could afford a comfortable
shelter for the night; and this unexpected difficulty gave
Graham a great deal of annoyance. As the steamer on
which they had lived so pleasantly for many days disap-
peared, it seemed to Annie that she an~d Mildmay had been
abandoned in the forests.
Two negroes who were employed in chopping wood near
by, came forward, and instantly recognized "Master ~Mi1d-
may," and by their assistance Gi'aham' got his trunks up
the steep bank,.. and deposited them and Annie murder the
shade of a wide-spreading tree.' The niegroes then ran off
and ~aid they would return with their master.
"This is rather' rough, Annie," said Graham, looking
around, "but it is very rarely that persons find themselves
in our strait. If Fenwick could have anticipated our arri~'

86

81

val," he continued, "the carriage would have been in
waiting."
"It's only twenty miles you say, Graham, and then we
are home," suggested Annie.
"Only twenty."
"Then let us go at once," said the young wife, ~' for I
verily believe I could walk all' the way."
"You are a brave girl," said ~Mildmay, laughing, "but
we will do better than that; see, here 'comes some one who
will assist us," and Graham looked towards the proprietor
of one of the log cabins in the neighbQrhood.
A rough-looking man came up, and instantly recog-
nized Graham, and shook him cordially by the hand. He
said, among other things, that he had been "'4own the
bayou," a few days before; had seen Fenwick; that every
"thing looked 'well, and promised a fine crop, and also, that
Fenwick did not expect Mildmay for a week,
This gossip was exceedingly gratifying to Mildmay,
and it was soon arranged, that he would go home in a
skiff," as there was water enough for that purpose. The
baggage was removed to the light boat,'thc two negroes
took their places as oarsmen, and Graham hl3lped Annie
into the stern, and took his place beside her.. In the
course of two hours th~y were' sailing merrily along, soon
coniparatively to be at the end of the journey.
As the skiff proceeded, Graham explained to Annie
how it was, that in "high water," the dark muddy sluice.
way through which they were then travelling wo~ild con-
tain a flood, in which the largest ships could navigate; aaid


88             THE MA5TJ~R's HOUSE                                              A TALE OF 5OUTHERN LIFE.

i.~y other descriptions of scenery, and pleasant incidents, he
beguiled the time.
Gradually the sun settled down in the west, and the
';~ deep, dark shadows of the primitive forests shrouded the
earth; Annie instinctively clung closer to Graham, h~r
terrors in spite of herself; sometimes almost overcoming
her self.possession.
Four hours had passed away, when in the bend of the
bayou, far ahead, Annie saw, rising up from among the
trees, a stately mansion. It presented 'an imposing effect
in the dim light.
"Is that a delusion?" said Annie, pointing to the
house, that seemed, from the motion of the skiff; to be it-
self moving about.
Graham stared curiously a moment, and then recog-
nized Annie's home; but so altered, by a thorough paint.~
ing, since he had been away, that for a moment he did not
know it himself.
"That is the end of our journey; in a few moments
more we shall be in our own house."
"I can hardly realize' it," said Annie; "and. n~ore,
it seems ~so strange, to see such mansions rising out of
these desolate-looking woods."
"To'~morrow all wilibe chai~ged. Once," he continued,
on the banks above us, and you will see a country of sur-
passing loveliness."
"Go 'long dar "-" what you 'bout, Brandy "-..-." step
along~ 'G~n. Jao~kson "+'.~ what's you doing, Logan," and
other colloquial sounds, suddenly rose from the woods,

frightening~ the owls, who, not yet fairly awake, ~vent
whooping like Indian spirits off into the solitudes.
"As I live," said ~-raham, to Annie, "I believe~ that
is old Ben's voice-~.Ben----iIo! Ben," shouted Graham, so
loudly, that he perfectly astonished Annie with his ve-
hemence.
"Orack," "snap," went the ox-goad, popping like a
pistpl, while the heavy wheels of the cart, seemed to grind
into the earth the limbs of trees over which they were
moving.
"Ben-Ben, I say!" again shouted Graham.
"Whoa!" Ben was heard to say; instantly all was still,
and again Graham called.
The next moment there was seen,, on the banks of the
bayou, and almost over the, skiff, the dark form of a. negro,
over whose shoulders rested a long-handled whip.
"Who calls old Ben down dar?" said the man,~staring
wildly about.
Your master," said A4raham, half vexed at old Ben's
obtuseness.
"Say dat agin!" said old Ben, commencing a. sort of
extempore jig, as most expressive of his joy, at his mas-
ter's return.
The skiff had now fairly rounded the point, on which
Ben stopd, and coining near him, Graham said:
"Ben, why don't you hurry off to the Iwuse, and' tell
Mr. Fenwick I am 'coming, with your mistress, up the
l3ayou."            ' '
'The negro stopped to hear no more'; in an~
he was rushing along in the dark, like a perturbe*~


THE MASTER'S HOUSE;
yelling and laughing by turns, and when 'he could ~n43
time, saying s-.
'~ Master's come! master's come !"
It was now completely dark; there had been notEing to
guide the rowers, but the silver thread of the stream, re-
lieved against th~ gloom; but in a few moments lights
sprung up in different directions, and were seen moving to
and fro, and finally all canie together at one point.
Anon, the snorting of a horse, then 'the heavy tr~mp
of hoots, and then Fenwick was heard to say,,.
"Tbis way, you scoundrels, with those 'torches.-.-.here's
the landing.~~
All this seemed to Annie as if she were in a dream;
sh&amp; could not believe its reality; even Mildmay appeared
changed; for, from the dim light reflected on his face, he
seemed to have turned: to bronze.
The negroes who rowed the ~" skiff" now turned it to-
wards the concentration of lights, and in a moment more
it ceased to 'move, for want of the proper depth of water.
Gradually the location of things developed themselves
to Graham; for the first time, he 'knew exactly where he
was, and he found that between him and the solid earth
v'was twenty feet of soft, muddy deposit of the bayou.
As soon, however, as the skiff was discovered from the
shore, there rushed to it 'a dozen stout negroes; many
bearing' torches, and all aniibtis to see "ma~ter." Gra-
ham rose up, and hurriedly saluted his dependents, and
then~ gave' directions for *getting him out of his teihpo-
rary difficulties. Forgetting, at the moment, that Annie
had never seen a dozen negroes in her life, until within

~~1.

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

91

the few days she had been on a western steamer, he or-
dered some of :his men "to carefully lift her ashore."
Annie heard the order with ~,stonishmei~t; it see~ned
in the momentary exaggeration of her fears, that ,Gr4iam
designed her for destruction, and throwing her arms around
his neck in unqualified' terror, she exclaimed :-
"No, no, don't consign me to these men."
In an instant Graham comprehended Annie's feelings,
and with an inward consciousness of deep pain at 'his
want of consideration, he sternly commanded the officious
negroes to stand aside; and now communicating freely with
Fenwick, ordered him 'to get some plank or rails, and
make such a walk, as he could, with safety, help Annie
over himself.
The suggestion once made, it was instantly carried into
effect, and Annie, trembling in every limb with excite-
ment, reached the shore.
In a few moments more she was in her own. roomr where
the careful "Olemmy," the house servant, had considerately
prepared a blazing fire upon the hearth. But the excite-
ment had confused her mind. She~was feverish and rest-
less; her imagination was filled with dark, mysterious
caverns, and strange-looking beings with torches, who
seemed determined to seize hold of her in some way, and
do her injury. Then there were the many dependents of
Mildmay, who, in their clamorous joy, were crowding int9
"the doors and windows to see "masters, ~r~d "mistress."
All~ these things overcame AnDie, and she weepin~ly
begged Graham to dispense with all attendants~ and 8it~


THE ~1A5TER's nOUSE;
down beside her, that she might feel, and gradually Com-
prehend, that they Were ~ione.
Lu a little while Annie entirdy recovered her self-pos-
sessio~i, ~nd with a smile, of heaven-l~orn benignity, she
congratulated herself that her travels were at an end.
Night closed in~ the angel of peace spread her wings over
the domestic scene; Graham's fondest hope was realized;
Annie was indeed mistress of Heritage Place.'

9S

CHAPTER IX.
AN UNSUCCESSFUL ENTERPRISE.
STONEYYILL,1~ is one of the most pleasant towns in the ru-
ral $tate of Vermont. It is in an out-ofthe-way nook, on
the very' edge of the great currents of travel, yet not per-
ceptibly influenced by theni, for it retains most of its old-
times features, a large-number of its best houses having
been in existence at the time of the Revolution. Stoney-
yule is also somewhat remarkable for possessing an old
ruin; a thing rare, indeed, in New England. Past the
edge of the village, flowed a spring-fed stream, which, at
the lowerpart of the town, widened into quite a deep lake.
Upon some rocks in the centre of this sheet of~ water, had
many years before, been built by an unsuccessful. specu-
lator, a flour mill, now in decay; it having been discovered
when too late, that the enterprise needed two things to
make it succeed; ene~zgh swift-running water to turn' the
millr and enough wheat to keep 'it busy ;both were wanted,
but what the disappointed miller lost, the town of Sto~iey~
ville'g~dned in the picturespe. -
The traditions of Stoneyville are very interesting: the

A TALE OF 5OUT~IERN LIFE.


,~ ~;u~

94

-THE. MASTER'S HoUsE ;

little boys* can point out the very spot- where they say
General Stark stood, when he made his famous address to
his soldiers; where the Green Mountain Boys bivouacked
a few days before the battle of Bennington. They also
have traditions of wounded soldiers, that were brought
into the town, and lodged in specified houses, and who died
encouraging the living never to .surrender .their liberties
until death.
These incidents are characteristic of the town of Stoney-
ville, but in them was all the bloodshed and violence that
were familiar to the people, for no place was more peace-
able, more primitive, than this .little village. The uses
of law were scarcely known, the poor-house atid the jail
were alike almost destitute of tenants. But for the many
flourishing schools within its vicinity, and the consequent
visiting -of anxious parents, to witness .the progress. of
their children, Stonaeyville would have been forgotten, save
to the little world of which it was the centre. .
.Here it was the good fortune of Charles Broadnax, of
whom we have heard in another chapter, to find a retreat,
and here he had resided in peace, and would probably have
continued to do so to the end of his days, had not his
prosperity attracted the good-natured attention of the local
editor; who thus, while intending .to -compliment him,
brought .a knowledge of his whereabouts to the eye of
Major Dixon, the bitter enemy of thie African race.
The negro trader, in due course of time, for the accom-
plishment of his plans, having informed himself in Wash-
~ngton of the locality of Stoneyville, and also of the char-
acter of its inhabitants, chuckled over the prospect of the

A TALE. OF SOUTUtERN LIFE.

95

"hell of a fuss he was going to kick uip among the Yan-
kees ;"  and  obtaining, a  temporary commission -as
United States Marshal; for one of his "own men," and
selecting two others, who hung about the slave depots in
Washington, for assistants.; armed with the " solemn au-
thority of law," and what they deemed necessary append-
ages, revolvers and bowie knives; the four were soon in the
State of Vermont, and managed to remain long enough to
concoct their plans at the railroad station, some five miles
from Stoneyville, without, in the hurry and bustle of the
passing to and fro, attracting any particular attention.
Having secured a room at the railroad hotel, Dixon
made his companions place all their weapons in his trunk,
which he locked up ;. observing that if any of the inhabitants
saw any of their "playthings," they would know that
they were Southerners negro-hunting, and. give the alarm.
He then cautioned them not to swagger, or get -intoxicated,
but behave themselves 'until he returned ; for, ever intent
on business, he proposed at once to proceed on foot to Sto-
neyville; reconnoitre the place, find out where Charles was,
lay all his plans; and then, with the assistance of his con-
federates, make the capture.
With these ideas, he started up the-road that led to
his place of destination.  It was a pleasant September
afternoon; all nature smiled,-the naturally sterile hill
sides were mantled with ripening fruits,-and the hay
fields filled the air with fragrance. A long way off there
could be seen the modest spire of Stoneyville church, glis~
tening just above the intervening hills.
." I wonder how these ere people manage to live,"

4


96             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;
soliloquized Dixon, as he strode along; "cuss me!" he
continued, looking around, "if they don't seem to keep
fat on blue stone, for they've not much else to' eat:" and
thenlooking ahead, and perceiving the spire of the church,
that for a 'moment came in full view, he said, "Thar's a
church; IL suppose that's the shop Charles is sexton of;
why didn't they make him the preacher, or send him to
Congress ?"
Just at this moment there came rattling along a two-
horse wagon, driven by a merry boy, some twelve years
old; the horses in perl~eet condition, and looking fairly
gay under their well-kept harness.
"Wal, I rather guess you'd better ride," said the
boy, holding' up his steeds, to get Dixon's answer.
"How far are ycu going?" inquired Dixon, his hand
already on the foie 'wJ~eel, ready to mount.
"WaI, I'm goin' near tu Stoneyville, but not right tu
it,'" said the little teamster, his eyes dancing with life and
health.
Another moment; and the Major was hurried along at
a swinging trot; and being a good judge of a horse, "al-
most as good," to~use his own language, "as he was of
niggers," lie appeared highly delighted with his unex-
pected good fortune.
It seemed to Dixon but a few moments before the boy
stopped, and. told him, althoi~gh the town was entirely
hidden from view, that just beyond 'the spur of the hill
~ihead, he would be at Stoneyville. Dixon jumped into
the~ road, and taking from his pocket a twenty-five vent.
piece, offered' it to the boy.

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE. '
"I hadn't got no change," said the little fellow, gather.-
ing up the reins to move on.
"Never mind the change," said Dixon, laughing.
"Wal, I hope you don't guess I'll take all that money
fur such ~a little ride, do you?"
"I guess you will,"~ sneeringly returned Dixon, all of
his hatred of the Yankee character being revived by the
nasal twang of the urchin; "I guess you will take it, and
you'd better buy one of these farms with part of it, and
keep the rest to' build you a house."
The boy took the money with evident surprise at the
liberality of the gift marked on his face, and laughed
heartily at Dixon's remark, for he understood it exactly
different from what it was intended; and then touching
up his horses; soon rattled on out of 0igbt.
Now something in all this had annoyed Dixon, and he
strode 'on to' the village in - exceeding bad humor.. Al-
though it was in the usual business hours of the day, he
saw no one in the streets; the houses set back from the
road,-the front doors were generally open,-but all was
still. He passed one or two modest-looking stores; the
inmates seemed to be absorbed in, boQks, or half asleep.
At the 'extreme end of the town he. discovered an old-
fashioned tavern sign, and to it he wended his way.
Suddenly he heard the hum, of busy voices, merry
laughter, and other signs of life; and it appeared 'to him
that by a si~nultaneous movement,'    etofore quiet
streets were alive with children. The merry urchins
poured out from almost every house, and went whooping
in merry troops up and down the streets. Such i~ con-
5


98               tu~~i ~LASTSR'S HOUSE;                                                    A TALE OF SOUTHERN LiFE.

tinued array of white faces, and rosy chee]~s, depressed
Dixon; and at the moment, he would have looked upon a
negro, if legitimately in his presence, with all the senti-
ment of suddenly seeing among strangers a familiar face.
Dixon soon made an interested friend of the landlord
of the "Farmer's Inn;" and although out of the' usual
hour, he ordered some refreshments, and then ~asked to be
directed to the village barber. The landlord pointed him
out the shop, and then disappeared to attend to his unex-
pected call for a dinner.
Charles IBroadnax lived near the centre of the village,
and' opposite the church. Over the door, in simple let-
ters, was the name; and on the inside, the* negro 'man
could be seen busily dusting off 'the various articles that
composed his stock in trade. *A dark and terrible expres-
sion passed over the face of Dixon, as he saw the negro;
but by~ a great effort of will, he controlled himself, and
entered the "saloon."
Charles, with professional courtesy, made the usual
bow; aid asked what the gentleman would have. Dixon
signified his desire, and in another moment was undergoing
the necessary, but not very poetical infliction of being
shaved. Charles was at. leisure, and took more than usual
pains to please,; and when Dixon came from under his
manipulations, he looked vastly improved.
Before Dixon left, Charles's two children,, of seven and
nine years of age, came into the shop, and leaving some
message, immediately went out again.. Dixon paid his
bill, and casually inquired
"You have some~children, I see?"

"Yes," said' Charles, "I have got four."
"And how do you like living ia this cold country?"
inquired Dixon, pretending' to be ~very much interested
with a picture that ornamented the wall.
There was something in the tone of voice and manner
of Dixon that now alarmed Charles, yet he could not tell
why. The sound of the voice,-.the cold, distrustful, and
evidently unsympathizing' expression,-.revived recollec-
tions that had been slumbering in his memory for years;
* and' yet, while his heart sunk within him, nothing visible
to his eye seemed to justify his fears.
Dixon saw the mental agitation of his victim, and was
coiifirmed in his idea that he was talking to the fugi-
tive; but to place. the matter beyond a doubt he said:
~J rode up from the railroad depot with one of your
citizens, and I have heard your story with a great deal of
interest."
"Ah!" said Charles, instantly recovering his spii~its
(for his escape from slavery was, quite a familiar romance
in the vicinity); "many people do talk of my having come
from the South; but for that~ I should almost forget it
myselt2'
Dixxn said no more, but walked lack to the "Farm-
ers' Inn," and commenced in excellent spirits his plain, but
neatly dressed, and substantial dinner. The landlord
was a garrulous man, and talked about a thousand things
of no possible interest to Dixon; but upon that gentleman
mentioning 'what an excellent barber the town of Stoney-
ville was blessed with, I3onifaco went into the whole de~
*tails of Charles's coming to the town,-his early struggle


100    ~~THE -MASTER's HOUSE;                        ATEOFSUHRLF.10

to maintain himself,-and 'his final triumphs ; and ~then
launched off into .a tirade against slavery, and wound up
with lgud denunciations on the head -of negro traders,
whom tlie landlord said he had Charles's -authority for as-
serting " were a paclg of thieving scoundrels, who would
do- any thing base to selt the souls and bodies of the un-
fortunate slave."
" Did that nigger bai-ber say. that ?" growled Dixon,
'as well as he could, with his mouth full of excellent pud-
ding.
The landlord, perfectly delighted that he had at last
touched upon a subject that interested his guest, replied :
"Yes,, he said that; and I'll. add," continued the
landlord, determined to be agreeable, " that a man that
will give himself up to'mnake a trade of selling human
beings,-to separating parents and children,-deserves to
go down to the bottomless pit, where there is weeping and
wailing and gnashing of teeth."
"That's your opinion, is it?" said Dixon, perfectly
strangled with wrath, and purple in his face.
" It is," said the landlord, still unconscious -of the
effect of his remarks; " and it's the opinion of every decent
main in the country ; "-and then pausing a moment, and
giving his language great effect, he continued: "~ Charles
says, that in the South even, a nigger trader is despised
and loathed, and not allowed to sit at a gentleman's table;
and if such is thie case ----."
" Shut up .your infernal gab !" finally roared Dixon,
almost in an apoplectic fit, " andl the devil take Charles !-

4

Can't you let a man eat a meal in your hose, without in-
suiting him, you chuckle-headed, fool ?"
The landlord fell back against the wall, overcome with
astonishment.
"tI hope I haven't offended you!" he said, the moment
he could speak.
Dixon, who had convulsively seized the carving knife
before him, and half risen in his chair, dropped the
weapon, and settling back in his seat, while. his face was
still black with indignation, he begged the landlord to ex-
cuse him, " as he was subject to flows of blood to the
head."
In a few moments he paid his bill, and walked preci-
pitately into the street. The instant that he reached the
highway, and was beyond observation and hearing, he un-
loosed his neck-kerchief, to let the air come to his
neck, for its veins were swelling and heaving as if heated
by an internal fire; and then throwing his arms about him
as if to obtain more relief, he poured out upon the land-
lord of the " Farmers' Inn," and upon Chai-les, curses
and maledictions that rivalled the fiends themselves; and it
was not until he had walked the whole five miles necessary
to reach the railroad station, that he was fairly self-pos-
sessede
Dixon, on his arrival among his confederates, kept up
the discipline necessary for the best execution of his, plans.
He would not allow them to appear mueh together in the
street, nor would he, when observed, have, much to say to
them himself. It has not until ten o'clock at night, thatT
they met in their sleeping room, and discussed their plans.

01

100


Dixon gave~ a graphic account' of his adventures at
Stoucyville, and was further enraged by his friends' laugh-
ter, as he detailed how the landlord, to use the deputy
Unite&amp; States marshal's language, "hit 'him under the
short ribs;" but the conclave finally concluded, that. it
would be a great thing gained,,'if it were possible, "to
stake the landlord down, and give him a 'hundred,' before
they carried off his nigger friend, Charles."
"And how far is Stoneyville from this place ?" inquired
the deputy marshal.
"Five miles," said Dixon, sententiously~
"Five miles!" repeated the marshal, pulling out an
old watch;~ "why, Major Dixon," he continued, "it is
now only eleven o'clock; we* can get to Stoneyville by one,
and take the nigger in his den, asleep, and be back in time
for the three o'clock m'brning train."
"I know that," snarled Dixon, "I could go back alone
to Stoneyville, and take him myself, and bring him here;
but that isn't the thing,-I want a row,-.--I want some of
them guessing Yankees to interfere; I want that landlord
to get a rip with a bowie,-.---I want to make these fellows
feel what it is to infringe on Southern rights.
The two men, whom Dixon had hired ,to accompany
him, finally fell into a slumber, but the deputy marshal
seemed a 'little nervous about his "official capacity," from
the fact,' that his commission seemed to him a profound
delegation of terrible power, and he was constantly afraid
that it would either be infringed upon, or not sufficiently.
exerted; ~ o he kept wide awake, and continued in co~ver-
sation with Dixon.

102

103

102             WIlE MASTER'S flOU5E~                                                   A fALE OF SOUTHERN, LIFE.         103

Now the major was, exceedingly well skilled in his
business, and he had inculcated the deputy tnarshal with
the belief that if~ he, the marshal, was successfull in this
"particular hunt," that he might get into a flue run of
business, and soon make- himself rich; and to further sW
emulate his confederate, Dixon gave several illustrations of
the profitss of fugitive hunting; but the story .he told with
most ~ ran as follows
"When I fust commenced this business, jt was before
the abolitionists had created such. a fuss against the South,
and before the slave States made the law, that a negro
was free, if his master took him voluntarily into the north-
ern States. The consequence was, that a great many gen-
tlemen owned niggers, who had by travel got to be pretty
considerable sort of gentlemen.
"A young man, by the name of Pinekney, who at about
twenty-one, came in possession of a large estate, took it
into his head to have in Europe a grand sludgege" ~o he
took his body servant, Benson, about as white as niggers
ever get to be, and started off. I think Benson' told me'
that his master stayed abroad about ten years, and visited
all the kings and queens, and courted du~hesses,~and all
that sort of thing; Benson. half the time passing for his
companion, and' all the time treated as if he was, no mis-
take,' white.
"When Piuckney got back home again, he found his
funds rather low; and having got a taste for cards and
horses, he went down South, and commenced the genteel
gambler, and floured on the race track; and it was gene-
rally given in, that if it hadn't been for Benson's smartness,


he'd a gone. to the dogs in less time than it takes to brand
ow a race track, Mr. Deputy Marshal, isabad
place for fools,~~ had place for a man that loses hi~
senses in drinking too much-4 flaYer do that,.-.and a bad
place f~r a bird, any way, that is rather loose in his
feathers. Be that as it may, Pinckney soon had fastened
on him' a shrewd man, who determined to get Benson from
him, by fair means or foul; and so he stuck to him with
"marked cards;" and pisening his race horses, and bribing
their riders, until Puuckney put up Benson against fifteen
hundred dollars, and lost him on the race track, easier
than a turtle rolls off a log.
"Now, the~man that wonBenson didn't live ma pal-
ace, or have any duchesses about '1dm, I tell you. lie' oc-
cupied a log~cabiu, eat corned pork, and amused himself
drinking whiskey, running horses,, and hunting niggers. He
was a real ~spiited gentleman, but rat imprudent in
whipping, for he, used to lay it on when he got mad, so that
the nigger never got over it, and that is a foolish wasting
of property, for you see 1~fr. Deputy, there is no feeling ma
nigger's hide below the skin, and if you will take time, you
can get it all out of his body without touching a vital-.-~but
howsomever,. the man had a right to kill 'em if lie could
afford to, for a person should do as he pleases 'with his
own.
"As soon as this man won Benson, who stoo&amp;;hy, dress~
ed up in the very clothes he brought from Fra~n~e, and a
gdd watch. lii his pocket, he said very mildly: 'lienson,'
my boy; that balfxieck ahead of my horse as they came out

4

104            THE MA5TJ~Y~ HOUSE;                                            A TALE OF' SOUTHERN LIFE.        105

at the stand, made m&amp;y~ur master; now I have a preju~-
dice agin dandy niggers, agin learned niggers, a
white niggers; and as I don't fancy the airs Mr. '~ ~o y
puts on, I think I'll commence your education by whipping
out of your hide all the gyrations~he's lamed yow; and if
you live through it, maybe you'll make a good eottou pi~ker
at last,' and as 'the winner said this, he commenced with-
out further ceremony belting Benson with a heavy whip,
every stroke of which cut the hroadcloth into finders.
"Now, Pinckney (who was drunk when he putup Ben-
son as a stake, for he would have sacrificed his life for the
boy had he been sober), seeing the man strike ~Benson, lie.
drew a knife, and demanding' how any one dared to strike
his nigger, rushed in, and a general fight ensued{ but a~
might be expec1I~ed, the gamblers got the'~ advantage, for'
they cut up Punckney awful, ~o he died the next Jay~but'
the nigger disappeared, and~wasn't seen afterwards.
"Now Benson understood that li.e had bean lo8t on. a
bet, and determining not to go with 'his. new rnast~r, the
moment the fight eommenc~d~'he slipped ~out of sight; hid
away in the woods, and 'hailed the first boat going te Ciii-.
cunuati after he got to Vh~ Mississippi River,- ~ud was ta-
ken on board and treated all the way like ~ gentleman, iLo
one on the boat even ~uspectung that he wa~ a darkee,
much les8 a runaway slave.
"Benson found his way of course to the British posses-
sious, and If our government' at Washington had any spunk,
it woiil4 declare war on Canada, .jnst to get the runaways;
that's the Way it served the Seminoles, and a very ~re1~ty
thing ~we made of it. Benson once on ~ng1ish sUe, set hhn-~
5*


106              THE MAS~rER's HO~U5E~                                                     A TALE OF~ SOUTHERN ~I~'E.            10'1

self up for a gentleman at large, and as he could talk about
crowned he~ds,.pioters~ and all that sort' of nonsense., he was
looked upon as the perlitest man ever was seen, and you'd
scarcely believe it, set up a perfumery store and married an
English woman, as handsome Thu told as any in the coun-
try."
The deputy marshal, who had listened up to this mo-
ment in profound silence; at the statement of ~he marriage,
rolled up his eyes i~i astonishment, and said
"Oh; Ma~j~or!' You're going it too strong."
"Not a bit of it; for you see Benson was a white nig-
~ger, and it took a good judge 'to 4iow the cross. I have,"
'he continued, "paid' a'heap~of money out to settle this very
question of how white a nigger can be.
"'Twas 'only six years ago, I bought, near Richmond,
for a friend of mine in' Orleans' a real blue-eyed white nig-
ger girl~;~ and 'after I got her on the ship, a habeas corpus
was got out, to pro~Ire. 'sh&amp; was clear white.' Her lawyer
took the ground that she was free-for, 'you see it was ar-
gued according to the Virginny statute, 'that every person
who had one fourth negro blood should be deemed a nigger,
and that every person who had less than that should have
a certificate if being white. 'Twas a hard struggle for
twenty 'hundred dollars, I toll you, for the man' I bought
the girl of, had taken the money and left.'
"Fortunately the girl had~i't any education.; she looked
beautiful, and :being only fifteen, w~s worth to a young feb
low with plenty of money, three thousand as she stood, and
as ahe~c~uldn't plead her case, ~nd didn't-'see~n 'to care,~'
when I ~howed them that the inside of her hands was

c~ ~ittZe smootho' than ordinary white folks, and the dark
line down the spine; the justice give in and l~ took her off;
but, for that,~it would have been as good 'as losing Mi ordi.
nary niggers, as things then stood.
"'But 4S  was saying about Benson; he took to the per-
fumery business, andimarried a white wife, and got to be a
great man in his way, I tell you. There helived, not even
his fellow-runaways suspecting that he had ever seen .a slave
State. But a Southern man, wh~ had, seen Bensoii on the
race track, recognized him in Canada, atid it got to my ears,
and the first'time I was down in Louisiana after II heard
of his whereabouts, I bought out his master's interest 1~or
fifty dollars1 and took a regular bill of sale.'
"I expected to 'have a~ deal of trouble? if I ever 'got
Benson at all, but he' walked into the trap I set for him
like a bumble-bee into a sugar hogshead. Just one letter,
pi~etending to be from a New York merchant, that wanted
to see him in Detroit, brought him under the American flag
and into a pair of handcuffs."
"And what became of him at last?" asked the deputy
marshal.
"Why17' said Dixon, rising up and walkiz~ig aboQt the
room, "as a mex~e money speculation, Benson turned out
badly. I spent three hundred' dollars to 'get him to St.
Louis;' and carried him 'gagged and tied all the way, rind
when I got him fairly in limbo, after all niytrouble, hehad
the ingratitude to hang. himself to the rafters, and ~so give
me the slip after all."
"And what1~came of his wife?" asked the marshal with
more interest than he had at any other time displayed.
C '

107

106


108      3       THE MASTER'S HousE;                                                      A TALE OF S0UTH~RN LIFE.           1Q~

"I don't know," said nixon, with an equivocal smile on
hi~ fa~e,~~" but I remember that the~ papers and the aboli-
tionists at the time ~made ~ great Aieal of fuss about it, and
said the woman went crazy; but the idea of a white woman
going crazy for a nigger, was working the sentimental with
too much steam. on, and I never thought about the subject
afterwards."
A 'few orders in the morning were given by Dixon, and
the men waJked rapidly on their way. At this moment you
eould scarcely distinguish the quiet storyteller of the pre.
vious night, with the man as he appeared under the grow-
ing excitement of making a capture. He seemed to be a
bead taller;~ there was ~an erectness 'about his figure, a fire
in his eye, and an expression in his face that was really im-
'pressive, and he seemed to inspire his followers with hi~
own defiant s)pirit.~
The streets of Stoneyville, as the men entered at differ-
ent points, were alive with 'children~ going to school, and
with citizens on their way to their daily avocations. Dixon,
always in sight of his fellow' laborers, walked straight up
to Charles's shop, and peeping in at the window, discovered
the object ot his search busily employed in dressing the
hair of a reverend-looking gentleman. Raising his' finger,
the deputy marshal, white with fear and excitement, came
within a few yards of him, while the hired assistants had
reached stations near Dixon eqi~idistant up and down the
Street.
The moment that every thing was ready, Dixo~i tapped
on the door, and ~Oharles, comb in hand, stepped forward
and opened it, and as he put his head out, Dixon seized him

with his left hand by the collar and jerked him into the
street, at the same instant striking him a ~tuxming blow on
his head with a heavy dub.
The negro reeled, staggered against the ~side of the
house 'and fell on his knees.
"Where the heR are the handcuffs?" said Dixon to the
deputy, while his other assistants rushed up, and according
to instructions, with loud voices and imprecations warned
the citizens, who were gathering round, not to interfere
with the officers of the UniVed~ States. The moment, how.
ever, that the iron touched Oharles, he ~seemed to com~re~
hend his situation, and ere the four men~had succeeded in
perfectly securing both" of his wrists, with &amp; herculean
effort he: broke. his hold, and rising on his feet, the~ blood
streaming down his forehead and cheeks, lie dashe4 the
dangling handcuffS in Dixon's face, broke from th~ grasp
of his enemies, and amid a shower of bullets, and alniost
stripped of his clothing, ran a short distance and plunged
into the deep but narrow river that flowed by' the town.  2
Dixon followed him to the river bank, the deputy marshal
meantime waving his commission over his Eeadand calling
on the people to assist him in carrying into effect the sacred
laws of the land and stand by the constitution.
The firing of the~pistols brought the whole population
into the streets, at the head of which, auti close to Dixou's
heels, was the clergyman who was under Charles's profess ,
sional care at 'the moment of the arrest. By the time the
deputy marshal had finished his call upon the people to
stand by the constitution, the clergymanhad recovered from
~ his astonishment and comprehended the scene before him,


110             THE ~A5T~R'S hOUSE'       p

A TALE OF SOUTHERN~ LIFE.        III

and jumping upon an'old Ji&amp;rse-block near by, he said in a
loud voice:'
"Men and brethren, Thou shalt not deliver unto his
master the servant which is escaped from hisi master
unto thee. The fugitive, he shall dwell ~with thee, even
among you, in that place which he shall choose, in one
of. tky gates, 'where it liketh him best,* thou shalt iiot
o~~ress him."
This appeal to the crowd was unnecessary, for no one
had yet by word or deed ~offered to assist, or. interfere
~ the "officers of~ justice; " and the victim was mo-
~~itarily out of sight; b~it he was soon discovered climb-
ing up ;the ~timbers of the old ,dam, ~which once formed part
of the ruined and neglected:mill. The moment Dixon saw
him he raised his revolver, and sang out:
"Come back h~re audi surrender yourself; you infernal
black d-..-i, or I'll make a honeycomb of your kinky
~comehere, I say,"-and at the same time. Dixon
fired ~on&amp; or two ineffectual shots.
Gentlemen," continuedthe clergyman, "in the name
of'bumani~y~-.-.in the name of our blessed Savio~ur,.-.have
mercy!"
"Stand ~out of the way, you miserable, chanting, ~bo-
litiou towhead I" ~ercely, enunciated Dixon, and with the
side of lije pistol-barrel rudely' thrusting the clergyman
away..
Charles meanwhile seemed to somewhat recover him-
self, audhalf walked. and half crawled along the old dam,,
and got into the mill; and in a moment more, reached the

top, and passing~ out upon a kug piece of naked timber,'
seemed for the instant to be suspended in t~e air.'
"Now fire away, you human tigers!" he cried, shak-
ing his 'manacled arm over his head; '.' I don't want to
live any longer, since this disgrace has been put upon me.
'Fire away, I say!"
"Obey the laws of the United States, you treason-
loving renegadee" replied the deputy marshal, shaking his
documents frantically towards Charles.
"God have' mercy on the makers 'of su~h law~t"
faintly murmured the' fugitive, as his bQdy swayed': to and'
fro, and he fefl headlong down; apparently striking agi*4ns'ti
the projecting logs, and disappeared amid the singing,'
surging 'waters, that foamed and gurgled 'in the abyss
below. , ' , , ' ' ' '
An exclamation of horror went up f~~om the crowd,
mingled with the cries of "shame! shame! ',' when Dixon
turned coolly round to his assistants,~ and said:
"Dead niggers are not worth taking South, anyhow,
and replacing' his revolver in hi~ belt, he turned to the
minister, now entirely petrified 'with horror, an&amp;~remin4ed
him that there was a funeral'~on hand, that dex~ianded his
attention.
Several men stripped themselves of their eoats,'~ and
plunged into the river, and swam toward the mill; a feel-
ing of bitter indignation began to show itse~lf~ Mr. reu-
dleton, Charles's old~ friend, asked of Dixon his author-
ity for his acts, and then read with care the deputy's com-
mission.
Threats now grew loud among lhe excited throng,


THE MASTER'S flousE;

A TALE O~' SOIXTHERN LIFE.~        113

demanding that Dixon should be arrested; but he, with
his 'eompanion~, unmolested,. retreated slowly, keeping at
bay, apd were soon out of sight, and for the moment for-
gotten in the excItement to learn the fate of Charles.
Well," said Diron to his companions, as he proceeded
down the road, "we have seen more white livers to-day
thap~ would feed all the hounds in Texas. If four. North-~
eners had come into a Southern town with a federal com-
mission, or any other commission, and attempted to cut up
~ 'devil as we did to-day at Stoneyville, what would have
I~h the effect ?~"
~' Why," said the deputy promptly, "they'd a got
ducked in the river, or rode out of town on a raiL"
"They'd a got worse than that," said Dixon, with a
leer; southernn people would never stand by and see
strangers serve a dog so! but these Yankees,-talk to 'em
about the law, and ~show 'em a bowie or a pistol, and they
wilt up like tobacco leaves touched with frost."
The negro, though nearly dead when found, seemed
by a miracle to have escaped with~ life. His body Jay
bleeding~rntilated, and insensible,-~---not in the water, as
was supposed, but among the matted logs. With diffi-
~ulty he was restored to oonsciousness~ and then only to
rave about the manacle on his wrist, and express a desire
to die.
Never was there before witk~in the memory of the old-
est inhabitant, so sad a day at Stoneyville. Citizens pro-
verbially~.of the xnild~st and most~unex~citable dispositions,
seemed each hour to become more and more incensed, and
wefte ready at any future occasion to resist by violence, all

laws where their execution involved such outrages as had
been witnessed that day; and ~t nightfall, there went up
from the flreside5 of Stoneyvill'~ a deep aTud bitter denun-
ciation of slavery.
In spite of every exertion of Mr. Peui4leton, Dixon and
his men got to the railroad station, and escaped without
interruption; and one or two hours taking them beyond
the jurisdiction of Vermont, they wended their way rap-
idly, and without fear, toward the protecting walls of the
Federal Capitol.
7
p.        ~'


I.

TH~ ~(A5TER's HOUsE;

A TALE OF 5QUTHER~ LI~

CHAPTER X.
THE QUIET CLOSE OF DAY.
'"Mns. MILDMAY" performed her simple duties as mis-
tress of Heritage Place with due dignity. Provided with
the best possible servants, her time passed on' with little
more real care than if she had been Miss Annie Hastings in
her New England home. Mildmay took advantage of the
pleasant mornings to engage ,with her in agreeable horse-
back rides through the splendid adjoining forests, and the
evenings were passed in reading, or, as Annie herself ob-
served, "appreciating the luxury.of being in the open air."
The enervating, character of the climate, however, had
its effect upon, her constitution, and she suffered at times
that approach to indisposition which comes from extreme
lassitude, and want' of varied mental excitement. Con-
fined sometimes to her room all day, at sunset she would
cause Clemmy to move an easy chair upon the broad gal-
lery of the house; and there sl~e would sit. and watch the
stars, which, in a clear southern sky, seem to come rush~
ing into existence, on the sudden disappearance of the sun
in the west~

Mildmay, who had himself a keen sense of the beauti-
ful in nature, as he was meaning one evening against' the
heavy columns, watching the close of day, heard' ~he ligbt
footsteps, and 'turning round, he receive Annie 'Wit~. a
smile; ana then assisting (5lemmy in arranging her easy
chair, and seeing that Annie was luxuriously b~iried in
the soft cushions, and properly provided by an array of
shawls as a reserved guard against the chilliness of ap-
proaching night, he seated himself nearly in, front of
her, and taking out 'his cigar-casey he ordered Prince to
get him "alight;" and having done all this, he said '~
"A few moments more, Annie, and you would have
lost this brilliant sunset."
Prince instantly returned, bringing a living coal upon
the~ prong of an ivory.handled fork; Graham blew off
the mouldering ashes, and lit his delicate Havana: then
assuming an easy attitude, he gave one puff, and said,
"Thus, Annie, the aborigines dedicated the 'fragrance of
the weed to their gods; I, more devout and more useful,
shall let these fleeting clouds serve to destroy the xnosqui-
toes, already singing round you.'~
"You are no~~the, first enthusiast that, in making au
offering, has given the fabled deities the least substantial
part of the sacrifice," said Ar4nie, rousing as if from a
reverie.
"Well," exclaimed Graham, "if I were not so comfort-
able just now, and 'so determin'4di not even to think, I
might reply to your unorthodox rernark0, regarding my
disinterestedness."
"Then," returned Annie, "perhaps yoiz will explain
*

114

115


116                  ~fl*E MA5T~ft'5 ItOUSFI                                                                                                                IVY

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

to me the secret charm of' that rude seat, so much a. fa-
'vorite; one would think it was made for very square, and
very straight-backed people, judging from its 'form."'
"There again," said Grahan~;~ "what a pampered
girl; you eschew my compliments, and now question the
integrity of my throne: surely, being half buried in the
deep cushion folds of that old 'arm-chair,' makes one an
egotist. But, my lady fair, yonder is a scene that can
have naught but admiration!" and he pointed to the west.
The sun wa~ now in the very effulgence of its departing
glory, and reflected a warm orange tinge upon the face of
Annie; giving her eyes, already softened by - debility, a
true sultana look. Behind her chair stood Cleinmy,..-her
dark and good-natured features glistening like bronze; at
Annie's feet, reposed Ponce de Leon; his
eye, however,
was ever vigilant, and seemingly eager to pick a quarrel
with Clemmy for being so near hi~ mistress. Mildmay
had put on his college skullcap, the heavy tassel fastened
to it~ top hanging nearly to his shoulder; his "blouse"
was loose and flowing, while the smoke of his cigar curled
lazily about hi~ head~ Prince had quietly slipped back to
his place on the gallery, and went fast asleep.
"It is beautiful! very beautiful !" half whispered
Annie, as she beheld the vast clouds rolling about, chang-
ing into a thousand hues, and leaving between the distant
forms glimpses of distance, which seemed the openings to
other worlds.
"And,~~ continued Annie, with some animation, "see
you n~t those vast ranges of almost zenith-reaching moun~

tains, glit~tening in pink and gold; how they are melting,
even while we gaze, into purple and blue?"
Mildmay looked at his wife with admiration, but made
no reply.
"And," continued Annie, almost rising from her chair,
"see you not .those grand peaks, and precipitous sides,
among which I fancy I can find the familiar forms of those
old giant sentinels, that look out upon Maiden?"
"True," half murmured Mildmay, buried in deep re-
flection; "there's the old blue ridge itself."
"What a pity, Mildmay," suggested Annie, respect-
fully, "that these rich lands of the South have not some
granite hills to break up their sameness; I have a fancy
that mountains cherish freedom of thought, as well as per-
fect health; is it not thus ?"
"So records history," returned Mildmay, eyeing with
anxious expression the placid appearance of Annie's face.
A few more flashes, and struggling of the god of 4ay,
and scarcely a tinge of his glory was left; the pleasant
evening breeze now sprang up, and laughed among the
hard crisp leaves of the magnolia trees.
And now might be seen moving quietly aeros~ the
yard some living thing, scarcely perceptible in the du~k;
on it comes, hesitatingly ascends the gallery stairs, and
stopping at their head, stands, hat in hand, in statue-like
silence.
Ponce de Leon is on his feet; he gives a slight growl
of alarm, and appears. ready for a defence or attack..
"Who's that on the gallery ~ "~ inquired Mildmay,
without moving hi~ heaa.

I

116


118            THE M~A8TER'5 HOUSE;                                            A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.'        119

"It's Ben, if you please, master," replied the negro in
a weak'voice.
"And what is the matter with Ben ?"
"Ize had de fever all day, and I feel sort o' weak in
de legs," said the negro, without ~6ving from his place.
"And what have you been doing all day, Ben?"
"Ize been log-rolling myself, but de gang was down' in
de cornfield cutting out grass."
"And how are they getting on, Ben?"
"Oh, bery well, master; 'em alers work when you
come to see 'em"
"Well, Ben, go down and tell Judy, that I say she
must give you something to make you well."
"Yes, master;" and "the 'boy" disappeared.
The climate of the South, and the 'influence of the
ancient population" 'of Louisiana, have unitedly created
demand, and a taste, for large and luxuriant sleeping
apartments. Prominent,~ among the articles of furniture
are th~ armoire;' and the.coiw1&amp;'dt~ lit.. The c~moire, of
~nassive proyortions, is always composed of the richest of
materialss, and is very often inlaid with. costly and' differ-
ent tinted 'woods, the panels are composed of costly mir-
ror~ that reach almost from the floor 'to the ceiling." In
these receptacles one finds in bright array, not only' 'the
splendid ornaments' of the' bride,' but in' a provided place,
repose the jewelled casket, the perfumed notes, the thousand
cherished records of the inmost heart. The couch du lit,
i~ formed of four ponderous posts, surmounted by a heavy
canopy, from whieh' depends the delicate but necessaryy
mosquito netting. Underneath, is a couch, large 'enough

for giants, yet of more luxuriance than tl~at on which
Imogen reposed. The proud affection of 1~fl1dmay had sur-
rounded Annie with all the elegant associations of the
most favored of her sex, and many cherished menientoes of
her New England home, mingled with the costlier appur-
tenances, and gave the charm of familiarity to all.
In one corner of the room, was a costly ~japan work-
table, a present to Annie in her childhood, from a bachelor
uncle, whose business it was to go down to the sea in ships~
The grotesque figures upon this memento, of horrible dra-
gons, swallowing beautiful young ladies with pigtails, and
flowers of every possible hue, with gold leaves and red
stalks, and birds lying through houses, and children run~
ning to wast~ in the air, had greatly amused Annie in her
very youth, and in after years, had been the subject of
much philosophic speculation-but now, nothing could, so
excite the tenderest emotions of her heart, as the sight
of those oriental absurdities-made familiar and sanctifie4'
by so many pleasing associations.
If Annie was ever overpowered by the heat and langu~.
of the day, or felt the influence of those moments ~
pondency that will at times come over the happiesV of hu..
man hearts; it was only while leaning upon this tabk, that
the consoling influence of tears came to her relief; :and
alike soothed and. strengthened, would she leave this do-
mestic shrine.
Olemmy, concluding her supper and her gossiping in
the kitchen~~ returned to the gallery~wher&amp;she busied her-
self in setting back the ohairs,'closing the window blinds,'


t
120            TIlE MASTER'S HOUSE;
and other almost nameless but necessary duties, when, ac-
cording to her wont, she went into her mistress's room.
Now Clemmy had, on the afternoon of this particular
day, rendered herself exceedingly useful in the flower gar-
den, which labor had caused her to neglect her household
duties, and she now, after lighting a wax candle, and
placing it under a tall glass shade, discovered the omission                              - ~      ~AjJI
of drawing the mosquito netting.
Proceeding leisurely to remedy this neglect, with the
instinctive feeling of reverence for things tasteful, so pecu-
liar to negroes, she with more than usual care removed
the ruffled pillows, and then carefully folded back the fine
linen of snowy whiteness ~~over the rose4inted counter-
pane.; then replacing the pillows at the head of the bed,
she~ei~ed thesilken tassel pendent from the foot of the                                       __
tester, an4 gave the bar a jerk, that instantly expanded it
like a delicate cloud over the couch beneath-and tucking
in the edges of the bar, she next arranged the different                      ~        ~          ~
vases, bask9ts, and nicknacks, according to her ideas.
Then with evident pettishness she removed Annie's Bible to                -~ ~      4'  ~          I
the mantelpiece,, and replaced it by a magnificently bouxid
volume, which was lying open upon' the lounge-she then
stepped into -the centre of the room and gave an admiring
glance; every thing in the room met with her perfect ap-
probation; but the disposition of the gaylybpund volume
on the Japan table was her master Conception.
The-night air growing too cool, and the mine o'clock
bell at the quarters having -an' hour before run ;' Annie
rose from her' seat in the gallery, moved toward- the door
leading into the house, while Mildmay pleading some busi.

0
Q

4
4
i
i
1


A TALE O~' SOUTHERN LIFE.         121

I

*/

4

99:

121

ness matter with Toadvine~ left Annie to pursue her incli-
nations by herself.
Olemmy was within hearing, but evidently from a per-
t'eet understanding, she continued staring into vacancy, as
if no one was near, leaving Annie to~proceed uninterrupted
to her room. The young mistress wore a quiet and satis-
fled expression, there was a slight tinge of pleasure warming
up her cheek, it was evident that the evening had been
agreeably spent. On entering as if performing a customary
task, she carefully returned her Bible to its appointed place,
leaving the favorite binding of Olemmy to ignobly repose
its splendor upon the brass nails of one of Mlldmay's much
worn travelling trunks. Annie then sat down beside her
little table, and for some moments leaned her head upon
her hand; then, with her costly handkerchief she listlessly
brushed away some suppositions dust from the faces of
numerous little Japanese monsters, and taking up the sa-
cred volume, she a~urned to a specific pface, buried her fore-
finger among the parted 1ea~es, and seemed fQr a while to be
musing over the events of the day; then opening the volume
she read, in a low and musical voice, the twenty-fourth
chapter of St. Lukejr and throwing herself upon her knees,
poured forth her soul in spontaneous prayer to Heaven,
calling down blessings upon her friends at a distance,
near by, her husband and herself.
Annie had scarcely risen from her kneeling position,
before Clemmy slipped noiselessly into tb i~cin, and with
some officiousness prepared to assist her ii~ress in her
toilet for the night. Annie would willingl~a~e~d~nsed
with this, but the natural kindness QfEer own h~~vould
6


122             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                   A TALE OF SOUTHEI~N LIFE.

not allow her to ~repel Clemmy's affectionate zeal; she there-
fore kindly received from her hands the snowy robe de
7~.&amp;27t, ~nd carefully adjusting it, and placing her comb on
the table, thereby leaving her luxuriant hair to fall over
her shoulders, she with forced resignation abandoned her-
self to the hands of her faithful~ domestic.
Clemmy was now happy; it was the honor of arrang-
ing those magnificent c~rl~, that was the pride of her ex-
istence, and made her the envy of all he~ fellow servants.
Annie herself could not help being amused, as she discov-
ered the sable face of admiration and triumph reflected
over her shoulder in the gIa~s.
Cleinmy skilfully swept away the masses of curls from
Annie's brow, which transformed her. loveliness into a sim-
plicity that would have been commended by the most rigid
puritan of her race. The labor ended, she aroused herself,
and stepped toward the bed.
Clemmy, meantime, had seized her gigantic fly brush,
in which glistened and waved the rich plumage of a host of
Juno's birds, and swinging it in the air, made a soft zephy-~
rous nois~, and at the same time, in the most artistic man-
ner she prepared to lift the edge of the mosquito bar, gave
the signal, and Annie sprang through the opening with a
bound. -
The busy hum of myriads of insects, thus, by almost
necromancy, cheated of their prey, but made the protec-
tion of the netting more deliciously secure, and Annie was
soon wandering in that mysterious world, where things
past and present, ~u~1 already realized hopes, mingle in
incongruous y&amp;~x~ Jia~monious combination.

CHAPTER XI.
AN ORDER DISOBEYED.

As with all wealthy planters, the most perplexing care
to Mildmay, was the management of the overseer. To this
individual, the proprietor has to delegate immense authority,
and yet the very qualities essential for an overseer, almost
necessarily suppose, that he Will not, and cannot be a refin-
ed and responsible man. Mildmay had his share of diffl~
culties after Fenwick left him, but he at length employed
a "Mr. Toadvine," who could command readily in the
neighborhood a liberal salary, and was well recommended.
Mildmay, upon concluding his agreement with Toad~ine,
gave him some general in8tructions, Proscribing on his
place the use of a certain kind of whip, and incidentally
mentioning, that if Jack,. one of the "field hands," should
at any time need correction, he desired that it would not
be administered without his, Mildniay's, knowledge.
Some months after Toadvine was installed in his office,
the unexpected announcement, by Mr. Mildmay, that busi-
ness would call him away from hom~1~~*o or three days,
caused a feeling of universal gratt4 n4n the mind of the

123

[


124

TUE MASTER'S HOUSE;

overseer, and the very morning on which he~ saw from his
station in the field, that i~1ildmay had departed on his jour-
ney, he returned to his house at the head of "the quarters,"
and taking down the "proscribed lash," he carefully and
artistically proceeded to soften its material, and by repeat-
ed twisting, wringings, and drawing it through his tightly
grasped hand, he brought it at last to a satisfactory state
of toughness and pliability. Then rising up and going out
of doors he whirled it around his head, and raking delib-
erate aim at a cypress splinter, nearly the size of his little
finger, that obtruded from the boards of the fence, he cut
it off with the end of the lash, as smoothly as if it had been
done with the edge of his bowie.knife; he then playfully
singled out fair surfaces on the side of his cabin, and imd
pressed upon them at each blow, various hieroglyphic char-
acters with his whip, and although no particular effort was
made, he burie&amp; the snapper deeply into the somewhat
time-softened wood.
"I reckon that'll do," at last muttered the aggrieved
man, "that'll do,-I'll teach Mr. Mildmay that niggers is
niggers, atid that he can't come back here from the free
States with his damned infernal abolition notions, and in-
terfere in my business. If any of his hands 'aint got thar
share of whipping 'fore night it'll be no fault of mine."
Just at that moment, the front rate of the quarter in-
closure opened, and in rode'" Col. Price," the overseer of
the "Mor~eton estate." Toadvine saluted his friend, asked
him to dismount, and they both entered the house.
"I came ~ said Price, "to ask you to let me have
the timber wheels; I think ~of going into the swamp this

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

'125

e'I*ening for ~saw-log~, and Mr. Mildinay told me 'fore he
left that I could get 'em if not in use."
"It's a wonder," snarled out Toadvine," that Mr. Mild-
may did any thing of the kind. He's been in Connectictit
so infarnally long, that I didn't believe he would do a fa-
vor."
"Why, what's turned your hair the wrong way this
morning?" inquired Col. Price, with considerable in-
terest.
"Why, jist this," said Toadvine," "you ~see I've been
overseer here too long to be interfered with by any man,
and I won't stand it. Mister Mildmay can't teach me my
business, and he shan't tell me I whip too much or too little.
It's only yesterday he made me let Monday up, and I
had'nt cut his hide in nary place!"
"There is one thing that'll never do," said ~IYoL Price;
"one thing 'II never do, and that i~, to let employers in-
terfax too much in our business. My notion is, 'let me be
head or tail, or nothing."'
"Them's the way I think," half soliloquized Toadvine~
drawing his' huge whiplash through his fingers; "them's
the wayl think, and unless we do something to let these
upstarts know Who's who, 'taint unlikely we may get down
to be thought as little of-~s a schoolmaster or a preacher."
"Not as bad as that I" said Col. Price, in a tone of
voice that showed that he never thought that such a res-
pectable office as overseer' could possibly be degraded hy
connection with ~such professions; "no, no, not so ~'bad as
that," and rousing himself up, lie. drove his fist into the
table, and. looking around in ~4 great ezoitement, he said,

2


126             THE MASTER~                                   j
"he would like to see a living man that would. dare to mis-
take him for a Behoolmaster or a preacher)'
Toadvine, who bad, cruelty enough in his composition
to make two Col. Prices, lacked that military gentleman's
courage in 4he. expression of his sentiments; so he deeply
regi~e'tted that he had made even the improbable compari-
son that had given his friend offence, and getting up from
his seat he went to a rude sideboard, and unlocking it, he
took out a decanter of raw whiskey, and setting a broken
tumbler and a teacup upon the table, he suggested to Col.
Price the propriety of taking something to help out his
breakfast."
"That's very good liquor," said Price,, smacking his
lips, "whar did you come across it?"
"Well, don't you know it, easy," suggested Toadvine,
putting t~ie decanter up to Price's nose, "don't you know
the smell?"
"Upon my word," 8aid' Price, drawing in his breath,
as if inhaling the perfume of a moss rose, "upon my/word,
old OTen~ Blathei~skite's 'electioneering t&amp;ur,' as the central
committee calledd it; bow did you. have so much? thought
it all, went~at the 'Clay gut precinct.'"
"Why, you see," said Toadvine, "I sent word to the
General, that if he expected to get the~vote of this neigb-
borhood, he had better send up a bar'1 of something to drink,
and he 8ent word he'd do it; he said that the.' South was
iwd~nger,' and he'd do any thing but bribe, to get to Con~
gress. I sent after the bar'l the very morning of the~ day
it was wanted, by lazy Jim, and would you believe it, the

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         12~(
whiskey didn't get here till night," and Toadvine assumed
a look of innocence and regret.
"And so," said Price, helping himself to another glass,
"you had the whole left on your hands?"
"Nuthen else," chuckled Toadvine, and, as if unable
to restrain himself longer, and either from the effect of the
liquor, or the xemembrance of the trick he .played upon a
candidate for Congress, he kicked his heels in the air and
laughed until the tears came in his eyes.
"But didn't~the General smell~ a rat? "~ inquired Price,
in t~ deprecating voice, "didn't he find out how you fixed
it?"
"Not a bit of it," said Toadvine, "for I saw the Gen-
eral coming down the road the next day, so I staked down
lazy Jim by the side of the fence, and commenced on him
jnst as the General rode up. The nigger hollered." Oh,
lord, Massa Toadvin~, have mercy!' 'Yes,' said' ii, not
noticing the General, 'I'll have~mercy, you'infernal scoun-
drel, for delaying on the road yesterday with that whiskey.
I'll teach you to fool away your time, when you are on Gen.
Blatherskite's business."
"'On whose business?' said the General, reining up
'his horse, and looking astonished; 'are you flogging that
nigger on my account, Mr. ~
"'Yes, General,' said I, looking very angi~y, 'this
nigger was sent for the whiskey, to treat your friends at
"Clay gut," and he managed to get back after the votiz~g
was over."'
""Well, never mind!' said the General, 'just keep ~t
to drink my health with 1' and he rode away; but whar was


128            THE MASTER'S HOUSE                                                      A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.        I~9

the difference?" said Toadvine, speculatively; "you know,
the General got 'the licker on tick, and he'd challenge any
man that sent him ,a bill."
At this point in the conversation, a tall, likely-looking
negro was seen approaching the house, from the field; he
carried his hoe jauntily across his~ shoulder. In coming
into ~the surrounding enclosuree, he was obliged to pass
through a gate, always ph~ced near The overseer's dwelling.
"Whar yoi~t going?" said Toadvine; and springing
into the yard, and whirling 'his whip over his head, he
brought it down on the negro's back, simultaneous with his
question, "whar you going, you black devil? did I not
tell you to stay in the field?"
"Master James," said the negro, with humility, mixed
with astonishment, while still writhing under the pain of
the blow; "I cum'd home because Mistress wanted I to
clar up de yard, you knows I wouldn't leave de gang,
'cept on permission."
~ I knows nothing of the kind," sneered' Toadvine, in
the negro's face ; "I know 'nothing, except that you are .a
sneaking, skulking scoundrel; but I'll catch you, my man,-.-
I'll catch you\! and by the ,if I get tL chance at
your hide, I'll 'peel you cleaner than you ever did a pos-
sum! now ~o and clear up the yard ; " and Toadvine struck
at the boy again; but with surprising agility Jack avoided
the blow, and ~disappeared.
"There's 'insurrection for you," snarled out Toadvine,
in a perfect fit of rage, at. the: same time storming up and
'down' th~ yard; "there's a nigger that his master ~ay~ I

mustn't whip, and he take0 advantage of it, t~ defy me to
my face."
Price looked on coolly, apparently ininterested; at
any rate he expressed no surprise, but ~1et Toadvine ex-
haust himself, in giving wordy expressions to~his feelings;
and then, from a wild flower growing near by, with a well
aimed mouthful of tobacco juice, he knocked a bumbk-be~
on the ground, and spoke as foio'ws
"Toadvine~ circumvent that nigger; just teach him
yoa are a warmer friend to him than his master. ]~on't
strike him, as y6u did just now, in anger, and without a
cause,-have a rca~on, and then work at his hide, like a
saw-mill."
"But I can't get a reason," said Toadvine, groaning
under his impotency; "he won't give me half a chance."
"Well, make a chance," whined out the sapient 'Colo~.
nel. "You know 'fore I come to Moreton's, I oversee for
old Captain ]3erks; well, you ~ee 'Berks hadn't any but
old family niggers, as he called 'em,-and one, that nursed
him when he was a boy, he was particularly nice of-..-.that
was a nigger, sure; why hog and hominy was too good for
him. 'sow,' said old Berks to me, said he, "Colonel
Price, that boy I have know'd eve~r since I wasa child; he
carried me 'bout 'fore I could walk, and saved me fro~i
drowning at ten years old.' That nigger,' continued
Berks, 'cut the fust 8tick on this yere plantation, and he
mustn't be whipped, on no account.'
"Old Berks hadn't been to Connecticut to school,
when he gave that ord6r," continued Price, winking IOIQW.
inglyr at Toadvine; "'twarii't done for fear, neither, for

129

158


130            THE MASrER's HousE;                                                     A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

old Berks wasn't to be sca~xed; but. it was jest done be-
cause old Jeff could fool his master, and I know'd it; so
things went on very well, until I couldn't sleep contented,
until Ii took)a little conceit out of Jeff~; but for a reason.
"One night we was weighing cotton, and up walked Big
Bill, 4ithick~lipped scoundrel as there was on 'the place;
he put his basket on the scales, and, by the hokey, it 'went
over three hundred. 'Well done!' said old Berks~, in
ecstasy, 'well~ done, Big ]3i11; and now,' said the old
man, sort of funny like, 'as you have picked fifty pounds
more than usual, you can call at the store roon~, and get a
pah' of shoes.' Big Bill laughed-old J3erks laughed-.
and I stuck my hand into the cotton basket, and lulled
out two watermelons, weighing 'bout thirty-nine pounds.
"At this," continued Price, rubbing hi~ hands in glee,
and giving the poor bumble-bee another shower of tobacco
juice, "at this~. old Berks, who was a 'little tight,' got
into a~ passion; he swore such ungeaer6us and outrageous
cond~tio~, on the part of his niggers, would break his heart,
and if I didn't give Big Bill 'forty,' he would dismiss
me from the pla~e, trnd administer the medb~ine himself~
"So said I, pretending to be~ hurt with his severity,
skid I, 'Captain Berks, then's family niggers.' 'I don't
~e7' 'shouted the old man (the brandy, I think, getting the
upper hand of 1~im); 'I don't care,, family or no family; a
fellow~ that-would swindle on one side, and rob my melon
pateli on. the other, shall be flogged, I'd tie up J~ff'thar,
~nuoh~ as I think of him,' eaid~Berks, 'if he'd do s~x6h s~
tbii~g~'. 'You would,' 'said I, pretending to be astoni4e&amp;f
'Ye~I would,' said old Berks, towering; if yQu~4~.
I                                   V

catch Jeff trying to palm off a water-melon for seed-cotton,
give him forty.'"
As 'Price concluded this interesting story, he delibe-
rately walked past Toadvine, who was st~xidiii'g, a perfe~~t
monument of mystified surprise, and, moun1~ing his horse,
appeared as if he wa~ thus unceremoniously going ~o ride
away.
"And what about Jeff?" finally asked the perplexed
and rather dull overseer.
'F Oh nothing," replied Price, carelessly, "only the
next night, thar was a water melon 'in Jeff's basket, and
every nigger on the placesee'd it, and he was given 'forty,'
and I think it tuck him six weeks to get out of tue hos-
pitaL"
Toadvine, as he watched the retreating form of his
friend, Colonel Price, seemed suddenly inspired with unu-
sual spirits; he cracked his whip in scientific flourishes,
and going into hi~ 'cabin, he stuck a loaded pistol in his'
belt, took a drink of whiskey, locked up the' deca~rter,
and remarking, "'that Colonel 'Price is smart, and that
watermelon trick was beautiful," he ~nounted his shaggy
pony, and was soon lost in the distance, as he rode to-
wards the slave gang, at work in the field.'
As Col. Price reached the main road on his way home~
he came ~'p with 'a small, sandy-faced, lig~t4iaired man,
mounted on a "'creole pony," and -followed, by live or six
fierce-looking hounds; a double.~bat ' ,,' gun was balanced
before ~him, and he' catri~d- in his I~4n4 a raw-hide whi~
"Eow do you do, Stubb8 ?~v sai&amp;~a "colonel~~:
'I

-

I'


TH~ MASTER'S 1~oUsi~                                                                         A AL~5 OF 5QUTfln1~N     LlIE.            133

up, and shaking hands witk the mail, "whar you going to.
day?"
"Just nosing about," said Stubbs, whipping, off 'one
or two' dogs,'~~ ~ould oceasioxiahly show thejr teeth at
Col. Price's nether limbs.
"Who's got any triggers out, now?" continued the
Colonel, fQr he took a great interesting Stubbs's occupation.
"Enough out," replied Stubt~s,, "but no 'rangement
,made for catching 'em.' I'nl done;1' he continued, "a fetch-
ing runaways home, just for jail fees; 'twont keep up my
pack, and pay expenses."
"That's right, ~tubbs!" said the Colonel, looking Rp.
provingly on. his friend ~ "that's right ~ if these rich
planters won't 'antee up,' dont help 'em, that's my notion;
but who's that ahead" asked Pine, as he discovered a
young person' on horseback, waiting in the road.
"That~s young Finch," said Stubbs~ without showing
~ny 0u~~e; "that boy," he continued, "does take more
juterest in a nigger hunt than my dogs' do, and he's just
waiting thar, until I come up, in hopes that he can see a
'brush."'
Price axid .8tubbs 'shook hands with 'Finch, a youth
perhaps of fourteen, who "was armed not only with a gun,
~hut had a bowie knife sticking ostentatiously out of his
)~reast., A. little general 'conversation ensued, when ~Stubbe
and Finch, opening a plantation gate, bade Col. Price
~ ~"~9Od day,'~ and commenced. trotting through the" cotton
*~w8" t~w~.tds the 'dark cypress swamps, that loomed ~p,
'W~ m~un~ains in the distance.
"~U4 what do you think, Stubbs, will be our chance

of starting up something~ th1~ evening?" aske4yonng
Finch, at the"same time impatiently urging on his horse.
"Bad, very~ bad," said Stiibbs; "n~*~e is out in this
range now, but Busteed's old Phil; ~the fa~t 'is," said
Stubbs, reining up ~As horse, "my' dogs has got such a
scear on the idggers now, that they won~t run aws~y,-the
overseer has only to say, 'Now boys, if I e~tch any~of you'
leavin' you'll have Stubbs' dogs after you,' and that ends
the thing. I ought to get a big price for doing that," sug-
gested Stubbs, conscious that he was the victim of unre-
warded merit.
"And how didjou know, Stubbs, that old 'Phil was in
the brake?" inquired the yoimg man.
"'Cause I saw 'him yesterday, while 'still hunting;'
come right on him, tiirtied up on his back, sound asleep."
"And why.didn't you make him go hopie?'~ asked'the
lad, with some asperity.
'Now $tubhs bad been led~ into an uiferttni&amp;t~i~euiar14
which he perceived the instant he. had spoken, foKhe af-
fected 'only to use his dogs when all other means of capture
had failed; and he was afraid that Finch would get: an
idea that such was not the case; so he assumed a 'f~n~liar
air, and explained himself as follows
"You' see, Oharley, I was &amp; 'still-hunting,' as I said,
and looking for deer, and in wading Turtk 'O~ekfor I was
a~.foot, you mind, I got my powder wet, and what coizid ~
do with such a fellow as Phil, if he had a"mind to reS
No, no, Charley, I'm more carefull thaii to tx~ack ~uria
'ce~t I 'am prepared,' so I tuck tihe best course 4~ ;
marked 'his den, and when he hears the 'bai*er~

'I

153


134             TH1~- MA5TER7S flOU5E~                                                    A TAL1~ OF SOUTflERN LIFE.          135

him, he'll run straight home, sound as a, nut, and no harm
done to anybody."
"That was very considerate," said young master Finch,
evidently much flattered by Stubbs' -manner; "it was very
considerate indeed, and I think 'Busteed should be vary
much obliged to you."
"To be sure he should!" echoed Stubbs, "and all
the planters 'should; why, air, but for me, -the swamps
would be as full of niggers as they is of wild hogs. I
badly paid for my services, Mr. Finch, considering' I h~ye'
to feed my own dogs, and take the risks I run."
"And' what risks do you run ?" inquired young. Finch,
carelessly patting his spirited little horse on the neck, and
giving his -gun a juster. balance, as it rested before him on
the pommel of the saddle.
"Why, a heap of ri8ks," said Stubbs, with the air of
an inj~ired man; "do you suppose that the niggers can be
tuck, aud'-iiothing to do but say, 'If you please, Mr. Darkee,
youm~ master Wants you hum?' Oh, no!- I've known
shooting -and slashing going on afore now, that would hurt
any.man'sfeelins." -
"And "where was - that ?" inquired young Finch, with
greedy interest.
"Why you see," said Stubbs, - "that two or three
years agone, old Duckeye, that's a preacher now, and Bill
Bla~s as was, afore ho died, both kept dogs~-well, once
they-were out huntia?, and 'it seems their packs closed, in
~ the same nigger,-I'm, told that their cry was beauti-
~u1, w~n, as they say at ca~mp-meetin', they met, and' jined
their Voices in harmoni&amp;us song; but Blas~'s hounds had

the heels; they was of the old -' Ryder stock,' -and they
lust rut over Diickeyes dogs, and left them in the rear.
I think the nigger they was arter belonged ~to old Gray;
he could scratch gravel, that -nigger,. and double, and turn,
like any fox,-the chase was beailtifnl. Now, as might be
supposed, Blass's pack drew the fust blood, and -had the
nigger down, when Dackeye's dogs come up.
"The row was tremendous, and they would have sent
the nigger to kingdom cum, if the dogs, being strangers,
had not got to fighting among themselves. There was a
hnllaboloo, sure enough; I was on the spot the next day,
and the palmetto was smoothed down for a half acre, whar
the fight was. While the dogs was going it -among them-
selves, and the darkee was crying and yelling, old Duckeye
and ]3lass got to quarreling about who caught the nigger;
Blass contending , as was right, that as his dogs -gin the
first grab, the nigger was his. IDuckey~ stuck out ~thaV-his
dogs was fust to find the trail, so th~e- nigger was l~is,-~and
so they got to swearing and scrimmaging,' and tucking in-
to each other their bodies, and yelling and cursing, the
the dogs fell on 'em both, and suoh a row ensued as never
was afore.
~C In this beautiful difficulty, the nigger got clean off,
and iBlass got sto bbed in the side, and died that 'ere
very night; and so you. see, Mr. Finch, that the infernal
runaways is dangerous. I often think of Blass!" said.
Stubbs, mournfully, "for you see," wiping his eyes with hi&amp;
coat sleeve, "that that 'ere dog thar, with the blood4hot
eyes, was own nephy to .Bla~ss's Cuba, raised and imported,
Santy Christy, as Blass called him."
p
-4'
~h~&amp; ~

7
9
gr
a


136             THE~ MASTE1~7S HOUSE;
"Well, that ~was surprising," said young Finch, look-
ing with admiration at the dog, that had such a disti~-
guished uncle; and at the ~ame time somewhat confouiided
by the eQuglomeration of Stubbs' story; "~but how was
it," he inquired, " that Duckeye ~got off from the ~
and Finch hesitated to give a name to the deed pictured
in his~ mind.
".~.-.--- the stabbing," said Stubl~s. Fin&amp;h nodded yes
to the suggestion, and Stubbs went on-" you see the
grand jury had Thickeye up, ~two or three times, but whar
was the witnesses; it was a gin the law to use the dogs and
the niggers to swar agil a white man in court, so the mat-
ter dropped."
Ai~ this moment the two horsemen and their canine
followers entered the thick woods, and in course of the
fleeting hQur, Busteed's old Phil was roused from his lair,
and there were to be heard the sharp ringing notes of the
open-mouthed pack, as they engaged in "the spirit stirring
hunt"
F

A TALF OL~' SOeTX~ER~f LIFE.      13~i
CHAPTER XII.
TILE PROMISflD Vl5flr.
MILDJ~TAY and Annie set out for Mr. Mo'reton's, soon after
breakfast; the day was so fine, that it was agreed that the
journey should be made on horseback, and that on the way,
Annie should ride through the plantation, and gratify her
wishes at the sight of her husband's luxuriai~t fields.
At the time of starting, ~he1 little negroes,~who had
come in from "the quarters, '~ arranged themselves in a
row along the avenue of the lawn, and as Annie passed,
they bo'~red their comical-looking 1i~ads, atid said, " d~oo'
by, Mistress!" "Goo' by, Master!" and then, as if over-
come with their familiarity, they gave a universal laugh,
and went trooping off behind th~ house, Ponce.. de Leon,
With a half malicious, and half mischievous spirit, knock-
ing a majority of them over on the green award, by join.
ing in the scramble.
Meanwhile Governor had opened the gate, and MiId~
may and 'Annie passed through, and pursued their way
down ~the road, the servant following at a respeetfiil dis-
4


138             THE MASTER'S EOUSE                                                    A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE,         139

tance in the rear. Scarcely had this been accomplished,
before Ponce de Leon, having finished his gambola with
the negro children, discovered the cavalcade moving away
without him. With a rush that would have done honor to
a race-horse, he- sped across the lawn, and fairly flew over
the palings, and in another moment, was barking - and co-
quetting around Annie's horse.
"I will be more careful hereafter, Ponce," said Annie,
laughing, and glancing at her favorite, "how I let you
into my secrets; - for, do you know," she said, looking at
Mildmay, "that I believe some dogs have the quality of
intelligence."
"Thqre cannot be a doubt of it," he returned, interest.
ed with the suggestion, "and there is nothing to disprove
that they may not even have a future, though still humble
existence."          -
"You have improved, Graham, amazingly, upon my
speculation~," said Aniriie gayly.
"Perhaps so, but you will admit that there is some-
thing truly poetical in the- wild dream of the American
aborigine~ where he spiritualizes his future existence; no
heathen mythology has-given us a pi.wet and more attrac-
tive picture than the Indian and his- dog, side by side, in
the happy hunting-grounds. ". - -
"True, very true," returned Annie, "and more's the pity,
that so noble a race could not be preserved by civiliza-
tion."
"Piiy indeed, but it is impossible to preserve~. the. In-
dian. - In the wild woods, ~nd away from artificial influen-
ces, he flourishes like these mighty forest trees, through

which we wind our way; -but like these trees, if trai~splant-
ed or disturbed by cultivation, iri~ist wither away."
"It's a sad picture," said Anni% thoughtfully;~~ "but,"
she add4d, "I like their consistency after all, for with the
Indian it is indeed~' liberty or death."'
"Hurrah,-" said Mildmay, with playful exultation, "hur-
rah for Annie Hastings! who, though so little,, is so very
brave; she will yet be the mother of heroes." - - -
"I will beat you in a fair race to the field gate," said
Annie, blushing, and pushing her heretofore lingering pal-
frey into a gallop, - away she sped, Mildmay gallantly fob
lowing just in the rear, with Ponce de Leon, crazy with
excitement, far in the van.
As the eques~r-ians came up to the inclosure, Jack, who
had seen them approaching, was at the gate to bpen it, ~and
as the party passed in, he gave them a salute oI~i genuine
feeling, which Annie said "was delightful to behold.~
"You can shut up -de gate yous~f," said Jack, as Gov-
ernor, with an air intended to-be much more impressive than
his master's, was about riding on, heedingg his sable
fellow'sexvant.
"Oh sartin," said Governor, wheeling round his, pony,-
and giving the gate a swing that sent it to with a er~ish; -
and then turning to Ja~ck a look of assumed contempt, he
remarked :-         -
-" Some indiwiduals don't- suppose that field darkies can
learn to open and shut a gate at de same time,.-it would-
be too much for dis world," and Governor was so -delighted
with his own wit, that he) nearly fell off 'of MB horse from
laughing.                       -~


140             ~   ~!A5TE~'S HousE;
"Mabe'e not," said Jack, seizing his hoe and working
away furiously in the soft ground,; "mabee not," he repeat-
ed~ h15 face brightening' into a broad grin, and then without
any conceivable reason, except an exuberance of ~tiimal
spirits, lie broke intQ a guffaw, not oniy louder than O-over-
nor's explosion, but so terrific, that it Set the crows flying at
l~he time high over head, cawing~'with alarm.
At this moment a little negress passed by with a pail
of water on her head, which she was carrying to the gang
in the field. Mildmay filled the gourd that was floating on
the top, and offered it to Annie, which she playfully refused.
".1 see, Annie," said Mildmay, most 'liberally helping
himself "that you cannot get aecustome&amp; to a gourd,.-
but, according to my ideas, it is the only'goblet that truly
accords in simplicity with'the gently gurgling spring."
* The sun, as~ it rose higher in the heavens, began to
pour down with intensity, and Mildmay, perceiving that
Annie' was suffering from the~ heat, suggested more rapid
prQgress, and the 1~wo struck into a "lope," which was con~.
tinted for 'a. long distance without interruption.
Up9~ reaching their destination, it was a grateful re-
lief to receive the protecting shade of 'the heavy walls and
~Arerhanging verandalis of the mansion.
Mrs. Moreton met Annie with unusual pleasure mark-
edupon her face, and' Aunt Margaret was so delighted,
that 'she not only shook both her hands ~ffectionately, but
kiis~ed her on her cheek.
The chIldren, with their 'nurse's,' presented th~m~elves
one after another, and it seemed to Anniein the confusion,

A TALE OF SO1JT~J~ER~ LIFE.           141

that a child and a negro were so strangely identifle4, that
it' waS difficult to imagine them apart.
"Let us have sqme water liere," said Mr. Moreton,
looking about generally, after. himself and Mildmay had
seated themselves, and' the ladies had retired to a distant
part of the house.
Now Mildmay was exceedingly thirsty, and so appear-
ed Mr. Moreton; but although there were great num-
bers of negroes moving about the premises, presenting
themselves and then disappearing like puppets ~in a show,
still no water came. Finally Mr. Moreton lost all patience,
and with a loud voice cried out:
"John~David-M'ary-.-~.Jefferson-~Wash, why don't
somebody bring some water here?"
Still the negroes moved about, as if unconscious -of
hearing any order, and Mr. Moreton jumped np, and was
about getting into a passion, when Aunt Margaret met him
at the door, and in a mild ~voice sa5d
"Brother, did' I hear you. call?"
"Certainly you did," said 'Mr. Moreton, sitting back
in his chair nearly exhausted.
Aunt Margaret singled out one of the many ~idlers in
view, and gave the required directions, and almost instant-
ly she was obeyed.'
"I forgot tG ask you, Mr. Mildmay" said Moreton, tak-
ing up his glass, "I forgot to ask 'if you would have any
thing with your water. I have myself so hng given up the
habit of indulging in any thi~ig 'strong,' with the temperate
exception of occasionally at dinner, that I fear I have ap-
peared regardless' of the rites of hospitality."


k

142

TIlE MA~T~R75 hOUSE'

',~" N~t at all," said Mildmay promptly, "I have, I am
sorry to say, formed a liking foi~ a good cigar, which desire
I gratify, but 'beyond thaV, I a~n careful not '~to tax my
strength by unnecessary stimulants."
I' ~Bring some cigars ~here," cried Mr. Moreton' from
hatit, and then catching the eye of the servant holding the
salver and pitcher, he said:
"Viney, bring those cigars here, from oft' the parlor
manteLpiece. -
The girl obeyed, and presented Mildmay with the box,
but he dqolined smoking for the, time being, and the two
gentlemen again seating themselves, seemed disposed to
enter. upon conversation,- as persons who had a great deal
to say, and~ more than sttffieie~it time ti say it in.
Annie was shown to a room splendid in. size, in the cen-
tre of. which was an enormous French bedstead, -and on the
side the familiar armoire. A tidy-looking, 'petted ~servant
stood at her elbow, ready. to do her slightest bidding.
Laying aside a coquettish sun-bonnet, which she preferred
to use in the middle of the day, when out on horse-
back, to 'the more showy riding cap that Mildmay had
provided her with, she sat down in a comfortablechair, and
submitted to the ordealof ~xaminatk~n from the distended
eyes of ~her sable attendant.
"What's your name?" said Annie to the girl, tore-
lien her-self from the embarrassment of being an object of
so much undisguised interest.
"My. name i~ Violet,, Missus."
"-Vielet? ".repeated Annie; "you were named after a

A TALE OF 5~JT~IERN LIFE.

143

very pretty flower," ~he continued, absolutely confused for
something to say.
"Not afterL a flower, Missus," said Violet, 'quite flatter-
ed by th~ notice she received; "I was .done named after -
Master's old nurse.
At this moment the door of the room opened and Aunt
Margaret preseiited herself, and with a winning smile she
desired Annie to go with her to Mrs. Noreton's room~
Mrs. Moroton, at the moment of Annie's entrance, was
giving directions to a negre~s bow to sew uj~. a seam in a
coarse capote or blanket coat,'an.d near. by on the floor, sat
two more negresses busy at the same work.
After the cordial salutations of meeting, "You see, Mrs.
Mildumay," said.Mrs. ~Moreton, "'one of the tasks imposed
upon the mistress of a plantation.. You would scarcely be.
lieve," ~he continued, "that:I have eut out and superin-
tended the making of thirty o*~ these heavy garments this
season."                  .
"Thirty ! 3' said Annie, with undisguised amazement:
"and can you, Mrs. Moreton, with your delicate hands, do
somuch?" .* -
"It would seem so," said thaJ~ lady, looking up and
smiling; "I wish this'werk was theleast unpleasautjofmy
many duties."
"Well," said Annie, "as I am~i anditious to:be a good
wife, I must learn to make them myself~" and ~he took one
of the heavy~~Qats in her hauds.
"Not t~~day," said Aunt Margaret, taking the garment
gently away, "not' to-day, but some other time."
"I will show you presently," said the lady; still oc-


THE NIASTEfl.'5 uousii~;                                                     A TALE OF BOTHER~ tI~'E~             145

cupied by. her duties, "Mr. Moreton's preparations for
weaving and spj~ning; he~ finds ~su~h labor very useful and
profitable for th~ w~men &amp;u a lax'ge plantation who are tOo
delieat~ to ~be out in rainy days."
"And do you\really spin and weave?" said Annie, with
inte1~est.
"Certainly," said Mrs. Moreton, and she added, "Clo-
tilde, 4iow Mrs. Mildmay your dress." (The girl held out
the side of her garment fo.r Annie's inspection.) "We,"
she continued~, "clothe all our hands in homespun; it' is
much better cloth th~n that~ which we buy.,~
"And is this the u~niversal custom ? " said Annie,
becoming very much interested.
"Most generally," said Mrs.. Moreton, "in old settled
At this moment there burst through the curtains that
hung over the door a little girl, cqing out, "Where's
Aunt Margy?" and spinning round the room like a top,
and. runnii~g~against table and chairs, she came to a stand
still, direotiy opposite where Annie was ~sitting.
"Why, Toots,'? 'said Aunt Margaret to 'the child,
wheie have~ you been this last half hour?"
"Down to the ~cotton-gin,-...-see all the corn'milI,' and
mules, and' the wheels go round and round; and never stop
'till a rninute,"replk~d Toots, with w rapidity of speech
truly astonishing.
"Do" take that little minz out of the room, 'Minnie,"
said Mrs.VMoretdn, looking at one of the negroigirl8 near
her; "for that 4ild' always sets ~e crazy With, her noise."
"Toots wou't~et any body crazy with i~er ~noise,-she

will be a go64 girl, and be 'till~-.not do nossin at ali7~"
and having delivered herself of this speech, Toots com-
menced dancing up and down, singing with a loud voice,
each time her little feet struck on the floor.
It was very plain that Aunt Margaret was delighted,
and as Toots for a moment was still, she said,
"Go and shake hands with Mrs. Mildmay, Toots."
The little perpetual-motion eyed Annie for a moment
with amusing interest, and then with the quickness of
thought rushed forward, jumped into Annie's l&amp;p, threw
her arms round her neck, and said,
"how you get such curls all down your face ?-.how you
come to our house ?-how much you love Toots?" and
the little thing clapped her hands and laughed, and crowed
in a perfect ecstasy of delight.
"Why," said Annie, overcome with astonishment and
gratified surprise, "does this child go on this way all
the time ?"
"Yes, all the time," said Mrs. Moreton, dwelling~ on
the all; "and I believe she is never still, even when
asleep."
"Toots very 'till," said the child with much solein-
nity; and she then broke out a loud chirrup, as follows.
"If I had a vife and, she had a baby,
Yif~'s name ~Kitty, child's name Gavy."
"Davy," said Aunt I~argaret, her eyes sparkling with
delight.
"Gavy," said Toots, with gravity.
"Davy,-goose," repeated Aunt Margaret.
7


146             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                       A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.           14~7

'3

could really imagine how difficult it is to exist with that
child in the house, you would pity me."
"Why," said. Annie, wiping tears from her eyes,
"Mrs. Moreton, you are indeed to be pitied, for I think
Toots would even kill me."
"I'll go and see that that dear child has something t~
eat," said Aunt Margaret, leaving the room; and upon going
down stairs, she found Toots running across the lawn,
with a piece of poundcake in one hand, and a stick in the
other, chasing a large numb r of awkward goslings head-
over-heels before her.

"~ Vife's name Kitty, and child's name Davy Goose,"
said Toots, breaking into a loud laugh, and throwing her
head back on Annie's shoulder.
"Minnie, take Toots out in the yard, I say," said Mrs.
Moreton, putting her hand to her forehead, as if suffering
from a severe pain in the head.
"No, Minnie shan't take Toots," said the child, spring-
ing from Annie's lap, and running to Aunt Margaret;
"Toots set dog on Minnie, and Pa'll give Minnie 'forty,'
-and then Toots broke out into an unintelligible song,
mingled with imitations of all the noises heard in the
poultry-yard; and finding that her mother was really get-
ting serious, she suddenly calmed down, and walking up to
one of the negro girls that was at work on the capote, she
said,
"Toots want needlers,-Toots show;" and having
been accommodaLed with a needle and thread, she went
through the pantomime of biting off the end of the thread,
making a knot, and looking seriously at every one about
her; b~it finding it impossible to remain quiet, she com-
menced dancing up and down, and just as her mother was
within an inch of seizing her dress, she glided away, and
was heard paddling down stairs, laughing, hallooing, at
the, as she supposed, really ineffectual attempts of one of
the servants to arrest her progress.
Annie was so amused at Toots, that, in spite of her-
self, she was obliged to give way to hearty laughter.
"Oh," said Mrs. Moreton, laying down her worl~, and
'looking at Annie with a mo~t injured expressiQu, "if you

e b e-
A6


148            TIlE MASTER'S HOUSE;

14~

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE~

CHAPTER XIII.
EvERY-DAY INCIDENT.
ALTHOUGH Moreton and Mildmay had frequently met at
]3eechland, and on the highway, they really were but little
acquainted with each other. Mr. Moreton was cere-
monious when out of his own house, and Mildmay had
found constant occupation on his plantation; and, with
Annie's society, had no particular inducement to go
abroad,-so, although Mr. Moreton and Mildmay sat
down together with the mutual idea Qf being pleased with
each other's society, yet it was nevertheless true, that the
emotions of sympathy were yet to be called forth by the
interchange of harmonious thoughts.
A few moments' conversation only had taken place
before Mr. Moreton and Mildmay, to their own astonish-
ment, found that they differed on every interchange of
sentiment; and as Mr. Moreton, living as he did in a
somewhat solitary place, had, by long association with his
negroes, become, insensibly to himself restive under con-
tradiction, although respectfully offered, and from one he
~ekuowledged an equal; still his abruptness of manner at

first caused Mildmay to yield in silence, and then to differ
from Mr. Moreton even beyond the natural bent of his
true feelings.
"I think that this custom that prevails with some
Southern people of sending their children to the North to
be educated is decidedly wrong, and very ridiculous," said
Mr. Moreton, with great emphasis of~ maimer.
"I must beg to differ with you again," said Mildmay,
quietly, "for I have found not only the Northern colleges
excellent as literary institutions, but useful, in giving the
collateral advantage of acquaintance with the social and
commercial character of our brethren of the whole Union."
"I don't see the advantage, you speak of," returned
Moreton, energetically; "we send our young men ~on to
the North, and they come back with their heads crammed
full of literary trash, and Southern institutions are made
distasteful to them: I think it ruins them altogether."
"I haven't found such to be my experience," said Mild-
may, for the instant annoyed.
"I beg your pardon, sir," said Moreton, slightly color-
ing; "but the fact is, I forgot, in my knowledge of your
Southern birth and interests, that you had ever seen the
North;. so you must excuse me, for I don't in my own
mind identify you with the Yankees."
"But I have shown great willingness myself' to be
identified with them," said Mildmay, laughing; "for," he
continued, "the best half of me is the very pith of the
Mayflower stock."
"Tru?, true," said Mr. Moreton, his natural gallantry
getting the better of hi~ prejudices; "and I wish such rare

AS


150             THE MA5TER~5 HOUSE;                                                    A TALE OF 5OUTHEIV~T LIFE.        151

infusions were more frecluent: but you will admit, my
dear Mildmay," continued he, after a pauses "that the
tendency of Northern colleges are anti-Southern in their
influence."
"Not necessarily so," said Mildmay, with decision
"for," he continued, "out of three hundred students I
wa~ associated with at Maiden, most of whom were Yan-
kees, and to the manner born, there were but two avowed
abolitionists; and what is most remarkable, one of' those
insanities is now an editor of a secession paper in South
Carolina, and the other a school teacher in Georgia, pub-
lishing addresses cautioning the planters of the South
against using New England primers, lest they get uncon-
sciously infected with abolitionn sentiments in spelling Eng-
lish words."
"Well, there," said Moreton, whirling around upon his
chair and snapping his fingers in triumph, "don't you see,
Mr. Mildmay, by your own showing, something contemp-
tible in the ," and Moreton stopped.
"You were going to say, 'New England character,'"
suggested Mildmay, smiling; "but, I see nothing of the
kind in my illustration, and these two young men that I
speak of, are mere time-servers. They thought that anti-
slavery sentiments would help their personal interests in
Connecticut, and so they adopted them. Finishing their
education, they went South, and, always consistent, they
fatter the pro-slavery feeling among us, and are as heart-
less and unprincipled and dangerous in their new vocation,
as they were in their old; and," continued Mildmay, his
eyes flashing fire," I loathe and despise such cowardly

creatures; they are a disgrace when compared with the
lowest standards of man."
"I never had any other feeling for them;" said Mr.
Moreton, with complacency.
"You will pardon me, sir," said Mildmay, "if I say, that
this truckling to interest, this sacrifice of conscience and
truth, is not peculiar to New England, or New England
men. I think I meet parallel examples sometimes in my
visits to Beechiand. I see hypocrites at our doors, for I mis-
trust the sincerity of all men, who, owning no negroes them-
selves, are violent in defence of our peculiar institutions."
"I never took that view of it," said Moreton, rising, and
walking rapidly up and down the gallery; "perhaps you
are right."
"I know that Ii am right," said Mildrnay; "look," he
continued, "at the burnings and lynching of negroes,
which have disgraced the fair fame of the South, and it
will be found that the planters, the men of wealth and
education, have rarely been participators-.the deeds were
done by irresponsible men, who owned no negroes them~
selves, but who thus gratified their unholy passions, through
the corrupt idea, that their excessive zeal gave evidence of
devotion to Southern interests."
"Mildmay, I believe that what you sayis true,'~ said
Moreton, stopping in his walk, and falling into a brown
study, and then thrown off his guard by Mildmay's impres-
siveness-.---.--" Now, I remember, in the 1~Xurrell excitement,
we tried an incendiary at Beechla~nd, and Judge Lynch
sentenced him to be hung~ But when -the poor fellow was
on the gallows, no one would aot as Jack Ketch, and the


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          153

152             TIlE MASTEU'5 HOUSE;

'poor devil would have got off, had not a Btranger in, the
place, and himself suspected of abolition~ sentiments, ad-
justed the rope, and launched the victim into eternity."
"And, by this murder, the suspected individual ap-
peased the public sentiment against himself," said Mildmay,
with emotion.
"Oh yes," said Mr. IVXoreton, as if relieved from an
oppressive feeling,-" oh yes, and the man has lived in
Beechland ever since."
"And would hang us to-morrow," said Mildmay, with
disgust, "if the insurrection were against us. Upon such
wretched social materials, upon such a moral volcano, do
we slaveholders exist."
As Mildmay concluded, Mr. Moreton absolutely fell
into his chair. Strange ideas had been awakened in his
mind,-thoughts that had slumbered 'for years, aroused. A
sort of desolate feeling came over him, the future looked
gloomy and uncertain, and for a moment he mentally groped
in darkness,~.-and then, brushing his hand across his brow,
he said:
"Mildmay, if we would happily live in the South,
we must not look so deeply and darkly upon the things
around us;" and with this remark, Mr. Moreton's thoughts
launched again into the current of life~ allowing the present
o~ily to occupy hi~ mind the future he carefully excluded.
Fortunately, to relieve both gentlemen of their embar-
rassment, Col. Lee, the only person invited to dine with
the Moretons, on Mildmay's visit, was seen riding toward
the house; and by this exclusive, invitation Mr. Moreton
intended to show' Mildmay the 'high esteem he, placed

upon his visit, for Col. Lee was presumed only to honor with
his company people ~f admitted pretensions, for he claimed
for himself, to be one' of the "first families of Virginia,"
and consequently was aristocratic to the last degree. -
The moment that Moreton caught sight of the Colonel,
he walked out upon the lawn and met that gentleman half
way, and accompanied him into the house. The Colonel
had evidently determined to make an impression. He sa-
luted Mildmay with a courteous dignity, such as Washing-
ton may have been presumed to use on great state occa-
sions, and before he had well seated himself, a servant was
already by his side, with a salver containing li~~ueurs, and
a pitcher of cool water.
Col. Lee helped himself to a glass of wine, and turning
to Moreton and Mildmay, he expressed his pleasure at seeing
them both looking so well, trusted that the ladies were m
good health, and that Mrs. Mildmay found the climate of
Louisiana to agree with her constitution; and, tossing oft'
his wine, he remarked complacently,
~C Moreton, you have the most excellent water on your
place. I know of none so good in the neighborhood. It is a
great blessing to have good water," and thereupon the
Colonel begged to be excused, as he was quite thirsty
from riding in the dust, and he helped himself again to the
sherry1 and then seated himself in an elegant attitude,
and seemed to be prepared to receive admiration of his
personal appearance, and to listen patiently to hear any re-
marks that might be made in conversation.
The moment that Col. Lee took his seat, Mr. Moreton
brightened up, and a lively conversation ensued, in which
7*


154            TIlE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          155

Mildmay became interested, from the novelty of the ideas
constantly presented, although they were not always in
accordance with his manner of thinking.
As Mr. Moreton had a large family, the si~bject of
education. was a source of constant reflection; and as
the exchange of ideas progressed, Mr. Moreton, unintention-
ally to himself, made some of his favorite remarks against
Northern institutions of learning, when Colonel Lee, per-
ceiving that Mildmay had differed with Moreton on their
merits, broke out into a eulogistic defence of Southern
Colleges, and wound tip by a graphic description of the
"Virginia University," an institution, he said, that was the
fountain of chivalry, of profound scholarship, and statesman-
ship; and gradually progressing, lie gave many anecdotes of
~the amusements of the students, and described with inim-
itable humor, a cock-fight, that took place one evening
in "the chapel," in which one of the professors lost to him
N
nearly a half gallon of brandy, besides a box of the best
Spanish cigars.
Mrs. Moreton had scarcely gone through the pantomime
of showing Annie, rather than telling her, how very dis-
tracting Toots' noise was to her head, when a negro pre-
sented herself at Mrs. Moreton's door, and, making a low
courtesy, said:
"Mistress, Aunt Dinah's. done got worse."
"One of your servants sick?" said Annie.
"Yns," replied Mrs. Moreton, putting on a light shawl,
"one of our most valuable women has had 'the fever,' and
it seems impossible to break it," and as Mrs. Moreton said
this she opened an armoire door, and after fumbling among

various vials and papers, she took something in her hand,
and excusing herself to Annie, was about to leave the room,
when she turned and said: "Mrs. Mildmay, perhaps you
would like to walk down to the quarters with me."
Annie at the instant hearing the voice of her husband
and Mr. Moreton on the front gallery, as if engaged in an
interesting conversation, at once assented, and at Mrs.
Moreton's suggestion, put on a large sun-bonnet that was
lying near by in a chair. Thus equipped, she and Mrs.
Moreton proceeded down stairs and passed into thQ yard
back of the house, a number of little negroes instantly pre-
senting themselves, who ran ahead and opened the garden
gates.
The buildings occupied by Mr. Moreton's negroes, were
quite a feature of his plantation. When he first moved
upon it, he found nothing but a few 'log pens.' One of
them he fitted up for himself and wife, for he had no chih
dren at that time; and as soon a~ ho got somewhat settled
his first improvements consisted in the erection of sixteen
commodious cabins, that were in equal~ numbers arranged in
two parallel lines, making what appeared to be the begin-
ing of a handsome street. At the head was built a large
double cabin, with a spacious verandah, as the house of the
overseer. These buildings finished, Mr. Moreton contin-
ued for a long time to reside in his now, by contrast, still
more humble hut, and he became for a while quite famous
for furnishing his negroes better houses than he himself
occupied.
"Have you had much sickness on your place?" inquiry.
ed Mrs. Moreton, as she walked along.


150             TUE MA5TER~5 Hous~;                                                  A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         l5~?

Some," said Annie, hesitatingly, "but I have never
seen any myself~"
"'Is it possible ?" returned Mrs. Moreton; "how
have you been so fortunate?" she asked? with a face ex-
pressive of surprise.
"Why1 I have never been told by Mr. Mildmay that I
should go to the quarters on such occasions, and I am sure
I would not vohmteer."
"I have been accustomed from my childhood up," half
musingly said Mrs. Moreton, "' to nurse with my own hands
the sick.-I did it on my father's place, and have continued
to do it ever since I was married to Mr. Moreton." As
the lady concluded1 'she, with Annie, stepped into Aunt
Dinah's cabin.
In a' room sixteen by twenty feet in size, 'and destitute
of furniture, save a very rude bedstead, the frame of which
was nailed against the wall, lay stretched out the form of
the patient-of the sick Dinah.
Annie drew back with considerable dread, when ~he
first looked into the cabin of the slave, but seeing Mrs.
Moreton enter, and with the' most sympathetic manner,
proceed at once to the bedside of the patient, she af-
fe0ted to overcome her great repugnance and followed her
hostess.
"How do you feel, Dinah?" said her mistress, taking
the sick woman's hand unresistingly in her own.
The negress seemed to have fallen into a doze, and when
she opened her eyes, the astonishment she displayed. was
unbounded, as' she beheld not only her mistress, but the
delicate form of Annie~ bending over her.

"What is the matter?" inquired Mrs. Moreton, with a
soothing voice.
"I' done got berry sick," said Dinah, ~till in wonder.
"Let me look at your tongue," said Mrs. Moreton.
The negress did as she was desired, and Mrs. Moreton,
after a moment's speculation, said:
"Dinah, you have been eating something to make you
sick; I see it by your high fever, and believe it, because
little Ann gives me to understand you have been complain-
ing again of pain.~~
"I ain't done eat nothing, " said the woman 'stolidly,
and giving a sigh, at the same time groaning and turning
her face to the wall.
Mrs. Moreton was not to be deceived. To Annie's sur-
prise she cross-questioned the wonian, and again looked at
her tongue, and finally pressed her delicate fingers upon
the negress' chest.
"I see how it is," said Mrs. ~Moreton finally, a shade of
regret passing over her face, "you have been to the water-
melon patch, and have likely killed yourself."
"Aint done eat nothing' " repeated Dinah.
Hasn't Dinah been eating water-melon?" said Mrs.
Moreton to little Ann, who just at that moment came into
the cabin.
"Only one, missrn, said the child.
Mrs. Moreton sat down at the foot of the dirty' bed, as
if perfectly disheartened, 'and with a face full of feeling she
said to Annie:
"Mrs. Mildmay,~ I sat up nearly all last night with that
negress, and got her through a critical sickness, and now you


15.8                    ~         ~                                                                 A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.                159

see, by her own imprudence, my labor is lost, and perhaps
her life endangered," and then turning to little Ann, she
said: "go over, to the house, and tell your Mistress Mar-
garet, to~ send me the bottle of medicine I was using yes-
terday."
"Yes'em," said little Ann, running out to perform the
errand.
"How came you to disobey me ?" said Mrs. Moreton,
turning, to the invalid.
""Cause I had nothing' to eat," gruffly replied the pa-
tient.
"Did you not," said Mrs. Moreton, "get some soup to-
day that 1 made for you myself?"
"Never got nothin'," said the negress, grOwing still
more sullen.
"Ali n~e!" said Mrs. Moreton much annoyed, and turn-
ing to Annie, she said:'
"You will find, Mrs. Mildmay, after you have had my
experience, that a' planter's wife is the greatest slave that
exists. If I don't see to every thing, all goes wrong. The'
soup, that I prepared to-day with ~o much care for
this very negress, I have no doubt was eaten up by little
Ann.
By this time, 'little Ann had returned, bringing Mrs.
Moreton's parasol.
"I did not send you for this," said Nrs. Moreton, in
great vexation. "What did you tell Mistress Margaret I
wanted?"
'"Something you done had yesterday, missis," said

little Ann, perfectly unconscious that she had made any
mistake.
"I see how it is," remarked Mrs. Moreton, taking up
~he parasol, "1 shall have to go hack to my room, and
either return myself or send down Aunt Margaret, or I
shall never be certain that what I desire is done aright,"
and wrapping her shawl around her, the two ladies walked
slowly home.
"I am sure," said Annie, after they left the hearing
of the patient, "that I never can be so good a nurse as you.
Why, Mrs. Moreton," she continued, "I cannot over-
come my repugnance to the blacks enough, to 1~ar with com-
fort the necessary ~i~esence of my servants, and I fear that
I could never be of use, by the side of those that *~re sick."
"I xievcr had such feelings," said Mrs. Moreton, with-
out expressing the least, emotion of curiosity or surprise.
The moment that the mistress and guest were gone,
Violet, who watched them from the ~chamber window, went
back into the room where she first met Annie, and taking
up that lady's bonnet she placed it upon l~r~~head, and
drawing the ears close down to her face, she surveyed the
effect with evident admiration.. ~he next put on the riding
habit and throwing a shawl over her left arm, she graceful-
ly lifted the long skirt from about her feet, and commenced
a pantomime, in which was displayed with artistic perfec-
tion, not only Annie'&amp;manner, but also Mrs~ Moreton.'s, and
the nice distinction which Violet made in the characters,
as she carried on an imaginary conversation, could notbe
excelled.
The "favorite s~ryant "~ then leaned agectedly upon a


160             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

high-backed arm-chair, and eyeing the red velvet of the
upright~ cushion with the most languishing expression; she
said: "Why, Mr. Mildmay, I am so fatigued, I'm mighty
glad we got to Mr. Moreton's, it's so very warm to-day;"
then throwing the shawl around her shoulders, she Wrapped
it close to 'her person, and completely changing her voice,
she continued: "Really, I am so perfectly distracted with
the noise of the children, and the care of them miserable
idle servants, Mr. MoretQn, that I shall certainly go crazy."
Next falling into the chair and assuming a benign smile,
she turned towards the door and went on: "There, sister,
is that dear smart child again. Come~ here, Toots, don't
you see your mother is annoyed; come~g&amp;downwithA~t
Margaret and leave these unkind people," and then jump-
ing up, in the imaginary person of Annie Mildmay, she
courteseyed around the room; until, perceiving her mistress
just at the entrance of the house, she, hastily threw aside
her borroWed plumage, and met that lady in the great hall,
with a meekness and innocence of face, that was, perhaps,
the be~t piece of acting she performed throughout the day.
In the front door of the 'house stood Aunty, with the
baby. Atrnty was a tall, ungainly-looking woman, but pos-
sessed a 'fine expression of countenance, arid' had a voice
that sounded unusually cultivated for a negro.
As Annie attempted to pass on she was naturally at-
tracted to the infant, whose little dimpled hands and arms,
and innocent unformed face, formed a strong contrast ~ith
its hard-visaged, sable nurse. Annie stopped short, and
raising both hands in admiration, exclaimed:
"'The dear, dear, sweet little cherub."

Aunty smiled at this involuntary compliment to her
charge, as much as if it had been intended for herself, and
raised "the cherub" to give, Annie a better view.
The baby's head rolled from side to side, on its little
shoulders, while its eyes stared out on vacancy, showing
that the mind had not yet lit up the clear pupil of .black
and blue.
"The dear sweet cherub!" again exclaimed Annie, as
she buried the child in her flaxen curls.'
"She's moughty sweet indeed!" finally ejaculated Aunty,
"dat child, young mistress, knows too much for her age."
"' Knows too much?" said Annie, laughing outright at
the very idea of such a thing.
"Why, sartain," returned Aunty; "for dat are child
will set and study, and think all day; she's too smart en-
tirely, and," concluded the faithful n~rse,~,in a commisera-
ting voice, "if she don't stop a-doing it, she'll never make
old bones, sure and sartain."
Again Annie gave the prematurely-wise infant another
kiss, and heartily amused at the enthusiasm of the old
negress, followed Mrs. Moreton to her room.

A TALE~ OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

101


162             THE MASTER'S HOUSE

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         16~

CHAPTER XIV.
THE HOSPITABLE BOARD.
THROUGHOUT the day, a great bustle had prevailed in Mrs.
Moreton's kitchen. Viney, the cook, was by due notice
informed of the expected visit of Mr. and Mrs. Mildmay,
and had been told to get as excellent a dinner as possible,
in' honor of the occasion. Viney had great pride in her
department, aiid was determined to do something that
would do honor to the family. The consequence was, that
she had managed to get some half-a.~dozen negroes added to
the already over-abundant supply natural to Mr. More-
ton's house; and the kitchen was not only crowded with
every variety of dish, for the garnishment of the' table,
but it was also crowded with negroes, who, on the pre-
tence of helping the bustling and important Viney, were
really helping themselves.
The rustling of ladies' dresses in the hall, finally an-
nounced, indirectly, to the gentlemen, that dinner was on
the table; and by the time they reached the parlor, the
folding-doors were thrown open, and the ladies~were dis-
covered, already seated at the hospitable board.

Col. Lee was all compliments, ana before taking his
seat, he congratulated Mrs. Moreton on her fine appear-
ance, expressed the most profound pleasure at meeting
with Mrs. Mildmay, "of whose beauty he had heard so
much," and then seated himself beside' Aunt Margaret,
whom he called "a lady of the Old Dominion."
Mildmay was more ceremonious, and after exPressing
his pleasure at seeing Mrs. Moreton, and Mrs. Marbury
(Aunt Margaret), he gave a look of pleasurable intelli.
gence to Annie, and seated himself by her side. This
being done, lVfr. Moreton took his place at the head of the
table, and looking over the viands~ and his guests, with in-
tense satisfaction, he ordered the soup to be handed round,
and fell himself to carving the magniicent~-and on a
Southern table, never to be dispensed with-ham, that un-
til then, untouched by knife, w~s resting before him.
On the first sound of the spoons upon the dishes, there
came a. noise in the hall, as of heavy drops of 'rain beating
upon a roof; then could be Jieard children's voices, and in
another instant, a dozen or more of boys and girls, of all
sizes and ages, came rushing into the dining-room, clamor-
ing for something to eat, and evidently urged on by a
score of little negroes, that, in the rear, ably supported
these impetuous applicants.
"These children must all be" carried off," said Mr.
Moreton, holding up his carving-knife and fork, and look-
ing around as~ if lie expected every moment that he. him-
self would be devoured.
"Toots ain't doin 'way!" said that little romp, tum-
bling from some place plump into the middle of 'the room,


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

'r165

164

THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

"me doin to eat dinner, and passenger, and cake, and. pie,
and-and-and~ chickenses," and when she got thus far,
Mrs. Moreton put h~r hands to her ears, and begged Aunt
Margaret "to take that child, and all the children, away,
until dbaner was over."
"Take Toots up!" said Aunt Margaret to a matronly-
looking negro woman, the seamstress, who had volunteered
to wait on the table; "take ,Toots up!" continued Aunt
Margaret, "and amus~ her as you best can."
"I won't go~ to Phyllis ! " said Toots, jumping up and
do~ti the room, and falling heels over head against Annie's
feet.
"Come; little missis!" saidPhyllis, catching hold of
~L~pots,'" come, and I'll tell you that pretty story."' Toots
yielded in an instant, and fairly springing into her nurse's
arms, she could be heard rattling away, until her voice was
lost in the distanc~~telling Phyllis how much "she liked
to hear that pretty 'tory of the horses, and cagiges, and
women, and dogs."~
Meanwhile the mass of the children, including George,
Augustliis, Minty, Clotilde, Charley, and "little Moreton,"
made a compromise with their father, that they were to
have a table set' in an adjoining room (this was a favorite
plan of the servants); in the meanwhile, they were to go
out in the yard ai~d play.
Phyllis carried Toots into the main road, and, sitting
down under the ~had~ of a magnificent live-oak, she spread
a shawl on the ground, on whi~h she put her little mistress,
and told Toots for the fortieth time the following story; it
being remarkable; that at each relation, Toots made the

same comments, asked the same questions, and appeared
more than 'at any previous time, 'breathless, with excited
interest.~
Dar "was once, young missis," began Jhyllis; "a
white gentleman, as married another wife, and she was the*
stuck-.upest woman that never was."
"What did she do?" asked Toots; out of breath with
expectation.
"Why, whipped all her ldack people, just for nothing' at
all,," continued Phyllis.
"She wouldn't whip you, would she?" said T~ot~,
throwing her arms round Phyllis's neck.
"Wal, I 'spect not," said the girl, caressing the child,
"but now listen,-.-.you see dis stuck up white lady had
three daughters, the biggest ones she made set bathe parw.
br, under skeeterr bars, all day, and do nothing' but have
the black people wait ~n 'em, all the time; and de other
daughter, who was mighty handsome, ~as~ kept up stairs,
and wouldn't done let her go riding horseback, nor to New
Orleans, nor nowhar.
"Now, you see," continued Phyllis, "somebody on de
joiningg plantation gave ~a big ball, and 'vited all de great
people, hut didn't 'vite little Cind'rella; her stuck-up
mother wouldn't let her go along with her bad sisters."
"I'd a kicked and hollered, and told father, if they
didn't let me go to ball, and have cake, and candies, and
chances, and apples."
"I know you would," said Phyllis, looking admiringly
at Toots, "but, you see that this little Cind'rella didn't
do it, but just staid at home and cried; when dai w~ ~i


l66~           T~IE MASTnn's H0115E
old woman with a -cap on, and a long nose, and a broom-
stick oum'd into the room, and~ asked Oind'rella if she
wanted to go to the ball, 'cause her sisters had done gone
already. Now Cind'rella she couldn't go in course, for
you see she had no handsome dress with yeller ribbons,
and blue trimmings, and big breastpin, no carrige to ride,
nor any black people to. drive to the ball; now this old
woman was a fairy."
"What's a fairy?" said Toots, wonderingly.
"A fairy," said Phyllis, looking rather foolish, "is
somebody that nobody owns, dat just goes about doin'
nothing , and having every thing they wants, dat's a fairy,
Miss Toots. And now," she ~continued, "listen what de
fairy done did for Cind'rella; she tuck a punkin, and
made a carrige, and six mouses for horses, and a big rat
for a coach-driver, and put a new dress on, and new shoes
on Ciud'rella, and ~ charm to make her look handsomer
than ever, and sent her off to the big balL
"You see," continued Phyllis, "dat de old fairy told
Cind'rella dat she must eum home afore daybreak, her pass
was up you ~ee by dat time, and if she stopped, de patrol-
ers would cotch her. Now Cind'rella was a da~icin' a
?~izry reel, with the young master, who owned two hundred
black peopk, and dey had plenty music, six banjos, and
three fiddles, but den daybreak cum all ov a sudden, and
Cind'rella, 'spectin' her pass wouldn't do no longer, tuck
to her heels, and left her shoe in de middle of de floor.
"Now de rich young man, dat owned two hundred
black people, was in lub wid Cind'rella, and as he couldn't
find her plantation; he~ sent all his black people out to find

A TALE OF SOUTHEuN LIFE.              16'7

the young missis that lost her shoe at de time do dancing
was gwine on; at last dey found her up in de arbor sound
asleep, wid one shoe, and dey know'd it was her, ~and
dey had a big wedding , and every body cnm~-Mr. Mild-
may, and Col. Lee, and~-"
"Cousin Annie," suggested Poots.        -
"Yes," said Phyllis, "Mistress Annie-and all do
black people was dressed up, a waiting' on de tables~~~d
such a time was never know'd afbre.'~
"Oh, how I would like to have been there!" said
Toots, clapping her little hands, "wouldn't I had fim, a~id
thrown turkey bones across the table, and made thother
take me in her lap, and sing,. me to sleep when-" and
Toots rose from her reclining position, and attempting to
spin round, to show Phyllis how she would go t9 sleep,
she twisted the shawl about her feet, and as usual, rolled
heels over head, but instantly releasing herself she went
whooping off down the road, in pursuit of a gaudy butter.
fly, that was fluttering along, seemingly on purpose to en.
tice the little fairy away from home.'
Mr. Moreton's children assembled in the lawn, accom-
panied by all the little negroes that could be gathered up
on the plantation; and it was enthnskstically agreed to
play "Runaway." George, a boy about ten years of age,
was captain; and in his imperative manner, and restive~
ness under restraint, displayed toward hi~ little dependents,
was a perfect representation of hi~ father. ile organized
the play that gave theni all so much pleasure.
A little negro, some eight years old, named Puggy
Bill, selected because he was a favorite with "young

I

16'l


168             TH~ ~ASTER'5 HOUSE;                                               A TALE OF SOUTHERN FJFE.         169

master," personated the '"runaway;" and according to
direction, he tracked over the lawn, running around the
trees, and behind the out-buildings,---turning and twisting
in every possible direction, so as not to cross his own foot-
*
steps. The children, white and black, watching the course
of tiais little "star in the comedy," and occasionally shout-
ing out their pleasure, whenever Puggy Bill showed any
unusual degree of shrewdness in tracking his devious way.
At the feet of George was held, by several officious
little negro boys-a young, and scarcely weaned, deer-
hounds Tl~ie animal-pup though it was, showed by it~
heavy limbs, long, silken ears, and bright eyes, that it wa~
of game blood. It seemed to understand that it occupied
a prominent place in the amusements of the hour, and
rested patiently until it was time for action.
At length Puggy 13111 completed his circuit, and came
up, quite out of breath, to the group he some fifteen mm-
utes before had left; when, at a given signal, ~' Olamper,"
the puppy, was put on "the trail;" and as he set off~
childish shouts encouraged him on his way. The dog,
with his nose close to the ground, followed iPuggy Bill's
tracks with a precision that gave the children the greatest
delight; and ~s he wound around and followed, to admiring
eyes, the unseen course, he was continually cheered. Ex-
cited himself, at last, as he was nearing the end of the
chase, the puppy began to give forth cries of excitement,
and opened its unformed throat, and yelped with puppy joy.
Presently he threaded the group of children, and
leaped rapturously on Puggy Bill, who received the fa'~ror-
ite with open arms, covering him with caresses; "young

master" George, meanwhile, going on with various expli-
catives, as if the runaway, although caught, had made
resistance, and consequently had to be beaten, or shot
down.
The sumptuous dinner was brought to a close,-Annie
stood under the gallery, equipped in her riding-dress,.......
CoL Lee had insisted that h~r palfrey should be brought
close up to the door. Mr. Moreton and Aunt Margaret
shook Annie cordially by the hand, and repeated over and
over again the pleasure they had experienced in her so-
ciety. Mr. Moreton and Col. Lee courteously contended
who should assist Annie on her horse, who, fairly mounted,
waved her adiens; and Mildmay, springing in the saddle,
lifted his hat, and in a moment more he and his young
wife were cantering~ down the road,-the declining sun.
cautioning them that they must be quick-footed, if they
would not be surroundedd while in the forest by the soli-
tude of night.
8

$68

169


1'70             THE MASTER'S HOtTSE

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         1'71

CHAPTER XV.
THE TITLE DEED.
SQUIRE ANDREW Uorunr ~ras professedly a justice of the
peace; his chief business, however, was writing out bills
for the sale of negroes. He was naturally a pompous man,
but generally concealed this peculiarity, as he was depend-
ent upon the good will of the populace for his official dig-
nity. Hobby had a high regard for Mildmay, simply
because that gentleman had never treated him with the
least passing notice; and he was accordingly quite flat-
tered, when Mildmay checked his horse in front of his
little office one morning, and stated that he desired at a
particularly named time his official services at the "Hen
tage Place."
"And what is it you desire of me?" inquired Hobby
before Mildmay had time to finish his commission.
"Simply," returned Graham, "to execute the papcr~
for the ~sale of a negro; and my reason for troubling you
to come out to my house is, that it may possibly be incon-
venient for Mrs. Mildmay to visit Beechland, to sign the
title deed."

~~J~ll CO~UC Gut with pleasure," said Hobby, rubbing
his hands with excitement; "this office of mine is not
much of a place to invite ladies in.".
"The office is well enough," said Mildrnay; "but
ladies, you are aware, find it difficult to leave home."
"They do," returned Hobby, with emphasis; and
suddenly assuming his natural manner, he- continued,
"Ladies thrive best in the domestic circle, surrounded by
the endearments of home; and, as the editor of the South-
ern War Trumpet observes, depending for support upon
the sterner sex, as the vine upon the lordly oak."
~ are quite a~ enthusiast, Mr. Hobby, when allud-
ing to the sex," returned Mildmay, gathering up the loose
bridle-reins, and preparing to leave.
Quite," said Hobby, trying to look impressive;
"quite, Mr. Mildmay, for we can never return the debt of
gratitude we owe to woman."
Graham struck his spur gently into his horse's flanks,
and as the genei~ous animal started off; he muttered to
himself; "Confound that fellow's stereotyped compli-
ments; why don't he practise some of his professions, by
taking the most ordinary care of his notoriously neglected
wife."
When Mildmay reached home, ~1r. Speers was waiting
for him upon the gallery of the house. Miidmay saluted
the gentleman, and after a few mome~uts' conversation
with~ Annie, returned to his guest.
"I saw Squire Hobby," said he, drawing up a chair,
and ordering Governor to bring some refreshments; "and

170

171


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         1'73

172

THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

I presui~e he will soon be here, as I saw his horse saddled
before I left town."
"I'm not specially engaged at this time," returned
Spears, in a drawling voice, filing his tumbler half full of
brandy, and declining any water. "I've been over the
crap this morning,' he continued, "and though smartly
in the grass, I reckon the niggers can get along without
being touched up, till night, if they must."
"I am very sorry," said Mildmay, going to his desk,
and getting out some papers, "that Mr. Murritt, when he
sold line the girl Mary, did not say you owned her hus..
band."
"He wouldn't a' told you that, and been sharp at a
trade," saisl Speers, his eyes twinkling at the preposterous
idea of a trader's saying any thing to interfere with a bar-
gain; "for," he suggested, maybee, you wouldn't have
bought the girl, if you know'd she had been separated from
her husband."
"I certainly would not," said Mildmay, his face riush-
ing with excitement.
"And do you 'spose," said Speers, with a kind of tri-
umph unconsciously displayed in his voice, "that Murritt
could make a living if he consulted his niggers as to how
he should sell 'em?"
Mildmay bit his lip, and internally acknowledging, in
spite of himself, that his long residence in the North had
unprepared him somewhat for the associations around him;
and, at the moment, perceiving the busy Mr. Hobby ap-
proaching, he walked toward the gate to meet him, and
lead the way to the house.

Again the ceremony of drinking w~ gone through
with, much to the gratification of Speers and Hobby,-.-the
latter gentleman observing, much to the admiration - of
Spears,
"4Phat if he ever did own a big plantation, he rather
thought if he hadn't any thing else good, he would have
'No. 1,' spirits;" when) suddenly recollecting that Speers
owned only a small plantation, he continued, smiling toward
that gentleman, "in the mean time, I'd have plenty of
plain whiskey."
"This Mildmay is rather a stiff man," said Speers,
looking nervously about, Graham having for the moment
left his guests.
"He is," almost whispered Hobby; "but you see,"
he went on, "it's the way with the rich,-.-they can afford
to put on airs."
"But," continued Speers, with a sort of injured ex-
pression, "Mildmay won't drink,~-.wnn't frolic,...-won't
card,~won't chaw,---and smokes a cigar as if he didn't
love it; what kind of a man is that?" and Speers looked
at Hobby as if he had given a question too difficult for
human solution.
"Why, you see, the fact is," said Hobby, puckering
up his mouth with the expression that he assumed when
on "the bench," "you see Mr. Mildmay, though born in
old Carolina, ~as raised among the Yankees, and his edi-
cation has been neglected; I haven't lived, Mr. Speers, in
]3eechland nigh on to fifteen years for nothing:" and
Hobby looked more profound than ever, and touching
Speers upon the breast, he continued:

I*

8


P4                ~UE MASTERS HOUSE;                                                          A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.              1'75

"We have had a good many cases here like Mildmay,
that didn't cut up such shindys more than a year or two,
and then begun and went it strong to make up. Why
Jim Ruggles, as keeps the race-track, and was tried last
court for stocking cards, commenced 'here nine years ago
worse than Mildmay."
"That Jim Ruggles is a good fellow," said Speers,
with great sympathy, and not exactly comprehending Esq.
hobby's meaning; and he continued, with some, anima-
tion, "that 'ere 'ditement 'bout the cards was done, just
'cause Ruggles is so poor that he can't perfect himself
from abuse."
"That's true,.-that's true," said the politic Hobby;
"for you see," added he, "Major Lively said to the court,
'that if wringing in an ace or two at the last game was
to be made a fine of, why he could present the hull bar
to the grand jury;' and so the matter dropped."
When Mildmay retiirned to the gallery, he was accom-
panied by a negro girl about twenty years of age, whose
dabbled homespun garments betrayed that she had but
just left the wet grass of the cotton field.
"Here's Mary," said he, to Mr. Spears; "you have
seen her, and are willing to purchase her at the stipulated
price of six hundred dollars ?"
Spears rolled his eyes over towards the girl, and exam-
ined her from head to foot; then getting up, and whirling
her . jound by a rough jerk of her shoulder, and stooping
down and rubbing with his finger a perceptible scar on the
calf of the girl's leg, he again seemed desirous to take a
good look, and stood off, and put himself in an attitude

I

assumed by connoisseurs when viewing at a rare picture.
He then turned to her, and abruptly sajd,
"How conic that scar on your leg?".
"It's whar a dog bit me," said the girl, with perfect
indifference. "Squire Hobby," said Speers, "look at
that scratch there, and tell me if you. believe that girl's
lying.
Hobby at once assumed his official face, and, stooping
down, appeared to make a most critical inspection.
"What do you think of it?" said Speers, finally grow-
in g impatient.
"Why," said the learned justice, "it mout have been
made by a lash, and it mont have been made l~y a dog's
bite, or a brier; I suspect it was the effect of accident, as
the girl says."
"That's enough," said Speers, seeming to be relieved~
"for you see," he continued, ' I don't buy no scarred
niggers; if I want any sich marks ~on my property, I'll
make 'cm myself."
"You 'have decided positively not to sell this girl's
husband to me?" said Graham.
"Yes," said Speers, gruffly; "fo~' you see, Mr. Mild-
may, I don't know why. I shouldn't own a good nigger as
well as any body else."
"Nor do I," said Mildmay, thoroughly annoyed; "I
wish Mr. Spears you owned a hundred, if you desire to,-
only I 'regret that I should have been the instrument of
separating the wife from a negro, to whom you seem so
niuch attached,"


A TALE OF SOUTHER~T LIFE.

I'76            THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

Spears evidently felt mortified that he had spoken as
he did, and in a milder voice he said,
"What's the use of troubling ourselves whether this
gal lives with Cooney or not; she can find husbands
enough on Heritage Place."
"Mary," said Mildmay, turning to the negro, "when
I proposed to buy you, you said that you were not mar-
ned?" -
"So I did, master," said the girl, moodily, "but if I
hadn't told you so, Mr. Murritt would a' killed me after
you went away.~,
"Mr. Mildmay," said Speers, perfectly unconscious of
the feelings agitating Graham's breast, "if you'd like to
keep that gal, you needn't be afeard that Cooney will
come on your premises after I tell him to keep away; I
would like to own a nigger that would go whar I told him
not to."
"It is not best to tempt him so strongly to disobey
you," said Mildmay.
"Well, if AJooney disobeys me, it shan't ny trouble
to you," said Speers, trying to be agreeable.
"You see Mary," said Mildinay, turning to the girl,
"that by being controlled, you deceived me; now you are
at liberty to speak the truth: do you prefer to go with
Mr. Spears, or stay with me'?"
"I want to be with Cooney," was the terse answer.
"Very well," said Mildmay; "now go to the quarters,
gather up your clothes and bedding, and come to the shed
of the blacksmith's shop in the front road."

I

The girl replied, "Yes, sir," and walked away.
1~1ildmay at once produced pen, ink, and paper; and
with the assistance of O~o~ernor, they were with a table
placed on the gallery; and Squire Hobby proceeded 1o
his business of amanuensis.
After examining the pen in every possible light, stick-
ing the nib between his lips, turning round the paper, and,
in fact, going through much seemingly useless pantomime,
he assumed a very grave face; and, turning to Mildmay,
said:
"What's the girl's name ?"
"Niary."
"Her age?"
"About twenty."
"Consideration?"
"Six hundred dollars," said Speers.
"Cash?" said the squire, scratching his nose with the
feather end of the pen.
"Cash," said Speers, pulling out a roll of bills and
gold half eagles, and laying them down on the table.
These questions and answers having been obtained, the
squire set himself to work. Graham meanwhile went up
into Annie's room, and informed her that her presence was
necessary one moment to sign the bill of sale.
The little wife was trembling and nervous, and it in-
stantly attracted Mildmay's attention. "What can the
matter be, Annie?" said he, tenderly putting his ~rm
round her waist.
I' Nothing," said she, trying to look unconcerned;
"but you know that I am not accustomed to the forms of


0 ~
2. '4
1 '78           TH~ MA5TJ~R'~ ~I0U5E ~
business, and I feel an unusual amount of trepidation ~
perhaps I am not as well as I might be."
"I fear so," said Graham, looking affectionately down
into her. face; "you confine yourself too much; let
us get clear of this loquacious squire, and our plain, but
I have no doubt worthy neighbor, Mr. Sp~s, and then
for a ride down the road. 'Srrnnyside'is getting as fat
as a Christmas goose just for want of exercise."
"A ride le1~ it be,~' said Annie, with animation; anc?~
arm-and-arm they proceeded to the gallery.
Meanwhile, Squire Hobby was intently busy on the
longest word in the matter before him; and as* he never
could master that particular word without much trouble,
he was working it out, by pronouncing aloud each letter a~
he went along; while Speers was intently watching pro-
gress,-he having great interest that every thing should be
done right.
"There's 'redhibitory' written out in full," said they
squire, breathing freely, as if he had accomplished a gi~
gantic task.
"What does it mean?" asked Speers, gathering up all
his money in his hand.
"Why it means just this,"~ said the squire, waving his
pen around in a sort of flourish; "it means this: 'Redhi-~
bitio~, 'cording to The Code (art. 2497), means th~ avoid-'
c~rwe of pale on account of some vice or defect of the' thing
sold, whioh ~renders its use either absolutely useless, or its~
use so inconvenient and imperfect, that it must be ~up~
posed that the buyer. would not have purchased it, had he
knpwn of the vice.'"

A TAL]i O1~' 5OUTI11~RN ~JFE.
"Does it mean all that 'ere'?" said Speers, looking
with a sort of awe upon llohby.
"It don't do any 'thing else," said the squire, really
excited; "and there's maity a lawyer as would charge you
a double 'V' for not half that information."
"Has :M~ry got any thing of the kind you have'just
been reading about?" continued Speers, putting back his
money into his pocket.
Not as I knows on," said the squire, enjoying the
triumph achieved by his legal knowledge; "for you see,
Mr. Spears, the Code says:
"'Nor can the buyer (art. 2498) institute the redhihi-
tory action, on account of the latent defects, which the
seller has declared to him before or at the time of the
sale."'
"What does that 'mean ~ said Speers, his ideas now
nearly all aground.
"Why,~' continued the squire, "the 'latent defects'
of niggers and animals, 'cording to the Code (art. 2500),
is divided into two classes; vices of body,-vices of char-
acter. The absohLte vices of hox~ses' and mules is short
wind and glanders; the absolute vices of niggers 'is lep..
rosy, madness, and epilepsy. The vices 'of character
which give rise to the redhibition of slaves is, that the
slave has committed a capital crime, or is addicted , to
theft, or running away; and they ain't no vices of chara~
ter for horses set 'down in the Code (art. 2505), tlioughi# ~
think stumbling, colic, and founder, is in horses redhibi-
tory defects'
"But you don't mean to say," said Speers, now per-


4

i8~i            ~   MAs~rJ3~X~
fect1y~eonfounded, "that that 'ere nigger I'm going to
buy of Mr. Mildmay has got t1~e leprosy, founders, glan-
ders, theft, and all that sort of thing, do you?"
"I i&amp;ean,~' said Squire Hobby, endeavoring to imitate
his ideal standard of judicial dignity, "that if this nigger
iIU ~Ea~ry has any of them 'ere things, and you fi~4At out afore
j~$+K~ it is'too late, just because Ii tuck that 'ere word redhibb.
tory down where it is, it gives you your money back,.-.~nd
thaV's what I mean;" and the sqtiire intended to have
laid back in his chair, ~as if deeply fatigued under his
ofi~oial importance, when his eye caught sight of Miklmay
and Annie coming toward them.
The delicate sylph~ike beauty of Annie attracted~ both
these individuals; and their admiration, involuntarily ex-
pressed, could not be felt less than complimentary-it was
so sincere. Annie took her seat near the table, and after
a few moments' ~pause, Squire Hobby went on, and com-
pleted his labor.
- The, moment that. Mildmay saw the' paper was drawn
up, he proposed at once to close the transaction, pleading,
as a reason 'far his haste, 'pressing engagements ~upon his
time. This would have been done, but for the squires
yoi~ty; his quotations from the Code had thrown Speers
~ii~to ~ profoui4 00nfusion; and he stated that before the
'paper 'w~e. sig~red, and the. money p~id,~that he must go
out~axrd take another 'look at Mary,--which he did, and
uot indix'g ~visible to his eyes any thing as alarming as the
law' terms he ha4 heard, he 'signified his willingness to go
AOfl, by again produi~iug~his gold and bills.
After considerable tiui~ six piles of money, of one hun-
4 ' '~ " -~
k'.'

0


A TALE OF 80UTHE1~ LIFE.
I ~
dred dollars each were counted out, and sb~~ed yy~z~
towards Esq. lobby~ Mildinay remarking, "that the
amount was right."
The squire inwardly congratulated him~e1f upon the
opportunity he had of displaying his varied talents before
Annie, and in an unusually loud voice, even for him, begaii
to read as follows:
"Beechland, June 15th, 1 8-.. Know all men by these
presents, that I, Graham Mildrnay, of the first part, do, by'
these presents, grant, bargain, se4J4a~id Convey to Mi. Jo..
seph William Speers, of the second. part, a certain. negro
girl named Mary La Tour, aged about twenty years, of
a dark and nearly black color, no distinguishing rnaulrs of
form, scars, or peculiarities remembered~..)'  -'
"There is~ a dog bite on the calf of her leg," said
Spears, turning perfectly red with astonishment, as he
raised his eyes and saw Annie looking on with surprise7
for Speers, was so intent with the purchase, that the  ~
ing of the bill for the moment banished every thi~g~~ ~
from his mind.
"It's a mere form," said the squire, gesticulating;with
his hand, "mer&amp; form, Mr. Spears."
"And more verbose than positively necessary, i~ it
not?" said Mildmay, exceedingly vexed that Annie had
been compelled to be present.
"Not at all," said the squire. I copied this form from
Col. Lee's document, when he sold Tom Jefferson, oi~Jeff
as he was called, and~ it is admitted that Lee is the best
lawyer, being from ~old Virginia, to make tight papers in


18~            THE MASTER'S HOUSE;
a transaction Gf this kind, that 1~as ever been in Louisiana
or Mississippi either."
"Well, go on," said Mildmay very impatiently.; and as
if t'o protect Annie from further rude remarks, he put ~his
arm around her chair.
"Where was I ?" said the squire, taking up the paper
before him. "Oh-ah--J know," and he went on as fol-
lows:
"No distinguishing marks of form, sears, or particulars
reiiiembered; said girl, Mary La Tour, being sold for the
sum of six hundred dollars, lawful money of the United
States, cash in hand paid, and hereby acknowledged by the
party of the first part,. Graham Mildmay, I~sq. The said
girl, Mary La Tour, being fully warranted from all redhibb
tory defects, sound in body and mind, and the title guar-
antees, against all others for ever, the said Mary La Tour
as a slave for life.'?
Annie, who had listened to all the proceedings with
mechanical attention, now arose, as Graham, taking the pen
in his hand, signified that the title deed was:~ complete.
He then dashed his name across the paper, placed the pen
in Annie's hand and pointed where she should place her
name.
"Is this positively necessary?" said she, looking earn-
estly at Graham. "Most certainly," said Squire HQbby,
"you see, madam, your paraphernal rights woul&amp; other-
wise vitiate the title."
"And break up the trade," chimed in Speers.
Annie took up the. pen, and her usually delicate and

A TALE OF 5OtJT1~EThN LIrE.      18~
neatly written name straggled over the paper, a fearful
evidence to Graham's eye of' the con~ict g0ing on in An~
nie's mind, which he alone, of those who witnessed~ it, could
appreciate.
The duty performed, Mildmay accompanied Annie ~to
the entrance of the great hall where stood Glemmy~; and
leaving her with the faithful servant, Mildmay returned ,~
took up the money still lying on the table, and crushing
it together in his 'hand, without counting it, much to
the astonishment of Speers, gave it to Govei'nor, and
told him to place it in- the escritoire, and get some fresh
water and the decanters, as he presumed the gentlemen
were thirsty.
The ceremony of drinking having been gone through
with, Mildmay paid Esq. Hobby for his services, waWed
down to the front gate, waited until both gentlemen had
mounted, and bidding them good day, returned rapidly to
the house. -
Speers and Hobby rode along a rod or two, when they
came up to Mary, who was sitting in a listless attitude on
the stump of a fallen tree, her bundle beside her.
"Here's your owner," said Hobby, thus giving the in-
troduction, "and a good master he will be too," continued
he, the politician never deserting him.
Mary looked up, and shouldering her bundle, quietly
asked, "Master, which way must I go?"
"Gross the bayou beyond here, at 'the old ruined gin-
house," said Speers, pointing down the road with his heavy
whip, "go through the woods and you will see Cooney with


184             THE MASTER S i~otis~;                                                 A TALE OF 8OUTHERI~T LIFE.
the other niggers at work in the field, ask him for a hoe,
and stir your Btumps until I come."
"Yes, master,~" said Mary, and then she glibly marched
away, while Speers and Hobby together rode toward
Beechland.
CHAPTER XVI.
DIXON'S REMORSE.
THEUE was living in the vicinity of Beechland, a
dow, known as Mrs. Ilartshorn, past the prime of lii
who, being deeply absorbed in the duties of per~
looking after a large estate, attracted but little att
in the vicinity. Her residence was much out of th
and no one, except on business, or with direct~ inten
visited her.
Why she remained a widow caused the usual s~
tion, but it was evident that she was either disincli:
enter a second time into the bonds of matrimony, 4
difficult to please, for many authentic cases were b
and freely' spoken of, where sh~ had almost rudely r
some of the presumptuous worthies in the neighbor
On the edge of Beechland, just at the cr6ss road
an old and much decayed church. Year~ previous,
been a pretty village sanctuary, and beneath its si
reposed the remains of many of the earlier settlers (
country. But for a long time it had been neglected.
doors were battered in,-the windows broken,.-the ~

186
[oh wi
~e, and
tonally
mention
e way,
t, ever
)ecula-
ned to
~ was
nown,
refused
ood.
swas
it had
~adow
)f the
The
grave-

T


/1

186

~EHE ~1ASTER'5 HOUSE

yard fence nearly destroyed,-.-in short, it was the resting-
place of domestic animals, and never of any philanthropic
use, unless for the temporary shelter it afforded, as a rest-
ing-place foi~ the night, to passing emigrants.
One afternoon, to the astonishment of the villagers,
some twenty of Mrs. llartshorn's best field hands came
into town in an ox Wagon, and as they proceeded along
through the street, made the air vocal with their rude
songs, and finally, stopping in front of the deserted church,
they went to work with hoe and shovel, and in the course
of a few hours' produced an improvement, that was charming
to behold.
The doors were partially restored to their places. 'The
seats and floor of the h~terior of the building were carefully
cleaned, and the 1abc~r thus bestowed, rendered the hereto-
fore neglected building, considering the mildness of 'the
weather, a comfortable place for the assembling together
of the people:
The succeeding morning the So4hern .'J1ctrion~, the
local taper of Beecliland, in the most conspicuous place in
its editorial column~, contained the following notice.
* "We ha~e th&amp; pleasure of announcing to our numerous
readers, and all others in the vicinity of our thriving and
prosperous town, that the Reverend W.' Claremont Gos-
hawk, D. D., the~ great orator and divine, who has so long
been distinguished for. hi~ defence of Southern institutions,
and his deep interest in the cause' of Southern education,
has consented, at the earnest request of 5Q111*3 of 'our, most
intbxentinl citizens~ to preach a series of two or zxior~ ser-
~uons. ~{is~ first di~eurse will be on S~iday niorningue~t

A TALE OF SOE~TIIERN LIFE.

187

and he will probably continue whh us throughout the entire'
weej~. It is presumed that he will be greeted with an
overflowing audience.. We hardly think that it is neces-
sary ~to remind our readers, that Mr. Goshawk, on a
recent visit to the North, was attacked by many of the
fanatical clergymen in that part of the country on the sub-
ject of Christian'slaveholder~, and that his defence of our
time-honored institution, was admitted to be the finest
piece of eloquence, avid most stirring appeal that has ap-
peared for years ; he entirely silenced the wolves in sheep's
clothing, who, under the guise of the religious cloak, are car-
rying torches in their hands to fire the temple of our great
republic. ~By the kindness of one of our most beautiful and
accomplished ladies in the vicinity of J3eechland, who has
in this case acted in a manner so characteristic of the gen-
tler sex, our little temple of worship; so long the cherished
ornament of our town, and whose spire so plainly points the
way to heaven, has been thoroughly scrubbed out and
renovated, and will afford comfortable seats for our entire
population."
The weather was exceedingly pleasant, and ther~ was a
universal desire to hear the Rev. Mr. Geshawk. That'
dignitary, himself, had been for more than a day the in-
mate of Mrs. Hartshorn's house, for it was suddenly re-
called to the mind of some of the people around the Head-
quarters, that early one morning, 'they saw a 'tall's and
good-looking gentleman, dressed in black, in ~the widow's
carriage, 'which was rapidly whirling through the' ~tre~ts.
Perhaps Annie was i~nore it~t~rested than any ona else;
accustouied~to a14~nd ohi~rch. ~

I


188

THE MAS~E1L'S HOUSE;

* iipwar4, she found this privilege most difficult to dispense
with, and the moment the public notice met her eye, she
consulted Graham, who gave Governor orders to have the
* carriage in readiness for the following Sabbath morning.
For a long time ]3eechland had not borne so gay an ap-
pearanee, as i~ did in its desire to do honor to the Rev.
lWr. Goshawk. Families; living many miles distant, had
come to "hear the discourse," and almost all of the avail-
able ground in the immediate vicinity of the church; was
occupied by s~ylendid "~tur~n-outs,"-in fact the carriages,:in
number and equipment, would have done honor to some
state occasion.
People~iho h&amp;d been living' in each other's neighbor-
hood for years, now met~ to renew acquaintances that had
grow1~ dull for want~ of attrition, and a genial feeling per-
vaded the entire assemblage.
* The very sight of the pleasing throng, the subdued,
yet self-evident bustle, revived in Annie's mind, most
vividly, the joyous feelings that she felt at Malden, on
similar occasions, and a delightful glow of excitement lit
up her usually rather pale faces as she absolutely threw
herself carelessly into Mildmay's arms, as he assisted her
from the carriage to the ground. "Really, Graham," said
she, her face radiant with smiles, while smoothing the
wrii;tkles from her dress, "really this is pleasant, and I
hope Mr. Goshawk will frequently preach for us; I am
sure I shall constantly attend."
~rah~m smiled on Annie, and offering her his arm,
the two proceeded into ehurch~ It was the first time that
Annie had been seen: in public; much, of course, had been

189

said about her, in the neighborhood; curiosity was raised
to know, "if so l~and~ome and rich a yoting man as Mr.
Nildniay, had really done as well as he deserved!" But it
was evident that the verdict was in Annie s f~vor, for' as
she came, necessarily, in full view of the congregation, who
sat facing the door, a telegraphic surprise rested upon the
countenances of all, and it was by (haham observed and felt,
that Annie excited marked admiration. -
As for Annie, herself, the moment' she stepped inside
of the church, she felt a solemnity of feeling pervade her
heart, that drove all other thoughts, for the moment, from
her mind, as she passed to a proffered seat, and bent her,
head in prayer, as perfectly self-posse8sed, as if kneeling
at her little altar in her own room.
The congregation had been some time in their seats, be~
fore the reverend gentleman made his appearance. In fact,
the first impression of quietness that prevailed, was be-
ginning to give way. Gentlemen were seen to be moving
about, and looking at the door, and one or two went out,
while the young ladies began to gaze about, and recognize
each other in the congregation, wnile Governor, and his
fellow-servants on the outside, it was very evident, from
sounds of suppressed laughter, had got together under the
shade of a wide-spreading tree, and were detailing gossip,
and cracking jokes.
Suddenly was heard the tramp of horses, driven rapidly
along the road,-the whip cracked, at which' two or three
saddle nags brok&amp;their kridlcs, aiid scampered down the
village street,-.--steps were heard rapidly ~znfolded-~ sort
of kid glove, a gossamer fan conf~ision ensued liz the c~u~ -

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.


196             THE MASTER~5 HOUSE;                                                   A TALE oh' SOUTHERN UIi'E.       191

gregation, arid the :Rev. Mr. Goshawk, supporting widow
Hartshorn, made his appearance.
It was afterwards asserted by some one, careful in such
statistics, that almost every gentleman in the congregation
rose involuntarily to offer the widow a seat; but nothing
could surpass 'the dignity and urbanity, with which the
reverend gentleman abandoned his precious charge, prepa-
ratory to ascending the pulpit.
The Rev. Mr.' Goshawk's appearance and manner were
decidedly impressive, and he himself was not unconscious
of the fact. After remaining a few moments in silent
meditation, with his soft white hand pressed to his head,
he beckoned to a negro boy, looking in at a side window,
and when the fellow climbed up into the pulpit, he whi's-
pered~ something in his ear. A long and mysterious pause
ensued, whik the boy ran over to the Head-quarters, and
borrowed a pitcher and tumbler, and returning, set them
within reach of the Rev. Mr. Goshawk.
~fhat' gentleman arose, and opening a small gilt-edged
book, read the beautiful hymn, beginning:
Sweet is the day of sacred rest,
All mortal cares forsake the .breast~"
and finishing it, desired some one present to be so kind as
to "lead the singing," and resumed his seat.
Several momeiits elapsed, but no voice wa~ raised;
it' was apparent ~tfrat' one or' 'two gentlemen were half in-
clined, but th~efr hearts or voices failed them,-.-the~ reve~.
rend ~enile~man' finally ai~ose, and commenced himself. He
was evidently~ etiltiv~ted in church music, and poured out

a volume of' praise,' that even, unsupported as, it was,
sounded like an organ.
Scarcely had he sung the first line, when a sweet fe-
male voice, clear ~s ringing glass, and as hearty as the
birds of the field, joined in, and the two, in wonderful ac-
cordance and harmony, concluded the stanza.
The congregation, for the moment entranced. at the un-
expected exhibition, the instant it ceased, turned, by uni-
versal consent, their eyes upon the innocent face &amp;f Annie,
who, suddenly perceiving ~the extraordinary interest she
had so unconsciously created, blushed deep crimson, and
sank back to her Seat.'
The reverend gentleman selected for his text, ~
y~ Iwly, as your Father in :hecvven is holy!" and
he made it appear as if this injunction was one of the
most literal in the sacred book, one of the most imper~-
tive, and necessary to bc obeyed. He drew with tremen-
dous fervor' the character of the Great Jehovah, stated
that none could look upon him agd live, that he filled all
space, was the creator of all things, and yet desired to rc-
side in the heart of corrupt anid fallen man,-.that man, in-
clined as he was to wickedness, ~"'even as the sparks fly
upward," was, by a holy life and godly conversation, t?
Tender himself a fit temple, a' proper temple, a w~rtIiy tem0
plc, for this holy, just; and omnipotent Being,-.--and then
in a few' condensed passages, he rapidly portrayed the
punishment of those who refused to obey this. dread 'com-
mand.
The congregation was swayed to and fro, asif rocked'
in a storm-driven ship~; stern, u~mfiinehing men, 'that in the

1


hour of danger knew no fear, blanched under the burning
words, and ladies wept, and sighed, with hysterical emo-
tion.
Suddenly Mr. Goshawk stopped, he appeared pained
at the effect he had himself produced. ILsowering his voice
to a clear, heart-breaking tone, he said
"Brethren, think not, that the minis1~er of the Gospel
delights in harrowing your feelings. Should he consult
himself, he would only salute your ears with the dulcet
strains of mercy, but alas I wo betide the prophet who re-
fuses to cry out against Nineveli.
"If, my friends, you hear at the solemn 'hour of mid-
night the heart-rending cry of fire-ftre---.FIRE, do you
rush into the streets, and "denouifte the' one who gave the
alarm? no, you bless his name, and hastening on, you flee
for your life from the devouring element.
"So stand I here, crying fire-fire----to your slumber-
ing consciences. I would, have you escape a consuming
flame, that will not only destroy your bodies, but will tor-
ment your souls for ever ' Flee, I say,-like Bunyan's
Christian, put your fingers to your ears, and hasten while'
you yet may, out of the City of Destruction."
Among Mr. Goshawk'8 hearers was Dixon. He had,
some weeks before, come up to' the vicinity of Beechland,
on business, and having been taken sick, he had, while thus
prostrated, almost ~ literally passed through the valley and
shadow of death.. The balmy weather had~ tempted ~him
into the street, and gratified by any novelty, he had strolled
into church.
While suffering ~from disease, he had QecasiQUally re-

192

192            THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                 A TALE 'OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

193

elected up&amp;n hin whole] course of life, and 'had felt many
pangs of remorse while thinking of the past; and it was,
therefore, in a very proper disposition of mind,-that' he lis-
tened to this 'most powerful discourse.
When the congregation separated, the different' mem-
bers pursued their way homeward, and left Dixon by him-
self Although known to almost every person in the house,
no one recognized him, save by a glance. Amid all the
shaking of hands and congratulations, there were no de-
monstrations ~of friendship, or interest, 'for him. In his
usual humor, he would have vented his spleen in muttered
oaths, and in a thousand recalled circumstances of fancied
power and 'superiority, that he had, as an oiThet to any neg-
lect he might receive; but now' his spirit was broken.
There was something in Mr. Goshawk's manner and voice,
that recalled recollections of childhood, when he used to
go to church with his good old mother, and on coming
home, hear her talk of the feelings that animated her~
spirit. A thousand words of good advice, a hundred
prayers for her dear child,' crowded upon his weakened
brain, and he felt that he was not' only despised by man,
but also abandoned by his Maker.
To such an extent was his mind excited, that he hardly
had strength to get to his lodgings, which' were comfort~
able, although connected with the "iUead-quarters."
Once in his room, he 'threw himself on the bed,' and
seemed to be overcome by the communing of his thoughts;
the acts of his life appeared in review before him, and".he
was shocked at the scenes of injustice, blood8h~d, and
0


194

THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

violence through which he had 'passed, and, which he had
instigated.
Although Dixon was a native of Georgia, it had been
impressed upon him while still a child, not only that it was
an unpardonable thing to buy and sell his fellQw-beings,
but, also, that it was sinful even to hold slaves. Dixon's
ix~other was a strict Methodist, and she had been inspired
by this feeling in her youth, by the teachings of parents,
who claimed, while sitting under the 'unction of John Wes-
ley's preaching, and listening to his voice "'face to face,'
that they had been converted from the error of their ways,
and convinced of; the sin Qf holding slaves." These were
the impressions left by a mother upon the mind of Dixon,
and as every reminiscence of his life, that was pleasant (o
dwell upon, was associated with that mother, so also were
the impressions she left most vivid and most binding~ 'on
his cojiscience. And these early instructions now dame
upon him with tenfold force, as the only legacy, and only
remembered councils and obligations of one, whom,
clouded as was his conscience in other things, he still re-
vered as a sainted being.
While in this mental agony, Dixon's friend, Puckett,
who had so faithfully nursed him through his long sick-
ness, came into his room, with a pack of cards and a
couple of tumblers in one .hand, and a bottle of whiskey
in the other, and setting them down on the table rear by,
he turned to Dixon, and said:
"Come, old fel', I have brought you up some 'picters,'
and also something to drink, for you see you can stand a

I

A TALE OF SOUThERN LIFE.

195

little now, and I thoughV as how you'd like to have a game
of 'old sledge,' just to pass away time."
"I'm too sick to play, Puckett, and too weak to drink!
some other time!" said Dixon, the perspiration starting
on his brow, both from excitement and weakness.
"Bah !" said Puckett, mDving a small table into the
middle of the floor; "you don't s'pose," he continued,
~' I've been a mother to you for these three week; not to
know what you can stand. Drink a little, any how, is my
matter; and drink a good deal if you can,' is my other
matter. Come now, fotch up your chair, and let's high,
low, Jack, and the game," and Puckett gave the cards,
or "picters," as he called them, a scientific shuffle.
"I can't play to-day," said Dixon, peevishly, and as-
tonished, himself, at the repugnance he felt; "I can't play,
for," he continued, "you know it's Sunday, Puckett."
At this remark the Kentuckian put down the cards,
and laying back in his chair, and' trusting his legs far
under the table, he broke out into repeated bursts of laugh-
ter; tears streamed down his cheeks, and at last? he rolled
his head from side to side, as if he was too full, and could
not get relief. He found words, however, finally, and said:
"Dixon, by the Lox~d you will be the death of me-
Sunday! that's a good one; can't play 'cause it's. Suiiday,"
and Puckett again went off into hysterical 1~ughte~r, re-
peating, "Dixoi~, you are too funny! Oh! that-that's
too' good-too good."
"But I'm 'serious," said Dixon, greatly annoyed.
"That's the very thing!" said Puckett, sticking the
pack of cards in his mouth, to keep from breaking out

4

1


again. "You see that's. the joke, one would s'pose you was
in real arrestt," and again he rolled about in his chair, and
pushed his fists into ~his aching sides.
"Puckett," said Dixon, when that worthy had become
somewhat quiet; "Puckett, don't go down stairs and blow
on me, but I tell you the truth now, when I say I'm going
to reform. I'll do it, Puckett, and you may laugh as
much as you please."
"He he-ha ha!" cachinated that worthy, but as he
looked up, and saw the pale and excited face of Dixon
for the first time, a feeling of alarm came over him, and
rising up,' he said:
"Why, what's the matter, old boy, you loc~k as white as
milk and water?"
"Did y6u never think about dying, Puckett, or any
thing of that sort?" inquired Dixon, at a loss to know how
to get hi~ naturally good-hearted companion serious.
"Thought about dying?" mechanically echoed he.
"Why, yes, I thought about it once, when Igot out of to-
backer, but I don't recollect any other time."
"Did you never think, Puckett, about another world,
and what will become of us if we go on breaking Sunday,
playing cards and drinking ?-.I have thought of these
things. I've laid here on my back for d&amp;ys and nights
and been full of thinking. I've been a bad man, Ben.
I've seen sights in this very room tha1~ have~ made my
brain cold; it's awful, Puckett, awful!" and Dixon's face
settled into black despair.
"Whet did you see, Jim?" aske4 Puekett, perfectly
at a loss to understand the slave-trader's feelings.

166

1~6             TEE MASTER'S HOUSE~                                                  A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         19'!

"I've 'seen dead nigger women,'? said Dixon in reply,
screetchin to me for their children-I've seen nigger men
praying for their lives-I've seen whole gangs of niggers,
with their backs all blood, their eyes all, sunken, pointing
their long skinny fingers at me, and they keep on doing it
whenever I'm alone!"
"You must have manycq~orter," said Ben, with a kind
of soothing voice. "Didn't you see rats?" he continued,
with an equivocal smile, and looking archly at Dixon.
"Why, Jim Ruggles, after he had hi~ last frQlic, seed
the 'devil; he told' me so himself; ~ tid he looked like a
rattlesnake forty feet long, twisted all around his body,
with his soft jawed and infernal open mouth p~it up agin his
face, tongue, pizen-hooks and all; so seeing niggers is noth-
ing," and Puckett looked at Dixon under the impression
that he had conveyed much consolation by his remarks.
"I wish that I could see a snake, or any thing, Puckett,
'but niggers." I'm afraid of niggers,~' and as Dixon said
this, he nervously clutched his rude but sympathizing' com-
panion by the shoulder.
"Is there a living nigger as can ~scare Jim Dixon?"
asked Ben scornfully, and somewhat confounded at the ex-
hibition he had witnessed.
"No," said Dixon in a hissing whisper, "Dot a living
nigger, Puckett, they 'can't scare me; it's dead niggers as
claws at my vitals," and ag the invalid said this, he fell in
a fainting fit back on his pillow.
Ben instinctively lifted Dixon up, chafed his temples,
and the moment that he displayed returning consciousness,
gave him some water. The sick man slowly came 'to him-

197


198

TUN MAsTER7s ixous~;

~self and after stariiig vaguely about, begged Ben to put'
away the card~ and bottle; close th~ window blinds and. set
down by his bed, while he tried to rest.
ft was not longbefore Dixon fell into a lethargic sleep,
when ]3en quietly stepped away, and proceeded to' the bar-
room, 'where sat Busteed and three or four of his patrons,
engaged inone of their usual games of chance.
As the Kentuckian presented himself, Busteed laid down
"hIs hand," and with unfeigned astonishment asked:
"What's the ntatter? IPuckett, you look as sickly as a
glass of lemonade."
"Do I?" said the 'mother,' who unconsciously to him-
se1f~ still bore traces of his excitement at witnessing Dix-
on's sufferings-" do I look white? wellthat's agoodone;
and what do you suppose is the reason? "said J~uckett, ad-
dressing the men before him in a znysterious voice.
"Can't say," was the universal reply.
'~ Well, boys, you see," s~dd he, in, almost a whisper,
"Dixon's tuck too much; he's got 'the tremens bad, very
bad; he's seen black ghosts, what do you think of that?"
"I'think it's h~bug," said ]3usteed, and with his corn-
panioz~s he resumed his game.
"Maybe it is," half soliloquized Puckett, as he turned
away~---" maybe it is," and then he walked up and down
the room, for th~ first time in his life in profound reflection,
and honestly wondering what the trader did mean.
Dixon slowly recovered his strength of ~body, but not
his peace. of mind. JJnable to go much about, he was left
to the solitude of his own ~chamber, where he' reviewed the
pa~t events of his life, and determined, so far as it was in

I'

A TALE OF 5OUT~IERN LIFE.

'1.99

his power, to reform hi~i manner and. couversation, and also
to make. such reparation as was possible, for the crimes he
had committed in the pursuit of his business.
On the plea of indisposition, he carefully abstained from
the company of his former boon companions; and he was
not a person to be intruded upon when he expressed a dis-
taste for society. In his solitude, he looked forward With
considerable interest to the services of the coming Sunday;
having a vivid, but undefined impression from what he had
heard, that there was a necessity, not only for morality but
for holiness, he earnestly desired to learn the way that such
a high degree of Tperfection could be reached,-at the mo-
ment, no definite way of propitiation presented itself, but
liberal charities and alms~

ji'Q.74


20Q              THE MASTER'S JIOUSE;

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         201

CHAPTER XVII.
DIXON AC~TJIRES PEACE OF' MIND.
THE Sabbath morning appointed for Mr. Goshawk's second
discourse, was one of the most delightful that ever shone
upon Beechland. Mr. Goshawk was late in coming; h~ had
been, against' his inclination, detained on the road, and al-
though this caused considerable uneasiness among the mass
of the congregation, it left Dixon more time to thoroughly
collect hi~ ideas, 'and prepare himself according to his own
notions for the services of the day.
On the previous Sabbath, occasion had been taken by
Governor, to extend his acquaintance among the servants
out of doors, who, like himself, were occupied by the light
labor of looking after their master's vehicles. A group of
carriage drivers had huddled themselves beneath the shade
of a wide-spreading oak, and there they sat in cosy and
confidential %~onversatIon.
Among the group was Mr. ~Eoreton's Quash, a fellow
celebrated among his own race as a wit, and he kept his
auditors in constant laughter, only suppressed bythe vicin~
ity of white folks in the church.
~,,~~~~...

Quash, finding that the minister did not arrive at the
time expected, insensibly became animated, and putting his
hard hand upon the head of a negro sitting next to him,
said:
"Gentlem, I expose to ~gib you, widout murder circum-
loquation, a toast "-general attention was p4id; "now I
wishes to know who owns die ere eight-hundred-dollar nig-
ger carriage-driver, belonging to Widow Hartehorn?"
Why, his missus     him" said tb
(C              owns    ,       ..e outsiders all at
once.
"Who owns dis nigger, called Monday?" repeated
Quash, looking triumphantly around.
"Why, missus owns me," said Monday, getting rather
annoyed at being made a butt.
"Dus it is, gentlem" said Quashee, "dat de niggers
run about in dese supersilious days, and like de poor white
man don't know who owns him, consequentially, dis culered
gentle am so ignoramus dat he aint awar' dat he is pre-
possessed by de very gentle, dat is to minister de consol-
izations of de good book to de sinners dis day."
This significant allusion to the possible relation the
comical-looking Monday might ~bear toward ~Mr. Goshawk,
was received by Quash's auditors with a burst of laughter
which might have continued apparently until now, had not
a carriage, rapidly driven, scattered them from the imme-
diate front of the church door; out of which descended the
reverend gentleman, and the family of the planted~ at whose
house he was the temporary guest.
The little church waa at an early hour crowd to its
utmost capacity, and in an obscure corner, among the lie-

U

200

201


teners, sat Dixon, his face beaming with expectation and
interest; he was for the moment transported back to the
days of his boyhood innocence, the active scenes of his life
in the long years that had since, passed had faded from his
mind, and a future, sanctified by good resolves, alone occu-
pied his thoughts.
The preliminary services having been concluded, the Rev.
Mr. Goshawk rose and stated, that he should that day found
his sei~mon or part of the second verse of the thirteenth
chapter of Paul's Epistle to the IRomans; " Whosoever
therefore resist eth the rower, resisteth the ordinance of
God."
In his preliminary remark~, he stated that he presumed
the institution of Slavery was most absorbing to their minds,
and that therefore he had concluded to confine himself to its
scripture view. That he had mor/e recently been on at the
North, and had been compelled to have his attention~ drawn
to the important subject, by its agitation among the people
he had so recently visited.
At this announcement Dixon turned fairly pale, and
was obliged 'to disguise his excitement by leaning his head
upon the slip before him. His next impulse was to leave
the church, foi~ he shrunk, in his then humor, from having
the full enormity of his crimes drawn by the powerful elo-
quence of the preacher; but recovering himself, he deter-
mined to receive the reproof in store for him with a peni-
tent spirit, and as part of the penalty he had to pay, for,
a~ he thought, "his many sins."
"Slavery," continued Mr. Goshawk, "is the oldest in-
stitution relating to the government of men that exists in

202

the world; The Jewish people, among whom it was estab-
lished as an accessory of their civilization (by the Alniighty,
because they were his chosen people), have politically
passed away, but the institution remains. It was ingraft-
ed upon the world and humanity, the moment the surging
waters of the deluge subsided and left the dry land to ap-
pear. For it was even then that the decree went forth
that the' children of Ham should be bondsmen for ever; yet
in the face of this startling truth, so intimately interwoven
with the second creation of the world, do people professing
to be Christians, profanely attempt to put their hand upon
the Ark, and by their weakness would arrest the decrees
of a just, though inscrutable Providence."
Dixon, as these announcements one after another struck
his ears, was perfectly overcome with astonishment. He
rubbed his eyes, as if trying to wake up from a sound sleep
-an expression of incredulity rested upon his face, aiid he
looked around, as if to satisfy~ himself that. he was not
dreaming.
"Again I ask, if slavery were this terrible evil, would
the men selected by our Saviour, to carry the everlasting
gospel to the uttermost parts of the earth, allowed it to go
uncondemned? Could these martyrs to the truth lie ch~rg-
ed with moral cowardice? No! for men, most all of whom
were A~in alive in defence of their cherished principles,
could' have had no fear. The apostles, if they~had been
anti-slavery men, would have cried aloud, where the evil
existed, and not like these modern disorg~anizers, abused
and vilified the slaveholder, when not only out of the way
of all usefulness but of all responsibility.

202             THI~ MASTER'S flOUSE;                                                 A TALE OI~' SOUTHERN LIFE.       203

203


204            TH~ MASTER'S iious~;                                                  A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         205

"The laws of God touching tiw subject of slavery, are
spread as clearly through every part of the Scriptures as
are the stars in the firmament of heaven. Human reason
may do battle against them, but the only result will be~the
most glaring manifestation of mortal weakness. The in-
stitution of slavery,, from its divine origin, must continue
so long as sin shall have a tendency to lead to death, so
long .~s Jehovah sh~dl rule and exercise the attributes of
mercy to fallen, degraded man.
"If slavery," continued the preacher, "was a thing as
bad as its ignorant enemies represent, why are the Scrip-
tures ~o silent as to denunciations, Innumerable chapters
can be found justifying it, regulating jt, yet no commands
that it should not exist. In Genesis, we have a pleasing
record of the ameliorating influence of slavery even in those
early, times. 'Judah said unto his brethren, what profit
is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come,
let us sell him to the Ishinaelites, and let nQt our hand be
upon him.' 'The saving of the life of Joseph was the conse~
quince, and following it came all the blessings that through
him flowed toward the children of Israel. 'We are also to
notice, brethren, that the holding of slaves, in Jacob's day,
wa~ neither illegal nor uncommon. We are, therefore, not
surprised that history gives us to understand, 'that in the
golden etreets of Jerusalem were to be found the mart for
slaves. I can imagine the patriarchs of old, as do now our
noble planters, tracking ,for servants, and selecting with
care those which best answered their purposes.
"In later and more glorious days, the streets of Rome,
and those of' every dependez~ey of that great republic swarm-

ed with slaves. They were at times butchered without
mercy, thrown to wild beasts for amusement, and were even
used by epicures, as food for their petted fishes. Yet our
Saviour, blessed be his name, raised not his voice against
the institution, and the apostles exerted their influence, as
in the case of Onesimus, to return not only runaways to
their masters, but to frequently exhort them to be obedient
for the glory of God.
"What," continued 3~fr. Goshawk, "is the position of
the slaveholder? He is the true patriarch; the parent
of a large family; his duties are sacred; he not, only has
the bodies but the souls of men in his keeping; he educates
and religiously instructs his dependents; if they are sick,
he nurses them; if naked, he clothes them;, and if borne
down by age and infirmities provides a support a~d finds a.
retreat for them. lYnlike the employer of the free laborer,
his care never ceases, it does not stop the moment the re-
cipient is no longer pecuniarily useful.
"And here, brethren, it is forced upon me .to make
those personal applications of our discourse, that naturally
arise in considering this interesting theme. It is charged
against us, that our peculiar institutions encourage 'cruelty
to the negro. how absurd and. unchristian is this scandaL
Imperatively, commanded by the Holy Book to buy slaves,
we are also enjoined by the same Holy injunction, to keep
them in obedience. The divine law shows internal evi-
den7ce of it~ high origin, by providing for the punishment
of slaves with rods, and asserts, that if the slave di~ iu a
day or two after his beating, yet his owner shall not be pun-
ished, because he can appropriate to his own usa, his zuan-


206              THE MASTER'8 HousE;                                                           A TAI113~ OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         20'T

servant or his maid-servant, and his ox, and his ass, and
any thing that is his.
"Are we immaculate ? are we not subject to excitements
like unto other men? Is it wonderful, that having; by
Providence, the~ great responsibility of slave-holding put
upon us, that we~ should in the administration of our sacred
office, sometimes, in moments of excitement, punish not
more severely than the. law permits, but more than our in-
terests justify? Moses, who was denominated the meekest
of men, in a fit of passion threw down the hand-of-God-in-
scribed tablets of the law; cannot, therefore, a fatal blow
to a degraded, negro be passed by in silence? Peter, who
was evidently of a southern disposition, of a chivalrous,
noble temperament, in the very presence of our Saviour, on
theimpulse of the moment, drew hi~ sword, and smote
the servant of the high priest. That a master, provoked
beyond endurance, should do worse to that which he owns
and has bought with a price, should be set down to the
amiable and redeeming traits of humanity, rather than to
the indulgence ott improper and brutalizing passions.
"Brethren, we are charged in the South with assisting
in aifrays, duels, and murders. I need not say that these
slanders need no refutation. Look at the annals of crime
of the immaculate North -the crime of every* day,-and
ours sink in petty incidents, compared with the enormity of
these free people. We are ~charged with encouraging
duelling; but when did a high standard of honor injure the
unregenerate heart? As a clergyman, commissioned to
preach poace and good will to all men, I condemn the
practice; but if the grace of Go'd prevails not, better that

the passions should be regulated by rules accepted of by
the educated and refined, than be left to. riot in unre-
strained wickedness of the natural heart.
"We are charged with not being as good as our neigh-
bors. Our brethren of the North have gone into the
temple, and thanked God that they are not as other men;
announced that they do not oppress,.-that they are given
to alms. ~For all they have done in sincerity, Heaven be
praised; but I will simply say, in answer to such hypocrisy,
that our Southern piety is unobtrusive.
"If the windy work of blowing trumpets at the corners
of the streets,-.if vociferation, and noise, are the evi-
dences of religion, we are lost; but Southern Christians
'do good in secret,' that they may in~ abundant crops,
and increasing wealth, be rewarded openly. Our minis-
ters compare favorably for learning and zeal with, any
North; and if we are not given to sectarian con1~roversy,
-if there be a quiet calm in the Viarious churches in our
midst,-we have not to blush at beholding the fanatical
evidences of misguided and misdirected zeal. f
"But, brethren, why dwell upon the unnecessary and
needlessly imposed task of defending ourselves against the
folly of fanatics and ~envy of irreligious men ~.-let us turn
and contemplate our glorious destiny, and remember, that
we have been singled out by Providence, 'as were the
children of Israel in olden times, to be his peculiar people.
The Southern Christians are chosen as the. instruments
for the greatest and sublimest Christian revolution ever
achieved by mortal being. When the poor African w~s
landed on our coast, the 'slave-robbers did not know that

206

201


208

TIlE ~MA5~ER'8 HOUSE;

their apparently evil deeds were to be made to praise God;
yet such was verily the case. We have but to stand still
and see ~the salvation of the Lord,~ and the glory that will
come up out of Jerusalem.
"In the glowing and eloquent language of a beloved
brother, 'I feel satisfied with the tendencies of things1' I
stand upon the mountain-peak, aboye the clouds. I
see far beyond the storm, the calm sea, an&amp; the blue sky.
I see the Canaan of th~ African. I stand there on the
NebQ of his exodus, and look across snot the Jordan, but
the Atlantic.
I: gaze as did Moses from Mount Pisgali over into
the promised land; I see the ocean divided by a great
wind, and piled up~ in. walls of gteen glittering glass on
either hand; and through this crystal avenue the children
of Ham are crossing upon dry ground,..-the' marching
host amid the pillar of cloud and fire. I look over the
Niger, black with death, to the white man-instinct with
life to the children of Ham. There is the black man's
home; there, is his father's land,.-there will he exhibit
his own type of Christianity. Verily, verily! this eman-
cipate4 rac&amp;may rival the most amiable form of spiritual
life, and' the jewel may glitter upon the Ethiop's brow, in
meaning more sublime than all the poet's imagery.
"]*ethren, in the ordering of events, the African will
go,-4he ocean will separate,-the miracle will be accom-
plished; hut let us remember, that we are potter's clay in
the hands of an overruling power,.-~--the chosen instruments
of great good; and let us encourage in our hearts that sim-
plo childlike faith, that makes us satisfied with things as

I'

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

209

they are, and willing to leave the future to the care of ~an
all-wise and merciful Providence."
Never, probably, was there a discourse uttered by a
human voice, that had a more powerful effect upon an,
auditor, than did Goshawk's upon Dixon. He had taken
his place in the congregation an hour or two before with a
wan face, sunken, careworn eyes, and debilitated frame;
he now walked forth absolutely changed in his physical as
well as moral constitution. A new light had bI~oken in'
upon his mind; he was clay in the hands of the potter,-a
blind instrument for doing good. He had gone to church,
feeling that he was in the slough of despondency but was
now conscious that, under the enlightened influences of
"the sanctuary," his burden had rolled from off his soul;
and in the exuberance ~f his' new view of things, he abso-
lutely snapped his fingers over his head, and took one or
two steps that gave promise, if their style had been con-
tinued, that 'the spectator would have had a very good
idea of a country jig.
The "Head-quarters" on the morning of Mr. Gos-
hawk's sermon had been unusually dull; as Busteed
remarked, "The Sunday races, down at Sawyer's, always
tuck aWay some of his customers, but the flare-up~ at 'the'
church coming on at the same time, he was doing nothing
at all." Even Puckett for a while deserted the popular
resort, and walking over to the church, thrust his 'head'
in' at the door, and got, whaV be said, was the "milk in
the cocoanut;" and no~ waiting for the ilosiig ceremonies,
he rushed , usteed's, and leaning
back to B                 g over the bar,
commenced quite an animated description of what' he had'

i


210              THE MASTERS HoUsE;                                                      A TALE 03? OTHERE~ LIFIL          211

heard. As Thickett proceeded, Busteed, who was busy
wiping tumblers with a rag, startled by some assertion
of Puckett's,' exclaimed:
",nonsense, Goshawk didn't pile it on so thick as
that, did he?"
"Yes, h6 did, though," returned Puckett, emphati-
cally; "and the parsor~' went it even a little stronger,
for he made out Dixon and sich like to be rigler mission-
aries of the gospel."
At 'that instant Dixon stepped into the bar-roow. His
improved appearance, and genial manner, compared with
an hour or two before, struck both the landlord and Puck-
'ett; the latter, unable to contain his gratification, re-
niarked:
"Major, you lOok better than you did this morning-
you~must be gettingwell."
"I am better," said Dixon, emphatically; "I've got
clear of them conf6unded pains, that's troubled me so
inuch:Iamnowas good as new, and we'll take a drink to
celebrate the fact."
N
9

CHAPTER XVIII.
DEATH OF JACK.
NEAR sunset, Toadvine left the "Head-quarters," and
rode toward the jaiL lie was exceedingly intoxicated,
which always made him savage; but, in addition to this,
he had been literally swindled out of a considerable sum
of money at~ cards,-and this fact goaded him to fury.
The jail was situated on the suburbs of the town, and
was reached by going over a ravine, pr, as similar obstruc-
tions are termed, "a' wash." In ordinarily dry weather,
there was no difficulty in crossing the ravine, but heavy
and continuous rains had made it saddle-girth deep in
mud; and as Toadvine attempted to rush his horse
through the conglomerated xn~ss, the poor animal stuck
fast,-.when, being assailed by~blows and oaths, instrug-
gling to extricate himself he fell upon. his side, and tum-
bled his rider "heels-over-head" in the slough. Toad-.
vine was now furious, and as he pulled away at his hor8e'8
bridle, he loaded the very air with his fearful impreca.
tions. The animal; released~'of his rider's weight, reo~-
ered his feet, and, by repeated plunges, reached the solid
earth.

L.

t
1
r
t
9
9


212 -

THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

I
A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

213

The negroes confined in the jail, hearing the noise,
huddled about ~the heavy iron-grated window, and were
highly amused at what they saw. They made many
rough jokes at Toadvine's expense,' any one of which if. it
had reached his ears, in his then humor, would have made
him~ stark, staring mad. Meanwhile, the dogs within the
picketed inolosttre of the jail commenced furiously bark-
ing, and gnashing their teeth through the openings of the
fenee,-'-thereby giving additional spirit to the scene.
Toadvine hitched his horse to an old whipping-post
near by.; and as soon as'he could reach the entrance of the
jail, the keeper anticipated his coming by opening the
door. Toadvine and the jailer saluted after the manner
of old friends, and then disappeared within the precincts
of the old 'building.
It ~was with a great deal of difficulty that Toadvine
could be reconciled to~ his disagreeable accident; while
scolding about it to the jailer, he picked up a piece of
cypress sEingle from the floor; and pettishly scraped the
mud frQm his clothes,-.--every moment' becoming more ex-
cited in his indignation. He abused the road inspectors,
-~---abused the jail,-and the world generally, and Jack in
particular and especially.
'The jailer finally, however, reduced him to quiet, by
producing an old stone jug from a cleft in the heavy tim-
ber walls; 'and giving Toadvine a broken tumbler, and
taking a gourd)iimself, ,he poured out a liberal allowance
~t whiskey, and giving the highly original toast, "Better
luck next time," the' twain touched "glasses" with due
solemnity, and drank off the contents.

The jailer, still. bent on' mollifying his guest, new pro-
duced an immense plug of tobacco, and handing it to
Toadvine, told him to take a piece, remarking, in a half
playful way, that " that tobacker was sent him 'way from
Oid'Virginny, by a gentleman that had two runaways in jail
with him for near about a year.~~
"And what the hell did he send that to you for, after
keeping his niggers so long?" growled Toadvine, twisting
off a large piece of' the weed.
"Because," said the jailer, with a professional smile,
"I sent him a paper marked around with ink, so he could
tell whar was his property."
"And he was from Virginny, was he?"' inquired
Toadvine, giving his clothes a rub down with the shingle.
"He was~," said the jailer, emphatically.
"And a F. F. V.," snarled Toadvine, as he discovered
a large "splotch" of mud, heretofore unperceived, over the
calf of his leg.
"I don't know whether he was or not," said the jailer,
producing an old greasy playing-card. "Here," he con-
tinued, without paying further attention to~ Toadvine, "is
the charges agin Mr. Mildmay, for 'resting Jack;" and he
read off the back of a playing-card as follows:
"To Mr. Stubbs, who tuolu him up,-.-two 'for~ty-flve.,
"Jutasses feez, for comniittin,.-.-a 'V."
"Bored fore da~e,-.--.wun twexity; makin a sum tQt~1
of ait dollars and seventy sents: and not much neither
the times goze."'
"Not much," said To~advine, taking out his cla~p~
knife, and picking a bit of tobacco leaf from between~; '


214

TIlE '~ASTEU~5 EOUSE;

front teeth with the blade; "not much~" he repeated, as
if in deep reflection, and then went on: "Well, maybe it
au't; but if I had ~ nigger as run away, and cost me eight
dollars and seventy cents, if I didn't work it out of hi~
hide, with interest to boot, I hope I may turn nigger my-
self."
And the sincerity with which he made this protestation
can be appreciated, when it is known that it closed with
T~Qadvine's climacteric figure of speech, if he wished to
be considered particularly in earnest.
Toadvine now pulled out a ten dollar gold-piece, and
giving it to the jailer, told the functionary to take his
change;
The jailer found some difficulty in accomplishing his
object, a~ he had nothing but three half dollar pieces in his
pocket. After considerable discussion, and another drink
of ~whiskey, it was decided that Toadvine should throw
"heads and tails" for the, piece of money in dispute-
whereupon that gentleman took the coin, and resting it on
the side of the fore finger of the right hand, and placing his
thumb underneath it, he emphatically observed:
"Now mark-heads I win, tails you lose," and then he
sent the silver whirling in the air.
The coin struck the floor with a ringing noise, and
Toadvine bent over to see the result, fQr it was now get-
ti~ dark in the jail; rising up suddenly from his stoop-
attitude, he gave the innocent cause Qf offence a kick
~4, his foot that sent it spinning across the floor, and then
wit~z a great oath he swore that h&amp; had "lost all day," and
a revolver out of his pocket and examining

I

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

215

the caps, he moodily told the jailer to "bring down that
infernal nigger, for he was going home."
Now. Jack, who had been, with his fellow~prisoners,
very much amused, as we have already stated, at the Iloun-
dering~ of Toadvine in the mire, was perfectly unconscious
that it was the overseer, and it was not until some time
after, when he recognized the horse hitched in front of the
jail, that the whole truth flashed upon him.
In an instant he seemed to, comprehend his situation,
and uttering the exclamation, "Oh Mister I what will be-
come of poor Jack now?" he sunkAown upon the floor
4'
the very picture of despair.
"And what's de matter~ wid you, Jack?" inquired his
humble friends in bondage.
"Oh Lord! oh Lord!" said the poor fellow, 'wringing
his hands, "it's Mr. Toadvine date come for m~., He's de
man as druv me from home,-he's de man dat got my wife,
away,-.--.he's de man as will kill me ~yet;" and again Jack
buried his head between his knees, and th~ tears rained
upon the floor.
The sympathy for Jack, expressed by his fellow~prison-
ers, was deeply touching. Helpless themselves, yet feeling
the full force of their companion's' situation, and~ too igno-
rant to express the emotions of their 1~earts, they stood
around him in silent agony, in which position they remain-
ed until they heard the huge key rattling in the look,
the chain unfastened from the door.
"Here Jack," said the'jtiiler, without uoticingthe ~
expression of face, "gather up your duds, and get
stairs, you scoundrel." The boy silently~ obeyed au
4,
-.                     4,


A TALF~ ~0F S~UTHER~T LIFE.             21'1

216

THE MASTEfl~'S x*ou~E;

the cell ;~ "and now," said~he, turning~around to his remain-
ing prisoners, as he was about closing the door after him,
"don't let ~me hear any more of that psiam singing to-night
about "Jesus ready stands t~ save you," and all that sort
o' thing, because it's damn nonsense, and P11 have no noise
anyhow after' the nine o'clock bell rings, and if IL hear any,
I'll come up ~and make 'you shout hallelujah to a tune
you never larnt at camp meeting; " and with this acl~
vice he locked the door and secured the chain, then put-
ting the gold eagle received from Toadvine into the bottom
of along leather purse, he druinmed~aceompaniment with
his huge key on the wall, to Hail Columbia, happy land,
~bich he whistled with great effect as he went down stairs.
Jack, nieantime, stood in the presence of his worst ene-
my. Toa~vine ~la~red upon him with 'his bloodshot eyes,
until th~'k~ees of the boy gave way from fear, and he sank
upon Lhe~floor.'
"Noue of your skulking," fairlyroared Toadvine; "none
of your gammoning me, you 'infernal black sop. So you
run away, did you, 'cause you couldn't bear to have me
whip you? That's for treating you like a lamb. "But,"
he continued, growing white with anger, "Ill cure you of
'your tricks to-night 'fore I get you home, and if your whin-
ing, ihalf Yankee master don't like' it, he can settle next
day, and get somebody else to whip his niggers for him';"
Toadvine fairly spun about like a top, with the violence
is passion.
be jailer, as if it were a customary thing, now opened
ting in one corner of the roo~m, on whidi was
great plainness the magical letters" U. S.'~ It

had evidently been originally used for packing Springfield
Armory muskets in, and taking therefrom a coil of rope,
he handed it to Toadvine, who, without any apparent con-
sideration as to the length he wanted, cut off a piece and
gave the remainder back to the jailer; then toppingg up
to Jack, he struck him .a severe blow with th~ cord across
his shoulders, and ordering him to hold up his head, corn-i
menaced tying the boy around the neck.
"What are you going to do?" inquired the jailer,
with some little surprise.
"Take this feller home~; any thing to say agin it?" said
Toadvine, the very act of touching Jack's neck inflamiiig
still more his tiger passions.
"Nothing more,"' said the jailer, '~placing his hand on
the large bowie-knife he carried in his breast, and eyeing
Toadvine with hostile meaning; "Nothing more-4nly
'civil tongues is best for health,' and I think you'd better t~
that boy with his elders behind him, instead of 'round th~
neck."
Toadvine was cowed, but again feeling disposed to give
way to his passion, which, suppressed against the jailer,
burst with increased fury upon the ~head of the victim now
so completely in his power.
"I think," said Toadvine, leading the boy awax and
measuring the effect of" his words, "I thitAkI understand
my business with ~niggers."
"Well, .1 'spect you do," replied the jailer, closing
door on Toadvine and 'Jack, and then locking it on the
side, he proceeded with due deliberation to shut up ~
tablishment for the night.
10

-21


218              THE MA5TEi~'5 HOUSE;

A TALE OF SOUTHJ~RN LIFE..

Toadvine once- out - of doers, drove Jack ahead of him
while still holding him fast by the rope, and thus the two
proceeded until the boy reached the overseer's horse, Which
he respectfully. held until the man mounted. Toad vine
then fastened the end of the rope in his hand to the poni-
mel of the Spanish saddle, and with the quickness of
thought gave his horse the spurs.
The animal jumped, and had it not been that Jack was
still at his head, would in that spring probably have broken
the boy's neck; as it was it nearly threw him to the ground,
but -he recovered himself and leaping forward kept by the
side of the rider. In another moment, Toadvine was again
floundering in the 'wash.' Jack instantly seized the horse's
head, and by i~ain strength pulled him through. The mo-
ment that Toadvine felt the solid earth, he again spurred
on the animal, and in the haze of the evening he was re-
cognized as he passed through the streets of Beechland,
going at a killing pace, with a negro boy almost undistin-
guishable jn the gloom, following close in his rear.

'~1

219

CIIAPTJjR XIX;

-   THE EXCITEMENT OF TIlE HOUR.
O~ the morning following Toadvine's visit to the jail, the
citizens living in the neighborhood of ]3eeohland, were
shocked by discovering on the very edge Qf the town, the
mutilated body of a dead negro, and it seemed more than
probable that a murder had b-een committed. The neck
of the deceased was not only broken, but' the bones thei~eof
had evidently been torn asunder; and with such force, as
to elongate the persistent- muscles. A piece of rope that
had evidently been rudely severed with a sharp knife, was
still around h~s neck, and upon farther examination, a deep
indentation could be traced for a conside~.able distance,
along the road, showing how far the body had~been drng~ed
upon the ground.
It, happened to be that day of the w~k, when the
planters of the vicinity, by general consent, meet in tOWZk~ ~--4
not only to transact business, but also for social - inter-
course, and very soon- a laz~ge number of the most substan-
tial citizens of the surrounding country, were Btanding iii
4,         4

218

e


220            THE MASTEB75 HoPsi;
excited groups in proximitY to the body, and all engaged
in deep and earnest conversation about the mystery.
The "coroner" had been summoned a jury was quickly
obtained-an incj~iest held-and the prompt verdict was,
that the deceased negro came to his death by violence
at the hands of some person or personS i~nknowfl.
This done, the body was taken to the court-house, and
laid out upon the porch, in hopes that some one would.
identify it.
About ten o'clock, the jailer had fInished his morning
work, of letting the negroes get their own breakfast, while
he fed his dogs, with ~such other duties as occurred, when
he thrust a cigar in his mouth, and his hands in his
pockets, and leaving his charge in ~* care of a deputy,
he started out to learn the newS of tE6 day, and prepared
to take an active part An a political discussion, or a game
of ~card~, the only two excitements he allowed himself
openly tQ indulge in.
And it so happened as he passed along, that he came
across a group of citizens in deep and earnest conversation
and he knew at once that something more than usual "was
in the wind."
"There goes Orcutt the jailer," said Gen. flledsoe, the
most popular and influential man in the community; and
continued he, "Orcutt is well acquainted in town, and per-
haps he might give us some clew to thi5 strange matxt&amp;r,"
~nd with~the universal approval of all present, Orcutt was
calledd intq the conferetYce.
This notice pleased the jailer, and~ as he came toward
the group, he decided in hi8 own ~niiad that they were

N

A TALE OF SO~ITHERN LIFE.        221

going to ask him, either if he hadn't a pleasant room in
the jail where a game of ' brag' could be played, or else,
that ~e would go over to the head-quarters and 'take a
drink, and he couldn't tell which-but he 'determined to be
affable, in either case.
"' Orcutt," said Gen. I3ledsoe, after the salutations of
meeting were over,, "we called you over here, to ask what
you think of this murder that' was committed last night?"
"Haven't heard a word of it," said Orcutt, his suspi-
cions however prompting him to believe that he knew all
the history.
"You haven't heard of it 1" exclaimed two or three
voices at once; "why, what have you been doing this morn-
ing?"
"Nothing but looking after the' stone jug,"' said Oreutt,
with a sort of injured look, "nothing else."
"The fact is," continued Gen. Bledsoe, "a negro boy was
killed h~st night just a few hundred yards from the jail "-.
"Up the old bayou road "-involuntarily suggested
Orcutt.
"The same," said the general, exchanging glances
of intelligence with the gentlemen in the ~rowd.
"Well, let me ~e the body," said the jailer, who in-
stantly became an object of suspicious interest, and the
party walked towards the court-house..
"The body of Jack, as~~we have stated, had been laid~
upon the court-house steps. An ,infirm oId negro, who~had,~'
years agone, become useless as a' servant, and eaz'ned a pre~
curious living in the town, had, in the natural goodness of
her heart, washed off the mud from the body, and disposing~.


TIlE MA]~Rf~ HOUSE;

222                                                                                    A TALE OF SQTJ~TIIERN LIFE.       223

of it in a decent manner, had covered it with a sheet, and
sat by, a~ sincere m9urner for the memory and misfortunes
of one of her race.
"And who is it, aunty?" said Gen. ]3ledsoe, addressing
the old negress kindly, "do you know the face?"
'KBress you, no, master;" and turning to the corpse, she
muttered, "he's done gone to heaven now, dat's. one com~
fort," and then instinctively moved away from the imme-
diate presence of~the white people.
Orcutt -was exceedingly annoyed that, by an unguarded
expression,, he had made , his suspicions a matter of inter-
es~, for he did not wish to have the responsibility of recog-
nizing the body, and probable arrest of the murderer,
thrown upon his shoulders. Holding his office at the
mercy of political partisan~, it instantly occurred to him,
that the enmity of Toadvine and his friends, if united at
any future-time against him at the poiis, could secure his
removal, and he ~was exceedingly embarrassed at the posi-
tion in -which he found himself.
Now the usually most talkative man in the community
was in the crowd, but from the time he heard of the mur-
der, he had been as dumb as a mouse.' This gentleman
was Maj. Trimmer, "the great criminal lawyer and active
politician" of the surrounding country; he knew that he
had a client somewhere in the parish, as soon as he saw
Jack's body, and was then actually looking -out for his
"retaining fee."
- - lie discovered Orcutt's embarrassment, and tucking
that worthy under the arm, he led him a step aside, and

remarked, "You needn't say any thing to crilninate your-
self, even if such a thing were possible."
"I'd nothing to do with it," said Orcutt doggedly, "but
you'll give me a letter major, in case it is ever necessary,
that what I do say is under compulsion. - -
"Certainly I will," said the major, shaking Orcutt
by the hand.
Orcutt returned to the group of inquirers, and care-
lessly throwing back the old sheet from the face of the
corpse, examined the swollen and ghastly lineaments for a
moment, and said
"As I expected, its -~" but before he could say
more, Gen. Bledsoe suddenly seized him by the shoulder,
and with great emphasis exclaimed:
"You know tjie negro, and you believe he wa~ mur-
dered?" - Orcutt was about to resist such rude treatment,
but the eyes of too many resolute men were upon him, who
evidently sympathized with the general's conduct,
"I think I know the negro, and I believe that he was
killed," said Orcutt, looking confused.
"And why did you ask if the - murder was committed
in the bayou road, when you claimed to have heard nothing
about it," asked a very matter of fact planted', thru8ting
his nose into Orcutt's face.
"Don't speak as you value life," -whispered- Bledsoe,
becoming every moment more excited, "don~t speak until
I tell
Oreutt was then pushed aside, as it- were, and he, waa
instantly surrounded by the most influential persons -pre-
sent, among whom there was an astonishing display of -

222

223


224            THE MA5TER~5 HOUSB;                                                    A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.        225

bowie-knives and pistols; and this significant group, by a
kind of tacit consent, no one but the initiated approached.
The news spread that a clew tQ the murder had been
obtained, and crowds began 'to collect about the court-
house; men, and boys, and negroes, cQuld be seen coming
from every direction to the common focus, all excited and
all curious. The keeper of the" ilead-quarters" adjoining
the seat of justice, was in ecstasies, and this was displayed
in a professional way, for, rushing behind his bar, he com-
menced cleaning his glasses, feeling assured that very soon
his "groceries" would be in even unusual demand.
"And now, Mr. Orcutt," said Gen. Bledsoe, looking at
his compeers, and letting go his hold on the jailer, "now,
sir, we will hear your story.
Without ceremony, Orcutt gave a very truthful account
of things connected with Jack's leaving the jail; as he
progressed with his story, many of his listeners became
livid with rage, and deep and bitter were the subdued exe-
orations that fell upon Toadvine's head.
Orcutt soon discovered how popular feeling was going,
and he began to artfully exaggerate things already dreadful
he felt that Toadvine's power had gone, and therefore, to
conciliate the influence of the overseer was no longer' a
matter of importance.
As soon as the full force of Toadvine 's conduct was un-
derstood, there was a universal clamor for his arrest and
prompt punishment. The feeling was more than i~sually
strong, from the fact, that recently two or three slave murders
had been committed, only a little lees atrocious than the case
under consideration; and in truth, so great was the excite-

I

ment, that there was evidently a strong under-current, de-
manding more summary proceedings than could be had by
due course of law. Many persons whispered apart-.Gen.
Bledsoe was constantly consulted; individuals would leave
the select throng, and go over to the court-house group,
and whispering tc~ different men, of repulsive and hang-dog
appearance, lead them within the centre of the delibera-
tive body; men, whose long beards and dissipated faces
marked them as "the desperadoes of the community?'
Every now and then some one would; after being whis-
pered to by Gen. Bledsoe, leave, and presently return
with a double-barrelled fowling-piece or musket. The
sheriff also made his appearance, and was uncon~monly ac- -
tive to find some justice of the peace, to get out a warrant,
for he regretted that he could do nothing, "unless espe-
cially instructed by a proper officer."
It was soon evident that one universal feeling had set-
tled down upon the .rowd. Some three or four who had
been active in the deliberations, were already mounted, as
if bent on a hasty journey, when one of the younger men
of the party rose in his saddle, and speaking in a loud
voice, said:
"Gentlemen, we have had to-day the painful evidence
of the reckless destruction of our property. If irrespon-
sible men are permitted to thus injure our interests, what
will be the result? utter ruin. It is proposed that the
violator of our rights, in consideration of his seeming de-
fiance of the laws, 'be not left to the mercy of. its delay,
but have justice dealt out to him with our own indignant
hands."                                             A
10*                                'c


226

THE MA5TER~5 HOUSE;

A loud and enthusiastic shout was given, and twenty
men in an instant were in their saddles.. Away these
horsemen scattered through the streets, many riding hither
and thither, and almost all indulging in the* free use of
liquor, either from canteens carried in their pockets, or
such as could be purchased at the "groceries." In the
course of a half hour more, the town had assumed its
usually dull appearance, for that particular time of day.
On that eventful morning, Toadvine had risen at his
accustomed hour, and externally, as if nothing in his his-
tory of an extraordinary character had occurred, he went
into the field with the negroes. After he returned to his
house for his breakfast, he quietly walked over to the
"residence," and asked Mr. Mildmay for a prospective
order for the amount of money due him up to date, re-
marking, "that he had created some debts, which he
wished to settle;" he then strolled out upon the gallery,
and taking up an old newspaper, seemed to be absorbed in
its contents.
Mildmay, after looking over his memorandum book,
wrote a draft on his merchant for the amount due Toad-
vine, and stepping out on the gallery, handed it to the
overseer, with the question, "Did you bring home Jack,
last night, as you intended?"
"Why, the fact is," said Toadvine, folding up the pa-
per and putting it in his pocket-" the fact is, that I spent
too niuch time, yesterday evening, at the 'Ilead-quBrliers,'
and besides losing some money, I drank too much-" and
Toadvine apparently hesitated to finish his remark.
"I am sorry, for your sake, that such is the fact I"

observed Mildmay, with perceptible emotion in his voice;
"but no matter," he continued, evidently not desirous to
seem to assume any superiority in habits or position; "no
matter, I am going to Beechland this evening, myself and
I will call at the jail, and send Jack home, and thus have
no further trouble about it."
Toadvine moved away, crossed the yard, and entered
his own house, and sitting down at his deal table, and
taking a deep rotation of his ever favorite whiskey, and
thrusting his hands in his pockets, he commenced solilo-
quizing, thus:
"I wonder what did become of Jack? I must have
been pretty tight last night. I was so infarnally ma~i
about that mud-hole, that I 'most forget every thing else.
low lie did pull, when he tried to get away; if it hadn't
been for breaking off the pommel of my saddle, to say
nothing of that rope across my thigh, I'd a' pulled him
home, or killed my horse."
And giving utterance to these expressions, Toadvine,
for some ten minutes, seemed lost in a deep reverie, then
rousing himself, he put away his decanter, and looked
over the "promise to pay," so recently received from his
employer, and after cyphering some time on the floor with
a piece of charcoal, he observed:
"Well, if Mr. Mildinay does send me off for this lit-
tle frolic, he don't owe me any thing, thank fortune!" and
with this consoling reflection, and entirely unconscious of
the real extent of his offending, he mounted his. hors~,,aitd
again rod~ into the field.
To avoid the appearance of any thing extraordinary in

A. TALF~ OF SOUTIIER~T LIFE.          ~2'7

227


2~8              THE MA5TER~5 HoUSE~

,
~*
.-~ ~k-::'~

eonten~platiofl, by Gen. Bledsoe's party, its several mem-
bers seemed to be straggling off in differenV directions, but,
by a preconcerted pl~an, they met' a mile or two from Beech-
land, in the thickly growing brush of an old abandoned
plantation, which was all, that remahx~d of the evidences
of a once "splendid home."
Here in conclave it was agreed, that it was ttseless to
trust~ to the laws for the punishment of Toadvine; that the
law was a mere farce, gotten up for no other purpose than
to enable lawyers to rob the conmiunity, and escape the
consequences. It was further decided,~that it would save
the parish expense, and a great deal of feeling besides, in
the minds of those interested, by seeing him summarily
hung to a limb of the nearest tree; and also teach him,
and others similarly disposed to tamper with the rights of
the planters, that it could not be done with impunity.

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         229

CHAPTER XX.
THE RESCUE.
AN hour's riding brought the party near the "Heritage
Place;" the young men rode ahead to reconnoitre, and
one soon returned and reported, to the astonishment of
every one, that Toadvine was actually in the field; and
that by leaving the main road, threadingadeep, but tiot
impassable sluiceway, he could be easily cut off from all
connection with the house, and if he attempted 'escape af-
ter he discovered that he was to be arrested, he would
have to take to the woods, when "he could be run down
at leisure."
Gen. Bled~oe at once decided upon taking advantage
of the opportunity thus unexpectedly offered, to make an
easy capture, and in another instant the horsemen were
galloping to their several assigned places, distributing
themselves so that Toadvine had no other way of escape
than by striking into the fastnesses 'of the swamp.
The doomed man soon discovered that there were ~per~
sons in his vicinity, but still remained unconscious of his
'danger, and also of the extent of his crime. Two ~r three

229

228


230

T1~E MASTER'S HOUSE;

horsemen, carrying guns, could be easily accounted for,
"the chase," and tha habits of the country making fire-
arms familiar; their appearance created no alarm; but
when further attracted by moving forms through the dis-
tant trees, it flashed upon him like lightning, that a band
of armed men were in pursuit of him~
Rushing to his horse, that was cropping grass by the
edges of one of the field roads, he leaped upon his back,
and, as if Mildmay was most likely to now befriend him, he
tirpued the animal's head towards Heritage Place; but
before he had rode many yards he was hailed to stop-.-.
turning suddenly, he went headlong down the field, when
again he discovered that the fowling-pieces bore directly
upon him; desperate, and alarmed for his life, he now
turned his hor~e's head, as Bledsoe had anticipated, to-
ward the swamp, and fairly flew, with speed; accelerated
no doubt, by a number of curs belonging to the negroes,
barking and howling at hi~ rear; with a bound he cleared
the fence, and knowing the country well, it seemed as if
he w~uld escape, so rapidly did he disappear amid the rich
mellow gloom.
But Toadvine had those upon his track, who knew the
swamp even better than himself,-persons who had, for
years, pursued the deer and wild cat, through the very
labyrinth he wa8 then threading; and those persons, con-.
scious of their power, rode even leisurely. along, knowing
that he must, almost without an effort, soon fall into their
hands.
Mildmay, from 'the time that Toadvine left him, had
been engaged in looking over papers, brought to his recol-

I

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

231

election by opening his memorandum book, and he was,
while listening to the unusual noise of the dogs barking in
the field, startled by the appearance of Wash, who, with
distended eyes, announced to his master "dat a big party
of gentle was hunting down in de new ground."
Mildmay, from an upper gallery, glanced over the*
field, just in time to see Toadvine's fearful leap, and as he
discovered the armed men follow in pursuit, he was in-
stantly impressed with the belief that something serious-u
had happened.
Without betraying his excitement, he ordered Wash to
saddle his horse, that he might ride down and see what
was going on. It was with difficulty that he could repress
his impatience until the boy arrived with his steed, and
still more was it painful to retain an ambling pace, when
he described that Annie's affectionate eyes were bent upon
him. But once relieved of all necessity for restraint, he
put spurs to his hOrse, and 'followed swiftly on the new-
made trail.
In the meanwhile, it would seem that Gen. Bledsoe's
party crossed the diameter &amp;f the circle made by Toad'~ine,
in his ignorance of the ground he was going over, and ere
the pursued was aWare of it, he Was surrounded. A dozen
"shots" had sight upon him at once, and he was comrnan&amp;
ed to stop, and reining up his horse, he sat in his saddle a
perfect picture of blank despair.
The pursuers rushed upon him, and checked their ex-
cited horses so close to his person, that his hair was fanned
by the distended nostrils of their foaming. steeds.
"Dismount, you wretch!" cried Bledsoe,-as he kept his

y


232            trrni~ MASTERS HOUSE;
spirited horse by main force to the ground, "dismount, I
say; we have~a better way to serve your carcass than to
let it hang across a Spanish saddle."
To Toadvine, the command seemed to cause the world                                ,~ ~.,
to be passing away as a sheet of fire. lie knew that he was
guilty of some crime, but the uncertainty of its extent
magnified his fears, and he felt as if an awful judgment was
upon him. Looking around, he saw faces familiar in ap-                           [Cj~IT2TKy~: ~
pearance, yet glaring upon him with strange and intense
passion; a confused ringing sound passed through his brain,
and fainting, he fell from his horse.
flefore, however, he reached the ground, he was in the
arms of one of the men, and by the time he recovered his
nses, the rope that had deprived poor Jack of his life,
was around another victim's neck.                                                      7
Toadvine, the instant he felt the cord, comprehended                       ,4k~~jt
his fate, and uttered one long, loud shriek for mercy; but
ere he could have repeated tha1~ heart-rending cry, the power
to do so would have been at an end for ever, had not Mild-
may, glowing with excitement, rushed into the ring; cheek-
ing his speed so abruptly, that his horse's 'hoofs ~loughed
their way deeply into the virgin soil.
Dark and lowering looks were turned upon the intruder,
which instaiitly~ cleared away, as senie one exclaimed,
"Mildmay, by the gods!"
This name electrified with sudden life the sinking and                     ~
terror-stricken Toadvine, who frantically seized Mild~nay's
feet, and begged him for the love of God, to interfere and
save his life.
The yoixng man though calm,, was, nevertheless embar-


C

'I

A TALE OF SOUTHEftN LiFE.         233

raised, and turning instinctively towards Gen. Bledsoo,
whom he did not know, he begged to be informed as to the
meaning of 4he scene enacted before i~im.
The fact that Toadvine was Mildxnay's overseer, and
that it was Mildmay's wrongs the party was professedly
about to redress, caused his unannounced and unexpected
presence to be greeted with a respect that might, under
other circumstances, with persons so excited, Jiave been
attended with a different result.
Gen. Blcdsoe, in a few and hastily-delivered words, ex-
plained the outrage.
"And Jack is dead?" said Mildmay, snapping his eyes
as if awaking from a sleep.
"Yes, dead!" said Bledsoe, "and murdered by that
skulking wretch who is hanging at your heeL"
"A shame and an outrage!" said Mildmay, his face
darkening, as he kicked himself loose from the overseer's
grasp.
"A shame indeed," said Gen. ]3ledsoe, his face burning
with excitement, "and that he may not serve others so,
tuck him up boys, and let the buzz~ds have, their rights."
"You would not hang this man," said Nildmay, leap~
ing from his horse, and literally throwing himself as a
shield over Toadvine's prostrate form. "You would not
hang this man. I~et me beg of you, gentlemen, that the
laws have their sway; let my injury go unredressed, rather
than tarnish our honor with so great a wrong as this."
"The laws be d..-.-.d," said a fellow, in an Arkansas
blanket coat, seizing hold of Toadvine's shoulder. "If
you've got nothing mit the law to reach this 'ere gentleman

233


284            T~IE ~A5TER75 HOUSE;
with, hes as good as clear to-day; ain't he, Gineral Bled-
At the mention of this name,~ Mildma~y turned toward
the person addressed and said:
"General J3ledsoe, for such I understand you to be,
permit me to beg as a personal favor, that you will leave
this man iu the hands of the law. The case is too plain
to fear that he will escape the penalty due his crime, and
to the extent of the law, will I see that he is prosecuted
and punished."
"What say you, gentlemen?" asked Bledsoe, looking
around upon the group of excited faces-and after scanning
them for a moment, he said, with a graceful wave of the
hand:
"Mr. Mildmay, that creature is your prisoner.~~
At this announcement, the spectators fairly rocked to
and fro with the sudden reaction of their moral feelings,
and Toadvine fell to the earth as if struck by the hand of
death.
." Well, he's made a~ die of it, any how," said the owner
of the green blanket coat, looking at Toadvine with coini-
cal pity, and loosening the cord about his neck,-." but
maybe," the fellow continued, "this will bring him too,"
and with the most affecting attention, he took his whiskey
bottle from his pocket and held it to Toadvine's nostrils.
"You see," said General Bledsoe, looking at Mildmay,
and playfully pointing at the rough Samaritan before him,
"you see that Ben Puckett isn't so bad a man after all,
although he has a poor opinion of the laws."
Mildmay forced a sickly smile, and asked, directing his

285

eye to Bledsoe, "if he could get Mr. P~ckett to take the
prisoner to the jail at Beechland, if he were paid liberally
for the trouble?"
"Certainly you can," said the general with vivacity,
and I will be responsible that Puckett will never let him
go until he has the jailer's receipt in full for the amiable
gentleman."
"I'll go to jail," said Toadvine with a humble voice,
and absolutely grown wan and pallid with the terror he had
undergone.
Of course, you will," said Puckett, while tying Toad.
vine's elbows behind him,-." of course you will; ain't I
promised to take you?" and Puckett laughed at his own
humor.
The crowd now dispersed. All left evidently satisfied,
for you could hear the merry, ringing laugh of different in-
dividuals, expressive of a consciousness of being relieved
from a fearful responsibility.
Toadvine, once on his way, soon arrived at Beeehland
jail, lie managed, in the course of conversation along the
road, to secure Puckett's friendship, but could not over-
come the sturdy Kentuckian's innate sense of honor suffi-
cient to induce him to let his prisoner go, as was suggested
under the plea of "accidental escape." Puckett was too
powerful as a man, to make it probable, that he could be mas-
tered in a scuffle, and too ambitious mentally, to be willing
to have it reported that hew~as outwitted, when placed iwa
responsible position.
"And what do you 'spose," said Toadvine to Puck-
ott, as Beechland appeared in view,~-~" what do'you 'spose

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.            23~T

2343               THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

they make such a fuss ~ahout the' killing of Jack for, any
how?"
"'Cause you didn't ow'~ him," said Puckett with a pa-
tronizing manner.
*" Perhaps that was it," replied Toad'vine, still as if in
a dream, and riding a short distance he resumed: "I never
heard such a fuss about killing a nigger before. Thar
was Bill Stiger down at the 'Oaks' who' chopped a darkee
into pieces with a cane knife, and bragged on it afterwards,
and he was never touched."
"And didn't the Grand Jury find a bill ?" inquired
Puckett.
"No," sai4 Toadvine emphatically, "Stiger run off
the sheriff with a double barrel, and swore he would shoot
any juror that dar'd indite him."
"And the matter ended thar, did it ~" inquired Puckett
with solemnity.
"Of course it ended," said Toadvine, overflowing with
a sense of' his own unjust treatment-'~ of course it ended,
and Stiger could have gone to the Legislature the next
'leetion, only he wouldn't."
"Well, it's too bad," said Puckett with a sympathetic
voice, "that they treat you so; but no matter, Toady,"
sai4 he playfully, "Buss', Orcutt, and I, ~will come up
in your room and play 'poker' and 'seven up,' and you
shan't want for friends, you know-and we'll have a real
good time of it, and no mistake."
With this assurance, Toadvine, who was unaccountably
depressed in spirits, when left to his own reflections,
brightened up, and saw that lying' in jail a few weeks wasut

so bad after all; while, like many other men in a sim-
ilar situation, lie began to realize a kind of satisfaction in
the prospect he had before him, of becoming an object of
real attentiQil to the crowd about the court-house.
Upon arriving at the suburbs of Beechland, Puckett
relieved Toadvine of the hated rope that had heretofore
bound his elbows, the prisoner solemnly promising not to
attempt to get away, and Puckett threatening to split Toad-
vine's head open, if he did forfeit his honor by any such
performance; "for you see," said Puekett, opening for the
last time the knots in the cord,-" you see, Toady,~ I gave
my word to General Bledsoe, that I would take you to jail,
and I must do it if I help you out agin at sundown."
The ever busy Orcutt answered the first knock at the
jail door, and he started back with some surprise at seeing
Toadvine safe and sound before him :~-'~ Why, I thought
you went off this morning, " said the jailer, unconscious of
the severity of his allusion:'
"But he didn't, though," said Puckett mysteriously,
"though he was at the 'went off place,' wasn't you, Toady."
The jests were too suggestive to the Qverseer of the dark
side of his situation, and with a pallor upon his cheek, he
requested to be shown to his room, saying that he "felt
sick, and wanted rest.


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         239

2~8              THE MASTERS HouSe;

CHAPTER XXI.
U1~InXPECTED REtATIONSHIP
Tms~ instant that Toadvine disappeared, and with him the
different persons who had been so recently engaged in his
pursuit, Geueral Bledsoe turned to Mildmay, and showed
by his maimer a desire to enter into familiar conversation.
The two gentlemen consequently rode out of "the swamp,"
side by~ side, and. so continued in the open fields, as their
road necessarily led toward heritage Place. Nfildmay was
himself highly delighted ivith General ]3ledsoe, and as he
had always heard him spoken of as one of the most influ-
ential persons in the surrounding neighborhood, Graham
f~lV more-than ordinary pleasure that a mutual friendship
promised to be the result of a most singular introduction.
Long beforethe two had reached the heritage, all the
particulars of Toadyine's conduct had been discussed and
commtrnted upon, aud had given way to more pleasing sub-
jects, and General. ]3I~Isoe had, with exceeding fran1~iies5,
accepted an invitation to make a call at the house and tar-
take of some slight refreshment% before he pursued his way
homeward.

As the gentlemen dismounted, Wash took the horses
and they proceeded on through the lawn. Annie was walk-
'jug on~the upper gallery, and as Mildmay looked up auad
greeted her with a smile, General J3ledsoe instinctively
turned his eye also upward, and unexpectedly seeing a
lady, raised his hat and passed uncovered into ~he house.
Wash soon made his appearance, and armed with water
and a snowy napkin, he presented them to the general,
who, quietly removing his gloves, laved. his hands, while
Mildmay performed the same pleasant office in his own
room.
When Graham returned to his guest, he was followed
by Wash carrying a salver, on which were two or three
kinds of choice liqueurs, and a box of superior cigars. The
two gentlemen simply went through the ceremony of
drinking,, when Gen. Bledsoe set down his glass, and
taking another, and filling it with cool water, he drank it
off with evident satisfaction;.. and then throwing himself
into an easy chair, with Mildmay most comfortably dish.
posed of, directly eppoaite to him, cigars were selected
and lighted; and after a few moments' silence, thw general,
slowly blowing the smoke from his mouth, turned toMild..
may, and observed:
"From your given name, Mr. Mildmay, II judge that
you are from the 'Old North ~$tate 1~",
"such is the fact," replied Mildn~xay, rousing himself
into an attitude. of interest.
"Yet I think," contiuned the g9ueraliu amusing
manner, "~that Mildmay is not a North Carolina n~iue?"
"It is not," said Mild~nay; "while my mother's f&amp;n-


240             THE ~1A5TER~5 HoUBJ~;                                                A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          241

ily name is very common, perhaps, there is not one of my
suame~tha't 'I am aware of in the State'
'~ Your mother then was a Graham," said the general,
still deeply musings "The Grahams and the Bledsoes
are hitimately connected: was your family from the neigh-
borhood~of Mecklenberg?"
"They. were from i3he immediate vicinity of Mecklen-
berg," 8aid' Mildmay.
"Then, Mr. Mildmay," said the general, his face ani-
mated with a smile, "if we Americans paid much atten-
tion to genealogical i~rees, IL should not be surprised if we
could trace ourselves back to the same stock; Ilkuow of
no Mecklenberg Gr~ahams that are not relations of mine."
"1 am quite flattered," said Graham, "by your sup-
position; 'it will be 'a source of pleasure for me to know
that I have so interesting, though so vague a claim upon
yoixr good opinion."
"And .~not ~o vague,~ either," interrupted the general.
"~"oui grandfather, or great uncle,-and I. don't kxiow
whieh,-..just ~at the, close of 'the ~Revolution, married
iJietty Bledsoe, and we are certainly third cousins' at
least4"
Graham lau~hea, and replied, "he hoped it were
true."~
At this instant, t1~ young niistre~s' of fleritage Place.
came into the room. She was attired in a simple dress of
white, sand ~ad endeavored to assume' a dignified appear-
ance by'ariai~ing. her 'hair over her teniples;' but the
straggling cur1~ 'peeped out quit~'comica1ly, in ~pite of her
1abor~ ~a 'deliv~t~ rosebud and a few green 'leaves' gli~tened

on her' bosom. Annie had become so unaccustomed to
society save that of her husband, that the appearance of a
stranger 'brought a slight blush to her cheeks, and height-
ened her natural beattty.
"Mrs. Mildmay-General IBledsoe," said Graham,
rising.
The general rose from his seat, and placing his hand
upon his heart, he bowed, as if a courtier by profession;
and then extending his hand, he~ just touched the tips of
Annie's fingers, and remarked:
"I am happy to have the pleasure of meeting with~ a
lady whose presence has added so much Igrace and beauty'
to' our vicinity. At this very moment, I was trying to
prove to your good husband that we were some sort of~
cousins at least; and now," he continued, smiling at An-
tile, "I shall especially insist that IL am right."
Annie expressed her ,gratification at Gen. Bledsoe's'
evident cordiality of manner,-more by her eyes, than by
her remarks; ~the conversation soon became discursive
and agreeable, and when Gen. 'Bledsoe left Heritage Place,
a mutual friendship 'had sprung up between himself and
its occupants: and this feeling seemed to have been
founded rather upon long years of intercourse, than an
accidental meeting of an hour's duration.
The moment Gen. Bledsoe left, .Mildmay ordered
"old Uncle 'Dan" to go to'Beechland; and bring up the
body of Jack, that it might be decently interred upon the
plantation.
Uncle Dan was an eccentric, stuttering old man, who'
believed in charms and necromancy, and was lot~ked upon'
11

240 .

241-


242              ~II~ MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                      A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.             24~3

by his fellow-slaves with considerable superstitious dread.
When he was told to get his cart, and the object of his
errand, Old Dan rolled up the white of his eyes in~the
most alarming manner, and inquired,
"Wha-wha---what make Jack done die for?"
"You will hear that some other time," said Mildmay,
a cloud passing over his face at the recollection of the
boy's fate; "do as I tell you, and ask no questions now."
"But master," said IDan, his face still indicating un-
mitigated terror, "Wha-wha-what I goin' to do alone
wid such a funeral ?"
"Come straight back from town," said Mildmay,
sternly; "and if you stop by the way at any of those
groggeries on the edge of Beechland, you will regret it,
eir, for the rest of the year."
"Wh'-wh'--why, master, you tink I do dat?" and
Dan hobbled off with a manner that would leave an im-
pression upon those who did not know him, that he was
exceedingly injured at Mildmay's imputation on his im-
maculate character.
Dan went to the stable, and catching a mule that was
used for all work, he put on the harness, and then attached
the cart; and having arranged every thing to suit his
mind; he crept into the loft, and brought down a bag of
shelled corn; then gAng to his own garden-patch, he
pulled up a few vegetables, nearly gone to seed, and
placed them beside the corn; then jumping over the fence
into his mistress's garden, he crawled upon his hands and
knees among some low bushes, covered by what was once
the shed of a bee-house, and dexterously took two setting

hens, of the Bantam breed, from off their nests; and put-
ting the exposed eggs in 'his pockets, lie got back safely to
his cart: and arranging the eggs in some cotton seed, and
tying the, hens like a bundle in a handkerchief, he covered
the whole up with 'dry fodder,' and with a sanctimonious
look, drove out into the highway.
Mildmay, who was temporarily occupied in superin-
tending some repairs in the road, was sitting on his horse,
when Dan made his appearance; and as the old negro
humbly touched his hat to C~ master," he remarked:
"I see, Dan, you have not forgotten the old mule's
appetite, judging from the fodder you take along with
you."
'Dan covered up the confusion of his face, by pretending
to look at something in his rear, and~ then pulling his old
hat over his eyes, as a mark of respect to his master, he'
passed on without detection. Mildmay under ordinary air-
cumstances would have discovered The fraud, but his mind
was too much occupied by' the events of the day, to observe
all the minor incidents passing before him.
Dan, as is the case with all old negroes, had a way of
conversing with himself, and if you could overhear him
it would be difficult, at first, to imagine that .he was really
alone, he gave such effect to his "~thinking aloud,"-the
moment therefore he got out of reach of observation, he
commenced giving expression to his thoiights,~:-~.
Wha-'.wha--wha-wal, I didn't take do big hens, Wha-'
wha-wha.--what was worth something to mistress, not me;
tuck de little ones jus worth notin at all-he--he-.he-~--tuck
em cause do eggs all done spile by do thunder-~.-and ain't

I


244             TUE MASTEa's HousE;                                                      A TALE OF 5OUTHER~ LIFE.           245

dat my corn, any how you can fix it ?..~~~wha.~wha-wha-"what
you get along dat away for, Dick Johnson (hitting the
mule over the hack), can't ye see de rut, widout old Dan
tellin' you?"
In similar pleasant conversation, D~n indulged, until
he reached the suburb of Beecliland, and then stopping his
mule, he cautiously looked around to see if any one was
near him, when satisfying hiniseif that he was not observed,
he took out his stolen goods, and depositing them with
precipitation underneath some brush by the road side, he
hobbled into his seat and rode along.
In a few moments he was in the town-~-among the old
ruined buildings that every where met the eye, was one
distingui8hable for having doors still on their fastenings,
and windows patched with paper, and fishes filled with
rags. Across the front of this wretched house, wa~ painted
"Grocery," but some wag had blotted up the bottom curve
of the c, and it read, groGery, which wui really the idea
the sign was intended to convey.
As Dan neared this noticeable place, he commenced
hallooing with unusual vehemence to his mule, at the
sa~me time, by pretending the animal would not obey the
reins, he managed to land close against the door, which
was immediately opened, and Dan was greeted by a rough-
looking white man,-a few tekgraphic signs passed be-
tween the pair, and the negro assuming his naturally inn~o-
cent and stolid look, continued his journey.
Passing by a large and evidently a substantial store,
a very gentlemanly-looking young man hallooed out to
Dan.

"Ho! boy, don't you belong to Mr. Mildmay?"
"Ye-ye-yes----.master," said Dan touching his hat.
"Then," said the gentleman, "when you go home, stop
here, I have something to put in your cart."
"Ye-ye--yes, sir," said Dan, again touching his apo-
logy for a bat.
Without more adventure, Dan reached the court-house,
where still lay, and entirely alone, the body of the unfortu-
nate Jack, but now protected from the vulgar gaze, by a
straight-sided box, made of rough boards, which had been
supplied by the order of the coroner.
Dan sat in his cart, and filled with strange emotions,
eyed askance the wreck of mortality.-As we have said,
he was superstitious, and he had a terrible dread of the
dead.
"Wha-wha-wha-what in de world massa send old
Dan down here for,-.--spose Jack come back agin, and I
'lone in de woods, wha.-wha.--wha~what eum of old Dan,
ha?" and the poor fellow seemed to expect that every mo-
ment he should be assaulted by spirits fron~ another world.
Not many nw~ents passed, however, before Dan was
surrounded by a ~aminber of idle negro gossips, and long
and dismal stori. and fearful reminiscences were given,
until from talking ajid listening, they would start at their
own voices-then anxious to get away from the suggesting
cause of so much terror, they helped Dan to place the coffin
in the cart, and rapidly disappeared.
The negro, now aln~ost paralyzed with fear and tre~n~o
bling, took out his charm, and addressing' the little par-
cel as if it had been an intelligent being, asked of it ~to

244

245


2413            THE MASTER~5 HOUSE;
afford him protection in the dark woods, and not to let
Jack cQme back and hurt him; and he then started for
home: but soon coming up to the store, where he was re-
quested to stop, one of the clerks, without deigning to ask
Dan what he had for his load, put a bale of rope, a box of
raisins, and a cheese, on top of the coffin; told Dan "to
get them to his master safe," and ran back into the store.
"Wa-wa-well," said Dan, as he moved along, "got
something else in dat cart to keep old Dan company;
s'pose old Dan tinks da-da-da-dat box empty, den it's all
right: go 'long, Dick Johnson," jerking the mule, "don't
be getting to sleep at dis time ob day. Oh, Lord!
wha-a-a-what will become of old niggers ?" and for a
moment lost in this reflection, he broke out in a loud
voice, "Dar's Dick a dancing' wid my gal-le-le-let de cot-
ton grow, who car's-old Dan is all de way from old Kain-
tuck-Virginny shuffle-ma~ter'$ home-keep de-..de-de
pot a biin as you pass over Jourdan. Wha-wha-wha-----
oh, Lord!"
Arriving at the place where he deposited his "plixn-
der," he got down from his seat, and looki~ig cautiously
around, thrust his hand under the bush, and pulled out
a bottle of whiskey "corked" with a corncob; and taking
therefrom a hearty swig, he resumed hi~ place, more vocif-
erous than ever.
'Towards midnight the body of Jack was deposited in
his humble, but once happy cabin.
The grave had. already been dug; and just as the
moon commenced rising above the horizon, a few fellow.
servants, who kindly remembered Jack, joined in a funeral

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.             24~I

procession to pay' the last tribute to the obscure dead.
As the humble mourners moved along, the simple hymn
went up, that breathed a hope of immortality. The body
was lowered into its last resting-place,-.~-the cold sod fell
heavily upon the rude encasement. When the burial was
completed, the old negro workman gave a last pat with his
heavy spade, and said,
"Thank old Marster above! Jack's done got free pa-
pers at last."
Major Trimmer was not disappointed in his expecta-
tions of a client, when he saw the murdered body of Jack,
for he knew that he must be " engaged for the defence,~~
for no sooner had Toadvine time to collect his ideas,
than he sent the jailer to the major; as might be expected,
Trimmer immediately answered the summons.
The moment Major Trimmer entered Toadvine's cell,
he assumed a vacant look, and answered eyery question
with the bluntest imaginaiide monosyllables. To such an
extent was this carried, that his client finally became ner-
vous, and asked an explanation.
"The first thing to be attended to," said the major,
suddenly finding his loquacious tongue, "is the fee'~; ar-
range for that, and we will at once proceed to business."
"And how much will it be?" asked Toadvine, putting
his hand in his pocket.
"A thDusand dollars would be a smalL sum for so bad
a case as yours; but, considering'you are not too rich, I'll
say five hundred."
"You don't mean to say you charge five hundred for

247


248             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                   A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         249

getting me out of this little affair, do you?" said Toadvine,
gaping in astonishment.
"I don't know what you call a little affair," said the
major, rising and buttoning his coat, as if intending to go;
"if living in the penitentiary for ten years is a little
affair, I hope you will have a good time of it."
"But you don't think it is any thing serious, do you?"
inquired Toadvine, becoming alarmed.
"Why, if being in custody, with a clear case of killing
against you, and the whole community in arms, ain't
serious, then I have studied my profession in vain."
"I see," said Toadvine, his fears coming upon him
with tenfold force-" I see, but how can I pay you so large
a' sum, when I haven't got the money?"
"Well, what have you got?" inquired the major, sen-
tentiously.
"There's my horse," said Toadvine, with bitterness;
"he is worth seventy-five dollars."
"Well,~~ said the major.
"Then here is a due-bill on Smithers &amp; Co., drawn'
at ninety days by Mr. Mildmay~'for one hundred and sixty
dollars"
~ echoed the major.
"And is not that, enough to commence with?" gasped
Toadvine, for the first time beginning to feel that it did
cost something to "kill a nigger."
"Why," said the major, reckoning a moment' in his
head, "if I take the horse and due-bill even as cash, they
will only make two hundred and forty-four dollars; secure

me enough to make up the five hundred, else I shall have
no excuse to keep me from appearing for the State."
"You wouldn't go agin me?" said Toadvine, turning
pale with apprehension.
"I must make a living," said the major, as cold as
marble.
"But," said Toad~ine, more than ever sorry that he
had killed Jack, "I have no other property except an un~
divided interest in the boy Jo, now in the possession of
Col. Price."
"How much d~ you own of that nigger?"
~ One half" said Toadvine.
"And do you think I could buy the other half of
Price ?"
"I think not, because, you see, ever since Col. Price
parted from his wife, she wQn't sign away, what he calls,
her 'infernal rights."'
"Paraphernal rights," you mean, said the major, his
eye beaming with conscious superiority.
"Well, it's something that keeps Price froni selling
his half of Jo, and that's all I know about it."
Now the major had informed himself in advance of all
the property that Toadvine was worth, so pullii~g out a
paper, and a pocket inkstand, he made a preliminary
transfer to himself of all Toadvine's worldly goods, viz.,
the horse,.-.Mildmay's due-bill,--and the legal possession
of half of the negro boy Jo; that being done, the major 'at
once entered upon the business before him, and in less
than ten minutes satisfied Toadvine that it was now easy
to get him clear tf the consequences of killing Jack,-.
11*


250

THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

which made Toadvine again come to the conclusion in his
own mind, that twenty dollars was even more than enough
to pay any one for getting him out of "this little affair."
After a great deal of "tacking and filling" by the
major,. more to affect the imagination of his client than
any thing else, it was finally agreed that the "hctbeas cor-
pus" was not to be attempted, because it might be possi-
ble that the judge would be strict, as the excitement on
the public mind, was decidedly against the prisoner. And
Major Trimmer came to the conclusion, also, that. it wa~
possibly safer for Toadvine to stay in jail than to run the
*risk of falling into the ~hands of ~Gen, Bledsoe and his
friends; an~ by ~way of consolation to the prisoner, he said:
"By lying in a jail a few weeks before the trial, it will
create a sympathy for you outside; and will enable me to
show the jury, that even while the law presumed that you
were innocent, you had suffered sufficient punishment,
even if guilty of the crime charged:" and with these rea-
sons, Toadvine was content to remain in durance vile.

4

I

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          251
CHAPTER XXII.
DIXON JOURNEYS ON BUSINESS.
DIX02~T amused himself while in Washington by attend-
ing the debates in "~both houses of Congress." He was
quite a politician in his way, and nothing pleased him so
much, he said, "as to hoar Southern members talk to
Northern representatives, as if they owned them."
From some of the "N. C.'s" of the "Middle States"
he obtained much valuable information relative to the
C'
supply," and from others of the extreme southwest, of
the "demand" for negroes. His- address in commanding
attention from "pulAic men" was much 'admired by Dix-
on's confederates, and was frequently alluded to by them
as one of the many evidences of his uncommon talents.
Dixon himself felt his decided superiority in, this re-
spect, and would sometimes amuse his friends with anec-
dotes, illustrating how he used these very gentlemen for
his own purposes. He mentioned several particular cases
where he go~L possession of "favorite body servants" by
advancing a few hundred dollars just at~ the time their
masters were hard up at the gaming-table, or deprived ~of


A TALE OF 5OU~HERN LIFE.         253

252             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

their reason, by the long-continued debauch'; for he took a
sort of malicious satisfaction in getting the better in a
bargain of men, who, though. at the time overreached by
him, were nevertheless receiving the echoed plaudits of
the coijintry, for "their great speeches in the national
councils."
One. night after sitting out a very "late debate,"
Dixon walked slowly out of the "Capitol" toward "his
pen," on the suburbs ~of the city. It must have been
eleven o'clock, when his signal was recognized by the sleepy
attendant, who let him in.
"Has Hovey got back from Colesburg, Putty-face ?"
said he, taking his seat at the rude' pine table, and pulling
out a little leather-covered note-book, preparatory to look-
ing over its contents.
"He's come back, and has just turned in," said the
man, snuffing the candle with his thumb and forefinger.
"Tell him I want to see him," said Dixon, looking
over .hi~ note-book.
"Putty-face" walked across the room, opened a door,
and exposed upon a rude bench, a man with his clothes on,
and asleep.
"Wake up here 1" said he, giving the man a shake.
Hovey sprang upright in bed, and although still al-
most asleep, had instinctively, as it were, grasped a long
knife, that was under his pillow, and opening his eyes, de-
manded in most shockingly profane language, what was the
matter?
"Dixon wants you," was the simple reply.
"I was clre~ming ju8t~now,". said Hovey, putting up

his knife, and hunting around for. his shoes, "that some-
body was going to cut my throat;" 'and after. uttering this
pleasant reminiscence, he shui~ed into Dixoii's presence,
and took a seat on the opposite side of the table.
For some moments the; negro trader continued to ex-
amine tl~e hieroglyphic marks before him; when he turned
around suddenly to Hovey, and said:
'What news from Colesburg ?"
'Nothing," said Hovey, sententiously.
"You think that no more niggers can be bought in that
neighborhood ?"
"1 do," responded Hovey, at the same time yawning
excessively.
"And I don't," said Dixon, with a confident tone of
voice: "you see, Hovey, when you think you have got all
the niggers out~ of a place, the best ones is generally left
behind. I~{iggers is like pigs,-.them that ain't worth
much run ahead, and come into ,inar.~ket before them that
will bring the most. money."
"I didn't. hear of any," sleepily drawled I1ovey~
"Did you inquire about old General Blueridge's house
servants?" asked Dixon, looking attentively at his book.
"He sold all' oi~it last, spring."
~" And old Aifovernor Fento~, what's he doing?
" I think yc~u could get hi~ boy now, ~f you went your-
self."

."And what makes you think so ?" asked Dixon, quite
animatedly.
"'Cause he's out for office, and must treat tGget elected. "
Dixon, when he heard this reply, laid down his book,


254             THE- MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                 A TALE OF ~0UTHERN LIFE.          -255

and looked at his assistant for some seconds with intense
admiration, and then said:
"Hovey, you  are larnin'-for if Fenton is on the
stunip agin7 I could lend him money on his soul, if it was
worth 'a mortgage; to say nothing of that yeller fellow he
calls 'C~esar, my boy 1"' and Dixon made a rude note in
his book.
"And supposin' you do lend him money?" asked Ho-
vey, with some interest.
"Suppose I do!" replied iDixon, triumphantly, "why,
if you lend a man, about such a place as Colesburg, a
few hundred on any thing, you must close the mortgage
when it's due, to get your. money back. I've seen
niggers that their masters thought as much of, as they
did of their own flesh and blood, and perhaps they l!Lad
reason to, and they wouldn't sell, oh no! too consciattious
-under too many obligations to the darkee, and his dad
and mammy before him, to let him go to I.~ouisiana; but they
would borrow two or three hundred till next fall, and give
the 'pet,' as collateral security-i-when I cum round agin,
and wanted the money, the-men would all ;go into the dig-
nified, and the women into the hysterics, but the darkee
was mine, no fc~u1t of theirs, - of course I-' my hardy
heart!' 'my ctuel dispositioA' did jist all-it's a great
game, this world 1" said Dixon, apparently confounded at
'the magnitud&amp;of his ~ojwn thoughts and reflections.
-After a few moments musing, the trader started up, and
said, "I'll take the cars tomorrow morning, and go to Coles-
burg myself. There's one .or two light mulatto girls there,
I must have at any price. If Ragan sends around a ne-

gro to-morrow, with a swelled throat, and a seton. in his
neck; put the sick cuss down in the cellar until I come
back, maybe he's got something catching. I bought that
old negro, '11~ndolph; to-day, of Wilkins, and also the
buggy, and the wheelbarrows ~ have the buggy put under
the shed and covered up, and if old Randolph hasn't got
any bedclothes, he must rough it th~ best way he can. If
that widow lady, who keeps the fashionable hotel, near
the 'white house,' and wants a middle-aged, respectable-
1ook~ng negro man, for a table waiter, thinks Homer is too
old, have his front teeth filed down, his hair well dyed,
and hi~ skin greased, and keep him up until I come back.
from Colesburg,-.and, finally," said Dixon, putting up his
memorandum book, "if any body wants to se~ me very
muchsay I sht~ll be gone a week;' and now go to bed, if
you want to, and I'll turn in, myself."
Dixon~ at the conclusion of these general remarks,
without ceremony took the light, and pxamining the fast-
enings of the front door, and walking across the room, and
putting his ear to the keyhole of the door that opened
into the cells of the negroes in "his yard;" he seemed
to be satisfied that all was right, and going, into a rather
comfortalile adjoining room, hastily retired, ,and was soon
asleep.
4Jolesburg, although mu~h gone to decay, was originally
one of the most pleasant and thriving towns in Virginia.
For more tht~n 'thirty years, it had graduali~ declined in
population and importance. The people of the surrounding
country had ,one after another, moved -away to the south'
and west, leaving' large tracts of worn-out land,' dotted


256             THE MAS~ER'5 HousE;                                                A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         257

ovei~witJi statelyy. but decaying residences, altogether pre-
senting the most terrible pictures of desolation that could
offend the eye, or harrow up the heart.
From the vicinity of Oolesburg, Dixon had for many
years; through his agents, purchased a large part Gf the
choicest " house-raised" negroes, which he offered for sale
in New Orleans, ~ut never having been to the place him-
self, he was on the occasion of his present visit, a perfect
stranger to the town.
In accordance with his usual manner of doing business,
he desired to have the purpose of his visit to Colesburg
unknown until he satisfied himself what were the chances
of accomplishing his wishes; for Dixon knew from sad ex-
perience, that however anxious people might be to sell
their "property," they visited upon him, as a negro-trader,
indignation that should have been, as he thought, "equally
shared by those who furnished the articles of traffic."
KDixon therefore, on his arrival at Colesburg, wrote his
name in the hotel books, and under "residence," put" Bos-
ton, Ms.," a bit of shrewdness that had on more than one
occasion, answered the desired purpose; and having done
this, and directed his baggage to be sent to his room, he
strolled leisurely about the streets.
The morning following Dixon's arrival at Colesburg,
was Sirnday, and after breakfast he dressed with more than
usual care, combed his~hai~ over his forehead, and walked
down stairs, preparatory to fulfilling a determination of go-
ing 'to church. On the porch of the hotel, he ~sawa~en-
tletnan, whQ seemed to have a communicative sort of ex-
pre8sioll, and Dixon in his direct way asked him,-" If

the large church he saw in the centre of Colesburg had a
gallery?"
"It has a gallery," said the individual addressed, "but
it is principally occupied by negroes. If you will see the
sexton, Cola Graves, he will, no doubt, show you to a seat
down stairs, and among some of our 'best families."'
"I am not very particular whereabouts. I worship,"
said Dixon, with an irony he could scarcely conceal.
"You Northerners don't seem to be as particular in these
matters as the Virginians are," said the garrulous speaker.
"And how do you know I am a Northerner?" said
Dixon, turning abruptly upon the unfortunate object of his
displeasure.
"I reckon a man that hails from Boston can't be much
else," said. the man, evidently delighted with his own
shre'~rdne~s, "but you needn't get angry about it," he gra-
ciously observed, "for' I never think more or less of a man
merely on account 'of hisA birth-place."
"But I do," returned Dixon, his face a good deal
flushed.
The man looked at him a moment with evident grat-
ification, and went on.
"I am happy to meet with a Northern man, who has
such sentiments-4 honor you for it.. 'it's an old Virginia
weakness, sir, to be proud of one's native State. If I came
from Boston even, I should state the fact-bear the 9onse-
quences-be a Yankee.",
"But I am not such a hell of a Yjiankee as you take
me. to be," said Dixon, boiling 'internally with wrath, yet

9
Y
s
e
- r
n


'K

258

THE 1&amp;A5TER'$ HOUSE;

not forgetting the association connected with his name on
"I t'hou~ht so myself," returned the man, with some
vivacity, "for you see I look over the hotel books every
morning, and I ean tell where people were raised by their
handwriting.
"Jiow cai~ you do that?" asked Dixon eagerly.
"Why, you 'see," returned this 'Mr. Pry,' that the
genuine Yankee always dots his I'$ and crosses his T's,
and writes~his name straight along, whether the paper is
ruled or, not, but the Southerner generally goes up and
down, an4 crossWise,~ and don't stop to attend to vulgar,
mechanical particulars."
Dixon wrote his signature so that it was easily made,
out, 'but the chirography resembled the. first ~efforts of an
untutored child. There was a want of decision about the
letters;' that had caused him much mortification, but
when he learned 'from 'Mr. Pry' that his 'pot.~hooks and
spider tracks had a southern air about them, he was ex-
ceedingly delighted that lie possessed this, to him hereto-
fore unknown evidence of sectionality, and with a smile 'of
unusual' satisfaction, he walked into the street.
Dixon managed to arrive at the "sacred edifice" just
before the s~r~vices commenced, and 'walking 'up into the
gallery of the ehurbh, he took one of the ~seats appropriat-
ed for' the whites-seats seldomm visited except by the poor-
est and' humblest citizens..' In fact the vicinity might h~we
been with propriety termed "proscribed," for it was gen-
erally' supposed, that any one who would advertise his

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

259'

graceless conditiofi, by occupying these "free seats," gave
evidence of being utterly lo~t to all self.respect.
The assumed sanctimonious face of Dixon, his good
figure, and well arranged suit of black, caused one or two
of the elders to look up inquiringly at his perch; and at
one time; it appeared as if he would be invited to sit nearer
"the head pf the table," an act of courtesy. which would
have given him pleasure, but which he would most posi-
tively have declined.
Before him, as in an amphitheatre, were displayed 'the
favorite house' servants of the town of Colesburg. The day
was fine, and the exhibition was unusually imposing. There
sat the negroes, characterized by every possible shade of
color, fron~. the sooty black up to the bllueish white, and
possessed of every possible variety of expression in their
faces.
Some Were scarcely able to conceal their exultation, as
they surveyed their gaudily-decked"persons, while others,
unmistakably 'alluded' in no very complimentary' terms ~to
Dixon, as a white man that had "got into tl~e wrong
pew."
In the front row sat "Maria," the only servant of
"Mr. Goodall," a likely-looking, intelligent girl of eighteen
or twenty, plainly but tastefully dressed. There was an
air of contentment and intelligence about her face that in-
dicated the well-raised domestic. In her hand sh~ held~ a
handsomely-bound volume, which~ she occasionally leaned
over as if desirous of learning its contents. Behind Maria
were several ascending rows of females, including every
variety of person and age, also a great number of' men,


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         261

260             THE MASTER'S HOUSE

mostly in the prime of life, all looking fat and sleek, and
vying favorably with the white congregation in the body
of the church, in the fineness of their clothing, and atten-
tion to the observances of the day.
As~ Dixon sat down, he bent his body forward, as if
invoking a blessing, but he really assumed this attitude,
that he' ~night more satisfactorily scan through his half part-
ed fingers the appearance of the "property" before him.
"iLthink," he soliloquized, after a long~ professional
gaze, regarding a venerable-looking negro, who seemed to
act in the capacity of subordinate sexton, "I think that
that woolly-headed old crow would be all the better for
having' his feet in 'the stocks a few nights, with his shirt
off, and mosquitoes plenty.
"That saddle-colored' nigger grinning at me, 'cause he
thinks I don't know where to get the right seat' in church,
would be all' the better for about 'forty-five,' well laid on,
and tarpentined to make 'em stick.
"I l~elieve that I could'get about eleven hundred dollars
in New Orleans, for that young fellow pushing the window
up'
"As for the monkey who sits near him, his shoulders
are so narrer that he ain't worth his passage to Louisiana,"
and thus he thought 'on, until his eyes glanced over the
lower seats occupied by the females.
"None of 'em has got the light color for real fancy
niggers," he 'almost groaned, as he discovered the fact.' "I
should lik~ to have the burning off of them pink ribbons
from the head of that 'cook, washer and ironer,'" he sug-

gjested to himself, becoming indignant ~t ~the tasteful cap
of a middle-aged* negress.
'f If that gal in the plaid dress can do plain sewing, she
would fetch more than if she was sold for a field hand.'
"Wonder how many of 'em is free? "he asked, almost
aloud, his presence of mind being for the moment overcome
at the thought of sueh a dreadful supposition.
"How many is(members of this 'ere church ?.-.wonder
if Spooney in the pulpit there goes in for the Bible, sanc-
tioning slavery? Hello, he's coming out with a hyme, and
that girl with the gilt-edged book is a hunting' for the varse
-.--that nigger 'would sell," and for the first time, he took
a particular look at" Mr. Goodall's" Maria.
"She comes it StrQng," said Dixon, after listening a~
while; and plainly distinguishing her voice above the whole
congregation. "Why don't Southern churches buy singing
niggers and own their choirs?" and as the plausibility of
the thing struck his mind, he made a memorandum in
his never-to-be-forgotten book.
* The services being ended, the congregation separated
into a variety of streams, and distributed itself over the
town. Although Dixon was recognized as a stranger, still
no one had ~us~ected his vocation, and he wandered down
the principal street.. towards his hotel, the subject of much
innocent gossip, the popular impression being, that he was
in some way connected with a proposed railroad that a
"Northern company" had projected in the vicinity.
Dixon, from the information he already had of the~
town and its people, and from his own examination at
church, 'had formed a Very good idea of the "state of the


2&amp;2             TUE MA5TER~5 hOuSE;                                                   A TALE OF SOUTIuBUN LIFE.          263

market," and determined to set at once about business,
regardless of his disguise. With this resolution in his
mind, he saw coming toward, him a young man whom he
had noticed hanging about the bar of the hotel, whose care-
worn looks gave painful evidence that he was, from dissi-
pation, to be a, victim of a premature grave.
"I think that young man might be of service to me,
and as he drinks hard, he'll n~t be over particular as to
what he does, to get a. little money, proud as he looks,"
thought Dixon, standing still on the walk, until the person
alluded to came up.
"You'll excuse, me, stranger," said Dixon, the instant
he was within speaking distance, "you will excuse me, if I
ask you what time they dine on Sunday, at the hotel? for,
I perceive you are one of its boarders."
"I do pafronize the place," replied the young man, in a
grandiloquent manner. "I suffer myself to go about the
premises, when I have nothing better to do."
Dixon perceiving that the gentleman was communica-
tive, dropped his query about the dinner, and went on
"I am a stranger in Colesburg,-came here on a little
private business, and should like some information."
"I am at leisure to answer any inquiries," said the
young man, "but the fact is, I am so confounded dry, that
I ean't speak the truth."
"Walk back to the hotel, sir," said Dixon, "for I have
good brandy in my room, or we can take some at the bar."
"I will take a drink," returned the young man, "though
I have threatened to out the concern, particularly on ac-

count of the bad liquQr they keep; for if there is any thing
I do know, it's good brandy.'~
It is needless to say, that 'Mr. Mercer '~(for that was
the gentleman's name) and Dixon were soon apparently
good friends.' There was a time in the young man's his-
tory, when he was known as the proudest and most accom-
plished scion of a stock, historically celebrated for virtue
and independence; but the living representative had squan-
dered his fortune, ruined his health, tarnished his. fame;.
was, in fact, a mere wreck of his former self. The oppor.
unity of. living off of any one, even for a day, was a rare
privilege to Mercer, and he was prepared on the instant to
do any thing to render himself agreeable or useful.
At dinner, IMlercer, as Dixon's guest, drank deeply, but
it was evident that drinking, with the trader, was more a
form than a reality, for he never clouded his reason when
he had any thing of importance to do.
The secret leaked out at the table~ however, that Dixon
was a "negro trader," and there was passed among the
people present indignant looks, that a person of such a busi-
ness, would presume to so publicly offend those present
with his society.
Dixon felt,',the instant his business was known, that the
ban of proscription was openly put upon him, an~ it seem-
ed, that he enjoyed the bitterness of spirit that this 'con-
sciousness called up, for he assumed aeonfldent, a defiant
air, and made Mercer's follies the medium through which
he exhibited hi~ dislike, to those about him.
Dinner over, Dixouled Mercer to his room, and helping
him to a chair, sat down himself, to carry out his original
.2

j

202

263


284

THE MASTER'S 1IOUS~

purpQ$e of -finding out all he could of the people he had
to deal with.
"Your citizens don't like nigger-traclers much," said
he, looking over some due-bills, taken from his well-worn
pocket-book.
"Don't like 'em at the dinuer-table~ or in the public
streets," said the young man, with a sneer.
"There wouldn't be any traders," said Dixon, with
mor6.tlian usual seriousness, "if there were no buyers and
sellers; and the devil don't make nice distinctions when he
ever gets his own, that's one comfort."
"This world is a perfect infernal humbug, and about
as full of hypocrites as it is of human beings," returned
Mercer, "for you see the very people that have sold me
the most bad liquor at the highest price make it 'a point
to be the most buq in denouncing what they call my in-
temperate habits."
"1~xa~tly," said Dixon, fully comprehending Mercer's
meaning, "but about these people in Colesburg-can I buy
a few choice ,servants in 'the neighborhood, think you? will
the people' sell-are they hard up, or any thing of that
sort?"
"As for the servants," replied Mercer, that's doubtful,
"for the 'community has been .pretty well culled-as for
the 'Iiiard up;' there's pleiity of -cthat, for," continued the
young mati, laughing at hi~ own conceit-.--" if there was a
nigger to represent all the money that is wanted in Coles-
burg, Africa would be depopulated to supply the 'demand."
"Bxit I don't want many," said Dixon, mechanically
eyeing his memorandum book, "only five or six, b~it they

''I
A TALE OF ~OtrTuEuN LIFE.

265

must be tip-top,---.no field liancis,-.highest style, first family~
niggers."
~'A year or two ago," said Nercer, "you 'could have
been suited to a T; there were the. remains here at that
time, of some of the very best estates, and towards the
winding up of them, some men and women got into the
markets, that were better people, 'according to my notion,
than the 'Yankees that have moved into the places their
masters occupied. "
"Better to work?" said Dixon, with a comical twinkle
of the eye.
"No, not better to work, God knows," returned the
young man, with emphasis, "but better Virginians~why,
sir," continued Mercer, warming up, "there's We place on
the upper road once known as Carlton, I think old Gen;
Annesley had fifty hands or~i it, and the estate wouldn't
pay expenses; a fellow from Connecticut bought the land,
at the sheriff's sale, divided it up into small farms, sold
out enough to get the family mansion, and all the ground
he wants, foI7 nothing, and it is said he is getting rich."
"What a sweet place Virgiida. will be," suggested
Dix~n,"when such free~-silers come along and crowd out
'all y~our beet people."
"They are doing. it, though," said Mercer, sorrowfully,
"doing it evei.y day-.-.the old-times spirit is goiie--.-uo rn~re
card parties, no more races, no more cockfighting, no more
balls, ~o more patriotisxn,~evcry thing is diUl, clii
state pride 'have departed2'     '         vairy and'
"ft's all 'owing to the Union," said Dixon, e~nphaticaily.
"It's the Union, Mr. Mercer, that' does the injury; 'and' it~
12


26~             THE MASTER'S uousz;                                             A. TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

will continue to do so, as long as we allow the. North to
interfere with ~ur rig~ats; unless that's stopped, w~ must go
to the dogs."
"1 think I had better leave the State," said Mercer,
after some hesitation, " and I want to ask you, Mr. Dixon,
what you think of my goiPg down South?"
As Dixon was ideally interested in this young nian,
he gave him his ideas elaborately, and.answered every suc-
cessive question to the best of his ability. In conclusion
of his ren~iarks, that gentlen~atL said:
"On going down the Mississippi every thing depends
on how you start. 'If you can flare up, and' int~ke a figure,
you'll do-but ~if you just go quietly to work at some honest
business, selling niggers or dry-goods, or teaching a school,
or getting up railroads, the people will set you down as
1a~king spirit. The very best way i~ to get up a duel and
kill somebody,'but if you can't do that, there's other open-
ings 'most as good; credit-if rode fast and made a short
heat of, will carry ,a fellow through uutil he can marry
rich, or something of that sort-but every thing depends
on the w~iy you caVort s~reund-talk about State rights, and
,Southert~ ir~dependenCe~-neXt to hard cash, splurging will
set you ahead, and," concluded Dixon, in a semi-patetnal
manner, "what I have seen of yQu, Mr. Mereer, satisfies me
that you'll do,"

CHAPTI~R XXIII.
DIXON'S UNEXPECTED SUCCESS.
THE news of Dixon's business purposes spread through
Colesburg like Wildfire. There was a secret pleasure, as
well as absolute pain, imparted by it to 'a few w~io were
desirous of selling; but among the negroes there was pro-
duced a consternation, such as might be supposed to exist
in a crowded hospital of wounded men, where a bombshell
had fallen through the roof, and wad, before their very
eyes, preparing to explode.
That telegraphic power of communication, so peculiar
to the negro, throbbed the fact through' their humble
apartments, and' their' agitated hearts; that the white man
so distinguished by 'his lOnely appearance in the" "church
gallery in the morning, wa~ a negro trader; and they
trembled with consternation ~vhen they reinenibered~ that
he eyed th~ni' ivith earnestness and had already decided
which among their number he-would buy.
Through Mercer's ~indefatigable exertions, Dixon was
early informed' 'of a "bargain" in the neighborhood' of
Oole8burg ;'. and in company with 'his coadjutor, Dixon


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE..       269

268             THE MASTER'S HOUSR;

went into the country, and found inducemetits sufficient to
remain away all day. In fact, it was long after dark
before he. arrived at his hotel; and after eating a light
supper, he went at once to his room.
Of late Dixon had become daily mere and more sen~i-
t~ve about the character of his pursuits; he was accumu-
lating, almost to his own surprise, a great deal of wealth,
and with it came the desire to~ be personally respected.
lie had perceived the marked difference of the people of
Colesburg toward him, when, they considered him a rail-
road contractor (an occupation, by th9 way, Dixon looked
upon with disgust) and a "negro trader;" and he feltliis
business, except for its great profits, to be' more and more
distasteful to him.
Disposing of himself in a eomfo~ble xnanner~ in hi~
room, he threw his feet into the window-sill,, and, acco~diflg
to his wont, cogaated aloud:
* "I've, made enough to quit this business,' if I choose;
aiA I'm, tired~of doing other people's dirty work for them.
If buying. niggers ain't respectable, let poor folk~ attend
to tr~di~g; I think that I'll go home, turn planter, and
* put on airs niy~elf. 'I ain't going to help.n~ake money for
* people who are afraid to sp~ak to me in the streets, or to
be seen dating with me at their tables: I'll ~win4 up, and
quit in.~rchandisiffg this winter comi~1g, I reckon -"
'.Justi at this monwnt a gentle tap wa~ heard at Dix-
on's door, and witb(out turning, his head around, he said,
One of the~ servants of the hotel, who had heretofore
callal Dixon to his face' "Boss" and "Mister," and

given 'other signs of being contaminated, as~ Dixon said,
by his intercourse with "Northern society," 110W StjQOd in
the room in a humble attitude, calling attention by the
simple, but expressive term of. "Master~"
So altered was the negro's manner, that Dixon did not,
by the ear, recognize the boy; and ti~rning around to see
who it was, could not conceal his surprise, when he dis-
covered the familiar face of "Sandy 13i11,"-for such was
the negro's name.
"And what do you want?" said Dixon, n&amp;w for the
first time resuming his natural manner, and by its air
of authority, sending a chill to Sandy BilP~ very mar-
row and bones.
"The notes~ sir," said the negro, pointing to several
handsome envelopes on the mantel-piece, that had escaped
Dixon's attention.
"Letters to me!" murn~ured Dixon, as he raised them
up, one by one, and read the superseriptiQil, "J-a-m-e-s
Di-x-&amp;n, E-s-q., P;r-e-s-e-n-t."
"What does this mean, boy?" said he, giving the negro
a look, that seenie&amp; to say, "I'll thrash your hide off if
~ou don't instantly ~plain this mystery!"
1 don't kno~r~ master," said Sandy WII, his, knees
fairly shaking with eear.i "I don't know, master ;dem.
thar letters cum when you was~gone into the country.".
"Well, take that for your stupidity, and toddle down
stairs," said Dixon, throwing ar pie~e of silver at the boy'.4
head.
"WIiat~ does thi8 mean ?" soliloquized Di~oi~, break-
izig. one of the seals. 'F Who's been writing nie lo~r~ let.


2170

TIlE M45TER~S HOUSE;

ters, I should like to know? What's this?" aud he read'
'as follows:)
Mr. 'J. Dixon, Jefferson Uotel.
DEAR Sm,-I understand you desire to purchase some
valuable house servants. I have one or two that I would
part with, it the trad~ could be made privately, and created
by you~ as conMential. j[ will be at the cross roads, near
tEe c44 brick kiln, precisely at lIve o'clock, W1iei~e we can
hold conversation unobserved.
Yours respectfully,'
'BuuTus.'
Dixon laid' the note upon the table, and. walked .up
and.down the room, perfectly furious. Theidea of being
ford to tradethus, by stealth, made eve~his ears, tingle
with shame, and the idea was forced upon his ~iind at the
very moment when he wa~ in the least humor to bear it.
Taking up another notejlie broke ~pen the seal, with
an expression of face that implied there wa~ something
offensive to be unloosed by the act, and read
COLESBURO, VA., July~ -.
DEIiLR Siu,-I have been informed that you wish to
purchase a few first class house.~servants; I have two that
I would part with, for less than theirreal value; if you can
manage to get them 'in your possession, without giving
their owners the pain ~of going through the separation.
they h~ve been carefully raised, and would not be sold, if
their owners were not conscientiously impressed that their
cQnditiou'woul4 not be improved, if they were ~et free. I
sliall be at your~ hotel at eleven o'clock today, and shall

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          241
proceed a~t once to y6ur room, to aid the ~usp~cion among
the neighbors, that I am contemplatingselling.. You will
consider our coi~munioations in Jionor, and trust they will
be~so treated.
With great respect,
Youm,
YoRx~roWN. -
J. Th~on, ]~sq~, of  ~ew OrIe~ns.
"This, fellow," said Dixon, ~getting calm through very
indign~vion, "wants me to buy' his live' stock, atid then
kidnap it into the bargain. I don't believe in kidnapping,
unless it be ta~ catch an 'abolitionist, but I'll acoonimo4ate
this Mr. Yorktown, and make him pay me well ~'or th~e
trouble-.-.let's see what the next gentleman Jrias to say."
Mister Dixon.                          [No date.]
SUR,-I've got an old n~gro wornaii as7 wants to be sold,
and go, to M~beel' in the State of Mississip'. I wouldn't
sell her, if she didn't want to go down to that'South coun~
try to see her children, as is owned by Mis~ter Browulaw,;
who,~ when, he tuck the children, was to buy the old oQman,~
but didn't haire the money, an hasn't sent :for her 'cordin'
1''
,to contract. I will sel her 'for two hundred and
I think Brownlaw will give you ~our'hundred Mt and
on his pla~e,
as 'her son is a carpenter; and I'm' told he ~thinks a heap
of him, as he' can earn five dollars a' day, makj~ bridges
on the rale r6de.. Pleas&amp; say nQthing .about this, tind drop
in atm.y house in t~he' evening
'the* sandy-hill road ' g, nob~dyis 'about; on
f~ui rnile~ from C olesburg7 near th~

'~' "',~


272              THE ~          HOUSE                                                     A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.             2~73.

ruins ~of the old church, with a sign over the door, with
my name painted on it.              JOHN HowE.
"I remember Howe~~ sign, come to think of it!" said
Dixon, holding the letter between his thumb and foreign'
ger, as if it were a snake; "IL remember his sign, 'John
Howe's grocery; wholesale arid retail ;~oash paid for tobacco
and wheat;' Mercer stopped there, last evening, to get a
drink,.-.-and take out the barrel of whiskey, and an old
tumbler, and the shop would be empty,-bet a hundred to
one th~t that old woman is free, and Mr. Howe wants to
sell me! but he don't!" and Dixon took up the fourth
and last letter, and sitting down near the window, his ill-.
nature having e~raporated, in the multitude of his other
einOti0~IS, he read as follows:
2          COLESBURO, VA.~ July ~
Mr. Dixon.
DEAR Sin,-.---I understood last evening, after church
was out~ that you had come on here to obtain a few choice
servants. I' have brig since been forced to the conclusion,
that slavery is a moral evil, and I have rejoiced that I
have parted with the few I hair~ owned, to humane mas-
ters, which is a great relief to me, in my hoi~rs of serious
reflection. I haye one girl that has been carefully brought
up, axf4 we are much attached to her, but I am somewhat
advanced in years, as welL as her mistress, and we cannot
tell at what time she may, in the course of Providence, be
thrown without a protector, upon the wide, wicke~l world.
I h~d determined not to sell her, but seeing you in church
the other day, I have become deeply impressed that you

are a pious man, and as ~ueh, would ~deal justly with the
girl. I have also reflected, that xvhatever may be my
sense ~f duty, the excitement at the North' has been ~so
great, that it makes it perfectly impossible for me to carry
out my original intention, of setting the girl free, a~ I
cannot conceive a more dreadful condition, than for a once
comfortably clothed arid well taken care 'of negro slave, to
be thrown upon the' tender mercies of the. uncharitable
world, and be left, as are the~ poor white laborers of the
free States~ to starve, and die a miserable 4eath~ It
would be difficult to get the girl's consent t~ be sold, ~
therefore this matter must be delicately arranged; she
will no doubt, at first, be much grieved, but we must'judge
what is best for her welfare, ourselves, for we know b.ow~to
provide for her real good. The girl is nearly'idnete~uy&amp;ars
of age. Address "Humanity," through the post-office,
and say where a strictly private &amp;~rview maybe had. Of
course this communication will be considered confidential.
I trust I may sign myself, in the bonds of brotherly lova,
Yours;

HTJMANITY.

"This one is coming it rather strong !" said Dixon,
taking out his memorandum book, and copying the address
and business particulars, ~id tearing the letters up with
infinite satisfaction, and tre dous "vIm" he scattered the
pieces on the floor, and tramjded th9m~ under hi~ feet.
By the time he had become really ~ool, Mercer came
in, 'and full of excitement, informed Dixon "that he had
~ot on the track ot' ~ 'fancy girl,' 'that he thought would'
12~

P

272

273


274               ~    MASTER~5 HOUSE;                                                        A FALE OF 5OU~HERN LIF)~i.          '2~i5

suit his wishes exact~ly. I hav@ heard this girl ~spoken of,
I presume," continued Mercer ;" if it is the one I allude
to, she is described as beipg so near white, that she got
into one of the village schools, for near two quarters, with-
out     ing satisfactorily shown that she was a negro."
~'.' ~Something of that kind would really be a haul,"
said Dixon, and taking out his indispensable memorandum
book, h~ unfolded a'page that had been turned down, as if
to mark a particular place~ and asked Mercer, "how white
this girl w~s represented to be?"
"If it is the one I have heard spoken of, she has blue
~ and hair not at all like a negro's, but on the con-
t~ry, straight, and of auburn color. She was raised by
old ~J~od Cuz~iings, and his own daughters were the hand-
SOme~t;$irl51 VWo years ago, at the White Sulphur Springs."
~the eyes and li~a~i' will do," said Dixon, looking in
the memorandum books" d again turning down the leaf;
"but one thing I am afraid of! In New Orleans the qua-
droons are generally delicate, their faces are not handsome,
but their extremities are~. a fortune; some how another,
the same cross in Virginia, with even less negro than a
fourth in them, have big feet and handt~. What's, the rea-
'iou of that?"
"1 can't say," said Mercer! speculatingly, " some fault
on the nwgter'M side, of coursed I once heard old Gordy
'Ntoncton 'say., that. if a sla'i~ could be bred, ~o as to re-
tain the colQr and good point&amp;of the white,,and only have
taint in 'The blood enough to secure ownership, that ton
times more 'money could be made at the business' ~ than by
rising any blooded stock whatever."

"I think it's likely," said Dixen,~" though the market
isn't large for these beauties, and it 'might be iwerstocked~
-Do you know a man living ~in this town by the nan~e of
Goodall ?" continued Dixon, abruptly changing the sub-
ject.
"Very well indeed," said Mercer, "that 'is 'to say, I
know there is such a man in this place, but he i~ of a
very common family, and I never made his acquaintance."
"Has he got any niggers to sell? that's all I want to
know," said Dixon pettishly, for he hated to hear any one
talk about" family."
"One girl," said Mercer, "named Maria; she sings~ in
church I'm told, but you can't buy her."
"An4 why can't I buy her? Tell me that Mr. Mercer,"
said Dixon abruptly.
" Simply because her master has promised to set her
free," said tI;ie young man, with some' concealed astonish-
ment at the trader's imperative manner.
"I've seen her," continued Dixon. "I looked at her rell
last Sunday; she would be worth to ni~ in Waehington,
five hundred and fifty dollars. 'I know a family that would
give a premium for just such a girl."'
"Pity old Goodall wouldn't sell her," said~ 3~'Iemer;
"she's no use to him; but 'I d~u't ~ee how it could be maii-
aged, her mistress~ treats her about as well as she does her
equals."
"Them's the very kind of cases I' like to get hold 'of,
there's something ~g "'~hle in taking bad edicati~n out
ofa darkie. I'boi~h~ ~ pet boy once, who refused to w9tk,
and I whipped him until I Sot tired, and he wouldn't give


THE MAST~R'5 HOUsIE;                                                  A ALJ~ OF SOUT~IERN LIFE.        277

iip,-so 1. took him along at rigler intervals, and the more
h~. wouldn't give in, the more I liked ,him,,~and if be had
held ot~t another day, he should have had his freedom; he
was the best piece of spunk I ever met with, a perfect
Indian."
"And whai~ became of him at last?" asked Nercer with
some curiosity.
"Why, I sold him to somebody that had an overseer
that didn't know how to manage him, the consequence was,
the nigger r~e~isted-knocked the overseer down---and then
jumped into the river. It was just like throwing a thousand
dollai's~&amp;gold overboard, when that darkie went down,"
and Dikon yawned, and 1~1ercer, taking ~the hint, left the
tra4er's presence, pr~misin~ to be at the "Jefferson Hotel"
with a buggy, early in the ~morning.
Three days after~ the above conversation, at the dead
hour of niglit,~ix~on hy~special appointment met on the
suburbs of (Jolesburg two~ heavily armed men, sitting in ~a
str~Ing country wagon, to which w~s attached a lleet span
of horse~. Di*on handed them a l~undlewhich'heing thrown
at th~ b~ttor~i of the, wagon,~sounded as if it contained
pieces of iron. He then ~nter~d into a hurried conversa~
tio~i, 8tat~d his wish to take the four o'clock morning train
for Wa~hington~ and that there was only three hours left
for their work; and as the m~n who held the reins was
gathering them up preparatory for departure, Dix~n, ~s a
last sugge~tioii, said:
"Get the ~i~ge~~t of         ~ quietlyy as possible;
dou~ do anything Vp ~ruise tE~ii~ ~ s,~or otherwise, di~~
figure them, they 'are 4a11, house s~~ut8-if they kick up

any fuss, gag 'em,-if they attempt to break away, use them
articles at the bottom of the~ wagon,-go to that ~ld hypo.
crite, Goodall's, last, and you needn't be very particular at
his house about the noise you mfike, aa you are taking
away m~y property.-~-.now be quick, and earn your money."


A TALE OF SOUThERN LIFE.

2'18             THE M~ASTER~S HOUSE;

CHAPTER XXIV.
ABBTRACTIO~T5 AND LEGALITIES.
As ~1r. Moreton was one day returning home from ]3e~ch-
land, as was s~meVimes his wont, he dropped in at Hen-'
tage Place. Mr. Noreton had always seemed to take, great
pleasure in giving the young planter the benefits of his
varied experience, and as every hint thus received, was
cordially acted upon by Mildmay, it served to secure
him an interest in Mr. Moreton's mind, that was not called
forth by the more ordinary manner of corresponding sym~
patties; for it was a fact, that the two gentlemen seldom
met and discussed matters' of great import, that they did'
not decidedly disagree.
Mr. ~oreton's business to Beechland was to find, out,
if possible, who 'had sold liquor to some of his negroes, but
it was as usual a fruitless task, because, although the evi-
dence was perfectly satisfactory to every one, yet resting
upon. negro testimony alone, it was of no legal value.
Mr. 1~Ior~ton, after stating vent to
the facts; gave      a great'
deal' of denunciation upoi~ the' 'laws, and 'upon the viofatots
of his rights, and "' destroyers of his property."

"How can this evil be remedied?" inquired Midmay.
CC I have noticed, even ir~ the s1i~rt time I have resided
here, that in 'spite of the prohibitions against selling ardent
spirits to slaves, that 'low groggeries~' are increasing in
Beechiand, and the rapid demora1i~ation; of, our servants
is the consequence. I feel the .evil daily, and something
should be done, if possible, to remedy it'; for I dare not
now send old Dan to the village, for he invariably gets
intoxicated, and but for the sagacity of his team in finding
its way home, I know not what might become of~ hiin2'
"So it is,". said Moreton' pettishly~-~-." so it i~; these
miserable wretches who hang about our towns, take advan-
tage of' our laws, and their white skins, to prey upon us,
excite our servants to steal, spoil their manners, and de-
stroy all discipline."
"It is evidently one of the defects ~of the' institution,"
said 'Mildmay. in a moralizing tone, "an evil growing out
of the fact, that the* negro cannot bear testimony. against
2 -~
these traffickers in good morals."
"I~xactly so," was the reply; "a law proper~nough in
most cases, is taken advantage of to our serious injury.
Slavery," continued the speaker, "is, after all, an, arist~
critic institution, and it. i~ inimical to its perpetuity to
give the poor white man political, or even legal, equ~lity.
The planter, to secure perfect ~peace, ought to, have, the
power to arrest and punisji these miserable vagr~nt~s; put
them in the stocks, and order them 6ut of the community,.
or hang them to. the nearest tree."
"I fear," said Mildmay, " that under a government


A TAL1~ OF 50UTEI~RN LIFE.           281

280            THE MAS~ER'S 'nous~;

where- all white men are theoretically free and equal, we
planters can never arrogate such power."
~The idea of, men' being free and equal is a humbug,
Mr. Mildmay;' and I trust you 'will pardon me for saying
SG, because the longer I live, the more plainly I see the
abeurdity of such a proposition."
"Yet I 'must still indulge the idea that such is the
fact," continued Mildmay, with the enthusiasm of youth;
"because I 'have hope, that our Republican institutions
will yet clearly prove the assertion of equality to be true."
"Then," said Mr. Moreton, who wa~ now thoroughly
excited by his supposititious wrongs, and 'who was rarely
differed with in the expression of any opinion-" then 'we
must abandon our "Southern rights' to the mercy of peo-
ple who have no interest in their conservation."
"how so?" said Mildmay, with evident surprise at
the proposition.
Why," said Mr. Moreton, with earnestness, "look at
this selling of liquor to our negroes. The laws against
such; ti~affic are as severe., as the English language can
make them, ~nd yet they are but dead letters on our
statute boo1~s, because the enforcement of these laws is in
the ,hands ~f the very men 'who violate ~them. ~I know
hat every grog-shop keeper iii Beechland 8ells liquor tQ
negroes, and there, are men, otherwise respectable, who
make a living by this 6ursed business.
"Twa years- before you came. to our neighborhood,
myself, with one or two others interested, hired a' cunning
fellow to disguise himself 'as a negro (and ho was an excel-
lenteounterfeit) fo~ the sole purpose of catching a notorious

scamp in the- act of selling ~hi~key to shwe~. The ru~
succeeded; the. fellow managed things so adroitly, that he
spent an evening in the groggei~y, and found that a whole-
sale trade was carried on by this vampire, with negroes
belonging to every plantation in the vicinity; that 4~hare
was a regular organized system of conveying to his den,
from miles around, pieces of machinery, corn, cotton, pigs,
silver spoons, chickens, eggs, and what not, that could be
easily carried away.
Upon this disguised fellow's testimony, we found 4he
groggery filled with~articles re~ognizedl as stolen,-.got the
thief regularly indicted by the grand jury, and brought to
trial; and what; Mr. Mildmay, do you suppose was the
result?"
"Why, he was convicted of his crimes, and made an
example of, inside of the walls of the penitentiary," was
the confident answer.
"No, sir!" said Mr. Moretom.-." no, sir!. quite the
contrary. Why, sir, the groggery keepers of Beechland
conspired together, and ran our witness., off, or murdered
him,-.I don't know which ~ and they next turned in, and
whipped my negroes, and those of, the plai~ters, inter-
ested with me in the prosecution; whipped them, ~ir,~and
imprisoned them on foolish pretencesr-and pur~ie~d u~,
until we were glad to co~npromise by letting the matter
drop; No, Mr. Mildrnay I we have not ~ufftcient power to
protect our rights against these irresponsible poor whites,
who infest, our southernn towns,-places that are, of a.
truth, the cankering sores ofour community."
"Certainly Beechland is n3t~attractive," replied Mild-


282             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                               A TALE OF aQUTHERN LIFE.         283

may; "and it would appear, from what I have seen, that
many of our planters consider when within its precincts,
that there is no necessity for self-restraint."
"Such is really the fact," said Mr. -Moreton; "if a
ma~ wants to gamble, get drunk, run a race) or do any
thing 6bjectionable, he goes to Beechland, and always
finds kindred spirits to encourage him on: these towns,
sir, if it were possible, should be abolished,-the houses
razed t~ the ground, and their streets turned into a -cot-
ton farm, or a potato-patch.?'
"I must there differ. with you," said Mildmay, half
jocosely; "I should like to see our Southern villages
flourish."
"And how could such pestiferous places flourish?"
asked-Mr. Moreton, with some curiosity.
"Why, most easily Let us encourage1 home indus-
try; let us take by the hand the poor, but nevertheless,
respectable mechanic, and induce him to settle among us.
Let us endeavor, even at an apparent advance of cost, to
patronize our own workshops, and we might in that way
become gradually independent. I hear too much talk
here,. Mr. ]~oreton,, about separation from the North; if
such a thing were desirable, at present it is an utter im-
p~ssibilityI I heard a stump speech at our last election,
made up of denunciations of the free States; and the
speaker,- his opponent, proved, in reply, that the Southern
rights gentleman )came upon the' ground~ riding a horse
raised in Rentucky,-the bridle and blanket were from
Ma~saohusetts; the gentleman's hat and boots werel from
New Jersey; his. linen' frQm Norwalk~-his coat, vest, -and

pantaloons, from New Haveny-both towns i~ Connecti-
cut: he made his cluotations in favor of Southern inde-
pendence from a paper published in Boston, and, quoted
from books printed in New York. Where was the gentle-
man's independence, ~f he was thua beholden to people
abroad for every necessary of life ? ".
Mr. Moreton moved restlessly on his chair at these
statements, and after a moment's hesitation, replied.:
"What are the people of the North good.. for, but to~
be our clothiers and laborers?"
"Good for nothing else, I suppose," sai&amp; Mildmay,
biting his under lip; "but," he continued, with some-feel-
ing, "Mr. Moreton, do not let. us, who ,should set an ex-.
ample, encourage such false ideas of -political economy as
are inculcated in the hue and cry of 'Southern independ-
ence,' when we are, by our practical reAisal t~ diversify
our interests, so entirely unprepared for going alone."
"Are we not independent ?-" said Mr. Moreton, exces-
sively annoyed; "does. not the South furnish the cotton
that sustains'~the foreign commerce of our country ? Does
not the -South furnish four fifths of the value of the exports
of the whole country? isit not our staples that furnish
the, chief employment of the rnarineof the North? - Our
productions that build up -her towns and cities,-her rail-
roads ?-iu. fact, produce*her prosperity?".  -  --
IMildmay remained- silent,-.and as if sure of -the -jus-
tice of: his argument, Mr. - Moreton, after' catching his
breath, went on:  -    -              -
"Is there an article except our food, used in the South,
not wholly, or - in 'part, the product of - Northern- labor;'


284                TIlE ~.fASTER~5 i{ousii~;                                                         A TALE OF SOU~r1lERi~ LIFE.             285

consuming. flIilliOnS of our resources, and illustrating the
innumerable swindles the Yankees, have to legerdemain.
our dollars into their pocJ~ets ? " -
" And what is your remedy?" asked Mildmay, show-
ing an evident desire to be very attentive.
"IL would," said Mr. Moreton, triumphantly, "deprive
the Yankees of our Southern trade,.-abolish all tariffs,-
and seek abroad, and at less cost, for the supplies we now
get from our Northern brethren."
"Mr. Moreton,"' said Mildmay, solemnly, "like most
of our (IL am sorry to say) popular Southern politicians,
you have come to the right conclusion, but in the wrong
way. IL desire to cut the South loose from its dependence,
not only upon the North, but~ upon every thing but its
inexhaustible resources. But this glorious result must be
reached not by agitation, or popular speeches, but by hard
self-sacrificing industry. A blacksmith, my dear sir,
pounding upon his anvil from morning until night, in the
town of Beechland, would do more for Southern independ-
ence, than all the State rights speeches that ever were
made. Go abroc~d for our supplies, and not possess a
single ship !.~-cut. loose from the North, and no established
-manufactures among' us,! Mr. Moreton, young as IL am,
IL have reflected deeply upon these things; and unless we
cam have towns filled with a thriving, moral population,
cordially supported by the planting interest and honored,
and not condemned, by' those who cultivate the soil, it is
useless to talk of independence; and vain to suppose that
the eyils you complain of at IBeechland, will not continually

"Mr. Mi'ldmay," said Mr. Moreton, springii~g to his
/ feet, and 'pacing up &amp;nd down the gallery; "you seem to
lack a proper confidence in the South; IL am surprised to
hear a man so deeply interested in its interests as you are,
doubt its ability to take care of itself, no matter where its
enemies come from."
"I doubt not its ability," said Mildmay, with de-
cision; "but IL greatly doubt its consistent energy. 'IL
have no desire to separate the Union, but IL am willing to
do all IL can to i~ender the South commercially free; let
us make ourselves independent; and IL am willing, to leave
the cementing together of this Great Republic to the
strong bonds of mutual iuterest,-to say nothing of being
by nature and historical associations really one people,,
members of the same family."
1~Jr. Moreton - had so long entertained his opinions
without opposition, and had so allowed prejudice to ob-
scure his naturally superior mind, that while Mildmay's
practical arguments had their effect, they' annoyed, as
well as convinced; and Mr. Moreton, as a relief, fell back
upon the reserved field, where he supposed Mildmay would
cordially meet him in his very extreme views, and ab-
ruptly said,-
"IL never can reason as coolly on these subjects as
yourself, sir, so long as IL remember that the North con-
stantly interferes with our domestic institutions."
"The' North does interfere," said Mildmi~y, a cloud-
pas~in~ over his face; "but here, again, the South ha~ a
labor of self-denial to perform. We cannot stop the free-
dom of speech. Whatever was the original pretension of


286             TIlE MASTERS HOUSE;                                                A TALE 0~? 5OUTHI~N LIFE.          28'!

fanaticism, or hostility to our domestic slavery, it is agreed
by the North, that there is no power in Congress to inter-
fere with the States in the matter; here I am content to
rest; and I frankly confess, that IL look upon all Southern
members in Congress, who bring slavery before that body
for the purpose of sustaining abstract rights, as injuring
the institution: and though their intentions may be good,
they are none the less practical enemies to the~South."
"I wouldn't yield even a prejudice," said Mr. More-
ton, now thoroughly excited; "if necessary," he con-
tinned, "I would take up arms in defence of our institu-
tions. Never, never would I give up, except with my
life, even a shadow of right."
"I cannot feel 'the force or utility of such feelings,"
was' the reply. "I am willing to yield any thing, not of
practical value, because I deplore 'agitation;' and al-
though IL can sympathize with inconsiderate friends, .yet
I am not blind to the evil resulting from their influence.
"The fugitive slave law," continued Mildmay, "is
founded upon a constitutional basis; yet it is, when enforced
at the North, a source of the greatest evil to our good name,
and the popular support of our institution. Suppose we do
loge negroes,-in my opinion, 'it is more the fault of the na~
ture of the property, than the North, that it runs away-let
us look upon those that escape, as if it were the same amount
of value destroyed by th~ elements, and if we cannot man-
age to be insured, let us brave our losses with philosophy.
Neither you nor I, Mr. Moreton. nor any Southern gentle-
man, would personally pursue a fugitive; we would not
have one, when returned to us, upon our plantations; why,

then, disturb the harmony of the country, by pursuing a
right, the enforcement of which is comparatively of no
value, while the poisoning of the public opinion of the
North against us, is of immense injury."
"And would you suffer our slaves to leave us with
impunity,-absolutely invite aggression?" almost gasped
Mr. Moreton, in his astonishment at Mildmay's remarks.
"No, sir," said Mildmay, with energy, "1 would do
nothing of the kind; but what I did do for the protection
of our slavery interest should be founded in reason,~-.be
practical in its operation,-.ancl accord, as far as might be
possible, with tho sentiment not only of the North, but of
the world. While I would allow no interference, IL would
call that man an enemy of the South who was aggressive.
IL would treat slavery purely as a local and domestic insti~
tution-and to come back to our original starting~point,
by encouraging a diversity of interests in the South, we
would find ourselves, as years passed on, less dependent
upon the North for our commercial and political prosperity,'
and therefore better prepared to remedy the evils of which
you complain, and thereby do what is of infinitely more
importance, meliorate the condition of the master."

/


CHAPTER XXV.
THE FORMS OF LAW.
IT is no more than justice to Major Trimmer, to state,
that, as the time for the trial of Toadvine approached, he
entered upon his duties with all his souL He had staked
a great deal of "reputatioti" upon- a successful issue, and
was perhaps more than ever zealous, from- the fact, that
there still existed such an "outside pressure" among the
substantial. men of the community, against the prisoner;
for this operated in the Major's mind as a challenge to
extra exertion, acting with more force than even the "due
~ ~ "promissory note," and "one half
undivided interest in the boy, Jo."
The outside of the Court-house indicated an unusual
agitation in the public mind; not for years, except at some
great political excitement, had there been seen so many
horses hitched in its vicinity ; and. there was also noticeable
a number of old solid planters in the crowd of gentlemen,
* who seldom honored such scenes with their presence. Even
1~~Er. Ntoreton, who rarely took a part in public proceedings,
evinced great interest on this occasion.

Considerable sensation was produced when Gen. Bled-
soc and his friends rode up to the court-house. It was
noticed that they wore stern expressions, and it was very
evident that they had come together, determined to see
that there was no ~unfair means used to get Toadvine clear,
and that the prosecution should be strengthened by their
presence and sympathies. Gen. Bledsoe, and Mildmay,
came intp the court-room together, and the crowd respect-
fully gave way, to let them pass, as the sheriff showed
them seats "inside the bar."
Finally there was a great moving of feet, and a sway-
ing to and fro of the crowd, and considerable talking and
eager staring about, as the deputy sheriff, accompanied by
the prisoner, came through a door behind the Judges'
bench. Toadvine wore his usually stolid appearance,
although he looked a little pale, an effect rather of being
for some weeks in confinement, than from any excitement
about the result of the trial. Considerable surprise was
manifested at the peculiarity of his overcoat, which was
made of what was originally a white blanket, with a deep
red border, and was so worked up, that this glaring edge
formed a border for the skirts, and prominent stripes on
the shoulders.
"Some one told me," said Gen. Bledsoe to Mildmay,
observing this marked coat, " that Toadvine's friends had
determined that he should make a break out of the house,
in case the trial went against him..-'but with that peculiar
coat on, he could 'be spotted,' even in the darkest night."
"There is some infernal trick about it," .continued
Gen. I3ledsoe, biting the ivoi~'y handle ofhis riding-whip,
13

288            THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                             A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.        289

289


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          291

290             THR MASTER'S HOUSE;

"you may depend, Milchnay; that coat has not been put
on that fellow without some ulterior object."
Mildmay looked at the coat, but saw nothing except
what was presented to his eye, although he perceived, to
his own surprise, that Gen. Bledsoe was evidently in deep
study, inspired by its appearance.
After what appeared to the impatient spectators a great
deal of unnecessary talking between the judge, Major Trim-
mer, the prosecuting attorney, and the clerk of the court,
the important matter of empanelling the jury commenced.
Now Major Trimmer had told Toadvine, that every
thing depended upon the complexion of the jury, and that
if he could manage to challenge every "dough-face" and
church-going man in the county, why he could get him
through, without the least possible difficulty.
Acting upon this well-defined principle, the regular
jurors for ~e term, composed of a certain 'number of citi-
zens drawn 1t~idiscriminately from among the voters of the
county, were very soon disposed of. As one after another
was called to "the stand," a struggle ensued between Maj.
Trimmer and the district attorney, and it always appeared,
that just in proportion as the State wanted the particular
juror, the prisoner didn't want him, and by the construction
of the law, the list of regular and responsible jurors was
soon exhausted, and every one had been rejected except a
small repulsive-looking man, who had slipped in by a deci-
sion of the judge, rather than by the wish of either the
district attorney or the ever-indefatigable Trimmer.
The excitement so far had been quite intense, and the
result was considered, on the whole, favorable for the cause

of the prisoner. It was perfectly understood, that Trim-
mer had accomplished his first object, which was to compel
the jury to be made up of talesmen, or persons taken in-
discriminately from the hangers-on about the court-house
at the time of the trial, and consecj~uently, Major Trimmer
waS in ecstasies, and the conservative and well disposed
planters, exceedingly cast down.
"If it hadn't been for your well-meant, but I fear un-
fortunate interference, ~ildmay," said Gen. Bledsoe, his
face glowing with disgust at the preliminary proceedings of
the trial, "we shouldn't have had to listen to this d-~-d
farce enacting before us; Toadvine would have got his de-
serts, and honest men their dues," and the general snapped
his whip with undisguised impatience.
"I cannot think," said Mildmay, for the first time in
his life in doubt about the propriety of having done a good
action~ "I cannot believe, even with the rejection of o~.r
best men as jurors, but that the prisoner must be pun.
ished."
"It may be so," mechanically answered Gen. Bledsoe,
from between his teeth, the while surveying the triumphant
looks of Trimmer, and the hopeful face of Toadvine-" it
may be so, but depend upon it, if we are juggled out of a
conviction by these proceedings, there is a tribunal outside
the building, that will not let the prisoner escape."
Miidmay remained silent, while the painful scene of
the attempted lynching of Toadvine passed in sickening
shadows through his mind, and he shuddered~ as if some
undefined spirit of evil had breathed its blasting influence
upon his inmost soul.
4

290


L.

292

THE ?~A5 1~ER'8 HOUSE;

The judge 110W squared himself around in his seat,
unbuttoned his Arkansas blanket coat, and threw the collar
gracefully over his shoulders; and helping himself to a
sip of water out of a broken pitcher within his reach, he
took a cigar out of his pocket, and was in the act of light-
ing it with a lucifer-match, when he recollected that he
was "the Court:" so he put the cigar back, and getting a
large piece of tobacco from one of the spectators near him,
he crowded one half of the appropriated, weed in his
mouth, and laid the remainder beside his spectacles; and
ordered~ the business of the hour to go on
The struggle between the district attorney and Trimmer
for the completion of the jury, soon, however, became a
one-sided affair. The alternative was left with the State,
to have no trial at all-which was quite as agreeable to
Toadvine in its resuIt~, as a verdict of not guilty-or to
accept for a majority of the members of the jury the very
individuals, whom Trimmer had so artfully managed to
have conveniently at hand.
As the seventh juror took his seat, Trimmer sank
back in his chair, seemingly relieved of much anxiety.
He had up to this moment wrangled and speechifiedd,"
and quoted law-coaxed the judge, bullied the jurors-
and gone off occasionally into his stereotyped flights of
eloquence, as if he were on the stump; but a benign
smile now played upon his lips: it was evident that a load
was taken from his mind,-a majority of the jury had
been swoi~n in, who were, according to his purpose, the
very best men. And, therefQre, relaxing from his severe
labor, ho requested a young lawyer-~a~ reThtive of his,

A TALE O~ SOUTHERN LIFE.

293&amp;

who was near by-to relieve him for a while of the labor
of cross-questioning and challenging.
"Don't," said the major, giving his friend a, hint-
"don't let a single man on the jury, if you can help it,
that has' got a cleanly-shaved face; as a general thing,
that kind of peculiarity is good for 'a witness' in a civil
case, if he's on your side, but a bad symptom, if you are
defending for murder.
"Be careful," he added, in the very profuseness of his
genius, "not to let slip through your hands any fellow
that wears his coat buttoned around his throat so as to
conceal his linen, if he has 4any; and be particularly fond
of any one whose eyes are inflamed, and bruised a little:
and, more than all, don't let a fellow in that's got much
forehead. Flat-headed jurors, with all their brains behind
their ears, are the thing for murder cases,-recollecj'
that;" and the major again relapsed into a momentary
quiet.
It was, however, useless; the moment that a candidate
for the jury was placed under the official crossfire, Major
Trimmer was again upon his feet, and performing his dii-
ties with characteristic zeal.
The eleventh juror had finally taken his place, and the
audience had become somewhat fatigued with the same
routine' of amusement, when it was discovered that every
eligible person present not already sworn in as ~ juror,
had been "rejected;" ai~d the Court ordered the sheriff
to go literally 'out in the highways and byways for the
material to make up the "precious dozen."
Now there was living in the vicinity' of the court-

t


294            THE~MASTEU'5 HOUSE;                                              A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         295

house, a hard-working and ingenious inechanic-.-~ saddler
by trade, who adorned the name of ~Buatt. This per-
son never left his shop except on business, and he was
often heard to say, "that all he wanted in this world, was
plenty of work, and no one to interfere with his attending
to it."
To Buatt, singular as it may at first appear, the sheriff
was the great terror of his life. Not that I3uatt owed a
cent in the world,-far from it; he was the model of
promptness in the payment of debts ;.-not that he, ever
got into brawls, for he was, being truly brave, one of the
most quiet men in the community ;-but when the sheriff
wanted a juror, and, none could be found, Buatt was hi~
last, but certain resource: and in this way, the saddler
was defrauded of his time, and consequently, out of his
money.
This sacrifice of Buatt to the public had become in Beech-
land a standing joke, for there was rarely a tedious trial
in prospect, but that the poor fellow was subpoenaed as a
juror, until, finally, in self-defence, h~ had laid it down as
a solemn principle, to "hang," every jury he might be on;
and to such an extent, in his grievances, had he carried
t~is determination, that Buatt looked upon all trials as
mere farces, to involve him in annoyances,-rob clients of
their money, and jurymen of their time,.-and nothing
more; the solemnity and importance that should attach to
them had long since passed from his mind.
On the occasion of the "Toadvine trial,". he. was as
usual hard at work in his shop,-a great many little jobs
naturally coming in, from the unusual crowd of people

about the eourt-house,-when the deputy sheriff laid an
order before him, to attend the Court. On ordinary occa-
sions he would have been furious at such a summons, but
never dreaming how much he was needed, he concluded to
"step around," go through the form of being "qualified,"
and then be dismissed with the usual laugh, and thus be
left quietly to attend to his business; and in this humor,
and much to the surprise of the "deputy," Buatt with
alacrity left his work-bench, and' accompanied the offleer of
the Court.
When the saddler presented himself, a general laugh
ensued: ~"There's the old stand-by," whispered one;
"lie's part of the law," suggested another; and this f~eel-
ing finally burst forTh in loud applause. The sheriff
looked out of the window, cried "Silence!" and the legal
dispute began.
Buatt still feeling perfectly conscious that he would be
rejected, and Major Trimmer and the district attorney
being under the same delusion, two or three questions
were asked, which Buatt answered in a careless manner,
when, to the astonishment of every person, the judge
accepted of Buatt as a ~~o~,-the mutual challenges of
the two lawyers to the contrary notwithstanding.
The evident annoyance of the "victim," ashe took his
seat, was irresistibly comic; and as he completed the jury,
another round of applause was given, which ~" the Court,"
with a singularly bland smile, desired would not again be
repeated,-but which desire was instantly disregarded, as
Buatt arose, and addressing the judge by his given name,
said,.-~-

294


290             THE MASTER~5 HOUSE;

"Jo, if you will keep me here in this d-d box, send
soi~ebody around to lock up my shop."
"Order I order!" cried the sheriff,, while the judge
suddenly burying hi~ face in a law book, pretended not to
have heard the expression, so much calculated to infringe
upon his dignity.
A few moments of confusion followed, as the specta~
tors sighed out their relief that the jury was at length em-
panell~J, and that a new act would commence, of what
General Bledsoe now pronounced to be, a "contemptible
legal farce."
The judge now asked if the parties interested in "The
State 'vs. Toadvine," were ready for trial; and being
answered in the affirmative, with some other very unmean-
iug preliminaries, the clerk proceeded to read the usual in.
dictment.
The district attorney then rose, and "opened the case."
lie briefly and clearly stated to the jury the nature of the
crime charged against the prisoner, declaring, that al-
though the person murdered~ was civilly treated as pro-
perty, he was as to crimes and offences considered as a
person. He further defined murder to be, according to
Sir Edward. Coke, "when a person of sound memory
and discretion unlawfully killeth any reasonable creature,
being in, and under, the king's peace, with malice afore-
thought,. either express or implied." The district attor-
ney 'then stated the facts of the ease, and said, that he
believed he eQuld prove them by an unusual array ~f truth-
ful witnesses.

A TALfl OF 5OUTflEI~N LIFE.

297

CHAPTER XXVI.
THE TESTIMONY.
THE first witness called was the jailer. Upon the an-
nouncement of his name by the sheriff, he promptly made
his appearance; and as he was so often a witness in one
way and another, he looked around as complacently as the
"Court" itself. The clerk held out the Bible, on which
the jailer in a professional manner placed hi~ hand, when
the subordinate official said, "Mr. Orcutt, you swear be-
fore Almighty God, and these witnesses, that you will
e-l-d-h-a-r-truth-p-s-d-r-u-m-c-l-w-s-d-i-y-and-r-t-v-u-a-h-e-r,"
whereupon Mr. Orcutt delicately kissed his own fingers,
instead of the book, the district attorney, in a solemn voice,
then asked:
"Mr. Orcutt, you are jailer of Beechland, I believe?"
"That's the understanding, considering you have ki~own
the fact for eleven years," said Orcutt, with a grin.
"May it please the Court," said the major, swinging
round his arms, in sympathy with a burst of eloquence
which he could, but did not utter; "may it please the
Court, that the witness answers in a respectful manner."
"The Court" temporarily relieved its' mouth of a
13*

290s


298             TIlE MA5TER~5 HOUSE;                                                                             299
A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

large amount of half-masticated "Old Kaintuck," and
said, "that it was expected, and he hoped the gentleman
would understand, that -," and the rest of the
Court's remarks were lost in the sheriffss crying "Si-
lence !" on account of a horse "squealing" on the outside
of the building.
Mr. Orcutt went on :-~" Mr. Toadvine come to me
just at dark for the boy Jack, and I delivered him up,
knowii~g Mr. Toadvine to be Mr. Mildmay's overseer."
The jailer then gave his version of Toadvine's taking the
negro out of the jail,-leaving the impression on the mind
of the jury, however, that Toadvine did it in the most
considerate manner; at the same' time, he was most posi-
tive that after be closed the jail door, he knew nothing-..
saw nothing, of Toadvine's actions or treatment of the
negro. The piece of rope that was found round Jack's
neck, was acknowledged by Orcutt to be of the same coil
in his possession.
"Was the prisoner intoxicated at the time he came
for Jack ?" asked the district attorney, supposing that
Major Trimmer had done with the witness.
"I object to that question!" said Major Trimmer,
'looking very fierce.
"If the Court please," returned the district attorney,
"I will finish my examination uninterrupted, and then
hand the witness over to the defence."
"Was the prisoner intoxicated, Mr. Orcutt?" repeated
the district attorney.
Orcutt looked confused. "Remember you are under
oath!" suggested "his honor," picking his teeth with a
jack-knife.

"Mr. Toadvine was slightly, very slightly elevated!"
said Oreutt, after much hesitation.
" What do you mean by 'elevated,' Mr. Orcutt?"
asked the district attorney, appearing entirely at a loss as
to the witness's meaning.
Orcutt scratched his head, looked despairingly around,
stared at Major Trimmer, then at the Court, and finally
said: "By 'elevated,' I mean that Mr. Toadvine 'felt
well.'"
The district attorney now "begged" the Court to or-
der the witness to answer the question direct, and he again
repeated it, with unusual emphasis on the word 'intoxi-
cated.'
"Perhaps," said Orcutt, "he bought have been 'con-
siderable,' and he bought not-people as stay at the
'Head-quarters' all the afternoon, if they participate
at all, get somewhat 'anti-fogmatic,' but not always.
Toadvine was 'straight,' now I remember, for we tossed
coppers for an odd quarter (great sensation with Major
Trimmer), and Toadvine knew which side his bread was
buttered, as quick as the soberest man as ever was in
Beechland."
"You can go 1" said the district attorney, who, catch-
ing Gen. Bledsoe's eye at the instant, assumed a loQk of
disgust at Orcutt's evident unwillingness to state a single
fact.
"You perceive, gentleman of the jury," now chimed
in Major Trimmer, "that the prosecutor's own witness ac-
knowledges that Mr. Toadvine was 'straight,' when he went
for the negro boy Jack."

298

299


300              TIlE MA5T~~8 HOUSE;

"Why didn't Orcutt say Toadvine was drunk, a~
once," said Withers, the juryman, to Buatt, "for what
harm would that have been?"
Gen, Bledsoe, after taking the oath, was requested to
state, by~ the district attorney, what he knew of' th&amp;~ finds
ing:of Ja&amp;k's body.
The general, in a clear voice, and very decided. ~rnand
ner, stated that he wa~ one of the very flr~t petso'ns: that
came upon the body of the deceased; that it was evident
to th~ dullest intellect, from the very deep furrow, made
for morei than a hundred yards in. the soft mud, and the
appearance of the body itself, that it had been dragged
swiftly all~ that long distance. He further stated, th~t 'he
assisted' with his oWn hands in taking the rope off' of the
decea~4's 'neck, and that he found the spinal column
not only broken from the base of the skull, but that. the
muscles of the neck had 'been extraordinarily, stretched,
while in the act of sustaining the dragging weight of the
body. As"~Gen~ ~ledsoe was a very wealthy man,' and
given to .t~king the law in' his own hands, where he was
personally ;concer~ued; he e~e.aped, of course, any undue
cross-questioning from NIajor Trinuxier. -
Graham Mildmay. was next called. Mte~ b'eii~g ~wot~t1
he state 'that he knew nothing of 'the niurder~ until in-
formed 'of it by Gen.' ]3ieds~e,. and other" gentlemen. He
testified that' the boy Jack was, in his 'estimations a harm-
less, inoffensive negro; that he had never been, to hi~
knowledge, whipped for disobedience. That he wzi~ s~tis~
fled that hi~ running away -was more from ignorance of the
4'
consequenc~, than any thing eI~e; and that it would

0

Ii


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         801

ptobahly not have occurred, had he been on hi~ plantation
at the time."
"Do YOU not consider that Mr. Toadvine was unneces-
sarily severe, as an overseer?" asked the district attorney.
"If I had so thought him to be," answered Mildmay,
"I should not have employed him on my place. It was
not until since he left me, that I have become aware of the
difficulties he had in managing my negroes. Without
wishing to interfere with proper discipline," continued
Mildmay, "I must think that Mr. Toadvine was not always
considerate, and that he acted frequently from impulses
which overcame his judgment."
Two witnesses, much to Major Trimmer's astonish-
ment, were now brought in by the district attorney, who
testified, that they saw a man on the night of the murder,
going out of Beechland, with a negro tied by a rope
around the neck, following close behind his horse; but
neither would say positively, that it~. was Toadvine. In
fact, the both exhibited great consternation, and seemed
to be afraid of committing themselves against the prisoner,
being possessed of an idea in their minds, that the law was
powerless to protect them against the vengeance of Toad-
vine's friends, in case he was convicted on their testimony;
and beyond the fact, that they saw a man going out of
town with a negro, on the night of the murder, nothing
positive was elicited.
Major Trimmer (who had been nervously watching the
progress of the trial, and was exceedingly embarrassednot
only by the testimony, but also by the respectability of the
witnesses, which kept him from displaying his favorite


4

302

THE MASTER'S HOt~S1~2~

science of cross-questioning and annoying them), nOw took
the case, for the moment, in his own hands, and brought
forward his witnesses.
The first witness for the defence was Stubbs~ the owner
of the negro-catching dogs. He took his place at the
stand, and went through the, to him, unnecessary farm of
an oath; and was requested by Major Trimmer, to be so
kind as to state to the jury what he knew of the boy Jack.
Stubbs, who had been by Major Trimmer designedly
kept in the bar-room of the "Head-quarters," until Mild-
may's testimony had been given, got up, perfectly prepared
to answer Major Trimmer's leading questions, without re-
gard to their meaning or effect, which would not have been
the case, had he known all the particulars; for he knew
he was dependent upon the planters for his business, and
therefore did not like to offend them. As it was, Major
Trimmer "pumped" Stubbs to his heart's content, and~
concluded as follows:
"It has been stated, Mr. Stubbs, that Jack was a very
good negro. When you arrested him, what took place?"
"Why you see," said Stulbs, counting the end8 of hi~
fingers in his embarrassment, "you see, that I thinks all
runaways is dangerous. Why? 'cause they mostly go
armed with bodiess."'
"Exactly so!" said Major Trimmer; highly delighted.
"All runaways are dangerous, gentlemen of ,the jury, and
wear 'bawies,'-please remember that, gentlemen!" and
thus saying, the major requested Stubbs to go on.
~ I war4't, when I cotch't Jack, if that was his name,
arter any of Mr. Mildmay's niggers; I was, at the time, a

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

3&amp;3

trailing' for old Phil Spartan's 'Juba George,' as has been
out nigh on to a year already, and has some way of de.
ceivin' the dogs, or keeping' them from tarin' him down."
"Never mind about that,~ now!" said the district at-
torney, sort of waking up.
"As I said, I was a trailing' for 'Juba George,' when
Tiger opened on a hot scent, and Terror gave a yelp as
made me yell with pride at the dog's smartness; and the
hull pack. commenced singing beautiful, and running , along
as true as a bee-l~e, when what should turn up but this
'ere nigger as died, when Mr. Toadvine was a takin' him
home."
"Address the jury!" said the ~Court, unfolding out of
a sort of stupid doze.
"As I was saying," continued Stubbs, turning to the
jury, and now becoming quite interested, "the dogs was
a running' as fine as a ha'r, when this Jack sprung ~up,
leaped like a deer over a tree, gave a yell and was off; but
it was no go, he come to bay in fiv&amp; minutes, and fou't
beautiful; I think Tige' broke out one of his front teeth
a holding' on, and ]3rtdscr got crippled for a week, and if
that ain't a dangersome nigger, I'd like to see one as is."
"Then you think," said Major Trimmer, with a slow,
hesitating voice, "that this boy, Jack, was really of bad
character, and would resist if even proper discipline was
enforced upon him?"
"I think I've tuck many niggers as guy up easier than
him."
The sheriff then called Mr. Busteed, and the proprie-
tor of the well-known "Head-quarters" presented himself.


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         305

804             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

It was a saying among the younger members of the
bar, that Busteed was a "standing witness," and Buatt,
a "permanent juryman," and that the two ought~ to enter
into business together, in these official capacities, and get
a heavy sa1ary~for their services. The fact was, that most
difficulties in ]3eechland commenced at the "Head-quar-
ters," or could be traced directly to that popular place of
resort, consequently, Busteed's testimony was always ne-
cessary, and what was most unaccountable to people . of
weak minds, he was always on the part of the "prose-
cuted," or as he said, "taking up for theTm as was imposed
on by the law."
"Was Mr. Toadvine intoxicated on the evening that he
took Jack out of jail ?" asked Major Trimmer.
"How can I tell when a man's 'toxicated?" replied
]3usteed, with the air of an injured man.
"But you must have some notion of such a thing 1"
suggested Major Trimmer.
"Not a bit of it!" said Busteed, with a confident air,
at the same time lolling against the front of the judge's
stand. "People that are fools enough to drink &amp;td. liquor
will g~t sick, and that's what I tells my custQmers when-
ever I see 'em going to 'imbibe' at places they don't know
about; besides, how can I know when a man's intoxi-
cated,-4har's Judge Burley can carry just as much as he
can git down, without a winking , and then there's others as
will keel up at the first glass."
," I wish to know whether Mr. Toadvine left your house
sober, or 'not?" said -Major Trimmer, affecting (as had

been previously arranged With flusteecl), to be very much
irritated at the witness's evasions.
"Mr. Toadvine left- my house as sober. as any gentle-
men do, and always does, and would!" replied Busteed,
authoritatively.
"Wasn't he-much annoyed on the evening referred to,
by losses at cards?" asked the district attorney, looking
at a piece of paper 1~nded t~ him by sen. ]Jledsoe.
"1 demand protection of the Court for my client!"
exclaimed Major Trimmer, with great animation. "Pro~
tection, may it please your honor, from inquisitorial and
improper questions. Whether or no my client plays cards,
is a private affair,--and the witness should not answer."
The judge, who, as we have before hinted, was getting
very sleepy, on account of not being able to smoke while
on the bench, and who had been, half the whole time of
the proceedings, almost oblivious to what was going on be-
fore him, now roused himself, and discharging his tobacco
on the floor, and tasting of the water~ before him,~ as if it~
primitive purity was nauseating to the last degree, he put.
on his spectacles in a careful manner, looked Busteed full
in the face, and solemnly said:
"The Court will see that not only the. witnesses are
protected, but also that the bar and the bench are re-
spected."
This sudden ebullition of official digjiity had a great
effect on the spectators; many of themstopped talking and
laughing, and things would for the moment have been
quiet calm and dignified, had not the sheriff startled the


4~'.

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

307

cr0wd by bawling at the ~t6p of his voice, "Silence! Si.
lence !-.--Mr. ~Orcutt! Mr. Orcutt!"
The worthy jailer at the sound came rushing out of
the "ll&amp;~adjuaxter~," where he had be~u looking after
Busteed's customers, while that gentleman was "legally
engaged~' and, mounting the witnesses' stand, almost en.
timely out of breath, he wiped his lips with his coat-sleeve,
and observed to the ~clerk, that "he was ready to take a
The clerk reminded Mr. Orcutt that he was still under
the weighty responsibility of an oath, as a witness in the
case of the State 'v. Toadvine, and that the form alluded
to would not lie ~repeated.
"Mr. Orcutt," said MajQr Trimmer, rising. with dig-
nity, and~ opening a volume of Blackstone, which he held
upside down hi his hands; Mr. Orcutt, please state to this
lionorable jury, whether or no the boy~ Jack was sick while
under your charge in jail?"
'~ ~e, wasn't sick as I knows on," returned the witness,
eyein~ Trimmer intently, as much as to ask, "Why didn't
you~ post me up before the trial on this point ?.-what ~re
you driving at?"
"You say," said Major Trimmer, looking very earnest,
and seizing a pen, that the, boy was not sick'?"
"No, I don't, though," ~said Orcutt, brightening "up;
"' I' don't say nothing of the kind, because I wouldn't say
undei~ o~th of niggers in. jail, that the wellest-looking of
them wasn't sick~"
"Then th~re' is a great deal of sickness in the jail ?"
"Why, generally thar ~is 'mona the runaways when

306.-

they first come in~ for' although they get 'better victuals
with us, they get less air and exercise."
"And the boy Jack suffered as.others do?"
"He did complain of the dQg-bite on the calf of his
leg, but nothing more, as I recollect."
"Are you sure, Mr. Orcutt, that none of the prisoners
were sick with cholera'?"
The jailer reflected for a few seconds, and said "that
he believed one of the prisoners was troubled that way;
but which one, he didn't know:" and with this answer,
he retired.
"Colonel Price!" shouted the sheriff.;' and the name
was no sooner uttered, than that portly worthy presented
himself. Major Trimmer, who seemed to be very much
delighted with "the colonel's" appearance, asked the wit-
ness
"Do you think, Colonel Price, that Mr. Toadvine is a
mild or a severe man with niggers ?"
"Mild-very mild," replied the ~colbnel.
"What reason, Colonel Price, have you for declaring
Mr. Toadvine to be 'mild-very mild?'"
"'Cause he'd let niggers off for nothing that 'ud get
staked down by me, and have forty," replied the~ colonel,
flushing with excitement.
"Colonel Price," said the district attorney, "do you
know any thing about the defendant's whipping th~ deceased
before he ran away?"
"Who's defendant,-and what's deceased?" asked the
colonel, an idea passing through his mind that the district~

THE MA5T1~iR's HOUsE;

.1


308              ~rn~ MASTER'S 'U0USE~                                                     A TAL13~ OF SOUTHERN LIFI~.          309

attorney was quizzing him, because he was not a "college.
educated" man.
"I mean," said the district attorney, "did Mr. Toad-
vine ever whip Jack to~your knowledge ?"
"Sartain he did," said' the colonel, looking very
blank; "sartain he did, and by my advice, too,."
Major Trimmer ~was again upon his feet, and with a
loud voice he appealed to the Court~ to know,, if witnesses
were obliged to answer questions relating to their private
business, particularly gentlen~ien overseers, regarding their
puni~ment of negroes.
Price thought that Trimmer asked him the question,
and he vehemently replied:
"I rather think I ain't obliged to answer any ques-
tions~that I don't want to, and you may depend on that."
"The Court" seemed very much delighted with it~
temporary mouth-piece.
"flow much was Jack whipped by Mr.~Toadvine on
your suggestion, Colonel Price ? " pursued the district
attorney.
"Just as much," replied the colonel, "as Toadvine
had grease in his back to work his arms with; and since
you want to know so many particulars," said the colonel,
turning to the district attorney, "II would just say, that
if any man gets out a 'diotment agin me for killing a nig.
ger, I'll. cutj.his -"
"Silence ! " said the sheriff ;-.." Take him out 1" cried
the lawyers; "Go it, old colonel !" vociferated the "out-
The judge finally leaned over, and ~aid to the deputy

sheriff, ." Take. 'the ~ out of the court, or I shall
be under the unpleasant necessity of committing him for
conVei~apt."
" Oh, come out of the court-I want to tell you some-
thing," whispered the officious.. deputy.
Price gazed upon the speaker vacantly, for he was
very much intoxicated, and wa]k~d quietly through, the
crowd into the street. Quiet being restored, it was. an-
nounced that " the defence was closed." .
Meanwhile, Gen. Bled8oe and the particular. friends
who came with him to Beechiand in the morning, for~ned
a group by themselves, and seemed in angry conference.
Expressions of contempt for The whole proceedings of the
trial were to be heard, reminding one of the muttering of
a coming storm; the, judge was denounced as one of
"Busteed's right-hand men,"-.--the jury, as "a set of packed
rascals,"-the. district attorney, as "an ass,"-.~-and Trim-
mer, "as a parasite upon 'the community in which he
lived."
Mildmay, who had left .home~ at the cost of 'n6glecting
important ~business that required his personal attention;.
and feeling sorely disgusted at all he had witnessed, called
Gen. Bledsoe apart, stated the faots, and announced his
intention of returning home at once. -
"I would go by all means," said Gen. Bleds~oe1 with-
out hesitation, "if my presence were needed elsewhere.
You now see, Mr. Mildmay," exclaimed the general; with
some feeling, ~"that that scoundrel, Toadvine, will cheat
the gallows after all.; you will 'learn, when you hav~e lived
here a few more years,. that we are obliged sometimes to


310             THE MASTER'S iiOU5E~                                                A TALE OF 50UT~IERN LIFE.          311

take the law into our own hands, if we would not have it
'~violated with impunity."
"It is a fearful alternative," sighed Mildmay; and
cordially shaking Gem Bledsoe by the hand, he musingly
pursued his way to Heritage Place.
/ Some little excitement existed among the spectators
preceding the "opening of the prosecution." After a few
general remarks, the district attorney, who was quite a
young man, said
"The defendant stands charged with murder. In ac-
cordance with just mercy, the laws of Louisiana make no
invidions distinctions against the negro, when we come to
the protection of his life; and the white man, who with
malice aforethought, wilfully kills the humblest slave, has
committed in the eye of the law the highest crime known
t6 our statutes.'
"In all cases of death by violence, 'the law presumes
it to be done in malice until the contrary be proved: this
is so construed for the protection of life. If, therefore,
you are satisfied that the killing was done with malice,
and find no e~teniiating circumstances, you cannot do less
than what the' law demands of you.
"In the operation of our police regulations, a negro
is commit ted to jail; in due course of time, the overseer
calls at the place of the slave's confinement~-.'.-obtains pos-
session of him,.-.ties' one end of a rope around the slave's
neck, and the other to the pommel of his saddle .-.and
before a half mile is accomplished, the negro becomes ex-
hausted, is ~dragged through the mud for more than a~hun-

dred yards, and is then cut loose, and left in the road,
being perfectly dead.
"The peculiar character of our institutions requires.
that the master ~should necessarily delegate a great deal of
power to his confidential agent-i--the overseer; but that
authority is to be exerted wisely, and, except in extreme
cases, violence is not~~to be used. I am sorry to say, gen-
tlemen, that the abuse of power by overseers is becoming
too common; it is a source of alarm to the thinking peo-
ple of the community, that there is exhibited a grow~.ng
wantonness in the sacrifice of this species of property, and(
the consequent shedding of human blood. Unless, gentle-
men, we protect our slaves,'-.-unless the strong arm of the
law is exerted toshield them from the acath-dealing influ-
ences of irresponsible white men, society among us will.
rapidly degenerate into barbarism, and there will settle
down upon us a cloud deeper and more terrible than that
which once overwhelmed ~gypt.
"You have, also, gentlemen, a duty~ to perform, 'which
should be one to you of serious consideration. There are
fanatics at the North, whe make it their unrighteous busi-
ness to vilify and misrepresent the South. It is such
cases, as we have here to-day presented, that give founda-
tion to the misrepresentations. we have alluded to; and
we are bound, as we wish to have, our community protected
by the powerful' support of the sanction of good men of
every land, to punish those who would give force to the
odium that is heaped upon us. We must let no more
feathers, plucked from the breast of our own body politic,

'V "i"


312             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                             A TALE OF S'6UTHERN LIFE.        313

give certainty of aim to these shafts of ahu~e, and then
will 'they~fall harmless to thea ground.
"The most responsible,-.--the most honorable men of
our community, have given in their testimo~iy to-day.' It
has been shown by Mr. Orcutt, that the accused 'tied the
deceased with a rope around the neck previous to the leav-
'ing of the jail; it has been proven that the prisoner was
seen leaving the town at dusk,-the negro following close
in the rear. It has been shown by the testimony of such
gentlemen as General Bkdsoe, and otl~ers of 'equal moral
veracity, that the deceased was found in the road, his neck
b~ukeii, and with all the corresponding marI~s of a fearful
murder..
"Mr. Mildmay, the owner of the deceased, states dis-
tinetly, that the victim' of brutality was unexceptionable
~in character; and although a family servant, grown up
under his own eye, yet no recollection was had that the
deceased was ever struck a blow for insubo~dinati6n, 'or
any other cause of ~lisobedience whatever. In view of all
.',these facts, gentlemen, it is for you to vindicate the sin-
cerity' of our laws, passed for the protection of the slave,
and' show those who are willing to trample them under
foot, tha1~ it cannot be done ~vith impunity. Spurn not
the cries of blood that come 'from the ground, ~because that
blood flowed from the heart of a poor African slave. Re-
member that the eye of Heaven is no respecter of persons;
feel the full force' of the demand made ~upon you, from the
very fact, that, the murdered victim was helpless~-.--was
un~upported,-4iad no family ipfluence,-no position; that
hewas a helpless, unoffending negro slave, with no inherit*

abe; but a desire to render oheerf~ul obedience to his su-
periors; with no one to avenge hi~ wrongs, but the de-
cision of a conscientious and enlightened jury."
There was no applause expressed at the conclusion of
the district attorney's speech, for, as Puckett said ~o Bus-
teed, "there was nothing in it to make a nian yelp."
The moment, however~ that 'it was ani~iounced that Major
Trimmer was "' to begin the defence,'~ there w~,as great
excitement among the spectators. The bar-room 'of the
"Head-quarters" was vacated in a 'moment by quite a
number of individuals wh~ had foun~l the C( prosecution
tedious," but' who were very anxious to hear the "scath-
ing eloquence" of ~' the most distinguished crimin~l'lawyer
in the district."
It was perfectly understood that the major 'would
"exalt himself" on this particular 'occasion. lie was al-
ways a candidate for political honors, and, as in law prac~.
tice, was' always on either one side or another, and as an
election wa~ near at hand, he had expressed to an intimate
friend the opinion, that he thought' he might take advan~
tage of his defence of Toadvine' to say something so harid~
some of the overseers as a body, that he could secure ~their
influence at the polls.
The major began by saying, ~kthat he felt deeply the
fearful responsibility, resting upon 'him, b~it ~that he was
afraid that his astonishment at the fact of his client being
tried at all for killing the negro Jack, would overcome
his ability to do justice to" the migli~y wrongs 'his' ~lient
had suffered, in this unjust "'and absurd pr~secution.~"
When 'the major concluded this opening ~enten~e, Toad-
14
"4'


314               TIlE MASTER'S 'HOUSE;

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.            315

vine looked, for the first time since~ the trial began, at the
jury.
The major proceeded :-~~.A' If I were* left to consult 'my
own feelings; I should submit my injured client's cause
without argument to your keeping; but, honored gentle-
men, I should be doing injustice to society, to goodmor-
als, ~and 'to the rights of an American sovereign, if I did
not here before this honorable court, before these enlight-
ened arbiters, and before this chivalrous audience, express
my opinion; and in my official capacity as a member of
this bar, enter my protest against 2the unnecessary and ex-
traordinary. legal proceedings which ha1ve been made to
saeriflce the liberty and happiness of one of our most use-
ful, and, poor man though he be, I will add, one of our
most influential citizens.
"Gentlemen of the jury, who is my client? I answ~r,~
a person I have long known, and been intimate with;
an individual, who forms one of the bright galaxy of over-
seers-those noble men, who control our servile popula-
tion,-~-~-who brave the heats of a tropical sun in 'the per-
formance of ~their arduous duties,-~--who sleep at night
beside their arms, to be ready~ to defend whom-them-
selves? No, gentlemen of the jury, to defend their em-
ployers-the lordly plan~ters-from insubordination and
insurrection; a olassof men, who risk their life daily, and
take a stun of' money as remuneration, which would be as
nothing, if. they were not inspired by patriotism,-were
not philanthrQpists by trade; of such, gentlemen, is Sylva-
mis Toadvine, who now sits before you. And this is the
man, possessed of so many admirable q~ialities, who has

been by 'the most unwarrantable legal proceedings incar-
cerated in~ a common jail,~and' left to linger out a miser-
able existence, for' what ?-for what, I say, gentlemen?
Simply, because, a dead negro was found in the same road,
that my respected clier~t passed over on, his way to Mr.
Mildmay's plantation.
"My legal brother, the district attorney, 'has stated,
that it was proven beyond a doubt, that a negro had been
killed. Where is~ the authority for such a presumption?
It has been shown past contradiction. that a negro was
dead, which negro, as I shall show, probablydied~o~ a fatal
disorder, from what is termed a natural cause; and no
personal violence had any thing to do ~with the case:
"Now what are the facts? ~Simply these. The de-
fendant is overseer on a large plantation; he has the con-
trol of sixty or eighty brutalized Africans, who~ require
his constant attention; he has contracted with their~mas-
ter to cultivate a certain amount of land, ~nd produce a
fixed. number of bales of cotton. To do this, and escape
losing the reputation 'of a business inan,~ the overseer labors
night and day, and is properly intrusted with the sole con-
trol and management of the slave gang.
"The overseer knows well the disposition of the negro,
and while the master is~ treading, with dainty steps, his
marble halls, the faithful overseer is winding his devious
way 'thrQugh interminable swamps; while 'the master is
lounging upon the delicate ethereal spring~.paade ottoman,
the overseer makes his couch upon the hard, cold ground;
while the master is indulging in the 'delights of the ta
groaning beneath the luxuries of every clime, the wers


3l~J            THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

A TALE O1~' SOUTHERN LIFE.          31~/

is frugally eating his meal of bacon and greens; while the
master sees his negroes fat, ~lcek, happy, and idle;: the
overseer beholds them as the necessary objects,. Qf strict
discipline, and is forced' to make them do their work~
." Therefore, gentlemen of the jury, when. the ownei~
of a~negro comes into court, and under oath declares that
negro to have beenwithout a fault,-to have been well-be-
htvved and, harmless, that owner acts conscientiously, be-
lieves what he says, speaks what he thinks is true; but the
overseer, gentlemen, can alone know the faets,-one word
from Col. Price, a disinterested and capable witness, as to
the outrageous insubdrdination of the deceased, is worth
whole volumes of presumption from the good-natured, and
where the affections are concerned, easily deceived master.
Having satisfied you, gentlemen '(as a mere incident), of
the savage and barbarous character of this negro, Jack,
for it is not necessary for me, in any way to strengthen the
defence, to dwellupon the subject, I will examine the testi-
mony adduced fo~ die attempted proof, that he died by the
hand's of my injured client.
~C J~ is stated by Mr. Orcutt, that Mr. Toadvine left
the jail with Jack; and two respectable witnesses~ swear
that they saw a ~nan, on 4he eveningg of'the murder,' going
out of Beechlai~id, a negro following at his horse's heels,
with 'a. r6pe tied round his neck.
"Well', gentlemen of the jury, I have had some prac-
tice in criminal cases,,but I never have had so weak a one
before 'to defend., Nr. Orcutt says that the boy was tied-
course he*as tied,-~i~ras Mr. Toadvix~e to risk his life
he hands of a desperate and dangerous runaway, armed

with a 'bowie';" an outlaw, burning with revenge' because
he had'b~en properly punished,-~-was he to risk himself
alone in the dark forests that lie between Ileechland and
Heritage Place, with such a negro, except~ that negro
were bound-witlz manacles andy chain, we should 8ay?
But my client, frpni his urbane disposition, ki~idness of
heart, and unusual bravery, was content with ~a single
cord.
"But two witnesses swear"~they saw a man going out
of town, with a negro at his horse's heels, and a rope around
his neck. Gentlemen, I do not wish to impugn the mo-
tives ~of these witnesses, but I leave it to your imagina-
tion to comprehend, how distinctly they could see *a' rope
in the dusk of the evening; and also to decide~ if, because
a man went out of' ]3eechland, as these witnesses testify,
it must necessarily"have been my client, or the insubordi-
nate and dangerous Jack.
"The district attorney' has dwelt ~t 'length on the fa~t,
that the law announces the punishment of murder for killing
a ~uegro; he therefore argues that if the crime be proved,
the law should be executed. Let me say, gentlemen, that
these laws,. so inconsistent with our feelings andN our insti-
tutions, are borrowed from the common .law of England;
they ~were made for serfs, not 'independent, enlightened
Southern men; and although they are legally living on our
statute books; they ,are virtually dead; repealed by th9 su-
periority of our enlightened public opinion, by custom, a
by necessity.
"Suppose, for a moment, that my client did kiU Jack,
is the law such an absurdity; is' the perfection' of 'huinai


318              THI~ MASTER'S HOUSE*                                                    A TALF~ OF SOUTHERN LIFE.           31A?

reason' such nonsense, 4hat it can, in one breath, make the
same thing a chattel, a table, a wash-tub; and in the next
respiration, declare it to be a feeling, reasoning, sensible
being? If my supposition were true, and if the law were
consistent, it would be your duty, gentle~nen, to bring in a
verdict of damages~ ~Property alone has been destroyed.-.
let reparation be made. This construction would be in
accordance with equity, and in accordance with the spirit of
our peculiar institutions. To forfeit the life of a white
man, a sovereign citizen, f6t a miserable piece of property
that is bought and sold, put up' at auction, bartered away,
has no rights, is by law real estate-~is the sublime of ab-
surdity, and makes men of sense pronounce a trial like this
to be indeed a farce.
"It is not true, gentlemen, that a law is a law, because
it is up6n the statute book. The same law that in England
is construed to mean murder in the flr~t degree, when
brought~ before our enlightened courts, and our independ-
ent juries, is translated to' be 'justifiable homicide.' In
this country public opinion controls and governs the con-
duct of all men, and we are forced to act in obedience to
its potential voice, whatever law to the contrary may ex-
ist. You will pardon me, gentlemen of the jury, for this
digression, and coining back to the trial under considera-
tion, I shall ende~wor to treat it with all 'due solemnity, and
at least to go through the forms of a defence, however un-
necessary it may be.
'  My client did tie a rope around the boy Jack, and
"4
why? 'Because ~he was afraid, unless he had himin the most
complete manner in his pow~r, he would slay him before
'4

he, Toadvine, reached his home. Can you not imagine,
gentlemen, a thousand pays in which the negro 'could have
been killed, while in this condition, by his own self-will,
his own insubordination? Would it be an unnatural thing
in negro history, to suppose that f~his 'amiable Jack' de-
signedly held back, determined to die rather than return
to the plantation? Can you. not imagine Mr. Toadvine's
horse, which was young and fractious, suddenly taking
alarm, and dragging the negro to the earth, when it was
entirely beyond my client's power 'to anticipate such an
accident; or control it wheli it occurred? But, gentlemen,
this was not all,-death is not such a rare occurrence
among negroes, that when one dies he must necessarily
have been murdered. Mr. Orcutt clearly testifies that
there was cholera among the prisoners, and could not Jack,
with his bowie knife, have cut himself loose from tlie~ rope
he was tied with, and by sudden exposure to the night
air, after his previous comfortable lodgment in the jail,
died upon* the road from the effects of this prostrating
disease?
"But, gentlemen, I perceive that IL am wasting your
precious time by my unnecessary remarks, yet IL mu~4t,'~be-
fore I close, allude to one extraorditiai~y appeal, made to
you by the district attorney. Not content to take every ad-
vantage of the technicalities of the law, to prejudice you
against the prisoner, h~ ~has threatened you ~'with the in~'
designation of "the fanatics of the North,' as 'a penalty~or
letting the innocent go free; I am shocked at'such asen-
timent, uttered by a Southern lawyer to a chivalrous S6uth-
em jury. What care we for the 'favorable opinion of the


320             THE. MASTER'S HOUSE;                                               A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         321

goodpeQple of the North,' as my legal brother, jn a mo-
ment of unguarded reflection, has called the 'abolition
fanatjcs of the free States?' If they demand punishment
upon my client, then you have a just cause for letting him go
free; if he had killed a hundred negroes, our liberties, our
religion, our all are in danger, the moment we make the
least concession to the enemies of. our cherished institu~
tions.
"Gentlemen, I leave my client in your hands; you
have the noble, the exalted, the majestic right, to unloose
the hold of justice upon him; you can open his prison
doors, and bid him go free. Restore him, gentlemen, to
his exalted position in society as a citizen. Remember,
that the blind goddess of Justice is looking down upon
you, anxiously waiting to see you vindicate her purity,.-
that the Angel of Liberty has her pen in hand, ready to
inscribe upon the stars and stripes, that Toadvine and our
country are free,-.--that the American eagle is standing
upon the apex of the Rocky Mountains, with outstretched
wings, one' eye bent upon this interesting scene, and the
other, unblenched, staring at the noonday sun, ready in
hi~ exalted flight to scream, 'Give me liberty, or give me
death!"'
Great and continuous cheering by the jury and audience
now interrupted the major, who bowed repeatedly to
his admirers,' and in a satisfied and oracular voice, he con-
chided:,
"Before you retire, gentlemen of the jury, the honored
Court will give you the usual charge; you will hear the
law expounded, sanctioned by the 'sacred ermine,' so long

sanctified as the outward symbol of the unsullied purity
of the law.-[Here the judge smoothed down his Arkansas
blanket coat.]-Yonr verdict I already anticipate; confident
of acquittal, I' leave my respected 4ient in your disposal."
The moment that the applause called forth by Major
Trimmer's eloquence had ceased, the sheriff vociferously
called out order, order; and then taking a lounging negro
by the shoulder, rudely thrust him out of doors, to show
his vigilance in the public welfare; this being done, the
"ermine" delivered itself as follows:
"Gentlemen of the jury, you have heard the testimony
on both sides of this case, and "-here the "ermine"
yawned, and then went on: "if you think the prisoner
guilty, you will bring in a verdict accordingly; if you. think
him innocent, you will bring in a verdict accordingly!"
the remainder of the "charge" became so indistinct, that the
jurors, presumiflg that the "ermine" had concluded, headed
by the sheriff, left their seats, and in a moment more could
be heard, in shuffling sounds, overhead. /
The moment the "twelve honest .men" were left to
themselves, for deliberation, they proceeded at once to
elect a "foreman," which being done, a general conversa-
tion ensued, about crops, races, hard seats in the jury box,
and Major Trimmer's speech. It was generally agreed
that it was one of his tamest efforts, and thi~ waS ac-
counted for by the fact, "that the trial being only about a
nigger, didn't call forth his best style." A "piney woods'
man" remarked, that he had shot a great many eagles,
but he didn't see how one of them could look down and
14*

T4


822             THE MASTER75 HOUSE;                                                  A TALE OF SOUThERN LIFE.          323

upward at the same time, but he s'posed Major Trimmer's
bird "was cross-eyed."
Buatt, who had been exceedingly restless throughout
the~ whole trial, and had not hesitated to express it in every
allowable way, now that he was in the jury-room, where
he could speak, deliberately took off his overcoat, and
folding it up for a pillow, stretched himself out upon a
bench, remarking, "You know my sentiments,.~-I'm for
hanging the jury, I don't care how your verdict is!" and in
a few monwnts he fell into a profound slumber.
The foreman i~aid there was no u~e of goiug down
stairs immediately, that it would look better to a~pea~r\ to
deliberate awhile, at least; and he started a very animated
conversation about the coming election, in which the dif-
ferent'meml5ers of the jury entered warmly, and freely ex-
pressed their opinions of the "-prominent candidates."
The sun had gone down, and as most of the jurors had
become thirsty, it was decided to take down the verdict of
"not guilty," which was agreed upon, without any formal
consultation; but there was the stubborn ]3uatt, ready to
differ with his eleven compeers, no matter how they de-
cided, and who, if~not managed, might keep them ptis~n.
ers, at the mercy of the judge.
The foreman finally struck upon a bright, idea; he
told all to say they were for "guilty," and then waking
up Buatt, that worthy was informed that the jury had
agreed." "How?" asked ]3uatt, still half asleep.
"Guilty!" was the universal exclamation. "Well, I'm
'not guilty,"' said Buatt, turning over to take another
nap. The foreman then said, "Here, Buatt, put down

your name to 'not guilty,' and let's go down and tell the
judge we are hung." .Buatt readily consented, and signed
his name to the verdict as requested, whereupon the fore-
man suddenly exclaimed:
"Gentlemen, thar's no use a-staying here all night,-..
let's go over to Buatt's side, and get done with the busi-
ness." The proposition was instantly agreed to, and a
general laugh ensued at Buatt's expense. At first, he
was quite indignant, but soon became reconciled.; and as
the jury was going to report to the "ermine," he said,
"If you hadn't played that trick on me, I intended to
keep you tied up for three days; there's the bread and
cheese I had to do it on," and he pointed to a large pack-
age that protruded from his coat pocket.
The moment the jury retired, 0-en. I3ledsoe was seen
moving about on the outside of the court-house. He had
private consultations with different persons; and as the
sun disappeared; a number of armed men might have been
seen stationed at different points,.-all appearing intent on
some special object. Two were side by side, and as they
examined their double-barrel fowling-pieces, one remarked,
"There cannot be a doubt but that. the jury will bring in
a verdict of not guilty, but we will teach him that there's
law outside the courthouse, if there is none in it."
The increasing darkness had settled upon the couii~-
room,-the two or three candles that were burninTg only
gave a sepulchral effect to the many spectators, who in
silent groups remained to see the end, for it was rumored
that Toadvine was "to be lynched," if let off by the jury.
The prisoner maintained his place beside his counsel,


324             TIlE MASTER's ilousE;                                            A ALE OF BOUTU'ERN LIFE.       S25

still wearing that narked blanket coat; and he ocva~ion~
ally looked out of doors with nervous apprehension. It
was evidently from that quarter that he apprehended
danger.
Presently there was a movement of the jury overhead,
and its members could be heard descending the stairs,
which gave the usual signal that the jury had agreed
upon a verdict. Every body commenced crowding rmnd
the judge's stand, and universal confusion prevailed. The
jury appeared, and after the usual preliminaries, each
member answered "not guilty," as his name was called
by the clerk. This done, "the ermine" complimented
the jury on it~ attention, and the high-toned manner with
whi9h it had conducted itself,..~-announced it "dis-
charged;" and declared the prisoner free. Amid a great
deal of confusion, a shout went up from the crowd; Gen.
Bledsoe heard the offensive noi~e,-knew what it meant,
and gnashed his teeth in anger "Now," said he, to some
persons near him, "let us vindicate the outraged laws~"
Every one now move4 but the late prisoner; there he eat,
from his dress the most conspicuous person in the court-house,
as if overcome with emotion; he stirred not, but burying
his face, remained statue-like and still. Soon the self-con-
stituted' a~~iters of the law, who were hovering outside in
the darkness, became impatient for their prey, and some,
unable longer to restrain their fury, amidst terrible oaths
and imprecations, rushed into the court-room, to seize him
where he sat when,~ lo and behold! instead of the sinis-
ter face of Toadvine, there was revealed the honester one
of ]?uckett!

In the confusion of the, giving in of the verdict~ T~ad-
vine, who had throughout acted under Major trimmer'ss
instructions, had shed his coat, slipped unperceived through
the cordon of his enemies, and at that very moment, was
swiftly speeding down the rapid current of the Mississippi~


TIlE MASTER'S uotrsi~;                                              A TALE OF SGUTH]~RN LIFE.         321.

CHAPTER XXVII.
AN AMERICAN WEAKNESS.
THE resignation of a member "elect" of the Legislature,
caused an unexpected election P5 be held to supply the
vacancy. t3ol. Lee, being a Virginian, and coming, as he
often remarked, from the only State in the Union that
made "politics a business;" of course took a deep in-
terest in "public affairs;" and as he could not get from
the people a nomination for himself, he determined, as a
compliment, to his friend Mr. Moreton to obtain for that
gentleman the distinguished honor.
Mr. Moreton was highly respected, but was not in the
popular sense a "favorite with the masses." He was
eccentric in his humors, and, from long habit, accustomed
to indulge in any caprice of feeling uppermost in his
mind, consequently, he had the. reputation of being very
proud; and, his occasionally amiable, and probably his
natural manner, was regarded with suspicion by those who
had become prejudiced by his frequent displays of insensi-
bility and hauteur. But Mr~ Moreton was wealthy, and
Lee 'had a Virginian theory, that every thing could be

carried at the polls by a judicious use of money; and gfter
some difficulty succeeded, to the surprise ~f every body
but those in the ~eeret, to have Mr. Moreton declared the
choice of ~' the party 1"
It required all ()ol. Lee's eloquence to induce Mr.
Moreton to become a candidate; but his pride and his
ambition were wrought upon, and with the understanding
that Mr. Moreton's friends were to do all the electioneer-
ing, the selected candidate was declared "duly in the
field." On the Saturday succeeding these events, Mr.
Moreton's name appeared in large type in the columns of
the Southern Clarion, with a highly laudatory editorial
notice.
The eketion was to be what was called a "short brush,'~'
and the "~Moreton party" entered at once upon their ar-
duous duties. Busted, 'and his hangers-on, immediately
rose into popularity. Loafers, who had not been known
to have a cent for months, were in the streets spending
money, and "working" for Moreton; and~ one or two
"awful republicans," who had made it their business for
years to denounce Moreton "as a stuck-up aristocrat,
who hated poor men, and tried to run over them, because
he owned a hundred niggers~" suddenly became convinced
that they were mistaken; and they felt it a matter of sini-
pie justice, and in "liGnor bound," to give Mr. Moreton
their cordial support.
Now the "representative district" had an extraordi-
nary geographical peculiarity~ It was a long narrow belt
of la~id, bounded in front by the Mississippi,-in the rear,
by a "dry river." The lands fronting upon th~ "Father

3M


~28             THE MASTER'S notxsn;                                             A T4LR OP SOTYT1D~UN LIFE.         329

of waters" were rich and ~fertile beyond comparison, and
were taken up by large plantations, and possessed of
course but few white inhabitants, the 'population being
mostly negroes. The lands shelving toward "dry river"
were 'piny woods," arid densely~occupied by poor white
men, who, owning but few serVants, were obliged to work
themselves.
The "opposition," therefore, conceived the idea, that
as the defeat of Mr. Moreton under the circumstances was
almost hopeless, (there not being time to bring the proper
influences to bear,) the best thing that could be done was
to bring out a "Green River candidate;" set him going
with the cry of "the poor man's friend," and the "piny
woods pony," and let him "rip," as some of the boys
said, who liked the fun of the contest, without caring for
the result.
To carry~ out this design, a man living in "Possum
]I6llow," by the name of Puffy White, who was the father
of a large family, miserably poor and ignorant, but self-
conceited, and who from the habit of using large words with-
out knowing the meaning of them, was considered a great
man in his region of country,-was declared an "inde-
pendent candidate," who would run without regard to
cliques, "ohiekenry," or mercenary influences. This de-
cided upon, Puffy White's name was sent to the Southern
Clarion for publication, which caused the editor much
embarrassment.
The difficulty lay in this: if the editor of the
logal paper had any sentiment whatt~ver, it was to, hate
rich ~men; am~id 'although he was constantly lending him-

self~to elevate them, and sustain their sway in the commu-
nity, still it was a heartless support, and bought for a
price. Lee had delicately sent to him a note, inclosing a
fifty dollar bill, in which'he stated, that he did not expect
him '(the editor) to occupy his coknins, in support of can-
didates for political honors, and give his labor without just
remuneration.
On the other hand, Puffy White had his sympathy
simply because he was Puffy White, and also 'because a
leading member elect of the Legislature, and a friend of
the candidate for the United States Senate, bad of course
sent the editor a letter, in which he spoke in very compli-
mentary terms of the Southern Clarion, and suggested
that it might get the State printing, if Duffy White could
be elected: Mr. Moreton was known to be friendly to a
journal printed in another part of the State. The editor
of the Clarion finally pursued his usual course when
deeply puzzled; he went over to the~" head-quarters,"
and took several successive "drinks," and after getting
his ideas sufficiently conglomerated to write himself out 'of
the difficulty, he dashed off the following notice, and
placed it in his most valuable columns.
"In our last issue, we .noticed the 'regular nomina-
tion' of Peyton Moreton, Esq., as candidate for the vacant
seat in the "Legislature. At. that time we were not aware
that Mr. Moreton would have an opposing candidate. It
will be seen, by reference to the proper column, that
Capt. Puffy White has consented 'to allow his name to be
used; and we understand that he has' many warm frieu4s
and admirers. As an independent journalist, it is best,


~uU             TIlE MASTER'S HOUSE;
*
Perhaps, that we take no part in this contest; both gentle.
men are personally known and honored in our midst ; and
either, if elected, will serve his constituents with credit,
and worthily represent the State." This editorial i~as read
and laughed at; Mr. Moreton never dreamed of any serious
opposition, and in anticipation of his election, took to
studying with the greatest avidity "Jefferson's Manual,"
and arranging his ideas on the subject of the "New Con-
stitution."
A few days only, however, had passed away before the
scales began to fall from their eyes. A United States
Senator was to be elected) and the candidate for that
office knew that he could receive no support from Mr.
Moreton, for they not only differed in politics, but were
not personally friendly; but having plenty of money, and
determined, if possible, to be elected, he sent the "right
kind of a man from the State Capitol" over to "Possum
Hollow" to see Puffy White, to furnish him with the*
sinews of war,"-~-get his tickets printed,-supply his~
electors with whiskey, and slang terms; and before Col.
Lee was aware of it, Puffy Whitp's party came out "of
the woods," like an army "terrible with banners."
A clap of thux~der at noonday could not have been
more unexpected to the people of Beechland. The excite-
ment was~ immense. Some of the "independent voters,"
whom' Lee had apparently secure&amp; to himself by a shake of
the hand, or the loamof a few dollars, began. to stagger in
their fealty, and the" sturdy republicans," who had been so
suddenly convinced that Mr. Moreton was not so proud a
man as they thought him, went over to Duffy White's

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

side, body and soul; acknowledging privately, that they
had been for the moment influenced by improper motives.
The shock to Mr. Moretwi was overwhelming. He
had, against his wishes, been induced to run,---never
dreaming of opposition; or, if defeated) prestimed that it
would be by some opponent wQrthy of his steel, and the
possibility of Puffy White's being preferred to him by his
fellow~citizens as a representative, stung him t~ the qnick;
roused all his energy and all his bitterness; and by
the advice of Lee, he got out an old carriage, with a
couple of plough-horses attached, and putting on home-
spun clothes, and his overseer's hat, he started out seri-
ously to electioneer,-giving his confidential lieutenants
to understand, that any reasonable, or unreasonable,
amount of money was at their command to keep him from
being disgraced. The season of the year was fine; the
people had their "crops laid by," and the unexpected
excitement of the election was a-~source1 of gratificatioi~i to
all,~for to people who had little or nothing to do, it gave
pleasant employment to body and mind.
Ten days more, and the result would be known.
Puffy White, it was evident, had secured the entire sym-
pathy of his neighborhood constituents~ Hardly &amp;inan in
tke "piny woods" but felt that he was bound to sustain a
candidate, brought out in compliment to "the toiling~mil-
lions;" in fact, it seemed a~ if there had ~ei~ed upon the
community a sort of fascination, and Puffy White-'-who
made a mark to represent his xiame-who was even igno-
rant of the proper use of the simplest words of his native


A TALE OF 5OUTUEHN LIFE.          ~333

332             TIlE MASTER'S ROUSE;

tongue, ~was likely to be elected to the responsible office of
maker and conservator of the laws.
So indefatigable had been the canvassers on both
sides, that th~ friends of the two candidates had procured
the names of voters in the sparse population of the
county, and it could be told with almost unerring cer-
tainty how would stand the ballot. The consequence was,
that Mr. Moreton's friends discovered that a few votes
might decide the result; and then rose into-sudden notice
a "genteel gambler," by the name of Hickman, who could
by his influence on certainof Busteed's customers, control
some eight or ten of the "independent co~nstituency."
No sooner had Col. Lee informed himself ~of the fact, than
he immediately saw that it was necessary to secure Hick-
man to Mr. Moreton's interest; and he accordingly set
about the task.
Meanwhile, Mr. Moreton, who was of the most excita-
ble temperament, was wrought up to the highest pitch of
disquietude. He Wanted the thing decided, and to be out
of his agony. fluffy White bestrode him night and day.
He bcca~xie disgusted with the concessions of opinion he
had. to make to people he despised,-of affected sympathy
for people he ~air1y hatcd,.-yet he was kept in this ter-
ribk slavery,' because it was necessary for him to defeat
fluffy White.
"Th.-n Duffy White!" he would roar out, when by
himself in 'the woods; "4-n Thiffy White!" he would
exclaim in' the sacred precincts of his own fii'eside.
Mrs. Nioreton never interfered with her husband's
:plans, except to give them her cordial endorsement; but

she became, absolutely alarmed at Mr. Moreton's intense
feeling, and for the - first time in the - many years of her
married life,-'-made a' suggestion.
She urged Mr. Moreton to treat this ho1~rid fluify
White as he deservad-.-" treat him," said she; "with
sovereign contempt; and, by resigning, put it out' of the
power of vulgar people to affect your happiness, or for one
moment destroy your peace." But Mr. Moreton had
become infected with~ the idea of otlice,.-to be a member
of the 'Legislature,-a position he had always ridiculed
and scoffed at, suddenly became important for hi~ welfare,
and writhing, as he was, in the mud and mire of -political.
chicanery, he allowed himself to be 'hurried on~
Hickman was a sensitive person, and loved popularity;
and finding himself cut off by his "professional pursuits'?
from such society as h&amp;mopt admired, he took pleasure in
courting the good will of that class of idlers whd hang
about barrooms, in every decaying town; and as he seem--
ingly gave much, and demanded little in return, ~he thus
found himself unexpectedly. honored with the disposition
of a certain number of his admirers' votes. It had always
been Hickman's darling ambition to become acquainted
with Col. Lee; and .when that gentleman, after passing him
by in 'silent contempt for years,' met him, and shook him
by the hand, and expressed a great interest in his 'welfare
and happiness, Hickman was shrewd enough to under-
stand the cause of his sudden popularity, and. at once
determined to 'make the best possible use of it foi' his oWn
advantages        -          -
Mildmay1 without ever having ~piken to Hickman, had


334             THE' MASTER'S HOUSE;                                            A TALE OF. SOUTHERN TAFE.        335

*in some way mortally offended him; and as he, Hickman,
possessed a mean spirit, and waited to win the reputation
of a "fighting man," he came to the . singular determi-
nation that it would be a source of great glory to chal-
lenge Mildmay,~ and tifas, without running any danger,
receive the consideration so universally (as he supposed)
bestowed upon a professed duellistt.
Hickman had often overheard Col. Lee speak. in no
respectful terms of what he called Mr. ~i~dmay's cour-
age; it had become a kind of prevalent idea that Mildmay
was prmei~pled against duelling. But, since the trial,
Mildmay'~ strict attention to business,.-his bye of books,
his conscientious discharge of every duty as a citizen,-.
his interference on one or two occasions as a peacemaker
between parties who had difficulties,--his intense desire to
leave Toadvine to be punished by the written law, rather
than by violence,.-.--his condemnation, by example, of in-
temporance,-all these things' had gradually caused him
to be looked upon as one "destitute of spirit," as "lack-
ing chivalry;" and he became in popular estimation a rieh
but utterly ruined man, from the force of an unfortunate
"Northern education."
With the determination on the part of Hickman t~
make the most out of his sudden acquaintance with Mr.
More~on, he met CoL Lee's advances with coldness ~ 'and
it was not until he had been out to Mr. Moreton's house,
that he allowed 'hbnself to be formally approached with
regard to the coming political 'struggle. After a sump-
tuous dinner, and the use' of much wine, the subject of
the election was flatly broached, and the proud and digni-

fled Mr. Moreton, in the excitement of the moment, conde-
scended to ask Hickman' for his support.
But Hickman had determined to have his pound of
flesh. It was. a pleasure to him to see those begging and
sujng for his influence who had so long and so lately
passed him~~unheeded by; and after enjoying this triumph
to his heart's content, he coldly 'told Mr. :Moreton of his
feelings toward Mildmay,-.dwelt upon the supposed in-
suIts he had received from that young xnan,.-.and de-
manded, as the only price that could be paid~for his votes,
that Mr. Moreton would the next~ day take fro~i. him,
hickman, a challenge to the owne1~ of Heritage Place.
Although of late there had sprung .up between Mr.
Moreton and Mildmay, some coolness, yet had Hickman
proposed to Mr. ~Moreton si~ch a thing~ as being his second
on the day before his nomination for office, Mr. Moreton
would probably have chastised Hickman on the spot, but
on the present occasion, his astonishment at the. imperti-
nence of Hickman, and ~his. fear for the moment to offend
him, kept him silent; and for the first time in his life, he
felt humbled in his own imperial heart.
Hickman bore the suspense of Mr. Moreton's indeci-
sion with the same blank look that he would have assumed,
had he staked his all on the turning of a~card, and in this
his professional pursuits had given him a manner that was
now of service.
"I'll think of this!" said Mr. Moreton, finally moving
away. "I'll think of this!" he repeated, and turning to
Hickman, he continued: "Col. Lee will give you my an-
Swer in the morning."'


336             TflE MAST]Th'5 HousI~;                                          A TALE OF S0~TIIEUN LIFE.          337

"Master ! 'U, said the servant, presenting herself with a
silver salver, containing some minute but fragrant cups of
coffee and Havana cigars.-." Master, the gentleman has
gone 'without his coffee."
Mr. Moreton was pacing hurriedly up and down the
gallery; he was very fond of coffee, and for the first time
in years, when in health, he waved it away, and continued
his agitated strides. Lee, however, helped himself, and
after slowly drinking the de1iciou~ beverage, he took np a
cigar, and telling the girl to bring him a light, sat com-
posedly down. In 2a few moments the smoke was"cuiiing
~r~und his ,head. Mean~vhile Mr. Moreton passed and re-
passed before him, resembling, in his agitation, and in the
mechanical certainty of his steps, a lion exercising in his
cage.
"Lee! '~. said Mr. Moreton~ finally.-" Lee! by heaven,
sir, this is insufferable! I'm badgered by thai~ scoundrel,
DuI~y White, and bearded in my own den, by ~ miserable
blackleg, that should be hung up to the first tree."
"It's bad, Moreton!" returned Le~ in an affected
voice; "but it's nothing after alL Take' the challenge,"
he continued; "Hickman is an arrant~ coward, aiA Mild-
may 'is too psalm-singing, and too much of a gentleman, to~
accept it; we'll keep the thing on the tapis until after, the
election, get Hickman's votes, and then let him go to the
or what is just the same, make him and Mildmay
shake hri~nds, and ~ay no more about the matter."
'&amp; [C I thought," replied Mr. Moreton, ~checking his
strides, "if I thoughtil should in any way, by this matter,
compromise myself; if I thought Mildmay would look upon

my conduct as I do, I'd stop here, and vote for fluffy
White myself, before I would secure my seat by such
means."
"But Mildmay won't thiiik about it as you do!" said
Col. Lee. "He will receive the challenge, ask to have an
explanation made to Hickman (for Mildmay has never in.
tentionally offended him), and you will 'make Mildmay feel
obliged for acting in the matter, and if Hickman ever says
any thing offensive, I will;~ myself, chastise' his imperti-
nence."
"I'll have nothing to do with it," said Mr. Moreton, after
a long hesitation-" nothing to do with it. I am ashamed,"
he continued, "'that I consented to run for an office which
cannot be obtained without so many sacrifices~ I abandon
the contest, and leave the arena of politics until gentlemen
can appear upon it, and be respected."
CoL Lee knew the disposition of Mr. Moreton too well
to argue with him after he had come. toi~a determination;
he therefore rose to depart, when, just at the moment, there
appeared at the gate the well-known Col. Price. The
overseer was a "piney woods man," and was 'much relied
upon by Mr. Moreton, for his influence with that class of
people; the consepxence was, that ever since the contest
bogan, the ~overseer, on the pretence of attending to politi-
cal interests, had neglected the more important ones of the
plantation; and he had just returned from' Beechland, with
the latest news,
Out of breath, a little intoxicated, and mnch excited;
he gave a history of- his ~tour among the people on Green
River, and~related many anecdotes illustrative of the "un-
15

~4

&amp;~,


888             THE MAS~tER'5 HOUSE;                                        A TALE OF SOUThERN LIFE.          339

fair means" used to prejudice. the people against Mr.
Moreton. He related, among other things, that there h~td
been "an extra" printed and circulated, that represented
'Mr. Moreton as a man that Wouldn't let his overseers, or
any other poor men, come into his presence, unless they
held their hats in their hands, and behaved like niggers;
that he would not allow Nsaid poor men, particulady "if
they were i~rorn the piney woods," to sit down at his table,
but rudely dro~ them away from his house, or if particu-
larly kind, would send them to the negro quarters, to get
~omethiug to eat! It was, furthermore asserted, that he
had started on an electioneering tour, with a suit of clothes
on he had' borrowed from his overseer; that he had a' sil-
ver cup and "old brandy," to treat the "aristocracy"
with, and a gourd and "sixteen cent 'whiskey," for the
common people; and finally and lastly, that Mr. Moreton's
body servant, who accompanied him in his travels round
the parish, was present, merely to do the shaking hands
With the poor folks, he, Mr~ Moreton, being afraid to do it
hin~elf, lest he would get the itch, or some other contami-
nation.
In conclusion,. CoL Price (who had really gone out frol-
icking around, without regard to Mr. Moreton's interests),
pretended, or did believe, that if Dir. Moreton could se-
cure ~ certain named number of votes at the J3eechland
~precinet, his electk~n was certain; in fact, Dugy.~Ybite. ~
knowledged to himu'(Col. 1~riee),~Wat such wati~ease.
The political thermometer 7. ~'. Moreton's breast, now
rose again; with Lee he looked'64~.rIJie pr~pare~'lIst of votes,
and Hiekm~?s tenballots placed the eleetkub6yoi~d a doubt.'

Hickman gained,-triumph was sure. 1~Xoreton hesitated,
argued, took a favorable view of the challenge, began to
think it was nothing serious after all, a ~ner~ whim of
Hickman's,-that Mildmay would forget it in a few days-.
that any thing unpleasant could be. rec6n~iled at the dinner
which Mr. Moreton proposed to give, to celebrate his elec-
tion; ~nd the end was, that Lee kft for Beechland, with
the understanding that he would prepare a respectful chal-
lenge for Hickman, get that gentleman's name signed to it,
bring it out the next day to Nir. Moreton, who would de-
liver it to. Nijldmay, and leave it take its cour~e.
Mildmay was so busy attending to his planting inter-
ests, that lie had only heard byaccident, that there was to N
be an eleA~tion and that Mr. Moreton was the candidate.
It was his intention therefore, at a stated, time, to ride over
with Annie to Mr. Moreton's house, and talk'with him on
the subject; he was,. therefore, not surprised the next
day, when he saw Mr. Moreton coming toward Heritage
Place, and supposing the gentlemaff was upon the buss ~
of the canvass, Mildmay met him at the gate, and w ~
welcomed him into the hquse.
The more Mildinay \talked, the more moody became
Mr. Moreton; the interview soon settled down chilly and
ceremonious; at length Mr. Moreton, with evident embar-
ra~sment, put his hand in his breast,~ and taking out a
neatly elopedd note, handed it toMr. ~iildmay.
~~ihani broke the seal, and read ~he contents with evi-
dent surprise. Supposing that hig eyes deceived hi~,~he
went to. the window1 and re-read the note, and having as-
sured himself of the contents, I~e looked at Mr. Moreton,
V


340             THE MASTEn'S HOUSE;

A TAL1~ OF 5OUTHE1~ LIFE.            341

as if. to assure himself that that gentIei~ian was the bearer
of such a message; having, confirmed himself in all these
particulars, he folded up the note, quietly placed it in its
envelope, and said:
"Mr. Moreton, I must confess my surprise at receiving
a message of this kind, particularly as it is from a man,
whom I ~have 'no very certain knowledge that I have ever
seen. The fact that you have, deemed it importMit enough
to bring it, makes it necessary that I should treat it with
due reflection; if I return yqu an answer on next Monday,
will it be with your sanction, and so far as the time is con-
cerned, satisfactory ?"
Mildmay's voice\and manner relieved Mr. Moreton, for
every moment he was losing his self-control, aild sinking in
his own estimation, for consenting to bear the message at
all. He therefore eagerly caught at the future time men-
tioned for the receipt of the answer, and remarked:
"' That will be soon enough, Mr. Mildmay, and perhaps
th~dest time, as I am this week exceedingly busy with un-
*     You shall hear from me then," said Mildmay quietly,
for he deter~nined, from the moment, that he comprehended
the nature of the note, not to speak an unnecessary word.
In a few moments more, Mr. Moreton, after declining any
refre . t, mounted his horse, and rode away.
.Mild~ay, after. due reflection upon the challe~ige, do-
cided that he would not alarm Annie by mentioning the
subject to her; an~X that he would write an informal ~iote
to Mr. Moreton, refusing to accept the challenge, or have
any thing to do with Mr. Hickman, whose character

and positiOn he had become accidentally acquainted with,
through some casual remarks of hi~ neighbor, Mr. Steers.
He therefore prepared his ansWer, determined to take
advantage of the first opportunity to send it, by a suitable
person, to Mr. Moreton; and thus the matter rested.
The day of the election was also the day for sendi~ig
the reply, and on the morning of that important event,
Mildmay noticed Mr. Moreton's eldest son approaching his
house, and on inquiry, found -that the lad was going some.
distance, to attend a ~cprecinct,~~ a few -miles off, where
he would remain all day, and. bring- home the returns of
the "poll" .to his father, in the evening. Mildmay cow
granulated himself upon having such an excellent person
tc~ take his rather delicate epistle, and gave it to - young
Master Moreton, with the request that he would deliver it
as directed, on his return at night,-'-.the lad promised to
do so, and continued his journey on the road.
It was agreed by Squire Hobby, Busteed, and the "old-
est inhabitant," that there never had been such an ex-
citement at B.eechland, as there was at the present occa~
sion. Mr. Moreton's friends exerted themselves to the ut-
most; they had a large stock of champagne and boned
turkey, in 'an out-of-the-way place, for Col. Lee and his
friends, and some bad liquor, "barbecued beef," and -sea
biscuit "for the masses," who were Mr. Moreton'~s~ friends.
Of this last named "lunch," as there were ~no other rem,
freshments provided, Daffy White's voters partook wi~i(
great gusto, some one having -told them, that? that was
"Dufl~'s treat," wjiile Moreton's constitueXits met in Col.
Lee's "private rooms.                                    -I


342'            THE MASTER's HOUSE;                                           A TAJJE OF 5OUTHE1~ LIFE.         343

The ]3eechland precinct was clearly against Duffy
White. Hickman's men came in, headed by Puckett, and
they created a great deal of amusement, 'by holding their
tickets, inscribed with Mr. Moreton's name, open, and high
over their heads. Hickman performed his promise to the
letter, and so it was announced to Mr. Moreton, who was
in high spirits, and now entirely confident of success.
The fact, however, that Mr. Moreton had condescended
to take a challenge from Hickman to Mildmay, was much
speculated upon by many quiet, thinking people, who were
in their hearts opposed to duelling; and as they had an
opportunity of expressing their indignation through the
ballot-box, without incurring any responsibility, Mr. More-
ton was therefore quietly deprived of about four votes for
every one gained by Hickman's influence, that, under
other circumstances, would have been his. The conse-
quence was, that when the poll was made up, much to the
astonishment of all parties, it was found, "that Mr. More-
ton had run ahead of his ticket" every where but at
]Jeecl,]and.
It would be impossible 'to describe the overwhelming
confusion that seized upon Mr. Moreton, when he learned
his defeat; he stalked up and~down his gallery a perfectly
wretched man. He did not, or would not, comprehend
the real causes of this disaster, but in accordance with his
whole life of neglect of self-control, which had compara-
tively ruined the usefulness of his otherwise splendid
mind, he seemed to be desirous of finding some object on
which to vent, his spleen, amid which he remembered the
note he had received from Mildmay by the hand of his

son, but which had heretofore been unread, in the crowding
excitements of the hour.
While engaged in reading the first line in the frank
and manly epistle of Miildmay, Col. Lee presented him.
self. He had come out to Mr. Moreton's to console his
friend, and explain away the unhappy effects of the elec-
tion catastrophe. He was received with marked cool-
ness; there was a glimmering in Mr. M5eton's mind that
the colonel was the cause of his unpleasant position,
and Lee had an idea that such wa~ the case himself. It
was, therefore, that that gentleman sat quietly down, de-
pending upon his address, and events as they presented
themselves, to make his peace with the ~'defeated candi-
date."
Mr. Moreton, without particularly excusing himself,
after he saw that Lee was seated, resuiaed the reading of
Mildmay's note. Could Mr. iMioreton have received it
under other circumstances,-could his naturally sound
judgment have operated a moment upon his mind, he
would' have sent for Mildmay, and in his natural, if ex-
pressed, enthusiasm,, hugged him to his heart as a friend
and younger brother,-so cordial, so frank, so manly, was
Mildmay's letter: but such was not to be the case. 'After
reading the epistle more than once, and after having sev-
eral times determined to send for Mildmay, and himself
make, au explanation of his conduct so far as Hickman
was co~ned,-hi5 pride would revolt at making any
concessiQa; he was afraid that Col. Lee would not ap-
prove of such a course; he remembered how Mildmay had
disagreed with him in their last conversation, and without


344             TUE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                           A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          $45

being conscious of it, himself, he had adopted the prevaiI~
ing idea, that Mildinay "wouldn't fight:" so, amid! all
these conflicting emotions, he turr~d to Gol. Lee, and said,
"Mildmay refuses to ui9et Hickman."
This remark was a relief to the colonel; lie at once
comprehended, that by making the proposed duel the sub-
ject of conversation, he could lead Mr. Moreton off from
an unpleasant subject,.-break the force of the first disap-
pointment, and prepare the way to have it consigned to
forgetfulness., The colonel therefore said: "I hope, Mr.
Moreton, that Mr. Mildmay has not had the effrontery1 in
refusing to accept Hickman's challenge, to put it upon the
ground that Mr. Hickman is not a gentleman?"
"1 didn't notice whether he did or no," returned Mr.
Moreton, perusing the note again, and then handing it to
Col. Lee, who also read it attentively.
Col. .Lee, still desirous of leading Mr. Moreton away
from thinking of the. election, finally said, "I think Mr.
Mildmay does insinuate that Mr. Hickman is not a gentle-
man; at all events, he clearly says that he received the chal-
lenge with' surprise, considering the source from whence it
emanated."
Mr. Moreton's face flushed with conflicting emotions,
and walking up and 'down the gallery a few times, he said,
with some excitement, "I hope that I have not fallen so
low, that a person for whom I act as a friend, can be
treated with contempt."
"I don't think Hickman deserves to be quarrelled
about," said Lee, with indifference; "he is good enough
for gentlemen to use when necessary, but nothing more."

"At the same time, Lee," said Mr. Moreton, for the first
time fully comprehending his position toward Hickman,
"if a gentleman agrees to take a challenge, the circum-
stances become very peculiar, where the second leaves a
positive affront on the principal, to go unnoticed?'.
"That's true," said Col. Lee, in an authoritative
tone, the idea suddenly flashing upon him, that if Moreton
challenged Mildmay, he would of course have the arrange-
ment of the preliminaries, which were much more elegant
and aristocratic than elections; and also remembering that
Mildmay " wouldn't fight," he concluded, to play' upon
Mr. Moreton's high sense of honor, so as to get that gen-
tleman to take Hickman's place; and so well did he succeed,
that when he left for Beechland late at night, Mr. More-
ton's disappointment at the result of the election was en-
tirely swallowed up by more vindictive feelings; and Lee,
in his lonely homeward ride, rehearsed to himself the ex-
citing preliminaries of a "personal meeting," in which
he was to be the leading second, thereby acquiring for
himself additional social and personal glory.
15*

345

3AA


846             THE ~A5TER'5 HOUSE;                                              A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          347

CHAPTflR xxviii.
THE FIELD OF HONOR.
WREN Col. Lee rode over to Heritage Place with "the
note," from Mr. Moreton, Mildmay accidentally met him
in the road, near the house; and the colonel internally con-
gratulated himself upon the fact, as he did not care to be
embarrassed in his errand, by the appearance of Mrs.
Mildmay. After a few general remarks, the colonel pre-
sented the missive.
Mildmay, in his letter to Mr. Moreton, had assumed
the tone of one who had alright to speak, as to a friend;
he clearly expressed the obligations he was under to Mr.
Moreton, from the first evening he landed at Heritage
Place, up to the moment of his writing. He assumed that
as the challenge from Hickman was evidently instigated
by malice, that Mr. Moreton would see the person inte-
rested, ~nd by a few words, put an end to the matter~
Yet he was not altogether, in his own communing, pas-
sive under the infliction. With his usual~ good sense, he
made all allowance for Mr. Moreton's presumed education

in favor of the "code of honor," and yet he felt deeply
touched, that that gentleman would condescend to make a
felloW like Hickman, so much an equal, as to act as his se-
cond; and after revolving the matter in his mind, he came
to the conclusion, that it evinced, on the part of Mr.
Noreton, a want of that proper appreciation for himself,
that he felt he was entitled to, and there was, consequent-
ly, a blow struck to his self-esteem, which he deeply felt.
When, therefore, he read the challenge borne by Col.
Lee, he felt the blood rushing to his head, and then came
over him the defiant spirit of an injured man at bay. Re-
membering that he had already appealed to Mr. Moreton's
friendship in vain, the truth flashed upon him, that he was
surrounded with toils, that would require, to escape from
with self-respect, the most consummate address ; Khe, there-
fore, after a few moments' hesitation, informed Col. Lee,
that at the earliest possible moment, through the hands of
a friend, he would be honored with an answer, whereupon
the two gentlemen courteously bade each other adieu, and
separated.
Mildmay rode toward his home, with a struggle in
his mind that gave him the first intense misery he had
ever felt in his life. By a train of circumstances over
which he had no control, and by the connivance of persons
the least expected, he found himself in one of the most
difficult positions in which a man of feeling and high sense
of self-respect could be placed. He had always denounced
duelling; his early teachings, and his own religious senti-
ments, condemned the practice; yet, as he rode along, his
ears would burn, and his face flush, at the thought of hay-


348            'irn~ MA~EBA~ HOUSE;                                                A TALE OF SOUTflERN LIFE.         349

ing Col. Lee, Mr. Moreton, and "the world!" apply to
him~an opprobrious epithet.
Mildmay u~as in the garden of temptationr.-.the bitter
cup was ,at his lips; his moral principles were now to be
tested: how ignorant was he up to that moment of his
real nature. Mr. Moreton would have made friends with
Mildmay; his calm judgment and better feelings dictated
that' he should, but lie was so brave, that he was afraid of
Col. Lee's censure. Mildmay cared as little for the good
or bad opinion of the people in and about Beecliland, as
perfectly independent circumstances, superior education,
and want of sympathy, could make one; yet, strange as it
may seem, he cowered under the idea of having these
same people, for whom he really felt so little respect, con-
d~nin him, ~for doing what he knew tobe right,-to be
just,--to be Christian~-refuse to take part in a duel; he~
therefQre wavered, and finally placed his peace of mind,
and his life;' out of his~ keeping,...-s~.irrendered to a bloody
Moloch, the noble attribute of self-apprecience, and for
the time, trembled more from the fear of corrupt man,
than he did at the just anger of his God.
After a long and most painful conversation with Gen.
Illedsoe, Nflldmay, as he was about retiring, remarked, "See
Mr. Moreton, do every thing proper to have this matter,
as it should be, amicably arranged; if it cannot be, I leave
all future arrangements in your hands."
Neyer did a more genial day dawn upon the luxuriant
fields of the south than was ushered in on the morning
appointed for the duel. Through the livelong night, a
gentle sea-breeze had graciously cooled the atmosphere, as

if moved by the fanning, wings of' some protecting angel.
Mildmay rose just at the dawn of day, possessed with but
one idea, ~and that was, how he could best account' to
Annie for his early morning ride. Supposing that he had
escaped from his room unobserved by her ~atehful eyes,
he had a1r~ady prepared himself ifor departure; and had
just taken his musket from its hangings, when her light
footsteps were heard upon the stairs.
'Mildmay at the sound pressed the deadly weapon
against his heart, and casting his eyes upward, muttered,
"God of Heaven I have mercy on me!" and then as-
sinning his usually quiet expression, he stepped quickly
but with painful feelings of embarrassment into the halL
Annie that morning looked even more than usually charm-
ing. Her flowing robe was but negligently closed at the
throat, which displayed her beautiful neck to its gi~eatest
advantage; her smile was most enehanting,-her step free,
-and she appeared the very personification of genial good-
ness and, wifely beauty.
"Upon my word," ~aid she, with a marry laugh, as
her eyes met Mildmay's,-" upon my word, GraJiam, I shall
begin to be jealous of the goddess Diana, if you thus stecd
away to her retreats."
Graham breathed more freely, as he found Aianie had'
suggested a reason for his conduct, and quickly replied:
"You know that the deer are early risers, Annie, and
if caught at all, it ~must be while the dew is on the
OTound"
"Perhaps~so," said tbke young wife, "perhaps so; but
do you know, Graham," placing. her a~n~ upon his shoul-


350            'rUE MASTERS HOUsFI;                                            A TAlE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         851

der, as they walked towards the lawn, "that I could not
have the heart to shoot any thing; "even the looks of
that poor buck you brought home the other day, made me
feel sad,~its glazed and liquid eyes haunt me even now."
It seemed to Graham that iron hooks had a hold upon
his heart, tearing it asunder, and then crushing it with
the weight; but he maintained himself:, and replied:
"There is enough of the savage life in us, Annie, in
spite of our civilization, to make the sports of the field
sometimes agreeable; I. think, perhaps, a dash of the wild
man forms a useful alloy for even the noblest natures."
"What you prove by example," said Annie, "leaves
no room for argument; but you will come back soon, will
you not?" and as the tender-hearted woman, all innocent
of the fearful precipice upon which she was standing,
asked this question, she looked at Mildmay a world of un-
utterable love.
"I will, Annie," said he, determined to fall dead at
his wife's feet before he would betray himself, or awaken
by any extraordinary emotion on hiE part her sensibilities
to the awfttl ordeal through which she, in his person, was
about to pass.
"And so do," said Annie, stepping aside and gather-
ing a white half-blown rose; and returning to Mildmay,
she took a pin from her dress, and fastened the bud to one
of the butto~i-holes of his coat,-~-" And so do," she re-
peated, standing back, as if to take in the effect of the
flower;~ "and come home soon, for I shall Wait breakfast
for you, and Clemmy and' I will see what good thing we
can invent to appease that hunter's appetite 'I know you

will find in the woods;" and kissing Mildmay, ~he stood
transfixed as long as he remained in sight.
Graham looked back but once,-waved his hand, and
turning away, pressed it~ against his forehead, and stared
wildly into the heavens. Who, but the Infinite, could
fathom hia thoughts !-who, save the Creator, compre-
h end the awful struggle' in his mind between his moral
feelings and the participation of crime, which would vio-
late them all. How there came rushing upon him the
precepts of peace, that had so often been enforced sand il-
lustrated in his early education; how the form of his Sa-
viour rose in his view, preaching peace and good-will to
all mankind; how Annie's misery, if he fell: all these
things rushed through his brain and heart, yet the spell
of the demon of the duello was upon him; the heathen Ajax
defied but the lightning,~-.a Christian now invoked the
wrath of Almighty God!
As Niildmay rode slowly down the road, his faithful
body-servant followed in the rear; and tired of the silence,
he took advantage of a favorable opportunity, and said,
"Master, I seed a* buck in~ de old field yesterday; I.
think you'd better turn in de lower bars, and we can pass
right by his tracks in comm up where de hands are at
work."
"I'm not after bucks this morning, nor am I going to
the field," 'replied Mildmay, relieved perhaps to hear 'a
voice of sympathy; and then turning suddenly to the boy,
who had come nearly alongside, he inquired, "Did~ you
ever see a duel ?"
"No, master," replied Governor, his eyes popping out


352              THE MASTER'S HOU5~~

* of his head, as if the very suggestion of such a thing had
swelled his brain.
'~ You will probably see one this morning," returned
Mildmay, with solemnity; "and I charge you, as you
value your life, never to speak of it at the Heritage until
I tell you."
"Yes, master," echoed Governor, the very picture of
perturbation
"Master, who's going to fou't ?" inquired Governor,
his curiosity finally overcoming his other emotions.
"You will learn in due time," returned Mildmay; and
in another instant, he caught the sight of Gen. Bledsoe,
who, with one or two friends, were leaping their horses
over the partially let-down fence, showing that they had
reached the place by coming across the fields.
Graham saluted Gen. Bledsoe and his friends with the
carelessness, and yet the studied courtesy, of every-day
meetings; and then riding up to the general, he grasped
him firmly by the hand, and by consent the two rode ahead,
and side by side.
"You are blessed with a fine morning, Mildmay,"
said the general, cheerfully; "all yesterday it looked like
rain; and I was very, glad to see it come off ~lear in
the west, and give promise of this splendid day. And
now," said the general, taking out his watch, "it is within
a few minutes of the time of meeting,-did you practise,
*   Mildmay, that hint I gave you about turning your body,
without moving your feet?"
"I did not," returned Mildmay, in an emphatic
manner.

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         353
"But you should ~have done it," said Gen. Bledsoe,
naturally assuming the responsible position of second, and
therefore for the time speaking with i~ore than usual free-
dom. ~" You should have done it~ it was an easy move-
ment, and has saved life."
"To tell you the truth, general, I did go out a day or
two since, and, according to your direction, Iplacedthe
heel of my right foot in the hollow of the left, and went
through the pantomime of firing over my left shoulder at
an imaginary human being in my rear."
"And what success did you have?" inquired the gen-
eral, with animation.
"Why," answered Mildmay, "I came home ignorant
of what success I might have had by practice."
A cloud passed over Gen. Bledsoe's face; he seemed
to be angry, mortified, and filled with pity, by turns.
Mildmay noticed it, and for the first and only time on that
memorable day, did his eyes flash malignant fire; but he
rode on in silence.
Mr. Moreton's friends-and there were several who
took a deep and actively expressed interest in "the affair"
.-together with Col. Lee, had staid at Mr. Moreton's house
the night before the dueL Previous to retiring, the arrange-
ments were made for the following morning; and it was
agreed that the party should rise early~ and after a cup of
coffee proceed at once to the ground, and there take~a sub-
stantial breakfast, in picnic fashion,-..Col. Lee suggesting,
"that the display would have a fine moral effect upon the op-
posing party; and that there was nothing so well calculated


354

THE MA5TER~S HOUSE;
&amp;

to shake a man's courage as~ to find his opponent early in
the fiel&amp;"
These things wore freely talked over in the evening,
as the gentlemen smoked their cigars on' the gallery, after
the children and Aunt Margaret had retired.
Mrs. Moreton had been from the beginning perfectly
conversant with the progress of the difficulty. At first she
acted as a peacemaker; although she said but little; after
a while, she commenced sympathizing with the sentiments
of her husband and his friends, and very soon showed even
more excitement on the subject than M~. Moreton himself.
Danger to those she loved never entered her mind.
The contemplated duel, therefore, from her early educa-
tion, had no terrors, because she had wrought herself up
to the notion, that it could amount to nothing more than a
triumph for her husband; but how it was to be accom-
plished had never troubled her thoughts;
Just before the party separated for the night, Mrs.
Moreton, i~ho had silently for a long while listened to the
general remarks, asked:
"You think, then, Col. Lee, that Mr. Mildmay will
not fight ?"
"Most decidedly," said the colonel, with a wave of the
hand; "most decidedly," echoed the younger gentlemen,
looking triumphantly at Mrs. Moreton.
"Madam," continued the colonel, "if Mr. Milchnay
had any courage at all, it has beer~ destroyed by those
Yankees, who unforfunateiy had charge of hi~ education."
"There cannot be a doubt of that," said a young gen-
tleman, named Beauchamp; "he seems so afraid of a.

A TALE OF SOUTH1~RN LIFE.

355

fight, that he has made up a half-dozen difficulties to my
knowledge. Look how he interfered to save Toadvine
from lynching, although the fellow had killed one of his
best nigger~; and, besides that, Mildmay said he was
willing to trust to the law for redress. In my opinion,
continued Beauchamp, with energy, "any man that will
refer to the law to get satisfaction for a personal wrong, is
a coward."
"Not always," said Mr. Moreton, thought fully, roused
by the sound of the offensive word used by Beauchamp;
"not always, but it is difficult to Qvercorne early educa-
tjon."
"And you think, Colonel Lee, that Mr. Mildniay will
make an apology on the ground, do you?" asked Mrs.
Moreton, drawing her shawl closely round her shoulders,
as she was preparing to leave. -
"I most certainly do," replied the colonel, rising with
the other gentlemen to bid the lady good night; and he
continued, in a playful way, " We shall not be hard upon
Mildmay; if he don't beg off too much, we will dismiss
him with very little ceremony, and leave him to the degra-
dation of his own thoughts."
Mrs. Moreton cast a meaning look at her husband; her
bright dark eye flashed with triumph, and with a stately
tread, unusual to her manne~ she waved her adieus-and
leaning upon the arm of Nr. Moreton, disappeared' from
the presence of the gentlemen.
"I hope," said ]3eauchamp, with an oath7 "I hope
this Mildmay will stand fire, for I should hate to be dis-
appointed, after all the trouble we have had.'


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.        35'I

ac6             THE MASTER'S H~U5E;

"ff he will," said Col. Lee, walking pompously up and
down, "if he will, there will be displayed the handsomest
piece of finessing on the part of Moreton that ever dis-
tinguished an honorable meeting. Mildmay will un-
doubtedly shoot quick,.-.he has learnt the habit from
deer-hunting; and by the arrangements of the duello,
Moreton will thus draw his fire, and will have time to
shoot Mildmay down at his leisure."
"Excellent!" cried Beauchamp, now full of enthu-
siasm; "excellent! and woe to the spectators that are in
the way of Mildmay's bullet, for nobody will be safe ex-
cept they stand close up to Moreton."
This sally was received with a suppressed laugh by all
the party; and helping themselves liberally to the liquors
that stood upon the sideboard, they, one by one, preceded
by servants bearing candles, retired for the night to their
rooms.
The following morning they met early in the dining-
haU; the carriages, four in number, were at the door.
Into one of the vehicles, under the more immediate charge
of ]3eauchamp, was placed the "lunch," packed in cham-
pagne baskets. Every body was in surprising spirits;
Mr. Moreton was himself more than usually agreeable,-.
Col. Lee never appeared to better advantage,-and Beau-
champ said, "that this was the most agreeable excitement
he ever had in his life."
As the carriages were about leaving, Mrs. Moreton
made her appearance; there was a flush on her cheek, that
made her naturally handsome face, almost radiant. She
was exceedingly animated,-.--laughed at Beauchamp be-

cause he displayed so much interest about the breakfast
basket; and as the carriages were about to move from
the lawn, she stepped into the parlor, and brought out
Mr. Moreton's rifle.
Walking to the carriage window, she handed it to her
husband, exclaiming, "I would do more than that for the
honor of my family.'? Mr. Moreton took the deadly wea-
pon, gallantly kissed his wife's hand, and as the carriage
dashed away, he continued to wave his tokens of adieu,
which the lady returned, untiL a bend in the road caused
the party to disappear from her sight.
I


THE MASTER S HOUSE;

858                                                                                A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.        359

CHAPTER XXIX.
THE CATASTROPHE.
THE place selected for "the duel" was a neck of land,. or
rather "sand-bar," made by a ereek, which at times over-
flowed the spot, and consequently it, presented, at low water,
a smooth, sandy surface as level as a floor. Opposite, rose
the high. bank of the stream, which circled round, holding
t~e plaee of meeting, as it were, in its embrace. Tall and
magnificent forest trees filled up the background, and some
majestic ~specimens, in solitary grandeur, rose here and
there, not duly rich in their own unrivalled vegetation, but
bearing heavenward, gigantic grape and flower-bearing
vines. The birds sang iiierrily in the boughs, and the low.
ing kine grazed contentedly about-all in nature was har-
* mony and peace.
*     Mr. Moreton and hi~ friends were already upon the
ground, when Mildmay and Gen. Bledsoe came in sight.
The carriages in which they had come to the field, were os-
tentatiously drawn up near by. On the ground was
snowy napery, upon which were the remains of a splendid
repast; in fact, Moreton and hi~ party were at the instant
busily engaged in eating a hearty breakfast.

"This theatrical display of eating and drinking, at a
time like ~this, is really disgusting!" said Gen. Bled~oe to
Mildmay-." I am sure that this was not Mr. Moreton's
suggestion; that gentleman has been badly advised."
In a moment more the viands were dispensed with, and
Mr. Moreton's party shook hands with Gen, ]3ledsoe and
Mildmay as cordially as if they had met at a picnic, in-
stead of a hostile meeting. Mildmay went through this
part of the ceremony with coldness; he was not yet per-
fect master of his feelings; dissembling was still difi~eult.
While considerable discussion was going on in subdued
tones, between the seconds, Mildmay had, entirely alone,
seated himself on a limb of a fallen tree Mr. Moreton,
on the contrary, was surrounded by a number of young
men, who seemed to he very full of suppressed humor, for
it seemed that, if it~ were proper, they would be entiw1~'
overcome with some excellentt joke.
As Mildmay .sat by himself, Governor, who had not
been upon the ground more than a moment before he comn~
pretended the purpose of the assembling, and who was
filled with alarm, came near, and stood behind his inaster~-.-
an affecting statue of sorrowful interest, willing, could the
sacrifice have been made, to give up his life to save his pro~
sector and friend.
In the course of a few moments Gen. ]3ledsoe walked
up to Mildmay, and announced to him, that the prelimi-
naries were arranged.
"General," said M~ldmay, in reKply, "your kindness
to me on this occasion will ever be remembered with gra~
titude. The course I have adopted may be right or wrong,

#~~1~j

858

359


360

TIlE MASTER'S 1m{7~3E

still II must beg of you to bear with me, even if I demand
more than is conceded on occasions of this kind." G-en.
Bledsoe bit his lip. Mildmay continued: "I this morn-
ing make a sacrifice to public opinion, that, whatever may
be the result, will be reflected upon by me, with sorrow,
even to my grave. I therefore must ask of you, with most
solemn interest, has every thing been done, compatible
with honor, to peacefully arrange this difficulty betWeen
myself and Mr. Moreton?"
"Mr. Mildmay," said the general, with perceptible
sternness, and some undisguised feeling of disdain in his
face, "I have already assured you, over my own signa-
ture, that every proposition for peace has been almost
rudely r~ject~d; and I will add, that in respect to your
feelings, I have almost compromised myself-and you,
perhaps, by my active zeal to bring about a peaceful recon-
ciliation."
"'Tis well !" returned Graham. "I have no more
to say."
Mr. Moreton and- Mildmay, after again ceremoniously
shaking hands, at once took their appointed places,~ at
twenty paces apart. There was, in many respects, a dif-
ference df appearance in the two combatants. Mr. More-
ton had the air of a perfect gentleman, in th~ maturity of
life; the slight tinge Qf gray that was discovered in his
hair, when illuminated in the sunshine, gaveinterest to his
face. He was perfectly self-possessed ~nd affable: His
whole exp;ressiqp denoted a person of high education, who
was about to perform~ an important, but necessary act.
Mildmoy, on th~contrary, had evidently not yet reached

A TALE OF SOUThERN LIFE.          361
perfect maturity. His face was noble, and full~ of deep,
abiding, solemn thought; it was painfully interesting, to
see so much responsibility marked upon so young a brow.
As he rose to his full height, he was certainly as perfect
a specimen of manly beauty, as was ever seen.
Gen. Bledsoe, who, from the moment when he'flrst saw
Mildmay, had conceived a high idea of his qualities in
every respect; when he came upon the ground, became so
solicitous that Mildmay should sustain himself by the
most approved bearing, that he unconsciously became af-
fected with the sentiments of Mr. Moreton's friends, and
feared that, possibly, Mildmay might at the critical mo-
ment, "compromise himself" and this feeling was some-
what confirmed by INtildmay's just reiterated desire to know
"if every amicable proposition had been rejected?"
The principals were at their places, their weapons in
their hands-when Gen. Bledsoe, his face full of deep sym-
pathy, walked close up to Mildmay, and whispered in his
ear:
~C Mildmay, if there be a doubt in your mind, about
your firmness on this occasion, if your conscientious scru-
ples overcome your courage, let me take your place. ILe-
member that the same blood courses through our veiny.-
Jitetty Bledsoe sl&amp;ould not be disgraced upon tiw field."
"Stand back!" said Mildmay, with impassioned
energy. "Do your duty~ my fAend!" continued he, in a
calmed' tone, "I will not forget mine.
's/God bless you for that!" said Bledsoe, the~ tear
struggling, in his eye. "Now Mildmay, my boy!" added
he, with vivacity, "tear that flower from your breast; it -
16


362              T~E MASTER'S HOUSE;

is a better 'mark, against your dark dress than ever was a
'bulPs eye' on a target."
Mildmay looked~ down, and there, in all its innocent
loveliness, was Annie's last tribute of affection, still fresh
in the morning dews; .the young husband plucked it from
its place, and thrusting it into his breast, so that it rested
upon his heart, he turned to his second, and with a firm
voice said:
"I am ready."
Cob Lee, who had the ordering of the preliminaries,
the moment 'he heard Mildmay's remark, with professional
solemnity asked:
"Gentlemen, ar~ you ready~"
"We are ready!" was mutually answered.
"Then, gentlemen," said Col. Lee, with a loud voice,
"upon my repeating again the question, 'Are you ready,'
you are to answer 'Yes.' ]i~ shall then say, fire, one-
two-three."
At this instant, Mildmay, who was standing with his
musket resting in the hollow of his left arm, to the aston-
ishment of all present; dropped the butt upu!~ the ground
and said:
"Col. Lee, I desire some inforniatiom~."
Gen. Bledsoe, who was now of conrs~ compelled to be
a silent spectator, felt a sickness coi~e over him, when
Mildmay appeared thus so unnecessarily to interrupt the
proceedings, while a look of sarcastic significance passed
between Moreton's friends, IBeauchamp whispering, "Mild-
may's going to faint~"

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          3(33
"~What is it, sir?" said Col, Lee, impatiently, at the
same time,~ turning to the questioner.
"Do I understand aright, Cob Lee," said Mildmay,
with an affectedly slow emphasis, ~" that I can fire at a fly
time between the counts of 'one-..--two----.three.'"
"You can, sir!" answered Col. Lee, waring his hand
with authority.
Upon hearing which, Mildmay very slowly stooped
down, and pinching up some dry dust between .the thumb
and fore-finger of his right~~and ,-~--without speaking, si~.
unified that he understood the arrangement, and instantly
assumed his proper position.
Gen. Bledsoe, whose confidence in Mildmay's firmness
had been so terribly shaken, by what appeared to be his
ill-opportuned interruption; instantly caught the deep in-
tent of Mildmay's question, and the reason of his apparent
desire to fortify his finger against the possibility of slip-
ping on the trigger; it flashed upon him, like lightning,
that it was all to derange Moreton's calculations about
Mildmay's making a quick fire, and Gen. Bledsoe, whose
heart, a moment before, was near collapsing with fear; with
a thrill of admiration, could now with difficulty restrain him~
self from falling on Mlldmay's neck, and bursting into tears.
Both. Moreton and Mildmay now seemed conscious that
the instant of action had arrived, for they simultaneously
and courteously raised their weapons, as if "presenting
arms." Cot Lee again, in a solemn voice asked:
"Gentlemen,'~are you ready?"
The combatants simultaneously answered, "We are!"
Then said Col. Lee:

,~fr


364                 filE MA5TEI~~S iiou~;

"Gentlemen,-FniE-----one--.-."
The numeral had hardly escaped the lips of Lee, be-
fore the crashing sound of Mildmay's musket echoed far
and wide, ~tnd Moreton, with his weapon undischarged,
sprang perpendicularly in the air, and then fell lumbering
to the earth; for an instant, his body trembled like an as-
pen leaf; he essayed to raise himself; and amid gurgling
sounds, could be faintly distinguished the words, "My
wife-my children !" and then, with a long-drawn sigh, he
fell back-a corpse.
Mildinay, still standing in his place, gazed sadly at the
group now kneeling about the lifeless form of the once
splendid Mr. Moreton; and then, handing his weapon to
Governor, who could scarce conceal his exultation at the
result, he mechanically moved toward )~4* horse.
But ere he reached his place of destination, 0-en. Bled-
soc, who had instinctively rushed toward the dying man,
now turned to Mildmay; and seizing him by the hand, he
shook it convulsively, and looking him affectionately in the
face, said:
Mildmay, thank God ~jou are safe, and you have, this
day, added lustre to the bearing of a gentleman."
CoL Lee next came forward, and with a most courtly
salute, he said: "Mr. Mild~nay, I have had the extreme
pleasure of acting as 'a friend,' on many similar occa-
sions, and in none, that I can remember, or that I have
heard of; have the strict rules of honor bee~i morer faith-
fully preserved; your conduct to-day is above all praise."
Mildm~y listened to these strangely sounding congratu-
lations, as if he were in a dream, but rallying his thoughts,

$64

I

A 'riLE OF Sot~THERN LIFE.        365
he bade all present a general adieu; mounted his horse, and
closely followed by Governor, slowly rode away.
"What a trump he is!" said Beauchamp, the moment
Mildmay was out of hearing. "What a trump! he has,
this morning, established himself in society; every honor
and office is henceforth open to him. I wonder whether
he will decide to ge to Congress?"
4


366             THE MASTER~5 hOUSE0                                                  A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         36~T

ChAPTER XXX.
THE WIDOW AND ORPHANS.
THE moment that Mr. Moreton left his house with the gay
party, Aunt Margaret went 'into her~ room, and throwing
herself on, her knees, in an intense agony of prayer, she
called on her Heavenly Father to enlighten the heart of
her brother and his friends, and save the effusion of blood.
"But," she concluded, "if the wrath of offended Heaven is
upon us for our many sins, prepare our hearts for the aw-
ful responsibilities that await us." While thus pouring
out her very soul for divine grace, Toots, who had been
much 'amused by the attention of the gentlemen, and the
bustle preceding her father's departure, missing Aunt Mar-
garet, promptly proceeded to her room, and bursting in the
door, 2she saw her dear relative, who wa~ still in the atti-
tude~ of prayer, in tears.
"Why, what's matter?" asked Toots, throwing her little
arms around Aunt Margaret's neck; "what's you cry for?
won't Jemima weed the flower-beds?"
"Oh, nothing, my dear, ,dear child I" said 'Aunt Mar-

garet pressing her little niece to her 'bosom; "nothing, my
sweet one, Jemixna did weed the flower-beds."
"I am glad of it," said Toots, with comical pomposity;
and unconsciously imitating her father's manner-" I am
glad of it; I'd like misef to see any one that didn't mind
what Aunty says."
The smile of affection that passed over Aunt Margaret's
face, formed curious channels for a flood of tears; and
again kissing Toots, and heaving a deep sigh, she said:
"Run down stairs, my little one, and see if dear papa
has come."
Away went Toots, her little feet pattering like hail
upon the wax-polished 'floor; and rushing to the gallery,
she saw her mother walking nervously up and down its
ample length.
Now the sight of her mother thus spiritedly walking
astonished Toots, and joined with the scene just enacted
by her aunt, the child appeared to comprehend that some-
thing unusual had occurred and catching hold of her
mother's dress, she said:
"Muddy, Aunt Margaret's crying up stairs -who's'
hurt her, muddy?"
Mrs. Moreton rolled her large and brilliant eyes down
upon Toots, as if the child had' suddenly stung her in the
heart; and drawing her arms across h~r bo~orn, while two
scalding tears fell upon the ~Ioor, ~he said: 2.:
"Call Fanny, child, and go and see the chickens fed;
ah, that's a dear."
Toias bounced around, and in another minute was in the
kitchen, ordering the servant to the appointed task, and

366'

367


368             THE MA5TEU'5 HOUSE;                                               A TALE OF SOUTHERN. LIFE.         369

rattling oii with directions, it appeared, as if her tongue
would never be still.
Mrs. Moreton continued to pace the gallery; the time
which her husband said he would be absent had already
passed, and there was a faint sensation-an unaccountable
feeling about her heart: "Who hurt Aunt Margaret ?.-.
what did the child mean?" these questiqiis she repeated
to herself, as a sense of danger, like a dark cloud, com-
menced settling around her.
"Oh, I am sure nothing serious has happened to
Moreton," she soliloquized; "did not Colonel Lee tell me
that Mildmay 'wouldn't fight,' and did~ not all my hus-
band's friends, assure me that there was no danger? IL am
sure it was only a harmless pastime," and the poor lady's
face turned alarmingly pale.
While in this frame~ of mind, the carriage, containing
Mr. Moreton's body, and those accompanying it, were seen
winding their way slowly through the forc~t. The wife
was now all alarm. She struggled, as if smothering for
want of air. Placing her delicate hand over her eyes, she
looked at the approaching procession as if she would see
through the solid sides of the vehicles.
"Myt God! my God!" she exclaimed, now nearly
frantic; "I know that something must have happened.
Moreton would never come home so slowly, if he were not
wounded:" and rushing into the house, she fairly screamed,
"Aunt Margaret, do come here ! "-and exhausted with
emotion, she sank almost lifeless in a chair.
The beloved form of Aunt Margaret was instantly
at the head of the stairs; she descended with more

than usual ~calmness her eyes were still red with weep-
ing,-her face was~ pale, but firm; she seemed armed with
a superhuman strength, as if prepared to do her duty,
whatever it might be.
"What is the matter, dear Olotilde ?" said Aunt Mar-
garet, standing over the reclining form of Mrs. INloreton.
"Matter!" echoed the lady, with fierce animation;
"matter! Has not Moreton been hurt ?-did you ever
know his carriage to approach the house at that snail's
pace?" and she pointed with her finger to the cortege,
that was now entirely visible through the wide-opened
door.
"Be calm, dear sister! I hope that all is well !" and
Aunt Margaret herself became a statue of interest, as she
watched the carriages approach.
In a moment more, they drew up in front of the lawn,
and Col. Lee, with a slow and dignified tread, opened the
front gate, and came toward the house.
Mrs. Moreton stared at his approaching figure uiitil no
longer able to contain herself; she then leaped from
Aunt Margaret, and absolutely flew across the lawn to
meet Col. Lee.
"He's only wounded?" said she, her hands raised in
an imploring attitude.
"Wounded!" echoed the colonel, for an instant over-
come by the unexpected appearance of Mrs. Moreton.
"I am sorry to say," replied the colonel-"" I am sorry
to say, madam, that Mr. Moreton is wounded an4-"
But before the "accomplished second" could finish his
explanation, the i~b; in a perfect frenzy, rushed past him,
16*

K-


3'7O               TH~ MASTERRS housE;                                                           A. TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.              3171

and reached the gate, just as her husband's body had been
drawn clear of the carriage, and was extended at full length
in the arms of its bearers.
Now, so intent were the parties in their occupation of
carrying the dead, that they did not perceive Mrs~ More-
ton's intrusion, and she, having a full and undisturbed
glance of her husband's face, as the ihead rolled from side
to side in the stepping movement of being borne along,
she comprehended in an instant the full extent of her loss;
and with one piercing shriek, she threw herself upon the
lifeless body.
For a moment she gazed upon the expressionless face,
and stared wildly at those about her. "Gentlemen," she
said, pushing her luxuriant hair from her forehead-" gen-
tlemen, this iS not reality-this is all a horrid dream!
Jt cannot be !-it cannot be!" and she laid her delicate
hand upon the silent heart of the dead before her.
For an instant her mind seemed to wander, and then
the startling truth came like a mighty avalanche upon her
soul; and throwing herself back, she raised her hand to
heaven, and screamed, "God Almighty! have mercy-
have mercy !" and again prostrating herself upon the body
~f Mr. Moreton, she moaned like a child, and then ex-
claimed, "Have mercy, oh God! have mercy !-this cannot
-shall not be!'?
Col. Lee was instantly at the lady's side, and with a
manner that would have done honor to him if he had been
offering to assist a lady to her carriage, he said:
"Mrs.. Moreton, -permit me to hand you into the
house?"

"Touch me not!" said the lady, springing to her feet,
and drawing herself up, as if abt~ut to be stung by an
adder, and pointing her finger scornfully in his face; "to~ach
me not, I say, you slimy and vile hypocrite! How dare
you, sir," 'she continued, her eyes fairly flashing lurid
fire-" how dare you, sir, offer to assist me, whom you
have this day robbed of a husband? Go, sir, from my
presence, or the servants shall chastise your impudence--
shall lash you to your grave! Go!" she hysterically
sighed, with a softened voice-" go, and at once, for niur-
derers are ye all! Go! ere the blight of Heaven, the sor-
rows of orphan children, and the sighs of a heart-broken
wife, drive you like myself-mad-.-mad-mad!"
Then breaking into merry teals of laughter, she
moaned: "IIe's coming! I sec him now, and his arms
are open to meet me! 'Twas a cruel jest, gentlemen, to
trifle thus with my fears! Oh, God! he's pale-there's
blood upon him!" and again would Mrs. Moreton have
clasped to her bosom' the inanimate ~form before her, when
a fearful darkness overspread her face, and in another
moment she was literally carried raving into the house.
At the door stood the children, all pale and sorrow~
stricken, and curious to know what was the meaning of
the fearful scenes enacted before 'them; comprehending
at length something of their misfortune, they mingled their
lamentations with the' sobs of the mother, that now could
be heard from an adjoining room.
Amid this distress, Aunt Margaret moved about with
all the dignity aDd mercy of an angel; she comforted one,'
and then another,-directed the distracted servants, and


372             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                               A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIF'E.        3'73

tried to soothe the violent paroxysms of sorrow, that con-
stantly passed in awful throes through the heart of the
fearfully stricken Mrs. Moreton.
In the mean time, the inanimate form of the once fond
father was disposed drawing-room* th
of in the            ,  e shutters
were closed, and there settled upon every thing that mys-
terious impress so common to th~ vicinage of the dead.
Col. iLiee, and the gentlemen with him, now clustered
around each other in the gallery hall, haggard-.-abso-
lutely paralyzed with terror; Col. Lee alone maintained
any presence of mind, and remarked, with a forced compo-
sure, which he did not feel:
"You see, gentlemen, this was a very unfortunate
affair-very! Mrs. Moreton will, however, recover in a
day or two. The fact is, that Mildmay deceived us by
his looks; he was evidently much misrepresented: we had
bet1~r see Mrs. Marbury (Aunt Margaret), and make ar-
rangements for calling in a physician, an~&amp; such friends as
the family may desire."
A servant was sent, by the gentlemen, for Aunt Mar-
garet, and when she made her appearance, she had just
succeeded in getting Mrs. Moreton into a troubled sleep,
and left her in the charge of a faithful domestic.
It was arranged that some of the female members of a
neighboring family, should be at once sent for; the mes-
senger for' a physician had already been dispatched.
After a hurried conversation, carried on in suppressed
whispers, A
senee was n:nt Margaret satisfied Col. Lee, that his pre-
Jonger necessary, and begged him to leave,
with him, hjs friends,

The .~entlemen felt exceedingly embarrassed; to go
away without doing something to alleviate the misery be-
fore them, seemed mortifying indeed, and yet they were
powerless, to afford' consolation.
While Aunt MargaDet stood in the door, evidently in-
tending to close it at the moment the gentlemen disap-
peared, there came from Mrs. Moreton's room a continued
repetition of fearful shrieks and screams, and in another
instant, the lady herself, pale as death, rushed upon the
gallery, holding at arm's length, a letter. Without seem-
ing to notice any one, she strode a few paces, and in a
plaintive voice, said:
"Mildmay begged for peace, God help him !-.Mlldmay
begged for peace,-here's his very words!" and she pressed
the letter to her eyes, as if still unConSCiouS of the full
meaning of its contents.
The ~entlemen were now completely embarrassed.
Mrs. Moreton was in a loose dress, and her luxuriant hair
streamed over her shoulders. Delicacy bade them precipi-
tately retreat, still they remained as if 'fascinated to the
spot.
Aunt Margaret, the moment she recovered her self-pos-
session, went to Mrs. Moreton, and placing her hand upon
that lady's shoulder, said:
"Sister, be calm! let's into the house."
"Calm! calm!" echoed Mrs. Moreton, dwelling upon
the word, until it thrilled all who heard it, with horroi~.
"Do you bid me be calm ?-me, Aunt Margaret,~ ~ho
have 'been robbed of the best of husbands, and' thuit too,
by villains, and fiends, who cpnspired against his life, and


TJ[I~ MASTER'S hOUSE;

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.           3'75

who have accomplished, by the hands of another, what they
dared not have done themselves?"
"Sister, dear sister!" said Aunt Margaret, clasping
the frantic lady round the neek.
At this moment the dark lu~tious eyes of Mrs. More-
ton, always so beautiful, but now, brilliant with insanity,
rested upon Col. Lee and his followers, who were cowering
in trembling groups near her; with gigantic strength she
tore herself away from 'all restraint, and advancing toWard
CQJ. Lee and his asso~iates,-she exclaimed:
"Cowards are ye all, vile ~cowards! Murderers of a
man you called your friend-.you have partaken of his hos-
pitality, iand plotted his death under his own roof,-look
at your w'6rk-look'at me!" and Mrs. Moreton raised her-
self up like ~ queen of the tragic muse. "Look at those
fatherless children,.-may the blood of the dead be upon
your craven souls! You told me, as ~you told him, that
Mildmay would not flght-.--you lied-upon your souls, you
knew you lied!"
"For-tnercy'~ sake, dear sister! for mercy's sake de-
sist!" said Aunt Margaret, throwing her arms around Mrs.
Moreton's neck, and for the first time that fearful morning,
that faithfizl friend burst into tears.~
Again Mrs. Moreton tore herself away, 'and still in-
tent npon pouring out her feelings, where for the moment
they centered, she waved her hand at CQL Lee, and badc
him~" begone," and then continued, with even more vehe-
mence than ever, "leave this house; it is polluted by your
presetice. Go I sand may the execrations of all good and
brav&amp; men, pui~sue you; ma~ the scalding tears you have

seen shed to-day, burn your craven hearts! may all moth-
ers and wives spurn and despise 'you." And Mrs. More-
ton, struggling for a moment as one smothering for want
of air, swooned, and fell into Aunt Margaret's arms.
Col. Lee and his friends heard all, like men entranced,
and they trembled and blanched, as if moved about by an
earthquake, but when the terms "cravens-murderers----
cowards," were hurled in their faces, the crimson blood of
shame seemed ready t? break through their cheeks and
foreheads, and their ears burned as if they were on fire.
"Go, I beseech you, gentlemen!" said Aunt Marga-
ret, looking toward the lawn, as she assisted in supporting
the insensible form of her widowed sister. "Go! and
may God forgive you for your participation in this day's
sad work."
The calm voice of Aunt Margaret broke the charm, and
they moved away, like condemned culprits, from before the
desolation they themselves had made. For the moment,
the mark of Cain was on their brows, the gnawing of ter-
rible remorse was at their hearts, and for the moment,
they even envied the calmness and the insensibility, that
rested upon the form of the dead.
The full extent of the labors of love performed by Aunt
Margaret, that day, is recorded in heaven. Never be-
fore, perhaps, had so kind a heart been so severely taxed;
every feeling had been wrung to its utmost sensibility, and~
on the night of that awful day, when nature had stifled the
sobs of orphaned children to sleep, when Mrs. Moroton,
her face distorted by the conflicts of her mind, sunk from
physical exhaustion into temporary quiet, then, and not


376             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

A TALE 01? SOUTHERN LIFE.

until then, did Aunt Margaret steal from the room, to look
at the cold remains of her only, her most affectionate
brother ;~ and removing the napkin that covered that once
loved face, she gazed steadily awhile, a tear or two came
to her relief and lifting up her eyes, she thanked Heaven,
that amidst all the' suffering around her, she could see
one placid expression, even if it were caused by that sleep,
which, until the resurrection morn, knows no waking.
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE PENALTY.
ON reaching home, Mildmay threw the bridle rein upo
his horse's neck, and entered the lawn; Ponce de Leon hac
as usual, watched his coming from a distance, and with on
of his vast leaps, was about fawning upon his master, whe:
he discovered something in 1~tildmay's eye, that made hit
shrink back, and whine with terror-on Mildmay strodE
as if some fiend were in pursuit, and treading heavily a
he walked into the house, he placed his gun upon its ac
customer hooks, and presented himself in the breakfast
room.
At the table ~at Annie, evidently awaiting~his coming
but, as she looked up and saw Graham, she uttered an ex
clamation of surprise, and then seemed petrified into
statue of alarm.
"I thought you knew my walk!" said he, with undis
guided sarcasm, gloomily taking his seat.
Annie still stared, her face working with strange anc
terrible emotion, while her' eyes, to herself; seemed ulltru(
in their vision, and bowing her head, she sighed..-.

n
1,
e
a
a
5
I;
I~
1.
I

(s


37 8

THE MAST1~R'S HOUSE;

'I do know your walk; Graham!" and then looking up
with increasing alarm,, she continued, "but that was not
your step I just now heard."
"It was I!" answered Graham, with a sneer, and then
he literally snarled though hi~ teeth, "the ears of love
grow dull by time."
"Graham!" exclaimed Annie, and turning deadly
pale, and rising straight up from her seat, she fell toward
him, as stiff and cold' as, if she had been marble.
Graham' caught the insensible form of his wife, and
held it as firmly, and remorselessly as if it were really an
inanimate thing. Glaring down upon the closed eyes and
pale face of the beautiful and innocent Annie, he tried to
recollect what was his relation to the being he held in his
arms; he haJ, for the moment, no distinct idea of the rela-
tion of wife; 'wandering, to him an age, in the undefined
regions of horrid uncertainty, he first remembered his
early associations iii Malden; and by degrees, and sl&amp;w
and painful' progress, he traced his acquaintance with An..
nie, through courtship and marriage.-and carefully con-
necting the incidents, the truth finally dawned upon him,
who ~he really was and for the relief of hi~ breaking heart,
scalding tears ran streaming from his eyes.
His mind once enlightened, he bore Annie to a couch,
and the intense, solicitude he felt lest the vital spark had
lied, was a temporary relief from the tenfold more terrible
burden that crushed his heart.
The moment that she was left to herself, the currents
of life slowly returned to their channels; sh~ sighed and
moaned as one waking from a deep and almost fatal sleep;

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LiFE.

3,79

and at last, with her eyes still closed, she reached out her
hands, and ejaculated:
"Mother, where's Graham?"
"Here I am," he answered, leaning oVer her prostrate
form.
"And is this truly my Graham'?" said the stricken
wife, her face still full of doubt.
"Annie," said Mildmay, supporting her 'in his arms,
"since we last parted, I have' passed through dangers
which you cannot comprehend;. I have been tempted by
the evil one, and have fallen a victim. I have those
about me who have sought to destroy not only 'my life, but
my honor;" and here Mildmay became too choked for ut-
terance.
"Passed through dangers!" murmured Annie, with
increasing strength and interest. "Tell me, what is this
fatal secret !-why this change! Do you not love me,
Graham? do you not know Annie ?-have you forgotten
your wife?"
Annie," said Graham, his face resuming some of its
natural expression,-" Annie, a cloud has settled upon
us; the peace of our once happy home is destroyed for ever!
my life is now valueless! I have shed human blood, and
the never-dying worm of remorse is eating at' my heart."'
Annie now in an instant comprehended all, still the
particulars ~wete vague and undefined. There passed
through her mind a thousand things 'before utinoticed,
which, when considered together, led her to the correct
result; and throwing her arms ~bout Mildniay's neck, she
wept and sobbed like a child.


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE1         381

380             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;

It was while Annie was t1~us pouring out her feelings
upou Mildm~iy's beast, that her form seemed again to
melt in unity with his own; the consciousness of the pos-
session of her unwavering love returned to him as a dim
star glimmering in a dark and stormy sky,-and as she
looke&amp;up in his face, he pressed one long and earnest kiss
of redemption upon her brow.
Time wore heavily on. Two persons inhabited that
once pleasant home, who appeared careworn, despondent-.
prematurely old. There were times of momentary peace,
-rays of sunshine occasionally broke forth, but the clouds
would always overpower in the struggle, and leave a deeper
gloom.
Neither Annie nor Graham ever alluded to the cause
of all this sorrow. The young wife redoubled her efforts
to render her husband's home cheerful, but she found in
her despair that all her efforts affected only his physical
comfort,-his mind she could not reach.
The master and mistress 'of Heritage Place endeavored
to resume, at least outwardly, their accustomed manner of
life. Both felt that they were now more than ever neces-
sary for each other's existence-the word "happiness"
they dared not utter. Occasionally a calm would come
over their household, but some unpleasant reminiscence -
connected with 'the duel would be rudely thrust upon them,
and" their' bark oC life would suddenly ground upon the
sands of desolate recollections.
The duel became a matter of newspaper notoriety;
"public opinion," which would have been foremost in ~de-
nouncing Mildmay if he had obeyed the reasoning of his

own conscience, and "refused to fight," was now poured
out in news-paragraphical sympathy for the deceased,..-
for the "fatherless chuldren,"-for the "widowe&amp; ai~d
afflicted mother:" and as these statements and' reflections
spread, they became exaggerated, and rolled back from the
distance in a dark cloud ~of condemnation on duelling, and
on the head of ."the monster Graham Mildmay," who was
finally represented as "a desperado of the Southwest,
seeking by every means in his power, to imbrue his hands in
human blood."
It 'was these things 'that continually gave activity to
the misery that rested upon the inmates of Heritage
Place, and destroyed in the minds of Graham and Annie
the little consolation that would have arisen in the. thought
that their sorrows were confined to their own domestic
circle, and sanctified by the privacy ~f their own hearts.
Instead of this, the idea~ haunted their sensitive spirits
that a million eyes 'of the thoughtless public were staring
upon them from the surrounding woild, and that they were
never again to be free from 'observation-.-never again, to
be alone.
The enervating influences of a Southern climate, mean-
while, had their effect upon Annie. At the very time of
the occurrence of the sad incidents that so severely wounded
her spirit, she was in the critical time of acclimation,
and consequently, least capable, so far as her physical
health was concerned, to bear so great a shock. Her in-
tense desire to soothe Graham under his misfortunes ren-
dered her blind to her own declining strength; and when
Graham became conscious 'that she was, and had been,


382             TH1~ MASTER'S nousn;                                              A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.          383

perhaps, a long time sinking under her weight of sorrow, a
new cause of alarm thrilled his soul.
The subject once '~broached by Graham, the language
of sympathy broke Annie's silence regarding herself, and
she acknowledged that she felt that she had not long to
live; yet There was no perceptible, or defined sickness.
Graham now in turn became the sympathizing nurse, and
found absolute relief in his anxiety and attentions to An-
nie, from the more terrible feelings of remorse that still
haunted his heart.
"Time," he would say, taking Annie's attenuated hand
in his own-" Time, my Annie, will assauge these regrets;
we are young, and we will outlive the first blow of this
terrible affliction that has come, upon us: we will know
how to enjoy the blessings of the future by the severe les-
son we have had of the past. You shall help me, dear
wife, to ~atone for my errors; if we cannot be very, very
happy, we can at least enjoy peace."
Annie would smile,.-.would look full of hope, but if
Graham could have been restored to that sensitiveness of
love that possessed his heart in the "olden times," he
would have perceived that Annie Hastings was quietly,
but sweetly passing away; she felt it-~knew it: her only
consolation was, that she should breathe her last in Gra~
ham's arms, and blessing his affection, lead the way to
Heaven. Still Annie pursued her simple occupations, and
sometimes made even. Graham's saddened face light up
with a~ smile at her unusual interest in some trivial ocen-
pationwhich showed, that she still remembered tastes and
preferences which he had formerly expressed.

The desolation at Mrs. Moreton's was complete. The
widowed mother. had only momentary glimpses of reason,
and then relapsed into moaning, idiotic insanity. She
mad&amp; the night air thick with her complaints, and demands
for her husband; and kneeling down, she would call on
Heaven to for ever crush the men, "who took Mr. Moreton
away to execution!"
Eminent physicians came up from New Orleans, in
hopes that their skill could do something to relieve Mrs.
Moreton; and the result was, the temporary removal of the
whole family to the city. As its youthful members,
arrayed in deepest mourning, in charge of Aunt Mar-
garet, passed though Beechland, tears were plentifully
shed by eyes heretofore unused, to such weakness. There
they were, orphaned, deprived of their natural protectors,
marching in long procession, the very impersonation of
woe. Even the vivacious Toots had become a quiet child;
her little spirit was subdued, and, beyond insisting that
every one should acknowledge that her younger sister (the
baby) was good, she for the while but little resembled her
former self.
One of the subordinate incidents connected with the
duel, it perhaps should be mentioned, was lhat Gol. Lee, in
the reaction of public sentiment, came' in for his share of
denunciation; but, as usual, when it was too late to accom-
plish aiiy good, in checking hi~ vanity in arranging
"points of honor." In the midst of what he considered
a momentary decadence of his star, authentic information
came to I3eechlaud, that the "high-toned, chivalrous re-
presentative of 'one of the first families of Virginia, Col.


384              TH~ MASTER'S nousn;                                                                                    385
A TAL1i OF SOUTLIE1~N LiFE.

Lee," was the son 0f a once respectable tavern-keepe~' in
the vicinity of Colesburg; and that all the knowledge he
had of horses, or good society, was what he picked up as a
stable-boy, or in listening to the conversations at the table
d'h6te. This blow, with his other troubles, struck him
down, and ':amid the jeers of the people generally, he
sneaked off at night from Beechland, as Busteed remarked,
"to turn up in Texas,-do over again the 'first family
humbug,' and look down upon honest people on account
of his aristocratic associations."
Mr. Moreton was buried near the public road in the
graveyard at Beechland; it was contemplated to erect a
splendid monument over his grave, and the site alluded to
was selected by Col. Lee as the fittest place to display to
the passers-by upon the "storied ui~n" the many virtues
of the deceased. Soon after the funeral there came on one
of those long and continuous rains, so common in the
South, and the roads every where were almost impassable
-they were so cut up by heavy loads. The negroes,
with their jaded teams, in their usual desire to avoid the
obstacles~ of the prescribed highway, made a short cut
across one corner of the graveyard; and what was first
done in the spirit of necessity, soon became a matter of
course, and ox-wagons, emigrants, carriages, and foot-pas-
sengers pursued, unconscious of profanation, the new-
inade~ way. ' the sun
Bgt when          shone out again in brightness,-
when the heretofore impassable road resumed its wanted
hard and dusty firznness,-it was found, that the resting-

place of the once noble and gen~rous-hearted Mr. Moreton,
was entirely obliterated from the face of the earth.
Major Dixon finally carried out his cherished intention
of retiring from active participation in his long pursued,
and, to him, most probable business. His trip to Goles-
burg was his last appearance in his professional capacity.
On his return' to New Orleans he sold out hi~ depot, and
retiring to a valuable tract of land he had 'long owned in
the vicinity of Beechland, he brought together a large
number of negroes that he had' hired about the country,
and, as if by magic, ~turned into a substantial planter;
and, as was agreed by the best judges, owned the "hand-
somest force" that could be found in the whole South.
As Major Dixon gradually developed hims4f, his
equivocal Georgian title of Major, warmed under the in-
fluence of popular favor, burst, like a well-perfected bud,
into the full-blown luxuriance of "General;" and so quietly
had it been done, tha~t no one could remember when the
transition took place.
"Alava "-for such was the name the General chose
for his place-was distinguished for the rich furniture of
the residence, as well as for its perfectly trained domes-
ties. The arrival, from time to time, at Beechland, of~
costly mirrors, damask curtains, rich carpets, cuslAoned
chairs,--all bearing the magical mark of "ID," in their
final disposition, gave to the reception-rooms an almost
unknown splendor. Upon the walls were hung several
fine engravings, prominently among which the proprietor
of Alava placed "Mercy's Dream;" his own portrait,
half-tength, had also bcen painted, which re~)re~e1iteJ the

884

385


A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.         387

THE MASTER'S iiorsn;
&amp;

General, sitting in a rn~gnificent library, and holding a
"Virgil" in his hand.
Parson Goshawk, as he now disliked to be called, soon
after he married the widow~Hartshorn, devoted the whole
of his time to agricultural pursuits. He had unfortu-
nately become affected by a bronchial complaint. His gen-
eral health appeared excellent; he had an unfailing appe-
tite, and nothing, however great the quantity, that went
down his throat, hurt him: talking about cotton, negroes,
or, my plantation, did not seem to irritate the epiglottis, but
the moment he rose in the pulpit to preach, he said that
he felt a wandering of mind,-'--'a vacancy of thought,-a
total want of interest in the subject matter before him,-
that was truly alarming; and he was, therefore, obliged
to leave off public ministrations altogether, and thus having
'leisure, he often visited, and became quite a favorite with
his neighbor, Gen. Dixon, whose hospitality soon became
proverbial.
Surrounded with friends, it was seldom indeed that
the~ General partook of the solitary meal of a bachelor
planter. The return of a birthday was made the occasion
of a social gathering. The guests filled the splendid par-
lors, and in varied conversation beguiled the time preced-
ing the announcement that the feast is prepared. Upon
a sideboard was a rich display of cut-glass, a pitcher of
ice-water, and several decanters of costly liquors and
wines. Generally, a servant stood by to assist those who
desired to refresh themselves; if not, the gentlemen, with
and without ceremony, gratified their appetites.
On one of those pleasant sideboard gatherings, while

the gentlemen were trying their wits about the age and
value of the costly wines and brandies before them, Mr.
Goshawk started up with animation, and said: "Are you
aware, gentlemen, that these lovely flowers, in which we
are almost empowered, are absolutely the complimentary
evidences of the esteem inwhich General Dixon is held by.
the ladies of my congregation?"
"Pshaw, G-oshawk!" said Dix&amp;n, absolutely blushing
to his eyes.
"Aha!" said ~udge Burley; "this explains why that
white 'lady banks' has been so very carefully disposed
of on the centre-table,-.--reposing luxuriantly in a vase
by itself: acknowledge the indictment, General ;-.that
bud is from old Governor Starbuck's conservatory, now
isn't it ?" and the judge looked unusually knowi~ig upon
the company present..
"The fact is," stammered the Generals still confused-
'~ the fact is, the ladies have been very kind indeed, and I
am deeply indebted to them."
"But you find one thorniess rose among the number,
that is especially"worthy of an honored place," pursued
the judge, still keeping up his mysterious expression.
"Don't be too severe on the General," said Goshawk,
coming to his relief, "for you cannot imagine that Alava
will always be without a mistress."
"A health to the future lady of Alava,~" cried Captain
Mercer, moving towards the sideboard; "come, 'gents,'
let's fill up." A simultaneous rush was made to the point
designated, and the significant gurgling sounds of liquids
and the musical tinkling of glasses ensued.

386

887


388             THE MASTER'S HOUSE;                                                  A AL1~ OF SOUTHERN LIFE4         389

receded by a grateful rattling of silver spoons, and
other preluding noises from an adjoining room, that so
clearly indicate that the last artistic touches are being
given to the carefully set table-~-the folding doors were
opened, and the hospitable board, and its accessories pre-
sented to view.
Upon a side table were piled up hundreds of pieces
of fine china, beside of which, were ascending from the
,?otage jullien, and bis~jue, the most grateful odors.
The guests, by a profusion of servants, who moved with
quietness and precision) were conducted to their assigned
places at the sumptuous board, and with a graceful preli-
minary, they unfolded the fine napkins, on which rested the
prism-hued crystal, and in their new form, seemed drifted
snow, absolutely deceiving the imagination into a sense of
giving a cooling influence to the genial atmosphere.
Thus were, disposed, the recipients of the hospitality
of the prosperous and honored Gen, Dixon, and with smiling
faces~ and grateful expectation, they beheld adown the long
table, at stated intervals, glistening pyramids of cake, com-
bined under the eye of innocence and beauty, from the
charmed surfaces of which sprang, in wasteful profusion,
sugar-coated ~cloves,~~ and innocent lanibkins enchained
in rosy wreaths.
Still securing the attention of the eye were the varied
preserved fruits of the Western J~adies, lying in their juicy
beds, as fresh as if just robbed from their spicy homes,
while rich confections and preserves, in luxuriant wanton-
ness, filled up the intervening spaces.
A choice bouquet of flowers, by their enamelled smiles,

designated the allotted place of each guest, while from
the centre of all, towered a floral pyramid, in which strug.
gled for glowing supremacy the choicest native and ex-
otic flowers, making the 'very air redolent with the per-
fames of the honey-suckle, the hyacinth, the orange and
citron bud,-more beautiful than Ceres or Pomona ever
offered to the Queen of Love; and amid all, there went up
the appropriate incense of a blessing, from the appointed
man of God.

$


0

THE MASTER'S HOUSE:

CHAPTER XXXII.
* # * * *
NEvER was there a funeral attended by more sincere
mourners, than accompanied the remains of Annie Mild-
may to her last resting-place. Among the throng, there
was scarcely one who could claim a personal acquaintance,
yet Annie was remembered, as she had occasionally ap-
peared at church, and all felt that her premature death was
hastened by the sad events already recorded. From the
moment that she bestowed her last look of affection upon
her husband, and raised her last prayer that Heaven would
bless him, Graham seemed to be as one stunned beyond
recovery. Throughout all the affecting preliminaries,' he
passively obeyed the suggestions of Gen. Bledsoe, and
submitted, without remark, to whatever was done by the
kind-hearted ladies of the neighborhood, who volunteered
their attentions by the bed of sickness, and in the chamber
of death.
The last rites to the beautiful and good were per-
'formed in the morning. The grave was in a quiet spot,
beneath a wide-spreading oak, whose immense limbs held

A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.

391

their delicate leanings, as if they would protect the little
hillock from every~ rudO intrusion. Even before the mourn-
ers had departed, the innocent birds were caroling in
the tree-top, and from a distance, its vernal gloom seemed
to promise sweet repose.
Graham sat hour after hour upon the now, to him,
deserted gallery. His servants moved noiselessly about,
and dared not disturb his hopeless sorrow. Toward the
close of day, Governor (since the duel more than ever
cherished for his faithful service) handed his master a
large number of letters and papers, which were listlessly
received, and then, unnoticed, cast aside. The sun That
had for some moments been struggling upon the horizon,
and in flickering gleams illuminated the landscape, now
rapidly disappeared; and as there is no twilight in a
Southern sky, the thick darkness of a starless night en-
shrouded the form of Graham Mildmay.
THE END.

x

390


  
             
         
       
   
