
    ----CITATION----
        Yalcrabb, B. L. G.. The Traveller's Library .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8401
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Traveller's library 
            
               I

t

t

1.

THE

HAVELLERS'
CONTAINING

BRARYI

I1ThitZTITV  TO1IZs.

LAUGHABLE ANECDOTE&amp;;

AND

ENJOYABLE READING

op A

SELECT AND VARIED NATURE.

r                 -                                     -

P dg 4

'I

PHILADELPHIA:

PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY &amp; CO.,
No.-21 North Seventh Street,
'  _    '  F~t  +'  -_

4

ti
.
c
c

t

t t
.,
i .
"  i
v

';

i
-                 smn'


7
t r

'K;J f -
!(  \Z

17

Entered aesording to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by
E. B. BARCLAY           &amp;  C0.,
In the Office of the Librari'a of Congress, at Washington . (I

if

k-

4,

q
a
6m
1

1

The Xodern "Than of Are"
CHAPTER       I.
HELEN'S HOME.-MIDNIGHT VISION.-THE DISAPPEARANCE.--
RALPH'S DEPARTURE.
Many years since when the battle cry rung in every ear, when
destruction to our glorious flag was threatened, when young and
brave men, sors, brothers, husbands and fathers left their homes, to
avenge their country's wrongs and restore its laws, there dwelt in the
northern part of the State of New York, a family of four persons, Mr.
Bertram, his son Ralph and two daughters, Fanny and Helen. Noble
and true was Ralph, he needed no prompting to obey his country's
first call.
Mr. Bertram had been a soldier in the war of 1812, and had it not
been for his years and physical inability, would again have taken up his
country's honor. A more patriotic heart never beat than the old man's.
Tears ran down his venerable cheeks as he uttered his parting blessing.
"Go, my son, fight well," he said, "if we never meet in this world
again we shall meet in the, next; I have many times braved the
enemy's fire and escaped without a scratch. May it fare as well with
you. God bless you, Ralph."
The young man embraced his aged parent; he had, one by one, °
clasped each sister to his heart and given them instructions concerning
home and his father-sd he wished not to repeat the painful scene.
19

t

HELEN BERTRAM:

TRAVELLERS'

LIBRARY.

m
AM
aw

r
f

.0
w
i
I°


THE MODERN JOAN o ARo.             21

Ralph had a heart swimming with affection; he seized his knapsack,
and dashing away the tears was soon lost to sight. Long and earnestly
Fanny sought from an upper window, to catch one more glimpse of her
brother as he turned the hill. - She was a timid, shrinking creature, and
th  ' ea of Ralph being exposed to so much danger was terrible.
Adelen was wild, daring and fearless; she continued her work about the
house. No tear had limmed her eye; Strange thoughts were working
within her boso$t      ts     r  notreveal. Hitdrto her mission
had been toattend to he iom'ort of her'only'Parent, and well had she
done so. No duty, however trifling, that had devolved upon Helen had
ever been left unfinished. The old man considered that evening lost
when Helei was absent from the fireside. She had been all in all
since Ah6 death of 'his biloyed -wife.
To this same home among the mountains, where my story begins,,Ralph
the senior, had, at a period of fifty years prior, brought his young and
blooming wife. It was not until many years after their marriage that
they were blessed with children. When the young Ralph was born"
the neighbours killed an ox and made a royal dinner in honor of the
event. There was not a man, old or young, within twenty miles who
would not have done Ralph Bertram a favor; who would not have
saddled his best horse at any hour of the night to do his bidding.
Ralph, his son, wasmuch thought of, and his example was soon followed
by half the young m'en in the vicinity. The brave Massachussetts men
had just been fired into, and tle report aroused many a slumbering
patriot to shoulder his musket. But to return to our story.
The morning after the departure of Ralph for war, a strange quiet-
ness reigned throughout the house.
Fanny, looking up from her work, exclaimed, "What ails Helen,
father, I have not heard her speak a word to-day ?"
'-Now you speak of it, Fanny, I do think that she has been very
still, I suppose she is grieving for Ralph-you see they have been so
much together."
"Yes, father, I kno , but there is a strange look in Helen's eye,
and'when I have asked her several questions her only reply has been,
'I don't know.' "
"Perhaps she did not know,'.-'eplied the old man, "Helen easily
forgets; I've known the time when she went to get the paper to read
to me the news, and she has forgotten all about it, and when I looked
up to see what she was doing, there she'sat holding the paper, with
her eye-balls nearly starting out of. her ,head and she gazing on
vacancy."_

"I have known that   happen often, father, and sometimes I have
wondered if Helen did  ot see spirits or ghosts, or something-they say
people do."
"Nonsense, my child, there are no such things; only silly people
believe in it. Helen is too sensible a girl to have such fancies-too
steady."
Saying this, the old man looked towards the window with an anxious
expression, as if wondering why she did not come.
"Helen has been gone a long time," he said, " and the distance is
short to the mill.  I wonder what could keep her so?  If I were not
so old I should go to the mill myself-but then she likes to ride the
mare, and do you kno , Fanny, that sometimes I mistrust Helen and
the miller's son Fred ha e a fancy for each other. I should not object,"
continued the old man.
"But I should; father, and you wrong Helen by the thought; she
cares no more for the miller's son than she does for his corn-of all
girls, Helen cares the least for beaux. -The other day we were
speaking about our different tastes, for you know we are not a bit
alike, father, and Helen said she never would be married, but wished
she was a man, that she might do something for her country."
"And what did my Fanny say?" asked the old Oman, sadly but
fondly.
With a faint blush, the maiden thus questioned, replied--
"Why father, I intend to get married, and that's what I think is
best for a woman to do for her country."
" I think so too, Fanny, but who do you think would have you-
such a rattle-brain; why, I declare, it would have'to be somebody very
steady. Now it would be different with your sister, she can rule herself.
But 1 wonder what keeps her ?" said Mr. Bertram, looking again down
the long extent of meadow land which lay between their house and the
road.  Ielen had been absent over two hours. " But what makes you
wonder if Helen sees spirits,,or what you call them Fanny?"
" Why, last night' father, she would not come to bed, so I fell asleep
in my chair and it was almost morning before I awoke. Some noise
startled me; I opened my eyes suddenly, and there was Helen capering
about on the floor and chairs, taking attitudes, calling men and horses
to her side, with a wild stare, (for her eyes were wide open.) Then she
talked to 'some one, but I could not tell what she said for it was in a
whisper. I was so frightened that I could not speak, so. I sat still
watching her for some time, when she sunk upon the floor, clasping her
hands tightly over her heart. I sprang to her side, and as I was about

II

20                    HELEN BERTRAM.

9


22                       BHAL  BRaATRAM.
t raise her she uttered these words, Father forgive me, I die for my
country   I had raised her whop she awakened to consciousness, for
she wildly exclaimed, 'Oh, Fanny! where am I?  I have had such a
horrible dream. I thought I was on the battle field-that I was
wounded and. dying,' then coming to a pause, she arose, straightened
her dress, and speaking-rapidly and with great excitement said, ' Tell
no one what you have seen-no word of what I have told you, Fann y.
I have seen a fearful vision,' but a glorious one. I was born to no com-
mon destiny; it has all been revealed to me,' and so she talked, father,
until long after we had gone to bid. She did not close her eyes again
I am certain.
"Oh! Fanny, why did you not speak of it before she went to the
mill ?" asked the old man, trembling in every limb, "might it snot
have.been of the future she was dreaming, her long nourished thought,
so inconceivably grand, but so terrible !"          ~
Father and daughter wept over the relation of the vision, both watch-
ing the road across the meadow.
The clock struck twelve, gone four houls! Fanny's thoughts had
taken a new turn. She looked in the closet and found the bags had
not been disturbed, and that Helen's wearing apparel all hung in the
spare room, not a single article, having been disturbed. Continuing
her researches, she ascertained that her brother Ralph's onl remaining
suit was absent. She needed nospirit from the .other worlh to tell her
the'whole story, for she was a clMar sighted girl. Her mind was made
up. Still the father gazed from the window.
"Saddle the horse father, and see which direction she has aken-
her clothes are all hanging on the wall and Ralph's clothes  gone."
The father obeyed. Fanny had more of the spirit of command and
self-government within her than he had attributed to her. He was soon
,mounted on the back of Dobbin, and taking the road to the mill wa
soon lost to sight

f
4-

a;
~ 'I"..-

I

i

"1
I,

I

TaE MODziN JoAN OF ARC.                  2
-"
'H CHAPTER     II.
A STRANGER SUDDENLY APPEARs.--THE LETTER.-FULFILMENT
OF DESTINY.
The old man had no sooner gone than Fanny heard a quick step upon
the sands ; turning, she perceived with a slight confusion, Reuben
Wycliffe, her brother's friend. He had leaped from his- boat, which
he had just secured, and patting his dog upon the head with a "hold,
good Ponto," he walked up to the door.
"Good morning, Miss Fanny," said he, making a respectful bow,
"is your brother at home, or rather has he returned?"
.Mr.Wycliffe had not heard of Ralph's departure, he himself having
been absent from home.
"Why he has but just gone, Mr. Wycliffe, an has no idea of return-
ing so soon," answered the young girl, somew t surprised at the ques-
tion, "Do you not know that Ralph has gone to war?" Observing
by his astonishment that he really did not know, she continued, "He
left us yesterday to join his regiment ; he went away without thinking
of it very long, and so I suppose you have not heard of it."
"I had not, indeed,' answered the young man, "I thought you were
joking at first," as he spoke he seemed .to wear an incredulous ex-
pression, and continued, "Gone to war?  Why, I could have sworn to
him early this morning ; he passed our house, as I supposed it- was him,
about eight or nine o'clock; I called him, but he did not hear, and no
wonder, for it was some one else. What a resemblance!!"
Fanny listened attentively, thinking it might have been Helen in
Ralph's clothes, and that her father had taken the opposite road to the
one taken by her sister.
Her excitement was too apparent to pass unnoticed eby the young
man, who felt rather awkward, being too polite to ask any questions.
The fact was, that Reuben Wycliffe had come to see Fanny instead of
her brother, but he invariably made that an excuse for calling, not
knowing exactly whether his visits would be agreeable on any other
grounds.

t
. r
c +
.,r


To satisfy herself, Fanny made Reuben give a near and accurate
description of the person whom he had seen, including .a description of
the horse.
"Now,   iss Fanny," said he, "'that must decide the matter; I did
not think until yo4 spoke of it, I particularly noticed your father's old
grey mare, that Ralph likes so much, I observed hershort tail and the
mark on her side; I know the mare so well,.that if it had not been
Ralph I.should have wondered who rode the old beast, for I know they
do t borrow much around here."
"The more you say, Mr. Wyclife, replied Fanny with seeming con-
fidence, "the more I think you must have seen my poor deluded sister;
she got into her head lately a strange idea: of going to battle, like that
woman of old, you know, thatJoan of Arc, and the way it came about
w this, we read the history after the war brbk# out, and then Helen
had agreat dream, she called it a vpi'n; so you see she has gone with-
gout saying a.word to us. Ralph only went yesterday. -It will almost
kill"father, for he seems to depend on Helen more than on me. He
has now gone in pursuit, but ,from what you have told me, he has gone
the wrong way. Oh, if you could serve us,?' she continued, answering
the offer that quivered on the young man's tongue. Fanny had not
said that much to him in a year.
"With ail my heart. What shall it be ?" said he, "Anything....
require of me anything.. Nothing will be difficult to undertake in such
a ca ue. I shall only be too happy to serve you."
nny was too full -td speak her gratitude.. All she wanted was'
speed. She bade him go in all directions, where there was any
pos ibility of tracing her d luded sister, and return her to her home; or
at lest get some news concerning her place of destination.
Ie waved his lat as he;mounted his ownfaithful beast and struck
iot9 the. road which led entirely away from the one taken by the old
ra. Fanny'e heartbeat wildly as he hastened up the swift trot and
disappeared.
$he aain stationed herself at the window, watching with anxiety the
return of her father, dreading the effect of the disappointment he should.
meet.
Not being able to endure ;thi&amp;suspense, she searched through the
house for other proofs; looking  r Helen's things, examining books
and papers, in search of something she knew not what. When sud-
denly her eye# fell upon a letter directed to her father in Helen's
handwriting; hastily tearing it open she read as follows:

THE, MODERN JOAN OF ARC.

Beloved Father and Fanny :-'
Ere you read these lines I shall be far away. Duty calls me to
aid my country and I must obey the call. I grieve to leave you, but
heaven has willed me for the army. I am possessed of new feelings-of
new life. I am no longer the weak girl you have -known me, but
henceforth a warrior. I have had a vision and communication with an
unseen power. I am to free our country from its enemies and lead on
the army to battle: like Joan of old, I shall ride armed with the power
of the Most High, the God of battle. If I should fall by the edge of
the sword, or pierced with the enemy's bullets, it shall be destiny.
Last evening after you had gone to sleep Fanny, I sat-in the twilight
'and heard a voice calling me distinctly, "Helen," I replied in astonish-
ment, "I am here, father," supposing it to be the voice I- was so
accustomed to hear. I soon saw a"figure at my side, clothed in white,
with finger upraised, pointing towards the south ; it said nothing for
some time. I watched with trembling limbs its every movement; when,
to my astonished vision, the unearthly being sat before me mounted on
a fiery charger, crying "On, on to battle ; destroy the enemy; crush
them with the edge 'of the sword ;, lead the army, you are able ; you
are henceforth the preserver of your country !" the figure gradually
became a blaze of light id trampled round the room, urging me " to
be up and doing."          not what to do, and cried to the form to
teach me how to full my destiny. "Mount," he said. 1 found myself
upon the same hor e in a twinkling, while the being, with a glorious
countenance, stoodbeside me. My horse reared and plunged, giving
my instructor eviIt satisfaction.  Soon my terror disappeared.
I Was changed into a warrior, in soldier clothes, and armed cap-a-die.
In this dress I received his blessing. A change came. A dark cloud
obscured my sight and there seemed a terrible wind created immediately
pear and around me. I had fallen, and lay pierced with the balls of
the enemy. The pain caused me to groan, when r started up. The
vision had fled. It was some minutes before I could exactly recover
my wandering senses; when I did, I found I was in the room lying
upon the floor-that you, Fanny, was trying to restore me.
I hastily wrote these lines after you had fallen asleep. And now
farewell, beloved father, and you, d rest Fanny; the God of battles
will direct my course.                Your       HELEN.
Many tears were shed by Fanny over this letter, while reading it
again and again, almost forgetting her father and Wycliffe. Recalled'
to herself, she placed it in her bosom, as she perceived her father turn-

ti

25


(

MAP0

HELEN BERTRAM.

ing in from the road. She saw by his woeful countenance that he had-
nothing pleasant to communicate.
"No new;a Fanny," were .his.first words upon entering, having first
put Iobbip in, the stable- " Helen has deceived us, she has not been
near the mill."  Hespoke with emphasis, a little wrath---hook his
head mournfully, ,not. being able to reconcile this act of deception with
Helen's previous truthfulnes.
"Dear fatheryou know,' said Fanny, "that Helen said nothing
about the mill, I only took it for granted that she had gone to the mill,
we might have known better-to go by the mill would have been ex-
posure-.-she must have talen another direction."
She then told him what had occurred between Wycliffe and herself,
which filled the old man's heart with fresh hopes: Hopes, alas ! never
to be realized.
CHAPTER        III.1
STRANGE ENCOUNTER WITk OLD DASHER.
Reuben Wycliffe, anxious to do anything which might raise him in
te estimation of Fanny, whose ,favor he prived above all treasures,
earnestly sought to accomplish his object. To be the instrument on
this occasion, of gaining any tidings of Helen, much less of restoring
her toier family, would be esteemed, by Fanny a service of inestimable
value. He had long loved her, but kept the secret locked in his
bosom. He had wished to breathe it in her ear, but the moment had
never seemed auspicious. It was with some such feeling in' his heart
that he had called. Again, this occasion, of all whichshad preceeded it,
hslwsspropitious. An intimacy with Ralph had heretofore provided
him with excuses. What should be done in future was, the thought
which tormented his brain as he rode along. Fanny had certainly
asked a favor of him, and this occurrence might be the means of bring-
ing them together oftener.,So he reasoned over the matter so dear to,
his heart, as he hurried up his horse.'

f

THE MODERN JOAN oF Ano

Arriving  t the eduntry store; -which was not far from his own house,
he alighted andweit in, thinking" that the old store-keeper, who
generally stood about his door waiting the coming of customers, might
know which way the misguided girl had gone, or at least drop a word
that would convey a.hint, he 'addressed the following by way of a
question:
"I suppose.you saw -Bertram's old mare go by this morning ?"
"Yes, I saw both. the mare and that scape-grace, Bertram, too--
though he tried his best to fool me...-as if my old eyes ever deceived
me."
" What do you mean ?" asked Wycliffe, really much surprised. He
had no doubt that he had seen the mare with Helen upon her back, but
how could he Have seen Ralph, after the assurances of Fanny that he
had left yesterday, and then, too, he had never heard mortal lips speak
of young Bertram, with other than respect. Concluding that his friend
must in some way have "fallen from grace," he waited for an explana
tion from the lips of Mr. Dasher.
"I tell you what, young man, it's worth while people be on their
guard now-a-days, as such chaps as ye will make one believe white's
black, and that the moon be square or a triangle instead of round; i m
no ways the smartest, but I'll be up with ye as long as my name's
Gilbert Dasher."
Thus addressed by the person before him, and by one .of whom he
had asked a civil question, Wycliffe knew not what to make of it.
"I tell you," he replied, while the old man stood puffing and blowing,
as if f'ereally had some cause for offence, "I tell you, Mr. Dasher, I
don't understand your speeches one way nor the other, and I'm in a
hurry. I put a question to you and I expected a civil ansicr}I don't
take your remarks-to myself, tut I'll give you a chance to explain
yourselfkas long as' you're an old man, but if you were not, I tell you
I'd not stand here s&amp; tame and take such abusive words; I've always
treated you like a'gehtlemin, and when I asked you' if you had =seen
Bertram's mare go by, I supposed you'd answer me' if 'you did or no.
"Why, to be sure 'did' there now, and all the boys saw, too.. I
suppose Imto be contradicted out of my very eyes. See here, young
man, do you know what the catechism teaches you? It don't seem to
me the young men no*-a-days respect their elders."
Wycliffs looked aghast. The store-keeper, and theboys, too, were
incomprehensible. J
Thinking i t he had perhaps offended him m'i some way and that 'a
satisfactory answerwas' to be 'denied, he was about conclnding to to-

A&amp; 7

I'1


y8

HLIBIULTU&amp;X.

age his journey, he did very muc, want to kinow what sort of a
oeva ier rode the mare, so putting  anger in his pocket, he asked,
thus prefacing it-.
" You say you saw the mare?" .
"I saw the mare, yes!1" repie the store-keeper, stamping his foot.
"Who was on her back ?"
" That rascal Bertram, and I talked with him," exclaimed the old
an, with a clenched fist.
"Pray tell me," said Wycliffe, beginning to comprehend that there
was a great misunderstanding some where, if Ralph Bertram rode the
ware when you talked wih him ?"   store.'keeper,-"I!sawithe grey
"1IIid not s yc.4@e /ry a a'd 'thetstor e   s   a      g
narat pjght o'clockand  lp ft eleven or. o; he swore a blue streak
at   Igadnot seen him, and that some one else rode the mare; when,
.live, I had seen the very clothes he wore, for he bought the suit
offmeL over a month since."
"You made a mistake, Ralph never swears," said Wycliffe, beginning
to see through the affair...
Iut where was Ralph at eleven o'clock that day ?  It was impossible
he had been there. If ha 'left home yesterday he took the boat last-
night, and this morning must be nearly sixty miles away. The person
on the mare certainly mijst have been Helen. He must ask a question
or two more, and then leave.the impression on the old man's mind that
he had been deceived, or else make a clean breast of it and explain all.
This.he hesitated in doing, not having asked permission of Fanny to
mention her sister's flight.
"Disl you see and speak with Ralph yourself?"  sked Wyclife.
"Did'nt I tell you yes!" replied the iow infuriated old man,
"Didn't he come back again in soldier-clothes and (deny his own body;
saidhe guessed his father hadlent; the mare to some of the neighbors,
or something like that--when he had just cometfrom home. I tell
you,"oontinued the irascible old man, ".this y'ar has made our young
men turn out bad; a year ago you would'nt ound $alp  Bertram i  a
lie; be used to be above suspicion. He looked as innocent as any body .
r   en begot his package and said he had not seen the mare nor home
or. -
"i'm inclined to think, Mr. Dasher, that there is a mistake some.
wbere and that you have made it as well as myself," said Wjeiffe, ho
then fully explained to Mr. Dasher all that he could ooncernin the
supposed flight of Helen Bertram, unknown to her 'brother h /h
might have seen Ralph and the misa    en mutual

tI

I

THE MODERN JOAN o ARC.

"Nonsense! pooh!" said the. old man, and turning into the store,
left Wycliffe to ride away, notbelieving a word he had said.
Wycliffe felt much like "punching his head," to use a vulgar term,
but thinking. the old fellow a hard case and withall very incredulous,
he thought it best to proceed. He could not understand how Ralph
had been in the store at eleven o'clock, but the statement of Mr.
Dasher could not be doubted. fle concluded that there was some
transaction which Ralph, for reasons of his own, did not wish to make
known. It looked much like an agreement with Helen: no, that
could not be; he knew Ralph well enough to know that he would never
countenance a move like that in his sister.
Sander's inn was five miles distant; he felt pretty sure that Ralpi
had stopped there, as it was near the boat landing. To this house
Wycliffe took his course. If Mr. Dasher had spoken true, there was a
possibility that he might overtake Ralph and learn from him an explana-
tion of what seemed so mysterious.
He ascertained only that Ralph had stopped a few minutes on his
way to the boat; what sort of a beast he rode, or whether he rode any,
none of the men could tell-but certain it was, that after his departure,
the old grey mare belonging to Mr. Bertram' was found securely tied
before the door, "a very unceremonious way to act," as the landlord
said, "he supposed he'd have to send the beast home; he thought it
singular in young Bertram that he did not transact his business better
than that, but had finally concluded that want of time had obliged him
to leave the mare and burry off, or that perhaps the old man had
agreed to send for it."
Wycliffe came to a very different conclusion, knowing that Ralph had
a fine horse which he had purchased, independent of the mare, but
thinking it best not to explain the matter, he offered to lead the truant
animal to Mr. Bertram's, as he was going there.
In a few moments Wycliffe was seen galloping away in company with
the mare, which he held fast by the bridle. He concluded that he had
followed the search as far as he could, which was really the case.
Doubtless Helen had crossed the river in the same boat and at the
same time with her brother, but to overtake either was now im-
practicable.
Arriving at the me of Fanny, Wycliffe proceeded to give an
accurate account of all. The old man's astonishment equalled that of
his daughter. There was a something strange-a mystery he could
not fathom: how Ralph had also deceived him by remaining near home
when he supposed him far distant. He had never explainedthe tranm

f


I

B'ILIN ERTRAM.
action ot alluded to it in his letter. How inexplicable! Was it a
scheme ? and thus the old uman wondered and concluded ten thousand-"
thinga-hoping and waiting from day to day to know how the old mare
got tied to the-post.
Young Wycliffe received the hearty tanks of both Fanny and her
father for the timely service he had do e them, though by it nothing
positive had been heard of Helen. He'availed himself of the disastrous
affair, as an excuse to come often. They were now without any pro-
tector, as Mr. Bertram was fast failing. They came to a mutual con-
olusion not to say anything of the affair to Ralph, until he should
explain all. Fanny believed that whatever might for the present ook
unfair or underhand in her brother's conduct, that he couldexplain all
to their entire satisfaction.
Thi opinion met a ready response in the breast of Wycliffe, a cir-
enubstance above all others which increased imperceptibly her interest
in him. Whether he felt it or not, it was a master-stroke,.

CHAPTER       IV.
RALPI'S LETTER.--HELEN RN DISomISa

Nothing was heard from Helen. The-'old man drooped from day to
day. When hope had died within his soul, Fanny read to him her
-ister's letter, which she pretended to have just found.
Mr. Bertram's eyes started wildly and glared upon the paper.
"-Then it is true she has gone-; what a strange infatuation," he ex-
claimed, "Who would have believed that Helen would have done so
rashly?"
"It is theway she has been talking, father," replied Fanny, "for
several months past-long before Ralph made up his aind.' She urged
him all-she could, and wished she was a man that'she might go.""
"Yes, but she would not have gone had' it not been for that dream.
Oh I that devilish dream l"

I

:11

"Speak not so, father; you have always told us that you believed in
destiny-now if you do, you must see the fatality of Helen."
" Hush! my child, it is a dreadful thing. It fills me with horror.
She may be lying now stiff and cold in death. A woman has no, busi-
ness with war."
The regiment which Ralph had joined was composed principally of
Michigan boys, and was ordered to a distance. He had  'tten home
several times, and the answers from Fanny had been very  tisfactory,
for they avoided all allusion to Helen. This he could not athom. He
came to the conclusion that she must be ill, or that something dreadful
had happened which they dared not disclose.
At length Mr. Bertram deemed it best to enclose the fatal letter to
him, that he might there fnd an explanation of the terrible silence.
After the first outburst of feeling and surprise natural upon the
occasion of so fearful a discovery in regard to his favorite and dearly
loved sister, Ralph wrote less frequently to his home,
His letter abut that time read thus:
Dear Father and Fanny :-
The letter from Helen astonished and grieved me so, that I was
entirely unfit for service, and pleaded awant, of change. Our good
Captain granted me a furlough. You will wonder at this, but listen:
Had you communicated to me (as you should) the fatal news as soon as
possible, Helen might have been saved. In order to make you under-
stand,.you must remember that on the day when I left you, I intended
to call for a package which I had ordered some days previous-it was
to be left at the store back of Wycliffe's house; I called, but the articles
were niotready and would nQt be until the next day. Not wishing to
distress you by another parting, I hung about the neighborhood the
remainder of that day, desirous to procure my things before finally
leaving. I spent the night at Wilson's, making them promise not to
tell you. My motive was a good one. The next day I called for my
things; when, judge of my astonishment to hear the following words
from Gilbert Dasher:-
"Now you don't think to fool us that way, Ralph Bertram, you had
to sneak home-I knew you'd not go without another kiss from that
pretty sster of yours, and I don't wonder at it."
Checking his familiarity, I asked an explanation, as I had not been
near home.
"Why," said he, "we saw you from this very door about half-past
eight, riding your father's old mare, with your other clothes on."

'a

d

THE MODERN JoAj of ARc.

°,
[T
                      ,  ,


HELEN BERTRAM.
At my surprise they only laughed and called it a go
was a most expert hand at a yarn, etc., until my patient
worn out. He evidently doubted me. I left them, and
speed I encountered ol Miles coming from school, fo
towards noon.
"I could have swornn" said he, "that you passed her
so, but I did not know that you were a soldier."
An explanation again followed, so minute, that I w
\father must have lent the mare and that some one rode
striking resemblance to me. The information made no
me, only that I wished I had been able to explain to D
it, as I suppose he thinks to this day that I deceived i
I rode along, wondering over the circumstance, unt
corner tavern; when there, at the door, I recognized t
knew then that someone had procured it from father, t
so no feeling any other way curious and being rather
the o1 grey's neck and darted away, as my eyes caught
young man, apparently in deep thought, and watching
-'of the road to which I was approaching. He was a ne
and, as I thought was intending to ask me a question,
direction to the boat, instead of which, he turned squ
drew near, and I fancied a faint cry escaped him. T
look at his'averted head and quick step, I hastened on,
ing of the kind had occurred, but thinking the young ma
familiar look to some one, it might have been myself;
already ringing in the air and my anxiety great to ma
Reaching the boat, I discovered, to my great delight, H
Silas Winthrop, both going; but Harry had enlist
regiment, composed principally of Ohio boys. He had i
men who intended to enlist in his company-men who -h
the mountains-stalwart fellows. I was about to leave
ears, when I observed, standing among his men, the sa
had previously encountered on the road-side. I had o
Harry good-bye and step ashore. The countenance a
clung to me for days. Silas Winthrop was with me.
"Did you see that young nan in the dark clothes,
men ?" I asked.
"Who, that smallest fellow ?"
"Yes, I thought him strange," I replied, and then
having encountered him on the road.
* While I had been talking to Harry, it seems Silas had
h                                                                                     -3

d joke -? said 1
,e was well nigh
riding on at full
r it was getting
e about nine or
as certain that
her who bore a
imprepion upon
asher all about
n.
1 I reached the
he old mare. I
o do an errand;
late, I stroked
t the form of a
ne from a point
at, prim fellow,
it might be the
are around as I
king a second
believing noth-
n bore a strange
but'the bell was
:e up lost time.
arry Burns and
ed in another
charge several
ad come in from.
him to take the
ie slight form I
nly, time to bid
d the incident
among Harry's
I told Silas of
Been speaking

; I
U                                                                                                                    /,  .


34

THE MODERN JOAN OF ARC.

a
j
,s
4i
t
3
:
J
'
'I         1
1,
4,:
1
fffMMM  '.. 4

( k

with the young fellow, and mentioned which regiment each one of us
"had belonged to and when we expected to pnove, for you know Silas has
a brother First Lieutenant in our regiment, and gets the news from him.
So the young man had'doubtlessly concluded to attach himself to the
other regiment, stationed at Albany. I could not tell why I so much
continued t' think of that slight form and averted face in the road and
my subsequent encounter.
.I know, dear Fanny, that every word1of this is interesting to you, so
1 will not pass over anything that pertains to it. I have passed sleep-
less nights, and shall, until the God of battles'restores our sister to her
hone and her duty.
Well, after the entrance into the camp, the circumstance was par.
tially forgotten, until your dreadful silence in regard to Helen set me
to imagining all sort of things. I began to associate her with the figure
in dark blue upon the bqat. This -seemed-like nonsense, but .we can
not help our thoughts-they are not, under our control. At length
your lips were unsealed. Would to God they had sooner been. I read
the fatal letter, and ever since I have had but one idea, almost a cer-
tainty; what that is you may imagine. That Helen and the slight
young man were one; that to avoid me, she choose the Ohio regiment.
My thoughts were too rapid to admit of paper and pen, for my brain
was on fire. , I neglected. my. duty and was reprimanded. I, who
made it a point to observe the best behaviour, and gain the respect of
my commanding officers, was con tantly found at fault, and at last
threatened with punishment and disgi/ace. It made no difference, I
laughed in their faces, and even spit upon the sergeant who brought
the message. What might have been done, I don't know, but I imme-
diately begged the man's pardon, and being a little fellow and not
willing to encounter one of my proportions and pugilistic, qualifications,
he received my.apology, and we were the best of friends afterwards.
I awoke from my dream of indifference and apathy, and. it is well Idid,
in time to save my reputation as a man and a soldier. I restored myself
to order and, disciplined but it was hard to control the feelings within
me; for you know how dearly I loved Helen.
Silas Winthrop at last read the letter, with my consent, and you may
* believe he was all wonder and amazement.. We concluded that I should
breakthrough the rules, and ask for a furlough. It was my intention
to seek the Ohio regiment and learn the - fate of Helen. I knew well
that she could disguise herself; for' Helen has great presence .of mind
and fortitude in danger. I wrote, as I had promised, to Harry Burns,
and. larned that there was no such person in the regiment.

HELEN BERTUIA. -,/)
I started from camp, and after two days of travel, I reached the en-
campment of the Ohio boys-was admitted, and with the assistance of
Harry, searched every face and form in every position. A few more
days, they expected, would be sufficient for them to be in marching
order. Failing in success, and having nearly exhausted my six days,
I returned sorrowful to my post. I wrote this letter as soon as I re-
turned to camp. My spirit is almost broken; but we are to march to-
morrow, and may soon be engaged w th, the enemy. If I fall, and\
Helen is spared, tell her it was not by the enemy's balls, but a broken
heart.
We; shall have a terrible campaign in Kentucky. It is feared that
the bravest will fall. If a word reaches you from Helen, let mee know.
May God bring her back, is my prayer.
Your brother,      RALPH.
This letter had the effect to soothe the father for a time. He now
understood what had seemed a deception on the part of Ralph. "All
is clear. as the noon-day," he said to Fanny, when she finished reading,
"Helen has gone in that regiment, and no mistake. It could not be ?"
asked the old man, appealing to Fanny, "that Helen had any kind of
a notion to Harry Burns, I never knew of her."
"LDon't think so meanly of Helen, father, as to suppose that," cried
Fanny, her face flushed with a sudden excitement, "Don't harbour a
thought that Helen would go away to follow any man to war. No ! be
assured, father, that it was some strange, mysterious hallucination--some
warrior deed she fancied was hers to perform. I never heard her speak
a word in praise of Harry Burns," at the mention of that name, Fanny's
face was again suffused with blushes, but they gradually faded away, as
she thought how mistaken she must have been in his character, when
he could go secretly to war, after having showed her a decided pre-
ference over every girl he knew. In a'moment all tender thoughts of
Harry Burns died from her heart, as did thered blushes from her brow.
The fact was, that Harry had paid great attentions to Fanny Ber-
tram, because she was a pretty girl; not for any particular love he felt
for her above every other woman. Wherever he was, he made it a
point to single out the prettiest maiden, and thus Fanny had taken the
palm. This had pleased her, and by constantly thinking of him, Fanny
had imagined that she felt for him more than a passing fancy, wonder-
ing how it was, that of late, he had been such a stranger.


36

Tin MODERN yor o ARC.

CHAPTER V.
D$OLARATION O HONEsT Lvu.---A CLOUD ROLLING U FROM TEN
S     .UTH-W85  .
The next time Mr. Wycliffe came to the house of Mr.-Bertram, he
was treated with far more cordiality by the fair young hostess, than he
had ever received before. His assiduous kindness, mingled with respect
and teeming with love, had long been kcing at Fanny's heart, but
heretofore the door had been guarded by a sentiment inspired for one
who had now deserted her for his country, without even bidding her
farewell. Her feelings she had never breathed to a living being.
There had been, until now, a holy sacredness even in the memory of
the love words he had breathed in her ear, and she was keeping herself
for -him. The'charm was broken,'and she was free: Free to act, to
listen to the love of another-that one was Reuben Wycliffe-who now,
in the misty twilight, stood by her side; his arm rested lovingly around
her waist, and the old man's presence was unheeded, for he had given
his sanction.
Weeks and months passed, and Fanny was happy, for she had
learned to love Reuben and look to him for protection-that protection
which her father would soon be unable to give, for day by day gave
proofs of his failing health. .]Reuben urged this as a plea for their,
marriage.     -
- Still unwilling, Fanny held'back-not wishing to. leave her father, or
her beloved home, now almost a wreck, for everything had been long
- neglected, both out-door work and in-door work devolving upon the
fair girl.
"But, darling Fanny, you need not leave your father," urged*Reuben,
"he. can go with us."
".You can stay here with me'," chimed in the old man, who had
heard the remark. "You can get married and stay here with me; there
is plenty for all of us, and I can't leave my old home very well; I

Nt

should never get accustomed to any other piac . Even the trees and
rocks, are to me, old and tried friends. No air like my own; io water
to me like the deaf old pump; no land to me like my own meadows--
no sunsets like these. Ah! Fanny, my child, bereft of all but you, I
cling to these. Your sainted mother loved this mountain home. 'Twas
she who planned these improvements and labored to make our home
neat and comfortable. Those were the happy days, my child. No
young pair ever began life with fairer prospects than we did-with
lighter hearts and more sincere affections: each one of you were an
additional treasure to our little stock, and welcomed with fondness.
Our son-" here the old man's tears fell.   "Our .son-alas! our
greatest hopes were centered in him. He was a noble boy, and bid
fair to be the main stay of the house. He is gone-perhaps never to
return. Helen-ah, yes, where'may she be? Devoured by wild beasts
or taken captive !"
"Say not so, dear father," replied Fanny, "let us hope for the best-,
both may return yet to bless us. The home shall remain as it is-you
shall have no other. I am satisfied to stay, if Reuben will agree, and
we can all live together."
Fanny, who loved her father dearly, thought this the best way of
removing the difficulty, and never dreaming that Reuben would object.
When she had finished speaking, she cast her eyes upon Reuben, and
her quick glance discerned his disappointment.
The old man, supposing the affair settled, replied-
"Well, darling, that suits me exactly, you are a sweet girl-may
you and Reuben be happy. I shall not long be with yoh: Just take
the house and do as you like, and manage all to suit yourselves. I've
done my work here and want a peaceful mind. I vant to see you mar-
ried before long," he added, appealing to Reuben.
"Nothing would fill me with so much happiness," replied the young
man, taking Fanny's }hand and pressing it to his lips, "I am only
waiting for Fanny to set the hour."
The old man passed out of the room, and Reuben, finding the
moment propitious, pressed his suit. He perceived that the only draw-
back to their immediate marriage, was Fanny's unwillingness to disturb
her father. She readily saw that Reuben's hopes and plans had been
frustrated, for he had more than once spoken to her of his home. In
anticipation of his marriage, he had put his home in order, studying
her taste in the arrangement; had surrounded it with flowers, and
covered it with vines. Finding this to be the only obstacle, he removed
it, by saying--

I

HELEN BERTRAM.


P8E MODERN JOAN OF ARC.
"Though my disappointment will be great, dear Fanny, we will re-
main here for awhile. When you get ready, and father is willing, we
will remove. I have fixed it nicely for you, and expected your father
would accompany us. If Ralph returns, of course he will want to live
here, and then we can go.'
" That is true," said Fanny, appreciating the kindness, of Reuben,
"but Ralph may not return, it is timeP we had another letter."
" What about a letter?" asked the old man, who had again entered
and 'always caught the leading ' topic.
"A letter ffom Ralph, fher, I was only saying it is time we had
one."
" Yes, the papers give an account of terrible doings in Kentucky.
I fear he was in the engagement."
"You may depend, father, that Ralph is too brave to stand back-
he will always be first in a fight where he thinks the cause is just."
" Talk not of justice, child-tinmo wa's when there was such; a thing
as justice; there is npne now to a soldier. The officers are the ones
who get the best of everything, and raised from nothing, they tyranize
over those under them."  .
"I know if Ralph is raised to power,'he will be kind and good to the
men."
"Yes, because he is kind and good to all things, and has been a
1gldier himself. I've changed my mind about a great many things
since I talked with neighbor White. flis son got no bounty money; no
pay; no promises were kept.with those poor fellows, for all they were
among the first to volunteer. Young Meigs was drummed out of camp,
I hear, for some small offence against one of the officers.,
"Never fear for Ralph," replied Fanny, "he will not give any cause
for their treating him badly."
"No, I'll promise for Ralph's good conduct," said Wycliffe, "he's.
more fit for an officer than a soldier, for' he knows how to command and
yet make his men like him."
This pleased Fanny, for she liked, best of all things, to hear her
brother well spoken of.
Neighbor White had given the old man the latestnews, which was
bad.
"I heard that the Michigan regiment was there, and I heard the
Colonel's name, too, but I fort t," said he.
"Well, father," replied Fanny, -trembling fromahead to foot, for she
had heard of it herself and had feared to tell her father, "if Ralph
don't get hurt, he will write to us~ and tell us everything."

HELEN BERTRAM.

.

ill

' "And if he does get hurt," replied the old man, "who will write and
tell?"
Fanny did think of that, but she only wanted to change the theme
from her father's attention. Wycliffe had brought the paper, and she
had read the most frightful details.
In conclusion, Mr. Bertram declared "that the young folks had better
get married right away--for  if any bad news came from Ralph he
should never survive the shock, and then who would protect Fanny..
While he lived and had his senses, he wanted to know that she was
loved and cared for. No time must be lost, for if his own feelings spoke
the truth, he would not long trouble the earth. His day was sinking
into night-the long night of eternity."
Fanny was much overcome at these words. She had seen the slow
decay of her father, and believed his words too true.
Reuben stood an anxious auditor, to hear his fate, his arm supporting
the form he held dear. In answer to his whispered promise, the soft
hand was slipped within his own.
They stole out into the dark wood, and wandered up and down the
well known paths, speaking no words, for their  ear  were full of
happiness-a dream of promise.
They announced their decision to the old man, who show   great
pleasure and satisfaction.
Early the following week his best coat was well brushed, and his
whitest shirt and silk tie donned for the occasion. The little church
received the maiden, and sent her forth a happy bride. Young Wycliffe
tokk up his abode with and yielded pleasantly to the old man, whose
affection made him second only to Ralph.
There was but one cloud to darken the happinessof all, and that had
not burst-it was rolling up from the southwest.

r


40                TaB MoDN   JOAN of AAt.
CHAPTER VI.
DREAM OP REALITY.-P E$EXTIMENTS.-THE WIZARD.
Now I come to a part of my story when bloody scenes were enacted.
My readers will recollect the terrible campaigns of Virginia; howestrong,
able-bodied soldiers fell on the battle field-true to their lag, but not
able to withstand the enemy's fire. When the battle rged-when the
cannons roared in thunder peals, and the air was dark with the dense
smoke of burning powder and the r in of destructive balls; there rode
at the head of the' lines, asalight buIt man-one who had commanded
the place by his repeated acts of br very. One, who with a pale face
and trembling limbs, listened to the given order, and then took his own
way afterwards. Who this was, all conjectured-none knew--suddenly
risen from the ranks -by some miraculous means. The brave Colonel
was the only one who kiew why that post of honor was thus held.
A fearful battle was' in progress-the enemy's forces outnumbering
our own. -All wondered who that gallant young officer was, who rode
so close to the Colonel, and- cheered the men to action.; whoever
flinched among a thousand glittering steels. Frequently the Colonel
conversed with him, and then they would change their mode of attack
or resistance.
Our friend Ralph had been made sergeant, two or three times, each.
degree bringing him higher in rank. Now, by some misfortune to
another, he was nade Lieutenant, and rode in line with the mysterious
stranger.
To get a better account of the proceedings, we will read the letters
which Ralph sent from time to time to Fanny.
CAMP MORELAND.
Dearest Father and Sister Fanny :-
Since I wrote to you last, I have had quite an attack of
illness. For a whole week I remained in my tent. Anxiety for poor
Helen increased the malady, but I can not give up the hope of again

i


42

HELEN BERTRAM.

beholding her. Her memory haunts me at every turn. If you had
heard anything, I know you would have told me, but as you never say
a word, I judge the worst from your silence. How does poor Father
bear up under the stroke ? I know that you are a girl of great, fortitude,
Fanny-more than has been awarded you--for you have shown it.
We are on the eve of a great battle ; I am well enough to rejoin my '
men, and ehall report for duty to.day. The enemy is within sixty.
miles of us. I have many strange things to tell you, but shall write a
longer letter efter the battle. I do not feel as if I shall get hurt; it
may be- a vain boast, but I have not had a misgiving about it. I I have
a prospect of being made Lieutenant, as our brave Lieutenant Hess
died from wounds received by falling from his horse. This is the one
of whom you have heard me speak so often and so well; he-was a good
officer and much beloved by the men.
I must tell you about a dream I had when I was the most sick. A
profound slumber stole over me; Iliad lost so much rest, that when I
did sleep it was like the sleep of eternity; I dreamed of Helen. I
thought she entered my tent, and stepping towards me, uttered a cr
of joy, kissing my hands and lips. Suddenly awakening with the force
of the dream, I strove to catch in my arms the figure that was just re-
.treating from my side. The dream seemed so like reality that I could
not dispel the delusion, unt'el I plainly saw the form of a comrade just
leaving the'tent.
I cannot tell you, Fanny, how real, how blessed was that dream. I.
recovered faster on account of it, for. I felt assured that Helen still
lives, and perhaps has joined some regiment going to a distance.
No more news. I feel 'that I shall escape the battle unhurt.
Undying love to father and Fanny.
Your brother ,and son,      RALPH.
This letter afforded Fanny great satisfaction. It was read to the old
man, leaving such parts out as were calculated to increase his fears.
Fanny was surprised that there was not a word about her marriage,
though she had written him the full particulars. She felt certain that
he had not received her last letter. Ie might be killed in the battle,
and would never know it. This fact made her feel very sad. She
knew that he would approve of her choice, for she remembered his great
respect for Reuben Wycliffe in the days when a mere pas ing glance
was all she had bestowed upon him.
The next letter set her heart at rest-on that subject.

, .
:.

CAMP MORELAND.
Beloved Sitter .--
Let me congratulate you upon your wise marriage. Of all the
men I know, I could not have made for you a better selection. Give
my best love, a brother's love, to Wycliffe, and tell him I entrust you
to him, feeling that he is worthy of you. Now that I am a Lieutenant,
I shall try to resign after this struggle is over. To-morrow we expect
to smell gunpowder. Here in this camp ground nearly two months,
with no change, w  almost hail the idea with joy-indeed, some, or
most of the men re very anxious to have a dash at the rebs, who are
encamped near by. The horses are prancing as if they expected to
lead to victory.
We, have brave officers and good men. Some do not trust the Colonel
altogether, for they say he keeps an astrologer or sort of soothsayer by
him, who can foretell the danger.
You would laugh, if you could see this poor young man, upon whom
the men lavish all their fun and jokes. He is a stripling, with a full,
round, intelligent face and charming eyes. He stays near the Colonel,
having a tent of his own. He has been known, on several occasions,
to tell the fortunes of the men, and for this has gained the appellation
of soothsayer. It is astonishing to see how much superstition and
ignorance exists among the soldiers. While one ridicules, you will
meet with a dozen, who believe. For the sake of having the fellow
near him, the Colonel constantly employs him within his own tent.
He is a sort of melancholy chap, and a check upon some of our men.
The incident has created quite a sensation in camp-lice, for we have
s nothing new-only the daily routine. There is certainly a mystery
about this young man, though our Colonel is one of the best of men.
It is no sin to be superstitious, though it leads to misery, for see our
poor Helen, " where is she, oh where is she!"
Silas Winthrop and I are in the same tent, both having been made
Lieutenants. He is forever teasing me about haviitg my fortune told
by the Colonel's Wpan. I had declined it several times, for you
know Fanny, that I never believed in anything of the kind. He said
so much about it, that I concluded to try it. Well, we started to the
tent of this wizard, with the intention of getting a peep at the future, e
when would you believe it, we found the Colonel and the young man
engaged, exploring a map and measuring distances. We remained 'in
hearing and these ords caught my ears,
"If I fall give me to my brother, Colonel, it will be a satisfaction
to him to know that we have been together so many months."

I

THE MODERN JOAN OF ARC.


44

HELEN BERTRAM.

A

" I will faithfully keep my promise," was the reply.
This request and the tone in which it was made, made an impression
upon me. Silas hearing the remark said, " that fellow surely has a
brother in the regiment, who can it be?"
I paid but little attention and would have declined -consulting the
seer when Winthrop seized my arm, bringing me face to face with the young
man, the Colonel having slipped away. At sight of his pale face, for
it was much changed since I last saw him, I altered my tone, which
was about assuming.one of ridicule. He looked much like the figure
that had stolen into my tent and read your letters, but I had no desire
to create any. excitement, so I listened to the words, stranger than
fiction, that followed from his tongue. All my past life was laid before
me. Wit-a trembling.voice, he spoke of those at home, your grief
and its causes, and said that the sister mourned for was not far distant.
I really felt as if the power of God was there, Fanny and since that
have regarded the fellow as something supernatural. A kind of spell
has hung over me. I could scarcely refrain from clasping him in my
arms. I watched his movements. His voice was tremulous, and his
manner betokened a want of confidence in me or in himself. I stead.-
ily returned his gaze, hoping for tidings of her upon whom my thoughts
were running. Drawing the curtain and keeping his eye fixed upon
me, he said,
"1Young man the one of whom you wish to know is not far away,
her heart is yearning for those she loves, those she left behind, you
especially she longs to see. All the time you have been separated, her.
spirit of love has watched over you, and kept you from dangers."
" But she is not dead," I replied, "at least I think so."
"You are right, she is riot dead, many dangers have encompassed
her, but she has not fallen. You will yet meet her, when you least
expect to, it is so ordered."
"When, where," I cried growing quite excited, "I cannot believe it."
" On the fifth day," he replied, " be patient, at set of Sun."
I heard no more. -I only saw the .slight figure retreating from me,
with an expression of sadness I shall never forget. I would have
rushed towards him and asked him further, but he beckoned me away.
A meloncholy pervaded this young man, bordering on insanity, yet his
words were those of wisdom and well chosen. I have never seen a
handsomer face than his. His brow was like chiselled marble, and he
had a habit of putting his hair back from his forehead. Re did 4o re-
peatedly while he was speaking to me, and to save my life I ogl ? e et

t

THE MODERN JOAN OF ARC.

45

help associating him with our poor Helen. It seemed so like what she
would appear dressed in soldier's clothes.
As I said, I was left alone and for a few moments was lost in thought.
Thinking it time to join Wi nthrop, who ras waiting for me without, I
moved to go, when the slight young man came towards me, with his
finger upon his lip, a token of silence. Approaching me, he hurriedly
whispered, "I have long wanted you to come that I might speak to you
of her; say nothing of this."
A gush of feeling came over me, excited by the grasp of this young
man, and the next moment, I know not how it came about, but he was
clasped in my arms. A warmer embrace was never given or received
by two who had until then been entire strangers. I accounted for it
in this way. I have always heard of strange influences getting posses-.
sion of such people, and supposed that it had been so in my case. I
aroused myself and found Wihthrop within the tent. t Whether he had
witnessed the scene I never knew, as he said nothing. We had not
much time for delay, as immediately after that all men were under
v orders. We are expecting an engagement and if I am spared you shall
see me. As I have been made Lieutenant, I shall get a furlough.
Adieu,           RALPH.
C-
CHAPTER VII.
DEATH OF THE OLD MAN BERTRAM.-FULFILMENT OF THE
PROPHECY.-" AT SET OF, SUN."
-Fanny and Reuben read this letter with feeling and many forebodings.
The words of the seer troubled them. What could they mea , and
then the impending battle, what might be the result? Day by da
they watched for tidings of the war. Young White had been brought
home to be buried and was scarcely discernable. The old man knew
none of these things for his sight was closing. Faniy prayed that he
might be spared long enough to behold Ralph, who she felt would re-

IN


'4 1

HELEN BERTRAM.

'turn. But it was ordained otherwise. He went te sleep softly, like a
babe worn out with crying. He could trot survive the double loss. A
large number of friends. followed him to the grave and mingled their
tears with the surviving mourners.: He was laid beside his wife, beneath
a mournful willow in the old church yard. - As Fanny, left the spot
she wonderedwho would be the next to go. With the old man's death,
Wycliffe's duties increased: -His proposal to remove to their own home,
was agreed to by Fanny, as soon as they heard from Ralph.
And now another storm broke over the house, and shook the very
mountains to their base. Not.a letter but an arrival. The tall trees
bend, their stately forms as the cortege approaches. Borne up the
woody path, what:is that which comes so slowly, so surely ?  Reuben has
been watching it for some time, not daring to alarm Fanny with his
suspicions. They have not heard. fromRalph for some time, meanwhile
the battle has been raging, and many thousands have fallen, Might it
not be his body.
The vehicle slowly emerges from the woods and the quick eye of Fanny
discerns her brother ; yes, it is Ralph Bertram.
" Oh, joy," she screams .and rushes to meet him, but what has so
suddenly arrested her steps, She has fallen against Reuben for
support as the truth flashed upon her mind,-Ralph returning with the
body of their lost sister.' At set of Sun they met.
The meeting was affecting in the extreme. Ralph pale and wan, re-
ceived his sister's caress without a word, merely pointing to the
wagon.
Fanny threw herself upon the body of her sister crying, " oh, my
beloved Helen, is it thus that you are returned to us?  Would that
you had never left us. Speak to me but once again, our father died
broken hearted for you.".
" Our father is dead, what say you Fanny ?" interrupted Ralph in a
husky tone, " our father Fanny, speak, quick, where is he?"
Poor Fanny hadnot conveyed the terrible news to her brother, and
now she wasoverwhelmed.
Wycliffe in the tenderest manner, acquainted Ralph with the par-
ticulars of their loss, sparing Fanny the painful recital.
Let us return to the battle-field. While the storm  raged at its
heighth, Helen rode undaunted at the .head of the line cheering the
men, and inspiring them with' courage.. Fearless of danger she was an
object of admiration as well as wonder- to all. Near her rode the
Colonel, a brave hearted, ioble looking man. His horse was black as
night and full of fire. A  looker on, might have seen the troubled

I

V -,. a

i

I

countenance and anxious expression which betokened a heavy and
foreboding spirit. At intervals he approached the young leader, and
words passed between them-words of encouragement and promise.
The first, second and third day passed. The ground covered with
the bodies of the slain and trampled, presented a fearful spectacle of
men and horses. The black horse had fallen and his rider preserved.
Our heroine had not -tasted food since the onset. . The fourth day
was a terrible one, witl no signal victory. The men were much dis-
heartened, and greatly exhausted by the excessive heat. On the fifth
day, a flue breeze blew up from the south-west, invigorating men and
horses. The rebels opened upon us with a murderous fire, from behind
their intrenchments. The awful moment was at hand.
"On to victory," was shouted in clear, ringing tones, which seemed
to proceed from the unseen world, and simultaneously, our warrior
heroine was flying towards the treacherous parapet followed by the
brave veterans.
On they dashed at the word of command. The parapet was de-
molished, and the rebels scattered in all directions. Victory ran along
-the lines, but the murderous fire had done its work to the brave young
leader. It was near the fatal hour, she fell mortally wounded. The
men were in hot pursuit of the enemy. Helen fell in sight- of the
Colonel, who true to his promise, had her immediately borne to safe
quarters and guarded. He acquainted Ralph with the facts, and proofs
were tooabundant, to admit a doubt in Ralph's mind, that he beheld the
body of his lost sister, in the person of the mysterious young seer.
His grief was intense as was also the Colonels, who strove to hide from
Ralph his true feelings, giving the distracted brother all the assistance
in his power. He fell soon after, from the fire of a secreted enemy,
as he was making his way back to his men.
The strange story got out concerning Helen, as she was borne home
by the broken-hearted Ralph. In her bosom securely fastened to her
garment, was found her sad narrative.
k

THE~ MODENi  JOAN ov ARC.


48

HELEN BERTMAM.

CHAPTER        VIII.
FRIGHTFUL MIDNIGHT ESCAPE.
HELEN'S NARRATIVE.
It ran as follows:-
After the fatal vision, I robed myself in Ralph's clothes, and wrote
the letter, which long ere this has been read by you ard by my beloved'
sister. Had Fanny awakened from her sleep, she might have supposed,
that her brother had returned in the night, donned his former clothes,
and sat leisurely writing. 'Twas the mission of destiny. As I folded
up the letter, I assured myself that my sister was a sleep, and creeping
to my father's bed, I cast upon him a long, sad look-the last. My,
heart was full, though ambition sought to stiffle every softer emotion.
I would have imprinted a kiss upon those beloved lips, had I not feared
to arouse him, and to have done that, would have retarded my plans,
plans which even the thunderbolts of Heaven, or the walls of China,
had not the power to stop.
Destiny guided me on, on ! " I come," I cried ; " falter not," said
the voice, "thou art the modern Saviour, the Joan of the nineteenth
century ; do thy work and thou shalt lead the battles of the Lord."
In every breath I drew, I felt that I should ne'er again look upon the
home of my childhood, after I had passed its mountain walls. The
pretty flower garden where I spent so many hours of pleasant toil, I
gazed sadly upon that, the meadow, the orchard, the spring. I gave
them each a parting, tearful look, but I left no regrets behind. - My
'whole soul seemed illumined with the desire for glory.
Having arranged the trappings on old Grey, I vaulted into the
saddle and rode away. The breath of the morn invigorated me ; the
song of the birds met a response in my soul; the fragrance of the
flowers, as I quaffed it into my lungs, revived my spirits. I seemed to
possess no weight but sat on air. Many favored spots I passed without
a misgiving. The whole creation was changed, breathing forth new and
peculiar odors, giving life, strength and energy. As the morning sun

4j
1  .
M
SI

'.'"
°rx..
.n
u
.-
L
f
1

THE MODERN JoAN OF ARC.
arose in splendor, casting its long beams around me, I observed that I
attracted some attention. I have since thought that it might have
been the near resemblance to you, Ralph.
Something obliged me to stop at the old tavern. After fastening old
Grey, I was about walking around the house, when the familiar sounds
of a loved brother's voice struck upon my ear... I bent my ear to catch
the words and tone, scarcely trusting my own self. I would have thrown
myself at his feet, and told him all my plans, but something within my
heart, stiffed its yearnings a d arrested my intention. It was prudence.
I waited in the jlistlnce, un il you approached and patted old Grey
on the neck, wondering, I supposed, how the faithful beast had got
so far from home.  I watched your every motion, myself in wonder,
how you came there, when I had reason to believe you were far away.
I could not make it out to my satisfaction, but resisting my desire to
come to you, I remained in concealment until you rode away.
My journey lay in the direction of the river, as I had ascertained
that some recruits were going down to join the Ohio and Michigan
Regiments, which had taken so many of our countrymen. I trusted to
my disguise ; for I had cut my hair'short and procured a slight moustache,
which together with the wash I had applied to my hair, rendered me
anything else than what I really was. Not knowing what to do with
Grey, I concluded to leave her to the mercy of the tavern keeper, who
would send her home.
I lost my way soon after, and seeing a stranger approaching, I was
about to ask directions, when I perceived it was my brother's well-known
form. I quickly resumed my steps and at length an unexpected path
led me to the river. I discovered that you too were on. board, and my
firmness nearly gave away as did my strength ; but my weakness lasted
but a moment. I adroitly learned the names and destination of the
different soldiers and officers on board, and I made up my mind, what
my career should be. To be near you, dear Ralph, and not be able to
speak, to recognize you or tell you of my great, my glorious plans, was
too great a trial, but I schooled my nerves to the task.
An inexplicable agency guided me from step to step, until you and I,
Ralph, were upon the same camp-ground, under the same officers, and
under the same discipline. For weeks I lost sight of you. My ecstatic
condition was such that I could dream of nothing but leading the army.
Our brave Colonel relied much on his own strength, and once I heard
him say, as if speaking to himself, "now we have them for certain,,
and he laid out his course.

k

'


HELN BERTRAM.

THE MODERN JOAN OF ARC.               51

I was anxious to know what course ead felt that I must speak. Much
surprised he listened and when I had ceased, I discovered that I had
been speaking to several perso ,r for the tent had filled. All faces
=ore an anxious look, and see ed to hang upon every word. What I
had said I knew n   N   eeling of embarassment came over me, but
a disposition to continue my speaking, was continually suggesting itself.
"Where did you acquire your knowledge young man ?" was the
question addressed to me by the Colonel, while the others looked on
awaiting my reply.
"From Heaven," I replied.
A serious look from the Colonel, checked the humor that was rising
in the countenances of the other officers.
I continued regarding the Colonel alone. "I will relate to you, sir,
{my fearful-,dream, and then you will understand the important mission,
designed for me by the Ruler of Battles."
You shall have a hearing," replied the Colonel, intimating at the
same time to Major Levis and Lieut. Sparring that he wished to give
me an opportunity to relate it, ere the moment .of disaster should take
us unprepared, thus giving by his manner great importance to my words.
All had withdrawn, save these two gentlemen. Feeling a growing
weight attached to my mission and much re-assured by the conduct of
these officers, I motioned them to remain. An exchange of meaning
glances was all the reply given, -and I proceeded' to recount my
experience.
Our Colonel's brow was covered with a clammy sweat,'and he arose
several times, re-seating himself, and iiging upon every word.
"It is the finger of God," 'said he to the Major.
"Excuse me, dear Colonel, but you knowyou are a little superstitious."
" I own to it, Major, but I have had strange dreams and presentimenta
in my life."
"I' must ride at the head of your Army," I continued, boisterously
growing eloquent, "I must lead on the army of the Lord.' I am your
destined Saviour,, against the Southern hordes. I shall assist you to
wield the sword of righteousness against the enemy. Though weak in
body, I am armed with the power, and might of the Most High," I
continued, again becoming ecstatic, until in the fullness of my emotions
I fainted. God be praised, it was only a moment.
When that moment had passed, I found myself alone with the
Colonel, who stood near anxibusly solicitous. His face flushed and
hands clasped, I heard him exclaim, as my"awakening senses rolled
back Lo life.

" My God ! is it possible then 'that this' 'frail-"
He stopped, seeing that-I was; gazing upon-him intensely. I moved
quickly and fastened my vest, which had been opened to give me air.
A fearful suspicion seized me that I had betrayed myself and thus
ruined my hope of success.
I heard a voice whisper close in my ear, " fear not daughter, be not
afraid, trust in me and no harm shall betide you."
I glanced around expecting to behold my shadowy friend, but the
kind face of the Colonel re-assured me of his confidence. . I arose and
left his tent.
Heretofore I had occupied a tent with seven of 'my comrades, who
told daily of my wild ravings, and strange sayings during sleep. Soon
after this, the Colonel gave me a tent entirely to myself-why, I. could
not divine, unless for the strange stories, which the men told, one of
whom declared that he could not sleep. I felt more secure while with
the other men than in my lonely tent..
While sleeping on the same camp-ground with you, dear Ralph, I
felt a security, such as we feel, knowing that loving though unseen ones
watch over our slumbers.' I longed to settle your anxious fears, but
dared not. I was on the eve twice of rushing into your tent and tearing
from me th fatal disguise, and show you your lost sister.
The Colonel kept me n ar him and as I was a good penman, gave.
me some writing to do.   did this- cheerfully, as it gave me constant
opportunities of conversing with him. He wad a ready and atte ive
listener and avoided any unnecessary intrusion when we were together.
He often sought to know something of my history, of home and fri ds,
but I frankly told him, though I feared his displeasure, that I li dbut
in the future.
I missed you from the ranks, and found that you were ill. I arose
in the dead of night, and' looking cautiously around to ascertain if I was
seen, I went straight to your tent and finding you fast, asleep, I took
courage to approach you.' Kneeling beside you, I took your hand and
forgetting the danger of discovery, I gave vent to my emotion, in a
food of tears. A slight step without and a fear that I was watched,
paralyzed me, so that I was unable to move. I listened. Your breath
came heavy and I was sure that your sleep was deep. Again a step,
and the canvass moved. I felt my blood mounting my temples, and
heating back wildly 'into my heart, as I strained my eyes into the
raduallypeniidg canvass and discovered a pair of eyes, gazing upon
iiea-.aliihost 'like liquidifire. If 'I 'had given way to the feelings which
cronYded p    eie;e I might have fainted at your feet, but nerving myself

4


52

HELEN BERTRAM.

against every contingency I° arose. As I could see the figure retreat.
ing, I hastily kissed your cheek and turned from  you as you
awoke.
T darted forth into the night, like a phantom pursuing itself, and
rused.to my tent, seeing nothing of the intruder. Judge of my astonish-
ment to find within my tent the Colonel. What had brought him? Had
it been his step I had heard, his eyes I had seen ? He seemed strangely
excited. I stood before him with clasped hands, the dependency of my
situation overwhelming me. If he had seen my conduct, what con-
struction must he put upon it, and alas ! what inference must he draw
to a certainty ?  I stood there and he remained in his position, watch-
ing me,. while with :each successive glance of his, the color arose and
fadedfrom mychee. I scorned to be ieanly thought of or unjustly
accused, and yet how far could I trust him. He was but a man and I
was in his power, could I tell him all, or remain even suspected. His
opinion was my main-stay, for I will confess to you, Ralph, that his
good pnion had become to me more than life.
I had almost determined to confess all and rely upon his protection,
when he turned and caught- me by the arm, pulling me into the
seat beside him.
"Sit there," said he, "I have a great .deal to say ; I have made
a discovery."
I made no resistance, but obeyed.
He continued, "so you love that young man.",
I replied not, my cheek burning to. the roots of my hair with
the. shame of suspicion and full conviction of his having seen my
emotion.
What have you to say for yourself ?" he asked, "I have known
for a long time, that you were a woman in disguise, but I thought
you a heroine, purely disinterested. What must I think of you, to-
night, finding that you have a lover in camp ?,
Spare me, in mercy spare me," I cried, "I have no lover, you
know not. my sad- history."
"But, what am I to think of what I saw," he continued, pushing
mp;at; arm's length, "did my own eyes deceive me. I watched you
to Ahat 'young man's tent, and saw all that you thought was concealed.
I entered this tent but a moment before you. So then you are the
loftycharacter, who would make me think you had receiveda mission
frQ  the Most gigh. Ah !I might have known better, fool that I
was," he continued, a pretty heroine I've taken into charge, watched
and guarded from discovery and- insult, knowing the fatal truth-"

TiE MODERN JOAN oF ARC.
"Oh ! believe me," I cried, "what may look dark on my part, can
be made bright.  My story is a painful one, but I cannot 'explain.
It is another sacrifice of the heart to, lose your good opinion, but
spare me, I entreat you, I cannot explain."
I wept convulsively.
" Oh ! leave me kindest and. best of friends, as you have been to
me, leave me, I pray you.  I have nowhere to go.  I cannot'flee
from you, unless exposure meets me at every turn.' Extend your
pity once more, and -go to your tent."
I implored him thus as the moon- beams lit up the tent in a
frightful light, then hiding away, we were thrown into a dense dark-
ness. I took his out-stretched hand.
" Then, you confess to the disguise," he said, speaking softly and
in a kinder tone, drawing me towards him. My bosom heaved and fell
like the billows of a stormy ocean.
"I think I deserve a little confidence from  you.  I have taken
every precaution, to hide you from risk of exposure, as you know
that I gave you a tent to yourself. I have allowed you to write
and amuse yourself ; thus keeping you from work above your strength.
No one suspects you to be a woman except myself and I have
long known it. Though your conduct has been strange on several
occasions, when you seemed to be in a sort of a trance, I took care,
that no mis-construction should be placed upon you."
I knew his words were true. I longed to. tear from my body the
detestable disguise, for I hate all things that are deceptive.
"Do you know, why I did this," he asked, searching my coun-
tenance.
"Because," I replied, "you were a man, a noble man, one of
God's creatures, with honorable emotions in your breast, and protec-
tion in your proud form, and perhaps when you looked upon me
a helpless woman, you thought of a wife or a daughter at home."
"1I have neither," he replied, "guess again."
My cheek burned with a crimson dye, at this information on his
part, for I had supposed him a married man, indeed the supposition
had inspired me with an increased confidence. Oh ! how I longed
to get away somewhere to bury my face from the light of the. day
that was dawning, but there was no chance of escape.
" In pity leave me," I implored, "you have my gratitude."
" That is not enough, I want your love," he said, "I have learned
;o love you fondly, deeply, and if I find you an honest, true Woman,
I want to--

'


454

HELEN BERTRAK.

FI heard no more, foi I had sunk unconsciously away. This state
having become: almost a second nature with me, caused by any fright
or excitement,.
I felt the strong arms of a strong man clasp me tightly, and had
not the strength to appeal to his honor. Had I heard his words
aright, or had -I been dreaming?   Had the transactions of the
past two hours been real or imaginary ?  Had I been in Ralph's
tent, or dreamed that I had kissed him?  Had words of love been
- breathed into my ear or was I wandering ? For certainly all these came
to my memory with the return of consciousness, as I found myself
alone in the tent and -lying upon my bed.
I did not see much of the Colonel the next day, but ascertained
that a fight was expected in a few days. After these events, the color
left my cheeks and only tinged it at times.,
I was anxious to hear from home, from   Fanny, to know that
Father was well, and to hope I was forgotten.
I saw you receive a letter and knew it was from Fanny. I resolved
that night to enter your tent and read -it if possible. I feared not
the Colonel, as he had left camp for a day or twoo The darkness
and the quiet hour arrived when the thief and the assassin steal abroad.
You were sleeping when I entered.   I opened your box and took
from it your letter. I soon saw my name, "Dear Helen, alas ! what
has become of her."  I knew Fanny's dear words.   I became so
absorbed ii the letter, that I was unmindful of the risk. I stood in
the light of the moon, which enabled me to read distinctly and clearly
every -word;' I suppose you awakened then and saw an intruder,
and your box opened. I had restored the letter to its place and
was hastening away, when a ball whizzed past me, just touching
my ear, for it was your pistol and you had missed fire. I thanked
God as I escaped into my tent, that you had been prevented from
killing your sister. Alas ! if you had, it would have been my own
folly.y
The next day the Colonel called me to his teut, he said to do some
writing. I obeyed the call. He was alone.
He began the :conversation by speaking about the approaching
battle and asked my opinion concerning the result.  He seemed
very sad, when I told -him that we should lose many men, and
that the battle would, turn against us.  This he actually relied_
upon, as,(true so great was his belief that my knowledge came from
0on High0"
I had seen the result in a dream, and among the fallen I saw

I

I,

b

THE MODERN JOAN oF ARc.
many brave and'noble. officers. I may here state, that I saw you
too leaning over the riddled body of a friend, who fell at your
feet. I was unable to see who it was, as the face was turned from me.
You remember, Ralph, the day preceding the day of the last battle,
that you had your fortune told, and how you trembled and woild
hear no more, but Lieutenant Winthrop held you to your promise.
The soldier who told you your fortune, was your sister, it was I,
your Helen. God knows how madly I wished to rush to your arms
and tell you all.
I had entertained a feeling for some time past, that it would
be the last battle I should ever engage in, and. that if I failed in my
purpose, it would be to die by the enemy's sword.
You left my tent, and I heard you say to Silas "that is a strange
fellow, he acts like a woman, if one did not know-----"  I lost the
rest for you moved away.
All day the camp was alive, as you know, the ground shook
beneath the horses' tramp, and the air resounded with the clash
of arms. I took no part in that engagement, but was allowed by the
Colonel. to keep within my tent, during which time, I busied myself in
writing this sad and mournful narrative. If I fall it will be a satisfac-
tion for you to know, that I fell defending my country's honor and
my country's gag.
I have promised to divulge all to the Colonel to night, so that if
I should fall you can then recover your lost sister, and if I survive
my secret will remain locked in his bosom, for I feel that I can trust
him. He partly suspects the true state of the case, having discovered
as he told me this morning, a great resemblance between you and me.
If I fall, carry these papers to dear Fanny and beloved father, and
tell them I died in the cause of my country and that I carried the
memory of all of you in my heart.
If you are spared, Ralph, remember to be kind to Colonel Greble, for
he isihe only man, for whom I ever felt more than a sister's love, and
he is worthy of it, but I am wedded to my country's flag, to my
country s honor. Forgive me if you disapprove. I close. Farewell!
I fear this will be my last night upon the camp-ground.
Farewell! dearest and best of brothers, farewell.E!
HELEN.
Ralph read this narrative with emotion and surprise, as one by one,
incidents in the past were recalled. Fanny's distress was also great,
The recent death of her beloved father, added to the loss of Helen, was
more than she could bear. Reuben tried all in his power to alleviate


HELEN BERTRAM.                       57
her sufferings, and acted.a brother's part to Ralph, by taking all charge
of the funeral.
He ordered the earth to be dug beside the old man, in the little grave
yard, where Fanny had in sweet childhood, chased the butterfly and
robin, or hand in hand with Helen wandered to their mother's grave.
Sad was the day when the villagers assembled to take a last look at
the daughter of Mr. Bertram.
Some, to be sure, came from curiosity alone. Some feared con-
tamination even by a glance at the misguided girl, who had so far out-
reached decency and propriety.
The funeral train was ed by the afflicted Ralph and Fanny; it was
a mournful!duty.
Just as the minister had offered the spirit of the dead one to the
mercy of the Lord, and all heads were bowed, there came a soft voice
on the wind, close tothe ear of, Ralph, so plain that he started and
turned to Fanny to assure himself that it was nother-it said, "Be
comforted, brother, you shall not long survive me."
This was comforting to Ralph in this mood. He brightend from that
hour, and all wondered at the cause. Fanny besought him to know the
reason, but he would not add to her grief by the fatal prophecy, but
kept it in his heart.
"Oh, Ralph," said Fanny, on the morning of his departure; "I have
had such a dreadful dream, I saw Helen enter the room while we were
at our meal, and- lead you away by the hand,- and when I called, she
only beckoned nee back, and said, 'Not yet, sister;' she fled with you
over the mountains and disappeared, Oh, what a terrible feeling it
left, Ralph; I wish you would not leave us."
- G" I must not mind dreams, my dear Fanny-you know how much
dependance our poor sister placed on them, and how it has destroyed
her life and torn her from us."
"I feel that we shall never meet again, Ralph."
" Say not so, dear sister; cheer up, let us hope for the best, and as I
must return to my post, let me go with a good grace and purpose. If
we get through this battle, I may be among the living, and if Ifall-- it
will be in a good cause, and one that calls for all brave hearts."
Fanny held Ralph long, and would not let him go; her sobs affected
all who heard her. Reuben tried to comfort her, but in vain. She
said, "Three had been taken from her, and she could not bear it."
Ralph took a last embrace, whispering words of comfort in her ear-
then a long~ look at hisi native hills and quiet fields, and vaulted into,
his saddle.

'
a
1
1
_
f'


I

r

THE MODERN JOAN OF ARC.

Let us turn to :another. picture of a desolated home. On the evening
of Ralph's departure, a fair girl, pale with weeping, stood at one of the
windows of her now dreary home, looking down the road over which a
beloved brother had a few short month's since travelled, on his way to the
army. News had reached her that that brother now lay stiff and cold in
death. Should he be brought home to be decently buried, or remain,
food for birds, upon the battle ground. Not a living soul to go for the
body of that beloved brother- --that only earthly tie.  Now entirely
alone, how desolate was her situation. Her uncle was an aged man,
without means. .All he had to offer-was a scantytable and his affection.
Oh! that some.kind friend might appear in this hour of affliction.
Long and earnestly did Mary Winthrop gaze. She heeded not the
wows of her uncle,'ashe bade her "not to take it so hard-to dry her
tears," but kept gazing. "Oh ! for a friend in this time of need," was
the cry of her soul. Among other friends she thought of Ralph.
Bertram, her brother's best friend, and a blush faintly suffused her pale
cheek-she had thought of him in days past-but what was he to her
now?.
Silas Winthrop had looked forward to a union between his sister and
Ralph; t.o the latter he had openly expressed his approbation.
Mary Winthrop gazed on. A horseman in the dim distance was-
gradoally approaching, but the darkness of night prevented her from
discerning him.
As the moonbesuns struck across the traveller's face and showed more
clearly his: manly form, equipped in \military costume, the maiden's
heart beat more quickly. A stranger had not been there since her
brother left, except the one who brought news of his fall.
Great was the ;consternation of Ralph Bertram (for it was he) to learn
the fate of his friend.
He sought to alleviate the grief of the afflicted girl. He had left
her brother in health, and given him a promise that he would see Mary
before he returned. He kept his word for the sake of his friend, for
all other emotion had in a measure died away; but when he saw the
pale mourner, his old affection partially revived. He entreated her to
live with his sister Fanny, who would be glad to receive her. Her
uncle would not in all probability, "ve very long, and then she would
be friendless and alone.
Mary listened to his argument, but would not consent to leave her
old relsltion.
Ralph parted from her on the following day, and proceeded to the
army. He had promised to see to the body of Lieut. Winthrop, and

v9

HELEN BERTRAM.

,I

f
i

bave t sent home for burial. Itt was his ,desire to accompany it, baxt
when he arrived at his post be found his presence necessary. ar
The blackened curpse of the Lieutenant was borne home, scarcely
discernable.
Many brave fellows had fallenkonthe field, some much lamented by
Ralph, but he felt no disposition to leave the ranks. As soon ashe
could, he wrote a long and affectionate letter tohFanny, telling the sad
particulars foWinthrop's death and the melancholy state ow his sister-'
begging her, if Mary ever came among them, to treat her with a sister's
love, for his sake.
Mary had been an old school-mate of Fanny's, and they hat lhed
many ,miles apart; a warm friendship had always exishrt of her brother,
but Fanny had never observed any preference on the pa        ,
so she said to Reuben when she had read the letter,
"Ralph is so good and kind that he wants to do good to every one-
let us go and see poor Mary Winthrop, and offer her a home in her
affliction."
af"  n remember her well," said Reuben, "she was a lovely girl, and
would be ood company for you when I am away-who knows but
Ralph nia settle down and marry- her  .always taoug
leaning. that way."
"' You surprise me, Reuben-t never thought that Ralphow any
ne outside of his family, but the idea is  good one, and how much
happiness we should all have if he would return and ma4'ry-I should
be delighted."
But Fanny sighed when she remembered her dream, and the happy
picture fled from her imagination. Her own sorrows were so great, she
indeed how she could feel for others-but Fanny was nev  selfish.
The house still stands on the hill-side inviting Ralph back, and
the kind letters, which Fanny and Reuen send him, tend to cheer
him, but Ralph has imbibed some of Helen'sspirit,
live and if need be to die for his country.


TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
THE
IERPENT'S STING.
A TA  OW0MAN'S DEVOTION AND SELF'SACIIFICE'

CHAPTER L

IT was a winter night, in the year eighteen hundred and fty-six,
cold, clear, and, invigorating.
A .thousand jets of gas-fame shine effulgent over one of the most
brilliant audiences ever assembled within the walls of the Academy
of Music, in our great Metropolitan and Empire City. Parguette,
boxes, balcony and ampitheatre are filled. A sea of human forms
--sweeping in graceful curve, tier above tier, from floor to ceiling-
sit expectant of pleasure; all, for the time being, willing to banish
care, and paint smiles upon their faces. Diamonds glitter, and the
pale sheen of pearls gleams, amid the flash of bright and soft eyes;
plumes wave, and flowers emit fragrance that makes one involun-
tarily think of our lost home.-Paradiseli,
And now, from the orchestra, swells out music, such as makes the
heart thrill. It is the prelude to one of Rossini's operas-and to
night is to be the first appearance, before an American audience, of
one of Europe's greatest musical celebrities. The overture is almost
through--a few last melting symphonies are stealing over the senses,
when, a laced curtain fronting a proscenium-box, is withdrawn, as a
lady of marvellous beauty and queenly presence, magnificently
attired, enters it, and seats herself in one of its costly chairs. She"
accompanied by her husband and a beautiful little girl of ten years
of age.
60

I

0

I

Numerous are the glasses.raised front all directions to inspect the
party; and many the greetings exchanged, with occupiers of the
more aristocratic portion of the house, by the new comers. They are
Mr. and Mrs. St. George De Lisle, and their daughter. There is an
air of quiet repose, unmixed with hauteur,;which so certainly indi-
cates high breeding, evident in all the lady's manner. She seems
created for a nobler end than to be a mere leader of ton. Her hue.
band is a tall, slender, gentlemanly-looking man-his face expressive
of great intellectuality, but upon his brow sits a cloud of care-
which, even the gay scene cannot dispel,-and there is a furtive
ezprbssion in his blue eyes, which will not "look you full in the face,"
--that indicates an unquiet and restless mind. But why wonder that
Mr. St. George De Lisle,-the extensive Wall St., operator,-should
have an anxious look? His daily ventures involve thousandsI and,
although it is said, wealth pours in upon him in a golden flood, still
larger and larger are the sums risked in his operations; for their
success-with numberless exaggerations-is the theme of every
tongue.
But the stage curtain is rising 1-and the fasinating pageant is
passing before the enraptured gazers. Music, gorgeous scenery,
artistic grouping, dressing, such as habitudes of courts alone can
see, all contribute to the charming spectacle.
Kind reader, such is an Opera; and while the hour is thus
engaged by these five thousand people, permit me to introduce to
you Mr. and Mrs. St. George De Lisle. They are none in that
crowd of fashion and beauty but would feel honored to make their
acquaintance.
Mr. St. George De Lisle is the youngest son of a wealthy gentle.
man,-still living at a very advanced age, in an inland town in the
same State, and about a hundred miles from the city of New York.
When a boy of fourteen he had been sent from home to push his own
fortunes in the great city. Alone, and almost without help, he had
struggled up to his :present position. The old gentleman seems
proud-of the success of his son, but never to any extent assisted him.
His name and family associations gave the boy, even when engaged
in humble services, an enviable social position. Houses of high
fashion and wealth were opened to him. The boy resolutely turned
stone after stone out of -his pathway; and, when twenty-two years
of age, presented a noble specimen of a young man of high moral

'1
I

TR A VLLER8' LIBRARY.

61

I


'TAV  LEas' IBRRY.

bearing, of- kind heirLti;ad of intellecttual cultivation seldom
excelled. He *as greeted bn all sides by smiling faces and invited
'eery where.{O6iinmissionkof profit were constantly proffered him
in his business; atdk SL. George De Lisle Was esteemed rich, intel-
lectual, high-born, and wellbred. He was surrounded by :hosts of
friends, and flatterers; was feasted, slandered, borrowed from and
cheated. Happy St. George De Lisle!
When about tweity-three years of age, De Lisle was induced,.to
further a business operation, to' visit-England. Letters of .i troduc-
tion were given hill to families of' title and distinction, as well as to
those of high kpliticalfposition. His businesstaffiair prospered beyond
his highest expectation; ad, after its accomplishment, he resolved
to spend a fewweeks beoro his return home, in making the "run
of the Continent;"--that is, to -visit Paris, some'few of the German
cities; sail along the Rhine; climb snome of the mountains.of Swit-
zerland; gaze on Florence, Naples, and Rome; and come back to
America, more bewildered than instructed, by what had been seen.
While in England, most of his time not devoted to business, was1
spent in visiting places of interest or amusement in and about Lon-
den; or, in partaking of the hospitalities which were lavished upon
him-as they mostly are upon every well-bred America'n---for each
one of us, in a Briton's eye, seems as "a chartered King."  His
brain as well as heart were all untouched ; and the sun of prosperity
shone brightly upon him. Happy St. George De Lisle 1-
One evening towards the close of his intended sojourn in London,
he sauntered into the world famed show-rooths of Madame Tussand.
These are a succession of apartments filled with exquisite war
statues, in addition to relics'of History, including many articles that
belonged .to Napoleon ,Buonaparte. The exhibition originated in
Paris and 'many 'of its most striking peculiarities are connected with
scenes that occurred 'during the time of the French Revolution."
" Passing through rooms of state, where may be seen Kings and
Emperors-the very coronation robed worn by Napoleon and Jose.
phine,--you come to a cool, damp room: called the Chamber of Hor.
rors. It is dimly lighted, and here is the very knife that decapi-
tated the heads of Marie Antoinette, Louis XVI., and many other,
good and bad-and here stands a 'model of the Guillotine-.the same
sie-if every respect complete-and in working   r
uieade,"dry  e    y            How   isngorderw"
Reader, do you exactly'-understand,Ho  this, horrible 'mAehine 'was

62 -

I

constructed, and the way in which it operated?  Although I cannot
show you the one in Madam Tussand's exhibition room, I can describe
it to you, and if you will give me your attention, at least one item
of information worth knowing, will be lodged in your mind in conse-
quences of perusing my little narrative.
" The Guillotine consists of a heavy plank about seven feet ,long
and of sufficient width to allow a man to lie down upon it. It is
raised some two and a half feet from the ground. There are attach-
ed to the plank a number of straps by which the victim was bound
to it. At the head extremity of the plank are two uprights, fifteen
feet high, leaving between the two a space of one foot. Each upright
has a smooth metalic groove facing the other. Up and down these
grooves the knife slides. Almost under the knife are two boards
having a semi-circle' in each-the under one is stationery, the upper
one is moveable-and these two boards fit around the neck of the poor
wretch, whose head is to be cut off. To make the descent of the
knife more rapid and forcible, it is heavily backed with iron. The
knife falls from the extreme top of the uprights-sliding down the
grooves with the rapidity of lightning-aud in a moment, its fatal
work is done!"
It was with a cold chill of terror that St. George De Lisle sur-
veyed the furniture of this dismal room. "Human skulls, original
infernal machines, and murderous weapons of all kinds, were scattered
around, and here and there stood or crouched the figures, in wax, so
true to nature that they almost seemed to breathe, of noted con-
spirators, highwaymen, brigands and murdered."
His feeling of relief was great on again entering the other apart.
ments and passing through "The Hall of Kings" lined with fifty-five
portraits large as life of European sovereigns, he came back to the
principal Hall.
Madam Tussand was a great republican and evinced much interest
in American history. There was in this apartment a fine painting,
representing the scene in Front of the State House in Philadelphia,
immediately after the signing of the Declaration of Independence.
The grouping Was admirable-and he could not but wonder that in
Europe there should exist so much higher an estimate of the capacity
of the incidents of American History to call into requisition illustra-
tions of high art--while at home in this particular there is so great
neglect, nay, an almost entire overlooking. He turned from his ex-

i

63

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.


STRAVELLERs' LIBRARY.
amination ofJth iet  g      spivd lig1 t in front of an inimita.
bleo gu',Of tiEi     alg o ge Kahi~agto#aan    ntemplatingit,
an d etgen   'withpa ,gr'aypair and a preptd aristocratic bearing,
attend by  youigand ece c iugly beautiful girl of eighteen sum-
ners. ''heir conversation although carried .on in a low tone was so
distinct ingits erianciation that, wihout, designing tolisten, he could
not help hear n r wh was said. And as the loveIy girl expressed
her heartfelt admirtion fore" merea's proud hero "--his blood
thrilled, and he felt as he tad never felt before. .They passed on, and
it sened to ii  . as tgastghthe plumage ofa poie brightWropical bird
had fgr athoiesx,aflitteda inbeauty before hinm, and then faded away
into obi ig forever     t;F
it obrati   g   around from his long reverie by acry of dis-
tres an4 a running to;and fro of wiany persons. Something terri-
ble ortaI p iafd happene- what could it be,?
4The genteagtap  y hia daughter had proceeded on, through. the
rooms, An4  yygg      yowishing to  stay a noinnt, after a
hasty g anvee ;reveedyseeo her the character of '.The chamber of
lorrors,' I ag, uneg o The Golden Chamber or Shrine.of Napo-
Icon,' -a room filled with Napoleonic curiosities, obtained through
the agency of government and wgll worthy,of, attention-while her
father, wi h a sran  famcination, lingered behind, and exauiinnd
with an intense intee=its various horridfurniture.At length the
wld gentleman, va' n in          iigsome of the fearful
atrocitiesof.h te ha        tinhugt      would try to realize
the exact feelinigsof gte-vimois       gltiped.    He was
along., So.heapproaced te faiful jsti rma aid down upon the
fatal plan-adjusted hlingaA prope ry-hi hend $h u h the neek-
board, and, while ooki       owards the .n   lie suddenly dis-.
covered it slowly sliding down. le attempted to grasp the rope, by
which the knife wass drawns°up to the ,top, and which in his ignorance
hadimn i~ e4 tdi ptace debut it wad,beyond this reach-nearer and
narethe kife slid towards him, articulation failed-.-he could utter
no sound-dstruction was inevitable; and chill damps of perspira-
tion opied from every pore. Just then, one of the attendants entered
the room, and with inimitable presence of mind, rescued him-but
now insensible--from his perilous position. Ile was not an inch
clear of the neck-bead when.the weight of the knife, after snapping
through tie entangled cord; came down with a harmless crash.''


66                  TRAVELLERs' LIBRARY.
The first news that reached the young girl was, that the old man
was killed; and it was her shriek ofagony that aroused St. deorge.
He hurried towards the spot,;and ascertaining that life was not ex-
tinct; rendered efficient aid to both. Restoratives were applied, and
unwilling that they should be left alone, he offered his services which
were accepted, and accompanied them home in their carriage, which
was in attendance at th door; a plain vehicle, with only a coach.
man.
They drove towards one of the most fashionable quarters of the
metropolis and 'toped in front of an elegant mansion. A number
of servants weredin immediate assi us attendance, and, finding
that he would be no;further needed he was about retiring, when tIe
young lady sazdwith a tearful face, "You will, I hope, kind sir, call
again and see how my dear.father is. We shall ever remember your
serviceswthgratitude." Atth same time she handed him two cards.
He bowed his thanks forethe -invitation; and saw the old man assisted
by hi. serntsfgo upthemarble stpsand through' the massive door
of the stately house--his daughter seemed scrcely to touch the
grounds her figureflitted gracefully alongside. He turnd away
when the door was shut, and then at the next street gas-light looked
at the cards. Upon one was engraved   William   er y,  rl of
Grassmere    upon the other "Lady Adelaide Harriet Mow-,afn?'"
There was no sleep for St. George that-night. And for manydays
and nights he thought of little else than the "Lady Adelaide " and
her father. The continental trip was forgotten.
The poor old man never recovered from his fright---a slow nervous
fever. set in, which, in a few weeks, terminated his life. His. daugh-
ter was his only surviving child, and the title with his estates, pass-
ed to a distant branch of, the family with whom he had not been on
friendly terms. He had had one son who died suddenly about
three years before---and now the Lady Adelaide was almost alone,
with what appeared, to one accustomed to splendour and her style of
living, but a small fortune of fifteen thousand pounds sterling, or about
seventy-five thousand dollars.
St. George De Lisle seemed her nearest friend. She consulted
him about all her, plans and if the thought of what she should do
wien he was gone, crossed her mind, she' banished it, without
answering the 'question. But the time came, when return he must--
and, reader, perhaps you will not be so surprised as he was. when I

I

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.                  67
tell you she consented to come with him, not as the " Lady Adelaide
Harriet Mowbray," but as Mrs. St.. George De Lisle.
There was quite a furor of excitement among the upper circles of
New York about the titled bride of young De Lisle; and although
no large parties could be attended by the bridal pair-on account
of the recent death of her father-the select re-unions which they
graced with their presence though small as regarded numbers, were
exclusive in the extreme and recherche in -the highest degree. Still
all things seemed to say,'happy St. George De Lisle!1
But the Opera is over. The people are going home. Carriages
are rolling over the paved streets, waking up or disturbing those
who- go to bed at proper hours, and reader, I will now close my first
Chapter, and go to bed, too.
CHAPTER II.
1T was late the morning after the Opera, when Mr. St. George De
Lisle arrived at his counting',room down town. The day was one of
harrassing perplexity and he shut 'himself up several times, at inter-
vals, of "half an hour at a time;" is was his habit 'when business
demanded unusual attention; with instructions, that were perempt-
ory, "on no account to be interrupted."  At length, the day's-worik
was over ;-.rand his carriageohad coine to take him home. . He had
an old and care-worn look and ascended, almost feebly for so young
a man, the carriagesteps ;-buthere passed over his face an exp!es-
sion 'of relief  a the vehicle&amp; rolled, further away, up town.
His hone was a beittiful one; and though the house was not
l     its apointmints were complete in all their details,-and an
impress of elegance pervaded the whole establishment. -The family
nmbre in ll anc children. .The oldest boy was- away at school,
and the next was the 'girl, who had been with them the preceding
aiglt;-the othersof 'both sexes,; ranged down to a two-years-old
-boybaby. A lovelier family never blessed a man's hearth side.
The 1reere to dim e'atthome that day, with a few invited friends;
and, after dressing for dinner bet'a few minutes elapsed when the
gests began arrivev. The 'dinner was elegant, well served and


 TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
passed of without accident. The hour for retiring from
hat is, eight o'clock P. M. was near, and as all the guests were en.
gaged elsewhere for the evening, Mr. and Mrs. St. George De Lisle
expected to spend this Saturday night alone. '    companyrose
from the table, and after a few brief adieus, departed.companyrrose
Mrs. De Lisle had wanted for months on  que evnn     athm
with her husband. Shaw      it'qwmnene evening at home
whhehubn.She saw, with a woman's instinctiveththeewsom cnead'o  perception,
that there was some concealed source of anxiety upon his mind, and
she was, determined,.if possible, to know what it was, and share it
with him. She was a true woman, and a true wife. ,    a    ai
awake at nights oftentimes, wondering whatit could be, that was
wearing upon him. It was not that he was. peevish or unkind
he was abstracted, gloomy and melancholy.-even when he smiled
his face looked sader afterwards, and those fitful lighn  up to
imagining were like the gleamings of an unearthly light upon a
whitened tomb.P
Now was her hour for knowing all, and she was determined t
so. She had with this intent, returned to the drawing room, where
Mr. De Lisle was sitting alone, with his eyes shutting r   cher
-and the care-worn look was written so deep upon ahi fevtha sh
paused for a moment to disturb him. Her heartache facer hs
band; but oh- why would he not tell her all his sorrow?
A loud ring at the door bell startled her she knew ?
and he, with an alarmed expression which wash quickly chased wy,
said, "I wonder who that can beI" ad again closing hisaeyes at
silent, until a footman entered with a note upon a silver waiter
which he handed to his master.p                 a   v      i
Mr., De Lisle opened and read it to the end. His face turned
white as marble, and his lips, trembled; still he retained a corn
posure that was almost terrible; and said, to the attendant: " Tell
%b bearer, there is no immediate answer." The man bowed and
'etired.an
De Lisle, clutching the paper in his 'hand-.-his lips parting and
msth set firmly together--then sank back, in his seatrtheing  of
-n ih                      *f i             ettepicture of
guish, and despair. His wife sprang to his side, and, fondly
armsig him, said :
BT  George, by all that is sacred, tell me what this means. Any
thing is better than suspense. Tell me i mercy, and at once I"
"I cannot, oh, I cannot " replied the wretched man.

69

* But you must, my dear! Do not fear for me. I can endure. I
an your wife. If it is poverty you dread-that does not appall me.
Only tell me what it is."
* It is worse than poverty. It is disgrace !" and he covered his
face with both his hands.
The proud woman shuddered; but one look towards the bowed
down man before her, enabled her to regain some portion of her self-
possession, and she replied:
. "Even that, St. George, I can share with you, and be of some com-
Tort. But our children, oh our children, cannot they be saved ? Tell
me : oh tell me, what is it ?"-and she threw herself on her knees at
his feet. "In pity tell me."
" There it is-that will tell you all-and oh, it is enough to saddea
your heart forever. Wretch that IamI Would that I never had been
born 1"
She took the paper and read it through. Its contents, alas ! told
her all. It was a letter from one of the oldest and most respected
of New York's wealthy men, and the president of a leading Bank,
one with whose family they were upon terms of social intimacy, and
who had been oftentimes a friend to St. George in his early struggles.
It stated that a note which professed to hove the signature of a
wealthy firm drawn tohis order, and which- hid been negotiated by
himself, was' known to be a forgery. A bank notice had been served
by a mistake of one of the bank clerks, upon the firm, a whole mouth
too early. It had been disclaimed by them, and with a desire to sase
him, if possible, from exposure' he had now thus written to him.
How still that room was ! The- ticking of the magnificent time-
piece on the mantle fell painfully loud upon the ear. At last, in a
hoarse whisper, she said:
"-4And is this one note all? "
No !" was the reply in a whispered tone, so low, that, but for the
excited nervous tension of the moment, it could not have been heard.
This was, thus far, the most crushing blow, and the woman's heart
nearly sank beneath it-but again she asked:
" In all to what amount ?" There was a pause :-oh, how long, and
fearful it seemed ! still, no answer. Again the question came, but
now in a determined, slow, and with that peculiarly clear enunciation
for which she was so remarkable ;-her fate must be known.
"In all, I think, about thirty thousand dollars-:" was the answer.

N

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.


70               TRAVELLERs' LIBRARY.

"St. George, if that be all, surely exposure mady be saved!--of the
sin it is not a wife's provi ce to speak-all I have, may cheerfully go
to wipe the debt out."
"Alas, my wife, that is all gone already. There is not a dollar of
your fortune left. It is all, all gone !"
"Surely this house and furniture are worth something. I sup.
posed they were mine:" was the calm reply-no shade of anger, but
sorrow such as an angel might evince for the erring, was expressed in
her face.
" Adelaide I "-and the words came out, one by one, with intervals
between, of different lengths,--" reproach me if you will-I am, I
feel, more wicked than you can think me--but, I tried to keep up as
long as I could.-I could not bear that you should have to change your
style of living-losses came, after losses.-I tried to make them up,
and only made others.--The deed of the house was in my name alone,
and I mortgaged the property to its full value ; of the furniture I also
gave a bill of sale. And when all this money was.gone, I: "-the
man could not utter the word that, to his own wife, confessed him a
forger.
There was not a sign of irritation or impatience manifested as he
proceeded, and when he stopped she rose, bent- down her head,
kissed his pale brow, and said, "My poor, poor husband, how little did
you know me. Oh!t what could have been mere poverty compared
to this ? But now there is one thing must be done. Our childrenI
They must be saved this disgrace. Oh, our children! Iam thankful
my dear parents are both dead."  And she left the room.
He heard her going up the nursery stairs, and falling on his knees
he prayed in agony to the Almighty whose laws, as well as those of
man, he had broken. It is ever thus in the hour of wildest trouble--
even the criminal when headed in on all sides, turns to his Maker for
succour.
Mrs. De. Lisle gazed in quiet grief upon the younger four of her
little flock, all sound-asleep-and scalding tears fell upon them. Her
oldest little girl was on her knees at her evening prayers, and a few
words of murmured supplication for blessings on those she loved fell
like balm upon her heart. She lowered the already dim light so that
the child might not, when she arose, perceive her face, and then, after
kissing her good night, she entered her dressing room.

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.                   71
Rapidly changing her splendid dinner costume for a dress of plain
material, with bonnet on, and shawl in hand, she returned to the
drawing room, where, still crouched in utter abjectness, her misera-
ble husband.
".De Lisle, you must arouse yourself-every moment is precious--
if you have a spark -of love for your children, for me, you must act
like a man. This dreadful thing must be kept a secret-I am going
to see Mr. Duval--he was once our friend and surely kindness caused
him to write you that note. He has experience, and to take counsel
with him now, seems to me, the wisest thing I can do. And while I
am gone write out a full description of all those notes and where
they may be found-do not fail me in this."
She placed writing implements on the table beside him,.and, left
the house.
An half hour had scarcely passed when she returned. There was
still upon her face the same expression of calm determination and
resolve. She asked for the paper upon which he had been writing,
and upon being assured that it contained the whole account said:
"I shall start to night for Hudson. You must watch tenderly over
all our little~ones while I am gone. See that Willie does not miss
me. I shall try and be back on Monday morning. Mr. Duval thinks,
with me, that I had best go and see your father and brothers. It
seems to me the only hope I The last train leaves at ten o'clock, but
as it is a way train, I can reach it at its last stopping place in the
city, which is quite near this, a quarter of an hour later. I have a
cab now at the door, and am all ready to start."
She took his trembling hands within her own-pressed them ten-
&amp;erly, and said:-" There is one thing more I ask-pray,-oh pray,
-pray for help from on high."
The wheels of a carriage driving rapidly, and growing fainter in
the distance, gave assurance that Mrs. St. George De Lisle had com-
tmenced her midnight journey, towards the home of her father-in.
law.

0


TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.                  73
,HAPTER III.
WHAT a fearful night ride was that 1-alone, and haunted with such
sad forebodings  The huge locomotive shrieked and moaned; now
vomiting forth sparks, and then yelling like some rejoicing fiend
drawing on to destruction its freight of human prey, as it rushed on-
ward with the speed of the wind. Had an eternal night settled down
upon the world ? she longed to reach the end of her journey, yet
trembled with fear 'at the thought of the' momentous results which
hung upon the communications she had to make. At length the dawn
broke-for morning will succeed night, no matter how wretched we
may be.
It was still early wfien she reached the hotel at Hudson, and securing
a private room, she despatched a note, asking an immediate interview,
to the you er of Mr. De. Lisle's two brothers living in the city, but
who had, because of marked success in life, obtained an almost para-
mount influence over his father.
An age seemed to elapse before the return of her messenger, but
at length he arrived, snd with him Mr. Charles De Lisle.
He was a man of about fifty years of age; one who had grown rich
and hard-hearted. Money had been'his idol; and a system of econom-
ical saying-except where his own individual comfort was concerned-o--
several successful operations in real estate, and a continuous prac-
tice of note shaving-the security being ample and the'"rates enor-
mous --had resulted in developing a character disposed to selfishness
into one, in which the predominating ideas of self and gold had swal-
lowed up every other consideration. - He was gentlemanly in.exterior,
and with a bland smile, "Wished to know what could have induced
his fair lady sister to come alone to Hudson, at such a time ! And
why she had not, at once, driven to his house, instead of remaining
at the hotel ?"
"4Charles, we are in trouble ; dreadful trouble I and disgrace, fear-
ful to think of, is on my track!l"
The bland smile vanished-and the hard expression, which always
foreboded evil to his solicitor, stamped itself unmistakeably upon his.

I                        -

A '


74

TRAVELLERS' LIBRAR,

face. This had the effect of recalling her faculties, and she proceeded,
in as few words as possible, to tell him all the circumstances of the
case.
eis face grew angry, and flushed purple with excitement-and when
she had finished, he hissed an imprecation through his teeth, and
"The extravagant scoundrel! he had better run for it."
"But remember his children; yourself, and your children  We
will all suffer immeasurably if the thing is not hushed up."
" True:"--he said. "Blast the villain! My own boys are of the
same name, and are now in New York just started in business. It is
dreadfully unfortunate!' I will consult with Edward: "-and leaving
the room he was seen quickly walking down the street, towards the
house of the oldest brother.
Mrs. De Lisle took courage. She knew Edward's was a kind heart.
He felt for all in distress, and surely for his brother-whom as the
Benjamin of the flock, the little onel and whom their dying mother
had charged him to be kind to, and watch over-he would counsel
tenderly.. She kneeled down and thanked God for the one ray of hope
that was.darting across the troubled waters of her soul. Edward had
not half the influence with the father that Charles possessed-for he-
himself had been one of the unfortunates in life, that is, had always
been in straitened circumstances-but through Charles, their father
could be influenced to any thing.
The two brothers soon returned. The face of the eldest was full
of sorrow-and his head sunk down heavily upon his chest. Ue
walked with his hands folded up under his arms; and. approaching
Mrs. De Lisle, he said, in a kind, mournful voice :
"Sister Adelaide, from my soul I pity you!" then, after a short
silence, he resumed-" St. George do this ! oh can it be? I would as
soon have'thought the angel Gabriel would have committed a henious
crime !" and turning to Charles, he said:
"Brother, we must save him I St. George has had but little from
our father, and although this sum will swallow up far more than any
single portion he could give to a child--yet we must each be willing
to lose a part to save him from disgrace."
"1But,"-and the angry cloud again spread over the brother's face--.
"it is not fair, or just, that we should have to suffer for his extrava.
gance and rascality.--It is too bad-it is shameful 1"

I

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.

75

" True, brother ;-but exposure would fhurt us all more than the de
crease of each share our father would leave us. Your boys, for i .
stance, would suffer disadvantage in their business were it known
that the family blood was tainted with this crime, far more in worth
than the few thousands you would thus loseI"
Edward saw he had touched the right cord to influence Charles, and,
after some further conversation, it was at length resolved that they
t wvo should break the subject to their father, and induce him, if they
could, to advance the necessary money to redeem the whole of the
forged paper-and that, if they were successful in thus influencing
him, Charles Do Lisle should return with his sister-in-law to New
York, to attend to this business.
They then left her, and wended their way sorrowfully to the pater-
nal mansion. She prayed and hoped-then feared and prayed again.
How wearily, oh how wearily, did the time drag along.
The brothers broke the matter as well as they knew how to their
aged father. It seemed at first to completely stun him. His son a
forger I His son, the bright b'oy of whose success he had been so
proud?   "No; they surely had. had a night-mare dream, and were
dreaming still; or, maybe, he himself had the night-mare l.--Oh would
they not awake him? "'-and the plaintive voice of the old man
begged his two sons, for God's sake, to awake him from his horrible
dream. It was a piteous sight. Tears streamed down his withered
cheeks, and he trembled all over like an aspen leaf. The three men
wept together. At length, after they had in some degree pacified
him, they told him of -their plan for saving St. George, and the credit
of the family, by recovering all the forged notes, and their joint wil-
lingness to sacrifice a portion of their inheritance to effect the object.
His other children-for the family was large-were scattered over
different  parts of the Union, and time would not permit of their be-
ing consulted. The exigency was imperative, and what is done at
all, must be done at once. He gave a stolid assent to all they said-
only asking now and then. "Is it not a dreadful dream;-oh my
sons cannot you awake me ? It is killing me,-oh it is killing me I"
He was passive in their hands as a little child-signing with trem-
bling hands, one after another, papers giving the power of attorney
to his son Charles to sell various stocks that he owned. The amount
swept away nearly the whole of the personal estate of the old gene


6'                 TRAVELLEs' LIBRARY.TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.

Ueman-leaving however his real estate intact, which was large and
very valuable.
While thus engaged, Edward hastened to the hotel to relieve the
anxiety of Mrs. De Lisle. She then, for the first time since her
arrival, shed tears. They flowed copiously ; and the kind brother
administered all the consolation he could devise-but, ah, how little
was that,-lthe frightful future loomed up, dark and terrible.
They spent the day together. It being Sunday there would be no
return train until after twelve o'clock P. M., when the Albany train
would stop on its way down to New York. A message was received
from Charles stating that he would 'be ready at that time to accom-
pany his sister home, and desiring her to be ready. It was thought
best for her not to seek an interview, at present, with her father-in.
law. He was too much afflicted to bear it.
As twilight darkened around, Edward prevailed upon Mrs. De Lisle
to take a soothing opiate and to endeavor to obtain some rest. As he
left the room she clasped within both her hands his own, and poured
forth her.gratitude to him in such a strain of touching pathos that he
was deeply moved-and he could only reply by a murmured prayer
that their great Alt-father, would guide and help them.
The miserable woman threw herself upon a sofa, and, worn out
as she was, sleep came to her relief. For several hours she slum.
bred soundly as is oftentimes permitted to the extremely wretched,
-4he convict, the night before his execution, with the shadow of'
the gallows falling on him, sometimes thus sleeps--then, more un-
easily she breathed; dreams began to disturb her repose--at first
indistinct and disconnected, yet all distressing. Pale phantoms pass.
ed her, and pointed menacingly onward-jeering demons laughed
malignantly in her face-serpents glided along the patl, and, hissing
out their forked tongues, lifted their snaky eyes and watched her as
she moved along. _ At last she seemed to have entered a dense forest.
The rocks and sharp stones over which she had walked had torn her
shoes into shreds, and with bleeding feet she endeavored to make her
way through thorns and briars, urged on by an irresistible impulse.
Weary and painful was the journey. There was no light, save that
of the lightning as it fitfully gleamed,-displaying horror upon ha
ror. It seemed hours that she thus wandered ; until, at last thers
was revealed to her, peacefully sleeping upon the brink of a dread-
ful precipice, her children. They were all there, and locked in each
others' arms. Another fitful flash1--and, in a bush behind them,

h.

crouched an enormous tiger " his eyes glaring fiercely, and in the
very act of springing- upon them. Her heart ceased to beat-yet, in
a wild agony, she rushed forward and catching the fearful glance with
her human eyes gazed steadily into those of the bru , until, cowed
down, his huge form gradually relaxed, and he slunk away into the
darkness. Peal after peal of thunder now shook the earhand h
clouds suddenly rolling away, there appeared, winging his flight to-
wards her, an angel form, and with a smiling face he whispered as heo
passed, "Mother I thus hast thou saved thy children from the Fohis
uER's CUR8E I" She fixed her gaze upon his upward flight, until hi
brightness seemed a brilliant point in the sky, and, when she awoke.
the evening star was shining full in herfaceI
Their journey back to New York was performed in almost total
silence. Mr. Charles De Lisle sat immersed in thought by his sister's
side-and she, with her leaden weight of grief, thought ofher chil&amp;
ren and her husband.
When they reached the depot he declined accompanying her home,
but told her to say to St. George he would see him at his counting
room, at!'twelve o'clock noon, of that day. He then bade her a-cold
adieu, and was lost amid the crowd.'the                 termed
The grey light of morning was stealingdver the city a se en
the chamber where her husband was lying, but not asleepan,  o
throwing herself down by the bed-side, she exclaimed: "Thank God,
St. George. We are saved ;-we are saved I'
The feelings of the poor wretch can be more easily imagined than
described, as sherecited how she had succeeded.  n a faint, but gentle
vosie, he hanked hoer, saying, she 11was the, one that had saved him,
voice, he thanked her sying, h   Tencwrngdwa if afraid
and it would ever be remembered." Then, cowering down, as if ad
ofthe approaching day-light, he wrapped the bed clothes around and
over him, and groaned in utter and complete prostration.
A few minutes afterwards the mother wa iin therr woith ee
children, fondly caressing them. The little thingstheir loving eyes
full of wonder at their mother's absence, and now this early visit-
never before seemed so dear to her. In turns they thrwillee, ar
around her, and covered her with ki~ses. At last, little Willie, eager
to make some out-of-the-way demonstration of affection, after dipping
his tiny hands into a basin of water laid them upon her forehead, saying
Mamma dot a headache ?--me tool her head,!" and, as she gazed into
his sweet face, it seemed as though the lineaments of the angel in hew
dream, were again before her.

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.


78                TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.

CHAPTER IV.
AT twelve o'clock, punctual to his appointment, Mr. Charles D
Lisle entered the counting room;of his brother. The-two men looked
into each others' =face for a moment, without speaking,-at length,
Charles broke' out:t
' 86 St. George ! you have succeeded in dissipating the money of
the family and stabbing into its reputation, too. I think the devil
must have gotten possession of you I"
"I fe~ar}he has,"Ohailes;" was'the reply, in a mournful voice..!
"One question now, St. "George! Does that paper contain a list of
all those accursed notes ? "
"It does;" was the answer in-suchatone thatto gainsay its truth
was iniiossble.
"aWe must-the i get'to work at once;" was the rejoinder. "Sit
down and write to each of the holders of those notes that, having
drie unexpectedly into possession of funds, you will cash the obliga-
tions if giesented immediately. There is a Rpressure in the money
'market, as I know 'to my sorrow, for I had to sacrifice terribly, some
of father's stock-and the greedy fellows will be glad enough to lave
them repaid."
Letter after letter was dispatched;'and note after note presented,
and the sums paid. 'tr. Duval himself brought the note upon which
the 'discovery had been made, and kindly advised with the brothers.
He told them "but few knew of it--and that they, though shocked, and
grieved, felt-kindly'towards St. George and 'pitied him." Before the
clock struck three, the pile .was complete, lying on the desk before
them.
Charles stretched out his hand, and taking the notes placed 'them
in his pocketbook, saying: " I must handlthese over to father:" then
butt oning up his' noat, he prepared to leave. "St. George, you had
better'give up your present business. Indeed it seems to me you must.
Father told me to say that, under'iio circumstances will he ever assist
you again." Good bye :" 'and the man of few *ords, and hard heart,
walked steadily otut into the street, passing without notice the mystified ~

I

clerks in the outer room, who wondered in low tones to each other;
" What the deuce was up ! our governor seems mighty flush to day."
That night Mr. and Mrs. De Lisle were again alone. Several of the
children remained in the drawing room after tea, and their playthings
Jay scattered about the floor. Both were silent, neither wishing to
communicate the sad thoughts that were uppermost in their minds.
Raising her eyes they fell upon an old picture which was one that had
been over a century in her father's family, and which represented an
incident in its history.
It represented an interruption of a bridal ceremony. The fair girl in
bridal robes there pictured was her great-grandmother, and the cos-
tume of the whole group was quaint and old-fashioned. The lady
had been betrothed to her great-grand father, who at that time was
an younger son, with little in prospect, a soldier, and belonging to
a regiment stationed in India. A wealthy and titled suitor presented,
and she was led to the hymeneal altar compliant to her father's wishes.
A bishop in full canonicals, had proceeded some distance in the cere-
mony and had just repeated "If any man can show just cause, why
they may not lawfully be joined together, let him now speak,"--when
from the hall a manly voice shouted, "I can and will, even at the point
of my good sword!'" and in rushed the soldier-lover ; and the bride,
throwing herself into his arms, was borne triumphantly away.
The thoughts of her 'own bridal--and now she was far away from
her father-land-arose to ,her' memory. Her husband's family all
estranged, and he a guilty, disgraced man,-and she turned in the
direction where he sat, looking so forlorn pnd heart-broken, that her
eyes watered with tears.
Just then the door of the room opened, and old Mr. De Lisle came
tottering .in. His trembling limbs could scarcely sustain him. His
white hairlfell over his shoulders, and in quivering accents, he asked:
"Where is St. George ? where is my son ? " St. George could not
answer, and he looked towards where he sat. "St. George "-and a
flush of anger rose in his face "is this all true? Miserable boy!l
how could you thus act? You have killed your old father; but from
this moment I consider you no longer my son! " and turning round
he slowly left the room, and house.
The old gentleman, the morning after Charles had left Hudson be.
came so excited and restless that he 'eduld not stay at home. He
wandered about the streets attended by a colored servant who had
seen fifty years service in the family, and reaching the station, just

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.              79


TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.              81

as a train arrived, suddenly resolved to go himself
Imniediately after his arrival he drove to St. George
d .(t ('                              in an hour's time, was now again on his way back to H
* ' ; (    IThe next day he took to his bed, and in a few weeks
his eyes-in death. Before he died, he made a new wil
expressed intentions towards St. George were carried o
The blackness of darkness seemed now to settle arou
St. George De Lisle. A few months of struggling, such
ing man makes who cannot swim-and the five days' w
York was; that "the rich De Lisle had failed I" F
shrugged their shouldersansad"Nwoe;thyi
and when the list of invitations for their next party
the De Lisles were forgotten to be included. It doe
fashionable world long to forget a family whose steps
down into the Valley of Humility-and if they quietly
without assistingtheir descent by abuse, it is rather
than the rule.
Ii                    The mortgage on the house was foreclosed; the bill
furniture entered up; and, almost penniless, with an ac
Lisle sought refuge with his family on the second floor o
in an obscure street, lying in a part of the city of wh
had scarcely known the existence. Thus they'lived ;-
seeking employment, ddy after day, without finding any
faint within him. He n dow feared everyone knew his
and as day, closed irn after day, and he could get nothi
brow lowered and face paled with suffering and anguish
mutter words to himself, as he walked through the store
any kind of work-the wreck of the once envied St. Ge
The "Curse of the Forger" was'on him.
His wife did all she could-she worked hard and save
how to do. But the little they had grew daily less;
article, of dress and furniture, was sold, and now the
began to stare them in the face.
Matters were at this dismal pass when, one night just
ing dark, their little girl came in, saying her father had g
door, four dollars to hand to mamma and to say, "That
be home that night, as he was going to Hudson to see U
De Lisle had met an old clerk of his whom he had p
to lend iim five dollars; four of which he thus appr
6

to New York.
's house;' and,
udson.
'more he closed
l, in which his
)ut.
nd the fate of
as the drowns
onder of New
ormer friends
ved too high:"
was made out,
s not take the
are treading
let them pass
the exception
of sale of the
hing heart, Do
f a small house
ich the family
-Mr. De Lisle
I Hope grew
fatal secret-
ng to, do-his
3h. He would
ets asking for
orge De Lisle1.
d all she knew
article after
Demon hunger
as it was growl
iven her at the
he would not
ncle Edward."
revailed upon
opriated, and


TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
with part of the fifth, he, bought arsecond-class-ticket to Hudson. The
day had been hot and sultry, bt raiti was falling when he arrived,
and,as it wasso unseasonable an hour he hesitated, now that he was
a poor man, to wake up his brother's family.
He walked for a long time about the streets--those streets where
he had played, when an innocent boy*, Oh, little. did he then- dream
that he should ever become what he now was--- man brandedlike
Cain with a sense of infamy. His whole life passed in review before
him;-and he wandered on and on, until he found himself far on the
road to the graveyard where his deariother lay buried, and by her
side that father whose last look upon him had been so stern and unfor.
giving. He climbed the enclosure and approached where they lay in
n elevated portion of the ground. He then crawled, all dripping and
wet, close to, the side where his mother lay, and rested himself upon
the mound. Oh, how he longed, as he used when a boy, to lay his
tired, aching head upon her bosom, and be soothed by her gentle hand.
But the storm, which he bad scarcely noticed gathering thicker and
blacker, now broke in surly vengeance overhead. The heavens are
all a-flame, and pealafter peal of thunder shakes the earth. Oh, w'at
a blinding flash is that 1-down comes a thunderbolt--whizzing as 4
falls, and, in a twinkling of time, it is all over. De Lisle, is dead 1.
struck by lightning alongside his mother's grave.
About a week afterwards a letter from her husband's relatives,
sealed with black, containing a hundred dollar note and the sad infor-
ration of his death and burial in the family lot, at Hudson, reached
-K:,.De Lisale.
She was now alone, with her children. The cold heartless world
was before her; and she revolved many plans in her mind, as to what
she could do to keep them, and herself, from starving.
In a more comfortable house than that in which we left them, but far
away up town beyond the.fashionable precincts,--at work, day and
might, over a sewing machine, may be observed sitting at a window,
a tall and stately but sorrowful looking woman.: Notwithstanding
her employment there is a regal air about her which cannot fail to
inspire respect.
Reader, that was once the "Lady Adelaide Harriet Mowbray "
and she whom the fashionable New Yorktworld knew as the elegant
Mrs. St. George De IUsle 1.

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
~1
ANECDOT ES, SKET ChES, ET C.
JOSH BILLINGS ON THE MULE.
The mule is haf hoss and haf jackass, and then comes to a full stop,
natur diskeverin her mistake. Tha weigh more akordin to their
heft than enny other kreetur except a crowbar. Tha kant hear enny
quickr nor further than the hoss, yet their ears are big enough for
snow-shoes. You kan trust them with enny one whose life ai't wuth
more than the mule's. The only way to keep them into a faster, is
to turn them in a medder jinein, and let them jump out. Tha are
redd for use as soon as tha will du tu abuse. Tha ain't got enny
more friends than a Chatam street Jew, and will live on huckleberry
brush,  ih an okasional chase at kanada thistles. Tha are a modern
inveishan the Bible don't delude to them at all. Tha sell for more
money than; eny other domestic animals. You kant tell their age
y joking ito their mouth, enny more tharl you kould a Mexican
kannon's. Tha never had no disease that a goo   club won't heal.d
If tha ever die, tha must come right to life again, for I never heard
nobody -say "1ded mule." Tha are like some menca very korrupt at
hart; ive known them to be good six months just to get a chance to
kick somebody. I never oned one, nor never mean to, unless there
is a- United States law passed re'jluirin' it. The only reason why
they are pashunt is because tha are ashamed ov themselfs. I have seen'
eddicated mules in a sirkus-tha kould kic and bite tremenjous. I.
would not sa what I was forsed to sa again the mule, if his birth want
anoutrage, and he ain't to blame for it. Euny man who is willing tu
drive a mule ought to be exempt by lawfrom running for the legilatur.th
Tha are the strongest kreeturs on arth, and heaviest accord ' n  a
size. I heard tell of one that fel oph the to-path on the kanawl, and
sunk as soon as he touched bottom, but lie kept rite on toin te
bote tu the next stashun, breathin throu his ears which was out ov
water 3 feet 6 inches, I didn't se this, but an actioneer told me ov it.
and I never new an auctioneer to li unless he would make sumnthin
out ov it.
83


84     ,.  ;.      T,4.EuisLLE*S' IARY..r.
THE SAVED.
'    w'he  ere alone 3ithe# tld  hese two-a brother and sister.
She, two years the elder, had watched over him with ail the tenderness
of a mother, since that beloved parent had confided him to her care on
her dying bed, six years before.- She had told her of the dangers that
would await the lad as he entered upon life, and temptations of every
kin wouldsurround him. No father's counsel or example, no mother's
lo Ong word to guard or strengthen him. Faithfully had the sister kept
w teh and ward over him, entering into all his pursuits, striving to
ake life as pleasant as their somewhat isolated position would permit.
he had a small income from a few thousand dollars placed at interest,
.nd this she eked out by teaching. They lived in a model house, those
comforts to the small-incomed, but yet refined class of people. It was
in one of the pleasant suburban towns, with good air and water, and a
blessed peep at the glorious sky.
They had been so happy. But now a cloud no bigger than a man's
hand was rising up, on the horizon of their serene trust ; she felt its
blighting, chilling influence. Charles had been placed with an en-
graver, and he had been much absorbed by the beautiful art; but of
late he had seemed much changed; he was restless and moody. Often
absent from home on an evening, and resenting the kindly-expressed
inquiries of his sister, she felt that there was some influence at work
upon him which was acting against her, and undermining the very
foundation of his character. She went in to see his master, and found
from him that Charles was much less steady and industrious than he
had been, and that he had formed an intimacy with a clerk in -a
neighboring store who did not bear a very good characer, and Mr.
Berri was fearful it was having a ruinous effect upon him.
Ellen returned home with an aching heart; which found no solace
but in the pne ejaculation:, "Oh, God,. Father, help him, strengthen
him, guide me in the right way to influence him!1" and with this
prayer ever welling up in her full heart, she found solace.
Charles came home that night restless and sullen. He made no
response to Ellen's efforts for a cheerful tea-table. She had gathered
upon it a few of the little luxuries he was most fond, of, hoping to
allure him in this most innocent way to some return of former feelings;
but he toolrno notice of them, and while her untasted tea was before
iier he arose from the table, put on his hat, and went out. It was the
first night he had done so without at least the show of an excuse,

TRAVELLERS' LRnY~iy.

such as: "I promised to meet Patterson this evening," or "I have
pledged;a game of chess at the club;" but this seemed so defiant, so
thoughtless of her feelings, she felt as if he must have taken a long
stride downward belbre he could have done this.
All that sad evening she brooded upon what she could do; what
course she should pursue to awaken in the erring boy a sense of his
langer ; how call the good angels again around to guard and aid-him,
He looked unhappy; she was sure he did not enjoy ,his wrong-doing
-and there was comfort in that thought; but she feared that he was
becoming so entangled 'with bad associates it would be impossible for
him to escape. The evening passed slowly on; each hour of the
heavy clock seemed to strike a knell for one hope after another; the
twelve strokes sounded, and she was sick at heart; he had never been
so late. Was he indeed really gone from her?  Then her quickened
ear, intensified by long watching, caught the sound of his foot (it could
be no other), as it turned into the court, with a bound almost of joy,
so great was the relief to have him once more at home. She sprang
up, that she might open the door and speak a word of welcome to him
-not a reproach, she thought, lest I drive him from me. But he
entered hastily, opening the door with his night-key ; he pushed past
her, and rushed up stairs to his own room. She could only see that
he looked unnaturally wild and haggard. She did not follow him;
but when he had been some time in his room, she stole gently to the
door, that she might judge of his state. She could hear him toss
restlessly upon his bed, and groans and exclamations burst from him.
She prayed there-so near him, and yet all unseen by him-that he
might be guided safely through this terrible conflict.
When Charles came into the breakfast-room he did not raise his
eyes to his sister, but said huskily:
"'Will you give me fifteen dollars?  I will repay you before long.
"I cannot, Charles. All the money I have just now is the twenty
dollars laid aside for the rent. If I take that, and you  do not pay
r.e before it is due, we shall lose our home. You wouldn't like that,
I know, Charlie dear. We feel our mother blesses this place, and the
thought of her associated with it consecrates it for us."
An expression of fierce agony crossed his features. He said not a
word more, but darted out. An impulse-she knew not what, but is
it wrong to believe it an influence from that mother's spirit-impelled
her to put on her cloak and follow him. "I may)save from one rash
act," said she, and catching the waterproof which hung in the entry,
she covered herself with' its long folds and drew the hood closely
tiound her face. It wa's but a second's work, but when she stepped
, it of the loor Charles stood upon the horse-car, which happened to

F5


86                 TRAVELLERs' LIRRARY.
be passing the head of the court as he went put. She rapidly fo.
lowed, took the next car, and was fortunate enough to secure the
upper seat where she could keep watch of all who got out of the
vehicle ahead.
She saw him get out at Boylston street. She followed him to a
jeweller's establishment. She knew there was a lad there who had
been a dear friend of Charles bef'Ql he got drawn in with his present
bad associates. She hoped he was going to consult with him on the
present troubles he was in, and perhaps get aid in some way. To her
surprise, as she passed and repassed the window, she saw he was chatting
quihe gayly with his young friend, while he was examining gold-chains.
Soon other customers entered the store. The young man was called
away, and after a moment's hesitation; Charhes left the store.
" What will he do next ?" was Ellen's thought.
He passed her with rapid strides. He did not recognize her muffled
form. She followed on and on to a strange part of tbe town. He
entered a low, dirty-looking shop. What cold it be for ? Her heart
sank within her. She peered into the window, and the sight she saw
froze her heart. Charles stood with a sparkling gold-chain in his
hand, which he was evidently endeavoring to pawn!I
Finally, she saw the man give him money and take the chain. Her
brother-yes, her, till then, almost innocent brother-came out from
that polluted shop, shornl~of half his manhood, his eyes glancing
furtively around. As soon as he was gone out of sight, she went into
the shop, and with a,quiet dignity of manner, which repulsed the
forwardness of the Jew pawnbroker, she said:
"You received a chain from a young man just now. I require you
to give it to me, and I will repay you the money advanced upon it."
"A pretty thing, that, for me to do. The chain is worth twice what
I paid, and what am I to do when the young man claims it, miss ?"
"He will not come again for it, I will guarantee that. Please give
it to me."
And she took out her pocket-book, which she always carried.about
her for safety, and in which was the rent.-money.
Shall do no such thing, young woman, unless you bring me a
certificate from the young man," said the man insolently, for he felt
that he had her in his power.
Ellen was resolute and fitted for all emergencies.
"Thert, sir,"she said, "Tshall make a complaint of you as a receiver
ot stolen goods. That chain was stolen. I can prove it. You know
best If this establishment can bear the test of examination."
The man turned pale, said not a word, but opening a drawer, gruffly

I

"Fifteen dollars."
She gave it to him.
"If I find you have made me pay more than you gave him, I shall
make it known to the proper authorities."
She breathed more freely as she left the stifled shop. She sought
a car, and soon found herself, wearied with excitement, at home,
Perhaps this very thing, this being led to the very brink, migb-t save
her beloved brother, she thought as she sat with the chain before her
trying to solve the mystery. What had led him to it?  What did he
want with the money?  What could he have done? She longed for,
yet dreaded his return. He came not all day, nor till eight o'clock
in the evening. Then he went directly to his room.
Another painful night followed. At breakfast he came down with
bloodshot, sleepless eyes. Her cheek was ashen pale; but the smile
was on her lip, and her voice cheerful as her wont. She tried not to
let him see her agitation, hoping for an opening to. let her into h
heart.
While each was trying to hide from the other their secret, the door
bell rang. The penny-post, brought a letter for Charles. He seized.
it, opened it, read it. "Oh, my God, what can I do !" burst from hisu
agonized soul.
Ellen took the letter and hastily read it. She found it was from
their young friend at the jeweller's. It ran thus :
",DEAR CHARLES :--One of th  handsomest of our watch-chains is.
missing. It has not been seen since you were looking at them yester-
day. Could one have dropped accidentally into your pocket, or did
you take one home to show your sister (I think you said it was for
her you were looking), trusting Lo make it all right with me to-day?
I hope this is so; and if the chain does not appear my employer will
send a search-warrant to your house. In haste,  . ROERT G.
Ellen drew the chain from her pocket, and laid it on the table.
The rattling sound attracted Charles, who raised his head, caught the
glitter of gold, seized it convulsively, and then dropping on his knees,
he buried his head in her arms and sobbed like a child, murmuring
words like these:
"Thank the Heav nly Father, thou last saved me I Qh, give me
stren-gth tc overcome temptation inthe future I"
Ellen let this strong feeling have its way for a time; then she drew .
.lose to him, placed her hand on his head, and then laid that head upon
bar true, sisterly breast; and there she held it till he, worn out by hiss

TRAVELLERS' LIBnAIuY.


TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
emotion, dropped to sleep. She sat thus an hour, till feeling the i '
portance of time, she gently roused him:
"Go up-stairs now, Charles, and rest. I will take this chain t
Robert, see Mr. Berri, get you excused from"to-day's duties, and thic
.shall be a. day of feasting and joy to us, for oh, the prodigal k
returned to his Father, has he not, dear CharlesI!"
Such a look of glad relief, of perfect thankfulness and trust, crosse
his face, and then he obeyed her and went up-stairs.
She carried tte chain to Robert, and gave it to him without a word
She could not frame a lie-shde eft the explanation to his generous
kindness.
'that night Charles told her the wbole-how he had' been led away
~at, deik, and gambled wit bis evil companions; how it was
cobtinued warfare with him, but he was led on step by step ; at last
he lost twenty-five dollars at piafr. He was dunned for it, and threat.
ened with exposure to his master if he did not pay it.. He had only
ten dollars to pay it. As a last resource he had asked Ellen for the
money;- and when she had refused, and for so good a reason, he was
desperate. As he rode into Boston he thought of Robert, and then
the idea cane into his mind, if he could get some piece of jewelry and
pawn it, he would soon get the money to redeem it, and would then
replace it, and probably the owners would not miss it. But the Agony
of the first day of "thief-life," when the gleam of the gold was ever
in his eye, and its feel in his hand, and "thou art the man" was sound-
ing in the recesses of his heart, and it was a foretaste of hell which he
could not bear; and he had risen from his sleepless bed with the firm
resolve to take the first step toward' right; and how much he was
aided in it by that watchful sister's love and ingenuity, none but those.
who have been through the same temptation and a similar rescue can
say. Sisters, yours is a glorious work. Be -noble yourselves, that
you may teach your young brothers to be noble. Be unselfish, that
they may learn the.sweetne s of the unselfish life. Be ever watchful
ovat them. Teach them to respect, through you, every woman.
-B
1NTRAPPING     A MURDERER.
In the year 1838, we went to the Red River country with.a view
of speculation in horses, lands, or any thing that might give promise
of a profitable return for a cash investment. Of course I carried a
good deal of money with me, but knowing I was going among a wild,
(  lawless class, of every grade and color-among half-civilized Indians,
negroes, gamblers, thieves, robbers, murderers; and assassins-wmt
perhaps a few settlers with some claims to honor and honesty, if they

v.

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
eould be sifted out from the mass-I thought it the latest plan not to
seem well off in this world's goods. _ Accurdingly I secured my money
in a belt about my body ; put on a very coarse, rough dress, which,
by intentional carelessness, soon had a very mean, slovenly appearance;.
and allowed my hair and beard to manage matters their own way,
without any troublesome interference of razor or tomb. Thus pre-
pared, and armed with two revolvers and a bowie-knife, I passed over
some dangerous country in comparative safety, and flattered myself
that no one guessed my riches through my apparent poverty.
In fact, on two occasions, I began to think it might have been to my
advantage to have looked a little more respectable.' The first of these
was when, in travelling through Choctaw nation, I found a drove of
horses that pleased me very much, and was told by the owner in reply
to my question as to what he would take a head for the entire lot, that
be was not in the habit of naming his price to every wandering beggar
that chose to satisfy an idle curiosity. I was disposed at first to put
on some dignity and get indignant, but concluded, after a careful survey
of my person, that the man had good cause for speaking as he did,
and so merely assured him that I knew an individual that wished to
buy horses, if he could get them at a fair price. The horse-owner,
however, was not disposed to believe my statement, and so I passed
him by, with. the resolve that, if nothing better turned up, I would
give him another call under a more advantageous appearance. As
the second instance alluded to was similar to the first, it may be passed
over without further notice.
But out of this same cause grew a very remarkable adventure, which
it is my present purpose to relate.
While passing between two settlements, over a very lonely gloomy
horse path leading through a dark, hemlock wood, and while in the
most solitary part, there suddenly came before me, leaping from a
thicket on the right, a human figure of the most startling appearance.
It was a man of medium height, but of a stout, powerful frame, all
covered with dirty tatters, that he appeared to have worn and wallowed
in for years. ; He had no covering for his head or feet, and his skin
was so coated with grime that it was difficult, at a first look, to tell
whether he belonged to the white race or not. His face, high apon
his cheeks, was covered with a dirty, brown beard, and his matted
hair hung in wild confusion all around his head, except a little pace
before his swollen, bloodshot eyes, ad altogether he looked, like a
madman or human devil. ' His hands held and swung a for-nidable
club, and his attitude, as he sprung into the road before .ne, was one
of fierce menace and defiance.
I stopped in alarm, awl, w hile fixing mny eyes shar oly upon hie;

5
1-
.
ty
t
F
.+


90                  TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
quietly slipped my hand into a convenient pocket and grasped the
butt ol one of my, revolvers, firmly determined to keep him at the
short distance that divided us, or kill him if he advanced.
For.perhaps half a minute we stood silently regarding and surveying
each other, and -then, resting one end of his club on the ground, and
partly leaning forward on the other, he said, in a coarse, gruff tone,
ith a kind of chuckling laugh:
" Well, --  me ! I's in hope I'd got a prize; but you're better off
nor me, you don't show it, by   I Stranger. Who ar' you, and
whar you from ?"
"Well," I returned, feeling highly complimented, of course, that
resembled sucha villanous object as himself, "some people call me
beggar, and I know I don't pass for a genteel gentleman."
"I'll swear to that-haw ! haw! hawI" was his chuckling response.
The world hain't made much of you, morn it has of me. I see steal
In your face as plain as daylight. Say, what jail lost you last ?"
"Never mind that," said I. "Probably neither of us have got our
deserts."
"Well, if you had been decent dressed, and looked like you had
five dollars about you, I'd have knocked your brains out !" continued
the villain, with a broad grin. "As it is, you can pass; for I can
swear you hain't got a red."
"Much obliged for your candor," rejoined I.
He still ,tood before me, looking straight into my eye, and--now
seemed to be pondering some new idea. At length he muttered, as if
to himself:
I think he might do." Then a moment after he said to me: "I
say, old fellow, how would you like to make a raise ?"
"'How would I like to eat when hungry ?" I answered, thinking it
Dot unlikely that the scoundrel had some dark project in view which,
by seeming to chime in with him, I might discover.
'Well, I've' got a plan," he said, throwing down his club, as if to
.assure me of his pacific intentions towards myself, and quietly ad.
vanced to my -side. "I've got a plan that will give us both a heap
of money, and it'll take just two to carry it out. I've been -wanting.s
pal, and if you'll join in, I'll go you halves."
If's there's any chance to turn a penny, I'm your man," said I.
Good!1" returned he. "You look like a trump, and I'll bet high
on you. I don't know," he added, eying me sharply, "but I may be
deceived, but I think I'll risk it. If you go for to play any game on
me, you'd be'ter look out for yourself, that's all."
''Do I look like such a scamp as that ?" returned I, in an indignant
tonO.

j

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.             91

4"Well, let's take a seat and talk it over."
We found an old log and sat down; and after some preliminary
conversation, my new and interesting acquaintance unfolded to me a
most damnable scheme, the substance of which was as follows:
He knew the country well for miles around, and the exact position
mnd condition of every settler. One man, living in a rather lonely
giarter about five miles distant, was a speculator in horses and cattle,
N bich he sometimes bought up and drove to a distant market. He
had a good deal of money, which it was supposed he kept secreted in
his dwelling ; and to get possession of this money was, of course, the
object in view. The trouble was that the man himself was a brave,
determined fellow, who always went well armed, and had, besides his
wife, two grown-up sons and a daughter, which was a force too great
for any one individual to encounter. About a mile from him lived a
poor widow, who had nothing worth stealing except her clothes, which
would be valuable for carrying out our plan. This plan was to rob
the widow first of her clothing, dress me up in them, and have me
seek lodgings at the speculator's house. Then in the night, when all
the family should be asleep, I should unbolt the door, let in my con-
federate, and we were to attempt the murder of the inmates-the
robbery and burning of the house to follow and be the closing scene.
I secretly shuddered at the atrocity of the contemplated crime, but
appeared to receive the disclosure with the business air of the most
hardened wretch, inquiring as to the amount of money we should thus
probably obtain, and objecting to nothing but the great risk we should
have to run, both before and after the accomplishment of our purpose.
I permitted my eager companion to gradually quiet my fears, and at
last consented to act.
When every thing had thus become settled, we struck off into the
telds, to avoid being seen, and just before night came in sight of the
widow's house. As my companion was acquainted with the premises,
I insisted that he should procure the female garments-but solemnly
warned him that if he harmed the poor old woman in the least, I
auld have nothing more to do with the affair.
As good luck would have it, the widow was not at home, and my
murderous friend managed to break in and get the necessary clothing
without doing any further damage. The widow being a large woman,
I had notrouble it. arranging the dress so as to pass in a dim light as
a tolerably respectable female; and then, having agreed upon the story
I was to tell, hcw Iwo'ild manage the matters, and the signal that
would assure my accomplice of all being right, we went forward
together, till we came ini uight of the house to be robbed, when I made
my nearest way to the road, and continued ,on alone, reaching the

0


92                  TrAVELLERTs' LIBRARY.
dwelling about an hour after dark, and just about as the family were
concluding their evening meal.
Had my design been really what I had led my villanous companion
to believe, I certainly could never have gone forward with such con-
fident boldness; but feeling my conscience all right, and knowing I
was acting from a good motive, I kept up a wonderful assurance,
feeling curious to see how well I could play my part, and to what
extent I could"-carry the deception.
I asked for lodging for the night and something to eat, and was
kindly andgospitably received. The frst thing that sent the blush
of shame and confusion to my cheek was the coming forward of a
young lady about eighteen, beautiful as an houri, and in sweet, gentle
tones, asking me if I had walked far, if I was much fatigued, offering
to take my hood, and telling me that I should be refreshed with a
warm cup of tea. This was too much for my equanimity. .I could
have got along with all the rest, without being specially disturbed;
but 1 was a young,-unmarried man, and though not particularly sus-
ceptible to female attractions in general, I thought I had never looked
on so lovely and interesting a creature before. I stammered'out some
unintelligible replies, kept my hood well drawn over my face, and
asked to ;4 permitted a few moments' private conversation with the
master of the house.
Of course the request caused considerable surprise, but it was
granted, and as soon as we were alone together, I told him in a few
words who and what I was, the strange adventure I had met with
and disclosed in full the plot of my road acquaintance to murder and
rob him. He turned pale at the recital, and seemed much astonished,
but begged me not to mention the design to his wife and daughter.
He then called his two sons-strong, determined fellows-recounted
the plot to them, and arranged to have every thing go forward as If
the scheme were being carried out as its vile author designed.
It took some shrewd management to keep me to my part without
letting the females into the secret; but it was effected, and before mid-
night I cautiously opened the door and looked out. There was my
man ready -and waiting.
Is all right ?" he whispered.
" Yes, come in."
As he crossed the threshold, the father and eons sprang upon hirk
But the fellow was strong and desperate, and perhaps had some sus-
pricions of the truth.: With a wild yell he cleared their united grasp.
at a bound, leaving a large 'portion of his rags in their hands. The
next moment the whole four of us were in chase of the villain, as he

I

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
ran across the road to gain the cover of a woods about twenty rods
distant.
"Fire!" shouted the father, "shoot down the rascal!1
,We were. all armed and prepared, and at the word, four revolvers
began to crack behind him. But he seemed to lead a charmed life,
andaran on, keeping a short distance ahead of us. Once I fancied I
aw him stagger; but he gained the woods and disappeared, and we
reluctantly and with deep chagrin were compelled to give up the chas
When we returned to the house, the wife and daughter wereboth
L   terrb  alarmed. Of course an explanation followed-the host being
disappointed of making the capture as he intended without exciting
their fears. There was no more sleep ,in the house that night.
The next morning we went out to the wood, and discovered a trail
of blood. We followed it for half a mile, and found the ruffian lying
dead, face downward, his hands firmly clinched in some bushes. One
of the sons recognized him as a suspected murderer, who had years
.before sosleft ttprt of the country. We buried him~with little cere-
mony. I wa warmly thanked for the part I had played to serve
the family; but from no one did the words sound so sweet to me, as
from the lips of the beautiful maiden.
The family pressed me to stay a while, and I stayed-long enough
to lose my heart and win another. Strange as it appears in looking
back to it the event- of that villain leaping into the road before me
changed the whole course of my fortune; and sometimes when I gaze
upon my wife, I am tempted to bless the dark and wicked design that
providentially led us to so much happiness.


94                TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.
In the Democratic Review of November, there was an account of
the trial of Harry Blake for murder, who was convicted on circum
Stantial evidence and hung. About three months after his death, the
judge who presided at the trial received a note from a prisoner under
sentence of death, requesting to see him without delay, as his sea-
ttnce was to be carried into effect the day following. On his way
thither he .overtook an old man walking slowly, who accosted him,
and the judge recognized him to be Caleb Grayson, who had been
witness at Blake's trial, and had a similar note to his own, equally at
t loss to know the meaning of the summons. They entered the cell
together. The prisoner did not move, but raised his head, when
Grayson recognized him, having seen him at a tavern the night befog
Blake's execution, and at the gallows.
"Well, Judge, I sent for you to see if you can't get me out of th.
scrape. Must I hang to-morrow?"
The Judge shook his head: " It's idle to hope, nothing can prevent
your execution."S
"An application might be made to the highest authorities," answer&amp;J
the prisoner. "Pardons have come sometimes on the scaffold."
"None will come in your case," said the Judge. "It is needless for
me to dwell on your offence now, for it was one that had no palliation,
and you may rest assured that whatever may have occurred in other
cases, no pardon will come in yours. In fact, I understand that an
application has been made for one by your counsel, and has been
refused."
The features of the prisoner underwent no change, nor did the
expression of his face alter in the least. After a moment's pause, he
said: "Is this true, Judge, upon your honor ?"
"It is," replied the Judge.S
"Then I know the worst," replied the criminal, coldly, "and will
now tell what I have to communicate, which I would not have done
while there was a hope of escape. You," he said, turning to the
Judge, "presided at the trial of young Harry Blake, who was accused
of murder, and sentenced him to deaf)."
"I did."
" And you," turning to Grayson, "were-one of the witnesses against
him. You swore you saw him stab Wickliffe. On your testimony
principally he was hung."S
"I was," said Grayson. "I saw him with my own eyes."
The prisoner uttered a low, sneering laugh, as he said, turning to
the Judge:

TRAVELLERS' LIBRARY.
"You, sir, sentenced an innocent man. And you," turning to the
other, "swore to a falsehood. Harry Blake did not kill MWickliffe-
He was as innocent of the sin of murder as you were-more innocent
than you are now."
The old man staggered as if he had been struck, and leaned against
the table to support himself. while the condemned felon stood opposite,
looking at him with an indifferent air.
"Yes, old man," said he, sternly, "you have blood and perjury on
your soul, for I, I," said he', stepping forward so that the light of the
lamp fell strongly upon his savage features, "I murdered William
Wickliffe ! I did it ! Thank God I did it, for I had a long score to
settle with him! But Blake had no hand in it. I met Wickliffe on
that afternoon alone-with no one to interfere between us. I told him
of the injuries he had done me, and I told him that the time was
come for redress. He endeavored to escape, but I followed him up;
I grappled with him, and stabbed him. As I did so I heard the
clatter of horse's hoofs, and I leaped into a clump of bushes that
grew by the roadside. At that moment Blake came up, and found
Wickliffe dead in the road. You know the rest. The tale he told
was as true as the gospel. He was only attempting to draw the knife
from the man's breast, when yof came up and charged him with the
murder."
"Good God! Can this be possible ?" ejaculated the old man. "It
cannot. Villain, you are a liar !"
" Pshaw !" muttered the man. " jhat is there I could gain by a
lie?  To-morrow I die."
"I don't believe it!. I don't believe it !" exclaimed Grayson, pacing
the cell and wringing his hands. "God in mercy grant that it may
be false ! that this dreadful sin may not be upon me-!"
The prisoner sat down and looked at the Judge and the witness with
a calmness that had something in it almost fiendish, when contrasted
with the extreme agitation of the oe and -the mental agony of the
other.
At last the old man stopped in front of him, and with a calmness
so suddenly assumed in the midst of his paroxysm of remorse, that
it even overawed ,the criminal, said: "You are one whose life has
been a tissue of falsehood and crime. You must prove what you have
said, or I'll not believe it."
"Be it so," answered the prisoner. "I saw the whole transaction,
and heard all your testimony at the trial, for I was there too. I'll
now tell you what occurred at the spot of the murder, which you did
not mention, but which I saw. When you rode up, the man with you
jun'ped off his horse and seized Blake by the collar; and your hat


TRAVELLERS' I1.BRARY.

fell off on the pommel of your saddle, but you caught it before it
reached the ground. You then sprang off your horse, and while
Walton held Blake you examined the body. You attempted to pull
the knife from his breast, but it was covered with blood, and slipped
from your fingers. You rubbed your hands on the ground, and going
to a bush on the roadside, broke off some leaves and wiped your
hands upon them and afterwards the handle of the knife. You then
drew it out, and washed it in a little puddle at the foot of the sumach
tush As you did so you looked at Blake, who was standing with
his hands folded, and who said: "Don't be uneasy about me, Caleb.
I didn't kill Wickliffe, and don't intend to escape." At that time you
were within six feet of where I was. It's lucky you didn't find me,
for I was ready at that moment to send you to keep company with
Wickliffe; but I saw all even when you stumbled and dropped your
glove as you mounted your horse."
"God have mercy on me!" ejaculated Grayson. "This is all true.
But one word more, I heard Wickliffe, as we rode up, shriek out:
'Mercy ! mercy! Harry!'"
"He was begging his life then ; my first name is Harry."
The old man clasped his hands across his face, and fell senseless to
the floor.
It is needless to go into the details of the prisoner's confession,
which was so full and clear that it left no doubt on the mind of the
Judge that he was guilty ofWickliffe's murder, and that Harry Blake
was another of those who have gone to swell the list of victims to
circumstantial evidence.
w

THE END.

I


}
in  b   A      h
/ II


  
             
         
       
   
