
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The True Life of William Pool ... .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8117
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The true life of William Pool ... 
            
                 ' I DIE A TRUE' AMERICAN." THE TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL   A CORRECT   GIVING HISTORY OF HIS GRANDPARENTS AND HIS PARENTS,     WITH A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE    IN WHICH HE RECEIVED A FATAL WOUND. CONTAINING ALSO, AN AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF HIS LIFE FROM THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN MONTHS, THE VARIOUS KINDS OF BUSINESS HE FOLLOWED, f WITH THE OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE CORRONER'S INVES TIGATION; AND VERDICT OF THE JURY.   NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM L. KNAPP. 1855.    INTRODUCTION.  I come not before you to speak about ancient heroes and statesmen, that have nobly acted their part on the worldly stage, and then gently sank to rest with all the honors and eulogies that are capable of be- ing performed or expressed by their nation's departed braves; but merely to lay before you the facts concerning the life and death of an American. Painful indeed is it to record the untimely death of one that fell ip manhood's prime, and was followed to his silent grave by a multitude of friends, who deeply felt their sad loss, and stood ready to testify to departed worth. Nor yet has it been a pleasant task to me to trace the event through all its bearings, and often, reader, have I laid down my pen, to wipe away the tear that had gathereO from reflecting on the bereavement of that heart-stricken family. Yet, as an Americai aipd having a heart capable of feeling for the stranger as well as an acquaintance, I felt it my duty to endeavor to do jus- tice to the memory of one whose greatest fault, in the eyes of some, was that he practiced the doctrie that he taught, and that doctrine was Americanism. His detracttrs and defamers may flourish for a   t while; but in time their sun will set, and long after they have sunk into endless oblivion, will the name of William Pool blaze with redoubled splendor, Jand ever, be remembered in the hearts of his countrymen. Time, on its ever-revolving. wheels, rolls on rapidly, hurrying us into eternity; still it is an act devutly wished for by   I all, that such aE eene may never be again enaced. His history, which I have written, being authentic, will tell of -his many virtuous qualities as a man, ever thankful for the patronage and kindness of a generous public. 1 I submit my book inth their hands for perusal,  hoping, thereby, that all may see that I have been advocating the eternal principles of justice and truth. 'W. L. KNAPP. New York, 1855.    i  WILLIAM POOL. WILLIAM POOL, (not Poole as generally written), the subject of this narrative, was born in Sussex County, New Jersey, and was the youngest of four children, the familyconsisting of two girls and two boys. His mother dying when he was eighteen months old, left him motherless. Although he was not, sensible or capable of realizing the great loss, yet great it was; for none, let them be ever so kind of heart, or possessed of superior qualifications, are able to fill the place of a mother. Night after night will she watch by the sideWof her sleeping infant; trouble Hed hardships are but as a feather in the scale, if she . can only promote the happiness of her offspring. Through summer's heat and winter's cold she will, with anxious solici- tude gaze--and listen to its short breathings, ever ready to administer to its wants, fanning the fevered brow of sickness, smoothing the pillow where her hope is centered : all else is of minor importance, comparatively speaking, with the interest or welfare of her child. Its little tongue while yet in its infancy, is by a mother taught to lisp his little prayer, the influence of which is carried through life to old age, and, even tea dies Apt with the individual, for his example is imparted and lives i,:Qgero, which will coptivne to multiply throughout t*h end-  less ages of eternity. It matters not what station a person   6       TRUB LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. may occupy in life, whether braving the storms on the ocean, or mingling in the strifes and contentions of a political life, or should stray in forbidden paths, he will at times remember the lessons of his, mother,the remembrance of which often hath brought back the erring into the paths of rectitude, and gently beckoned them on to a life of happinaess. Although William's mother died while he was but a babe, still his manly, generous principles that he inherited from his ( parents that grew more brilliant with his growth, increasing  in lustre till the day of his death, speak in unmistaken tones to his relatives and friends, as well as to those in his neighbor- hood whose hand was ever open to relieve want, and that when he died he left a vacancy which none of his detractors or defamers are capable of filling, for their labels on his character show an utter destitution of feeling, and! that they have no sympathy with the people of this country, its laws, and its institutions, which by fearlessly defending cost William Pool his life. He was thirty-one years and eight months old when he died, and although young, he lived long enough to see those that he had befriended, seek, his life, and that they accomplished their determined intention. After his mother's death, the eldest sister took charge of the house, and continued to do so up to' the time of the father's second marriage, which took place about two years after their mother's death.  The two sisters after their father's second marriage left home and took up their residence in the City of Few York. One of th   sister's, Mrs. Mason, still resides in this city, the other'sister, Mrs. Franklin, resides at Port Jarvis, N. Y.   John, the' brother of William resides in this city, is a mason by trade and contractor. Their father's name was John Pool, he was a boot and shoe maker by trade, and seve- ral years after his second marriage removed to the City of New York, and after settling here followed dock building the most of his time. He was considered an honest, upright and worthy man, and ^died in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-four. The grand parents of William Pool all resided in the same neighborhood, where William was born, within a short   TOTIC LUF OF WILLIAM PbOO.      Tr distance of each other, and were highly respected by all that knew them. The grandfather on his mother's side, John San- ford, was a revolutionary soldier, and a pensioner ; served all through the war, was in many important engagements; after peace was declared, he received his, discharge in New York, and then retired and lived ol. his farm in New fersey till the war of eighteen hundred and twelve, when he enlisted as a volun- teer and served three months. EHe died at Bloomingdale, Morris County, New Jersey, on the fifteenth of February, eigh- teen hundred and fifty-two, in the ninety-third year of his age. His grandfather on his father's side, whose name was William Pool, was by occupation a farmer, enlisted as a volunteer in the war of eighteen hundred and twelve, and after doing his duty as a soldier, returned to his home in Bloomingdale, New Jersey, where he died, leaving a large number of relatives and friends to mourn the loss, of a just and honorable man. The grandmothers lived to an advanced age and died, leaving a large circle of friends, many children, and a great number of grandchildren to testify to their worth. Thus we see the forefathers of William Pool battling for their country's freedom. Look at young Sanford, at the age of sixteen shouldering his musket and taking his ranks as a soldier voluntarily to help free his country from the iron hand of a des- pot. After serving his country for over seven long years, see him return to his native place crowned with the never dying wreath of a true soldier. What heavenly emotions musfhave filled his bosom when returning to that home ; when he contemplated he had helped to obtain his country's freeddrnx; the war was over, and that now he could sit down and eat hihbread in peace, ae the cannon's roar and the clashing of arms had ceased, vic- tory soared aloft with the stars and stripes, and as his country's banner floated gently in the breeze, it told him that that flag was owned by the sons of liberty, and now waved over the land he had assisted to free. Even after achieving glory and renown in the war and retiring to his home, when the war trump was sounded in eighteen hundred and twelve, he again shouldered his musket as avolunteer and served in that war. He WaB   8       nTRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. often heard to regret that he was too old o offer his services  in the Mexican war, seeming to feel, and showing that he was a pure patriot, and willing to sacrifice all ease and comfort for the advancement of his counwy./ It is not strange thenathat William Iool, descendant as he was, from a family of spotless Oreputation, it'is not strange that the patriotic blood that he inherited from his forefathers should lead and prompt him to stand by and defend the American flag. Nor yet is it a won. der, only in the eyes of ignorant bigots, that he should stand up for his country's rights. He considered thatit-was the land of his fathers, that he had a right to defend the principles that had fought for. And further Mre, that as an American, he should not only speak his just convictions of his country's insti. tutions, but as a right of freedom of the speech, that I guaran- teed by the laws of his country, he would and did stand up and defend not only the institutions of his country, but her honor. Ho moreover, republican as he was, claimed to know, and did kno  from the plain and common sense rules, and the laws of right, that he as an JAmerican citizen, had' a right to think as he oaose, express his principles when and where he chose with- out being molested by a  gang of bigoted, ignorant, foreign ireling paupers. He furthermore contended, thlat Americans ,should' not be qompelled, in order to live, to take, up with the crumbs that dropped from an alien's table; but that, in the distribution of oficde by the -general government, or that employers 'in all kinds of business, should give, at all events, the American cit- ien an equal chance with those that had no kindred feeling with the institutions and republican principles of this country. His dying words were true enough, " I die a true American ;"' for had he acted the hypocrite, pretending to one that he be- lieved is his religion, or to another of a different sect, that he was right, being all thingh to all men for the sake of promo- tion in the political world: now a slavery man in one section of the country, an anti-slavery man in another section; new weeping over the miseries of man, and in another place laud- ig, praising, and showing wherein they are benefits: if Wil-                     .    TBRUB LIPR OP WILLIAM POOL.      9 liam Pool had been such a character, his remains would not "w be reposing in Greenwood. His affectionate wife would not now be mourning the loss of a kind husband, and his little boy could not now say, "I have no father."  His brother and sisters could not be grieving for a brother dead, for he would have been living still. For espousing the American cause, for advocating the principles of eternal truth, and openly express- ing the principles he professed, he was set upon and hunted by 4 a gang of outlaws, and murdered, aye, murdered, in cold blood, his greatest fault being that he was an American, and too smart for any single one of the set that took his life. When William was but a small boy, he went to reside with his sister, Mrs. Ma- son, who brought him up. He was sent to school by her ; still he could not bear confinement, and would rather work hard all day than to go to-school. He was not unlike many other boys in this respect, still it showed, even at this early period of his, youth, an inclination to an active life. In the early part of his life, he showed a willingness to do almost anything whereby he could make money in an honest way, which character: istic he bore with him through life. When about fourteen years of age, he went to work in a brick yard near Newhurgh, Orange County, New York, and after working there nearly a year, and receiving no pay for what he had done, returned again'to New York. After returning to this city, he went to learn the butchering business with Alexander Berryman. Af- ter leaving Mr. Berryman went to work for James Ford, after leaving him worked in Chrystie street. The first journey-work he done was at Clinton Market, for Thomas E. Broadway, who stated that while he was with him, he always found him a steady, industrious, hard-working man, and very attentive to his business. He was with Mr. Broadw'ay for several years, and leaving him, he started in business for himself in Wash- ingtona Market, in partnership with Solomon Haw.-'. They were partners for about three years, when they dissolved paet- nership. William continued the business about eighteen months himself, and by his unceasing industry and energy of character, made considerable money; and although he lent a -                     .       l.. -   .  ID      TRUE LIFZ OP WILTAM POOL.  helping hand to those that were in need, still he provided bountifully for his family and did not, at his death, leave them destitute of means. e done a large business, supplied the Astor House withl small, meat, besides many other plan. Ever prompt and attentie to his business, he gained the confi- dence of the public. He drew around him a host of friends,. who not only deeply regret his death, but can testify to his moral worth. The dreary hard winter of 1855 is scarcely over, yet there are many families that can say that- William Pool was to. them as a father, and that by his generosity they were saved from utter destitution And actual want. None l turned away without receiving somethTng. .Hearing from an acquaintance that there were three families in very destitute circumstanees up town, he made inquiries about them, and found that they Were not only destitute of food and fuel, but were in a pitiful and suffering condition. He immediately sent each family a barrel of four and a ton of coal apiece, besides meat aid other things. Come, ye calumniators of Wil'ia n Pool, sit down and figure up your deeds of charity, and see if you will be able to balance your other shortcomings, for we are all mortal, have our faults, liable to err. We are qnuek in dseovering t f'aulty of others, and look upon aure selves. as perfect; whereas, if the books were properly bal- anced, we might at once discover that we had sinned and were in error and that the one that we looked upon as the sinner might, upon proving the trial sheet, show% a large balance against us. I He was about five feet nine inches in height, and well-proportioned, possessing great agility. Although he never fought any ring fight, nor ever engaged in any other fights, except when grossly insulted for standing up for Amer- ican principles, yet he always proved himself too much for any one that had the audacity to assault him. His fight with Mor. rissey at the foot of Amos Street, in the summer of 1854, lasted but a few minutes, when William Pool was declaredthe victor. Although this battle was unsought by him, and he was heard by many to) say he would rather treat Morris"Y than fight him, Yettmhen he found his opponent eaghr;for the   TRUE LIFE OF WIL IAH POOL.      1 battle, as well as many others, he took his position, and it took 'but a short time to decide which was the best man. After leaving his business in Washington Market, he started a saloon called the "Bank Exchange,' at the corner of Howard Street and Broadway, which place he kept the remainder of his life. He was a man that was bold and fearless, and did not fear the face of clay. Ever ready to defend the right, and oppose the wrong, he stood forth as the champion of American principles, battling for freedom's cause. The first,of his taking any active part in politics, was with the Native American party. He was a smart electioneerer at primary and general elec- tions, and brought forth his country's flag from many a sharp contest, unscathed. He belonged to the order of United Americans, besides being a member of several other societies. He was counted gentlemanly in lis conduct, never insulting, or giving an insult to any one. He was fond of the society of the ladies, which, instead of being a fault, was justly commend- able; for the man that associates with intelligent females, will not only have a respect and regard for himself, and firom their, mild, gentle teachings, he will exhibit in tis deportment, even in the busy, out-door bustling world, that he is under a happy influence, which has been imparted to him by some other source than by the hands of man. The lady that he selected for his partner through life was Elvina Lozicr. They had been play- mates in their childhood, and their affections ripened with their growth, and they were united in the holy bands of nmat- rimony nine years ago last new year's eve, by the Rev. Dr. Wallace, at his residence in Spring Street. Two children, both boys, were the fruits of this marri-age. One of the chil- dren is still living, a promising ) boy, eight years of age. Wil- liam was always kind to her anal his family, and his wife never knew what it was to want for anything towards contributing to her comfort, that money would purchase, as he considered that she possessed all the qualifications combined, that were necessary to constitute a good;wife. As- for herself, she could scarcely be made to believe that there ever was another man equal to him in kindness. What, then, must be the feelings of   2.      TBu LIFE OP WILLIAM POOL her who was suddenly bereft of her partner, one whom she looked up to as her guide whilst journeying through life? What must be her feelings when she reflects that- William ,Pool took Baker outt of the streets, put a decent suit of clothes on him, fed him at his own table, and through his influence got him appointed a policeman. Her own words will express hut afaint idea of her feelings, still they speak in tones of thunder of this' cowardly murdering deed, "Little did I think (said she, as the tears gushed forth from her eyes), little did I think when William took Baker and clothed and fed him and got him on the police, little did I think that the man that I had made many a meal's victuals far, that he would be one of the gang to help to murder my husband. I feel sorry for their families. I wish their families no harm, still they have mur- dered William, and taken from me my husband." Little did she think it, aye, little did William Pool think that he was warming and feeding a viper, that as soon as it was sufficiently warm and full of food would turn around and remorselessly sting him to death. Little would any one think that after the kindness that he had- shown to Baker, and to some of the rest of the gang, that he would join in and help to take William Pool's Ilife. Look at the circumstances, see William Pool quietly enjoying himself with a friend at Stanwis Hall, neither molesting nor interfering with any one, see that band of cowar- dly ruffians, neither one of them daring to go singly to commit the deed, look at one of thegang seize him by the collar and spit three times in his face, for no other earthly purpose than to get him to fight, and then could murder him without the sus- spicion of its being a planned or premeditated act. When they found this plan did not work, and that the deed must be done at any rate, regardless of consequences see them commence firing at him, and after shooting him down\ like a dog, see Baker run and jump on him, at the same time planting a pistol on his breast and fire. Did William Pool raise a hand? No I Did he fire a shot? No I Philosopher like, and as a n as Ahe-was, he undoubtedly made up his mind that they had come to murder him, and that murder him they would at   ]13 TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL.  "events and that he would give them no cause or a shadow  f exscuse after they had committed the murerous deed to say  hat he was the aggressor. See him borne holme to his bed of  ieath, and as he lay there forgetful of his suerini, se hi raying for his murderers. Hear him speak forth in tones of  esination. "I forgive them and I have to believe that I am orgiven." t slort tim e previous to his death, being sensible hathis time was near at hand, e gave directions as to the disposal of his body, and after setting his house in order, he gradually sank away and died without a struggle. I shall now proeed to give an acounlt of his murder, his funeral obsequies, the Coroner's investigation, and the iury's verdict. THE MURDER. On the nightof Saturday, the twenty-fourth of February, the plot that had been long formed was carried into effect. Although they did not effect his immediate death, yet his mur- derers can now see that they accomplished their intentions, and that William Pool now sleeps where the assassin's knife can- not harm him. On the evening above mentioned he left his saloon at the corner of Broadway and Howard, and step- ped into Stanwix Hall to obtain some refreshments. While be was quietly eating, not cnscious that Morrissey was in an adjoining room or that he was in the building, until he came out and addressed Mr. Pool with, "Ah I is it there ye are, ye black muzzled son of a b- h V"I William Pool made no re- ply. Morrissey continued to insnIt him in the most shameful manner, and finally called him a " coward." Mr. Pool while receiving this abuse, merely remarked to him a vou tasted my mutton once, and did not appear to like it." But when Mar- ,rissey applied the term "1 coward" to him, he immediately leaped ,out into the middle of the floor, and with a withering glance boldly toldhim be was a "liar." TAe other continued his t      b    '=-:-=         ".   "      TRUErLWB OF WILLIAM POOL. vile abuse by saying: "You God d--d cowardly American son of a b---h I you dare not fight me with pistols muzzle to muzzle." Mr. Pool cried out, "you lie you Irish b-- ;I dare," at the same time springing towards him and pulling out his revolver, "Draw." Irving then jumped before Morrissey, and shouted " he aint got no weapon Pool don't fire." When Mr. Pool found that Morrissey had no pistol, he cooly put his up and returned to the former,place where he was standing. Morrissey in the mean time had sent for a pistol, still continu- ing to use the most abusive terms, such as G-d d-d Ameri- can son of a b-h," " black muzzled sonoy'a b-h," and Mr. Pool getting angry said, ' Oh shut up you are all a set of d--d Irishmen. Mark McGuire then Remarked that " an Irish- man was as good as anybody else if he only behaved himself." Mr. Pool told him "( there wAs no IriShman as good as he was, or any man that didn't, cat meat on F iday." McGuire said he was as good a man as he was, and Mk Pool asked him " in what way." "In any way replied McGuire, Mr. Pool asked him if he would fight? he said -he would O  " equal terms." "There lays a carving knife" said Mr. Pool, "I will get another." McGuire immediately apologized and said Mr. Pool " had been kind to his brother," and that he did not wish to fight him." By this time Morrissey h&dgot a pistol, and immediately made a rush at Mr. Pool exclaiming at the same time, " now draw you American fighting son of a b-h!"Mr. Pool stood with perfect composure looking at him, and as Morrissey snapped his pistol at him told him to fire away. When some one called out to Mr. Pool to shoot the bully, he made answer that ' if I fire I shall shoot some innocent man, but let that big loafer get away from that crowd and I will show him." The Eighth Ward police here made their appearance, Officer Rue taking Morrissey out as he said to convey him to the Fourteenth Ward police station, but after sailing around and calling at different places he let Morrissey go, as he promised he would home.', Mr. Pool willingly accompanied officer Hogan of the Chiefs office down to the JEighth Ward police station. After waiting there for some time, and no one appearing to make a   TRUB LIFB OF WILLIAM POORI      16 charge against him he was permitted to leave. Mr. Pool then returned to Stanwix Hall, feeling it his duty to doso to express his regret to the proprietors that there had been any difficulty to disturb the peace of their house, as he was not in fault, and did not wish to raise a disturbance in any one's place. While conversing with some of his friends on various suojects time passed away as it had become one o'clock on Sabbath morning. Morrissey had held a consultation with his gang, and being unfit to take any part in the tragedy that was to be enacted was taken home. The shutters of Stanwix Hall were closed, the doors shut, when suddenly the doors flew open, and in walked Patrick McLaughn alias Paudeen, Baker, Turner, Linn and Van Pelt, all together, Paudeen locking the door after them. Mr. Pool was standing near the bar, conversing with his friends, when they entered. Turner was asked to take a drink, he refused.. Paudeen then said to Mr. Pool, "What are you looking at, you black muzzled sof a b-h?" continuing his abuse with "There's the American fighting man, that licked Morrissey; look at the American fighting boy. Why don't you fight me?"Mr. Pool replied, I would not soil my hands by touching so worthless a fellow." Turner then stepped up, appe   arin arkably friendly, taking Mr. Pool by the arm, and saying, "Mr. Pool, don't notice what he says--he's been drinking." Mr. Pool replied, "I'm satintied." Paudeen immediately reached over Turner's shoulders, caught Mr. Pool by the collar, saying, "Now fight me, you black muzzled Amer- ican son son of a b-h," at the same time spitting in his face three times. Pool said,." That's nice, ain't it;" and imme- diately jumped out into the middle of the room, said he would bet five hundred dollars he could whip any man in the rooln, and would put up one hundred dollars as a forfeit, which he immediately did, by placing five twenty dollar gold pieces in Mr. Dean's hand. The murderers not being able to raise a hundred dollars between them, and knowing the business they were on, and it must be dispatched, and money being of little cogsequenCne ust then, Turner threw off his cloak and said   :     tB-E LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. "Let's sail in, any way.' Turner then drew a large siized revolver, and rested the muzzle against his own arm. Paudeen then stepped back, to give Turner a chance to shoot. Turner fired, shooting himself in the arm, and fell. Mr. Pool threw up his arms, and said, t For God's sake, you do not mean to murder -me?  Immediately after Turner fell, as he lay writh- ing in agony, he again discharged his weapon, the ball this time hitting Mr. Pool in the right leg above the knee, which caused-him to stagger and fall. Baker, who had been firing at him without effect, then jumped upon him, saying, "Now I'll finish you," atthe same time planting a pistol to his breast, he fired. Charles Lozier, the brother-in-law of William, rushed to assist him, when Paudeen shot him in the thigh, and also in the head. Balls were now flying in all directions. Turner, as he still lay cursing on-the floor, kept firing in the direction of Pool, one of the balls takihg effect on Baker's head, and another in his groin. Paudeen got a bullet in his hand, they all thinking their work was accomplished, made a rush for the door ; but to make it doubly sure, they halted at the door, and fired several shots towards where William Pool laid welter- ing in his blood, and then suddenly took to flight. After this scum of filthy murdering vipers had fled, Mr. Pool raised him- self slowly to his feet, and steadied himself by holding fast to the door. Mr. Shay ran to assist him, and he exclaimed, "Cy, I am dying," and immediately fainted. Several eminent phy- sicians were immediately called,; who done all they could to alleviate his sufferings, still having no hopes of being able to save his life, as his wounds -were pronounced (and it proved too true) mortal. When the police went down to Lyngs House, at the corner of Broadway and Canal Street, to search for the murderers, they were refused admittance. Capt. Turn- bull, arrived about two o'clock, and demanded admission. Lyng, again refused, whereupon the police kicked the door open, and arrested Van Pelt, Turner, and Patrick McLaughn alias Paudeeh. Baker had either left the housej as Lyng said, he -had beenthere, but was gone, or else he was stowed awriy in ,tme'tfen, where the searchers forgot to search. MrP. IPt s     *      {  I TBUB LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL  remained at the hall till morning, and being much better, and in good spirits, it was thought safe to remove 'im to his home in Christopher Street, which was accordingly done with great care,receiving from his physicians the best of attention. 'Twas a sad- sight for that wife to look upon the one that ishe prized as her life, brought home bleeding from wounds received from murderous assassins. .'Twas a sad sight for that boy to behold a kind father lay powerless and helpless. Sad, sad indeed, was it for that brother and sister, and all of his relatives and friends, to see that. noble form fast, fast fade away, unti his spirit burst forth from the earthly clay. and took its flight to realms above. He died not without hope, and being fully con- scious he could not live, set his house in order, then calmly ankl into the sleep of death. MEETING OF HS FRIENDS. A meeting of the friends of the late William Pool was held at the City Hotel. On motion, Capt. James M Turner was called to the chair. The Chairman addressed the meeting, stating its object-t make arrangements to join in the obsequies of Mr. Pool, on Sunday. The Chairman closed with a few words compliment- ary to the character of the deceased. On motion, Messrs. W. Janeway aftd Thomas Bouton were appointed Vice-Presidents; Mr. C0. W. Schaffer, Secretary, and Mr. Jacob Acker, Treasurer. The Secretary presented the following :-  Whereas, it has pleased the Supreme Ruler of the Universe to remove front our midst (using the hand of an assassin) our friend and esteemed associate, the late Wm. Pool, therefore, Rcolved, That this assemblage of friends, not only of the deceased but of his sorrow-stricken family, do at once resoler Phemselves into ad organized body, to be known hereafter )  .                 , .   18    TIBTRE LLE- OF WILLIAM POOL.      ^ aa the "Pool; asociation"-the object of which organiza- tion shall be to co-operate with other friends in paying a just tribute of respect to his earthly remains by following them to the grave, and after so interrcd, to erect a suitable tablet of respect over the same. Resolved, That we do proffer our heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved relatives of our deceased friend, sincerely pray- ing that He who, removed from their circle the doting son, affectionate husband, devoted father, and uncompromising friend, will, in His providential mercy, provide for and restore peace, health and happiness to the afflicted family. One hundred and ninety-seven persons then came forward and sigaed their nanles as members of the Association. The officers above nanmed were confirmed as the permanent govern- ment of the Association. The fdllowing Committe of arrangements was appointed: Edward Chine, Joseph Lewis, Prank McCabe, Robert W. Brush, and  Joseph Smith, and the officers of the Association e* o fcio.          At A committee, consisting of W. Fay, N. Bertholf, and C. W. Schaffer, were appointed to draft resolutions of sympathy to the famiy. AI1 adjounled meeting was held at the City Hotel, the eve- 8ing   before, the President, James M. Turner, Esq., in the chair. The roomn in which the meetin  was hold was draped in mourning. There was a  large number of the ssociation Presenlt. ORDER  OF PROCESSION, Band. Grand Mtarshall-l, James M. Turner. Special aids- C. W. Scllaffer, Win. Janeway. -*      PIUFIST' DIVISION. S. A. Suydam, Special Aid. R. W.   Brush, aid to Grand Marshal. Pool Guard, James Banner, Commandant Poolo Association, Thomas B:outon, Vice President Efngine Company No. 34. C. L.,Miller, Foreman.  /             ,  ^. .      .         .   TR1J LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL        19 S8ECOND DIVISION. Special Aids-Samuel Brevoort, Lewis Parker. Citizens of the Ninth Ward. 'Rynders Battalion--iMajor G. B. Hall. THRD DIVISION.   r Hancock Chapter, O. U. A. Other Chapters of the same Order. Clergy in carriages. BODY. Family and friends of deceased in carriages The Secretary presented the following letter: OFFICE OF CHEF OF POLICE, 7 BROOKiLYN, March 10, 1855. 1 CHRISTIAN W. SCHAFFER, Esq.-Dear Sir Will you oblige me by informing the bearer at what time, and over what ferry, the funeral cortege of the late William Pool will cross to this city, as I desire to be in attendance withl a body of police to accompany the same to the last resting place of the deceased at Greenwood. With respect, I remain yours truly, JOHN S. FOLK, Chief of Police. The Secretary had given the required information. The Chlair said it had been sullgested to him by a person of highl official station ia this city, that the friends -of Mr. Pool should refrain froom bearin, ally einblei, or wearingm any badge that mighlt have a bad tendency  on the minds of those w}ho  might not agiec with them. "The Chair lad assured the gen tflelan thlat the friends of Mr. Pool were satiSfiCd withl leaving his wrongs to the law. The Chair further said in relation to charges that had been made agrainst Pool, that he had been an clection lbulvy, that it could be prov-edl thlat he was far above - leadilig aniy man into place and pokerl until he was worth} y of  it. le thougrht that the ticme would cono when the virtues of - ;V Mr. Pool would be made known, and the elrrors of the press on the subject would be corrected. He would -ask of one press in particular what would becCone of the life. of a peaceful, un- ;  prolen dilg citizen? He hopled Llialt no m bcluler of the Associa-   20       TRUE LIFE OFP WILLIAM POOL* tion would speak one word that could be construed into offence until the trials were over, and thus show to the public that they demanded only justice, and that they will have. The Chair, in conclusion, made an eloquent appeal in favor of placing a tablet over the remains of the deceased. Mr. Suydam, from the Music Committee, reported that Dod- worth's band (fifty-two pieces) had been engaged. iMr. Brevoort, from the Committee on Decorations, reported progress. The Chair presented the following form of badge which will be worn to-day:  .                       1 Tho' lost to sight,  To memory dear.      i WX. POOL ASSOCIATION.      i  Thoe who know him can beut appreciate hi s worth and our los.  The Pool Association meets to-day at 12 1-2 o'clock, at the City Hotel. The Rynders Grenadiers at the Cooper House, at the same hour. The Chair said that the body, by request of the family, would be borne on a hlearse instead of a bier, as at first arranged. The chair stated that a delegation from Albany has already arrived in town, to join the procession to-day. Also, that a Pool Association had been formed in Philadelphia,- and would arrive in the ten o'clock train. A meeting had beon held in Bal- timore, and a delegation would be present from that city. The Forrest Light Guard have also held a meeting, and voted to attend the funeral. Also, several chapters of the Order of ; United Americans. Adjourned.   raOI m  OF WAUAM POOF         als COROIER's INVESTIGATIONS TH  URSDAY  , March Sth 1855.-Coron r Hilton empannele a jury to inquire into the causes olmnected with the deathof ^^^  ^   ^,S^      ^ln oo place at the WTIIAM P00L. The first investigation took plate at the late residence of Mr. Pool, No. 164 Christopher Street. The following gentlemen composed the jury: H. N. Wvild, of 4.58 Broadway;  G. J. Trask, of W34 Sixth avenue; James S. Bell, of 43 Greenwich street John W avenue;  S  . sB  ,1 G1eorge Buh Of, 84 Rosevelt Moultn, of 306 Spring street; George Bush, of 84 Rosevelt Modton, t W ^ ^^s 44th street.; Wm. Bo  street, James M. Byrne, of 193 West 44th street; Wm B. Drake, of )9 West 43d street; Jaes  . Sturged, of 5 Bow- Wry; Arch. H. Campbell, of 221 West 30th street, and E. Welch, of 49 Franklin street. The firt witness called was Cyrus Shay, who, being sworn, deposed: I reside at No 51 Troy street; I knew the deceased personally for the lasot four or five years; during the last four or five months I have been with him almost every day ; I know :. fienonths I "ave beenw,  s^^    te who came that he has had one or two difficulties with parties who came that he has had. one or two1oward"^Q     street, and into -his house, in Broadway, corner of owrd street, and called him "giter," c.; he had one with Maurice unnigen four or five months ag, who came into Pool's house drunk, and they fought; this hd nothing to do with this quarrel; Lunnigen is o ancquaince of a man named Paugpne ; I have Lunnigen is an a *cqu  I[    Mco  hi    igen seen Paugene named in the papers as McLaughn unnigen is also acquainted with Mr. Baker; Baker was an officer de- tailed on the emigrant business ; Lunnigen i a runner; about six weeks or two months ago r. Pool told mtat he was in company with a man named Thomas  illiams, residing in Broome street, in Vesey street, near the,stor House, when Paugene came up to him and said, "You are a pretty son of a r  ;"Pool laughed at him, saying, "I am too sweet r iU" and p   oed, nheard that Pauen  ent into Pos you,. s   a   ,   '      *'        .j .      . +22 a'TRU     LIFE OF WILLIAMi POOL. house ode evening, a short time before this, when Pool was absent, and threw a whiskey skin into the face of the boy at the bar, saying, "You son of a b---- if your master was here I would serve him the same ;"that was after twelve o'clock at night; Paugene called for the whiskey skin, and the boy, Dick, made it and handed to him, when. he took the glass up, and, without drinking threw it into the face of the boy ; Thos. Williams told me he was present during the occur- rence ; Pool went with the boy a day or two after, and got a warrant from Judge Welch for - Paugene's arrest for the as- sault ; it was a common thing for persons to go into Pool's house, and talk about Paugene,while Pool was out, and it would get to his ears ; they would say tey thought Paugene could whip Pool; Irishmen would go in and say, "This is an American House, and we guess Irishmen have as good right here as natives ;" the barkeeper would reply that they did riot want any Irishmen there; and Pool would say the same when these things came to his ears ; he would, say, no mall who didn't eat meat on a Friday, was wanted in that house; he didn't want their money; Pool never to my knowledge had any dif- ficulty with Paugene he has had four br five nmusses with Paugene's friends ; one man, Nelson,1 one of Paugene's friends, was in Pool's house about thlce months ago, and tauntingly told Pool that Pangene could whip-him, and used other insul- ting language ; finally Pool told him that if he did not stop, he (PooD would put him out, and ho did put him out ; I heard Paugene say he would " take the black muzzled son of a b-- (me$ning PooD, some day or another; I should suppose he meant he would kill him i this was between seven and eight months ago, in Church street in a house called the "Senate ;^ just after the difficulty between Morrissey and Poole, at the l. ootof Amos Street ; several other persons heard him say so ; but I do not know their names. At this point Cornelius Linn appeared, and was committed as an accomplice. INVESTIGATION RESUMED.-I do not think I have ever heard Paugene make Ne of any other threat against Pool, previons s             s b    ! '%                           '23 CORONER'S INVESTIGATIN.            3 i+ oyclck on Saturday night, j      *          Saou t to the  t night of the affray o about 9 osclo   on ard nthe , - ^ one week from llast Sata    , I    eran hoaol'se on tta - cornerof ofBSroadwayz an sd-st, when I h  ear tax kMomrrisey Was having w   ords wi mth r o ie residestanwi all ; a man nam ed Oliver Lon told m tis; he resides  think in L aurens-st., near Spring ; I weDt up to Sta ns x Ha; Officer uewas in   Pool's hous e, at t ime, and although I started to g o alone, he came Up with me, tisfac by the an-y, vhat wa  s the matter, to nwhic h I gav e i n o satisf at an- sver , I went into Stanvix Hall alone ; when I ot in it was btween 9 and 10 at nig ht  r Pool   bhind the counter e1ind the end of the bar counter ; M   r PIoise wasl in  ilj a b ar-ropm using insuilting language to Sr Pool and Pool the  tarlring back ;   I d recollecot the words that and Pool war talking back .;    ued n bthsde w passed between them  ; the la nguage used on Hyler, Mortonas thlreatening in its nature : James Irin , Johnwere present on Fuirchild, Samuel Suydam, Capt. Lorenzo Leis  ere present. FiHere  Oficer O'eef brouht in has. Van Pelt, who  as present at the affra, and Eent to Stanwix Mall in company iresent at the assailants of Pool Te prisoner w as committed to \ Aiit the  reassailants of theP investiation. Several witnesses said ^alait the result of the Me ^  inMpol he tried to stop Paugene from attcking Pool.  Deag others mere presept at this time.  ht  investigation was adjourned to 10 o'cloa I on Fridy morning to assemb at the office of the Goroner FRIDAY, March 9th 1855.-The chamber of adcrmen having been selected for holding t^e investigation, it was crowded : onFriday, with people anxious to hear the ontinuation of the (uoroner's Inquest. Befowre the resumpttion-of evidene, John H1yler, charged with beig cnneted mith Baker and other assailants, W"as brought -      investigatul from the Station Boue before the Coroeer, aornd committed to the Tombs.     o The eamnation of9  r ShT  was continued: bnam     satisfied tt there were others l-len, ut I cannot   '24      TRUE LIFPE OF WILLTAM POO, bring them to my mind now; when I went in Pool appeared to; perfectly understand what he was doing and saying; he drank part of two glasses from two bottles of wine; drank by himself and with others in his house, between 6 and 8 o'clock that evening; when I went into Stanwix Hall that evening he appeared to me be more qool and collected than us- ual; a few moments after I went in Irwill requested Morrissey to go out of doors with him ; Morrissey replid, "I'm not gting, because I'll be prepared in a minute to meet this American 1 Ahting son of a -- ;"Morrissey then whispered to a young man present, whom I do not know ; he went out and returned- within a few minutes, and handed Morrissey a pistol-a six barrelled revolver; Morrissey then went towards Pool; Mr. Dean tried to get the pistol away, but Morrissey sprung from him, striking him with his hand; Baker was all the time with Morrisscy, pistol in hand. Morrissey was here brought in and taken to the City Prison. Baker had one of Colt's five-shooters; Morrissey hurried to- ward Pool; a number of people interposed; he presented the pistol at Pool's head over the heads of those present, and snapped two or three times; I cannot saw for certain whether the caps exploded or not, but I distinctly heard the hammer strike; I was not near enough to see whether there were caps on or not; my attention was too much drawn to Baker to notice whether the caps exploded or not; Baker was standing with his pistol in his hand, watching Mr. Pool; officer Rue was present, intoxicated ; after Morrissey had snapped his pis- tol at Pool, some Eighth Ward officers came in, when officer Rue told them that Morrissey was his prisoner; an officer came up, to arrest Pool, when I advised him to go out the back way, and go to thB'e Eighth Ward Station House, and make a complaint against Morrigsey, thinking that officer Rue would take him there, and he would meet him ; the officer in charge at the statibh house told Poole that he would have to get a war- rant, for him, and that if Morrissey was there he would take his charge; Podl and tyself went bad! to Stanx   hall; Deah(one Wf dtS proprifthrs) "Was in company wittus; we   25  CORoNER^& TXVINSGAT  0Was lid till abbut a qdarter past one o'clock, when six men cam ; Paugene, Baker, Linn (the man that was committed )aF rda-), Turner, an Pelt, and Hylor; these men cam e In Im any togrether; themolnt he got in paugene collared X oo; Pool was talking with Campbell, and Pauaene roach 1 across Campbell's breast to take hold of Pool, exclaiming; You're a pretty American son of a   a," and "Now ain t ou a pretty Anerican?"Pool replied, "Yes I am-I am heir standard beater ;"I told Pool' not to make aly reply as he party Wfas armed with pistols; Paugene, Baker, and Tur- ker had pistols under their coats ; Pauaene kept hold of Pool's landkerchief; and spit in his face three times ; called him a 3lack muzzled son of b----, and wanted to fight him ; Pool wrenched himself from him, and went behind the oyster box; Van Pelt and Campbell tried tq prevent a fight ; Turner threw his cloak on the counter, and cried out, a Het's sail in, boys " at the same time waving his pistol over his bead; I did not notice Hyler at this time; Paugene, Turner, and Baker, thenr advanced toward Pool, with pistols in their hands; when . within eight or ten feetof Pool, Turner levelled his pistol over his left arm to take sight at Pooand shot himself through said arim; the pistol was a Colt revo er; would weigh might 1o twelve pounds; Pool then threw up his hand, saying, "My God, hase you come here to murder me?"Turier- 8tawgered and fell from his shot, and then raised his pist and shot Pool through the knee, upon which Pool stAmmere and fell; -Baker sprung on top of him, when Charles Lozier, brother in law to Pool, attempted to interfere, and Paut-rene slot him in the back of the head; at this time Baker was astride of Pool, aild on his knees on the floor, having hold of his collar with his left hand, presenting his pistol to Pool's breast with his right hand; at this time I jumped to catch hold of Baker, when he exclaimed, "I guess I'll take you, any how," at the rame time shooting Pool, through the breast ; Turner was yet lying on the door, firing his pistol; the third, time he fired he shot Chas Lozier through the fieshy part of the thigh; I think it was the left thigh; I saw, and jumped for him ; he 8iot   26      TrUB LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. at Pool when he shot Lozier; as I jumped for him, the pisto went off. and scattered some of the powder in the palmu of m left hand ; Baker and Paugene then started to go out, when ; Mr. Jacob Acker ctugrht hold of Baker; Baker freed himsell from Acker, and, as he went out of the door, exclaimed, " have taken the son of a b --, anyhow; Turner followed abou four feet ,behllind Baker; after they got out, I heard as many ax two or three pistol shots in the street; I recognized one of th( reports as if from Turner's pistol, the report being louder than tho. rest; after they mwent out, Pool raised upon his feet;  told him to sit down that he was dangerously wounded; he said, "No, I guess I'm only shot in the leg ;"I said "You are shot in the breast ;' he took hold of thc-handle of one of the inside doors, and supporting himself, aid, 'They may as well come in again;'" he stood a few minutes, when he exclaimed to me "Cy I am dying," and fainted away ; Doctors were then sent for ; Police officers then came in; I cannot say whether others shot at Pool or not; I think Paugene discharged his pistol three or four times during the affray; a man whom I know by sight, but don't know by name, afterwards told me, that some of the party came and went away in a coach; when Pauogene wanted to fight Pool he refused; George Harpell keeps the City Hotel; a man by the name of Lewis heard the conversa- tion between the party.  CORNELIUS W. CAMPBELL, sworn, deposed; I reside at No. 438 Broadway: about six wecks ago, I  heard Mr. Pool tell Paugene to keep out of his house (corner of Howard Street and Broadway), or he would have to send him up to Black- well's Island; Paugene pulled off his coat, saying, "You can't disfigure me any more than I am," and wanted toAght him (PooD; Paugene's name is Patrick McLoughn; this was about nine o'clock in the evening; lie called Mr. Pool out- side the door; I went and and followed them to see what was going on; they had some conversation Paugene commenced to talk loud, and Pool then spoke loud, and told him to keep but of his house, and that he did not want, him to come there again, and if he did come, he (PooD would send him to Black- s    CORONERS INVESTIGATION.       27 well's Island ; Paugenejumpd out into the street, and pulled off his coat, and said, , I will fight you; you can't disfigure me any more than I am ; Pool said to the boy,"' Dick, go and get the policeman :" a party of his (Paugene's) friends, who were standing on the sidewalk on the other side of the street, took hold of Paugene, and carried him off to the City Hotel opposite, and then they all went down Broadway; I don't know any of the men excepting Lyng; Mr. Poolt and I went into the Exchange Saloon ; I never heard any one else threaten Pool up to the night he was shot at Stanwix Hall; I. heard part of Mr. Shay's statement, on the evening of Saturday, the 24th of February, I left Pool's bar-room, about nine o'clock, in company with Pool, and went up to Stanwisx Hall ; Pool had two friends with him from New Rochelle; Mr. JanewaJr , s also with us; we took supper at Stanwix Hall together, this was about nine o'clock in the evening ; after we had got through supper, some gentleman came to Mr. Pool while we were sitting at the eatig counter, and said, "Morrissey is in the back room;"I think it Us Mr. Janeway who told him; I am not certain ; hle spoke in a low tone, so that I heard him; it was not said in a whisper; Pool replied, "As long as Mor- rissey leaves me alone I will not molest him ;" some-five or six minutes elapsed, when Morrissey came oit; rwe had got through eating, and Mr. Pool was standing between the two bars, with his back to the wall, in conversation with Mr. Jane- way, and the captain from New Rochellc: Morrissey came out of the back room 'and stood in front of Poole, and said, "It's there you are, you black-muzzled son of a b- -;" Pool made no reply, and Mr. James Irwin, who was thlere, got be-, tween Morrissey and Pool, and got Morrissey away to the other side of, the room; the next I saw was Alorrissoy whis- pering in the ear of a young "man, and then the young mall left; went but of the door inl a hurry ; shortly he (the young nan);came back, and went behind Mr. Morrissey, andjI saw Mr. Morrissey take a pistol from behind him, and present it at Pool (a six-barreled revolver); he snapped several times, I think three times, at Mr. Pool, over the heads of some of   28      TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. his (Morrissey's) friends, who were standing between them. [Here the Coroner read over the testimony of Shay on this X   o point J Witness thought Morrissey had one of Allen's six. shooting patent pistols; the witness corroborated Shay as to the details of theeaffair; I think I saw caps on the pistol, but I think they did not explode: I was twelve or fifteen feet from them when he snapped the pistol two or three times; I didn't know anything about the pistol until I saw it in'Mor- rissey's hand ; a good many parties-Mr. Irwin and Mr. Dean -got between them ; about this time the policemen came; I never heard Morrissey threaten to kill Pool; as Mr. Shay tes- tified all that' I know about and saw, I concur with him. By ajuror-I can't say that I ever paw the young man before who went after the pistol. A recess was taken for half an hour. At half-past two o'clock, P. M., the Jury re-assembled, and after waiting about an hour for witnesses, and none appearing, the 'Coroner was compelled to adjourn the investigation, to meet at ten o'clock this morning. In the mean time he has issued warrants for their arrest. SATURDAY, March 10th, 10 A. M.-The Chamber of the Board of Aldermen was thronged this morning with the friends of Pool, and other persons interested in the development of this case, and the proceedings were listened to with profound attention.  Several witnesses were called, but failed to appear. After a  detention of about half an hour, the absent witnesses made their appearance, and' the investigation was proceeded with informally--.two of the Jurymen being absent. "ORENZO PEAGLE said :  I am one of the proprietors of Stan- wix Hall, No. 579 Broadway; the time  of the shooting of Pool in my house was on Saturday, the 24th of February; I was in the whole evening, from six o'clock. At this point the Coroner and the Jury were suddenly called out by Dr. Putnam, and went into the Governor's room to view Pool's heart. The bullet had lodged between the ven- tricles. EXAMINATION CONTINUED,---About half-past ten o'clock, Mr.   CORONER'6 INVESTIGATION. ,     29 Morrissey and John Hyler came in and took a drink, and passed in the back room, where Mr. Suydam and others were drinking wine; a few moments after they had gone in, I heard Mr. Morrissey exclaim, "Go away from me, I don't want to have anything to do with you," or something to this effect; I would state here, that in the mean time, while 'Morrissey and Hyler were in the back room, Mr. Pool and Mr. Janeway came in; Mr. Campbell and Mr. Loon, and two gentlemen from New Rochelle, and one or two others whom I did not know, came in shortly afterward; I think one of Mr. Pool's: friends, I think Mr. Bartolf, went into the back room; and then Mr. Pool and Mr. Janeway, I think, sat down to the eating-coun- ter. in the bar-room, and got their supper; Mr. Bartolf remained in the back room with Mr. Morrissey and Htyler; Mr. Pool was sober at the time, to the best of my knowledge and belief: Mr. Morrissey had, I think, been drinking, but did not appear to be excited when he came in ; I could per- ceive that he had been drinking, but he was in no way excited ; while eating supper, some one informed Pool that Morrissey \was in the back room;- Pool got up from the eating-counter, after eating supper, and stood in the space between the coun- ter and the bar, and said to me, "Old man, I did not know that that party was here, or I would not have conme up--I only came in for a drink, and not for a disturbance ;"' I thought that Pool and Janeway then made a movement as if to go out; I heard Janeway say, "Come, Pool, let's go ;" he then paused, as if to wait for the rest of his friends ;he had not made more than two steps from his former position, when Morrissey Walked into the bar-room, and half-way down the floor, and stopped--[the whole of the jury having arrived, the testimony was read over, and the witness swornJ-and said to Pool, ' Hallo, you here," or something to that effect; Pool did not make any reply, and I think Morrissey continued, ' You are a pretty fighting son of a b *" he kept on talking in this *strain for about a minute ; Mr. Pool only replied by putting his finger to the side of his nose ; Morrissey ended by saying that he could lick Pool; Pool replied, "You said that once   ) 80      TRUE LIFE OF 'ILLIASM POOL, before, down at the City Hotel, and, Honey, you tasted me and did not like me ;"Morrissey said, ' Pool, you are a cow- ardly son of a b--  ; to which Pool replied, "You are a d-  d liar ;" the excitement then assumed a more serious *    aspect, and quite a large crowd had gathered around the par- ties, when James Irwin came in, and went immediately up to Mr. Morrissey, and took hold of him by the coat, and tried to get him away ; the excitement, somewhat lulled for a minute, and I thought it was all over, and I said to Morrissey, "I don't want you to create any disturbance here that would give the hlouse a bad name." He answered that he did not come in to injure my house. Mr. Irwin had, I think, been talking with him, and asking him to go out, but Morrissey did not heed him ; about this time, a young man came in; he was a light youn  nman, with light moustache, light whiskers under his chin, and a light goatee ; I should thilnlk he was between twRen- ty four and twenty-eight years of age; he went behind Mr. Morrissey, and then turned around and went out at once ; AMor- rissey then drew a pistol, and rushed into the centre of the room, when James Irwin passed in front of him, saying, "You d--d fool, what are you about?"The pistol was a small five or six-barreled revolver; Mr. Pool, Mr. Irwin, and Air. Jalneway were standing in a line ; Irwin- lad hold of Morlris- sey's coat, and his arm was around his neck, trying to stop him ; Mr.-Pool was standing on a platform behind the eating- counter, with .his arms folded, about five feet distant from Mor- rissej; the excitement grew tobe very great indeed all of us, except Pool, were excited; Mr. Irwin and Mr. Pean, I thinlk, were trying to get the pistol away; I can't state if Mor- rissey fired; I next saw Mr. Dean, mny partner, getting up from the floor; he said Morrissey had struck him; by that time the police, who had been sent for by m)yself and Mr. Dean, captain; officers, Ross and Moore, and two or thrlllee other policemen came in; Mr. Dean told themn ie wrantced the hlouse cleared; Rue went toward iMorrissey and said, t You arc my prisoner ;"I believe officer Hogan arrested Pool, and took him back into Mercer Stret, and down to the Eighth Ward   CORONEBR' INVESTIGATION.       81 Station House; that quelled the excitement; officer Rue took Morrissey out, and, we were informed at the time, took him to the Fourteenth Ward Station House; Mr. Dean went around to the Eighth Ward Station House to prefer a charbe aainst Morrisy, but he was not there; about ten minutes after it was common talk in the bar-room that Morrissey had been released; I did not hear that he had stopped into Chas. Abel's this was, as I suppose, eleven or half-past eleven o'clock ; a few minutes after Pool and Mr. Janeway came in; Pool said to me, "I'm d--d sorry this affair llas occurred here-I did not come up for this" (meaning the affray); he said to Mr. Dean, "Old man, Jyo don't blanic mefor this," or words to that effect ;-then he called for a bottle of wine, and then sad, "Iold on, here-two bottles.;"Pool, J&neway, and five or sis others drank the wine, and then Janewa said to Pool, "Come, let's go down"Poo replied," No,  a oing home ;" tanenva answered, "S am I," and bade him Good night," and left; Pool remained talking with some of his friends at the end of the counter; the time wore on from this time (Iialf-past eleven o'clock) until at or about a quarter to twelve o'clock, when we told the boy to put ulp the shuttcrs. [Helre witness handed in his deposition pade at Jeclersoln Mar- ket Police Court, on the Sunday afternoon following tle affray, which be said was all he kllnew albout it J AFFIDAVIT. Loiirzo DEAGLE, of No. 679 Broadlwa)y. being duly sworn, Yvs : 'l'hat he is oneLC of the proprietors of ' .li i; Iall, at tle aDove nu1m1ber ; and at or before tevel o'cclocl we told our "el,) to put up the 1shitters ancd close the louse; at tis time r. 1'3ool and -a numnler of Iis friende were in toC louse and hIad co drnl inkig wine1 ; I wl(s th1er outside of the bar t llklinw to 01oC of our heclp; I heard ;Mr. Pool a"A M1NNr. Dea1n, one of ch}1 partners, for a bottle of wine ; Mr. Dean r)licd ons lookliLg at the clock, that the account had cloe-me z eamni, to say alis business was done ; then I went froln tfle bar-ooom to a store pantry or cloeet off romn the 'ar-room, ol . the samne oor; I   82      TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. took my overcoat and got on to an ice-box, and covered myself up and lay down ; then one of my helps came in, and asked if I intended to pay him weekly or monthly ; I asked him how he would like to have it, and told him I would prefer paying him weekly. and to wait until Mr. Pool and his friends had left and I would pay him, and to let no person into the store; I then-got into a sleep or stupor, and I should think in about twenty minutes or half an hour, not to exceed half an hour, one of the helps calne in and roused me and stated there was likely to be a difficulty in the house ; I got up and came out immediately, and told him to go and fetch Captain Turnbull, with a posse of officers; on going into the room I saw Patrick McLaughn alias Paugene, having hold of Mr. Pool by the lappel of the coat, and talking in a loud and rough manner about fighting ; Mr. Pdol asked him several times to let him go; during this timp James Turner was between Pool and McLaughn; Mr. Turner after a few seconds, got between them, and took hold of McL ahn's coat and turned him around ; SMr. Turner then walked towards the middle of the room and threw his coat open, disclosing a belt around his person, which contained a large sized revolver; during this time Lewis Baker stood on an angle of about forty-five degress by the oyster box ; then McLaughn broke away frora Charles Van Pelt, who had hold of him, and ran up to Mr. Pool, crying out. "You son of a, b-hj fight ;"Mr. Pool, McLaughn, and Turner were on a line; McLaughn stepped on one side, leaving Mr. Pool ex- posed to Mr. Turner, who was next in line ; Mr. Turner then said, "Draw ;" he also said, "Go in," or some such remark, and then pulledh^-ipistol out from his belt, and made a sight, with his pistol resting on his left arm ; Mr. Pool threw up his arms, and exclaimed, "Do you wish to murder me?"Mr. Tur- ner fired, and by some accident he either let his pistol fall, or raised his arm, and shot himself through the arm, breaking it; this was the first shot-fired, and Turner fell on the floor; he either fired he second shot while falling, or while on the floor, and shot .r. Pool through the leg, which caused him to stag- ger aud fJ; I then saw Mr. Baker either on or over M.  \ '                 .   *     CORONER'S INVESTIGATION.      83 Pool, with a pistol in his hand, and while Pool was lying on the floor Mr. Baker shot him in the left side, near the region of the heart; after this, and while Turner was still lying on the floor, he kept firing his pistol indiscriminately, and must have shot Mr. Baker, if he is shot L while this was going on, Me Laughn was striking at everybody near him' who was oppo- sel ; Charles Lozier ran to Pool to raise him off the floor, and while aiding him, part of the--crowd who were opposed to Pool, and who were around while passing out, turned and fired at Mr. Lozier, who was aiding Pool to raise him from the floor ; at about this time the police came, and I heard two or three shots fired outSide of the house ; and this is about a full relation of the circumstances as they occurred, to my know- ledge. In answer to further questions, witness said: rWhile Pool was there, afteri this time, he called for another bottle of wine ; I do not state positively whether this was the third or fourth bottle ; I do not know whether he got the wine or not; I did not wait on him. Q. You say Turner, McLaughn and Baker were in a line with Pool; were they all facing him? A. No; Pool stood at the inner corner of the bar, and Baker at the opposite angle of the oyster box ; Paugene stood at the other corner of the bar, opposite to and about three feet distant, from Pool; Tur- ner stoodi behind Paugene; at this time I saw two pistols in the handn of Baker and TurneT-[witness showed the posi- tion of the parties j-I thought I saw Paugene look over his shoulderand seeing that he was in a line with Turner's -pistol and Mr. Pool, he stepped aside, leaving Pool, Baker and Tur- ner standing in a position of a triangle, Turner and Baker with their piso Is levelled at Pool; Turner put his hand over his shoulder and, looking toward Pool, said "Draw"and "go in." he brought a heavy revolver downinto the hollow of his left arm; I did not see Pool have any pistol. Q. Which leg did he shoot-him in? A. Turner shot Pool in the right!Ig. about two inches above the cap of the knee', while he (Truer) was falling, or had fallen down. ; ,   34      TBRU LIPE OF WILLIAM POOL. Q. You say you then saw Baker on or over Pool; did you " Baker goto to him? A. Baker and others rushed toward Po0ol, when he was falling-the others, friends of Pool, to save him, and Baker to do what he has done, murder him; Baker was down upon one knee, and Mr. Pool up about his breast somewhere; Baker with a pistol in his right hand, pointed at at Pool's breast;iI thing he was trying to get up from the floor, and Pool, who was lying on the floor, had hold of him ; he was leaning over him, and when he shot Mr. Pool in the breast you could hardly see the space between Pool and the muzzle of Baker's pistol; I' don't think the muzzle was over three orfour inches from Pool when he fired, but when it was about nine to twelve inches, Baker fired his pistol three times ; if Baker be shot, from the position in which Turner lay, he is the man who shot him, for he fired his pistol several times in that directiol ; I don't now whether Baker was shot or not; McLaughn was striking at everybody; I don't know if he had a pistol; he said something like, "Why don't you shoot." Cyrus Shay here said that Paugene said to one of the parties, "Why don't you shoot Shay?' I think Mr. Lozier was shot (I can't sayy whom) in the head and thigh, when he ran to the assistance of Pool; Mr. Ackerson Fran and took a hold of Baker, when the latter jumped away from him ; Paugeue then left, followed by Baker and Turner ; after they got into the streets I heard several pistol shots fired it was one of the three who shot Lozier when they were passing out; they went out in a crowd together, and turned and fired at Lozier ) I did not hear anybody say this, but know it personally; Morrissey was not with this party ; the young man who came in to Morrissey early in the evening wore a black frock coat and a flat-brimmed hat. By a Juror--Mr. Lozier ran to Mr. Poole, exclaiming, "Do you wish to murder my brother?" and, while in the act of stooping to assist Pool was shot; he told me afterward that Pauaene was the man who shot him; I did not hear any one say, in going out, "I have taken the son of a b- any how," but I think I did hear Baker say, "Now I will take you ;"    CORONER'S INVESTIGATION1. .     95 am not prepared to say that officer Rue was intoxicated, but he acted rather foolishy; Mr. Dean sold him a pair of chcken^, after he came back from taking Morrissey out; I believe that the party went away in a carriage ; I was told that Baker drove it away.           '  Direct resumed -Linn was there and also Van Pelt; I saw Van Pelt try to stop Paugene; Mr. Hyler was there, but only as a looker on ; he did not take any part in the affray. JOeiN E. DEAN, the other proprietor of Stanwix Hall, was called and sworn-Thb Coroner said it would be neccssary to go over the same ground again ; he would read over Deagle's evidence, and the witness could make such corrections or addi- tions as were within his knowledge. Witness corrected the former witness by saying : u" think Linn and Van Pelt came in aftet the Shooting, and tried to get Baker and the others out; I was there when the first party came in." I should think that the first quarrel occurred about haWf past ten, and Pool came back in about three-quarters of an hour ;'he was in com- pany with Messrs. Lozier, Shay, and brothers Ackerson, who were all present at the time these others parties came in ; they came in abqut half-past twelve o'clock ; Turner and Hyler came in, followed by Paugene, and immediately after that, Lewis Baker, Linn and Van Pelt came in ; they did not say any- thing; when they came in, Pool was standing with his back against the counter, and asked Turner when he came in, th take a drink ; he did not drink with him but declined; Pau- gcue came in next, and stood out in the middle of the floor, and asked Mr. Pool what he was looking at; Mr. Pool mado no reply, and Paugene asked Mr. Pool if he would go out in the yard and fight; Pool replied, "No ; you are not worth it;" on that, Mr. Paugene took hold of Pool by the coat, and Turner pushed him away and got between them; Paugene got his finger into the button holes of Pool's coat, and freaching over Turner's shoulder, spat three times in the face of Mr. Pool; he dared Mr. Pool to go into the yard and fight him  Mr. Pool said thereiwas no man in New York who could lick him (PooD for $500; Turner said, "YOU say there's io matt %   3B      , TRUE LIFE OP WILLIAM POOL. in New York, who can lick you for $500?"With that I turned my back to come out of the bar, and when I got along to the other end, Turner had his cloak open and showing his pistols; as I turned around, I heard Turner say, "Now Pool, draw ;" just before that, he threw his cloak off, and drew his own pis- tol and presented it (a six-inch revolver) at Pool ; at this time Paugene was squaring off at Pool (who had backed to the ex- treme eind of the counter), and Pool was shoving him away, Paugene exclaiming, "You son of a b-, you shall fight ;" Turner had levelled his pistol over his'left arm, and, in wai- ting for Paugene to get out of the way, he had levelled his pis- tol at the middle of his own arm ; if went off, and he shot him- self through the left arm ; he fell upon the floor and fired again while on the floor, and shot Pool through the leg ; Mr. Baker was then standing with his back against the door; at the same time that Pool was shot through the leg, Baker aimed his pistol at Pool and fired it twice ; Pool bwas standing at the end of the counter, and Baker was standing with his back to the door ; while Turner was falling, Baker fired twice at Pool, neither of his shots taking effect; Turner then-fired right away after at Pool, and this shot took effect in Pool's. knee ; Pool staggered and fell over against the wall; Baker went across and laid down over him, threw himself on Pool, and presenting his pistol at Pool, said, I will settle you anyway,", and then he fired and shot him in the breast; Mr. Charles Lozier then stepped forward to pick him up and in stooping down he got shot. Q. Doyou know who' shot him? A. Yes; Paugene; he first shot him in the head ; Paugene was at the door when he shot Lozier; he was about two feet from the door when She shot him; Turner shot round indis- criminately while he lay on the floor; Turner was firing his pistol toward Pool; by this time, Turner had worked himself along lvy the front door; when he first fell, he was about twelve fqet distant from it; Baker and Turner were firing all the time - t-augene ww firing; I think he fired more than once.; I won't Wse tamn,; I: doa't know who shot Lozier in the Jleg; Hyler,   CORONER'S INVESTIGATION.      87 went and hid himself under the pantry stairs before they got to firing ; Linn came in, I think, and pulled Baker out; I don't think Van Pelt did anything except try to stop Paugene, and Paugcne struck him ; I don't think Van-Pelt or Linn had any-, thing to do with this affair, though they came in with the party; Paugene and Turned were the first who went out; I think Linn and Paurene came in and got Baker out, by pull- ing him backward ; I doll't know how they went away ; after they whnt out, I heard several shots in the street. Q. Was there anything about Pools wanting to fight a man with knives? A. Pool said, while the officers had Mor- rissey in a corner, that he would fight a man named McGuire with knives ; in the first- quarrel,while I was trying to get the pistol away from Morrissey, he knocked nme down and pointed his pistol at me; Morrissey snapped the pistol twice, certain, and, I think, three times, at Pool ; after Turner fired at Pool, Pool threw his hands up, saying, "Do you want to murder me?"At the early part of the evening, Pool lhad a pistol In his hand, after Morrissey drew his, and offered to fight 'orrissey with it breast to breast; it was about half- past twelve when Baker shot Pool. ' [By a juror.] It was, I believe, the intention of Pool to go to the Eighth Ward Police Station, and make a complaint against Morrissey; officer Ho- gan, I think, told me that officer Rue went with Morrissey, after he had him ini charge, to Chtarley Abel's, to take a drink, and from there they went to the City Hotel, and while Mor- rissey was in the City Hotel, Baker, Paugene, and somobody else entered. The Coroner then adjourned the inquisition for half an hour. AFTERNOON SESSION. JAs. ACKERSON, and his brother, Jacob Ackerson, being sworn, deposed to being present during the affray that resulted in the death of Pool, and concurred with the testimony as givcen by Cyrus Shay. PYBENIU8 HARRIS, sworn-Was present at the affray in   -38      TRUE LrFB OP WILLIAM POOL.  question, and concurred in the testimony given by the witness  Deagle.            . CHRISTOPHER HOGAN, sworn-I amr an officer attached to the Chiefrs office ; I was present at the time of the altercation between Morrissey and Mr. Pool, at Stanwix Hall. I took Pool to the Station-House; at the time I took Mr. Podl to go to the Station-House, he had a revolver in llis hand, and was standing between the eating counter ald the bar ; I had gone to Stanwix Hall on business, and was sitting in the back room, when I heard angry and loud conversation between some per- sons in the bar-room; I went out there, and saw Pool stand- ing, as before stated, with a revolver in his hand ; Morrissey was in the crowd, apparently without any pistol; I went into the street, and told the officers on that beat to go around the corner and give the alarm-rap,"as I expected that a serious difficulty would ensue; when I came back, Pool was standing in precisely the same position, and Morrissey was standing nearlypopposite to Pool,-with a loaded pistol pointed directly at Pool; the pistol in Pool's hand was not pointed toward Morrissey, but toward the floor; some ten or fifteen policenen came in with me. and I told one of them to arrest Morrissey; some one sung out, "You ain't going to let Pool go, are you?" I went-up to Pool, and, laying my hand upon his shoulder, sasked him if he would go to the Station-House; he accompa- nied me at once, and I took him out of the back-door, because that way was nearer to the Station-House ; when going out of the door, some persons pushed between me and Pool, and he ran off to the Eighth Ward Station House, and I after him , we got there at the same time ; I waited for some time for Mr. Dean to appear and make a charge against him, but he did not appear ; Pool wanted to make a charge against Morrissey, saying his life was in danger, but the) refused to entertain it there ; I wanted to see Captain Turnbull, to warn him to have an extra force on hand, as I apprehended there would be a serious difficulty ;te lieutenant told me he could not be found; I did not tell Mr. Dean that officer Rue and Morrissey went "to Charley Abel's that night, while Rue had him in charge; /    /   CORONER'8 INVESTIGATION.      89 when I went into Stanwix Hall with the other policemen, I saw Rue shoving Morrissey up into a corner; I do not know whether Pool had a pistol when I took him to tho Eighth Ward Station-House; after I took Pool to the Station-House, I went home. JOIN LYNa, sworn, deposed : I reside at No. 39 Canal-street, corner Broadvvay; I keep a public house at that place; I know that bad feelings existed between'Baker and the deceas- ed ; I never heard Baker threaten to take Pool's life; I never heard Morrissey or Paugene speak in a threatening way against Pool's life ; never knew anything more than their hav- ing a fight together; about eight or nine o'clock on the eve- ning of the fight at Stanwix Hall, Baker and myself were sit- ting together in my house, when a young man, whom I know by sight, but do not remember by namnie-I believe he is from Philadelphia-came in, and told me that Pool and Morrissey ead a difficulty at Stanwix Hall, that Pool had drawn a pistol on Morrissey, and he wanted to get a pistol for Morrisscy ;I told him that I had no pistol, and the young man went out; Baker asked me what the young man said, and I told him; about four or five minutes after Baker went out-I suppose to Stanwix Hall, though -he did not say where he was going; about four or five minutes after, Mr. Turner came in, and asked me if I had heard the news, I told him yes--; he said some one had been to him to go there, but he had told them he would not go ; he said he was in one trouble, and wanted to get out of that; he gave as a reason for not going, that Morrissey was a little tight, and if he saw him it would only, make him iforse, and the affair wouldn't be closed so scon ; he asked me to take a drink, and I did son; he was sober at the time; I invited him to smoke with me, and, we both went into the front room, and sat down by the fire; he sat there ten or fifteen minutes, and then went out, without saying where he wasgoing ; Joseph Schaffer and my brother-in-law were in my house at the time Turner went out; about fifteen minutes after this, Baker came back to my house, with several others, but r don't know their names; soon after this, Morrissey came in   ERUB LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. with officer Rue; I think Linn was there; I don't think Van Pelt was in at that time; Morrissey called for a bottle of wine, and, while they we're drinking it, I think Turner, Hyler, Paugnce And Lewis Baker came in; I know they were there, froin the fact that Paugene and Morrissey had a talk about something that occurred at Allen's No. 60 Lispenard street, and I suppose that they came from thtat place; and that Mtor- rissey had put some little slight upen, Paugene ; they had two or three drinks apiece after this; some drank wine, some brandy, and others sarsaparilla; Morrissey then left the house to go home in company with a man named Cunningham; after Morrissey had gone, Hyler mad-tthe remark," New York is nearly played out;" this was merely a phrase; he said he wanted-to go home and go to bed with hifswife, and he did not dare to ; Mr. Turner said, "I will go home with you ;"Hyler lives in the other part of Stanwix Hall; Baker then said he would go along too ; Turner and Baker asked Paugene to go along, and he refused them both; then Hyler invited him, and he went; Turner, Baker, Paugene, Hyler, and Van Pelt left at the same time ; I presume Linn left at the same time, though I am not Positive ; I do not know if they went in a carriage, I presume they walked; in about half an hour Baker and Turner came back; Turner went to protect Hyler, who was a small man; Hyler did not have to go through the Stanwix Hall bar-room, but through a private entrance, at the side of the bar-room; I heard no threatening language used in any way, shape, or manner, toward any one; I did not see any arms on that occasion ; they went with Hyler, because he hav- ing been with Morrissey in the early part of the evening, Pool's friends might give him a thrashing ; I did not see any arms; Baker and Turner were mostly armed ; but I don't know any one else to have been armed; in about half an hour Baker and Turner came back ; Turner was in a perfect gore of blood from a wound, in his arm ; Baker -as also bleeding from a wound in the head, on the left side, where heWsaid Cy Harris had shot him, and also from a wound in his right groin, where he said Pool had shot him; the wound in his head was round, and such   as a bullet would make; he said Pool had shot him in tihe belly; he seemed to be somewhat excited; he said he was always afraid of being shot at before, but having had a taste of the battle-royal, Fe didn't mind trying it again; Turner was faint and weal and staggered and fell down on the floor ia the front' room; I was afraid the party who had wounded them would follow, and I went to the Sixth ward Station-House for a file of men; they came, about ten or twenty, in charge of officer Lord, and left after a short time, saying there was no necessity for staying; they detailed two men to watch- down by my door ; the police did not see Baker nor Turner, who were in the front room; I closed the folding doors on them; I sent for several surgeons ; only Dr. Clark, of Walker or White, street, came-not Professor Clark ; 'this man was pretty light paper ; Turner stayed there two or three days, but was arrested there that night; Captain Turnbull, of the Eighth Ward Po- lice; came in and arrested Paugene, Turner, and Van Pelt that night, soon after the affray ; the last I saw 'of Baker, he was lying on the table, and the doctor was probing his wounds ; I don't know whether the officers were aware of Baker's presence or not; he must have got away at the time the officers arrested Paugene; when Turnbull came, I am rather deaf, so I went to the door to see what was the matter; he demanded admission, and I refused it, when hle burst the door open ; he asked me who was in the house; I replied, a wounded man, and took him in, when he arrested Paugene, Turner, and Van Pelt; Baker was lying on the table6; he had only his undershirt, drawers, and boots on; Dr. Clark wad probing his wounds when I went out of the roomr; I returned from the hall, after an absence of two or three minutes, to see who was ringing the bell so violently, and, on my return, Baker was gone; Dr. Clark was there all night, I1think, waiting on Turner; I think he was out of the house before Turnbull came in; I don't know at what time Baker went away; there is no way for him to get out on my roof; he would have broken his neck if he-- had tried, for it is a steep slate roof; I have not heard of him since.   4      ITRUBR LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. Q. Do you know of any person who can tell where he is? A. That's a question I decline,to answer.       a Coroner-Then I shall commit you ; that's plain. Lyng-I don't know where he is, and I haven't heard from him. Coroner-You are not bound to criminate youself; but it is a criminal offence to harbor him.' Lyng--I don't know any person who knows where he is, but I have heard various persons say the) knew his wherea- bouts, but I don't think they do; I think he was not in the house when Tu nbull came in; Turnbull, I think, manifested a good deal too much anxiety to find him ; I do not think I could find hime if I tried; I know that Morrissey was in. charge of Rue when he came into my house; I have heard nothing about Baker since he was last in, my house. Q. Why did you say you declined to answer if you knew any one couldt/ell you where Baker is? A. I don't know that I can give you any reason; I don't want to accuse anybody; I don't know who could tell where Baker is; the young man who came'for a pistol for Mr. Mer- rissey is in Philadelphia ; he went there I think, the next day; Baker told me that he had shot Pool in the breast. The investigation was then adjourned to Monday morning, at half-past nine o'clock. MONDAY,--March 12 A. M.-The whole of the jurors, with the exception of Ald. Drake, having arrived, the Coroner said he heard, on Saturday night, of, the whereabouts of the man who drove the coach on the night of the 24th of February, and so he remained out the whole of last Saturday night to take him. He/succeeded in arresting "Lively," and another ; and Lively told him that a nlan named "Shunghai," in the employ of the same person as himself, was also charged with being the driver of the coach. The Fourteenth Ward Police were in search of Shanghai, with what success he (Mr. Hilton) was unable to say, The Coroner also said he was continually receiving anonymous letters in relation to this affair; but, un- less they were authenticated by the signature and address of   CORONER'S IYVESTIGATION,.      4 the parties senkincg them, he could not notice their contents : "EON OLIVER-I reside at No. 99 Laurcns street ; I was with Mr. Pool when he left his house in the first part of the evening, of Saturday the 24th of February ; it was about nine o'clock when we reached Stanwix Hall together; we went in there, and a party was in there. in the back -room, singing ;,I walked )cwt tin! bl'. room, and I and Mr. Pool both looked into the back room ; Moriissey, Suydam and others were in the company ; I tapped Pool on the shoulder and said, "This is private company," and we both turned around and walked up to the counter in the bar-room ; some one of our c mpany asked us to drink, and we did so. [The whole of the jury having arrived, the witness was sworn, and the testimony was read over J Mr. Janew'ay then suggested that we should have something to eat; Mr. Pool sat down with Janeway and the rest of the company, except myself, (I having just supped,) to the eating counter, and ate. I sat upon one of the high stools at the other end of the counter, with my back to it, and Mr. Pool sat by my side; some one came in and said something to Pool, but what it was I can't say; Pool had got through /cating when MKr. James Irving came in at the street door and sat down on the opposite side of the room, facing to Mr. Pool; ,he did not say anything to any person, and none of our com- pany,that I know of, spoke to him ; then hi Deag le, pro- prietor of the saloon, came'up to Mr. Poolfafid spoke tog him, whereupon Mr. Pool got down from his/ool and went with Mr. Deagle between the eating and drinking cwunters, and stood with his back toward the back room ant'entered into conversation with Mr. Deagle; then I hqard a noise in the back room, and some one said " I know what I am about; let me alone," &c. ; I then got down and leaned against the end of the counter; it was Mr. Morrissey's voiae that I heard ; in the room with Morrissey I saw Mr. Lewis, Mr. Suydam and others; Morrissey came out of the back room, and as he came out Mr. Janeway got up from the eating counter, and standing with his back opposite to Pool, placed both his hands across the space., between the two counters;, Mr. Morrisse    "    TRUE LIFE OP WILLJIAM POOL. walked past, saying, "You needn't try to hide him," or something like that; he then said, addressing Pool, AIh, ah I it is there you are, you d--d thieving murdering son of a b-," or something like that; Pool then looked up at him; Morrissey then called him a " coward." and said he didn't dare to fight him ' muzzle to muzzle," or something like that ; Mr. Pool then stepped out into the floor toward Morrissey, and the friends of both parties got between- them ; Jaines Irving- did all he could to stop Morrissey ; some one of the crowd called out to Irwin, "Why don't you stop Morrissey?" he answered, "Why don't you come and help me? I cant ;"I did't see any pistols ; there was such a hubbub that I went out by the door, and that was the last I saw of it ; when the policemen came, Mr. Dean told them to go in, and I went in with them ; when they got in, one party went to clihrch Morrissey, and another to take Pool.  Q. By Mr. Wild-if Mr. Pool had a pistol I might liave seen it ; I did not see it ; when I came back I did not see any 9 pistol; but I heard the talk that Morrissey had snapped a pis- tol at Mr. Pool two or three times. WILLIAM JANrEWAY, sworn, deposed-I reside at No. 35 Greene street ; I heard some portions of the testimony of'the last witness. [The Coroner read over the testimony of Oliver.] Witness corrected--I saw a pistol in Morrissey's hand; the rest is correct, as I saw the circumstance ; when I went'--into the house I did not know that Morrissey was there, or I should not have gone in, neither would Mr. Pool ; I should not have gone in, because I knew that there was a disagreement between Morrissey and Mr. Pool : when Morrissey came out of the back room and passed me, I did not see him have a pistol; I never heard any party threaten to take Mr. Pool's life; 1 saw a pistol in Morrissey's hand some minutes after the altercation between hiMm and Pool; I saw Morrissey snap the pistol three times at Pool; I sdw him do so twice; the sound, to me was as if there wete iio caps3 upon the nipples ; I heard it distinctly snap. Q. By' Ald. Drake-I thinll Morrissey procured the pistol after li canme out of the backs room ; I was under the impres-. "'  l   -CORONER'S INVESTIGATION.      45 sion that Morrissey was in liquor ; when fMr. Pool stood be- hind me I thought he had a pistol, because his right hand was under the left breast of his coat ; but I did not see him have any weapon'; I did not see Officer Rue in ilhe room; Morris- sey spoke two or three times to Pool, before Pool replied other than by smiling; at length he said, "You have tasted my mut- ton once, and you did'nt like it ;" when Morrissey called him a d-d coward, Pool replied "You are a d-d liar." This first difficulty occurred somewhere about nine o'clock, or a few minutes after nine ; Mr. Pool might have had a pistol and I not have seen it; if I had known that Morrissey was in the house, I should have got Pool out if possible. JAMES IRWIN, deposed-I reside at No. 177 East Twenty first street; I went into the bar-room at Stanwix Hall, while Mr. Pool was between the eating and drinking counters, talk- ing with Mr. Janeway, and, I should judge, six or eight others ;  among the others were Fairchild, Capt. Lewis, and I could'nt specify the rest of the names ; Pool stood with his right hand in his pantaloons pocket, and I heard Morrissey speak, from the back room, " 1 never assaulted a man without reason." I did not hear him say "( Go away from me.' Then, directly, Morrissey came out of the back room, and walked right opposite to where Pool was standing; he said, "You are there, are you," to Pool 3 he continued, " how have you been?"' Pool said, "You tasted me, you ought to know." '"Yes," said Morrissey, " you black muzzled son of a b-, you and your gang tried to murder me." Pool replied, "You are a d-d, lying, Irish son of a b- ;" with that Morrissey stepped up to the corner of the drinking bar, within two or three feet of Pool, and I. stepped right between them ; both f them were saying something in a growling manner; I could not say what ; Pool with his left finger on his nosb by-the- bye ; and said," You have tasted me, and did not like me;" while I stood between them, Pool held a pistol (Colt's revolver) pre- sented at Morrissey's breast, I think ; he took the pistol from his pocket. when he took his hand out; he did not take his Ahlmnd from his pantaloons' pocket until that time; I spoke to Mr. Pool in this way : "Pool," says IS " won't you put that   1846  'ETRUE LIPE OP WILLIAM POOL away, Morrimsey hasn't got any weapou"--thatts just the way I spoke to Mr. Pool ; Mr. Pool did not put the pistol away, but jumped out on the floor to Morrissey, saying ; "You Irish son of a b-, I'll fight you breast to breast with pistols ;"I says -to Pool again : "You know he ain't got any weapon ;" with -this Morrissey made the reply: "You are a coward, and dare not fight any way ;"Pool rushed up to Morrissey, and pushing forward his pistol, said, "Yes, I dare"--and then there was a crowd of ten or a dozen who got between them; Officer Rue tried to stop it; Pool backed between the oyster Box and the drinking bar, his pistol out all the while, and Morrissey and a crowd following him; the place where pool got is near the -door ; with that Mr. Hogan, police officer, jumped in and tried to stop it, and the crowd tore his scarf from his neck; he did not arrest Pool at that time ; the crowd and wrangle was so much that the muzzle of Pool's pistol struck me in the shoulder; there wasg no-other pistol out except Pool's ; Mr. Mark McGuiro who was there, said,. "Pool, Don't you go to murder that man in cold blood ;"Pool then jumped on topiof the wash- stand, from there he got on to the drinking bar, and there he levelled the pistol at Morrissey again; he did not snap the pis- tol at any timne that I am aware of; he pointed it at Morrissey, and held it at hitn'for about a minute ; then Pool get down be- hind the bar ; when he got behind the bar he continued to call Morrissey names; I then got hold of Morrissey and shoved him against the wall saying, "4 Won't you go away-you'll get shot,;"Pool was calling him at this tim3, ; An Irish son of a i--" "an Irish bastard," &cc.; Morrissey, at the same time Tas calling him a "ad-d cowardly loafer ;" then Pool got along behind theeating bar, and Called names ;and Mr. McGuire said "'Aon Irishman is as good as anybody else, as long as he behaves himself ;" upon which Pool replied, "You are a d--d liar," and they gave the lie several timesf 4;hen Poole dared him to fight; McGuire6 said "' he would fight on equality ;" with that, Poole caught up a big carving knife and threw. it upon the counter, and then said, "Now, you son of a b-, give him another one';"McGuire sa'd, "You have got. the advan-   'CORONER'S INVESTIGATION. 4. tage of me with knives-you are a bigger and stronger man, than I am ;"Pool picked up the knife, and said, "I lavo got the best of you, and I will keep it ;"McGuire replied," I don't want to quarrel with you, I always liked you because you liked my brother ;" witlrthat Jerry Haley commenced to laugh, and said, "That's a good way to get out ;"I then turned around, and I think I saw a man come in, and give Morrisscy a pistol; I am not sure ; there was such a flurry, that I could not speak positively; the pistol was a "Syms" pistol (revolver), with holes all around it ; Morrissey had said before that if he, had a pistol, '..e would give him " equality ;"Morrissey then rushed toward Pool, and I and 1 and Captain Lewis endeavorld to stop him i Dean rushed out, and got a hold of Morri sey, who, in spreading his handsi knocked Dean's hat off (did not knock Dean down) and Dean stepped to pick it up ; there was a crowd of about fifty n the corner with Pool, and all of them  I know, were opposed to Morrissey, from the way they acted ; Morris- sey pointed his pistol at Pool; Pool did not have his pistol out of his hand all the time ; even when he picked up the carv ing- knife, be took it up with'his left hand ; Pool suddenly thrust his pistol into his left breast, and kept his hand there, and stood looking at Morrissey, as he (Morrissey) held his pistol at Pool, but I did not hear any pistol snapped on either side ; the mo- ment I saw Pool's pist6ol put away, I jumped in, and caught Morrissey by the neck, saying : "You d-d fool, what are you doing?"He replied: "Pool is trying to kill me ;' then the officers, a squad of policemen, came in ; they appeared all to rush around Morrissey, while Poolwassaying something still; I said "Why don't you arrest both of these men?" and then Rue took Morrissey off, and Hagan took Pool a\ay ; I never heard Morrissey or any other person threaten to take the life of Pool ; but, on an occasion when I was suffering, with bilious colic, some time since, I heard that Pool and a crowd were going to attack me, and advised me to stay away from my stall ; I said I would go, and all I wanted was to have no moro than one person attack me at a time; then Morrissey spok' up: "If any more than one goes-with you, I'll be on him :" *   '48      TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. that's all I heard Morrissey or any of these person say, in refe- rence to attacking Mr. Pool; I have not heard any of these persons threaten to whip him of late. By a Juror-Did you go to Stanwix Hall on Sunday morn- ing? A. On Sunday morning, an officer and Mr. Hyde told me that nineteen persons had been locked up for playing Ving- et-un; Hyde Wanted me to go his bail I did,; coming up Broadway, I met Mr. Shay, who said," Pool is a dying, and then he told me all about the affray of the night previous; 1 felt bad, and I walked up past the hall, and, I. saw the blood arooud the door, aod then I went back to Florence's, got some breakfast, and met a friend named Goodheart, and went up with him to Stanwix Hall at about nine o'clock, A. I., to sec him; I felt sorry about him, and I do still; Hyler and Pool's brother were present; Pool leaned upon his arm, and I asked how he was; he said, "There's another of them murdering sons of b--cs;' 1 replied, "Pool, I came here out of kind- ness," for I felt bad. "I didn't come here through fear," said II; he said," I'll taste you one of these days; I said, "When you are able, come on. I came here .only through pure feel- ing "I stayed there some time after Pool was taken away in a carriage; I never knew where' Baker was; never heard where he was; I have heard whNere he was thought to be; I knew Baker; am acquainted with him; he was at' Stanwix Tall when the first fracas took place; he was sitting on a stool at the eating-counter then, but I did not see him do any- thing I left Rue and Morrissey at the corner of ISprin street and SBroadway; I did everything that a man could do to stop the first fracas, and, if the rest did as much, ttre would not have been any more disturbance, for I tried to get them both locked up in'the station-house; when I went into Stayiwis Hall I knew that Morrissey was in; some one told me that he was; I did not see Baker after the police came in. DANIEL CUNNKHNGAM, sworn-I reside at No. 12 Lispenard street; I don't know anything about the muss nor anything oabout the matter; except taking Mr. Morrissey home and pnt- O    ' *  * A   CORONERS INVESTIGATION6       49 ting him to bed; I was in the "Belle of the Union" public house in Lispenard street, when a young man came in, and said that Morrissey and Pool had had a slight difficulty in Broadway; this young man was a stranger; le told me that it was in Broadway somewhere; I started out then to look for Morrissey; that I should judge was somewhere along about ten; I saw Morrissey coming down and crossing over, at the corner of Canal and Broadway with officer Rue, Charley Van Pelt, and I thinks Paugene ;they were crossing to Lyng'a house; I won't state for certain that Paugene was along; I he said, "I'll go home with you as soon as I go up stairs and take a drink ;" we all went in; they drank a bottle of'wine, but I did not drink with them-; I won't be certain lthat Pau- gene was in the room ; Turner I saw there a few minutes after we had got in ; Baker was also there. Q. Was Linn there? A. There's three or. four Linns, I don't know which one you mean. Q. Was Cornelius Linn there? A. I did not wee him, he might have been there; Hyler was there at this time; I could not bring, to mind the precise time; the conversation was about the difficulty at Stanwis Hall, I should think, from the little I heard ; I couldn't say who was talking most about this thing; Hyler's voice was most prominent; he seemed to want to let this muss drop, and was talking about a match he had made for $100, on Morrissey in Philadelphia; I couldn't say whetlher the match was for fighting, running, or anything else; I suppose they would keep that among themselves ; I can't A ay whethler Baker was in Lyng'3 when I first went in; I can't say that Turner was in there, when I first went in; I could not say that Hyler was in then ; I could only for certain say, that Morrissey was down stairs and went in when I did, for. my whole attention was directed to Morrissey, and I did'nt speak to nor care for anybody else; I have never heard any person threaten to take the, life of Mr. Pool;-rI first learned of the second affray at Stanwix Hall about twenty minutes after I had put Morrissey to bed ; after Morrissey had drank he went home with me, stopping by the way at the "America,"    60      TBIE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. -in Lispenatd-street, where he drank wine; I did not; wre went alone from there, to his home in Hudson street; in the "Amer- icaJ he treated the party to wine ; none of the parties in ques- tion being there, we then went back to Lvng's, much against my wish; he was intoxicated; he took a drink up there again, and in about ten minutes, we came out; when ,we went into Lyng's I could not say that I saw Baker; he might have been there; I was coaxing Morrissey and trying to get him home; aud that was about as much as a little fellow like me could do to a big fellow like him ; Morrissey wanted to stop and drink, and my attention was turned only to him; fromn Lyng's we went down Broadway to Leonard street, and down Leonard to the "Belle of the Union" drinking saloon, where le drag- ged me in, and Morrissey had another drink, or two, or three ; we saw none of the party'in question there; I took him from, there to his home, and I never left him until he was undressed and sound asleep, and then I left- him ; that was about one o'clock ; I then -came back to the "Belle of the Union," and tmet a young man named Case, who told me that a shooting scrape had occurred up at Stanwix Hall, aid that Pool had been killed, and Turner and Baker shot; Cass is a carpenter residing in Norfolk street; he goes by the name of "Gabe;" I know he did not see the affair, for he was in the Belle Union when I took Morrissey home; I met this young man in the street, and asked him where Turner was; he said he had heard that he was in John Lyng's house, and I went over there, and saw him lying on the floor, on a mattress, in a back room, a gun- -shot wound in his arm, and a doctor attending him ; I did not see Baker there, nor hear that he had been there; nor did I lhear .aything about the affair at Stanwix Hall; I board with Mr. Petrie sanld his wife, No. 12 Lispenard street; Mr. Hughes Was in Lyng's house .he boards with me in Petrie's house; I don't know where Baker is, did not hear any one say where he is, or who helped him to escape; I am acquainted with Mr. Tamer and Mr. Morrissey only; I was in California three years with Turner; Turner never knew Baker or Paugeno until he arrived in New York here, and was introduced to '. it  1' 7 e    CORONER'S INVUuIIGATION.       1 them, nd he never knew them only in common couritesy vhen I first met Morrissey, I did not say anything to him about the affair at Stanwix Hall; \only wanted to get him home to his wife and- family; he was too drunk on the road going home to talk about anything; he was lot in by his father-in-law, Levi Smith. Q.-By a Juror-What is your occupation? A.-I decline answering that question. Coroner-You need not answer that question, if it will do- grade you in any way. A. Ilt would degrade many men to tell their occupation, and I don't wan't to tell many little things ; I don't steal or rob for a living. Witness was then put in charge of an officer, to find bail in five hundred dollars, to appeal as a witness in the case. FRANCIS MC CABE (was not sworn, on account of the absence. of the jury)-I reside in Crosby street, No. 43 ;- shortly after the trouble between Pool and Morrissey, I met 31o rissey at Lyng's house; I did not hear anything about where the fire arms were got, or taken to be loaded, that Mr. Pool Mas killed with; I am acquainted with Mr. Morrissey, Mr. Baker, Mr Turner, and Paugenet; I know Linn slightly ; I was acquainted with Pool; I never heard any -of these parties threaten to take Pool's life; I don't think I ever have; I am sure that I lever have; I saw Mr. Pool in'the beginning of the evening of the 24th of February, at his own place, corner Howard street and Broadway, at about sevenp'clock ; I aw the others in M r. Lyng's house at about eleven o'clock that night; I did not ee 1any of the partiesbefore that time; Iheard some one Say that Mr. Pool and Mr. Morrissey had a quarrel, and went into Ack er's "Bank Exchange Saloon," where Mr. A. told me that it was so; I then went down to Mr. Ly 8nps, and saw M orrissey, V  Pyler, Lewis B aker, Turner, Paugene, Corneius Linn and -Arlan Pel; all these seemed to be in company together . heard Mr. Morrisseysay that they (Pool and Morrissey) had a  difficulty together, and that both of them drew pistols; I got into conversation with  iHyler, and asked him what tho dif e   Baulty was about; he said that Morrissey went into Stanwi    i Hall with him to get some supper, and while there Pool came in; Morrissey came out, and they had some words, and the quarrel took place; Hyler said that he lived in the upper part of Stanwix Hall, and that he had been out of town, and dut. ing that time the proprietors of Stanwix Hall had not treated his family well, in wanting them to move out while he was away; Paugene asked him if hle was going home he said presently; then Turner and Baker came in, and told Hyler that Morrissey was over in Lispenriard street, and that he had better go over and see him, but didl not say what for; we all  Q had'a drink together, and they started out of the house.; I did  not go; I heard they went to the City Hotel, and from there to Stanwix Hall; the went out at nearly twelve o'clock ; Hy- ler did not ask Pangene to go upstreet; I heard Paugene ask him several times to go up street; I did not hear any person give any reason for going out; they hadsome talkamong themselves, which I did not hear. . (Witness was sworn.] Mr. Lyng was there; I could not say if they had a common under- standing about where they were to go ; they spoke in a low tone, so tlat could not hear; Morrissey had gone out at this time, and he was not present when there was low talk going on ;he appeared intoxicated when he went out; I did not hear any threats while I was there ; I did not see any weapons with any of them; Mr. Hyler told me that in the first fracas he sent and got a pistol for Morrissey ; I heard Hyler say that he was very sorry for what had happened ;I did not hear any df the company say they had any weapons; Mr. Williams, the barkeeper, did not make any remarks to me nor to any one, *hen they went out; I then went home; I had no reason to WAink that the party intended to go to Stanwix Hall; I have seen Hyler and Morrissey since, but have had no conversation with Hyler; I had a conversation since with Mr. Morrlssey about Pool; he wanted to know his condition, and I told him thought he would not live he seemed sorry to hear it; some time god Mr Morrissey said he would have satisfaction out of F  -ooli 8aot as2 his term of bail had expired; this was about   CORONERs INVESTIGATION.  Ia ionth after te AAmos Street fight; he did not say after this occurrence that he was satisfied. Q. By a Juror-You say that you and Mr, Andrews started out to go to Stanwix Hall ; why did you not go? A, Because I anticipated that some disturbance would take place. Mr. Janeway became security in $500 for the appearance of MeCabe. Adjourned to half-past nine o'clock Wednesday morning. WEDNESDAY, March 14th.-The first witness placed upon the sOand was John Quinlan, who, being duly sworn, deposed that the affidavit he made before Justice Brennan at the Second District Police Court, Jefferson Market, embodied all the facts that he knew in relation to the case. In that affidavit he states that he was present at an affray that occurred at Stanwix Hall, No. 579 Broadway, on Sunday morning, about one o'clock, when Paudene and five others came into the bar-room, and called Mr. Pool " a black-muzzled son of a b-h," and spat three times in his fe ; and a man by the name of Linn went to take hold of Paudeae, to prevent him from striking Mr. Pool; when Paudene kicked said Linn ; Paudene then seized hold' of Pool by the collar, and said, "There is no son of a b-o h in the house could make me let go of Pool;"Mr. Vim  Pelt and Mr. Campbell then stepped in between them to part them, when James Turner took off his cloak and threw it on the counter, and drew a pistol, aid said, "Now sail in, boys ;" ang; rested his pistol on his arm, and discharged it at Pool, receiving the contents in his own armr Pool threw up his hands, and said, "For God's sake, you are not going to kill me, are you? Turner, after shooting himself in the arm, fell on the floor, and shot Pool in the knee; Pool then stag- gered and fell; Mr. Baker then got on Pool and discharged a pistol at his breast, and then retreated to the door, saying, "I havegot you." Deponent further sY, that he S$y Turn^ Wfe a pistol at (CGarles Lozier, and slqqt V4im - ir the leg, in4 then the parties left the house ; Pool then went to thdaor a4j sgod hol iing the dqr, and said, "I am hot , jt*cl g" and fell; he was then laid on the counter. *   "     T TUE LIFS OP WILLTA POOL. Q. Did you ever hear any one threaten the life of Pool? A. I did not; but I heard through a friend of mineast night, that vn one occasion, while Mr. Baker was in Mr. Brewer's saloon, corner of, Perry and Greenwich street, he pulled a pis- tol out of his breast, knocked it against the counter three times, and said, "That will be the pistol that will take 00oo1' life." By a Juror.---Q. Did you see a pistol in Pool's hand? A. I did not. By the same--Q. Did you see a pistol in Morrissey's hand . A. I did not, but I heard from M . Theodore Allen that Mor- rissey had snapped a pistol at Pool t wo or three times. Q. Did you go to the, station house along with Pool? A. I did, Q. Did the officers at the station house refuse to take Pool's charge - 'A. I don't know the fact of my own knowl- edge, but Mr. Pool told me so afterward. Q. Did you see the captain atthe station house? A. I did not. Q.-'Do you know who took Mor'issey; away? A. I do not. Q. Do you know who took Pool away? A. I understand that officer Hogan brought him to the station house-that's all I know about the ocurrence.    )  Richard Slack, the bar tender, formerly in the employ of Pool, at the Bank Exchange, being duly sworn, deposed as fol- lows :' Q. Did you hear any one threaten the life of Pool? A. About two or three months ago, Paudene came into the saloon, and called for a whiskey skin; I gave him the drink, whereupon he 'threw it in my face, and said, "If your master was here, I would scald his eyes with it, too." Q. Did the liquor scald you? A. It did; my face and eyes werequite sore.. Q. When Paudene threw the whiskey skin in your face, was he alone? A. No; he was in company with two others'; one of them was named Murphy. Q. Did Paudene go out immediately after throwing the whiskey skin in your face? A. he did. By a Juror-Q. Did he pay for those drinks? A. No, ho did;not Q. Did you ever hear Paudene threaten Mr. Pool on   CORONER'S INVESTIGATION.      ' 65 any other occasion? A. No; except on the occasion already testified to by former witnesses. George W. Harpell, being duly sworn, deposed that he was the proprietor of the City Hotel; on the night of the occur- rence, Morrissey came into my place, as I thought, in the cus- tody 'o officer Rue. Q. What time was this? A. About ten o'clock, I should think. Q. Did they say anything? A. They talked among themnselves. Q. Who else was along with Mor- rissey? A. Baker, Hyler, Paudene, and about four or five others; the latter came in after Morrissey canme in, and I sup- posed they met there by appointment; there was about ten persons in the company. Q. Were they all sober? A. No, , sir. Q. Who was intoxicated?  A. Morrissey. Q. Did he stagger? A. He did, so much so that he could hardly keep on his feet; I never saw him so intoxicated. Q. What occur- red?  A. They drank several times, and talked to each other. Q. What were they saying? A. I could not say ; Morrissey' was blowing about something or other, while his friends were trying to get him to go home. Q. Who were trying to get him home?  A. Officer Rue and a big stout ian with black whiskers; Morrissev said that he did not intend to go any far- ther up town that night, whereupon this stout man, whose name I do not know, said, "Very well, if you will promise not to go up town, why I will leave you, as I have some other business to attend to." Q. What were the others talking about? - A. I could not exactly say, but I suppose they were conversing about the Stanwix Hall difficulty. Q. Well, what followed? A. This stranger friend of Morrissey's then left the saloon, bidding him good night. Morrissey, followed by his friends, I soon after left the premises. Q. What else do you know in relation to the matter? A. About one b'clock, Hylcr, Turner, Baker, Paudene, and three others, whose names I don't know, entered the bar-room. Question by a  Juror.-When they came in, did you hear them make any threats? A. Not a particle of one, for I knew nothing of the transaction up town at the time. Q. Well, what took place?  A. Thc drank and staid there about fif v   6a( ,.    TBRUE LIFE OR WILLIAM POOL. teen minutes, and after I shut up the house, they stood outside for a few minutes. Q. What were they saying? A. I don't know; they were talking in an under tone among themselves. Q. Did you see any arms with them? A. I did not. Q. Dlid they seem to be excited? A. No, quite the other way ; they seemed in deep conversation among themselves; when they first came in, they all stood together talking, but afterwards divided off in squads. Q. Who seemed to take the most active part in the conversation? A. Baker; he seemed to be the mnost active member of' the party. Q. Were they sober? A. They appeared to be. Q. All of them? A. I should judge s0. Q. '.Do you know whether they went away in a car, riage or not? A. I do not. Q. Did your porter see them get into a carriage? A. I don't think he did. Q. Was offi- cer -Rue there the second time they came in? A. He was not.. Q.' He was there the first time, though? A. He was, and I asked, him to take the party out, as I was fearful some of the opposite 'party would come in, and a row would follow. Q. What did Rue do? - A. He spoke to Morrissey, and then; W^ent 4way. Q. Who was the last man to leave your house? A.. Paudene, and as he leftlhe bade me good night. Cornelius Linn was here brought into court, in order to see if the witness could identify him as being one of the party that entered his place the second, time on the night of tha afray, along with Baker and others. ' Coroner-Is that the man who -was along with the party? A. I cannot recognize him as being the person, but he was d  man about that size. Officer John Rue, being duly so rn, deposed-That he wua aolpliceman attasched to the seventeenth patrol district; on Saturdy evening I was going up Brpadway on business, and stopped At Ppol's house, to see if the an, was there that I wailtedi;'i I had aa warrant for the man ; I got into conversation with a younS man, Inerson, and while conversing with, hi, several persbns came into the liopse, an1 commenced whispger- in&k togther. Q. Did you know the party. A. I did Aft, Q, I S. . , Xy v  ' w   * CORONER8 INV8TpGATIONi      6 per to A. To those who had already been in the saloon. Witness, in continuation- They went out of the house at a quick pace, and as they came out I went out to the friont stoop and stood there a few moments ; while here the rest of the party came out, and I asked them what was the matter'; one of them, whom I think was Cyrus Shay, said there was nothing the matter, and then started up Broadway after the reniainder of the party ; I immediately followed behind them, and arrived at Stawix Hall just after them. Q. Well, what did you see there? A. Morrissev and Pool were calling each other names. Q. Where was Pool standing? A. Inside the counter,' at the far end ; Morrissey was at an angle from him, on the out- side of the counter,; towards the door. Q. How far was he from Pool? A. I should think about fourteen feet. Q. Well, what happened? A. I took a look around the room to See what was going on, when I heard the snap of pistols ; I then turned around and saw Morrissey and Pool presenting something at each other; I could'nt say whether they were pistols or not. Q. How far were you from Morrissey? A. Right beside, him. Q. How far from Pool.? A consider- able distance, as he was behinid the counter. Q. Whose pis- tol did you hear snapped? A. It must have been Morrissey's as I stood behind him, and besides, it sounded much like his? Q. Did you hear Pool snap his pistol? A. I did not ; I only heard, the snapping-of Morrissey's pistol. Q. Wpel11, what hap- pened? A. Pool and Morrissey then pointed pistols at each other; I did not see either of the pistols, as I stood behind Morrissey; but from their position, and the appearance of things, I should think they had pistols in their hands. Q.- Well, what did you do when you heard the pistol snapping? A. I caught hold of Morrissey's right arm with ,one hand. and with the other grasped him around the waist, and succeeded in getting him into a recess that is formedthy the boxing of the door, when the crowd rushed forward ; some policemen then came, and coming towards Morrissey were about taking him away Then Mr. Irin mid, "He is already In the custody of an officer," one of the polim aeked me for my star; I let go     68      TRUE LIFE, OF WITJAM POOL. of Morrissey and putting my hand .inmy pocket brought out my star; Mr. Irwin then asked these policemen why they did not takedotne of the rest of the prisoners. Q. Where was Pool at this time? A. I don't know ; I had all my attention directed to Morrissey. Well, state what followed. A. Some one in the crowd cried out "Take that man out of the house ;' we then went out, and on our way down Broadway, as far as Prince street; I asked several times if there was any one there to make a charge against Morrisseyj but did not receive any answer; we then walked down as far as Mr. Abel's, when Morrissey went in to have a drink ; I told him he had better not go in there, but he insisted on doing so ; Morrissey went up to the bar and got a drink ; he asked me to drink with him, but I refused to do so ; we staid there but a few minutes, and then started down Broadway ; on my way down I told him he was foolish to get into such a disturbance, and advised him- to keep away from that place ; he asked me to let him go home  he promised me by all that was sacred, If I would let him go, he would go home, and not return to Stanwix Hallagain; we proceeded down Broadway as far as the cornbr of Canal street, when he stated that he wanted to see/Johnny Lyng ; we went up stairs to Lyng's place ;. Morrissey was not intoxicated, but was a little excited ; when he got to Lyng's place, :Morrissey went up and spoke to him; I did not hear what was said ; Morrissey then went up to the bar in the back part of the room, and called for a bottle of wine. Q. Who wacs present at the time? A. I do not remember seeing any one that I knew, except Hyler; I know- Baker ; he was not there ; I don't know Turner ; Hyler and Morrissey drank the wine together ; after they had finished, I went down stairs, called Morrissey after me, and insisted on his going home, or else he would get himself and me into trouble ; he promised me faithfully he would go home, and I thein left him on his way home ; I then started up Broadway again to Stanwix Hall again, and there I saw Pool and some of his friends drinking wine together. Q. What time did you take Morrissey away from Lyng's place? A. It must have been about 11 o'clock.   CORONERS' INvESI'GATION.     . 69 Witness in continuation-When I entered' Stanwix Hall Pool said to me-"Old man, take a drink ;"I refused, and told Pool he had better go home; he said he would be going directly; he forced me to take the wine, and I took it from him, put it to my lips and then placed the glass down upon the coun- ter ; some one took hold of Pool by the collar, pulled him into the recess opposite the counter, and commenced talking to him ; 1 did not hear what this person said to Pool. I then turned to Mr. Campbell and said, : I'll be going home, as it is getting late." I then went up to one of the proprietors of the place and bought a pair of chickens from him; I then went out, got on the box of carriage that was outside, and was driven to the corner of Allen and Houston streets, where I lived. By a Juror-When you left Lyng's place, djid you notice any man of small stature endeavoring to get Morrissey home? A. I did not. Q. By another Juror-Did you not Stop at the City Hotel after you left Abel's place? A. We did ; I forgot to mention that fact. Q. By another Juror--How came you to take him down Broadway, instead of taking him to the station house? A. Well I thought that it would be the easiest way to calm the excitement and'subdue the disturbance. Q. By another Juror-Did you search Morrissey for a pistol after you left-Stanwix Hall? A. I did not. Q. Did you see a pistol in his possession at all? A. I did not. .. Q. Do you recollect any one in Lyng's place saying to Mor- ribsey that he, should go home? A. I did not; but some one might have said so ; I may as well remark here, that the  next morning I went over to Morrissey's father-in-law to see if he had gone home, and upon inquiry, found that he had come home that night ; I then told his father in awt that there was a process out for him, and that he had betterV) come over to the tombs, and give himself up ; that day Morrissey came over to me at the tombs, and delivered himself up. t:,I-brougrht him before Justice Osborn, who said I had better bring him * /        , / ,. , \    60.      TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. , up to the Jefferson 'Market Police Court ; this I did and here he was bailed out. Q. What is his father-in-law's name? A. I think it is Smith. Q. Where does he reside? A. In Hudson Btreet I think. -John' Wildey, being duly sworn, deposed that he resides at No. 140 Sullivan street. Q. Where were you on the evening of the affray at Stanwix Hall? A. I was at my place of busi- ness until two o'clock on, the morning of Sunday. Q. Were any of the parties there oh the above evening? A. Mr. Linn might have been there, but I have no recollection of *any one elsl being present. Q. When did you hear of the difficulty? A. About one and a half o'clock two officers came to my place. '. What did they say? A. Mr. Idyton called us to the kit- chen, and said that there had been a, murder committed. Q. Where did he say the murder had been committed? A. In Stanwix Hall. Q. Well, what did he come to you for? A. To arrest Baker. Q, Did Baker stop at your place? A. He had rooms at my house ; the officer told me that Baker had shot Pool, and that the latter was dead at Stanwix Hall'; I walked up Mercer as far as Grand, and then went home in Sullivan street. Q. Were you alone? A. I was ;on my way I met an officer in Thompson street, near Prince street; I asked him if he had heard of the murder, he said he had not; I then told him what had been told me ; he then said it was quite likely that Baker might come back to my house, and that it would be well to set another officer, and watch for him in the alleyway ; I then went to my home and told my wife if Baker came there not to open the door ; I locked the place, put the key in my pocket, and went up to Stanwix Hall, where I found Pool dying ; I went from there up to the Eighth Ward station house,  and while there Paugene and Van Pelt were brought in ;I then went down to Lvng's, and saw Turner there in the 'front room, off the barroom. Q. Was Baker ther e? A. I understood hie was from the conversation going on. Q. Was Lyng there? &, He was, as I was given to believe that Baker was up stairs. Q. Did you hear Lyng say that Baker was up stairs? A. I m. prett! positive thaet I did. Did you hear .im sy that   "       COnONER'S ItE r IsTIGATroS. he was wounded? A. I did. Q. Where did he say that he was wounded? A. In the belly and the head. Q. Was Mr. Linn there? A. He was. Q. How do you know he was?- A. Because when I went inl asked for Linn, and was told that hewas up stairs ;-as I was not a friend of Baker's I did not ask to see Baker ; I asked for Linn, for the pulrpose of getting him aw ay, as I thought that perhaps Linn woujd endeavor to secure Baker. Q. Do you know any others tiia- were there besides Linn? A. I do not remember. Q. Did;you see Har- vey Young there? A. I did.. iQ. Did you see' Councilman KIerricgan there'? A. I did; he is councilman jof the sixth ward. Q. Well what took place? A. I wenft with Linn, Harvey Young and another man, whose name I?o not remem- /1 ber. Q. Who was this third person you spealk o? A. I do not know his name ; he was an acquaintance of HarVey Young's. Q. What was the conversation that took placep etween you when you left Lyng's place? A. We went down Broome to- wards the:North. river, and on our way a police. n looked us in the face ; I was fearful that Linn would be a rrested, either as a witness or as principal'; I spoke to theoffidbr, and said it was a cold night, or something to that effect; we then passed on, and when we got as far as the corner of Qh!uch and Canal 'streets, I invited them to come to my house aid take a drink ; ithey refused, and we parted ; I turned back 'to go up Wooster street, when I was accosted by office Layton, who asked me\ who were the persons that I had just parted With, and I said they were not known to him, and that the man that he wanted was at Lyng's, I meaning Baker ; I told him that he had beitthe go back and surround the house ; I passed on, and he gave in- formation to Captain Turnbull ; I went to the Eighth )Yard station house, expecting to see Baker brought in, but after waiting some time, I got tired and started for Lyng's again, and met Cornelius Linn on my way ; I went with him down to his sister's, who lived in'somestreet near/the National Thea- tre, and told him to stay there until I came back ; 1 then went back to Lyng's. Q. What conversaitioh took place between you and Linn on your way to his sisterl,. A. Ndthing; except ! ' '      , ,  * *  '  '   62      TRUE LIFE OP WILLIAM POOL. that I said it was a bad case ; Linn said that he did nothing and that before the firing commenced he and Van Pelt were outside the building, faking Paudene along with them. Q. Was this all that he said? A. This is all that I can remember. He might have said more, but I cannot remember it; he said that Baker asked Paudene to go up to Stanwix Hall several times, and that he refused, but at last consented. Q. Did he say with what intention he came there? A. No. Q. Did he saw that they knew Pool was there.? A. I did not hear him say so. Q. After you came back to Lyng's, what took place? A. I went up to the bar-room, looked in at the front door, and saw officer Layton in there, sitting beside Turner. Q. Who ele was in there that you knew?' A. Councilman Kerrigan was there then, and this, I believe is the first time I recollect seeing him there. Q. Was Linn there? A.*No. Q. Har- vey Young there? A. He was. Q. Was Daniel Linn there. A. I refuse to answer whether he was or not. Q. Do you refuse ,to answer on the ground of fear of implicating yourself in this affair? A. No. Q. On what ground do you refuse to answer the question? Is it for fear of implicating him or, yourself? / A. Well I will answer the question; I did not see him there. I Q. Who else was there? A. None others than those I have o mentioned that I know either by napie or sight, Q. Did any of those you have mentioned go up stairs to see Baker? A. Lyng called Daniel Linn to come up stairs, and I should think he did so. Q. Did Young or KerriJan go out? A. Well, all that were there seemed to be passing in and out all the while, and they talked together, so that I could not here what was 'said. Q. Do you know anything else about it? A. Before t went out of Lyng's I saw Daniel Linn in the bar-room, where I toed him the best thing he could do was to go out of the place, as he knew as well as I did the penalty in such cases, Q. Were Baker, and Daniel Linn friends together? A. So I under-. stand. Q. Did you ever hear Baker threaten the life of Pool; if so, under what circumstances? A. Baker was loading his pistol at my house one night, (he always carried a loaded pis- tol with him,) when he said he would take Pool's life: Baker ! . '                          CORONER'S INV!STiGATIOTI.      63 said that he had some difficulty with Pool, 'and would make him pay for it; I told him that'he had better not get into any difficulty with Pool, whereupon he replied, if ever Pool laid his hands upon him he would shoot him like a dog. Q. Did Ie often say this? A. I heard him-say so on severalcoccasions; he and I used to have many arguments relative to Pool, I being a friend of the deceased, and opposed to the other party. Q. Did you see Baker in your second visit to Lyng's? A.' I did. Q. Where was he when you saw him? A.-He was coming out of Lyng's side door in Canal street. Q. Where were you? A. On the Fourteenth Ward side of Broadway and Canal street; I walked up and down the street to find a policeman, but could not see any ; I wanted to have' Baker arrested without his knowing I was the cause of it. Q. Was any one with Baker when you saw him? A. Coun- cilman Kerrigan, Harvey Young, and another man whose name I do not know, but I would know him if I saw him. Q, Was it Hyler? A. I do not know. Q. Which way did they go? A. Through Canal street to Centre; I foilowed them ; I saw them going up Walker street to Baxter; I think that on the corner of Orange street I met Harvey Young and tho man I did not know coining back, Baker and Kerrigan continued on their way towards the Bowery, while Young and the other man went in a different direction ; I went to the Eighth ward station house, and gave information of the affair to Lieutenant Stage. Q. Where was Daniel Linn all this time? A. With me. Q. Did he go into the station house with you? A. No. Witness in continuation -I asked Lieut. Stage where Captain Turnbull was, and he replied that he did not know;. I then gave him all the facts I was in possession of, and advised him to telegraph to the various station-houses; -he did not use thd telegraph while I was there, saying he would wait to see the Captain first; I understood him to sayv that the Captain was gone up town; I then went up to Stanwix Hall along, with a friend of mine, -pd showed him the blood on the sidewalk; from there we went home, and I went to bed, having been. up all night. Q. How was Baker dressed? A. He wore a glaze   Fi4      AdT LIFE OP WiLLTAM POOL 'tap, and short drab sack overcoat. Was it his clothing that you saw on him? A. The clothes I don't think belonged to him. Q. Who do you think they did belong to? A. To Daniel Linn ; he told me he bought theIn the day before from somebody on board of a ship. Q. What coat did Linn wear? A. Cor- nelius Linn gave me a coat to givp to Harvey Young, and Har- vey Young gave it to Daniel Lirin; Harvey Young gave me Cornelius Young's coat, which I put on afterwards ; gave it to Daniel Linn ; then Daniel Linn changed coats, and gave his to Baker. Q. Did you ever hear Linn threaten the life of Pool? A. No. Q. Did you ever hear of Paudene' threatening the life of Pool? A. No ; I heard him threaten to whip him one dar. John Hyler was then brought in, to see if he could be iden- tified by the witness as being one of those who accompanied Baker from Lyng's place, but witness swore he never'saw him before to his knowledge. Q. Do you know where Baker is now? A. The last I heard of him was his sailing inthe brig Isabella Jewett; I packed up Baker's clothes, and sent them to the BelleI Union, according to Harvey Young's orders ; this happened four or five' days after the occurrence. Question by a Juror--Why did you look up and down Ca- nal stre t for an officer to arrest Baker, when officer Daniel Linn was standing beside you? -A. I wanted to have him arrested, but did not want to let hiiM:know who it was that caused his arrest. Question by another Juror--Did you see the place where Baker was concealed in New Jersey? A. I did. Was the bed bloody? A. It appeared so. Question by another Juror-Did you go to Hermitage Hall, in Bayard street, along with Baker, on the morning that he left Lyng's? A. No. Questiofn by another Juror-Did you see a man named McLaughi n, who keeps ae livery stable, in Jersey City? A. I did. -Q. Had you any conversation with him on'the matter of Baker's whereabouts? A. I had not; Judge'Stuart had somb conversation with' him. Q. Did you see a lrs. Scott in Jer- j    CORONERSB INVESIGATION.       65 sey City? A. I did. Q. Did she tell you of Baker's conceal- ment? She at first denied all knowledge of it, but subse- quently made an affidavit before Judge Stuart, admitting the , whole facts. At three o'clock the Jury-took a recess until five o'clock. Wm. H. Leeds, being duly sworn, deposed-That he was in stanwix Hall on the evening of the occurrence in question; about 91- o'clock, while he was in there, he saw Pool standing beyond the end of the eating-counter, near the bar ; there was loud talking; I was told by a friend that came in with me that Morrissey was standing in the middle of, the floor; I turned around and saw him ; he wa's calling Pool a " coward," and the latter was saying that " no foreigner was as good as an American ;" shortly after this a young man was called by Mr. Morrissey, who wanted him to bring him something, which he refused to do, but, on asking him a thiird time, he consented, and went out; in about five minutes afterwards I heard Mor- rissey say that he had sent for a pistol; Pool continued stand- ing in the same position, until the young man came in again; some one came up and tried to get Morrissey away; Morris- sey said he would not go awayu-that he was going toiwait for his pistol, and see if the d--d coward would fight him, muz- zle to muzzle, or something to that effect ; Morrissey then went towards Pool, when the latter tipped his nose, and said, "You tasted of my mutton once, how did you like it?" they were talking about fighting each other at the time; the next thing that I remember seeing, was some one calling put to Morrissey not to shoot; some one said to him"You --  d fopl;"  then retreated towards the side door, fearing would be shot, when I saw Morrissey bring his pistol levelled towards Pool, and snap it at him, but I don't think there were any caps on the pistol, for if there had been, I should have heard more noise. Q. How many times did you hear the pistol snapped. A. On- ly once. Q. What was Pool doing at this time? A. He was standing, with his armsfolded before him, at the back of the coun- ter. Q. Did Pool say anything? A. I think he said to Mor- rissey, "Fireiyou cowardly son of a b--h ;"I think he sai'   68      TUB L1Fe OF WILLIAM POOooL. this before and after the pistol was snapped. Q. If Pool had presented a pistol at Morrissey, would you have seen it? A. I think I should. Q. Did you hear that Pool had present-. ed a pistol? A. I did, from some one there, who said he pre- sented a pistol first. Q. What happened after that? A. A rush was made, and Morrissey was taken back, and, then started to go out, when the police came in and took him away. Q. 'Did you see Pool on the top of the counter while you were there? - A. jI did not. Q. If he had been so would you have seen him? A. I think I should. Q. Did you remain there after Morrissey was taken away? A. But a few moments; when I did go back I asked where Pool was, whien some one told me he had been taken out the back way, along to the I 'Eighth ward station,house. By a Juror. Q, Do you know what Morrissey asked this young man to "do for him? A. I do not; but my impression was that he wanted to get a pistol. By another juror. Q. Did you see Mr. Irvin there? A. I did Q, What part did he take in the affair? A. He tried to get Morrissey out of the place. He seemed to do all in-his power to prevent the disturbance, but Morrissey being stubborn, he would not go out for him. ,  George L. Green, of the Fourth ward Police being duly sworn, deposed-That he went into Stanrwix Hall along with officer Hogan. In a back room were a -number of persons drinking along with Morrissey. The first words that I heard proceeded from Morrissey, who said, "Come, drink a bottle along with me."/ I then heard officer Wallace saying, Pool is outside here, and there will be difficulty. Morrissey said he did not mean to have oSe, but would not go out; Morrissey theh went into-the front room, and commenced talking about codfish aristocracy. Q. To whom did he address this lan- guage? A. To some one that was talking to him. Morrissey then went towards where Pool was standing, and called him "a cowardly son' of a b-h ;"Morrissey acted as though he wanted to get at him; Pool did not reply, but smiled at him; Morrissey kept on talking in this way, when Pool replied that Morrissey had tasted his mutton, and, did not like it; Morris- ' . '                  *'     '   CORONER'S INVESTIGATION*.      8 67 sey said, "You cowardly son of a b-h, you dare not fight me across this counter with pistols ;"Pool said, "Yes, I dare;" Morrissey then exclaimed, "Draw ;"Pool then drew his weap- on out; Morrissey had no pistol in his hand at this time; Mor- rissey then made a rush towards Pool, who jumped right on. the counter to get clear ofhim ; he then went'back to his first position again. Q. When Pool got on the counter, did hq, present a pistol at Morrissey? A. He did ; Mr. Irvin caught hold of Morrissey then, and asked him what he meant; Pool commenced talking loudly, and paid he could "lick any Irish son of a b-h ;"Mark McGuire then came up to Pool andc said " he was as good a tman. as Pool was ;"Pool asked him in what way he was as good a man as he was; Maguire said, "in any way you have a mind to take it ;" a big knife that lay on the counter was picked up by Pool, who told McGuire to pick up another one and fight with it; McGuird, however, would not do so ; said that he would be murdered if he did; ended by saying that he had done wrong, and- said something about Pool's being kind to his brother ; soon after this, Baker and five or six others came into the place. Q. Who were those that accompanied Baker? A. I don't know them by Z name. Q. Was Paudene there? A. I could not say. Q. Was Hyler there? A. I think he was. Q. -What followed? A. Morrissey then came forward and said, " now draw.'"Pool drew his pistol, standing at the time in the recess between the counters; officer Rue got in front of Morrissby, and said he should not fight, and caught hold of him ; Pool seemed to be the coolest man in the crowd, while Morrissey seemed much excited, and threw his pistol over Rue's shoulder and snapped it at Pool, when two of the latter's friends, who were standing beside him, immediately left him; Morrissey then snapped the pistol again twice in quick succession. Q. Were there any caps on Morrissey's pistol? A. I should think there were, so far as I am capable of judging; after Morrissey had snapped the pistol at hiWmsome one in the crowd asked Pool why he did not fire at Morrissey, whereupon Pool replied that he was afraid of shooting some innocent man; and he also said that.   OoAd      TBRUE LIFE OF WILLIA;M POOL*' if the big loafer would get out' of the way from those that were standing around him, he would show him what he would do. Q. Did you ever hear who it was that brought the pistol to Morrissey? A. Yes, I heard that Captain Rynders had done so, but I guess it was only said in a joke. By a Juror-Did Hyler take any part in the affair? A. He did not. Q. How long was Pool on the counter? A. Not more than a second or two:.' Q. Were you there when Mor- rissey was\taken away? A. I was not. Q. Were you there when Pool\was taken away? A: I was. Q. Did Baker do or say anything while he was there? A. He did not Q. Was Dapd Linn there? A. I did not see him. [q 1 - A. Suydam, being duly sworn! deposed-That he resided at No. 10 Warren street ; on the afternoon of the occurrence I went to Stanwix Hall, and staid there from about dark until 12 o'clock; I went in company with Brevet Major Morton Fairchild, Captain Lewis, of the Louisiana Dragoons, and Colonel Field of Kentucky; we went into the back room' or saloon, and had some little refreshment; after discussing two or three bottles orwine we had a song; about an hour after dark Mr. Morrijs  came in ; lie came into the room; I bowed to him, and asked him if he would take a glass df wine ; he sat down and partook of the wine; in about fifteen min- utes afterward I saw Mr. Pool coming into the place; I saw him before Morrissey saw him; I said, "There's Pool, Morris- sey, what does this mean.?"I then said, "This quarreling is disgraceful in a thousand ways. Why cannot you let me set- tle it?"Morrissey then said, "i r. Suydam, I have been very badly treated, and,cannot do it." During this time, Pool was taking his supper in the other room. Morrissey walked out of the room towards Pool,.and the first that I heard was the expression, "You are a liar," and, as I supposed, by Pool. I got up -and went out then, and Pool said he could whip Mor- rissey and the thief along side of him. Pool then moved to- wards the recess near the oyster stand. While here Pool drew his pistol, and held it over his head. The landlord, Jack Rue, and-Jim Irvin coming in between ,him and Morrissey, tried to   CORONER'S INVESTOGATION.      69 stop the disturbance. Morrissey then sent some one out on an errand, and I got hold of Pool and brought him into the recess between. the eating and drinking counter. While here, Pool told Morrissey to come up to him, and he would fight him on an equality; at this time the young man that Mol'rissey sent out on an errand returned, and handed, as I supposed, a pistol to Morrissey; Morrissey then advanced to the middle of the floor with his pistol in his hand; the weapon was capped; he walked up to Pool along with Irvin and- some other man whom I don't know; Morrissey raised his pistol, and present- ing it at Pool, snapped it at him twice; the caps did not ex- plode; as soon as Mr. Irvin paw that the caps did not break, he stepped up between Morrissey and Pool, and caught the for- mer around the waist; Mr. Dean then came forward, and while trying to hold Morrissey, he was knocked down by the former's open hand, as he did not strike him with his fist; I sent a man around to the Eighth ward station house for twelve policemen, with word also to Captain Turnbull I then went up to Mor- rpsey, and asked iim if I could not settle the matter; he said no, that he had been too badly treated by those men; I then asked him if he would fight Pool on Wednesday with pistols; Morrissey said he would with the greatest pleasure; I then went to Pool, and said, "Mr. Pool, will you fight Morrissey on Wednesday next at ten paces with pistols?"Pool said he woulld ;' I told the officers to arrest these men, when they said they had no right to do so unless I made a charge; I said I would not make a charge; the officers then went Up to Morrissey, who was up in a corner, and took him away; I went up to him, and when I returned after seeing him taken away, I found that Pool had been taken away also.; in a few minutes afterwards Pool returned to Stanwix Hall, and stood at the oyster box for some time ; he asked me to take some wine with him; at five minutes before 12 o'clock I left him in that position, and bid- ding him good night, went home, saying as I parted, that I would see him to-morrow ; I visited him the next day at his residence, and saw him every day up to the evening before his death; he told me that Baker had shot him in the Aeahst., nAd   70      TUEB LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. that Turner had shot him in the leg. Q. Did you see Pool jump on the counter? A. I did .not. Q. Would you have seen him if he had got up there? A. I most certainly would, as I was watching all his movements carefully; deceased also stated that he believed the pistol that Morrissey snapped at him belonged to AM. Irwin; I wish to state here that Captain Lewis did not strike Morrissev, as has been testified to by one witness; a dozen others can corroborate my statement. The case was here adjourned until ten o'clock the following morning. THURSDAY, March 15--The inquest was resumed yesterday morning at 10 o'clock, in the Court of Special Sessions at the Tombs. .The attendance of spectators was not by any means large, there being but a slight sprinkling, of hearers mixed along with the witness subpoehaed. William Goodheart, being duly sworn, deposed that he re- sides at No. 25 Jane street; that on the night of he affray at Stanwix Hall he was there at the first difficulty between Mor- rissey and Pool, on the evening of the 24th ult. Q. Who did you go there with? A. I was coming down Mercer street, I met a man named Charlie ; he' told me that there was likely to be a difficulty at Stanwix Hall. Q. What did you see there? A. When I entered I saw Pool standing in the room ; Mor- rissey was in the back room at the time ; soon after the latter came out of the back room, and coming out to where Pool was standing, addressed him by saying, "You are there are you,"' or something to that effect'; they commenced to abuse each other, calling each other cowards and liars; Pool said he chuld lick any Irishman like him, denied that he was a coward, and would fight him muzzle to muzzle; Pool, who was standing be- hind the counter, rlushed out with a pistol in his hand into the middle of the floor ; this was the first I saw of his having a pis- tol in his hand ; Mr. Morrissey put up his hands before' him, when Irwin said that he had no weapon, or something similar to that ; Irwin then got in between them and told Pool that if he would put his pistol up he would do all he could to stop the mus ; Pool then went towards the front door, backing up at 7    CORONER'S INVESTIGATION.      71 the time; Morrissey appear3d to he following him, a crowd followed close behind him ; a bustle then' took place, when Pool jumped on top of the counter, but I judge he got up' there to get out of Morrissey's way ; there was something said by Pool while on top of the counter, but I don't know what it was ; there was so much talk and bustle 'that I could not hear what was said. Q. Did he have a pistol in his hand? A. He did. Q What hand? A. In his right. Q. Was he aiming it any one? A. I could not say, but I supposed he was pointing it at Mor- rissey; the crowd appeared to be going towards the front door. Q. Did Pool snap the pistol snapped then? A. No ; Pool walked towards the middle of the counter, and then jumped down on the floor. - Q. How long did this occupy? A. Pool went into the little recess, between the eating and the drinking bar, where he first stood; heard words then pass between them; Morrissey said that if he had a pistol, he would show that Pool was a coward ; Pool said that he was no coward, and that he would not let any Irish son of a b-h lick him. Q. How far was Morrissey from Pool at this time? A. About eight or ten feet; Morrissey asked John Hyler for a pistol. Q. What did Hyler say? A. He said he had none; Morrissey then asked him to go and get him one ; Morrissey asked him the question two or three times, when finally Hyler said no, that he would not go. By a Juror--Q. Did he say he would send for one? A. I did not hear him say so. Q. Did Morrissey speak to any one -else? A. He did, to three or four others, and I should judge he was asking for a pistol. Witness in continuation-Pool then said that he could lick any Irish son of a b-h ; Mark Maguire stepped forward and said that an Irishman was as good as he was, if her behaved himself; Pool said no Irishman was as good as he was, and asked Maguire if he wanted to fight. Q. Did you see Morrissey with a pistol? A. In about ten or fifteen minutes after, Morrissey snapped a pistol at Pool once or twice. Q. Do you know whether or not there were %   72      TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL, caps on the pistol? A. I do not ; if there had been any ex- plosion I should have heard it; Pool continued to stand in the position he had been in all along. Q. Did he present a pistol at Morrissey at this time? A. I did not see any with him at this time.              *  Witness, in continuation-After this the police came in and took the parties away. Q. By a Juror-Do you know where the pistol came from? A. No more than that I heard Hyler say, when Morrissey pre- sented the pistol, that he gave hinfthat, and that it was a good one. Q. Did you see Morrissey after he was taken way? Ai-I followed the crowd as far as Prince street; I did not go to Lyng's that night ; heard of the shooting while in the Ninth ward ; saw Mr. Irvin there ; he did in all his power to stop the disturbance; did not see Hyler give the pistol to Morrissey ; Mr. Irwin was there when Morrissey asked for a pistol ; did not see him go out ; Pool was on the counter for a few seconds ; did not hear Pool tell any one to get out of the way; heard him say something, but could not tell what it was ; saw Baker there; he did not. participate in the distur- bance ; do not know of any one that helped Baker to escape ; do not know of any money being raised for Baker, except what I heard at Judge Stuart's office yesterday ; Hyler did not say that he got the pistol for Morrissey, but he said that the weapon belonged to him; I knew Pool, and have not been on bad terms with him ; was not bail for Paudene ; went bail for Irvin yesterday. George Andrews, of 80 Franklin street,' being duly sworn, deposed-That he was in Lyng's house between nine and ten o'clock on the night of the difficulty. This was after the first fracas; Morrissey was in the house, and they were all talking about the " muss" at Stanwix Hall. Q. Who else was there? A. Mr. Lyng, Mr. McCabe, Mr. Lyng's brother-in-law, and Hyler; Morrissey left the place, and left Hyler behind him, who was talking along with me and Mr. Lyng; Hyler was talking about the difficulty that he had seen with Messrs. Dean and Deagle, who had given his wife notice to quit the upper part ot the premises at Stanwix Hall, while he was in Phila- delphia; Hyler said that he had given Morrissey the pistol, and did not care who knew it, while he was talking to us Paudene and Turner came in. Q. Was Hyler intoxicated? A. He had been, drinking. Q. Was Morrissey intoxicated? A. He was very much so ; he went out with a; small-sized man, who, I think, was Dan COlnningham; he said he was'going to   CORONER'S INVESTIGATION.  ' Mr. Allen's, in Lispenard street, to pay him $50 ; when Turner and Paudene came in, Mr. Hyler asked them to take a drink; Turner took a drink, but Paudene took a segar ; he hit me on the back in a playful manner, and said I was big enough to be onj af the sparrers-that I ought to go'out and spar a little; I Rhink Paudene was not acquainted with Hyler, and it strikes me that Hyler was introduced to him by Turner; after taking the drink they all left the house, and I presume they went over to Allen's after Morrissey, as they said they were going to see him there; Harvey Young was there, and they were talking about a fight that was to take place in Philadelphia; Lyng said that Morrissey would not have faii play, and that Morrissey was apt to be led astray, particularly when he was in liquor. To Jurors-Was in Lyng's about three quarters of an hour; heard Morrissey speaking of the difficulty, and saying that Pool jumped on the counter ; he described in a drunken man- ner the particulars of the affray; left Lyng's about ten min- utes to 11 o'clock ; I then left Lyng's and went up Broadway; did not see Morrissey come back. Q. State what you knew about the ,second transaction? A. Mr. McCabe and myself left Lyng's about ten minutes to eleven; he went home, and I went up Broadway as far as Grand street; I then weilt to V Stanwix Hall, and arrived between half past eleven and twelve. Pool, Shea, Campbell, the two proprietors, the barkeeper and others were there drinking wine; had some with them; Pool was talking to Mr. Rives about his trip to Charleston, and in about two hours afterwards-about 4 o0e o'clock-Paudene, Turner, Baker, Cornelius Linn, Hyler, abd Van Pelt came in together; Pool was then standing at the near end of the drinking bar; I was by his side; Campbell and Shea were standing there too ; there were some six or seven of them en- tirely; Mr. Rives had left before these parties came in; Pool had treated; he very seldom allowed any one else to pay for anything; Hyler went up to the counter and asked the party to drink; Paudene got to the counter and saw Pool, when he said, "There is the American fighting boy ; there's the man that whipped all California; there's the man that whipped Morrissey-look at him, the black-muzzled son of a b--L ; you are the only man on top of earth that I want to fight ;"Pool made no reply, but stood with his hands in his pockets; Pau- dene continued, "Why don't you fight me?"Pool replied, "I don't think you're worth it ;"Turner then stepped up to Pool, and took him by the hand, saying, "Mr. Pool, you must not   74      TBR LIFB OF, WtTLAM POOL. pay attention to him, he has been drinking "Pool replied, A that is sufficient,}' meaning that, if Paudene was in liquor, be was satisfied ; Paudene still continued to use threatening lan- guage to Pool all the time; he did not appear to be drunk; it seemed to m'e he was perfectly sober; Turner and Pool then let go hands, and Pool stepped out and said "he could lick any manin the house for $500, and would iy $100 forfeit ;" he then took Eve twenty dollar gold pieces out of his pocket, and placed in the hands of Mr.,Dean; the other party did not seem to have 100 ;, Paudene asked Turner if he had money, and Turner asked Baker, and they all said " no ;"I then came round the edge, of the counter, near the oyster box; Paudene, when he could not raise the money, said to Pool, 4 You durst not fight for less ;" with that Turner stepped back' threw off his coat, and said, "Let us sail in."  To a Juror-No time was named for the fight to take place; I supposee it was discretionary. Witness, resuming the narrative, Turner threw off his cost ool out a pistol, placed it over his arm this way (inclinating). and said, "Let us sail in ;" his pistol must have slipped some'-' how, as he shot- himself in the arm and-fell on the floor; I then went into the side pantry, thinking it time to get out of the way; what Pool then did I can't say; but when I got into the pantry and looked out, I saw Pool standing with his back to the washstand, and Paudene in front of him,-both in the s attitude of sparring; Campbell and Shea were near Pool, on each side of him, I think; I only put -out my head occasion- ally, as the pistols werbbanging, one like a small firearm, and another like a big gun ; it might have been at the time that Pool said' You ain't going to murder me." I heard some body halloo out, while Turner was on the floor, that he had shot himself; his pistol went of twice, whether accidentally or intentionally I cannot say ; one of the balls struck Mr. Pool in the leg, I believe ; Hyler was standing in the pantry, along- side of re he appeared to, be much alarme*; Mr. Cy., or Sirenius 8Iarris, was in the pantry- too ; when Pool was shot in the knee, he staggered across the Boor and fell over Turner or near'where he lay; that is all I saw distinctly of the affair I  cannot say what Baker was doing at this time; I saw Paul  dene, but cannot yar what he was doing; I was dodging in and out all the time, and could not see anything else distinctly, some-ten or eleven shots were fired, and I noticed myself more than any other body, lest I should get one of the balls * in two or three minutes afterwards, I looked out of the Pantry and   OORONER'S INVESTIGATION.      75 found that the party had left; when I came out, I saw Pool with the knob of the door in one hand, and a knifeo in the oth- er; he did not appear to know he was shot, except in the leCg; I did not see a pistol with him, but learned that one of his was picked up ; I did not see Baker fire at all. Q. What sort of a knife was it? A. It looked to me like a butcher's knife used for chopping meat, or it might have been a carving knife; after Pool stood there for some minutes, he fell, and said to Shay, "Cy, I am killed ;" he was then picked up and placed on the counter ; the only one of the party I saw since was Tur- ner; he was lying at Lyng's with his arm shot; I did not see officer Rue that night at all ; I reside permanently in the city. I am in the brokerage business at 174 Greenwich street. A Juror-Did you see Paudene spit in Pool's fre. A. Yes, two or three times ; he spit in his face, and caught him by the collar. A Juror-You did not say so in you direct narrative wit- ness-No, it escaped my memory at the time. To another Juror-Pelt was endeavoring to prevent the fight. A Juror-Did Turner appeal to be friendly with Pool when he took him by the hand and apologized for Paudene? A. Yes, he appeared to be so.. Another Juror,-Did you expect that the fight for which the money Wvas to be staked was to come off there? A. I could not say so. A Juror-, Do you think the policy of Mr. Pool in offering the one hundred dollars was to get rid of the present difficulty? A. I do not understand what his object was ; he was quite cool and collected.  A Juror-Did you ever go to Pool's louse after he was shot? A. I did, the Sunday before his death ; he did- not say what the cause of the quarrel was,; I heard some twelve shots; some of them went in the direction of Pool; all of them did not; heard thie loud report (from Turner's pistoD three times ; did not see a carriage at Stanwix Hall, but I heard, after the affair, that the party had comeijn a carriage ; I remained there till a quarter of six o'clock in the morning; I have not seen Baker since that, nor do I know of any person that has seen him; Pool was taken diway between nine and ten o'clock in the morning; while remaining at Stanwix Hall, rool said, sitting up in his bed, "Who came here to murder me? I'll bet $1,000 to a cent they have not done it ; Irvin came to see him through good feeling, and Pool thought he was concerned in        t   76    .  TRUE LIFE OP WILLIAM POOL. X            ,         / , it, and said, "You are one of these murdering sons of b-s too;"I heard Irvin speak about it. Jeremiah Haley sworn;-Reside at No. 5 Essex street, in Jersey City; was present at the first affray; the circumstances are substantially the same as those narrated by other witnes- ses; don't know of the second affray, nor of any threats made, by the party against Pool. I called on Mr. Hyler after the first affray, and then went home. / William E. Allen sworn-'Keep the house 60 Lispenard st. - was not presernt at either of the affrays; I was leaving my house, between 9 and 10 o'clock on the evening of the fracas, and met Baker between my house and Broadway, and he asked me if Turner was in the house ; I told him I believed he was; he tfln asked me if I would go and tell him that Morrissey and Pool had some difficulty at Stanwix Hall, and if he would not come up right away; Baker said he would wait for me, and- he did wait, near the corner 6f Broadway, in Lispen- ard street; I went in, and told Turner that Baker wanted to see, him ; he asked me " what for?"' andI 'told him that Morris- sey and Pool were ' some difficulty ; said he, "I am in .one difficulty now, and do you tell Baker that I aint here ;"I went out and told Baker that Turner was not there; I walked as far as the corner with him; -he stopped a stage, got into it, and went up Broadway, and I went down; I got bask some time afterwards, and about 12 o'clock some one came up stairs and told me that Morrissey wanted to see me down in the bar- room; I came down and found Morrissey there-Turner, Ba- ker, Paudene-and several others were with him; Morrissey said to me, "I'want to give you $50 for Mr. Burtis ;" he gave me the $50, and said he would take a drink with me; he, and Baker and I drank at the bar ; after we had drank, he said, "Now you'll take a drink with me"-and he called fora bottle of wine; he was then pretty well in liquor, but he knew what he was about; while we were drinking the wine Hyler came in ; after I had a glass I weni; up stairs, leaving them in the bar, and I saw no more of them; neither of the Lyngs were there i I am riot positive whether Cunningham was. To   r. Wild--Overheard no conversation about this matter while they were there.  To a  Juror-I ampositive it wanted ten minutes to twelve when I  went up stairs; Morrissey was then in the bar with Hyler, Paudene and Baker ; I am not positive whether Tur- nr waa, there r  not; I am not positive whether Tumrer1 w * ,   CORONER'S INVESTIGATION,        f in the house when I returned ; after twelve o'clock a young man named Parker came in and said that Pool was shot. The court of inquest here, at 2 P. M., took a recess of an hour. EVENING SESSION. Wm. Mitchell deposed--I reside at Stanwix Hall, and am in the employment of the proprietors of that establishment ; I was in the City Hotel, Broadway, between the hours of 9 and 10 o'clock on the evening in question; Morrissey, Turner, Hyler and Baker came in in company together; Morrissey was drunk ; Baker was sober, and told me that'.Morrissey and / Pool had had a quarrel in Stanwix Hall, and had drawn pistols; a few moments after, Paudene, Cornelius Lyng and others came in ; all the parties drank together ; some of them went out of the door facing Howard street, and some out of the door facing Broadway ;all the party left with the exception of Baker, Hyler, UPaudene and Van Pelt; from the conversation, I judged that some of the party had had a difficulty; Hyler got into conversation with Morrissey and Cornelius Lyng, and I heard him distinctly say this; "I will say it now and will say it be- fore any person, that I offered you the pistol ;"Morrissey said, "Did not I tell you that -I did not want the pistol?" and he then said, "What do you think of me? did I not tell you that, he (meaning PooD was a coward?"Morrissey then asked Hyler for $30; Hyler said he would not give it td him if he wanted to spend it for rum ; Morrissey said he did not, but he wanted to pay a debt of $50, which he owed, and he was going right home; Hyler gave him the money; after that Morrissey went out of the barroom into the front room ; I think he went "'out before Hyler did ; Hyler lighted his segar and left too ; I sat for about twenty minutes longer, and they were not in the front room when I passed out ; I went from that up to Stanwix Hall, in company with Mr. Edward Cline; I went behind the bar and was there when the difficulty commenced. , To a Juror-From ten to half-past ten I was at the City Hotel, and went from there to Stanwix Hall ; I am a bar-keep- er; I was there when Hyler, Turner, Baker, Cornelius Lyng, , and Van Pelt came in; Paudene was the last to come in, per- haps half a minute after the others; this was about an hour and a half after I saw them in the City Hotel ; when they came in they got drinks before Paudene came in-and Baker paid ' for the drinks ; Pool, Shea, and others were there at the time; Paudene commenced at Pool, calling him a black-muzzled son' 's    78       TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM POOL. of a b-h, and that he had to leave Charleston for robbery; Turner tood hold of Pool's hand, and told him they came to drink, and not to fight: Paudene took hold 'of the lappel of Pool's coat, and said he was the only man he wanted to fight; Pool said he did not think him worth fighting; Paudene then spit three times in Pool's face ; Turner then drew his pistol and aimed it at Pool; Pool drew back, and Paudene followed him up ; Turner fired at Pool; and shot' himself in the arm; he reeled twice and fell; witness then got into the pantry for safety, with Hyler, Andrews, Campbell, and Ingersoll; heard the firing after that, but did not see who was firing ; did not hear Turner say, "Come, boys, let us sail in ;" corroborates substantially the testimony of the other witness, Andrews, which"was read to him by the Coroner; was not present at the first difficulty'; when I looked out of the pantry, I saw Baker leaning on the counter ; Lozier came up, caught him by the hair and struck him, saying that he (Baker) was the cause of all the difficulty; Pool had a carving knite in his hand. Mark McGuire, sworn, deposed--I reside at No. 275 Eliza- beth street; I was in Mr. Florences eating house, corner of Houston street and Broadway, when a gentleman from Phila: delphia, named Charles  (I do not know the other name) came in, and said that there was a difficulty between Morrissey and Pool at Stanwix Hall; I went up, and saw Mr. Pool sit- ting between the eating and drinking counters; I asked Pool "how he did," not having seen him since his return from Char- leston; Morrissey was in the back room, and I heard him use the expression, "I never injured a man who did not insult me ;" after a little time Morrissey came into the bar where Pool. was; shortly after, I heard him call Pool a coward, and say he dare not fight; Pool said that he dare fight-that he (Mor- rissey) had " tasted of his mutton, and did not like it ;" before this Morrissey had rushed towards Pool, anad told him to "draw ;" then Pool partly drew his pistol from out of his right hand pocket-that was the first that I saw of a pistol; at this time Pool stood between the eating and drinking bars; Mr. Irvin caught hold of Morrissey and tried to keep him away fromn Pool, and to make peace between them ; he told Pool that Morrissey had no pistol ; Pool told him to (' go away from him;"Mr. Janeway was trying to keep Pool still; he advised him not to say anything; Morrissey kept talking to Pool, and Pool was replying back to him ; Morrissey said. that Pool dare not fight him, " muzzle to muzzle ;"I then told Pool not, to shoot Morrissey, or he would commit murder, as Morrissey had   COBROER'S INVESTIGATION.         79 no weapon ; Mr. Irmin and officer Rue were then- seeking to restrain Pool; he (PooD either jumped on a stool behind the counter, or on the counter itself, and levelled his pistol over the counter at Morrissey ; he was then standing in some high position ; then some one came in and gave Morrissey a pistol, I did not know the man, nor see him  hand a pistol to him; Morrissey then said, "Draw, you son of a b-h,' and pointed a pistol at Pool; Pool drew his pistol from his trowsers pock- et, and put it in his breast, and stood so; during this time Morrissev had his pistol pointed at Pool; I did not see the man hand the pistol to Morrissey ; I heard that a man did so ; Mr. Irvin, Mr. Janeway, and officer Rue were trying to make peace between Morrissey and Pool; if all Pool's friends had so exerted themselves as they did, I think the man would have been alive to-day; Mr. Pool and myself had some words that evening; before Morrissey got ,the pistol, Pool made use of insulting remarks about Irishmen ; he said " that all of them were d--  d sons of b-s ; I replied that " all men are equal in the world, and that God had created the world for all, not for a nation ;" he said not, and that " no Irishman was as good as he was ;"I said they were ; he said I was a liar, and I returned the compliment; Pool asked nme to fight him, and I said I would, " on an equality ;" he then laid down a large carving-knife, and told me to take it up, and he would get ano- ther; I refused, as I thought I could not well handle a knife so large ; Mr. Pool and I never had a word before that night; I saw Baker there at the first fight, but was not there myself at the second ; I did not hear Morrissey's pistol snap ; I think the knife was given to Pool by a Philadelphia man called Charley ; I do not know his other name. THE VERDICT. The Jury came into the Court about six o'clock, and returned the following verdict We find that the death of Mr. Pool was caused by a gunshot wound from a pistol in the hands of Louis Bakersat Stanwix Hall, in Broadway, on the morn- ing of the 25th of February, 1855. We find that James Turner and Patrick McLaughn alias Paudene, were guilty of aiding and abetting in the murder of Mr. Pool. ' We find John Hyler, Cornelius Linn, and Charles Van Pelt, guilty as acces- sories before the fact.  We likewise find John Morrissey guilty of an assault with an intent to take the life of William Pool, and that he was accessory to the murder of said Wm. Pool by association the evening preceding the murder. We likewise find James Irvin accessory before the fact. Thus have we hastilytraced this painful transaction through, until we find from the evidence that it took eight to plan and execute the murder' Thusa we see a band of murderers walking the streets with deadly weapone day and night, i    so        TRUE LIFE OF WILLIAM PUOL. thirsting for the blood of an American, wanting the course clear for themselves, and to be rid of one that dare call himself an American in any place-one that -dare to stand up and face any crowd alone, and defend the institutions that hist forefathers had fought for, and had been handed down to him as a rich legacy of their patriotism, for him, when he had left this world, to endeavor to leave to his posterity, untarnished, the bright laurels that encircle the banner of free- dom, and above all, to watch the stealthy movements of the serpents thai waould gradailly coil themselves about the heart of the republic, uproot the tree of liberty, placing- a rack of torture in its place, dancing like fiends ni human blood, and shoUting for joy to see the Miseries they had inflicted, and the dark pall of desolation that overshadowed the land that once was happy and free. For defending the never-dying principle of truth. did William Pool die. For being a true American, he died. For being born in this country, and pdvoqattng their creed, and taking sides with his murderers to suppress the growth of his native land, in her upward, onward march, they murdered him. Almighty God ,has it c ,me to this? Are Americans to be murdered because they are Americans? Ismthe freedom of speech to be suppressed? Are we to take -paupers to our bosoms, like William Pool did Baker, clothe and feed them, and then be murdered by the wretches we have fed? rf so, 'tis time to know it.' It we have got to fight for independence the second time, to sweep off such dastardly, cowardly, murdering villains, the sooner the better. Amer- ica belongs to Americans, 'tis theirs by inheritance. No other nation owns a handful of the soil, and there are no other people, of whatever nation they may be, that are entitled to more privileges in this country than an American citi- zen. Tbis country is open to the people of all nations to come and settle, which they do, and remain here out of choice. Still' they should remember, after being welcomed and favored by Americans, and allowed a hundred fold more freedom than ever existed in their own countries, that that does not argue that they have a right to form themselves into bands, to insult and murder American citizens. If the country does not suit those that come here to live, the distance is no greater back than it was when they came. If there is too much freedom here, there are plenty of countries where there is none. It shows a contemptible, base, niggardly, low-born spirit, for any person or persons that are living on the fat of this land, to make any pretensions that there is any country better, and to sneer and curse everything that's American; for the peo- ple of America are wall posted up as to the kind of fare that different people receive in their own countries. It is not my intention here to discuss the mer-e  its or demerits of the different kinds of creeds, advocated by different kinds of people. My task is to record-and to do justice to the memory of one who now sleeps in peace, and is free from all care and trouble. 'Tis sad to think of not only him that's gone, but there's his wife and orphan boy, left evermore to think and grieve forn father lost, and a husband dead. Yet she has the inex- pressible comfort of knowing, and great reason to hope that he was fully pre- pared to meet his God. How little'do we know of the future. William Pool, rntended to have sent his boy to the country to attend school the coming sum- iner. 'ndoubtedly, as a kind father, he looked forward to the time when that son would not only be a blessing but a comfort to him. But now William Pool is no more. The father, the husband is gone. Surrounded by an interesting family, and all that tends to render life happy, in the prime of life, when all is joyous, he died. Not as a fool dieth, cursing his God, and those that sought his life, but praying for himself, for them, for his family. His remains now re- pose in Greenwood, and his spirit has winged its way through the immensity of space to the God who gave it. i THE END.   "I DIE A TRUE A[MERICAN." "I die a true American," he said, And I am bound to eternity's Shore ; How quickly has my short-existence sped, My friends, I shall be with you no more. I must go! angels beckon me away To a bright land of crystal lighlt, Whllere night is not known ; for 'tis always day, And my father's mansion is shining bright. All things are fast, receding from my view, Except sweet spirits that I see above, That are clhiing sweet anthheme to me new, Yet their wordwSlea: of pe a of e and heavenly love. I long to be with them ; still there are here, Those that I prize much more than my own lifet; Although they're of earth, yet still to me dear, Is my darlin(g boy, and that sweet loved wife. See them now fluttering with tl1eir golden wilgs....- They) 're sin inl, of noughlt bu; heavenly joys, Ahnd the wortlels;sness of all eartthly things, For the bright Selaplhs lay their souls employs. I must go! for they tell me theire is rest For the weak, i\eary, \wornl traveller there, And tlsc that are clothed in robes of the blest, Strike their' lhigh harps f prlaipe, void of all care. My wife and boy, farewell! for now 1 see Troops of shiningr spirits poi sid in the air 'T'heyv're \waitillg-tley motion--it is for me!I Oh! joy unspeakable and blessings ,rare. Farewell, then, friends, dear wife, my boy and all, I fully trust that I am forgiven ; I must away, for the bright spirits call, And we part only to meet in heaven.    
         
       
   
