
    ----CITATION----
        Thompson, George, (d. 1893). Jack Harold, or, The Criminal's Career .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8043
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Jack Harold, or, The criminal's career 
            
               -"4"

"  t .

_   % .' r3 "  ,'tle&amp;  .i9T  ;,'  .;  r  a r} a,   '     t  r  +  i     4
N' FAsrk                    Y           s  %3 '
I'Q
JACK  " HAROLD;

* 4
a 4  4  44 c

TheCrimina'S' Carer
Bil"  ,dc
4                          f 4
1 L  f  k   -                 J4
)" GEENHRN
, ~ lra , tTe paiads rie" c heBignd,
Bil     "  e.                    .' .
'                                   , t j   '-  i(L
r  " *'    d  + t    e    F c.   ,¢ Jr  . 44__ 44a1  ;'.  '}u? 4  .

FREDII'Ro
4+f y Ss .444r  ~gpi.
1 4      -' 1     .  t  ' 'o

ICiew   YORK*               1J4.iw  , ~f
A. ' BRADY, PUBL~                 r&amp;@
nowih
+    "    f S,.  f'14  4 rVS jFI ldp.  .lt I

  .                                                            44

-  4~'  4

F  ' 4 xl    i
{t

A

J

;r .y'j
,'.K  s 1'
i
7

"r,. t,               , ,l      .   ,
c                       .,""             '

.. .  1Y .

tb
iN'


i

(4

1(

..........-.....-

R. M. De Witt's List of Valuable and Popul

OET THE BESTf GET THI
In this free coung~y; wlre eireryknan that does his duty as a citizen may be at an
preside over, or assist ih, the dbJibptations and debates bf Public Meetings-it bel'o
hostedd " as to the ways  '   'eapsofprpperly eocincting such assemblages. This b
tam a succinct and  ract'eal digest otthe nany3 vihttitiee devoted to this important m
tracted from the hoarded stores of the most eminent writers. A careful study of its th
will find either Chairman or Speaker "armed at all pointi " that can possibly arise.
WEBSTEE'S
CHAIRMAISMAI
AND SPEAKER'S GUI
Showing plainly and clearly How to Preside Over and Condsi
Public Meeting. With ful l Lxpositions of the Manner of Proced
can Congress, the ilish Par iament, the Legislature of New
Lodge of T  "d A.1Mason, etc., etc.'
TO WHIGH IS ADDED
Numerous Precedents from the best authorities. Also, the }u1
situation of the United States, with all its Various Anne

l~r

orks,

BESTt
Knoment called upon to
vet all to be thoroughly
ok willbe found-to con-
.tter; it is the honey ex-
aroughliy prepared pages

UAL,
DE.
et Every Kind of
ure in the Anmerie
York, the Grand
Text of the Conte
nudnents.

By the Author of "Webster's Practical Letter Writer," "Webst ris Reciter," etc.
ABSTRACT OF CONTENTS:

feet the regular business ; classif-  Vote ; P  sident Pro Tem.; Bills
'ublic Business I         cation of motions.               and Reso utions ; Second Read.
)rder                   Committpe of the Whole-objeots    ing; App intment of Committees;
howmade.       .   ,     ;of organisation of..             Referee to Committee; Two-
-his requisites; necessity Call of the tHodse-rulesrelatingto;  .TIi rdsi is.
mpartiality; dignity re,  duties pf sergeant at arms closing JBnarnes  les of U. S. House o
the doors.                       Represeb atives-Of the Speaker
ng--order necessary.    Adjournment-motion to adjourn ;    Speaker   ro Teas.; Appointing
Order.                    when debatable.                  Committ es;. Preserving Order:
s rules and usages.     By-Laws of Citizens Central Com-   Motion   o Adjourn ; Previous
-their rights and duties.  mitte: Remarks on ditto ; Sus-   Question  Attendance of Mem.
g for a Meeting.          pending Order 'of business ; Put-  bers; Callof the House ; Introdue-,
1," forms and advertising.  ting Motions in Writing ; Moved  tion of B 11s; Committee of the-
b-call to form.          by two Members; Stated by the    Whole; C ange of Order.
ter-call for a meeting, to  Chair; After the Previous Ques- Joint Busi ess Rules of the two
tion; without Debate er Explana-  Houses.
Blue-call to organize a   tion; Member on the floor; Re- Rules' of th  Senate of New
aciety.                   consideration; Five Minutes rule;  Relating  Order-Of the
e of Arrangements, how    Point of Order and Appeal; Prev-  dent; Committee of the Whole_
ions Question; Chairman not to    Motions to be written and read;
d caecusing, explanation  speak ; Reports of Committees ;  Division Jof Questions; :  ebate
s.                        Prelimingy   Debate ; Retiring   Restricte4; Calling to Ozder;
as-how composed.          committees; Order and Harmony;   -Alteratio s of Rules.
stin  -how called.     -'Suspension of Rules.             Rules and Order of the New York
mtingg.                 Forms and Form    as-On making     Assembly-Speaker' Ptw,, and
is,                       Quotationao    - +utieutciti-   Duties; Order an
is and Motions-how pre-   zens in a Repubic; Remarks on    Priority of Busines        ttee
form of.                Government; Memorial to Con-      of the Whole ; A
ats-form of ; Examp.eE    gress on Neutral Rights.        rum ; Record of Actiofr'   eat
Farmer's Club-Formation of; Con-   and Nays ; Alteration and Rules.:
0 striking out and insert-  stitution of.                Joint Rules of the Senate and As-
Is,                     Insurance Club-By-Laws of,         sembly-Reciprocal Action ; Cop-
-explanation o  h  em    oilCu-yLw           f             ference Committees ; Receding
exlntoof the term; social Clubgiy-Law  o.          frmAction; Refusing to Ree
3s of.                  Form of Legislative Bill.           rmAto;Rfuigt            eee
Nays-rules, how fixed ; British Parliament-Law and prac-   Joint Committees.
;en; calling the ; when a  tice of.                       Routine of a Business Meeting-
y be changed.           Congress of United States-Forma-   ThenQuorum, the Presidi n  f2-
.-whatoonstitutes; usag-  tion of; U. S. Senate; U. S. House  'cer, the Secretary.
American Legislatures ;   of Representatives ; Congress in Masonic. Rules of Order- drand
House of Commons.         Session ; Acts of Congress; Powers  Lodge of State of New York.
-general observations on.  of Congress; Passage of Laws; Parliamentary Authorities.
)rder and Appeals-mode Powers of the U. S. enate ; Pow- Parliamentary Summary-Rul
ig; form of making.      ers of ,the V. S. House of Repre-  Practice and Precedents -
'hen a speaker may speak  secltatives.                     peaehment; Judgment ;
when a Chairman may Business Rules of U. S. Senate-Of       at le Bills; Repo  taken umi;"
ver "'"ueber ,hasa right  the Vice-President; Order in the  Disagreepsent hnd Conferenm* a
once ; courtesie of.    Chamber ; Debate 'Regulated ;    'Azaendmnenfr and Commitmentt.=;
-rules in relation to.   Calling to Order ; Yeas and Nays; Constitution of the United Stat
Questions-how they af-   Reconsideration ; Vice-President's  with all the Amendments.
contains over 200 Pages, bound in boards, with a splendid Illuminated Cover, Price 50
me and Durable Edition of this Work, bound in cloth, elegantly lettered in gilt, Price 75
hse of the above Book sent to any address in the United States or Canadas, post paid jn receMpt
Send Cash Orders to         .   N. DE  WITT, 33 Rose Street,
{Between Duane and Prank~fOrt Streets)

vv ,J           {
/

It!

i
i

'i
I

II

--

"#
'
.
.
s
,
,
.a
9
t
R
'
.i
4

OTIlE CRIMINAL'S CAEER
CHAPTER Tjtheir tender buds and bossois e               BAlt
the Battery is the favorite resort of all
Showing now the hero of this narrative classes in summer, for there the fresh
somewhat mysterious eireumsteandes, andb e    ps ,nRft.minthe 000anyito
that he was hospitablyreceived     cool the heated ,brow, hile, e; wa-
ters of the glorious ,   Sprkld
The scenes and incidents coniprii. diamonds, in tie- unlight, r. gliitr
ed in the following narrative, arecdike silver spangles in the oft ays-of
principally ,located .in the great city the moo'. Afar of  lkea      o
of New York--that  'lh                               ;  -  - e   4    0o
,o New   .      .. mighty metropo- sea birds, are visible the sn9wy sails
-fs, that lies brooding upon the waters of many a noble  r    ,       e
.sl                    .c yring-raft, dan!mi                        mr-
ke a slumbringgiant; in commerce, rily before the gentle Nin ' andif
a monster--in vicc, a hell--in splen. anything W"re wanting toc        t
dor, almost equal to the fabled Orien- the char minir ietu-eo that djeey
tal cities of the East -nd in lien  i              rippl'e t b  4 9e et
= --iousnn s                           Z -  IS ore than supplied  theswet
tioSness. a rival ,;of gay Voluptuous strains of the 'military bndst4kz
'Pa      es. e  w Y or '  is iadee d  at  jin  "}ar en --strai
onee a Pasadie and a Pandemonium    lowed by the distance,'steal sorelyo~er
.it.i .t, he                         Westheef, wstae, s  e hyOder
W1  n te leg~remS O ;Weath-an  te tratiquil waters 0sothin  h
nverty Gteec       te     hl
p       ote   ahohr       hl    it   b',hi":eiiu       amn..,and ice are next door .neighbors.---
sg. . . ./uch sweetk hemlloaiel' °h mtig strained.
e  e80,tirhe next   Their Ait, harmonnl uk cadence r 40 n1 *,
street to the, mendicant -.and   the  Ani swell nIn 5)ien),grandeurt jt heght;
.Ru sin's o minmw enotes--now
sanctuary of ,prayer. adjpmns,a brothel.  Bu tave ais thrillIig nii yo m hl
Bu squalid are those q, a ter8 of, the      _ t"a"rde $_p 'tiin.
th Bt a, truce to 'poetizin ' "1lt 4s~
city;~hei wretch ed,8t~ryng pover- plain prose state that ouisto-y 4pe
v pa. ty has taken up its abode,; and yet in the city of NeW York yin the'
hw beautiful are those places within ry month of "a1 a iy ' the year r820.
it'  orders wh0  avbeyhea set.Iapar   t 'wag a s calm and lvely e~enin .
for the residences of the opulgt, and In the '     '~legantly -fi' lshd   aor  a
.I                            pu    ,aR    R te lgan   unihd' parlor" 0 a
the recreation of the public '-;how  hhdaotne bie houses situated on
lovely are the Parkiand Battery, when Broadway,'die rJ the B tt ty' *do
spring has-as utned   he Tlivery pf seated a ladr and gentjeuiaogaI the
=re n, and the JOung tre' put forth pgizae offlife : The gwiudeWv of khe
f                                                                           t

,
.+        i       ,
._
a
.
E                  -
E                 ,
,.
. ,   ;     _                         ,;
x
S
,
,
.
1 S
,F$r'"                                                gig,
r....r
i'' 1
.Z                                  1           1   At
1           1  ._

:1!/
J

61

a4
"           4
1
I
t       J i
:i
'r
"             "r
I
t
j
9
t
i"
+K .
S
f.   ,r t
ff   t
-- s
i
1
S
j."! ty 1.
yt

j"ACE,


ORAN

es

apartment, overlooking  the
were open, to admit the soft
th . gently stirred the leaves
.el cat plants which scented t
with theirsperfume. Within,
of refined and quiet luxury pre
nothing glaring or gaudy met t
-'all waschg ~ pg sipl1city a
most peifecttate, 4    fzw
paintings adoined the walls ; a
the other ornaments were excee
;           ap 'progra o alaste.
The lady was seated at a cen
ble, indolently turning over the
of a splendid album. Her age
have been about thirty, yet she
much younger. She was p had
- oman #itha fine fgui-e and e
sive4iCotltititenanes, and was dress
erybeeoi tingminatmler. Her
apperaitete betokened that s je
layby'brth nd positonan'di
Fy res ect worthyy of being th
f th vOr good looking gen
who lounged, half asleep, upon
Mr. flro d,   husband of U
whom we have ju st described, wv
seised of a' hapdsome fortune
e'd'by Aueessfil business pu
m *MA ' h  o- h  hadt retired.1

i

t   #.    ,i   r     t1 i4.1 1
f          '
u
r ,

BACK' hunoti.

JA   R A MOLD      :
street. curred to me that to-day is the twelfth
breeze anniversary of our marriage."
of the "Indeed :" said the lady, starting
he air slightly-" are you certain, Ihenry.
an air Let me see-the twentieth day of May
failed; -you are right, my dear. How stu-
h eye pid in me to have forgotten it !"
L the   "jWe hakeow been married twelve
choice years,'i said Mr. Iarold-" and I may
nd all say that we have enjoyed a tolerable
dingly share of happiness together. Confi-
debt of our mutual love, surrounded
tre-ta- by friends, and enjoying every corn.'
leaves fort and luxury of life, we have cer-
mi(ht tainly nothing more to desire."
looked   As the good gentleman said this
idsome with the air of .a man whois perfectly
xpres. satisfied with himself and all the world,
ssed in ie arose and helped himself to a glass
Entire of wine.  h
was a   " True, Henry," said Mrs. Harold,
in Ove- with a slight etmbarrassment of man-
S'wife ner-"we are ossessed of all that is
tilnian requisite to madtisb oinfdeble-but
a sofa yet-you'forMet"
...She paus sliddonly and oast sown
he lady her eyes, as a de  "blush suffused her
e pos- fine face.
sui: h     Tarol  went p to her, placed
w    his ariaround her wist,lind draw-
ing-her g  tlytotie sofa, seated lbh.
n      t self beside her. fHis looks and man.
sensing nor were 'full of tender afhetion, nun-
Sof his                y
led with sympathy
l "PDear wie," said he, in that tone
which had won 'her 'i ih   ffeetions
i t aevel  years 'befdre-"i knot why
you hesitate, td'declare yourself per-
ero et tlyhiappf, for there is a void within
aeroud ydurIh rtpWhieh'has hever been 4lled,
Haold au ' I fea e r ei'can 'b. 'Yu u l
u the owrn tha haIe beh idremittin in
mirattentiensi t ha veaf    e .odur
' iimarria' e  ~  k d thIe oago oth

nut fiauiht with  dishao. il
yourseJf,, I rdently deAlre childrenWlI
inherit my wealth and name--sons
shied hottor upon. iny memory 5yrthe
integrity and usefuness, and daugl
ters, to emulate their mother's virtue
and  excellence., We are childles
but the will' of Ieaven be done?'
"6Yes, dear Henry," cried the lady
as. the' teirs started from her eyes-.
" but i no our lot.a hard one-I vil
not cpll it unj pst-topass our marrie
existence in' this sterile manner, with
out enjoying the ineffable bliss whicl
a parent cai nily.know? Oh! whet
I behold one of my female friends
surrounded by a loving circle of little
prattlers, each one truthfully reflect
ing her own image, andlookina up t
her with eyes brimful of filial affect
tion, anger and envy obtrude them
selves intp my heart, and I can scarce
ly' refrin from upbraidinm that wise
P'ovidence which withholds such hap
iness from me. It is very wicked--
but alas! I cannot help it."
" My poor Amelia," said her hus-
band, gently--" I feel for you deeply,
and unite with you in deploring the
absence of that blessing which alone
is wanting to render our happiness
perfect. But let us bow with submis
sion to the will of One who does all
things for the best. Perhaps, after all,
it is better as it is: were our union
fruitful, mayhap our children niig is
provetnworthy of their parents,whops
'gray hairs would',then be:rouglt
in sorrow to the grave.? But  rv
inyour heart may yet b filled.Sup-
pose that we seek some frtieesshttlc
stranger,, and adopt it as' our own-
confer upon it our name, and'rear .it
as carefully and tenderly as if itwere
our own Offspring. ,Could.weine Lav-
ish our love upoioithetchild andrear
it in  irtus and op  ; in short ed
Caste and qualifyT rLto rifteacredit
upon. us heoreafter&amp;id fit its ador
the. spliere of sotaety it wigi h  it
wouli -A destined to move?"

I"

/

'I

'ae it in our cares, er jriiw
llc ay obtai a a'onnfriatrate f
d ling that; has beer, abanteid bi '
- unnatural another, t'o thd g1al   it
h the, cold- wo4d. Y doh a ond I .c
n, love, almost- -"
Mrs. Harold was interrupted th
e entrance of a female servant, who
-curtseyed and said to her
o   " Please, ma'aan soinethinig very
- curious has haponod;me ineanCl at'l.
- lotte was sitting in the back itehetn
when we heard a low knocking ,at th'e
door that leads to the basement; wa
both thought it was-sonter of on' ut-
,quaintances that had. come to oe us
-but.when we, opexyedtthg dogg; hoc
na'ai!{ there Wese nt a, ivi g oil t
be soe except a sma{l bndoetlatlayJ
at our .feet. We. t oinght,;'it .yery
strange, but .cagcd. itip,arg whefi
we came; to open it, what Do you think
we fondd"   .
" What was it?" eag ray  laimed}
both Mr., ani Mrs. Harold= in the
same breath.
"LA I4VE BAIIYS nia'!" auayer ed
the giijwi'th the inipdrtaue_ of d euo
who co:Amnicaes a most astoundinjg
pie4 of ign iliepre.

I

V 4
S
I

t

/
I;

1'


4f

Tr"
I, i
lislrd

'         diatis one month old, an is enrzg-
te   John."_
"O4q~bspraised!"exclaimed'Mr.
Harold-"that the poor innocent has
fallen auto:our hands, instead of into
the .hands of those who would have
coisigned jt to the .Almas douse, and
made   a pailper. But let us examine
the miniatre.,

Attached'to tle child's neck by
a faded= ribo , bas'a fine gold locket,'
conTa     tho portrait of a  ongand 1
beakatlfl wonan* ith" deep blue eyest
andsnny hat. . The  original of the
picture *as e#identlyti6t a person of
mean station; for'the air,,the features,
and even the dress' had about them a
certain degree of refinement seldom
attainied4by any except those who move
m a a here'of life above  the common
or middle orders.
"Poor young 'lady!"'cred Mrs.
Harold" with teats in her eyes-.
" who knows but'that. the story of
h    unhappy love 'may be fraut
w ith   deep aid mournfut intei'est?
Pei'aps harsh patients forbade her
un oe  iith her lover; and in iame
m'emnt of passionate disties,',the'
eramoured pair, forgot reason aust
priatenoes3and abandoned the inse vae
to   '  intoxioating soye   ki.-
Their fault may lave many extenuat.
in ,oircumsta&amp;beS.-at  all event;
teab '  whom  I 1e tendede ,y
al   yshal at ster for his pa

4'         Y
1"r
S   t  t ', t

he is e

SK

Sp now letuJitle  onlia, aroi naves
oome supper, and 'put him to bed"r
and to-morrow wo' must procure hinm
a nurse.   ;ad! T antoverjoyed at
this event, which 'has ,furnished me
With an  heir to inherit my name and
fortune. And' now it is' time to re-
tire."
Ah! how littleCdid the worthy man
think, that the 'hild whom  he so
'hospitably received into the bosom
f his peaceful family, was destined,
in after years, to make him bitterly
curse the hour when he complied
with the impulses of his generous
heart, and, made the foundling .hi
adopted son! But let us not antici'
pate.
CHAPTER IL.
showing how Jack ltarokl made a martel
enemy, who swore to bring him to the
gallows.       ;
The child throve and grew, tinder
the fostering care, of his adopted pa-
rents. He   as, tenderly reared, and
carefully insructed; and, as if to
repay them  for their kindness, he
soon began'i     xibit rare talents,
and  develop   txn4inomon  personal
beauty.
} Ten yea    passed. a 'ayt as a,
pleasant 'dra , with nothing to dlci
ttrb its" hanr on.I     Was nw the'
year 1130'a t'a      ack Harold, r
hpws'c eiad attained his tnth"'
year. .lot    e ethtest clue had
ever been . tamied of his dr pa

JACK ZAROL
rents and he had always beenteaught choice 1iowerwa which die S' iiia4
to believe that he was the ownssou oft -had r red swithu' usual care,  :his
Mr. akd Mrs Harold, who carefully was' o crved; by    ppes, whlosoe
preserved the portrait of his mother, what ngrily reproved the  toy fde e.i
byethe d of whkth they hoped sonme tilating his work.
day to unravel the mystery of, their  "Hold, your tngue, jold burtiy    4
protege's irth.                   face' retorted Jack, importinently--
In disposition, Jack was generous, how dare you to spek to ino in that;
impulsive and passionate. He was manner?      Recollect, that I'm 'the son'
at heart easily'susceptible of any im- of a gentlemean, while you are nota
pression, either good or bad.  Un- ing but a miserable servant--so
fortunately for him, his adopted pa- out!'F
rents were indulgent to a fault; his  Lopez loQked at the precious  n
every whim was gratified, and he was ster fiercely, nd said in a voice h ars
contradicted in nothing. The con- with ager-
sequence of this injudicious treat-   "Au are insolent, young 'sir; but
ment of him was, that he grew ob- mark mne--tho' the serpent crawls %r
stinate, self-willed, vicious and un- the slime ' at men's feet, its sting is
governable ; yet these bad 'traits of deadly, and kills. Beware. !"
character were merely ascribed to     The boy, whose audacity fully equal-
the weakness of childhood, which a led his impertenance, ran towards Lo-
more mature age would entirely re- pez, and with his clenched hand Atruck
move,                               him, a violent .blow in the face.
At this early period of our hero's The Spaniard starts d from his lean-
history, an incident occurred which ing position, (he was engaged on
had an important bearing upon his some plants,) and his appeanra   was
after life, and confirmed him in that absolutely frightful; his faee wts° ab-
career of vice which seemed most con- solutely black with passion, the veins
genial to his nature and disposition.  upon his neck - and forehead seemed
Mr. Harold, in order to gratify his swelled almost to bursting, and his
wife, who was passionately fond of eyes darted forth the fires of concen-
flowers, had attached to his house, a trated rage. - In vain :he essayed to
beautiful and extensive- garden, which speak ; the, words died in his throat,
he caused to be carefully cultivated, and he stood. with outstretched arm
by a man named Lopez, a Spaniard, quivering in every limb.
who was a very skillful gardener.     The boy, for perhaps the first time
The appearance of this person was in his life, was frightened ; he would
repulsive in the extreme ; his swarthy have fled, but terror 'rooted him to the
face was half concealed by a thick, spot. At last Lopez hissed, from be-
bushy beard, and, a pair of fierce, tween his cle ched teeth.-
piercing and malignant looking eyes,  "Malediction !-struck!--by a boy!
increased his natural ugliness. In per- Let me tear out the 'accursed stip.
son, he was sinewy and powerful; and ling's heart !"p
in disposition; crafty, treacherous and He looked eagerlyaround, to se- it
rovengeful-                        any, body were in sight Whose presence
This daegerous man was 'made the would interfere with the execution 4Ft
mortal and implacable enemy of little his vengeance; and, to 'his mortidca
Jack Harold in the following manner:. tion, he' saw Mrs. Hareld uiot far off"
Onte day~, whe Jack, was plag The lady had' entered the res for"
ia te garden, he either purposely or the purpose of seleetingalbequet.
accientally, trampled upon some very "Nbot now-not now I" mttred'

I

I
t
,.
f c
{ s P
r

1K
4,,',
45

;;,
,,t
:,
J
~ b
Y
.k
,
,.
.. .r

S
a
t
t
t


9                        !
'gy                "

r = 'L
=tea 't
, ; :
N
1 ',

(j. .
t
Y1        , h r
}  , ,       44y
y' ' 1 T
, J
t
^a
!;
1
;
i

"For tila was not that bind caprietous rage.
A wrd caon kindle and a word aasuag9; -
put tinalop woraingrof Rout urnni'd
1WahiI aught of pity, where it. wrath had ix'd I"
Lopez who had regained bis'ealmness
and composure, advanced to our - hero,
and-said to him, in a tone respectful
Almost' to servility---.       .   .
"Master, Harold, forgive me-you
'did right to punish me for- myinso-
lenep to a superior, for I am  nothing
but-rha, ha !-a miserable servant, as
7ou say.  I will endeavor to do better
an 4iture ; let u$ be friends. Will you
not condesc nd. to shake hands; with
ao,

entirely un
the, Spani
the boy's f
of curious,
in this cit
pleasure-a
places and
advantage,
" Butn
not consent
said Jack
the words
" Youi
ask their-
night -and
being the-

tMa aniardJrestraliin h i rath  F       illin
Jielenat effori--Manet er time- ill not  litti
gi mesthe opportunity I1 thirst for !" tiigt, nc
'At this nioinent' Mr, H rold suit- -suie  and
ted the garden.                    Lopez sul
N6w?   sd4 Lopez to hinself-- .tht bos
f  '  s  p              thatalmos
i~ my ebanb! Now" will I
. - paur.
a :.tis ale ,bt with my spade.
but stop-.=-willt.at be a truerevenge?  The gar
'o i die iietantly, and feel no pain, Jack stood
id t shall, be hung for his murder.  " How
P !haw t(at were a child's ven- old ?w.aske
gehtice, unworty of- a  paniard, No o "k
--l spare him for a grander sacri-  I am-J
floe ; Ill lead him into a career of  "Humph
criie, make him  a perfect villian, large for yi
rack his heart with remorse and his should begi-
brain with anguish, and swing him at, muttered ti
s . upon the gallows-by the Holy and then
Vir"'n, I swear it 1"a             of your age
main tied
meanwhile, Jack Harold had- stoodbutbodly
at a little distance, wondering' why the but boldly
man kept muttering to himself. The ien  anda
bgy's, fear gradually subsided, and he e
concluded: that the gardener meant him  The wilk
no harm, and w4O not a very danger- longed for
ous, person, after all.            his remark
Far better would- it, have been for fan that de
Jack had he been-slain upon the spot, " I sho
rather than to become a villian of the Jack, " toe
blackest dyes and meet an ignominious its'curious'
death upon the seaffol4.  Deep and  "Your'
terrible was the Spaniards hate -  if on are

ty,'  s ia' Jacls, piwa
.pr   at having, as
ie ve$  triumph over th'
ferocious Npaniar4   and
4 strangely as' hepressed
and  in "his, iwith,- aforea
made him cry out with
dener resulted his work, and
by,.looking on.
Id are you, master Uar
Lopez, after a pause.
st ten," was the reply.
i no more ? -   You are
ur age ; it is time that I
i your education in emime,"
e Spaniard, in a low tone,
dded' aloud--"when I was
I was not . content to re-
 my mother's apron-string,
went forth into the world,
n, to partake of its enjoy-
its pleasures)"
y Spaniard knew that Jack
novelty and excitement, and
s were cunningly formed to
sire into a flume.
uld very much like" said
see the world, and some of
thiulgs."
wish can easily be gratified,
discreet, and place yourself
der my direction, V rejoined'
ard, looking, meaningly into
ace, wiThere are thousands
places and, things'td be seen,
ty, which would afford you
and amusement; but those
I things can only -be seen to
my father and mother would.
at to my going out at night,'7
, who was much   cited by
and 'anner of thegrdeper.
ended lbt troib  yourself to.
consent; you can goout at
I return; withontl' their,' ever
wiser ef it. What'say you ?

*l" yet'to-il aebo      e e
a$p'arty iwnk i~ito
fd' of mniOnwhore   iwill'see
nany rare and'i  resii sights ",
"1 should like td 'cr muc t-biutt
ho  ouax I go *it oii n4 pt-eyts'
kiaoing it?"
"" Listen to me:. _our father and
another retire obed early-you must
sem" to retire als; nbut at eleven
o'clbck, you will' silently. leave your
chamber, and niect me here- on this
very spot ; then we. will go to tli par-
ty, arid return ui season to prevent all
suspicion. You will have soe glbri-
cos fun, I'promiso you.D o you agree
to this ?"
Jack hesitated-his adopted parents
had always treated him with ,the most,
indulgent kindness.; and although hoe
had often disolpeyed agd- deceived
them, he had never yet ventured to:
lehve the house clandestinely at night.
That moment was the, grand crisis .in
the lad's. fate ;-had he resisted the -
temptation, and indjgnant y,rejected the
Spaniard's propos-l, he might have
averted the awful fate that darkened.
the horizon of his future yearsI lile -
"a- cloud no bigger that, a .nn's
hand."   But his good genis1, did -not
prevail; for tIge devil wispered se-
ductive words into his ear, relative t,
the pleasure to be derived!from  the
midnight festival, and he said-
At even o'clock I wihi be her."
a noug," dri   th  S    '
eam of  joy  shot, athwart his dtrl ' -
visage, and ferocious iatisfaetioi guis-
tened in his   aeyes;ofor le k  qifrom:
that moment the- victipi was i his;
toils,,  -                         1
2 hiey parted':, the Spani  'd to e 6
tinue his labor, and;. chuckle over the
success of his scheme, anu Otr   ro
to anticip'te with trembling:eagerness.
the "fun", which ha4. been promised'
him as the reward;ofMs' duclicity'to={
wards those who, merik, better nob.:
du, on his Pait -      t    ord of
. Ii-thon                 d

ART  '
'F
!
Q     tt e
( }7
/Ti4                       4; ,
pR rs
k

-i

-'7l

B4s}ipt eroie  e
-ra~ fib'an  t a e rii
!Dcscr tctie' of Jdoh afirs'{ t  °W. at4D  .
he theriamet with.
Just aspther elbek 'trtcV
Jack: Rer Idfiied  autiet xoc         In-
the house, and reaittredto t
of the  a   wheiaerei% had groiet
nmet rop      &amp; S't~  paiIdS ' h :  "
waiting for hinm, and wArmly coni
metxdd his pnn t Wity. Th6 night
was pleasant atid  bi'illiant moon
rendered objects ahnos't as.visible as
in daylight, while every steep1b,
liousetop and chimney seeined bath-;
ed in arflood of liquid silver.
I$ ninvcfron  "t.Eardeii inito the
street; the Spaniar4d' iiddt  his
pupit toward t ~t it a d en
tered Water Strtet-=4i action of th
city occupied'then, estiaf*, b$yitlli
boarding houekedaWht cellors I
taverns and "h ues   pr6 i utiboi
Even:'at that late ho*r th' stt'e (ds
all alive with rerriteinbt' aid  r   .
y ; rfrothycelisr0tmanieiffdW'
the discdrdaut non~f' ba" ipt k
iRddles  - shouts ofulnbitgro t &amp;k lt i
ter, issue'efom;
Cged  (g, i~t=sh btea                :
groups of sailoi stbod hrkya-ttd
rhients  ofz    ,       t nwnolit  1i    id vet   --
*luule many a- p'?d ddn&amp;
dressedtcourtzan"fpatee4df 6  by ii
in  to latttaet' soind' i0*:64u -ih
vidual with a t1ii:Mtie,Il o;
'the silly moth, mi lidlif  itf
iarning tha er tiIt lh   ir
singer4 in the'ad or' n cotlfL,
All ws bkaoti :40M, #6I/codsi  W.'
a' Thib Is' heqm aI*, said EW6i
pausing before an old, erasfloak#
to topple and idioWatet

F   ,
!ri         ijfr
H


k i

p

ill

breath of wind,. Over the
swing asign, with a hideous an
tesque figure painted upon it,
senting that ancient gentl
Yathlly denominated "Old r
*armpd with a pitchfork, and we
the ortdinary accompaniment
horns, hoof and tail. 'This hous
a well-known;te'rn which flo
edi.i these daYe ,under the m
ous title f" The Deci/'s Den,"-
.klngly appropriate name f
4   041alf the deeds of villain,
a ,oc:ded that were associated
itshistorywere true.
he Spaniard knocked at th
in a peculiar manner, and inst
a slide in the panel was withd
and a voice was heard demand
"Now, then--who is it ?"
"Pal Lopez," was the whis
reply,/
Iretantly the bolts were
drawn, the door opened, an(
pair admitted to a dark and n
passage, faintly lighted by the I
rays of .a candle which was
upon a nail in the wall.
" How's this, pal-you ar
alone ?" said the man who ha
mitted them. This personage
very suspicious looking char
having but one arm, from which
cumstance he derived the ap
tion of "One Arn'd Bill."  (
meanly dressed, in a style half s
like, and, taken altogether, wan
exactly such a gentleman, a
would care to lend money to.
"Oh, this is merely a puj
mine,".answered Lopez, in ai
to one Arm'd Bill's question
voung gentleman whom I wi
initiate into the mysteries of o
spectable society."
One Arim'd Bill laughed hoa
as if the ,other had uttered a c
joke; and then led the way i
tap-room which communicated
the passige.
This place was well lighted
comparatively neat ; the floor

SACK IIAROL
door sprinkle  with white sand, and
d gro- around the room were arranged.
repre- wooden benches. rpou the walls
eman were hung many coarse and showy
Nick," pictures of naval and military he.
aring roes, noted criminals, scriptural in.
ts of cidents, &amp;c. In one corner stood the
e was bar, furnished with the necessary
urish- appliances of bottles, decanters and
eliflu- glasses, and behind the bar stood a
an ex- young female, whose appearance
or it, was such as to merit a particular
y and description.
l with  She was certainly not more than
fifteen years of age, yet her form pos-
e door sessed all the maturity of fully de.
tantly veloped womanhood. Her black,
drawn, glossy hair, confined at her temples
ing- by a gay ribbon, fell in a shower of
ringlets upon her snow-white shoul-
percd ders, which were' very liberally ex-
posed. Her features, though not pre-
with- cisely regular, were peculiarly arch,
d the expressive, and piquant-her cheeks
arrow glowed with the rich tints of the rose
feeble -her mouth (which was her best fea-
stuck ture) seemed ever ready to wreathe
itself into smiles of mischievious
e not mirth, while a thousand devils ap-'
Ad ad- feared to be dancing, as it were, in
was a the depths of her coal-black eyes.
acter, Besides all this, she was well and
,h cir- even handsomely dressed ; and,
pella altogether, she was in appearance a
e was very charming and voluptuous crea-
ailor- ture.
is not  But ah I within this fair temple
s one dwelt a polluted soul. The eye gazed
with delight upon her external
pil of chains, but the moment she opened
answer her mouth to speak, the spell was
-." a broken ; for although her lips were
sh to like moist rose-buds, her teeth beau.
ur re- tifully white and regular, and her
voice as musical as the notes of a
rely, nightingale, yet seldom did she utter
apital a sentence that was not accompanied
nto a by an oath or obscene expression.
1 with  "Ah, old fellow, how are you ?1
said Gallus Kale, (for so she was
1, and called,) addressing Lopez, as that
was gentleman and Jack Harold entered

$ACK HAndLD.
the room, preceded by One Arni'd and strange sensatioas arising within
Bill-                            him, when clasped -i the arms of that
well, pretty Kate-how    d'ye superb girl, and when receiving the
do?' rejoiced the! Spaniard, smiling passionate kisses of her soft, warm
grimly,                          lips.
" Oh, first-rate," replied Kate--  The amorous Kate had conceived
" but, I say, who the devil is that lit. a sudden caprice for the boy, whose
tle kinchen you've brought with you? personal beauty W- have already al.
I'll be d-d if he isn't a pretty fellow, luded to, and whose development of
any how, and I'll have him for my figure would have led any one to sup-
lover, if I don't-  -".           pose him to be three or four years
Kate completed the sentence with older than he actually was. This ea-
an oath which it is necessary to re- price she was determined to gratify,
peat; and commg- from  behind the particularly' after the following dia-
bar, she chuckled Jack under the chin logue had passed in private between
in a manner to imply her strong ad- her and the Spaniard, who drew her
niration of him, and finally, throwing aside, and said--
her arms about his neck, she imprint- "Kate, I have taken this stripling
ed five or six sounding kisses upon his under my care, and for reasons of my
lips.                             own I wish to make him one of us-
As for our, hero, he stood the attack you understand? Now, you must as-
manfully, and seemed delighted with sist me; young as he is, he is evident.
the young lady and her free-and-easy ly struck with your appearance, and
manners and mode of salutation.  you can easily, by your blandishments
" There, my little dear," said Kate and caresses, fan his boyish admira-
" that seals our bargain, and from tion into a flame of love. Bend him
this night you are mine, body an to your wishes-lead him into the
soul. Let us see the man or woma  pleasant paths*-of. vice-make him at
that would, dare to take you from me; once your lover and your slaye--"
"Leave him to me," said the'girl,
.gain the beautiful but deprave interrupting him-" I love this sweet
young creature soiled her rosy lip youth, and need no persuasions to in-
with an oath, which, emanating fro  duce me to make him wholly mines
such a source,, seemed like filth See! even now, while he pretends to
slime oozing from a splendid marbl examine that picture, he watches me
fountain. ,     -     .           with 'his fine eyes. In a year or two,
" Well, Master Harold," asked the when time shall have perfected his
Spaniard.---"what think you of your physical powers, and rendered him
new friend, Miss Kate?"           filly capable of enjoying and appre-
"She is the most beautiful young 6iating the delights of love, what a
lady I ever ,saw," replied Jack, with charming fellow ie will be!"
unstudied gallantry.                "True," responded the Spaniard-
"Bravo!",eried Lopez-.--"not a "but that is not all; you can make
bad reply that, from  a boy of ten! him  useful, as well as pleasurable.
You're getting on finely, my pupil, His parents are persons of wealth and
and will reflect 'redit upon your standing;- he must be instructed in
teacher-ha, ha, ha! "   .         the arts of robbery, in order to supply
As for athe fair Kate, she was highly you ; with- money and jewels.  You
delighted with the favorable impres- must tempt him-nay, command hin
sion which she had made upon our -to steal from his parents, and you
hero, who, young as he was, felt 'new will also familiarize him with all kinda

'ii'

WE

.l    '.
c-  t        i  [       '
ti  ,r r
,   ,°.  r              ,  ',
;             ,.

""  ,,yy y                                           i  1 a+             ]
Ott,

r.,.

m


Y 4   ~ f

naturall si aeies. ' Per-
" i          I ._.r  'p, inlyse that you hate thi'
"5,1.0111 cried; the Spaniard, :fierce-
ly"o        r   iblel       htetfires are not more hatet'ti to my soul,
tb;that boy, whose puny rarni, ttb1
very day, inflicted upon, me ,tlte. igno.
rainy of a blow. God! how my blood
bo~lo when it think of it! j.leitr me,
K#te   Jrestrained myself,. and did=
oot  li tbe-brat, but swore bye the
V iygiu , to: stieep.him to the lips in
*orri ir.. and brie g .hin'i'to a death of
t         it f stov upb  thew gallows. ', That bal/
. ;ear e not for your~ projects, or
"   yoitr ipath, :good J opez," said the gi l,.
*  wfi4Qu;j1 :not forbear shiddering at
Stl     ingiitiven~sswith .wbh  th
Sp iiard s; ok e--  I- love l thle youth,
and, ,sil; teach imnto  love me' in re-
turn., l I can pars ade bhi stobecomc
a jpbbei fcor naysake; rpsomuch kthe
bettor-., And, now~ wehad better put
ai iaI)t tiswhspertt; orhe may
a p ctrth ttwe  .are ,hatchipg .sortie
plt aitsL ,him? 'i            :xt
«' 4 h,"1,said, the Sp:iaid-=aiid
they rejoined,:Jack, who : ')listening
intenttly to an -interesting- rarrtivd' by,
0p ::Artb'd ;Bill, $herein that igiee
bli i gcntleu!An expatiated  pXQU the
plpasu eA oft robbery }at d .nnuider , nil
fth glory; t;nd oor oft being;1ihbg
Whitht delightful death, he. asserted,
c l   never 'eattained ' ezceepti by ins
di t4  a4  of extraordinaryy emartbOii
1Aiii44ia tenpoiAry,. diev= t4 Gatlhl

~flight of stairs and traversed &amp;I16fi
psg was ishere4 ii   t        i ~L~o-
or&amp;rdi iry 'scofe.    r,'4
CITAPPEI iV6
1 owisgJ;Aew Ji k.hatoh1 biouaiO s em ,
e f~, cth    '  o a  trce  ,d 4sr:
scribing the q rue ; Y p~tf tio1n,
Ii a,-sofat ofTa ts:e lair, with. rtt1
beaus: ovedhad&amp;'and bricAcsi' b nth,
about ;fifty men 'were. seated around  a-
Ioig, narrow- aleUo-1 WI'wh     e re,
~ca t tcrd a profusion of 'bottles andi
drintkitg vetsels:.  The 8' ttia4 t'ean-
Idetcd Jack' to a, sent i , no txrner,
Y rn which the entii~e &amp; n d buI1d boi
viewed to: the',bast sposbik1e advan~
tage.
The company was jjutil such,' ' b io
sa stranger, wit h- mete j itP his:
purse; could{ ,not 'ventulre a in - ~witb~
vil    btinu  loin  ceukeY~soo
,sel,: or peeped tbimoibehthey bae   a
Aelon7S ccl : Jaihl dd  ue It ii
:raze Wvan~Lhred ever this gaulg of
isdreamt , =w psoi :fieifo@r b
'cintenances and scowling ys.6
4 ' cutt'ago, ;r bb r "sand' _n ut et.
Ike wild beaists, theiy seamiPt*
lrt.qr   hal nbloodya'in#tai eic i  f
peared fitted zdone:foteitinti~
'thce qtivPei i  pailsHof thY;It1thn 6.
hai.ely-it trdr  athza dat1:i' telbf I
b1asp1 emy;'k ehlOt lly so4ItO dis use'
would arise amoii #lA-r ii 'g.
;rIt~WOulm    td ra 1A  ifooa-o
lshedi-q Iy prevontea byetie? Tilt t o °)J
Ience of  chera ;        i asb i'ii,
Iwere. niiUdUedby the ;,futits' off'tom!

feet enjoyment..;{rt
*This -,precious" Isemnblywas proe
sided over by an individual 'ho, t
Judge from his auth ritiv ° "fr4a1%
the others, ilust h  'mbeeg ~   he
of the gangS.okwa i ndeed the
case; his word   ' 'DW i$igthem.
and one IOofah'is mallet utbn the
table wag suffi en ;raj&amp; oa  t hemeet-
ig t  ~dr"a        prt~duae a prO-
f ound 'silence whhre MatI  ,' been
boise and chlfiasloa. AllIdleiees'
r were i' Feirredt to himi fob, adjbtainin
ad hi d eibidns eh'i e e pe  , and
regarded rag lf U    e   &amp;      ~rge,
1h    1F1  11    k"'f knrr  ak  h&amp; : .L...

ivi

young and strang0" e    t    ;
"JAe$ ybmr Royal, Uikniess its
1sa ' Aitlo dOsfr s to':r' f,'
.n  brof the IJ'nhcly Alian O "''
P tso  rathbt *oulik,bui  nih
vertlf ekssi" prove of" sci-vice o te e
'a118ei6hod; :,  = W  e ri -i  e
or fty-4ind, bo   i1' n he kebr a
seereb? "
'Iwill niwek, .for him,4" ' elied
the paaa4.f
.Eiiouk h!" ,cried' the Piritise id
.*A*t!1 f ***  u s.2  ..___11_

f

i
tsa,.
f;    f
.1    ,
y tr ,
L, '"tfl
S     dYf'"
.1
S     P
a: y -
l T't
i+ s

44         Y

fi'


S'

.i np  dt t hbis basinpiringeotil&amp;'ntT help tlinking  that i iid
with   feeling of: midte;lightful bey ' flne thing to lead sich a  e;
eieratii under that influe'ee ofbutT his mind was- made up at. o e,
- F ethflightsin the cellar seeted when the Spaniard whispered '' ua
S dane.  terry minetwhile thevil:- ear
nops-l l in, countenancesaround  "Coisent to join us, and thse pretty
mppiared to assume'an extremely Kate will'lvo  a 'forer!"r!"
utely and good-humored   expres.   "I agree te voyth ing," said  k,
~ao.                     .   '  .! firm ly .  -
/  'ok  asbw ledi forward to where "You are a brave ad," cried the
tiePrince was seated.sand.that fune- Prince, approvingly--o" now listen to
on-y thus addressed him;in a stern the qath: ?- :  t
7  tsnd sonian stone:i-. -1            " brethren of the.mystc b and,
Young naMii, you   about to be    i    re e's my h artt seoCbyre's my hand,
received as one of the:Unholy Alli-  '5;dtoof God and itumsn laws.'
e~mce, and it is fitting that you should ,i  yr toee  ry,
be madeacquainted frith the. urposes  I     tr      ;
'for which the band was fored, and     oA my tom' ' wbe brande' liar,"
with the obligations you will be under  Anismyhat be brnt with ~re,
to serve us faithfully, and keep our  Leases egb   irois in dita i
secrets. Know, then, that we have , Jack repeated   those: :nde: words
associated  ourselves together as a aft er.the  r'ince, and then' under his
band of brothers, for the aeeomplish- direction, sworea most terrible sand
ment of objects totally at }variance blaspheingus, oath of-fidelity:to:.the
with that institution which fools call bad its interests audiits objects..'
.iAw; . in short, we are honorable  This.'geremony completed, our hero
itbeves,. who recognize no 'law, ex- was  iipdfuded  and' seated in ,a
cept those that govern themselves. In ebair;shis breast was then uncovered,
order to become one of us, you must anathe, Spaniardsi i-whispered tones,
alemnly, ledge yourself to be faith. 'tqguester him to prepare to undergo
unto. eath, and.to value the keep- t~e, qastyatryig e(nd,.painful 'ordeal
npg of our secrets aore than  the ip the prop s of initiation, at the
presrvation of your life. You are ianmeiruebidipgrim' to;suwmmon to
ry young, but there is ,that' in your his a dall his fertitude.i
ppearance which   assures 'me that. "You spn     inot qomplin of, the
you, are destined, to.become an 'ornas torture," added Lap z--" for it is
ent to our. fraternity; ,You' will what we all were ,h4igod, to e ndpre,
Jnow take the oath of fidelity; aud} on beconiing members to   le bap' 'a
in order to test your fortitude, and" A  pause ofa few  ' ntes sucdeegd.
bind you to us more closely, yiiii will ed-a sen  otibra le  g ense tp
be required to undergo' a painful eJkWhi6 t4e~mibkd frqnm iad
operation. What.say you-ade you V4ot it   owiw   at migh'l t; mo
agree to all this.? '  -    '      nature' of the 'torment hp  as about
jack was 'naturally very brave- to' suftr." 'lad!g vouw d "he. ag
tbpt now he, was rendered: perfectly withdrawn from that horrible :pl e,
reckless by the excitement, and. also and frointhe eompabionshi of t osn
byithe liquor which h'e had drank. vilains--uthie had pIbd:d himneaff
33sides, he had read soul-stirring tales by" 'a solem  oath, tobe' e 'theI
4 , 'brigand ,and robbers, who&amp;delt asabelite, 4mnd fe''dared  t for  ii
1is  very,. sutroun4ed by pilot of life ehr* a dispositipnto reeede"
gpkI and costly, merohandize, and he  At"'length 'he heard a 'tetIthy fo6

y                f
4 (1

"         ,r
r
h{         "
4
Pv      b
y
A 5 4-
J t is'

, 5:
r'
.'d
:'M
_
: i
-
a
ifi
-, ,,N
f
'
t'
i;
rx
F fi
3  a
{ ;
6
ti
~3,

Y"
i j'
,
Y,
. ,.
f',i
Rr
a +'

Ix

step approacght giim  a     d ;rr
hi rsin, forhe knew    {not  ' that a  Wto 4a
knife was about to.e plunged into   le-, Fbe  ~tat       r *de
is heart. The  iext iiistant he                atd $ck.10 i nu
screamed with agony, for sonieth4ng was I btt ,  on theIbfl   nx"
that seemed like a live coal of  re sharnefulid1 shocking   .
was applied to his naked breast,   I:Uow tlthei dearhbotalk s
burn i ng deeply into his flesh.  his best friend I"  4
"Is ours," exclaimed the Span meekly-.'Itokt      e   t
lard, with a deep oath, and in a tone a man of ybu, by 'e
of triumphant satisfaction, as the among tlhe inembers oft,
poor boy fell senseless into his arms band of :  olc'spirits= "i=d jjie
of thank i  ,youiblagelms!
- --              the little inyb i have  n
it. as a-nedesary part of d ater I
'CHAPTER V.             monies, an4,in. a day or wyo  u
. will cease to f9el it."
Showing the extraordinary mark of respect }s  V'  ' " rmr"'iMr
conferred upon Jack Hrold by the gen.  .- :iias
tiemen of the Unholy Allianee  impatiently    shall never visit
men of the            that P     g' ae gaini" nor have anything
The next morningwhen Jack re-      td       h    re         g
turned to a state of consciousness, call-them "  ,
he found himself in;bed, in his {own  "But you imust-you cannot help
chamber.   A confused recollection it t
of the past night's event came over  Why not ?" demanded Jackii
him   and at first lie attributed 'the sore surprise
rem nbrance to the effects of, some "For two reasons :--first, because
trou led and unpleasant dreamt; but you. hsve solemnly ,sworn t.q unite
on attempting to change his, posi- with them, ad, be ftjthfl d,,t
tion, he became painfully aware that death;; and secondlyy" a ded thp
be bad indeed passed through a eal Spamia d   trnly-" because yp
rnd terrrible ordeal, for. ho' felt a bear-uppn your person, inr charagtea
most excrutiating pain in his:breast thst can  iever e effaced, t// scrdt
and placing his hand there, found it  an t e!
covered with a plaster., =         " GooOpd 1,what do you uhean Th
"I wish it hau been nothing but a  . Look !"cri d  opea.; 4nd tear
dream," he cried, with a; roan of ing t   ' p styLfrom the by' adrea,
mental and physical anguish, as he he pointed to these words whichi,4
thought of his oath of allegianceoto been branded there, with a red-u t
that hellish crew, and the torture iroa           -
which he had undergone,.the object  ',IOT
whichh he could not surmise 1hen   &amp;     MIAU BROTHEN
he began to wonder how he had been            or THU
conveyed home, undressed and plac-    UNitXY ALLIANC i
ad in bed, without his being. con-_,                          d
vicious of anything.               I  eney, ..a; ;--+- hie; deli lt
The door of } the chamber; softly  Urnim  is ada   , Gallows
'pened,; and Lopez the Spaniardren TTheos i feral  wrdN the spaiiar4
ered. He approached the bed-with read aloud to hi victim with a.1#ar
in air of hypocritical sorrow, and of; sewage ' sifation.and  k
laid, gently-.                  aid--

V     - V
;1.


"That is Of no consep ence to
-you,"-and :a frown of ,tspkesut'e
agered upon the y;4niatd's brbw
ashe spoke.
ly, hut; tell me; if I am not
alone in that respect, I shall be
more contented."
"In that cave I have no objection
to answering you-see !" and Lope;
nunsovriing  uisbretst, exhibited a
brand yre04ly  t4'r to ltal t Ope

5pquiard-" the beautitiful AKate-   llour band,11,continued he;
ah, that deepened color} on ,your, " A       b
teedk proclaims your love for'that          a tis manner, hdt
fair girl. Could you forsake hiF in even excepting the Prince, our e fa
ir ir. Cn  ou  rs       tain. The dhjent of this mark 'is
"No-I lorig to see hUer  in." shitt a man obt as it were, from the
"And.                         pale of honeet 'society, and bind-
" And you shall, as 6on taS you hini ucre, closely tous.' In a short
are peffetilyiwell *"IWill tell bu time yen will-be made acquainted
etserotshC loves you to destac:ithi te aeoretsig s and tords ei
tih; yonare yet tit young td nthe bauid, whibh will enable you to
bratand, and enjoy fully the bliss  - ec  a iinbrthbacineny plae
1t~l irag ad, bei    ove in rn          eie  a       ein br  .n 'Ape;
in bta fc* *iire ''e will  l; mhk f .t ;jetyKate,ani h e
enable you to value pr    rly the pantiousboilent as the    rave
itrure t tyurhave foW d I ir hatd i- Your parents are hot dware of the
rine A'eyedturewho is lbvelier-tan thct: of your 'haviiig been 'a bseni
gih dait-" keyed daier-o'my Oilast :night ; for, I brought you home;
in my artus, and placed ynu id bed,
"She is indeed a sweet pretty without did urbitig any one. I shall
girl,". _ad Jack, with sparkling  ee(u   gain oon once more
eyes,' and a blush like aruiden's. are ell
"Rigb   utL-in  I rmst  are you  Th eSpaniard:Withdrew, leaving
now," rejoined Lopez., " ou must bur  ro   hWs re btiops,  tit
;  to yot bed Air a day or t*o, attook. of the migAe egentsI
t8 iWno-a'edant "let your parents&amp; yspre and  a iu+bat t henflter
CWthe real e0,4  f our illnais. n"rtiongetaiuated a'l'oryrils
f    b  p sefit   idrayh et le i1i~twed  ithka bow&amp;on  !l  l6
0418 Y6 ydmust esi   l7- jbet t   omii oasem.i r .elt del   MBAh.

placed upon     sou, an4 d pise
himself for deeiving taking
friends whomhe supposed tobe hi
parents, he felt a boyish delight a
the novelty and excitenient.of hii
position, as ore of a band of rob
bers, and as the beloved of such
charming creature as "Gailds Kate.'
His meditations were interrupted
by the entrance of Mrs. Harold, wh
with true motherly solicitude inquired
why he had not appeared at t the
breakfast table, and if he'irere ill.
Although  this good lady was ten
years older than when, we first pre-
sented her to the reader's notice, time
had dealt very leniently with her, and
while forty summers had shed their
bloom upon her cheeks, not a winter
had left a snow-flake amid her dark
and glossy hair,
" Grace was in her step, heaven in her ey..,
to everysgesture digity and love."
A delicate and becoming morning
'lress- set off her fine form to advan-
tage; and her entire appearance sug-
gested the idea of a beautiful woman,
of mature age, in whose pure heart
dwelt the heavenly attributesof kind-
ness, simplicity and Christian virtue.
The worthy lady kissed our hero
tend rly, when he informed her that
he was slightly unwell.
"You are feverish my love," said
she, "and I must Bend for Dr. 1u-
pont, our family physician."
4Bly no means, mamma," said Jack
--" I shall be well to-morrow, and the
doctor would only make me worse.
Pray, don't send for hkn.'.
Mrs. Harold reluctantly promised;
and having seen our hero provide e
with a light and nourishing repast,
left him to his repose.
1 }i  g'                    ".4

d
t
Is
a
'i

birat'I
Jack~

soon made' an arrangement with -1IYi   _
to revisit the ",Devil'Den "ean;d the
pretty 4$te; anid aecorlit ly, abog&amp;
a week   fr the event narrated ii
the last chapter, they salliedfrth i
the house in a stealthy matter, an4
repaired to the secretgrendesvous of
the Unholy Alliance.
Gallus Kate received our hero in
the most affectionate manner, and
nearly smothered  him   with kisses,
which Jack was not slow to return.-
The Spaniard viewed these, amord
demonstrations with intense satistad.
tio.
0The gtme works well," said he
to  himself-" infatuated  with  the
beauty of that depraved young girl
-nd bound to us by the ,ark of ainfa"
.my .pon his person, he .will- become
in my hands a pliant toos;for the a0   :
codplishment oft his own ruin.*A
when,, did, Lope.,ever fail. in any
scheme to taste the:. sweets of rea
venge I"
Great was the applause with which
the Spaniard and his fupil were greet.
'3d, when they entered the cellar; " and
the Prince condescended to accom
modate Jack with a seat at his right
hand. A -stiff glass of brandy soon
made our hero happy as a lord; and
he already begat' to fancy hiimsplf '
daring and 'celebeated robber, the
lender of that lawless bandy with the
beautiful Kate as his mistress. He
now looked fowaird to a fut-oe career
of crinae, noi only without horror, but
with positive deUblgt;; .and loged
t  .cu  lo'ued fo

'

"And remember," said the 'rafts

.,}
- -
'  T ,?r
° .
V.

1


distinguish  himself by .'m    old'apply thatlofty tile t the captain of
deed, whiehshouldttstais b  igh inithe gang, as a means of- propitiating
the estimation of ,hisoeonlpions.- his favor.
Tose feelit s were       ongthc "Very well," resumed the Princa
b y             idh         -a these secret signs and words aAd
t 1Ka a.l~t w h   had been very imcportant, beean e they will on-
pred    ponhis pedn, forever able you .at any time to recoguies a
a idednftom the path Of hon- brothereven though he be personally
ty.-a traoif thought whfh that , total stranger to you-foryu
mark had been.epressly designed tonw that this preson company con-
oreite..                          stitotes but a very smull' fraction of
After an hour or so had been passed the Unholy Alliance, which has inany
Il  merriment and 'song, the Prince branches  in duff ren, cities of the
called thueassembly to order, and in- Union, and also inebldes among its
formed them  that he was about to members numerous i divid ials, gov.
eommuuniate to their young and new- rned by ourslaws and acquainted with
ly .made - brother the secret signs, our secrets, who seldom or never as-
words, and other mysteries' of the semble here with usl on account of
band                              their assumed respecabhility. There
are various ether minor secrets with
"Listen to me with attention,"said whieh you will be made acquainted
the Prince, addressing Jack, who was hereafter-aniang which are the meth-
proud of the confidence reposed in od of recognizing a brother in the
eim, and mentally resolved never to street--the use of flask wods-the
betray it. "When you enter a tavern, location of fvices, who 4putase stolen
or a public place of any kind, and property-the use ,f   irgrs' tools,
wish to ascertain if there is a brothe Sec. These secrets 'inat all be sa-
of the Unholy Allince present, you eredly kept, for their exposure would
will seat yourself, cross your legs, and be our ruin

COUGH distinctly three times. If, at
the signal, a man arises, and places
his right hand in his breast-thus-
you*nay be certain that-he is oNE or
us. should you wish to converse
with him, you will leave the room, and
he will follow; then, to make all sure,
you will say to him- W/pt is the
/war?   He will reply-JIkuww nt,
exactly. Then shake hands with him
giving him this peculiar grip-thus-
which Ihe will return; you may then,
with perfect safety, demand his assist-
ance ,if you have formed any plan of
robbery, and communicate with him
unrestrictedly on any subject relating
to the interests of -the. band. You;
nderstand?'  4

" You may trust me," said Jack,
resoltely-.-" I'd sooner die than be.
tray them."'
I " Bravo!" shouted the company,
hey crowded -around our hero, and
-xchanged with hin the secret grip
of the UnholyAlliance.
At this moment, One Arm'd 1ill,
whose duty it -was to attend to the
door above, rushed into the nellar-with
a countenance full of terror, and =an-
nounced that a party of police'officers
and watchmen were forcing an en-
trance into the house, evidently with
the intention of arresting the whole
band.
- -- v c nve eczi ueruye . a a

WVe have been betrayed   crieu
"Yes, your Royal highness," re the Prince-" and ,the traitor, who-
plied the delighted Jaek, who had ever he is, shall die-now, men, look
been initr acted by the Spaniare  oIto yourselves!"

44

. r

,Witthese w or tae  e  A4ta the    wt          sen W        dO
table, and the cellar iasastil became hero andtJ  hina   ,   1   ths
envelop' d in profo nd darknew.,act others  riias  up  thefrj ouuded
heard the noise of an opening trap- leader, and en  akor  t   tpthe
door, and the sound of ma y footsteps fuion cf blo d;4  resMore  i t
descending a flight of stoke steps-"-- ongsjns              b
then all was perfectly sihnt. Con- in rgf e a  tat,      red  '
fused and frightened, our hero'knew esters an a     hi        00
not how   to make his es ape; and viid and regarded         th   a
while groping abont vainly seeking which had in it "aore 4ofadmtiatso
for the o tlet through which the others than anger.
had gined egress from the'ceiar, the
door was thro i violently open, and d. tylad 17      ne      d yereli J
the p rce became ilnminated by the dipose.04        av   ou se
light , a doga4y lanterns, held ip the punished tottis assault; buitin
hands of as many stern-looking oep, sideration of your youth and eoio ;a
whose appearance indicated them to I will release you on con dit
be of -ers of justice. you give me' certain inftrumotin in
reference to the gang of thieves who
"L   !".exclhmed one, who seemed congregate here, and to whom you un-
to "e ih ir iader "the birds have doubtedly belong."

all flown, wih the exception of this
yorng devil's pup, who, I'll be sworn,
is :s bad as any of theni, or worse.-"-
Spoak, you young hell hound!" 'he
eona ud. seizing Jack by the throat,
and slkiig him until the teath chat-
tered in his head-".whe,eo are your
ennpanions--your elder brethreq in
'mlainy?"
" If you had asked me civilly, I
would .not have told you," replied
Jack, doggedly-.-"' and now, since
you use me in this brutal muanner, I'll
see yop d-d before I give you any
information!"
"Insolent young    cur-that for
your satciness!" and so saying, the
Oilicer dealt him  a severe bWg uwon

O"Wellsir, what information do
you wish?" demanded Jack, with a
scornful air.
The officer changed sitrnifeant
glances with his coinpanions, and
said-
"We have beeorie aware       thai
these miscreants have among them
selves a number of secret signs and
words, by which they can recognize
each other.  ! Agwledge of those
private tokens would be most valu-
able to us, as officers of the 14w, for
they won ld.exsable  to pako many
desirable arrests. Aro you avquais t-
ed with .he spcrote to whiel I re,
for?"

the cbeek, with his open ha .        " Yes," repliedpur iero.
Jack's blood boiled with rage, and  " And will you make them known
all the heroism  of his nature was    us?"
aroused.  Quick   as  lightning, he
caught up from the floor a;heavy     " Tn;ac ere, by,' said the officer,
junk bottle which had fallen =from h  t verity-- do .ot trifle with a,
the table, and with it struck the officer for you ape coi pl y in our power.
a .tremendous =blow upon the head, Yen had muc, fetter reveal theme
which brought him   to the grd, vsgprels volq lply,hjJan te hve thet
bWeeding and mAnse  p.               tr 4 Aq     ;i ,ya' oy -vr
flK

, , f ,  ,

4:

i            .;ii r


Vr[ s

:24

4AKHAROLD~.

know them we wit. Onge f r lh will big-whiskered, savage-looking fel'
you divulge etheml"            low-" take this horse-pistol, cock
" Once for                  it, and place the muzzle to the boy's
ear."

"oPut on the thumb-gerew, Jessop,"
{'1d said the turning to one of his
followers--J      l see if the obstinacy
}  f"this yo  : seall can stand tha;
test." t
The man drew from his pocket an
Snatiument constructed upon the prin -
ciple of a vier4'this 'he'a plied to ono
of our hero's thumbs;' and then screw-
ed it up until it produced the mop
excruciating pain.
"Will you comply?" demanded the
officers.
Jack made no answer.
"Give the- screw  another turn,
Jessop-damn him, we'll cure him
yet!"
Another turn was given to the in-
strument, almost. crushing the thumb
between its iron jaws. Jack quivered
in every limb with intense agony, and
turned deadly pale.
"1Will you divulge those secrets?"
"No-a million times, no!" cx-
claimed Jack, and then fainted away.
"1Gallant fellow!" murmured th3
officer-" take off the thumb-screw,,
bathe his temples, and pour some
brandy down his throat. He'll soon'
revive."
This was done, and in a few min-
utes the boy recovered sufficiently to
sit up, although he was very weak.
"Now, my lad," said the officer,
with a sternness of tone that was
evidently assumed-" since torture
will not wring from you the informa-
tion which we desire, we'll try
what the fear of death will do
Moody," he continued,, addressing a

" This was done, and Jack felt the
cold steel pressing against his head.
The officer took out his watch, and
said.
"It now lacks precisely three
minutes of one o'clock. If, vhen
the minute hand of this watch
reaches the figure one, you do not
consent to do as we request, the
man. who holds that pistol will blow
out your brains. You hear, Moody?"
" Aye, aye, sir 1 was the gruff
response."
" When I give the word fire, pull
the trigger 1"
"i've always larnt to obey orders,
sir," said Moody, whose finger pess'
ed hard against the trigger of the
pistol.
A brief pause ensued.
"One minute has passed," said
the officer.
Jack merely smiled.
Another pause, during which the
rapid ticking of the watch could be
distinctly heard, so profound was
.the silence that prevailed.

" Two minutes have passed, and
but one now remains," said the
oficer.
Jack, pale as death, placed his
hand upon 'his heart, as if to still
its violent throbbings, and forced
another smile.
An awful pause followed, and
a silence unbroken, save by the
ticking of that watch, which sound-
ed like a race-horse galloping to
eternity with an eternal soul,
" Moody," cried the officer- are
you ready ?"
" All ready; sir !"

j
I
t    .
1f
Y
r , t 9
't
. z     t
- r3    5
}'J  +  4
t'
{f v
1r
t%
z  t
v
L       x
ter
i  r" tif
tea
s
'   r

t
t
0
h
a
b
u
b
d
y
c1
p
lU
8.1
s
th
01
ho

I'

Y 4 3  . 7
1 i  ,'*y

MACS, HAROLD,'.

rS

;
.;

i                 i       , a
*
+ {i{
3
1,
Y'        t
,'a :,
t~ ..
.*

"Then, as the three minutes are of the ,rincer every hatuwas doffed,
up ----"and from every throat ,Cme' forth
"Fie ad be d-d!" exclaimed these words, in tones, of thunder-.
Jack Harold, darting on the officer "Long live our first lieutenant l
a look of withering scorn.        That was the   ud    and hap
The report of a pistol. thundered piest moment in 4   d's life.
through the cellar,-and our here   Lieutenant,"-. sai     rine,
arose to his feet, almost deafened, addressing our hero bWnew title
by the noise, but entirely unharmed. -" I am growing old,  must ere
long, retire from my horioi-able sta-
How astonished was he, when the tion ; continue to.display the cour-
pretended officer threw off his dis- age and devotioswhieli you have
guise and false whiskers, revealing shown to-night; antd upon my abdia
the comely shape and countenance cation I may ue what influence I
of the Pinpe                   possess to make you my successor,
His wonder was increased, wheu] And now, brethren, fill up your
Al the others, whom he had take glasses, and let us be merry."
o be officers of justice, threw oil  This request was implicitly obey'
their disguises, and appeared in ed, and the glasses were filled and
heir true characters as "brethrei:o emptied so often, in honor of the
)f the Unholy Alliance."       young lieutenant. that the company
The Prince warmlyembraced 011 oon became gloriously drunk, and
ero  while the others ero-de( even the Prince yielded himself to,
round him, shaking his hands, and the seductive influences of BIacchus.
rsoin he oslaing  prandai  As for Jack, he abandoned hunself to
bestowing the most flattering praised. in excitement so delightful, to him,
ipon his course and fidelity.  rd being unaccustomed to strong
"You are indeed most worthy to drinik, he was very soon in a state of
e one of us, my dear boy," said the wild intoxication. The spaniard tseat-
'rince. "We always practice tii, -d at his side, like a demon tempt-
eception upon a newly made bro.i ng a mortal to sin, urged him to
her, in order to test his bravery drink, and kept whispering in his
nd faithfulness. Had you expressed car words prompting him to the
our willingness to betray our se- commission of every crime and
rets, you would have been instantly wickedness.
ut to death ; but neither todurt -"Only think," said Lopez-" you
or the feer of death could wrest out are already second officer of this
secrets from your loyal heart. Youi band, with an excellent prospect of
heroic conduct merits some reward me day becoming our leader and
-and I, prince of the UnholyoAlliucaptain.  Yhat a career of glory is
nce, now make you my first 4eute'n before you 1"
at ; next to me in  command, and " hurrah I" shouted Jack at the
e rtlhy of all honor and respect from top of his voice.-" I'll be-a bold rob
f'. brethren of our and. Gentlemen ber-I wculdu't be honest for a mi-
t ti evil's Den, greet your 'Se- lion of dollars  ll rob, set fire to
nd   eer "                    houses, kill-
By this time the entire company "Bravo, lieutenant'!" shouted the
"d, o-assevnbled ;nd at the words band.

I


r''  F yF } .
, y.  - .
G;j i
,t  f
ft             ,  '
.    :+
, , ,

_.
LSr    ,JI

l' ibe dtne a gleatikti  l'reoCi:-=
dtited~ Jack,, h dil  u ' 'h the tablb, I
and gesiciilatig"   Idl --- "My
tine, shaJ becohfe cebleIated,i and
boots  baU' b  witten about my
bold de     I         ou lots ofl
booty,   u  # r d  'elsteal from my
sfiit e..-I  n  wherb  he keeps
piles- di rorg ;othbiir had pct
lots of jb "clty--I' dribfr oit ;
- t iem1flbIhIout, kill; mut-
Iwe stumbled atd f 1l lheavilf n 6oi
- soble. They r icied- him up, bill
be was 'eIsless ; the'lhiour hand
#'et tittib ohrpbwered hit and he
was in that ebidition tenhd "dei
drunk." After a short consultation
pith the band, the Prince spoke a
few words in an authoritative tone ;
Lopez and Another itan then raised
Our hit'io, in their aintis,l and hot ct
him out of the cellar. '1h-y convey-
ed himt to a chamber in the .uppt r
part of the house, undressed him,
placed him in bed, and left him to
sleep off the effects of he ardent
spirits which he bad drank so pro.
profusely.
Ah  brandy, brandy  lb n 'ee of fi"e,
hi rhaik of tunahit, soure of Aite,
040o J but hell thy  Jursee tell,
The Mike would Wis01We safe In belt 1"
CIIAPTEft VII.
showing our hero's p' rgress in love, and
describing the very satistaetory artange-
ment which he entered into ith "Gallus
Kate."

W lien J ac; awoke romnnis pro-i Kate awoke, and as her eyes en-
found and death-ike sh mil r, the countered our het o's gaze, her face
gray dawn of morning was just btu becair a rad ant as a sun-beam.
ginning to struggle feebly theough
the windows of the cbafber. His , "Dear Jack," said she-"I wai
head ached painfally, an  he expe- just dreamning; of you ; I thought
rienced all that nauseating sickness that we were lovers, wandering in
which is the usual result of a night a pleasant garden, and that we were

of debaucher. 6n looking about,
he was surprised to find him&amp;lf in
a roenitlsat was entirely strange to
him ; and on turning around in bed,
he was still more astonished to dis-
cover that a person was sleeping at
hie side.
It was a fair and beautiful young
girl, whom fifteen or sixteen sum-
miers had ripened into womanly pe-
fkction and lovelih-ss. The snowy
drapery that but half concealed her
finely developed bust, got;ly rose'
and fell in the soft respiration of
slumber. An arm of bxquisite pro-
)ortig)ns was extended, and had ev-
idently encircled the neck of our
hero before i lied awalencd. Her
sup(rb form was rec imiig in an at-
tiuds of luxurioius repose, ; and in
lhe restlessness of slihiber, slie had
just thrown eside en'ongh of ih'o
bed-clothing to display a delieato
foot, and airankle that alone would
ave nade the furttune of a inodern
dcmseuse. 11er rich hair fay in mass-
s upon her ivory shoulders ; upon
her cheeks glowed the soft hues of
a mellow peach. Very pleakAut
Kunst hate been her d'reuti-for her
rosy lips were wreathed in a  en-
chantiig smile.
" "' is the pre't  Kate - hoe
beautiftA she looks "mr i"lured
Jack. Long and ar4enitly did he
gaze upon the slunbering gir.and
when, in her sleep shie whispered
is name, he could dno tresfraiiaa him.
self' n      'o longer,-~ut~ .-idig oVer
her, he tasted the nectar of thoso
pips, where lin-ered the fragrance
of a thousand flowers.

:

1   '    s   ,   .
.      ,

. 1 1if ir
i
i    f,      rt
i+°        6t
11  vs
2
t2  r
br}'
=  yL{5
+ 2 T
rf
PE
' a
S"s

2

qlCK NZ AROL =.}

.

r )ACk i A  totI

4-

very happy together. How glad I ani' eig  ;;*hapamgne -orks,. and other
that my father, the Prince, placed-artieles  entirely out Of keeping with
you under my care-for. you were that propriety *bihusially prevAil
very, very tipsy last night, naughty in, the sleeping apatment of  ady
fellow that you are!''
.           . ~The.yAs g
This was uttered in a tone of mock t e ug  e7 a^^ g
reproof that was irresistibly charm- lighted it,,r pa etpobing
ing-at least, so thought Ja lC, who a refreshment  f     r   ere wu
said-                             constrme&amp;  ohe then r
"Indeed, dear Kate, I believe I sumed herhpl a  ;   ad. for pp?'
did drink too much liquor, for I am eral rmutes ban dernelft        L
very sick, and my head pains me soothing inencq ot  tweed.
shockingly."                        Strange ,-it m  , seemn it 'is -
" I knew it would, and I have pre- theless true, that a prettt{i,1s
pared something that will cure you. never looks more charming *I'aitwh
Don't look at me!"                smoking a cigar. When she dainly
takes 6 delicate Havana roll in Ite
So saying, Kate sprang lightly out taper fingers, and slowly suffer the
of bed. As for Jack, he did look, fragrant smoke to escape from  be-
and also admired, as she went to a; tween her ruby lips, to curl-in grace-
table, and busied herself in mixing a ful, snow-white wreaths around her.
glass of soda. When the refreshin head-when she languidly - half closes
,beverage was ready, our hero drank; her melting  eyes, and nearly fails
it off, and remarked that he felt a asleep from an excess of pleasure-
great deal better.                ,he forms a beautiful 'oture. Let
. 'ocols and bigots quarrel with this
"And now, as it is too early to gel hyll n  a  qalk    with his, if
up, I shall tirn in again," said Ka t  witelle; liralking to eopleOf
-to 'which  aek made not the slightinle, liberalit and taste.
eat objection; indeed, he felt so com-  After enjoying her cheroot for .a
pletely fatigued and exhausted by the 'hort time, Kate turned to our hero
exciting events of the previous night, tad said, with a smile-
that lie had not the slightest inclina-
tion to arise from 'the very comfort-  "My dear Jack, you and I musi
able couch which he then occupied.  become the best :faends n the -world
--won't we?  When yea get to be a
Kate's chamber was very (singularly little older, you will 4ie sue better'
furnished, and contained many :arti- at present you are too young to fullyy
ales which would not have been re- understnd---"
garded as in perfect taste, by young
ladies of refinement and:rigid virtue. c"  ot too ayou  to'e you, Kate?"
Upon the walls hung several loose r        , eager y-and the delght-
lrench prints,;and a :painting of two 'd.girl kissed hite fondly.
pugilists engaged in a prize fight; .on "iet that kiss bind as together for.
the mantel-shelf lay a amust pack ,o ever " said she-" and now that you
cards, two or three old song books, are nylittle lover, Iean speak to you
lask of gin and a.horse-pistol. Play freyl i Do you wish to -Poeaseue?"'
bills, empty bottles, made and femaleee
attire, were scattered all about; and  "Oh, yes, Kate--eau you doubt
the floor was strewn wi: aim     itn"

a
a
1
I
t
f

on,%r % &amp;  TWRW  ww4kvvv4o wv&amp;ou     4ORtnaulm    via(M


48

r, "iKCKHARO4

4 I believe you, dear boy.rYou' Dear Kate, the gains of my advei.
know that iy father and his men are tures shall all be east at your feet,
robbers-bot Fncaiendpaltry, sneaking and the proudest lady in the land
thieves, who .steal,;trifles, and like shall envy you the splendor of your
cowards depe      or men of the dresses and jewels.    IVill I not then
fruits of their' : i°nes; toil-but bold be worthy of your love!"
find gallati frlB       io plunder  Kate replied not in words, but
from the ri i     sp    them while clasping our hero in her arm-, she
they do"it.. F"  y r +Kate, as her pressed her moist lips to his-and at
eyes kindled      heeks flushed- that moment there came a loud knock-
"oh,:woldtlog I *ien  man, that I ing at the chamber door, while the
might dhaOoi a.- 'rbbetr!:,How glo- voice of Lopez was heard, exclaiming,
rious it must lie ate go hotiW forth into "Lieutenant, please to get ready,
the broad day' or darkiiht, to win as soon as you possibly can, to return
gold an  reaure by the faithful pistol home; make haste-we are already
or g li  oig knife! How delighthul behind our time, and unless we are
; must be',to creep at dead of night to back in'season, we shall spoil all!"
the bedside of some rich and proud   "I'll be ready in .a moment," cried
aristocrat, who grinds the poor be- Jack, leaping out of bed, and dressing
neath his iron heel-to point a dagge rhimiself rapidly-" dear Kate, I must
at the heart of the pale and shakin- leave you now, but we shall soon see
wretch, and wring from his white each other again."
lips directions where to find his bid  "Plague on that Spaniard?" said
den wealth, while the craven dog hum - f[ate, pouting with vexation-" he
bly implores that his life may b, has broken in upon the sweetest mo-
spared! How glorious, too, it must ments of my life. Good-bye, dear
be' to become distinguished for suci Jack, if you must go-but remember
heroic deeds-to build up a NAMi that henceforth we belong entirely to
that shall inspire men with terror, and each other."
make them   tremble! And then, ir    The boy lover'vkissed his young
the secret haunts of the band, how mistress, and left the chamber. In
.pleasant to sit at the social board, sur- the tap room  below he met Lopez,
rounded by faithful comrades, and who received him with a grim smile of
listen to the narration of gallant ex- satisfaction.
ploits! 'Though I cannot be a robber. "How did you pass the night
I thank heaven that I am a robber': lieutenant?" he asked. Jack colored,
daughter; and when I bestow my en :tnd made no reply.
tire and eterntdlove, it shall be upon  The Spaniard and his thriving pu-
some bold and gallant freebooter!"  1 now quitted the house. Although
" Hear me, Kate," cried Jack AIr. and Mrs. Harold had arisen, and
completely carried away by her enthu- the servants were astir, our hero con-
siasmn-" I will become a robber foi trived to gain his own chamber with-
your sake; I will make my name, a out being noticed. Having perform-
terror among men. See-here, upon ed his ablutions, and changed his
mybreast is the, mark -that binds me clothes, he descended to the breakfast
forever to a robber's life. Already parlor, and sat down with the family
have I gained the place of second ofli- to the morning repast as if nothing
cer in your father's band; and in a had happened, and without exciting
few years I shall become distinguished the slightest degree of suspicion that
so that you- may be proud of mehe had been absent from the house
and say- I made him what ho is"lduring the night.

Inwbie
himse
forms
That
counte
garden
" It
someth
lieuten
R= him asi
band, t
ample
The Pr
very p
you. I
ey and !
and sti
they vp
must ae
date of
Jack
1'11l do
"Gol
clock -"
go to ti nb
the tap
Ssignale y
brother;
is pers
He ha ic
being
there i
'£ ble corn
with hi
the rob
"Enta
Yywith th
t1F the de
With thf
Theo
Vas at

)s

%I

SACK HAKOLID
lexttr .4

CHAPTER VIII
our hero is set up in business for
I, .visits the "Golden Balls," and
a new agaaintance.
afternoon Jack Harold en-
ed Lopez the Spaniard in the
a time that you should 'do
ng to distinguish yourself,
ut." said the latter, drawing
tc. " As second officer of the
he men look to you for an ex
f ingenuity and courage.
nce and I have marked out a
etty little piecof work for
ast night you spoke of nion-
aluables kept in Zhe house,
uted that you knew where
re deposited. To-night you
gnalize, by making it. the
your first robbery."
thought of Kate, and said;
xid"

d.
at
to
1st'
roo
yo o!'1
ana U
0 etI
10
pa3
0
er
ugi,
_Se
ttg il
SO
Gut
hats

lishmat
was ho
the ine
Nose;'
fiery h
by the
his ow
jousei
tlemen,
who h'
States
the pr
sons, a
burglar
ceen)
vulgar
eluded
poor ai
rich sa
Many
enjoyed
per No
after
book a'
awful
barbar

tas the        ot f'geng,
chidl          ecounmry,
~d emig~       t he United
or the            gg
ece              p k,.jtro s
s pielspekepeh   ymen,
s,&amp;,b  NoheJ       "p
visited the Gold
thieves were as
from that select c le, as
nners are fom rthe, pews:of
hits, in fashionable churches.
n English cockney thief has
the fine-flavored ale of, Cop-
3e, at the Golden Balls, and
rds gone home to write a
msilg th  Americans as an
set of houtrageous 'orrid
ans.

It is now jest three o'-  Jacl Harold entered the tap-room
It s nw jstthre 0of hivery respectable estaiblish,
four precisely, you wili of thi
vern known as the 'Gol- dentd gazed abouthun with cona
in John Street. Eitel sidoral le interest 'Te room was
i, and give the private large  leanly and cmfortble; one
a will be answered by    dwaoccupied by the bar, a very
tie Unholy Alliance whoand a  owy concern, profusely
thy a stranger to you. ished with pictures, m-r-ors, and a
eon appointed by the large iantity of cut glass decan-
iassi you in this job, a ters and tumblers,  upon pegs
r your own age, and hung two or tu-ee d n       polished
.r  ourownage ad slve htu . ae m~s B ih ind timeba
kely to prove an agreea- tood the landlord, a 'fat, jlly look-
nion.  You will confer in' individual, tv osO hindentity was
tnd arrange the plan o  eafly established bj'his 'nnze -a
a feature to whih' the x'txye,'othun-
i-I'll go at, once*1 and -led probosis of' thaks'peare's Bar-
ords, Jack started foi dclp was a mer crumb of cheese.
ra ed place of muetimg If we may be peripmittd to d, tiW
anger.                aside the veil that Qbsitcd' ,he5
den Balls,' in John street, earhkr portgn of Copp&amp;e$os.' his"'
period a handsome and iory we wl       te tai twent

V'

f


30                        1J  PK HAROLD
Dars prior to the opening, dato ofj  "No-what was it, Tom.y?" re
these auther;tic chronicles, he had sponded Cooper Nose, as he compla-
left $nglandy for England. good, in cently mxed, himself a glass of brandy
order to t1id64 feb the space of four- and water.
teen yenrs in a coi~t penal colony,
ocated at Bolany i Which he did "I'll tell you. Gentleman found a
at the suggestfiM    emnent legal package in the street6  Package con-
functionary)           'o ted to eowrd tained a splendid gold watch and large
him for hi sk ilU gart of imitating sum of money. Very good.. Gentle.
the signaturg     a barik-notes.- man was honest--4hereftre, a: fool.--
W hen lros ter f #teransportation ex- What does he-do? Goes and adver
pied, C+pp    Nose  wkd had man- ties watch and money in newspaper.
aged to serdape'tgether some money, Calls on owner to prove property, and
came to America, settled in New York take it way. Joe Bragg sees adver-
nd opened the Golden Balls in Johi tisement.  Rubs his eyes.  Thinks
street, for the accommodation of the deeply. 'I have it!' says.Joe-' I'll
fraternity of genteel pickpokets and be the owner.' Very good. Joe goes
thieves-by which arrangement he to gentlemans Tells him  he lost a
was rapidly umn ing money' Altio' a watch and money. 'tDescribe them,'
great vifl.iin, he was witdal a ver says gentleman. 'Silver watch and
pleasant flow, shrewd arid good-na- ten dollars in- coppers,' says Joe.-
tured : and a huge favorite with the Uentleman laughs like the devil.-
jovial' rascals who fiequented.his bar. 'Nothing like it, my friend,' says he.

The bar-room was furnished with an
ozen or more marble tables, at which
were seated a dumber of flashiil,
dressed men, who were smoking
and sipping ale from silver mugs.
The reader may wonder that mnme
host should have trusted such vain
able vessels among such dishonest
genth-men ;: but we beg to observe
that-.
' Rogues that they were, themselves they woul,
not ro.b ; -
Vice i   a  n the h'a t enne virtue always leaves-
And, th' they'd tmkank the public for'a Job.
They 'rn t themselves, were honorable
"I say, Nose," cried one of th
company, add essing the landlord
and abreviating his tite,-" did
,ou hear about the rum lark b3
which Joe Bragg made a thousand
dollars the other day ?"
The speaker was a dashing pick-
pocket, called Fnglish Tom, a splei-
did looking fellow, remarkable for
the brevity of his sRetencea,

lHundred times that amount  IDia-
mond watch.    Over seven hundred
dollars in money.' Joe looks surpris-
ad. ' Ah?' sayshe-,i never-hadso
much property to lose. Wonder who
ost it?  I'm a watchmaker by profes-
sion. , Can tell you what it's wogith in
a jiffy * Gentleman says-' No, ob
jection to showing it to you, sir '1ro-.
duces watch and meney, all packed up
in a box together.  JoJ 0tkes partic-
Filar notice of the money.  $yes seen
(as a hawk's. Takes watch, examines
it, opans it, and ponders over it. Says
he at last-. Splendid article.  Worth
two hundred and fifty. Hope the ,own-
er'll get it. Too much to lose. 'Thank
you.   Good day.'    Joe goes home,
puts on a black suit, white cravat. and
gray wig. Looks just like ,an old par-
son.  Then goes to gentleman. 'Sir,'
says he--' 1 have lost a watch and sum
of money, and see by an 'advertisement
--------' and 's9 forth.'  I)eseribo
property,' says gertleim.nvery polite.-
ly. Joe describes watch to a hair,
maker, number and all.  Telkb exact-

;        Iy what
in, witi
describ
'Let n
sir. EH
cept of
fit of g
victim-
me fifty
tisem en
chuckle
says vice
of addre
em Bro
off his
Joe ibP
himself
wasn't i

kind of a bo* it *as paked
the money. Also very nearly
s money. Says gentlernian-.-
e congratulate youurmy dear
era is your property.' 'A--
some reward,' says Joe, in a
nerosity. ' Not a cent,' says
-' unless you choose to give
cents, the cost of the adver-
,.' Joe planks the half, and
to himself. ' MAy I inquie,'
Lim-' whom I have the honor
ssing?' ' The Reverend Don-
in,' says Joe. Victini takes
hat, and -mkes a loi bow.
:es another low bow, and takes
off. Pretty well done, Nose.

"1 Ay ,a bloody cool game, dom'd
if it vasn't," responded Copper Nose.
laumgliin heartily, and wiping the per.
spiration from his shining face.
During this recital, our hero way
standing at one of the wind'avs of the
tap-room, engaged in examining the
company; but all were entire stran-
gers to him. While wondering if tw
person whort he came to seek wes
present, ah individual entered whom-
appearance instantly satisfied Jack
that he was his destined companion iii
the contemphted robbery.

The new comer was a youth of ap
parently the same age as our hero-
and an uncommonly handsome young
fellow he nas, with fine features, fair
codnplexioni, an abundance; of curly
hairy and very graceful form. Hi.
dress was elegant, and appropriate to
his years; and .his whole appearance
was singularly prepossessing. Having
seated himself at a solitary table, he
called for a glass of wine; and while
sipping it, he surveyed the company
with a careless, ha ghty glakee.  For
a moment his eyes rested  yoh Jack
Harold; but they were inst ntly with-
drawn, and he took no furt er notice
of him.

" i :nst b the; one AIth look-
ing for," said= Jack-to himsIlf-6." L6-
per said that the,, ew pal *hoti-i was
to meet, was about ity-owri' age:.At
all events, li     the- private sig"
I  1f er o ed his legs
arelcs l ,          euh ,. hride.  I n.

"know not, exadly," was the
reply.
They instantly shook blinds, and
exchanged  the secret grip  of the
band.
"I greet you, brother," said theK
stranger youth, and throwing his arms
around Jacks's neck, he kissed him.
They thin walked off ar ii am,
engaged in earnest Conversation.
CHAPTER IX.
Setting forth the patticulvs of bur 'hero's
first step in crime. and describing the
unyleasant consequences tiisor'f.
Every necetsaty arrangement was
made, that after-noon;b'et*Ce  Jack
[larold and the stranger youth, in re-
ference to the contemplated robbery.

An hour after midnight, our hero
Cautiously adinitted 'is new friend
into the house, and conducted hin to
the door of the sleeping apartment
wherein Ur a'id   i  . HarolA were
buried in profound slumber.
The two youths enteod the clam-
ber, softly approached taeAed, and br
the dim light of a lamp that was bura

l .1 1 (
. ,  " '

y
M-, S


f

JACE HAROLD.

JAK HAROe.

lag upon a side table, satisfied .hem-,small iece of paper, folded like it
selves that the ivorthy couple were in-note, had dropped from the package
deed soundly.asleep.  Jack exaainedtoy the carpet.  He picked it up,
the pockets; of A pair of pantaloons, opened it, and to his intense astonish-
that were placed upon a chair, and ment, read the following words:-
drew forth a bunch of keys.
MEMIORANDUM.
"All-tight, pal, $esid he, in a
whi er--" these keys will open the!" On the evening of the twentieth day
doo. of myfatheit ' study and also or May, in the year 18:0, a male infant
y   f   y w 1: left at the door, around whose Deck
the desk whergir6 e keeps his cash. suspended this portrait and attached
Remain  here until I return, and if to whose dress was the piece of paper en-
anything happen, give the alarm."  ve opcd in this note."
he young    ranger remained in    Jack examined the piece of paper
the chamber, and kept watch over the referred to, and read these words,
slumbering couple, while Jack ascend- which were written in a delicate
ed the stairs, and repaired to the female hand:-
study.G                                   peple for the love of HTeave's

Our hero had' in his possession a
piece of candle, and the means of
procuring a light. These he put into
inmediate use, and then entered the
room, which was fitted up as a; library,
and was employed by Mr. Harold as
a quiet and convenient retreat, when!
he wished to read, or transact private
business.
Approachinga desk, Jack selected
a key from the bunch, and unlocked
it without difficulty. He then opened
a small compartment in the desk, and
to his inexpressible delight, found a
considerable sum of money in bank
notes and gold. These he quickly
transferred to his pockets, and then
began to examine the contents of va-
rious small drawers, in one of which
he discovered a sealed package.
"We'll soon see what this con-
tains," thought Jack; and breaking
it open, a fine gold locket was reveal-
ed to his gase, enclosing the portrait,
of a young and beautiful female, with
deap blua eyes and sunny hair. At-
tachod to the locket was a faded rib-
bon.

sweet charity, care for and cherish this
innocent h ,, ani evsit not u poo its head
the sins of its unhappy parents. Around
its nock will be found suspended the
portrait of its mother, who may one day
claim the offspring of her unholy love.
the infant is one month old, and is chris-
tened John."
" Heavens!" thought Jack-"these
papers must allude to me!" And he
continued the perusal of the first note
which he knew to be in th     hand-
writing of Mr. Harold:--
" We clefermined to cherish and rear the
infant, having no children of our own.
Upon hinm tve estowed the name of John
larold, and never having revealed to him
he mystery attending his introduction to.
ur fiumilf, he fancies himself to be our
twn son-i belief tnat we have ever care-
uily encouraged. The portrait and the
note which accompanied it, we preserve in
the hope chat they may one day lead to
the discovery o his true parent R
HENRY IIAROLQ,
AM ELIA IlAROLD.
"Written in May, 18 .0, when the child
was exactly ten years old."
" Good God!" then they are not
my parents, and I am of unknown ,and
infamous birth!"

W l.de wondering whose likeness  Such was our hero's exclamation
this could be, cur hero noticed that auwhen he had completed his examia

33

r t e. 'n
FF  ' ti
r   )
i
_ ;  .
;4
:   ". 5,'
' ..
:..
.y  E
*"
,1  +'F
r
r4
4                          '
S
L,
u                                   1
1
i                                   '
{
i
I
:.
1
A
y i
i
1
1
t
a
,1 y
,
;  (,
,
1 b
ti
;                                _
A
5
Ny
.

32

tion of these documents, to him so   We have before spoken of Mrs.
astounding.                        HarOld as a very handsome wonias
astuin, Ity-a fact which our ?hero had never
a Well, I amglad tay arenf particularly observed, as long as ho
my parents, after al?  he remark  supposed her to be his motheryfor one
after musing for awhile in silehee. " I is apt to be yeyy d lR, perception in
can now rob them without feeling an reference to t  nehti or personal
atom of self-reproach. It has often good qua      ,de sa rtives. But
been to me a matter of astonishment, ao           tvor Ier"as sl;lay
that a young devil, as 1 am, should in soft syd       abJhe    uld
be the son of such respectable people. not help aniuaredbe,
The mystery is nowexplae-          ty, as set fortl        eding fair-
The~ty as st" orti                         ~    edn     ar
He gazed long and earnestly upon ness of her-eoin      apd the full
the  portrait, and  thus  soliloquized:y-  development  ' prhe t e sa
"This, then, is the likeness of my dressing his young companion in a
mother-how beautiful she must be; whisper
is she still living? and who is, or  "      Fo!-don't stop to amir  er
was, my father?    These questions rettiness,but steal - her key!
cannot be answered, at present; but prettnes      ofhe ker ywas
I'll keep these things in my ose- the stern response of the other youth,
i'l  and the  tms       ad mses and a purple tint, very like the,bue of
sion, and they may some day aid m jealously, mantled upon his smooth'
in clearing up the mystery.   And air cheek.
now to rejoin my new pal."
" Damn the key-I can't find it!"
He found the youthful stranger still cried Jack, aloud; for his rage over-
on watch, in the chamber where he came his prudence.
had been left.                       Instantly did he repent of his rash-
" Has everything been quiet?" ask- ness; for to his horror, the lady awoke,
ed Jack.                           opened her eyes, and gave utterance
to a long, loud scream,
"Still as a mouse," was the reply. " The game's up-fly for your life!"
a                   .   riedthe stranger youth; and the
"Good! I have made a thundering cried ty  angoers outhedt   the
bot  upstirs  an  aso  adeantwo yoting robbers rushed to the
asoty up stairs, and also made an chamber door, and plunged madly
astowshig diseevery, which you shall down the stairs.  They might easily
krs. heear     I e an-for it eemhave made their escape from   the
Mrs. Harold, I mean-for it seems house, but for the unlucky circut-
that she is not my mother-keeps her stance th t Jack, in the trepidation of
jewelry i yonder desk, which she the moment, and also in consequence
cals hr  crlv- r, te ey s enethof the darkness of the' hall, could not
her pillow. Now for it!"          find the bolt which secured rthe street
This dialogue was of course con- -door
ducted in low whispers. Jack went    " Hell's fury-all is lost!" cried
16 the side of the bed on which the Jack, as.Mr. Harold 'appeaed at the
lady was sleeping, cautiously insinu- head of the stairt-3krayed in his
ated his hand under -Ler pillow, and night-clothes, and b  "in his left
began to feel for the key he was in hand a lightedlau n    e his right
search of.                        grasped a pistol.


34   )AUOD                                                                      AC  IHAROLD.                       Sb

.or

lriibert   ;~
W   Ur. tfared 'dok 'a dtdly aim at
the bydYouth, and pressed the trig-
ger of the pistol; but ere the deadly
contents ofthe weapon could     be
poured forth, the stranger youth, who
d. been standing in a place of comi-
rative safety out of the range of the
, threw himself before our hero,
t as the loud report awoke a hun-
' -  red eehuoes in the holl.
Tha   God! I have saved you;
dear Jack!" said the stranger, faintly,
as he fell to the floor, weltering in his
blood.
sack raised ,lte gallant youth in his
arms, and endeavored to stop the
blood that was fast ebblng from a
wound in his shoulder.
"IOh, why," he cried, passionately
--" why have you done this?   Why
should you saeifice your life, to save
mine?"' And tears gushed from his
eyes, as he spoke.-
".seap-,-quick, SyI   Leave we
to ry "a."
*." Never I'l ,avenge your death
Thut tell me your name, that I may
ever gratefully remember you for :this!
deed of s lf-saciic ing devotion.
.Dnring the utterance of these kur-
ted .fors, Jack had loosened ,the
o ng ty mnger's .vest., Perceiving that
;e s1 gre  shprt, and finally ap-
peared to ceasoaltogtber, osr hero
hrust hi hand into the breast ofj

th, 16 0
I beat.
with an

He I~~~4-Jt1 is a
" Yes, ear Jack,-it i
,dear Ite I' murmured
e girl, falling back inse
Mr. Harold was a e
this singular scene.  I
scended the stairs, andy
on with a countenance
der.'
It is impossible to d
grief of our hero, on find
devoted'friend was no
Kate, to whom he was (
tched.--Tihrowing him
her IMeceding forn, and
pale lips, lhe ,ried in .ac
most piercing grief,
"Oh, Kate-my darlth
Scarce had I heard the nm
voice, and tasted the s
those lips, when you arec
me, cold in death ! And
for 'me-ah, my God I
much-to much 1"
" Come, sir," said I
sternly -- " there has
enough of play acting.
explain how you came t
ed in this, rascally affair
night robbery 1"
Jack arose to his fee
fronted.the speaker with
ally blazing with scorn,
* I~ehiold your work 1'
pointing &amp; the fornm
" sanctified, smooth, oily
you are, behold it! -Nc
old nmrvid ; I have tlhic
covered that you are no
--have in my veins n
blood to restraint me fro
jours I You shall bitel
for this deed "
" Wretched, ungrate
have been to you a friend

.er to fael if
suddenly he
xchIugJation
s your own
he disguis.
risible.
ectator of
e had de-
as looking
ull of won-
.scribe the
ng that his
other than
tiongly at-m
m elf beside
kissing the
eut of the
g Kate 1--.
sic of youm
eetness of
laid before
then to die
it is tuo
tr. Harold,
been quito
Get up and
be involv-
this mid-
t, and con-
eyes liter-
and hatred.
lhe cried,
of Kate-.
villain that
w hear me,
:night dis.
a my fasterr
o kin.led
m shedding
edustgez,
ul boy, I
i-but now

. cast you off forever. Toa have to-  Th  watoinan 'laughed bolster
i. ght forfeited all claim to my pro- ouett'aihis ewn wit; and the res
tr etion ! - go, pursue --  a£ own laugtid beeauseAsdid:
couArse. I wash my han  =4t   ur            t
future fate. I)ut first, iceft r0 he ,  If the fad, or  , a, ems
prperty of which you have i obb d  be, Idead             r lic
deedsj'laid  '              na
while," ta''   ~   a     4leanr
Never !-neither will Igo until vi;f
I get a taste of the venigeanice I
shah hereafter drink deeply of 1"  This su                acted
Wih these words the desperate, "on
youth sprang upon Mr. Itareld. who, last, while
totally unprepared for the attack, t ts were
was borne to the ground. The tihedmoney     ic           uroi
struggle was, however, of but brief'te d i   .
duratibiu; Mr. Harold being a pow- and also te portrait of h s  ,  te-
fl m     rn astered thebo  with with the accompanying doe uient

comparative ease, and, his anger be-
ing now thoroughlyy aroused, he call-
ed loudly tor the watch.
The watch soon made its appear-
ance., in toe person of two or three
portly Dog berries, who demanded in
gruff tonew the cause of the tumult ?
By the way, watchmen always
speak in gruff tones, for they very
properly think -it beneath ther- to
speak with civility to any one ; such
is the digniuy of a high office I
This felkw, and his companion,
whom   I have shot," replied Mr.
aold, "have ,been robbing this
huoso; and if you search them, you
will doubtless find snflicierit evidence
of their guilt to wairant you in tak.
,ng thepr ito custody."
"Wery good, sir," said one who
constituted himself the spokesman
of the party, and who certainly nev-
er was in danger of being hung for
his -good looks, as the -saying is-
werrygood, sir ; but it seems to
me that "one o' these here young
chaps is already in the custody ,of
0111 Nick, for he's as dead as a amok-:
ed 1herag."

''         ..   c
4;'           1,'
+    , :.
Y 7 .    ' ..,.'rt:
5 ,
E
;  ,
;Y,
m
l   ,

"Iere's evidence enough to han
the young :scamp, if justice t
done him," said the head watchn}an,
exultingly-for m-nih ~   Lofl 's l=
are esevr more delight ,than whcn
there is a ftir prcspgt of mte  ,d   T
stroy ing a poor deyil Eby. a Wdp
oy of evideuce©
"You may retain theprtraI' of
your mother, Joh n,"  Mi  ir. liar.
old, addressing our hero-    ave
no desire to deprive yQu of etpcs
iible means of 4iscoyering her at
some fat me da jjfteryou stall haw
paid the forfeit _OLyour ine.
Jack Teplied net, save by. look
contempt.  Then, turning' to the
wakhmuna, he irmploied them to pon.
voy 'the .bedy of Kateto -some place
where medicsI assistuce could be
rendered, provided that lifeyas not
extinct.
" Ayer aye, shesahall be %tten ed '
to,, never fear, 'oupi  chap s * id
o e of the n          na      dll
t ke her to the.;uch house aid
t a  send ieredooV'
ack was now Ji4         4 .aud
they were albout a)1 g     awdy,

I..

i    " ,         -
f       4  Y  ti
Y  3,
. i  ,R

lb

di Z4
S {3 ,,1IAfOT4D.

34


.w

4a
O)

t +1CK HAROLD.

when Mrs. arold nuieodown st-rs,
and with,;streaning eyes entIgated
them to release the young prisoner.

is yet but ,chit," sobbed the ex-
cellent lad   o, do -qt take him
to pis u, t vjltiii him forever !
I wili.  re ponei #l  for his micure
koodBendia
"Can't a  trtintrupted
one °ofithe :wt mo'i, n.a"tone ol
rough respect At'rs a;bad offense,
and we mup hld onoun."
"Henry,and the iidy appealing
to her husband -   i nterpose with
these= men for the poor boy's *
RVs usbless, Amelia," said Mr.
tarold, tenderly, but flrmly.-" this
crime indicates so much innate d.-
pravity in him, that I never conil;
trust huni again. It would be doing;
society an injustice, to suffer such
a depraved being to go unpunished.
His insolence alone to me, his ben
efactor and friend, deserves severe
chastisemei ;t, -ually, as he isitow
in the handsofttbofficers of justice
his release is. togetherr out of thc
question "

ii
U
t-
I!

,0"

Jack Harold was visibly affected
by the good lady's grief on his ae-
count, nd strove to'utter some
wordjf comfort. At last she was
able to. sid him farewell with a tole-
table ,degree of composure, and to
assure him of her ear.-fil attention
to his wants, while in prison, await.
ing trial.
Our hero was duly escorted to
he watch-house, while two of the
guardians conveyed the senseless
form of Kate to the same agreeable
resort. Here we leave them for the
present.

CHAPTER X.

Showing the hero of this narrative in a
" tight fix," and showing also how he got
out of it.
An old newspa per, dated 20 years
ago, (1830) which invaluable doeu-
ment is now in our possession, con-
tains the following, among other
items of criminal intelligence:-
John, otherwise Jack Harold, was
found guilty of an extensive rob.
bery from the premises of his adopt.
ed father, Henry Harold, Esq., gen-
tieman; .at the intercession of the
.prosecuo rAIn  consideration of
the ex±rnoyouth of the prisoner,
he was sent to the House of Refuge
for Juvenile Delinquents, there to
remain until he attains his majority,
or until his good behavior will war-
rant the overseers in binding him as
an apprentice to some useful trade.
"The prisoner, although a lad of
4n extremely preposessing appear.
~nee, is a, most hardened young
dog ;' for on receiving his sentence,
he had the audacity to makelseveral
very insulting remarks to the bench,

among other thiitigs, that he wE
have the felicity oftdanq'ng (o
K     something else still; more din
ful).upon the grave of the T
presidig Judge, when 'Ifi
should be gathered unto his
On being ordered to keep silt
the clerk of the court, he expr
strong desire to "punch" that
able functionary  "in  the1
and while being removed lo
he at ending.officer, he indulge
pugili tic encounter with that
citizen, who is unfortinately o
personal powers-blacking h
and seriously damaging his nc
is to be hoped that a long un
meat will tend to the reform
this desperate young reprobat
And now, reader, havmn sa
posited master Jack within t
of an institution especially d
for the reformiadon 'of such j
rascals as he, we might with
show of propriety leave him
fate, and close our narrative a
trusting that subsequent goo
viour on his part might enable
avoid the ignominious end
out for him by his particular
and tutor, Lopez the Spaniar
it will, be recollected, had sw
bring him to the gallows.
But we have undertaken a ta
must accomplish it. Moreover,
on our part with reference to tl
career of our hero, canne14
eventual destiny, So we shall
ue to follow his desperate fo
until the end.
What fate Imnposes, man must needs a
It boots tot to resist both wind and tide.
The House of Refuge for Ji
Deinquents was, as its name i
a sort of penitentiary, devoted
sively to the imprisonment of4
era wnose extreme, youth .re
them improper subjeetasfor c
meat with older felons. The
line of the institution was' exc
1         3

would   t. l    re,he convicted urcins were
r doig g pt atthe hati Jat: labor, and the
1   "al'gbtest miskhair ntheirpartuwas
A'able punishd with flogging, solitary con-
Honor    nementi apdprtial $yi'vatqn. l'he
fathers. fogd was E t itldmco  ra  itmost
once by wreted          a d ; . t   ."r  ho eane
essed a iritrang m      .         Vt were
respect- admir     a t   4          a joute
head " frnggtence,
jail by to the     ined and
yed  i  a  irreclaimiable s                       i
useful   Young ,gir4 ,aeinttu-         thia~    "'
f feeble " House gfRefuge;     .their .t hat.
is eye, ment was eaarcelv le i yae ee ith;tkti
ose. It that of the boys. r They, wereof eoirs
iprison- rigorously. separated from: t i% male
nation of inmates, and indeed the tWo. be
e."     seldom or never saw each other at al
fely de-  When a lad, after a confnenentoi
he walls four or five years, had beenbeaten an
esigned starved into a condition of apatbyy-ov
juvenile partial idiocy hewas bound; ppren.
a good tice to some hard'and tyrannieal 'name
to his ter, who was especially charged by
it once  the overseers- of the  -Refuge#"=to
d beha. continue their wholesome discipline by
hips to besting and starving the poor wretch,
marked and thereby, in the end, "malke a
friend man of him," to use their favoriteen.
d, who pression. Should thenvictim of thiA
orn to cruelty attempt to runaway ,from his
tyrant master, -and .abe.t  h   he
Qk and was either again consigned to'tht ten.
der mercies of the " Refuge; 'r
he aler was forced to undergo. an adoption
vert hs course of heating and starving, at;    y
conti  hands of his "nwner;' for, in trat
rtine   he was on an equal level with the n'      ,
* gro slates at he Souath, save in -the
respect that the later-received _
bid.;. t~i esbetter treatment than-he.
We cannot give- a sore perfect
uveniue idea of' the concern, than, by statind
mplie, :the experience of Jack Harold, after
exeluI his introduction there.
offend-   Immediately upon hit arrival at the
ndered ofle of the, "Refuge/ Jack was
onfine. stripped:0o all hix        :wenldsnIg,.ad in
disci: ductedinto, the uadaur  r(the} +eQab  ,
essive. lishment ; said waife   which

4

I

I       a   1
_1

_4  ;
1
4,
3  jtk    'g r t   ,,} '    ,
i            t       "A
r

-      _ r ;'     I
y  4i     tr
-  'N
.  -  .


,.             f              /   pi  /
t      ,                                                                                        '
,r'' 1f  .  t ,                          ,{R
'J-                        i
.  .
,

'MCK  HAROI~D
°*e etal -i'e~e too ege1'er'hn,'cotesit- ttie interior of the grisr a, and con.
ng Ofa jaikst and trowsecs ofredarse nyatded to 'snter a emal stone eel.
grt y cloth,-aadd'sequallyeoefeashliirt siouvsix'feet in height, and 'as niuy
that chafed 'his s kin patirully, 'a. 'ini 'leitgth and width.  ie obeyed, for
'cust ored -'dieIwvy s 'dad 1bege' to he1h M the good-sense to -see the folly
the', fieest, e.  Qt he*rds 4estriWed .of resistance; the iron door was closed
to- seh r  :'        6e %*+wihtitrg and locked itpon 'him, itnd he was
traheferft  t        r  partictlf  I to enjoy' the profound dlarkness
hir hit         Are r 'daddand his'oWn pleaant meditations.
an ' iessy iadtsta       fi'to ' As'the cell contained not the slight
hin, eas'  I  a   ina skeri'rt'iu- es testige of bed or blanket of any
lar pride in hipd bhr,"whlhb'eas' re- kind, 'Jack threw himself upon the
'iriatkably fndinadyluxutlfut.-   'cold stone floor, cursing his ill luck
'Wergny   l:vel- hetobserve,'that in general, and Mr. Piggot in panic.
Juack 'Wal*loWed to retail his moth- ular. Hour after hour passed, and he
rtottralt i 'his pesa, 'At .the grew faint with hunger, while every
dpecial'desire of Mr.'EHarold himself, bone in 'his body ached painfully, irt
RDuring the operations of undressing consequence of the hardness ofhisa
and dressing, tire brandedalrk, upon couch.
Viebreasttof our 'hero did dot "escape  Having no means of computing the
the observation of the healj overseer, lapse of tiine, heknew not whether It
whose name was Pigg.               wis ia  was 'day or night in the world without.
'was 'a long, leangieiniter looking in- 'At length, when he began to tear that
-dividual', with shake-like eyes, a bran- he was to be 'left to starve to death,
My o0se, and n'synall rivulet of 'tobac- his door was opened, and he beheld
'co juice trickling down each 'corner the amiaide conntenance of 'Mr.-'?ig-
-of his mouth. -heawas renowned 'for gof ilianinated by a lamp which'that
despicable"rneanness and 'brutal cruel- gentleman cared y--fiomp which latter
ty'; and 'hadiattamined 'his lucrative' situ dentlour  crriedfro h ic atgt
'nation as a reward' for his false deal- ctmour hero judged that 'itWas ti lht
ai and per juryk8t the 'city elections. ti'e.
To 'um  'hs 'harcte in'a ew  Comre, you young whelp, get up-
'or secm up his character 'ina few 'here's your swill!1" said Mr. 'Piggot,
words, h c  ' need theaignoranee of ini a tone between a grunt and a-
a jackass with the savageyne.s of growl, as he  deposited upon tle'floor
Ha  " exclaimed                'a cup contniung about a gill of water,
"  a!"e  xlin on  theig'Jacs e ragagig  and a very  smell; crust of bread.
Wentlemnen, on seeing IJack's blrarided  akwsvr  ugy     a h~do
breast--" a youmig gallows  bird, eh  Jack was'very hungry, but 'he 'aso
am arked 'crinuiinal, ehi 'You're felt exceedingly
the very customer I want. By God! fore' took'no notice of the overseer s
you shall curse the day when you' was comnd, but remained lying upon
first put'under 3 the :cate of Hiram the 'floor.
Piggot I As a proof of what you may  Mr. Piggot became enraged; the
expect 'hereafter, you shall 'pass ten "'Refuge' was a kingdom, of which
days in solitary coifinerfient,'on bread he 'was the'sovereign despot, and his
and water, and d-d little of that, too word was law' there ; he was accus-
hba, ha,.:. "'                   tomed to hd'ive 'his tmst unrea onab1e
Jack rtade no reply to the ruffian 'ordt'us implicitly obeyed by his juven-
in' oflice,isave what 'was expressed in ile nhjects, to which lie 'was ani ob
a sneer of contempt. His toilet' be. jeet of'intense 1enr. Yet here 'was a
ing soinpleted,' he' was conducted inte tewl 'arrived prisoner. who, on'the

'°, f=-
,'     "z' '
;
"r=p.
r 4 +   a
4tiSppttyy"
° i $vY ,
r 1  _       ;
'{   -
' li Ili  /-
S S/
'ice :1  ~
.f
..

tas Arst-dayofhlit nionement 4ared
to disregard his oomssp:!.
Mr; Piggotswore great yea ,,and
strode=into the dell w hhrash t ni n-
steady.gait; far, to confess2'el troteh,
he , was -rather more .iweehrlttO than
titual; -and as het was usually rather
more t1han: half drunk, , the reader can
formsmomelitd ieof anestimate of his
cond:iinn at that particular'tine.
'Mr. Piggot kicked our hero=heavily
In the 'side, and ordered him to 'go to
the door and'tokein. tis "swil,".as
he' theenssly termed it. Jack arose
very meekly, :and advanced to the
door- very -,humdly,,but there was a
mikedexpression in his eye:that be-
okened no ,good-to the personal well-
treing rf the overseer, who stood,leat- i
ing.against the wall at the back ,part
of"the cell, chuckling at the 'facility
with ,which -he ,had -coopelIed the I
"young whelp " to obey hi4n.1
.Jack took eap the ";swill," and dis-P
posed of it inia.very currous manner,
y ;hurling ,it with all his force at the
averseer's head; then, quick as light-e
flig, "he stepped-out -of the cell, closed h
the iron dor ima twimk'ihg, and turn- i
ed the :key, which fortunatelyremain- a
ed in the lock. :Mr. Piggot rubbed I
his woundod:eye, whickhhad been laid d
open by the'edgesof the. tin cupe, and h
groaneddeeply; iHe saw that he was o
" done for,"9
As Nr. Piggot had ,leftihis lampon, y
the outside of the cell, Jack enjoyed b
the !full' beneftt 'of light, ;while the a
former gentleman experienced 'the full s
misery of dismal darkness.
The' faintvoiceof the overseer -was w
now heard, pleadiog-in the most ab'- i
ject Itonesfor his elease,land promise ti
nag Jack all;sorts.of reward, if he mt
would comply.                 ' .i
"Let me out--do, mavthat~s a m
good fenIowandI' l1.giinpou agfirst- n
rate 'berth in the hAdenr,nwhere yM -
can get lets o'ag uhn-I :as ari.will ' ci
l'llgives ouiia god  hane trus fo
tway - 131sest you.etoiiworki  thte h

g i'k 4 pr 1mt , whw aeyot fc*
"io arc l sopin4ke ," infrrlptIt
ou  r q     the~re.you ,4:re,Q
:b'   l                  art of

take the he t adau' u   ".011
lar, #ad mclisfulAdva    X
chanced to encounter tie
stiff' remiriedin j he look  ifie  H.
door,; amidhe now for;the ,r tige
noticed t ;i,*rtached to this key
steel, riig, here were two .dthier k#ey
which, ik his excitement, he had  $
beforej9Ibservod,
"E  tryit,it!" thought ourbero-
a vision of liberty~dawned .po a sf
heart.   aktig theakeys in,oie. han,
aId the lantt the other, he. trayer
d a hall of considerable extent, unto
is ; progress, wars ;opped ,by a huyge
ron 'door. Nothilig dsuut i  J,
applied one, of-thekeys toahep , a
ock.;~it fitted, the bot f pw,.Nek, tl
loor rsustg heavily uppn . irsy
singes, and:he found .hirnseif in ,the
tpen air. Iut his liberty was 1ntJ£
ajned ; .for he' pt'ood ,in the prisgr
'ard, and this yard was eurtoundel
y saetone wall ofgreat heigtsgar.'
ished at the top, with sharp. 'ra  n
pikes.
"There-,mat be .. ..door some.
where, and this other key., nay un-
)ck it." 'mutuere4 Jack,  ut to 'find
he :door, if ny 4h1  were, was ,a
matter ofaimeidjffiuly; for hre had
how noutThis .Mght ,(which he feared
iight Lea dto ;hiaegcnn,).end the
eight 'waa profound y iark.
Az'apimg Is .way to Aha,'wall, be
ommened J4ueligalaog i4ssurfrcp     F
r the door; andhilehthta eote4,
erwss w ,maried by ,a nomie ;   c

L."

,;".'
CYA"; +

It

A
TF

Y  t    Lt


1  a1  v/l  \ w +

SACS UApOL.

40

made him ramble, not' only :or }'is
liberty, 'but also for his life. {
This was the "barking of a tremen-
dous bull-dog. Jack knew   he was
tremendous, by tt depth and power
of the sound   antg he feared, if the
animal were (oqggehe would be torn
in pieces, as he imelhtirely nitarmed.'
While' delibdr ming,, o  the 'best
course to pursuein :this emergency,
his foot came in contact with a stone
of considerable size. This he raised
with both hands, and poised it on
high, at arms' length, determined to
give the savage brute a warm recep-
tion, should he he attacked.
. He soon had reason to congratulite
himself on ha'ng taken this preceu-
tion-for a I o, deep, ferocious growl
assumed him that his enemy was 'near.
Suddenly two huge paws were placed
upon his breast-and just as the dog;
was about to fasten his teeth in Jack's
throat, down came the heavy stone
with tremendous force upon his head,
felling him to the ground, and killing
him instantly.
Thanking his lucky stars for this
deliverance, our hero resumed his
search for the door of the yard ; when
all at once he was startled by the ap-
pearance of a half-dressed man with a
light in his hand, at a little distance,
who rubbed his eyes, and seemed to
have been just awakened from a sound
sleep,°
" Devil take the dog I" muttered
the man-" he has woke me up from
a good snooze, by his infernal bark-
ing and growling. Wonder what's
the matter:"
As he spoke, he raised up his
lanthern, and endeavored te peer into
she  surrounding  darkness.  Jack'
crouched down close to the wall, and
fortunately escaped observation
"1Where -thedevil's the dog?" con-
tinued the fellow, in a grumbling
tone. "Here, Tiger, Tiger I Where
are you? Tiger, Tiger !"
But in vain he called and whistled.

Tiger co
summons
he was,
broken ii
deep cur
intermin
" licking
bestow u
the morn
from whi
4C j  i
now," ti-
the porter
he sleeps
which 1
rival her
the housr
tious in r
tne porti
I shall w
has had
asleep-t
liberty is
An h
young fu
way tow
listened
tion of,
ly. Ai
small wim
man had
Jack t
difficulty
lock, wi
and, to
neither a
session v
" Hev
baulked
ground M
over the
the lock
were this
article in
object.
lie rel
of his ~
near day,
the place
be captu
the most

aid not very Kel obey the
, for/the simple reason that
"laid out ' with  his skvil
x;,  and the man,4 nautterirg
es upon his canine friend,
gled with lively threats of the
' which he was bound to
On that ill-fated animal in
ing, retired into a little house
ch he had issued.
derstand how the land lays
ought Jack-" that man is
r, or keeper of the gate, and
in that little wooden house,
member passing on my ar-
. The gate directly adjoins
, and I must 'be very can.
making my exit, lest I awaken
r, for then all would be lost.
mit here in patience until he
ler ty of time to fall sound
hen one turn of this key, and
mine !"
ur elapsed, and then the
gitive cautiously groped his
irds the porter's lodge. He
intently, and had the satisface
tiring the inmate snore heavi-
aint light gleamed, from a'
dow in the house ; for the
not xiigngished his, lantern.
ow found the gate without
His hand next sought the
ich was of immeinse size;
his intense disappointment,
f the three keys in his pos-
'ould fit it.'
1 so far succeeded, to be
it last 1" thought he, and he
is teeth with rage.' To climb
wall was impossible; to pick
was equally so, for even
t practicable, he had nrot an
his possession adapted to that
ledted deeply upon the peril
ituation. It was probably
-light, when all the inmates of
would be astir. Should he
ed, he was well aware that
merciless treatment would

he meted out to hirt for the trick he!
had playe'- upon the o"erseer would
render that gentleman furioa .against
him. He would be whipped, *tarved,
chained, and so closely confined, that
all future attempts at escape would be
perfectly abortive.
But not long did he deliberate; for
his ready mind soon suggested a plan
of operation.
"One, thing is certain," ..ought
he: "the key of this gate must be in
the possession of the porter. That
key I must obtain, at all risks-even
if I have to commit murder; so here
goes !"
le pressed against the window of
the lodge ; it yielded, for it had' for-
tunately been left unfastened. On,
looking in, he beheld the man stretch-
ed, upon his bed, evidently . sound'
asleep.          .
Summcning to his assistance all his
resolution andcourage, Jack Harold.
crawled softly through the window,t
and stood within the lodge..
The porter was a large, powerful
man, and thte dim light from the Ian-r
tern, shining upon his face, revealed t
his stern ,and determined features..--
Our hero instantlysaw that a person- .
al conflict with such a stout fellow t
would be fatal to his hopes. The
man could only be overcome by inor- f
al heroism.
The first object that attracted e
Jack's attention, was a blunderbuss b
which rested upon a shelf, directly
over the sleeper's head. To gain ~
possession of this formidable weapon g
was the boy's first object; but in order o
to reach it, he was obliged to lean over
the t'", in doing which his person ti
came in contact with the porter', t
hand. ' iThe man stirred, 'half woke 3
up, muttered an incoherent word or -
two, and went off again to the land
of dreans.                        ti
Jack was now armed; and as he n
cocked the" blusderbuss, his brave t
heart swelled wih 'delight; -,fq  he b

fel4 that he was =now the hero of'
daring and perllous adventure.
SIl b    great than yet," thought
he. ".Wh l  yda  on my yc  would
have the cifrage to tlo whttI l ave
done  tti'nig~t'? WlEt ii, Prinice,
and Lope, ' ed      tera ei hear
of this, how proud '     1 hy willbe of
their ytMng TIbe  ht Within two
hours, iffIarn ti, i  shall be at
the Devil's Ngeim,  aiig4'te ecn-
gratulationiof thebrethren  'W'hat
astonishmhentaty appearancee Will
create among them-fur  they will
suppoe rme-toihe snug and fast in the
dungeons of the "°Refuge."' But
Kate-shall I ever behold ke gdin?
Alas ! I know not whether she he
dead or living; for, since my arrest,
no one would answer' my questions
concerning her. : Would to heave's
that I knew her fate i1 * * * But,
'pshaw ! 'this -is 'Ito time- to shed
tears ; I must look sharp, arid, find
the key of that cursed gate !"
He' began 'a lese and careful
search for the all-important article,
not- forgetting to hold the -blunder-
buss in readiness, in case the porter
should awaken. ie determined td'
blow the man's brains out, rather
han be-captured.
In vain he searched ; he could
ind the key nowhere, although he
opened every drawer, and -dxamined
every place, wherein it was likely to
be laid away.
Jack grew desperate-for the'first
~limmner of the dawning day was be.
inning to peep through the window
f the 'odge.
". must make a' nold push,"
thought he--" this fellow, must have
he key hidden under his pillow ; I'll
earch for it there, and' if he awakens
" 9
lie paused-for at that instant
here pealed forth .;the. clear,, loud
otes o' the prisrn hell, smmiin oning
he juvenile convicts to preparefor
reak'ast, ad the labor of the day

JAGK JHAROLD.'

@                      '
i
/  X t
}  "r'


JA C&amp;-C  aInOi~n..

NJihetpettp started up, grabbed li
eyes, and lIebteld a youth with closely
cropped hair a an dress ahin' the
pi son garb',Jevell n g a, blinbderbuss
at lhiswhe   V'       3
"I-UtIlo-awht' tiie" zeried the
man, per feet oor  niewth aston
"Just this," sy4    csk Iarold,
very ,copely---, ka  e     hekey of
that gate,. andkep voupr eadphut,
or l'l-shoot youasI  ppld a dog.!"
The porter leaned. against the bed,
and regarded tie daing youngster
wish.'vaeant stare ; for he was cone
fused nl bewildered.
"0"ta !" cried Jack, impatiently
-" where's the key ? Don't, ti-ille
with-me ; I'd sooner,murder you and'
be hung, for it,thasto bey coninned in
this eartlily hell. : If you hesitate
one .nuute longer, you die !"
By the3s time the man had recover-
ed,)sscattered senses; folding his.
arms, he said, deliberately--
",It's'all very well, youig.saver;
yoi.re! no doubt a very nice boy, and
a very smartlone,. and. 'show very
good ,pluck .; and how you came here,
the devil only knows ;-'-and you'
Might shoot me,.and get away, and
all that-if it wasn't for one thing.:
Eat blunderbuss is not loaded !"
"Not loaded i" gasped our hero,
perfectly ,sorror-stricken, antd losing
all his heroic fortitude in a moment.
Just so," said the man, with pro-
yoking. coolness-" No*  young: fel-
low, you're in a prettyfix, ais'.t you?"'
Jack stood irresolte; had'lse bees
armed with a knife, he would- have
thrown himself' upon' the porter, And
either slan' him, or perished' is' 'the
attempt.
"ome,' you did'yo'ung rascal "r
Cried the man, suddenly assuming a
savage tone-"tell me how you man-
aged to' escape 'f-fom your' cell"; but'
first get' down' ipodn your marrow-
bones and ask msy pardon for' thesim-
podenee'you just now gave mee10

* Thelfellow's -display of paty' tyrant'
ny: awsigedi Jaskand bloteght' his'
breav ilood bhek to' his beert, ae rhe'
scornisuay. eptied '
"'LoeivWed" cur ' a sooner would I'
die's tthoesand deaths thaw knaeel te
such as you ! Even now do I spit
upon ael'defrgyou- *"
During, the. utterance' of theso
words, the blunderbuss which Jack'
still held in his hands, chanced to be-
come pointed towards the' porter, who'
promptly stepped aside. This tuove'
nment- arrested tire attention' of out
hero, and the- thought rapidly flashed"
through his mind-
" This, weapon must. be loaded, af-
ter' asll-or why would' this fellow
manifest' a-fdar of it'? Besides, iu it
at all likely, that a' man 0llin g'is
situation, as gatekeeper of a prison,
would have in his possession fire-ssr'mn
that' are'not, loaded?' I'll try hin;
and- what is to be done, must be dosie'
quickly."
lie raised the weaporr,'dleve1led'dit'
at the gate-keeper's head ; the' tter
worthy looked rather'titteasy, apd turn-
ed' slightly  pale-symptoms   which"
confirmed Jek's' suspicious' tha tthe
tllunderbuss was in order far' deadly;
execution.
" You'have lied to me, de picable
wretch !"' cried'our hero, ttiu uphatit
ly-' at all events, if I do fl t blow
(ut your brains, I'll give yot credit.
fbr speaking  the truth     o here
goes-"
His finger was about to press the
tagger, when the gate-geeper ell up.
on his knees, crying-
" Don't' fire-for God's sake, lay
aside the weapon, fur- 'tis ch rged' to
the nuzzle!"
"H !' then you are in my "power ;
give up ti e key of the gate,' if you
would save your life. You ought
to make me kneel to you; btt now
you humbly grovel at my feet, and
pray me to spare yos&amp; life.. Come
sir-the key !"

The gate-keeper drew fram; his
pocket at huge key, and handed, tto.
the intrepid.youth.
"Now, sir," t4Jack, witr asn air
of. determinatiopr- "I anm sgI'g gto
take, toy departure; and remen*br, if
.,y-. dare to pursue me,, or give the
al rm, or even stir from your knees,
you di' ! Tell Piggot, your riaster,
that Jack Harold despises him, and
defies his power-ande never can he
be kept, a prisoner in, this, miserable
den. Now,, farewell; andif you val-
ue your life,,stir not.!",
Still. keeping the blunderbuss lev-
elled at the affrightened porter's, head,
Jack drew back the bolt- that fasten-
ed the door of the lodge, stepped into
the yard, and thrust the- key of the
gate isto the passivee lock. The gate
swung open, upon. it, rusty hinges,,
and oar hero was frpei
Having ascertained that the, porter,
was still in his kneeling- position,
Jack again{ admonished himnot to at
tempt alarm  or, pursuit;. and then,
having carefully locked the gate aftgr
hin, ran rapidly, across the open
fields-for the "Refuge " was situated
without the limits of the, city, an;
there was- no other building of anu.1
kind within half a mile.         I

CHAPTER XI.
Wherein our hero gets into cesnortabltqu ar
term, and meets with a startling udvantur ,

It was broad day-light,, and raining
heavily, when Jaclk HarplI pausedfp'
a few moments.ij.hie. rapid thght, t
gain breath aid look,1ho51)4 l inT. -
The "Refuge," being situated og
hill, was still visible, although. at a
considerable distance, Suddenly. thei
alarm bell of.the prison.paled, fort
its clear, ringing notes, amjl, qur he
ro-s sharp eyes. esiabled, hin. to 4i
anguish several, alenissuing from, th 

mnut rvus [        pC agand vi.$  '"{v .r    7,
eqpestig u  sagh  ,    ,t i m #, e
gia),, asp g.rncefssary# escony
hbr Ie.'.sa   }bia ehnfi   et
the prote            hedg, whi
screened     fo; k  yt; view Qf hit
pursuerror ,~tipe, at qpt..,  es
ward he sped with t     idity ota
deer, easedbyhie        and when
he irtrgid. htt   A   gained: a,
good dianee upon, lN  prr! , he,
pausedfit gain breat, t, liagg, qad
to determine in what dir Jetiop
would be most advisibia to flee.
In a few 'wingtes heRwas strtled tai
hear voices on, theeother side of ths
hedge, nearly oppose to, the spot
where he. was standing Ie instagtJ
recognized the tonesof the gateepey
er, and Piggot, thegverseer.
"Damn him I" said the ferjnex
gentlemsn.-" he mustbesomewheres
hereatout  for we traced, his foot-
prints clear down from the gate to;
this: cursed hedge. I'd give half a
year's salary to catch hin,,just to pay
him off for killing the dog, and sarv'
ng me such an infernal trick P'
"Blast his eyes !" growled Mr, Pig,
got, ferocionsly----" I shpil he  kille .
with the.rhpumatis;n, 'after passing the
night in that cold, damp eell-and be.
idea, the youpg, devil cat myhead
open with the ,.tin, cupI Now, sir,
what ip hell are you laughing at?!"
" ha, ha, ha;!" roared tie. gale
keeper--"what a figure you cut, whets
iletyon out of that dark bole ! You
enk~e4 like---
"NQ, matter what Ilooked hle;
'ha S.1 swornJ  Aidn't, .s99  h4lu so
near apd. foolish as;yoaid, whsn
ike a. cowa sasypu are, you lot aboy
saape right 1Lefse your. face  Uut.
;Amle, WO m istn't stand talking here
at's.  t , t n:, tie! lhhr side of this
ledge, 'ad scour h  whale counter

1
1

II
e
c
I 

ry;        ,
"        t' '                 (7'
t
j , '

iA  t'- itolsk ,


iiA

A                                       ^,      ft7
r
P
u'
'i  ,

R  J                    JACK 'HAROLb
until we caten the young villa. By  Bpth" the men were cowards a
0-. if I find him, he shall be literial heart;-'and both paused when they be.
ly'skVcined alive!1"              held the boy boldly stop and confront
Fortunately for Jack, the two men them, apparently avhed.  -i
were obliged tmikeaconsiderable   "The devil I"quoth the gate-keep.
M' iruit, before tiey could tain:'the er to his companion-"I thought that
side"of" the hedge. in which he was. he had thrown away the cursed blun-.
Seeing that he had  tdia mromen'f of' 'erbuss; but you see he has it still !
time to lose, and belhg. now pretty We must be cautious how we approach
well rested, hJeft fhe shelter of the him, or he'll blow us to atom'!"
friendly lhedg duud darted off across  " Just so," responded Mr Piggot,
the fields. "                     shivering with fear and cold combined.
TSe rain '  ftued to pour down a  Meanwhile, Jack walked forward ;
perfe t deluge'  nching ou' hero to and whenever the others attempted to
the skin, and rendering the 'ground so follow,. he had but to point his stick
wot itIathe soon lost both of his shoes towards them, and they stopped iime-
in thetitre, and could with difficulty diately.  In this ma ner he gained
make uly progress.  Besides, hi's na- upon them  consider'ly ; and at last
ked feca oft n trod upon sharp stories came, in sight of a beautiful mansion
and .brwnitles, wounding them, pain- house, built of granite and surround=
fully ; yet onward' he sped right gal- ed by an extensive garden. The place
lantly, ur-did his brave heart despair, was evidently the residence of persons
until.he L.eerd a spud shout from"his of wealth.
pursuers;' and'tuting around, he be-  " If I can obtain a shelter on these
held 'Mr. FiggotIand the gate-keeper, grounds, I may be safe," thought our
who had juat doubled the hedge, and young adventurer, who was now out
seeing him, werd pressing hard upon of his pursuers' sight, being hidden
'hie track, ftkeling sure of their prey. from their view by an abrupt turn in
Then, for the first' time, did Jack the road.
Harold begin to give way to despair.  No person was visible about the
Stop, yot d-d young rascal!" grounds; and Jack     boldly  passed
shouted Piggoi, who was completely through the garden gate, and ap-
out of breath.                    proached the rear c f the mansion.-
" Aha! we've got you, have we? -He determined, in case he encounter-
You've no blu'ndJerbuss now, my lad !" ed any inmate of the place, to throw
and with these words the gate-keeper himself upon his or her mercy, and
limped forward, for he had fallen down solicit a shelter until his pursuers
and .bruised his shin against a stone. should have relinquished their search
This gentleman's- allusion to the for him.
blunderbuss, suggested an idea to the  Ascending the steps at the back of
ready wit of our hero; he instantly the house, he found the doot" slightly
picked up from the ,'ground a stick ajar. , His danger was too pressing to
about the size of the weapon which admit of any delay or consideration
he had thrown -away-and pointing it on his part, and he accordingly enter-
at his pursuers, he had the satisfaction ed the hall' and intently listened.
to perceive that the stratagem succeed- Everything around him was com.-
ed admirably. At a little distance, on fortable and luxurious. The hall and
that dark, rainy mornimg, the stick stair-vase were richly carpeted, and
was a very good repreisentative of the two splendid lamps were suspended
formidable weapon thit then lay ht the from the ceiling.  The doors of the
bottom of the ditch.      '       front and back parlor were closed; but

JACK t .tolD.

I   1

rom the former ts3ued .the sound of towards out heroj he cou ld nlclsee ehe
vices, in entle conversation, '   features.;.
Jck advanced noiselessly,and ap-"  It was a scene ofid mestic cornfort,='
tied his eye to the' key-hole, Re saw so mucb  resemblin  .the b!'s former
Ihat the family were at breakfast-a life with the  aroldsn    vividly
venerable looking old man, a matronly contrattg  thhtpresndeplora.
woman, and a beautiful female in the ble cqn$tron that he sighed deepiyp.
prime of lIfab whose back beingturned  Chee ilysteame4 the fragrant cofCe"
S 1 i -                                             -

J CK'S FIRST RotBERY-D1SCOi'ERED BY Mt.           ka..te page 34
From the silver grn--delicately white tasted a morsel of relishing food for
were the smoking cakes-golden-hued several days-r.ot since the kind Mrs.
was the fresh butter, and,.ipost tempt-1 larold had sent to hin a comfortable
ing to the view were the bacop, the meal in prison, previous to h  trial
eggs, andtthe exquisite preserves. A  and convictions
nest, so thought Jack, who had not I The old gentleman, arrayed in- the

,

 °   '   i  A


yY                /1
I(

JaER'mL

cosy'eailimentsof'hemeshlernateIt persoef the-old gentleman who haot
' sipped his coffee.andead . theernovan been at breakfast, and in a tone e
tidg.japer theglaidy'-wti   jwyhd cold politeness herequested to -know
herbreakltt a! allold lad  alp to what ci'eumstanceee was indebt-
cldu  iedsti ngeda th  up ':  ed fdrike t.honor of a visit from tweo
t'T'e  wh  an extelle t ajpeth,; individtbale with whom he had not the,
wild he  ounger ad  wh  tjiight, pleasuretobe acquainted..
havese twent       rohttstr  r     M    iggot and the gate-beeper,
mers, ate but hit l;aitd looked rather however self-possessed and perfectly
unhappy, save when the. old lady at home they were while t) ranizing
glanced towads he e,t whengthe old over juvenile prisoners, looked rather
gentleman read aloud,for'hbenefit, awkward, not to say foolish, in the
some paragrdpliin the paper'which he presence of a gentleman ; however
conceived hlk y to interest e,,   the overseer managed to summon up
It wisa cital borne ir  with a portion of his habitual insolence,
mtchlightsand; very little gkdow-  and delivered the following speech:-
just such a scene as one loves to look  "Why, you see, I'm the head
in upon, from a dreary, stormy out- overseer of the House of Refuge for
doors, to a.serene, happy circle about Juvenile Delinquents-ahem !"
the hearth of Home.  We could al-  "And I'm also an officer of that
most find it' in us to be angry with valy-able institution-ahem !" added
that y'ontglady, for manifesting symp- the gate-keeper, attempting an, air
toots of fenhappiness when surrounded of dignity that failed miserably.
by that'delightful atmosphere of bliss;  The old gentleman, so far from
but who knows the hidden secrets of "being overcome by these startling
her heart f                      announcement of the elevated sta-
Jack looked, and sighed'; for he tions of his two visiters, said, sharp-
was wyt, hungry and miserable, and ly-
longed'for a cup of that rich-looking  " Well, what db you want here ?"
coffee, over which thekbld gentleman Mr. Piggot..and, the gate-keeper
sifiacked his lips with such infinite were astonished :-here was a man
gusto, aad &amp;i morsel of that delicious who, after having been made ac-
bacon which tnade his mouth to water quainted with their higih rank, treat-
as, he gazed.,                   ed them  as if they were mere no-
Hewas iust mentally debating the bodies!  Determined to cool him
feasibility of rushing in and " collar- down, the;overseer put on a bluster
ing   a portion of the, succulant ing air, and said-
"'ands, when there came a thunder-  " We'll. let you know what we
ng knock at. the front door. ' For- want here, sir, and that d-.-d quick,
getting his hunger in his desire to too ! A convict has escaped from
become for the time 'invisible, he our establishment  he. has beers
quickly mounted the stairs, and stood traced to these premises, and we
upon the landing to listen.,'    have good reason tn think that he is
The summons at the door, was hid in this house, mayhap by your'
answered by a domestic from the knowledge, and ----
kitchen below ; and Jack heard the  "Insolent scoundrel !" interrupted
voice of Mr. Piggot demanding an the old gentleman, in a towering pas-
interview with ' "the gentleman of sign-" beware of what you say ; I
the'hiousee. '  -am                  a magistrate-how    dare you
The gentleman of the house forth- charge me v ith wilfully r(oncealingse
with 'rnade his appearance; in the prisoner ?''

Ptggot and eempany felithet they collect "
had goneiaittle too fat foer they  ameeag iti
were nett before, aware that the* d A
gentlemaan- was a inagistratet;Mn
the overseer atterspted ,tosManmr
forth a clumsy apologyw
" Ax-yer' pardon; we didn't miean b   tut:
to say that ytt had hid himaTyourself rnitd pas
a'purpose, only that he right haveinthe4hh
concealed himself in some- part' of ter the 'e
your premises. If you've no objec- rades }R
tion to our sea'ehir-ng --       anee in
" Search my grounds, if you will, these pr
fellow ." cried the old gentleman,
scornfully--" but presume not to my
polllste my house with your presence, y
ga,or your companion, or my sere-
at ts shall kick you like vagabonds flht
from the door ! An ,hark'ee,. both ohfc
of you : the outrageous and brutal bei'ng,tha
cruelties practised upon the infpr- ladforg it
tunate young, wretches. confined inadye tar
the Iefuge, as 'tis called-of which tne neatae
abominable den of misery you claim gleesa
to be officers-have come to my necessary
knowledge,. and you may consider tayraiy
yourselves lucky i.nquiries are not sofhearth,
set oa foot that will brithose cru- her,
elisteihad    n.thoe     -therein;
elties to light, and develope the cow- ceeded to.
ardly ruffianism of the heartless mis. and dry h
creanta who hold power there.-And
more than this: if any poor youth  Happen
should, escape from your infernal , wards an'
cutchesa nd seek a shelter, in my sa   n
house, sooner than hand him over to L.ad been
your tender rnerc.es .Id become his within a
protector andfriend-so til' 3 that, urious loc
and be damned'to you !"          droppedd h
- ' couth ; hi
With these words, the indignant regular .a
old gentleman abruptly shut-the doo"s pale and s
in.tlie facesiof the astonished-P4ggot and elegai
and company'.                    waye been
Jack distinctly overheard'this con- replaced'
versation,'andi congratulated  himself1shapen ga
on having, found'sheltet in the~ house naked Feet
of a gentleman of such liberal ,prin- and his e
ciples. He wag almost tempted to with mud
emerge f mne his hiding place, throw panions w
himself at' his feet, and claim his him, so fo
mercy and protection ;. but tl.o re- then appe

henecesstyof ioinsediatoe
somne secure place'f eaanr
Jack mounted' anothe.LL
tairs, and eatetved a cktaia,
t ad every appearance, ,t
sleeping: ap tment e a
t, was tarnished with femitr
as anditaster in4iggir~it
esmfortabte fAre, rendered
by the chill, damp nir, of
morning ;. and drawing a
hiqued rocking obair ptithe
ou,, hero: seated. himself
nd very comnpased ly pr,
warm ;his' benumbed limbs
is saturated clothe,
ing to. east hi, eyed to-
o1'pposite rnirrr, he wea
pp the great change which
wroughkt.inlhiappearanoP,
couple of daya. His lux!
ks =were gone,,and hisclose-
ead, looked ugly andun,
s handsome: face, with its
in delicate features, was
meared with dirt ; the neat
nt clothes which he had al-
accustomed to wearvera,
by' St hideous and smis-
irments of the prison; hi
t were bruised'and bleeding,
entire person, was covered
His most, intimnte c4 ome
ould' not; have recognized
rhora and wretched, d d he
ar.

)

;fr

r^   6  ,;
1
,      .
, c,  .
.
 ,

(

T
p                               '
'l11                                     i
{


A 1
"4~

()

Having warmed and dried himself,
he went tone of' the windows and
f1-Looked forth. The rain still descend-
red in, torrents ; and. the wild, open
*country looked dreary indeed-for at
hat period the environs round about
New York were but thinly settled.
While gazing forth   upon -the
gloomy prospect, Jack had the satis-
factionofseeing Piggot end company
issue fromthe gardenand wend their
way towards the Refuge. They had
at lhngth :'abandoned the search and
were returning to the -prison--and
being wrn out with fatigue, wet to
the skim and soured by disappoint-
menit,' they made a very mniserable
appearance as they slowi ly loadedd
onwards. Jack could,not help laugh-
ing as he observed Mir. Piggot wit Ii
his hand'applied to his wounded eye,
~ =       while'the g -tekeeper limped pain-'
fully upon his bruised shin. Soon
they turned the corner, and were out
of sight.
At this moment Jack was startled
by the sound of foot-steps ascending
the stairs ; his first impulse was to
conceal himself, and he quickly step-
ped into a snall closet which adjoin-
ed the chamber.,
This apartment was a sort of dress-
ing-roomi, arid was separated from
the clamber by a glass door, fur-
nished with a curtain. Jack slightly
drew aside the curtainand saw the
young lady whorn he had sees at the
breaktirst table, enter the "chamber,
and seat herself before the fire in
the rocking-chair which he had just
quitted.
That she was very unhappy, re-j
quired but little penetration to dis-
3over, even had not the fact been;
.nade evident by the   tear.' that
coursed down her cheeks. Uncon-
scious of the presence of a witness
to her grief, she murmured, in a
voice rendered indistinct by agoniz-
og sobs--
"' As. ;iuhai py w retch that aml!

HA1 OLD
How little do my worthy parents
suspect the misery .9f their unfortu.
nate daughter' I am forced to smile
end assume a look of cheerfulness,
while my heart is rent asunder with
remorse and grief!
".And yet my conscience doth not
reproach me with having been wil.
fully guilty; for did I not fall a vice
tim to the specious arts of a villain:
Did not his intoxicating flatteries, his
expressions of ardent love, his fer-
vent entreaties, and his solemn prom-
ises of marriage, alone enable him
to triumph over my principles of
virtue!
"' Eleven years have elapsed since
that fatal night, when-in this very
chaber, to which he gained admis-
eian-,John Hamblin robbed me of
that purity of soul and person that
can never be restored.   I then
thought him to be the soul of honor;
he has since proved to be a despica-
ble villain, worthy of'all the hatred
which I now feel towards him.
" My kind parents never suspected
the frailty of their daughter; for
when that daughter's condition began
to grow obvious, she left this roof,
under pretence of passing a few
months with an old school-fellow anno
friend. Her seducer caused her to
be conveyed to the hoi.se of a cer-
tain female, and there the erring girl
became the mother of a male child.
To retain the infant, the evidence of
her 'shame, in her possession, was
impossible; her desire to preserve
her reputation triumphed over the
promptings of maternal love. W heh
the babe was one morth old, the un-
happy mother placed her own por-
trait about its neck, together with a
note imploring charity; and Then one
night she left the .little innocent at
the door of a rich man's house.
Whether it was kindly received, or
consigned to the harsh mercy of an
alhs house, the poor motleer never
learned; and though her soi often
yearns for the offspring of .et tan

JACK I

aallowed' lovershe.never' could -look
upon the boy, apd stand alashed 'in
his presence, as his frail and guilty
parent !r
"Perhaps, too, he would invoke
eirses on my head, for bringing him
into a world where he suffers under
'he  hateful stain of illegitimacy.
Yes - it is far better that we should
never behold each other.
"But, oh! my God! how the awful
consequences of that false step still
cling to me! My seducer, and the
father of my dhild--John flamblin-
he who wrested from me the treas-
ures of my virgin innocence-has
proved himself to be a monster of'
villainy, an outcast, a robber, and a
felon. Not content with having ef-
fected my ruin, and secured ray eter-
nal unhappine s, he still pursues me
with unrelentmag malignity,, making
me the constant victim of his vio-
lence, abuse, cruelty and extortion.
Heavens! my punishment may be
just; but it iM greater than I can
.bear I
" And this very night he visits me.'
I dare not r fuse him  admission.
How little parents dream that
such a blacke ed ruffian is so often
beneath their (roof, in the chamber'
of their daughter, whom they fondly
think to be ppre as snow! How
little do they suspect that their
daughter is compelled to plunder
from them secretely, in order to fur-1
nish this villain with money, to en-
able him to pursue his infamous I
career !' And h'w dreadful to be
forced to endure his odious embraces,
when his very touch is pollution, and
when I detest him with all the inten-
sity of the most dead!y hate
" Somgtimnes I feel capable of'
stabbing this man to the heart-
thus avenging, my wrongs in blood,
Often any' Ittemjted;to ,seek for my
rea, in order to teach him to hate his
father for his mother's sake, and take'
:4e villain's life. May Heaven for-
* ve me !"

AtROLD            '14
The unhappg'.la4y paus, and a
fresh bust o.tears tittestede pain
ful natulai-oh her:feelings. At: length
she arose  ad approached a mirror
for th'e purpose of adjusting tier hair;
and 'then, for the firs -time, Jack
Harold had a good opportunity t
observe hercountenance which had
heretofore escaped hs scrutiny on
account of her unfavorable position.
Why ;does 'our hero start, turn
deadly .pale,,and ling tia hair for
support?
Because he instantly recogniaed in
that lady the original of tl  portrait
then n his possession--the prtrait
of 4   mother.   te'     ihad
aroused within him the' Mst stitene
and sbul-absorbing interest ; but the
view of liet' features immediatelyy
confirmed the impression which had
begun to prevail with him,'tht 'le
indeed beheld his mother!
Then what a tide of tminultuo s
emotions rushedover his soul!'
Eagerly did lie draw the miniature
from his bosom,' and compare it with
the lady before him; there could be
no mistake-for there were thesame
blue eyes, the same golden i-hhe--
the same exquisite beauty, slightly
modified by time and sorrow'
Jack was powerfully afflecte 'in
his breast were aroused feeling to
which he had as yet been an entire
stranger. Nature awoke.within him
a thousand delicious emotions, urgA
in  him to rush from  his-place of
co cealment and throw himself into
his other's'arms; but he restrained
himself, when the following reflce
tions obtruded themselves into-his
mind:-.1''F                   '
d Can I present myself to her,-in
this terrible and disagreeable plight
-dirty, miserable, with my head'
shaved, and myself arrayed in the
uniform of a prison? Never I she
would view me with disgust. ,-nd ab-
horrence. Rather let me wait until-
such time as I can clothe myself
handsomely, and make a good ap

'J              "   i      di        1.
t rYY             \  1        t
tk                       n '\
'

.                                 1
wr                  , +
t


YPt

pears  h bet~14' 'sreek: an top
printyt'p ifl na itysto her;
a$ her aeonb a4d he f i t iave.. o'
canes  to be. uhamp lof' ne r Xi eai
While, I mtretiwineoni eIerI'.it il
,tgl wlheti "I tttustit:b  ~ibpt
, ae' lthe tse ',, nobser ve4".pro-_
,y " vide-d I dc n' starue'to- death' 4~i ee
'There certtainly 'seeme. to be sonte
~r t ibihty ,of' that event, tor; Jac-k'
t' nga~ l o,,"ays

"Marisa acanv1,oapro uct oh,
A mu nmeat iseat teast"nea'sday;
-ib-cautent Ie; lia-wOt wocksi upn  a eti,,
Butt,lk '*h kt *d tiger, mausti y."
'Buteurhero's mind sootf 'Weame
busied with other, thoughts, besides
tho st relating this hunger. .He re-
4eme4re4b ,t h,iamother had used
;his repression, when speaking of
her Villa iaitls seducer-,his father--
" 4nd this tsery ight he,;eis mel
,  hen4de recollected that his poor
mother 'had:spoken 'of the 'man's
abuse of.her-hise, crusty, &amp;c., and
his 'compelling her tEplunder'freom
her:parents, in order.'to supply him
with money.
* ',will stay 'and see this Man-
my father," thought tHe" hero.-"for;
independent of my eariosity -tonbe-
hold' the 'author of-my ,being,' Iam
impelled by q 'desire -to - protect rn,
mother from -his brutality. If he
dares toaabuse her 'in'my presence,
letshim look to hImself; 'for  hie being
my' father !will not ;screen, him from
mfy 'vengeance!"
-Meanwhile, the:lady, having made
her toilet, and 'washed all traces, of'
tears'from 'her face. left the chamber,
totally unconscious' of the near prox-
inity' of one'so closely related to her.
Jack issued .from' theelosetpjand be-
gaen to 'examine 'th  contents' tfthis
mother'siapanumentivudh the greatest
inerest.S
We-mast- rende -himi the justice
to isavthat in doing. this hewas;by.
no ieans prompted by 'the 'wish'to'
eppropriate a 'single '-artiide';" Iiadu

EtAc I4LU
the. e beenethosadsit i h   b,
he wouldd hasve eorned to'telueh a
pewny of it. His investigations-were
dictated by the intense interest which
hetfelt everything connected with
hisn other..
Ina bureau drawer he found a letter
addrtessed to I"Aiss Ciarissa Cooper.?"
Reopened it, and read the following
words, written in thebld hand.
writing of a man :.--

" You mitty expect a' visit from me to'
morrow night, Clarissn. Fail not to be in
your chambt-r at ten, arid have in readiness
'the rope-lahder by which I always enter the
window. I shallremain.withvom till' ,day-
light. Seexthat you give me a welcome and
loving reception ; greet me with no more
"ol; looks, or your  person slthl, again ,ail
the weight and, power of vmy arm ! I wish
not to-niit, you with blows and .brie-.
t,ut beware how you excite my anger' Yao
know me ; I.am capable of anything in my
paroxysms of rage I
"You cannot dissolve 'the connecton that
snbsistsjbetween us;.you cannot shat*'me
off. You say I ain a villain-granted. :4LW
then can you expect from te anyhother than
a villan's tr'ttenr  We are insepatabhl
linked together ; not heaven, or. earih, or
hell, shall-ever part us!
"f einentler-.- shall need some' money,
geed the old couple bandmwnely, and grees
me "toMorrow night with Cerees, kitses
and eash--or iBEWAR E.t 's!. IH

The perusal 'of this letter-fired our
hero with. indignation against' the
scoundrel who could be guilty of such
treatment, and use such langungeto
a woman.
"Can such a wretch ' be my fa.
other " thought she-." and so, then,
my mother's name-is Clarissa Cooper;
already do . I love- her-but how .
hate that villain.! Take care, Mr. J
-L, that your sport tonight is' not
disagreeably .interrupted, that's'all!"
Again was Jack pressingly re-
minded of 'the extreme elmptiness 'of
his :stonach. He could -stand it tno
longer,'and resolved;at allcrists to
go in search oil food. I Caiiously the
crept from-the chamber, and 'paused
to 'ieten upon the stairs. 'Hearing
nothing, he ventured to descend, nat

It

f
1   "      '  '
J        I Y   1,+'(
f+         !
1
"1 i f     1'
)"
':''" ';-
'        r:
};      ',z,        e

h

O

:
.
)f

'  { S".
.! N.!! .'( 6J1 . 1.   J C

Tai rift  inthe adhe ?c ' te°the '6ok1 ch*f x'IaI
distinguish taie voides.  ;hee            p. t    .: l r{.}st
in the-parlor. from"the ; t4te   "was a                htri  degree'n
low ascended the savorf 6                            t   She4ueve'
cooking;  the  'temptatio  :  *' sftooa  dsit  flta
strong to be resisted, and  tttry                4   Or~~aW'tde a heat
hero boldly but sofilfna le i way         t   ast
down the kitchen stairs, d ietaemnc e"Te
to throw himself upon 'th  Mercyof to'supper. Athe le
madame the e.ok, rather khan fast contain  a bashhe  saded imed
longer.                           of itt ab    -heWse t{spsesfn of 'he
The kitchen was.commecdious, and dirt tnd id's hib encte hi
scrupulously neat ; upon the t walls he ' th et o  fr nant  tt ently
hung many a brilliant tin und "o'per awitbeve 'e idg of' itt
veasel, ' sich 'reflected li e mirrors  It eae at, last, a)dr
the bla",mg wood fire, and the'buxom his -41'Ftered ,tAe
figure of a very fat cook who sat' be. beari  fllgit. Jackaa b ei
fore .t. Jack advanced cautiously, to sae r change her'neat :#dI
and discovered to his satisfaction 1'gant apparel,'for garments the most
thi the vook t a fast asle p,ieaving icoarsetand soelo y,-andgiso' disar-
a superh sirloin steak to to itselfi'Or range her  e *air in averyy nbe
spoil, according to its on inclina co wmAng fashion.  1heaase efitm
Lion  Seizing from the taIe a plate, singular conduct was soon 1r,4it '
-ur hero transferred to i thesteak, parent 6byther words-
which chance to be jue done to a'  "The 'neg igence nttin y  ypen
charm; lie then nischiev usly clap- ance, whenever he visits) neg ina
ped upon the empty gridiron -one. of eventually disgust him with nly per.
the cook's old' shoes, that lay upon son, and 'induce him to eeasesise
the' hearth. Then, quiclily posses- persecutions of me. A a !tat
sing himself of a 1If of bread knife ar' compelled to resort to such Roens-
and fork, and huge lum  of butter, ores, in order to get rid of-a mean
he m ide ,a rapid exit frmn tie kitchen, whord I detest!"
mounted the stairs, entere the cham-  The unhappy:lady; took up a book
her, and safely bestowed himself in and began to read, .while Jack eon-
the closet, without discovery.    tinued to goae at o her, from ,hi re-
Scarcely had this feat been effect- treat, with feelings ofthe mostge
ed, when the kitchen bell rang loud- found interest.
ly, as a signal for the coo  to bring  At last, a.small clockn 'lot  cbams
up the dinae  Upjumpe the good ber struck ten; the ldy!hudered,
lady', still ha f asleep, sci ding her- pat by -her book,=and listened imtent-
self for her 'heedlessness, and won- ly. In a few-momenta, a handful ot
dering if the meat wasn't burnt to a gravel came clattering against the
crisp.-.-Hastily grasping the grid- chamber windo*, .
iron, she deposited the-co tents upon  "It is hissignal," nistrmured the
a plate, ,and with it rushed up stairs, lady.--" 0 God! how long must this
Very much astoqislhed  vas Judge continue?"
CooPer, with his wife and daughter, , She ;herw ,tptbe window an have
to see the corpulent dot eetic bolt ing seewureJy adjusted one .nd o the
into the parlor, and ph ce, before rope-1adder,,lowesed the other rl to
them a half-burnt 'old shoe, which the, ground,,Aniupstanstiy, lher
emitted an odor rather iore peouhias appeared at'thy window the fgureef
than agreeable  It fu as  nova thatI a man, who' eaped into the chamber


':

r
She
'84;
it, ,t r
3 r r'r " t
F-

drew,   tse .ladder and, closed the'
apert /' throdt6h atch pe 'had en-
tered
'Jack took 'eseVglaneeati'the. in-.
truder, and(with difficulty' repressed
a cryof astonishment; for ho beheld
1h'the P   incee-'--the ,chief of the
/ /UnAoly Aliatac..the keep r ofthe
evil's   '- .and'the reputed father
of Gal      lh      a.-      ,
"Good  4d.. cal thia man be my
father, and Kate 'myn;haffI sister?
Amazement!' 'what other startling
discoveries will this: eventful day
bring toight-;'
Thes' th iighta  passe    pidly
through the  nd ofr our-h  shis
eyesbeein t'ivetted upon t  scene,
"So,"seid John Hamblin, alias
"the Rrice '-"you See that I am
.unctualdo my appointment. Come
Jther sweetheart, and give me a
fB   'e lady shrank from him, and
ler loo;plainly showed all the dis-
gust d   mat.itred which she felt,
'« how aw  i"n dried the Prince,
withairfrghtfulonth:-" will you nev-
llebre t+treat. me properly, when
i:'visit:you? And what means this
slatternly 'gat b of' yours? I'll - be
sworn that you have some other lover
for whom'you are ever ready to don
your finery! No matter, you have
of course piocured some money, in
obedience to 'my commands-give it
to me."
Miss Cooper drew from her bosom
a purse, and without saying a word,
gave it to 'her-persecutor, who exami-
ined the contents, and said-
" Perdition! here are but a° few
'ollars; I must have at least fifty.
What 'mehanyou'by offering me this
paltry sum!'
" John    Iinn," said the'lady, in
a firm voi'c+"  ese few dollars are
the   thin       y own industry,
and th1i ,' 'that I possess.
Take thef '{"#eave them,,as you
widhI"  hre' declare to you most

fir

IA t~oLD
solemnly, that .sooner than plunder
frQon my parents another dolar to
minister to your. extravagance., I'll
meet exposure of my frailty, and
death jtseIf,,at. your 'hands."
"Realy, madam," skid the Prince,
with amalignant laugh-" you grow
quite heroic; you'd make an excel.
lent tragic 'actress. However, I'm
not disposed to dispute the point
now; it is bed-time, and, as I said,
1 shall remain here until morning
So come, and be as loving in pre.
portion as 'you have become honest."
"Listen, John Hamblin," rejoinedt
the lady, in 'a tone of determination
"I am resolved that this guilty
connection between us shall continue
no longer, and never again will I
enter that bed with you. You may
abuse-you rray kill me--but you
cannot alter my resolution."
The Prince approhehed her, and
grasped her fiercely by' the arm:r
Jack Harold ground his teeth, and
viewed the scene with flashing eyes.
" What new whim is this, hussy!"
demanded' the villail,,angrily--" do
you now begin to preach honesty and
artue?" And he shook her save
gely.
i Jack glanced htifly around the
closet, and saw a good-sized hammer
lying near; this implement he picked
p, and then stood in readiness to
iush forth and protect his hapless
other from the ruffianly violence of
his father.
Miss Cooper was profoundly agi-
tited; she trembled, more with in-
igination than with fear. Her wo.
tan's spirit was aroused; her cheeks
g lowed, her eyes flashed, her bosom
N-aved. Her state of excitement
ordered her superbly beautiful. At
t tat mori.ent, any observer would
h ave been struck with the extraordi-
rary resemblance that existed be.
teen her and Jack Harold, her
"on.w.e
"1 Cowardly ruffian!" she exclaim'.

JACK     ROLDgoCOdVIgs HiS PARENTS"'p
-          -            ---===,========--,,-..-
the floor by a tremendous blow upon of the intrepid'tan4 'sttangeltanking
the head from the hammer with youth, and suffering actithlly, from the
which he had armed himself   The blow which the tufiian had given her.
Prince lay stunned and senseless.,  fell fainting in the arena f her seon
Jeck's mother, overcome with a., who carefully placed her unmcbascmon
lenishment at the sudden appearance I form upon the bed.

,
_     v

ed, in accents of withering, aen a! "This tdtun
"thus to persecute arta mibLse  I rine      i               hetand, un
weak, defenceless wmiani      Oh,  le t  ctro[l hi l?:loher,:he
what chivalry, what courag;What asked hss cJ:nch4 }ha4 'violently ;
honor you possess !      tNO t this a h t  ee of' a na  m
moment, do I loathe and despise you ;  becould yepteteow, Q.t;
more than ever. Unhand me, wretch  er'-.u tuhcdino from e ntpnd le  h to
-y our .touch s polutionit                         I
dliii      a  \                     \4h

T

E~',7
,  .   A
s          '           cry  "'e h 1; {.


54   t: ,F    rJAC              UASLO.
Tr   princee w to was severely  t preobalbL:. thbe captutea. in whieb
not seruiesl injured, s(ttnoicvere; irose;Jtijllobe' returhedlto the Rtsfge,
raising himself up  egaedwil y fItI afldi hlcan agaih escape lvith
"round' ?hi taidula o 4iris wnder} r  title'Iu ;ty; you will be sent to'
denhised the'wettr.embe      #f    4e Sate   on, as a but'glar; and
Ssaofi'1k Itaroild              ytou =kntow by experience, perheips,
.MAn I reanaing ? ihe muttered  tihat tro escape fouin that i tstitution is
dodile bhe)old the young  next to inijossible: So you see that
h  ttenant of our band?":         to, attempt throwing me out of the
Yes-.4. an sin, eplied Jack  wirdowg will' scarcely  y."  And
c     temly  oour hero,laughed heartily at his own
But how hsiv e 'gun ~esaped firs,  acuteness.  ~'
the Hltie of Refug ,to w hiryo     The Prince waa no fool, and he
were sentenced?"       s '      $ i nstantly. comprehended, the force of
The prison n otb    at can this reasoning.  He had    already
hold'me,"was ,theproud: answer.-  "done' the. State some service'' in
" butthia is no place for the story of her prison, and' had no desire to re-
#y. eseu:p4e"                     new; the obligation.   Besides, he
3'ti in the "name of all that's knew; that the proprietor of the
wnderfta, how came you here to. house, Judge.Cooper, was, prover-
ItighIt Ivthis. chamber?"          bial for his judicial. severitytowards
f. "'i"satyou.shall known hereafter, criminals, and world. prosecute him
f *   tf more Qouvienient:season."    relentlessly, if'one in his power
r jHumpht'youare inclined to be Therefore, the Prisee " bottled up
ivilish reaerved;t I see. And so it his wrath 1. for the time. being hutb
s f you. who favred me with that mentally swore a solemn oath of
on the heady, jst.now?"        vengeance against, the bold1stripling
' 1xaetlV so,"                  who had dared:toycrosshis path.
" May I' resume to inquire your  Thus,;it swill be seen, that ou.rhero
Mason ftr raising your hned against had niade two implacable enemisa-
s superior, officer; ther chief of-the Lopez, the-Spaniard, who had, sworn
hand'?"                            to bring him to the gallows, and the
"Beeanue I wished -t protect a Prince, whose designs respecting him
defenceless woman from your ruffian- were less delnite, but none the lessp
ly' violence."                    dangerous or deadly,
The Prince's brow grew dark with  Jack had now discovered'"both his
suppressed rage, 'and his eyes blazed parents; but, neither his father or
with, tiuy.                       mother was aware of his, identity.
"Wi:, will settle this matter at The former he hated'; the latter he
some future time," said   he-." at loved with an ardor enhanced: tea-
present ,you  ill oblige me by leav- fold by her misfortunes and' sufer-
tage this;house,.instantly."      ings.
"I shall not go unless you accom-  The Prince, seeing that it was
pany me."                          useless to remain longer, now pro-
"'By God! if you refuse to de- posed to depart. Our hero assented;
part, I will throw you-headlong from  and, under pretence of ascertaining
the window!" ,if the lady was likely soon to re-
"You dare not," said'Jack, who cover from her sWoor,, he approached
was not inthe leastds'gree frightened the bed" whereon lay the still uncon-
at thia threat..." if you attempt it; I scioua form-of his 'mother;- and" his
wilt raise the alarm, and we. shall tears fell upon her pale cheek.

The rinc., m  nwhiea improved Friance tp    po    q        p"
the opportrtijty b peniag various 44notaecg ze     hai .tbsig test
drawer, and trash errig to his  k d  the r#ee
ets such articles ,  chsare.4Mo4e    pck loot   ep       r+ n)im; un
hjs cupidity, Th1  att      ge- as                   o
tigmai wasw  t %o, boast tsatbedjr. tq °sew  aJ il"1     j te   4         i
ways had an eye t~ business.     bt~o    ~~~e;
Jack Harold leqned qver his moth- eilj  p         i   Tr' f      r
or, and pressed iis lips to er fore- ththi                  et
head; tie  asi, ctuated by a Had- the :re{ y t)iattpr, h a d d44
ture from his neck ,and place .it-i o hnt tq kf  ,t : § yi K
her buson.   ,                      W        refreshing sear  .'       ,"l.
"She will kno , by this toieni  mug    16i*at         s
thought he-"tha   it was her own sudde   ,,overed   : pan,                 "
son whose sudden appearance de- hands, hilith .p         sasicali
Prived her of cons iousness.  Fare- in the world'exc'e4
well, dear mother ; we shall mnget    "Guess.whoyii
again."                            , «";atej" was th tosan  el
The lady now began to betray       And o, indeed, it
signs of return  sensibility; and rompidg, vol u usdnsKte,2lokkri
Jack, satisfied wit this evidence of t     limes'dite     iatl ."i
her safety, remind "dthe Prince tht4 ever. Her staby*ua seen '  M
it' was tine forther to depart, Thatv                        f Harold had,'f n motives  of
individual,"having secured 'about hi$ passion  engendered aby1 herk sex,
person every avail ble aritile  rth youths and     edeaytty  heliedato pres-
carrying'off, mad no objection; rnd youth heno be artidinatpos t
.c.oHand sgl                  scute hers for her participation gill; the'
accordsugi , the-' there and s  psss- urglarve and she was-aceerding!y
ed throughg Ithe window, . and, by released from custody. Her wounds
nieans of the rop -ladder, sael deeesoonyielded tosk
scenddto the ht inda            al surgicaltreatment, and, she' was'
s'The Prince h  m inwait  g, nat ow entirelyy well -Her enthusiastic
short distance 1 r i the honse,' ajoy at again meeting her young friend,
horse and buggy    our 'idventrers whom  she already -regarded in the
etitered the vehi e, and the andial light qf a' loier;. was somewhat damp-
being urged fdrwa d 'at a rapid rate, ened when she observed that he did
they reached the  Devil's Den 'y, not return hpr caresspa, but, on the
Wkter -swret ysoc a the numerous contrary saeemned to shun them.
city clok     pr'   aohinig"h
! our  of k midni rpht.  ca 'mg th  The  reader  will  comprehendthat
u o m     g                     our hero's coldnesse toward~athe pretty
Kate arose from the consideration',
a :       that  he 'was his half.sister; and,
CHAPi E0 XII:      '      consequently, that ,apJ intimacy -'of
an amorous nature with her would
Wherein .ack rejoins is respectable Nen S be criminal and unnatural,  Kate,
ausan 1rwedives a artany"ewiCom.  , who knew, nothing o9f this,,was sur-
pr'ised and hurt sat his lappa rent ic-
The personal ppearance pf~ our di~renee.;; and' after .anoaec inefaa
nerohadynadergona ao great a clioge atstgsipt, to warmjiim Mate ,oetg
Ihi .teli worse, ta at ' " Oge Arm'dlike his forniyer ar4ge, she lnmr4ingi4
Bili," .n  admitting .him .and the tears.  '            T      a  i


. V   s

-          IkeC  HAJOLD
a"y der Kateo eM'id tsc , kird  little
1",- tell me thr oCap     f t~your whom
, rief "                           dende,
Vou o longerlove me ' r' lie4 ruin o
e'oun' il l, weepie              ashiroaifli.8in  Is
thropriety ofd e eph i~t d W.lr depths
thltr e cause orhisresenrv ,hen luring
bis    i tironsw    nerit aru led by hedror
t  ' uIrnre  of' One AiBrn d  sill. the ver
ince. imnhile  iedn s etid- blood
ed tr ec#tret rerdezved Hf the must i
Unhn        tiThe
Littetait,"' aaid4Bill  e peet- the esc
( ly toyM ing 'his tarpatis4 "the in prison
geit eheti beO# is  niaxi  Ao see at liher
you. My eyes! had he's altered! futl  c
This last was uttered aside, Ind the be hurr
exclamat ir  was, accompanied by a had sw
prolonged whistle, expressiv of as  Lope
tonishi tit, in truth, Jack, with his pered t
shaved   ad and unsouth garments,    "
could ia th ditliculty be recognized achieve
es the handsome, elegantly dressed   in
youth of former times,       .       ang
''Adieu for the  present, Kate," prso
whispered . Jacky-" everything shall  Our
soon he explained to your entire sat- highly f
tefaction.''
With thi : assurance he l ft her, with w
d descend to the repadevou    oth w
the band, where most of the worthy Spaniar
members were asseInbled1 as usual, t o altain
carouse and make merry.              Jack'

As he enteted, those who were not
too drunk to stand arose frog their
seats, antd greeted him  wit  t bree
hearty cheers ; alter which - they
crowded around-him to shak  hands,
and congratulate him on hi escape
from conhnemnent.
One of the' most enthusi stic in
welcoming him was Lopez, ie Span-
iard. This man still temaineil in the
employ of Me. Harold; 'for as we
have before intiinated, he wa h most
skilful gardener, and his waster had
nt the slightest suspicion of his true
chara'tet, but on the contrary believed
him to be a very honest and respect.
ble man.   The worthy gentleman

of your
Lopez,
of strain
Jack
of dea
smiled
" It '
1I t I th e
Lopez,
across h
mime ti
his you
Then
Prince
dered x
thought

.a,

suspected that the servant ii
he reposed' such implicit eonfi.
hard been instrucmeItal in the
fhisi opted souer-that he was
g+a' At h ge band of desperate
, 4id' was eveh then, in the
of his own black heart, ma.
a plan of outrage -upon the
and purity of a happy family,
y thought of which makes the
cordle with hotrr  But we
ot anticipate.
Spaniard was really rejoicediat
ape of his protege, who, while
an, was beyond his power; but
my, tte progress of the youth.
tin in a career of crime could
ld by theartful villain who
orn to destroy him.
m drew Jack aside, and whis.
o him--
dear Lieutenant, you have
d immortal honor by your
and wonderful escape from
You will become rs famous
great Jack Sheppard himtela'."
hero was but a.hoy, and felt
battered by this praise; he did
ic the slight tone of irony
which it was uttered.
izge," continued the cunning
d-" you may become the
of our band."I
s eyes sparkled with pleasure
e Prince, only, is in the way,
becoming our chief," said
regarding the boy with a look
ge signiicauae.
turned upon the Prince a look
dly hatred.  The   Spaniard
grimly.
would be a very easy matter to
Prince out of *t, way," said
gently, as he drew his finger
is throat-a species of panto.
hat was perfectly intelligible te
thful hearer.
Jack remembered that ine
was his father; and- he shtad-
at the direction in which his
s were aegitiing to tur.

"Let u      dow   at the table, '
said he.
The Spanlad assented  . mutterin
to himself'-.  AIth he sall t ontlit a'
murder soon!
Jack helped himself4 a tmhblero
grog, and drank fret ' inQvlet to
drown recollection, Alst are;ats
sorrow, though they may for a tidte
be obliterated by the incense of the
intoxicating cup, are invested with'
tOn-fold poignancy, when reason re
suimes her throne "
Our hero was soon in a state of
perfect I&amp;ppines-that being the
term which convivial gentlemen some-
time apply to a condition of partial
intoxtiaiion. At the request of asve
eral of hsis worthy friends, he related
all the partcitlars of his escape from
the Refuge.  When he described the
ma~ner in which he had imprisoned
Mr Piggot, the overseer, great were
the applause and laughter; when he
natrated his adventure with the Itlion-
derbuss and the gate-keeper, .warmly
did they commend hiei courage; but
when he told how he had frightened
the letter gentleman and Piggot with
a stick of wood, three times thee
cheers attested his friend's high app
precialion of his talents, intrepidity
and presence of mind:'
On   Aren'd Bill, who had joined
the c mpany, and was a great deal
more han "half seas over,"'-in fact
he waj never sober-now arose from
his se ,t, and steadying himself upon
the ta le with this solitary arm, fixed
his w inhering eyes upon a tallow
candle which, to his disordered senses,
seen  to be dancing a mminuet with
a junk bottle, and delivered himself
of the"following speech, the elect
which was greatly enhanced"by a gen-
eral tiI ckuess of utterance, combined
with tle pleasing spectacle of rtevue'
let of obacb pice that issued from
tia m uth, and fertilized a ittest of
heard  pvq his chin.--
' F ends and fellers," said Bill,

ter,
pda
his'
the.
and

110110
(Sh 
came
to for
ed p
friend
lows
Ketc
bolt,
like f
to d
come
paper
der'
neck
the'M
him t
only
so.) t
asked
eyed
en in
wasn'
wttl'
two e4
whose
figuar
by a
stone
"thee

3pdat Boty ae whichia\
hat few  oc:Myetr ¢esarolim.
its of approval,:which ;s *ver
the oratorgh   nthews obliged:
cify himself another prolong'
!1 at the brandy battle  pee;
Is and fellers, I've had the ,1t
ope around my neck,
statnding by ready to oes
and the parson praying away
ry; and just as I was prepared'
Ace the hempen hortpipe, up
s a chmp and hands a slip of
to the sheriff, Which was fan ora
om the -Ouv'nor to spare mny
and give me a berth for life in
ate Prison-sand be damned to
But I didn't 'stay there long;,
for a matter of fifteen years or
on werepardoned out, then ?"
one' of the' company.   Bill
he queristwhia look of dt'unrk,
lignation,-'and ;entnued-
sard'oned  nat 'i  In  course  L
; I'ye s'gose- they'd  pardon
ter choking  a woman to death
eiothes-hne, and brbnsog her
ildren with the fire'shovel ?'
a- ha' I good!" cried a ruffian.
Siountenancewasehoribly dies
d by his having'been'blown up
accidental explostoa in .tha
quarry of some penitentiatry-
was firaterate besittes.."

1I

1

ffi


r  L     -

ya               ; tpitat'Md,?er dhe, madden.
d      absd                        S~uence of alcohol, reyealed
'roi n yi                     sert ahisn19P Lg   history,
h  rndrn' c     p{. .  +  whih hing, t sh      omen of. its, ,ho
geout of.;heepf         Owould ;'pvemost carefully guarle1ilHee hese'm  Q. ta  u};  14.sj:v"re d e it i
.ere Y  at peh le tmd          B   toggeg,    erer edyi     a
p lnot impresentine,  asbutleep     saesO 'aoi, leheart, cheree a
pthe, contrary e edr tto pag  h.m cht tic inteLatin prve ho
tth idadrma uo ttr nce Ink m e t gaost hbree w'cyls-- ".J4 vrm , veridaa; '
the degl en: ceigsy           . which, bung, shaken,. Qut of, its; R93
;  ,getse-hid- 1mnadelaisae man iatoggery, anwi vestedna plt~n
key, smy4got 'out of   hid.,cell, English garment, means simrply,.ghat.
at' ni  : Ethel sentinel e wal :asleep; " oo-."man, when ,drunk, can be a
"nt..ef 'is balart*: into rrt n  fy (Oieces hypocrite.
w my knife-hid~tthen4"I{took his Order -being restored, the Prince
ey*, aned litMinyself, ut ft S  fin  condescended to call upon one of the
fermaljugb-hic--but the alar  was company for a song. The gentleman
giveor, 'ani they .were-after -me;4 thus honored, who rejoiced in the
jumped overboaik . ap d swam for the humorous cognomen of " Sntffy,"
opposite shore--hii --when a bloody, was an English' thief, more 'renarkse
shark tackled me, and ,tore off my. ble for a partialltf ito strong' waters,
arm, adpbe dahmed to hm--.-hie-- than for professional skill. He was
b     L gt off blast therreyes, and no, about forty years of age; his gar-
tun ks toanyof them, neither--hic--  ments were of the, shabby genteel
ndhere Lan, permnoted to the hpn order, and he possessed a 'highly in*
't able'sstivation of." door-keeper. to' tellectual couatenance.--that: is to
the 'Devil's Den.-'(Cheers.)g And' say; he:had a pug nose, and squinted
rnw,tefriends ands fellers, 'axing yer ter'rifincally.e Thisnan had, formerly
padding for this 'long varn-hic--4'Il been:a, ranting .Methodist'i preacher
ind-ap.with a toast. ;llera samay 'in'London;  old women' pronounced-
the chepas loses eneqarim inoireaik 'him a saint, while several young ,.o.
ing bout'-of  the stone jug,,: never be men of his flocki.exhibited ins .heir
without' the 'pluck. or the -chance to persons namplea indications, of -,his
steal:with the other-4amn, t*!"  fleshy nature,.and their own frailty,
While the company were enthusi- The Rev. Mr. Snuffv was-eventually
astioally aypliaudiugthis'pvsiseworthy compelled toleave the scene 4f-1'is
gentiment,.'Ore Arna'd Bill, took his ministerial labors, because tf,
leave'in rather a sudden and myste- strong aversion which be had to see
rious manner, without going through certain .slates;; which several land-
the formality; of 'biddinghis friends lords, who knew ,hie;weakness in ;em
good night,,'To'explain 'exhausted ferencAe t the non-payment of bia
by, his;eloqndnce an dieceuraged by twermand brandy, bills, were co'tints-
the brandy which he had'.iibeda he elly idthe,habit roth .ratingmjnt,
bad, at the onlpainothisrarks,, face.. As ,one, lte;pill r: of the
bee seized with't sudden. giddiness, church, he determiped to rcsont such
rlhichtdestroyedlhis equiilibrium:ti imnprpper,liberties;,he therforewit
rosae   sptbat"le pitched heaa,fre. 4rew thebenefit.of.lys gspet tepc
menrt hhder the. table and being. suf inga frops aplace. peopled, .pegke 4,
feredtouemain there 'se was se'n celared, by " a goeation  ipgrg.'
so more that nigfr'  '       _    More'ver. lisa studious habits and

r '4'

'WI
all tro
He ha(
anroye
were it
sevefa
shabby
sticks.
parchm
*~hy'-f
"wher
Suches
condet
ature o
would
ever m
novit,.
could t
ad'the
ly harn
pleasan
"tht n1
1.0O. U
people
oh! 'wh
ise!'
standing
sictitall
of Lon
his con
ica by
tusaistt
ship; '1
thenau
himself
Pince'
holyAl
and Re
little
societe
across'
brdinae
blalloo
- *tad:e
dotes
courts;
of, dor
never:
ings w

i

r "i} 4
11'N  rto

?.
'i ;,s

1

i

'ng-domesflc   ahnersisi sy    su(nettviand be toi   hem
ce at tavernsgd  attgl yg  th   x ht'aio 5Shess      ade
p t hou s sasdhim +e ebdde            '3; phis        seh'd,
F     '"ilhnifih pe  .  ia  houuid @a J}Japn@  V     sty  pa  t"
e themselves about t'him     t t 4 :  !e ' I^t; e5+  lnceertptrbth
d for some -time,,beesmacht Wvem            i b mu'considerable
b castabt i~i'      *Mho pac  i     r ying hea characteraf
n us riously ma   ye t mr     t'Rs   e1      y ~because he i.
l ' l a gentle5       dpi -ev v fairrpre  9vtothat enum
o :and generally' carried clas4 f eits/ta i patst;
H  had a. great horror of oprilI in the dooft actity foiw
nt1 or of any document, in season a  i     '      sel  #for
m   which commenced with the c neoawnt -f'their. i1ds;
s' or "ybd are hetreby." and 6i 1y'ink their      eI
f!l' ad stupidproductions -he and b cwnswidtler, aape#    r
ri ed as unworthy of the liter- thieves,  ' i.
n the age. He said that Latin  Su pywas a itof a poe,. and h
e the most noble language. always  (thipingers' eidWbas  u
s d, if those ,.ugly words cog- dance o flash or obscenersopgd ofAis
icias; and "i few others, own composition, The'i'ea dr. haIl
forgotten; and he'ctnsider-d be gratified with 'ne of. hirdu
ng ish vowels= as exceeding tions-of the for'me'  dac 'Mast objee-
I oni us.. " What can be more tionable class.
,. ie "Wou " frequently say, " Give'us a song,'Snuff,~" Ald
? iWhat c~da suited dornestic -"'Tt hear is to obey," rephe4th
het erthanet'  t   mho ne; nd ex-ctergyman, who was very drunk,
t a charm itherein ipron. which did not-in the least impair'the
r: Snuffy, iwever, notwith. natural glibness  of his -'togue.
'hiss high a atthinments, 'was "What kind, or sort;or ,descritiott
si led by the publicans out of, 4 song shall t=have the. pleasure
on ahd "'left his'eouttrry:for or satisfaction, or honor -of singing
try's good,"'-hame to AmN'- for'the amusement or entertainment
working his. poss ige " , 9f your Royal' Highness? "Shallit
tic ok nw board ans emigratbe comic, sentimental,-naval, patri-
eca eat first a pettfthief Wic,- military, civic, convrivel; ama-
'ur lar, and finally" enrolled time, sacred, profane, solemn, seri-
it der the r banner- of 'the ous, smutty or flash? Shall it' b'e-="
as a niember' of'the "fUn-  " Flash," 'said' the Prince, bri  y
ian e."1 His peculiar'talents  " Good; then, your Royaligh=
om )itshret eld'dtrititted -,not, ness, and. gentle uen. tai, both gres
sto' he snntt emeInt' ofphis as- and small-incliding, of ceuvse, our
;,the! could' dashIIis °pen young lieutenant, Master ' iae
a s eet of paper! 1tkhr ectra -*ho 'f perceive, has gone to 'sleep,
ya elodity;"'he"{ r6tekin a and will therefore lose thebeli#f
1st leiand cin adebate he my grand vooal and poetic displvy.-
ter bsctof wir'ds. 4Hiis anec  h'arkenantd me, listen, pay atten-
fim 'nwthom'he neveristw;' of tion, trid be ye still;: for verily ye
whi h he had never entered t shall heatra song of my owl ,ausa-
:e 'esnquesti whi h hey 'had facture, construction, 'production aad
ite ded;"endofT p public neet composition-one that:Byronhimslf
ih never saw his presence- might have been pleased, or 'proud4

N.:
:A       _~

\^ M^  +
"

1

S
'    r
,   ri   n
:'   k}
fyiy


60

theeKiev.  1r. fitt
disposed of asistbhe
having accomihatied
threw himself back
made, the table his
: a not untwesical
ing-the apopipctic bre
(a capital ope for the
ex-clergypran favored
theft Iloying  choice -
of 'Y~meh deemned to 'b
o.,Old Hundied"
Young Oysterman'':

1inated; or writ' .tiad but tnb'aitimoth t tWe a Imt I esUnd Ar7I*
$ut soon r fund a lawyer who got tne out on trin;
essedl  iins ef,,""wit', 1t40   meunfaithful  prove,
u ai'dhinteooy tomwr--Iwes 4uwawuepon i.
pli tpneh,                   Ierry down, c.
at"he ,'Pe e-t'tubeenin tlimbo, but I'll go there no more,
do either   r  ism lgu4ed, and t nu rambliig days
,4 hih~~nir ahd are 't
( ts4tM; 4hen, hwaeiqaleeacroeeman, he ahallnotgoaway,
r 1 .     .    Til we iirialt a gia  sto old arlae., wtiea, we went uweo
d      n ,consider-                Drhyd
vit i of hia neek                 D*"ry*do"', 'c

hangman !) the
his friends with
morceav, the air
e a combination
and - The Tall

SONG y TlE      RQOSSM N   E'
Comethieve,anJ bold burgers, anti j,lmlitobh.'rs. too,
Awl lkewlse alt the ogvmnen,qjtt go' alons with you,
{Itsing you a ditI, eo pleasant and so gay,
Otil jovial tineswe hidsrhen we went upon the lay,
rPqrry ds wny,, hey dgrry down.
When I was an apprentice, and lived upon the square,
(wits .hPt of pocket money, which I thought was
Udyfair,
S, I went auon the cross and began to rob and!stea,-
a      "made a boodie, oh! bow proud I ua'ed to
Derry-down, Ac.
I cnt upon the cabin lay, the ntry and the till,
&amp;'t aole such, sweeping gake, tha they adid my
Teuohee had tsurt'when I carig  them cn the
snooe-
They were a waye surtheirdummieor their thimbles
for to loe.
Derry down, Ac.
I got apeir of flash kicks, a tog and csaly too,
A, gato-s ,jerve, a pair (of quifle ao potieit'd end s inew;
1' spot ii a gold thimble  rid a wpe of cambriclne,
A4d .isoadway, and tha battery so ounstanly did
shine.
h jerry down, &amp;c.
0 In order thut the unelnusical reader may
(ally appreciate the peculiar beauties of this
deleco,. ie'pi~oinvelon of the Rev. Mr. Snuf-
y' s n.use, we subjoinal r)4   definition of
the vatious flash terms with, which-it is em,
bellisehed:-
rosman, a thief. Lay,. the pursuit of
robbery.  Sqtre, l.ooesty.   Doodle, booty.
Lubina Iy, robbing vessels.   Entry.stealing
fromh ouese.    Till,:pilierirg frotm themny
daws of shops aid stories    akh. intoxi-
Cated perewis.    Snooze. nleep.    Osnwy
a piockt-bo'k.    Thimble,. a watch.    Kicks,
hnIome. Tlga       coat.  'ety, a hat,
ht n  ttisef .   Pl, aispaiser.8A       y *t
too "At O1 n, a. shiek' r iltrtss

Nire' a health to each bold robber, that does hi. jbs
up right;
Likewise each gallant burglar, that cracks his cribs at
night..
here's a health to each fair bl1wen, that love.the
crosemart brave,
stay she never be deserted, or weep upon hisgrerel
*         Derry down, 44.
CHAPTER XIII,
Interview between Jack and "Hii Royal
Highness- !
This, villainous effusion, being well
adapted to the feelings and tastes of
the company, was received with
boisterous applause; and the Rev.
Mr. Sniffy looked the very picture
of vanity--allowing that vanity  was
ever seen " tight as a peep,'t' with
a short pipe in its mouth, which
was, the precise-condition-of the rev.
erend gentleman, after he had fin-
ished his song.
The Princo now announced that it
was time for the company to sepa.
gate; and in a.few minutes the place
was deserted, save by "H is Royal
Highness," and Jack Harold, who
vas awakened    from   his slumbers
by the noise, made by the departing
tNieves. We must not forget One
Arm'd Bill, however, who lay snoring
beneath the table.
The Prince turned to our hero, and
fpr som minutes regarded him with
t stern look, which Jack repaid by
an expression of hatred and con-
tempt.
At length the Prince said, in a tone
which he vainly strove to -reader
calum           .. ,

I

* Coas, 1  , we are alone now,
with" the 4  ptio Hof that. drunken
brute under the table';are, you ready
to explain, to me how you rme a
that house, and why you .a taecled.
me?"
'E I'll answer you ist asT far as
"its me, and no farth~i4, eplie4Jack .
'flair I had escaped frontiprison,
ending . myself closely pursued and'
in danger of being captured I con
trived to enter that house without
being seen by any one,- nd conceal-
ed myself in the little lost which,
adjoins that lady's chamber, intend.
ing to remain there until dart, when.
I might depart with safety; For
reasons which I don't choose to tell.,
I did not depart at dark, but remain-
ed in my hiding place, the itdy not
having the least suspicion of there
being a- person concealed in her
apartment., I saw you -ent the
room through.,the wirdow, anIheard
all that passedl; I stw you str ke the
ioor lady---        -
"And why the hell did yo inter-
fere?" roared the Prince, in a per-
fect phrenzy of rage, for Jc 's tone
of calm defiance maddened bI m.
The hot blood of indignati on red-
dened our hero's face, as. he: re-
plied--
" I should have proved myself al..
post as miserablea coward as  you
are, if I had not interfered, when 1,
saw a rutiarn assaulting a defenceless
woman."
" Insolent young cur(l he sall pay
a'r this!" muttered the Prince, from
between his clenched teeth.
'"And, besides," continued ack--
I had a particular reason  or de-
fecding that lady,; above p) ,other
women in the world."
" And that reason-.wha t Was it?' .
"I shall not:tell you., at present,
but you may know hereafter.'
" Damnation! aee ,you deter mied
.o baulk meat every turt '"

41

tLtoL..
"Yes
with ad
who ha

It

and care -to e\tmper with me Wif
skey AnoW  le(' Do   texcitemy'
anger :imuuli'. (t4r4i'   o by God -I
will not spareyyui
-Jack nadne   bpy; ,t stnled
scornfully.   :,        f\
" Perdition!" ntuttere the  r e
--" why does this thof, smile reni
me of  f---Clariuea  oop? And,
now t   diexamine his onietice
more  oselygootd Gp!wjlat a
strange resemblake Y      s if I
saw her face irn  lfrirtp  What
strange suspicion 1 thaio,1 ait  }
over my sol-Can it be.- -in t
hle! And yet a mrysferiou  at Ict.
of nature, w ich I can neitli iVep4.~
prehend nor rei t, seems to tell
that this yo th is my son ! It' muist
he so -it is *; he hes by some ineie
discovered that Clarissa is his  hoth
er, and hence his particular reamos
for defending her.  But' doe he
know that I det his father? 'No; he
cannot; for I remember that nothing
passed between that thussy and my=
ell; which could have 1dd him to tha-
elief. How he discovered his r~ea-
tonship to her, and whether she t
awtare of it herself, I khow not. But
stop-.-perhapa she prepared 'him for
my coming, and toid Ahini that lam
his respectable daddy--ha, ha! It
so, the young rascal should be proud
of having descended from "HIs
Royal Highness."   I kew that he
was not the soi of old Hiuld, 'whoa
he robbed'; but little did I sUspect
that he, was one of my, own clever
pr'oduetions! The whole a4'arr is a
web of mystery, wh clf tine oily can"
unravel. Tite, did-        1No,
no;-in thne' this cub and himother,
who wilt both   ate- me i iornaieY

Va rl

c ,,,
;
e                          t'
i
,
,y
.    %

,   '      v                 }.   , i '   4
,y,. *.       -


JAK 1--13 LD.
m;y, pbit e. to fectt  y d'st hec  , " ,Wot  hel's the m an 'd nti nd'
tion. Eis brat.        { ;    otst ok' e il, as ue rub  d hises
the way,, t once  t(       t, 6beiu ghy sor hgt tediiisser n,4 he hd
son, ncergas  nyba         h;m  i onlyone hnd todb *ith-" *bt d'ye
st    of ditritsshA g t   ise l mean b cowitlg'Ito a feller's rilsmn
Sdeedo ,; I iJa tgt1Mt atoltlii ace that way and he dam'd to y ou! Ugh
1c.; rpoth r, r11'w' lze4pertion rn insar as is allknocked-out o shape
4tarnaade het danger" a  my afe- andiruy licker m a got mixed wih tmy
tla~us' /Mastr 'ck =li tet wittles; JId take over' twosuarts o
ant i told,$onld    y-your , me brandy t? set me to rights- --and be
is 4hort o  earth.  Meanwhili,='it idam'd ,t you "
bdlstd    'mot      b    .to neatm   " Come, si,' cried th  Prince,
h    afiae ted kindnes aa s aK. i rternlyO" remember who you area
"J.                               talkingt ;. youthave not  slept
aP      o tPoere  tsps  ,epass- the fumn s of. your carouse, I see.
-  L tn mld:he n         y4 ofthe Listen : conduct this-rthis--young
rme,4ief        let;dhad !entlem n - humph !- to the small'
Zirt ai    r at  was. sp   ng it chamber in the third story; youknow
+!uar ofbte   ost indifference the one  mean. ,He will occupy that
hg his youth, he room fo the present. Make into mise-
redy        to   ppreciatethe take-d' ehear ?"
q     s,    e weed,       .      Ay aye; in' cburse   I hear'
said therince, advancmg  tumbled 'Bill; who'was stiupidwi
and np  ishan-." ha.need is drik-6it'' the same'rdoimntyt the
t o of,'ou t .uarr;lieng?;,Let us         ,
,t  o  ., o d bquarieing? L   sstranger siept in, the night i"wst i
j a nands,, and be friend.' hand  hrough the secret panel, aiid ieiur-
lakddnot hiete ofrgfered hand  "-aato    ae o    ii  "ra
atpnidsicapion of dislike,,wlhich athe Prinein  are yohipr   s
o     arffected  nQtto  notice,  and  he  .he  Prince, indh ferc  wsolper, was h
4  tinued-                          Oiited to leanckn Haold h ,  with
' Asyou  are  at presept  destitute  eis hed asl e 'e,
yeatit               tef       ldto  ningslepnth  b  pe
ftjn4sand regular gpiding-place, you te"e t o   .seepr
sha~l be,plerectly, weheome to make  "  1~ntheWrc~an4lce
ts hoiser.yu h   ome  t  mcae sometir es loosens my tongue, and sets
this heyuse your, home until such inneittgadpn   ftethn iogt-
asi~ar~  di~risepr~vded~-W t to galloping 'faster than  i aought-
s y   thi  ebut thelboy's asleep ,"and hasn't heard
Aertir aoent's reflection,' our he-  Awme
red ai ,.celdly-,. "                Awaken him, and after   Yu' hive
9' ac      o                     shown him to the chamber, corniao
i eepptl very  weo l;ffer  ..  e a rn   -i  have work  for  fod  o  do."'  So
ct t c amnhberyir .O n"     a.rm'd Bill saying, the Prince' quittedtth. 'cellar.
slpll shoiv you the, wq to it,".    Bill "grin'a horribly    ghastly
A few vigoypus kicksadppijistered s mile," ad' sosed 'our hero fron
inthe region of One, Arm'd Bill's ribs his prettndedslutnber.
soon aroused thataccomplished' gen. .  "C me, "lietenant," 'said the
tleuyaitto a statepf consciousness, and am iabl old gentletlan- 'I'm ready'
ha energed Aaprn beneath: the table, to 'sho- yott'where you ar' to sleep."
gpQwling srn what after the manner.  "Leid 6n, then," Iai idsk.
oea rear:  icted with the',tooth-ache,  Bill slhuf iedf p the it irs,'followed
supposingjthatrgnimatrto be, also trou- by the young  lieutenant ;'tnd'as ihey
tied with a very infirm temper.  .  ere crossing the taprot'dheltter

- '             jACK 3AIOLD.
ersinly:f  t .heuef iasped is the  y sed .tn e eOf he ward. would
ace s of, ",   Kate." .,        ..Mu tewithina.e 'ensation) of ab
e   was arrayed inia-nmost seductive  ,0se.=    a :
night-dresa, which 4tipliayed .her,. -  out, atr- the statuie, the painting,
iuptuoua charms with a liserapity that or the nwean in' slight uracefu
would have caused marry of our modern elegant dripry, lid artfully an p
"j4nice young ten " ,to t10su. 1s p. quetishly urradged 'as to 'reveaI
posing them. to be capable of such in general outlines- arid supoh ipropor' A
achievement, ,                     tions oh the entire forth; yet not fort
.Now, the amorous reader must not palpably.-snd S wholly: displnying'the
suppose that we are going to gratify. rounded arma, the faultless heck;. the
hire t.hy describing in detail the reveal- admirable shoulderts, and ht' gloWing
ed beauties .of the charming Kate; bust- .not forgetting the idelicaie 'nie
for, as we have the vanity to believe and a generous isoition  of its'swelling
that the bright, eyes, of many of the continutation.-and.the chimrmir  vi.
f'ai sex will scan these pages, we fear- sion b opessutggestive of a*h6t ad
to raise emotions of jealousy in their. burraitfida " whili'the ye el t
fair .osomns, shouldd we, happen to de- upon th'sie beatties which'are" ex-
i personall qualities of a loveliness posed, the imaginati invests within
aa passing heir own.             inefftble loieliness ~ hovM cl;are
We dq tiot, however, wish to bue concha d; -In a n i  litA iaU  we .
bggilind thoss writers of fiction,' who too uthd ;, in one pioperiy drape; t'h'
f41their peges with -lengthy and ela- spectator, unless -he be more t'16s
borate cntaloges of the various phyv than-hunantar  sees justenon
sial items possessed by their'favorite, his passions; and make him f
heroines,;. therefore,' takihg sit for tnore.            '    a
granted that o'pr-readerpis blessed with  Thus it was with our heroine, Kate
arich.and fertile imagination, elshall she looked-ten "thousand times more
furnish a ,skelgtonlketoh :Hf; Kate's charming in her volupttoussdhabile,
chartns,.and leaveths. aforesaid reader than if phehadrappeatedin 'the prii.
to, hill .up the blanka  in the man- tive costume of Eve,,ere" that .credu'
ner most agreeable to iis own taste, ious nd fruitloving lady 'becadtie' so
as4 ideas of female perfection..   painfully conscius. of iher skydessk
The eye roves with inpuinity over conditin. And, now, thrice:gent1e'
.he nude figure:.of a marble 'Venus, reader, bring in play all tire wealth of
and surveys with no warmer feeling thy prolific imiagiatio :4"'the exceed-
than that of admiration, the entirely ing' brevity of Kat's'restiettiauiite
undraped form of a.beautiful woman, garment displayed  an acnle and-
depicted with gldiving 'abefiracy upon blank--of;exquisite sytmnetry ;.:*hilt
the canvass.. So with a living "model the guaze-like  transparency of:the
atith ".werelsoilst 'to same, permitted a glimpse of-blanIta
$ecei~cy, as to appear before.its as 'her 'bust, with  its-.lank-billws,
makedns a sculptured Venus:--altho' was-blank-ivory globes-montains'
she might besa miracle of voluptuous 'ofsAlpine snow.-ravishing tchardia
beauty-still, if we possessed'a'lidrti. move:ant anchoritsa-raven tresses-'
clA of refinethent, we should soon 'be- classic profile-apeaking Jeyed -fault
come sated. Withthe open; lascivious less nose-brilliant teeth, &amp;c. &amp;c.
display.;' bur' vision 'would' become  -We "shan't-apologize for the. ab6v
cioyed,' and' dsgust would' soon fol. digression; for°we claim to be . o
tow. The work' of the ardiat 'would ticularly independent scribe,'and- con"
exeite our pasior.N  admirationn. the side odrselrprivileged tti wanddi from

y
11

.  '"                1                                         R
a                        .                          Y   4


64                         JACK hlitter.
1   the tegula track, while pursuing our =, *i o, no, Kate, I Isoatt  ist OM
erratiO jotu ney throtghthe realms-ofi go with you Yoeu Wh o not  hat
romance, jtasi as often as convenience yotak:, Soentti'llxClain all, and
or caprice may dictate  Qur abject then- you willl=nt blare me for my'
in oceassonally stepping aside from thate  g  'Let me g  now, dear
road, aisntto ,pick',up ideas butott  a  t t,4'+i
the cont?  ry, to  relieve of raef front      .' t  tried thelgirl, passion
superabundance df thf' p  And now atelyt x 'e mtd ~ttember, I swear to
to resume the'thread'oft ours ta tive. God tha% unless, at a good and favor,
1 hatbeen waitngifor yourdear able opportunity, you giveerme a -atis-
Jack," whispdred Kate, as she -t'  rectory reason for this mean conduct,
bra4ed the youth with ardor,. will become yottr inveterate enemy'
K  For a ything in partielar "'  for life,.-mm8o, for the  resent. fare.
"0h, y a; but 'Idon't..*ant .that well I"
d--d rase I to overhear ma'         She left the tap-room  and having
With t is compliment toOteArm'd shut herself up in the chamber, burst
Bill, the  eautifulJbut dep asd girl into an agony of tears.
drew -our ero aside, still encircling  "Well." said  One Arm'd  Bill,,
him with, er arms  ' x          gruffly-"now you've dle whispering
The ' -d otl  radr al" improved to that young blonss, p'raps you'll go
the oppor unity dW partaking of suCh with me to your snooiin crabi   .
1efrseh  ots, in, the shape of brandy  Jack motioned him to lead the way,
frco, as the   ar ,.afforded. and Bill conducted  hin aip several
4  lent old gentleman was a lit flights of stairs, which  were so old
As pher; andwhile he growl- and ricketty, that they tottered be.
ythe world in general terms, and neath the footsteps of th pair,
d~d-hug Hnity 'by wholesale, he also "Here's your   roo4said Bill,
we a to k things mighty easy, and throwing open a door, and handing
so long a his skin was full of liquor our hero the candlewhith he carried
and his t bacco-box well furnished, he ." hope you'll sleep eotead-i-ho, ho!"
was sava ely content.                Jack made no reply, butentered the
'Pta  make haste,"' said Jack, chamber.
assumbtg a'coldness of tanner that he  One Arin'd Bill closed and locked
was far from  feeling--"for Dill is the door; and then went to see, his
waiting to show me to bed!"        master the Prince.
"Let the old vagabond go. to grass,"
rejoined the damsel, darting an angry-
look at the worthy old inidividu tl aim
lded tor-*"he show you to bed, in.      CIAP'TRI2 XIV.
deed I  You must let me be youth' sowin how lack discovered the Seret
chambermaid; and as there is a couch  Panef, and all that ie saw and heard in the
in my room Large enough for both of  chamber of the Prince, who related a dtut
us':why need you good elsewhere I   and bloody portion of his history, including
Besides, you will then have a good  the amotat of the adawtatus:wfe and bet
chance to give me the ezplaciation you  p"'mnoot.
poised.  Come, thee  ayodear   The chamber in which our young
ack."               '             adventurer found himself was a small
Saing this the amnoro  grl rew apattut, bvery lely furnished,
her apartment ; but jack withpdrew a bed, table and two or jh ee ehaits
himself fromn her armaS, an4 aid-'. Instead of udressing himsef ad

JACZ  IARotiD.

retiring to bee Jaot I gan a careful
examination of the aellsofthft room.
" How   fortunate," ithooglt her--
r tha; Ipretended to; b asleep ' ni
overheard the remark  al ftha. ll
-ailain,  his drunker *  dlnss
made to the Prince! This,  tln s1a'
chamber in which murder has been
perpetrated,.and in which they design
to despatch me-but the blood-hqunels
will find themselves cheated of their
expected victim. If I can only dis-
cover the secret panel, they shall see
that I am a match for them yet I"
The walls were covered with color-,
ed paper, ornamented .with coarse
figures; and in passing his hand over,
the surface, our hero discovered a
small iron projection, resembling a'
nail. This he pressed, and instantly
a door noiselessly opened, revealing a
dark, narrow passage, just high, and
wide enough to admit the body of a
man.
Taking the candle to light his way,
Jack fearlessly entered the. pass ige.
After proceeding a short distance, he
came to a flight of stairs, which he de-
scended with extreme caution, as lie
distinctly heard voices as if ir conver-
sation. His progress was saiddenly
arrested by a door, partially open;
and having extinguished his, light, he
paused to listen
Prom his positan, he had a tolerar
ble view of the apartment, which he
surmised to be the chamber of the
Prince. It was furnished with con-
siderable luxury. Upon a table that
stood in the middle of the, room was
placed a globe light; and at the table
were seated two men, whom Jack had
no difficulty in recognizing as"* His
Royal Highness " and "One Arm 'd
Bill."
An object that lay upon the table
attracted the boy's eanest attention,
and, in spite of all his courage,, made
his blood run. cold. It was a long,
littering. murderous looking Bowie.
p-a weap'w that had then but re.

41

gently' come in -vogue, antd was the fkl
vorite "tool" of the. desperado, the
robber and the assassin.
The fingers of the Prince pla ed
with the harndle bf the knife'anid his
eyes seemed. to survey the keen, shim
Tog bt de with savage'satisfaction.
"hat will: soon slit the young
whelp's 'windpipe, -and" be d-3 to
him l" growled ftill.
"Ye " " aid the other--" and al-
thougiheis my ownhois, his hei'a
blood101    atone fo, liinstilnce,
and  g -ference. -You had 'better
wait fur ilf anhour sor  ; he Wil
be sere to be asleep,,then."
1311 grunted an sent.
44His body well       e  bury :i
the cellar, where       cried the
hones .of many others whs a=   e
fallen  victims to  your= sk^a
human butcher-ha, ha! -W
then contrive some means to dispose
of his mother, .who refuses to have
anything more to do with me, and
declares that she will not rob he 'old
ones, for my benefit, any more."
"Infernal scoundrel!I your villainy.
shall recoil upon your own headIt"
muttered Jack.
"Well, captain," said Bill-'" the
-more work the mote pays you knows-.'
el?"
"Oh, certainly ; you shall have
five dollars for killing Jacl, and dou-
tle that amount for slaying his moth
ar, as she lives a considerable distance
from the city, andthe work' may be
extra troublesome."
Bill chuckled with satisfaction; sot
so much in view of the paltry pectdisia-
ry reward he- was to receive, but
because 'he rejoiced in the pros-
pect of shedding human blood. He
loved a deed of murder even more
than he loved brandy and tobacco-&amp;*
and that is sa11Y1 a great deal for the
excellent old man.
"Damn it 1" said the Prince, smit-
ing the table emphatically ;with his
fist, with an air of vexation-" I'd do

-+ 2
'[

N 1
/ ,{t/     t              aV        -         t
'  a wt
get;
,s  _' .


1'

0

*                             I
thesejobs aithtnye;wn hand.  t, the
igtlof bod unrtiana     ev er ,ioe
" #i$jnce wvet,  ptaitn t'
hePrince paused  lew montee;
and then said+- r
_P shawvlawhAt harm; is there in
feliug  of *-enow? To kie    you)
awake,   flik Il1ttelIyou a story} and
thW iyou will know'why" the staht o-'
bi'd idajes me a coward anda child.,
Wht sag yau T'"
"Werry 'gQodr sir-'iagree ble.",
"Listen, thiln. Some ffteen'- or
sixteen years agoj before  tokk up'
the busiesdofita robber, and when I
was what the world calls a res ecta-
blemtnan- .'-
hold therdcaptain!". cried Bill,
hakinghie head in a repronting man-
ner'  I, -rise, to a piit of 'ordpr, as
iag  ginii ieetin's.  Doesyer honor
-       meanto insinivate as 'how a r bber
isn't a' resaectable man.?t' Air4't he
"Silence!. Remember. that i e are
master andaservant;' and if I occasion-
ally condescend Ito:.be' familiar with
you, in the way o( business;yo  must
not presume upon that ebndescension.
-.Well: fifteen or sixteen yea s ago,
as l'was saying, V married a very
bee t'iful woman. Our union  as' by
no Aieans founded upon Jove -she
became my wife because sh was
poor, and'wante~d to live in luxury, for
Il. Was rich then ; and, 1I- mar  d her
because I longed to' possess h r per-
son, having faded ir every attempt to
seduce her.
Soon after our marriage, I began
to suspect her of infidelity. I A young,
Modhy,, pdor as poverty, but hand 4me
as wAps o.2 was continually' lurking
about the :house, under one pretence'
or another; and i frequently detected
Kate( r so was my wifocalled) in the
act of exchanging sly andosigniienut
flin i4 ih'ihe youth. ,vhw,4haadbeen
a"'tover of hiers  betf.-e  I Ikn ti  h .-
~t tikbab     - en agreed betwees-

"'                  S11
IAtOLDu
them, that t3si :1e  o  ms  + a  e
1wean hyr nytan;_ 'hose meney    id
support the lover,. while he should
till cpninunedt eejoy the farrs of
this induleW;strea.: This nic'ar-
rangemn entlw~is fully carried 'but by
my f6,ei-es 4fe and hdr Chrles,'as
hevas named; -ile fel 'w boarded
rat a first-classhotel, and dressed:r  ag-
nifeently, on my money, gived"hit
by Kate; but II little'suspected 'it, at
the time.
"'My wife was an . excessive'y 'am-
orous woman; but that circuttnce
did not in the tenet degree tend to my
advantage, for seldom-did I succeed
in extorting from her a proper ac-
knowledgment of my conjugal lights ;
indeed, we had scarcely b.een married
a month, when she insisted upon ou.
occupying, separate sleeping  apart*
ments, sa% ing that it was 'both md.
cent and inconvenient, as well as ri-
diculous, to. comply with the usual
matrimonial fashion, which condemn-
ed two persons to  huddle- together
constantly, like animals. insupport
of her position, sie rendnded mue that
the aristocratic 'ladies of London-a'i1
Paris 'rarely, if ever, permit their liege
lords to come 'to their couches ;--
' and,' said -the, ' the husbands, like
sensible men, seldom, or never, de-
site it.' ' But, madam,' 1 retor ed
'the ladies of whom you speak",\rho
are so 'self-denying with reference to
their husbands, have each a lover t9
console them; ar'eyou similarly pro.
hided 1' She looked into my 'face
with a saucy smile, and said-' Yout
question is impertinent, sir, and I
shall not answer it.'  Veiy  well,
madaim,'  said I. agitated a s tuht by
eseioinate'desire as by rage-*Ior't shed
was volupt-ons as Venus, and had
been cruel to ne for a lbng timetire-
.vious  very well madam:'l amJe-l
termuined to opened #1is very' night in
'your apartment forlit is high tiuil for
me~ to insist -up'on my rig'hi as ribus'
bandyW-you have too long used mi ~

JACK-
foou: banker, rnerel&amp;  Therefore, you
may expect me.'    u, iaW no reply
to this, but laughed deornfady land
teen ran out of the ro" .0ylysing
1:g an opera, air. 1  emtly'dI I
await the coping of it t
a Well, nights came a t stnd
with a palpitating, heart and e e
fiotsteps I repaired to Kate's ch e,
A4tho.ugh she had treated me wi i the
med provoking impertinenceanda the
t2most tujustecruety-althoughshe had
gains ajid iagain refused to grant " me
t'he ,oijogalrights which were'indisr
putaby 'nine by customs law, rvligiois;
and, tn  implied : conditions of the
matrirniwial compact-notwithstand.
ingaall this, iwas ready and; eager to
forgive her everything. Nay "ong-
ed ,t t tinw spyself ,acher lfeeit, and
tti!#k n, t)for thieasuprenme tad .lopg,
f eyle, ippiPeas vbicht ILbelievgdf
that she wyas, about to beto. upon
me.- I cti4:9tJpve the womni; hut
her infernal beauty had enghained ng'
ensge, and rendered me her abject
(~tQ  iyJ to gain entragt.e. to the{
Cl mber, I      that thed oot wy
.gced. "r   nogke d-nto answer,-
Again  nd again did. I repeat, the
.qmme{nna, but with no 'better success.
Ping tjy    hth to "the key-hote, 1
ofty dhited- 'Kate l' As all contin"
ned silent, I applied my ear to thekey-
hole, and' fancied that: I heard the,
souidiof whispering. 'filet lover is.
with her,'-thought: I;. and fired: with
jealouy and rage, I-bestbwed' upon
the cnor-atremendour kick. Then i
heard 'the'rustling of garients-the,
key tiited' in the- lock'--the door,
opened, au ia 'there stood my wife..
Her eyes- washed with anger, like
those of an enraged' tigress, and eshe,
regarded ie with'a !ook of singled
hatred "i.d' s' eniempt;~ 'il other had
she held alpistol, ready Cooked, andj
pointed it towards me'with a.'deadly
si "                 '
Feilow;,"said she''in -freezing

6 * i

tone,' ,0, at e  hsmi1      tet
rageLWhat-want I  he e
'you reun   t i Is   dclar*   i
in te n tio n  o r  n  th e  r nig h t l g n  p =t  t t t t i
ou     '
el"Oarn"ers~           ~t~   h
the   t9    "       't       upon
thergrsC       elpe   to aid  k dew
by the            fryd fa t ; blazed
in te    s          p4l'neto hesi-
itste  tfm:r' ,} et iing a.bullet
through ,my brain,  4aiid notebeat' a
has y' retreat' 1 , NR' '&amp;  "frta 5a 1
courage possess 4  yin' equa s  '
of tos tieen  ijd~e4',s lFh
been" complimented by  y4
for my bavery; but.  hen a nman
entireIf unamned ad teestthe agly
muzzle of's .pidtolfvead1 dsend an
outice of'lead ocramliig'tlirbt ighe his
skull--.why, im. my, ounionis thestbet
thing 'he enod6 "is to keep =perfectly
doeil;'-and argue the cetigeehp Bil l?
Bill ' passed his hand .*thon.giftlly
over his grizzly °dad refectedadeeply
emuneit, and the'i gaee ansemphatic
grunt, in token of ;assent. 'The Prince
tont irfoed s   "
'    eThe scene would have been a -a
ital' one for a'%'nter ; therm Istood,
outside-the 'chtmibdr. door; quiveriqg
with rage ands disapiitinmeto-and
there, also, within the chnmber;st'ood
Kate, with kher'. ~titi  prt'ised, and
her fine' 'facei kI "With-excitement
and -defer ' initi. 60
"You   erhaps- 'w der why I -did
not sudden' ly' roh' ipoai '.hetrdisart
her, and subdue ier   y. superiorr
strength: a"s biAiLou'to do so,'when
the thot gt' aour'r d' trsmne 'that the
noise 'ofA he}struagl n; an d'pe1rha s tha
screamnesoff y wif"," wutddbe likely
'tog 'iro ee the seraint's ahd dxa.v theem
to the scene of ihe'disturbance and

i  wl'
. ".  {

c
y         #V~

H taamp


I

Q

Z  iw' '! &amp;

1AC  fAD

Of' all things in the world, I: headed
the exposure'ofmy domestic   bles,
particularly to &amp; cro'rd Of ggling
menials. Therefore, I restrained my'
self.      x
"Damn the womanI how beautiful
shp looked that night ! It seethed as
"-ts~e had purposely triedto render
he Af most inviting andfascinating
'wiAearance,in orde* :to aggravate
tne the more, in view of my martify.
ing disappointment. What trich hue'
glowed upon ,her cheeks, as if the
warm blood strove to tint 'them with
the colors of the damask ro*!, Her
'ill, moist lips, which were parted
just enough to e'eal ite ivory teeth
within their frtnut precincts, 4eema
id topout  with charming vexation,
3 eeaussa thousand winged Cupids
diid ndomoene upon the zephyrs of vo'
'.uptuousiNight,  to.-sate them with an
excess of Love's amorous blisses!- -
How coquettshly her delicate lace
sap rested upn her dark aiid perflut-
ad curlsdI And thent, more distracting
than all, how distinctly visible were
the snowy treasures of her divine bust,
disclosed by the loose and voluptuous
negligence of her elegant robe of daz-
alin whiteness I Long end ardently
did Igaze upon the celestial vision ;
at length she burst into a silvery laugh.
"'Poor wretch !' she exclaimed, in
a tone of mock pity--of all tones in
the world, the most damnably provok-
ing-' poor devil !  A husband with-
out a wife,! Go to your solitary bed,
and dream of a happiness which I will
not confer upon you; or else go to
the servants' attic, -and. perhaps you
may prevail upon one of the kitchen
wenches to suffer you to pass the
night in her sooty arms ! I shan't be
jealous-go!'
"Again she laughed heartily.  By
God l from behind the curtains of my
wife's bed came the sound of another
laugh. I recognized the tones. 'hey
were those of my wife's lover, Charies
-the mseralc ;mppy whose cerc.aw

.arswaL -aa

0. /

._
,

had long been fed And clothed by ma
money,--whorerelled in my dishonor
under toy very nose, and joined in
the laughs ataimy humiliating dissp
pointment nld #egrading position.
- Siy duere ebuse, hatred, eon.
tetapt '.ut to be ridiuled, and that,
too, iby those who had inflicted upon
_ne tl e greatest injury that a man cans
suff@h maddened me!   I would have
rushed in and strangled the paramour
of my wife; but her deadly and up=
lifted weapon restrained me, and I
bottled up my wrath for a future day.
Pursued by the mocking laughter of
the guilty couple, I sought my own
chamber, 'and passed the night in
groans, curses, and oaths of ven.
geance."
Here the Prince arose, and began
to pace the room with agitated foot-
steps. Jack Harold distinctly heard
and saw everything that passed, and
hegin to be much interested in his
father's narrative.
"Captain," exclaimed One Arm'd
Bill, suddenly arousing himself from
a kind of lethargy into which he had
fallen--"- o you know wot 'd a-done
with that 'e re womai, if she'd a-been
my wife-ay?"
"Np-.what would you have done?"
demanded he Prince, with soie curi-
osity.
Bill del herately removed an im-
mense qui from his mouth, and care-
-fully place it upon the table; he then
wiped.his lips with the sleeve of his
jacket, no ded his head thrice, in a
manner thrt was designed to be in'
tensely, kn wing, and then screwed up
his counte ance into an expression of
holy severe y and rigid virtue.  Hav-
ing, much to the astonishment of the
Prince an  the amusement of Jack
Harold, go e through these prelimin-
aries, the excellent old man closed
one eye   nd regarded   his mast'iv
steadfastly with the other, his head,
meanwhile inining to one side, after

tore his wind-pipe right out of him. j his head, sighed deeply, and relapse
That's wot I would a-done, if that into his habitually thoughtful mood.
ere woman had a-been my wife-       After a short paxfse, "  is Royal
&amp;amn me l"   And Bill struck the la- Highness" continued his narrati in
ble a tremendous blow wiih his fist.  |the following words:
The Prince resumed his seat in si-  "Time passed on, 8nd after tA
lonee.  Bill replaced his quid, shook lapse of a few months, my wife,.grea

i li'                            tip'
f                             f' K
r
t
'        1~        'Y'

c                        '    ?
"                              .
t                       --
,      :    aka-_                    _

JJY A. ACLD                                "-0
mplative ma- loud tone. for he was impressed with
the i p stance ofthe subject-" in
Save done T' -e, I'qia-took hier right b
iee         -the       n .,uid'.a  , t tier; then yd
done if that a-laid b   on; the f  o a n l  p
fe  re. her; and'eshe ratly jasliid
_.t  very 19ia-tlth:ret' hers., rd
"E  ,                    4   - -'

r


ft

JACt   ARbLD

' ;,n

yv:

_ fir .r                       --      ' "                                                                                i }t  -  -y-
1                                                                                                                             ,  ,
,r,     i1  S,  *                                                                                 b
'           -                                                                                             h
'                                                                                                                     "+ t.

AI KWaiL .

%y to i tprise, I egat to manifest former love  komtr.OnI  i igit to e
a       t ie   ra ree unujiaiititvt i"h ni.sthousands cf miles away, 'ever;o o.
t  te4I'l k  . titty repe'nu t  wIwturn  ,  :
te    r   t p     w m tu "Kate w dh  , and  dered  ready
ifioihi 'make ome datne. to s   onz  thtioned theyoung mats
n      byefdttreOd taidttet te f llo*mw  j'o its adjois,'itg ,ron
j e t  tit~ ta eirfe4  'the tirti  endw e dito, -said sto him,
i'rmed towards her; and she made stern l
rIe alost happy by betowing upon         ir, why are you here?   Have
r  tdier caresses i  r u   afua d, and by yd  t iujt red me enough already
p t!r1rmig evetgnfyfreqhredb tae --    o yo wish to destroy the little
c njug.d .er i n,.    f *      ier fabric of  appiness which   I have
lover, he hed4   pted         u. reared, within a abort time past'?  It
. me thatihe      get   n   - :stt  seems that we are rivals-that we both
journey, steer o  aeturn. t   was not aspire to the~possession of one woman-
a bad mani :th   tid ~   his -mo- We cannot -hit possess her; acrd al-
ment taa n                   r t  e, Iut for though I have the best right to her,
the eange      t~tt ist ,perfdious you shall have an equal' chance.  By
wom   heaven, I'll be -' -cuckold no longer!1
,ent   nott .oothly See, here are two pistols"L'take !our
an             'lo.  Ny wif grew ohoile ; ,on er both of us will be
pre cnttdioti of Which        I killed. I oue, the survivor shall pos-
Iatt       *- that%i'fhlt wyssl-he air, sees the woman; if both, why then
j s is that T1igught gave tie happnse. the matter is finally settled, beyond
Wh n she beonuest utiother nad ":dispute.  Crine, sir, choose your
00- y:      ehatl 4.ahe &amp; double -:s' weapon.*'
anvce of her  ddlity  she certainly  "The young ellow -huttered a
Wo41M -not ;isheonr the Iuther of hter. -Onfuse sort of apology, nd de.
hd,.anod create doubt ets to the t.e  dined taking -one of the pistola.-
gtsnacy of e nat child iteel'  God'I Peirceiving that .he Was most con"
I could almost ett  y own, heart with summate cowat-d, my contempt for
Weationii tohlkwhat a blind fool I hun overcame all other feelings;
was!                               seizing him by both 'ears, I walked
"In duO time1I ate was safely de- hire to the street  door, and accelera-
ivered of a fine female child, upon ted his progress down the :steps by a
Which she bestowed her Own ane.-  vigorous kick that laid Shim sprawling
Het confiaement was short; she rap  in the gutter. He picked himself up
idly recovered her health aged strength, 1nd walked off without saying a sin-
and soon   regained .all her natural gle word.
bernity.                              "This occurrence seemed to re-
" A few months glided peaceably new   all my wife's former hatred of
by; I enjoyed eontenhnett ilf not per- lee. We were no longer intimate;
fect happimess-for I believed that my we occupied different chambers, and
wife had thoroughly reformed, and took   our meals separately.    She
rontdly imagined mysel to be the ta- seemed to have wholly devo ed her-
tiOr of her child.-                 self to her child, the  itt e  'ane,'
Imagine, then, ny astonishment, whom She loved wih extraordia:y
distress and anger,, when one day, on tenderness. 'this circupstaeics ma-
suddenly and unexpectedly returnUkmg terially. lessened  my  resentment
home, I round nfy wi'te heated upon against the  woman; I could not
t   parlor sofa, tele.W-fta zth nl thor. ughly hate her, because I nme

agined that the        h     after.
di of-d       Ma ~   i'
sina love r.  '         ier    Odder
taAft hitiself aha
aga"fli 6te to          ei   ersaa
of '  hus.   I    htb'e a
Oth to 1ill' thb guilty piri', h6o a
er'haee reuaden to s   ebt  th  f
renewing their fihti s. .
i" Ooe dhy, Au if' Kath's "absence
froh hAe'e. kit'ab oby atrhge
eariosity I 'entered he' 6tWbre, and
biegen a searching in eitigttidn.-
" The flht thin that rtated it iy
attehti i *as the bonditiod iof eI'
bed, which the -satenly chah br b'aid
had degedtot to arrange.    There
*'e two     illowk, atd 'Oyan eA
pillow  was a hollHtt i e  d by .th'e'
pressure of h hI   .~ Nay,  hcnLe-
the ied itseW1ff dbdd b     i dlited
evlderwe of its hdmtig hbrab demti ed
the piteious night ba r  bt 'iAin.
1 'The waext day I took oi0tuiMh to
Viat th6 thutmbe' irgaiin; the bed
plainly hoad that Ma'etef' Chat las
ned not.'visited my 'Wim oh the ri'v-
ceding night.   But in orerhaedit
the    wtet ta of a fa'ty 'work boxi
dlalotabied hi note, which, from  the
d  iimi, K0tr  had  phrobly receiidd
upi   th'e 'pr-eviaind hvensiug; it W4
from het' lover, and, as near as I etit
remembnsb ' read this atianer:-
".. ot'u, Tuesday 'evinsirg.
"'Angelic Kate,- l c mOt l be with you
td.niiht, as igeed upon, in consea ae ^rof
heing osli4ed taaiwO el tuV a phr taNar  -
tl***" "b ail deasare s~keishi, fr em whieek
I wooli4 glad~ly exe tei thyself, 6061111Itdo m
with d"eryo-for n   -,v greatest ple"a re i
honn in yournarms. Inowerer, desreit, on
?ib y night, without fail, at, ite ncaal
ho*r,*"' t*tal lubnt -tee l.alder or love tod
your eaamhunnr.--ay tie way, Stvriet Kaste,
the hwgeedee dol5fia you gave mte on Mon.
day night Haie ahceady taken unto there.
elves winsa and flown away, for i hve
k~ta dr a i t j  ? 41' ety ;f etni, 'at filmy.
Say, idoloi f eMy 'a~ tu '0' yu t~lt 1A, U a
ampte of bu n4ed reitty ''-atie oh Tietis
day0 gBt  5  why n 'i  Las't 4Yob'

Canwnuse i %* ftn hsatter ho4 mgbih
is may  be, when solicited byty 4 V M dev-t0d
sbat- e-ofturs ald'in.s
66i  'iiir  e h  h erved _mae !'
Having read this precious
'  I eeid'fully iftourd  {' t'it  e
love' satisfied me !that'    p
riva eai t ehabit oftint ring
Cate'si ,hamhber by Aneana ci$f ald.,
bier which, itew, tole'in the: as
den; and his acetnted forthe, 5et
that I ha ite 'heaird"him wtiteri ig
or leaving the huise.4 The evidence
afforded b.y the -.notj f'e lair 4
teums of money with     sahe fut
hished him, astonished an-Idet
inewell nigh frantic With rag ,K '
" That very day I went lat
b haled a large; sharp and shurdeinl'i_
knife.--.'ery -mach'resembling' tiId
one, with whieh ,you are shoby t
let ot t the life-blhod.of'J*ek Hhr u1.F
Armed with the Toriirableweapod,
I determi red to hrret {itito 'rAy witlk
chamber at midnight,.ott Thutredt'
night, when the guilty 'pair ' werb
slumbering in each  other's alme
and cut both their throath ere th
could raise an alarm, tir cr Clot'
mercy. Who ear blame ine: firthat
savage resolve, in view of.my  ani-
foli wrongs? Where is the man o
spirit that would not ,have come tok
sisilar determination?
"But I fear that ny story isgrow
ing tedious, Bill; in which case wisc-
canr dispense with the remnaiiider.""
Bill, who had been donih' ad&amp; '
plunging his head. forirard ii Iht
most alarmaing ',arnek, suddenly'
woke up, swore that he haid bWn'
listening intently, and begged hit
rmaster, to proceeds by all °theaaldif
rdding-
It s a d .-d purty'm,   tat
partic'larly Where t tha cd*  |r- MI?
w way with the spooned Uw'  *r'~

.\B

" '  /   d*   y1
V MT
IT';I"
-      ',4VAS

i
"{
'  s
,
.  if.


T                   $JACK N2A$OLbO
all the Lrand  and 'backky-and be " 'caps maitth&amp;d .ae ratu
d d  toht mlt'                       A  couhn  are aily repat. in at h
But tke narrator h;ad one attenti  ." It washidaily.expecting the
lideer, oflwbhose c'ese proximity he arrival of t  ,pa ents,. that I distov.
w 'little aware .-Jack Harold,- uho eed the ; ences of' uy wife's re
stil -atoOd at the'door, and suffered pewed iqj ' with her lover, and.
tiot a word of"the story to escape'his in the ,  br zy of rage which sue-
ear...                           eded; t-discovery, I utterly for-
he Prince, without paying' any gogthe intended visit, and every thing
t tion to.Bill's drowsy mutterings, e  exceptt the. means of gratifying
cia itied:-..                  ny'tinrst for vengeance.
You must now understand that   "'Thursday came; I not only rab'
both/ my parents were at"ha;ime seated myself from the house all day,
both -,-aworetycoepe,=at'thamrire but remained out until near mid-
ga ed ,wit a w respectlewhomection night; .and I wil.not deny that 1 had
which prevailedover all thier 'senti- foitified myself for the contemplated
.Macuirt~s in  ybred;t; for they haed died of blood by more than a;uioder-
reged.: anieyae   fr the y lchilddwitha ate indulgence in wme.'" . ,
Wie boytehdeilestha               Wicareethat had ever  ee d-d! Brady'; the
te ad ms are thaight derefsttil to make a man feel lake such
on         119a m .e yther was acnrey work," growled Bill.
fla  .'My fte     a a "country  "Bah!" sneered the Prince-.."y
"   an, greatly esteemed and be.  . Ba.serdterne-you
Ieed   a in his parish for the purib  tl'ick-headed fellows stupify ' your.!
simplinipaua fte purity, selves with vile liquor, as a prehim.
simnplicity, and unaffected piety of his i trt  netrpier   ii
character; :my mother was one of  iry to any enterprise reqmrmig ex
thoselioe'matrons of. the old school traordinary nerve or courage, and in
howeremodels sof virtue, beneo nine cases out of ten fall. into the
who    and-odoesotexeeneh-hands of the Philistinw. because you
Ietne} and domestic excellence--a have not wit enough lft to k-ep you
ct~ss 'now rapidly passing away, to itv o  witanouhf o  pyu
give .place to..a race of women who out of danger; a gentlerian, on the
are, for the moist part, vain, ficke, contrary, qualities himself for an
and devoid of those noble qualitiesamotr, a robbery or a murder, by
of 'mind and heart which distinguish- quffag the generous blood of the
ed heir mothers and grandmhothers- grape, which, instead of degradmng
granmotiers hMilli to the level of the brutid e-
My 'parents resided in a small ,ates him to the sphere of the gods.
town situated upon the banks of the   Well, to i-eusipe my story, which
Hudson river  I had comminunicated1I must bring to a close as  heedil
to thema, by letter,  statement of my, as. possible, for it is time to do that
domestic troubles, and' askeed their little job for Jack Harold.
advice. (This f was before I had    "1 returned home at about mid.
come to the determination to kill my night, and having armed myself with
wife and her paramour.:)  They sent the glittering instrument of death,
me back word, that as soon as they stole noiselessly towards the chamber
could complete certain arrangements, of ry wife. Pausing at the door to
it was their intention to pay me a listen, I distinctly heard the sound
visit, when they could consider what of two persons breathing, as if in
was best to be done in reference to slumber.
my unhappy situation. The pros=I    "To.my surprise, and much to my
eto of'receiving advice fiom theii satisfaction, I found that the chamber
ps, rejoiced lime exceedingly; for door had not been locked. I enter-
as smith the poet..-.           'led; the rays of the moon struggled

btht 4l     gh the curtained wn.
does, vealing the fcrmns of
the twoce -tp t 4e bed:
"Convintced 'that they flept pro'
roundly, I too -aoffeantydfoat, rolled
up -ry shirt-sleeves,- nd otherwise
prepared myself for t #deed.
" Thenm I felt the e  4tie knife;
there was nothing to. shAr-the
blade would have severed a. hair I
knew that it would not fail me, i cat-
ling a human throat.'
"I stood at the bed. side; I would
not distinguish the fe tares of the;
doomed pair--onmly the general out-
lines of their forms were dimly visible.,
- 1"For a moment my heart relented,
and I felt mote than half inclined ito
ahandon  my murderous    design.=-
'Tney love each other,' thought I--
* let ie leave them to the enjoymnent of
that love; the-world is wide enough
for all of.as.' s I turned from lthe bed-
side;' amid strode towards the door.
- " Then their mocking laugh seemn-
ed to ring-in' my ears, as it-did on the
night when my wife levelled the pis-
tot at my head. Cursing myself for a
chicken-hearted coward, I returned
to the bed-side.
" Justt then ablack cloud obscured
the moon, and the room was envelop-
ed in darkness. I stretched forth my
hand, and it rested upon a' naked
throat. In another moment that throat
received a deep and deadly! gash, and
the warm blood spouted forth, and
covered my murderous hands.
"' The companion of ttis  victim
awoke, andscreamed. It was a wo

mani's scream-loud, piercing, and
full of horror--for she felt the lood
of the murdered one upon hert ace;
'   ant: the moon had peeped frori behind
the cloud, revealing to her terrified
gaze, my form and the glittering blade
of the knife.
"Again and again she rcreamed.- .
Her cries'mnaddened me. I heard the
noise of opening doors, and the sound
St eager voices, sand tho rushing of

AARhOt

n\

.      14'".

'j
w, 7
i
3

many feet througR the passages, I
up the stairs.- The household wai
aroused ; there was no tinie to te lot
' 'Damn them, they shall not cheat
ine of the full= measure' of mny v qqt '"
iean e1 I muttere,-t ising 'i
arm, I struck at the woman' widEIy4,
ihe clutched ,the blatlez of the kt ite in
her hands, and murmutedltttlsii}gle'
adoril 'dA'mercy !'- hdt the firs 'o
hell were kindled in 'my heart.rd ' :d
blod alone could quench' themtI '
trenched the weapon from het grasp,4 _:;/
and jwith full twnty=deadly gashes
lunis1ed iny awful';work.
"The .chamber 'door flew open,
and a diefn liftf gi edadpr'into; the
apartme)tilltunithting itWithing4on
day brilliancy  Horror   depleted
in eVoty dcctldtentatHO }' Yo Won*
der-for the scen* [i,
human being couldvie  c       }   4'
thereee stood I :with
bloody arms, holding in, my
gory knifee; there, upon the be
the horribly mangled corbsed  ofthos&amp;
whom-'Ihad sonlereilessly batcheredo
4 Two or three of the spectatorej
more courageous than vthedrbsti °4ppi
poached the'bed,% aftd ghked ulpon
the bodies of the mdrdeiedApl; tbeit
'eyes were then turned uponmSe,with  -
tin expression- of' loathingiand }abhor
rehce.
"'Witness, all of youwl' ct ied ; tf.'
ter ga pause-"' I have slain this-ddilte
rous pair-"-my wife and;her paramour,
sin the very bed which they'haVe :s
often dishonored. I confess the4eet
..-I glary in i- Now call in= the oM
ders of justice'; that- I say be convey'
ed to prison!"
" Your *ife, and her 'paramoutl
claimed the wondering group. a4
"The housekeeper' :an elderly woo
man ofiexcellent ohafracter and great
firmness,' was one'kof those' who had
advanced to the bed-side., She no*s
approached nei and regarded me wit
a lodk of mingled stdrnnessiand' pity t
'  W itohed 'man I' laid she} 'yout.

.'.


ift

e ine.is greater than'ype think.  Tei-  he took goud care to  i   er:
them your msitful; wif, nor hgr Liver, @urles of the alteratiopie;? hat tna
has. -peshedkyiyour handss: Koeelawkward; mistake .louldoccur, when
dawn, and pi the (frgv'eness of God he oa.gn to keep bis appo'rntmenit
for; the tremetdous, oaimm  wbiq , you :This. arrantgenent, being utterly
h     stv u$ petpetrated;. for yot '-have unknown to-me, resulted as 1 have.
19   rad.+ n                   .   stated.  nastend of killing, the guilty
WhatuV I gasped as .the cold pair,  e Iingtded, I slew  the beft
per swaLtoa m :tned down, my face.  parentsAhat  r blessed a maun-the
".Ytur Qtnfalhecr gnd anotherr t' onl y beings in the world that. 1 loved.
"f' not weary you, Bill, by at-
h Prince passed; in hisa rarrtise;, tempig to describe the, horror and
,leaf  g his h(ead upon ,tthe tbie ho, anahus  of my feelings, whet the. ap-
0gri.ed deeply.' Ide seemed, tqbe: palling truth. burst upon my mintd.-.
saufferimg the most acute reental"'an- Suffice it to say, I grew gradually.
guia-                              calm, for I elected that I was norally
One Arm'd Bil ren tve k ia qui4, guiltless of-the murder of my parents,
and scratched his, hand tboghtfuly,, firmly believing as 1. did, while com-
alast sol'emaly, .-'mittiing the deed, that thi destroyer.
Jackclar#,  epy interested, cn- of my honor and happiness were the
tauned t ga    4 listen,           victims; and the slaying of them I
His    yal Uighnesn was too thor- copceived to be a justifiable act.
dughly1atrdented ly a long career of  "When I recovered my faculties.
srime o, suffer the, remejtabrance, of of speech and motion, which had been
t' R, past to overcome hiu, for, any at first completely, prostrated by the
eoniderahleslengthl of timp. Thore shock, I turned to the.oid hensekeep-
@pre, he sons recovered hlis.accustow  er Andy demanded-,
qd coinheas and; selftposaessiou, and  .'Where is my wife?
esursd hisgarruave thus .-        'A'it. the mall corner chamber,
Yes, Bil,: I wasa fbota a parricide, she answered, mechanically,
aed a mnatjiide--4 hat killednmy own  I' s rode out of the room, for ro
their amau twAhere  The whole mctet-., one.seemed; to;care, or dare, tot ope.
&amp;1r. was snoreexpained. They had pose, my egress.- The door, oft the.
that afternoon arrived in the city, to, Corner chamber was, looked, but I
pay theapaoiigcvinjt of .advice and stove, it in. with my foot- and, entered.
cndolenca to me, , 1y wile receivedt Cowering beneath; the coverlid of thes
sem .in gy absence; agt4 wishiag to, bed, was my wife; she was deadly,
pniresa them with a great ideraof her pale, and. trembled with affright where,
mtabtity, and kindness, and renove. she beheld my bloodstained garments,
u their urinda the reeollecti n and murderous knife. which I still
any, raepprs unfaxorahle to her. grasped. in my hnd,
which may have reached theta, she; '" That her lover, had, been. with. her
adi resigne# to. their useiher=.own ele- that very nights, was, eitident;.,for. upon
kant aud.teommordious bedachamber, the floor lay his, caneand gloves
t taken temppray: poessicn of a which, in. his hurried' departure, he
*maier and .humbier, apartment. Tin jhad left, behind  him. The, fellow
rangemnent did not, hoevgr, ingeer, hearing the screams, noise and- ne.
re with her engagement with ber cry, had quickly made his, exit the
ver,. ft hen newi chapberistill ove rway. he came-through thewindow-
taokede the garden, 'A1d enuld b1 leaving his.mistress to her' fate. Move
abe  by means off'h e de  -and strange its is that women can ever love

I

a whi    red .  wa    wh  ir ever
1   -ady to  te= h 3 p 4 p Crroach of
d;ppgr 1, A eonis  psettpd of the
ronaech vaJpk s.co r  ef es fal' in.
an ampurr, whils t* eor     or a
cravc;are as freqt e rtly rownedwi .
titophant "coess."'
"Ife,, by (- C e    y $i   who
had once been jilted hy Ie" re eadr
ed widowsof the. Irish, hoduan' The
lady had cast him of, and take 4i, up
with awoodeo legged organegri 0of.
German .extraction..
"'l I tving made fast the door," con*
tinue l the Prince-" I thus address-
e4 ny, tremtibling and consci 'nce-
stricken wife:-
" Madaan., do you know what has
happened ?'
'Alas! yes,' she replied, in 'ones
of deepest anguish--those piercing
sereams-that horrid knife--the lood
upon your garnents.-'telt me too lain
ly, that you have. made. a terrible. mis-
take. You sought my life and--and
is; but you have. killed your parents,
instead. Oh! why did I nake the
unfortunate alteration in our arr tge-
ments I Would to heaven that . all
had -happened as you designed-that
Charles and i had become your vic-
tiinsi instead of those innocent and
worthy people!*
K6Do you repent'-nowof your fol-
'ies-atid? your sis-your adulteries,
your extr av ag aces, your many acts
of perfidy, cruelty and' injustice to-
wards te ?'-I demanded, eyeing her
atteutively.
"'So help me Heaven, I do!'" she
replied, her countenance becoming
sutused with the flush of hope.
"'That is well; repentance be-
comes a p arson, upon the bed of'death!'
"tu God'suchine what mean you I
Well, listen: you say' that you
isve repented, but well do I know
that iff you were suffered to' live ,orb,
that lover of'yours would soon resume
his place in your arms, for he is still
n yeur heart Nay, don't interrupt'

1*44A 14

1 n  '                                                                                                             rr t+tYr "      rr   '

me, but. hear  s oat.. Wie I
spare your life, you wod ;aggia ,,dr
,to uppn your; .cepntiptas, crrg, and
laugh, you and your £ha4 .es, to heat
of my   Jisguaet4 dth upon the
a     Cu$ fr tlid nighfe  po n W71wok
Ift diu4 by the ls4o ty hangesp
l3shall ate least lawe the, satipfcwtuno-
thinkijngghat ypu nasy not ghett oer
the recopIA of:ay d vingagoniae '
"' rely yqu willF n4rouder-meMto
"'No   not merdsei youn; for, to
slay you;ic this couch, whioh is yet
waron with adulterous ensbraces, will
not be murder, k mean, to sacrifice
you upon dtl'ltae of my vengeance-
do you u'h44r d? And then, when
your body is' uta gled'and'blohdy, like
the bodies of ny prnte (of whose
death you were the ;    t  cause, I
shall go forth in seart-' our par
nour, and when I uied him, he shall
die the death of a dog!
11-'Merc., husband--mercy!'
" ' Ha! yon sll me husband. oe
-you, who have never treated ta
as, such-y.o,:who, have , sof ep
made rye blush at: the nnfo.  goYu
are willing, to regoggize me a s a
husband nw;,. bat that recogntl4pJ
cnme   too late., ]ate, you- uitet
di  ha!  God - We mer.,up
'l say, amen to that.  Come,
you, shall have (ire minutes' for prayp
er and remember, if you attempted ta
call out for assistance, you will but
hasten you  enadl  Thia knife shall
be swifter than the footstepe of° those
whom you might peek to su.mnioo tio
your rescue. Come, commend' your
soul to. 0e(A-
'"For a fbw moments her lips
moved, as if in prayer; then she
said-
" '. Wit you not, spare me for the
sake of our child'?'
"S NoI the inr~acept child shall
Cot save i. guilty mother from the

jl


.
L-; .
1
^ ,
y'
E'
t.
i,
r s
i"
7 i
5.x,4
;Y
.' "
1, i
t
e'

ya                        JACK HAROLD.
Pautunishment of her crime. Your deliciot
doom is sealed.'                 bliss w
"' ou jove your child?' she ask- I tell y
ed.                              fate by
Set       sitn m own life.'   you ar
"S a*      a!' cried the woman, swear
s'hrie in9 ithklaughter--'now can  call the
tridm hlI myldying hour. Your net of 
child    &amp; child, itideed! Fool-  eie
dolt idit. tnink you I could have    T
loved that child as I have done, had 11w;''d
y   b eft its father?. God is my wit-"  y
ntess t at I would have strangled it .t bri  b
its, ,i ih, if it had been :yo t u - bosni.
sprin ! Come, bury your knife in was ove
pay h art, and I will dielaughing at  " Th
your hort-sighted stupidityl'    tened to
"' 'hese wonds yerwhelined me few mini
with; rief andborror. The woman from in
saw a d eiayo. ie  her triurnrh  Un- clothes.
restra end by:ti fear of death, the these a
full malignity of her nature burst the stre
J           otth.   -   .'voices i
'Only think,' she cried, taunt- flection
igly-. how often you have fondled of justice
another man's child in your arms, coumie to
believing it to be your own! How murder.
readily you fell into the snare which  "I de
we-Charles and I.-prepared for cape-b
you I Finding myself enciente by my eds TI
dafiing lover, we found it necessary tending
to Use you; 1 accordingly spread my  "A it
net, and. soon caught you. When bered th
my condition, became ' interesting,' lover ht
you fancied yourself the cause; and Why co
how ludicrous were the manifesta- purpose
tions of your delight, pride nd fond- chamber
ness, when at length you heid in your third vi
arms a lovely infant, and. thought own life
yourself its father!  Ab! I loved hesitate,
that babe, because it was the off-  "I na,
spring of my dear, dear Charles!'  chamber
"oAnd here the depraved woman gaze lro
closed her eyes and softly sighed, as there lay
if the very thought of her paramour wife, an
threw her into a sort of voluptuous fixed glh
trance.                           eyes..
" I raised my knife to strike, but  'Irai
ves!rained myself and wsid-=-     about to;
''Then ypu have noYepented?' reached
''epented-ha, ha~ta! What pause.
--reipent of having ed a career of "It w

I

us excitement t      b4 wen!)
ith a chr ii '  rg Fool,
o11 no. lshought to avert my
feigninj repentance; but, as
re  el d  upo' my death, I
to y0o that could I now re-
ja4 would repeat every
y      -ldcrime of which I have
i1ty!' ,
hen you are no longer fM to
ie!'
( arm -descended, and the
blade was deeply buried in her
She struggled once, and all
r.
e deed accomplished, I has-
my own chamber, and in a
notes had washed the blood
y person and changed my
1 had scarcely completed
rrangements, when I heard
net door open and confused
n the hall. A moment's re.
convinced me that the officers
ce had been sent for, and had
arrest le focr the crime of
termined, if possible, to es-
ut how was this to be effect.
he officers were already as-
the stairs in search of me. -
hought struck lme; 1 rememn-
e ladder by which my wile's
ad escaped from the house.
uld I not use it for a similar
 I dreaded to re-enter the
r of death, wherein lay the
ctim of my knife; but amy
was at stake, and I dad not
another moment I was in that
. I studiously averted my.
in the bed, for I knew tla;
the bleeding corpse of my
d I feared to encounter the,
are of those. dead, staring
sed the window, and was
pass through, when a sonnd
my ears that induced mme to
as the cry of 9 child..-of

I'                                                   _

-ACK ItaROLD
ittlo    )hw   offering" - f my wife preach honest, a n one lis a IW
and her       1Thie' innocent and belly and a comfortablesubsistOece;
ill-fated beinhad been. placed to but when the stomach etomes to be
sleep in a sall adj 'ng closet, pinched by villainou i nget, and
"Some mysterion uhulsesprompt- ' how to procure a din l~' is a probe
ed me to -make little  ale the com- lem very difficult toW 4olved, then
panion of my flight.  erliap Irep troay lean' honesty,,g  the devil,
garded the innocent b   ailbliving while fat rascalIty is the peat 'riend
proof of my conjugal  bhnnoko.=bpd we-can have.
desired to remove her from a iti,   "In brief, Billy i became what you:
tion where her presence we 'Wbe see-mne now-a crossman    1' estab
ever liable to excite remark       wished this crib,"und was chosen
cerning me, and keep alive t  ri  hef of the $UnhiyAlliati .
membrance of the awful ,vents of    '     gan. now:gggwhy      cane
that night. I was also determined to notWith  my own handshed "human
prevent' the father from ever enjoy- blood, without experiencing a seasa-
ing the satisfaction of again behold- lion of  epinphorror; forat such
ing his child---the offspring of.his times, it"'  A4}baiftigifwtheebodies
guilty intimacy with my wife.  Pos- of my iite   r. a, 'gistl
gueibly, ii taking  little  Kate  with  me,  and  mangled  by  ar t# 4, d  hand!
I was actuated by a lingering tender- *' Well, captain       y)our
ness for;the poor young thing, whom story is a good 'un an n ak
I had once pressed to my heart in but did you never=havela: a
the belief that she was my own get square with your wife' tO
daughter.  'Twas foolish, I own; and be damned to him?'
but nature, at that time; held a    "He has log since said the ien-.
stronger hold in my heart than now.' alty of his sins''replied the Prince-
"Well--whatever may have been "without my aency. I lost sight of
my motives for' encumbering myself him for some years, but 'atalength
with the child, at such a time, take encountered him in a den of misery
her with me I did. Having carefully to which I hadflown for' safety from
wrapped her up in a cloak, I safely the, pursuit of my' o)d friend . the
descended  from  the  window . and officers. Deprived of the, pecuniary
gained the street. To secure a place assistance formerly' extended, to him
of safety for myself and charge was by my wife, and 'being entirely with.
my first care and was easily effected, out resources, he grew seedy, then
for I was wel\supplied with money- shabby, then squalid; lie was gver-
and what will not money do?       taken by a loathsome disease, became
"But money will not last forever; a perfect mass: of corruption, was
mine soon melted away, and I saw driven from every asylum wherein he
the necessity of doing something for sought a shelter, and finally took
the support of myself and little Kate. refuge irk the wretched hovel w here 1
To engage in any honest.or legiti- met him. He wits lying upon a heap
mate business was out of the ques- of filthy rags;, he was alive with
Lion, for the blood-hounds of the law vermin, and'his body was covered at
were still after me, furnished with over with the most frightful ulcers
descriptions of my person, and in- We recognized each other instantly
cited to vigilance by a large reward and yet I could scarcely believe, that
which had bec offered for my ap- in the awful object before me,-I be
prehension.                       held' the o ce elegantgay and hand
'What coul II do? A man can- some GC/Ides!
.ot starve. ,it is al vei'y well to  "My revenge was    i complete; th

/ 7.
-:4'

4.

5
,7r


1 '   t  ' Y

Val

JACK

t+p ,   i.
s,
.: '.  i

S    mplation of the horrible, state
ts   bch hie was ,edaed, afforded
e a fan,     ..intense'satisfaction
than ifsY At' died- by my, hands
R*e° bitte     reed= men and the
cened w         ,onht' aMe there
tot witness i '". sery. 1,heeded not
his curseaiiil purned hm with my
foot; and hien d iath eame toohis
nelieiflapsa  pon; him copse, -and
left it tieratoro, ,and, bes devoured
by~r the rtai  which awairmed 'fiom
every hole and: coroe+-for that soh
teay hotel had4long. been deserted by
man, .Suoh, was thiftteeoft himWho
had, caused: a- so. muoh pain and;
sorrow."           :   ;
't'Sartyd -hipn rightc.d e damned;
to.kim!' exclaimaed Billi h' but what
bece    , o the. yvung, blowen,-the.
'- meeti young 'un of your
sykrendher   scy man?"
't'h -little Kate?. Why, she's'
up s#air' and in bed, I suppose.
yourself, firat christened her
Qca. Ltue  fnr'    1
' My eyes; captain !" cied'Bill, in
salonishimeat-,-" thena Gallus Kate is
not your daughter alten all!"
I&amp;Ko-'net-a debp of ,my, blood.
lows in: her veins; she is the child"
of1 that: false woman, and her paa-
mouer.
"'Thank heaven! Kate is not my
sister 1' said Jack Harold, in, an au'
dible tone--for his wonder had,. for
the' moment, overcome his oaution.r
SInlestautly' Qdid he. repent of his.
error.--for. the two men .leaped to,
their- feet, and surveyed each;other"
with looks, excpressive-of surprise and,
alan;.
'" What-noisetwAtwhat.?" demanded-
the Prince, with an,oath.   .
"It-was a woice," said Bill.
* Was it not-youthat spoke?"
4A if'-it, was, may. I boed-e..d," rev
plied. the, eraoiosa old gentleman,
solemely
'M~awear 1, ear4 the- tOoes of a
voice,"said the Prisec, gainjaround
his sa iiciously.-T" samne-one may

HanoaON
e be, concedae:.hei'eanouts 1: , by
I God ! this .ktIita shalte aw  them. o
i their curiosity ',
Meanwhile one here stole softly
up taetsirs.- nieadinesa to. retreat
to, his chambejrin case they exteade4
b the search. sp far; but the Price,
ivingY   r'I   open the door atn4
fowf no' one, expressed himself sat-
iafmi d'said that they must have been
'm' 4.en, and: resumed his seat.
o One Arm'd Bill', however;
rthe 4d warrior would not rest easy
until he had; made a most careful and
elaborate investigation, in the-course
of which he opened numerous small
drawers and. boxes of diminutive
size, as if he were possessed with
the eccentric idea that a. man might
secrete himself in. places scarcely
large enough for a mouse, of moder.
ate dimensions. Helcomlflleted hip
search by opening the prince's snuff
box; and finding, no one hidden.
thierein, (doubteess. to his great dis*.
appointment',)  sat himself down,
proud, of his, own wonderful acute..
ness and sagacity.
Jack, hearing the termination at
the search, again descended the stairs
and stood  behind the half.opened
pnddoor.
"You must keep profoundlyse-
cret all that'I have told youtonight'
Bill," aid the Prince.
'  In course, yer honor," responded
the chivalrous old hoan, hitting him.
self divers hard  thumps in the
stomach, in which region he firmly
believed his heart to be located...
" wot one gen'elman tells another in
confidence, ought never to be blosv'tk
on-damn me! And so Galus Kate,
ain't y ur daughter, after all, eh'"
"N ,; although everybody believes
thai she,-is--including Kate herself".-
and I am-anxious to preserve that
belief, for she's a ine girl, and re
fats credit upon me. 1) have-al'
ways sufferedher to have vher own
way in everything; and, consequent
ly, she is as wild and reckless as

4og naoaI..
'u1 ..~kno       that she-I q uotadoia etnhal  ni9de  ; .  P'
Se.n          te, gd cn toss off ter that has proved '11sraa
p bngper f bf}it        e'  t iv : as the wareoe dtech  o  i uf is
all the gus,to, of anq1 st aer.. I arum 3rQadw 4ady.
pretty certain,  oo,   .hena, lon
ere this, l een initiaeipo al th                -
secrts  of  amor4,"',n  iue fr  shC
iher ts the passiah d vouptCHAPTER                    XV
anus nature of' her iso e ,. I h ve '",= ,
"ever attempted or wished tocontrol Showing ourIero's britlians5O3a in War
ler inanyp    or, b   t e      Finance and .ode,  nasmnoh ae he"etn
her in Anyewa    ut flhe           uarahis enemy, eset aich measure
Permitted.her to foSlow the         and runsaaway with a pretty.g rl-
her own, inclinations. She
more. beautiful than her mother was;  p. gQwly atid  ntsst  na 4
and, egad! I am sometimes tempted having cat gegl uppr i .uunc
to infour  her of the real facts con- scimos; m ,Wd, it Qne, Arne'4 hiI0
nected with her parentage, and then, approach  tho, e gi l  whereini. h
throwing up the part of her father, expectedL .    etgr l e o sogind
lay the character of her lover-eh, asleep, andad yof f the thrust of
iiiPI             .        ,,    his Bowie knife.
"A   werry good idea, sir," re-   The assasssm  noa t;i'jt. .opened
yponled Bill. "From what I seed the secret, panel, an  en eted'the
to-night, I thought that Miss Irate room.  Jack could 'di tin9ctty he
was minhty sweet on. Master IHarold; him breathe, anal wk e the perioio
in fact, she was a-kissin' and a-hug- tion from his biow.
gin' of hint like fbiry, though to be  " W'hat shalt I dot" thought 'o"
sure the young clyp was a little off. hero-" I dare not risk a stru gl
ash."                             with the old villain, for altlouh he
"Humph! we'll soon stop elil that," has but onie arm, he' has twice my
said the other. 1' But, I have de. strength, an4 is also provided iith a
aned you too) Ion" already; g) and deadly weapon, while    utterly
do for thd young' sCoundrel--make unar'medi na! what's this?"
rse work of it-and then bury his  His mental exclaoiation was caused
body in the- cellar. I shall go to by his hand accidentally coming 'ire
bed"             .contact with an ion bar of consider'
Jack Harold noiselessly an F quick- able thicknessand about twa feet in
ly asceended to his chamber, closed' length, which laty upon, the window
the secret panel, and, awaited, in sill, and, was probably used, to pop
darkness ad uncertainty, the couning up the window, when necessary:
of the one-arm'd' assassin.         This welcome artelee a.tg4vspe'
Bill took up the lowie knife from in his hand, and! then awat4.'t
the table, bade his master g god night, proper time tp use:it.
and commenced groping his way up    The assassin grsped his way- to
the dark and narrow stair-case, say- wards the bed, ante Jash, heard hint
ing that he needed, no light to aid deal several heavy[ blows.  Then,
lyim in  performing  such a trifling. tor a few monmetsp, all wpswixi
iece of, business as the killing of a  " Why, how's thip' a lst n)ut-
inchen.                          tered Bill-" not a movement-not a
Alas! the excellent ld, g ntleman, groan-not a drop ofbloodi spatter-
for once.is his life, 'reckoned  ith- edt Where the helpi theihppnds
out his.hoat                    be d-md to him-.for or   atfibaia
With which 'e:; cormnon-lase- hesel"

.,
,.n
. ;s :


11t 1111101.0
MCt ftlftoLe,"
had by that tIme felt in the bed, they point theit' gash
a '{       nd f ountd it 'empty.            Angers at me, and whl~
"You liethe i here !' said Jack, oBde!r m  eaacidi'    e ays tliM  i
who stood diectly behind' him; and murdered my l"ter ind i'lother?'I
raising the 'hit .bar with both hands, tlhey lie--I cotel  no  have had the
tne brought itidown' with tremendous heart to do it I only slew that w-e
force upon tl . old gentleman's vener. and her para  r  Piab my clothes,
able head,                         and hair, : 'ery p rt of me, reek
Bill fell to the flbor like a slaught- withi blood. Keep o! why do you
red ox;' and looping down, Jack let t  foul snake coil itself upon my
elt. a 'siall rivulet of blood trickling  and lick my fa e i Its green
s7  Y     r rt b is tead.e                    SY  cinate and si ken me  now vi
'fhave killed him, and he deseryes  le accursed reptile is gnawing my
his fate'!" thought our herd; andtlsfere heart !  Its name is RE~onsE 1 and
still retainingthe iron lar' he felt his its office is to give me a foretaste of
ntry to the  secret' panel, passed HELL!   Who is this, standing it my
through the passage, desgdded the bed-side? Oh, it is my wife.-false,
stairs, and paused at thef   bdor of the adulterous Kate-or, ather, it is bet
Prince's chamber, to 'iifen.      spirit; for I killed her-I remember
'o his uprise he heard his father's it all now. Say, spirit from the world
Voice; he fItaeI more intently, and of flame and darkness, is hell a place
Was do'snced that the Prince was so awful, where the disembodied soul
talking i his sleep.              writhes in torment through countless
,fhe door of the chamber was clos- ages ?  Liar I-liar, as well as alul-.
al, but not locked; for the assassin teress! there is no hell-but if there
hi expected to pass through that way, were a million, their combined tires
after completing his bloody work.  and' tortures would be no adequate
Jack entered, and by the light of punishment for my crimes ! There is
tIe globe laimp, which had not been no hell, I tell you !--the tale of its
extinguished, he beheld his villain fa- existence is but a cunning fiction, in
other extended upon the bed, with all vented by fanatics to drive weak fool'
his clothes on, and his limbs tossing to psalm-singing and prayer !;-Ha!-
about as if he suffered from the most what pale, sad face is this, that gazes
intense physicalor mental torment.  reproachfully at me, with tearful eyes
Approaching the bed, our hero saw, C arissa Cooper, the victim, of my se-
to his horror, that the eyes of the d etive arts I Howcame that dread,
sleeper were wide open, his face black, fu bruise upon her face? 'T was my'
the veins o'i his forehead swelled al- ruian hand that caused it. Strangle
most to bursting, and his whole ap- th t babe--cut its mother's throat--
pearanace that of a man who suffered st ike sure, Bill; let your knife drink
the most excrutiatiug pangs of re. th ir heart's blood I Curse that boyo
morse.             .        ,      h rises up in vengeance against me;
so da the dark in isoul expire.  ta e him away, or he will murder me
or live by scorpionsgirt by fire;  mercy, Jack; I am your father, do
K) emittes th M sigd remorse dathoin,
rea ht e  akill r  ab me;do not become a p)arri-
)Aruodtefator, espitiaiteah,"  e, because 1 was one"-miurdert
Around it Sam:e, within it death I  n order! murderI"
"Ton thousand furies I" :cried the . l'he unhappy man made the cham*n
sleeper, as he sore his hair and gnash. be resound with his cried, at the same
ad 4t&amp; teeth--"'why does not e~ mg one :tia ie writhing as .d struggling asif is
sevet up t iose two corpses I See I th~ agonies of strangulauona.; 'Pres

41 1 fflmlr

4

A4f I I'1
:S

1AC19 JIROLI
*mtiy he oec&amp;  r slqIter'. nat re was in the trunk he beheld a large heap
exhausted. His break  g"gre  easier, of bright gold Coins,  tngled with
and he seemed about ' sink into a precious andglittersng  ai.
quiet slumber.                      "So, so !" thought 4   o--" this
Jack turned (o quit tlto , whet night's adventures prns to termf.
k was startled by heu f 91  move- nate profitably, ifor  hto reasures
meant behind him    Tia, wonder      hall be mine.  u  . a  ri na i ist
and alarm, the Prince arose fro  the see what my worthy fa l will d
bed and advanced slowly toward -su.next
A second glance bani,bed o     Ti His othy father emptied the en
ro's fears: for he saw that his. r       otetso"th    ruik upon the
was stiil in a profound sleep.  71here ,t  gn thengt deltiirately, began to
was something horrible in the appear- conuithe' money;, as' he counted it,
ance of the staring eyes, which were he replaced it:in the trunk.
still wide open, and resembled those  Havin  oeniplished thitask, and
of a corpse.         *             restored th+el to their place of
The Prince was a sonambulst; of- Ieposit, he  lekedI the ,trk, and
ten, in his sleep, would he arise from carefully bestowed it in heg0iereI cav-
his hel and wander over the house, itv  Then he retudsiiditO the bed,
doing things with as much regularity laid down upon it, and remaigeetiper-
and precision is if he were a wke.  feetly quiet, breathing gently andreg+
Jack stepped aside, and watched ularly, qie a person in a deep nd
the proceedliiis of the sleep-walker unarali alumerso nade    a
itch the utmost curiosity and interest. natursltslumrer.
The Prince approached a largeand   '.heronly on "K.ewreined eime agree;
handsome mirror that hung, upon the   A momentary resiwk from despair."
wall, and touched a small spring con. Jack now went to work in real ear.
sealed amid the rich, and elaborate nest. After a patient and careful
carvings of the gilded frame. Instant- search, he found the secret spring
ly, the looking-glass opened like a which was concealed in the frame of
door, revealing an aperture in the the mirror; and the next moment he
-vaIl about twofeet square.       held in his' arms the much coveted
The hlject of this singularly con- casket of treasure. Having carefully
tried place was soon manifested. It closed the mirror upon the aperture,
was the Prince's secret treasury, where he prepared to quit the room.
he kept all the money and valuables  he  had toaruit herm
which he had accumulated during his toe had scarcely, however, moved
long and iutdusrious career of villainy, two paces towards the door, whent to
lon had widthrhs cnaeer onvirucy his alarm the Prince started up in his
He had wnth-his ownh hands construct- hedl evidenitly wide awake, and de-
ed the place, and its existence was  devd    y
known only to him.                   " Waid  er
He drew forth from the aperture a                     hWho is there'
small trunk, and placed it upon the . Fortunately for our het', the light
table ; their he seated himself, took a of the globe, lamp had, g wn exceed-
key from . his pocket, unlocked the ingly dim, so that it was rendered al-
trunk, and raising the lid, seemed to most impossible to recognize a person
least hio eyes upon t.otnt,       a    litl diace.W      ave efetror,
Jack stepped behind his chair and seena that Jakwas ay~t  feinr
looked over his shoulder.  No won- dlipary presence of mia 1; and, it tiss
der that he startcd.---no wonder that emnergeng, that valuh  qult did
hin eyes, sparkled with pleasure; fur not deserchbim Thaerefo e, mutating

"1I
F  "I",
/4"V SiT4


Ann~d ~l~a $rud' and drowsy the bed, whet &amp;&amp;       w   ha@
Iapthin             "8shal ifi     tli db old sillaih '#
 ' Whi     evil -are ye doi g nce?" Jack pientally iked'hi ss1f'
hye ?" d t   ed  e Prince, sus itis 'ut }pity' fo;'.a Mu ded' ad iheed-
i1f        lf arose froho the Ied ,  #i ret, P}rally prevaiiled i 'his
iw   if     Intention of sprin g lest,' af couchrded to spare his
1       ides, it was exce'edisgly sm"
'   hy  ou see, Ive been diggg t      e that Hil could VNeOver from
AYt  psi  ;   4  eckens'° grave in the cellary Wild Y4j  y solsevere and dangBrous; tor
4 hr  gr.ol  cary down hisaboy.   3 a :Id be no douht that his skull
asd{.ry Iq {  bedamned to hi   had blk  fr actur'ed by the blots froth
.4   s ah6 that s; all right;' saidthe te pan 6os iron bair.
Prince, sinki  back upon the bed  Jack iWas about to qnit the r'om,
and closing bIi, eyes" then you've  hen he  vhas arrested by the voice ot
done fur the you~igv ab tkp, eh?" l i, who, in feeble and piteous tones,
"Ini entirse hai1ve; 'i your htnporeijlo" d him to bind a handkerchief
mestii't forget the reward you 'protnis- around his wounded head, in order to
ed for'the job.. s op the floiv of blood.
IaDnti the reward,, you shall have  "You expect me to dress your
at, ,of onrs. Get iiut, and bury 'the wound, in return for your having nt-
Oareass; I want to sleep."       tempted my life," said out, hero, un.
Witi these words the prince ug  able to repress his indignatioki"ou
ed over in bed, and in another mo- Inky think tu forbearancei that I do
mient was sound asleep.           hot now finish your miserable exis.
qack lf the rom  .ern  in hi tence, at bnce.''
the room, hearingg in his  "I Was forced to obey the Ordere ot
arms the thousands ofdollars which be the Captain," said Bill, groaning debp
had gained so easily, and  en with ly; "you have carved ine right Master
86- h tearful risk. tle wits soon in the Haoy'  antsob" or4ryngt il
chamber where he had left the bleed- Harold. , ia sody for tryig to kill
ing body of One Arnid ,ill       yott ; if I ain't, umay I be d--d !
"Jack's generheitty &amp;nquLeedhis
The first gray streaks, of, day-light anger ; setting down the trunkl he
were beginning to struggle through took his handkerchief from his neclks
the curtained windows of the room-, and beganl to bind it around the old
Jack drew aside the curtains, and was nmn'% head.
then enabled to view objects with tol- While thus benevolently engaged
erable distinctness,              a sudden mhovement on the part of the
Judge of his surprise when he mis- ohject of hia care, arrested his atten*
sed the body from the lace which it lion; rnd casting down his eyes) he
had occupied upodathe floor; but ,how saw that Bill had picked up the Bowie
was his astoiashment Increased, when, knife from the' bed, and was about to
on trnimg his eyes towards 'the bec, stab him in the side. The treacher-
he beheld iii intended ihurderer seat ot old villain ouild hot relinquish his
ed there, holdin his solitary hand to tutderous 'designs, 've when -the
i ghaatly Wound ini hi iehd, foth object of them waihrthe act ofyeery'
*talsh the blood still slowly tritkLed forming fot him a deed of gratuitous,
do n ki'duesh.
ihad partiklly rathvued front .hstly Cnraged et this ingratittsde
tdis effecta of th vinhr'itg bk* WhIth and ptl-idy, Jhtbk wrtt hed the weae
ae had Treeived and hiul tinled to' pon itrain the hasia -e 4he sansie

ahich was esipefectedt;for the lat- amid the tich mass e of her lhair
ta was faint fro ilossr 'ofblood.  the other nestled uponi he*A)io' 1t
Spare toy life4  &amp; od's sake!" snow-and it could not)v    had 'a
cried Bill; for he saa  nr etpression, diviner resting place, 4 ing 'With
in the face of out hei+o, thataaade him referencreats  as  t al e
tresihle.                         for alas sat tir bh    which
Jarck's only reply to tiihippeal was seemed to "be: I ternple  wpry, o
a vigorous thrust with the kife he it gently rose ird-,felyin  oft
tween the old gentleman's ribs.B4ilt piratrion 'of a sleanber fill if .{peUa r
roaned with mortal agony, and  4I.l dreams--that bosom was theah
back ipotsthe bed. A few stfue   f unholy passions,'htd ' tadw niot ;
and all was ovt'r.eie                    virtse and niocenchO   at
a N  waold  fellow,"  said  wat' hero  elevat pe  *omahn taost to the spihe e
--t if ever you thage another chance of the Tangels.
to attempt my life, I'll fbi' iVe you,  Kate hadsevidently been weeping,
and say that Satin'is a devilish poot' for upon her'eleeks wes ej.hetraces
turnkey, fur suffering you to escape of tears.    r spirit inust have
from his doininioti"             been wandering in golden    reatm-
Taking the precious trunk again land, for radient was tlbemtnl that
in This arihs, Jack issued from  the wreathed her rosy lips.
chamber, and proeeeed directly to  And now, frotn those lips so soft
the apartment occupied -by "Gallus and inviting, Jack Harold stole, a'
Kate."                            kisses How could he resist the temp
He had arranged a plan of opera- tation? As well might the weary
tions, in his own mind, which he de- traveller, parched with thirst, strive
ternined  to  act upon  forthwith. to resist theAmpulse that eromnpts
What 'that plan was, will appear him to pluck the luscious peach,
pt-esentlyb                       which, teeming with delicious juices.
tla'v'ing, knocked at the door se - hangs directly in its path.
eral times, ahd received no answer-.  The kiss awoke the girl; she st*-t. t
and  having  ,not'ovet ascertained ed up with 'a slight scream, whieb
that-the door *a snfastened-hie re- instantly changed to a city of delight,
solved to eater without -ceremony, when she beheld ou rhet.. Throw-
for he was anxious to escape from tug her 'arms aboOt his ;nehk, she
the house ere the Prince could pressed hiti to her breast, with all
awaken and discover the loss of his the ardor of impassioned'love,
treasure.                           "Ah! cruel oie," she 'etirintued,
lie t'aised the latch and entered. half 'reprochfonllyh.-'Iast thou re-
it had now become ;sufficiently light peeled of thy beldness"-:t'he'idiffer"
to 'enable him to see very distinctly.  ece -towards thyKate, who loves
Iiia eyea turned towards the bed. thee so dearly 1 ,gow, 'to punish
The.t a   'youthful, ,charming and thee for thy lack ofgsllantryMaster
volta, ,,  klate, in -an 'ttitaude 'off Jack, I swieact love thee ten Pimnes
uhed.a    zgt'ace   No envious more than ever; and thnathy lucky
drapery cuttealed tie glowing beau- stars if I do not smun.het thee with
ties of' her matchltss form,' which kisses. Seel sy:aratnsinpison thee:
was as fully developed as that of a thou artmny captive; thou shalt nevee
woman of' mature    years, whose lDave tue meth. At d now tell nkt
charms have ripeeel into glorious te cIauso of thy'ai'ngre *onduct last
luxbriance  One   f hr .white atd night; hut,  bod heave: s h4w faw
tewelled hands-was partially buried tigued ain exhausted 2yot :ork  Lie

4a

f,

4

.           . Y

" i   '  , l     ',2
q, , ,ice
'   we "^    "  ^ .

Q.


1-54

14

JACK

down by my side and, test yourself,
while  l  sen to your confession;
ce db     k."
"We"     not a moment to lose,
Kate; the eXpianbtion which you re.
quire' shahi be given at tho bfrst con-
nielt  portunity. fT'hank heaven!
e 3is iow no obstacle. in the way
our intimacy. Kate, I must leave
is plaebat once, and forever; will
6'go with me?".:
A 41'To the 'r1d of the world! rk
pli.dthe .uN   girl, with  etfdi-
asm;~ and saringg from the couch,
she busi i her$e f with t'eparations
for an immedil..epart
-Oh, Love ' who %i ti.comprehend
thy mysteries?  How   wonderfully
dust thou sogr etimes-manifest thyself,
particularly when dwelli g in tne
,',        heart ' of woman !  Hlere was this
young -girl, ready and eager, at a
* ment's notice, to quit the roof
which was to hera shelter and a
home, and follow the fortunes of her
boyish 'lver, whom she believed to
be penniless, and whom-she knew to
be 'at 'escaped prisoner, liable at any
anent to be torn fromher embrace,
0°consigned to a disgraceful cap-
tivity. She knew not the cause of'
hi$-sudden flight, nor where he pur-
posed ;going-;-neither did she care.
She only knew that she loved him to
idolatry-that without him she was
miserable, with him supremely happy
-and that he , was going' away.
That was enough; she was ready to
fellow him "to the end of the world."
Kate had -a complete and extensive
naletwardrobe, Which included every
garment that could be desired bya
youth of taste and fashion-ifor she
often delighted to array herself' in
male attire, and go forth in s arch of
9':C.tdtg adventures; a practi e some-
what prevalent amorg certain ladies,
at the present day. Dressed in her
masculine garb, Kate -seemed , the
very bean idealof a-fair beautiful
youth; and many- a lady l s' her

Anot v
1 AAOL3                 ta'
heart in consequence. a Or wild he'
roine would often make an assigns'
tion with some amorous fair one, ans
conduct the itiague in the mest ap-
proved style; hut alas! when ,he fair
one began to anticipate, with pali-
tating delig Y, the consummation of
her dishes the supposed youth would
very ngallantly take to her heets,
1 g the victim of the trick to het
ishment and disappointment.
Wemay as well state here, that
Kate was a daring and expert pick.
pocket. Attired with all the elegance
of a Pat isian dandy, she would
lounge along some fashionable prom.
enade, and generally succeeded is
extracting some gentleman's pocket.
book from its place of deposit. By
such operations she not unfrequently
realized considerable sums of money
Her male wardrobe now proved te
be of practical utility; for her read
wit suggested that it would be bes,
to disguise herself as one of the
" sterner sex."
,Jack approved of the plan; and
regarded his young mistress with Ad-
miratiorn, as s'he rapidly and dexter
ously invested her superb form wits
a suit of fine bi oadeloth, which'fites
her with exquisite niey;v, and was ex
ceedingly becoming =4er fony,,lux
uriant hair she skilfully arranged a
a masculine style; and a beautiful
cap, of blue velvet, ornamented with
a gold tassel, completed her elegant
costume. So fine was her appear.
ance, and so admirably did she enact
her part, thathnoone, rot in the se-
cret, would' have'takent her to be
otherwise than a youth of remarka.
ble grace and beauty.
Turning to her lover, she made
him a profound .bow, and said, in a
tone of mock gravity.--
" Sir, your most obedient ser-
vant."
Then, taking from her pocket a
silver card-case, sheA presented him
with a visiting card abeautiflfly em.

x'
a
I

r               hUN a&amp; " AROLD.
ae-                  anga ed thg   "You ate perfect; ;but alat! low
name-q-" Ola         et."         can I appear abroad i 'theae'sdry,
zRemember,"               to ad- garrpents?" said Jaci, wth, agighi.
dress me by thatna     ustrasger, j t will.he r ollecte.thaou r
are present; pro ad       eree,. still wore _hp poer a#swrpt he
that J am   wean g i 4 b     obes. gprmentE ofAthe e
And now my dearh    o     a t.Q4 l4', , Ah, 4,ga #; Mrd pe
y looks?"                         arep'   joinc   te, g9od aur

ENGL SHTON RELIEVES MRS. LdVE       1J,   1                     - i LF rW II .
.                             4 T W  -  -
see, we are very'tearly  1 icludi gliuen, hosiery and irn fact
size,  and  I  'have  a rdoaen  ais  of  every'ftr lec "&amp;  ceslity  to  make
oloti es.* Make your dWn agelow. edilgid and heddnaMlt
,,-                       Jae aWkOn6l~tardfemeuilt *WIIa
a nd from a bureaudrae''ihe mean y dreed urciih f  . a ±
throw  a:proftwion of gatnet , 1:ni gentm  o  aslg" appe&amp;aa
6

' 'A
4'
Akj^

L

,   ,{y " f.
, r     .
.'


.)Op

6                          SACK HAROLD.
and the hopeful pair prepared to keep perfectly quiet and' d'ie hebb
quit the house,                  self upon the bed.
"Fortuse y "for 'us" whispered  The next instant the Prince knock.
Kaetw"      N   in in' posses on ed loudly at',theloor; he was obliged
over tw y4tdred dollars in'-csh, to repeat the summons, with thunder.
which will serve to ive 'aua good' ing effect; erf he received an answer.
tart in. the'wot'ld; hard«I anticipated Then Katetretched herself, yawned,
eit, I night hsve baid .fie and in a sleepy tone inquired-
es the amount; for ,I have been  AiWho is there"
vihsh extravagan' of late. But no  "Tis I-the Prince; some one
tter; wei shall soon replenish' our hasobbed me of a large sum  of
ntnces,"                        rnoneyKate. Get up, and let me in."
}              " Be perfectly easy on thatar    " Oh, father, don't ask rne to do
sweetheart," said Jack,.' gaily, as he that; for I am stark naked !" replied
raised the precious trunk from the Kate, winking mischievously. at Jack.
chair on which' h  h    laced it..--  These words drew the thoughts of
"our finances ae n&amp;."jiresert in d the Prince into another channel; and,
Wnost flourishing condon; for, look for the moment, he forgot the loss~of
you, Kate! this trunk contains thou- the money.
stands of dollars!"                "Humph ! she calls me father,"
"Heavens, you    astonish me ! thought he--" why should I not tell
Whore did you get it"a           her the truth,.at once-that I am not
Then PrinTeeisrthceisin the most distant manner related to
there's note fi   te sufiorer; but her ?  I have lately noticed that she
Cre, let's be or'explanations now. has brown most voluptuously beauti-
Coe, uiettbedful. Eg'ad! her lovely image fires my
They quitted the chamber, and soul with passion.! When she learns
were descnding the stairs, when to that I am not her father, perhaps she
their consternation they heard the will be happtf to reciprocate my pas-
voice of the Prince, crying  out-1l                fYp
o' Curs the'old courein ust  sion, and treat me with every kindness,
Curse the old scoundrel, he must in gratitude for my care and protec-
have. dpneit! Fool that I was, not tion of her.  The opportunity is fa-
to have seized upon him last night, vorable-and I'll do it3" .
when I awoke and found him prowl-   Again he knocked loudly at the
log about my chamber! But how door.
did the one.arm'd villain discover my  " Is that you, father ?" asked Kate.
secret treasury? that's what puzzles  "Damn that word father!" mut.
me. Damnation! ten thousand 'dol- tered the Prince, and then added
lars gone at one fell swoop! Abun. alod-" yes, my dear ; open the door,
dantly has he paid himself for his for I must come in."
trouble in killing that boy! But 4as- "Dear father, pray corpider----"
he killed the young rascal? Damn    "Open the door, I say, or I hall
him, I'll go up to the panel chamber, burst it in!  I wish to see you for
and see; but first I will inquire of something very particular."
Kate if she heard anything'uuul         n   ey atclr'
Katrif the nih   nyt     unusual   Kate and Jack exchanged looks ex-
pressive of perplexity and alarm.
The young fugitives,,heard the   " What in the world can he want?"
Prince coming Lp *tairs. They rap. whispered the girl-" can he suspect
,dly retreated ,to, the chamber, which that you are in here, or does 'ie think
they had just quitted.  Kate locked that I have taken his money, and hid.
Me door, en'oined her companion to den it in this chamber?  If I adiu5

him, and
will be
wrong.
the door
This
occur, fo
in conta
to tear it
Jack,
ship exi
Prince--
I,' er de
intention
with ref
loss to gd
mission t
There
however.
came o
ed a few
flow to pm
bed, tak
\runk.
"Comn
thorough
this door
in with a
"Wai
Kate, in
tions-"
the door
come in
up in b
all undre
" Ver
the Priii
an esta
time, ret
his heav
"4Wai
and sayi
fastened
be, as s'
amorous
tempted
in the h
upon a
invested
charms.
when ho
Posed h'

JACK HAROLD.

11 4,, heme  in  this  garb, he I
sure 'osus pt something
Good heaven he will kick
vent seemed very likely toi
the Prince's ,boot coming
t with the do&amp;t threatenedI
from its hinges.
ho knew that no relatiQr t'
ed between Kate an      d O
Laving, moreover, hear= ,
are to One Arm'd Bill, his
of " playing the lover,"
rence to Kae-was at no
the young girl's chamber.
was no time fr explanation
Jack's presence of mind
is aid; and having whisper-
.-is to Kat , directing her
oceed, he crawled under the
ng with hin the precious
!" cried the Prince, now
y enraged-"'will you open
at once,.or shall I break it
axe?"
a moment, father," cried
pursuance of Jack's direc-
will get up and unfasten
if you will promise not to
until I have covered :myself
d; for, as I told you, 1 am
sed."
well; I promise," replied
e, has he rubbed his hands in
v ,f delight, which, for the
deed him quite insensible to
lo s.
,ten, until I give the word,"
g this, Kate arose and un.
the door. Believing her to
e said,  a ! undressed," the
Sand excited  Prince was
to rush in upon the instant,
pe of feeding his sensual cyes
ormi which his imagination
wi/h the    ost distracting
Sut he r strained hintsel',
reected that she stillsup.-
n tp be her father, and that

her alar
terfere
Kate,
here ma
quickly
selfsup
ings clo
prevent
circums
dressed
nude, at
ing; al
t~ttfle;a1
have em
cions th
he mig
finding
togethe
would b
Firm
father,s
dream
her ch
merely
tpe be
rMoney.
Led to I
in.,
His ,
having
beds t
Kate.
that fac
peared
like a
that th
ments
" will
" N
but yo
replie
own h
Th
cinati
ty wO
comp
chime
upon I
bleth t1

1 and indignation might in
w ith his plans concerning her
ll dressed up as-hie was ia
e garments ofg.bioadcloth,
ot 'ito bed and covered her.
arefully, drawing the cover-
e up to her chin, in order to
he Prince from observing i
Bance that she "wis entire
,instead .of being complete
she hd stated., Besides, h
rayed in that peculiar cos'
such t earlyihur, would'
ited within him strong suspi-
t all was not as it should be;.
t segch ths chamber, and
ackehidden.;beneath the bed,
with the stolen- treasure,-all
be lost.
y believing the nian to be her
e did not for a single moment
f his true object. in enty g,
mber, but supposed that he
'ished to consult with her on
t means of recovering his
Having placed herself in
er own satisfaction, she said-
ready, father-..you may come
Royal Highness entered, and
taken a seat at the side of the
roed his ardent gaze upon
Only her face was visible; but
e was so beautiful as it ap-
above the white counterpane,
elicate rose embedded in snow,
a beholder was for a few mo-
ost in admiration.
/ dear," said he, at length
'on give me a kiss?"
, father, I won't give you ode,
s can take one, if you like,"'
Kate, laughing heartily at her
nmor.
re is something singularly las
g in the silvery laugh of a pret.
aan. We hardly know 'what to
re it to: it is like the musical
of distant bells, when borne
he soft evening air; it resemw
he harumo-i u ripple. of water

s           .Z,
'1

Y        ,
r

' ; i 1} Fi 'S ,


S

JA CE

in a quiiet place-yea, it is mor eplea
ing Ihan the notes"''of a 'nightinga
Bulwer says that it-is'difficult -to laugl
or even"'t; smile, at once n'aturall
and gracefully; 'and it is one-ofSteele
finest -touces of 'charaet4;*Bre Ii
says dl WiltI oneycomnli,... 1e Ca
"e' when one sa ks to "him,'an
hs'easily;
ow 'Kate had the mast 'music
gh in 'the world. So'thought J'
;'  ;h;" j rold under th"bed; n sothotitlt
rtince,atlieside of the b ei,a fij
not one kiss, 'buta greAt many kisses
In fact, 'he gued his 'munth to' her
with so rmducmh'tdor, the 4he was ex
teedingly astonished. "
'Why, 'father, 'how strangely yot
act !" she said,
;Humph I 'my dear," said Hlis 'Roya
I ighness, with'some confusion of man
ner-" I wish you would desist from
Galing mefdther; for, the fact is----
"'What'?" cried 'Kate, eagerly.
"The 'fact -is, that 'I---huimph
My dear, are you not uncomfortably
warm, with these bed-clothes draw
so closely 'about yout'neck?''
As he spoke, he attempted to pull
the counterpane down, but Kate 'held
it'firrly in its place, for its removal
an inch, would disclose the -fact that
she was dressed in male attire.
"ie evidently suspects something,"
thought she-" and wishes to examine
me. How shall1I get rid of him-?"
" I spoke to you of -having been
robbed of a large sum 'of'tnioney,"
said His Royal Highness, fixing his
-    eyes meaningly'upont hers-." but now
I have found my.ireasure. "
"Found it--how- where ?" falter-
ed Kate, with difficulty controlling'
her agitation,
" Here--in'this-chamber'!"
Jack,. beneath'the bed, gave up all
as lost, while Kate turned deadly pale.
" Yes -my treasure'isin this'cham-
her !" cried the Prince, passionately
-" here, in -this bed, beneath this
ountierpane; it is 'low in my arms!

HIAROLD
s- Ah ! 'tis a thousand  ins more pre
e, cious than goli br je eels 1"
h,   He'clasped t.e form of Kate in his
y arms; and theft she, as well as her
s concealed lover, comprehended that
e be ('tie NFriene) 'had alluded to ker
tf rsn'  h tistreasure, and had no ref-
d erence whatever to the money which
-    41e lost.
Awe knew 'not what to make of this
k    f trdinory conduct on the part of
e# The Prince ; she believed that he had
lost his senses. While struggling in'
his embrace, she -contrived to keep
s the coverlid wrapped around her 'form,
- notwithstanding his efforts to remove
pit.
u H'er determined resistance enraged
him land he prepared'to accomplish
l his purpose 'byoviolence. Thefor
the first time, did the young gui' per-
ceive his real design.
" Unnatural monster ? can  it' be
possible  that---".        ,
He interrupted' her with a loud
laugh,-and said-.-
" It is all perfectly natural, my
beauty-for ou 'may as well know,
first as last, that I am not your father.
We'arenot in the most distant man-
ner related to each 'other, unless your
being the 'bastard child ofmy adulter-
ous wife and her lover, establishes a
relationship between us. Come, you
are now old enough, and beautiful
enough, to repay me for my kindness
in rearing you from your infancy up
to the present tie"
In her struggles, Kate had shifted
her position to the further side of the
bed; unconsciously, her arm had ex-
tended over the side, next the wall.
She felt a hand clasp hers, and she
knew it was Jack's ;:then something
was placed in her hand, and ghe felt
.it to be the handle of a knife. She
'understood 'the 'hint, and resolved to
act tip to it, if necessary.
We forgot to mention that our hero
retained in his possession the Bowie
knife with which One Armn'd Bill had

attemito     ssasvinate him, and precious metallic contents oftl e trun
when n     ifiv thit worthy' old gen+ which he carried, clinked musically t
tleman, is uie.Ms.  Vlis' was the his ears.
same kn fe t at waise  *pressed into  "That would be, hardt ptdent,
the han  of at..                   ny dear," replied Kate, who wa'per-
" Co e, roy dear;" a 'a'the Prince .baps ra ht ,oI4er thaw oar hero in ex-
-" why wil you not trt  with kind. perenc  ;'ee wel asp ins years  e We
nees ont wh has o lot been your' ad  better s ot'r Od- ourselves,
protect) an friend!?  Ah, yan dile- cegpicuous at present, butlk'
scornful y, ut 1 will soon tame jyu shady., Nolisten' to met yoh h
for youm ar  perfectly defencel)#4-,1  beard tell of Mrs: Noble, whoh
Yooi ha 'be ter submit quietly,.'  4  setimea' called 'LaG~ue, m
" Ne er ! Vou say that you are     oocn   -efher colossal sine  oe
not my  there, and I am glad that I do  "Yes,'tpli e    k-- andofen
not owe m  existence to such a vil- have! wish  't eben'her. She is a
lain.  ew re! touch: me notb or celebrated   ,  isu ietmP'
You'll  pen it !"                    (It is pe  dah  essary to inform
"Gud    eavens !" muttered' the the city' teadl t'at a f ;%oex is 'a re-
Prince ." he looksjust as her moth. ceiver of stolen good ; o 'b coun.
erm looked, n that night when, at' tier try reader however; the iformation'
chamber do r, she menaced me with may not' come amiss.)
a pistol-ye this young girl is even  " The Giantess is the most not
more beautiful' than her mother. By fence'n the United States,"'saidW
nell ! she a all be mineI'"       "She possessesan' immets
Again h clasped her in his arms; but her heart is big in' proportiontok
but, the' n xt instant, he staggered her size. She' has known me si'ce
back with the blood Spouting from  may infancy, aid loves- me' with ailI
his breasts Kate had stabbed him, the fondness of a mother;' her- afei
With a d ep groan} h    fell to, the tion I heartily reciprocate-'-ehebar
floor insens ble'  '               often told me, that should I ever need
" His b ood  be upon   his own a place of shelter, or assistance of any
head !" rie  ' Kate, leaping from the kind, to come to hers Let us for the
bed-" co e, Jack !"             '  present take up our 'abode with this
Our hero issued from, beneath the lady-we may be sure of a hearty well
bed,' bringi gt with him the precious come.; what say you'
trunk.                        -      "Let us go to het, by all means,"
Withint n,-minutes after the last was Jack's answer.
t, agtcal ev .nt, the hopeful pair took  A walk of' fifteen minutes brought
their depa ture from  the "Devil's them to' the abode of the Giantess,
Den," andt -rningout of- Watet street, which was situated' in Canal-street. 'It,
walked at   . rapids rate towards the was a large and' handsome brick edi.
more' respe table' portions of the city. flee ;---a flight of stone steps-led to the'
Jack carrie  the trunk, while Kate, front door, upon-which was a silver'
alasMr. C aretice Vincen, had taken plate, bearing the ,name-"Mrs. Judit
care to sec re about her person the .Nobe.'
Bowie knife which had proved so em-  Kate's ring at the doorbell was an-
inently serviceable to them both, and, swerved by a smatt, tidy looking ser-
which had! becomes as it were, 'ideniti, vit girl, 'who seemed to recognize
fled with' theit history. 4 the young lady, in spite of her die"
" Shati we go sand put up at a'fhsh- guise.
touable hotel 'I asked- Ja k, astthe' Zor young edveniturerswere~~usher

'!


ed into a ;handsome parlor, furnished
with elegance .an4 taste.--In a few
minuteihe door opened, and a lady
-nade t'4r appearance. Kate ran to-
wards her, and Jack noticed with"ri
kindof awe, that the girl;  ed to(
shrink into absolut: no  guess, by
ride of the mjes     al, whose
arose to the l-eight of seven
jand yet w0,est 0xqisitely pro-
joned.-4a.-
his .was  eJulia Noble, the
Giantes '   formerly exhibited itt
London, ; -throughout'Englaind, to
admiring ihotiBaud*, at'one' shilling
per head- but, athe tise 'of which
we write, a celebrated Kew York
-    fence, computed to be worth fift} thous-
and dollars, and conducting her un-
lawful, business with a secrecy and
skill that defied the vigilance of the
police.
We must now    bid  a temporary
adieu to our hero and his mistress,
and leave them .   '   ne hospitali-
ty of the Giantess, while we follow
for a time the proceedings of that
very respectable gentleman-Lopez
THE SPAaLARD.

CHAPTER XVI.
Showing the audacity of the Spanish garde-
ner, the dignified virtue of Mrs Haroid, and
the piety or her housekeeper
It is quite unnecessary that the read-
ers of this story should-be informed of
the "why and the wherefore " of Mr.
Henry haroid's departure for Eu-
rope, which took place at about this
period ; and, to confess the truth, we
neither know, nor care to know, the
particular reason of his going. As
he was unaccompanied by his lady,
we presume that is object was one of
business, not of pleasure; for surely
he could not have enjoyed the gaieties;
of Paris, the " sights " of London, or
(he , delightful "pilgrimage of the

f

HitOLD
R bine," if unblessed bth  iety
his amiaole and accoa plished wife
who was admrrably qualified, both by
nature and eduicaion, to appreciate
the wonders and the beauties of the
old world. -Our private opinion is,
'bat he went td take possession of a
legacy, bequeathed him   by some.
gouty old gentleman or vinegar-faced
o d aent ; and if such were indeed the
swe will venture to affirm that the
fid victim of port wine or acid be-
longed to that class of people who
are prodigies of meanness a,hir
liver, but who, at their deaths, a "ire
a reputation for benevolence, by leay-
igg behind them heaps of money
which. they cannot very well- arry
with them into the other world, al-
tlough their journey thither should
lb an easy one, being all the way'
d w hilt!      ,1.
Be that as it may, to Europe did
Mr. Henry Harold go, leaving his
lay to await his return with impa..
ti nee, and amuse herself  ttpwbile
w ith her books, her musie   jr
era, and the society of her frieri/
w ose, elegant and brilliant circle;
sh e had long moved as the "bright,
p rticular star "-for while she still
re ained a considerable a are : of
y' uthful beauty, she was endeared to
al who knew   her by her moral ex-
c llence, elevated virtue, 'and, in
short, by the possession of eery am-
iable and lovely trait that cin adorn
the female character.
Mrs. Harold was now ab ut forty
years of age, yet she was a ill what
thy world calls an exceedingly fine
woman, possessing an order f beauty
re arkably voluptuous. Sh  always
dr ssed  ith the most perfect taste
and ele ance; preferring a refined
simplicity in her attire, rathe than a
gaudy display. It was at tiat time
the fashion among ladies t exhibit,
for tile gratification of their  ale ac.
quaintances, and also to promote their
" conquests," their uncovered necks

and a libYci pcr tor of i:heir bosoms,;,
but Mrs. Harold resolutely a t her
face against, such in4egeut di plays,
and her own charmi 4tghoug   they
were of the moe. vNzuriant fd ascrip-
tion, were always modestly vejiGe
cept to the eyes of him v19eea&amp; notu"
ary they were. .
'Alas! beauty is a fatalhgift, fhr
~often doth it entail upon its po sget
a shameful life, or a miserable NgJ
An ugly woman should be haspy in}
her ugliness, for she is not I, ,ble, to
be tempted to her ruin by f i ie, de-
signing men. But, if her mir or re-,
flects an image of beauty, let er be-
ware! for though her bosom  e vir-
tue's strongest citadel, the -i fernal
arts of a wicked, cunning ma  may
triump: over her person, an make
her pure soul the inhabitant of a dis-
honored body. We allude    ot to
cases of forcible violation, but efer to
instances which have been brought
before our criminal courts, therein
beasts in, human form have succeeded
in their diabolical designs, in conse-
quence of having administered to their.
victims certain drugs, which either'
excite  an  excessive  amativeness,
amounting to insanity, or else pro-
duce total insensibility.
Lopez the. Spaniard had long re-
garded Mrs. Harold with a lascivious
eye  His occupation as a gardener,
and his extraordinary skill in rearing
flowers, very frequently brought him
tn contact with the lady, who almost
worshipped the sweet offerings ofFloe
i, and delighted to watch their growth
and progress towards perfection. She
loved to question the man concerning
the peculiar properties of rare plants;
and firmly believing him to be a very
worthy, honest fell ,w, her manner to-
wards him was ever kind and conde-
scending. She even treated him with
an innocent familiarity, which ladies
in her sphere seldom show to a medial,
and which the exceeding goodness of
her pure heart au)ne suggested.

Vt

;/

The day, before the:depature I4
Mr. Harold, that gentleman sought-an
interview  with  his e garden  and
said
"W3et . Lopeztmy good fellow, to-
morrow 4.A a4t, fort Europe, as ,you
prably      ~      y absence from
ems maydr#    otedand Ius u

tfae eepttag t s ltsyor t note,as
a preseit.
The Span d         4 hs psu-
cede thank   d tge    lengo   cot
tinued:-     :
"I have eVery  onfde  ip your
integrity and fidelity. You ha e nov
been a number of years in my service1
and I have aver had occasion to fm'
fault with you."
"I have tried to do my duty," said
Lopez.
4Y.eu have done it, my good felI
low. Nowrrduring my absenceyou
must be the protector of this
hold---you must, to, soui ext
my place ; and .I am ,ettai n:
can dep-end upon you."
Af er some further conversation
which it is unnecessary for us toie.
peat, Mr. Harold shook hands with
Lopez, bade him good-bye, and left
him.
" Ho, ho!" muttered the false
Spgniard-" he wants rme to fillit
place, during his absence; and P'K
do it more literally than he expects!'
The next morning the good ship
"Samaritan" sailed for England
with Mr. Harold on board; and that
afternoon his lady, as was her cus.
tom, came into the garden to gather
a boquet of flowers-
Sweet garland wreaths
or pansies, pinksand gaudy daffodils "
As, in her white robes, she moved
gracefully  amid  the  bright-hue'!
throng, like their presiding divinity
the gardener, .,who, stood, at a little

/,


Ssf~tdeg g d adinily upon her.     n  t and creep  4ie  Lopes
-h  grad#Iy tpprbached  itr ghlumd tb*  i! it, ,d said, softly....
*Wd t.ihdt bfood of iust air'en ltedi  "D'des'nottiWadam' feel  tle heat of
like lightning through his vein"fbr  ae s  tu    rf oppressive "
ever be1fote had  he': app eafd f . a 'It' isitdeed' watrn," replied the
vo uptuousl lovely         4,;  ihdyi ttlt showingg from her shoul.
gr t dj4 "  t wvfiat;a dt e'a ff that' covered  themji
d  t d  a i  r . o 't&amp;rke d; ,j Tb si "ht of those naked shoulders
pluck    °     '#-toee                                       s it   titifl, sr white, so plump,
.V;{"'the passions of the licentious
So, J Pk   out' ia ter ts goad,"  i Id almost to madness.
aend I at    ;j  Scti tely knowing what'he did, he
Vrtj        ris atei t(; rofd 'laid his hand, upon the lady's fair
--so  , ± gerous and16t!'  'neck, nd+ whispered---.
ile' hyPtika l   #ahin uttered   "Pray, dear mardam, come into
heseordy      sct v "percep- this arbor, or, the amorous'sun will
title sneer ugioithis fac  The lidf kiss these snowy charms until they
trned, andcast' upo- hin a pleased have'leeome tanned."
and grateful look; for it is pleasant .Mr - Harold started as if an adder
teomhear the praises of those we love, hadst nag her;-the flush of indigna-
"Heaven grant that'he may soon tion mantled upon her face, and anger
return, in health and safety !" mur- sparkled'in her eyes. Drawing her
toured the wife3; and'w tear fell upon figure up'proudly, she said-...
the flowers which she held in' her  4You forget yourself, fellow !"
hand.  -                            Not another word did' she deign to
" Amen !" said the Spaniard, piL utter;, but walked off with the digni-
ously ; and then added, mentally....- ty of ai queen,
'Cursehin! may hiss earcass feed  The Spaniard saw that he had
the fishesof the. great Atlantic!"  gone too' far; he' cursed himself for
" You will be very lonesome with- his precipitancyy.
Oet him, inadam;" observed Lopez,   " Malediction I" he muttered--."
after'a pause.                   have nearly spoiled  all; but she
" Lonesome indeed!" said the lady, looked so tempting, that I. could not
with 'a sigh.                     control myself  Well, well; have
"So many long days, and-and-- patience, Lopez; thou hast a plan
nighLs to pass in solitude !" remarked that will, ere long, give her to thy
the g ardencr,. almost in a whisper, arms
Yet ith a strange significance of  The insulted lady, whose kindne~ss
tone,. which Mrs. Harold, in her ab- toa menial.had been thus shnaelully
straction., did not notice.      abused,. returned to the house, threw
"Ah, yes!"she said, almost un- herself upon a sofa;and burst into
consciously,                     tears; for it was the first time in, her
The Spaird devoured her lovely life that an insult had been offered
form with his eyes. He' drew nearer her, and she felt shocked and griev-
to her, and was obliged to battle   ~Alas!" she exclaimed---" now do
fiercely iv th his inclinations, to pre-   indeed suffering consequence of ny
vent himis If from clasping her madly hI~ind'g se sqencemshi o- y
s'tif' breas, and ravishing ttnholy atecan's since, nd vma has pro
Uful arboerentirl   coee  beat-  e an   linoslooks, and even"ro

N

t IROLD~

this morning' I heard Mr Il  taod
'praise Lopez very' 4igidy "
'here 4s a i'sir,     , the
laly "a- an'd I see nO irnp rriety in
Ice ndIng t toyon; on the contrary,
it  riht tratnttshould, know the
'adrs ofhi dtmssal, t 1' order t* /  hat

eumstances; but bIIecameu u"U"' ~thaieIt
after the death  of her husband,    Mrs. Hald th      .the house-
and Mrs. Harold, sympathizing with keeper all   het      fedetween
her misfortunes, too'k her into the her and,  ,.       W.ben she
house and gave her the situation of had conelida, her listener tori &amp;
housekeeper - a. very comfortable pinch of snuff with' grest compoedtft',
position embracing few duties other and' said--
tha.g a general superintendence of1  «"The behavior of the gardener,
the servants. Mrs. Harold had every ' "rT
confidence in her honesty an  prop  aams        rcorese1       ~r
cience om behvior. het cr- improper; but let me say, in his b"
ae of behaiu. oge wile dever half, that I really don't think hitti
acter of M ra. Rogers will be devel cgil    f  hrsigayipr
opdhrafter.                  capablebe of" cherishing ainy irnpurf
oped hereafter.          -.        desires, with refetrence to you."
S    wThe hon ekeeper rustled ito the  "Impure desires 1" cr'ed  Mra.
ream, wiping her red face with her Harold indignantly. ---" c tell you
white apron, and jingling a huge tharod the   anlyk-t elleyon
b~shh o key  tht hng fomherthat the man's, looks-rths expressionl
isc of k         tof his eyes---berayed his sensuality.
w"ist  y       t     e       s   And then. his i solent words--his re-
eDo you want me, madam?q' she    uest that I should go into the arbor
"Yes;   oat once and tell'-Loez  -an'd, oh heavens! hig touch; upor.
the' Spanish gardener, that he is, no  "y Pm                   ,"n-
longermnmy serviee."P a'  c     terruspted the housekeeper, who. was
My gracios, tgmadam!" cried evidently anxious that the man should
Mrs. Rogers, lifting her  andst o  not be discharged.  ' The Spanigr"d,
wards heavenim theintensity of her are a curious, people. :140pez n e  a'
astonish ment -"you  surely  can t Spaniard ; his ways are differentfronl
mean to discharge such a skilful ours. You attach.too mueh.
gardener, who rears you such beau- ing to hiswords, looks' and acti '
tiful flowers!. You'll never be ale because the.vA not harmonize wi
to. get hisequal."                our customs and ideas of propriety,
"Please to do as I bid you," said I've no doubt the poor fellow meant
the lady, firmly-" tell him to go at to be very polite to you, andover-did
once."                            it   In  his country,, the. beggr.
"There must' be some reason,. speaksto the princess in the langg
madam, for this' abrupt. dismissal'" age of gallantry, praising her boau
remarked Mrs. Rogers, in atone of tyrand all that; ,she isanot offended
respectful reanonstrancet.-.' fob only at the. unmeaing jargon, but omil9

tamed to ri ute' my person with Ihis'
touch! I will otie discharge thief
fellow from my service."
Not w fishing to' she the man herd
self-for now she loathed, the very.
sight of him-'she su  rd ' Mra."
Rogers, the housekeeIr r' Into her
presence.
Mrs, Rogers was a widow wom
of fifty, very stout, very red-e4,d,
and very consequential, withal.
She had formerly been in good cirr

1
i
i
1

l             "
.t: tiY};
r,,              "r

r


*1

ii 1

ga. trws'A                                             _,r+
throws hitr a piece of money; tilady' mirth coni!ip.  iier that.
t  lap uagid by the gardener Lopez the Spaniard would not lose
"yq    .utte d by a geidman, 'his place-
your4, Ilin -'arrk, would be anjj Now madam," said the artful
sultr s    g from   a                            ,apt,,   housekeeper  do you insist upon
words aoat to jus                sending      rdene r away?  If you
int  m y  vieW  , , n ;'  :  ;'d  " .   yot  I  =e ver  ag ain  be  ab le  to  e x - ,
meh      T              ihnd cite,the envy and admiration of your
hmet, 4ady              'C:   friends, by the beauty and profusior
he acail                en     f4nur flowers."
ant to 'ht 'e                                  er:again  bes  ableagto'ex.J
enttoesun was 4             e specious reasoning of the
our ne    : e 8uficovered; "esrw
d tg   t  a   ie veed    hehred, intelligent and    eery deep
t       u   s     aY housekeeper, had produed the de-
id' b46iitaune[.y the ex. .-ired effect; Mrs. Harold'believed
posture, an.       yo     step into that she had done the gardener a
the arb, o  Whi  risclo ;at hand, great injustice.g
and  which. igerAaiy 'the most       " I don't think, after all," said she
agreable retreat, thothe orld, on a --" that the ntan meant anything
suter day like this.. The gardener improper; but as such words and
acted unhinkingly, but naturally and actions are not agreeabletomeabe
with perfect innocence; of this I am so good as to  request him , in
firmly convinced. . For instance, if name, not to -repeat them. Ho ro
he were ;speaking of a flower, ie mains in my service."
wo ld probably say, "this flower,"   "Very well, madam," said Mr
and't ice it he said, " this neck ''Rogers,striving to conceal the please
and touched it, with a- design as pue ure which this announcement afford-
as that which would prompt hm   o ed her.  "n pleading for the
lay his finger upon a flower. As fir fellow, whom I have rescued  poor
his eyes expressing ust, they nev r loss of a good place, I did but per-
expressed anything 'hut stupidity In form a religious dut.IBd sd b e
all matters not relating to the garde  God! I am rious duty. Blessed be
as for hiswodsoh!-te.y                 I am a Christian, and strive'
a da his words, pooh twenty tim   to 'do unto others as I would that
a   d he says to me-  Rogers, yo  others should do unto me.'"
are old, ugly and very fat "' Wh t    With this pious speech the hous
do I care?  I don't even condeacent ,keeper withdrew, leaving Mrs. Har-
to box his ears for his impudence, old to wonder if all Spanish garden-
whichreng fron excessive .good ers possessed, the same peculiarities
nature, No I don't notice him in th  as Lopez. lgtstdge.
slightest degree."  noieI hea           oe'
Mrs. Harold could not help laugh. '-
ng at the concluding words of th
housekeeper's hai'angue. Once in           CH APTER     XVIIl.
vest a case with a ludicrous aspect
and it is 'as' good as gained. Mjak Introducing a lady's bath, a strange mid.
a jury laugh a   the drller Mf      night encounter, an infernal plot, and the
facetious rogue, and they   acqu   inurho        ili.
him in nine cases out of ten; the    O    lv.
tandiot find it in their hearts tocon-O n leaving ,her mistress, Mrs
Caniotfin i winter  ears t cn- Rogers went directly to the garden.
*ig'- such a funny fellow to 'prison. er, who occupied a small but vr
Memos is a famous chap for divesting comfortable house situated  t  ery
a cas0 of its bad aspect. Lawyers treme verge ofushe extesiv    e are
know this; Mrs Rogers k ew it, and Shee f   d Lof the extensichgarde

rnokin$     a rant Havanab,  d
iscussi.g a tumbler of brandy  L 4
water.
"Well," cried the' housekeeper,
seating herself upon the side of the
bed, and fanning her ushe4 .face
with her aproi-" hepa a perity
kettle of 6sh, to be sure! ,ou could
not wait for the proper time with
patience forsooth! but must insult
Mrs. arold in open day-light, n
lay o6br filthy paw upon her.  Ugh,
you brute !'
Why, mother Rogers, what the
devil-"
"4Mother, indeed! How dare you
apply that word to me, when you;
know that I am a lady of middle age!
But, old as I am, you ungrateful
monster, you have always been hap-
Py to enjoy my Favors, and have
sworn by all the saints in your calen-
der, that you loved me to distrac-
tion. Can you deny all this?"
The gardener made no reply, but
very  deliberately  mixed  another
tumbler of brandy and water. This
done, he seated himself at the side
of the indignant lady, and encircled
her plump waist with his arm. - Then
he raised the tumbler of grog to her
lips, and she, nothing loth, imbibed
every drop of the anti-temperance
compound.   The   change  in her
temper and demeanor, effected by
this ingenious mode of treatment,
.as marvellous.  Her ruddy face
relaxed into a smile, and she regard-
ed Lopez with an affectionate, even
an amorous look. Finally, when the
gardener imprinted several. kisses
upon her lips, she could contain her-
self no longer, but threw herself into
his arms and declared him to be a
"darling "
The reader has probably, ere this,
arrived at the conclusion, that Mrs.
Rogers'. professions of virtue and
piety were all moonshine. To sum
bp' her character in a few words, she
was a very s'wewed, ntelligent, vain

heri  a   r,  sa u   e '4uuseau-
the verge ~ the g 'P"r-
Mrs. R      w ,     -eedingly
a avaricious  an       be accumt-
lation of . iinsy wa# 0eof' her chiel
delights. fly Tand ering to this pas-
sion-the love of gold-the Spanard
had succeeded in securing her as-
sistance in the infernal plan which
he had formed, with reference to Mras.
Harold.
But let us return to the amiable
pair, whom we left in the act of ex-
changing kisses. After indulging in
a few more delicate little endear-
ments, which put the housekeeper in
a state of great good humor, the
gardener said-
" And now, my angel, tell me all
tlrat passed between you and Mrs.
Harold, in relation to my affair with
her in the garden, this afternoon."
.The angel-a very fat one, by the
way-complied with this request,
and related the particulars of her in-
terview with her mistress. In con-
cluding her narration, Mrs. Rogers
remarked--
"So you see that, had it not been
for me, you would have lest your,
place, and then all your fie plans for
ruining the poor lady, would have-
been knocked in the head, as 'the say-
is. It was very stupid in you, Lopez,
to treat her as you did this afternoon;-
but we'll say no, more about that.--
Have you the powder safe ?"
The Spaniard drew forth from his,
pocket a small paper parcel; which he

IFS
j   x
- r,{t,,,.
-,
4A 'i.
,
211,;,
!
h ;
M1  +{  P. .

,  .t.
; =a -
t4
r   ,
, p, 4 ,
..°,

. ix t,


tR

fln  , powder_
ofth t;% ff fly ^t.,s Y
0btat o~  ee  ~  i

ang.n t £ta,*
th Spanrd    Uifn one condi.
Namea itiiijdied the housekeeper,

uI      le  e t6FVtify'this iri, t 'ih
S neeanicn ein a    o ;  1
'  or adjoining her oh      A
fiand this bank-note is you
p4          ation    he hundred dollars     4j4
y     ra v ty  ;am  99pay  You, as soon  as  I hav e,
well, by ceeded'in my plan, in regard   ilia
tW uefy       administK
t g        iraon of the powder.
4  nabe  im  ' I don't see how it can, be done "
to      " what "er said the woman, thoughtfully.."and
4            yet- really can't; afford to lo
 having n  ity dollars.  but what a sng   t;
ir    d water,ad  wish On your part!     gw can You
-   I latterju u- desire sucha.'thing, when you Jki
4     oy with a that i afew days, the lady wtlihe
hr /Y"end-t irely yours ?  What gratifdetion
rae     matters o  you possibly derive trom
it"nes nature, In ng  "
to the Spit-   " No matter-will you aid 'e"
rnmg     e.   " My dear, friend, fTfty dolja
largesum to pay for such t   }
Pocket the Now, for half that           157i 6 11
iaste    will consent t-A'
d         " ht  # Pooh.you
t, Spaniard, contemnpt          n
k                  rof  is a model of
rev           i    stetty,. and a prelifminia  p  t
fr~t; ,,    ' ~lationiof such charms as J   li
a  a            a zest to final possession.
d.                 other Rogers; besides earm      a
in          is a s y,,yo u will  conifd  t obli a o
adpht r    a     4'y- uppnme by doing as I.trquest.
,w,}  'W  l,, well I'll ee avhat ab
cox              doe,y,ouwayward,i naughty. map.
take            niu tgo tw, or my long bsenewi
press n       ur excite suspicion, If the thing :npap
"  *ibig to be done, I'll come back sa~n
.   d c4J tjou know; then we    a ke l
satone  a   rvangemzents. Good }sod
which '            4 4    ik,4t: e'ar Lopz.- 9' Q a
t, wh*Io                    pi, am ai~ntty t~p
to" disigus upon ~r
ell, tleli; maney  r is pe

sume u
questlI

.
#j , a
;;,
'
, , ,
b  ,
=       -"

IIa

tipns an ya      . dot-htot)4,   hrstckinig and she, and dhared
ge~ntal. 'Tis i' 4t Jtl lovgLoper p IerseWf ready.
ensbat gold  .more. ! ge  lis --- dg  'To  confes , the  truth, th w rthk
now, for the present, ;a i"      1l. Bog;r,:had    "fea t d her
With these .words,04,} prudtit, ;eg p   yweIpsince sh    d been
modest, virtuous, pious $rs  &amp;qg -s 30e1 Fssol             sioU..-
ddled off, jinglinh : F  c ;ih %kf What wi   s     fr     er
ke    d singing, fropi her oleetion erse iI,,s;
,toi awfulaOi..wte t rd#                         s
1unaion and 'the de'id;                   deto4&amp;io     . I
;          honorall the guilty.soul
ma i}a dtinoaedin             M
hldes.of evening were be- ty ahr "j  i           ,he"en
in  a ,.fallt when .Mrs. Rogers +re- .ed )a anug niu    e'0##k
atured toghe gardener's cottage. .She of certain  or  a dnotIr
was imi' high glee; and the Spaniard particular  en tn  o m she net
saw, by the elation of her manner,' during her e'n  wsg iearat aud whoi,
that she had been successful.     .for a consi seatioa, she wo tlcoaasent
"tGood news.!" she cried, as soon to accnmp ny to an assignetino hove.
as she. could recover her breath-w-  Her busin ae engagements with the
"Mrs., Harold has jst .this ,minute Spanish g rdener snow .promised A.
gone snttin her carriage,'to pay  n increase th amount of .her eash eap
evenirigs visit,; she herself told mine tai.
that she'd be ,bac ,at;nine o'clock.-;  We wish to make a few remarks,
therefore, fo ,the present, the coast suggested  y .the, assignations of the
is clear. Jn ,her chamber :is a small, housekeep r.. Mangy people  wonder
closet, which is seldom or never used, 'how  fema e servants irlierand ws-
as it contain nothing but iabish,;- men at ter ,ice, who reoeive'the moat
you Aln station .yourself in this closet, miserable . ages.-are  enabled to purl
quite secure.from being discovered,; chase the expensive finery in whidh
and view ygsr 'e odel of voluptuouss .they appea abroa, on Sundays,.and
beauty,' to your hearts content."  holiday. The kitchen eailon often
" Jou are a ry jewelhofa woman, exceeds h r mitress,~iasthe 4plendor
my dear ,tqgerg'cried theSpaniard, and GQstli ess of her:attire. She has
in raptures-" here are the fifty dol: rich silk, and handsome ,shawlsgantd
large; now conduct me tothe place  of ";such a perfect love of a .bonnet
concealment."                      04, 'tis Inrvsllous how these servaat
" Wsit a little--there's plenty of girls endervjnt women co trive 0
time ; 'but you men,are sso impatient!'" gray thempselres like gaudy butterflis,
andiso.saying,,the housekeepercast off on four dollars a month !,
one of her ;shoes,,raised her drapery  It soita imes happens that the plain?
to an alarming height, and proceeded iydressed ,miatress encounters. hp
to divest her stout leg of its stocking. gaudily-dreased servant gig1 in ,kY
: TheobjecIof this singular movement street,.on a Sunday eyeaiag; arsi lost
.   was soon apparnt; the good -woman's with the nbigail is a " nie  young
stocking  as her bank of deposit.--, man.",whse appearance, thotigh par
From its mysterious.depths she ,drew fectly gen eel,.is not exactly that of a
forth .a roljof hank bills, to whioshe gentleman. He chews tobaca , And
added fty dollar note just given smells. s siliciously of "usions; his
her bj thte Spaniard ; she then .re. darling be stage is a tbrandy Ana.,
stared the money to its place, put on andshe  4oyes ,in" for nheap armsa

.0

:}                                r.;

t
!
1
t
1
i
1
I.
1

I

,
r _+ ,
Y +   P   ++
. 'ht °
'+     '

r  r

.r

i   'itf"E
lII                                       1
'.- r f
I                                 SSA'
-{ ,p Y  e ~


98

tiveo rnet&amp;-Mar''

they arti
course o a
missed, an
edby.the
their car.

,hm    'iW -etdb'dyu4t m y other snai
cousin    e' st conte from  the ped out "
coutry ;: s%4 ,  respectable young ner; -they
wan ;'was 2  'toa paver meeting, upon the f
when yout m    '  T1inistress be- -carpet. S
lieves this- story, or snot, just as she most valu'a
chooses; but we can tell her that Mar- peared ; n(
garet' and her "cousin Peter" were their absent
on their way to a " bed house," in. bill, a gold
stead of a prayer meeting, and that ver, that h
the girl received a V for her trouble. er, or des
A curious set are these servant when lo !
girls'." cousins."  They lurk around to have "t
the corner, until Mag has cleared flown i awa
away the tea things, and comes to keep Rogers wo
'her appointment. They sneak into dishonest
the kitchen, when mistress has gone those who
out. They steal kisses from Mag's were muc
lips behind the door, and now and religious
then take her to the museum or the the truth of
circus. If Mag stops out all night, self was th
she says that' she has slept at her  The hour
" aunt's."  That's a fib; Mag has having duly
slept with a male friend at an assign. stocking,a
tion house, and earned five dollars by ready. Ac
the operation, besides having gratified towards the
her strong penchant for such agreea- distance by
ble recreations! We trust that we fortunate as
have thrown some light upon the to ascend
means by which many a kitchen Mag, Harold, wit
or Betty, or 'Biddy-with no visible  A thrill o
income beyond a miserable pitt,.-ce through th
in the way of wages-contrives   i entered.  A
deck herself out like the peacock, seemed to p
whose only real beauty is in its tail. even the pre
in diamonds, curls and rich brocades   not dissipate
She shines the firt of hatter'd jades,  Voluptuousn
And Butters in her pride."'  g ance; the
We have seen that Mrs. Rogers were there.
was not behind-hand, in the profits de  The moo

.fi

Y
4      r              VI:
1           1S                   .wl
/          i
s.
a.

&amp;itft :

dustrious O rving women
assignation business.-We
intimated that the worthy
dsiderable in the way of
'd stealing." Individual
t were small; collectively,
iced to a round sum, in the
year Silver spopas were
the servants w  icord-
xcelleet Mrs.   gr   for
essness. Gold    and
articles of jewelry," " step-
n the most mysterioti/man-
ad probably been dropped
or, and rolled beneath the
veral of Mrs. Harold's
le dresses annually disap.
one could account for
e. Occasionally, a bank
coin, or a handful of sil-
d been laid in some draw-
, would be sought for ;
e-deposit would be found
ken unto itself wings and
.'' At such times, Mrs.
ld lament that there were
eople in the world ; and
heard the good lady, and
edified by her moral ana
iscourse, little suspected
the matter--that she ber-
thief.
keeper, as we have stated,
secured her money in her
nnounced that she was
cordingly, she proceeded
house, followed at a little
Lopez. They were so
to reach the mansion and
o the chamber of Mrs.
hout being noticed.
licentious delight passed
Spaniard's frame, as he
n air of sacred purity'
ervade the place, which
sence of that villain could
e.-A kind of soft, holy
ass; a quiet, refined ele.
most exquisite taste---al
n shone brilliaee'y that

1'

4;'

1.

l       , i

a  -    !   ,          r
,

eves.ing, ant '$ood ol gushing,' silt
very radiance streamed into the wid-
dows of the chamber! rendering it
almost as light as day.  Upon the
wall hung the portraits ' Mr. ardd
Mrs. Harold, rendered 4litltly Visi-
ble by the moon's rays, hn startling
the guilty 'pair by their life-like pres-
ence. The Spaniard shuddered *hen
his eyes rested upon his master's por-
trait, which seemed to start from the
canvass and frown terribly upon him;
and the villain fancied that the stern-
ly-compressed lips muttered an oath
of vengeance upon him, for the wrong
which he meditated against that pare
and most excellent woman.
"'This is the closet," said Mrs.
Rogers, as she opened the door of a
small apartment, which was occupied
as a sort of store room for cast-off
clothing, and the like.
" See !" cried the housekeeper,
pointing to a crack in the door-
"this will enable you to view all that
passes in the chamber. Now are you
satisfied with these arrangements 4"
" They are all very well," replied
Lopez, " provided that the lady does
not discover me. Its that case, there
will be the devil to pay !"
" Rest perfectly easy on that score;
Mrs. Harold never uses this closet-
her husband   th-ows his worn-out
clothes in here; and an old Jew comes
once or twice a year to buy them;
that is all. But remember, you rust
restrain your impetuosity, should you
become excited by the lady's charms.
Do not repeat this afternoon's folly,
for heaven's sake !"      I
" Depend upon my discretion,"
said Lopez.    .
" You will have to remain in this
closet all night," continued the house-
keeper-" for you could not get out
of, the chamber during  the night,
without running great risk of detec-
tion. Mrs. Harold is a very early riser,
as you well know; at day-break she
goes forth from her chamber, to walk

ing'the garden. At the proper iire to
errnirov morning, when he  t   s.
ler, I'll ,o ne here and ond~ct' ot
safe  out.-.-No  I e a pi  x f4 ex
traiditary .go few for
"Yourr ,l .J' . qtopi'   beaut
as .ou calk lhe-   h     ny op
ion, she's' ten etY4    y og
style~da perfect; bekt    "a. Wa
il ata't r ai lpher l letani
take   i th for eheq        'e
make the needful' r+  tiaon   _
"Heavejyi and om* %u)4E04agrrangO
it that mad itne   inereetotnyYqf,
ablution '" eagerly  dmenrnded the
Sp niard.              '   rYi-
"Nothing is easier, myfriend
Listen; a portable bath will be brought
into this chamber, and the ladyhav-
ing become divested of all sup r*n
raiment, will enter and remain alft
hour. You must know that shs in
the luxurious habit of bathing fre-
qu.ntly in a certain prepared and per-
funed water, (very expensive, and pro-
curable only by. rich people,) which
enables persons of middle age, and
even those who are advancing in years,
to preserve an appearance of youtl$ul
freshness, That recounts for Mrs.
Harold's fine complexion and smooth,
glo:syskin. I will attend her to-night,
and shall take good care to have the
bath placed in a position favorable to
you."
"A thousand thanks, my dear
Roger ,"cried the delighted Spaniard;
and, i the excess of his joy, he warmly
embraced, and kissed the vile woman,
who returned his caresses with imter-
est, and seemed strongly inclined to
protract the agreeable pastime-much
more so, at all events, than her com-
panion; for the latter, in answer to a
whispered suggestion 'of his female
coadjutor, gave utterance to a ,mos
decided negative.
" Hark I" crier' the housekeeper,
after a long and protracted ' remora'

it
11
d
it
t|


./1

IN

JACR 

s# castsaiah er ungallant Trhyd4i'jf :i eas almoa
he    z sound tof c reige wj lan'thati am
1 i      possible 4hst 11},rie  *ol,  '" Yet ye
S e            ;,,.gd;)         laiusaIth,
h     s'hped  f     4d be ore4h use.;  ted  ,phe
rQeol etw 0uff aneit *eoW
~i t anb, spxid- " Ah, 3
nrritioy   v; (Qioit Lopas; your own h
hi.pset pw~~iu       .~h-.. bet ter .than
adi o     t."fe egas qtet assa   Thehour
to mo1  '! f       ror onhi
mouse,,          eniliee from your for one in
liore,-on any ;, it..Trust  to  me  excellent
or all the testpedieu t          comprehend
Trhe housekeeper ibitened out'; in of any kin
s ;ew minutes she returned, bearing the wile woi
o lighted *ax candles, and ushering uioral andr
:=M 'Harold.    The 'lady divested  Theiproc
nerself dof bonndt and shawl, and 'ap- progressed,
eared'in an elegant evening co ume. iard wasa
the tirenherself upon -a sofavith spectator.
ab air of fatigue.                rivetted upc
"Howtedious," she exclaimed, in luxuriant ai
fully display
a tone of vexAtion-" to be forced to niess of -inn'
comply with the absurd rules of fash- t
iosnable etiquette' These formal vis  The fai
its.which one is obftiged to make, are magnificent
insuifferable'bores, my good 'Mrs.-et tapering
Rogers    One is obliged to sit and: white han
listen tothe silliest small talk magin- comely ane
able-to The affairs of' the neighbors, of a fine,
the last new importation of Italian sively claim
opera singers, Mrs. Oraudbug's great libidinous S
party in anticipation, and such stuff  "I You wi
This evening I Was persecuted by the to bring in
impertinent gallantries of a foreign said:the lad
moustachied dandy, who calls himself over her so
a Count ; becoming both wearied and a window,,
disgusted, I  leaded indisposition as curtain and
my apology far an early departure." moon-light
"These are the .trials of beauty,  The hou
madam," said the housekeeper, aq, in fewmomen
obedieace to .a sign from the lady,.she the Emneral,
began to loosen the dress of the latter, ance, bearii
preparatorx to .its removal.-,--",Hium- bath;ofian
ble, ordity people like .myself are tern; .this
effemupt fr or the cetes and troubles liquid, that
which afflict the beautiful and rich, and. grateful

I

/1

a
hRQ! e'

et the cloiet, and within
it.  Knowing that Lope
i'g her movements with
looked towards his place'
meat, and by un e xpre

disp   'r otd thatkfat
ia huseiseeper."
r auperior education, Mrs
unexcollent moral and re-
ter-the :purity of you
oling honesty-all ren
mevigof a far more eleva.
than ,that which you now
madam! the 'goodness of
earth makes you think ime
I really am."
sekeeper spoke' the truth,
her life.  Mrs. farold's
sart, whi.,h could scarcely
;hypocrisy or wickedness
d,prompted her to believe
man to be the very pink of
religious propriety.
tesstof;disrobing gradually
end the concealed Span-
a breathless and excited
His lascivious gaze 'was
on that esperb form, whose
nd voluptuous beauty was
yed, in tallithe unconscious
ocepice and fancied securi-
r, sloping shoulders---the
bust--the arms,   full,
down towards the small,
ds-the ;shapely ;foot and
le, as wellsas the outlines
ample leg-each succes-
ed the .admiration of the
paniard.
ill please touring for them
the bath, Mrs. Rogers,"
ly, as she threw a sawt
ouldera: and, approaching
she drew aside thedamask
lookedforth into~the quiet,
ed streets.
sekeeper obeyed, and in a
ts twoatout daughterss iOf
d Isle made -their appear
ng ;between them a small
uiniqueand hndsome spat.
ras partly-fiuled with a clear
eohaled amust kdlicious
perfume      °

R-.---,
44*'
1a

-NGLSHTOM     IS T$ TIU MNiSTER'S BSTUY.-e page    -
And now must we check the wan- rich imagination.. If thou artfon .of
ton impulse of "our rambling pet, earth's fair daughters-born of th
which prompts us to glide into all the  vorld, but fitted by ihytranscenaent
particulars of thatvoluptuous scene; beauty to aA trn a. felestial splere
but 0! thrice gentle°reader! agAin do  hinktof' ciRneSown swet ehnrm
we implore thee to' bring into'reqdtisi-  hose praises are whispere4 tt
ti rallthe spark'ing treasures"y f hy Iwit  ithmite eloquence by the fithf
'I

« ..  a   ,              L   }k 1          flit
f               ti    ?             1,
'                        t

w   ,.
,?, _
F
' dt               r
i
Vii,          .
t.

\\\111"'-'
Y,,                    F


F                       '1
Cj r  r 4'      [  /                         t     y
1          tr rr{I 1(                               i
1       t          r}                           i ,i
r . YY  1                                   i

£Yerorf wQt
, most private
as heardeave

cd     pe lugar,
c    d Spaniar4 gazed with
aitating heart; an4l the
looked upon the lady
of envy ...those fair.
t yet delicate pharis were
ikingcerntrast with the pe.
of her own coarse physical

)veii

c
mi
r.c

P'
IV

uw nunu
e  n bathing i
M owed music
Ee    r aden,;tate
sft  " deqlate con
voluptuous scene upoi
he concealed and qn
Ialf hour that'. Ms
d in the t;, a desul
on was stained be
P the hoosekceeper; a
~h may prowe interest

"«This WilE   be i   lirtight
many ysaertt I    slept aIon ,
said the lady, .e   mng to her hop
band's aleenc;sr4'h u ~    e  wt
which   he  a     ,     e     d,
partook mre of ndless thin odhs r
fuliess.er
kAh, mgd im," rejpprk4he house.
keeper, glanumQg 9preaitely towers
the mnnait~eo; andiqlnptpu.'be
-"0kgtne~ten elpous ; }
-" Iknoir that you     f feel very
strange, to sleep alone  aet i   s
long accustomed to the society of a
handsome and agreeable gentleman
like Mr. Hamld; you will sadly miss
him from your arms."        y
The lady mnde,no reply but Sigh-
ed as She laved her bosom with the
setscented yaer      er  yes- pt!,
chtled, and*s  h e-ie- designn: epr
self to the tide of dli Aus (9j(gni
thatAillied her soulf-fe'e , , e.
E' b the ausion to her bkuag,j

i  orga iato.
" How ,many women there are,"
-= eotinued Mr8. Rogers, assuming a
u sorrowful tone -" who would not
a. hesitate to indemnify themselves for
n their husbands' absence, by forming
- improper intimacies with other men't
n Nay, theyf would rejoice when their
liege lords went on'a distant journey,
n beqauseo opportunity would then
be afforded theut to gratify their lewd
passions te their heart.' content."
.,uchwretches as you speak of,"
sai4 the lady, indignantly-" are un-
worthy the, nam0eof women.    No
a'temptation pould ever induce me te
prove ,nfaithfule to my dear husband
altho gh hi. 'abseloe should be pro-
traited for years;",even should I
never again behold him on earth, his
memory would be agre'to me, and
no man could ever supplant his image
In my heart."    ,
As #he uttered these words, Mrs.
Harold gazed a'ffectionately at' her
husband's portrait; whie Mrs. Rog-
ers glanced meaningly towards the
closet;door, behind which stood the
Spanisrd.
"-A d yet,  rm',"m' emnarkedthe
tusekeeper4--there are Maw hoa
gat, wellneaning women, of ardent
tepiperamen s, who are patterns of
virtue while their husbanida are with
them, and would continue to be pat.
ter'n tof virtue all their lives, proei-
ddthat ;hey enjoyed the 'society of
those husbands.' But whenthey are
lft widows,,as..it were,,,by thede.
purtqee of !their 'lords tnd ,niasteir.
4    I}et,, joqineyi, their: .ardentw
t*e  ate qat4 will ofen ouercomes

I'

t

;ft

1
'°    -
'. .      '1

isa n ti#  a k   W
are noibt to be Bie      pidt
women themselv'es.
a philosopher, not lol 3 1
and perhaps myar itTei     abad
one."
"Your have a great deal too ineb
charity for such creatures,"-said Mrs. I
Hdrold; " nothing can justify the de- 1
parture of a wenan from the paith of ,
virtue. She should pefer death to
dishoaer; and she must indiled be a
weaik-minded wretch, if she estmnot
practice a saflci at degree of self-.
dienial, to prese ve her froni auch
shame and degra ation. The Imag
of her absent husband should alone
be capable of arousing her afnorous
desires; the prospeet of his return,
and the anticipation of the pleasures,
which will acnomany that return j
should be all-powerful, in keeping
.thoedesires in cheoke If he never
retUres, she should consecrate his
memory by a life Of, virtue; and scon-
tantly pray for strength to resist
temptation.  As for ,second marri-
agesd i abhor them."
"Such elevated sentiments werp
to be expected from you, dear mad-
am," said the . housekeeper-" you
. are altogether too good and pure to
comprehend the strength of those
passions which often overcome poor
mo-tals, whose natures, unlike yours,
are earthly and sensual."   1
" Your opicitn of me, my good
Mrs. Rgeedrsj is'altogether too exalt-
ed," said the lady, with some embar-
rssshtent tof manenr" foa are en
tliely mitnake ih tegatd to my truo
character, if yoi suppose rile to be
'destitu  ofr these #ellage ihd despite.
ao inherent tn *,wek hunian iatore.
,   .     ,r.asalonsa&amp;fre ",-a.t I .A. t.ei..-
mebt is ofti Moes aideatkie;3get,
- though  nasteb hod lrllthrttlbew ne
em inh eryfIompt'eigodUtilk diagtII

which h GotJ fo#  ,±; rro   ' urw
bl violate yotpe
th t a drug"I adM
sh. uld, by;th rin o itO
io  of insensibilit renr&amp;  yod(ths
pr y of h a rtful eoundrli Whlyt
Ip commit'suicide't      V
These art strange  iiaeitions "
sai Mrs iatoidr"btI   l:Wianswe
th in tuly. Should I    oma      .
vic im of eitherone of ie outt
th t yo have nareda.whieh sl.y
God forbid 1.-I would aut .,iisnt
my pub soul tithitla polluted body.
I wtoield try to live dintIl iy hluband's
retuth ! thek, Without utde6i4g him t
emarkrehe Mey dishboted form] or even
ti todellme With to nmiuh as the point
of hii finger, I would tell him of viy
wrongs, ;  ke hi ' e*eat to, avenge
tlhkin, ind, before be could hive time
to present. ind, plunge a dgget into
iy hert,'in emviation of Latetia of
old, alhe she had :eek Vpade th eiA
tini of i tyrait's is.''
"Bhut, hdant,  upponse that you
onid not point dut 11 jue'etrater of
the outthge, hoWlb tlen cul dour huh
band avenge the wrong?
' You exhaust me With yrovr sup
pohitions, Mrs 1bokeks' rapiied the
lady, With adme impatience of mani
'ne-" and Ii oaat foe thblie of=me.
seuetheir oje hs1eeld:beBerttiat
jtosapeet-db n.sahevi-g --te   -
fitted thk outrage, aid tatWisspi
It- tleid to h detectionAid I
ishment of the villain.-A uighideas
o Id vhem rfe, sial t 8 M

l t"I'r

'

L !.

en 4e


\L.

y

JACK HAROLD

104

Wster to escape the just reward of his cuch, in an attitude of voluptuous
crime. Even should he go 'un- abandonment, her            op superb cunte.
whipped, of justice' in this world, ancelowing with health andbau'
there .is ,a woa ld hereafter in W hich ty, and bet~ fine eyes sprkinawt
eehis pfishment oudbe  endless  and  the  firn  yest tendr  sensi
eternal"                         ability, she murmured-
~ '"i~rdn 'e, .madam," said the  " Ah,'kind hae!eal         et
fousekeeper-" i    lnf               A, in  heaven! enable me to
e              my language: ehas endure my Henry's absence with
surds      iton    erlyfotYpatience--may I be sustained in the
b  surs 1,e ositaonsmerely for the pure path of virtue, by brig At-eyed
purpose "of"11i'  talk, as 'the say- hope!  YeImsdicpnets
ing is.i Your .opion in life raises  oe  Yes, I must discipline this
yu abour l   poibiityi  of rasc  wildly-beating heart to practice self-
terrible ourages            suchdenial; should temptation assail me
reTh- should these amorous passions
dTs conversation }here ceased; madly struggle to overcome my v'r-
and, the customary half hour having tue and my better judgment, then
expired, Mrs. Harold issued from shall the image of my absent lord
the bath. Again did Lopez gloat banish from my breast such unholy
upon her matchless charms,' as she desires! Alas! why are poor mor-
subinitted her person to the drying tals afflicted withhsuch weakness?
process, performedby the house- 'Tis that the triumph of moral purity
keeper with the aid of fine white may be more glorious, in, proportion
nap ins. Then, having been array. to the intensity of our carnal crav-
ed in the seductive garments of night, ings. And now may my slumbers
she retired to her couch.,        be free from unholy imaginings; may
"You will cause the bath to be they be fraught with, dreams of hap.
removed, Mrs. "togers," said the piness and peace!"
lady-" and leave both lights burn-  The eyes closed-the limbs sank
ing, for I cannot endure the dark- into a graceful attitude of repose-
you the respiration became more f'egular
can yourself retire, for I shall not -a smile of ineffable sweetness part.
need you any farther to-night." ted the rosy lips; and Mrs. Harold
These directions were obeyed; and slept
the housekeeper bade her mistress   The moon kept on in her starry
good night; but before taking her path through the heavens; the mys-
departure, she stole a significant tic hour of midnight arrived, and
glance towards the closet door-a        oid from    a r dndd
glace  arnng  heSpaiar tobewas proclaimed from  a hundred
glance warning the Spaniard to be steeples throughout the vast city
silent and cautious. Then Mrs. The streets were deserted save by
Harold was left alone with that mur- te steets  on hise lnel   byn
derous rufJan, whose*resenceshhe      watchman on his lonely round
so little su pected.              or by some staggering pedestrian'
solthlea e  returning home from a late revel.
The' lady tossed uneasily upon her From' a distance faintly came the
solitary couch, and ever and anon music of a band of serenaders-no
regarded the portrait of her husband vulgar fellows with vile negro banjo
with looks full of ardent affection. and the rattling "bones "--but gen-
Then, pressing be- hands upon her tlemen in dainty attire, furnished
wildly throbbing "'som, she' would with, the mellow-toned flute, and that
give utterance to the most melting sweet instrument of romance and of
tgh..                             song, the "light guitar."    Per-
As she reclined upon the gorgeous chance, too, the figure of some be

(T
" I

10i

C
E'
a
Ft
r
l
..
}
Y.
z,
t=
'
S=
l
i

lat id eourtezan occasionally fluttered I
by anxious to avoid the obsprvstion
of ingallant and meddlesoman Char-.
*el, it was the midnight , as
his place of concealment in' Mrs. 
Harold's chamber cautiously issued
the Spaniard. He approached the '#
aed, and gazed upon the slumbering
,ady. Then did the villain's breath
come hot and thick; the -perspira-
lion started from every pore; his
heart beat audibly-for' the near
view of those distracting charms well
nigh maddened him. Unable to re-
strain himself, he bent over h~r, and
polluted her ripe, moist lips with a
licentious kiss,
The lady awoke with a start, and
a slight scream; quick aslightning,
[Lopez concealed himself behind the
curtains of the bed.
'Gracious heavens!" cried Mrs.
Harold, partly arising from the coach,
and gazing wildly around her -
"could it have been a dream  only,
or did I really behold a dark figure
at the bed side? Naay, I thought
that some hideous being imprinted
upon my lips a kiss; and, 0 my God!
I fancy that I can detect upon these
lips the foul taste of tobacco juice,
as if left there by the ravisher! This
is dreadful; but, after all, it may be
nothing but imagination. Yet that
closet doorLhow came that open!
As if animated by a desperate re-
solve, which overcame her fear, she
leaped from the bed, seized  e of
the candles, and began to sea h the
chamber. The situation    Lopez
was a critical one; but he knew how
to act, in this emergency. He drew
from his pocket a huge clasp knife,
and determined to cut her throat,
if shediscovered him. Crouching
down, he crawled beneath the bed,
and covered himself with a roll of
arpeting that had been placed there.
The lady finally looked under the

- ACK HAROLD.

t

bed, but fortunately fi the villain,
ire did not observe him.'
It _would, however, 'have been, for.
sa4ate for phor Mrs. Harold, had the
iscovefy hea made, for in that case
he yntn dah'by the ruffian's
knife, 'would have been certain-then
would she-have been preserved from
the dreadful fate that awaited her.'
I am a silly creature.," she
mured, as she resume&amp;' her pla Y
bed, perfectly satisf ti4that her i
ination had deceivdlr--"to dre
of the possibility' o*f" any person's
gaining at-cess to this chamber! As
for the closet doo.'being. open, a
draft of wind proliably.did it;" but
that singular and disagreeable to.
bacco-like taste upon my lips I cer-
tainly can't account' for. When I
remember thestrange remarked and
questions of Mrs. Rogers to-night; is
relation to my becoming the victim
of personal violence and outrage,
there seems to be some reason for
ny alarm; but 'those eremar it and
questions have probably opetated
upon my imagination, and induced
me to suspect the presence of Jan-
'ger, when none really exists.,Ahi
my husband! it is at such seasons of
alarm that I shall doubly miss, your
dear presence. There is no one now
to embrace me, but Morpheus; and
again do I seek repose in the arms
of the drowsy god. , Heaven . pro-
tect me, and bless my Henry!"
Again she slept; but Lopez did
not venture to come forth from his
hiding place, until a profound silence
of half an hour's duration, assured
him that he might do so with safety.
Then again did he bend over that
divine form, and devour its beauties
with his licentious eyes. Then,
holding his clasp knife in his hand,,
ready to murder her if she' awoke,
did the audacious villain venture to
perpetrate new outrages; but not
the extreme outrage which his black
soul longed to consummate, and

Z, M

,;'  ,
sN
"       ' r
=
'
. _      -,
_    ,  :
, -'' .;
-".
+r "
,,_
Fi f (R
y i71s T   t7 *
N
F  , t,
° ; "
}A
}
.
,.

I


I. r

106

whithhe dwas Abled to defer until and came  el -
after, the administration of the infer- ness  Na ere an yh  w e o u
nal  arkWD te.   .                 question--..whatamn you danger
lt hark! the ruan hears a noise  "sOh I cam marey going here.  t
iothej alt beneath---a sound like a pleasure "   e replire Lothe way o
tomb. He litoensi     o silent- as the pointing towards the bed, whereon
tm. e n;     sofly opens lay the wel nigh denuded form of the
hestihears -not the sleeping               nigh  Mrd    oro f ted
ation    -,Ie uses hisi-hy                   Mr. Harold started
te   scon uring up     iroun- oamn a aonjourney this morning, and
a goun. Iam  akig alitleadvantage of his
ad he Coses the chamber absence--that's all."           e
*  and   gain approaches the "Youare an infernal scoundrel!"
Heof   rda, esuined his : . .  .  ' a  said the robber.
l ie   $s u g h i.  vil aim ous  and  " W ell1"  r ej in d  L o e -. " w
lechedo4 aze, which in itself Was won't quarrel about names;-we
std~ en   ou~  n haige  tpon  that in-  seems to  me that you and  you t i
onegd wm     ; tn  i ahnde foully. have but little tooast o fr nd
wronge did hman yet still she awoke score of honesty. H oasee,     * give
ret..  l did the lightings of heaven you  Hoth credit however, I give
u rei&amp;k        - blaatig the wretch, and and ski  'I oiteinyour  cragc
/           otgrld wither- line                  in          the crack
a     kenredlcorpse             y eef, occasionally"
Suldenty he   "ah't'
dedg     e'ed toed,'and turned   e   hen you must be a miserable
dend   pale for the chamber door petty thief," said the robber, seorn.
p   d almost noiselessly, and two fuy7-" for no true gentleman of the
dentlyby     ey  ere ev-    rdeas will ever take advantage of a
ceos     e red.mao   'fThey were evi-,defenceless woman!"
dorel  u   r a'~or their feswr
ofesor them    ask. of lack crape...  " a! I know  the tones of that
ne bofthe carried a dark lantern, voice," cried the Spaniard--.." I be.
lad both were armed with pistols  lieve that I h  the pleasure of ad.
The astonishment of the brlasdressing.....e        plaueo      d
seetred to e dal thet f e  burglars  ressmg---"
The forme    a   e fears  f Lopez.     Ja     , old1" said the robber,
Ther amPr Personages conversed removing his mask, and displaying
soeteraprt i lwwhispers.      th fat zres of our hero.          -
i ne you Spanish hel hound!"  ,"And your companion is.--,,-
dued them atlength, in a sub- Gallus Kate," said the other in
seeid one addressing Lopez         a musical voice, as she raised  Ier
see I know yod; what in the devil's    k, and revealed her beautiful
eamesbrings you here?"            countenance,
fBefore i answeryou; 'ABagigahe  Jack was dressed in the most uni-
paniardet am    ouaid he que and splendid manner, in a suit
snid, gaining coulrage....,1cor he of silk velvet  prfsl raent
onceived that the burglary would be wihbvevt profusely ornamented
averse to detection,   ar.hwsd be with buttons of solid gold. He also
ha  aerse  t deetio ans    wasyou   wore a flowing and luxuriant wig, in
himseolf..  ef rg I a s  you, per-  order  to  conceal  the  l s  o   i o n
meaps w   the oodenough to tell hair; and n the    loss of his own
evils name brings shirt parked a diamond bosom of his
ou                                -   uheroeauePdineofvgreat
the&amp;rob  rtae,' *answered       'Kate was attired -more  lainl  e
paobrW      ae, as well as his corn- stial in the most elegant maener; and
panio~,  aso  a sight, ele ant fig- her' own beatiu har  maner; andt e
e are gentlemen ofteAcrautiful haurflowed everher
0teCroes, shoulders.
t' oi

.;ti  t,                     w

"JAC  BAaoI.w

P

Our hero stepped to the bed-side,
ana gently drew the coverlid over
the form of Mrs. Harold, who was
still in a profound slumer; then,
turning to the Spaniard, he said, in a
stern whisper-
" Leave this chamber, instantly!"
"Come,"    said  Lopez - "yok
mustn't interfere with my arrange-
ments, young fellow. You'd better
retire with your blower, at once, and
save trouble."
"Leave the chamber, I say, or a
aden pill shall find its way through
your skull! You know me too well
to think me capable of trifling."
And, as he uttered these words,
Jack cocked a pistol, and levelled it
at the Spaniard's head.
"The devil! Take care, lieutet,-
ant, or that pistol ipight go oil," ex-
claimed Lopez--"is this the way ip
which you repay me for tlh trouble I
have taken to make a crossman Pf
you? Remember, it is to me that
you are indebted for your present
position "
"Yes," said Jack, bitterly--"you
are right; had it not been for you,
villain, instead of being a hunted
criminal, at this moment .I would
have been honest and happy. But
I've no time to waste with you; will
you go hepce, or die? Take your
choice."
"Well," said the Spaniard, dog*-
godly--." if I must go, I must; but
why do you insist upon it?"
"Because your presence here is
an .insult to that lady, whom I once
regarded as my mother.. Not know-
ing of Mr. Harold's departure,I
came here to-night to rob the house,
in revenge fpr h.s having sent me to
the Refrge; but s that lady was
ever kind to me, Pit protect her with
my life. Now go at once."
Lopez strode angrily towards the
door; upon the threshold he paused,
and said, as he shM his clenched

__

uuitO ^^ rrLV"

4t,

hand at:Jack it a meniging man.
her-..
",Remember, my lad,I havesworn
to hang ypp,,and I'll keep my oath.
The manner ipn which you qht ped a
the finery that ' Ad your b49wen
now strut about'io, fr knowp to me;
as well as al[ thit occurred at the
Den the other night:"
" Tell me," asked ,Jack, eagerly
"is my father-the  rinp, I meau-
is he dead?"
"Yes, and Ope Arg d Bill, also
for which brace of murders the hunds
of the police are after yqu t so that
the pair of you will be1i! y p pg
upon the gallows, before you' er mck
older."'
"Stay," said our hero, as the Span-
iard was about to take himself dl'--
" you are a treacherous scoundrel,
and, unless secured, may go forth ip.
to the streets and bring the ofcers of
justice upon us. Lead the way to your
own house, in the garden." 4
Lopez was forced to comply, for he
knew Jack's firm and desprs te ,na-
ture, and dreaded, the pistote With
which he and Kate were armed. The
trio proceeded down the stairs, thro
the hall, arid issued from the reyr of
the house into the garden ; tlis they
crossed, and entered the gardeper's
house-
Show a glim, Kate," ried Jack
Kate drew up-the slide ef the dark
laptern which she carried, apd a toler.
able light was produced thereby.
" Now," said our. hero to Lp ir.-
" you must consent to hegu4 haod
and foot. Resistance wlilbut epdan-
ger your life.  You can easjly obtain
your release in he m9!p'nga
Here's the very artjp we want,"
said lGats, taking up a sqaut ppe thet
lay is one corner.
The Span and r ntnst ated, propt.
ised, begged and threate#d-ut  all
availed him nuthin.  eistynee pg
his part would have e n      ed e
tw pistols were hed o his hue.-

:;


!'

w"

JAcK s AROLD.

in a few minutes a lay upon the foor,
bound so secureI that he wascunabie
toniore an inch
"Curies.on    'i tsoared I pez,
foaring;with       you shall both
pay dearly for the  y God, I'll have
such vengeance--'
"Let the dog growl; come, Kate,
let us leave him to his agreeable re-
flettions," said Jack.
r" We had better finish our work
here, first," remarked the girl, with
her accustomed forethought, and sa-
040! ty-" the scoundrel has the lungs
S =of a ball, and by yelling murder and
'#      ntehi~uld easily'putthe police in
pbr stGof us.  We must' gag' him."
"Always right, dear Kate," cried
With cornsiderable diieutj , and
no 'mall danger to  their"fingerssthey
sucneeded in forcing into' the man's
mouth A piece of wqod, which, by dis-
tending his jawa tothair utmost capac-
iyprAnte d his-articulation of a sin-
glesa   i6; he could- only make a
r.tft r b'ise in his throat.
BdiIg the unfortunate Spaniard a
sarcastic good night, and wishing him
pleasant dreams, our hopeful pair re-
crossed.the garden, and paused at the
back door of the mansion.
"Here let us hold a council 'of
war," said Jack, seating himself upon
the steps.  '
"1Agreed," cried Kate, placing' her.
self at his side-'shall we, enter the
house ard carry of' lots of booty; or
shall we, like gallant cracksmen, re-
spect the Lady's unprotected situation,
and-go off with light pockets and easy
consciences ?"
"Supposing Mr. Harold to be at
home," replied our heroe-" I did in-
tent, to make a clear sweep of the en-
ire premises to-night; not that we
need, money, fer we have plenty,
thanks o my father's industry--but
sorely to keep our hands in, and at
she same time obtain revenge for both
af us; for you, on account of the

wound which he inflicted., upon you,
on the night of ohr former lburglary,
for myself, on account of his having
been mainly instrumental inoconsign-
ing me to the care of my particula.
friend, Mr. Piggot, of the Refuge.-
nut, as Mr. Harold is absent, we will
defer dUt further operations until his
return, for I love and respect his lady,
who, while.I lived beneath his roof,
was like the kindest of mothers. to
me."
"You are right, my dear," said
Kate, approvingly-" besides,it would
seem cowardly in us to crack a crib
during the absence of the master.-
So now let us go home.'f
"I must first warn Mm. Harold to
beware of that Spaniard. Show a
glim."
Jack took from his pocket a scrap
of paper and a pencil; and, by "the
light of the dark lantern, wrote as fol-
lows :-
" To Mas. HAROLD. Maranet--Beware
of Lopez, the Spanish gardener. He med$.
states seme evil design against you; for last
night he stealthily visited-your 1hamber.'-
He is a villain or the blackest' ye, capable
of any act of dishonesty,.teahery or put-
rage. This com-s from  'Atisii'."
Directing Kate to await his return,
Jack hastened to the chamber of the
lady, who was still asleep, and placed
this note upon her dressingstable.-
He then rejoined his companion, and
the pair, having quitted the premises
by the way they came, proceeded to-
wards the abode of the Giantess, in
Canal street.
What came of Jack's warning to the good
lady, and much other very interesting cir-
cumstances which afterwards happened to
the various characters of our story, will be
luminously set forth in the sparkling pages
of the work entitled: -T T PAIrAmD '
1.

Z

I        
ai
(,_      q'
,Y t .
-
w
-                  ;.
'''

r
y~
yM
i
!

~r

;;
4  :


  
             
         
       
   
