
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Wonderful, But True Life of Ella Cameron .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8360
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The wonderful, but true life of Ella Cameron 
            
               ALLA ,,LAA
6f4
AN EXTRAORDINARY REVELATION,
BEING
THE ONLY TRUE LIFE OF THIS WELL-ENOWN
AND
A TRUE PICTURE OF HIGH LIFE IN WASHINGTON,
AND ITS CONNECTION WITH
NEW YORK SOCIETY.
PHILADELPHIA:
13ARCLAY &amp; CO., PUBLISHERS,
No. 21 NORTH SEVENTH *STREET.


k

ELLA CAMERON.

Entered cording toAct of Congress, in the year 1875, by
B AROLAY           0 0.,
Lthe Offee of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D). C.

CHAPTER, I.
Brilliant indeed was the asseinblage of fair women and brave aen
that graced the drawing rooms of the Secretary of the 'Navy on a
bright starlight evening in the month of January, 185.-. It was
by far the most magnificentreception of the season, and had ben
a most prominent topic of conversation for many week previous;
consequently when the-evening came, and the glittering thrng as-
senibled, a scene presented itself ,altogether too gorgeous to cgotn0rt
with the plain notions of the multitude which composed what a
often been termed the ",City of Magnificent'Distances," the Capi-
tal of. our glorious Republic- It was seemingly the object ofteach
lady tc surpass all others in the richness 'and elegance of attire and
otnainent. All political differences were apparetly forgotten, love
ly daughters of the sunny South might be. seen leaninguporti.
arms of gallant representatives of the North, and fa haried torz.'
em  belles wCro politely escorted through the gay as enblage-,by
courteous and chivalric .Southerners. But, little, notice was take
of the numerous arrivals, and none seemed to receive more than
ordinary attention; but after the company hadheen a   time
sembled, the announcement of "the iknorable'r.       eron
daughter of South Carolina,'' created a sensation w
throughout the saloon; all were anxious to behmold the lady W
out to make her centre; for although rumor had spread fa
wide the reputation of Miss Caweron, for beauty bot   6df mind
person, no one present had yet seen this reputepagagon o  o
ness; for since her airval in the city she h d imtaued her
her private apartments at "Willard," in ordertEsh   i
cover from the fatigue of travel.
Mr. Cameron, the father of our heroine, as one oth
land proprietors in tie South, and had formerly fille t
torial chair of the Old Palmetto' State; he was a kind 'a$i i4'  1.4
father, rait his bearing was proud and haughty to
he considered his inferiors in either wealth or  '
only child, Ella, was indeed a magnificent- typ
an, reared in luxury and free from every re,:strit'da    b
neath her paternal roof by the best of tutor, mare64dof,
she was well fitted for the career which her fondfote  Tig
dr-eams of the future, had zharked out forhe
i statue Ella Cameron was a trifleabovete  ediuhe    t
crowning ornament of woman hung in raven tresses abou
bosom, her figure wa  ymetrical and fal    e   eek
that one might fineygthat thesoul was, hi      gh  A
hi  with its beauty their rich hues her l    keyes
fiery as the eagles glance, piercing and   aspa


14            COL. LEONARD IN LoVE WITH ELLA.
when roused by passion; but when lit up by love, soft and gentle at.
a seraph's gaze: and when she turned a melting look upon you, theu
you would ask if aught that dwelt on earth could be so lovely 1
A single diamond of immense value glitters upon -her small and
dimpled hand, and in her hair she wore a small white rosebud ; with
these exceptions the tout ensemble of her attire was perfectly plain,
for "loveliness needs not the foreign aid of ornament, but is, when
unadorned, adorned the most."
We have as yet said nothing of the various groups of gay and
fashionable young gentlemen, who stood in different parts of the
rooms, engaged in arranging their matters of etiquette -for the
evening, and occasionally glancing with admiring eyes upon the
blaze of feminine beauty arrayed before them.. The gentlemen, it'
must be confessed, were far behind the ladies in the costliness of
their apparel, but they were as richly and as showily dressed as the
extremity of the Parisian modes would allow-
Among the most distinguished guests present was Colonel Leonard.
He had been acquainted with the father of Ella for a number of
years, and although Mr. Cameron had never hinted or insinuated
such a thing, yet it was a thought always uppermost.in his mind,
that Colonel Leonard was precisely such an individual as upon whom
he would gladly bestow his lovely daughter.
Colonel Leonard had used every endeavor to ingratiate himself
into the favor of Ella, and, if possible, to win a smile of love from
her sweet lips; but his joyful anticipations, seemingly, were not
'tined to be realized. The very means which he used to secure
h   avor, only rendered her the more averse to the contemplated
mat h; still, as he was her father's friend, she, knew not how to
avoid his attentions.
Standing apart in the embrazure of a window, intently gazing
upon the beautiful form of Ella, was Walter Moreland, a young
'.'exan of high birth but reduced fortune. The southerner was hand-
rame and of gentlemanly appearance; he was a person whose charae-
ter wa's fully imbued with those notions of honor peculiar to south-
en "bloods -" he could not brook an insult without demanding
immediate satisfaction of the offender. Once the possessor of a
noble estate which he had squandered at the gambling table, he was
now forced to live upon his wits. By means of letters of introduc-
tion serruptitiously obtained to some of the most prominent and in-
fluential men at the seat of government, he had gained admittance
into that circle of society n which we find himat the time our story
opens. Having received a collegiate education, and possessing
talents of a high order, and superior conversational powers, together
with a pleasing exterior and plausible manner, he had thus far found,
no difficulty in supplying himself with means. sufficient to enable,
him to indulge in all the luxury to which he had in early life been
accustomed.
"By heaven! she is beautiful, nay sublime !" soliloquised More-
land as he gazed a4giinagly upon our heroine, "and come what
may, I must and wll~ossess her. But how ? No matter, " faint
heart ne'er won fair lady yet." My plan is not yet matured; how-.

WALTER MoRELAND-CoL. LEoNAtu's RIvA.            15
.   there's time enough for that hereafter : first let me procure an
introduction and then trust to my own ingenuity and unblushing ef-
frontery for the result."
"iCaught by Jove " exclaimed a voice close to him, and turning
he recognized in the speaker an old friend.
"1Charly Lovell, by all that's wonderful!I the very man of all
others I most desire to see," exclaimed Moreland, when did you ar-
rive ? where are you from ? and 1ow long do you intend to stay ?"
"$One question at a time, one at a time, Walter," replied Lovell.
"I arrived this morning from Norfolk, and it depends entirely upon
,our host how long I shall remain. I observe you gazing intently upon
Miss Cameron ; are you acquainted with her ?"
"Only by reputation," replied Moreland, "but as she is from your
native state you doubtless have that honor."y
"4'Sheis an old friend and playmate of mine and I shall be bappy
to introduce you; come, she now seems to be disengaged."  And
arm in arm they proceeded to where Ella was standing beside her
father, who was busily engaged in conversation with their host and
hostess.
"iMiss Cameron, permit me to introduce to you my esteemed
friend and former classmate, Mr. Walter Moreland, of Texas," said
Lovell: and then excusing himself he left them together.
They had been some time engaged in conversation when Moreland
suddenly said: "Who is that distinguished looking gentleman who
is staring so frowningly upon me ?"
It was Leonard, who had for some time stood upon the opposite
side of the room, viewing with disdainful looks the apparent happi4
ness of Ella and Walter.
She turned her eyes, and met the angry gaze of the Colone 1
Doyou allude to. the man with the moustacehe 7" asked El'
"The same. Who is he ?"
"He is-that is-he is an acquaintance of our family, ad
father's particular friend :" replied Ella hesitatingly.
The expression of Moreland's face changed from complacency to
doubt and apprehension. That this man was a rival seemed probable.
"May I presume to inquire his name ?" asked he.
The gentleman of whom they were speaking now approached Ella,
and saluted her.
"My thend, Colonel Leonard, Mr. Moreland " said Ella, intro-
ducing them.'
The gentlemen nodded coldly to each other.
The music now began and Moreland was about to leadElla to the
floor : but at the moment he extended his hand' he wa  rudely Crowd-,
ed aside by Leonard, on observing the-intention of the young Texa.
"Sir, I have a prior claim to this lady's- hand" said Leouard
"she is engaged to me for the next dance."
"I appeal to the.lady herself I"' replied Moreland.
"I have assumed the responsibility of engaging myself to Mr.
Moreland, for this and three other dances, as- my card will ,-,how, 1
sid Ella with dignity, as she and Moreland took their places in the
dance.

p


1a             JEALOUsY-A CHALLENGE.

Leonard, who looked abashed at being thwarted so decisively,
turned upon his heel and walked away, muttering curses upon the
stranger.
All eyes were concentrated upon the graceful couple as they
moved through the figures of the dance; and there was not among
that assemblage of beauty and fashion a gentleman or lady who
attracted such marked attention as did Walter and Ella. - She seem-
ed the personification of modesty, grace and loveliness; while his
well proportioned and manly figure, his handsome features, intelli-
gent expression and polished manners, denoted him a man of no
ordinary stamp.
It is unnecessary for us to detail the many trifling incidents which
followed throughout the evening after the meeting of Ella and Wal-
ter; suffice it here to remark, that the evening passed off pleasantly
to all present, and particularly so to our hero and heroine.
During Ella's last dance with Walter he had offered to escort her
home.
"I gladly accept your company," said she.
The hours flitted speedily by, and three o'clock had arrived before
any indication was made by the company to separate. Ella now
expressed a desire to leave, and leaning upon the arm of Moreland,
she was escorted to her carriage.
Moreland had assisted Ella into the vehicle and was about getting
in himself, when Leonard leaped forward, pushed "Mo:eland aside
with the intention of usurping his place, but as he placed one foot
upon the step, he was seized by the strong arm of the young Texrun,
who, with scarcely a perceptible effort, hurled him to the sidewalk.
E4e carriage dr6ve off, Leonard, who had regained-his feet, with
a malignant emphasis, exclaimed: "We shall meet again !"
CHAPTER II
As Moreland was being shaved the next morning by his body ser-
vant, Pomp, a note was handed to him, the contents of which were
as follows:
{No., 328 G. St., Washington City,
January -, 185-.
SIR :-Your conduct toward me, last evening, was of a character
too gross and aggravating for me to pass lightly over; therefore, if
you style yourself a gentleman, which your standing in society leads
me to suppose, I doubt not you will give me a meeting as early as
possible, thereby saving yourself the mortification of being posted
as a poltroon and a puppy.
I decline 'receiving any apology that can be made either written
or verbal.
To WALTER MORELAND, ESQ., 1     WILIAM LEONARD.
Willard's Hotel.

-


THE CUNNING AND WITTY NEbPO, POMP.
When Moreland finished reading this, he smiled, and than wrote
the following note to his friend Lovell:
" DEAR C A RLEY :-Oongratulate me. I have the happiness to
inform you that I have at length succeeded in getting myself into a
d--I of a scrapt. Nothing lessy riy dear fellow, than an alfair
ot honor. I am one of the principals and the phalleged party.
Knowing that you, .a1ove all things dse, delight in sport of his na-
ture, I appoint you my. second. Come to my room  at Willard's
immediately, :where we can discuss'the matter fully over a battle of
"Heidseek."          Yours, faithfully,
"1There, Pomp," said Moreland, "take this note to Mr. Lovell's
lodgings as speedily as your long heels can carry you,"
"ITIl be dar, Massa, in de twinklum ob a 'possum's eye," said
Pomp, as he bounded out of the room and hastened to Lovell's
lodgings.
Pomp possessed considerable shrewdness and cunning,. wliith
caused his young master to make ,quite a pet of him. He Aogn
oaohed the house where Lovell resided, rang the bell, inquired for
that gentleman, and was conducted directly to his-apartment, where,
in a large armed rocking chair, sat, or rather reclined Charley
Lovell, with his legs placed upon two common chairs.
" Ah, Pomp, it's you, is it?"
Yah, I rather think it is dis chile," said Pomp, scratching hI
Wool and laughing.
U                     "I should like to know what in the devil you're grinning at."
"Nuffin, Massa Lovell, I's only study ' rifmetic littlee"
What do you mean, you young imp of darkness ?
"Why I wur jis calkylatin, if it take free chairs for little man to
o             set in, how many would it take- fur de Kentucky Giant?  He, he
haw, haw, yah 1ah! whew'!"
"0Well, well, Ponp, now that you've done laughing,. let me know
o                   what you want."
"2Wall, Massa Walter's goin to fight a jewell."
"Duel, you mean.
"WYes, saah  He told me to gib you di8 note, it'll splain ebery
ing.
.Lovell read the note, kicked over the, two chairs on which his leg
rested, and exclaimed:
"GoodI glorious! now vanish, you quint-essencef charcoal, you.!T
"Yes, saah !. I urm'd up here like a slowed t  e bullgip., an
I'll wanish back like a Massisppy mIud-scow.
" Begone! instantly !" commanded Lovell, throwing a shoebrAsh
at the negro's woollyhead, which it fortunately missed.
" Yeu didn't quite come it dat tim4, mlassa," said Pomp, a he.
ift the room, singmg,
6sPossum up de gum stump,
Cooney in do kollor," &amp;.
The sub was .just rising above 'the eastern horizon, When Koe'
tkd and Lovell descended from their earr'age in a secluded sad


-8           TuE DUEL.-LBONARD IS WOUNDED
lonely spot, a short distance from the turnpike leading from Wash
gton City to the village of Bladensburg.
"It seems to me that Leonard is rather tardy, especially wha.,
we consider that this invitation is from him," remaked Moreland,
as he glanced toward the road.
"The hour was to be sunrise," answered the other, "he ,will le
here in time."
"Itnis well; you have a full knowledge of my wishes, and to
your judgment and action I entrust myself and my honor. I will,
retire to yon little hillock, until you settle the preliminaries with
his second," said Moreland; and proceeding to the spot which he
had designated, he calmly and carelessly reclined upon the sod.
"It is near the time, Mr. Lovell," said the second of Leonard,
"and we had better at once settle the preliminaries."
The two seconds now retired a short distance to measure off the
ground.
Meantime Colonel Leonard paced nervously to and fro, casting
frequent glances toward him who reclined so calmly on the knoll
beyond. At last the ground was measured and a pistol placed ig
the hand of each of the prinipals.
"We are ready now," said Lovell, approaching Moreland, "do
you intend to kill him?"
"No, but I will wing him, it will teach him a lesson and at the
same time do him no serious injury."
"1 Then the two foes walked steadily to the place selected, and
sach stood on the spot marked by his' second, and Men he usual
1quiry was made:
Gentlemen, are you ready ?"
"I am," was the low, firm reply of Moreland.
"Yes -" was the-short reply of Leonard.
Then came the .fearful words-"Fire! one, two, three !" And
4lmost at the same instant followed the reports of the two pistols.
Leonard's right arm fell to his side and the pistol dropped from
his hand. The bali from Moreland's pistol had taken effect in his"
adversary's shoulder, inflicting a severe and painful but by '=
means dangerous wound. Moreland was untouched.
Lovell now advanced to the second of Leonard, and said: "Is
your friend satisfied ?"1
"Perfectly ; and he requests me to say that he intends to remain
at the house of a friend in this neighborhood until he recovers from
the Wound he his received in this affair, and he hopes that you and
Mr. Moreland will iige your utmost endeavors to keep the meeting
from gaining publicity."
CHAPTER III.
Weeks passed away.    Moreland had been a daily visitor'at
" Willars"   His growing intimacy with the beautiful Ella was
observed with jealous eyes' by her numerous admirers, and .many
y0the rumors circulated in regard to her growing affection for
theyoung southerner. But Ella was either too proud or too in-

ELLA AT THE OPERA-MORELAND'S LOVE INCREASES.         19
different to heed these reports, and Moreland visited her when he
pleased, leaving the world to say what it listed.
Seated in a private box at the opera was Ella Caigeron. Walter
Moreland leaning against one of the pillars of the box, half in the
light and half in the shadow, holding his lorgnette of pearl and eil,
ver in one hand, and his hat in the -other, was not a bad object to
contemplate.  His face was dignified and expressive, and his eyes
consummately handsome.   His costume was inexpressibly elegant
from head to foot and worn with that ease and grace which those
only acquire who are always well dressed.
Mario had just finished that celebrated Art'a which is so unequi-
vocally charming, (the redeemi.g pot in "LI Trouvitore.") Every
body knows the .cene in the Aria-the vacant stage, without a per-'
sonage visible-the gloomy stone tower with its barred door and
grated windows-the clang of the guitar accompaniment, and the
passionate voice of the Troubador rising and falling in bre"ycaden-
tes, with its intense love and sorrow, its despairing cry of  Addie
Leonore !"I
The great admiration which the music aroused in the heart 'of
Ella overflowed at a glance from Moreland. His hand touched hers
on the arma of the chair as he leaned over her to catch her half
uttered words,.a magnetic thrill seemed to pass from one to the
other, and innocently enough she pressed the tips of his fhigers with
her own, uttering some extravagance concerning the opera.
"It delightegou," said Moreland, and drawig a chair near her
he resumed: .  if  were only Mario to give such pleasure, or bet-
ter, if I were only Maurice, to live and love, suffer and sing for some
fair Leonore, Oh! what a wretched world we live in; no0 _orea o  row
mance, we do not love, we are etngaged instead. Why pcannot we.
livegjn the poetical and beautiful as of old, instead of in' the a4cttial
and commonplace ?"
'"Are there not poetical and beautiful experiences still ?" asked
Ella*
"Our habits and manners conventionalize every thing Eo," re-
plied he.
"But loye still exists.'
An electric flash is not brighter nor more significant than the
glances they exchanged.
" It does-you are indeed right," answered the yougmg man, "and
love bea'utifies, poetizes every thing."
.Witi this scene-perhaps with these few lag to es--began
the re'! romance of Ella Cameron's lif.
After the intense emotions, excited in the heth
music anid the well turned speeches of Moreland            e.th
turn home. In the carriage the chat became m~
Moreland had determined, upon their arrival, sh
portumity present itself, to declare his passion            .
After their return home, and some time spe
merits of the opera, Moreland arose to take his le
said: .My delay here is already a mest unjustifiable
though it pans me deeply, I must, to-nght, take leave of
Ella heard him with a strange mixture of relief and dread


20              MORELAND's DISAPPOiNTMENT.
could she live without him ? And yet it was madness to think of
life with him."
"And must you go ? Well ! well !" she sighed, "ten years from
now you will look back, and smile, as you remember how you
dreamed you spent the winter of 185-."
"I do not think it has been all a dream," he said, fixing his eyesu
on her half averted face.
You mean you think you were not the only one who dreamed. I
confess that 1, too, have dreamed."
Moreland's brow contracted.
" Will you never be serious," said he half angrily, "away with
jesting," he continued excitedly, seizing her hand, "I will know my
fate at once. Ella, Ella, you know-you must have known, sinoo
the first time we met, how madly, almost foolishly I have loved you.
Answer me then- ou have had ample time to consider-is it life
or death ?-Shall I go or stay ?    .
Ella had buried her face in her handkerchief, but he could hear
her agonizing sobs.
" Ella," he said, gently, "if you love me, you have no cause to
weep; if I am indifferent, you have still less reason."
Still she wept-she was utterly powerless to reply to him.
For a moment pride and love seemed to contend for the mastery.
At length the former gained the ascendency, bpt still she was silent.
" Ella," he %aid,. "answer me, or am I to construe your silence
into consent ? Look up, I know that you love me, we are akin in
every thought and feeling, my soul claimed you from our first meet.
in,  Ella, my bride, m  darling."
Instinctively she shrank from his proffered embrace, and drawing
herself up proudly she said, "Mr. Moreland, this declaration is to.
tally unexpected, I surely have given you no encouragement to peak
_kkus; although I esteem you highly as a friend,  can never be
aught else to you, and as you value my friendship,. never again re-
vert to this subject.
He stood erect before her, his fine face clouded with anger and
mnortifleation.
"This, then, is your final answer," he said coldly.
"It is; forgive me if I have caused you pain. Believe me, it
has grieved me deeply to be obliged to speak thus," she said, laying
her hand upon his arm, "-you must -forget this interview and not let
it destroy:yOUr peace."  Moreland's lip curled.)
"Destroy my peace? No! Miss Cameron; -you need not trouble
ourself        grieving me, fair lady," he said scornfull y, "the
i    s      from my eyes, that is all. I fancied you little less
'--iig  I was such a fool as to believe you loved me well
enoug t      e even the opinion of the world for my sake, but I
, o          ly a woman after all, with more pride and ambition
than lov  rmei Well, be it so; I have never sued for the favor
on       e , nd cannot begin now.  Farewell, Miss Cameron;
(fogiv xre or trespassing thus long upon your time, but it will be
fore it happens again."

ELLA'S INTERVIEW WITH HER FATRE.            21
He turned away with a haughty bow. She saw he was angry,
&amp;appointed, and deeply mortified, and tears sprang to her eyes.
Let us not part in anger," she said, "we may still be friende'
le turned and stood gazing coldly upon her.
I am not angry, only a little disappointed. You have a perfect
right to scorn my love if it so please you. I regret that I ha e
troubled you so long.  I have the honor to bid you good evening."
And with these last bitter words he left the room.
All Ella's fortitude then gave way, and sinking on a seat shehid
her face in her hands, and wept the bitterest tears she had ever shed.
"He is gone and in anger, believing that I love him not. Ohl if
he but knew all, how fondly, devotedly I have loved-him since the
night we first met, he would not leave me thus ;" and throwing her-
self upon the sofa, her bosom heaved with convulsive sobs. As thus
she lay unconscious of aught save her own wretchedness, a knock was
heard at the door. Arising, she wiped the tears from her face, and
bade the applicant for-admission to enter.
My daughter," said Mr. Cameron, (for it was he), "why do I
find you in tears, what has grieved you ."
Father ! Father! !" she cried, "I have obeyed your commands.
I have this night told Walter Moreland that I can never be his, that
I loved him not, and he is gone never to return."
"You should not let this grieve you so," replied her father, "re-
member that Moreland, though a man of polished manners, and for
aught I know to the contrary, of unexceptionable character, is
nevertheless a mere adventurer, without name or fortune, and as
such is not worthy of my daughter. You will soon forget this fool-
ish passion and its object."
"Forget him ! Forget Walter Moreland!! No, my father, I can.
not forget him. Is it not enough that I have made him and myself
miserable by what I have done to-night, but you must ask me to
forget him  I cannot, I will not. Oh! my heart, is breaking."
She threw herself into her father's arms, where, overcome by grief.
she gave vent to her emotions in a flood of tears.
CHAPTER
In one of the magnificent gambling saloons which abound in the
political metropolis, were assembled twenty or thirty persons of
different stations in life  Grave senators were seen in conversation
with the well- dressed roue and gambler, and therewas nothing by
which a stranger, entering those elegantly furnished rooms, could
distinguish the talented statesman from the accomplished sharper.
Thissaloon far surpassed all others iii the city, boh in elegance
of furniture. and the class of its patrons; and its proprietors having
gained a reputation of possessing a larger capital, and bin  ble
to sustain greater losses than others, it was visited bytdseroly
who were able and willing to hazard large amounts. Fwthere.
fore, had the entre of this elegant and capatious saloon butmeng-
bers of congress, foreign ministers and their attaches, and wealthy:
pagers, who might be sojourning in the city, transacting business,


22        MORELAND ENTEhw THE GAMBLING SALOON.
with the Government, or in pursuit of pleasure; in fact no ,citie
or clerk was ever admitted.
Young Moreland, when he left Ella, entered a carriage at the
door of the hotel.
"1Wha shall I dribe you to, Massa Moreland ?" asked coachee.
"4To Prindle's; and look, you, Sam, drive as if the d--l were
after you;" said Moreland, excitedly.
"Wonder what's matter wid Massa Moreland dis ebenia, he seems
kinder 'cited; I 'specks dat purty gal he was sparkin' been gone
and done, and said somfin to rile him," said Sambo, mountingthe
box; "dribe as if de debil was arter me ; I calklates his fernal
majistum wi~1 hab to git up and git to cotch dis heah team, yah!
yah!!"
"Unfortunate at love, fortunate at play," said Moreland, as he
threw himself back in the carriage; "I shall test the truth of this
time honored saying. "I've lost, to-night, where hearts were trumps,
and at another game should win."
When the carriage stopped at the saloon of which we have spoken
above, Moreland leaped out and entered the street door which al-
way stood open.
"Golly gosh, I guess if Massa Moreland hab any luck to-night
dem gamblums won't hab money 'nuff to pay for a 'cocktail' in de
mornin'. I tell you when he does gamblum he puts his money down
in big chunks;" soliloquised Sambo as he drove off.
Let us follow Moreland and enter with him the rooms where ('dem
gamblums', as Sambo called them), were entertaining the numerous
guests.
After entering from the street, he proceeded up stairs, where a
heavy door impeded his farther progress; pulling the bell rope,
which hung near the door, his summons was answered by an an-
tiquated specimen of the Virginia negro, familiarly known to the
frequenters of Prindle, Wilkinson &amp; Co's establishment, as "-Uncle
Charley," who, after ascertaining that the applicant was entitled to
admission, pushed back the heavy bolt, and allowed our hero to pass in.
"Good evening, Mr. Moreland," said the General, (the name oz
title by which Wilkinson, one of the proprietors, was familiarly
known,) "you appear excited; has any thin  unusual occurred?
"No !-That is-nothing of importance, -I have just been
defeated in a game at which I thought I had no superior. But let
it pass, another time I shall be more successful;" replied Moreland,
significantly, as he proceeded into the front room and engaged in
plav.
the rooms, into which we havo introduced our reader, well de-
served the reputation for elegance they had gained. Entering from
the dimly lighted hall, a scene presents-itself almost blinding in its
dazzling brilliancy. The floors are covered with carpets of the
finest texture and most costly patterns, and so soft and pliable 4hat
no sound reverberates as the guests pass to and fro ; on the #alls
hang numerous paintings, executed by the most renowned artists
both ancient and modern. To the right hand, as you enter, stands
alsdeboard of rosewood inlaid witk pearl, in the centre of which it

S                                                                                                                                                          S


/fi

I

-fq
U2s
'4
cs

Ris EXPECTATIONS REALIZED.

23

an immense punch bowl of solid silver, ornamented with finely exe-
cuted frost work; around this are placed a dozen or more goblets
Df the same material, and similarly ornamented ; near these stand
several cut glass decanters, containing the best of imported and do-
mestic wines and liquors; also 'stands filledith the best brands of
cigars. Thecontents of this costly piece of furniture are for the
use of the patrons of the saloon free of charge. Pendant from
the centre of the frescoed.ceiling of each room is a fnely wrought
chandelier, from whikh eminates a blaze, of light which rivals the
noon-day sun in its brilliancy. In the front room,against the wall,
behind the "'dealer," hangs a large gilt frame, containing the repre.
sentation of an immense Bengal tiger, executed in worsted work by
the daughter of the " General."  Around the table in front of the
" dealer" are numerous "betters," some of whose countenances be-
tray, to the most casual obseiver, the emotions which-agitate them
when the fickle Goddess smiles or frowns upon their ventures. Not
one of these tell tale faces has our hero ; there he' stands, unmoved
by the effects bf a large loss, or large gain, although his all is some-
times staked upon the fall of a single card ; if he feels emotion his
features do not betray him,, as "turn" after "turn" decides for or
against him for thousands of dollars.  Fortune seems to have cho-
sen him from out the many as, one deserving -of her favors; thei
" Bank" has lost a large amount, and he seems to be the only per.
son who has won any considerable sum.
" Had we not better close ?" said the General, who was consider-
Ably alarmed, "Moreland seems desperate to-night, and if his luck
continues he will ruin us.
"No, we're only loosers to the amount of some ten or twelve
thousand, and we can stand five times that amount without feeling
it," replied Prince Prindle to whom 'the "General" had spoken;j
"I know," he continued, "Moreland alwas plays high, and to-night
seems to play more desperately than usual, -and even if he should
ruin us, as you say, "General," I know of no one who I would so
willingly see have my money, for he is a "trump," and plays his
money like a sport."
" Mr. Moreland, you have more on the "five" than we like to
turn for," said the "dealer," as Walter placed about twelve thou
sand dollars in "checks"" upon that card.
" Well, sir, if you are afraid to turn for that amount, I will takes
it down;"said Moreland with a perceptible sneer.
"I am not afraid, but we are not accustomed to allow gentlemen
to bet such large amounts"
" I suppose half of it will not be too much ? replied Walter, se
he took don one 'stack of checks,' 'and placed them" oppered on
the Jack,' placing a stnall round' piece  f bone called 'a copper
on his money, thus indicating that he bet the 'Jack' would loce,
Moreland said, addressing the 'dealer:
"You have no objection to turn for it now, Mr. Singleton ?"
"N    Iair."
"Then I am ready, and you may proceed,.

0

;,


I~ ~
I
jInY Ii

ELLA'S LETTER TO MoRELAND.                  25
It was near the middle of the deal when this conversation took
plsce, and when the dealer proceeded to draw the cards slowly from
the box, those who were present exhibited signs of intense excite-
ment. Our hero and the dealer appeared as calm as though they had
nothing at stake, and yet they were the two persons present most in
terested.
It is now down to the last turn," said a gentleman who was keep-
lng the 'cises.'
The excitement now increased, for the bets must, ,one or both, be
decided upon this the lasiturn.The dealer hesitated, perhaps hop.
i urpheromight take part of his money down; but no, there he
od as composed as an uninterested spectator.
" IWhy do you hesitate VI said he.
The dealer drew the cards from the box with a mere jerk, and an.
Punced the result:
" Jack, '.five,' and seven in 'hock.'
Moreland had won both his ventures, and the deal was endad.
"Curse the luck," muttered the "General" between hi.3 tneth as
the dealer paid over to Moreland twenty-four.$1000 bills, with wnhick
thrusting the same into his pocket, Moreland left the room.
CHAPTER V.
(    At a late hour on the morning following the incidents related in
be preceding chapter, Ella Cameron arose. Her colorless ihps and
inflamed eyelids, and her cheeks upon which still remainedhe traces
of many bitter tears, were all evidences of the conflicting emotions
which had kept her in a; fever of excitement during the restless and al-
most sleepless night just passed.
"Another such a night I could not survive.  Hence, false pride,
tbou*destroyer'of my happiness, and blighter of my fondly cherishoh
hopes, tio longer shalt thou usurp the throne: henceforth lo ralone
shall reign in the heart of Ella Cameron.  Thus spoke our heroine
as she procured materials and seated herself at her writing desk.
"He shall know all, and if he will pardon my conduct last night, I
-ay yetbe happy, loving, and beloved ;" ske continued as she pro.
teeded to indite the following letter:
"MY 'DEAREST WATER,
I am anxious to ee you once again, to
explain my conduct last evening, and to ask forgiveness for th? pain I
unwillingly caused you.
My father, alarmed by themany rumors concerning otir in.
creasing affection and growing intimacy, and suspecting that theso
rumors were not altogether without foundation, in fact yesterday
morning solicited-a private interview with me. Having by every ar'-
gument that could be brought to bear upon the subject, .nvain
,ndeavoured; to convince me that yon were not worthy of my love;
he then resorted to threats, declaring that, should I persist in re-
fusing to discourage your attentions, he would discard, disown, d6-
iherit. anA never see me more. Findinr that I would ueithor be

26       MR. CAMERON IN POSSESSION OF THE LETTER.
convinced by argument, or intimidated by threats, he finally ap-
pealed to my gratitude and filial affection. My feelings being thus
wrought upon, and being overcome by emotion, is it strange that,
under these, circumstances, I should forget my love for you, and
think only of the obedience I owed my only surviving parent?
Having promised that in the event of your declaring your affection,
I would tell you thatit was not returned, and that I could never be
yours, I could but redeem my word though it cost us both much pain.
After a night of anxiety and reflection I am convinced I did wrong,
and am desirous of seeing you that I may know from your own lips
that all is forgiven.
Come to me immediately upon receipt of this, for until I see you
once more I shall know no peace of mind. ELLA.
That the delivery of this note might meet with as little delay as
possible she summoned a servant and directed him to hand it to the
derk of the hotel, to be placed in Walter Moreland's box. When
the servant laid it upon the desk the clerk's attention was attracted
in another direction, and Mr. Cameron, who was standing near, oh-
serving that the superscription was in the handwriting of his daughter,
immediate   took up the note, and putting it- in his pocket, retired
to his room. When Mr. Cameron entered his room he first fastened
the door, and then opened the letter, (the seal of which was not yet
perfectly dry); having acquainted himself with' its contents,~he
carefully resealed it, and placing it in another envelope, he directed
it in a disguised handwriting to Ella through the Post Office.
'tshe is uniacquainted with Moreland's handwriting, and will
think he has returned her note unopened," said he, "this will arouse
her pride," he continued, "by working upon which I cin induce her
to marry with whomsoever I think proper,"  He then walkedto
rhe Post Office, and with his own hands mailed the letter, thug ,i.
Suring its delivery to its Proper address.
While Ella was writing the letter which we have given above,
Moreland was seated in his room at the same hotel. Upon a; table
in front of him was the money he had won the previous- nights
"Nearly twenty five thousand dollars,! Welf, Walter lMorelsnd,
you are in luck. - I ha-ic beard it naid that in New York City mony
will purchase anything, and that there are men to be found there
who -will not hesitate to undertake any "job," provided they are
well paid for their time and trouble. I know not if this be true;
at all events I shall try it. I have a plan 'which, if successful, will
accomplish my purpose and at the same time remove all evidence
which may implicate me-in the &amp;Fair. Never yet did a man or
woman scorn Walter Moreland but they did live to r-ue it-; so my
proud beauty, you and your vast vwealth shall both be nine yet."
Thua soliloqnised Moreland as he gathered up hin money.
" Did you ring, sir ?" said a servant, who answered the bell which
Morehknd had rung a moment before.
,"Ye ; tell the clerk to send up my bill, as I start for New York
in the ening' train."
Though Ella was dressed and ready to come down to dinner, she


R. CAMERONS SCHEME SUCCESSFUL.           27
felt so ill and depressed that she lay dowr again, toi  her maid
to close the shutters and leave her to herself.
"What's this, Ella? What's the 'matter, my daughter  sad Mr
Cam ron, entering and taking a seat at her bedside, "your 'Lnd is
feverish." .
"vI slept badly-scarcely at all," said she faintly, "and my head
"Ip
feels as if it would split with pain."
"Poor child !" said he, as he kissed her burning forehead. "But,"
continued he, "I came to speak to you of a matter of the utmost
importance, and which will not admit of delay; Col. Leonard, who
has been appointed Minister to the Court of Madrid, this morning
made to me a formal proposal for your hand. What answer shall
I give him? Shall I say to him that we accept his offer ?"
"But, father-"
"Think well before you reply. When you are the wife of the,
Colonel you will have a station in society, so accredited, that every
word you speak, every act you do, goes forth with its own authority."
"I respect Col. Leonard highly, but I do not love him," she re-
lied, "and I would a thousand times rather bestow my hand upon
m who already has my heart, be his station ever so lowly and his
fortune but small,,than wed the proudest millionaire in the land
whom I did not love. I would not make trafic of my affections nor
buy success by that which makes it valueless."
"1These are the wild romances of girlish fancy," said Mr. Cam-
eron ; before a twelvemonth was over you would be unable to say
whether you had married for love or interest, except that poverty
might remind you of the one, and affluence suggest the other."
"But, if I am not able to bring myself to this ?"
"Do you feel, Ella, as if you co-ld, by marrying that nameless
young Texan, Moreland, repay my long IfN, sacrifice and struggle
by what would undo them all ?"
"Oh! do not tempt me this way," cried she bitterly.
"But I will-I will leave no argument unused that will induce
you to save yourself from inisery, and me from disgrace.  ll me,
e continued after a pause, "will you follow my advice ?"
I cannot reply to you now. Leave me, I will reflect upon whMt
you have said, I need rest, and will send for you when I have de-
cided what course to pursue."
Mr. Cameron threw his arm around her, and pressing her to hinm
said: "Very well, my child, lie still and get some sleop."  Ar4
with this he turned away and left her.
Some hours later Ella's maaid entered with a letter, which she re-
ceived with emotion, and dismissing the servant that sahe might
peruse its contents in privacy-for she doubted rot it was from
Walter in reply to her note of that morning. Hastily tearig opeR
the envelope, she found her own letter enclosed. She staggered
back as if suddenly stricken by an unseen hand-her face changed
to the ghastly hue of death-the light dying out in her eys; her
very life seemed passing away from the blue, quivoring ,from
which no gound came; a thousand ages of suffering seeme concen-
trated ini that one single moment of intense anguish.

28     MORELAND'S HORRIBLE SCHEME TO .PoSSESS E L  .
"My own letter returned and unopened !" she at length ex.
claimed, and clasping her hands over her face, she wept. "These,"
she continued, "are the last tears I shall ever shed. Now, my
father, do with me as you will; I have neither the power or the
de3ire to resist. I will marry Col. Leonard, and leave the scene of
my love, my disappointment and despair, and mayI in some foreign
land find an early grave."
CHAPTER VI.
But few cities in the world can vie with New York in the number
of its low and infamous dens-in its dark and dangerous corners,
where burglars, pickpockets, murderers and thieves most do congre-
gate.
In one. of the many smoky kennels of th "Points," a dark and
dreary tap room, redolent of the smell of b- gin and worse to.
bacco, and lighted miserably-some half dozen  ugh lookirig per-
sons were seated by a greasy table in front of the b  laying cards.
Long pipes were in their mouths and glasses- before   which
were filled, when emptied, from a black bottle which stood near at
hand.
."I'm three times, Cap'n, low, jack, and the game !" said a one.,
eyed, red-haired giant, whose face locked as if it had been traveled
over by rough shod horses, it was so full of cuts and slashes.
The man he addressed as Captain, looked a trifle 'more decent
than the rest, so far as dress was concerned, but yet he was a ruffian
as well as the rest. That could be plainly seen.
"So you are ! that puts you out, and I'm stuck for the lush I"
cried the Captain.
Another "hand" was being dealt out, when a noise of approach-
ing footsteps caused every one to raise their eyes in the direction
of the door.
Two persons entered. One of them had the rough, hang-dog
look, which generally betokens the low villain-the face of the other
was partially concealed by a slouched hat, and his figure muffled in
a rough overcoat. But the glitter of a jewelled breastpin and gold
chain, as well as a finger-ring, told that, disguised though he was,
it was not likely that he belonged to the gang who made the
"boozing ken," (or drinking place) their headquarters.
"Who've you got with you, Jack!" asked the one known as
Captain.   Arn't you breakin' the rules ?"
"Not without reason, Cap'n! This here cove wanted to see you,
and tipped the blunt, so I brought him !"
"Who is he? A spy of the coppers ?"
"No. But show your figure head, sir, and do your own pattering "
TPhe stranger took off his hat and threw open his coat, revealing
the face and form of Walter Moreland. Though fierce eyes were
glaring upon him, and he was surrounded by rough men, who were,
as he well knew, -so steeped in crime that to commit 'one was a
pleasure-to avoid one a difficulty, he was perfectly calm and
collected,

AZI


MORELAND AMONG MURDEREiS, PICKPOCKETS, &amp;o.       29
"What do you want with Captain Harrell?" asked the Captain.
"Your services in a matter of importance !" said Moreland after
he had measured the Captain's calibre with a single searching glance.
"You know who I am?"
"Yes, the terror of-"
"Enough, sir 1" said the Captain roughly. "If you know, that
is sufficient, without telling of it."
"Have you plenty of 'blunt' to pay me for my work? I don't
do jobs for nothing," he continued.
"I have plenty of it. There's a specimen !" and-Moreland tosed
a purse of gold down within reach of the Captain, who took it up,
weighed it with an air that showed considerable practice in such
matters, and then put it in his pocket.
"That's talking to the pint. Sit down and have a glass of lush
and let's know what's wanted-whose wizzen is to be cut, or what
rib cracked."
"These people here ?" said Moreland, looking around the room.
"They all belong to me. You needn't be afeard of them. Look
out there, youngster, let the gentleinan's wiper alone, or I'll maul
your cocoa-nut for you."
This last remark was addressed to a ragged little urchin not over
twelve years old, who had very dexterously removed Moreland's
handkerchief from his pocket, and as in obedience to the Captain's
order, he handed it back to the owner, sniveled out: "I only done
it to keep my hand in."
"Well, there's no harm done, younker, so you needn't get briuy
about it, but keep your hands out of the pockets of our finds.
And pickin' pockets is a low business for a cracksman. You ought
to be above it if you are but a kid. Your dad would have walloped
you if he'd caught you doin' such a small business."
"Dad's lagged, and gone up, and can't wallop me any more,
said the young hopeful.
"As the twig is bent so is the tree inclined," said Moreland.
"Bring up a child in the way be should go, and when he gets old
hew-"
"He'll do just as he d---d pleases," interrupted the young
scapegrace.
"If you'd rather make your business known to me alone, there's
an inner room in the house where we can be private," said the Cap-
tain.
"I should prefer it ; and,.in the meantime, I wish to send for
my servant who is waiting outside. You need have no fear of him,"
continued Moreland, as larrell hesitated, "he is a negro, and I
defy any one to make him speak if I bid him hold his peace.
"4Well, let him come in if you wish it," said tho Captain. 4 ere,
'younker, here's my pipe for you to finish, go out in the street and
bring in the gentleman's servant."
" 'egot one of my own, old on'," replied the precious youth,
as he went out in obedience to Harrell's commands.
" He's a game on', if he is little ;" said the burglar chief, as he
'led the way into the inner room of which he had spoken. " He'li

77 771M-M,-,",


32M0RELANi's DriPRRATE PMAN MATURING.
make a tip-top-crossman, if he grows "Up as he's begun. If he don't
get too fond of lush, he'll be an invaluable-he will."
" I should think he was in a fairy for distinction in his line"
said Moreland as he followed Harrell in.
The room into whiehMoreland was introduced was far better fur-
.   nished, and had more the appearance of a poor lawyers officethan
any thing else; for various law books were.scattered about iatuere
was a desk, with writing materials in abundance; and quite a variety
of old clothes hung here and there.
"1Now you can makeoknown your business without fear of inter-
ruption," said the Captain motioning Morelanid tossat, and taking
one himself.
want you to place some of' the most daring members of ydur
band under my control for 'a short time. I have a jlr to work
which requires strong hands and a clear head, the nature of which
I must decline making known. If you, are 'willing to 'f li n
with the men Ishall choose from your band, you shall be weilpaid."
"But,"
"Don't interrupt me. Such information as it will be necessary
for you to have, I will give you.now without ybrr asking anyques-
,tions, and I shall require you to promisethat you will notattempt
to gain other information touching me or my business, than I shal'
ri           ffhink proper voluntarily to impart. Is it a bargain?
i"Yes. When will you be ready to eioose yoar men ?"
To-morrow night let your band be here.assembl  at an early
hour,- and I will then choose such as I may require for the-conan.
plated work."
All shall be ready for you "by nine o'clock, and let me ask you
o e punctual, as those whom you won't want will have other job
"I shall not keep you waiting," said Moreland, rising prepara-
tory to leaving.
"And let me," continued he, "give youfair warningthat if you
or-any of your band attempt to follow mieto-night r at any future
time, to play the spy upon my action, it will be the worse for'h
who undertakes it*,, I do not utter this as a threat butnerelyt
place you upon your guard.  And this, above all things, bear in
mind, that Fam not to be trifled with, and that you are by no means
the.first of yoipr profession with whom Ihave had dealings, and I
am fully prepared'to reward or punish those who serve me according
to their deserts.9'
cThus saying he followed Hairell into the front room, and thence,
followed by his servant, Pomp, hewent out into the street.
Walter oreland, with his back turned upon the "Points," and
,' ci           his face set towards his hotel, fell into a train of deep thought.
While the master walked on, the man, whose gift was not silence,
~~: followed with an ill-used look. For every time that honest Pomp
had ventured to offer an observation, he had been put down by a
- surly " Hold your tongue, sir !" from his master.
They had walked on for some time without conversation, and poor


0

rOMP, THE SERVANT'S ANXIETY AND RIGHT.          83
Pomp was growing desperate, when at last he burst out with this
wailing cry: "Marster !"
" Well," growled the young man, arrested by the misery of h
tcne..
" I'm tired to death, sar, with holding my tongue."
"Humph!"
"And my heart's ready to burst, sar, with having nothing; to say!"
"Talk, then.!"
Yes,sar I *Thanky, sar I" then with a sudden merry change of
tone, he said-" ' Fore de Lord, oar, I's berry glad as how we's done
got away from down yonder "
"4Humph I"
Deed is I! 'cause you see, ear, how I does belieb haw as of
we'd staid longer we'd come to grief."
"Pshaw I
'Deed does I! 'Sides which I wouldn't hab been answ'rable for
de quii quonces -"
Young mars, chile, you needn't be scornful nor lik wise m-
credible in your mind. For if ebber dis nigga saw de deol in dis-
guise dat fierce one-eyed, red-headed man was him; which it's my
full belief, as ef you'd a-staid longer, he'd 'complished your ebber-
lastin' ruination !"-
" Sirrah !"-burst forth the young man, wheeling around upon
the negro with a suddenness and fury that caused the latter to fall
back and retreat into the middle of the street, where, with wildly
rolling eyes, chattering teeth and quavering voice, he exclaimed:
"He's 'witched a'ready i I know'd it ! Oh, marster! for hebbens
sake, sar, don't look at me dat ar way, and I'll nebber do so no
"Fool! look to yourself, or you will be run over by some passing
vehicle."I
Pomp, still dreadfully frightened, slowly regained the sidewalk.
"'There, idiot ! that will do; now follow me, and whatever else
you. may do, never again to me or to any one else venture to men-
tion this subject; if you do, I shall hear of it and deal with you
accordinglyy"
"W all, 1 'lare to de Lord, I might be the greatest 'plomatist as
ebber plotted, widout gittin' any 'preciation from my young marsa,"
soliloquised Pomp as he followed his master. :
The next evening, about nine o'clock, Harrell sat in his private
room, with his feet upon the fender, before a cheerful fire, holding
in one hand a glass of hot brandy and water, and in the other the
morning paper.
A peculiar signal given by one heavy and two very light knocks
upon the door took his attention from the paper, and rising and
opening the door he demanded what was wanted.-
I'" Capt'n," said the man who was -at the door, "the cove what
was here last night's outside and wants for to see you.
' iing himn in. You are punctual," he continued, addressing
Moreland, who now entered the room.

- ~" 7 ' ~7','~ -~ -~ ""

THE HORRIBLE PLAN FULLY CoNcocm.            86
" Yes! Are your men ready for inspection "
"They're in the next room."
"Let me see them."
Follow me, and you'll see as fine a lot of fellows as ev
'cracked a crib' or 'cut a wizzen.'"s                  e
Thus saying the Captain preceded Moreland into the adjoining
apartment. After an absence of full an hour Harrell returned with
Moreland into the private room.
"'How d'you like them ?"said the f-rmer, "Aren't they a fine
lot ?"
a"The '11 do," answered Moreland, and lighting a cigar, he walked
aP and own the room for some time, evidently revolving in his
mind soine deep project; at length he stopped suddenly before the
tain, and handing him a roll of bank notes, he said:
"Here is the money I prmised you; if your men do their work
ft itlifully, this shall be doubled. You have your instructions, follow-
em and all will be well."
My eyes, but you're a rum on' and a little the coolest cqte I've
ran foul of this many a day," said Harrell as Moreland left.the
-use.
a I must be present at the wedding," said Moreland to himself
at he entered Broadway, out of a dark narrow.street through which
hi, had passed on his way from the Points. "My presence there
h1 -tdisarm Suspicion. I am playing a desperate game and cannot
bo too careful."
A few hours later Walter Moreland was on his way to Washington.
CHAPTER VII.
A short time after Ella had given her consent to the marriage
ith Col. Leonard, she received an invitation from her friend, Mrs.
,Farnsworth, to make her house her home during her stay in Wash-
and to be married there. This invitation Ella accepted.
during thEe afternoon o the da appointed for the celebration of
1:46e wedding,, Ella and her friend were seated in the parlor, gazinge
Iut of the window; neither had spoken for some tpime.lAt leg
u  bitter, mocking,.scornful laugh,'burst fom the lips of Ella g
"My dearest friend, pray, forgive   waste answer to the
beseeching glance of Mrs'. Farnsworth ;,and then, With an, easy,
graceful motion, she floated out of the room.
Slowly Ella Cameron stepped up the broad staircase; and when
she had reached the head of it, she turned o the 'iht, and entered
her own well-furnishid, handsome roome.
The sunlight was streaming in oibough the rose-colored curtains,
singing the whole interior with its own rose-hue, and Ella  alked
across the' Brussel's carpet 'and stood before the polishedm
upon her inarble top toilet table; anid, with her smal a-leqiie
ly shaped hand, she raised the bands of raven hair from her white
and polished temples, and smiled as she saw the thread-lke blu
veins traced beneath the transparent skin, and then an exrio-
'of pain swept every trace of color from her face ; she agdereg

WMr                                                                                                                         lp


f

ELLA's MARRIED WITH LEONARD.

APPEARANCE OF A SUSPICIoUS MAN.

87

back wh like weakness, and pressing her two hand
upon her brow, she sinik into a cushioned armchair. affection
6U nlovedounlovea by the man who once professed an  e
e.--unldved by the only man who ever
bordering upon idolatry for myheart,and he dreams not   non-sOf
hadi power to awaken love in my hearoan
ram poer the aaenddenwithin my bosomthe deepest an   most
dream of the love hi     felt for a human being, and he all un-
worthy o my thoughts. And yet I love him, Oh I Walter, in spite
worthy of MY togt.still !" ,I
of all, I love you, dearly love you, as purely white and cold m
She was like a marble statue, now, as pu her heaving coS
snow   Her hands were clasped so tightly over essin   os
they seemed as if knotted together, and the expression upon her
bheauiu features gave her a look Of majestic sorrow so calmly ai*
beautiful was her grief borne. She sat there silent and sad for near
o proudly w and then she roused herself with a start, and a burst 01
ty an hour, ,   ut stillrmocking laughter, that had lately been so
that low, silvery, budthen she exclaimed:
habitual to her, and   he ben    naming, and sighing, and griev.
ing; bute iteisdpassed."
t6 Ah 1 what now  ,hae
ingd ;butrig is passe humming a gay tune, and summonmg her
And, rising, sh*beanhumbridal toilet-*                 ~
maid she began preparing      Ella Cameron upon the t.ght of
Lovely as a poet's dream wasmia  a  through the nrowe f
her bridal. A murmur of admiration rantr of hn whoe cw
artments, as she entered, leaning upon the arm   of  wh
to bemeherguide and protector through life. Her robe was of White
to be her guide a n ow  r t   veil nearly swept the floor; her
glos   aique; her snowy bd  back; and the wreath of orange
lossy 'hair was plainlybadhafrea lovely contrast to its
lossoms, which encircled her heads formed are butst o nts
etty huq; her finely moulded arms were bare but     ds were
'iraceets or, ornaments of- any kind. As the solemn woid wr
race  or  hoam er   ltly uttered, the flush deepened
spoken, whichshoul never be l ghashes almost rested upon their
pon her cheeks  nt   e only, as the ceremony was ended, she raised
loinglsurfaeo Once, but as they encountered an earnest glance
ey erek usckly cast down. A momentary paleness overspread
they wer and her little gloved hand trembled upon the arm of her
herface,d eascribine this to timidity, pressed it fondly in his
wuas if to reassure hern d led her to a seat.
own,  s onrs beutiful! What grace, in every movement!
" t She is wondrous beautifu.     e acknowled es the congratu-
Row queenly she is looking nowass superb headI wonder if that
lationIS showered -upon her.- What a suebha!Iwnriftt
lations shwered0upo  her ' h" said a young naval officer
rim husband of hers appreciates er,
to a friend at his side in a low tone.eYou
"4A truce to your jesting, repld   ther grim husband, a
oungmiddies ai-e'o perfectly wild- As to her  i  be t
n er heart was never won. He worships her, and it will be the
aim of his life to make her happy. I fear 8hi will not appreciate
M     fo   while he is the soul of honor and highly intellectual, she
averi     as the sea, and fickle as the wind."
aImpossible! suich a soul could no  l uderafl' sa     e
~ ould stake my life that she is as good as batfl"si    h
poung ofiicer-

"Listen," rejoined his friend. They had withdrawn into the
shadow of a deep window, where they had a view of the whole
moving throng, while they were unobserved. "Listen to me a mo-
ment: do you see that young man leaning against the marble statue,
just opposite us? Mark his flashing eye, his palid cheek, his com-
pressed lips.  The rejoicing of this night is to him the knell of hopes
buried forever. I wonder that he is here. It must be agony to him
to witness the ceremony that unites her to another."
"He certainly does look desperate," said the officer; and judg.
ing by the fiery gleam of his eye, I should think his love charged
to hatred."
"It is reported they were once betrothed and that he has loved
her with all the passionate ferver of a child of the sunny South,'
replied his friend; "I say has loved, for I doubt not you have seen
the truth at a glance-his love imay be changed to hatred; and '1
fear that his revenge will be a fearful one."
"1The saints forbid. I would have no evil befall that blushing
rose. Despite her faithlessness, I can forgive all for the sake of
her rare beauty. But you have not told me why 'a change came
o'er the spirit of her dream.' "
"Well, thus the story runs: Walter Moreland, the son of a south-
en gentleman, who, dying, left his son Walter a fine fortune; but he
being careless, in some wild speculation, lost his all. This was not
known to Miss Cameron or her proud father until lately; but when
it came to their knowledge the match was broken off. She could
not become the bride of a poor man, and she heartlessly gave up
Moreland's love for the wealthy position and splendid establishment
of Col. Leonard."
Beauty and grace were combined in many a fair figure which flit-'
ted through the mazes of the dance. Smiles on every lip, and over
ill flashed the brilliant light from many a chandelier ; while in the
polished mirrors the bright scene was reflected again and again. No
one would have dreamed that amid the glittering pageant were
aching hearts; or that dark revengeful thoughts were Turking be.
neath the smiling hp and courteous manner of at least one in that
fair assembly.--Hours passed, guest after guest was departing, and
but few yet remained. Thus reminded of the lapse of tne, Harry
Courtley hastily bid Mrs. Farnsworth good night and left -he house.
About an hour later a tall, powerful man, apparently abot forty or
forty-five years old, emerged from a small frame house in tht utskirts
of the city.  He was dressed in a garb of black cloth, cut into a
frock, or shirt, which was secured at the waist by a broad pistol belt;
lie wore a heavy pair of riding boots, the tops of which reached
above the knees; his eyes were dark and gleaming, and deeply set
beneath the heavy brows; his mouth and chin were almost wholly
concealed by the thick grizzly beard which covered them, and vhich
hung down upon his breast; his hair hung knotted and tangle
about his broad shoulders.  A horse was fastened near, which had
the appearance of bein strong of limb and swift of foot.
"Time presses, and  must be off, lest I arrive too late," said the
stranger, springing into the saddle at a single bound, and sinking

AD

1


38    RIDE TO TIM DEPOT-FRIGHTFUL SCENES AT HAND.
the sharp rowels deep into the flanks of his horse, and holding the
reins with a nervous grip, he dashed away at a headlong rate.
On ! on ! good Casper !" he cried, speaking eagerly to his horse.
A thousand minutes seem crowded into one. Pardon the spur, par.
don the whip! Thou shalt rest after this !-On! On !"
On they went, over rocks and over sand, till they came to a point
where the path swept over the hill into the wood. Here theyturned
and sped on faster than before. , Like the wind the noble beast
leaped through the dark forest, never faltering, never swerving, till
the face of a great black ledge of rock appeared directly across the
path ahead. Here drawing rein, the stranger dismounted and close-
ly examined the earth thereabout.
Ha !" cried he, they have not yet arrived, but it will not be long
before they are here."
IHe was engaged in fastening his horse to a neighboring tree, when
he was startled by the report of a pistol; but it broke upon the ear
with so many echoes that it was impossible to tell- in what quarter
the sound originated.
CHAPTER VIII.
The carriage containing Col. Leonard and his bride, which was
to convey them to the railroad depot, was driven at a rapid pace
down the street, and having left the city the horses were urged to
their utmost speed. The blinds of the carriage being closed its oc-
cupants did not observe that they had left the city far behind and
were now dashing rapidly through a dark forest.
At length, alarmed at the delay in arriving at the depot notwith-
standing the rapid pace at which they had been driven, Leonard
opened the door of the carriage, and. looking out, comprehended
their situation at a glance. They were now ascending a long hill,
upon the one side of the road was a steep ascent, and orn the other
adeep chasm yawned, along the bottom of which a mountain tor-
rent rushed boiling and surging over its rocky bed. Leaping out,
-eonard rushed to the front of the horses, and seizing them by the
thead brought them to a sudden stop.
"Villairf! what is the meaning of this?" dried he to the men
upon thee 1,x.
One of the men jumped down, and with a tiger-like leap sprang
upon Let iard and bore him to the earth. The other ruffian was
about going to the assistance of his companion, when the horses, be-
ing frightened, became almost entirely unruly, and it was with great
dificulty that the man who had hold of the reins could keep-,hem
from rushing over the cliff dragging the carriage after them.  In
the mean time Leonard struggled manfully with his opponent. If
the rufian was agile and powerful, the Colonel was no less so; and
though taken by surprise, as he fell he drew a pistol, and:nstantly
discharged it at the head of his assailant. The ball whistled harm.
lessly by, and the surer weapon of the ruffiap's grasp was employed'
to as deadly a purpose. The Qaolonel felt that he was being dragged
to the edge of' the precipice. The desperation of intense fear lent


7

LEONARD'S HORRIBLE DEATH.                  89
him strength to resist, but in vain for his own preservation. Slowly
the struggling twain neared the horrid brink, till they stood upon
its direct verge,-when despairing of future attempts to save himself,
Leonard fastened with vice-like grip upon the belt of his adversary,
whose last reckless effort precipitated 'both into the dreaded gulf
together!
Ella, who was a horrified witness of the death of her husband,
fell back insensible as' the last sharp cry of the murdered man
reached her ear as his'body fell a mangled mass upon the icy rocks
a hundred fathoins down. After some time the remaining ruffian
succeeded in quieting the horses, and descending from his seat,
walked to the edge of the precipice and gazed into the pitchy dark-
ness.  He listened, but he could hear nothing except the roaring 4
the wind and the rush of waters.
" Well, they're both done for, that's certing," said he, "pooe
Jack,'he's gone up.  Well, he died game.  My eyes, but won't the
Cap'n cu.s some when he hears tell of this night's'work ? I wouldn t
like to be that cove what hired us to do this job.,- When Cap a
Harrell hears of this he'll make him come down heavy with tie
blunt or he'll know the reason why.-.-But while I stand pattering
Tere that gal might cut her lucky, and then I'd;be in for it with a
yuengeance.' Thus sying, he stepped into the carriage, and taking
the inanimate formed Ella in'his powerful arms;"ie lifted her out
as easily as if she had been a child. "Taking a battle from his pocket
Ire moistened her lips and bathed her forehead with its contents,
which soon restored her to consciousness. Unfastening one of ti.e'
horses from the carriage, the man took her again in his arms, azd
mounting the horse rode into the woods.  It had now become suffli
_etirtly light to enable the ruffian to see a considet-able distance
ahead, and he urged thle horse onward with a4 much speed as, pra-
ticable. As soon as Ella was sufficiently recovered to realize her
situation aind.remember the past, she began struggling to free ler-
self, but as well might the lamb strive to escape the claws of the
lion, or the hare the eagle's gallons.
"Unhand me, wretch !" she cried, "will not the death-of my
husband satisfy your thirst for blood, but you must seek he life of
a defenceless woman! Fi nd! Monster!! COWARD!!!
"Easy, easy, my lady bird,.I don't intend to do y~u no particu-
lar harm; but don't call me ugly names, I can't stand that; it riles.
me, and when my bloo s up I might be rough with you."
At this moment theii further progress was impeded by the strange
horseman whom we de cribed in the last chapter.
"Stop ." said he, "  hither are you carrying that lady against
her will ?"
"Move out of my wa , Mister, or I'll put an ounce of cold lead
in your bread;basket;"- aid the-ruffian, coAtinuing to advanees
" Oh ! save me, sir, wh ever you are, and heaven will reward you!t
Oh ! save me from aL worse than death !" cried Ella, frantically.
he villain now produced a pistol anId presented it at the -east
of the stranger, w.io, before lhe could fire, sent a bullet crashing
through the ruffian s brain. As soon as he knew that his shot had

N


N

ELLA ROBBED BY HARRELL, THE ROBBER CHIEF.

41

40        WALTER MORELAND S SCHEME SUCCESSFUL.
done 1L6 work, the stranger caught Ella in his arms as she fell from
th!e dl splunl I thank and reward you, generous sir !" exclaimed
OhElla.al       t a k
t erthat question."  Thus saying he
threw aside the false hair and whiskers, n  alter Morelnd stood
before the astonished Ella.
CHAPTER IX.
After the adjournment of Congress the term for  wh her bus-
banld wats electd having expired,  r.Frsorhrmvdt
ew York City, and Ella Cameron, or rather Mrs. Leonard, was
her guest.                            Mrs. F rnsworth's large
In the splendidly furnished parlorsof         o   th lae one
and handsome house, two persons were sitting togethervite oe
night. They were youthful, of opposite sexes ,and evidently, lovers.
Bot.h  y were anlyo , oand handsome, the lady especially so.
Both were elegatldy Ere e ,gentlkman Walter Moreland. After he
hady scueElla from the ruffian who was bearing her offhern the
had rescued     i     water had conducted her safely to hrftert
night of her wedding, Walterbad conducted hrsfl ohrfter
ant as a reward for his timely aid Mr. Cameron had consent
bds    un r r   h   lly daughter; he also explained to them
bestow upon him his loveerletter and returned it to her.  All had
ho     rg he had intercept eon lovers were to be married early in the
been~forgiven, and the young
Io11wingautumn.                                   u  f  i-
Thewin a   n        the mantlepiece indicated the hour of mid-
The dainty clock upon temncrse, many soft endearmelits,
night, when, withI many tender caresses,) aysf edamns
iht lovers se  ted, and the young man departed from the house.
Uonthe rsseparateae of her lover, the lady cast herself upon
Upon the disappearance    d that her thoughts were of a pleasant
character, the smile that wreathed her bright red lips fully indicated.
Suddenly the door of the room was very silently opened, and a
manentered the apartme, and without disturbing the lady, glided
anftly  re tohe apar(This was a new servant-one John Weston,
as he called himsef-who had beert engaged by Mrs. Farnsworth,
on his own application but a few days previous.)   J
After regaraling the beautiful Ella for a few moments, John made
Aftrapigardwmht at on'e aroused the lady from her abstraction.
a scraping bow t t  nearound exclaimed:
"Whats the mtr John'? I did not ring."
"6 What's the miatter,th  e ? is"
" I thought I heard teblMs.
You were nstakn    de no offer to retire. After a few mo-
john stood still and maden
ments the lady added::-
"You can go, John
Yes, Miss."
Still John remained motionless uphe sointentl readn
Ella-she noticing thea dieto of aris ey, Johnid"

ii
A
~

1I was thinking how handsome you are, Miss; and wondering
which I should rather have, you or your diamonds."
At first Ella flashe upangrily, but the next moment she seemed
to. take another view of the speech and laughed heartily.
A  nd which do yofx think you would prefer ?" she inquired with
a smile.
I)rawing up his figure to its full height, and instantly changing
'Fis whole appearance, John responded in an entirely altered tone of
vuice:
The jewels!"
The lady gazed at the servant in utter amazement. He was an
altered being, no longer the humble menial, but a bright, quick,
Airm, resolute man.,
" What is the meaning of this'?" she demanded in tones of alarm.
Quick as a flash the man stepped close up beside her and grasped
her arm.
"I1want them jewels, and everything else of value you have
about!" he exclaimed intones that were not to be mistaken.
"Would you rob me'?"
"Yes, robbery is my business !"
Ella would have screamed out with the terror of her emotions, but
H1arrell-for it was he-quickly clapped his hand over her mouth and
smothered the sound. Then drawing a pistol from his pocket with
his other hand, he said:
- If you value your life, keep quiet, and do what I tell you-"..
Then removing his hand from the hidy's mouth, he continued:
" As I told you afore, Ma'am, I'll take them jewels and what.
ever else you've got of value."
Silently Ella divested herself of her valuable diamonds, and emp,
tied her pursetf its glittering contents; and as she laid down each
article Ilprrell picked it up and dropped it into his pocket. At
length the robber seemed satisfied.
" I believe, Ma'am, that the diamonds are the most valuable things
in the house, and I'll not look any further,"-said Ilarrell, as with a
quick, catlike movement, he glided out of the rooui.
WhenMoreland was told of what had happened, 'he determined
to capture the robber; but how could Walter hope to entrap this
daring and cunning man, when all the police of New York could
not accomplish that result'? Well informed as the young man cer-
tainly was, he had undertaken a difficult task.  How he prospered
we shall see.
The next day an article appeared in the  apers stating that if
John Weston would call at Mrs. Farnsworth's at such a time on
such a;n evening an offer would be made him for certain articles in
his possession that would fully compensate him for returning them.
This was Walter Moreland's first move, and simple enough it
seemed ; and yetits transparency was just the thing to provoke the
reckless and defiant spirit of Harrell.
The night indicated in the advertisement arrived and everything
was ,prepared for the robber's capture in case he should make his
ppearanPe. At the hour named Hiarrell mounted the steps, rang


F'

42 UA~RELL iS KILLeD--ELLA AND MORELAND ARE MARRIED.
4-2 HARELL I  ILthe house. Fifteen
the bell loudly and boldly, and was ushered into the dese.  te
inteslatr, With a wildly beating heart, Ella descended to, the
or for th purpose of recog'iziIg the tyhyouief.
"arorfsee oukno me,"said Ilarrelli, "and I know wyNouad
1see you know me, ha     You thought you'd trap me and get
e o m e  h e r e -  Y o  h      'oL       a f
Ell diaonds.t I'll bet what You dare the piNaenoter
So         rt know the man you have s
the robber drewa   pair of pistolsufrom hie pcets fe you hsdead-
Wo th or makeeasgn to bring the police down on me, YoU'ref a odo
b fo an me here e   o  sh eow i e  f ru  sthat e I'm  not  feared  and  I  o at
h d aormane aBinglehqickon   lce    a    r
wean   be takenhe s ar  e dozen lives in saving  my aoan
Ella was trembling violently,  t haver the bmtters fof  he h
she now regretted having had any 1sand ind  atten  o   te
lest she realized her perilous situation.1
Th nx keen s fixed intently on herd   fotedace, and his dead-
Wtheaonsleeledea her swelling bosom, the robber-chief stood
ee ratonlevery ctrnation of a desperate onrelentig resolution
Instantly he  rber 's sul ws m rmstuean ut  e oresh  ad
th anorimpulse of the wildestfear,h trned afelher.d ta
thdoar  A single, quick bound played Harrellbesieh.  Acyo
lug her by the shoulder he exclamex     nt
Andterr e and I'll blow your   emra  ble rapi  ha
hlaughe, Wt  afol$o must have taken me for          e'"
Th e  n e  am nt  W alter  M oreland'and  an   do wn lt en d
the rOom.  As quick as thoughtEl    uhdfrtedoada
pshe reached it, she turned and cried:
uGentlemen, that is the man f a iponbUllein
fInstantly the robbers soul was in arms.  Uoterithe ads
justrecrded Ela mae a  efort to retreat; but befoeshta
)iapardfomsgt,' iarrell sent a bullet after here      it
loud scream she fell to the floor woundela     d ery ofudto
e     dterro went up, and the next moment
police  rushed ua the  robber. oW ith e  e r e  apid de  ar ref
v eld i  eaineist fat Moreland andt tshot him drwn  then
dhi   the empty weapon at the head of the foremost      gend
th as aicly as  il athi   he leaped from the window and
feldead on the pavement below, with a doze  ul  t  89hs  oy
fellme e reansd wereconveyed into other apartment and a
phyiciandsumoeda   tted them.,. Their wounds were found to
be quite serious but not necessary mortaadcrflnrigut
lately restored them to health and strength.
Immediately upon their recovery they were married, and every
thig  eig n readiness beforehand, they too  herdea     turo
h e h  f the bride in the sunny South,  heewite5oms     1o
with its icy blasts to chill the heart's  ongafetons bt en
sulkuerevr eigns supreme, and where lovely womn,    eaven"
Choicest gift to man, blooms and ripens to perfection.

OF
CHARLES L. MARSHALL,
AND HIS LOST BRIDE,
CORNELIA DUNNINGTONT.
My history affords a frightful example of the vicissitudes of for.
tune. My father, who was more'distinguished by his virtue and
superior attainments than by his wealth, enjoyed that consideration
which is always due to personal merit. He gave to the education
of my two sisters the attention of a tender father; but above all
he occupied himself with mine, with the zeal of an old gentleman
jealous of the honor of his name.
I learned horsemanship, gymnastics and sword exercise, atAa
school in Philadelphia, where these branches of a gentleman's educa-
tion were taught. At this school I'made the acquaintancelo
young man, named Percy Elmore, who distinguished himself armoff
the scholars by the most amiable qualities. To the charms of a
face, at the same time handsome and noble, he joined a cultivated
mmd. The uncommon address which he displayed in our games,
the modesty with which he strove to conceal his own and to ealt
the merits of his companions . the urbanity of his manners,"he
sereneness of his temper; fixed the attention, commn ded theesteem,
and rendered him dear to that brilliant circle of youth wh 8hked
our labors and our pastime. To say that it was a reseinblanco of
character that brought about a friendship between Young -Elmore
and myself, would be praising myself very'much but however that
may have been, it is certain that we soon became very intimate.
How happy is that stage of existence-but oh! how siftly does
it pass away-when we are yet ignorant bioth of the ambition w which
sacrifices everything to the pursuit of fortune and of gloy, and of
that love-which absorbs all our faculties, and centres them upon one
only object; that age of innocent pleasures' and ,of confiding cre-
dulity, when the heart, yet new, follows freely the impulses of its

'~1


46           ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALL
rising sensibility, and gives itself without division to the object of
its disinterested affection. Then friendship is not merely a name.
The confidant of all the secrets of Mr. Elmore, I concealed on my
part nothing from him; his counsels ruled my conduct, mine influ-
enced his, and thus our school days had no pleasures which were not
divided, no cares which were not lightened by that pleasing reciproci-
ty of feeling. With what grief I saw the fatal moment arrive when
Young Elmore, forced by paternal orders toquit Philadelphia, bade
me farewell I We promised to preserve through all time that strong
attachment, whichh had been the happiness of .our youth, and I boldly
swore that the passions of a more advanced age should never alter
my feelings.
What a void was left in my heart by the absence of my friend !
At first it seemed to me that nothing could remunerate me for his
loss. The tenderness of a father, the affection of my sisters, when
I, too, returfled to my native town, but slightly consoled me. Per-
ceiving that there was no other way to divert my mind from its
grief than to occupy it with some useful labor, I learned the French
language, and applied myself earnestly to the study of the politics
of the country and the law. Several years were employed in these
studies, until at length they occupied me entirely. Percy Elmore
wrote to me often, but received in return short and dull answers;
our correspondence languished more and more, until at length love
triumphed over friendship.
My father had been for a long time an intimate friend of Captain
Dunnington, a gentleman of great wealth, renowned in our neigh-
borhood for his austerity of manner, and for the inflexibility 'of his
attachment to the political principles he espoused. Mr. Dunnington
might well be called a brave man as a politician, for he had signa-
lized himself by freely expending his money in more than one
campaign. Like those ancient heroes of whom we read, Captain
Dunnington would have sacrificed all his wealth to the prosperity and
success of his party, he would have shed the last drop of his bWood
in defence of the platform of his principles; he would even have
sacrificed his' only daughter-his dear Cornelia.
Cornelia ! how beautiful she was ! how much I loved her .ther
lear name is ever upon my lips-her adored image in my heart!
when I had seen er, I thenceforth saw nothing but her. I abandon-
ed my studies, my friendship was entirely forgotten, I consecrated
all my moments to Cornelia. It was impossible that my father or
hers should long remain ignorant of my attachnment; but they spoke

MMO P'llp


IN
no,,
IoI
oii'  ~

AND HIS LOST BRIDE CORNELIA DUKNINGTON.         47
not of it, -and therefore I supposed approved it.. I accordingly en.
joyed without inquietude my new and blissful emotion. I contrived
to see her almost every ,day, ,either at.her own home -or at that of
my sisters,: whom she: loved very much. Thus two yeafs passed
away,; during which time I. paid' no particular attention to political
matters.
At length Captain Dunnington called me aside one day, and said
to me:
" Your father and myself, Charles, have hitherto founded great
hspes upon you, which your conduct at first seemed to justify.; for
we saw you duriig a long time employ yourself in labors as honora-
ble as they are useful. Now"-
He saw that I was about to interrupt him-and prevented me..
"What would you say to me ? - Do you suppose that you can tell
me anything of which I am ignorant? Is it, necessary for me to
be every day a witness of your transports to know how much Cor-
nelia merits to be loved?  It is because I know as well as you what
she deserves, that you shall never obtain 'her except by meriting
her. Young man, know that it is not enough that weaknesses are
legitimate to make them excusable. , Those of a good citizen ought
all to turn to the profit of his country'; for even love itself Mwould
be, like the viler passions, contemptible and dangerous, if it did not
offer to generous hearts one motive the more to excite them to honor.
Listdn,: the strength of our party in this Congressional District is
failing. and I wish to be its' candidate for Congress. This has
awakened the ambition of my personal opponents, 'and they are
prying themselves, without doubt, to sow. dissension among us
the' design , by forcing the suffrages of the people, to give Ub a
nomination of their choice. Already a number of active young
men have started out canvassing votes' for me; go at; once to 'tie
city-this, very day-and join' yourself to that patriotic band-which
I have had secretly organized there; show yourself, by your actions
during the campaign, to be, worthy of my: daughter. aHere is a
letter of'-instructins. - Follow them!"
I took the letter and did not hesitate a moment.  My father ap-
proved my decision-.he belonging to the same party-b$t it was
with reluctance',that he consented to my. precipitate departure that
day. 'Captain Dunnington was present when I bade Cornelia farewell"
It was a. sad, moving'-scene, for she h4d read so much about the
dangers. attendant upon, an election campaign in a city which con-
tained its seet bands: of organized politicians, thatphe' greatly-
feared for my safety. She wept freely.


I

"Dry your tears, child," he said to her stoically, "or keep them
until after you are wedded. It is not fitting for my daughter to
weepover a brief separation from her lover."
Cornelia turned pale, sighed,. glanced blushingly at her father,
and assured me with a trembling voice, that her prayers should
hasten my return, and that her happiness was in my hands.
Thus encouraged, what danger could appal me? I departed and
attached myself to one of the polite il clubs of the city; but'noth-
ing occurred in the course of that -cmpaign for nominating a can-
didate for Congress worthy to be recorded, except that by general
consent, Captain Dunnington was laid asideingorer to give room
for a new aspirant, with the distinct understanding, however, that
the forjner should receive the nomination for Governor by the Con-
vention for selecting the candidate for that office, which would meet
in a few months hence.
I returned home full of impatience and joy, not doubting  ut
that I might immediately claim the 'hand of Cornelia. Horrible
news awaited me. I hadno longer a father, for I learned that he
had died four days previously of appoplexy!  He was already
buried 1 Thus I had not even the sad consolation of receiving the
last blessing of the most tender of parents. I could only go to his
tomb, which I watered with my tears. On returning from the
grave-yard I met Captain Dunnington, who seemed but little moved
at my grief.
"It is not with useless tears," said he to me,  that the memory
of a father; like yours, should be honored. Odr party mourns in
him a&amp;hero-citizen, who would have usefully served it in the sp.'
proaching-.crisis. He was formerly a member of Assembly from
this district, and doubtless would have been selected as a delegate
to the Gubernatorial Convention ; and on the choice of the delegate
to that body from this district depends my nomination. Of all the
rights, your. father has transmitted to you that of representing this
districtin the forthcoming convention, if you are selected, is with-
out doubt, the most important. It is in such positions that he ought
to live again in you. If you are appointed as the delegate, which
I doubt not you will be, you will have to exhibit a courage far
greater than that which consists only in braving death upon the
battle field. The valor of the soldier is only a common virtue
but they are no ordinary myp who, preserving a tranquil courage
iii the greatest emergencies of State, discover the projects of pow
edful conspirators, defeat dangerous plots,.affront hardy factions

ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALLS

48

:51

Li

'who, always firm, incbrruptible and just, give their sufrages to him
only whom they deem most worthy ; who consider nothing but the
welfare of their country; whom neither gold nor 'golden promises
can seduce; whom -prayers cannot move nor menaces alarm. These
are 'virtues which distinguished your father. This is the truly pre-
cious heritage you ought to receive from him.
"The'day when a candidate for the next Governor is nominated,
will be the certain epoch in which wiR be manifested the pretensions
of several citizens, who are more occupied with their personal in-
terests than watchful of the prosperity of their countrypand their
party, and of the pernicious designs of our opponents, whose policy
would destroy the strength of our land by dividing it. Charles, I
much deceive myself, or the time is at hand, which will forever fix
the destiny of my future political life. My enemies-are conspiring
my political ruin. They have prepared, in secret conclave, a plan
to again thwart my ambition, which, if I can help -it, they shall
never consummate. I wish you to second my efforts. I cannot
now give you my daughter, because I consider the organization of
our party is in danger.  But I promise you that when you bring
me the news that I have received the nomination for Governor, you
shall have her."
Captain Dunnington was a monomaniac in politics, and, as Iknew
his nature, I listened to him calmly. I was well aware I should
have many' important duties to perform in order to secure him the
nomination, (for he was not-ver popular with the younger members
of the party torwhichahe belonged,) but I undertook them the more
freely because they would, in some degree, divert my mind from its
harrowing grief caused by my father's demise. I avow it with
shame, that the sadness and compassionate grief of my sisters was
banished by the more reserved but not the less valued caresses of
Cornelia. I saw that she was affected at iny irreparable loss, and
as much afflicted as myself at the cruel events which deferred our
marriage. My grief, 'thus shared, became sensibly lessened.
In the meantime the convention was called. I had been appoioted
a delegate, and made my way to the county town. The day on
which it was to open, and at the moment I was about to repair to
the court-house wherein it was held, an unknown person presented
himself in my room At the hotel, and requested to see me privately.
When the servant who conducted him 10my apartment retired, the'
stranger threw. himself into my arms and embraced me. It was
Percy Elmore! The four years which had rassed since our separa-

AND mIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA ,DUNNINGTON.


52         ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALL.
tion, had not changed him so much but that I was able to recognize
him, and I showed the surprise and joy which his unexpected
presence gave me.-
" You will be yet more surprised;" he said, "when you know the
cause of my being here. I have this moment arrived, and am about
going to the convention. Is it too much to presume upon your
friendship to count upon your vote ?"
"'Upon my vote?  And for whom ?" said I.
For me, my friend !" retorted he, smiling.
He saw my astonishment, and continued-
"Yes, for. me. There is not time to relate to you what happy
revolution in my fortune permits me to nourish such high hopes;
Jet it suffice for you to know, that, at least, my ambition is justified
by the greatest number of sufrages, and that, in ,,ain, two feeble
rivals prepare to dispute with me the nomination for Governor to
which I now aspire."
"Marshall," he continued, "if you were not my friend, or if I
esteemed you less, perhaps I would attempt to dazzle you with
promises;.perhaps I would show you what favors await you in case
of my election, what honorable distinctions I would bestow. But
I do not wish to seduce you, I only want to persuade you to vote
for me."
It matters but little what language my friend used in his en-
deavors to gain my vote ; let me 'merely mention that his reasons
were so cogent that I voted for hita when the convention met, having
seen that there was no earthly'hance for Captain Dunnington to
receive, the nomination. After the adjournment of the body, and
without seeing Mr. Dunnington, I returned home, and hastened to
his house He was walking to and fro with rapid pace in the apart-
ment of his daughter, to which aservant conducted me.- Cornelia,
who was in the room, seemed:as much agitated as himself.
" Behold 1" he said to her, when he saw me appear, "Behold the
man whom I esteemed, and you loved, and who has sacrificed us
both to his friendship for another !".
I was about to answer to exculpate myself, but he continued-.
"You have been intimate from childhood with Percy Elmore,
who is now the candidate of our party for Governor of the State,
supported by apowerful faction of my opponents.' You knew it !
You knew his designss! 1 u voted for him and deceived me!
But think no that a man can deceivemu*e with impunity I" .
I begged' him to hear mDe, and while he constrained himself to an

AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.
angry silence, I explained to him how Mr. Elmore had suddenly
came upon me and informed me of his brilliant prospects for the
nomination, and how I had only voted for him after seeing there
was no chance for my own candidate. Cornelia appeared delighted
at my justification, but her father interrupted me-
"Think not that I am to be deceived like a credulous woman I"
,said he; "but proceed."
I then gave him a brief account of all that took place between
Mr. Elmore and myself. I had scarce concluded,-when he approached
me with the utmost impetuosity, and cried-
"You are a Traitor!   Depart this instant from my house, or I
will have you dragged from it by my servants!"
An affront so cruel incensed me beyond measure, and in the
transport of my wrath I drew a revolver from my pocket. Quicker
than lightning Captain Dunnington drew one also..But his trembling
daughter threw herself 'between'us.
"Charles !" she said, "what would you do ?"
At the sound of that dear voice I regained my reason; but I
felt that in another instant Cornelia was likely to be taken from
me forever. -She left me to throw herself into the arms of her
father. That cruel man saw my bitter grief and strove to augment it.
"Go! Traitor, go!" said he, "you have seen her for the last
tune I"
I returned home in despair. The odious epithets which he had
heaped upon me recurred without cessation to my thoughts. I
could not imagine how I could betray one friend so deeply by bene-
fating another, who would have succeeded to the position independent
of my assistance, whilst the other, with all my aid, stood no chance
$Whatever for it. ,I passed the entire night in that uncertainty; and
when the day dawned, I went to the residence of Captain Dunning.
ton, determined to effect some sort of a reconciliation. I .found
neither him nor his daughter. One of the men employed on the
plantation informed me that the Captain had departed the previous
evening -with Cornelia. I inquired whither they had gone.
"I am ignorant of that," replied the man; "all I can tell you
is that you had scarcely gone from here yesterday evening, when a
noise was heard in the apartment of his daughter. . Being near the
chamber door at the time, I ventured to listen. Miss Cornelia wept,
whilst her father, furious with wrath, swore; and I heard him say,
"iShe who is able to love a traitor is able to be one. Ungrateful
girl, I shall place you in a safe retreat, where you will hei eafter be
shieldled 'from seduction !"'

K


:;i

-DVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALL.
How gieat now was my misery! I went home and mounted a
horse, determined to search the country over until I found her.
While in this frame of mind, and undecided what course to take,
in order to learn the whereabouts of my betrothed, I received, a
letter from Galveston, Texas, in which it was stated that I would
find it to my 'advantage to come to that city, as those I sought were
then there. I immediately set out for Galveston, and after a jour-
ney of five weeks reached my destination. I could find no one,
however, who had seen or heard tell of -them. .I concluded I was
thus led astray and duped .by Captain Dunnington's cunning, in or-
der that I might be cured of any future attempt at finding his
daughter. I was about returning, and had just, settled my bill at
the hotel, when, on going to the reading room, I was accosted by a
rather rakish looking person, who-told me that, for a hundred dollars
in cash,4 he would put me in possession of the lady in whom I
appeared to be so much interested. Surprised at the fellow's unex-
pected appearance as well as curious proposition, I questioned him
as' to the lady's name. To my astonishment he mentioned it. and
said she was imprisoned in a small farm house about nine miles
distant. To this place, towards evening, he conducted me, after I
had paid him his price. 'However, instead of finding her I so
anxiously sought, the moment I entered the door of the hut, (for it
was nothing else,) I was roughly seized by a couple of branny fel-
lows, who commenced robbing me of everything I possessed. On
pain of being instantly shot, I gave up my watch, breastpin and
money without making any show of resistance. One of them then
took possession of my. coat, placing on me his ragged one for a
substitute. After noting me fQr a love sickfool, the pair of villains,
together with my rascally conductor,.started off in high glee witlh
three cheers for Captain Dunnington. Prior to teir leaving me I
was bound hand and foot, and tightly fastened with my back to the
wall. I struggled in vain to undo the cords that- confined me by
the wrists, and was about giving up in despair, when to my horror
and astonishment, I fohnd the villains had fired the cabin on tl'e
outside,! In a few minutes the clapboard roof was in a blaze, and
the room I was in became instantly filled with smoke! Soon the
flames were crackling over my head, and large pieces of the blazng
roof were falling upon me. 'The idea of being burnt alive was
shocking, 'and I renewed my exertions, to free myself from my
bonds. The fire was becoming hotter and hotter, and I was on the
point of being roasted alive, when fortunately a piece of burning
board fell and lodged directly on my two wrists which were tied to-

I

55

gether! 'The cuffs of the old coat were quickly on fire, as was also
the rope which 'confined me. The pain was excruciating, but I
suffered the awful torment until the rope burnt suficiently to allow
me to break it, which I did by a superhuman effort. The moment
my wrists were free I began untying the cord which bound me to
the wall, scarcely having done which, the entire room was in a blaze!
I darted out the door with all speed, and it was lucky I did'- for at
that moment the roof fell in with a terrible crash.
I was now in a miserable plight, and regretted having allowed
myself to be decoyed into so foul a snare. But there was no help
for it. So I wended my way back to Galveston, resolved on the
next day to wreak my vengeance on the foul villains who had thus
misused me; and I further determined that in'case I met Cptain
Dunnington he should answer to me personally for the vile actA pf
his hired emmissaries.
It was -midnight when I reachedGalveston, and the streets were
deserted. I made my way to the hotel,' where my appearance excited
the sympathy of the landlord and several of the guests who had
not yet retired. All were loud in'their condemnation of the villain-
ous outrage which had been perpetrated upon me, and a company
was made up to go in search of the. authors of the deed the next
morning. My wrists were but slightly injured by -the fire, and I
agreed to accompany the party who one and all made up their minds
to hang the rascals without mercy should we catch them. Atseven
in the morning the body of mounted men, who were to accompany,
weve 'all in readiness, and we made directly for the cabin to which
I had been decoyed. We found a mass of smouldering embers. , A
division of the force was then agreed upon, some going north and
tho others west. The party which I accompanied soon came upon
the trail of the desparadoes, who had taken a short cut through a
freshly ploughed field. After half an hours' hard riding we suidden-
ly came in view of them, as they were sitting round a liquor bottle,
buily engaged in a game of cards. We rode in upon them with,'a
shout, and in a few minutes had them prisoners. . They prayed us
mercy, but it was not granted. One of them earnestly entreated
me to spare him, and"in answer to my question as to ihat part
CAptain Dunnington had taken in the matter, he replied that that
ge;ntlemza had only intimated to them that he wished me to be
laughed at, not abused; but that the sight of the watch,-and the
money I was supposed to be the possessor of, was the sole incentive
unich led them to rob and bind me; and that in ordersto-cover the
Pi tme of the robbery they had set the hut on fire. This villain: I

AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.


'

ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALV-
would hai a spared, but the gentlemen who accompanied me insist
on serving them all alike. Wo now formed ourselves into a court; tried
them, and found them guilty of robbery, and, an attempt to murder.
They were sentenced to be hanged to the nearest tree, allowing
them half an hour to pray. . But . one of them, however, availtd
himself of the benefits of prayer, while the other two heaped upon
us all manner of imprecations. The time allowed being up, we
commenced hanging them. This was quickly gone through With,
and a hole being scraped out of the soft earth with snome points
sticks, we huddled them together and covered them over with dirt
and leaves. V e then returned to Galveston, from whence, after
remaining a few days longer, I took my departure for home.
Having lost eight weeks in my painful search I now resolved to s.k
for her in the various cities. After much inquiry in New York, 1 ea ee
upon a person who had seen Captain Dunnipgton the day b-fure.
I sent this -party to seek out the place where he was stopping, if
possible, and bring me word. I instructed him, when he once saw
theCaptain, not to lose sight of him, but to follow him wherever
he went. In, two days my agent. returned and apprised me tbat he
ha4 observed the Captain take a carriage and ride in the dirnotion
of the Jersey City Ferry, whither he followed him. The yiver
was crossed, with my spy on the same boat with the Captair.- and.
when the slip was reached both parties-started on foot., Night was
fast approaching, yet the Captain walked briskly on up the it-reet
and out of the town, still followed by my agent. The sun unkt
below the earth, and the stars refused to shine, but the pedestrian
walked on. Several hours passed, and there was as yet n, -sign
that the Captain's journey was concluded. By this time ho- was
aware that'he was watched. At length he stopped to rest himself,
and cast a glance towards, the man who was following him. MY
agent secreted himself behind some. old ruins,, to screen himself
from observation. Presently the Captain rushed up and seized. him,
ad with a pistol in his fiand, forced him, to confess who it was that
ent him on his prying expedition.
"IABill send you back to the traitor !" said he, addressing my
agent, "sa- tell him for me that he shall not escape my just. ven-
,anesr" .With these words he dismissed him end bade him take.
maiof-.
I@se ,i   s gave me great anxiety, though the threats of 'Dun.
alarmed me far1, les for myself than for Cornelia, who
n   iTs power. I knew that he was able in his wroth to
paese tb' greatest severity towar'ds her, notwithstanding she was

AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.
his only child, and oheriass, nd I'exp6sed inyelf to e  il
to discover his retreat and her prison.
After spending'three months in vain searches, despairing of being
able to find my lost love, for a time I gave myself up to 'grief.
was on my return home, when. an extraordinary and dangerous
encounter forced me to take a very different course. I started for
my residence on horseback, preferring that mode of travelling to
the more modern and swift railroad car. On the evening of a
beautiful day, in October, I was leisurely walking my animal down
the turnpike which crosses the Blue Mountains between the towns of
Emmittsburg, Md., and Waynesborough, Pa, when, on a sudden, I
was attacked by four men, evidently robbers. Fdrtunately I was armed
with a revolver. Two of the villains seized the riins of my horse's
bridle, whilst the other two attempted to drag me from his back. I
hesitated not an instant, but fired at one of the two-who were trying
to unhorse me. He fell with a scream of agony, while the others
took to their heels through the thick shrubbery that covered the
mountain side, foar balls from my revolver following them. I die-
mounted, and was about putting another bullet"into the wounded
robber, when he begged of me, in a faint voice, to listen to what he
had to say. He then spoke as follows:
"As brave-a man as you are ought to be generous. I ask of
you my life. Friend, instead of killing me; bind lip this dreadful
wound in my arm."
He craved quarter in so piteous a manner, that I assisted him to
his feet. I then took from my pocket a handkerchief and bandaged
his arm. Whilst doing this, I observed a crowd of ten or twelve
men hastily descending the side of the mountain on which we were
standing.. A horrid presentiment of instant death ,came over me,
for my pistol then contained but a single charge. The robber be-
side me, noticing my fear and agitation, said in a calhm voice:
"iFear nothing, young man ! I am the leader of those men andi
they will not harm You when they see that I am alive !
By a signal of his hand he checked the approach of the band,
who were hastening towards us. He then spoke again:
.4"'Friend, the day is now departing, and I advise you not to travel
farther down this mountain to-night. Some of my men are on tfieir
posts, and as I cannot see them until to-morrow, I will not be- re-
sp,.msible for your safety. Below here you will find a pathway that
leads to a rude, though strongly built house, belonging to' a rich-old
man, who, villain as he is, once did me a grevious injury. Go' you
to that house, and ask him to give you an asylum for the night.

I

I


60

A DVENTURE OF CHARLES MARSHALL.

Tell him you were beset by the robbers, and that you had wounded"
their leader. He must know me, because I have already caused
him some unhappy days. He robbed me of my patrimony, when I
was an infant, and made me what I am. Do not leave there in less
t an three' days, if he will allow you to stay, and make your visit
IMst no longer than eight."
The advice of the robber-chief, with his dozen assassins but a
hundred yards from me, was of course not to be refused ; therefore I
quickly mounted my horse, and pursued the path which struck, off
from the main road, a few rods farther down the mountain. It
led me down into a deep and rugged ravine, through which 'it ran
for several miles. At length I came to what appeared to have once
been an old stone castle, with a high tower still standing. There
was a ditch surrounding the building, over which led a drawbridge.
There was, however, no water in the ditch.. Jumping from- my
horse, I fastened him to a tree; going to the gate I rapped loudly.
An extremely ugly negro answered my summons, and demanded
my name. I answered that my name was Dunnington, for I had
travelled under this cognomen the better to mislead the father of
Cornelia, should he hear of any one making inquiry after his daugh-
ter. Presently I was admitted. The negro informed mehat the master
was away and would not return until the morrow.  however wel-
comed me. A frugal repast was spread, of which Ipartook, and
at an early hour I retired to bed,.in a room on the ground fl6or. I
soon fell asleep, and did not awaken until daybreak. On trying to
pass out I found the door locked on the outside, so that I could not
open it, and I made my exit from the room through a window into
a garden, beautifully and.tastefully laid out. After walking about
a few minutes I seated myself on a stone bench at the foot of the
tower, and occupied myself in observing its singular architecture.
While thus absorbed in thought, a piece of slate tile dropped upon
me apparently from the roof of the old building; and, to avoid a
similar accident, I removed to the opposite end of the bench. A
few minutes afterwards a second piece of slate fell near me. The
accident seemed surprising ; I arosealarmed; I examined the tower
attentively, and perceived.at the distance of twenty-five or thirty
feet from the top a window. I picked up the tiles that had been
cast down, and on the first I deciphered these- words scratched with
a pin:-                .~
"Charles ! Is it you?  You still live !"
On the second was written:
"4Oh, deliver me-save Cornelia!"

It is impossible for anyone to imagine what diverse sentiments
agitated me at that moment. My astonishment, my grief, my em..
barrassment, were inexpressible. I examined the prison of Cornelia,
and sought how I should be able to rescue her from it.
She threw down another piece of slate, on which I read:
"At midnight bring me paper, ink and pen, and attach them to
a string you will find dangling from thewindow. To-morrow, after
the sun rises, look for a letter in the garden. Depart now."
I returned, to my room through the window, and reclosed the
blinds. How could I penetrate into the tower, and how could I
perform this in the short space of three days, the time at which I
wished to take my departure ? These thoughts occupied my mind
greatly, and it was horrible to contemplate that I might not be able
to surmount the obstacles that lay in the way of rescuing Cornelia
from the prison in which she was confined. But for what, was she
in that frightful prison ? The letter which she promised me would
doubtless infform me, and it became necessary to procure the writing
materials ere the return of the master4g'f thehouse, who, I was well
convinced, was some particular friend, perhaps a relative, of Captain
unningtOns  Breakfast was served me by the negro, who had
Likewise careully attended to the wants of my horse. 'Trom him
so*I proeied the writing materials. I then strolled around the
place and through the garden until noon, when I was apprised Mr.
Hubbard, the owner of the place, had arrived. I presented myself
to him with all the assurance I could command under the circum-
stances. He was a man about fifty years of age, of rough and
repulsive manners. He asked me who I was.  I informed him, as
I had previously done the negro,-
"Myuncle, Captain. Dunnington, said I, has given me a secret
mission for you, but in order to explain that mission I must be alone
wjth you. On my way hither I was attacked by a gang of out-
laws, the leader of which I wounded severely with a ball' from my
pistol,
With a move of his hand, the negro, (who was present when J
made up to Mr. Hubbard), left the apartment.
Captain Dunnington sent me-1 began.
"'I see it very well-that he sent you," answer Ad Hubbard.
To ask-stammered I.
" What?" he inquired.
I took courage.
To ask news of his daughter, continued I.
"News of his daughter !" answered he.

4'''

AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.

61


62

ADVENTURES 01 CHARLES MARSHALL,

" Mr. Dunnington said it ?"-Yes, Captain Dunnington said his
dau hter, Cornelia, was here.
I saw Hubbard turn pale. He looked at me a long time in silence.
" You astonish me !'" said he at length. " Captain Dunnington
must have been very imprudent to have trusted you with a secret
of so great importance."
Not more than you would do, sir, replied I. Have you no confi-
dant ? We.would be a very unfortunate set of people if we could
place no confidance in any one. Captain Dunnington bade me say
to you that young Marshall, the traitor, to whom his daughter was
engaged, has already travelled over a great part of the country in
search of her, and that there is a probability he will visit this sec-
tion.   '       :
"If he dares to come here," said Hubbard, suddenly, "I will
give him a lodging he will occupy for a long time., Do you know
this young Marshall ?" .
I have often seen him at my uncle's, I answered.
" He is said to be a handsome man," continued he.
He is well formed and about my height, I believe, replied I care.
lessly.
" He is an insolant fellow ;" remarked Hubbar d, " and if ever
he falls into my hands, he'll rue it ! It is a long time since Dunning.
ton wrote to me. Where is he ?"
I have particular instructions from him not to mention his
whereabouts-all I dare say to you is that he is near and will see
you soon. He is concealing his retreat for some purpose unknown
to me-probably not wishing young Marshall to know he is still in
the country.; I answered.
Hubbard seemed greatly astonished ; I thought even I saw signs
of fear ; he seemed much embar-rassed.
" Do you say Dunnington will be here soon ?" asked he.
Yes, returned 1'; in a couple of weeks at farthest.
lie looked again at me and suddenly affected as much indifference
as he had before shown of embarrassment, said :
"Return to your uncle. I am sorry I have nothing but bad
mews to send him. Tell him that Cornelia is not here !"
I was in turn greatly surprised.
What ? said I, Cornelia---
" Is not here, I tell you," answered he. " To oblige Dunnington.
whom I esteem, I undertook-with repugnance, the care of his daugh-.
~ter. No person excepting myself, and the negro, Joe, knew she
was here. I brought her here at night, and placed her in a room

AND HIS LOST BRIDE, OORNELIA DUNNINGTON.

63

mn the old tower, and I carried her food and waited upon her myself.
About a month since I went to her, apartment as usual, but found
her not. How she escaped 1 don't know ;'but certain it is; she has
gone, nor have I heard of her since. She has, without doubt,
joined her lover, Marshall, if the robbers, who infest this' region,
have ndt caught her on the way."                                     /
My astonishment was extreme, for I knew not how th reconcile
what I had read oni the tiles in the garden with what Hubbard said.
There was some mystery about the affair which I was. impatient to
fathom, yet.'I took good care not to exhibit the least doubt.
These will be sad tidings to my uncle, sir, at length said I.'
" Without doubt," he replied; " but Ircannot help it-it is not
my fault."
I have one favor to ask, Mr. Hubbard, said I, .which is this: the
robber captain told me not to leave here for three days-may I.
remain? iU
" Certainly," said he ; " but where are your lodgings ? In the
adjoining room, where the window looks out upon the garden ?"
Yes I answered.
" There you can remain, then," said he ; " but I must fasten hbe 4
shutters well, for the' robbers must be close at hand, if they attacl~4,'~,
you last evening. Now leave me and enjoy yourself as well as yo~
can. You will find wine and refreshments in the kitchen."
1 was anxious now to write to Cornelia, but how to do it I knew
npt. Atliigth I thought of the negro, and a stratagem- which I
put into execution served me admirably. I went to the kitchen
where I found him, and politely asked him to be my companion in
a-glass of wine. With this he complied, feeling much 'honored by
-my asking him. One glass followed another until he became quite
tipsy ; I myself playing the drunken man to perfection, although I
was perfectly sober. At length I persuaded the fellow to take me
.with him to his room, which he had said was in the tower. -A rude
bed, a table and a chair, were the only articles of furniture in the
room. After a little social chat, (for he was quite garulous,) he
informed zne that his master was a grand old rascal, who had for-
merly stolen negroes and sold them, and that he had robbed a
widow lady of all her property. This said, he soon rolled on his
bed and went to sleep. It was nearly dark, and I sat down at the
table to write to my 'dear girl. I wrote her several pages, in which
I vindicated my conduct in the convention ; and I swore that my
love for her was still'of the most tender~ and respectful character.
I told her to write to me freely all necessary explanations,- and 1

4-


I

64           ADVENTURES (1 CHARLES MARSHALL,
would expose myself to every danger to put an end to ner horrible
captivity.
When this letter was closed I gave myself up to the most painful
reflections. During the two hours the negro slept I put to myself
many hundred questions, such as, " can it be Cornelia who threw
missiles, or were they placed on the ledge of her window a month
since, and are only now blown down by the wind ?" . After trying
in vain to solve this and similar queries which thrust themselves
upon my mind, my drunken companion awoke. It was quite dark,
and he hurried me to the kitchen. Then I was shown to my room
and the door closed. I lay upon the bed in a state of wretchedness,
until I heard a clock strike twelve. I then softly attempted to open
the'blinds, but to my utter astonishment an iron bar was placed
across them from the outside ! I tried the door, but it, too, was
fastened from without !
This, said I aloud to myself, will insure my death !
"Yes, without doubt," said some one, opening the door, " it does
suree your death !"
It was Hubbard ! He entered.
" Traitor !" said he, darting at me a look of fury-" I know
everything ! I know who you are and what you have been doing !
Give me that letter you have written, or by the immortal heaven,
I will pistol you on the spot !"
The letter was lying on the bed, together with the paper, pen and
ink, which I intended to send up by means of the string to Cornelia.
He perceived them and took possession of them at once.
"Now, Joe," said he to the negro, who just then entered the
apartment, " help me to bind this fellow l"
They precipitated themselves upon me, and soon bound my arms
with cords, after doing which they retired, leaving me lying on the
floor whither they had thrown me.
My pen fails to place on paper anything like a correct description
of the anguish into which I was plunged. My own misery was at
its height, and the helpless situation of Cornelia, affected me forci-
bly. How great would be her anxiety! She had expected me and  -
would be disappointed ! But, no ! She knew me too well-she would
never suspect me of deserting her ! She would judge me by herself.
Such were my first cruel reflections.
The next day some provision was brought in by the negro, but
he spoke not. For twelve days I groaned in that horrid prison,
receiving meanwhile barely sufficient food to sustain life, when at
length I was brought, my arms still bound, before Hubbard, (n

L!t '! 7


AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.
entering the room in which he was, I saw seated in an arm cha
fainting female  It was Cornelia!: Tut, oh Qod! how chan
yet how beautiful!
Barbarian!: Monster! said I to Hubbard. At the sound of
voice, Cornelia recovered her: consciousness.
"Ah, my dear Charles !" fe said to me, "you do not k
what that infamousmai proposes to me as a ransom foryour liberty
"Yes-yes r" cried Hubbard, furiously. - You see he is in
power. In three days he dies, unless you"-
I tried to get to Cornelia's side, but the negro prevented me.
Since I at length see you again, I said to her, all my sufferings
forgotten, anddeath no longer has any power to aifright me. As
- " 5 tyu, villain, (glancing a look of defiance at Hubbard,) retaen
that Captain Dunnington lives and will revenge his daughter 1"
"Take him awa!" cried Hubbard to the negro.
" Ah !" said Cornelia, " my love has destroyed you!"
it                                                            I wished to answer, but the black demon forcibly dragged
fromn-the-room and back to my former prison.
The scene of which I had been a witness, had at length confirm
all in suspicions. It was evident that Captain Dunnington
ignorant of the shameful treatment which his daughter had receive
and:that, Hubbard, old as he was; was autorous and jealous, a
that he determined to gratify his passion at whatever price.
Ofthe:three days which Hubbardhd allowed Cornelia to deci
two'passed away, and it was the middle of the night which precede
h e third. I was unable to sleep and walked about the room,
deavoring to rid myself of the cords which -still bound my wris
in which I finally succeeded. I was pacing up and downthe apa
ment with rapid strides, after I had freed my limbs, when sudden
I heard. Hubbard's voice, crying-
".Joe, get your gun ! Quick 1 The house is attacked!"
Frightful noises now resouded on every side of the old building
There was a great commotion within, and the old negro who h
acted as sentinel at my room door, rushed away hurriedly. Present
I heard the sound of many voices, among which I could distingui
that of. Hubbard by its loud tone. Inow heard the report
several guns, and the groans of some one in the agonies of deal
, F /,//                                The noise for a moment was very great, but after a cry of trim
din. Darted            the fearful uproar gave place to as fearful a silence. Soon a roa
"The ladder barely reached the open window at which Cornehia was now standa.Idre
up with lightning speed, and soon had her in my arms."       Page 36.              ing sound struck my ear-there was a hissig noise i the air-t
night became less dark, and the trees in the garden were ting
with red and yellow hues.

67
lira
ged,
my
now.
y"
my
are
for
ber
me
ned
weas
ed,
Ind
de,
led
end
ts,
rt-
ily.
2g.
ad
tly
fsh
of
th.
ph
ir-
he
ed

.4

I       , ,      ' w41


68

ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALL,

I flew to the window. The flames were devouring the old castle !
They approached on every side the room in which 'I was confined,
and to complete the horror the mpst piercing screams proceeded
from the tower where I knew Corneliawas imprisoned !
The reader may well be penetrated with a sense of the horror of
my situation. The fire, be oming more and more fierce, had reached
my room;. and already the flames were battling around the foot of
the tower, from whence Cornelia sent forth shriek upon shriek, to
which I responded by cries of fury.
Suddenly I heard the voice of Hubbard begging for mercy, and
the tramping of feet in the passage near my door. I battered and
kicked against it until those without heard me. They opened my
prison with a blow of an axe, and one of them seized me. He was
about to stab me with a dagger when I recognized in him the robber
chief ! I threw myself at his knees and spoke to him. He remem-
bered me.
' Oh ! it is you, is it ?" said he.
It is-it is, gasped I. But, oh, sir, there is a woman-my be-
trothed-in that tower, and she will be burnt alive ! Let me out to
assist her!
" Go !" said he, and I rushed out and to the foot of the tower,
where was lying a long ladder. With superhuman strength braised
it and placed it against the wall. It barely reached the open win-
dow at which Cornelia was now standing. I darted up with light.
ning speed, and soon had her in my arms ! She was almost senseless
from suffocation, and feebly asked-
"Who comes to me?"
It is I, Charles ! cried I, as I commenced descending with my
precious burden, the flames meanwhile roaring around. Every step
of the ladder trembled under my feet!
Arrived at the foot of the burning tower, her joy at her deliver-
ance renewed her strength. Several of the robbers now came up,.
shouting-.
"He's a brave fellow, and deserves her !"
At this stage of the proceedings, the tower, as well as the sur.
rounding walls, fell to the earth with a terrific crash, burying in its
ruins the wounded negro, who lay groaning in agony in the garden.
Then the robbers brought forth Hubbard. He v,.ts bound with
cord.-Rage, terror, despair, everything which could rack the heart
of a tortured villain, glowed in his rolling eyes. He beat the ground
with his feet, and uttering horrible blasphemies, reproached heaven
with its just vengeance.'

AND HIS i.OST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.

69

la the meantime my beloved pressed my hand in hers.
"Ah !" said she, " Charles, we have escaped but one evil! We
are still in the hands of villains, for these men, I am sure, are the
robbers of whom I have heard my persecutor,' Hubbard, so often
speak. Perhaps worse than death awaits us
No, no, Cornelia.--the robber-chief is my friend.
"You speak aright I" said the leader, at this moment approach-
ing us. " But come, tell me, you were in the lower room, and the
lady was in the tower. Why was that ? I'll wager a bet that you,
you rogue, were trying to carry off that maiden from that old
butcher, there," pointing to Hubbard, "and you were right. He
is a deep, black-herted villain, and she is beautiful. Come, explain
this to me."
I explained to him the particulars of our love up to the time I
entered the castle, and the robber seemed satisfied so far as I was
concerned; but he demanded of' Cornelia a history of her sufferings,
first assuring her that we were both safe for the preseut. Wine
was then offered us from a flask, of which we partook. Cornelia.
then. spoke as follows:
" When I was taken from home by my father, he brought me
hither, and placed me in the care of' Hubbard. I have not seen
him since. Some days after his departure, the visits of this wicked
old man became more frequent and longer. Certain words which
he uttered to me on one occasion, on bringing me food, led mne to
suspect that his designs were infamous. He dared one day to: ex-
plain them to me, and I assured him that my worst hatred only
should be the return of his tenderness. He answered me coolly at
the time, and said that, after a while I would become more accustom-
ed to his presence, and suffer his assiduities, and even to desire
them. Separated as I was from everything I loved, and closely
confined by my tyrant, (for he informed me'[ was his prisoner,) I
had not even the feeble consolation of being able to: give myself
tranquilly the remembrance of my past happiness. The only wit-
ness of my anxieties and miseries, he seemed to take pleasure in
augmenting them. On one occasion he came to me and assured
me that you, Charles, had been killed by my father. By the bar-
barous joy he affected I believed the news to be true. Unpitying
tyrant ! I cried to him. Leave me ! Leave me! He did so. About
12 o'clock that night I heard my door softly opened, "and by the
light of a lamp, which I always kept burning, I saw the tyrant ap-
proaching my bedside. I had feared this, and' was, well prepared
to prevent it. I had armed myself with a knife, which I had taken

I

i

'


70           ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALL,
the precaution to conceal beneath my pillow. I heaped upon the
accursed miscreantthe reproaches he justly merited, and vowed to
bin that if he dared, to approach, I would stab him with my, own,
hands. He recoiled with surprise and aifright.
" I am tired of bearing your contempt !" said he in going out,,
"and if I did not want you for something more pleasant, you would
see what the arms of a woman could do against me. But I know
a sure way to conquer your pride. Soon you shall think yourself
too happy to purchase your pardon by the most humble submission !"
"He went out; some moments afterwards the negro entered,
pistol in hand. I must do him justice.-he wept in announcing to
me the orders of his master.
"mDress yourself, madame! You must follow me !"
"'It was all he was able to say. He conducted me to the upper
room in the tower, where, but for you, I would have perished. He
locked me in that horrible prison; there I languished more than a
month, without fire, without light, without clothes; with bread and
water for mynourishment ; a simple pallet for my bed. Only one
thing served  render my misery bearable.tI saw the tyrant no
more. While he waited, tranquilly for me to solicit his pardon, I
passed whole days and nights in calling upon my father and weeping
for my lover Oh, Charles ! With what astonishment was I seized,
with what joy was my soul penetrated the day that I recognized
you in the garden.-
The chief of the robbers listened attentively to the history of
her misfortunes, with which he appeared deeply affected.
All of a sudden a noise resembling the trampling of horses was
heard. It was now daybreak, and on looking up I observed a crowd
of mounted men approaching. The robbers, with the exception of
the chief, immediately took to their heels and vanished. Hubbard'
then cried-I
" Ah ! You perfidious wretches ! You loving couple ! You still
have not conquered me! The neighboring gentlemen have heard of
my misfortunes and have come to succor me -"
"They shall not, at all events, have the power to do more than
avenge your death, villain !" said the robber, as he placed a pistol
to his ear, and was about to despatch him, when Cornelia begged
him not to do so. The gentlemen-on horseback now rode up, and
at their head was Captain Dunnington ! As soon as he perceived
me he cried :-
" Wretch ! You have - not only betrayed me and my daughter.

AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.

4

71

the woman who loved you, but I here find you associating with rob-
bers in their hellish deeds !"                      w
He jumped from his horse and pointed a pistol at me.. Cornelia
prg for his arm as he fired it, and the contents entered the brain
of Hubbard, who had by this time risen to his feet. Great was
the consternation of those why assembled around the body of. Hub-
bard as he lay dead. A stillness, the most dreadful, ensued. Taking
advantage of this I asked Captain Dunnington, as well as the ba-
lance of the company, to listen to a recital of Cornelia's sufferings,
which I now begged her to give.g'
This she did without hesitation, reciting what the reader already
knows. Dunnington was deeply affected by the sufferings of his
child, and instantly became sensible of the important service I had
rendered her. Regarding me without wrath he appeared anxious
for me to speak, which I now did.
Captain, said I, do I not deserve Cornelia for my wife ? We have
long loved each other. Give her to me, and bless us!
"I Will, Charles!',' said he, smiling. " You deserv Pher, and I
should have long since noticed it, had I not been blinded bypolitie.il
ambition and a false sense of honor. She is yours take h
be happy !"
During this, the robber chief had glided from among us unno-
ticed, and I have never seen him since.
" Well, gentlemen," said one of those who had accompanied
Cornelia's father, "who is this dead man, and what shall we do with
him ?"
" He is an old slave dealer, who has lived here many years in
seclusion ; the particulars of his life are known to me alone. Fear.
ing the halter for some of his bloody deeds, he broke jail many
years ago in Rhode Island, accompanied. by a negro, and came here.
I was then living in this neighborhood, and knew his secret from
his own lips. I promised to save him from the officers of the law,
provided he would lead an honest life in future, which he constantly
assured me he was doing. I however heard, yesterd    that h
robbed the children of a widow of this property by inducing her to
sign a will in his favor when she was about dying. By that will hi.
obtained the title to the old castle, or house, here now in ruins, ant
which was the former residence of the lady, who took him and his.
negro friend in out of charity. I wonder where the negro is no'w ? '
He was shot by the robbers when they attacked the house, said


72           ADVENTURES Of CHARLES MARSHALL.
I, and his body is doubtless now consumed, the walls of the burning
building having fuller upon him, while he lay writhing in rain at
the base of the towel.
"tLet us adjourn to the town," said Captain Dunnington. "I
must account for this man's death to the proper tribunal. You are
all witnesses that I meant at least nt to kill him, although my pur-
pose was a deadly one towards the preserver of my child !"
Horses were furnished for Cornelia and myself from the still    -
unharmed stabling of Hubbard, and the entire party started for the
villageof Waynesboro', which was distant but a few miles. Arrived
there, a coroner's jury returned to the body of Hubbard where an
inquest was held on it. The verdict was "accidental shooting."-
I made no complaint, of course, against my future father-in-law,
and no further judicial proceedings were had.
After a few days of rest, I led Cornelia to the altar, receiving
her from the hands of her father. A week or two more found us
at home, where my sisters gladly welcomed us. Since then we
have enjoyed unalloyed happiness, sweetened by the -frequent re-
currence to the sad misfortunes of. our early love.
CHARLES L. MARSHALL.
I+--

0

,i-.
'i

f0 , , .4'?. 15U S+e  - NI


!/ ]r///     /i t ~l f -  4r    l,\'

I


I;:

t0

/

~RTHUR.OTI
.eYr.L , aO.{  ^,,~r-  ''-  r  v-  ,W E f_  A ,  :r IW "-:1 QRZ  &amp;  "Y-I,.'  '  TALO _

fi

r'( 1 .


  
             
         
       
   
