
    ----CITATION----
        Warner, Susan, (1819-1885). Say and Seal, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8220
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Say and seal, vol. 2 
            
               S AY A ND S E AL.

(

BY

THE AUTHOR OF "WIDE WIDE

WORLD,"~

AND

THE AUTHOR OF "DOLLARS AIND flENTS"
IN TWO VOLTY   S.

"If any man maake religion as twelve, and the world as thirteen, such a one.
hath not the spirit of a truie New Englandman."-HGGI~ON.

VOL. II.

PIlLAD ELPH IA:
J. B. LIP PJIN OOTT &amp;
18 60.

Co0.

f

A

A    A
2  A.
L~5:'.

S


Entered, according to Act of congress, in the year 1860, by
J. B. JAPPINCOTT &amp; CO.,
In the Clerk's Office of the District court of the Ijuitod States for the
Eastern Distrid of Pennsylvania.
NJ
W Z&amp;I
~ -~ c~.

I
$

"v

/1

SAY AND SEAL.

CHAPTER I.

W EDNESDAY morning was cold and raw, and the
sun presently put on a thick grey cloak. There
were suspicions abroad that it was one made in the regions
of perpetual snow, for whatever effect it might have had
upon the sun, it made the earth very cold. Now and then
a little frozen-up snowflake came silently down, and the
wind swept fitfully round the corners of houses, and wan~
dered up and down the chimneys. People who were out
subsided into a little trot to keep themselves warm, all ex-
cept the younger part of creation,, who made the trot a run;
and those who could, staid at home.
All of Mrs. Derrick's little family were of this latter
class, after the very early morning; for as some, of them
were to brave the weather at night, there seemed no reason
why they should also brave it by day. As speedily as might
be, Mr. Linden dispatched his various matters of. outdoor
business, and came back to look for his scholar.
The first thing she was set about was her French ex~reise,
during the first few lines of which Mr. Linden stood by her
and looked on. But then he suddenly turned away and
went up stairs.-~returning however, presently, to take his
usual seat by her side. He watched her progress silently,
except for business words and instructions, till the exercise
was finished ~tnd FaitW had turned to him for farther
direction~; then taking her hand he put upon its forefinger
(8)

1


SAY AND SEAL.5

4               SAY AND SEAL.

one of the prettiest things she had ever seen. It was an
old-fashioned diamond ring; the stones all of a size, and
of great clearness and lustre, set close upon each other all
the way round; with just enough goldsmith's work to bind
them together, and to form a dainty frill of filagree work
above and below-looking almost like a gold line of
shadow by that flashing line of light.
"It was my mother's, Faith," he said, "and she gave it
to me in trust for whatever lady I should love as I love
you."
Faith looked down at it with very, very grave eyes. Her
head bent lower, and then suddenly laying her hands to-
gether on the table she hid her face in them; and the
diamonds glittered against her temple and in contrast with
the neighboring soft hair.
One or two mute questions came there, before Mr.
Linden said softly, "Faith !" She looked up with flushed
face, and all of tears in her eyes but the tears; and her
lip had its very unbent line. She looked first at him and
then at the ring again. Anything more humble or more
grave than her look cannot be imagined. His face was
grave too, with a s9rt of moved gravity, that touched both
the present and the past, but he did not mean hers should
be..
"Now what will you do, dear child ?" he said. "For I
must forewarn you that there is a language of rings which
is well established in the world."
"What-do you mean ?" she said, looking alternately at
~he ring and him.
"You know~What plain gold on this finger means ?" he
said, touching the one he spoke of. She looked at first
doubtfully, then coloured and said "yes."
"Well diamonds on this finger are understood to be the
avant-couriers of that."
Faith had never seen diamonds but that was not what
she was thinking of nor what brought such a deep spot of
colout' on her cheeks. It was pretty to see, it was so bright
and so different from the flush which had been there a
few minutes before. Her eyes, considered the diamonds
attentively.
"What shall I do ?" she said after a little.

1

"I don't know-you must try your powers of con-
trivance."
"I cannot contrive. I could keep my glove on to-night;
but I could not every day. Shall I give it back to you to
keep for me ?"-.--she said looking at it lovingly. "Per-
haps that will be best !-.What would you like me to do ?"
"Anything but that," he said smiling,-" I should say
that would be worst. You may wear a glove, or glove-
finger-.-what you will; but there it must stay, and keep
possession for me, till the other one comes to bear it
company. In fact I suppose I could endure to have it
seen !"
Her eyes went down to it again. Clearly the ring had a
charm for Faith. And so it had, something beyond the
glitter of brilliant. Of jewellers' value she knew little;
the marketable worth of the thing was an enigma to her.
But as a treasure of another kind it was beyond price. His
mother's ring, on her finger-to Faith's fancy it bound and
pledged her to a round of life as perfect, as bright, and as
pure, as its own circlet of light-giving gems. That she
might fill to him-as far as was possible-all the place
that the once owner of the diamonds would have looked for
and desired; and be all that he would look for in the per-
son to whom the ring, so derived, had come. Faith c6n-
sidered it lovingly, with intent brow, and at last lifted her
eyes to Mr. Linden by way of answer; without saying
anything, yet with half her thoughts in her face. His face
was very grave-Faith could see. a little what ~the flashing
of that ring was to him; but her look was met and answered
with a fulness of warmth and tenderness which said that lie
had read her thoughts, and that to his mind they were
already accomplished. Then he took up one of her books
and openedrit at the place where she was to read.
The morning, and, the afternoon, went off all too fast,
and the sun went down sullenly. A.s if to be in keeping
with the expected change of work and company, the even-
ing brought worse weather,-a keener wind-begi~nin~
to bestir itself in earnest, a thicker sky; though the g~'ound
was too snow-covered already to allow it to be very dark
With anybody but Mr. Li~ en, Mrs. Derrick would hardly,
have let Faith go out; an even as W was, sha seves~f
1*

5

4


6

SAY AND SEAL.

times hoped the weather would moderate before they came
home. Faith was so well wrapped up however, both in
the house and in the sleigh, that the weather gave her no
discomfort; it was rather exhilarating to be so warm in
spite of it; and they flew along at a good rate, having the
road pretty much to themselves.
"Faith," Mr. Linden said as they approached Judge
Harrison's, "I cannot spend all the evening here with
you.-that is, I ought not. I had a message sent me this
afternoon-too late to attend to then, which I cannot
leave till morning. But if I see you safe by the fire, I
hope Miss Harrison will take good care of you till I get
back."
"Well," said Faith,-" I wouldn't meddle with your
'ought's,'-.if I could. I hope you'll take care of Jerry !"-.-.
"What shall I do with him?'
"Don't you know ?" said Faith demurely.
"I suppose I ought to drive him so fast that he'll keep
warm," said Mr. Linden. "What else ?"
Faith's little laugh made a contrast with the rough night.
"You had better let me get out to the fire," she said joy-
fully,-" or I sha'n't keep warm."
"You sha'n't ?" he said bending down by her, as they
reached the door,-"your face has no idea of being cold!
-I'll take care of Jerry, child-if I don't forget him in
my own pleasant thoughts."
Faith threw off her cloak and furs on the hall table where
some Qthers lay, and pulled off one glove.
"Keep them both on !" Mr. Linden said softly and
smiling,-" enact Portia for once. Then if you are~ much
urged, you can gracefully yield your own prejudices so far
as to take off one."
She looked at him, then amusedly pulled on her glove
again; and the door was opened for them into a region of
warmth and brightness; where there were all sorts of rc~.
joicings over them and against the cold night. Mr. Linden
was by force persuaded to wait till after coffee before
braving it again; arid the Judge and his daughter fairly
involved Faith in the ~neshes of their kindness. A very~'
mouse Faith was to-ni~ht, as ever wore gloves; and ~with
a little of a mouse's waN~hfulness about her? fancying~cat's

I

I

SAY AND SEAL.

7

ears at every corner. A brown mouse too; she had worn
only her finest and best stuff dress. But upon the breast
of that, a bunch of snowy Laurestinus, nestling among
green leaves, put forth a secret claim in a way that was
very beautifying. The Judge and Miss Sophy put her in
a gieat soft velvet chair and hovered round her, both of
them conscious of her being a little more dainty than usual.
Sophy thought perhaps it was the Laurestinus; her father
believed it intrinsic. /
The coffee canie, and the doctor.
"I have something better for you than Portia to-night'7
-he said as he dealt out sugar,~" though not something
better than muffins."
"Faith, my dear child," said Miss Sophy,..-"you needn't
be so cerenionious-none of us are wearing gloves."
Faith laughed and blushed and pulled off one glove.
"You are enacting Portia, are you ?" said Dr. Harrison.
"Even she would not have handled wigs with them. I see
I have done mischief! But the harm I did you last night
I will undo this evening. Ladies and Gentlemen !-.-.I will
give you, presently, the pleasure of hearing some lines
written expressive of my wishes toward the unknown-but
supposed-mistress of my life and affections. Any sug-
gestions toward the bettering of them-I will hear."
"The betteri~mg of whaV?" said Mrs. Somers,-."your
life and affections ?"
"I am aware, my dear aunt Ellen, you think the one
impossible-.-the other improbable. I speak of bettering
the wishes."
"'Unknown but supposed"'-said Mr. Linden.-" 'Item
-She ~hatli many nameless virtues'."
"That is not my wish," said the doctor gravely lc~oking
at him. "I think nameless virtues - deserve their ob~
security !"
"What do you call your ideal ?"
"Psyche,-" said the doctor, after a~ minute's sober con-
sideration apparently divided between Mr. Linden's face
and the subject.
* "That is not so uncommon a name as Campaspe," said
Mr. Linden, with a queer little gesture of brow and lips.
"Who is Cam paspe ?" said the doctor; while Faith

4
ipt


8                    SAY. AND SEAL.
looked, and Miss Essie's black eyes sparkled and danced,
and everybody else held his coffee cup in abeyance.
"Did you never hear of my Campaspe ?" said Mr. Lin-
den, glancing~'up from under his brows.
"We will ~exchange civilities," said the doctor. "I should
be very happy to hear of her."
Laughing a little, his own cup sending its persuasive
steam unheeded, his own face on the sparkling order--.
though the eyes looked demurely down,--.Mr. Linden went
on to answer.
"'Cupid and my Campaspe played
At cards for kisses; Cupid payed;
He stakes his quiver, bow and arrows,
His mother's doves, and teame of sparrows;
Loses them too; then down he throws
The coi~al of his hippe, the rose
Growing on's cheek, (but none knows how)
With these, the crystal of his browe,
And then the dimple of his chinne;
All these did my Campaspe whine.
At last he set her both his eyes,-
She won, and Cupid blind did rise.
0 Love! has she done this to thee?
What shall, alas! become of me!"'
There was a general little breeze of laughter and ap-
plause. The doctor had glanced at Faith ;--her colour
was certainly raised; but then the old Judge had just bent
dawn to~ ask her "if she had ever heard of Campaspe be-
fore ?" The doctor did not hear but he guessed at the
whisper, and saw Faith's laugh and shake of the head.
"Is that a true bill, Linden ?"
"Very true,-" said Mr. Linden, trying his coffee. "But
it is not yet known what will become of me."
"What has become of Campaspe ~
"She is using her eyes."
"Are they those, eyes, Mr~ Linden ?" said~ Miss Essie
coming nearer and using her own.
"What was the coloi4r of Cupid's ?"
"Blue, certainly !"
"Miss Derrick !"-said the doctor,.--."let us have your
opinion."

F
SAY AND SEAL.                   9
Faith gave him at least a frank view of her own all
blushing and laughing as she was, and answered readily-.-..
"As to the colour of Cupid's eyes ?--.J have never seen
him, ~
The doctor was obliged to laugh himself; and the chorus
became general, at something in the combination of Faith
and her words. But Faith's confusion thereupon mastered
her so completely, that perhaps to shield her the doctor
requested silence and attention and began to read; of a
lady who, he said he was certain, had borrowed of nobody
-~not even of Cupid.-
"' Whoe'e~ she be,
That not impossible she,
That shall command my heart and me,' "--
"1 believe she is impossible, to begin with," said Miss
Essie. "You will never let any woman command you, Dr.
"You don't know~ me, Miss Essie," said the doctor, with
a curiously grave face, for him.
"He means-.--
1!
'Who shall command my heai'L-not me,'"
said Mr. Linden.
"If she can command my heart-what of me is left to
rebel ?" said the doctor.
"Sophy," said Mrs. Somers, "how long has Julius been
all heart ?"
"Ever since my a~unt Ellen has been all eyes and ears.
Mr. Somers, whicli portion of your mental nature owns the
supremacy of your wife? may I inquire, in the course of
this investigation ?"
"Ha !" said Mr. Somers blandly, thus called upon-~" I
own her supremacy sir-.-.ha-in all proper things !"
"ha! Very proper !" said the doctor.
"That is all any good woman wants," said the old Judge
benignly. "I take it, that is all she wants." K
"Then you must say which are the proper things,
father I" said Miss Sophy laughing.
"You'll have to ask every man separately, Sophy," said


10

SAY AND SEAL

Mrs. Somers,-.~-" they all have their own ideas about proper
things. Mr. Somers thinks milk porridge is the limit."
"Mr. Stoutenburgh," said the doctor, "haven't you owned
yourself commanded, ever since your heart gave up its lock
and key ?"
"Yes indeed," said the Squire earnestly,-" I am so
bound up in slavery that I have even forgotten the wish
to be free! All my wife's things are proper I"
"0 hush I" his wife said laughing, but with a little quick
bi~ight witness in her eyes, that was pretty to see. Dr.
Harrison smiled.
"You see, Miss Derrick I" he said with a little bow to
her,-" there is witness on all sides ;-and now I will go on
with my not impossible she."-.
He got through several verses, not without several inter-
ruptions, till he caine to the exquisite words following :-.
"'I wish her beauty,
That owes not all his duty
To gaudy tire or glistring shoetye.
'Something more than
Taffeta or tissue can,
Or rampant feather, or rich fan~.
'More than the spoil
Of shop, or silk-worm's toil,
Or a bought blush, or a set smile.'"
While Miss Essie exclaimed, Miss Harrison stole a look
at Faith; who was looking up at the doctor, listening, with
a very simple face of amusement. Her thoughts were in-
deed better ballasted than to sway to such a breeze if she had
felt it. But the real extreme beauty of the image and of
the delineation was what she felt; she made no application
of them. The doctor came to this verse.
"'A well-tamed heart,
For whose more no~Sle smart
Love may be long choosing a dart.'-.
What does that mean, Linden ?-.-isn't that an error in
the description ?"

SAY AND SEAL.               11

"Poetical license," said Mr. Linden smiling. "Psyche
will give you trouble enough, wings and al1,-there~ is no
fear you will find her 'tamed'."
"How i3 Campaspe in that respect ?"
"She has never given me much trouble yet," said Mr.
Linden.
"What I object to is the 'long choosing '," said the doc-
tor. "Miss de Staff-do you think a good heart should be
very hard to win ?"
"Certainly I-the harder the better," replied the lady.
"That's the only way to bring down your pride. The
harder she is, the more likely you are to think she's a
diamond."
"Mrs. Stoutenburgh I".-
"What has been the texture of yours all these years,
doctor?"
"He thinks that when he has dined the rest &amp;f the world
should follow suit-like the Khan of Tartary," said Mrs.
Somers.
"Miss Derrick !" said the doctor.~-.-~"I hope for some
gentleness from you. Do you think such a heart as w~
have been talking of, should be very difficult to move ?"
Faith's blush was exquisite. Real speech was hard to
command. She knew all eyes~were waiting upon her; and
s~e could not reason out and comfort her~1ff with the truth
.-.--that to them her blush might mean several things as well
as one. The answer caine in that delic ~te voice of hers
which timidity had shaken
"I ,thiflkjt depends on w\at there is to. move it."
"What do you call sufficient force ?" said Mrs. Somers.
"I ?"-said Faith.-
"Yes, you," replied the parson's wife with a look not
unkindly amused. "What sort and degree of power should
move 'such a heart'?-to quote Julius."
Faith's blush was painful ~gain, and it was only the sheer
necessity of the case that enabled her to rally. But her
answer was clear. "Something better than itself, IMA's.
Somers."                                        I
"I should like to know what that is I" said Mrs. Somers.
Mr. Linden's involuntary "And so should I "~-was in a
von. II.             4 7

it


12              SAY AND SEAL.                                        SAY AND SEAL.

13

different tone, but rather drew eyes upon himself than
Faith.
"It's of no consequence to you !" said the doctor, with
a funny, mock serious tone of admonition.
Mr.~ Linden bowed, acquiescingly.-" Psychology is an
interesting study "-he added, in qualification. "But let
me return your warning, doctor-you have a formidable
rival"          -
"Qul donc ?"
"Cupid carried off Psyche some time ago-do you sup..
pose you can get her back ?" And with a laughing sign
of adieu, Mr. Linden went away.
Luckily for Faith, she was not acquainted with the hea-
then mythology; and was also guiltless of any thought of
connexion between herself and the doctor's ideal. So her
very free, unsuspicious face and laughter quite reassured
him.
"Mr. Linden is an odd sort of person," said Miss Essie
philosophically. "I have studied him a good deal, and I
can't quite make him out. He's a very interesting man!
But I think he is deeper than li seems."
"He's deeper than the salt mines of Salzburg then !"
said the doctor.
"Why ?" said Miss Essie curiously.
The doctor answered gravely that "there were beautiful
things there "~-..and went on with his reading. And Faith
listened now with unwavering attention, till he came to-
"'Sydnean showers
Of soft discourse, whose powers
Can crown old winter's head with flowers."'
Faith's mind took a leap. And it hardly came back
again. The reading was followed by a very lively roii~d
game of talk* but it was not such talk; and Faith's
thoughts wandered away and watched round that circlet
of brightness that was covered by her glove; scattered rays
from which led them variously,-home, to her Sunday
school to Pequot,.-and to heaven; coming back again
and again to the diamonds and to the image that was in
the centre of them. No wonder her grave sweet face was
remarked as being even graver and sweeter than usual;

12

2I

and the doctor at last devoted himselff to breaking up its
quiet. lie took her into the library to finish the Rhodo-
dendrons-.ostensibly.--.-but in reality to get rid of the stiff
circle in the other room. The circle followed; but no
longer stiff; under the influence of the cold weather and
the big fires and good prompting, their spirits got up at
last to the pitch of acting charades. Miss Harrison brought
down her stores of old and new finery; and with much zeal
and success charades and tableaux went on for some length
of time; to the extreme amusement of Faith, who had never
seen any before. They did not divert her from watching
for the sound of Mr. Linden's return; but it came not, and
Miss Essie expected and hoped aloud in vain. The hour
did come, and passed, at which such gatherings in Patta~
quasset were wont to break up. That was not very late to
be sure. The Stoutenburghs, and the De Staffs, and finally;,
~r. and Mrs. Somers, went off in turn; and Faith was left
alone to wait; for she had refused all offers of being set
down by her various friends.
It happened that Mr. Linden had been, by no harmful
accident but simply by )he untowardness of things, delayed
beyond his time; and then having a good distance to drive,
it was some while after the last visitors had departed when
he once more reined up Jerry at the door. No servant
came to take him, and Mr. Linden applied himself to the
bell-handle. But there seemed a spell upon the house-..or
else the inmates were asleep-for ring as he would, no one
came.
To fasten Jerry and let himself in were the neat steps-
neither of which took long. But in the drawing-room, to
which he had been ushered in the beginning of the evening,
there was now no one. The lights and the fires and the
empty chairs were there; that was all. Mr. Linden knew
the house well enough to know where next to look; he
crossed the hall to a roam at the other side, which was the
one most commonly used by the family, and from which a
passage led to the library. No one was here, and the room
was in a strange state of confusion. Before he had well
time to remark upon it, Faith came in from the passage
bearing a heavy marble bust in jier arms. The colour
sprang to her cheeks; she set down Prince Talleyrand
von. Il.                2


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.                  I                                            115

quickly and came towards Mr. Linden, saying, "There's fire $
in the library."
"My dear child!" he said softly, "what is the matter?
~Vhat are you about?"
"Why there is fire in the library-it's all on fire, or soon
will be," she said hurriedly, "and we are bringing the~things
out. The fire can't get in here-its a fireproof building-
only the inside will all burn up. The servants are carrying
water to the roof of the house, lest that should catch. IL
am so glad to see you !"-
And Miss Sophy and the doctor came in, carrying one a
picture, the other an armful of books. Faith ran back
through the passage. But before she could set her foot
inside the library, Mr. Linden'~ hand was on her shoulder,
and he stepped before her and took the survey of the room
in one glance.
Its condition was sufficiently unpromising. The fire h~d
kindled in a heap of combustible trumpery brought there
for the tableaux. lilt had got far beyond management be~
fore any one discovered it; and now was making fast work
in that corner of the room and creeping with no slow pro-
gress along the cornices of the bookshelves. Short time
evidently there was for the famIly to remove their treasures
from itS destructive sweep. One corner of the room was
in a light blaze; one or two lamps mockingly joined their
light to the glare; the smoke was curling in grey wreaths
and clouds over and around almost everything. Here an
exquisite bust of Proserpine looked forlornly through it;
and there a noble painting of Alston's showed in richer
lights than ever before, its harmony of coloring. The ser-
vants were, as Faith had said, engaged in endeavoring to
keep the roof of the house from catching; only one old
black retainer of the family, too infirm for that service, was
helping them in the labour of rescuing books and treasures
of art from the fire, which must take its way within the
library. The wall it could not pass, that being, as Faith
had also said, proof against it.
"Stay where you are," Mr. Linden said, "and I will
hand things to you"-addiug under his breath, "if you
love me, Faith 1" And passing into the room he snatched

Proserpine from her smoky berth and gave her to the old
servant, hand~g Faith a light picture.
"Don't let your sister come in here, Harrison," he said,
springing up the steps to the upper shelves of the bookcase
nearest the fire-" and don't let everybody do everything,..-..
keep half in the passage and half here."
"Yes, Sophy," said the doctor, "that is much better-..-.
"don't you come in here, nor Miss Faith. And don't work
too hard," he said gently to the lai4er as she came back
after bestowing the picture. "I won't ask you not to work
at all, for I know it would be of no use."
"Just work like monkeys," Mr. Linden said from his
high post, which was a rather invisible one. "Reuben !-..-
I am glad of your help."
"Reuben I" exclaimed Faith joyously. "How good that
is. Give me those books, Reuben.".-..
And after that the ~work went on steadily, with few words.
It was too smoky an atmosphere to speak much in; and the
utmost exertions on the part of every one of the workers
left no strength nor time for it. "Like monkeys" they
worked-th&amp; gentlemen handing things out of the smoke
to the willing fingers and light fect that made quick dispo-
sition of them. Quick it had need to be, for the fire was
not waiting for them. And in an incredibly short time~
incredible save to those who have seen the experiment
tried,-books and engravings were emptied from shelf after
shelf.-.-eompartment after compartment.-....and lodged within
the house. Not a spare inch of space-..not a spare second
9f time, it seemed, was gone over; and the treasures of the
library were in quick process of shifting from one place to
another. It was rather a weary part Faith had to play,.~-...
to stop short at the doorway and see the struggle with
smoke and fire that was going on inside; and~u~ anxious
eye and trembling heart followed the movements of one of
the workers theve whenever she returned to her p9st of
waiting. She would rather have been amid the smoke and
the fire too, than to stand off looking on; but she did what
she was desired-and more than she was desired; for she
said not a word, like a wise child. Only did her work with
no delay and came back again. Two excellent workers

14


16

SAY AND SEAL.

were the doctor and Mr. Linden; Reuben was a capital
seconder; and no better runners than the two ladies need
have been found; while the old Judge and his old serving
man did what they could. There was every appearance
that their efforts would be successful; the fire was to be
sure, greatly increased and fast spreading b so also the
precious things that it endangered were a re dy in great
measure secured. Probably very little would have been
lost to be regretted, if the workers had not suffered a slight
interruption.
Mr. Linden was in the middle of the room unlocking the
drawers of the library table, which was too large to be re-
moved. Old Nero, the black man, had' taken one of the
lamps which yet remained burning, a large heairy one, to
carry away. He was just opposite the table, when a stone bust
of some weight, which had stood above the bookcases, de-
tached by the failure of its supports, came down along with
some spars of the burning wood and fell against a rich
screen just on ~the other side of Nero. The screen was
thrown over 0A him; he struggled an instant to right him~
self and it, holding his lamp off at an awful angle towards
Mr. Linden; then, nobody could tell how it was, Nero had
saved himself and struggled out from the falling screen and
burning wood, and Faith and the lamp lay under it, just at
Mr. L'inden's feet. Yet hardly under it-so instantly was
it thrown off. The lamp was not broken, which was a
wonder; but Faith was stunned, and the burning wood had
touched her brow and singed a lock of hair.
In such a time of confusion all sorts of things come and
go, unseen but by the immediate actors. Dr. Harrison
and Reuben were intent upon a heavy picture; the Judge
and his daughter were in the other room. And Faith was
lifted up and borne swiftly along to the drawing-room sofa,
and there was cold water already on her brow, before the
others reached her. She was only a little stunned and had
opened her eyes when they came up. They came round
her, all the gang of workers, like a swarm of bees, and with
as many questions and inquiries. Faith smiled at them all,
and begged they would go back and finish what they were
doing.
"i'll stay here a little while," she said; "my fall didn't

SAY AND SEAL.

Vt

hurt me~ a bit, to speak of. Do g4 don't anybody wait
for me."
There seemed nothing else to be done; she would own
to wanting nothing'; and her urgency at length prevailed
with ,them, however reluctantly, to leave her and go back
to the library. But Mr. Linden stood still as the others
moved off.
"Where are you hurt ?" he said in a low voice.
"I suppose the fall bruised me a little bit. It didn't do
mc any real harm. Don't wait here for me."
"Where ?" Mr. Linden said.
"Where it bruised me? A little on my head-and
elbow-and side; altogether nothing !"
He sat down by her, passing his hand softly over tjie
scorched hair; then said, "Let me see your arm."
"Oh no !-that's not necessary. I said I was bruised,
bat it isn't much."
"Faith, you have not told me the whole."
Her eye shrank from his instantly, and her colour flitted
from red to pale.
"There is nothing more I need tell you. They will all
be back here-or some\of them-if you stay. I'll tell you
anything you please to morrow," she added with a smile.
But he 'only repeated, "Tell me now-I have a right to
know."
Her lip took its childish look, but hereye met him now.
"Don't look so !"---she said, "as if tlier~ was any reason for
it. I think some of the fluid from that lamp ran down on
my arm-and it smarts. Don't stay here to look grave
about me !-it isn't necessary."
lie bent his head and gave her one answer to all that-.--.
then sprang up and went for Dr. Harrison. Faith tried to
hinder him, in vain.
There was little now to detain anybody in the library,
he found, and a good deal to drive everybody out of it.
The fire had seemed to take advantage of its unwatched
opportunity and had put it pretty well out of any one's
power to rescue much more from its rapacity. Reuben
and Dr. Harrison were carrying out the drawers of the
table, which Mr. Linden had been unlocking; and the
doctor dropped the one' he held the instant he caught the
0*

2


18               SAY AND SEAL.

sense of Mr. Linden's words. He went through the other
way, summoning his sister.
Faith was lying very quietly and smiled at them, but her
colour went and came with odd suddenness. She would
not after all let the doctor touch her; but rising from
the sofa said she would go up stairs and let Sopliy see
what was wanting. The three went up, and Mr. Linden
was left alone.
He stood still for a moment where they left him, resting
his face upon his hand, but then he went back to the burn-.
ing room; and stationing himself at the doorway, bade all
the rest keepback, and those that could to bring him water.
Reuben sprang to this work~as he had done to the other;
some of the servants had come down by this time; and Mr.
Linden stood there, dashing the water about the doorway
and into the room, upon the floor, the great table, and such
of the bookcases as he could come near. The effect was
soon evident. The blazing bits of carved moulding as they
fell to the floor, went oiit instead of getting help to burn;
and the heavier shelves and wainscot which being of hard
wood burned slowly, begti~n to give out steam as well as
smoke. The door and doorway were now perfectly safe-
the fire hardly could spread into the passage, a danger
which had been imminent when Mr. Lin~len came, but
which the family ~emed to have forgotten; secure in their
fireproof walls, they forgot the un-fireproof floor, nor seemed
to remember how far along the passage The cinders might
drift. When there was really nothing more for him ~to do,
and he had given the servants very special instructions as
to the watch they should Jieep, then and~ not till then did
Mr. Linden return to the parlour; the glow of his severe
exercise fading away.
He found the Judge there, who engaged him in not too
welcome conversation; but there was no help for it. He
must hear and answer the old gentleman's thanks for his
great services that night-praises of his conduct and of
Faith's conduct; speculations and questions concerning the
evenings disaster. After a time that seemed tedious,
though it was not really very long, Miss Harrison came
down.
"She'll be better directly," she said. "Do sit down, Mr.

Linden !-T have ordered some refreshments-you must
want them, I should think; and you'll have to wait a little
while, for Faith says she will go home with you; though
I am sure she ought not, and Julius says she must not
stir. '.'
Mr. Linden bowed slightly-answering in the most com-
monplace way that he was in no hurry and in no need of
refreshments; and probably he felt also in no need of rest
....4or he remained standing.
"How is she, dear? how is she ?" said the Judge. "Is
she much hurt ?"
"Just now," said Miss Harrison, "she is in such pain
that she cannot move - but we have put something on
that will take away the pain, Julius says, in fifteen min-
utes; and she will be quite well this time to-morrow, he
says.~~
"But is she much hurt ?" Judge Harrison repeated with
a very concerned face.
"She'll be well to-morrow, father; but she was dread-
fully burned-her arm and shoulder-I thought she would
have fainted upstairs-but I don't know whether people
can faint when they are in such pain. I don't see how she
can bear her dress to go home, but she says she will; Mrs.
Derrick would be frightened. Mr. Linden, they say every-
body does what you tell' them - I wish you'd persuade
Faith to stay with me to-night! She won't hear me."
"How soon can I see her ?"-The voice made Miss
Harrison look-but her eyes said her ears had made a mis-
take.
"Why she said she would come down stairs presently-
as soon as the pain went off enough to let her do anything
-and she wanted me to tell you so; but I am sure it's
very wrong. Do, Mr. Linden, take something !"- (the
servant had brought in a tray of meats and wine)~.b" While
you're waiting, you may as well rest yourself. How shall
we ever thank you for what you've done to-night W'
Miss Harrison spoke under some degree of agitation, but
both she and her father failed in no kind or grateful shew
of feeling towards their guest.
"How did it happen, Mr. Linden ?" she said when she
had done in this kind all she could.

SAY AND SEAL.              19

- 19

18


20

SAY AND SEAL.

He said he had not seen the accident-only its results.
"I can't imagine how Faith got there," said Miss ilar-
rison. "She saw the screen coming over on Nero, I sup~
pose, and thought she could save the lamp-she made one
spring from the doorway, he says, to where he stood. And
in putting up her hand to the lamp, I suppose that horrid
fluid ran down her arm and on her sl~w~ilder-when Nero
put out the la~p he must have loos eiied[ the fastening; it
went all over her shoulder. But she'll be well to-morrow
night, Julius says."
"Who's with her now, my dear ?" said the Judge.
"0 Julius is with her-he said he'd stay ~rith her till I
came back-.she wanted Mr. Linden to know she would go
home with him. Now, Mr. Linden, won't you send her
word back that you'll take care of Mrs. Derrick if she'll
stay ?"
"I will go up and see her, Miss harrison."
That was anticipated however, by the entrance of the
doctor; who told his sister Miss Derrick wanted her help,
then came gravely to the table, poured out a glass of wine
and drank it. His father asked questions, which he an-
swered briefly. Miss Derrick felt better-she was going to
get up and come down stairs.
"But oug~~t she to be suffered to go out to-night, Julius?
-such a night?"
"Certainly not 1"
The Judge argued the objections to her going. The
doctor made no answer. He walked up and down the
room, and Mr. Linden stood still. Ten or fifteen minutes
passed; and then the door opened softly and Faith, all
dressed, cloaked, and furred, came in with her hood, fob
lowed by her friend. Miss Sophy looked very ill satisfied.
Faith's face was pale enough, but as serenely happy as
release from pain can leave a face that has no care behind.
A white embodiment of purity and gentleness she looked.
The doctor was at her side' instantly, asking questions.
Mr. Linden d~d not in.terrapt hirn,-he had met her almost
before the doctor, and taken her hand with a quietness
through which Faith could perceive the stir of feelings
that might have swept those of all the others out into the
snow. But he held her hand silently until other people

A

-7
SAY AND SEAL.

21

had done their questions-then simply asked if she was
quite sure she was fit to ride home? Then, with that
passing of the harrier, look and voice did change a little.
"1 mean to go,"-she said without looking at him,-.--"if
you'll please to take me."
"Sh&amp; ought not,-J am sure she ought not !" exclaimed
Miss Harrison in much vexation. "She is just able to
stand."
"You know," Mr. Linden said,-not at all as if lie was
urging her, but merely making a statement he thought best
to make; "I could even bring your mother here, in a very
short time, if you wishe dit."1
"0 I don't )vish it. I can go home very well now."
lle% gave her his arm without more words. Miss Harri-
son aThd the Judge followed Tegretfully. to the door; the
doctor to the sleigh.
"Are you well wrapped up ?" he asked.
"I have got all my own and all Sophy's furs," said Faith
in a glad tone of voice.
"Take care of yourself;" he said ;-' 'and Mr. Linden,
you must take care of her-which is more to the pi~rpose.
If I had it to do, this ride would not be taken. Linden-~
I'll thank you another time."
They drove off. Bat as soon as they were a few steps
from the house, Mr. Linden put hi~ arm about Faith and
held her so that she could lean against him and rest; giv-
ing her complete support, and muffling up the furs about
her lightly and effectually, till it was hardly possible for the
cold air to win through; and so drove her home. Not
with many words,-with only a whispered question now
and then, whether she was cold, or wanted any change of
posture. The wind had lulled, and it was much milder,
and the snow was beginning to fall softly and fast; Faith
could feel the snow crystals on his face whenever it touched
hers. Mr. Linden would have perhaps chosen to drive
gently, as being easier for her, but the thick air made it
needful. Once only he asked any other question..-.
"Faith-is my care of you in fault, that it lets you come
home ?"
"No, I think not," she said ;--.-" you hold me just so
nicely as it is possible to be! and this snow-storm is bea~~


22              SAY AND SEAL.

tifuL" Which answer, though she might not know it, tes-
tified to her need of precisely the care he was giving her.
"Are you suffering much now, dear child ?"
"Not at all. I am only enjoying. I like being out
in such a storm as this.-Only I am afraid mother is
troubled)'
"No-I sent Reuben down some time ago, to answer
Ks her questions if she was up, and to have a good fire ready
for yqu.~~
"0 that's good !" she said. And then rested, in how
luxurious a rest I. after exertion, and after anxiety, and
after pain; so cared for and guarded. She could almost
have gone to sleep to the tinkle of Jerry's bells; only that
her spirit was too wide awake for that and the pleasure of
the time too good to be lost. She had not all the pleasure
to herself-Faith could feel that, every time Mr. Linden
spoke or touched her; but what a different atmosphere his
mind was in, frofn her quiet rest! Pain had quitted her,
but not him, though the kinds were different. Truly he
~would have borne any amount of physical pain himself, to
cancel that which. she had sufThred,-there were some
minutes of the ride when he would have borne it, only to
lose the thought of that. But Faith knew nothing of it
all, except as she could feel once or twice a deep breath
that' was checked and hushed, and turned into some sweet
low-spoken word to her; and her rest was very deep. So
deep, that the stopping of the sleigh at last, was an inter-
ruption.
The moment Jerry's bells rang their little summons at
the door, the door itself opened, and from the glimmering
light Reuben ran out to take the reins.
"Is Mrs. Derrick up ?" Mr. Linden asked, when the first
inquiry about Faith had been answered.
"I don't know, sir. I told her you were afraid Miss
Faith would take cold without a fire in her room-and she
let me take up wood and make it; and then she said she
wasn't sleepy, and she 'd take care it didn't go out. I
haven't seen her since."
"Thank you, Reuben-now hold Jerry for me,-I shall(~
keep you here to-night," Mr. Linden said as he stepped
out. And laying his hand upon the furs and wrappers? he

U

SAY AND SEAL.                 23
said ~oftly,-J' Little Esquimaux........do you think you can
walk to the house ?"
"0 yes !.-certainly."
A little bit of a laugh answered her..-..the first she had
heard since Campaspe; and then she was softly lifted up,
an~l borne into the house over the new-fallen snow as
lightly as if she had been a snowflake herself. The snow
might lay its white feathei~a' upon her hood, but Faith felt
as if she were in a cradle instead of a snow-storm. She
was placed in the easy chair before the sitting-room fire,
and her hood and furs quickly taken off. "How do you
feel ?" Mr. Linden asked her.
She looked like one of the flakes of snow herself, for
simplicity and colour; but there was a smile in her eyes
and lips that had come from a climate where roses blow.
"I feel nicely..~..0nly a little bruised and battered feel-
which isn't unpleasant."
Will you have anything ?-a cup of tea ?-~--that might
do you good."
Faith looked dubious at the cup of tea; but then rose
up and said it would disturb her mother, and she would
just go and sleep.
"It won't disturb her a bit,"-.-.Mr. Linden said, reseating
her,-~2" sit still-I'll send Reuben up to see."
He left her there a very few minutes, apparently attend-
ing to more than one thing, for he came back through the
eating-room door; bringing word to Faith that her fire
and room were in nice order, and her mother fast asleep
there in the rocking-chair to keep. guard; and that she
should have a cup of tea in no time. And with a smile at
her,, he went back into the eating-room, and brought thence
her cup and plate, and requested to be told just how the
tea should be made to please her, and whether he might
invade the dairy for cream.
"If I could put this cloak over my shoulders, I would
get some myself. Will you put it on for me? please.-Js
there fire in the kitchen? I'll go and make the tea."
"Is there nothing else you would like to do ?" he said
standing before her,.-.---"you shall not stir! Do you think
I don't know cream when I see it ?".-and he went oil'
again, coming back this time in company with Reuben and

?
A
n


24

$AY AND SEAL.

the tea-kettle, but the former did not stay. Then with ap-
peals to her for directions the tea was made and poured
out, and toast made and laid on her plate; but she was not
allowed to raise a finger, except now to handle her cup.
"It's very good !" said Faith,-" but-don't you remem-
~ber you once told me two cups of cocoa were better than
one
It is to be noted in passing, .that all Faith's nameless
addresses were made with a certain gentle, modulated ac-
cent, which invariably implied in its half timid respect the
'Mr. Linden' which she rarely forgot now she was not to
say.
"Dear child! I do indeed," he said, as if the remembrance
were a bright one. "But I remember too that my opinion
was negative. Faith, I used to wish then that I could
wait upon you-but I would rather have you wait upon
me, after all !"
Faith utterly disallowed the tone of these last words,
and urged her request in great earnest. He laughed at
her a little-but brought the cup and drank the tea,-cer-
tainly more to please her than himself; watching her the
while, to see if the refreshment were telling upon her
cheeks. She was very, little satisfied with his perform-
ance.
"Now I'll go and wake up mother," she said at last
rising. "Don't think of this evening again but to be glad
of everything that has happened. I am."
"I fear, I fear," he said looking at her, "that your glad-
ness and my sorrow meet on common ground. Child, what
shall I do with you ?"-but what he did with her then was
to put her in that same cradle and carry her softly upstairs,
to the very door of her room.

I

CHAPTER IT.

4

THE same soft snow-storm was corn down when Faith
I opened her eyes next morning; the air Io6ked like a
white sheet; but in her room a bright fire was blazing,
reddeniiig the white walls, and by her side sat Mrs. Derrick
watching her. Very gentle and tender were the hands
that helped her dress, and then Mrs. Derrick said she would
go down and see to breakfast for a little while.
"Wasn't it good your room was warm last ni~ht ?" she
saN, stroking' Faith's hair.
Faith's eyes acknowledged that.
"And wasn't it good you were asleep !" she said laugh-
ing and kissing Mrs. Derrick. "Mother ! - I was so
glad!"
That's the funny part of it," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Reuben's just about as queer in his way as Mr. Linden.
The only thing I thought from the way he gave the mes-
sage, was that somebody cared a good deal about his new
possession-.-which I suppose is true," she added smiling;
"and so I just went to sleep.)~
Mrs. Derrick went down; and Faith knelt on the rug
before the fire and bent her heart and head over her bible.
In great happiness ;-in great endeavour that her happiness
should stand well based on its true foundations~ and not
shift from them to any other. In sober endeavour to lay
hold, and feel that she had hold, of the happiness that can~
not be taken away; to make sure that her feet were on a
rock, before she stooped to take the sweetness of the
flowers around her. And to judge by her face, she had
felt the rock and the flowers both,~ before she left her
room.
The moment she opened her door and went out into the
hall, Mr. Linden opened his,-.~-or rather it was already
~open, and he came out, meeting her at the head of. the
stairs. And after his first greeting, he held her still and
looked at her for a moment-a little anxiously and intently.
VOL. ii.               s                 (25)


26G

SAY AND SEAL.

"My poor, pale little child I" he said-" you are nothing
but a snowdrop this morning 1"
"Well that is a very good thing to be," said Faith
brightly. But the colour resemblance 'he had destroyed.
She was lifted and carried down just as she had been
carried up last night, and into the sitting-room again; for
breakfast was prepared there this morning, and the sofa
wheeled round to the side of the fire all ready for her.
How bright the room looked !-..-.its red curtains within arid
its~ white curtains without, and everything so noiseless and
sweet 'and in order. Even the coffeepot was there by this
time, and Mrs. Derrick arranged the cups and looked at
Faith on the sofa, with eyes that lost no gladness when
they went from her to the person who stood at her side.
Faith's eyes fell, and for a moment she was very sober. It
was only for a moment.
"What a beautiful storm 1" she said. "I am glad it
snows. I am going to do a great deal of work to-day."
Mr. Linden looked at her. "Wouldn't you just as lieve
be talked to sleep ?"
She smiled. "You-couldn't---.do that, Mr~ Linden."~
"Mr. Linden can do more than you think-and willy" he
said with a little comic raising of the eyebrows.
For a while after breakfast Faith sat alone, except
as her mother came in and out to see that she wanted
nothing,-alone in the soft snowy stillness, till Mr. Linden
came in from the postoffice and sat down by her, laying
against her cheek a soft little bunch of rosebuds and
violets.
"Faith," he said, "you have been looking sober-what
is the reason ?"
"I haven't been looking too sober, have I? I didn't
know I was looking sober at all."
She was loo1~ing quaint, and lovely; in the plain wrap-
per she had put on and the soft thoughtful air and
mien, in contrast with which the diamonds jumped and
flashed with every motion of her hand. A stu~1y book lay
in her lap.
"How did all that, happen last night ?" said Mr. Linden
abruptly.
"Why !"-said Faith coloring and looking down at her

I

SAY AND SEAL.

27

ring...-." I was standing in the doorway and Nero was
coming out with that great lamp; and when he got oppo-
site the screen something fell on it, I believe, from the
burning bookcases, and it was thrown over against him-I
thought the lamp and he would all go over together-and
I jumped ;-and in putting up my hand to the lamp I sup-
pose, for I don't remember, the fluid must have run down
my arm and on my shoulder-I don't know how it got on
fire, but it must have been. from some of the burning wood
that fell. The next I knew, you were carrying me to the
drawing-room-I have a recollection of that."
He listened with very grave eyes.
"Were you trying to take the lamp from Nero ?"
"0 no. I thought it was going to fall over."
"What harm would it have done the floor ?"
The tinge of colour on Faith's cheek deepened consider-
ably, and her eyes lifted not themselves from the diamonds.
She was not ready to speak.
"I did not think of the floor".-.
"Of what then ?"
She waited again. "I was afraid some harm would be
done,"
"Did you prevent it?"
"I don't know".-~--she said rather faintly.
Gently her head was drawn down till it rested on his
shoulder.
"Faith," he said in his own low~sweet tones, "I stretched
a little silken thread across the doorway to keep you out..-.
did you make of that a clue to find your way in ?"
She did not answer-nor stir.
There were no more questions asked-no more words
said; Mr. Linden was as silent as she and almost as still.
Once or twice his lips touched her forehead, not just as
they had ever done it before, Faith thought; but some
little time had passed, when iie suddenly took up the book
which lay in her lap and began the lesson at which it lay
open; reading and explaining in a very gentle, steady
voice, a little moved from its usual clearness. Still his
arm did not release her. Faith listened, with a semi-
divided mind, for some time; there was something in this


28

state of things that she wished to mend. It came at last,
when there was a pause in the lesson.
"I am glad of all that happened last night," she said,
'except the pain to you and mother. There is nothing to
be sorry for. You shouldn't be sorry."
"Why not, little naughty child ? -and why are you
glad?"
"Because-it was good for me,".-she said, not very
readily nor explicitly.
"In what way ?"
"It was good for me,"-she repeated ;.-" it put me in
mind of some things."
LI Of what, dear child ?"
It was a question evidently Faith would rather not have
answered. She spoke with some difficulty.
"That there are such things in the world as pain-and
trouble. It is best not to forget it."
Mr. Linden understood and felt; but he only answered,
"It will be the business of my life to make you forget it.
Now don't you think you ght to put up this book, and
rest or sleep ?"
"I dare say you on ht," said Faith,-" t~id I wish you
would. I want to work."
He gave her a laugh, by way of reply, and then gave
her work as she desired; watching carefully against her
tiring herself in any way, and making the lessons more of
talk on his part and less of study on hers. They were
none the less good for that, nor any the less pleasant. till
there came a knock at the front door; and then with a littl~
sigh Faith leaned back against the sofa, as if lessons were
done.
"There is Dr. Harrison."
"And I shall have to be on my good b&amp;haviour," Mr.
Linden said, quitting the sofa. "But I suppose he will
not stay all the rest of the day." And as Cindy was slow
in her movements, he went and opened the door; Faith the
while fitting on a glove finger.
"First in one element, and then in ano her-" Mr.
Linden said, as the doctor caine in from a soit of sirnoon
of snow.
"This one for me I" said Dr. Harrison shaking hiic'

28              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.

29

self;-" but I should say you mast be out of your element
to-day."
"Wherefore, if you please ?" said Mr. Linden, as he
endeavored to get the doctor out of his.
"Unless you live in a variety! I thought you were in
your element last night." And the doctor went forward
into the sitting-room. The first move was to take a seat
by Faith and attend to her; and his address and his in~
quiries, with the manner of them, were perfect in their kind.
interested, concerned, tender~, grateful, to the utmost limit
of what might haze been in the circumstances testified by
anybody, with equal grace and skill they were limited there.
Of special individual interest he allowed no testimony to
escape him-none at least that was unequivocal. And
Faith gave him answers to all he said, ill he touched her
gloved finger and inquired if the fire had been at work
there too. Faith rather hastily dre it under cover anq
said no.
"What is the matter with it ?"
"There is nothing had the matter with it," said Faith,
very imprudently letting her cheeks get rosy. The doctor
looked at her-told her he could cure her finger if she
would let him; and then rose up and assumed his position
before the fire, looking down at Mr. Linden.
"There isn't much of a midge about you, after all," he
said.
"I suppose in the matter of wings we are about on a
par. What is the extent of the damage ?"
"It is nothing worth speaking of-I think now," said
the doctor. "But we are ur~,der an extent of obligation to
you, my dear fellow,-which sits on me as lightly as obli~
nation so generously imposed should ;-~---and yet I should
be doubly grateful if you could shew me some way in which
I could-for a moment.-~.reverse the terms on which we
stand towards each other."
"I don't think of any generous imposition just now,"
said Mr. Linden smiling. "How are your father and
sister ?-J was afraid they would suffer from the fright, if
nothing else."
"Strong nerves I" said the doctor shrugging his shoulders.
' We all eat our breakfast this morning, and wanted the
8*


SAY AND SEAL.              31

30              SAY AND SEAL.

chops done as much as usual. Sophy did suffer, though;
but it was because Miss Faith would do nothing but get
hurt in the house and wouldn't stay to be made well."
"I am sure I did something more than that," said Faith,
to whom the doctor had looked.
"You don't deserve any thanks !" he said sitting down
again beside her ;-" but there is somebody else that does,
andy ~ wish you would give me a hint how to pay them.
That young fellow who says he is no friend of yours-he
helped us bravely last night. What can I do to please
him?"
"Mr. Linden can tell best," said Faith looking to him.
The doctor turned in the same direction.
"Thank you !" Mr. Linden said, and the words were
warmly spoken, yet not immediately followed up. "Thank
you very much, doctor !" he repeated thoughtfully-" I am
not sure that Reuben wants anything just now,..-.next sum~
mer, perhaps, he may want books."
"I see you are his friend ?"
"Yes - if you give the word its full length and
breadth."
"What is that ?" said Dr. Harrison. "Don't go off to
'Nought and All."'
"II suppose in this case I may say, a mutual bond of
trust, affection, and active good wishes."
"There's something in that fellow, I judge ?"
"You judge right."
"A fisherman's son, I think you said. Well-I share
the 'active good wishes,' at least, if I can't assume the
'affection'-so think about my question, Linden, and I'll
promise to back your thoughts. What do you do with
yourself such a day? I was overcome with ennui-till I
got out into the ~
"Ennui is not one of my friends," said Mr. Linden
smiling-" not even an acquaintance. In fact I never
even set a chair for him, as the woman in Elia set a chair
for the poor relation, saying, 'perhaps he will step in to-
day'. I 'have been busy, doctor-what shalL I do to amuse
you? will you have a foreign newspaper ?"
The doctor looked dubious; then took the newspaper

(

and turned it over, but not as if he had. got rid of his
ennui.
"This smoke in the house will drive us out of Patta-
quasset a little sooner than we expected."
"Not this winter?"
"Yes. That's nothing new-but we shall go a few
days earlier than we meant. I wish you were going
too."
"When to return ?" said Mr. Linden. "I mean you-
not myself."
"I ?-J am a wandering cornet," said the doctor. "I
have astonished Pattaquasset so long, it is time for me to
flare up in some other place. I don't know, Linden.
Somebody must be~ere occasionally, to overlook the re-
fitting of the insid&amp;oC that library-perhaps that agree.
ble duty will fall on me. But Linden,".-said the doctor
dropping the newspaper and turning half round on his
chair, speaking gracefully and comically,-" you astonish
Pattaquasset as much as I do; and to tell you the truth
you astonish me sometimes a little. This is no place for
you. Wouldn't you prefer a tutorship at Quilipeak, or a
professor's chair in one of the city colleges? You may
step into either berth presently, and at your pleasure,-I'
know. .1 do not speak without knowledge."
There was a stir of feeling in Mr. Linden's face-there
was even an unwanted tinge of colour, but the firm~set lips
gave no indication as to whence it came; and he presently
looked up, answering the doctor in tones as graceful and
more simple than his own.
"Thank you, doctor, once more! But I have full em-
ployment, and am-or am not-ambitious,----whichever way
you choose to render it. Not to speak of the pleasure of
astonishing Pattaquasset," he added, with a smile breaking
out,-" I could not hope to do that for Quilipeak."
"Please know," said the doctor, both frankly and with
much respect in his manner, "that I have been so pre~
sumptuous as to concern my mind about this for some time
.-for which you will punish me as you think I deserve.
flow to be so much further presumptuous as to speak to
you about it, was my trouble ;-and I ventured, at last," he
said smiling, "upon my own certain possession of certain


32

SAY AND SEAL.

points of that 'friend' character which you were giving
just now to Reuben Taylor-or to yourself, in his re-
gard."
"I am sure you .have them! But about Reuben,
though I know reward is the last thing he thought of or
would wish,-yet I, his friend, choose to answer for him,
that if you choose to give him ~ny of the books that he
will need in college, they will be ~eli bestowed."
"In college!" said the doctor. ) "IDiable I Where is he
going ?"
Probably to Quilipeak."
"You said, to college, man. J mean, what is college
the road to, in the youngster's mind ?"
"I am not sure that I have a right to tell you," said Mr.
Linden,-" it is ~n~his mind a road to greater usefulness-.
so much I may say.
"He'll never be more useful than he was last night.
However, I'm willing to help him try.-What is Mign-
onette going to do with herself this afternoon ?".-said the
doctor throwing aside his newspaper and standing before
her.
"I don't know," said Faith. "Sit here and work, I
suppose."
"I'll tell you what she ought to do," the doctor went on
impressively. "She ought to do what the flowers do when
the sun goes down,-.-.shut up her sweetness to herself, see
and be seen by nobody, and cease 'to be conscious of her
own existence."
Faith laughed, in a way that gave doubtful promise of
following the directions. The doctor stood looking down
at her, took her hand and gallantly kissed it, and finally
took himself off.
"There is a good little trial of my patience I" Mr. Lin-
den said. "I don't know but it is well he is going away,
for I might forget myself some time, and bid him hands
off."
At which Faith looked thoughtful.
"Faith," Mr. Linden said, gently  her face, "would
you like to live at Quilipeak ?"
The answer to that was a great rush of' colour, and a

I

I

SAY AND SEAL.

33

casting down of eyes and face too as soon as it was per-
mitted.
"Well ?" he said smiling-though she felt some other
thread in the voice. '"What did you think of the words
that passed between the doctor and me? Would you like
to have me agree to his proposal ?"
"You would do what is best," she said with a good deal
of effort. "I couldn't wish anything else."
ile answered her mutely at first, with a deep mingling
of gravity and affection, as if she were very, very precious.
"My dear little child I" he said, "if anything on earth
could make me do it, it would be you !-.--and yet I can-
not."
She looked up inquiringly; but except by that look, she
asked nothing.
"You strengthen my hands more than you weaken
them," he said. "I am so sure that you would feel with
me !-...-I know it so well! I have a long story to tell you,
dear Faitfl,-some time, not now," he added, with a sort
of shadow coming over his face. "Will you let me choose
my own time? I know it is asking a good deal."
"It would be asking a great deal more of me to choose
any other," Faith said with a sunny smile. "I like that
time best."
lie passed his hand softly once or twice across her fore-
head, giving her a bright, grateful look, though a little bit.
of a sigh came with it too,-then drew her arm within his
and led her slowly up and down the room.
But after dinner, and after one or two more lessons-
under careful guardianship, Faith was persuaded to lay.
herself on the sofa and rest, and listen,-.--first to various
bits of reading, then to talk about some of her photographic
pictures; the talk diverging right and left, into all sorts
of paths, fictional, historic, sacred and profane. Then the
light faded-the out-of-door light, still amid falling snow;
and the firelight shone brighter and brighter; and Mrs.
Derrick stopped listening, and went to the dining-room
sofa for a nap. Then Mr. Linden, who had been sitting
at Faith's side, changed his place so as to face her.
"How do you feel to-night ?" he asked.


SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.             35

"Perfectly well-and as nicely as possible. Just enough
remains of last night to make it pleasant to lie still."
~oup~e a real little sunbeam! Do you know I want
yout~A off with me on a shining expedition ?'?
"On what sort of expedition ?" said Faith laughing.
"A shining one-I want to carry your bright face into
all the darkest places I can find."
There was an alternation of amusement and a grave ex-
pression in her face for a minute, one and the other flitting
by turns; but then she said quietly, "When, Mr. Linden ?"
"What shall I do with you ?" he said,-"shall I call you
Miss Derrick ?"
"No indeed !" she said coloring. "I don't often forget
myself."
"No, I shall not do that, for it would punish myself too
much, but I shall do something else-which will not punish
me at all, and may perhaps make you remember. What
do you suppose it will be?"
"I don't know"-she said flushing all over.
"Nothing worse than this".-he said, bending his face to
hers. "Faith! I did not mean to frighten you so! I'll
tell you where I want to take you-You know Monday is
the first of January, and I want to go with you to those
houses in the neighbourhood where the wheels of the new
year drag a little, and try to give them a pleasant start.
Would you like it ?"
"0 !"-she said, springing forward with a delighted
exclamation.-" Tell me, just what you mean. To which
houses ?"
"I mean that if you are well, we will have a long, long
sleigh ride, and leave as many little pieces of comfort and
pleasure by the way as we can. The houses, dear, will be
more than you think-I must make out a list."
Faith clapped her hands.
"0 delicious! Tl~at is the best thing we could possibly
do with Monday! and there are two days yet this week-
I shall have plenty of chance, mother and I, to make e~very-
thing. 0 what sorts of things shall we take? and What
are some of the houses? There is Mrs. Dow, where we
went that night,"-she said, her voice falling,-" and Sally
Lowndes-what places are you thinking of ?"

"I think we,~ight give Reuben at least a visit, if notriing
else,-and there are a good many such houses down about
those points, and fai~on along the shore. I was thinking
most of them-though there are some nearer by. But my
Mignopette must not tire herself,.-I did not mean to
bring anything but pleasure upon her hands."
"You can't! in this way," said Faith in deligl~ted eager-
ness. "Who keeps house in Reuberf1's home? he has no
mother."
"No-I suppose I may say that he keeps house,.-.for
his father is away a great deal, and Reuben always seems
to be doing what there is to do. As to things-you will
want some for well people, and some for sick,-at sonre
houses the mere necessary bread and meat, and at others
any of those little extras which people wl~o spend all their
money for bread and meat can never get. But little ~
Mr. Linden said smiling, "if I let you prepare, you must
let me send home."
"What?" said she. "I thought you said we would
both take them together ?"
He laughed-taking her hand and holding it in both his.
"And so we will !.-..-I meant, send home here, to pre-
pare."
"Oh !-Well," said Faith, "but we have a great deal
now, you know; and I can send Mr. Skip to get more.
But one thing I know-we will take Reuben a roast
turkey !"
I wonder if she could tell, in the firelight, with what
eyes he watched her and listened to he~r! Probably not,
for his back was towards the fire, and the changing light
and shade on his face was a little concealed. But the light
had the mastery.
"Faith," he said, "I shall send you home some sugar-
plums-upon express condition that you are not to eat
them up; being quite sweet enough already.
His face, was so hid that probably Faith thought her own
was hid too, and did not know how clearly its moved timid
changes were seen. She leaned forward, and touching one
hand lightly to his shoulder, said,
"What do you mean to make me,-Endecott ?"
vOL. II,               9


SAY AND SEAL.

36              SAY AND SEAL.

It was a thing to hear, the soft fall and hesitancy of
Faith's voice at the last word. Yet they hardly told of the
struggle it had cost. How the word thrilled him she did
not know,-the persons living from whom he ever had that
name were now so few, that there was a strange mingling
with the exquisite pleasure of hearing it from her lips,-a
mingling of past grief and of present healing. He changed
his place instantly; and taking possession of her, gave her
the most gentle, tender, and silent thanks. Perhaps too
much touched to speak-perhaps feeling sure that if he
spoke at all it would be in just such words as she had so
gently reproved. The answer at last was only a bright,
"I told you. I could not promise-and I will not now I"
She pushed her head round a little so that she could
give a quick glance into his face, in which lay her answer.
Her words, when she spoke, made something of a transition,
which however was proved by the voice to be a transition
in words only.
"Wonldn't a bag of potatoes be a good thing for us to
take ?"
"Ceitainly I-and we must take some books, and some
orders for wood. And you must have a basket of trifles to
delight all the children we meet."
"That's easy! And books, xviii you take? that's de-
licious! that's better than anything, for those who can
enjoy them, Do you think any of them want bibles ?"
"We will take some, at a venture-I never like to go
anywhere without that supply. And then we shall both
have to use our wits to find out just what is wanted in a
particular place,-the people that tell you most have often
the least to tell. And above all, Faith, we shall want
plenty of sympathy and kind words and patience,-they
are more called for than anything else. Do you think you
can conjure up a sufficient supply ?"
"It is something I know so little about I" said Faith.
"I have never had very much chance. When I went to
see Mrs. Ousters I didn't in the least know how to speak
to her. But these people where we are going all know
you, I suppose ?"-she said-with another and not a little
wistful look up into his face.
"Most of them-more or less. What of it ?"

"That makes it easy," she said quietly. "But I suppose
it would be just the same if you didn't know them! About
the sick people,-Endecott---.if you can tell us how they are
sick, mother and I between us can make out what things to
prepare for them."
" Did you think I was in earnest, dear Faith, when I
asked about your sympathy ?" Mr. Linden said, drawing
her closer.
"No.-I think I have the sympathy, but I don't so well
know how to shew it. Then loaves of bread, I suppose,
wouldn't come amiss ?-And above all, meat. Where else
do you think a roast turkey ought to go ?"
"To one particular far-off house on the shore that is
brim full of little childrcn.-..and nothing else I"
"We'll take them a big one," said Faith smiling,-" and
I suppose it is no matter how many cakes! You'll have
to make a very particular list, with some notion of what
would be best at each place; because in some houses they
uldn't bear what in others they would be very glad 61'.
Wouldn't that be good? So that we might be sure to
have the right thing everywhere-one right thing, at any
rate. The other things might take their chance."
"Yes, I will do that. But you know the first thing is,
that you should get well, and the next that you should not
get tired,-and these must be secured, if nobody ever has
anything."
Faith's laugh was joyous.
"To-morrow I mean to make cakes and pies," she stdd,
~"and the next day I will bake bread and roast turkeys
and boil beef! And you have no idea what a quantity of
each will be wanted! I think I never saw anybody so
good at talking people to sleep I-that didn't want to go.
Now what is that ?" For the knocker of the front door
sounded loudly again.
"It is something to send people away-that don't want
to go I" Mr. Linden said, as he ~ut her back in her old
position on the cushions, and moved his chair to a respect~
iul distance therefrom. But nothing worse came in this
time than a note, well enveloped and sealed, which was for
Mr. Linden. It ran after this fashion.-.--
VOL.11.                4


SAY AND SEAL.

"In the snow yet-and the chair
not ody ~et for IJntzUz, but en~
nui in the chair!

"DEAR LINDEN,                    "Thi6 28th Dec. 18-.
You see my condition. I am desperate for want of
something to do-so I send you this. Enclosed you will
please find-if you haven't dropped it on the floor !-$25,
for the bibliothecal and collegiate expenses of 'Miss Der-
rick's friend.' If you should hereafter know him to be in
further want of the same kind of material aid and comfort
.-please convey intelligence of the same to myself or father,
flie-i.e. said 'friend'-saved to us last night far more than
the value of this.
I am sorry I have no more to say! for your image.-.
what else could it be ?-h~ s for the moment frightened
Ennui into the shadow- ut he will come back again as
fsoon as I have sealed this. By which you will know when
you read the (then) present condition of
Your friend most truly
JULIUS HARRIsON.
In Pattaquasset, is it ?"
Mr. Linden read the hoVe by firelight and standing~
then came and sat down by Faith and put it in her hands.
By firelight Faith read it ha~tiIy, and looked up with eyes
of great deli~ht. "Oh! "-she said, -"isn't that good !"
Then she looked down at the note soberly again.
"Well, little child? what ?" he said smiling. "Yes, I
am very glad. What are you doubting about ?"
"I am not doubting about anything," she said giving
him the note,-" only thinking of this strange man."
"Is he very strange ?" Mr. Linden said. But he did
not pursue the subject, going back instead to the one they
had been upon, to give her the information she had asked
for about the sick people they were likely to meet in their
rounds; passing gradually from that to other matters,
thence into silence.. And Faith followed him, step by step,
.-only when he was quite silent, she was-~asleep I

'4

CHAPTER IJJ.
7~HE next two days were busy ones, all round; for though
I Faith was carefully watched, by both her guardians,
yet she was really well and strong enough again to be
allowed to do a good deal; especially with those intervals
of rest and study which Mr. Linden managed for her. His
work, between these intervals, took him often out of doors,
and various were the tokens of that work which came
home-greatly to Faith's interest and amusement. They
were curiously indicative, too, both of the varied wants of
the poor people in the neighbourhood, and of his knowledge
on ~he subject. From a little pair of shoes which was to
acco~n pany on&amp; roast turkey, to the particular sort of new
fishing net whi~h was to go with the other, it really seemed
as if every sort of thing was wanted somewh~re,-simple
things, and easy to get, and not costing much,-but price-
less to people who had no money at all. Faith was ap-
pointed receiver general, and her hands were full of amuse~
ment as well as business. And those two things were the
most of all that Mr. Linden suffered to come upon them,~
whatever his own means might be, it was no part of his
plan to trench' upon Mrs. Derrick's; though she on ijier
part entered heart and hands into the work, with almost as
much delight as Faith herself~ and would have given the
two carte-blanche to take anything she had in the house.
Faith didn't ask hi~m what she should take there, nor let
him know much about it till Monday. By this time, what
with direct and indirect modes of getting at the knowledge,
Faith had become tolerably well acquainted with the class
or classes of wants that were to be ministered to. Many
were the ovenfuls that were baked that Friday and Satur-
day! great service did the great pot that was used for
boiling great joints! nice and comforting Were the broths
and more delicate~ things provided, with infinite care for
some four or five sick or infirm people. But Faith's delight
was the things Mr. Linden sent home; every fresh arrival
(39)
I

38

J


40

SAY AND SEAL.

of which sent her to the kitchen with a new accession of
zeal, sympathy, 'and exultation,.-sympathy with him and
the poor people; exultation in the work-most of all in
him! Great was the marvelling of Cindy and Mr. Skip at
~hese days' proceedings.
So passed Friday and Saturday; and Sunday brought a
lull. Faith thought so, and felt so. Her roast turkeys and
chickens were reposing in spicy readiness; her boiled meats
and bakeries were all accomplished and in waiting; and
dismissing all but a little joyful background thought of
thenr, Faith gave her whole heart and mind to the full
Sabbath rest, to the full Sabbath rising; and looked, in
her deep happiness, as if she were-what she xvas-enjoy~
ing the one and striving after the other. But the ways by
which we are to find the good we must seek, are by no
means always those of our own choosing.
It was a clear, cold, still, winter's day. Cold enough by
the thermometer; but so still that the walking to church
was pleasant. They had c~me home from the afternoon
service-Faith had not taken off her things-when she was
called into the kitchen to receive a niessage. The next
minute she was in the sitting-room and stood by the side
of Mr. Linden's chair.
"Mrs. Cutters is dying-and has sent for me."
"For you, dear child ?-Well-.-.Are you able to go ?"
"Oh yes."
lie looked at her in silence, as if he were making up his
own mind on the subject, then rose up and gently seating
her on the sofa, told her to rest there till he was ready;
but before he came back again Mrs. Derrick came to Faith's
side with a smoking cup of chicken broth and a biscuit.
"You've got to eat it, pretty child," she said fondly,-..
"we're both agreed upon that point."
Which joint mandate Faith did not try to dispute.
The town clock had struck four, all counted, when Jerry
dashed off from the door with the little sleigh behind him.
No other sleigh-bells were abroad, and his rang out noisily
and alone over the great waste of stillness as soon as they
were quit of the village. The air happily was very still
and the cold had not incre d; but low, low the sun was,
and sent his slant beams cooll$~ over the snow-white fidds,

SAY AND SEAL.Q, ,~             41
glinting from fences and rocks and bares t4~icX'ets with &amp;
gleam that threatened he would not '~.t4hem long.
The hour was one of extreme beauty,-fair an~ ~sfihl, with
a steady strength in its stillness that made the beauty
somewhat imposing. There was none of the yielding
character of summer there; but a power that was doing
its work and would do it straight through. "lie giveth
forth his ice like morsels; who can stand before his cold ?"
.-thought Faith.
The sleighing was excellent; the roads in perfect con-
dition.
"How long is it since you were here ?" Mr. E den saId
as the house came in sight, shewn only by its twinkling
panes of glass.
"Not since before I went to Pequot-.not since a day or
two after that ride we took with Dr. Harrison, when you~
j rode 'Stranger' the first time."
"How was she then ?"
"Not much different from what she had been before-..
she didn't say much-she seemed to like to listen to me, or
to see me, or both. That was all I could be sure of."
"Try not to let her spend her strength in examining the
pas~t state of her mind. Bid her lay hold of the promise
now. A present hold will answer all her questions-and
is all the oldest Christian can rest in."
"I wish you could speak to her instead of me," said
Faith. "Perhap~ she will let you."
"It is not you nor I, my child.-Fix your heart upon
Christ, and let him speak,.-flx your eyes upon him, and let
his light shine."
"I
with know it. 0 I do !..-." she said, looking up at him
an humble, moved face.
He lifted her out of the sleigh and led her up to the
house, where they were presently admitted; into an outer
room first, xvhere Faith could lay off her furs.
"She's some brighter to-night," the woman in attend-
ance said, in answer to Mr. Liiiden's questions. "I guess
she'll be real glad to see you"-this was addressed to
Faith.
Faith left Mr. Linden there, and went into the sick
chamber alone; where she was always received as if she
4*


42              SAY AND SEAL.

had brought an olive branch, or a palm branch, or both of
them, in her hand. The spirit of both, no doubt, was in
her; the gentle face looked the l)romise of both peace and
victory, as only humility can look it~
Mrs. Clusters on her part looked-as the other had said
.-glad; if so bright a word could be applied to a face that
had lost all its own light, and where no reflected light as
yet shone. Yet she was quieter than when Faith had first
seen her, whether from mental relief or physical prostra-
tion, and was most eager for all Faith's words,-listeni~g
for the most part in silence, but with eyes that nevei said
'enough.' As some poor exhausted traVeller takes the
water which he has at last reached in the desert, nor
knows yet whether its bright drops can avail to~ save his
life, but lays him down by the fountain-there to live or
die. Ahd Faith, feeling that her hand was niinistering
those drops of life, lost every other thought,~-~--except to
wish for a hand that could do it better. Once she ventured
a proposition.
"I h~ve a friend here, Mrs. Clusters, who can tell you
about all these things much better than I can. Will you
let him? May I ask him to come in and see you ?"
"Better ?" she said slowly-" I don't believe it. Who is
he? your brother ?"
"No-I haven't any brother. But that don't matter.
He's somebody that is a great deal better than I am.
May I let him come in? He's here," said Faith very qui-
etly, along with her flushing cheek.
There was a poor little faint smile for a moment upon
the sick woman's lips while Faith spoke, but it passed and
she answered in the same tone-" I'll see him-to please
you-before you go. I just want the words now-and I
like you best."
Faith troubled her no more with unnecessary sugges-
tions, and gave her 'the~' words.' Gave them with the
fragrance of~ her own love about them, which certainly, is
the surest human vehicle for the love above human that is
in them. As on that first occasion, Faith placed herself
on the side of the bed; and holding one of Mrs. Clusters'
hands in her own, bending her soft quiet face towards the
listening eyes and cars, she gave her one by rne, like

SAY AND SEAL.                  43
crumbs of life~giving food, the words of promise, ofencour-
agement of invitation, of example. No answer cheered or
helped her; no token of pleasure or even of assent met
her; only those fixed listening eyes bade her go on, and
told that whether for life and refreshment or no, the words
were ~eagerly taken in, each after the other, as she said
them. There was something in the strong sympathy of
the speaker-in her own feeling and joy of the truths 'she
told-that might give them double power and life to the
ears ~f another. Faith reported the words of her Master
with such triumphant pricing of them and such leaning on
their strength; she gave his invitations in such tones of
affection; she told over the instances of others' prevailing
faith with such an evident, clear, satisfying share in the
same ;-the living words this time lost nothing of their
power by a dead utterance. Of her own words Faith
ventured few; ~i ow and then the simplest addition to some~
thing she had iiepeated, to make it more plain, or to carry
it further home; such words as she could not keep back;
such words, very much, as she would have spoken to
Johnny Fax; not very unlike what Johnny Fax might
have spoken to her. But there was not ~ little physical
exhaustion about all this after a while, and Faith found
she must have some help to her memory. She went into
r room.
[ the r~ant
a bible?" she said looking round for it-" Is
there one here ?"
Yes, there was one, but it was Mr. Linden's. That was
quickly given her.
"I forgot it at the moment you went in," he said, "and
then I did not like to disturb you. My dear Faith !-.."
~ and he held her hand and looked at her a little wistfully.
She brought her other hand upon his, and looked down
and looked up wistfully too; like one with a heart full.
"Can I help you? can I take your place ?"
''She won't let you," said Faith shaking her head.
She says she will see you by and by-but she must take
her own time for it."
And Faith went back to her ministrations. Of all bibles,
she would have had that one in her hand then! And yet
its companionship bowed down her heart with a sense of

I

p


44              SAY AND SEAL.                                     SAY AND SEAL.           )  45

weakness ;-but that was the ve~'y position for the next
move; a spring beyond weakness to the only real and sufli.
dent ground of strength.
The afternoon merged into the evening. A tallow can~
die had been brought by the attendant intb the room in
which Mr. Linden was waiting; and its dim smoky light
would have made a dismal place of it if he had had no other
to go by. lie could sometimes hear the low tones of a
word or two in the other room; more often the tones were
so low that they failed to reach him. When this state of
things had lasted a long time-as it seemed.-therc came
an interruption in the form of quick steps on the snow;
then the door was pushed open, and Dr. Harrison ap..
feared.
"You here 1" was his astonished salutati6n. "What
upon earth has brought you ?"
"I came to bring some one else."
"She isn't here ?" said the doctor. "You don't mean
that ?"
His emphatic pronouns were a little smile-provoking,
in spite of the grave thoughts upon which they intruded-
or~rather perhaps because of them; but if Mr. Linden's
face felt that teYnptation, it was only for a moment,.-he
answered quietly,
"If you mean Miss Faith, she has been here a long
time."
The doctor knew that! if she came when she was called.
fEe had stopped to eat his dinner.
"1 mean her, of course," he said with his tone a little
subdued. "I shouldn't 'think her mother would have let
her come-such a night !-" Which ii~eant very plainly that
Dr. Harrison would not have let her4-" Is she in there
with the woman now
"Yes."
The doctor went with grave aspect to the door of com-
munication between the two rooms and softly opened it and
went in; so softly, that Faith, engaged in her reading, did
no~ hear anything ~ the sick woman's eyes were the first
that perceived him. Hers rested on him a moment-then
came back to Faith, and then again met the doctor's; but

not just a~ they had been wont. And her fi t words bore
out his impression.
"You may come in-..-" she said, slowly and disti
"I'm not afraid of you to.~night."
He came forward, looked at her, touched her hand,
l~indl~; and then without a word turned to Faith.
Faith did not dare ask a question, but her eyes put it
silently.
"She don't want anything," said he meaningly. "sot
from me. She rn~y have anything she fancies to have."
Faith's eyes went back to the. other face. That the
doctor's words had been understood there too, was evident
from the little flitting colour, and the sick woman' lay
still with closed eyes, clasping Faith's hand as if she
were holding herself back from drifting out on 'that great
and unknown sea.' But she roused herself and spoke
hurriedly. "Won't somebody pray for me ?"
Faith bent over until her lips almost touched the suffer-
er's cheek and her warm breath floated in the words, "I'll
bring somebody-..-" then loosing her hold, she sprang from
the bed and out into the other room. But when she had
clasped Mr. Linden's hand, F~th bent down her head upon
it, unable to speak. The strength it could, his hand gave
her-and his voice.
"What, my dear child ~
~Then Faith looked up. "She wants you to pray for
her." And without waiting for the unnecessary answer,
she led Mr. Linden to the door of the room, there dropp~Td
his hand and went in before him. Dr. harrison was
standing by the bedpost, an~. looked wordlessly upon the
two as they entered.
Mrs. Ousters scanned the stranger's face as he came to~
wards her, with an anxious, eager look, as if she wanted to
know whether he could do anything for her; the look
changing to one of satisfaction. But to his low-spoken
question as he took her hand, she gave an answer that was
almost startling in its slow earnestness.
"Pray that I may believe-and that he may-and that
God would bless her forever !"
How was such a request to be met! then and there !~-.~
for a moment Mr. Linden's eyes fell. But then he knelt


46                 SAY AND SEAL.
by her side, and met it most literally,-in tones very low
and clear and distinct, in words that might have been
angels' plumage for their soft bearing upward of the suffer-
er's thoughts. Faith could feel a slight trembling once or
twice of the hand that held hers, but the bitterness of its
grasp had relaxed. Dr. Harrison was behind her;
whether he stood or knelt she did not know; but he knew
that when the other two rose to their feet, one of them was
exceedingly pale; and his move, made on the instant, was
to get her a glass of water. Faith only tasted it and gave
it him back, and mounted to her former place on the bed.
And for a little all was still, until Mr. Linden spoke again
in the same clear, guiding tones.
"'My God, within thy hand
My helpless soul I trust!
Thy love shall ever stand-.
Thy promise must !.-'"
Then Mrs. Custers opened her eyes; and her first look
4~ras at iDr. Harrison. But whether the relaxed mental
tension let the bodily weakness appear, or whether the tide
was at that point where it ebbs most rapidly, her words
were spoken with some trouble-yet spoken as if both to
make amends and give information.
"You meant to be very kind-" she said.-." and you
have-But now I want to believe-even if it isn't any use."
Her eyes passed from him-~rested for a minute on Mr.
Linden-then came to Faith, and never~ wavered again.
"iRead"-was all she said.
With unnerved lip, and quivering breath Faith began
again her sweet utterance of some of those sweetest things.
For a moment she longed to ask the other two listeners to
go away and leave her alone; but reasons, different and
strong, kept her mouth from speaking the wish; and then,
once dismissed; it was forgotten. Her voice steadied and
grew clear presently its low, distinct words were not in~
terrupted by so much as a breath in any part of the room.
They steadied hor; Faith rested on them and clung to
them as she went along, with a sense of failing energy
which needed a stay somewhere. But her words did not
chew it, except perhaps that they came more slowly and

SAY AND SEAL.

47

deliberately. Mr. Linden had ~drawn back a little out of
sight. Dr. Harrison kept his stand by the bedpost, lean-
ing against it; and whatever that reading was to him, he
was as motionless as that whereon he leaned.
Till some little length of time had passed in this way,
and then he came to Faith's side and laid his hand on her
open book.
"She does not hear yon,~? he said softly.
Faith looked at him startled, and then bent forward
over the woman whose face was turned a little from her.
"S he is sleeping"-she said looking up again.
"She will not hear you any more/' said the doctor.
"She breathes, regularly, "
"Yes-so she will for perhaps some hours. But she will
not waken again ,-probably."
"Are you sure ?" Faith said with another look at the
calm face before her.
"Very sure!".-.
Was it true? Faith looked still at the unconscious
form,-then her bible fell from her hands and her h~ad
wearily sunk~ into them. The strain was over-broken
~short. She had done all she could,-.and the everlasting
answer was sealed up from her. Those heavy eyelids
would not enclose again to give it; those parted lips
~ through which the slow breath went and came, would never
~ tell her. It seemed to Faith that her heart lay on the
very ground with the burden of all that weight resting
it.
~ pon
She was not suffered to sit so long.
"May J take you away ?".-Mr. Linden said~-"you
must not stay any longer."
"Do you think it is no use ?" said Faith looking up at
him wearily.
"It is of no use," said Dr. Harrison. He had come near,
and took her hand, looking at her with a moved face in
which there was something very like tender reproach.
But he only brought her hand gravely to his lips again
and turned away. Mr. Linden's ~words were very low-
spoken. "I think the doctor is right.-.But let me take
you home, and then I will come. back and stay till morning

C,


~jAY AND SEAL~                 49

48              SAY AND SEAL.

if you like-or till there comes a change. You must not
stay."
"I don't like to go,"-said Faith without moving. "She
may want me again."
"There may be no change all night," said the doctor ;-.
"and when it comes it will not probably be a conscious
change. If she awakes at all, it will only be to die. You
could do nothing more."
Faith saw that Mr. Linden thought so, and she gave it
up; With a lingering unwillingness got off the bed and
wrapped her furs round her. Mr. Linden put her into the
sleigh, keeping Jerry back to let the doctor precede them;
and when he was fairly in front, Faith was doubly wrapped
up-as she had been the night of the fire, and could take
the refreshment of the cool air, and rest. Very wearily,
for a while, mind and body both drooped. Faith was as
still as if she had been asleep; but her eyes were gazing
out upon the snow, following the distant speck of the
doctor's sleigh, or looking up to the eternal changeless
lights that keep watch over this little world and mock its
changes. Yet not so! but that bear their quiet witness
that there is something .which is not "passing away ; "-yea,
that there is something which "endureth forever."
"He calleth them all by their names; for that he is
strong in power, not one faileth." That was in Faith's
mind along with other words-" The Lord knoweth them
that are his." Her mind wa~ in a passive state; things
floated in and floated out. It was some time before Mr.
Linden said anything-he let her be as silent and still as
she would; but at last he bent over her and spoke.
"My Mignonette"-and the thought was not sweeter
than the words-" are you asleep ?"
"No-" she said in one of those ethereal answering tones
which curiously say a great many things.
"Are you resting ?"
"Yes. I am rested."
"You must try not to bear the burden of your work after
it is done. Now lay it off-and leave your poor friend
in the hands where I trust she has left herself.' Her senses
are not closed to his voice.

"I do"-she said with a grateful look. "IL know it is
not my work-nor anybody's."
He drew the furs up about her silently, arranging and
adjusting them so as to keep oWthe wind which had risen
a little.
"We are not very far from home now,-~---we have come
fast."
And as Jerry did not relax his pace, the little distance
was soon travelled over. How fair the lig~ii ts in their own
windows looked then !-with their speech ~of blessing and
comfort.
They all came together round the fire first, and then
round the tea-table; Faith being specially watched over
and waited on by both the others. Mrs. Derrick's half
developed fear at their long stay, had given place to a sort
of moved, untalkative mood when she heard the explana.
tion, but a mood which relieved itself by trying every pos.
sible and impossible thing for Faith's refreshment. Every*
possible thing except refreshing talk-and that Mr. Linden
gave her. Talk which without jarring in the least upon
the evening's work, yet led her thoughts a little off from
the painful part of it. Talk of the Christian'~ work-of
the Christian's privilege, of "Heaven and the way
thither,"~of the gilding of the cross, of the glory of the
crown. Faith heard and joined in it, but there was a
point of pressure yet at her heart; and when they left the
table and went into the other room, a slight thing gave
indication where it lay. Faith. took a little bench by Mrs.
Derrick's side, drew her mother's arms round her close, and
laid her head down on her lap.
How softly, how tenderly, did Mrs. Derrick answer the
caress, as if she read ~t perfectly l-~--touching Faith's hands
and brow and cheeks with fingers that were even trembling.
And at last-whether her child's mute pleading was too
much for her,-.-whether the pain which had never left her
heart since the day of Faith's overturn had by degrees
done its work,-she bent down her lips to I~afth's cheek
and whispered-" Yes, pretty child-~I mean to try."
And so. the door opened, and Cindy and Mr. Skip came
in for prayers. Faith hid her face, but otherwise. did not
stir.
VOL. II.              I,

.9.)

VOL. II,


50               SAY AND SEAL.

How sweet the service was to them all that night !-yes,
to them all; there was not one ~vho could help feeling its
influence. And yet it was very simple, and not very long,-
Mr. Linden read first a fe*w Bible passages, and then Wes-
ley's hymn of the New Year,-with its bugle note of ac-
tion,-and then to prayer, for which, by that time, every
heart was ready.
"Come let ug anew our journey pursue,'
Roll round with the year,
And never stand still till the Master appear.
His adorable will let us gkdly fulfil,
And our talents improve,
By the patience of hope and the labours of love.
"Our life is a dream; our time, as a stream,
Glides swiftly awny,
And the fugitive moment refuses to stay.
The arrow is flown-the moment is gone;
The millennial year
Bushes on to our view, and eternity's here.
"0 that each, in the day of his coming, may say,
I have fought my way through;
I have finished the work thou didst give me to do.
0 that each from his Lord may receive the glad word,
Well and faithfully done!
Enter into my joy, and sit down on my throne."

r

CHAPTER IV.
THE first morning of the new year turned out as bright
las could be desired for the great sleigh-riding expe~
edition; the very day foi~ it. Mid in the very mood for it
were the people wh~ were to go. Not but somewhat of
last; night's gravity hung about Faith's bright face; the
one did no hurt to the other; for the best brightness is
always sure to be grave, and the best gravity is almost
sure to be bright, on some side. However there was
nothing contemplative about the character of things this
morning; there was too much action afoot. Such an
army of in eats and drinks, with all sorts of odd ends*~and
varieties, from the shoes to the fishing-net, and such an
array of apples and sugarpluins !--to marshal and order
them all in proper companies and ranks, wanted a general!
But Faith was by no means a bad general, and up to the
act of stowing the sleigh, at which point the things were..~
made over to Mr. Linden and Mr. Skip, her part was, well
done. And Mr. Linden found in the course of his part
of the business that Mrs. Derrick and Faith had followed a
lead of their own.
There had been a pretty packing and tying up and
labelling at the table, before the sleigh-paqking began,-
Faith's busy little fingers went in and~ ~out with great
dexterity; and either Mr. Linden thought it was pleasant
to her.-or knew it was pleasant to him, to have them so
engaged; for though he stood by and talked to her, and
laughed at her, he let the said little fingers have their way;
except when they touched some harsh bit of string, or
rough bit of paper, or unmanageable package, and then his
own interfered. It was a bright packing up-without a
shadow, at least that could be called such,, But once or
twice, when with some quick movement of Faith's hand
the diamonds flashed forth their weird light suddenly,-
she did see that Mr. Linden's eyes went downr and that
his mouth took a set which if not of pain, was at least sad.
(51)


52              SAY AND SEAL.                                       SAY AND SEAL.              53

It never lasted long-and the next look was always one
of most full pleasure at her. But the second time, Faith's
heart could hardly bear it. She guessed at the why and
the what; but words were too gross a medium to convey
from spirit to~ spirit the touch that love could give and
pain bear. She watched her cWance; and when one of Mi'.
Linden's hands was for a moment resting on a package
that the other was busied in arranging, suddenly laying
the jewelled ha'tid on his, Faith's lips kept it company.
"Faith I" he said. And then as if he saw it all, he did
not say another word, only held her for a minute in a very,
very close embrace. But then he whispered,
"Faith-...you must give me that in another way."
Faith appeared to have exhausted her ammunition, for
she only answered by hiding her face.
"Faith"-Mr. Linden repeated.
She looked up slowly, blushing all over; and her very
doubtful face seemed to negative the whole proceeding.
But then an irrepressible little laugh began to play.
"I wouldn't do it," she said unsteadily,-"at least, I
don't know that I would-if I hadn't wished so very
much to give you something today ;-and I have nothing
else !-."
And serving herself desperately, Faith laid one hand on
Mr. Linden's shoulder and slightly raising herself bn her
toes, did bestow on his lips as dainty a kiss as ever Santa
Claus brought in his box of New Year curiosities. But
she was overcome with confusion the moment she bad done
it, and would have rushed off if that had been possible.
"Let me go".-she said hastily-"let me go !"-
In answer to which, she was held as securely fast as she
ever had been in her life. Covering and hiding all of her
face that she could, Faith renewed her request, in a comical
* tone of humility-as if she didn't deserve it.
"I never felt less inclined to let you go !"
"There is all that work to be done," said Faith, by way
of possibly useful, suggestion.
Mignonette, wilr you remember your new lesson ?"
She whispered softly, "N6.-~--It was only Santa Claus."
"Not Campaspe ?"
"No-.Certainly not 1"

U

You remember," said Mr. Linden, "that when.~-' Cupid
and Campaspe played at cards for kisses, C14!pid paid.'-.-.
I was unavoidably reminded of that. But you may go on
with your work,-you know what happens when lessons
are learned imperfectly." And liberty for her work she
had; no more.
"Child," said her mother comin~~ in "a
your lunch ?"                ~      re you ready for
"Why no, mother," said Faith with a little laugh,-." of
course not! but I can take it as I go on. There's a good
deal of 'sorting' to do yet. I hope the sleigh is big."
"Take it as you go on, indeed !" said Mrs. Derrick.
"You've got to stop and eat, chuld,-you can't live till
night with nothing but other folk's dinners."
Faith however declared she could not stop to eat; and
she contrived to carry on both the rival, occupations to~
gatherr, and even to make right sure that no one else
should attempt to live upon anything more ethereal than
sandwiches and pumpkin pie. She drank her coffee in the
intervals of tying packages and writing labels, and ran
about with a sandwich in one hand and a basket in the
other; filling Mr. Linden's cup and putting tempting
platefuls in his way. But he was as busy as she,-spend~
ing much of his time at the barn, where Squire Stouten-
burgh's pretty little box sleigh was in process of filling
with cloaks, buffalo robes, and commodities! At last
everything was in, and Mr. Linden came to announce that
fact to Faith,-furs and hood were donned, and the &amp;leigh
was off with its whole load.
Bright, bright the snow was, and blue the shadows, and
fair the white expanse of hill and meadow, all crisp and
sparkling. Everybody was out-which was not wonderful;
but so well had Mr. Linden disposed and covered up his
packages, that all anybody could see was that he and
Faith were taking a sleigh~ride,-which was not wonderful
either. And before long they left the more frequented
roads, and turned down the lane that led, to ~he dwelling
of Sally Loxvndes. How different it looked now, from that
summer evening when Faith had gone there alone. What
a coloring then lay on all the ground that was now white
with sunlight and blue with shade!' And also, what a


54               SAY A~D SEAL.                                        SAY AND SEAL.                55

difference in the mental coloring. But Jerry, travelling
faster than her feet had done, soon brought them to the
house. Mr. Linden buckled the tie, and helped Faith to
emerge from the buffalo robes; the winter wind blowing
fresh from the sea, and sweeping over the down till Jerry
shook his blanket in disapproval.
"Now my little counsellor," said Mi'. Linden, "what
does your wisdom say should go in here-besides this
basket of substantial? I think you know more of these
people than I do ?"-And the surf in it~ cold monotony,
said-'Anything warm!'
"Mother has put in a shawl for Sally," said Faith,
getting out the package ;-(it was one that Mrs. Derrick
found she could do without,)-" and a little paper of tea,
-tea is Sally's greatest deli ght,-.--here it is !"
Sally's abode was in nothing different from the run of
poor houses in the country; unpainted of course, outside
and inside; a rag~. arpet on the floor, a gay patchwork
coverlet on the be . Sally herself was in the rocking~
chair before a little wood fire. But there was not the look
of even poor comfort which may~ sometimes be seen; want,
that told of lack of means and that also went deeper, was
visible in everything.
"I've come to wish you a happy ~iew year, Sally," said
Faith brightly.
"Laws! I wonder where it's to come from !" said Sally.
"If within' would fetch it-I've wished it to myself till
I'm tired. Happy new years don't come to all folks.
Aint that-How do you do, sir 1-aint it the gentleman
Jenny told of? that fell down at Mr. Simlins' door,?"
"And got up again ?" said Mr. Linden. "Yes, I pre-
sume I am the very person Jenny told of. I remember
that Jenny was very kind to me, too. Where is she ?"
"0 she's to Mr. Simlinses all along! she's got a good
place; she knows when she~s comfortable. She dpn't think
of me staying' here all alone."
"B1t aren't you ~omfortable, Sally ?" said Faith.
"I should like to know how I would be! Folks that is
comfortable thinks all the wOrld is like them! If they
didn't they'd help."

"Well what is the firs( thing that would help to make
you comfortable ?" said Mr. Linden.
Sally looked at him, up and down.
"I'd like to see a speck o' somebody's face now and then.
I mope and mope, till I wish I'd die to get rid of it! You
see, sir, I aint as I used to was; and my family aint numerous
now. There's no one lives in this house over my head but
me and a girl what stays by me to do chores. Aint that
a life for a spider ?"
Faith had been stealthily unfolding the shawl and now
put it round Sally's shoulders. "Will that help to make
you comfortable ?" she said gently.
"Laws !" said Sally-.--" aint that smart! That's good as
far as it goes. Where did that come from ?"
"Mother sent it to you, for New Year."
"It's real becoming of her !" said Sally in. a mollified
tone, feeling of the shawl. "Well I won't say this New
Years haint brought mc something."
"It brings you too much cold air at present," Mr. Lin~
den said. "Do you know that window lets in about as
much cold as it keeps out ?"
all" Well I reckon I do," said Sally. I've nothing' to do
day but sit here and realize onto it. There aint no
such a thing as building' a fire in the chimney that'll keep
out the cold from that winder."
I should think not !~.Lthe way is to attack the window
itself:," he said, looking at it as, if he were studying the
"We've brought you something else here, Sally, ~to help
keep out the cold," said Faith. "May I put the things in
your closet-so as to carry home my basket ?"
"Yes, if you like. What have you got there, Faith ?"
said Miss Lowndes looking into the closet after her.
"There's a piece of beef, Sally, of mother's own curing-
all ready cooked-....so you'll have nothing to do but cook
your potatoes-and mother thought you'd like a few of our
potatoes, they're good this year. Then here is a little
paper of tea she sent you, and I've brought you one of my
own pumpkin pies-so you must say it is good, Sally."
"Well I'm beat 1" said Sally. "Haint you got something
else ?"


SAY AND SEAL.

56              SAY AND SEAL.

She was like to be beat on all hands; for Mr. Linden
who had been examining the window while Faith emptied
her basket., now went out and presently brought back ham-
mer and nails and strips of lath, that made Faith wonder
whether he had brought a tool-chest along. But the noise
of his ham!ner was much more cheerful than the rattling
9f the window, and when it had done its work outside as
well as in, the wind might whistle for admission in vain~
He came in and stood by the fire for a moment then, before
they set oft; and asked Faith softly what else was wanted?
And Faith whispered in answer-.-.
"'The Dairyman's Daughter ?'-but you must give it."
"Can't you get some comfort in reading your BiblQ
Sally ?" said Faith while Mr. Linden went out tQ the
sleigh with his hammer and nails."
"Laws !" said Sally-" what's the use! I haint got the
heart to take the trouble to read, half the time."
"If you read one half the time, and pray too, Sally,
you'll soon get heart for the other half."
"It's easy talking' "-was Sally's encouraging view of the
case.
"It's a great deal easier doing," said Faith. "If you
try it, Sally, it'll make you so glad you'll never say you
want comfort again. ~
"Well you've brought me a heap to-day anyhow," said
Sally. "Just look at that winder! I declare !-L 'spect
I'll make out to eat my dinner to-day without scolding."
~ Mr. Linden came back with the tract, but kept it in his
hand for a minute.
"Do you know, Sally, how a house is built upon the
bare ground ?" he said. "The mason lays down one stone,
and then another on that; and if he cannot have his choice
of stones he takes just what come to hand-little and big,
putting in plenty of mortar to bind all together. Now
that's the way you must build up a happy year for your-
self,-and in that way every one can." The words were
spoken very brightly, without a touch of faultfinding.
"Well"-said Sally rocking herself back and.forth in the
rocking-chair-.-" I 'spect you know how. "-Which might
have been meant as a compliment, or as an excuse.
"I think you do," said Mr. Linden smiling; "and I am

going to leave you a true story of how it was really done
by somebody else. Will you read it?"
"Yes"-said Sally continuing to rock. "I'll do any-
thing you ask me to-after that winders You've given me
a good start-anyways. I'd as lives hear you talk as most
things."
There was not time fQr much more talk then, however.
Mr. Linden and Faith went away, leaving the little book
on the table. But when Sally went to take a nearer view
of its words of golden example, there lay on it the first
real little gold piece Sally had ever possessed.
"That was a good beginning," said Faith in a sort of
quiet glee, after she had got into the sleigh again. "I
knew, before, we were like a butcher and baker setting oft'
on their travels; but I had ~no idea there was a carpenter
stowed away anywhere 1" And her laugh broke forth
upon the air of those wild downs, as Jerry turned his head
about.
"I must be something, you know," said Mr. Linden,-..
"and I don't choose to be the butcher-and certainly am
not the baker."
They turned into the village again, and then down
towards the shore; getting brilliant glimpses of the Sound
now and then, and a pretty keen breeze. But the sun was
strong in its modifying power, and bright and happy
spirits did the rest. One little pause the sleigh made at
the house where Faith had had her decisive interview with
Squire Deacon, but they did not get out there; only gave
a selection of comforts into the hands of one of the house-
hold, and jingled on their way shorewards. Not turning
down to the bathing region, but taking a road that ran
parallel with the Sound.
"Do you remember our first walk down here, Faith ?"
said Mr. Linden,.-." when you said you had showed me the
"Well I did," said Faith smiling,--." I showed you what
I knew; but you showed me what I had never known
before."
"I'm sure you showed me some things I had never
known before," he said laughing a little. "Do you know
where we ~re going now ?".--.they had left the beaten road,


SAY AND SEAL.             59

58              ~AY AND SEAL.

and entered a by-way where only footsteps marked the
snow, and no sleigh before their own had broken ground.
It seemed to be a sort of coast-way,--leading right off to-
wards the dashing Sound and its low points and inlets.
The shore was marked with ice as well as foam; the water
looked dark and cold, with the white gulls soaring and dip-
ping, and the white line of Long Island in the distance.
"No, I don't know. Where are we going? 0 how
beautiful! * 0 how beautiful I" Faith exclaimed. "Hasn't
every time its own pleasure! Where are we going, Ende-
cott ?"
"To see one who Dr. Harrison 'fancies' may have 'some-
thing in him.' Whatever made the doctor take such a dis-
like to Reuben ?"
Faith did not answer, and instead looked foi'ward with a
sort of contemplative gravity upon her brow. Her cheeks
were already so brilliant with riding in the fresh air that a
little rise of colour could hardLy have been noticed.
"Do you know ?"
Faith presently replied that she supposed it w~s a dislike
taken up without any sort of real ground.
"XVell to tell you the truth, my little Mignonette," said
Mr. Linden, "the doctor's twenty-five dollars gives me
some trouble in that connexion. Reuben will take favors
gladly from anybody that likes him, but towards people
who do not (they are very few, indeed) he is as proud as
if he had the Bank of England at his back. I might send
him a dinner every day if I chose; but if Reuben were
starving, his conscience would have a struggle with him
before he would take bread from Di'. Harrison."
Faith listened very seriously and her conclusion was
a very earnest "Oh, I am sorry !-But then," she went on
thoughtfully,~-" I dom't know that Dr. Harrison dislilces
Reuben.-lle don't understand him, how should he ?Z
and I know they have never seemed to get on well to-
gether.-.--."
"I chose to answer for him the other day," said Mr.
Linden-" and I shall not let him refuse; but I have
questioned whether I would tell him anything about the
money till he is ready for the books. Then if he should
meet the doctor, and the doctor should ask him !-"

I

Faith was silent a bit.
"Bat Reuben will do what you tell him," ~he said.
"And besides, Reuben was doing everything he could
for Dr. Harrison the other night-he can't refuse to let
Dr. harrison do something for him. I don't think he
ought."'
"lie had no thought of reward. Still, he would not
refuse, ii~ he supposed any part of the 'doing' was out of
care for him,-and you know I cannot tell him that I think
it i~. *But I shall talk to him about it. Not to-day: I will
not run the risk of spoiling his pleasure at the sight of us.
There-do you see that little beaver-like hut on the next
point ?-that is where he lives."
Faith looked at it with curious interest. That little brown
spot amidst the waste of snow and waters-that was where
the fisherman's boy lived; and there ho was preparing him-
self for college. And for what beside?
"Will Reuben or his father be hurt at all at anything
we have brought them ?" she said then.
"No, they will take it all simply for what' it is,-a New.
Year's gift. And Reuben would not dream of being hurt
by anythi~ g we could do,-he is as humble as he is proud.
We are like enough to find him alone."
And so they found him. With an absorbed ignoring of
sleigh-bells and curiosity--perhaps because the former'
rarely came for him,-Reuben had sat still at his work
until his visitors knocked at the low door. But then he
came with a step and face ready to find Mr. Linden.-
though not Faith; and his first flush of pleasure deepened
with surprise and even a little embarrassment as he ushered
her in. There was no false pride about it, but "Miss Faith"
was looked upon by all the boys as a dainty thing; and
Reuben placed a chair for her by the drift-wood fire, with
as much feeling of the unfitness of surrounding circum-
stances, as if she had been the Queen. Something in the
hand that was laid on his shoulder brushed that away; and
the4 Reuben looked and spoke as usual.
Surrounding circumstances were not so bad~ after all.
Faith had noticed how carefully and neatly the snow was
cleared from the door and down to the water's edge, and
everything within bore the same tokens. The room was

59

58


SAY AND SEAL.~                                   SAY AND SEAL.              61

very tiny, the floor bare -.but very clean; the blazing
drift-wood the only adornment. Yet not so: for on an
old sea chest which graced one side of the room, lay
Reuben's work which they had interrupted. An open
book, with one or two othei's beside it; and by them all,
with mesh and netting-kneedle and twine, lay an old net
which Reuben had been repairing. The drift-wood had
stone supporters, -the winter wind swept in a sort of
grasping way round the little hut; and the dashing of
the Sound waters, and the sharp war of the floating ice,
broke the stillness. But they were very glad eyes that
Reuben lifted to Mr. Linden's face, and a very glad
alacrity brought forward a little box for Faith to rest
her feet.
"Don't yoU mean to sit down, Mr. Linden ?" he said.
"To be sure I do. But I haven't wished you a happy
New Year yet.'~ And the lips that Reuben most reverenced
in the world, left their greeting on his forehead. It was
well the boy found something to do-.with the fire, and
Faith's box, and Mr. Linden's chair! But then ho stood
silent and quiet as before.
"Don't you mean to sit down, Reuben ?" said aith.
Reuben siniled,-not as if he caved about a sea ; but he
brought forward another little box, not even the first cousin
of Faith's7 and sat down as she desired.
"Didn't you find it very cold, Miss Faith ?" he said, as
if he could not get used to seeing her there. "Are you
getting warm now
Faith said she hadn't been cold; and would fast enough
have entered into conversation with Reuben, but she thought
he would rather hear words from other lips, and was sure
that other lips could give them better.
"And have you got quite well, ma'am ~ said Reuben.
"Don't I look well ?" she said smiling at him. "What
are you doing over there, Reuben ?-making a net ?"
"0 I was mending it, Miss Faith."
"I can't afford to have you at that work just now," said
Mr. Linden,-"y~u know we begin school again to-mor-
row. You must tell your father from me, Reuben, that ho
must please to use his new one for the present, and let you
mend up that at your leisure. Will you ?"

Reuben flushed-looking up and then down as he said,
"Yes, sir," and then very softly, "0 Mr. Linden, you
needn't have done that !"
"Of course I need not-people never need please them.
selves, I suppose. But you know, Reuben, there is a great
dear of Santa Claus work going on at this time of year,
and Miss Faith and I have had some of it put in our hands.
I won't answer for what she'll do with you !-..but you must
try and bear it manfully."
Reuben laughed a little half in sympathy with the
bright words and smile, half as if the spirit of the time
had laid ho'ld of him.
"You know, Mr. Linden," said Faith laughing, but ap-
pealingly too,-"that Reuben will get worse handling from.
you than he will from me! so let him have the worst
first."
"I'll bring in your basket," was all he said,-and the
basket came in accordingly; Reuben feeling too bewildered
to even offer his services.
Faith found kierself in a corner. She jumped up and
placed herself in front of the basket so as to hide it.
"Wait !"-she said. "Reuben, h~w much of a housekeej~r
are you ?"
"I don't know, Miss Faith,-I don't believe I ever was
tried."
"Do you know how to make mince pies, for instance ?"
But Reuben shook his~ head, with a low-spoken, "No,
Miss Faith, "-a little as if she were somehow transparent7
and he was viewing the basket behind her.
"Nevei~ mind my questions," said Faith, "but tell me.
Could you stuI~, a tui'key, do you think, if you tried ?"
"I suppose I could-somehow," Reuben said, coloring
and Laughing. "I never tried, Mis~ Faith."
"Then you couldn't !" said Faith, her laugh rolling
round the little room, as softly as the curls of smoke went
up the chimney. "You needn't think you could! But
Reuben, since you can't, don't you think you would let me
do it once for you ?"
Reuben's words were not ready in answer. But a
bashful look at Faith's face-and her hands,..-one that
reminded her of the clam-roasting,-was followed by a
voL. II.

-1


62              , SAY AND S~AL
grateful, low-s keii~-"T don't think you ought to do any.
"I have had so much'~ileasure in it, Reuben, you'll have
to forgive me ;"-Faith answered, withdrawing from the
basket.'
"lou must look into that at your leisure, Reuben," Mr.
Linden said, ~as he watched the play of feeling in the boy~
face. "Miss Faith is in no hurry for her basket."
Reuben heard him silently, and as silently lifted the
basket from where it stood and set it carefully on the table.
But then he came close up to Faith and stood by her side.
"You are 'very good, Miss Faith !" he said. "I don't know
how to thank you."
"Reuben !" said Faith colouring-."you mustn't thank
me at all. I've just had the pleasure of doing-but it is
Mr. Linden that has brought the basket here, and me
too."
"And he must tal~ you away," Mr. Linden said.
"Reuben, you may thank Miss Faith just as much as you
please. If I had nothing else to do, I should invite my-
self here to dinner, but as it is I must be off. Are you
ready ?" he said to Faith, while in silence Reuben knelt
down to put on again the moccasins which she had thrown
oft', and then she followed Mr. Linden. Reuben followed
too,-partly to help their arrangements, partly at Mr.
Linden's bidding to bring back the net. But when there
was added thereto a little package which could only mean
books, Reuben's cup of gravity, at least, was full; and
words of good-bye he had none.
And for a few minutes after they drove away Faith too'
was silent with great pleasure. She hardly knew, though
s1~e felt, how bright the sun was on the snow, and how
genial his middayy winter beams; and with how crisp a
gi earn the light broke on ice points and crests of foam and
glanced from the snow-banks. The riches of many days
seemed crowded into the few hours of that morning. Were
they not on a " shining" expedition! Had they not been
leaving sunbeams of gladness in house after house, that
would shine, on, nobody knew how long! Faith was too
glad for a little while not to feel very sober; those sun-
beams came from so high a source, and were wrought In

SAY AND SEAL.             Os

with others that so wrapped. her own life about. So she
looked at Jerry's ears and said nothing.
"Faith," Mr. Linden said suddenly, "I wish II could
tell you what it is to me to be going these rounds with
Faith showed a quick, touched little smile. "I've been
thinking just now,~.-what it means."
"I should like to have the explanation of those last
three words. '~
"What it means ?"-.-.and the slight play of her lips did
not at all hinder the deep, deep strength of her thought
from being manifest.-" It means, all you have taught me
and led me to !-."
" You don't intend to lead me to a very clear understand
ing," he said playfully, and yet with a tone that half
acknowledged her meaning. "Do you ever remember
what you have taught me ?-.They say one should at the
end of the year, reckon up all the blessings it has brought,
..-.but I know not where to begin, nor how to recount
them. This year !-it has been like th~ shield in the old
fable,-it seemed to me of iron to look forward to-so cold
and dark,-and it has been all gold!"
"Did it look so ?" she said with quick eyes of sym-
pathy.
"Yes, little Sunbeam, it looked so; and there were
enough earthly reasons why it should. But unbelief has
had a rebuke for once ;-if J know myself; I am ready now
to go forward without a question !"
Over what lull Difficulty did that future road lie ?-.---I{e
did not explain, and the next words came with a different
tone,-one that almost put the other out ~f Faith's head.
"My little Sunbeam, do you keep warm
"Yes"-she said with a somewhat wistful look that came
from a sunbeam determined upon doing its very best of
shining, for him. But she was silent again for a minute.
"There are plenty of sunbeams abroad to-day, Endecott,"
she said then with rare sweetness of tone, that touched
but did not press upon his tone of a few minutes ago.
"Dear Faith," he said looking at her, and answering the
wistfulness and the smile and the voice all in one,-" do
you know I can never find words that just suit me for
11*

68


64

SAY AND SEAL.

you ?-And do you know that I think there was never
such a New Year's day heard of ?.-it is all sunshine! Just
look how the light is breaking out there upon the ice, arid
touching the waves, and shining through that one little
cloud,-and guess how I feel it in my heart. Do you
know how much work of this sort, and of every sort,
you and I shall have to do together, little child, if we
live ?"
It was a look of beauty that answered,.-so full in its
happiness, so blushing and shy; but Faith's words were
as simple as they were earnest.
".1 wish it. There can't be too much."
Their course now became rather irregular; crossing about
from one spot to another, and through a part of the country
where Faith had never been. ilere was a sort of shore
population,.-.people living upon rocks and sand rent free,
or almost that; and supporting themselves otherwise as best
they might. A scattered, loose-built hamlet, perching along
the icy shore, and with its wild winds to rock the children
to sleep, and the music of the waves for a lullaby. But the
children throve with such nursing, if one might judge by the
numbers that tumbled in the snow and clustered on the
doorsteps; and the am~spment they afforded Faith was
noVsmall. The houses weLre too many here to have time
for a visit to each,.-a pause at the door, and the leaving
of some little token of kindness, was all that could be at-
tempted; and the tokens were various. I~aith's loaves of
bread, and her pieces of meat, or papers from the stock of
tea and sugar with which she had been furnished, or a bowl
of broth jelly for some sick person,-a pair of woollen
stockings, perhaps, or a flannel jacket, for some rheumatic
old man or woman,-or a bible,-or a combination of dif.
fervent things where the need demanded. But Faith's special
~fun was with the children.
When they first entered the hamlet, Mr. Linden brought
forward and set at her feet one basket of trifling juvenile
treasures, and another filled more substantially with apples
and cakes and sugarplums; and then as all the children
were out of doors, he drove slowly and let her delight as
many of them as she chose. What pleasure it was !.-those
little cold hands, so unwanted to cakes and that could

~AX A~NV bI~AJ4.              05
hardly hdd apples,-how eagerly, how shyly, they were
street Led out !-with what flourishes of bare feet or old
shoes the young ones scampered away, or stood gazing'
after Jerry's little dust-cloud of snow ;-ever after to re~
member and tell of this day, as one wherein a beautiful
lady dressed up like a pussy cat, gave them an apple, or a
stick of candy, or a picture book! Faith was in a debate
between smiles and tears by the time they were through the
hamlet and dashing out again on the~open snow, for Mr.
Linden had left all that part of the business to her; though
the children all seemed to know him-and he them-by
heart.
And good note Faith took of that, and laid up the
lesson. She had been a very good Santa Claus the while,
and had acted the part of a sunbeam indifferent well; being
just about so bright and so soft in all her dealings with
those same little cold hands and quick spirits; giving them
their apples and candy with a good envelope of gentle
words and laughter. Seeing that she had it to do, she
went into the game thoroughly. But once she made a
private protest.
"Do you know, Endecott, these things would taste a
great deal sweeter if your hand gave them ?"
"I know nothing of the sort! Sweeter ?-look at that
urchin deep in peppermint candy,-.-.could anything enhance
the spice or the sweetness of that ?"
"Yes," said Faith shaking her head-." and look at that
little girl before him who took the apple and looked at you
all the while!"
"She has an eye for contrast," he said laughing,
"and is probably wondering why all people can't look
alike !"
Faith did not secretly blame her, but she left that
subject.
It was to the furthest point of their round that they went
another fisherman's ho~ise-far, far oft; on the shore.
A little larger than Reuben's, but not so neatly kept; as
indeed how could it be? with so many children,-or how
could the house hold them, in those times of weather when
they condescended to stay in! They were in pretty good
Qrdor1 to do their mother justice, and she in great delight

&amp; A TV 2 49"A Pan a

2 -'.Wk


SAY AND SEAL.                                     SAY AND SEAL.

at the sight of her visitors. There was no room for silence
here-or at least no silence in th~ room, for Mrs. Ling was
never at a loss for words. And there was no need of much
circumlocution in presenting the turkey, -nothing but
pleasure could come of it, let it enter on which foot it
would; and the train of potatoes, and tea, and bread, and
other things, fairly made Mrs. Ling's eyes shine,-though
she talked away as fast as ever. The children were in
spirits too great to be got rid of in any ordinary way,
especially the youngest walking Ling; whose turn having
not yet come for a pair of shoes from his father's pocket,
was now to be fitted out of Mr. Linden's sleigh. And the
shoes did fit-and little Japhet marked his sense of the
obligation by at once requesting Faith to tie them. Which
Faith did in a state of delight too great for words.
U Now what do you. feel like ?" she said, when Japhet
was fairly shod and she still stooping at his feet.
"I feel like a king!" said Japhet promptly7 - which
had been the height of his republican ambition for sonic
time.
"Dear sakes !" said his mother, who had heard the child's
request too late to interfere,.-" I hope you'll not mind him,
ma'am,-he oughter know better, but he don't. And poor
things, when they gets pleased.-.it aint often, you see,
ma'am, so I can't be hard upon 'em. Do you feel warm?
s-we do make out to keep warm, most times."
"I am quite warm, thank you; but I should think you'd
feel the wind down here. Japhet,"-said Faith, who had
brought in her basket of varieties and whose quiet eyes
were fairly in a dance with fun and delight,-" which do
you think kings ~ike best-cookies or candy ?"
To which Japhet with equal promptness replied,
"Candy-and cookies."
"Don't !"-his mother said again,-but the basket of
varieties looked almost as wonderful to her eyes as to those
of the children, who now gathered round as near as they
dare come, while Mrs. Ling cautiously peeped over their
heads.
"I see you feel like a king !" said Faith filling both
Japhet's hands.-.--A' There! now I hope you don't feel like
Alexander."

"Alexander haint got nothing' !" said Japhet~ looking
towards his eldest brother.
Which did not overset Faith's gravity, because by this
time she had none to speak of. Alexander's delight was
found to be in red apples, and he thought a little common
to~ a treastAre such as neither Diogenes nor the real Alex-
ander knew of between them! One little girl was made
happy with a wonderful picture-book in which there were
a dog, a cat, and a lion with a great mane just ready to eat
a man up, with the stories thereto pertaining; and a neat
little slate seemed a most desirable acquisition to the bright
eyes of an older girl. They were al4~ more satisfied than
the conqueror of the world by the time Faith rose from the
basket; and then she offered her tribute of gingerbread to
Mrs. Ling. The little girl with the slate, once released
from the spell of the basket, went up to Mr. Linden (who
had stood looking on) and said,~-" She's awake now, if
you please, sir,"-and he turned and went into the next
room, leaving Mrs. Ling to entertain Faith as best she
might. For whichMrs. Ling was most ready.
"Ma always does want to see him"-she said. "You
see, ma'am, she can't never get up now, so it's a play to
hear somebody talk. And ma likes ihui special. Mr.
Somers he's been kind too - and Mrs. - he come down
when ma was first took, and since; but someways she don't
just see into him much. I don' know but it's along of his
bein' better than other folks-but after all, a person wants
to have even good things talked to 'em so's they can under-
stand. Now Mr. Linden,-my Mary there '11 listen to him
for an hour, and never lose a word." And Mary's bright
little eyes answered that readily, while Mrs. Ling's went
back to the basket.
"I can't believejP'~she said. "You don't know what
you've done, ma'am! Why there aint one o' them children
as ever see a real live turkey cooked, in their existence."
"You don't knoW' what pleasure I had in doing it for
them, Mrs. Ling. Mr. Linden tld me there was a house.
ful of children."
"Well so there is !" said Mrs. Ling looking round the
room,-" and it's no wonder he thinks so, for they tease
him most out of his life sometimes when he's here,-.-or


CS               SAY AND SEAL.                                      SAY AND SEAL.              69

would if he wasn't as good~-natured as~' the day's long. But
there aint one too many, after all said and done, for I've
got nothing else,.-so if it wasn't for them I should be
poorly offi" With which reverse statement of the case,
Mrs. Ling complacently smoothed down four, or five heads,
and tied as many aprons.
"Ma,~' said little Mary, "will Mr. Linden sing for us to-
day?"
"I dare say.-if you ask him pretty," 'said her mother.
"No, I guess he's busy and won't be bothered."
"He never is bothered," said Mary persistently, while
two or three of the others recovering from their apples and
shyness, ventured up to Faith again and began to stroke
her furs.
"What dQes he sing for you, Jenny ?" said Faith, taking
the little picture-book girl on her lap, and glad to put her
own face down in a somewhat sheltered position.
"0 he sings hymns-" said Jenny, gazing abstractedly
at the lion and the cat by turns,-" and other things too,
sometimes."
"Hymns are very interesting. And beautiful-don't
you think so ?" said Mary drawing nearer.
"Yes, indeed I do," said Faith stretching out her hand
and pulling the little girl up to her. "What ones' do ~u
like best, Mary?"
But Mary's answer stayed, for Mr. Linden came back at
that moment, and skilfully making his way up to Faith
without running over any of the little throng, he told her
he was ready. And Faith, though secretly# wishing for the
song as much as any of the children, set Jenny on the floor
and rose up ~ while Mr. Lind~n laugh ugly showed her 'an
excellent way of investing ten cents', by giving the children
each one. Meanwhile Mrs. Ling had been emptying the
basket. There was the cold turkey in the full splendour
of its rich brown coat-a good large turkey too; but lest
there should not be enough of it to go round to so many
mouths, Mrs. Derrick and Faith had added a nice piece,
ready boiled, of salt pork. Then there were potatoes,
and some of Faith's bread,-and a paper of tea and
another of sugar; and there was arrowroot, made and uii-
made, for the sick woman, with some broth jelly. It was

one of those houses where a good deal was wanted, and
the supply had been generous in proportion. Mrs. Ling
was at her wits' end to dispose of it all; and the children
watched her in a gale of excitement, till the last thing was
carried off, and Mrs. Ling began to shake out the napkins
and' fold them up. But then they came round Mr. Linden
with their petition, urging it with such~ humble pertinacity,
that he was fain at last to comply. It was only a child's
Christmas hymn, set to a simple, bright, quick tune, which
at first kept sonic of the smallest feet in a greater state of
unrest than the older children thought at all respectful.
"0 little children, sing.
Jesus, your Lord and King
For you a child became:
On that bright Christmas day
He in a manger lay,
Who hath the one Almighty name!

I

"Come children, love him now,
Before the Saviour bow,
Give him each little heart.
His spotless nature see,--
Then like him spotless be,
And choose his service for your part.
"The joy of loving him
Shall ever fade nor dim,-
W ile worldly joys fly fast
Jesu to see and love,
First here and then above,
Such joy s all ever, ever last.
"I'll give myself away
On this new Christmas day,-
He gave his life for me!
Jesus, my heart is thine,
O make it humbly shine
With ever-living love to thee!
"0 Jesus, our Great Friend,
Our Saviour, without end
Thy praises we will bring!
Glory to God's high throne!
Peace now on earth is known,
And we for joy may ever sing!"


SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.

"Therc"-Mr. Linden said,       the hush into which
the children had subsided, and gently disengaging himself
from them,-"now I have given you something to think
of, and you must do it, and let me go." And he and Faith
were presently on their way; Faith feeling that she had
'something to think of' too.
The sun was testing fast as they turned,' but now their
way lay towards home, via sundry other places. The long
sunbeams were passing lovely as they lay upon the snow,
and the fantastic shadows of Jerry and the sleigh and all it
held, were in odd harmony and contrast. The poverty-
stricken house to~ which the two had walked that memora-
ble night, had been already visited and passed, and several
others with sick or poor inhabitants. Then Mr. Linden
turned off down one of the scarce broken by-roads, arid
stopped before a little lonely brown house with an old but-
tonwood tree in front.
"There is a blanket to go in here, Faith," he said as he
took her out, "and also my hammer 1-for there is always
something to do."
"Always something to do at this house ?"
"Yes," he answered laughingly,-" so you must hold in
check your aversion to carpenters."
"If you'll ~please have a charity for the butcher and
baker, and tell me what I shall take in here? for my part."
"0 we'll go in and find out,-these good people are
never just suited unless they have the ordering of every.
thing. They'll tell us what they want fast enough, but if
we guessed at it beforehand, they would maybe find out
that those were just the things they did not want. Only
my hammer-I'm sure of that."
The "good people" in question, were an old man and
his wife, living in one little room and with very little furni-
ture. Very deaf the old man was, and both of them din-
sighted, so that the old bible on the shelf was only a thing
to look at,-if indeed it had ever been anything more,
which some people doubted. This was one of the first
things Mr. Linden took hold of after the kind greetings
were passed, and he gave it to Faith; telling her that old
Mr. Roscor~ always expected his visitors to read to him,

and that if she would do that, he would mend Mrs. lbs.
corn's spinning-wheel--which he saw was ready for him.
: Faith threw back her hood and her furs, and took a seat
close by the old man; and the first thing he heard was her
sweet voice asking him where she should read, or if he
liked to hear any part in particular.
"No," he s4d, "he liked to have it surprise him."
Faith pondered how she should best surprise him, but
she had not much time to spare and no chance to ask
counsel. So she read as her heart prompted her,-first
the fifth chapter of IL Corinthians-with its joyful Chris~
tian profession and invitation to others; then she read the
account of Jesus', healing the impotent man and bidding
him "sin ~no more"; and then she turned over to the
Psalms and gave Mr. iRoscom the beautiful 103d psalm of
thanksgiving,-which after those other two passages
seemed particularly beautiful. This was work that Faith
loved, and she read so.
How softly the hammer worked while she read, she
mio'lt have noticed if her mind had not been full* but
though she had no word from that quarter, Mr. Roscom's
opinion was clear.
"That's good,'7 he said,-" and strong;-and I'm obleeged
to ~
And then, the wheel being near done, there was a little
skilful talk gone into; in the course of which Faith and
Mr. Linden learned, that the old couple were "real tired
of salt meat, some days"-and that rye bread "warnt
thought wholesome by itself"-and that "if their tea.
should give out they didn't know what they should do 1"-
and,~that "times when the old man was a little poorly,
nothing on airth would serve him but a roasted potato 1"
All of which was said just for the pleasure of talking to
sympathizing faces;-withop.t the least idea of what' was at
the door. The blanket wa~ too old a want to be spoken ot;
but Faith needed only to look at the bed. And then she
looked at Mr. Linden, in delighted watch to see what his
next move would be; in the intervals of her chat with Mr.
1{oscom, which was very likely.
Mr. Linden had finished his work, and stood balancing

/1)


SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.              ~3.

his hammer and listening to the catalogue of wants.with a
smile both grave and bright.
"Are these just the things you wish for?" he said.
"Well -'your Father knoweth that ye have need of them,'
-and he has sent them by. our hands to-day; so you see
that you may trust him for the future."
He laid his hand on Faith's shoulder as an invitation to
her to follow, and went out to the sleigh. She was at the
side of it as soon as he, and in it the next minute, stopping
to give him only with the eye one warm speech of sym~
pathy and joy.
"You haven't put up a basket specially for th~se people,
of course," she said,-" so we shall have to take the things
from everywhere. There's a beautiful chicken in that bas-
ket, Endecott -I know; that's the largest one we have
Thft; and bread---there aren't but two loaves here !-shall
we give them both? or do we want one somewhere else ?"
"I think we may give them both. And Faith-don't
you think a roasted apple might alternate usefully witI~ the
potato?"
Faith dived into the receptacle for apples and brought
out a good quantity of the right kind. Potatoes were not
in very large supply, but tea and sugar were-blessed
things !-unfailing.
~ "And here is a pumpkin pie 1" said Faith---" I am sure
* they'll like that-and as many cookies and cruller 'as you
like. And what else, Endecott ?-O here's a pair of those
big socks mother knit-wouldn't they be good here ?"
"Very good, dear child !-.-~and this bl ~nket must go-
and some tracts,-that will furnish more reading. You
run in with those, Faith-these other things are too heavy
for you."
"I've strength enough to carry a blanket," said Faith
laughing.
"Well, run oft' with that too, then," said Mr. Linden,
"only if your strength gives out by the way, please 'to fall
on the blanket."
Faith managed to reach the house safely and with a
bright face deposited the blanket on a chair. "I got leave
to bring this in to ~you, Mrs. IRoscom," she said. "I sup-
pose you know what Mr. Linden means you to do with it."

Perhaps they had' seen no two people in the course of the
day more thoroughly pleased than these two. The sources
of pleasure were not many in that house, and the expectation
of pleasure not strong; and the need of comforts had not
die.d out with the supply; and old and alone as they were,
the looking forward to possible cold and hunger was a
trial. It was easy to see how that blanket warmed the
room and promised a mild winter, and how the socks be-
came liniment,- and it seemed doubtful whether the old
man would ever be sick enough for roast potatoes, with the
potatoes really in. the house. So with other things,.-.they
took a childish pleasure even in the cakes and pie, and an
order for wood was a real relief. And what a dinner they
were already eating in imagination!
Mr. Linden had put Faith in the sleigh, with the last
sunset rays playing about her; and he stood wrapping her
up in all sorts of ways, and the old man and the old woman
stood in the door to see. Then in a voice which he sup-
posed to be a whisper, Mr. Roscom said,-
"Be she his wife ?"
"He didn't say-and I don' know what he said," screamed
Mrs. Roscom.
"Wal -she's handsome enough for it -and so's he;"
said the old man contemplatively~ "I hope he'll get one
as good!"
Very merrily Mr. Linden laughed as they drove away.
"I hope I shall !" he said. "Fa~ith, what do you think
of that? And which of u~ has the compliment ?"
But Faith was engaged in pulling her furs and buffaiG
robes round her, and did not appear to consider compli-
ments even a matter of moonshine; much less of sunshine..
Her first words were to remark upon the exceeding beauty
of the last touch the sunlight was giving to certain snowy
heights and white cumuli floating above them; a touch so
fair and calm as if heaven were setting its own seal on this
bright day.
"Is your head in the clouds ?" Mr. Linden said, bending
down to look at her with his laughing eyes. "flow can
you abstract your thoughts so suddenly from all sublunary
affairs! Do you want any more wrapping up ?"
VOL. II.              7


SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.

A4little flashing glance of most naive appeal, and Faith's
eyes went down absolutely.
"You may as well laugh I" he said. "One cannot get
through the world without occasionally hearing frightful
suggestions."
Faith did laugh, and gave him another good little look,
about which the only remarkable thing was that it was
afraid to stay.
"What were your cloudy remarks just now?" said Mr.
Linden.
"I wanted you to look at the beautiful light on them.
and those far-ow ridges of hill-.it is not gone yet."
Yes, they are very beautiful. But I believe I am not
in a meditative mood to-day,----or else the rival colours
distract me. Faith, I mean to pQt you in the witness-box
again."
"In the witness-box ?"-she said with a mental jump to
Neanticut, and a look to suit.
"Yes-but we are not on the banks of Kildeer river,
and need not be afraki," ~e said with a smile. "Faith
in-what ever made you take such an aversion to Phil
Davids ?"
"I don't dislike him,".-she ~4d softly.
"I did not mean to doubt y~ir forgiving disposition!
But what did he do to displease you ?"
Did Mr. Linden know? or did he not know! Faith
looked up to see. He was jus~~en~gj~ing one of the
lines from JIetj~y's tail, but met her look wTtlii great com-
posure.
"It's an old thing,"- said Faith. "It's not worth
bringing up.
- "But since I have brought it-..won't you indulge me
The red on Faith's cheeks grew brilliant. "It isn't any~
thing you would like,-if I told it to you.-Won't you let
me let it alone ?"
"I should like to hear you tell it."
"He made one, or two rude speeches"-said Faith in
very treat doubt and confusion ;-." that was all."
"That I knew before."
"Did you ~" said Faith looking at him. "How did you
know it, Endecott ?"

K     There was a curious gentle, almost tender, modulation
of tone in this last sentence, which covered a good deal of
 possible ground. Mr. Linden drew up one of her mufflers
which had fallen off a little, giving her as he did so a silent
though laughing answer, as comprehensive as her qi~es-
tion.
"You are just the dearest and most precious little child
in the whole world I" he said. "But why are you afraid
to tell me now?-and why did Phil's insinuation cause you
such dismay ?"
Faith's confusion would have been, as her rosy flush
was, extreme,-if. something in Mr. Linden's manner had
not met that and rebuked it, healing the wound almost
before it was made. Between the two Faith struggled
for a standing-ground of equaniniity,-but words, though
she struggled for them tool in her reason or imagination
she could not find.
"I want an answer to one of these questions,"- Mr.
Linden said, in a playful sort of tone. "Dr. Harrison
used to ask me if you lived upon roses-but do you think
Ican?"
4     Faith made an effort. "What do you want me to
say ?"
"What was it in Phil's words that troubled you so
much?"
The crimson rush came back overwhelmingly. "Oh
Endy-please don't ask me!"
'IN ot quite fair," he said smiling. "I'm sure I am
willing to tell you anything. Though indeed I do not
suppose you need much telling. But Faith-is that the
system of tactics by which you intend always to have
your own way ? I shall have to be philosophical to any
"That speech is so very zigzag," said Faith, "that I
cannot follow it. How are you going to be philosophical,
Mr. Linden ?"
"Not by forgetting to exact your forfeit, Miss Dir-
rick."
"That isn't fair," said Faith laughing. "I didn't for-
get I-I shouldn't think you had gone all day without eat~
ing anything I-and yet you must be starving."


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

"For what? little provider."
"For something to eat, I should think."
"Does that mean that you are suffering ?-because if
that be the case, I will .rcfresh you (cautiously) with sugar-
plums! A very superfluous thing, to be sure, but the most
suitable I can think of."
Faith's laugh came clear now. "No indeed. Suffer-
ing! I never eat so many dinners in one day in my life.
But I am hungry though, I believe. How many more
places are we going to? I don't care how many," she said
earnestly. "I like to be hungry."
"Well, keep up your spirits,-the next turn will bring
us out of the woods, and a three-minute stay at one or
two doors xviii end our. work for this time. Meanwhile,
do you want to hear a little bit of good poetry-on an
entirely new subject ?"
"Oh yes! if you please."
Demurely enough It was given...-.
"'Her true beauty leaves behind
Apprehensions in my mind
Of more sweetness, than all art
Or inventions can impart.
Thoughts too deep to be expressed,
And too strong to be repressed.'"
She gave him a wistful look as he finished the lines;
and then sat among her furs, as quiet again as a mouse.
"Do you like them, Mignonette ?"
"Yes-.very much."
"Would you like to tell me then why the hearing of them
makes you s&amp;ber ?"
"Yes-if you wish "; she said gently. "I know-a little
..-J believe,-what you think of me; but what I seem to
your eyes on the outside-and much more !-I want to be
really, really-in the sight of the eye that tries the heart.-
and I am ff6t now, Endy."
"My dear child-" he said,-and s silent a minute,
speeding smoothly .along~ through the starlight; then went
on.
"Yes, dear Faith,-that is what I wish for you-and
for myself. That is where we will most earnestly try to

help each other." And presently, as eye and thoughts
were caught and held by the wonderful constellation above
in the clear sky~ yet not drawn away from what they had
been talking of, Mr. Linden said,-
'Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion,~
that hringeth the shadow of death upon the day, and turn-
eth the night into morning!"' And so, in the thought of
that, they went home; Orion looking down upon them,
and they leaving bits of brightness by the way at the two
or three houses which yet remained. The box sleigh got
home at last emptied of all its load but the two travellers.
Mrs. Derrick and supper were ready for them, and had
been a good whiZ and by this time Mr. Linden and Faith
were ready for supper. And much as Mrs. Derrick had to
hear, she had something to tell. How Judge Harrison
had come to make a visit and say good-bye, and how he
had put in her hands another twenty-five dollars to be
jidded to those his son had already bestowed on Reuben.
Squire Stoutenburgh too had been thei~'e; but his errand
was ~to declare that Jerry could never be received again
into his service , but must henceforth remain in Mrs. Der-
rick's stable and possession. Altogether, the day even at
home had been an exciting one.
A little time after supper Faith went into the sitting-
room. Mr. Linden was there alone. Faith came up to
the back of his chair, laid a hand on his shoulder, and
bent her head into speaking neighbourhood. It may be
remained, that though Faith no longer said "Mr. Linden,"
yet that one other word of his name was never spoken just
like her other words. There was always a little lowering
or alteration of tone, a slight pause before-or after it,
which set and marked it as bordered round with all the
regards which by any phrase could be made known.
"Endecott"-she said very softly,-" do you know what
you have been doing to-day ?"
"Comprehensively speaking-I have been enjoying my-
self," he said with a bright smile at her.
"You have been giving me a lesson all the while, that
I felt through and through."
"Through and through ?" ~he repeated. "Come round

7*


~t8              SAY AND SEAL.

here, little bird-you need not perch on the back of my
chair. What are you singing about ?"
"Of' what you have taught me to-day."
"I must have fallen into a very unconscious habit of
lesson-giving. What have I taught you ?-suppose you
teach me."
"How one should 'hold forth the word of life."'
"Ah little bird !"-he said, with a look at her which
said his day's lesson had been the same, yet on different
grounds. "Well-if you can learn anything from so im.
perfect a teacher, I am glad. But do not rest there,-.--take
up the olive leaf and bear it on I"
7

F

1

0

CHAPTER V.
M R S. DERRICK went to Pequot the next day, and
found Miss Danforth as Faith had left her; or rather,
somewhat more failing in everything but mind-strength.
Mrs. Derrick was greatly xvelcomed by both ladies; but
she had not been there three hours when Miss Dilly spoke
out what was on her heart.
"Isn't Faith coming back to me again ?"
For Faith's sake her mother hesitated, and yet it was
for Faith's sake that she answered,-" Yes, if you want
her."
"It won't be for long I shall want her,"-said Miss
Dilly with a quietness very unlike her old self:-" but I
would like to have her dear face and music about me onc~
more-if~he can let me."
Mrs. Derrick came back with Mr. Stoutenburgh to
Pattaquasset that same evening; and Faith put up her
books and made immediate preparations. for going to
Pequot in her ~tead.
"I must let you go, child," said her mother,-.-" I couldn't
refuse."
"And I am so glad to-morrow is Wednesday, for I can
take you over," said Mr. Linden.
Wednesday afternoon was very fair, and after dinner
Faith and all her needful baggage were bestowed in the
little sleigh, and the journey began. Not very much of &amp;
journey indeed, unless compared with the length of day-
light; but as fair and bright and pleasant as a journey
could be. Full of talk of all sorts,-gliding on through
th'e fading day and the falling night, until
-." the floor of heaven
Was thick inlaid with patines of bright g~dd."
Very bright the stars were, very dark the sky, when
Jerry's bells began to mingle with a crowd of others in the
(7~)

/


80SA~ AND SEAL.
streets of Pequot. Faith had insisted that Mr. Linden
should come in and have a cup of tea or coffee before he
went back again; and this being a not unreasonable re-
quest, besides a pleasant one, she had her way.
Miss Danf'orth was in her room and could not see Mr.
Linden. Faith with a kiss and a word established the
little Frenchwoman to talk to him, obtaining leave to do
what she pleased; though Madame Danfortli managed to
have her share in the hospitality; got out cups and saucers
for Faith and Mr. Linden both on a little table by the fire,
.-.her rolls and her butter; talking all the while to him;
and took a minute to run down into the kitchen and see
that Faith and the coffee-pot were getting on properly.
And it may be said in passing that the result did credit to
both. The coffee served to Mr. Linden was faultless.
Madame iDanforth however had hardly presented hi n~ his
cup, when she was called off and her guests were left alone.
"Faith," said Mr. Linden, "yoa must not forget that
you have something to do for me as well as for other people
while you are here."
"I don't forget it. Bitt what do you mean, Ende..
eott ?"
"To put it in the most effective way-I mean that you
must take care of me !" he said smiling.
"I will. As good care as you would take of your-
self."
"That is a little ambiguous! But will you send ~me
word very often of your success ?"
Faith looked up and looked at him, a little startled.
"Do you mean-"
"I mean that there is a postoflice in Pattaquasset-and
another in Pequot."
She coloured, and somewhat hastily busied herself with
refilling Mr. Linden's cups Then she folded her hands and
sat looking into the fire with a face on which there was a
touching expression of humbleness.
"My little Mignonette," he said, "what are you think-
ing of?"
"I am thinking of that,"-she said with a smile which
did not change the expression. "Of what you want me to
do-and about it."

SAY AND SEAL.              81

"What about it? Are you inviting a letter to me on
the spot?"
"What then ?"
Faith would have liked to have her face out of sight, but
she couldn't, conveniently.
"I am thinking, how I shall do it-and how you will
not like it."
"You don't know"-said Mr. Linden. "Let me tell you
how I shall like it. I shall read it, and love it, and answer
it-will that satisfy you? or do you want me to hang it
round my neck by a blue ribband?.-because if you do, i:
will."
The laughing flash of Faith's eye contained nevertheless
a protest.
"No, you will not like it, because it will not be fit for
you to like; but you will have patience with it,"-.-she said
with a smile which did in its loveliness bi4 good-bye to
shadows.
Mr. Linden Thft the table, and standing before her as she
had risen too, took her face softly in both hands and raised
it up for his inspection.
"Do you know what a naughty child you are ?"
.A most quaint little "yes."
"Then why don't you behave better ?" he said, enforcing
his question but not releasing her.
"I suppose you will teach me, in time"-she said, blush-
ing and sparkling under his hands. He seemed to like to
study her face-or was thinking that he should not see it
again for some time,~-the expression on his own belonged
to more than one thing.
"You must not make me wait for that letter, Faith," he
said-" and I must not let you keep me any longer here!
But if you want anything, of any sort, you must send to
me."
"Yes !-to you or to mother."
"To me-if it is anything I can. do," he said *~s he
bade her good-bye. "And take care of yourself, dear child,
for me." And releasing her at last, none too willingly,
Mr. Linden went out alone into the starlight, lie did not
see-nor guess-~--how Faith stood before the fire. where he


82              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.

had left her, looking down into it,-.rnotionle ss and grave
until Madame Danforth came back. Then all that part
of her life was shut up within her; and Faith was again to
other eyes what she had been before at Pequot. Yet not
so entirely the same, nor was all that part of he life so
entirely shut up to herself, that both her ann t~an'd~ Madame
Danforth did not have a thought and exchange a word on
the subject.
"The sun has found the blossom !" said the little French-
woman knowingly one day; "they do not open so without
~     that!"
"Nonsense !" said Miss Danforth. "I will ask her."
But she never did.
And for a little while again Faith filled her old office.
Miss Dilly had no troubles or darkness to clear away now;
the Bible was plain sailing to her; but she could never
spread her sails too soon or too full for that navigation.
Early and late, as before, Faith read to her, with a joy and
gladness all brightened from the contrast of that Sunday
night's reading, and coming with a fuller spring since that
one little word of her mother the same night. Indeed the
last few days had seemed to make the Bible even greatly more
precious tp Faith than ever before. She clung more fast, she
searched more eagerly, among its treasures of riches, to its
pillars of strength; valneing them all, as it seemed to her,
with a new value, with a fresh knowledge of what might
be found and won there for others and herself. So with
the very eagerness of love Faith read the Bible to Miss
Dilly; and so as she had done before, many a time, early
and late, in childlike simpleness prayed at her bedside and
by her chair. And as before when she was at Pequot she
won Madame Danforth's heart, she intrenched herself there
now. She was all over the house, carrying a sunbeam
with her; but Faith never thought it was her own. She
was a most efficient maid of all work, for nursing and
too much care had worn poor Madame Danforth not a
little. Faith was upper servant and cook by turns; and
sometimes went to market; made every meal pleasant with
her gentle happy ways; and comforted the two old ladies
to the very top of comfort.
Whether she wanted to be at home or not, Faith did not

stop to ask herself. But those letters-those letters-they
were written, and they were carried to the postoffice
and others were found at the postoffice in reply to them.
And what had been such trial in the proposition, became,
even in the first instance, the joy of Faith's life. She
wr6te hers how she could; generally at night, when she
could be quite uninterrupted and alone. It was often very
late at ni gift, but it was always a time of rare pleasure and
liberty of } heart; for if the body were tired; the spirit wag
free. And Faith's was particularly free, for the manacles
and fetters of pride which weigh so bitter heavy on many
a mind and life, her gentle and true spirit had let fall.
She knew-nobody better-that her letters were not like
those.letters o~ Mr. Linden's sister, Pet :--those exquisite
letters, where every grace and every talent of a finely
gifted and fully cultivated mind seemed playing together
with all the rich stores of the past and /realities of the
present. She knew, that in very style and formalities of
execution, her own letters were imperfect and unformed.
But she was equally sure that in time what was wrong in~
this kind would be made right~; and she was not afraid to
be found wrong, at all, for her own sake. It was because
of somebody else, that she had flinched from this writing
proposal; because she felt that what was wrong in her
touched him now. But there again, Faith wrdte, trusting
with an absolute trust in the heart and hand to which she
sent her letters; willing to be found wrong if need be;
sure to be set right truly and gently. And so, Faith wrote
her own heart and life out, from day to day, giving Mr.
Linden precisely what he wanted, and with a child's fear~
lessness. It was a great thing to go to the postoffice those-
days! Faith left it to nobody else to do for her. And
how strange-how weird,. almost, the signature of those
letters and her own name on the outside looked to her, in
the same free, graceful handwriting which she had read on
that little card so long ago! And the letters themselves?
.-....enough to say, that they made Faith think of the way
she had been sheltered from the wind, and carried upstairs
when her strength failed, and read to and talked to and
instructed,.-that they made her long to be home andyet cona
tent to be there; giving her all sorts of details, of things in


84              5AY AND SEAL.

Pattaquasset and things elsewhere-just as the writer would
have talked them to her; with sometimes a word of counsel,
or of caution, or of suggestion,.-..or some old German hymn
which she might find of use in her ministrations, written
Out in full. It may be mentioned in passing, that the fair
little face he had been looking at, or her evident fear of
writing to him, made Mr. Linden write to her that very
night; a little sugarplum of a letter, which Faith had for
her dinner next day.
And Faith read these letters at all sorts of times, and
thought of them at other times; and made them next to
her Bible-as she should
C

CHAPTER VI.
pv 0 weeks passed quietly, without much apparent
change in Miss Danforth; and Faith was beginning
to think of appointing a time to go home. But the neces-
sity for that was suddenly superseded. The Friday follow-
ing, Miss Dilly took a change for the worse, and Saturday
she died. Faith sent off tidings immediately to Pattaquas~.
set; but her letter could not reach there till Monday; and
Monday came a very great fall of snow w ich made trav-
elling impossible. Faith waited patiently, comforting Ma-
dame Danforth as she might, and endeavouring to win her to
some notion of that joy in the things of the Bible in which
Miss Dilly had lived and died. For no change had come
over Miss Dilly's sky; and she had set sail from the shores
of earth in the very sunlight.
It fell out, that Faith's letter of Saturday afternoon had
been five minutes too late for the mail; and after lying in
the office at Pequot over Sunday, had been again subjected
to the delays of Monday's storm, which in its wild fury put
a stop to everything else; and thus, when Mr. Linden went
to the office Tuesday morning before school time, the mail
had not yet got in. Not long after, however, Mr. Skip
brought home the letters; and Mrs. Derrick reading hers,
at once took Mr. Skip and Jerry and set off for Pequot;
minding neither snowdrifts nor driving win 41, when the road
to Faith lay through them, and arriving there quite safe
about the hour of midday.
The delayed funeral took place the same afternoon. And
the next morning, in a brilliant cold day, snow all over the'
ground, and the sky all blue, the mother and daughter
set forth homewards. Madame Danfortli was going to
ta~ e another re4fition in, and live on still in the little
house where she and her sister-in-law had made a happy
home for. so many years. Miss Danforth had left a few
hundreds, three or four, to Faith. It was all she had
owned in the world; her principal living having been an
VOL. ii.               8                 (85)

*


86              SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

annuity settled upon her by her brother, which reverted to
Madame IDanforth.
It was about midafternoon when they reached home,
and of course the house held no one but Cindy; except in~
deed that sort of invisible presence which books and other
inanimate things make known; and Cindy had to tell
of two or three visitors, but otherwise nothing. Very
fair it all looked to Faith,-very sweet to her ear was the
sound of the village clock, although as yet it was only
striking three. She did not say much about the matter.
A gleeful announcement that she was glad to ~b~' at home,
she made to Mrs. Derrick; int after that she expressed
herself in action. One of her first moves was to the
kitchen, deterni~ed that there should be a double con-
sciousness of her being at home when supper-time came.
Then books were got out, and fires put in wonderful order.
Mr. Linden might guess, from the state in which he found
his room, that it had come under its old rule. No such
fire had greeted him there for weeks; no such brushed-up
clean hearth; no such delicate arrangement of table and
chairs and curtains and couch. But the fire burned quietly
and told no tales, otherwise than by its very orderly snap-
ping and sparkling.
And indeed it so happened, that Mr. Linden went first
into the sitting-room,.---partly to see if any one was there,
partly because the day was cold, and under Cindy's man-
agement there was small reason to suppose that his room
was warm. And once there, the easy-chair reminded him
so strongly that he was tired, that he even sat down in it
before going upstairs,.-which combination a long walk
through the snowdrifts since school, m~i4~ very accept able.
Five ~minutes after, Faith having got rid~ of her kitchen
apron, opened softly the door of the sitting-room. She
stopped an instant, and then came forward, her gladness
not at all veiled by a very rosy veil of shy modesty. There
was no stay in his step to meet her,-he had sprung up
with the first sound of her foot on the threshold; and how
much she had been missed and longed for Faith might
guess, from the glad silence in which she was held fast and
for a minutenot allowed to speak h~rself. So very glad !-
she could see it and feel it exceedingly as he brought her

F ~ forward to the fire, and lifted up her face, and looked at it
with eyes that were not easily satisfied.
"My little Sunbeam," he said, "how lovely you are
She had been laughing and flushing' with a joy almost as
frankly shown as his own; but that brought a change over
hei face. The eyes fell7 and the line of the lips was unbent
after a different fashion.
"I don't know what it is like to see you again," Mr.
Linden said as his own touched them once more,-
"like any amount of balm and rest and refreshment!
how long have you been here, dear child? and how do
you do ?.-aiid have you any~idea how glad I am to have.
you home ?"
She answered partly in dumb show, ciA~ping one hand
upon his shoulder and laying down her head upon it. Her
words were very quiet and low-spoken.
"We came home a while ago-and I am very well."
Mr. Linden rested his face lightly upon her shining hair,
and was silent.-.till Faith wondered; little guessing what
thoughts the absence and the meeting and above all her
mute expression, had stirred; nor what bitterness was
wrapped in those sweet minutes. But he put it aside,
and then took the. sweetness pure and unmixed; giv-
ing her about as much sunshine as he said she gave
him.
"How do you like writing to me, Faith ?" he said. "Am
I, on the whole, any more terrific at a distance than near
by?"
"I didn't know you could be so good at a distance,"-.
she said expressively.
"Did you find out what reception your letters met ?"
"I didn't want to find out." S
"Do you call that an answer ?" he said smiling. "Why
didn't you want to find out ?-and did you ?"
"Why !"-said Faith,-" I didn't want to find out be-
cause it wasn't necessary. I did find out that I liked to
write. But you wouldn't have liked it if you had known
what time of night it was, oPen."
"What do you think of taking up a new study ?" said
Mr. Linden. "It~ strikes me that it would do you good
to stand in the witness-box half an hour every day,-jusV~


XI

SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

for practice. Faith - did you find out what reception
your letters met ?"
"I knew before-." she said, meeting his eyes.
"Did you !-.then what made you assure me I should not
like them ?"
"I don't think you did, Endecott-the parts of them
that you oughtn't to have liked."
"Truly I think not !" he said laughing. "You are on
safe ground there, little Mignonette. But speaking of lot-
ters-..do you want more tidings from Italy ?"
"0 yes! if you please. Are they good? And has all
been good here with you anddhe school since I have been
away ?"
"Yes, they a~e good,-.-my sister.-.and yours-.is enjoy-
ing herself reasonably. And the boys have been good,-.
and I-have wanted my Mignonette."
One word in that speech brought a soft play of
colour to Faith's face, but her words did not touch
that point.
The days wont on very quietly after that, and the weeks
followed,-quietly, regularly, full of business and pleasure.
Quick steps were made in many things during those weeks,
little interrupted by the rest of Pattaquasset, some of the
most stirring people of that town being away. An occa-
~sional tea-drinking did steal an. evening now and then, but
also furnished the before and after walk or ride, and so on
the whole did little mischief; and as Faith was now some-
times taken on Mr. Linden's visits to another range of soci-
ety, she saw more of him than ever; and daily learned more
and more-not only of him, but of his care for her. His
voice-never indeed harsh to any one-took its gentlest
tones to her; his eye its softest and deepest lustre: no
matter how tired he came home-the first sight of her
seemed to banish all thought of fatigue. Faith could
feel that she was the very delight of his life. Indeed, by
degrees, she began to understand that she had 1ong been
so-only there had once been a qualification,-now, the
sunshine of his happiness had nothing to check its ex~
pression, or its endeavour to make her life as bright.
That he took "continual comfort" in~ her, Faith could
see.

.And-.child !-he did not see what this consciousness
spurred her to do; hovv~ the strength of her heart spent
itself-yet; was never spent-in efforts to grow and become
more worthy of him and more fit for him to take comfort
in. The days were short, and Faith's household duties not
few, especially in the severe weather, when she could not
let her mother be tried with efforts which in summer-time
might be easy and pleasant enough. A good piece of
every day was of necessity spent by Faith about house and
in the kitchen, and faithfully ~given to its work. But her
heart spurred her on to g~t knowledge. The times when
Mr. Linden was out of school could rarely be study times,
except of study with him; and to be prepared for him
Faith was eager. She took times that were hers all alone.
Nobody heard her noiseless footfall in the early morning
down the stair. Long before it was light,-hours before.
the sun thought of showing~ his face to the white Mong and
the snowy houseroofs of Pattaquasset, Faith lighted her
fire in the sitting-room, and her lamp on the table; and
after what in the first place was often a good while with
her Bible, she bent herself to the deep earnest absorbed
pressing into the studies she was pursuing with Mr. Linden
.-.-or such of them as the morning had time for. Faith
could not lengthen the day at the other end; to prevent
the sun was her only chance; and day after day and week
after week, through the short days of February, she had
done solid work and a deal of it before anybody in the
house saw her face in the kitchen or at breakfast. They
saw it then as bright as ever. Mr. Linden only knew that
his scholar made very swift and smooth progress. ile
would have known more, for Faith would have shown the
effects of her early hours of work in her looks and life the
rest of the day, but happiness is strong; and a mind abso-
lutely at peace with God and the world has a great rest!
Friction is said to be one of the notable hindering powers
in the world of matter-it is equally true, perhaps, of the
world.. of spirit. Without it, in either sphere, how softly
and with how little wear and tear, everything moves I
And Faith's life knew none.

8*

88

89


SAY AND SEAL.               91

CHAPTER VII.
I T was near the end of February,-.--.rather late in the
afternoon of a by no means balmy day, iu the course
of which Dr. Harrison had arrived to look after his repairs.
But the workmen had stopped work and gone home to
supper, and the doctor and his late dinner sat together.
Luxuriously eno'~ugh, on the doctor's part, for the dinner
was good and well cooked, the bottles of wine irreproacir.
able (as' wine) in their silver stands, the little~ group of
different coloured glasses shining in the firelight. The
doctor's fingerbowl and napkin stood 'at hand, Cat this stage
of the proceeding) his half pared apple was cLearly worth
the trouble, and he himself-between the fire and his easy-
chair-might be said to be "in the lap of comfort." Coin-
fort rarely did much for him but take him on her lap,
hQwever-he seldom stayed there; and on the present
occasion the doctor's eyes were very wide open and his
thoughts at work. Jt might be presumed that neither
process was cut short, when the old black man opened the
door and announced Mr. Linden.
But if Mr. Linden could have seon the doctor's face just
before, he might have supposed that his entrance had pro-
duced rather a sedative effect. For the brow smoothed
itself down, the eye took its light play and the mouth its
light smile, and the doctor's advance to meet his' friend
was marked with all its graceful and easy unconcern. ITo
did not even seem energetic enough to be very glad; for
grace and carelessness still blended in his welcome and
in his hospitable attentions, nothing of which however was
failing. He had presently made Mr. Linden as comfortable
as himself, so far as possible outward appliances could ~e
effectual; established him at a good side of the table;
furnished him with fruit ~nd pressed him with wine; and
then sitting at ease at his own corner, sipped his claret
daintily, eyeing Mr. Linden good humouredly between sips;
(90)

but apparently too happily on good terms with Comfort to
l)e in any wise eager or anxious as to whaf Mr. Linden's
business might be, or whether he had any.
"Has the news of my arrival flown over Pattaquasset
already ?" said he. "I thought I had seen nothing but
frieze jackets, and friezes of broken plaster-and I have
certainly felt so much of another kind of freeze that I
~houId hardly think even news could have stirred."
Mr. Linden's reception of the doctor's hospitality had
been merely nominal-except so far as face and voice had
the receiving, and he answered quietly-
"I don't know. I happened to want you, doctor, and so
I found out that you werq here."
"Want me? I am very glad to be wanted by you-so
that it be not for you. What is it, my dear Linden ?"
"No-you will not be glad," said Mr. Linden,-" though
it is both for me and not for me. I want you to go with
me to see one of my little scholars who is sick."
"Who is he?"
"One whom you have seen but will not remember,-
Johnny Fax."
Fax-" said the doctor.-"I remember the name, but
no particular owner of it. What's the matter with him ?"
"I want you to come and see."
"Now ?".-
"As near that as may be."
"Now it shall be, then; though with such a February
night on one side, it takes all your power on the other to
draw me out of this chair. You don't look much like
Comedy, and I am very little like the great buskin-wearer
-but I would as lieve Tragedy had me by the other shoulder
as February, when his fingers have been so very long away
from the fire. Did you ever read Thomson'~ 'Castle of
Indolence,' Linden ?"
"Not to much purpose-the nam~is all I remember."
"Stupid book,"-.said the doctor ;.-" but a delightful
place 1"
The luxury of broadcloth and furs in which the doctor
was presently involved might have rendered him reasonably
independent, one would think, of February or any other of
Jack Frost's band. Jerry was at the door, and involving


SAY AND SEAL.93

92               SAY AND S~AL.

themselves still further in buffalo robes the two gentle.
men drove to the somewhat distant farm settlement which
called Jonathan Fax master. Mr. Fax was a well-to-do
member of the Pattaquasset community, as far as means
went; there was very little knowledge in his house how
to make use of means. Nor many people to make use
of the knowledge. The one feminine member of the
family had lately married and gone off to take care of
her own concerns, and Jonathan and his one other child
lived on as best they might; the child being depeudant
upon the maid of all work for his clothes and breakfast, for
his' $unday lessons upon Faith, for the weekday teaching
and comfort of his little life upon Mr. Linden. Living
along in this somewhat divided way, the child had sQideidy
taken sick-no ~ne just knew how; nor just what to do
with him-except to send Mr. Linden word by one of the
other boys, ~vhich had been done that afternoon. And
thus it was, that Dr. Harrison had been looked for, found,
and drawn out into the February night with only the slight
protection of furs and broadcloth.
Thus it was that after a short and rather silent dijvc,
the two gentlemen went together into the last-century sort
of a house, received the angular welcome of Jonathan Fax,
and stood side by side by the bed where the sick child lay.
Side by side-with what different faces! A difference
which Johnny was quick to recognize. lie lay on the bed,
wrapped in a little old plaid cloak, and with cheeks which
rivalled its one remaining bright colour; and half unclosing
his heavy eyes to see the doctor, he stretched out his arms
to Mr. Linden, clasping them round his neck as his friend
~at down on the bedside and gemitly lifted him up, and
receiving the kiss on his flushed cheek with a little parting
of the lips which said how glad he was. But then he lay
quite still in Mr. Linden's arms.
Whatever atti'actions the Castle of Indolence might
have for Dr. ilarrison upon occasion, lie never seemed
so much as to look that way when he was at this work.
Now, it made iio difference that he was no friend of
Johnny's; he gave his attention thoroughly and with all
his skill to the condition and wants of hjs little patient.
"Is there nobody to take care of him ?" he asked in

French, for Jonathan Fax with his square and by no
means delicate and tender physiognomy stood at the other
side of the bed heavily looking on.
"I shall, to-night," said Mr. Linden. "You may give
me your directions."
The doctor proceeded to do this; but added, "He wants
care and good nursing; and he'll suffer if he don't have it.
H~ is a sick child."
"He shall have it," was all the answer; and when the
doctor had finished his ~vork for the time, Mr. Linden laid
the child on the bed again, giving him a whispered promise
to come back and stay with him all night; upon the
strength of which promise Johnny fell into a deep sleep.
"Has the creature nobody to take care of him ?" said
the doctor as they went out.
"Nobody at home."
"I shall be here a day or two, Linden-I'll see him early
in the morning again."
Mr. Linden's next move through the biting air was to
drive home. At the door of the sitting-room Faith met
him.
"Endecott-hqw is he ?"
"Less well thtin I expected to find him, dear Faith. I
found Dr. Harrison and took him there with me."
"And what did Dr. Harrison say of him ?"
"That he wanted good care and nursing."
"And who is there to give it to him, Endy ?" she said
:., with a very saddened and earnest face.
"Why I shall give it to him to-night, my child,.~nd we'll
see about to-morrow. The doctor promised to go there
$ again in the morning."
She stood a moment silent, and then said, "I'li go with
"Not to-night, dear-it is not needful. He will not want
more than one watcher."
"But he might want something else-something to be
done that a woman about the house might be wanted for-.
let~nie go too !-"
"No indeed! you must go to sleep. And he will hardly
want anything but what I can give him to-night. I know
well what your little hands are in a sick room," he said

'3


SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL

taking them in his own,-" I know well !-but they are not
made of iron-nor are you.".
Faith looked ill satisfied.
"Well, you'll not hinder my taking your place by him
to-morrow, Endy?"
"If I can," Mr. Linden said, "1 shall come home to
breakfast, and then II may know what you had better do;
but if I should be detained there, and so not get ii crc till
midday, wait for me -J should not like to have you go
without seeing me again; and I can leave Reuben there
for the morning if need be."
"Oh Emidecott !.~-" she said with a heart full; but she
said no more and ran away. She came back soon to call
Mr. Linden to tea, which had waited; and after tea when
he was about' going she put a basket in his hand.
"I hope Mr. Fax has wood in his house, so t~$ at you can
keep a fire,-but' you are not likely to find a~y~hing else
there. You'll want everything that is in this, Endy-please
remember."
"I will not forget," he said, as he gave her his thanks.
"But what did that exclamation mean, before tea ?"
"What exclamation ?---Oh-" said Faith, smiling some-
what but 'looking down, "I suppose it meant that I was
disappointed."
"My dear littl~ child-you must try not to feel disap-
pointed, because I am 'quite sure you ought not to go; and
that must content both you and me. So good night."
Faith tried to be contented, but her little scholar lay oPi
her heart. And it lay 'on her heart too, that Mr. Linden
wquld be watching all night and teaching all day. He did
not know how much he had disappointed, for she had laid
~ fine plan to go by starlight in the morning to take his
~1ace and send him home for a little rest before breakfast
and school. Faith studied only one book that night, and
that was her Bible.
It was a night of steady watching,.- broken by many
other thIngs, but not by sleep. There was constantly
some little thing to do for the sick child,- ranging from
giving him a drink of water, to giving him 'talk,' or rock~
ing and-it might be-singing him to sleep.. But the

 restless little requests never had to wait for their answer,
k and with the whole house sunk in stillness or sleep, Mr.
~ Linden played the part of a most gentle and efficient nurse
~and thought of Faith, and her disappointment. And so
the night wore away, and the morning star came up, and
"~ then the red flushes of sunrise.
"Who turneth tl~e night into day"..-.Mr. Linden thought,
with a grave look from the window to the little face beside
him-and then the ~Wprds came,-
"In the morning, children, in the morning;
We'll all rise together in the morning !"
It was very early indeed, earlier even than usual, when
Faith came down and kindled her fire. And then leaving
it to burn, she opened the curtains of the window and
looked out into the starlight. It was long before the red
flush of the morning; it was e~cn before the time when
Faith would have gone to relieve the guard in that sick
room; her thoughts sped away to the distant catcherr there
and the sick child. Faith could guess what sort of a
watching it had been, and it was a comfort to think that
Johnny had it. But then as she looked out into the clear
still starlight, something brought up the question, what if
Johnny should die ?-It was overwhelming to Faith for
a minute; her little scholar's loveliness had got fast hold
of her heart; and she loved him for deep and far-back
associations too. She could not bear to think that it might
be I et she asked herself if this was a reasonable feeling?
Why should she be sorry7-if it were so-that this littIQ
~ blossom of Heaven should have an early transplanting,
thither? Ah, the fragrance of such lleaven4lowers is too
~ sweet to be missed, and Earth wants them. As Faith
looked sadly out into the night, watched the eternal prices~
sion ot~ bright stars, and heard the low sweep of. the wind,
the words came to her,-scparated from their context and
from everything else as it seemed, - ' I, the Lord, do all
these things.' 11cr mind as instantly gave a glad assent and
rested itself in them. Not seen by her or by mortal the
place or fitting of any change or turn of earthly things, in
the great plan,-every one such turn and change had its


~AY AND SEALS                                    SAY AND SEAL.

place, as sure as the post of each star in the sky-as true
to its commission as that wind, which came from no one
knew where to go no one knew whither. Faith looked arid
listened, and took the lesson deep down in her heart.
Mr. Linden's little basket had stood him well in stead
that long night,-for Faith had said truth; nothing was for
him in Mr. Fax's house. Mr. Fax was well enough satis-
fied that Johnny's teacher should take the trouble of nurs-
ing the child, had no idea that such trouble would necessa.
rily involve much loss of sleep, and still further no notion
of the fact that a watcher at night needs food as much as
fire. Fire Mr. Linden had, but he would have been worse
off without the stores he found in his basket. In truth the
supply generally was sufficient to have kept him from starv-
ing even if he had been obliged to go without his breakfast;
but Dr. Harrison concerned himself about his little patient,
and was better than M~. Linden's hopes. He came,
though in the cold short February morning, a good while
before eight o'clock. lie gave Mr. Linden a pleasant clasp
of the hand; and then made his observations in silence.
"Is this one of your favourites ?" he said at length.
A grave "yes."
"I am sorry' for iL"
Mr. Linden was silent at first, looking down at the child
with a sort of expression the doctor had not often seen, and
when he spoke it was without raising his eyes.
"Tell me more particularly."
"I don't know myself,"-said the doctor with a frankness
startling in one of his profession; but Dr. Harrison's char-
acteristk~ carelessness nowhere made itself more apparent
than in his words and about what people might think of
them.-." I don't say anything certain ly-but I do not like
appearances."
~ "What is the matter ?"
"It's an indefinite sort of attack-.all the worse for that!
-the root of which is hid from me. All you can do is
to watch and wait. Have you been here through the
night?"
"Yes," Mr. Linden answered.-and put the further ques-
tion, "Do you think there is any danger of contagion I"'
"0 no! .-...the fevei~', what there is, comes from some

inward cause-a complicated one, I judge. I can guess,
and that's all. Are there no women about the house ?"
"None that are good for much." And looking at his
watch, Mr. Linden laid the child-.who had fallen asleep
again-out of his arms among the pillows, arranging them
softly and dextronsly as if he were used to the business.
"Reuben Taylor will stay with him for the present," he
said as he turned to Dr. Harrison.
"I'll come again by and by," the doctor said. "Mean.
while all that can be done is to let him have this, as I told
you."
The directions were given to Reuben, the doctor drove
off, and Mr. Linden set out on his quick walk home; after
the confinement of the night, the cold morning air and
exercise were rather resting than otherwise. It was a very
thoughtful half hour-very sorrowful at first; but before
he reached home, thought, and almost feeling, had got
beyond 'the narrow bounds of time,' and were resting
peacefully-even joyfully.-.' where bright celestial ages
roll.'
He entered the house with a light step, and went first
upstairs to change his dress; but when he came down and
entered the sitting-room, there was the tone of I~he whole
walk upon his face still. Faith put her question softly, as
if she expected no glad answer. And yet it was partly
that, though given in very gentle, grave tones.
"There is more to fear than to hope, dear Faith,-and.
there is everything to hope, and nothing to fear 1"
She turned away. to the breakfast-table; and said little
more till the meal was over. Then she rose when he did.
"I am going now, Endy !"-The tone was of very earnest
determination, that yet waited for sanction.
"Yes," he answered-" Dr. Harrison says the fever is not
contagious,-I waited to know that. If I can I shall get
free before midday, so I may meet you there. And can
you prepare and take with you two or three things ?"-he
told her what.
Faith set about them; .and when they were done, Mr.
Skip had finished his breakfast and got Jerry ready. Some
other preparations Faith had made beforehand; and with
no delay now she was on her swift way to little Johnny's
VOL. H.                9

6

96

91r


9,8                       AND SEAL.

bedside. She came in like a Vision of comfort upon the
sick room, with all sorts of freshness about her; grasped
Reuben's hand, and throwing back her hood, stooped her
lips to Johnny's cheek. And Johnny gave her his usual
little fair smile-and then his eyes went off tothe doorway,
as if he half expected to Lee some one else behind her. But
it was from no want of love to her, as she knew from the
way the eyes came back to her face and rested there, and
took a sort of pleased survey of her hood and her fur and
her dress.
"Dear Johnny ! - Can you speak to me ?" said Faith
tenderly touching her cheek again to his.
"Oh~ yes, ma'am," he said, in a quiet voice and with the
same bit of a smile. That was what Faith wanted. Then
she looked up.
"Are you going to school now, Reuben ?"
"I didn't expect to this morning, Miss Faith," Reuben
said with a sober glance athis little comrade.
"Then you can wait here a bit for me."
Leaving Reuben once more 'in charge? F aith went on a
rummaging expedition over the house to find some woman
inmate. Not too easily or speedily she. was found at last,
the housekeeper and all-work woman, deep in all work as
she really seemed., and in an outer kitchen of remote busi-
ness, whither Faith had traced her by an exercise of deter-
minate patience and skill. Having got so far, Faith was
not balked in the rest; and obtaining from her some of
Johnny's clean linen which she persuaded her to go in search
of; she returned to the room where she had left Reuben;
and set about making the sick child as comfortable as in his
silliness he could be.
It was a day or two already since Johnny had lain there
and had had little effectual attention from anybody, till Mr.
Linden came last night. The child might well look at his
new nurse, for her neat dress and gentle face and soft move-
ments were alone a balm for any sick place. And in her
quiet way, Faith set about changing the look of this one.
There was plenty of wood, and she made a glorious fire.
Then tenderly and dextrously she managed to get a fresh
nightgown on Johnny without disturbing him more than
pleasantly with her soft manipulations; and wrapping him

98

SAY AND SEAL.                  9~J
in a nice little old doublegown which she had brought with
her and which had becit a friend of her own childish days,
Faith gave him to Reuben to hold while she made up the
bed and changed the clothes, the means for which she had
als~ won from the housekeeper. Then having let down the
chintz curtains to shield off the intense glare of the sunny
snow, Faith assnr~cd Johnny into her own arms. She had
brought vinegar from home, and with it bathed the little
boy's face and hands and brushed his hair, till the refreshed
little head lay upon her breast in soothed rest and comfort.
"There, Johnny !".-she whispered as her lips touched
his brow,.-" Mr. Linden may come as soon as he pleases-.--.
we are ready for him !"
The child half enclosed his eyes at the words, and then
sunk again into one of his fits of feverish sleep, the colour
rising in his cheeks a little, the breath coming quick.
Reuben knel/~ down at Faith's side and watched him.
"I used to wonder, Miss Faith," he said softly, "what
would become of him if Mr. Linden ever went away"-and
the quiet pause told what provision iReuben thought was
fast coming for any such conthigency.
"You can't think what Mr. Linden's been to Johnny,
Miss Faith," he went on in the same low voice,-" and to
all of us," he added lower still. "But he's taken such care
of him, in school and out. It was only last week Johnny
told me he liked coining to school in the winter, because
then Mr. Linden always went home with him. And when-
ever he could get in Mr. Linden's lap he was perfectly
happy. And Mr. Linden would let him, sometimes, even
in school, because Johnny was so little and not very strong,
-and he'd let him sit in his lap and go to sleep for a little
while when he got tired, and then Johnny would go back
to his lessons as bright as a bee. That was the way he did
~i' the very first day school was opened, for Johnny was
frightened at first, and a mind to cry-he'd never had any-
body to take much care of him. And Mr. Linden just
called him and took him up and spoke to him--and Johnny
laid his head right down and went to sleep; and he's loved
Mr. Linden with all his heart ever since. I know we ~all
laughed~.-and he smiled himself; but it made all the restof
us love him too."


IlI;~1I

SAY AND SEAL.

Reuben had gone on talking, softly, as if he felt sure of
sympathy in all he might say on the subject. But that
"first day school was opened !".-how Faith's thoughts
sprang back there,-with what strange, mixed memories
the vision of it came. up before her! That day and time
when so many new threads were introduced into her life,
which were now showing their colours and working out
their various patterns. It was only a spring there and
back again, however, that her thoughts took; 4r rather
the vision was a sort of background to Reuben's decline.
tions, and her eye was upon these; with what kind of sym.
pathy she did not care to let him see. Her cheek was
bent down to the sick child's head and Faith's face was
half hidden. Until a moment later, when tub door opened
and Johnny's father came in to see what was become of him;
and then Mr. Fax had no clue to the lustrous softness of
the eyes that looked up at him. He could make nothing
of it.
"What!" said he. "Why who's Johnny got to look
after him now ?"
"I am his teacher, sir."
"His teacher, be you? Seems to me he's a lot of 'em.
One teacher stayed with him last night. How many has he
got, among you ?"
"Only two-" said Faith, rejoicing that she was one. "I
am his Sunday school teacher."
"Well what's your name, now ?"
"Faith Derrick."
"That's who you be !" said Mr. Fax in surprise. "Don't
say! Well Johnny's got into good hands, aint lie? How's
he getting' along ?"
Faith's eye went down to the little boy, and her hand
passed slowly and tenderly over his hair; she was at a loss
liow to answer, and Reuben spoke for her.
"He's been sleeping a good deal this morning."
The father stooped towards the child, but his look went
from him to Faith, with a mixture of curiosity and un-
easiness as he spoke.
"Sleepin', is he ?.-.Then I guess he's getting' along first-
x~ate-aint he ?"
Again Faith's look astonished the man, both because of

its intent softauty and the trembling set of her lip. lint
how to answer him she did not know~ Her head sunk over
the child's brow as she exclaimed,
"His dear Master knows what to do with him!"
Jonathan Fax stood up straight and looked at Reuben.
"What does she mean
'~ She means that he is in G-od7s hands, and that we
don't; know yet what He will do," Reuben answered with
clear simplicity.
Yet it was a strange view of the subject to Mr. Fax;
and he stood stiff' and angular and square, looking down
at Faith and her charge, feeling startled and strange. Her
face was bent so that he could not see that quiver of her
lip now; but he did see one or two drops fall from the
lowered eyelids qn Johnny's hair. Perhaps he would have
asked more questions, but he did not; something kept
them back. He stood fixed, with gathering soberness*
growing over his features. Little he guessed that those
tears had been half wrung from Faith's eyes by the contrast
between his happy little child and him. It was with some~
thing like a groan at last that he turned away, merely bid.
ding Reuben Taylor t6 call for anything that was wanted.
The morning wore on softly, for Johnny still slept.
Reuben went quietly about, giving attention where it was
needed; to the fire, or to the curtains-drawn back now
as the sun got round-or bringing Faith a footstool, or
trying some other little thing for her comfort; and when
he was not wanted remaining in absolute stillness. As it
neared midday, however, he took his stand by the window,
and after a short watch there suddenly turned and left the
room. And a moment after Mr. Linden came in.
Faith met him with a look of grave, sweet quiet; in
which was mingled a certain joy at being where she was.
She waited for him to speak. But something in her face,
or her office, moved him,-the gravity of his own look
deepened as he came forward-his words were not ready.
He sat down by her, resting his arm on the back of her
chair and giving her and Johnny the same salutation-the
last too softly to rouse him.
"Has the doctor been here ?" he said first.

SAY AND SEAL.

100

101


102              SAY AND SEAL.                                      SAY AND SEAL.             103

He was silent again for a minute, but then Johnny sud.
denly started up-waking perhaps out of some fever dream;
for he seemed frightened and bewildered, and almost ready
to cry; turning his head uneasily away from everything
and everybody as it seemed, until his eyes were fairly open,
and then giving almost a spring out of Faith's arms into
those of Mr. Linden; holding him round the neck and
breathing little sobbing breaths on his shoulder, till the
resting-place had done its, work, -till Mr. Linden's soft
whispered words had given him comfort. But it was a
little wearily then that he said, "Sing."
Was it wearily that the song was given? Faith could
not tell,.......she could not name those different notes in the
voice,-she could only feel that the octave reached from
earth to heaven..
"'how kind is Jesus, Lord of all!
To hear my little feeble call.
How kind is Jesus, thus to be
Physici~a, Saviour, all to me!
'How much he loves me he doth shew;
How much he loves I cannot know.
I'm glad my life is his to keep,
Then he will watch and I may sleep
'Jesus on earth, while here .1 lie;
Jesus in heaven, if I die:
I'm safe and happy in his care,
his love will keep me, here or there.
'An angel he may send for me,
And then an angel I shall be.
Lord Jesus, through thy love divine,
Thy little child is ever thine.'"
Faith had drawn her chair a little back and with her
head leaning on the back of Mr. Linden's chair, listened-
in a spirit not very different from Johnny's own. She
looked up then when it was done, with almost as childlike
a brow. It had quieted him, as with a charm, and the
little smile he gave Faith was almost wondering why she
looked grave.
"You've been here a good while," he said, as if the mere
announcement of the fact spoke his thanks.

"Has she ?" Mr. Linden said. "What has Miss Faith
done with you, Johnny, if she has been here a good
while ?"
"All sorts of things," 1Joh nny answered, with another
comprehensive expression of gratitude.
"I thought so. !" said Mr. Linden. "I shouldn't wonder
a bit if she had dressed ~ou up in something she used to
wear herself."
"She wasn't ever so little," the child said softly.
Faith had been preparing for him ~a cup of some light
nourishment which he was to take from time to time, and
now coming to Mr. Linden's side kneeled down there before
Johnny to give it to him. The child took the delicate
spoonfuls as she gave them, turning his fair eyes from her
to Mr. Linden as if he felt in a very sweet atmosphere of
love and care; and when she went away with the cup he
said in his slow fashion,
"I love her very much."
And Faith heard the answer-
"And so do I."
Coming up behind Mr. Linden she laid her hand on his
shoulder.
"Endecott.-..where are you going to take dinner and
rest to-day ?"
"0 I will take rest by the way," he answered lightly,
and with a smile at her. "There is dinner enough in my
supper basket-I have not much time for it, neither."
"School again this afternoon ?"
"Yes, I must be there for awhile."
Faith moved baway, remarking in a different tone, "Your
supper basket is at home, sir !"-and busied her energies
about serving him as she had just served Johnny. With
something more substantial however. Faith had brought
a lunch basket, and in five minutes had made Mr. Linden
a cup of home tea.
"Now how shall we manage ~" she said ;.-." for Johnny
must have you every minute while you are here-..and
tnere is no such thing as a little table. I shall have to
be table and dumb waiter for you-~--if you won't mind."
And so Faith pulled up her chair again and sat* down,


104

SAY AND SEAL.

with the basket open on her lap and Mr. Linden's cup in~
her hand.
"~ only hope," she said, "that Dr. Harrison will not
choose this particular minute to come in! If he does,
catch the cup of tea, Endecott !-for I won't answer for
anything."
"I don't know whether I should be most sorry or proud,
in case of such event," said Mr. Linden,-~." however, I do
not wish the doctor anything so disagreeable. But I will
promise to catch the cup of tea-and everything else, down
to his displeasure. Only you must not be a~ dumb waiter,
for that will not suit me at all."
It was one of those pretty bits of sunshine that some-
times shew themselves in the midst of a very unpromising
day, the time when they sat there with the lunch basket
between them. The refreshment of talk and of lunch (for
lunch is refreshing when it is needed) brightened both
faces. and voices; and Mr. Linden's little charge, in one of
his turns of happy rest and ease, watched them-amused
and interested-till he fell asleep. By that time Mr.
Linden's spare minutes were about over. As he was
laying Johnny gently down on the bed, Faith seized her
chance.
"You'll let me stay here to-night--won't you, Ende~
cott ?"
"It would not be good for you, dear child,-if you stay
until night it will be quite as much as you ought to do. But
I xviii se~ you again by that time."
"I am strong, Endecott."
"Yes, you are strong, little Sunbeam," he said, turning
now to her and taking both her hands,~-.--" and yet it is a
sort of strength I must guard. Even sunbeams must not
be always on duty. But we'll see about it when I come
back."
Mr. Linden went off to his other sphere of action, and
soon after Reuben came softly in, just to let Faith know
that he was at ha~nd if she wanted anything, and to offer to
take her place.
"Reuben !" said Faith suddenly, "have you had any
dinner ?"

SAY AND SEAL.                105
"0 yes, ma'am-enough," Reuben said with a smile.
"I brought something with me this morning."
Faith put her lunch basket into his hand, but her words
were cut short; for she saw Dr. Harrison just coming to
the house. She moved away and stood gravely by the
fire.
The doctor came in pulling off his glove. He gave his
hand to Faith with evident pleasure, but with a frank free
pleasure, that had nothing embarrassing about the manner
of it; except the indication of its depth. After a few
words given with as easy an intonation as if the the~~
monieter were not just a few degrees above zero outside~
where he had come froth, the doctor's eye went over to th6
other person in the room; and then the doctor himself
crossed over and offered his hand.
"I shall never see you, Reuben,"-said he with a very
pleasant recollective play of eye and lip,.-.-" without think-
ing of a friend."
The doctor had a more full view of Reuben's eyes, there-
upon, than he had ever before been favoured with,-for one
moment their clear, true, earnest expression met his. But
whatever the boy read.-.or tried to read-or did not read,
he answered simply, as he looked away again,
"You have been that to me, sir."
"I don't know-" said the doctor lightly. "I am afraid
not according to your friend Mr. Linden's definition. But
reckon me such a one as I can be, will you ?"-lle turned
away without waiting for the answer and went back to
Faith.
"Do you know," he said, "I expected to find you
here ?"
"Very naturally," said Faith quietly.
"Yes-it is according to my experience. "Now how is
this child ?"-.
He turned to see, and so did Faith. He looked at the
child, while Faith's eye went from Johnny to him. Both
faces were grave, but Faith's grew more grave as she
looked.
"How is this child ?" she repeated.
"He is not worse," said the doctor; "except that not to


SAY AND SflAL.                107

106              SAY AND SEAL.

be better is to be worse. Are you particularly interested
in him?"
Faith looked down at the sweet pure little face, and for
a minute or two was very still. She did not even think of
answering the doctor, nor dare speak words at all. Her
first movement was to push away softly a lock of hair from
Johnny's forehead.
"What can I do for him, Dr. Harrison ?"
"Not much just now-go on as you have been doing. I
will be here to-night again, and then perhaps I shall know
more."
He gave her a new medicine for him however; and having
said all that was needful on that score, came back with her
to the fire and stood a little while talking-just so long as
it would do for him to stay with any chance of its being ac-
ceptable; talking in a tone that did not jar with the place or
the time, gravely and pleasantly, of some matters of
interest; and then he went. And. Faith sat down by the
bedside, and forgot Dr. Harrison; and thought of the Sun.
day school in the woods that evening in October, and the
hymn,' I want to be an angel'; and looke~l at Johnny with
every full heart.
Not a very long time had passed, when Faith heard
sleigh bells again, and a person very different from the
doctor came softly in; even Mrs. Derrick. She smiled at
Reuben and Faith, and going close up to the bed folded her
hands quietly together and stood looking at the sick child;
the smile vanishing from her face, her lips taking a tender,
pitiful set-her eyes in their experience~gravely reading the
signs. She looked for a few minutes in silence, then with a
little sorrowful sigh she turned to Faith.
"Pretty child," she said, "can't you take a little rest?
I'll sit~h3 him now."
"0 mother I'm not tired-much. I have not been very
busy."
Mrs. Derrick however took the matter into her own
hands, and did not content herself till she had Faith on a
low seat at her side, and Faith's head on her lap; which
was a rest, to mind and body both. Reuben replenished
the fire and went out, and the two sat alone.
"Faith," her mother said softly, ." don't you think he'd

be content with me to-night? I can't bear to have Mr..
Linden sit up."
"I want to stay myself, mother, if he would let me."
"I don't believe he'll do that, Faith-and I guess he's
right. But you must make him go home to tea, child, and
he might rest a little then; and I'll stay till he comes back,
at least."
There was not much more to be said then, for Johnny
woke up and wanted to be taken on Faith'slap, and talked
to, and petted; answering all her efforts with a sort of
grateful little smile and way; but moving himself about in
her arms as If he felt restless and uneasy. It went to her
heart Presently, in the low tones which were music
of themselves, she carried his thoughts off to the time
when Jesus was a little child; and began to give him, in
the simplicity of very graphic detail, part of the story of
Christ's life upon earth. It was a name that Johnny loved
to hear; and Faith went from point to point of his words,
and wonders, and healing power and comforting love. Not
dwelling too long, but telling Johnny very much as if she
had seen it, each gentle story of the sick and the weary.
and the troubled, who came in their various ways to ask
pity of Jesus, and found it; and reporting to Johnny as if
she had heard them the words of promise and love that a
little child could understand. Mrs. Derrick listened; she
had never heard just such a talk in her life. The peculiarity.
of it was in the vivid faith and love which took hold of the
things as if Faith had had them by eyesight and hearing,
and in the simplicity of representation with which she
gave them, as a child to a child. And all the while she
let Johnny constantly be changing his position, as restles~..
ness prompted; from sitting to kneeling, and lying in her
arms; sometimes brushing his hair, which o~ce in a while
he h~d a fancy for, and sometimes combing it off from his
forehead with her own fingers dipped In the vinegar and
water which he liked to smell. Nothing could be more
winning-nothing more skilful, in its way, than Faith's talk
to the sick' child that half hour or more. And Johnny told
its effect, in the way he would bid her 'talk,' if she paused
for a minute. So by degrees the restless fit passed off for


108             SAY AND SEAL.                                      SAY AND SEAL.             109

the time, and he lay still in her arms, with drooping heavy
eyelids now.
Everything was subsiding ;-the sun sank down softly
behind the wavy horizon line, the clouds floated silently
away to some other harbour, and the blasts of wind came
fainter and fainter, like the music of a retreating army.
Swiftly the daylight ebbed away, and still Faith rocked
softly back and forth, and her mother watched her. Once
in a while Reuben came silently in to bring wood or fresh
water, -otherwise they had no interruption. Then Mr.
Linden came, and sitting down by Faith as he had done
before, asked about the child and about the doctor.
"lie came very soon after you went away," said Faith.
"He said that he was no better, and that to be no better
was to be worse." It was plain that she thought more than
she said. Faith had little experience, but there is an intui-
tive skill in some eyes to know what they have never known
before.
Mr. Linden bent down over the child, laying cheek to
cheek softly and silently, until Johnny rousing up a little
held up his lips to be kissed,-and he did not raise his head
then.
"Have you been asleep, Johnny ?" he said.
"I don't know," the child said dreamily.
"Has Miss Faith taken care of you ever since I went
away ?"
"Yes," Johnny said, with a little faint smile .-." and
we've had talk."
"I wish I had been here to hear it," said Mr. Linden.
"What was it about ?-all sorts of sweet things ?"
"Yes," Johnny said again, his face brightening-.-" out
of the Bible."
"Well they are the sweetest things I know of," said Mr.
Linden. "Now if you will come on my lap, I am sure
Miss Faith will get you something to eat-she can do it a
great deal better than I can."
Faith had soon done that, and brought the cup to
Johnny, of something that he liked, and fed him as she had
done at noon. It seemed to refresh him, for he fell into a
quieter sleep, than he had had for some time, and was
softly laid on the bed.

"Now clear Faith," Mr. Linden said coming back to her,
"it is time for 'you to go home and rest."
"Do you mean to ,send me?" she said wistfully.
"Or take you-" he said, with a soft touch of his fingers
on her hair. "I don't know but I could be spared long
ei~ough for that."
It was arranged so, Mrs. Derrick undertaking to supply
all deficiencies so far as she could, until Mr. Linden should
get back again. The fast drive honie through the still cold
air was refreshing to both parties; it was a still drive too.
Then leaving Mr. Linden to get a little rest on the sofa,
Faith prepared tea. But Mr. Linden would not stay long
after that, for rest or anything.
"I am coming very early to-morrow, Endecott," Faith
said then.
"You may, dear child.-.-if you will promise to sleep to~
night. But you must not rouse yourself too early. You.
know to-morrow is Saturday~so I shall not be called off
by other duties."
lie went, and Mrs. Derrick cameo l.j
weary enough certainly, spent the ' ut Faith, though
evening in study.
voL. II.                10

)


SAY AND SEAL.              111

CHAPTER WILL
~IIERE is no knowing what Mr. Linden would have
considered "too early," and Faith had prudently
omi~pd to enquirer ' She studied nothing but her Bible
that horning and speiit the rest of the time in getting
ready what she was to take with her; for Mr. Linden
would not come home to breakfast. And it was but fair
day, the sun had not risen, when she was on her way. She
wondered,. as she went, what they would have done that
winter wit.h out Jerry; and looked at the coloring clouds
in the east with a strange quick appreciation of the rising
of that other day told of in the Bible. Little Johnny
brought the two near; the type and the antitype. it was
a' pretty ride; cold, bright, still, shadowless; till the sun
got above the horizon, and then the long yellow faint
beams threw themselves gross the snow that was all a
white level before. They reached Faith's heart, as the
commissioned earnest of that other Sun that will fil1~ the
world with his glory and that will make heaven a place
where "there shall be no night."
The room where little Johnny was, lay-like the chamber
called Peace,. in the Pilgrim's Progress-towards the sun-
rising; but to reach it Faith had first to pass through
another on the darker side of the house. The door be.
tween the two stood open, perhaps for fresher air, and as
Faith came lightly in she could see that room lit up as it
w~re with the early sunbeams. It was an old-fashioned
room ;-the windows with chintz shades, the floor painted,
with a single strip of rag carpet; the old low-post bed-
stead, with its check blue and white spread, the high-backed
splinter chairs, told of life that had made but little progress
in modern improvement. And 3 onathan Fax himself, lean,
long-headed, ~nd lantern-jawed, looked grimmer than ever
under his new veil of solemn feeling. He sat by the win-
dow.
The wood fire in the low fireplace flickered and fell with
(110)
/

its changing light, on all; but within the warm glow a little
group told of life that had made progress-progress which
though but yet begun, was to go on its fair course through
all the ages of eternity!
Little Johnny sat in his teacher's lap, one arm round
hi~ neck, and his weary little head resting as securely on
Mr. Linden's breast as if it had been a woman's. The
other hand moved softly' over the cuff of that black sleeve,
or twined its thin fingers in and out the strong hand that
was clasped round him. Sometimes raising his eyes, Johnny
put some question, or asked for "talk ;" his own face then
much the brighter of the two,.-.-Faith could see the face
that bent over him not only touched with its wanted gravity,
which the heavenly seal set there, but moved and shaken
in its composure by the wistful eyes and words of the little
boy. The answering words were too low-spoken for her to
hear. She could see how tenderly the child's caresses were
returned,-not the mother whose care Johnny had never
known, could have given the little head gentler rest. Nay,
not so good, ~unless she could. have given the little heart
such comfort. For Johnny was in the arms of one who
knew well that road to the. unseen land-who had studied
it; and now as the child went on before him, could still
give him words of cheer, and shew him the stepping-stones
through the dark river. It seemed to Faith as if the river
were already in sight,-as if somewhat of
"that strange, unearthly grace
Which crowns but once the children of our race__"
already rested upon Johnny's fair brow. Yet he looked
brighter than yesterday,-.bright with a very sweet clear
quietness now.
I~kPth stood still oneminute-and another; then pulling
off her hood, she came in with a footfall so noiseless that
it never brou~~ht Mr. Fax's head from the window, ~nd
knelt, down by the side of that group. She had a smile
for Johnny too, but it was a smile that had quite left the
things of the world behind it a~d met the child on his own
ground; and her kiss was sweet accordingly. A. look and a
clasp of the hand to Mr. Linden; then she rose up and


112              SAY AND SEAL.                                      SAY AND SEAL.             113

went round to the window to take the hand of Mr. Fax;
who had found his feet.
"I'm very much beholden to ye !" said he in somewhat
astonished wise.. "You're takin' a sight o' trouble among
ye. It's no trouble, sir."
Mr. Fax looked bewildered. H~ advanced to Mr. Lin-
den. "Now this girl's here," said he, "don't you think
you hadn't better come into another room and try to drop
off? I guess he can get along without you for a spell...-..
can't he P'
"1 am not quite ready to leave him," Mr. Linden said7-.
"and I am not at all sleepy, Mr. Fax. Perhaps I will come
by and by."
"'We'll have breakfast, I conclude, some time this fore.
noon. I'll go and see if it's ever comm'. Maybe you'll
take that first."
He went away; and Faith7 rid of her wrappers, came
up again behind Johnny, passing her fingers through his
h~ir and bending down her face to his; she did not speak.
Only her eye went to Mr. Linden for intelligence, as the
eye will, even when it has seen for itself!
"Dr. Harrison is coming this morning," was all he said.
She did not need to ask any more.
'~'May Johnny have anything now
"0 yes-and he will like it," Mr. Linden said in a dif-
ferent tone, and half addressing the child. "He asked me
some time ago when you were coming - but not for
that."
Faith brought something freshly prepared for Johnny
and served him tenderly. Meanwhile her own coffee had
been on the fire; and after making two or three simple
arrangements of things she came back to them.
"Will you sit with me now, Johnny, and let Mr. Linden
have some breakfastt"
"In here ?" the child said. But being reassured on that
point, he came to Faith's arms very willingly, or rather let
Mr. Linden place him there, when she~had drawn her chair
up nearer the table so that he could look on. And with
her a\n s wrapped tenderly round him, but a face of as clear
quiet ,~is the~ iqorning sky when there are no clouds before

the sunrise, she sat there, and she and JohAny watched Mr.
Linden's breakfast. There was no need to talk, for Johnny
had a simple pleasure in what was going on, and in every-.
thing his friend did. And if the little face before him
hiiidered Mr. Linden's enjoyment of breakfast, that ~was
suffered to appear as little as possible. Breakfast was even
rather prolonged and played with, because it seemed to
amuse him; and the word and the smile were always ready,
either to call forth or to answer one from the child. Nor
from him alone, for by degrees even Faith was drawn out
of her silence7 into genie quiet talk.
Mi'. Linden had not yet changed his pkice, when on the
walk that led up to the house Faith saw the approach of
Di'. Harrison. The doctor as he came in gave a compre-
hensive glance at the table, Mr. Linden who had risen, and
Faith with Johnny in he.r lap; shook hands with Mr. Lin-
den, and taking the chair he had quitted sat down in front
of Faith and Johnny. A question and answer first passed
about her own well-being.
"You've not been here all night ?" said he.
"No, sir. I came a while ago."
The doctor's unsatisfied eye fell on the child; fell, with
~o change of its unsatisfied expression. It took rapid and
yet critical note .of him, with a look that Faith knew
through its unchangingness, scanned, judged, and passed
sentence. Then Dr. Harrison rose and walked over to Mr.
Linden.
"There is nothing to be done," he said in a low tone. "I
would stay-but I know that it would be in vain. $he
otwht not to be here."
r the first remark Mr. Linden was prepared,-the
secoiN.. fell upon~ a heart that was already keeping closer
watch over her strength and happiness than even the doc..
tor could. He merely answered by a. quiet question or
two as to what could be done for the child's comfort-.
as to the probable length of time there would be to do
anything.
"He may have any simple thing he likes," said the doc~
toy-" such as he has had. I need not give you directions
for more than to-day. I am sorry I can~1iQt stay longer
I0*

A
7'


114             ~AY AND SEAL                                      SAY AND SEAL               115

with you-but it does not matter-you can do as well as j
now."
He went up to Faith and spoke with a difYorent manner,
"Miss Faith, I hope you will not let your goodness forget
that its powers need to be taken care of. You were here
yesterday-there is no necessity for you to ho here to.
day."
"I don't come for necessity, Dr. Harrison."
"I know !" said he shaking h is head,.-"your will i~
strong! but it ought not to have full play. You are ~
wanted here."
Faith let him go without an answer to that. As soon
as the doctor wa~ gone, Mr. Linden came and sat down by
Johnny again, kissing the child's brow and cheek and lips,
with a face a little moved indeed, and yet with its clear
look unclouded; and softly asked what he should do for
him. But though Johnny smiled, and stroked his face, lie
seemed rather inclined to he quiet and even to sleep;
yielding partly to the effect of weakness and fever, partly
to the restless night; and his two teachers watched him
together. Faith was, very silent and quiet. Then sud~
denly she said,
"Go and take some rest yourself, won't you, Endeco~t-
now."
"I do not feel the need of it-" he said. "I had some
snatches of sleep last night."
She looked at him, but the silence was unbroken again
for some little time longer. At length, pushing aside a
lock of hair from the fair little brow beneath which the
eyelids drooped with such unnatural heaviness, Faith said,
.-.-and the tone seemed to come from very stillness of heart,
the words dropped so grave and clear,-
"The name of Christ is good here to-day, Endecott."
"How good! how precious I" was his quick rejoinder.
"And how very precious too, is the love of his will !"-aud
he repeated softly, as if half thinking it out-.
"'I worship thee, sweet will of God!
And all thy ways adore!
And every day I live, I seem
To love thee more and more."'

I

An earnest, somewhat wistful glance of Faith's eye was
the answer; it was not a~ dissenting answer, hut it went
hack to Johnny. Her lip was a child's lip in its huinbie~
neSS.
"it was very hard for me to give him up at first-" Mr.
Linden went on softly; and the voice said it was yet;
"but that answers all questions. 'The good ilusbaudman
may pluck his roses, and gather in his lilies at mid-summer,
and, for aught I dare say, in the beginning of the first
~nmmer         __
Faith looked at the lWtle human flower in her arms-and
was silent.
"Reuben was telling me yesterday~~~ she said after a
few minutes,-" what you have been to him."
But her words touched sweet and bitter things-Mr.
Linden did not immediately answer,-his head drooped a
little on his hand, and he did not raise it again until Johnny
claimed his attention.
The quiet rest of the little sleeper was passing ~
changing into an unquiet waking; not with the fear of
yesterday but with a restlessness of discomfort that was
not easily soothed. Words and caresses seemed to have
lost their quieting power for the time, though the child's
face never failed to answer them; but he presently held
out his arms to Mr. Linden, with the words, "Walk-like
last night."
And for a while then Faith had nothing to do but to
look and listen; to listen to the soft measured steps through
the room, to watch the soothing, resting effect of the
motion on the sick child, as wrapped in Mr. Linden's arms
he was carried to and fro. She could tell how it wrought
from the quieter, unbent muscles-from the words which
by degrees Johnny began to speak. But after a while, one
of these words was, "Sing. "-Mr. Linden did not stay his
walk, but though his tone was almost as low as his foot-
steps, Faith heard every word.
"Jesus loves mo-this I know,
For the Bible tells me so:
Little ones to him belong,-
'They are weak, but he is strong.


SAY AND SEAL.           lIT

11(3                  SAY AND SEAL.

"Jesus loves me,-he who died
Heaven's gate to open wide;
He will wash away my sin,
Let his little child come in.
r
"Jesus loves me-loves me still,
Though I'm very weak and ill;
From his shining throne on high
Comes to watch me where I lie.
"Jesus loves me,---he will stay
Close heside~me all the way.
Then his little child will take
Tip to heaven for his dear sake."
There were a few silent turns taken after that, and thea
Mr. Linden came back to the rocking-chair, and told Faith
in a sort of bright cheerful way-meant for her as well as
the child-that Johnny ivanted her to brush his hair and
give him something to eat. Which Johnny enforced with
one of his quiet smiles. Faith sprang to do it, and both
offices were performed with hands of tenderness and eyes
of love, with how much inner trembling of heart neither
eyes nor hands told. Then, after all that was done, Faith
stood by the table and. began to swallow coffee and bread
on her own account, somewhat eagerly. Mr. Linden
watched her, with grave eyes.
"Now you must go and lie down," he said.
"Not at all I" Faith said with a smile at him. "I
hadn't time-or didn't take time-to eat my breakfast
before I came away from home-that is all. It is you who
ought to do that, Endy,"-she added gently.
She put away the things, cleared the table, made up the
fire, and smoothed the bed, ready for Johnny when he
should want it; and then she came and sat down.
"Won't you go ?" she said softly.
"I would rather stay here."
Faith folded her hands and sat waiting to be useful.
Perhaps Mr. Linden thought it would be a comfort to
her if he at least partly granted her request, perhaps ho
thought it would be wise; for he said, laying his cheek
against the child's,-
"Johnny, if you will sit with Miss Faith now, I will lay

my head down on one of your pillows for a little while, and
you can call me the minute you want me."
The child was very quiet and resting then? and leaning
his head happily against Faith, watched Mr. Linden as he
sat down by the bedside and gave himself a sort of rest in
th~ way he had proposed; and then Faith's gentle voice
was put in requisition. It was going over some things
Johnny liked to hear, very softly so that no ears but his
might be the wiser,-.-when the door opened and Jonathan
Fax came in again. He~ glanced at Mr. Linden, and ad-
vanced softly up to Faith. There stood and looked down
at his child and her with a curious look.-.--that half recog-
nized what it would not see.
"You're as good to him as if he belonged to ye !.-.." said
Jonathan, in a voice not clear.
"So he does-" was Faith's answer, laying her cheek to
the little boy's head. 'By how many ties,' she thought;
but she added no more. The words had shaken her.
"How's he getting' on ?" was the uneasy question next, as
the father stooped with his hands on his knees to look
nearer at the child.
Did he not know? Faith for a minute held her breatl~.
Then she lifted her face and looked up-looked full .into
his eyes.
"Don't you know, Mr. Fax, that Johnny cannot go any
way but well?"
The words were soft and low, but tl~e man stood up,
straightening himself instantly as if he had received a blow.
"Do you mean to say," he asked huskily, "that he is
goin' to die?"
It startled Faith fear 1~r. She did not know how much
Johnny would understand or be moved by the words. And
~ she saw that they had been heard and noted. With infinite
~ softness and quietness she laid her cheek to the little boy's,
answering in words as sweet as he had ever heard. from her
Voice-as unfearful-
"Johnny knows where he is going, if Jesus wants
him "
"Jesus is in heaven," the child said instantly, as if she
had asked him a question, and with the same deliberate
manner that he would have ansi her in Sunday school,


118

SAY AND SEAL.

and raising his clear eyes to hers as he had been wont to
do there. But the voice was fainter.
Faith's head drooped lower, and her voice was fainter
too-but clear and cheery.
"Yes, darling-and we'll be with him there by and
by."
"Yes,'~ the child repeated, nestling his head against her
in a weary sort of way, but with a little smile still. The
father looked at Faith and at the child like one mazed and
bewildered; stood still as if he had got a shock; then
wheeling round spoke to nobody and went out. Faith
pressed her lips and cheek lightly to Johnny's brow, in a
rush of sorrow and joy; then began again some sweet Bible
story for his tired little spirit.
Mr. Linden did not long keep even his resting position,
though perhaps longer than he would but for the murmur-
ing talk which he did not want to interrupt. But when
that ceased, he came back to his former seat, leaning his
arm on Faith's chair in a silence that was very uninter-
rupted. There were plenty of corners and goers in the
outer room,-Miss Bezac, and Mrs. Stoutenburgh, and Mrs.
Derrick, and Mrs. Somers, were all there with offers of
assistance; but Mr. Linden knew well that little Johnny~
had all he could have, and his orders to Reuben had been
very strict that no one should come in. So except the
various tones of different voices - which made their way
once in a while-the two watchers had nothing to break the
still quiet in which they sat. Their own words only made
the quiet deeper, as they watched the little feet which they
had first guided in the heavenward path, now passing on
before them.
"We were permitted to shew him i~he way at first,
Faith~" Mr. Linden said, "but he is showing it to us now!
But 'suffer them to come' ! - in death as in life."
Much ot'the time the child slumbered-or lay in a half
stupor, though often this was uneasy unless Mr. Linden
walked with him up and down the roQm. Then he would
revive a little, and look and speak quite brightly, asking for
singing or reading or talk,-.-letting Faith smooth his hair,
or bathe his face and hands, or give him a spoonful or two
from one of her little cups; his face keeping its fair quiet

RAV ANn anT, 

, ai

look, even thoiiigh the mortal began to give way before the
immortal.
In one of these times of greater strength and refresh-
inent, when he was in Mr. Linden's arms, he looked up at
him and said,
"Read about heaven-what you used to."
Mr. Linden took his little Bible-remembering but too
readily what that 'used' to be, and read softly and clearly
the verses in Revelation-.
"'And he showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem.
.-And the city had no need of. the sun, neither of the moon,
to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the
* Lamb is the light thereof. And the nations of them that
are saved shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the
earth do bring their glory and honour unto it. And the
gates of it shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall
be no night there. And there shall in no wise enter into
it anything that defileth, or whatsoever worketh abomina-
tion, or maketh a lie, but they that are written in the
* Lamb's book of life."'
The child listened, with his eyes upon his teacher's face
and his arm round him, as he had been 'used,' too, and
when the reading was finished lay quiet for a little time;
while his friends too were silent - thinking of "the city
that hath foundations."
"That's the same gate," Johnny said in his slow, thought-
ful way, as if his mind had o~one
hymn.                            back to the morning
"Yes," Mr. Linden said, with lips that would not quite
be controlled, and yet answering the child's smile, "that is
the gate where his little chtl shall go in! And that is the
beautiful city where the Lord Jesus lives,, and where my
Johnny is going to be with him forever-..-and where dear
Miss Faith and I hope to come by and by."
The child's hands were folded together, and with a fair,
pure smile he looked from one face to the other; closing
his eyes then in quiet sleep, but with the smile yet left.
It was no time for words. The gates of the city seemed
too near, where the little traveller's feet were so soon to
enter. The veil between seemed so slight, that even sense
might almost pass beyond it,-when the Heaven-light was

jj.~1

lb


120              SAY AND SEAL.                                      SAY AND SEAL.             .121

already shining on that fair little face! Faith wiped away
tears-and looked-and brushed them away again; but f~
a long time was very silent. At last she said, very low,
that it might be qu~etly~-.
"Endecott-it seems tQ me as if I could almost hear
them !"
lie half looked the question which yet needed no answer,
looking down then again at the little ransomed one in his
arms, as he said in the same low voice, wherein mingled a
note of the church triumphant through all its deep humau
feeling,-
"'And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy
to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou
wast slain: and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood, out
of every kindred, and tongue, and people and nation' 1"
"And," said Faith presently, lower still,-.-" can't you, as
Bunyan says, hear the bells of the city ringing for joy !-"
Those 'choral harmonies of heaven,' heard or unheard,
were stilling to mortal speech and even mortal feeling.
~Yery quietly~ the minutes and the hours of that day suc-
ceeded eachji other. Quietly even on the sick child's part;
more so than yesterday; nature succumbed gently, and the
restless uneasiness which had marked the night and the pre.
ceding day gave place gradually before increasing fai ntn~ss
of the bodily powers. There was little 'talk' called for
after that time-hardly any, though never a word met his ~
waking ear that did not meet the same grateful, pleased
manner and smile. But the occasions became fewer
Johnny slumbered gently, but more plainly a sleep that was
nearing the end, in the arms of his best friend, who would
let him even when unconsciou ave no worse resting-place
..-would let every faint waking minute find the same earthly
love about him that had been his dearest earthly refuge and
stay. But earth was having less and less of her little immortal
tenant; and as the hours of the afternoon began to te.lJ of
failing light and a fading day, it was plain that the little
spirit was almost ready to wing its way to the 'city that
hath no necd of the sun."
Mr. Fax came in sometimes to look at the child, but
never staid long-never offered to take him out of the hands
he perhaps unconsciously felt were mere of kin to him,

spiritually, than his own. Out of the room, he sat down
in the midst of his visitors and said nothing. lie seemed
bewildered-.-or astounded. "I never knowed," he said
once, "till that girl told me. I heard what the doctor
said at night-hut I didn't think as he was any wiser than
other doctors-and their word's about as good one side
At the edge of the evening Reuben came' in to say that
Mr. Skip was there with the sleigh.
"Let him put Jerry in the stable and go home," Faith
said softly to Mr. Linden. "One of Mr. Fax's men can
harness him any time."
"Dear Faith !" he said, "you had better go with him."
"I can't go, Endecott. Don't tell me to go,"-she said
with a determinate quietness.
"How can I let you stay ?-you ought not to watch hero
all night-.----unless there were something for you to do."
"There may be something for me to do," she said, but n t
as if that were what she wanted to stay for.
"I think not," he said softly, and looking down again,
"Faith-it is near the dawning !-.-and yet it may not e
till the dawning. ud dear child, you ought not to wat h
here."
"It will not hur me," she said under her breath.
"I know-" he aid with a gentle admission of all h r
reasons and fall sympathy with all her wishes, ..-" but I
think you ought not."
"Do you mean," she said after a minute's pause,-..-.
"that you wish me to go ?"
It was hard for him to say yes-but he did.
She sat still a moment, with her face in the shade; then
rose up and arranged everything about the room which her,
hands could better; made a cup of tea and brought it to
Mr. Linden; and prepared herself for her ride. When
she came at last, ready, with only her hood to put on, her
face was almost as fair as Johnny's. There was no shadow
on it of any kind, but clear day, as if a reflection from the
'&amp;ty' she had been rooking towards. She put her hand in
Mr. Linden's and knelt down as she had done in the morn.
ing to kiss Johnny. Her lips trembled-but the kisses were

voL.11.

11

A
III

120

.121


122

SAY AND SEAL.

quietly given; and rising to her feet without speaking or
looking, Faith went away.
If .quietness was broken on the ride home, it was restored
by the time she got there; and with the same clear look
Faith went in. That Mrs. Derrick was much relieved to
see her, was evident, but she seemed not very ready to ask
questions. She looked at Faith, and then with a little
sigh or two began softly to unfastenn her cloak and furs, and
to put her jn a comfortable place by the fire, and to hasten
tea, but all in a sort of sorrowful subdued silence; letting
her take her own time to speak, or not speak at all, if she
liked it better. Faith's words were cheerfully given, though
about other things. And after tea she did in some measure
justify Mr. Linden's decision in sending her home; for she
laid herself on the couch in the sitting-room and ivent into
a sleep as profound and calm as the slumbers she had left
watching. ilet mother sat by her in absolute stillness-
thinking of Faith as she had been in her childhood and
from thence until now; thinking of the last time she her-
self had been in that sick room, of th~ talk she had heard
there-of the silence that was there miw: wiping away
some tears now and then-.looking always at Faith with a
sort of double feeling; that both claimed her as a child,
and was ready to sit at her feet and learn. But as it came
to the hour of bedtime, and Faith still slept, her mother
stooped down and kissed her two or three times to wake
her up.
*" Pretty child," she said, "you'd better go to bed."
Faith started with a recollective look and asked what
time it was; then sank down again.
"I'll wait an hour yet."
"Had you better ?" her mother said gently. "I'll sit
up, dear, and call you if you're wanted. iDid you think
they'd send ?"
"Send ?-O no, mother I"
Mrs. Derrick was silent a minute. "Mr. Linden wouldn't
come home to-night, dear."
"Wouldn't he ?" said Faith startling; and for a minute
tbe sorrowful look came back to her face. But then it re~
turned to its high quiet; she kissed her mother and they
went up stairs together.

SAY AND SEAL.

r

123

No, he did not come home,.-..-and well assnre~d that he
would not, Faith ceased towatch for him, and fatigue and
exhaustion again had their way. The night was very still
-the endless train of stars sweeping on in their appointed
course, until the morning star rose and the day broke.
Even then Faith slept on. But when the more earthly
light of the sun caine, with its bestirring beams, it roused
her; and she started up, in that mood where amid quick
coming recollections she was almost breathless for more
tidings-waiting, as if by the least noise or stir she might
lose something.
It was then that she heard Mr.. Linden come in-even as
~he sat so iistening,-heard him come in and come up stairs,
with a slow quiet step that would have told her all, if the
fact of his coming had not been enough. She heard his~
door close, and then all was still again, except what faint
sounds she might hear from the working part of the house
below. Faith sat motionless till she could hear nothing
more up stairs-and then kept her position breathlessly for
a second or two longer, looking at the still sunbeams which
came pouring into her room according to their wont, wi~h
their unvarying heavenly message ;-and then gave way~
rare for her-to a burst of gentle sorrow, that yet was not
all sorrow, and which for that very mingling was the more
heart-straitening while it lasted. The light of the fair
clear Sunday morning bore su~h strange testimony of the
'everlasting day' upon which her little charge of yesterday,
had even entered! But the sense of that was quieting, if
it was stirring.
Not until the breakfast hour was fully come did Mr. Lin.-
den make his appearance; but then he caine, looking pale
indeed, and somewhat worn, yet with a face of rest. lie
gave his hand to Mrs. Derrick, and coming up to Faith
took her in his arms and kissed her, and gently put her in
her chair at the table; waiving all questions till another
time. There were none asked; Mrs. Derrick would not
have ventured any; and the tinge in Faith's cheeks gav~
token of only one of various feelings by which she was
silenced. Yet that was not a sorrowful breakfast-..-for
rest was on. every brow; on two of them it Was the very

4-
~1 j


SAY AND SEAL.

124              SAY AND SEAL.                                                                   125

rest of the day when Christ broke the bars of death and
rose.
Breakfast had been a little late, and there was not much
time to spare when it was over.
"You had better not try to go out this morning, dear
Faith," Mr. Linden said as they left the table and came
round the fire in the sitting-room.
"0 yes! I can go.-I must go "-she added softly.
"I have not much to tell you,"-.he said in the same
tone,-" nothing, but what is most sweet and fair. Would
you like to go up there with me by and by ?"
"Yes.-.After church ?"
"After church in the afternoon would give us most
time."
The Sunday classes were first met.-.--how was not likely
to be forgotten by scholars or teachers. It was an absorb-
big hour to Faith and her two little children that were left
to her; an hour that tried her very much. She controlled
herself, but took her revenge all church time. As soon as
she was where nobody need know what she did, Faith felt
unnerved, and a luxury of tears that she could not restrain
lasted till the service was over. It lasted no longer. And
the only two persons that knew of the tears, were glad to
have them come.
After the afternoon service, when people were not only
out of church but at home, Mr. Linden and Faith set out
on their solitary drive-it was too far for her to walk,
both for strength and time,-~--the afternoon was well on its
way.
The outer room into which Faith had tixst gone the day
before, had a low murmur of voices and a little sprinkling
of people within; but Mr. Linden let none of them stop
her, and merely bowing as he passed through, he led her
on. In the next room were two of the boys, but they went
away at once; and Mr. Linden put his arm round Faith,
lettirfg her lean all her weight on him if she chose, and led
her up to the, bedside. They stood there and looked-as
one might look at a ray of eternal sunlight falling athwart
the dark shadows of time.
The child*~ lay in his deep sleep as if NW. Linden had
just laid him down; his head a little turned towards them,

a little drooping, his hands in their own natural position
~ on breast and neck. A faint pink-tinted wrapper lay in
soft folds about him, with its white frills at neck and
wrists,-on his breast a bunch of the first snowdrops
spoke of the 'everlasting spring, and never - withering
flowers!'
With hearts and faces that grew every moment more
quiet, more steady, Johnny's two teachers stood and looked
at him ,-then knelt together, and prayed that in the way
which they had showed him, they might themselves be
found faithful.
"You shouldn't say we "-said Faith when they had
risen and were standing there again. "It was you-to
him and me both." And bending forward to kiss the little
face again, she added, "He taught me as much as he ever
learned from, me !"
But the words were spoken with difficulty, and Faith did
not try any more.
They stood there till the twilight began to fall, and then
turned their faces homewards with a strange mingling of
joy and sorrow in their hearts. How many times. Mr.
Linden went there afterwards Faith did not know-she
could only guess.
There was no school for the next two days. Tuesday
was white with snow,-not falling thick upon the ground,
but in fine light flakes, and few people cared to be out.
Mr. Linden had been, early in the morning,-since dinner
~ he had been in his room; and now as it drew towards
three o'clock, he came down and left the house, taking the
~ road towards that of Jonathan Fax. Other dark figures
now appeared from time to time, bending their steps in the
same direction,-some sturdy farmer in his fearnought
coat, or two of the school-boys with their arms round
each other. Then this ceased, and the soft falling snow
alone was in. the field.
The afternoon wore on, and the sun was towards the
setting, when a faint reddish tinge began to flush along the
western horizon, and the snowflakes grew thinner. Theii,
just as the first sunbeams shot through their cloudy prison,
making the snow a mere white veil to their splendour, the
little carriage of Mr. Somers came slowly down the road,
11*

* I;
ii,

K'

124

125


19ti

SAY AND SEAL.

L

and in it Mr. Somers himself. A half dozen of the neigh.
pouring farmers followed. Then the little coffin of Johnny
Fax, borne by Reuben Taylor and Sam Stoutenburgh ~nd
Phil Davids and Joe Deacon, each cap and left arm bound
with crape; followed by Johnny's two little classmates-.
Charles Twelfth and Robbie Waters. Then the chief
mourners-Jonathan Fax and Mr. Linden, arm in arm,
and Mr. Linden wearing the crape badge. After them the
whole school, two and two. The flickering snowflakes
fell softly on the little pall, but through them the sunbeams
shot joyously, and said that the child had gone-
"Through a dark stormy night
To a calm land of light!'7-.--
"Meet again? Yes, we shall meet again,
Though now we part in pain!
His people all.
Together Christ shall call,
Hallelujah !"
"Child," said Mrs. Derrick in a choked voice, and
wiping her eyes, when the last one had long passed out of
view, "it's good to see him and Jonathan Fax walking to-
gether!. anyway. I guess Jonathan 'Ii never say a word
against him again. Faith, he's beautiful !"

I'
II,

1v1.
'in

CHAPTER IX.

i T seemed to Faith as if the little shadow which Febru-
* ary had brought and left did not pass away-or rather,
as if it had stretched on till it met another; though
whence th~at came, from what possible cloud, she could
not see. She was not the cloud-that she knew and felt:
if such care and tenderness and attention as she had had
all winter could be increased, then were they now,-every
spare moment was given to her, all sorts of things were
undertaken to give her pleasure, and that she was Mr.
Linden's sunbeam was never more clear. Yet to her fancy
that shadow went out and came in with him-..--lived even in
her presence-nay, as if she had been a real sunbeam, grew
deeper there. And yet not that,-..-what was it ? The
slight change of voice or face in the very midst of some
bright talk, the eyes that followed her about the room or
studied her face while she studied her lesson-she felt if
she did not see them,-even the increased unwillingness to
have her out of his sight,-what did they all mean? So
constant, yet so intangible,-so going hand in hand with
all the clear, bright activity that had ever been part of
Mr. Linden's doings; while the pleasure of nothing seemed
to be checked, and yet a little pain mingled with all,-
Fait~h felt puzzled and grieved by turns. She bore it for
~a while~ in wondering and sorrowful silence, till she began
to be afraid of the shadow's spreading to her own face.
Kay, she felt it there sometimes. Faith couldn't stand it
any longer.
He had come in rather late one evening. It was a
bleak evening in March, but the fire-never more wanted
~-.burned splendidly and lit up the sitting-room in style.
Before it, in the easy-chair, Mr. Linden sat meditating.
lie might be tired-but Faith fancied she saw the shadow.
She came up behind his chair, put both hands on one of
his shoulders and leaned down.
(127)


128

SAY AND SEAL.

"Endecott "-she said in some of her most winning
tones,-." may I ask you something ?"
He came out of his muse instantly, and laying his hand
on hers, asked her "what she thought about it herself?"
"I think I may, if you'll promise not to answer me-..
unless you have a mind !"
"Do you suppose I would ?" Mr. Linden said laughing.
"What trust you iiave in your own power !"
"No, not a bit?" said Faith. "Then shall I ask you ?"
"You are beginning to work upon my timid disposition!
-of which I believe I once told you. What are you
going to ask me ?-to challenge Dr. Harrison ?-or to run
for President ?"
"Would you like to do either of those two things ?"
"I was only putting myself at your disposal-as I have
done before."
"Would you do either of 'em if I asked you ?" said
Faith softly.
"I suppose I am safe in saying yes !" said Mr. Linden
smiling. "Little bird~why do you keep on the wing?"
"I wanted to make sure of lighting in a right place,"
said Faith. "Endy "-and her voice came back to the
rich softness of the tones of her first question, a little
dashed with timidity,-" has anybody been putting 'non-
sense' into your head ?"
He lifted her hand from its resting place, bringing it
round to his cheek and lips at first in silence.
"Do you know," he said, "that is just the point over
which I thought you were hovering ?".-But the certainty
had changed his tone. And rising up quick and suddenly,
he drew her off to the sofa and seated her there, keeping
his arm still about her as If for a shield.
"Faith," he said, "do you remember that I promised
some time to tell you a long story ?"
She looked up into his face gravely and affectionately,
reading his look. "But you won't have time for it now,
Endecott.-.-tea will be ready directly. We must wait till
by and by."
"My little Sunbeam," he said, looking at her andi gently
pushing back her hair, "do you know I love you very

SAY AND SEAL.

129

much ?-What made you think there was anything in my
head but the most profound and abstract sense
Faith shook her head with a little bit of a smile.
"I saw that you were growing either more sensible of
late-or less,-.-and I wanted to know which it was."
"' Please to explain yourself! I-low could I grow more
sensible ?-and in what way did I grow less ?"
"I am talking nonsense?" said Faith simply. "But if it
was sease in your head, Endy, there was a little too much
of it; and II had seen nonsense look so-so I wanted to
know."
"Faith," Mr. Linden said, "you remind me often of that
Englishman Madtt~e D'Arblay tells about,-who to the end
of his life declared that his wife was the most beautiful
sight in the world to him! Do you know I think he will
have a successor
H*~r colour rose bright, and for a minute she looked down
at her diamonds. Then looked up demurely, and asked
who Madame D'Arblay was?
"She w~s an English woman, an authoress, a maid of'
honour to the Queen. Do you wish to know anything
about the other two persons I alluded to ?"
One sparkling flash of Faith's soft eye, was all she gave
him. "No, I don't think I do," she said.
"You know enough already ?-.or too much? Faith-
are Christmas roses to be in season all the year round ?"'
"I don't know,-but tea is. Suppose I go and see about
it-Monsieur?"
"Eh bien-Mademoiselle," he said gravely but holding
her fast,-" suppose you do !"
"Then we should have it."
"Undoubtedly, Mademoiselle! Vous avez reason."
"And what have you ?" said Faith laughing.
"I have you!...- Love and Reason did meet once, you
know."
"Did they ?" ~aid Faith looking up. "How should I
know ?"
"You never found it out in your own personal experia
"You say it's a fact," said Faith. "I thought you
referred to it as a former fact."

11~
J~ 1511
4

555
Is''


130

SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

j~sI
1'

131

"Like tea-" said Mr. Linden.
"Like tea, Endecott !-.-.what are you talking of ?"
"Former facts."
"I wonder what I shall get you to-night, Endecott"-.--she
said merrily twisting round to look at him,-"you must
want something! Is a thing properly said to be former, as
long as it is still present ?"
"What is present ?"
"Tea isn't past"-said Faith with another little flash of
her eye.
"If you are going to set up for Reason," said Mr. Lin.
den, "there is no more to be done; but as for me, I may
as well submit to my fate. Shakspeare says, 'To love, and
to be wise, exceeds man's might.'
"I don't think I set up for reason," said Faith,-" only
for tea; and you obliged me to take reason instead. I
guiess-Shakspeare was right."
"Unquestionably !" said Mr. Linden laughing. "Faith,
did you ever hear of 'Love in a Cottage' ?"
"I believe I have."
"I hope you don't think that includes tea ?"
"I never thought it included much good," said Faith.
"I always thought it was something foolish."
"There spoke Reason !" said Mr. Linden,-" and I shall
not dare to speak again for ten minutes. Faith, you will
have time to meditate." And his eyes ~vent to the fire and
staid there. Faith meditated--or waited upon his media~
tions; for her eyes now and then sought his face somewhat
wistfully to see if she could read what he was thinking of
.-which yet she could not read. But her exploring looks
in that direction were too frequent to leave room for the
supposition that Reason made much progress.
"Faith," Mr. Linden s~tid, suddenly intercepting 'one of
these looks, "now let us compare results-before we medi~
tate any further. What have you to shew ?"
"Nothing"-said Faith frankly.
"I on my part have made a great discovery, which will
perhaps answer for us both. It is very simple, as most
great discoveries are, being merely this: that I prefer other
things than reproofs from the lips of Reason. Will you
have an illustration ?"

"Can't I understand without ?" said Faith laughing, but
with also a little rising colour~ And very smilingly she had
her answer-the only answer she could expect.
"I believe you are principled against saying yes !" said
Mr. Linden. "The most encouraging thing you ever said
to me was 'Oh no !'
What swift recollection, what quick sympathy with that
time, spoke in the crimson of' Faith's.cheeks! It was some-
thing to see 'the eloquent blood.' Eyes were not to be
seen. Mr. Linden smiled, touching his hand softly to her
cheeks.
"0 Mignonette !" he said-" or I should rather say, 0
Roses !--or 0 Carnation! Is there anything beyond that
in your Flora ?"
In the emergency Faith took possession of the hand that
invaded her carnations and turning the full display upon
him asked if he would not like to hav~ something more
substantial. Apparently 'the display' was approved, though
there were no words to that effect.
"I suppose I must let you go," he said, "because if we
are to study all the evening after tea, it will not do to talk
away the whole evening before. You shall choose your owi~
time for hearing my story, dear child-only let me know
when the time comes."
There was no shadow upon the tea hour, on Faith's part,
nor on the hours of study 'that followed. The wind swept
round the house, March fashion, but the fire and the~ open
books laughed at him. There seemed even a little more
'than usual of happy gayety in Faith's way of going through
her work; she and the fire played at which should get
ahead of the other; and between whiles she was obliged to
use a little caution to obviate Mr. Linden's surprise at find-
ing how far she was getting ahead of herself. For Faith's
early morning studies were not now by any means contained
to the lessons he set fur her and expected her to do; her
object and endeavour was to prevent his requirements, and
so prepare the ground before his teachings that without
finding out how it came to be so ready, he should simply
occupy more of it and cultivate higher. It was rather a nice
matter! not to let him see that she had done too much, and

S

It
''1


132

SAY AND SEAL.

yet to make him know that he might take what harvests he
pleased off the ground; with such keen eyes too, that knew
so well all the relative forces of soil and cultivation and
could estimate so surely the fruits of both. Faith managed
by not managing at all and by keeping very quiet, as far as
possible showing him nothing he did not directly or mdi.
reedy call for; but sometimes she felt she was grazing the
edge of discovery, which the least lifting of the veil of
Mr. Linden's unsuspiciousness would secure. She felt it
to-night, and the fire and she had one or two odd little con.
sultations. Just what Mr. Linden was consulting with
himself about at those times, she did not know; but she
half fancied it was something. Once the fire called her off
at the end of a lesson, and when she came back to the table
he had the next book open; but it was not till this ~et of
questions and answers and explanations was half through,
that Faith discovered he had opened the book at a different
place from the one where it had been closed the day before,
.-then it suddenly flashed upon her; but whether it had
been by accident, or of intent, she did not know.
One last consultation Faith held with the fire while Mrs.
Derrick was gathering her work together to go to bed,
Then she brought a low seat to Mr. Linden's feet. "1~ow,
Endy,- I am ready." A. little smile -a soft, lingering
touch upon her forehead, came with his words.
"My little Mignonette, what do you suppose I came to
Pattaquasset for ?"
She looked rather wondering at him, and then said, "I
supposed-..-to teach the school."
"Yes, but to what end ?-I mean in my intent. I know
now what I came for, in one sense," he said, securing one
of her hands.
"Why-Endeco~t, do you want me to tell you ?"
"If you know or guess.~~
"I don't know nor guess anything. I supposed merely
that you did that as other people do other things-and for
the same reason."
"It was for a very commonplace reason," Mr. Linden
said, watching her face with two or three things at work in
his own: "it was to get money to finish my studies for
your favourite profession."

SAY AND SEAL.

133

"My favourite profession !-.Which do you mean ?"
"Have you forgotten Miss Essie's question? I have
not-nor the dear child who was so unwilling to answer it."
Faith's mind went back to Miss Essie, the question and
answer,.-and took the round of the subject,.-and even as
she did so her face changed, a sort of grave light coming
into it.
t~Do you mean that, Endy ?" she said half under her
breath.
"I mean that, and no other."
The light brightened and deepened-her colour flushed
like a morning sky,-till at last the first sunbeam struck
athwart her face, in the shape of a smile. It was not a lip
smile-.-it was on eye and brow and lip and cheek together.
Mr. Linden bent down by her, lifting her face to meet his
eyes, which through all their intentness smiled too.
"Faith, I want to hear every word of that."
"Of what ?"
"Of all that is in your mind and face just now."
Her two little answering sentences evidently only gave
the key of very deep tones.
"I think it is good, Endy. I am glad."
"I thought you would be. But that does not satisfy
me, dear Faith-I want you to say to me all the different
things that your thoughts were saying to you. You are
not afraid of me at this time of day ?" he said bringing her
face closer.
"I have nothing to say I need be afraid to say," Faith
answered slowly,-" but it is hard to disentangle so many
thoughts. I was thinking it is such great and high work-~
such happy work-and such honour-and then that you
will do it right, Endecott-" she hesitated.-" how could
I help but be glad ?"
"Do you like your new pi~ ospective position, little Sun-
beam ?"
A deep colour came ovei' her face, and the eyes fell,
Yet Faith folded her hands and spoke.
"I was glad to think-" She got so far, but the sen-
tence was never finished.
"Glad to think what, dear child ?"
Faith glanced up. She did not want to. answer. Then
~VOL. II.

VP' F


134             SAY AND SEAL.                                     SAY AND SEAL

she said with the greatest simplicity, "I am glad if I may
do something."
"Glad that I should realize my ideal ?" Mr. Linden said
with a smile, and softly bringing her face round again.
"Faith, do you know what a dear little 'minister's wife'
you will make ?.-Mignonette is so suitable for a parson..
age !.-so well calculated to impress the people with a
notion of the extreme grave propriety which reigns there!
For is not Mignonette always sweet, demure, and never.-..
by any chance 1-high coloured ?"
She would not let her face be held up. It went down
upon her lap-into her hands, which she pressed close to
hide it.
"Oh Endecott 1-." she said desperately.-" You'll have
to call me something else."
"0 Faith 1" was his smiling reply,-"I will, just so soon
as I can. Don't you want to come over to the sofa and
hear the rest of my story ?"
"Your story! Oh yes!"
And first having a sympathizing interview with the
fire, Faith went over to the sofa and sat down; but hid her
face no more. Much as he had done before tea, Mr. Lin-
den came and sat dowii by her,-with the same sort of
gentle steadiness of manner, as if some strong thread of
feeling had wrapped itself round an equally deep thread
of purpose,-his gay talk now as then finding always some
contrast in his face. But of this Faith had seen little or
nothing-her eyes had not been very free to look. She
did notice how silently he stood by her as she put the fire
in order, she did notice the look that rested on her as she
took her seat, but then he began his story and she could
thing of nothing else.
"It was given to me, dear Faith," he said, "to spend
my boyhood in an atmosphere more like the gloxv of that
firelight than anything I can compare it to, for its warmth
and radiance; where very luxurious worldly circumstances
were crowned with the full luxury of earthly love. But it
was a love so heaven-directed, so heaven-blessed, that it
was but the means of preparing me to go out into the cold
alone. That was where I learned to love your diamonds,"
he added, taking the jewelled hand in his,-" when I used

to see them not more busy among things of literature and
taste, than in all possible ministrations to the roughest and
poorest and humblest of those whom literature describes
and taste shrinks from !-But I used to think," he said
speaking very low, "that the ring was never so bright, nor
sb quick moving, as when it was at work for me."
Faith's eye fell with his to the diamonds. She was very
still; the flash all gone.
"That time of my life," Mr. Linden presently went on,
"was passed partly in Europe and partly here. We came
home just after I had graduated from a German University,
but before I went away again-.----ahnost everything I had in
the world went from me." He was silent for a little, draw-
ing Faith's head down upon his shoulder and resting his
lightly upon it, till she felt what she was to him. Then he
looked up and spoke quietly as before.
"Pet and I were left alone. A sister of my father's was
very anxious to take her, but Pet would not hear of it, and
so for a year we lived together, and when I went to the
Seminary she went too,-living where I lived, and seeiu~
what she could of me between times. It was not v~ery
good for her, but it was the best we could do then. I sup-
pose there was some mismanagement on the part of my
father's executors-or some complication in his affairs, I
need not trouble you with details; but we were left with-
out much more than enough to give her the income II wished
her to have for her own private use. Of course I would
not touch that for our joint expenses. But until a year
ago we did still~ live together-by various means. Then
this sister of my father's set her heart upon taking Pet
with her to Europe-and I set mine almost as much; 1 could
better bear to live alone, than to have her; and her life
then amounted to tha~ And so between us both she con.-
sented-very unwillingly; and she went to Italy, and I
studied as long as I had ways and means, and then came
here to get more. So you see, dear child," Mr. Linden
said with a smile, "it is not my fortune I have asked you
to share, but yiy fortunes."
She gave him a smile, as bright and free as the glancing
of a star; then her look went away again. And it was a
good little while before perhaps she dared speak-perhaps

sa


13G                 SAY AND SEAL.                                               SAY AND SEAL.                  I ()~q

before she wanted to speak. So very steady and still her
look and herself were, it said that they covered thoughts
too tender or too ~ep to be put into words. And the
thoughtfulness rather deepened as minutes rolled on-and
a good many of them rolled on, and still Faith did not
speak. Mr. Linden's watch ticked its remarks unhindered.
Words came at last.
"Endecott-.you said something about 'means' for study.
flow much means does it want ?-.and how much study~'
The interest at work in the question was deeper than Faith
meant to shew, or knew she showed.
He told her the various expenses, ordinary and contingent,
in few words, and was silent a moment. But then drawing
her close to him, with that same sort of sheltering gesture
she had noticed before, he went on to answer her other
question; the voice and manner giving her a perfect key
to all the grave looks she had mused over.
"Do you remember, dear Faith, that I once called you
'a brave little child' ?"
"Yes."
"You must be that now," he said gently,-" you and I
must; both be brave, and cheerful, and full of trust. Be.
cause, precious child, I have two years~ work before me-
and the work cannot be done here."
She looked in his face once, and was silent ;-what her
silence covered could only he guessed. But it lasted a, little
while.
"It must be done at that place where you were xvith
your sister ?"
"Yes, little Mignonette, it must be done there."
"And when must you begin the work, Endecott ?" If the
words cost her some effort, it only just appeared.
"I came for a year, dear Faith-and I ought not to
stay much beyond that."
Faith mentally counted the months, in haste, with a
pang; but the silence did not last long this time. Her
head left its resting place and bending forward she looked
up into Mr. Linden's face, with a sunny clear look that met
his full. It was not a look that could by ?rny means be
mistaken to indicate a want of other feeling, however.
One might as soon judge from the sunshine gilding on

the slope of a mountain that the mountain is made of
tinsel.
"Endecott..-is that what has been the matter with
you?"
She needed no answer but his look, though that was as
Wear as her own.
"I could easier bear it if I could bear the whole," he
said. "But you can understand that Dr. Harrison's pro-
posal tried, thoug~vit did not tempt me."
She scarce gave a thought to that.
"There is one thing more I wanted to ask. Will there
be-" she paused, and went on,-" no time at all that you
can be here ?"
"Dear Faith !" he said kissing her, "do you think I
could bear that? How often I shall be able to come I
cannot quite tell, but come I shall-.-from time to time, if
I live. And in the meanwhile we must make letters do
a great deal."
Her face brightened. She sat quietly looking at him.
"Will that shadowcome any more,-now that you have
told me
"I will give you leave to scold me, if you see it," Mr.
Linden said, answering her smile,-" I ought not to be iii
K shadow for a minute-with such a sunbeam in my posses-
sion. Although, although !-do you know, little bright
one, that the connexion between sunbeams and shadows is
very intimate? and very hard to get rid of?"
"Shall I talk to you about 'nonsense' again ?"-sho
~aid half lightly, resting her hand on his arm arid looking
at him. Yet behind her light tone there was a great ten-
derness.
"You may-and I will plead guilty. But in which of
the old classes of 'uncanny' folk will you, put me ?-with
those who were known by their having no shadow, or with
those who went always with two ?"
"So I suppose one must have a little shadow, to keep
from being uncanny !"
"You and I will not go upon that understanding, dear
Faith."
I~'aith did not look like one who had felt no shadow;
rather perhaps she looked like one who had borne a blow;
12*

136

os


Ii

SAY AND SEAL.

a look that in the midst of the talk more than once
brought to Mr. Linden's mind a shadowy remembrance
of her as she was after they got home that terrible evening;
but her face had a gentle brightness now that then was
wanting.
"I don't know "-she said wistfully in answer to his last
words. -" Perhaps it is good. I dare say it is, for me. It
is a shame for me to remind you of anything-but don't
you know, Endecott.-' all things are ours' p-both 'thin o~s
present and things to come ?"' And he~ eye looked up
with a child's gravity, and a child's smile.
Bear it alone ?.-ycs, he could have done that-as he had
borne other things,-it tried him to see her bear it. It
touched him to see that look come back-to see any tern.
peering of the bright face she had worn so long. Faith
hardly knew perhaps with what eyes he had watched her
through all the conversation, eyes none the less anxious for
the smile that met hers so readily; she hardly guessed what
pain her bright efforts at keeping up, gave him. To shel-
ter and gladden her life was the dearest delight of his;
and just now duty thwarted him in both points. And he
knew-almost better than she did-how much she de-
pended on him. He looked down at her for a moment
with a face of such grave submission as Faith had never
seen him wear.
"My dear little child !" he said. But that sentence was
let stand by itself. The next was spoken differently. "II
do know it, dear Faith,-and yet you do well to remind
me. I need to be kept up to the mark. And it is not
more true that each day has sufficient evil, than that each
has sufficient good-if it be only sought out. There can~
not much darkness live in the light of those words."
"Ho i~r far have you to go," she said with demure arch-
ness,-" to find the good of these days ?"
"You are quick at conclusions "-said Mr. Linden,-
"how far do you think it is between us at present ?"
"Endecott "-she said gravely-"it will never be fur-
ther 1"
He laughed a little-with a half moved half amused
expression, wrapping her up like some dainty piece of
preciousness. "Bccause every day that I am away will

SAY AND SEAL.

139

hring us nearer together? I suppose that is good mea-
surement."
"You know," she said, "you have told me two things
to-night, Endecott; and if one makes me sorry, the other
makes me glad."
"Ii was sure of that !-.-And it is such great, great
pleasure to think of the times of coming back-and
of leaving you work to do, and of writing to you about it,
..-and then of finding out how well it is done! You must
keep my books for me, Mignonette-mine, I say !-.---they
are as much yours as mine-and more."
"Your books ?"..--she said with a flush.
"Yes-there are but a few of these that I shall want
with me,-the most of my study books I did not bring
here."
"But won't you want these with you ?"
"As far from that as possible. Do you think you could
m~ke up your mind to let me tell Reuben a secret ?.-.~-and
give him a reason for being even more devoted to you than
he is now?"
She coloured very brightly again. "I am willing-if
you wish it. Why, Endecott ?"
"The chief reason is, that I do not wish to lose any of
your letters, nor have you lose any of mine. And small
postofilces are not so safe as large ones, nor are their
managers proverbially silent. I should like to make Reu-
ben a sort of intermediate office."
"And send your letters to him ?"
"Yes. Would you mind that ?"
"And my letters ?"
"And yours in like manner, little Mignonette. He could
either enclose them to me, or put them in some neighbour-
ing office,- I think Reuben would enjoy an eight miles
walk a day, taken for me. Or you could hide your en-
velope with another, and let him direct that. You need
not be afraid of Reuben,"-Mr. Linden said smiling,.......
"you might give him forty letters without his once daring
to look at you.~7
"But I thought-you said-he was going to college
next summer ?"
"That was talked o1 but I think he will stay another

] 3


140

SAY AND SEAL

year at home, and then enter a 1~igher class. It will save
expense, and he will be longer with his father. Reuben
and I hope to be brother ministers, one day, Faith."
"Do you! Does he !"-said Faith astonished. "That
is good! I am glad of it. But what will he do for money,
Endecott ?"
"We shall see-part of~ the way is clear, so we may
hope the rest will be. Perhaps I may let him do some
of his studying with me. Do you think you would object
to that?"
"Object to it! How could I? Wl~at do you mean,
Endecott ?"
"0 little Mignonette !" he said smiling, "how sweet you
are !-.and what joy it would be to see you wear the only
title I can give you! Don't you know, pretty child, that
if I gave Reuben ITebrew you might be called upon to
give him-tea!"
Faith's eyes went down and her colour mounted, and
mounted. But her next remark was extremely collected,
"How good it was Dr. Harrison's money came
"I believe you stipulated that we were to have tea
ourselves," said Mr. Linden? "but the question remains
whether you would dispense it to any one else."
Faith was only restrained from covering her face again
by, the feeling that it would be foolish; and withal a little
laughter could not be prevented. She did shield' one side
of her face with her hand, and leaning upon it looked into
the fire for suggestions. Finally answered sedately, "I
should think you and he might have it together !"
"Have it-..-yes, if we could get it; but I am ignorant
of any but the chemical properties of milk and sugar."
"I thought you said you knew cream when you saw it!"
said Faith from behind her shield.
"That is knowing its appearance-not its properties,
Miss Reason."
~" What does reason want to know more, for a cup of
tea?"
"But you have declared once to-night that I am not
Reason," said Mr. Linden laughing. "For instance-I
once made the sudden acquaintance of a particular person,
who made as sudden an irnp~'ession on my mind,~after

SAY AND SEAL.

141

those three minutes I should have known her by sight (like
cream) to the end of my life. But I went on trying ex-
periments-(as one might taste successive drops of cream)
finding out more and more sweetness each time; until
(like cream again) I discovered that she was perfectly
inUispensable to my cup of tea !"
Faith bowed her' glad little head, laughing, though
feeling much deeper was at work.
"After this," she said, "I shall always be greatly at a
loss what you are thinking of when you are looking
at me."
"XVill your reflections be carried on with such a face ?"
said Mr. Linden. "Do you remember that afternoon,
Faith ?.-when I so nearly laid hold of you-.and you
wanted to laugh, and did not dare ?'~
"What afternoon ?"-
"The one wherein I first had the pleasure of seeing you.
How demurely you eyed me !-and wondered in your little
sensible heart what sort of a person I could possibly be !"
"How did you know I wondered ?" said Faith colour~
ing."
"By your very gentle, modest, and fearful examinations,
your evident musings over my words, and the bright look
now and then that told of progress."
Faith laughed.
"You made me begin to think and wish immediately,"~
she said.-." It was no wonder I wondered."
"Yes, and how I longed to give you your wish, so far as
T could,.-.and how afraid I was to offer my services,-and
how you would persist in thanking me for pleasing myself,
do you remember, little Sunbeam ?-and your fright when
I asked about Prescott ?"
She looked up with the prettiest, rosiest remembrance
of it all; and then her face suddenly changed, and turning
from him she shielded it again with her hand, but not to
hide the rosy colour this~time. Mr. Linden drew her close
to him, resting hi~ face upon her other cheek at first
without words.
"Dear child !" he said,.-"my own little Mignonette !-.
you must not forget what you said to me,-.--and you must
not forget that I hope to c~ome home quite often. There

'Ii.
*1


142                2AY AND SEAL.
was a time, when I thought I might have to go away and
never have the right to come and see yott again. And you
must think to yourself~~though you will not speak of it to
me-that after this bit of time, all our life will be spent
together. You need not expect me to wait for anything-.
not even the cottage you like so much."
She did not answer immediately, as was natural, his last
suggestion5 not being very word-provoking with her. But
when she did speak, it was in a clear, cheerful tone.
"I'll bear my part, Endy-J should be very ungrateful
if I couldn't. And you can bear your part-I am glad to
think of that t-for you are working for a Master that
always gives full pay."
"We can always bear God's will," he said, a little
gravely,.-"it is only our own that points the trial and
makes it unbearable."

OIIAPTER X.
~AI Til had no chance to think that night. She went
[to sleep conscientiously. And a chance the next
morning was out of the question. She dared not come
down as early as usual, if her own strength would have let
her. The few minutes before breakfast were busy ones;
and the few hours after breakfast. Faith went about with
the consciousness of something on her heart to be looked
at; but it had to bide its time. Her household duties done,
her preparations for Mr. Linden being already in advance,
she had leisure to attend to this other thing. And alone
Faith sat down and looked at it.
It was the first rea.l steady trial her life had known. ITer
father's death had come when she was too young to feel
deeply any want that her mother could not fill. To be
away from anything she much loved was a sorrow Faith
hardly knew by experience. But a two years' separation was
a very, very heavy and sharp pain to think of; and Faith
had an inward assurance that the reality would be heavier
and sharper than her thoughts beforehand could make it.
Perhaps it was too great a pain to be struggled with; for
Faith did not struggle-..--or not long. She sat down and
looked at it,-what she had no'~ dared to do the night
before ;~-.-mea~urcd it and weighed it; and then bowed her
heart and head to it in utter submission. With it came such
a crowd of glad and good things, things indeed that made
the trial and were bound up with it,.-..-that Faith locked the
one and the other up in her heart together. And remem-
bering too the sunshine of joy in which she had lately lived,
she humbly confessed that some check might be needed to
remind her and make her know that earth has not the best
sunshine, and that any gain would be loss that turned her
eyes away from that best, or lessened her sense of its'
brightness.
(143)

I;


145

So there came no shadow over her at all, either that day
or afterwards. The clear light of her face was not clouded,
and her voice rung to the same tune. There was no
shadow, nor shade of a shadow. There was a little sub.
dued air; a little additional gravity, a trifle more of ten.
derness in her looks and ways, which told of the simpleness
of heart with which she had quietly taken what God gave
and was content with it.
To Mr. Linden the trial was not new, and to sorrow of
various kinds he was wanted; but it was new to him to see
her tried, and to that he found it hard to accustom himself.
Yet he carried out his words,-Faith could feel a sort of
atmosphere of bright strength about her all the time. I-low
tenderly she was watched and watched over she could
partly see, but pain or anxiety Mr. Linden kept to himself.
He set himself to work to make her enjoy every minute.
Yet he never shunned the subject of his going away,-he
let her become used to the sound of the words, and to every
little particular connected with it-they were all told her
by degrees; but told with such bright words of hope and
trust, that Faith took the pain as it were diluted.
Before all this had gone far-indeed not many days after
the first telling of his story, Faith had come down as usual
one early morning to her work. She had been down about
an hour, when she heard the door open and Mr. Linden
came in. He had two seconds' view ot the picture before
she rose up to meet him. There was no lamp yet burning
in the room. A fire of good hard wood threw its light
over everything, reflected back from the red curtains
which fell over the windows. In th~ very centre of
the glow, Faith sat on a low~ cushion, with her book on a
chair. She was dressed exactly, for nicety, as if she might
l~ave been going to Judge Harrison's to tea. And on the
open pages, and on Faith's bright hair, edging her ruffles,
and warming up her brown @ess, was the soft red fall of
the firelight. She rose up immediately with her usual glad
look, behind which lay a doubtful surmising as to his errand.
It was on her lips to ask what had 'brought him down so
early, but she was prudently silent. He came forward
quick and quietly, according to his wont, 'not at all as if she
were about anything unusual, and giving her one of those

greetings wliichdid sometimes betray the grave feeling he
'~ kept so well in hand, he br6ugh t her back to the fire.
at:: Little bird," he said, "what straws are you weaving in
present ?"
I don't know. Kot any-unless thoughts."
"Will it please you to state what you are doing ?"
"I was reading. I had just got to the end of the story
of Moses blessing Israel. I was thinking of these words-"
and she took up her book and showed him. "Happy art
thou, 0 Israel, saved of the Lord, the shield of thy help,
and who is the sword of thy excellence."
"Did you ever look out any of the answering passages
in other parts of the Bible ?"
"Not often. I don't know them. Once in a while I
think of one. And then they are so beautiful !"
Mr. Linden took the book from her hand, turning from
place to place and reading to her.
"'J~appy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help,
and hope is in the Lord his God: which made heaven,
earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth
~, truth forever.' That is what David said, -then hear how
~ Isaiah answers-' Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust,
j and not be afraid: for the LORD JEIIOYAII is my
strength and my song; he also is become my salvation.'-
And again-' Israel shall be saved in the Lord with an
everlasting salvation: ye shall not be ashamed nor con-
founded, world without end."7
Faith drew a little quick breath.
"Doesn't it seem," she said, "as if words were heaped on
words to prevent our being afraid ?"
"I think it really is so; till we have a shield of promises
as well as protection. After Abraham had gone out of his
own country, 'not knowing whither he went,' 'the word of
the Lord came to him, saying, Fear not, Abraham, I am
thy shield and thy exceeding great reward.' Then David
takes that up and expatiates upon it,-finding in 'it 'both
things present and things to Come', dear Faith."
"'For the Lord God is a sun and a shield: the Lord will
give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from
them that walk uprightly. 0 Lord of hosts, blessed is the   P
man that trusteth ii~ thee.'"
~OL.Ii.                13

"'II

144             SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.

144


SAY AND SEAL.              147

146             SAY AND SEAL.

She looked down at the words, then up at him with ~
glad, sunshiny light in her eyes. Her comment on the
whole was heartfelt% and comprehensive. "How good ji~
was you came down this morning I"
"Would you like to have me come every morning ?"
"Oh how much !-But that's no use, Endecott."
"Why not ?"
"I mustn't get to depending upon you too much," she
said with a smile.
"What had you been musing about-to make you so glad
this morning?" he said looking at her.
"Nothing !-but those passages as you read them one
after the other were so beautiful, and felt so strong.-.It was
a great pleasure to hear you read them,"-she said dropping
her voice a little in 'confession.
"It shall be as you like, darling, about my coming again.
But dear Faith, of this other morning work you must let
me say a word."
"What, Endecott ?"
"You are doing too much."
"No. What makes you think so ?"
Significantly Mr. Linden laid his hand on the pile of
study books.
"Well ?"
"Well.-For the future please to let these gentry rest in
peaceful seclusion ubtil after breakfast."
"Oh no, Endy ~"
"My dear, I s~all have you turning into a moonbeam.
Just imagine wh4 it would cost me to call you 'pale Cyn-
thia' 1"
"You needn't imagine it, Endecott."
"Only so far as to prevent the reality. Do you know I
have been afraid of this for some time."
"Of what?"
"Afraid that you were disregarding the bounds I have
laid down for study and the sun for sleep."
"I didn't know you had laid down any ~ she said
gaily again,-" and I never did mind the sun."
"Well won't you mind me ?" said he smiling. "I have a
right to expect that in study matters, you know."
"Don't try mel-" said Faith, very winningly, much nioto

than she knew. He stood looking at hei', with the sweet
unbent expression which was her special right.
"Faith, don't you mean to love to have me take care of'
you ?"
That brought a change of look, and it was curious to see
the ineffectual forces gather to veil what p' spite of them
wreathed in her smile and laid an additional roseleaf upon
each cheek. The shy eyes retreated from view; then they
were raised again as she touched his arm and said,. with a
demure softness, "What must I do, Endy ?"
"Be content with the old study horns, my dear child.
They are long enough, and many enough."
"Oh Endy !-not for me."
"For thee."
Faith looked down and looked disturbed.
"Then, Endecott, I sha'n't be as wise as I want to be,.-.
nor as you want to have me."
"Then you will he just as wise as I want you to be," he
said with a smile. "As to the rest, pretty child,-do you
mean that my wife shall deprive me of my scholar ?"
Faith turned away and said rather quickly, "Endy, how
did you know ?"
"From some lesson evidence. And I always hear you.
come down-and whiles I see a face at breakfast which has
not lately come from rest."
Faith's secret thought was that it was better than rest.
But after folding her hands with a grave face, she looked
up at Mr. Linden with a smile which yielded the whole
question.
"To prove to you what a naughty child you have been,"
said Mr. Linden, "I shall give you an increase of outdoor
lessons, and take. you off on an expedition the first mild
day. On which occasion you may study me-if you have
any of Miss Essie's curiosity."
"Don't 21?" said Faith. "And I am going to do it more.
What expedition are you going on, Endecott ?"
"Up to Kildeer river I have business there. Will
you trust yourself to me in a boat-~---if I will let you steer ?"
"I'll do anything to go," said Faith. "And I suppose
if I steered wrong, the helm would come about pretty
quick !" And so ended her last early morning studies.

I              V

146

147


III
1'

SAY AND SEAL.

It was in the afternoon of the same day that Faith put
in practice what she bad been thinking of when she avowed
her determination of further studying Mr. Linden. He had
come home from school, and it was the dusky hour again;
the pleasant interrognum between day and night when even
busy folk take a little time to think and rest. Mr. Linden
was indulging in both apparently; he was in one of those
quiet times of doing nothing' which Faith chose for making
~ny of her very gentle attacks upon him. Gue seemed to
be in meditation now. She stole up behind him and leaned
down on the buck of his chair, after her wont.
"Endecott"-she said softly.
Faith's voice was in ordinary a pleasant thing to hear;
but this name from her lips was always a concretion of
sweetness, flavoured differently as the case might be.
Sometimes with mere gladness, sometimes with the spirit
of fun, often enough with a little timidity, and sometimes
with a rose-drop from the very bottom of her heart's well;
with various compounds of the same. But this time it was
more than timidity; Faith's one word was spoken as from
lips that were positively afraid to follow it with others.
"That note," said Mr. Linden smiling, "seems to come
from the top of a primeval pine tree - with a hawk in
sight! Little bird, will you please come down into the lower
regions of air ?-where you can be (comparatively) safe."
Faith laughed; but the hawk remained in sight-of her
words.
"You said this morning I never asked you any but
impossible things."
"Most sorrowfully true !.-.-.have you another one ready ?"
"If. I ask you something possible, what will you do ?"
she said, softly touching the side of his head with her hand.
It was Faith's utmost freedom; a sort of gentle admiring
touch of her fingers which the thick locks of hair felt
hardly more than a spider's feet.
"That Liepends so much upon the thing !" he said, half
turning to give her the look which belonged to his words.
"There are such a variety of ways in which I might deal
with it--and with you."
"I am not going to ask you anything but what would be
right.

SAY AND SEAL.

149

"You do not doubt that my answer will be conformable ?"
"Yes I do. It will be your 'right,' but it may not be
my 'right,' you know."
"If you get what is not your right, you ought to be
upntented," said Mr. Linden.
"Now you have turned me and my meaning round;
Endecott-yOLl know Aunt Dilly gave me something ?....
mayn't I-won't you let me lend it to you ?"
Very low and doubtfully the words came out! But if
Faith had any more to say, she had little chance for
a while. One quick look round at her Mr. Linden gave,
but then he sprang up and came to where she stood, lifting
her face and giving her her "right" in one sense at least.
Other answer he made none.
"Endy-have I asked a possible thing this time ?" she
said under breath.
"My precious child !-Do you think it possible ?"
"It ought to be possible, Endecott." And if ever an
humble suggestion of a possibility was made, Faith made
it then.
"I shall have to go back to my first answer," said Mr.
Linden,-"~ have no words for any other. ~Faith, dearest
-don't you know that it is not needful? Will that con~
tent you, little sweet one
A soft "no."
"Why not ?" he said, making good his threat. "What
do you want me to have more than I need ?"
"I fear the ways you will take to make that true. I
should think you might, Endecott !"-The ellipsis was not
hard to supply.
"I shall not take any unlawful means-nor any unwise
ones, I hope," lie said lightly. "What are you afraid I
shall do ?"
"Get up early in the morning," she whispered.
"But that is so pleasant! Do you suppose I get up
late now, little bird ?"
"Not late, with breakfast at seven. How early do you ?"
"Philosophically early! Do you know you have not
had your poem to-day ?~..-..what shall it be? sunrise or
sunset ~"
"Which you please," she said gently, with the tone of a
13*

148


150

CA

SAY AND SEAL.

mind upon something else. Mr. Linden looked down at
her in silence for a minute.
"Dear Faith," lie said, "31 told you truly that there is no
need. This year's work has done quite as much as J
thought it would. What are you afraid of?"
"I am not afraid of much," she said, looking up at hira
now with a clear brow. "But Endy, I have changed my
mind about something. Could you easily come down and
read with me a little while every morning ?.-or are you
busy ?"
"I am never too busy to spend time with you, my child,
.-.-that is one piece of pleasure I shall always allow myself.'
At what hour shall I come
"At six o'clock, can you ?" said Faith. "If you gave
me a quarter of an hour then, I should still have time
enough for breakfast work. This morning I was afraid-.
but I was foolish. This evening I want all I can get. :And
~-~wi~n you read me a ladder of verses again," she said
sm1liDg~ "I shall mark them in my Bible, and then' 11 shall
have them ~by and by-when you are gone."
"Yes, andAKcan send you more. lit is good to go up a
ladder of Bible\erses when one is afraid-or foolish," he
said gently and answering her smile. "One end of it
always rests on earth, within reach of the weakest and
weariest."
"That is just 'it! Oh Endy,".-she said, clasping her
hands sadly and wishfully before her and her eyes filLing as
she spoke.-"i wish there were more people to tell people
the truth !"

CHAPTER XI.
was a fair, fair May morning when Mr. Linden and
Faith set forth on their expedition to Kildeer river.
After their early rising and early breakfast, they took their
way down to the shore of the M~ng, where the little sail-
boat lay rocking on the incoming tide, her ropes and
streamers just answering to the mol~ning breeze. 'i'he soft
spring sunlight glinted on every tree and hillside. The
"Balm of a Thousand Flowers "-true and not spurious-.
was sprinkled through the air, under the influence of
which unseen nectar the birds became almost intoxicated
with joy; pouring out their songs with a sort of spend-
thrift recklessness,--the very fish caught the infection, and
flashed and sparkled in the blue water by schools at a
time.
In the sailboat now stood 'baskets and shawls, a book or
two, an empty basket for wild flowers, and by the tiller sat
Faith-invested with her new dignity but not yet instructed
therein. Mr. Linden stood on the shore, with the boat's
detaining rope in his hand, looking about him as ~f he had
a mind to take the good of things as he went along. Up
the hill from the shore, trotted Jerry and Mr. Skip.
"Endecott," said Faith joyously,-" goethe would have
more than enough if he was here."
She was not a bad part of the picture herself; fair and
glad as she looked, as fair as the May morning and the
birds and the sunlight.--
"Isn't this air sweet ?"
~XTery V But Goethe would choose my point of view.
So much depends, in a picture, upon th~ principal light !"
I wonder which is the~ principal light to-day !" said
Faith laughing. "116w it sparkles all over the river,-~~
atid then on the ~oun g leaves and buds ;--and then soft
shining on the clouds. And they are all May! Look at
(151)

6


SAY AND SEAL.

15"

152                SAY AND SEAL.
)
those tiny specks of white cloud scattered along the horizon,
up there towards Neauticut."
"The principal~ light to-day," said Mr. Linden, "is one
particular sunbeam, which as it were leads off the rest.
It's a fair train, altogether !" and~ he threw the rope into
the little vessel, and jumped in himself; then lifting Faith
a little from her place, and arranging and disposing of her
daintily among shawls and cushions, and putting her un~
wonted~flngers upon the tiller.
"Now Miss Derrick," he said, "before we g~ any further,
I should like to know your estimate and understanding of
the power at present in your hands."
"I know what a rudder is good for," said Faith merrily.
"I know that this ship,~ 'though it be so great, and driven
of fierce winds, yet is it turned about with a very small
helm whithersoever the governor listeth.' That is what
you may call theoretical knowledge."
"Clearly your estimate covers the ground! But you
perceive, that while you take upon yourself the guiding of
the boat-(if I might venture to suggest !-.--our course lies
up the Mong, and not out to sea)-1, with my sail, control
the motive power."
"You mean that if I don't go right, you'll drop the
sail ?"-.
"Not at all !-I shall navigate, not drift. Do you sup-
pose I shall surrender at the firs's summons
"What would you consider a 'summons' ?" said Faith
with a funny look. "I don't think your sail can ~lo much
against my rudder."
"My sail regulates the boat's headway-which in its
turn affects the rudder. (If we run down those fishermen
the damages may be heavy.) But you see I have this ad-
vantage,.-I know beforehand your system of navigation-
you don't know mine. Let me inform your unpractised
eyes, Miss Derrick, that the dark objects just ahead of us
is a snag."
"My eyes don't see any better for that information,"
said Faith; with great attention however managing to
guide their lhtle craft clear of both snag and fishermen,
and almost too engaged in the double duty to have leisure
for laughing. But practice is the road to excellence and

ease; Faith learned presently the correspondence between
the rudder and her hand, and in the course of a quartet'
of an hour could keep the north track with tolerable
steadiness. The wind was fair for a straight run up the
Mong. The river stretching north in a diminishing blue
current (pretty broad however at Pattaquasset and for
some miles up) showed its low banks in the tenderest
grading of colour; very softly brown in the distance, and
near the eye Opening into the delicate hues of the young
leaf. The river rolled its bright blue, and the overarching
sky was like one of summer's. Yet the air was no~ so,~
spicy from young buds; and the light was Springy; not
Summer's ardour nor Summer's glare, b~zt that loveliest
promise of what is coming and oblivion of what is past.
So the little boat sailed up the Mong. Mr. Linden's sail
was steady, Faith's rudder was still.
"Faith," Mr. Linden said suddenly, "have you made up
your mind to my letter plan ?."
"About Reuben ?-O yes. I am willing."
"You know you are to send me every possible question
that comes up in the course of your studies, and every
French exercise, and every doubt or discomfort of any
kind-if any should come. I shall not- be easy unless IL
think that."
"But you won't have time ftr my French exercises 1"
"Try me. And~you are to take plenty of fresh air, and
not a bit of fatigue; and in general are to suppose your-
self a rare little plant belonging to me, which I have left
in your charge for the time being. Do you understand,
Mignonette ?"
Tier blush and smile, of touched pleasure, showed abund-
ance of understanding.
"But I want you to tell me, Endecott, all the things in
particular you would like to have me do or attend to while
you are away~besides my studies. I have been thinking
to ask you, and waiting foragood time."
"'All the things' ?-of what sort, dear child ?"
"Aren't there some of your poor people you would like
to have particularly attended to? I could get Reuben to
go with me, you know, where it was too far for me to go
alone,~or moth er.'


164                SAY AND.SEAL.
"Yes, there are some things you might do," said Mr.
Linden, "for me and for them, though more in the way of
sending than going; the places are too far off. But I
should like to know that Mrs. Ling's mother had a bunch
of garden flowers now and then, and that another went to
that little lame girl on the Monongatesak road; and once
in a great while (not often, or they will lose their charm)
you may send the Roscoms two fresh eggs 1--not more, ou
any account. Reuben will go for you, anywhere-and the
Roscoms are old proteges of~his."
"I didn't mean to forget the IRoscoms," said Faith.
"But must one manage with them so carefully ?"
"In matter of favors, yes. And even in matter of
visits, to a certain degree,-their life is so monotonous
that novelty has a great charm. Reuben used to go and
read to them almost every day on his way from school, but
I found it best to make my coming an event."
"Can I do anything for Reuben ?"
"Nothing new that I know of, at present-you are
doing something for him all the while,-and it will be a
wonderful delight to him to bring you letters. Then if
you are ever driving down that Monongatesak road, with
nothing to hinder, take the little lame child with yot~ for
a mile or two,-she so pines to be out of the house and
moving. Would it be disagreeable to you? there is
nothing but what is pleasant in her appearance."
"What if there were ?" she said with a wistful look at
him. "Do you mind disagreeablenesses? and do you want
to have me mind them ?"
"No, dear child, but you must get wanted by degrees,-
and some temperaments can never bear what others can.
What if we were to overhaul those fishermen ?"
"What do you want ?" said Faith, as she carefully set
the boat's head that way..-"A fish for dinner ?"
"No "-said Mr. Linden,-" I have too much respect
for that basket at my feet. But you know, Faith,. we are
having a SQrt of preliminary play-practice at seeking our
fortune; to-day,-we must carry it out. Just imagine, my
dear, that we are adrift in this boat, with nothing at all
for dinner, and supper a wild idea 1-not the eastern fisher-
man who for four fish received from tl~Sultau four hun.

SAY AND SEAL.

dred pieces of gold, would then appear so interesting as
these."
"If you wanted dinner from them-but r you say you
don't," said Faith laughing. "Endecott, I don't under-
stand in the least! And besides, you said you wouldn't
'~drift' but navigate 1"-
And her soft notes rolled over the water, too soft to reach
the yet somewhat distant fishermen.
"And so because I turn navigator you turn $iren 1" said
Mr. Linden. " But i have you ~safe in my boat-I need
not stop to listen."
"But what did you mean
"iBy what?"
"All that."
sa~1
"Short and comprehensive 1" Mr. Linden-"come
up on the other side, Faith, the current is less strong. All
about seeking our fortune, do you mean? Did you never
hear of any other extraordinary prince and princess who
did the same
"If I am not adrift in the boat, I am in my wits !" said
Faith,-" and with no sail nor rudder either. Why are
those fishermen interesting, Endecott ?"
"Why my child," he said, "in the supposititious case
which I put, they were interesting as having fish, while we
had no~e. But in the reality.-..---they were picturesque in the
distancd,-what they are near by we will see," he added
with a smile at her, as the sail came round and the little
boat shot up alongside of her rough-looking relation.
"Well friends, what cheer ?-besid~s a May morning and a
fair wind ?"
The fishermen slowly dragging their net, hoarsely specu-
lating on its probable weight of fish, paused both their
oars and tongues and looked at him. One of the men had
the oars; the other at the end of the boat was hauling in,
hand over hand.
"That's about all the cheer you want, I guess,-..-.aint it ?'~
said this man. lit was said freely enough, but with no inci-
vility.
"Not all I want," said Mr. Lii~den,-while the oarsman,
rolling his tobacco in his mouth, came out with~.-..
VOL. ii.                19

V
I

t


SAY AND S1~AL.               15T

156             SAY AND SI~AL

"Shouldn't wonder, now, if 'twan't much in your line o'
business !-guess likely you be one o' the mighty smart folks
that~don't do nothing. "
"I've no objection to being 'mighty smart'," said Mr.
Linden, belaying his rope with a light hand, "hut ~
shouldn't like to pay such a price for it. Smartness will
have to come do~n before I'm a purchaser."
The man looked at him with a queer little gleam crossing
his face-
"Shouldn't wonder if you hadn't took it when it was
down !" he said.
"It's a great thing to know the state of the market;"
said Mr. Linden. "I suppose you find that with your
fish."
"Gen'lly do, when we take 'em/'-said the man at the
net, who never took his eye off the overhauling boat and
its crew. ile was not a young man, but a jovial-looking
fellow. "What fish be you arter, stranger ?"
"Somewhat of a variety," Mr. Linden said with a smile.
"What makes the fish come into your net ?"
"Haven't an idee !" said the maii-" without it bees that
fish is very onintelligent creturs. I don't suppose fish
has much brains, sir. And so they goes further and fares
worse." Which statement of the case he appeared to think
amusing.
"But then why do they sometimes stay out ?" said Mr.
Linden,......." because I have read of nien who 'toiled all the
night and caught nothing.
"Wall, you see," said the fisher, ~' they goes in shoals or
flocks like, and they's notional. Some of 'em won't come
at one time o' tide, and some won't come at another-and
they has their favourite places too. Then if a man sets his
nets where the fish aint, all creation might work and catch
nothing . This side the river is better now than over
there."
"These men that I was talking of~" said Mr. Linden,
once found a difference even between the two sides of
their ship. But the other time, when they had caught
nothing all the night, in the morning they caught so
many that their net broke and both their ~hip~ began to

"What kind o' folks was them ?" said the oarsman a little
scornfully.
"Why they were fishermen," said Mr. Linden. "They
followed your calling first, and then they followed mine."
"What's yourn ?" said the other, in his tone of good-
liumoured interest. "Guess you're a speaker o' some sort-.
aint ye I"
"Yes-" Mr. Linden said, with a little demure gesture
of the head,-." I am-' of some sort,' as you say. But I've
got an account of these men in my pocket-don't you want;
to hear' it ?.-.it's more interesting than any account you
could have of me."
"Like to hear it well enough-" said die man at the net,~
setting himself astride the gunwale to listen, with the net
hanging from his hand.
"I wouldn't mind knowing how they worked it-" said
the other man, while Mr. Linden threw a rope round one
of the thole-pin.s of the fishing boat and gave the other end
to Faith, and then took out his book. And Faith was
'amused at the men's submissive attention, and the next
minute did not wonder at all !-as ~he noted the charm that
held them-the grace of mingled ease, kindliness, and power,
in Mr. Linden's manner and presence. Nothing could
have greater simplicity, and it was not new to Faith, yet
she looked at him as if she had never seen him before.
"A great many years ago," he said, "when the Son of
God, our Lord Jesus Christ, was in this world, he went
about healing sick people, and teaching every one the way
to heaven; and the people came in great numbers to hear
him.
"'And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon
him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake ~f
Gennesareth, and saw two ships standing by the lake; but
the fishermen were gone out of them, and* were washing
"We wash our'n by pulling' em through the water," said
the net man.
"The Lord entered one of the ships, which belonged to
~ man named Simon, and asked him to push out a little
from the shore. 'And he sat down, and taught the people
out of the ship. Now, ghen he had left speaking, he said
VOL. IL                14

157

156


unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and jet down your
nets for a draught. And Simon answering, said unto him,
Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken
nothing; nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the
net."'
"In course! whether 'twas any use or not,"-the man
with the net said approvingly. "So he had oughter."
"Yes, and he knew it would be of use in some way, for
God never gives a command without a reason. And when
they had let down the net, 'they enclosed a great multitude
of fishes: and their net brake. And they beckoned unto
their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should
come and help them. And they came, and filled both the
ships, so that they began to sink."'
"That was a bigger. haul than ever I see, yet," remarked
the man.
"Neither had Simon ever seen anything like it-he
knew that it was brought about by the direct power of God,
"'When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus'
knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, 0
Lord. For he was astonished, and all they that were
with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had
taken."'
"Can't see what he said that fur," said the oarsman.
"No more don't I 1" said the other. "He had got a good
haul o' fish, anyway-if he was ever so 1-and we aint none
of us white lilies."
"But then Peter knew that he ought to be a white lily-
and such a new view of God's power and greatness made him
feel it more than ever. So that he was both afraid and
ashamed,-.he thought himself unworthy to have the Lord
in his ship, and was afraid to have him stay there."
"I wouldn't have asked him to go out, if he had been in
inine,.-I don't think ! ?'.-.said the elder fisher slowly. "I
don't see as that chap need to ha' been afeard.-.he hadn't
done nothing' but good to him."
"But it's what we do ourselves that makes us afraid,"
said Mr. Linden. "So. it was with Adam and Eve in the
garden, you know-God ~had talked to them a great many
times, and they were never afraid till they disobeyed him~
then the moment he spoke they ran and hid themselves."

The oarsman was silent, the other man gave a sort of
grunt that betokened interest.
"What shines had this feller been cutting' up 7"
"Why !" said Mr. Linden, starting up and taking his
stand by the mast, as the little boat curtseyed softly over
the waves, "if you tell one of your boys always to walk dl
one particular road, and you find him always walking in
another-I don't Utink it matters much what he's doing
~ there, to him or to you."
"Wall ?"-said the man, with a face of curiosity for
what was to come next, mingled with a cei~tain degree of
intelligence that would not confess itself.
I "Well-Peter knew he was not in th~ i4ay wherein the
Lord commands us all to walk."
"I guess every feller's got to pick out his own road for
himself !" said the fisher, pulling up a foot or two of his net
carelessly.
"That'swhat Peter had thought,-and so he had lived,
he chose. But when he saw more of the glory of
God, then he was afraid and confessed his sin. And what
d suppose the Lord said to him then ?7'
"What did Peter own up to ?"
"The accQunt gives only the general confession~.-that he
was a sinful man, not worthy to have the Lord look upon
him except in anger. You see he falls down at his feet and
prays him to depart-he could not believe that the Lord
would stay there to speak good to him."
"Well-what did he say to him ?"
"'He said unto him, Fear not'. And no one need fear,
who humbly confesses his sins at the feet of Jesus, 'for if
we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our
sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.' Then the
Lord bade Simon and all his companions to follow him-.
and they obeyed. And now I want to tell you what this
following means."
lie put one arm round the mast, half leaning against it,
and gave them what Faith would have called a 'ladder'
passing from the 'Follow me,' spoken to Peter,- to
the young man who being bid to follow, 'went away sora
L~O~hil',.......to the descriijtion of the way given in the tenth
j9*

158             SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.            159

158

159


(

160

SAY AND SEAL.

chapter of John, - to the place whither the flock follow
Christ-
"'And I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on the mount
Zion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand,
having his Father's name written in their foreheads'.
'These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he
goeth.'"
rrhe men listened, open-mouthed and with intent eyes ;~
partly to the speaker, it was evident, and partly to what
the speaker said. And that his words took hold, it was
also evident. When he ceased, the man at the net dropped
his cycs for a moment, a curious look of meditation cover.
ing his face.
"It's easy to talk of follerin'," he said with a half laugh
which was not of carelessness,-" and one might like to,-.
but it's plagney hard to know where to start !-"
"It's easy for God to teach you-and easy to ask him to
do it. If it was anything else you wanted to do, you
would not stop trying till you found out," said Mr. Linden
-" and that is just the way here. Now I am going to give
you a copy of all this," he said, throwing his own little Bihie
softly into Faith's lap and stepping forward to the prow
of the boat (which she thought held only lunch baskets)-.
"and I shall turn down a leaf at the story of the net full
of good fishes-and another at a place that tells of a net
full 'of every kind, both bad and good.' And I want you
to read them, and think about them, and find out how to
follow Christ- and then come on !" He took his seat
once more in the stern of the boat, and held out the
Bible to the fisherman. The other man, slowly dip.
ping his oars in and out, met his look too, but made no
answer.
The man at the net took the book and turned over the
leaves with a wondering, considering air.
"What do you reckon this here's worth ?" he said some-
what awkwardly, without raising his eyes from it.
"Worth daily reading and study-worth all you have in
the world, if you will use it right," said Mr~ Linden. "You
need not think ~tbout any other value-.-L had it in trust to
give away."

SAY AND SEAL.

161

"I'm much obleeged to you,-.-- I'll taire a look at it now
~ and then. Do you live along here, anywlieres ?"
"In Pattaquasset, just now," Mr. Linden said, as he
prepared to make sail again. "I don't very often come to
this part of the river."
"Well hold on !" said the man, beginning to pull in his
net with great vivacity,-" I'm bound to give you a fish-
if I've got one here. Bear a hand, Dick! Haint you got
a place on hoard there that you can stow it, without skeerin'
the lady ?"-...
"I'll try to find one !" said Mr. Linden, answering the
proposal just as it was meant. "If the lady is scared she
shall turn her face the other way."
"She'll turn it which way you say ?-" ventured the
fisher insinuatingly.
Faith did not seem afraid of the fish, by the way she
leaned over the stern of the boat and eyed the up-coming
nets which the men were drawing in. She had listened to.
the foregoing talk, to the full as intently as those for whom
it was meant, and with a multitude of interests at work in
her mind and heart of which they had never dreamed.
And now her eye was bent on the net; but her thoughts
were on that other kind of fishing of which she had just
seen an example-the first she had ever seen of Mr. Lin-
den's !-.and her full heart was longingly thinking, among
other thoughts, of the few there were to draw those nets, and
the multitude to be drawn! What Faith saw in the ni~shes
the man's hands were slowly pulling up !-.
But the fisherman only saw-what pleased him greatly,
some very fine fish; shad they were for the greater part ~
from which he selected a noble specimen and cast it over
into Mr. Linden's boat. Then standing up in his own he
wiped his hands on the sleeves of his coat.
"Hope you'll come along again some day," said he.
"And" (waggishly) "don't come without the lady 1"-.
The rope was drawn in and the little skiff shot ahead
smoothly and silently from the great brown fishing boat and
her equally brown owners. Gliding on -watched for a
little by the fishers, then their attention was claimed by the
flapping shad in the net, and the sail boat set her canvas
towards Kildeer river. Mr. Linden went forward and
14*                        K)


1i32               SAY AND SEAL.                                          SAY AND SEAL.                 .1 f33

bestowed his prisoner a little more out of sight and sound
in some place of safety, and then sitting down in the l)1'ow
dipped his hands in the blue water and took a survey of
Faith, as she sat in the s'~ern-the tiller in her hand, the
shadow of the sail falling partly across; the spring zephyr~
playing all about her.
"Little bird," he said, "why don't you sing ?"
A smile of much and deep meaning went back from the
stern to the prow; but she presently made the somewhat
obvious remark that "birds do not al~vays sing."
"A melancholy fact in natural history ! the truth of which
I am just now experiencing. What shall be done with
them at these times-are they to be coaxed-or chidden-..
or fed with sponge cake? Have you got any in your
basket ?"
"Are you hungry ?" said Faith.
"Only for words-or songs-or some other commodity
of like origin," Mr. Linden said, coming back to his old
place. "What shall I have ? if I cannot get the two
first ?"
"You might haveY~ittle patience ?-"
"'Patience', my dear, 'is a good root'-but nothing akin
to sugar canes.~~
"There's no need of it, either" said Faith laughing,--.
"for you can sing if I can't."
"No, there is rio need of it, and therefore-Now, little
bird, will you please hot to fly past the outlet of Kildeer
river ?"
Laughing, coloring, Faith nevertheless bent a very
earnest attention upon this diffictat piece of navigation.
For the opening of Kildeer river was as yet but slightly to
be discerned ;-a little break in the smooth shore hine,-a
very little atmospheric change in the soft leafy hues of the
nearer and further point. iFaith watched, a.s only a young
steersman does, for the time and place where her rudder
should begin to take cognizance of the approaching change
of course., A little wider the break in the shore line grew,
-more plain the mark of a break in the trees,-.--.and almost
suddenly the little stream unfolded its pretty reach of water
and woodland, stretching in alluringly wit.h picturesque
turns of its mimic channel. Faith needed a little help now,'

for the river was not everywhere navigable; but after a
few minutes of pretty sailing among care-requiring rocks
and sand-banks, where the loss of wind made their pro-
gress slow, the little skiff was safely brought to land at a
nice piece of gravelly shore. It was wonderful pretty!
The trees with their various young verdure came down to
the water's edge, with many a dainty tint; here one covered
with soft catkins of flower,-there one ruddy with not yet
opened buds. The winding banks of the stream on one
hand; and on the other the little piece of it they had
passed' over, with the breadth of the Mong beyond.
Through all, May's air and Spring's perfume, and the still.
ness of noonday.
"Inverled in the tide
Stand the grey rocks, and trembling shadows throw,
And the fair trees look over, side by side,
And see themselves below." ~
So Mr. Linden told Faith, as he was putting hissail in
trim repose, and then-telling her that the guiding power
was still in her hands, requested to know what they should
do next.           )
"Why," said Faith merrily, "I thought you had business
to attend to ?"
"I had -" said Mr. Linden,-" but I reflected that you
would probably give me full occupation, and so got rid of
the business first."
"Then you have nothing to do here ?"
"A great deal, 12 suppose; but I know not what."
Faith fairly sat down to laugh at him.
"What do you think of having lunch, and then going
after flowers ?"
"I consider that to be a prudent, bird-like suggestion.
Do you expect me to cook this fish for you? or will you be
content to take it home to your mother, and let us feast
upon-.--.
"'herbs, and such like country messes,
Which neat-handed Phyllis dresses' ?"
"Have you all the books in the world in yoi~r head ?"-
8aid Faith, laughing her own little laugh roundly. "How

A
I
1*
~Ii

83


164             SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SI~AL.

16

plain it is Mr. Linden has nothing to do to-day ! -Would
you like to help me gather some sticks for a fire, sir? j
think you had better have something on your hands."
"Do you ?" he said lifting her out~of the boat in his
curiously quick, strong, light way,.-." that was something
on my hands-not much. What next ?-do you say we are
to play Ferdinand and Miranda ?"
Faith's eye for an instant looked its old look, of grave,
intelligent, doubtful questioning; but then she came back
to Kildeer river.
"I haven't played that play yet," she said gaily; "but
if you'll help me find some dry sticks-.-.-your reward shall
be that you shall not have what you don't like! I can make
a fire nicely here, Endecott; on this rock."
"Then it was ~ot about them you were reading in that
focus of sunbeams ?"
"What ?-" she said, Ipoking.
"Once upon a time-.-" Mr. Linden said smiling,-" when
you and Shakspeare got lost in the sunlight, and wandered
about without in the least knowing where you were. '~
"When, Endecott ?"
"Leave that point," he said,-!' I want to tell you about
the story. Ferdinand, whom I represent, was a prince cast
away upon a desert shore-which shore was inhabited by
the princess Miranda, whom you represent. Naturally
enough, in the course of time, they came to think of each
other much as we do - perhaps 'a little more so' on the
part of Miranda. But then Miranda's father set Ferdinand
to carrying wood,-as you-.-acting conscientiously for Mrs.
Derrick-do me."
"I wonder if I ever shall understand you !" exclaimed
Faith desperately, as her laugh again broke upon the sweet
air that floated in from the Mong. "What has my cone
science, or Mrs. Derrick, to do with our lunch fire? Why
was the other prince set to carrying wood ?"
"For the same reason that I am !" said Mr. Linden raise
ing his eyebrows. "To prove his affection for Miranda."
How Faith laughed.
"You are mistaken-O how mistaken you are !" she
exclaimed. "It shews that though you know books, you
don't know everything."

And running away with her own armful of sticks and
leaves, back to th~ rock spoken of near where the vessel
lay, Faith was stopped and relieved of her load, with such
an earnest-
"'No, precious creature,
I'd rather crack my ~inews, break my back,
Than you should suc~i dishonour undergo'-"
that she could do nothing but laugh, till the sticks were
fairly on the rock. Then Paith went to laying them dain-
tily together.
"I hope you've no objection to my making the fire," she
said; "because I like it. Only, Endecott! the matches are
in the basket. Could you get them for me? Indeed I shall
want the basket too out of the boat."
Whereupon Mr. Linden-
"'The very instant that I saw you, did
My heart fly to your service; there reside,
To make me slave to it; and for your sake,
Am I this patient log man' I-"
But anything less like those two last words than the~way
in which he sprang into the boat, and brought the basket,
and got out what she called for, could hardly be.
"How many matches do you want ?" he said, looking
demurely at her as he gave her one.
"All of them,-basket and all, Endecott. .You are so
patient that you do not hear."
"And you so impatient that you do not see -'basket
and all' are' at your side, fair princess..-Stand back,-it
may be very well for the winds to 'blow, and crack their
cheeks,' but I think it should be confined to them." And
she was laughingly held back, where she could only use her
eyes about the fire.
"That's my province," said Faith. "I think any effort
to make a princess of me, will-fail. Did Miranda pick
up any wood herself?"
"You can't help being a princess if I am a prince," said
Mr. Linden.
"I don't see how it follows," said Faith. "Only let me

Ii
~ I


166              SAY AND SEAL.

get at that fire, and the fancy will pass away. End ecott!
-it is absolutely necessary that some wood should be put
on; and I don't believe princes know how."
"Princes," said Mr. Linden, holding her a little off with
one hand, while with the other he replenished the fire, "are
especially famed for their power of doing impossible things
in desert places. And the princess will follow-whether
you can see it or not. Is that blaze aspiring enough for
you ?"
"Yes, but it needs to be kept up-I want a good bed of
coals."
A fine fire was on its way at last, and while waiting for
it to burn down to the desired bed of coals, the temporary
prince and princess sat down on the rock to feast their eyes
in the mean time. A little past midday, it was not the pic-
turesque hour for another season; but now, in the freshness
of Spring, the delicate beauties of colour and light could
bear the full meridian sun and not ask for shadows to set
them off; other than the tender shade under the half-leaved
trees. It was a warm enough day too, and those same
leaves were making a great spring towards their full unfold-
ing. Birds were twittering all around, and they only filled
up the silence.
"Isn't it worth coming for ! -.-." said Faith, when they
had taken it all in for a few minutes without interrupting
the birds.
"More than that-and the 'it' is very plural. Faith, do
you see that butterfly ?" -A primrose-winged rower was
meandering about in the soft air before them, flitting over
the buttercups with a listless sort of admiration.
"Poor thing, he has come out too soon," said Faith.
"He will have some frost yet, for 'so summery as it is to-
day." But Faith gave a graver look at the butterfly than
his yellow wings altogether warranted.
"Among the ancients," said Mr. Linden, "the word for
a butterfly and the word for the soul were the same,-they
thought the first was a good emblem of the lightness and
airiness of the last. So they held, that when a~man died
a butterfly might be seen flitting above his head. I was
thinking how well this one little thing ahewa the exceeding
lowness of heathen ideas."

SAY AND SEAL.             167

"Did they think the butterfly was his vei'y spirit, in that
form ?"
"I suppose so-or thought they dicL lint look at that
creature's wavering, unsteady flight; his aimless wander-
ings, anywhere or nowhere; and compare it with the
'mounting up with wings as eagles', which a Christian soul
may know, even in this life,-compare it with the swift
'return to God who gave it'-with the being 'caught up to
meet the Lord' which it shall surely know at death."
"And the butterfly isn't further from that," said Faith
clasping her hands together,-" than many a real,'Iiving
soul in many a living person !"-
"No, not further; and so what the old Greeks made an
emblem of the immortal soul, gives name, with us, to those
persons who are most tied down to mortality. What were
you thinking of; a minute ago, when I showed you the
butterfly?"
"I was thinking of son~ebody that I am afraid a butter~
11
fly will always remind me of;"-Faith answered with a slight
colour ;-" and of the time he got the name."
"He got it by favour of his office7 you know-not other-
wise."
''I know-"
But with that, Faith jumped up to see to the state of the  p
fire; and then after some conjuration in her basket pro-
duced a suspicious-looking tin vessel, for which the proper
bed of coals was found. Leaving it and the fire to agree ~
together, Faith came back to the rock and Mr. Linden and
stood a little while silently looking and breathing the
sweetness.
"I always did love everything in the world, that my eyes
could see," she said gravely. "But I love them so much~
more now !-now that th~ hand that made them is not such
a strange far-off hand to me. It makes a kind of new
world to me, Endecott." how-even
"Yes - and you can understand             without
physical changes-when we 'shall know as we are known,'
the 'heavens and earth wherein dwelleth righteousness'
may be p~eI~minently 'new '2'
Faith st~oc1 withc~ut re~1y~ a few mines longer, then rail

167


AU
SAY AND SEAL.                169

SAY AND SEAL.

back to her fire; and after a short space called to Mr
Linden to ask if he would like to come and sec what the
prince had been picking up wood for?
To which the prince responded with very un~roya1 ~lac.
rity, bringing a well-put..together knot of buttercups to
adorn one side of Miranda's head; which he declared
looked better than gold beads, if they didn't cost as
much.
A napkin was spread on the rock, conveniently near to
the fire; on which plates and bread and a bottle of crean~
and a dainty looking pasty were ~irregularly bestowed.
Mr. Linden threw himself down on the moss; and Faith
had got a cup and saucer out of her basket and was just
sugaring and creaming the prince's reward before applying
to her dish on the fire for the crowning coffee; when her
eye was caught' by a spectator lately come upon the scene,
No other than a somewhat ragged little boy, who eyeing
them from the bank had been irresistibly lured nearer and
nearer, by the grace of the preparations and the steam of
the hot coffee perhaps, till he now stood by the trunk of
the nearest tree.
"What are you doin'?" he said.
"What are you ?" said Mr. Linden, turning to look at
the boy-not just as he looked at the coffee, but very much
as the coffee looked at him. "Did you never see people
eat dinner ?"
The boy stood his ground with, "What you got ?"
"When was the last time ?" said Mr. Linden. ("Princess
...this may turn out to be a subject I")
"Last time what?" said the 'subject' stoutly.
"The last time you saw people eating dinner," said Mr.
Linden. "Did you ever go to the Museum ?"
"I've went to Pettibaug !"-
"When is the last time you saw people eating dinner ~
said Faith.
"We haint got none to our house."
"What's the matter?"
"Mintie said there warn't nothing' to eat and I might go
a blaekberryin'."
"You've come to the rigjKt place," said Mr. Linden,-
"I don't believe they're ripe anywhere else. Who is

'Mintie'? and who stays with her while you're after
blackberries ?"
"Mintie's sissy. There aint nobody staying' with her.-.
she's staying' along 0' mother-when she's up."
"Where is she ?-I mean where does she live-and you,
and Mintie. Where is your house ?"
"Round there-'Taint fur. What you got ?"
Faith set down her cup and looked at Mr. Linden.
"What is the matter with your mother ?"
"She's sick."
"Well if I give you a basket, and this lady puts some
dinner in it for your mother and Mintie and you, do you.
think you can carry it home ?"
"Is your sister sick too ?" said Faith.
"She's got the fever nao~ur"
"Endecott," said Faith softly,-" shall we go and see
them ?"
"Yes, of course. What's your name, child ?"
"My name's Bob Tuck."
Mr. Linden looked at him.
"How comes it that you and Dromy are no more alike ~
he said.
"Mother says Dromy aint like nothing . I be."
"Well Bob Tuck," said Mr. Linden smiling, "have you.
got a broom at home ?"
" There's two old ones."
"Then if you will go home and sweep the floor as well
ag you can, with the two old brooms, and set the table, I'll
bring this lady to see you and we'll carry th~ basket-
(which means, Princess, that I will !)-and you can let
the blackberries hang on till they get ripe. Do you under-
stand ?"
"If I'll sweep the floor, you'll fetch the basket ?" said
Bob.
"Yes. And you can wash your hands nicely and be
ready to help me take the things out of it."
Bob started. "How soon '11 you come?"
"As soon as I finish my dinner."
"How good it is I brought the whole pie !" said Faith,
as she poured the cfelayed coffee upon the cream and sugar.
"And there's your shad, .Endecott! unless you prefer to

vor.. r.

15

D

168


SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

take that home, and we'll send something else..-.-.Yow you
see what you picked up sticks for ?"
"I see-" Mr. Linden said, looking at her. "And you
see, Princess, what royafty is apt to meet if ~t will go
wandering round the world."
"What?"
"Bob Tuck!-"
"Well-it's a good thing for Bob Tack to meet with
royalty,"-said Faith, looking at the pie Mr. Linden was
cutting.
"Princess," said Mr. Linden, "have you any 'Queen
Anne' in your basket ?"
Faith looked, her merry, puzzled, grave look of inquiry,
.-.and then there was nothing for it but a ringing laugh
again.
"I would rather have that at a venture, if I were the
sick one," said Mr. Linden. "But the specific most prized
by that class of the population who have 'fever nagur', is
called in their vernacular 'Queen Anne ~~~.anglic6, quinine.
Faith, you have no idea how those buttercups are beau.
tified !"
"Flowers always are, that you handle," said Faith.
"You see how appropriate they are to my Sunbeam
-for
'The buttercup catches the sun in his chalice '."
"What is a chalice ?"
"A sort of cup-a church service cup, generally. Did
you admire so much the head of clover I gave you once
down at the shore ?"
Faith gave him a curious glance of recollection; but
though there was a half smile on her face too, she remained
silent.
"Well, little bird ?" he said smiling. "Of what is that
look compounded ?"
"Various things, I suppose. Let me have your cup,
Endecott ?"
"Do you know," he said, "that for a scholar, you are-
remarkably-unready to answer questions ?"
"I didn't know it."
"Are not aware of any class of collective remarks or

I

inquiries which now and then break forth, and which' you
invariably smother with a thick blanket of silence 7"
There was another quick glance and smile, and then
Faith said as she handed him his cup,-
"What do you want to know, Endecott ?"
"I want to know where there was ever just such. another
princess. And by the way, speaking of the shore-I have
something that belongs to her."
"To me?"
"Oni, mademoiselle."
"May I know what?"
"You may, yet not just now. You may guess what
it is."
But Faith gave up guessing in despair at one of Mr.
Linden's puzzles.
The basket was repacked when the lunch was done; and
they set out on their walk. The way, following Bob's
direction, led along the bank under the trees, turning a lit-
tle before the Mong was reached. The house was soon
found; standing alone, in an enclosed garden ground
where no spade had been struck that season; and at the
end of a farm road that showed no marks of travel.
Bob had not only swept the room, but his tidings had
roused apparently his sister to prepare herself also; for
Mintie met them as they came in. She was a handsome
girl, with a feverish colour in her cheeks that made her
appearance only more striking. There was pride and
poverty here, clearly. Faith's simple words neither as-
sumed the one nor attacked the other. The girl looked
curiously at her and at 'the other visitor.
"Who be you?"
"We do not live in this neighbourhood," said Faith.
"We came up to Kildeor river to-day, and met your little
brother down by the shore."
"What did he say to you 7"
"Ho told us you were sick and in want of help."
Another look laid the girl's jealousy asleep. She told
her story-her father had died six months ago; she and
her mother and brother lived there alone. It was an "un-
likely place to get to," and no neighbours very near. Her
mother had been sick abed for a number of weeks; and

l'T0

I
4

Id

I;


1'~2               SAY AND SEAL.
she had had all t~ do, and now for a week past had been
unable to do anything, go to Pettibaug or anywhere else,
to get what they wanted. And so they "had got out of
'most everything." Promy Tuck, Mr. Linden's scholar,
lived at Farmer Davids' in the capacity of farm..boy~'; Mrs.
Davids being a far-off connexion.
So much was all pride permitted to be told. Without
much questioning, her visitors contrived to find out what
they could do for her. Faith put the coffee-pot on the
fire, declaring that it would do Mintie good like medicine;
and served it to her when it was hot, with some bread and
chicken, as if it had been indeed medicine and Faith a
doctor. Then while Bob and she were dining, Faitl~ went
in to see the sick woman. She was much more commiini.
captive, and half avowed that sh~ believed what she wanted
now was "nourishing things "-"but with me lyin' here on
my back," she said, "'taint so easy to find 'em." Faith
gave her a cup of coffee too and some bread; she had
hardly drunk any herself at lunch; and leaving her patient
much inspirited, came back to Mr. Linden in the other
room. Apparently his words and deeds had been accept.
ble too,-Bob's face was shining, not only with dinner but
with the previous cold water applications which Mr. Linden
had insisted on, and Mintie's mind was evidently at work
upon various things. The basket was soon emptied of all
but its dishes, and the prince and princess went on their
way down the hill.
"Faith," said Mr. Linden, "shall we go and sit in the
boat for half an hour, considering various things, and theii
have our wild flower hunt? Or would you prefer that
first ?"
"0 no! I would rather have the half hour in the
boat."
It was good time yet in the afternoon, and though the
little boat now lay partly shadowed by the hill, it was none
the worse resting place for that. Again Faith was seated
there in all the style that shawls and cushions furnished,
and just tired enough to feel luxurious in the soft atmo~
sphere. Mr. Linden arranged and established her to his
liking; then he took out of his pocket a letter.
It was one which had been opened and read; but as ho

I7

SAY AND SEAL.

unfolded it, there appeared another-unopened, unread; its
dainty seal unbroken, and on the back in fair tracery, the
words, "Miss Faith Derrkk." As Faith read theni and
saw the hand, her eye glanced first up at Mr. Linden with
its mute burden of surprise, and then the roses bloomed
oat over her cheeks and even threw their flush upon her
brow. Her eye was cast down now and fixed on the
unopened letter, with the softest fall of its eyelid.
"Shall I read you a part of mine first?"
"If you please. I wish you would."
"Only a little bit,'~ he said smiling-thinking perhaps
that she did not know to what she gave her assent so
readily,-"you shall read the whole of it another time."
The "little bit" began rather abruptly.
"'I have written to your darling, Endy Not much, tell
her; because what I have in my heart for her cannot be
told. I know how precious any one must be whom you
love so much. But make her love me a little before she
reads my letter-and don't let her call me anything but
Pet-and then I shall feel as if I had a sister already.
And so I have, as you say. What a glad word !-I could
cry again with the very writing of it.
'Endy-I did cry a little over your letter, but only for
joy: if it had been for sorrow I should have cried long
ago; for I knew well enough what was coming. Only I
want more than ever to be at home,-and to see you, and
to see Faith.-don't let her think I am like you!
'My letter wouldn't hold much, as I told iou. But I
give you any number of (unspeakable!) messages for her,
John Endy. I suppose you will take charge of them? I
may feel sure they have all reached their destination ?"'
Long before the reading was finished, Faith's head had
sunk-almost to the cushions beside her. The reader's
voice and intonation had given every word a sort of ring
in her heart, though the tone ~vas low. One hand came
round her when she put her head down, taking possession
of her hand which lay so still, with the unopened letter in
its clasp. But now she was gently raised up.
"Precious child," Mr. Linden said, ~' what are you droop-
ing your head for ?"
"For the same reason she had, I suppose,-" said Faith
5*

I~i
B
.1


17 4

SAY AND SEAL.

half laughing, though witnesses of another kind were in her
eyes.
"Who are you talking about ?"
"Your sister."
"Why don't you begin to practise your lesson 'p"
Perhaps Faith thought that she was. She looked at
nothing hut her letter.
"Will you wait for your messages till we get home ?-..
this place not being absolute seclusion."
"Shall I read this now ?" said Faith rather hastily.
"I should think there would be no danger in that."
With somewhat unsteady fingers, that yet tried to be
quiet, Faith broke the seal; and masking her glowing face
with one hand, she bent over the letter to read it.
"My very dear, and most unknown, and most well.
known little sister! I have had a picture sent me of you
-as you appeared one night, when you sat for your por.
trait, hearing Portia; and with it a notice of several events
which occurred just before that time. And both picture
and events have gone down into my heart, and abide there.
Endecott says you are a Sunbeam-and I feel as if a little
of the light had come over the water to me,-ever since
his letter came I have been in a state of absolute reflex.
tion!
"I thought my love would not be tl~ first to 'find out
the way '-even then when I wrote iti Faith-do you.
know that there is nobody in the world just like him? be.
cause if you do not-you will find it out !-I mean! like
Endecott.~-not like Love. My dear, I beg pardon for my
pronoun! But just how I have loved you all these months,
for making him so happy, I cannot tell you.
"And I cannot write to-day---about anything, -my
thoughts are in too uneven a flow to find their way to the
end of my pen, and take all possible flights instead. Pea?.
Faith, you must wait for a letter till the next steamer.
And you cannot miss it-nor anything else, with Endecott
there, ~-it seems to me that to be even in the same country
with h~m is happiness.
"You must love me too, Faith, and not think me a
stranger,-and let me be your (because I am Endy's)
"PET."

r

I

SAY AND SEAL.

175

Faith took a great deal more time than was necessary
for the reading of this letter. Very much indeed she
would have liked to do as her correspondent confessed she
had done, and cry-but there was no sign of such an in~
declination. She only sat perfectly moveless, bending over
her letter. At last suddenly looked up and gave it to
Mr. Linden.
"Well ?" he said with a smile at her as he took i~j.
"You'll see-" she said, a little breathlessly. A~ still
holding her hand fast, Mi'. Linden read the letter, quicker
than she had done, and without comment-unless when his
look showed that it touched him.
"You will love her, Faith !" he said as he folded the
letter up agai~~,-"in spite of all your inclinations to the
contrary 1"
"Do you think that is in the future tense? But I am
afraid~" added Faith,-" she thinks too much of me now."
"She does not think as much of you as I do," Mr. Lin-
den. said, with a look and smile that covered all the ground
of present or future fear. "And after all it is a danger
which you will share with me. It is one of Pet's loveable
failings to think too much of some people whom she loves
~ just enough
~: humility is not a fearful thing. Whatever had been in
Faith's speech, her look, bright, wistful, and happy, had no
fear, truly humble though it was. "There is no danger of
~ my loving this letter too much "- she said as she carefully
restored it to its envelope; said with a secret utterance of
great gratification.
The promised half hour was much more than up, and
broadening shadow on Kildeer river said that the time
which could be given to wild flowers was fast running
away. Perhaps, too, Mr. Linden thought Faith had mused
and been excited enough, for he made a move. Everything
in the boat was put up in close order, and then the two
* went ashore again, flower basket in hand.
The long shadows heightened the beauty of the woods
now, falling soft and brown upon the yet browner carpet
of dry leaves, and the young leaves and buds overhead
shexved every tint, from yellow to green. Under the trees
* Were various low shrubs in flower,-shad-blossom, with its

I

'V
:~it
H
'p 1
Ij
H

I


1 6            SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.

fleecy sterns, and azalia in rosy pink; and the real wild
flowers-the dainty things as wild in growth as in flame,
were sprinkled everywhere. Wind flowers and columbine;
orchis sweet as any hyacinth; tall Solomon's seal; spotless
bloodroot; and violets -white, yellow, and purple. The
dogwood stretched its white arms athwart hemlock and
service; the creeping partridge berry carried its perfumed
white stars over rocks and moss in the deep shade below,
Yellow bellwort hung its fair flowers on every ridge;
where the ground grew wet were dog's-tooth violet and
chick wintergreen. There the red maples stood, with
bunches of crimson keys,-at the edge of the higher
ground their humbler growing sister the striped bark,
waved her green tresses. There seemed to be no end to
the flowers-nor to the variety-nor to the pleasure of
picking.
"Faith-" said Mr. Linden.
Faith looked up from a bunch of Sanguinaria beside
which she was crouching.
"I find so much Mignonette !-do you ?"
Faith's eye flashed, and taking one of those little white
stars she threw it towards Mr~ Linden. It went in ti
graceful parabolic curve and fell harmlessly, like her cour-
age, at his feet.
"What has become of the princess ?"
"You ought rather to ask after the prince !" said Mr.
Linden, picking up the Sanguinaria with great devotion.
"Is this the Star of the Order of Merit ?"
"I am not Queen Flora. I don't know."
"As what then was it bestowed ?"
"It might be Mignonette's shield, which she used as a
weapon because she hadn't any other! Eudy, look at those
green Maple flowers! You can reach them."
He gathered some of the hanging clusters, and then
came and sat down where she was at work and began to
put them into her basket, arranging and dressing the other
flowers the while dextrously.
"Do you know, my little Sunbeam," he said, "that your
namesakes are retreating?"
"I know it, Endy," she said hastening her last gather-
ings-" and I am ready."

They began their homeward way to the boat, wandering
a little still, for flowers, and stopping to pick them, so that
the sun was quite low before Kildeer river was reached.
There Mr. Linden stood a moment looking about.
"Do you see the place where we sat, Faith ?" he said,
~" over on the other bank?"
She looked, and looked at him and smiled-very differ~
ent from her look then! A glance comprehensive and
satisfactory enough without words, so without any more
words they went on their way along the shore of the river.
As they neared their boat, the rays of the setting sun
were darted into ICildeer river and gilded the embayed
little vessel and all the surrounding shores. Rocks and
trees and bits of land glowed or glistened in splendour
wherever a point or a spray could catch the sun; th~
water in both rivers shone with a long strip of gold.
They had had nothing so brilliant all day.
In the full glow and brightness Faith sat down in the
boat with her flowers near her, and Mr. Linden loosened
the sail. How pretty the bank looked as they were leav~
ing it! the ashes of their fire on the rock, and the places
where they had sat or wandered, and talked-such happy
words!
"I shall always love Kildeer river," said Faith with;
little long breath, "because I read my letter here."
"And so shall I," said Mr. Linden,-" but my love for it
dates back to the first piece of reading I ever did in its
company." He looked back for a minute or two-at the.
one shore and the other-the sunlight, the trees, the
flowery hillside, an~l it was well then that his face was
not seen by Faith-there fell on it such a shadow of pain.
But he presently turned to her again with just the former
look.
"Now," he said, "do you think you can steer home in
the twilight ?"
"I don't know. Can 1? 1 can follow directions."
"And I can give them."
And with that arrai~ernent they ran out from the clean
woody shores of. Kildeer river, and set their sail for Patta-
quasset. How fair, at that point of weather and day! a
little quieter than the morning spring-tide of everything,

4K


iTS             SAY AND SEAL                                  SAY AND SEAL.            1'79

but what was less gay was more peaceful; and against ~
soft south wind the little boat began to beat her way dowij,
favoured however by the tide. These tacks made Mr.
Linden's counsels more especially needed, but the short
swift runs back and forth across the river were even more
inspiriting than a steady run before the wind, and the con.
stant attention which helm and sail reqi~iired made talk and
action lively enough.
"This is good, Endecott!" said Faith as the little boat
came about for the fifth or sixth time.
"Faith," he said, smiling at her, "you look just as fresh
as a rose !-the day does not seem to have tired you one
"Tired !" she said,.-"yes, I am a little bit tired-or
hungry-but was there ever such a day as we have had ?~
since the first of January !"
"My dear little Mignonette I" Mr. Linden said-but if
it was a 'message' Faith had then, it came from some-
where nearer than across the water. "If you are tired,
dear child, give up the rudder to me, and lay down your
head and rest. Do you see after what a sleep-inviting
fashion the lights are twinkling all down the shore ?"
"I'm not sleepy a bit;" said Faith,-" nor tired, except
just enough; and I like this small portion of power you
have put in my hands. How beautiful those lights look I
.-and the lights overhead, ~Eudy. How beautiful every-
thing is I-."
"Yes," said Mr. Linden, "when there is light within.-
"'He that hath light within his own clear br~asL,
May sit i' the centre and enjoy bright day.7"
"That's beautiful !" said Faith after a pause.
And now the brush andA stir of 'coming about' again
claimed their attention, and in a minute more they were
stretching away on a new tack, with another set of constel-
lations opposite to them in the sky. The breeze was fresh,
though as mild as May; the boat made good speed; and
in spite of beating down the river the mouth of the
Mong was neared fast. Pattaquasset lights, a little clus-
ter of them, appeared unmistakably; for down by the point

there was a little knot of houses, variously concerned in
trade or fisheries. Mr. Linden had to put his hand upon
the tiller sometimes then, till they got in. Mr. Skip and
Jerry were in waiting; had been, "a sight o' ha
the former stated. Baskets and shad         If hours,"
and passengers were
transferred to the wagon, and within a moderate 4ime
thereafter welcomed (the latter) ~y Mrs. Derrick and s\ip-
per-wherein, after a little delay therefore, the shad played
a conspicuous and most satisfactory part.
Now there are no shad like the shad that come out of
the Mong.

r j

179


SAY AND SEAL.             181

CHAPTER XII.
S o passed the days. Not indeed all at Kildeer river,
but all in sweet, peaceful, bright occupations, whether
of work or play. The trustees had received their notic~
with much dismay; a little alleviated by the fact that Mr.
Linden was willing to stay at his post for a few weeks~ after
the end of the year.
It was almost a wonder, as the weeks went on, that Mr,
Linden kept down the shadows as well as he did,.-to leave
Faith in the morning, and go to his devoted set of scholars
-every one of whom had some particular as well as gen.
eral hold on him and love for him; and then to get away
by the hardest from their words and looks of sorrow and
regret, and come back to the presence of her brave lit.
tie face-Mr. Linden was between two fires. And they
wrought a sort of deepening of everything about him
which was lovely or loveable-which did not make it easier
for Pattaquasset to let him go.
As far as anybody could be a help to him, Faith was
one. In a gentleness of spirit that was of no kin to weak.
ness, she took to her heart the good that she had, and was
quite as much of a sunbeam as ever. How it would be
when Mr. Linden was gone, Faith did not know; but she
did know that that was one of to-morrow's cares, with
which she had no business to-day. If the thought ever
came up in its strength, strong enough to bring down her
heart and head,-if there were times when Faith showed
herself to herself-the revelation was made to no other
person. And therefore it is probable that it was a view
she did not often indulge in.
Dr. Harrison was not much at Pattaquasset these days
He found it convenient to be away.
Dr. Harrison was a man who did not like to throw away
his ammunition. He by no means absented himself because
180)

of any failing in his fancy for somebody in Pattaquasset;
the working of cause and effect was on a precisely opposite
principle. The truth was, the fancy had grown to a
strength that would not well bear the doubtful kind of in-
I tercourse which had been kept up between the parties;
'yet doubtful it remained, and must remain for the present.
With Mr. Linden there in the family; with the familiar
habits that naturally grow up between hostess and guest,
friend and friend, fellow inmates of the same house.-~-it was
very difficult for the doctor to judge whether thosQ habits
had any other and deeper groundwork. It was impossible,
with his scanty and limited chances of observation. At
the same time there was too great a possibility-his jeal-
ousy called it more,.-for him to be willing to take any for-
ward and undoubtful steps himself. He did not find sea-
room to pift in his oar. In this state of things, all that
hispride and his prudence would si}ffer him to do, was to
wait-wait till either by Mr. Linden's stay or departure
the truth might be made known. But to abide in Patta-
quasset and watch patiently the signs of things, was more
than Dr. Harrison's feeling,-.--for it was far more than
fancy,-could bear. Just now, in despair or dis~st, he
had taken a 'longer enterprise than usual; and was very
far indeed from Pattaquasset when the news of Mr. Lin-
den's going set all the country in a flame. So, greatly to
Faith's satisfaction, he could not for some time be there to
add any flame of his own.
The morning readings with Mr. Linden were great and
chief treasures to her all these days. She was always
ready for him before six o'clock. Not now in a firelit
room, with curtains drawn against the cold; but in the
early freshness of the spring and summer mornings, with
windows open and sweet air coming in. Duly Faith noted
every "ladder of verses "-4111 her Bible grew to be well
dotted with marks of red ink. They looked lovely to her
eyes. So they might; for they were records of many very
deep and sweet draughts from that well of water which
the word is to tli2~m that love it; draughts deeper and
sweeter than Faith could have drawn by herself.-or she
thought so. No quarter of an hour in the day Faith loved
so well. It was often more.
VOL. Ii.16


182             SAY AND SEAL.

One morning the "ladder" began with the silver trum.
pets made for the service of God in the hands of the
priests of Israel. Faith, looking quietly out of the win.
dow, went roving in thought over the times and occasions
Mr. Linden read of:, when their triumphal blast had pro.
claimed the name and the glory of God in the ears of the
thousands of Israel; times of rejoicing, of hope, of pro.
mise and of victory. Scenes of glory in the old Jewish
history floated before her-with the sublime faith of the
actors in them, and the magnificent emblematic language
in which they read the truth. Faith only came fairly
back to New England and Pattaquasset at David's deem.
ration.-.
"Blessed are the people that know the joyful sound;
they shall walk, '0 Lord, in the light of thy countenance."
The words thrilled her. She thought of the many who
had never heard the sound at all; and entered into Isaiah's
foresight of a day when 4 the great trumpet shall be blown,
and they shall come that were ready to perish in the land
of Assyria, and the outcasts in the laud of Egypt."
"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him
that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that
bringeth good tidings of good; that publisheth salvation;
that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth !"
Then came Isaiah's own blast of the trumpet, and then
the sweet enlargements and proclamations of the gospel~
and the Lord's own invitation to all who are "weary a4
heavy laden." But also-
"How shall they call on him in whom they have not be.
lived? and hc~w shall they believe in him of whom they
have not heard? and how shall they hear without a
preacher? and how shall they preach, except they be
sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them
that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of
good things !"-.
"And the Spirit and the bride say, CQme. And let
him that hearth say, Come. And let him that is athirst
come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life
freely."
Faith sat by the open window, no sound abroad but the
stir in tho leaves and the low music of birds. The very
'1

SAY AND SEAL.

183

~ti1l peace without, rather seemed to heighten and swell
the moving of thoughts within, which surged like the sea.
t Mr. Linden stopped reading and was silent; and so was
she, with nothing of all this appearing otherwise than in
~ the fixed, abstracted look which wenJ~ out into Patta~
~quasset but also went far beyond. And when she spoke,
it was earnestly and with the same clear quiet.
"Endy-I[ am glad to have you go, for the reason you
are goIng for. I wouldn't have you be anything else than
what you mean to be,-not for the pleasure of having you
here."
Her voice did not tremble, though indeed it told of feela
logs that were less assured.
"Dear Faith 1" Mr. Linden said, with a bright flash of
pleasure at her words, which changed even while h~ spoke,
"you do not know what a comfort it is to me to feel that!
And do you realize, little Sunbeam, what joy it is, that
however far apart we can still work together--in the same
cause, for the same master? The work which I take upon
me by name, belongs as really to you,.-.for the call should
be given by every one that hearth to every one that is
athirst."
'I know-" she said quietly. "How grand those words
are you have been reading !"
"Faith," Mr. Linden said presently, "have you any
special attachment to this particular little Bible ?"
"I have my red notes in it," she said with a bright
smile.
"1 am not quite satisfied with the paper and type, for
your eyes-by firelight and twilight. Shall I break up
any train of old association if I send you another ?"
She gave him a look of what Dr. Harrison might have
called "compound interest"; but assured him at the same
time with sedate earnestness that the one she had would do
very well.
This was but a day or two before Mr. Linden's leaving
Pattaquasset. He had paid his many farewell visits before
the last week came, and before that, too, had given up his
weekday ~cholars,..~Zthose last days were all given to Faith.
Given to her in every possible way-out of doors and
Within; in that fair summer weather the open air was the.

i1i1~
i~iiI~i


184              SAY AND SEAL.

best of all places for talking, and the least liable to intra.
sion. It was a great relief to get away from village sights
and sounds to the still woods, or the fresh shore,.-it Was a
great help towards cheerfulness. And the help was needed
Wherever Mr. Linden went, among people, he met nothi~
but sorrow for his going away,- wherever he went, to
house or woods, he carried the deep-hidden double sorrow
in his heart, which no one guessed of all who so loudly
bewailed his departure. Faith herself perhaps hardly
realized what his part of that sorrow was; but he knew
hers, and bore it-as one bears the trials of the dearest
friend one has on earth.
lie was to go very early in the morning, but when the
late evening talk had impinged upon the njght as much as
it could be allowed to do, he gave Faith the unexpected
promise of coming down to read with her just as usual
next day.
It was very, very early this time, in the summer twilight
dawn, when the kildeers were in their fall burst of matins,
and all the other birds coming in one by one. Faith did
not say many words, butt she was as quiet as the hour.
Then she went to, the breakfast-room to arrange and hasten
matters there; and Mr. Linden followed, and stood watch.
ing her-she did not know how,-she only knew how he
talked.
But he took her into the sitting-room the moment break-
fast was over and stood by her, giving her the mute caresses
he could not put in words. And for words there was little
time. The morning light came up and up into the sky,
the candles burned dim, as they stood there; and then he
bade her "'be perfect, be of good comfort,"' and so went
away.

ii
H

CHAPTER XJH.

'IV lIEN Mr. Linden was out of sight from the porch,
V    Faith went to the deserted room.
It was in the latter end of summer. r1~he windows were
open, and the summer wind blowing the muslin curtains
flutteringly in. The maple shaded Faith's old reading
window, the leaves not changing yet; one cupboard door
a little open, showed the treasures of books within. The
chintz couch stood empty, so it always stood when Faith
saw it, except only in those days of Mr. Linden's confine-
ment with his wound. But now her .mind leaped back to
that time; and the couch and the table and the books, the
very windows and fireplace, looked deserted. The red
maple leaves floating' in-the dancing flames in the chim-
ney-her lessons by the side of that couch-her first exer-
cise, which she had been sent to do at that table ;-all that
and everything beside seemed to make its passage through
Faith's mind in tumultuous procession. She sat down on
the couch and leaned her head on the back of it; but only
a few nervous tears came, and oppressed sobbing breaths
took the place of them. For a little while then Faith fell
on her knees, and if she could not speak connectedly, nor
think connectedly, she yet poured out her heart in the only
safe channel; and grew quiet and self-possessed. After an
hour she left The couch and turned to go down and join her
mother.
Passing the table on her way out, with a glance which
had been called off by other things as she came in, Faith's
eye was caught and stayed. There was no exercise left
there for her, but the very gold pen with which she l~ad
written that first one-~and which she had used so many
thues since, lay there.; and by the pen a letter. The blood
rushed to Faith's heart as if Mr. Linden had come back
again, or rather as if he had not taken quite all of himselC
away. In a flood of gladness and thankfulness and sorrow,
10*                (185)

:4

I,
Ij


186              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             18T

Faith took up the letter and standing there by the table
read it.
"MY OWN LITTLE PUEOIOTJS MIO~N0N~TTE,
I have a love for this sheet of paper, because it will be
in your hands when I cannot touclv them nor see them,~.
how often they have ministered to me just where I am
writing this! just where you will find it. I know you will
find it, Faith-I know where you will go as soon as I am
out of sighy-but dear~child, do not let any sight or usso.
citation in this room make you anything but glad: they are
all very dear to me. rVhat first day when you came in
here to see me-and all the days that followed,-and all
the sweet knowledge I gained of my little Mignonette,
while she was learning other things. Faith, I can even
forgive Dr. harrison his questions that day, for the delight
it was to me to shield you. Dear child, you must let me
do that now whenever I can,-it is one of the griefs of this
separation that I cannot do it all the time.
I must go back to our Bible verses !-Do you remember
that first 'ladder' we went up together? 'The Lord God
is a sun and a shield; the Lord will give grace and glory.'
-In that sunlight .1 shall think of you as al)idiIIg~-J will
remember that you are covered by that shield. I know
that the Lord will keep all that I have committed to him!
1{ow darling, if I could leave you 'messages,' I would;
but they must wait till I come and deliver them myself.
Take, in the mean while, all possible love and trust; and
all comfort from the cause of my absence, from our mutual
work, from my expected coming home now and then-from
the diamonds on your finger and what they betoken!
The diamonds stay with you, Faith, but their light goes
with inc.
My child, I have too much to say to write any longer !-
17 shall be drawn on too far and too long, -it is not far
from daybreak now. Take thc best possible care of your-
self, and 'be strong and of a good courage,' and 'the Lord
that made heaven and earth, bless thee out of Zion'!
Precious child, you do not know how deeply I am
Always your own-
ENDFJCOTT."~

The first lines of the letter wrung some tears from
Faith's eyes, but afterwards the effect of the whole was to
shake her. She sat down on the couch with the let-
ter fast in her hand, and hid her head; yet no weeping,
only convulsive breaths and a straitened breast. Faith
was wonderful glad of that letter! but the meeting of 'two
tides is just hard to bear; and it wakened everything as
well as gladness. However, in its time, that struggle was
over too; and she went down to Mrs. Derrick looking much
like her wanted self.
She went about 5Oi all the day; nervously busy, though
never more orderly about her business. In the kitchen and
dairy and storeroom, a~nd with her mother, Faith seemed as
usual, with a very little of grave thoughtfulness or remem-
brance thrown over her natural pleasantness; only she
gave books a wide berth, and took care to see no face that
came to the house. One would have thought her-per-
haps Mrs. Derrick even did - quietly composed and pa-
tiently submitting to ti'ial, as if Mr. Linden had been
already weeks away. Perhaps Faith4erself thought so.
A little thing showed how' much this quiet was worth.
The day had been gone through; the tea was over, as it
migl~,y~Ath the two alone; and mother and daughter had
gone into the other room. Faith lit the lamp, and then
began a sentence to hQr mother about laying the Bible in
its place for prayer-when she stopped short. For a mo-
ment she stood still with the revulsion; then she fell on her
knees and hid her face in Mrs. Derrick's lap, and the tears
that had kept back so long came in a stormy flood; clearing
the sky which had not been clear b~fore. Sh~ was quiet
really after that; she had no more fear of her books; and
the first thing Faith did was to take pen and paper and
pour out an answer to her morning's letter; an answer in
which she gave Mr. Linden the history of her whole day,
with very little reservation.
Her mother watched her,-sat and looked at her as she
wrote, with eyes very glistening and tremulous in their fond
admiration. Indeed that had been their character all day,
though Mrs. Derrick had followed Faith in her busy work,
with no attempt to check her, with no allusion to what they
both thought of uninterruptedly. Now, however, that

186

187


/

188

SAY AND SEAL.

Faith's tears had made their own way, her mother's heart
was easier; and she watched the pretty writer by~ the lamp
with all sorts of sweet and tender thoughts.
A' day or two passed, in great quiet and tender minister.
ing to each other of the mother and daughter. Faith had
taken deep hold of her studies again and every minute of
the day was filled up as busily as ever. So the sitting-room
wore in all things minus one its wanted aspect, when, the
third evening, it received Dr. Harrison.
He came in looking remarkably well, in his light dainty
summer dress, and with~ that gentle carelessness of move.
ment and manner that suited the relaxing persuasions of a
hot summer day. He came in, too, a little like a person
who through long absences has forgotten how wanted he
used to be in a certain place or how fond he was of what
he found there. Nothing further from the truth!
'He accosted both ladies, after his usual gay fashion,
and talked for a while about nothings and as if he cared
about nothing. He could make nothing of Faith, except
perhaps that she was a trifle shy of him. That did not
mean evil necessarily; it was natural enough. lie wouldn't
disturb her shyness!
"I have a sympathetic feeling for you, Mrs. Derrick," he
remarked. "I miss Mr. Linden so much in Pattaquasset,
i think how you must do in the house."
"No, doctor, you can't," was Mrs. Derrick's quiet
rejoinder.
"How do you ?"
"Why I can't tell you, either," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor, "I shouldn't like to be
a lawyer and have to examine you as a witness. Unless it'
wasn't August 1"
"Well I suppose we should agree upon that, doctor,"
said Mrs. Derrick. "I don'L know what August has to do
with it."
"My dear madam, it would be too much trouble !-Ap~
patently it isn't August everywhere !".-A very peremptory
rap at the front door came in the train of footsteps that
were loud and brisk as by authority~ and that had quite
survived the enervating effects referred to by the doctor.
"Mi~ Faith," said Cindy appearing at the parlour door,

SAY AND SEAL.

189

"here's a man's got something-and he won't give it to me
~jthout I'll take oath I'm you-which of course I dursn't.
I'm free to confess, I can't even get sight of it. Shall I
fetch him in-thing and all ?"
Faith went to the door. It was nobody more terrific
~than an express-mall, who seemed to recognize 'Miss Faith
]ierrick' by instinct, for he asked no questions-only put a
package into her hands, and then gave her his book' to
sign. Faith signed her name, eagerly, and then' ran up
stairs with her treasui'e and a beating heart, and struck a
light.
There was no need to ask where it came from -the
address was plain enough; nor much need to ask what it
was-she knew that it must be her Bible. Yet that only
heightened the pleasure and interest, as she took off one
wrapping paper after another, till its own beautiful morocco
covers appeared. Within was the p rfcction. of type and
paper, with here and there a flue map; in size and
shape just that medium which seems to combine the excel-
lencies of all the rest. There was no letter in the package,
but a slip of paper with a new 'ladder of verses' marked
the place where they began; and on the fly leaf, below the
inscription, was written the first verse of the ninety-first
psalm. This was the loadingfrefer~nce on the slip of
paper.
Has any one-with any heart-ever received such a
package? To such a one there is no need to tell the glow
of pleasure, the rush of affection and joy, 'which filled
Faith's heart and her face; to anybody else it's no use.
She had to exercise some care to l)revellt certain witnesses
of the eyes from staining the morocco or spotting the
leaves. The paper of references she left, to be enjoyed
more leisurely another time; and went on turning over the
pages, catching glimpses of the loved words that she had
never seen so I~ir1y presented to the eye bcfove; when after
a good deal' of this sort of delectation, through half of
which she ~Vas writing a letter to Mr. Linden, Faith sud-
denly recollected iDr. Harrison! Softly the paper wrappers
enfolded her treasure, and then Faith went down stairs with
the high colour of pleasure in her cheeks. The doctor took
several observations.


190                 SAY AND SEA f~.                                          SAY AND SEAL.                   191.

4 He had not been profiting by any opportunity to 'es.
amine' Mrs. Derrick. On the contrary, he had talked
about everything else, somewhat August fashion, in man.
ner, but yet so cleverly that even Mrs. Derrick confessed
afterwards she had been entertained. Now, on Faith's re-
appearance, he went on with his subject until he cameo a
natural pause in the conversation; which he changed by
remarking, in a simple tone of interest,
"I haven't learned yet satisfactorily what took Mr. Lin-
den away ?"
"His own business," said Mrs. Derrick. "You must
have heard what he is about now, doctor ?"
"I have heard -but one hears everything. It is true
then ?"
"0 yes, it's true," said Mrs. Derrick with an even play
of her knitting-needles.
"But then follows another very natural question," said
the doctor.-" Why did he come here at all ?"
"I dare say he'd tell you if he was here-as I wish lie
was," said Mrs. Derrick,-" Mr. Linden always seemed to
have good reasons for what he did."
"I think that too," said the doctor. "I am not quite
so sure of his telling them to me. But Pattaquasset has
reason to be very sorry h~ is gone away! What sort of
a preacher will he make, Mrs. Derrick ?"
"He's a good one now-" said Mrs. Derrick with a
smile that was even a little moved. "Don't you think so,
doctor ?"
"How dare you ask me that, Mrs. Derrick ?" said the
doctor with slow funny utterance. "But I will confess
this,-I would rather have him preach to me than you."
"What sort of a bad reason have you got for that ~ she
said, looking at him.
"Miss Faith," said the doctor with the mock air of
being in a dilemma,.-"you are good at definitions, if I
remember - what is the proper character of a bad rea-
Faith looked up-heJiad never seen her look prettier~
with a little hidden Iaff~hter both on and under her face
and that colour she had brought down stairs with her.
But her answer was demure enough.

"I suppose, sir, one that ought not to be a reason at all,
.~or one that is not reason- enough."
"Do you consider it a bad reason for my not liking Mrs.
Perrick's preaching, that I am afraid of her ?"
"I shouldn't think it was reason enough," said Faith.
Do you like preaching from people that you are afraid
of?''
"Yes. At least I think I should. I don't know that I
ever really was afraid of anybody."
These words, or the manner which went with them, quite
obliterated the idea of Mrs. Derrick from the doctor's head.
But his manner did not change. He only addressed his
talk to Faith and altered the character of it. Nothing
could be more cool and disembarrassed. He had chosen
his tactics.
They were made to regulate likewise the length of hi~
visit, though the short summer evening had near run its
course before he (in parliamentary phrase) 'was on his legs'
......not to speak but to go. Then strolling on to the front
door, he there met Reuben Taylor; flush in the doorway.
The boy stt~pt back into the hall to let him come out;
whence, as the doctor saw through the open window,-lie
went at once to Faith's side. But either accidentally or of
design, Reuben stood so directly before her, that Dr. Har-
rison could see neither face-indeed could scarce see her at
all. The little business transaction that went on then-.--the
letter which Reuben took from his pocket and then again
from its outer envelope,-the simple respect and pleasure
with which he gave it to Faith-though coloring a little
too,-all this was invisible, except to Mrs. Derrick. Faith's
face would have told the doctor the whole. The pretty
colour-the dropped eyes-and the undertone of her grate-
ful, "I am very much obliged to you, Reuben !" -
Reuben made no verbal answer, and staid not a minute
longer, but the pleasure of his new trust was wonderful!

190

191


SAY AND SEAL

CHAPTER XIV.
1?AITH did not have as uninterrupted a time for studies
I as she had counted upon for the next few months. ~
the first place, letters took a great many hours. In the
second place, her studies were pretty frequently broken up
of an evening by Dr. Harrison.
He certainly caine often; whether it was because of the
strength of attraction in that particular house, or the
failure of any attraction beside in all the coasts of Patta-
quasset, was a problem which remained unsolved by any-
thing in the doctor's manner. His manner was like what
it had been the evening just recounted. He amused him-
self, after his nonchalant fashion, and amused his hearers;
he did not in the mean time call upon them for any help at
all. He discerned easily that Faith had a little shyness
about her; tha~t might mean one thing or it might mean
another; and Dr. Harrison was far too wise to risk the
one thing by endeavouring to find out whether it was the
other. The doctor was no fisher-had no favour for the
sport; but if he had been, he might have thought that now
he was going to give his fish a very long line indeed, and
let it play to any extent of shyness or wilfulness; his hand
on the reel all the time. /
The talk that would do for Miss Essie would not please
Faith. The doctor knew that long ago. He drew upon
his better stores. His knowledge of the earth we live on;
his familiarity with nature's and art's wonders; histo~y~and
philosophy; literature and science; and a knowledge of
the world which he used as a little piquant spice to flavour
all the rest of his knowledge. Thrown in justly, with a nice
hand, so as not to offend, it did rather serve to provoke a
delicate Palate; while it unmistakably gratified his own. It
was the salt to the doctor's dish.
(1i92)

]3ut everything wants breaking up with variety, and
variety itself may come to be monotonous. He asked
Faith one evening if she knew anything of chemistry; and
1i'oceeded upon her reply to give her sundry bits of detail
and some further insight into the meaning and bearing of
the science. It was not August then, but it might have
been, for the leisurely manner in which the doctor 'unwound
his skein' of talk, as~ if he were talking to himself or for
himself; and yet he was, and he knew it, filling Faith's
ears with delight. He took up the same subject afterwards
from time to time; beginning from any trifle of suggestion,
he would go off into an exquisite chemical discussion, illus-
trated and pointed and ornamented, as no lecturer but one
loving both his subject and his object could ever make it.
After a while the doctor began to come with bits of metal
and pliials of acids, and delight Faith and astonish Mrs.
Derrick by turning her sitting-room into an impromptu
laboratory. Such fumes! such gaseous odours! such ornin-
ens 'reports', were never known in and about Mrs. Der-
rick's quiet household; nor were her basins and tumblers
ever put to such strange, and iii her view hideous, uses.
But Dr. Harrison rather seemed to enjoy what appeared at
first sight inconveniences; triumphed overthe imperfections
of tools and instruments, and wrought wonders over which
Faith bent with greater raptures than if the marvels of
Aladdin's lamp had been shewn before her. The doctor
began by slow degrees; he let all this grow up of itself;
he asked only for a tumbler the first time. And insensibly
they went on, from one thing to another; till instead of a
tumbler, the doctor would sometimes be surrounded with a
most extraordinary retinue and train of diversified crockery
and china. An empty butter-tub came to do duty for a
water-bath; bottles and jars and cups and glasses, of various
shapes' and dimensions, attended or waited upon the doc-
tor's operations; and with a slight apology and assurance
to Mrs. Derrick he on more than one or two occasions ap-
propriated the clock-shade for his use and behoof as a re-
ceiver. Then siphons began to come in the doctor's
pocket; and glass tubes, bent and straight, open and
scaled, in the doctor's hand; and one of his evenings came
to be 'better than a play.' A most beautiful.and exquisite
VOL. Ii.              17

ij~

U

193

A


104              SAY AND SEAL.

play to Faith. Yet Dr. Harrison never forgot his tactics;
never let his fish feel the line; and to Faith's joyous "low
shill I ever thank you, Dr. Harrison 1'-would reply by a
dry request that she would induce Mrs. Derrick to have
muffins for tea some evening and let him come.
And what did Dr. Harrison gain by all this? lie did
gain some hours of pleasure-that would have been very
exquisite pleasure, but for the doubt that haunted him, and
respecting which he could get no data of decision. The
shyness and reserve did pass away from Faith; she met
him and talked with him as a pleasant intimate friend
whose company she enjoyed and who had a sort of right to
hers; the right of friendship and kindliness. But then he
never did anything to try her shyness or to call up her
reserve. He never, asked anything of her that she could
refuse. He never advanced a step where it could with de-
cency be repressed. He knew it. But he bided his time.
He did not know what thorough ~nd full accounts of all his
evenings went-through the post-office.
He knew, and it rather annoyed him, that Reuben Tay-
lor was very freely admitted and very intimately regarded
in the house. There was perhaps no very good reason why
this should have annoyed the, doctor. Yet somehow he
always rather identified Reuben Taylor with another of his
friends. He found out, too, that Reuben much preferred
the times when he, the doctor, was not there; for after once
or twice coming in upon sulphuric acid and clock shades
(from which he retreated faster than if it had all been gun-
powder~ Reuben changed his hour; and the doctor had the
satisfaction of wishing him good evening in the porch-os'
of passing him on the sidewalk-or of hearing the s~;ing
of the little gate and Reuben's quick bound up the steps
when his own feet were well out in the common ground of
the road.
Mrs. Derrick expressed unequivocally (to Faith, not the
doctor) her dislike of all chemical 'smells' whatever, and her
abhorrence of all 'reports' but those which went off after
the doctor's departure; the preparation of which Mrs. Der-
rick beheld with a sort of vindictive satisfaction. Mr. Lin-
den enjoyed his letters unqualifiedly, so~jnetimcs wrote
chymical answers-now and then forestalling the doctor,

SAY AND SEAL.                 19~i
but rarely saying mudli about him. Yaith was in little
danger of annoyance from anything with her mother sitting
by, and for the rest Dr. liarrison was at his own risk.
Letters were too precious-every inch of them-to be much
taken up with discussing him. Other things were of more
interest, - sometimes discussion, sometimes information,
oftenest of all, talk; and now and then came with the
letter some book to give Faith a new bit of reading.
Above all, the letters told her-in a sort of indefinable,
unconscious way, how much, how much her presence was
missed and longed for; it seemed to her as if where one
letter laid it down the next took it up-not in word but in
atmosphere~ and carried it further. In that one respect
(though Faith never found it out) the chemical accounts
gave pain.
Faith in her letters never spoke directly of this element
of his; but she made many a gentle effort to meet it and
soothe what could be soothed. To this end partly were her
very full accounts of all the course of her quiet life. As
fearlessly and simply as possible Faith talked, to him;
quite willing to b9 found wrong arid to be told so, where-
ever wrong was. It was rather by the fulness of what
she gave him, than by any declaration of want on her own
part, that Mr~ Linden could tell from her letters how much
she felt or missed in his absence. She rarely put any of
that into words,, and if it got in atmospherically it was by
the subtlest of entrances. When she spoke it at all, it was
generally a very frank and simple expression of strong
truth.
Of out-door work, during all this time, she had a variety.
For some time after Mr. (Linden's going away, neither
Mrs. Stoutenburgh nor the Squire had b~en near the
house; but then they began to amuse th mselves with
taking her to drive, and whenever Faith coiAd and would
go she was sure of a pleasant hour or two out in the brisk
autumn air, and with no danger of even hearing Mr. Lin-
den's name mentioned. The silence indeed proved rather
too much, but it was better than speech. Then she and
Reuben had many excursions, short and long. Sometimes
the flowers or eggs or tracts were sent by~ him alone, but
often Faith chose to go too; and he was her ever ready,


19G              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.

respectful, and efficient eseort,~-~respect it was truly, of the
deepest and most affectionate kind. And thus-~-on foot or
with 'Jerry-..the two went their rounds; but at such hot~ses
Faith must both hear and speak of Mr. Linden-there was
always some question to answer, some story to hear.
It happened, among Dr. Harrison's other pleasures, that
he several times met them on these expeditions; generally
when he was driving, sometimes when they were too; but
one late November afterno~n-not late in the month but
late in the day, fortune favoured him. Strolling along for
an unwanted walk, the doctor beheld from a little hill Faith
and Reuben in the valley below,-saw them go up to the
door of a cottage, saw Faith go in, and Rouben sit down
in the porch and take out his book. It was a fair picture,
-the brown woodland, the soft sunlight, the little dark
cottage, the pretty youthful figures with their quick steps
and natural gest~ires, and the evenin~r hue and tone of
everything. But the doctor did not admire it-and
went down the hill without even taking off his hat to
the chickadees that bobbed their black caps at him from
both sides of the road. By the porch the doctor suddenly
slackened his pace, looked within, nodded to Reuben, and
came to a halt.
"Have II accidentally found out where you live7 Reu~.
ben ?"
"I live down by the shore, sir," said Reuben standing
up.
"I thought-" said the doctor, "I had got an impres-
sion that you were not a thorough-going Pattaquasseter-..
but you looked so much at home there.-Where do you
live? whereabouts, I mean; for the shore stretches a long
way."
Reuben gave the vernacular name of the little rocky
coast point which was his home, but the point itself was
too much out of the doctor's 'beat' to have the name
familiar.
"How far off is that?"
"About four miles from here, sir."
"May I ask what you are studying so dilig9utly fout'
miles from home at this hour ~
Reuben coloured a good deal, but with not more than a

moment's reluctance held out his book for the doctor's
inspection, it was a Bible. rI~he doctor's face changed.
ever so little; but with what feeling, or combination of
feelings, it would have taken a much wiser reader of men
and faces than Reuben to tell. It was only a moment, and
then he stood ~vith the book in his hand gravely turning it
over, but with his usual face.
"I once had the pleasure of asking you questions on
some other matters," he remarked, - "and I remember
you answered well. Can you pass as good an examination
in this ?"
"As to the words, sir? or the thoughts ? -J don't quite
know," said Reuben modestly.
"Words are the signs of thoughts, you know."
"Yes, sir-but nobody can know all the Bible thoughts-
though some people have learned all the Bible words."
The doctor gave a little sort of commenting nod, rather
approving than otherwise. "You are safe here," he said
as he handed the book back to Reuben; "for in this study
I couldn't examine you. What arc you pursuing the study
for ?-may I ask ?"
"If you don't know I" was ~he boy's full gaze for a,
moment. But he looked down ~gain, answering steadily-
"'Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin
against thee !'-I love it, Dr. harrison-and it shows me
the way to serve God."
"Well," said the doctor rather kindly- "if I hadn't
interrupted you, how much more study would you have
accomplished before you thought it time to set off for
that four miles' walk home -to that unpronounceable
place?"
"I don't know, sir-I am not obliged to be there by any
particular time of night."
"No, I know you are not. But-excuse my curiosity!
~are you so fond of the Bible that you stop on the waj
home to read it as you go alono'?
somebody ?"                  * or are you waiting' for
The words brought the colour back with a different tinge,
but Reuben simply answered, "No, sir-I did not stop here
to read. I am waiting."
"For Miss Derrick, are you not ?"
17*


SAY AND SEAL.             199

198              SAY AND SEAL.

"Yes, sir."
"Then I dare say Miss Derrick will release you for this
time, and allow me to attend her home, whither I am going
myself."
"I must wait till she comes out, sir," Reuben said,
with the respectful intractability which the doctor remem~
bered.
"Of course 1" he said. "Did you ever take lessons of
anybody but Mr. Linden ?-" But at this point the house
door opened and Faith came out.
"Miss Faith" said the doctor, after his greeting which
was thoroughly in character, "if you will tell your escort
here-who I am sure is a staunch one-.that you need him
no longer, he will feel free to begin his long walk to the
shore,-and I shall have the rare pleasure and honour of
going home with you. "
Faith turned frankly. "Do you want to go home,
Reuben ?"
"No, Miss Faith"~was the equally frank, low-spoken
answer,-"not unless you want me to go." Reuben could
but speak the truth-and he did try to speak it with as
little offence as possible; though with an instinctive feeling
that the time 'when truth will be truth and not treason',
had not y~t arrived. "I mean, that I want to do just what
you wish," he added looking up at her.
"I don't want you to go, then," said Faith laughing,
"for I mean that you shall come home to tea with me.
Dr. Harrison, I will invite you too," she said turning her
bright face towards him. "I believe-there are muffins
to-night."
"Miss Faith,"-said the doctor,-" you are an angel !"
"What is the connexion between that and muffins ?"
said Faith merrily, for Reuben was at her side and she felt
free.
"You mistake the connexion," said the doctor gravely.
"Angels are supposed to be impartial in their attentions to
the human race, and not swayed by such curious-and of
course arrogant-considerations as move the lower herd of
mortals. To an immaterial creature, how can the height
of a door be material 1"
"But I think you are mistaken," said Faith gently. "1

don't believe any creatures mind more what they find inside
the door."
"What did you find inside that door ?" said the doc-
tor.
Faith hesitiited. "Do you know to-morrow is Thanks-
giving day, Dr. Harrison ?"
"I am not quite sure that I ought to say I know it-
though my father did read the proclamation. I suppose I
know it now."
"I found inside of that door some people who could not
make pumpkin pies-and Reuben and I have been carry~
ing them one of mother's."
"What a day they will have of it !" said the doctor,-
"if Mrs. Derrick's pies are made in the same place as her
muffins. But can you find nothing better to do than run-
ning round the country to supply the people that haven't
pies ?"
"Not many things pleasanter," said Faith looking at
him.
"I see I was right," said he smiling. "I have no doubt
angels do that sort of thitig. But it is a sort of pleasure
of which I have no knowledge. All my life I have pleased
only myself. Yet one would wish to have some share in it,
too. I can't make pies! And if I could, I shouldn't know
in the least where to bestow them. Do you think you could
take this now," said he producing a gold eagle, "and turn
it into pumpkins or anything else that you think will make
people happy-and see that they get to the right places?
-for me
"Do you mean it seriously, Dr. Harrison ?"
"If you will have the condescension I"
"Oh thank you !" said Faith flushing with joy,-" oh
thank you! I am very glad of this, and so will many
others he. Dr. HarrisOn, I wish you could know the plea-
sure this will give !.-..the good it will do."
"I don't think a ten-dollar piece ever gave me so. much
pleasure," said he looking a little moved. "About the
good I don't know; that's not so easy."
Faith left that point for him to consider, though with
many a wish in her own heart. But the walk home bright~
en~d into a very lleasaut one after that.


il

CHAPTER xv.
T HE soft grey clouds which had hung about the setting
sun only waited his departure to double their folds
and spread them all over the sky. Then the wind rose,
svieepiug gustily through the bare branches, and heavy
drops of rain fell scatteringly on the dead leaves, But
when wind and rain had taken a little more counsel to-
gether, they joined forces in a wild stormy concert which
swept on with increasing tumult. It did not disturb Faith
and her mother, at their quiet work and rcading,-it did
not deter Cindy from going over night to spend Thanks-
giving day with her friends,-but it was a wild storm
nevertheless; and while the hours of the night rolled on
over the sleepers in Mrs. Derrick's house, still wind and
rain kept up their carousal, mior thought of being quiet
even when the morning broke.
"But rather, giving of thanks."-.That was the motto of
the day-the one answer to the many vexed questions of
life and care. Care was pressing, and life distracting, and
everywhere was something that seemed to call for tears or
complaints. To all of these the day answered-"But
rather, giving of thanks."
was dark enough when Faith awoke; and she sat up
in bed a minute or two, listening to'the wild blasts of wind
and the heavy pattering of the rain,-hearing the screech
of the locomotive as the train swept by in the distance,
with a pang at the thought of its freight of homeward-
bound and expected dear ones,-4hen taking the day's
motto, and gently and quietly going about the day's work.
But the first of its work for her, was to cancel the bit of
work it had already done by itself; and for that Faith
went to her Bible,-went first to the list of texts that had
come with it; endeavouring to realize and make sure her
ground on that verse of the 91st Psalm-then on from
that to its following.-~-.
(200)

I,

SAY AND SEAL.201
"For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his
pavilion."
It was not a "time of trouble." Faith would not call it
so. Never so bright a Thanksgiving day had risen upon
her, spite of its clouds. But trouble might come; in the
course of life-experience she knew it was pretty sure to
come; and she sought to refuge herself beforehand in the
promise of that pavilion of hiding. The driving wind and
storm that emblematized another kind, gave emphasis also
to the emblem of shelter. how Faith blessed her Bible!
The next verse enlarged a little.-.
"Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence
from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a
paviLion from the strife of tongues."
Then followed the joyful acceptance of that promise-.
"Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me
from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of
deliverance."
Then its result.-..
"I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I
trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever."
"From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when
my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is
higher than I. For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a
strong tower from the enemy. I will abide in thy taber-
nacle for ever; I will trust in the covert of thy wings."
What strong refuge! what riches of trust !-iow very
bright Faith's fire-lit room looked, with the wind whistling
all about, and the red light on her open Bible. She turned
on. And like the full burst of a chorus after that solo, she
seemed to hear the whole Church Militant say,-.
"Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all genera.
tions."
11cr mind 'swept back to the martyr' ages,~to times when
the church's road has been in darkness and in light, and the
long train of pilgrims have gone over it in light and in
darkness, each with that staff in his hand. Faith looked
long at those words, seeming to see the great "cloud of wit-
flesses" pass in procession before her. How true the words
were to Abraham, when he lcft his home. How true to
Daniel when he was thrown to the lions. How true they


202              SAY AND SEAL                                     SAY AND SEAL.             203

were to Stephen when he uttered his dying cry !~-how true
to the little child whom she had seen go to be with Christ
for ever 1.-" In all generations."
The prophets, true to their office, threw the light for-
ward.-
"He shall be for a sanctuary."
"Although I have cast them far off among the heathen,
and although I have scattered them among the countries,
yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries
where they shall come."
"I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the
lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon. his branches
shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive tree, and
his smell as Lebanon."
The next words gave the whole description, the whole
key of entrance.
"Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God,
God dwelleth in him and he in God. And we have knowii
and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love;
and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in
him."
Here was the "Sanctuary" on earth,-the foreshowing
image of the one on high.
"I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty
and the Lamb are the temple of it."
How far Faith had got from the earthly Thanksgiving
day~even to that finished and everlasting one on high!
She had of course read and studied these passages all be-
fore-once; and then she had shut them up as a particular
casket of treasures that she would not grow too familiar
with suddenly, but would keep to enjoy their brightness
another time. Something this Thanksgiving morning had
made Faith want them. She now sat looking at the last
words, feeling as if she wanted nothing.
The wind and the rain still raged without, drowning and
merging any sounds there might l~e in the road, though
truly few animate things were abroad at that hour in that
weather. Mr. Skip had roused himself, indeed, for his
day's pleasure7 and after lighting the kitchen fire had gone
forth-.leaving it to take care of itself; but when the door
closed after him, Faith and her fire looked at each other in

the same stillness as before. Until she heard the front
door open aiid shut,.-that was the first sound, and the
last,-no unwanted one, either; that door opened and shut
twenty times a day. What intangible, well-recognized
modification in its motions now, made ~Faith's heart bound
and sink with sudden belief-with swift denial? MTho was
it? at that hour! Faith sprang to the parlour door, she
did not know how, and was in the dark hall. A little
gleam of firelight followed her-a little faint dawn came
through the fanlight of the door: just enough to reveal to
Faith those very outlines which at first sight she had pro-
nounced "pleasant." One more spring Faith made; with
no scream of delight, but with a low exclamation, very
low, that for its many-folded sweetness was like the invo~
lotions of a rosebud.
"Faith !" he exclaimed. "Don't touch me till I get
out of the rain !"-.-.which prohibition Faith mi~ht consider
useless, or might think that-shuttlecock fashion-it had
got turned round in the air. /
"The best place to get out of the rain is in here," she
said trying to draw him along with her. "Oh Endy! how
came you in it?"
"If you say three words to me, I shall give you the
benefit of all the remaining raindrops," said Mr. Linden,
disengaging himself to throw off his overcoat,-" how can
one do anything, with you standing there? How came ill
in it ?-.why I came in it! Precious child! how do you
do ?" And she was taken possession Qf, and carried off
into the next room, like a rosebud as she was, to have the
same question put a great many times in a different way.
More words for her, just then, Mr. Linden did not seem to
1iave~ 1 ~or Faith for him. She stood very still, her face
in a glow of shy joy, but her eyes and even her lips grave
and quiet; except when sometimes a very tiny indicator
smile broke half way upon them.
"When did you come ?"
"I came in the night train. Mignonette-are you glad
to see me
The smile showed her teeth a little. They would bear
showing, but this was only a glimmer of the white enamel.
"Then you have been travelling all night ?"


204             SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.            205

"Yes. How are you going to prove your position ?"
"What position, Endy ?"
"That you are glad to see me."
"1 don't know,"-.-she said looking up at him.
"You cannot think of any proof to give me ?"
"I can think of a great many."
"1 am ready to take them !" said Mr. Linden demurely.
"Then if you will sit down and let me leave you for a
few minutes, I will see what I can do."
" Thank you-the proofs that I mean would by no means
take you further offi Suppose you see what you can do
without going away."
She laid her head down for a minute, coloring too, even
the cheek that was high-coloured before ;~but she looked up
again.
"Stoop your high head, then, Endy !"-she said ;~and
she gave him two kisses, as full and earnest as they were
soft. There was no doubt Faith had proved her~position!
"Faith, darling," he said, "have you beeii growing thin?
.-or is it only that I have had to do with such substantial
humanity of late. Look up here and let me see-are you
anything but the essence of Mignonette ?"
The face she showed was aptly named; about as pure as
that. With grave, loving intentness-not the less grave
for its little companion smile.-Mr. Linden studied her face
for a minute,-pushing back her hair.
"Do you think,"-she said then in a light soft tone-a
departure from the last words,-..."do you think you won't
want the essence of something else by and by, Endecoft ?"
"No,"-decidedly,-.-" IL want nothing but you--so you
may as well make up your mind to want nothing but me."
"Do you know what that would end in ?"
"Not necessarily in such a simple duet," said Mr. Lin.
den smiling,-" people do not always realize their ideal.
Mignonette, you are just as lovely as you can be !--.--and
yOu need not bring Miss Reason to keep me in order. I
suppose if she were in the house it would end in her want-
ing her breakfast."
"I don't like Miss Reason," said Faith, "and the only
thing I am thinking of putting in order is the kitchen
fire. Would you like to go there with me? *Nobody'~ in

the house-Cindy went yesterday to a wedding, and Mr.
Skip is gone home to keep Thanksgiving."
"That is the best thing I ever heard of Cindy," said
Mr. Linden. "Of course I will go !-and play Ferdinand
again. Faith, would the doctor call me an 'acid '-come
to dissolve all his crystals ?"
"Dr. Harrison gave me ten dollars yesterday for the
poor people," said Faith as she led the way to the kitchen.
Arrived there, she placed a chair for. Mr. Lin~len and re-
quested him to be seated; while she examined into the
state of the fire. The chair was disregarded-the fire
received double attention.
"Faith," he said laughingly, "I bear the curb about as
well as Stranger. I have a great mind to tell you how that
eagle stands in the doctor's memorandum book !"
Faith dropped her hands for the moment and looked at
him, with grave eyes of wide-open attention. The look
changed Mr. Linden's purpose,.-he could not bear to take
away all the pleasure the eagle had brought on his gold
wings.
"I don't believe there is such a book in existence;" he
said lightly. "Miranda, what would you like to have me
do for you now ?-the fire is ready for anything."
"I haven't anything ready for it yet," said Faith, "but
I will have-if you'll wait a bit. "-She left him there, and
ran off-coming back in a little while. And then Mr. Lin-
den was initiated, if he never was before, in kitchen myste-
ries. Faith covered herself with great apron, rolled up
her sleeves above the elbows, and ~vith ft~mnny little glances
at him between~ whiles, went round 'the room about various
pieces of work. Almost noiselessly, with the utmost nicety
of quick and clean work, she was busy in one thing after
another and in two or three at the same time; while Mr.
Linden stood or sat by the fire looking on. Two things he
comprehended; the potatoes which were put over the fire
to boil and the white shortcakes which finally stood cut out
on the board ready for baking. The preliminary flour and
cream and mixing in the bowl had been (culinary) Sanserit
to him. He had watched her somewhat silently of late,
but none the less intently: indeed in all his watching there
had been a silent thread woven in with its laughing and
VOL. II,               18


I1~i~ j~

SAY AND SEAL.

busy talk,-his eyes had followed her as one follows avon.
table sunbeam,.-noting the bright gleams of colour here,
and the soft light there, and thinking of the time when it
must quit the room.
"Faith," he said as sl~e cut out her cakes, "are these
what you made for me the first night I came here ?"
"I believe so
"What. do you suppose you look like-going about the
kitchen in this style ?-.you make me think irresistibly of
something."
"I should like to know," said Faith with an afl1used
laugh.
"I shall make you blush, if I tell you," said Mr. Linden.
That was enough to do it! Faith gave him one look,
and went on with her shortcakes.
"You don't care about knowing, after all ~ said IMr.
Linden. "Well.-Faith, do you expect ever to make such
things in my house ?-because if you do, I think it will
ensure my coming down stairs before breakfast."
How she flushed 1-over cheek and brow,-then remarked
gravely that "she was glad he liked it."
"Yes, and you have no idea what effects my liking will
produce 1" said Mr. Linden. "You see, Faith, it may hap-
pen to us now and then to be. left without other hands than
our own in the house (there is no reliance whatever to be
placed upon cottages!) and then you will come down, as
now, and I shall come too-taking the precaution to bring
a book, that nobody may suspect what I come for. Then
enter one of my parishioners Faith, are you attend-
ing?"
Faith had stopped, and poising her rolling pin the re-
verse way on the board-that is, on end,-had leaned her
arms upon it,-giving up shortcakes entirely for the time
being.
"You will not be in that position," said Mr. Linden,
"but going on properly with your cakes-as you should be
now. Then enter one of my parishioners who lives six
miles off, to ask me to come over to his house and instruct
him in the best way of hanging his gate,.-which I of course
promise to do, notwithstanding your protestations that I
know nothing of that-nor of anything else. Parishioner

SAY AND SEAL.

297

goes away and report~. One part of the people say how
economical we are !-.to make one fire do our cooking and
studying. Another part have their suspicions that you
keep me at hand to lift off the teakettle (much strength-
ened by report of your protest.) And the charitable part
at once propose to raise my salary-.-so that we may have
as many fires as we like. Faith-what should we do in the
circumstances ?"
Faith was biting her lips and rolling out cakes with the
swiftest activity, not allowing Mr. Linden a sight of her
face.
"If you hung the gate, I should think you would take
the money "-she answered demurely.
"I said you would say I could not do it !" said Mr. Lin-
den. "Which being duly reported and considered by cer-
tain other people, will cause them to shake their heads, and
wish in half audible (but most telegraphic!) whispers, 'that
Mr. Linden were half as smart as his wife' I"
Faith stopped again. "Oh Endy !"-slie exclaimed be-
tween laughing and pleading.
"Que voulez-vous, Mademoiselle ?"
But Faith went at her cakes and finished the few that
were left.
"I think you must be very much in want of your break-
fast," she said coming to the fire. "You have played
Prince Ferdinand-do you think you would mind acting
the part of King Alfred, for once ?"
"My dear, I will play any part for you whatever !-in
our duet. Shall I practise taking off the kettle to begin
~rith ?"
"I don't think you had better,"-Faith said with a kept
down laugh,-" for it doesn't boil."
"Shall I take you off then? What are you going to do
while I play Alfred ?-I will not answer for my solo per-
form ances."
"I shall not be gone but a few minutes. Do you think
you could take this little skillet from the fire if it did
boil ?"
Mr. Linden migbt ~have got into a reverie after she ran
t~way ;-..but certain it is that the skillet was in imminent

206


SAY AND SEAL.                                SAY AND SEAL.            209

danger of "boiling over" when Faith appeared at his side
and with a laughing look at him gently lifted it off~
"You are an excellent Alfred !"
"What version of Alfred have you learned?" he said
laughing, and catchh~g it from her hand before it reached
the hearth. "I thought hot water was his reward-..not
his work."
"J thought, Endy, you would like to go up to your roon~
before breakfast. Mother will be down presently."
"And am I to find the perfection of a fire, as usual?"
said Mr. Linden, taking both her hands in his and looking
at her. "Little Sunbeam !-you should not have done
that! Do you know what you deserve ?"
She stood before him rather soberly, glancing up and
down; but he little guessed what her quietness covered.
Though the lines of her lip did give tiny indication that
quietness was stirred somewhere. He drew her. to him for
a moment, with one or two unconnected words of deep
affection, then turned and went away. Faith listened to
hear the well known run up the stairs-the familiar closing
of that door,-.-how strange it sounded! how gladsome,
how sorrowful. She stood still just where Mr. Linden had
left her, as if sorrow and joy both held her with detaining
hands.
"Why child? Faith !"-said Mrs. Derrick coming into
the kitchen, "what are you about? What made you get
up so early, Faith? What's the matter ?-breakfast ready
at this time of day! Couldn't you sleep, pretty child ?"
she added tenderly.
"I didn't get up very much earlier thaii usual, mother.
Don't you want breakfast ?"
"Whenever you like, child," said her mother, taking hold
in her turn,-" but what's made you in such a hurry? And
what makes you look so, Faith ?~-.---You're not pale, neither,
.-how do you look ?"
F~iith came so close that her mother could not see, and
kissed her. "Mother, Mr. Linden is here."
"Here !" said Mrs. Derrick with a little sympathetic
start-it was not all surprise, nor all joy.-." Pretty child!
how glad I am! But why didn't you call rue, Faith ?-and
why don't you go and sit down and be quiet-now you've

jrrst been tiring yourself, and I could have done the whole!
And of all things, how could he get here in such weather ?
No wonder you're in a hurry, child !"-and Mrs. Derrick
began to work in earnest.
Faith gave her the word or two more that sh~ could
give, and went to the dairy. It was Faith's domain* she
was alone, and heri~dustry fell from her hands. Breakfast
~nd all might wait. Faith set down her bowl and spoon,
sat down herself on the low dairy shelf before the window,
cold and November though it was, and let the tears come,
of which she had a whole heartful in store; and for a little
while they fell faster than the raindrops which beat and
rattled against the panes. But this was a gentler shower,
and cleared the sky. Faith rose up from the shelf entirely
herself again.
So busy, skimming off the smooth cream, she felt the
light touch of hands on her shoulders-felt more t~an that
on her cheek. Had the tears left any trace there ?-that
Mr. Linden brought her face round into view. He asked
no such question, however, unless with his eyes.
"Miguonette, what are you about ?"
"King Alfred's breakfast. I forgot you knew the way
to the dairy!"
"Or could find it if I did not. What shape does my
breakfast take in these regions ?"
"It takes the shape-Let us go back to the kitchen and
we will see."
It was spry work in the kitchen now! How Faith's
fingers went about. But Mr. Linden could make nothing
~f the form his breakfast was taking-nothing of Faith's
mysterious bowl, in which the cream he had seen her skim
went into compound with the potatoes he had seen boiling
and with also certain butter and eggs. The mixture went
into the oven, and then Faith went off to set the table in
the parlour. As they were alone to-day the fire in the
dining-room was not to be kindled.
The storm beat so differently upon the windows now !-.
now, when it was only a barrier against people who were
not wanted to come in. Mr. Linden followed Faith in her
motions, sometimes with eye and voice, sometimes with his
own steps; confusing both her and her arrangements,
18*           -


210             SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.

211

210

making her laugh, and himself the cause of various irregu.
rarities in the table-setting, which he was very quick to
point out.
"Mignonette," he said, "I think it is a perfect day! Do
you hear how it storms ?"
"And aren't you glad Cindy went to a wedding? And
oh, Endy !-.how many people will be coming after you
to-day ?" Faith stopped, knife in hand.
"Did you suppose that I would come here to see you,
and then be obliged to see half Pattaquasset instead? I
stopped at Patchaug stati6n,.-there Reuben met me, and
we had as pleasant a four mile drive in the rain as I ever
remember. As to the wedding-I think there can never
be more than one other so felicitous."
Faith ran off.
And presently the breakfast came in, variously, in her
hands and in Mrs. Derrick's. It was broad light now, and
the curtains drawn back, but the red firelight still gave the
hue of the room; and the breakfast-table and the three
people round it wanted for no element or means of com-
fort. There were the shortcakes, which Mr. Linden might
more readily i'ecognize now in their light brown flakiness-
his coffee was poured upon the richest of cream; the pota.
toes came out of the oven in the shape of a great puff-hall,
of most tender consistency; and the remains of a cold
chicken had been mystified into such a dish of delicacy as
no hands but a Frenchwoman's-or Faith's-.-could con-
coct. It's a pleasant thing to be catered for by hands that
love you. Mr. Linden had found that pleasure this morn-
ing before. But both Faith and he were undoubtedly
ready for their breakfast!
After breakfast came the consideration of a basketful of
things Mr. Linden had brought her. Very simple things
they were, and unromantic enough to be useful; yet with
sentiment enough about them, - if that name might be
given to the tokens of a care that busied itself about all
the ins and outs of her daily life, and sought out and
remembered the various little things that she wanted and
could not get; for the various papers of sugarpluins in
which the whole were packed, Mr. Linden declared them
to be nothing but epithets and adjectives.

The weather held On its way into the afternoon; but
what was most unexpected, the afternoon brought a visitor.
Mr. Linden and Faith, deep in talk, heard the sound of
a foot on the scraper and then of a knock at the door,
~hj~h made them both start up. Faith went to the door.
J3ut before she could open it, Mrs. Derrick came up behind
her with swift steps and remanded Faith to the parlour.
"I'll open it, child," she said,-"it's no use for you to
run the risk of seeing anybody you don't want to." So
Faith returned to Mr. Linden. But the first word set all
fears at rest-it was only Reuben Taylor. He presented
himself with many apologies, and would fain have told his
errand to Mrs. Derrick, but as it was for Faith, the good
lady opened the parlour door and bade Reuben go in,----
which, as. he could not* help it, Reuben did. But the
colour of his face as he came in !-Mr. Linden took the
effect of it-Faith was partly occupied with her own; and
Reuben, thinking the sooner the quicker--walked straight
up to her.
"Miss Faith," he said, trying to' speak as usual, "I beg
your pardon-but I was sent here with this,"-a~nd Reuben
presented a moderately large round basket, without a handle.
"Reuben, come up to the fire," said Mr. Linden; while
Faith took the basket and exclaimed, "This! Who in the
world sent you, Reuben ?-.--Yes, come to the fire."
"I am not cold, sir," Reuben said with a look towards
where Mr. Linden stood by the mantelpiece, as if his desire
was to get out of the room-instead of further in, though
he did follow Faith a step or two as she went that way. "I
didn't mean to come here to-day, Mr. Linden, but-"
"Didn't mean to come here ?" said Mr. Linden smiling,
.-" what have you been doing, to be afraid of me? Faith,
has your postman been remiss ?"
They were a pair, Reuben and Faith! though the*colour
of the one was varying, while Reuben's was steady. Faith
nevertheless seized the boy's hand and drew him with gentle
violence up to the fire.
"Who sent you with this, Reuben ?"
"Dr. Harrison, Miss Faith. I was off on an errand after
church, and one of his men came after me and told me to
come to the house. And there I saw the doctor~piimsclf-

t

4


212             SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.             213

and he told me to bring you this basket, ma'am, and that
he didn't like to trust it to any one else. And-" but there
Reuben hesitated.
"And that you were the only person he knew w 0 would
go through fire and water for him ?" said Mr. Li den.
"No, sir, but-I suppose I've got to say it, since he told
me to,-Dr. Harrison said, Miss Faith, that-" the message
seemed to stir both Reuben's shame and laughter-" that
he had begged a cake of his sister, to go with your Thanks.
giving pies - and that it was in the basket. And that I
needn't tell anybody else about it."
"Reuben," said Mr. Linden laughing, "you needn't tell
him that I shall eat half the cake."
"No, sir"-Reuben said, - and tried not to laugh, and
couldn't help it.
The third member of the trio showed no disposition at
all to mueh laughter. She had put the basket down on the
table and looked at it from a distance, as if it had contained
the four and twenty live blackbirds - or a small powder
magazine. The effect of his message Reuben did not stay
to see. He went round to Mr. Linden to ask if the morn-
ing orders were unchanged, clasped hands with him-then
bowed low to* Faith and went out.
With very demure face Mr. Linden seated himself in one
of the easy-chairs, and looked towards the table, with the
aii~ of ~ne who expects - something! And not demurely
but with grave consciousness, Faith stood looking in the
same direction; then her eyes went to Mr. Linden. But
his face did not relax in the least.
"Do you suppose that basket holds a kitt~ii ?" he said
contemplatively.
Faith did not answer but walked over to the table and
began the work of investigation. Mr. Linden came too.
- "if you are to make feline discoveries, I must stand by
you, little bird," he said.
The basket was carefully tied with a network of strings
over the top; then followed one paper after another, a silk
paper at last,-and the cake was revealed. The low excla-
mation that burst from Faith might be characterized as one
of mingled admiration and dismay.
Certainly Dr. Harrison had amused himself that Thanks*

giving day! perhaps in terror of his old enemy, ennui. At
least his basket looked so.
The cake lay upon a white paper in the basket, with a
little space all around. It was a rather small loaf with a
plain icing. But round the sides of it were trailed long
sprays of ivy geranium, making a beautiful bordering. The
centre was crowned with a white camellia in its perfection.
From the tip edge of each outer petal depended a drop of
gold, made to adhere there by some strong gum probably;
and between the camellia and the ivy wreaths was a brilliant
ring of gold spots, somewhat larger, set in the icing. Some-
body, and it was probably the doctor, for want of better to
do,-liad carefully prepared the places to receive them, so
that they were set in the white like a very neat inlay. It
was presently seen that quarter eagles made the inlay, and
that the camellia was dropped with gold dollars.
On the ivy lay a note. Faith looked at Mr. Linden as
she took it up; broke the seal, and hastily running over the
paper gave it to him-
"Mv DEA1~ Miss FAITH,
My yesterday's speculation in pumpkins proved so suc-
cessful, that like a true speculator it made me want to
plunge deeper - into the pumpkin field! Ii find myself
this morning dissatisfied with xvhat I have done-and beg
to send a cake to go along with the pies-to be appor-
tioned of course as your judgment shall suggest. I begged
the cake from Sophy, who 1 am sure would not have given
it to me if she had known what I was going to do with it.
Your pleasure, personal and representative, last night,
is a reproach to me whenever I think of it. Yet my un-
wonted hand knows neither how to cut up cake, nor what
to do with it when it is cut-except.---avaler! Am I wrong
in hoping that you will do me the grace to make available
what I should only-if I tried to do better with it-.--throw
away? and that as a token of your forgiveness and grace
you will on the next opportunity bestow a piece of pump-
kin pie, such as you carried the other night, on
Your very respectful and most obedient servant,
PATTAQUASSET, Nov. 16, 18-..     JULIUS HARRISON."


214              SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.             215

Mr. Linden read the note more deliberately than Fai$j
had done, but his face, the while, she could not read;
though (fa~inated by the difficulty) her glances changed
to a steady gaze. It was quietly grave -that was all and
not all,-and the note was giv~n back to her with a smile
that spoke both 'thoughts' of the doctor, and pleasure for
any pleasure Faith might have from his basket. But thezi
some of the deeper feeling came out in his comments.......and
they were peculiar. He had stood still for a second after
reading the note, -his eyes looking down at the cake.....
gravely; but then they came to her;~ and suddenly taking
her in his arms Mr. Linden gave her-it would be hazard.
ous to say, as many kisses as Dr. Harrison had gold pieces
-but certainly as many as he had put in the basket, and
more. Faith did not read them, either, at first,-till the
repetition-or the way ~f it, told what they were; the glad
saying that; she was his, beyond any one's power to buy her,
-more than all, an indemnification to himself for all the
gold he could not lay at her feet'! There needed no speech
to tell her both.
A word or two had answered his demonstrations, first a
wondering ~rord, and then afterwards a low repetition of his
name, in alone of humble recognition and protest. Now
she looked up at him with a child's clear face, full of the
colour he had brought into it.
"Little darling," he said, "you will have your hands full
of business P'
"Oh Endy-J am very sorry !"
"Sorry ?" Mr. Linden said. "What about ?"
"I'm sorry. that basket has come here!"
"It gives you the means of making other people glad."
"Yes-but,"..2-Faith looked uncomfortably at the basket.
Then brought her eyes back to Mr. Linden's face. "What
ought II to do, Endecott ?"
"The most goo~l and the least harm you can in the
circumstances."
"How shall 1,-the last ?"-she said with a ,manner like
a beautiful child, truth struggling through embarrassment.
"If you could contrive to make yourself disenchanting !"~'
Faith passed that, and waited, her eyes making a grave
appeal. 2Nfr. Linden smiled.

"I am afraid you can oniy be yourself," he said. "And
j~ Dr. Harrison will not remove himself to a safe distance,
there is not much to be done, except with the money. Let
him understand that you consent for once to be his almoner,
merely because you know better than he where the need is,
.....that you take from him, as from anybody, a donation for
your poor and sick neighbours."               x
"Must I write ?"
"But, Endecott-is that all ?"
All that I need say. You never did encourage him,
Faith,-it may be a long time before he gives you a chance
to discourage. There is one thing I can do, if you wish."
She had stood with an awakened, sorrowful look, the
colour burning all over face and brow. Now she startled
and asked "What?"
"Something you do not wish. I can tell him that you
belong to me." But that indeed Faith did not wish.
"Oh no, Endecott-... IL would rather manage it some
other way. Now don't Jet us lose any more of our afternoon
with it-but come and tell me what will be the best things
to do with this money."
"It is hard to tell all at once," Mr. Linden said as they
once more took their seats by the fire. "What have you
thought of yourself?"
"I know where one or two blankets are wanting. And
0, Endy! there is one place where I should like to send
a rocking..chair-ever so common a one, you know. "
"And if Ency Stephens had one of those little self.loco-
motive carriages, she could go about by herself all day
long."
"How good that would be! as soon as the spring opens.
You could send one up from INew York, Endecott. Do
they cost much ?"
"I think not. And what do you say to taking a little
portion of this for the beginning of a free library for the
poor people ? If the thing were once begun, Mr. Stouten-
burgh would dive you what you please to carry it on,-and
Mr. Simlins ~ould help,-and so would I."
"I was thinking o~ books !". said Faith, her eye dancing
in an unknown 'library' ;-'~' but these would be books to


FIi~

lend. I think a great many would like that, Endecott! o
yes, we could get plenty of help. That is a delightf~~
plan !-J don't think I ought to be sorry that basket came,
after all," she added smiling. Mr. Linden smiled too-.-~she
was a pretty Lady Bountiful!
"Faith," he said, "suppose (it is a very presumptuou5
supposition, but one may suppose anything) suppose when
my hands are free to take care of my Mignonette, that J
should have the offer of two or three different gardens
wherein to place her. How should I choose ?"
She coloured and looked at him somewhat inquiringly,
then turned away with a kept-in but very pretty smile. "I
know," she said, "how you would choose and you would
not ask me."
Yes I should, little unbeliever-.J ask you now."
"You would go," she said gravely-" where your hands
were most wanted."
"There spoke a true Sunbeam !" said Mr. Linden. But
perhaps the word-or something in the changing light of
the afternoon -carried his thoughts on to the night train
which was to bear him away; for he left Dr. Harrison, and
baskets, and schemes, in the background; a~~d drawing her
closer to his side talked of her affairs-what she had been
doing, what she meax~t to do, in various ways,-trying to
leave as it were a sort of network of his care about her.
Then came twilight, and Mrs. Derrick and tea; with Faith's
light figure flitting to and fro in preparation; and then
prayers. And then-how fast the clock ticked! how fast
the minutes began to run away!
The storm did not rest,-it blew and beat and poured
down as hard as evei~ eddying~ round the house in gusts
that made every word and every minute within doors seem
quieter and sweeter. And the words were many, and the
minutes too-yet they dropped away one by one, and the
upper glass was empty!

216              SAY AND SEAL.

CHAPTER XVJ.
F AITH fortified herself with a triple wall of mental
resolves against Dr. Harrison's advances. But when
the doctor came again, a night or two after Thanksgiving,
there did not seem to be much that she could do-or hin-
der. The doctor's lines of circumvallation were too skil.-
fully drawn for an inexperienced warrior like Faith to know
very well where to oppose him. lie was not in a demon-
strative mood at all; rather more quiet than usual. He
had just pushed an advanced work in the shape of his
golden cake; and he rested there for the present~
To Faith's great joy, midway in the evening the doctor's
monopoly was broken by the entrance of Squire Stouten-
burgh and a very round game of talk. Faith seized the
opportunity to present her claim for a free library-an-
swered with open hand on the spot. And when he was
gone, she sat meditating a speech, but she was prevented.
The doctor, as if unconsciously amusing himself:, started a
chemical question; and went on to give Faith a most ex-
quisite analysis and illustration. It was impossible to listen
coldly; it was impossible to maintain reserve. Faith must
be herself; and delight shone in every feature. Now could
Dr. Harrison enjoy this thoroughly and yet give no sign
that he did so~ his eye watched hers, while Faith thought
he was looking into depths of science; his smile was a keen
reflection of that on her lips, while she fancied it called
forth only by his own skill, o~r success, or scientific power.
lie had produced the very effect he wanted; for the moment,
he had her all to himself.
"Miss Faith," he said gently, as his demonstration came
to an end,-" you may command me fQr that library."
Faith drew back and her mind returned to business again.
The doctor saw it, and was instantly sorry he had started
the subject.
"I was going to speak to you about that, Dr. Harrison.
If you have no objection, I shall take a little of that money
VOL. ii.19                               (217)

216


218             SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.             219

you entrusted to me, for it-the beginning of it. Only a
little. The rest shall go as J suppose you meant it to go."
"12 knew it was very su~e to go right after it got into
your hands. I don't thin ki followed it any further."
"It will make a great many people happy this winter,
Dr. Harrison.~~
"I hope it will," said he very sincerely; for he knew that
if it made them it would her.
"You have little notion how much," Faith went on
gravely. "I will do the best I can with it,.-a.nd if you
had patience to hear, I would let you know what, Dr. liar..
rison."
"You do me less than justice, Miss Faith. You can
hear me rant about philosophical niceties,-and yet think
that I ~vould not have patience to listen to a lecture from
you upon my neglected duties 1"
"I didn't mean that, sir."
lie gave her a genial, recognizing little smile, which was
not exactly in his "part ".-but came in spite of him.
"Do you know, I should like to hear it, Miss Faith. I
always like lectures illustrated. What have you done
already ?"
"There is an almost bed-ridden woman two miles off,
who will bless somebody all winter for the comfort of a
rocking-chair-all her life, I may rather say ;-a common
wooden one, Dr. Harrison,"
"That is a capital idea," said the doctor. "She will
bless you, I hope."
"No, certainly! 12 shall tell her the money is not mine,
.-I am only laying it out for a kind somebody."
"Miss Faith," said the doctor,-" I am not kind !"
"I think you are,"-was her gentle, somewhat wistful
answer. The doctor sprung up.
Mrs. Derrick," said he with all his comicality alive,-
"Miss Faith promised me a piece of pumpkin pie."
He had it, and taking his old place on the rug slowly
demolished it, qualifying every morsel with such ridiculous
correlative remarks, allusions, and propositions,-that it
was beyond the power of either Mrs. Derrick or Faith to
retain her gravity. But the moment the door closed upon
him, Faith looked sober.

"Well, child ?" said her mother.
"Well, mother-I haven't written my French."
.And she sat down to write it, but studied something else.
"Manage it some other way "-she had said she would; it
w~s not easy! What was she going to do? the doctor
asked nothing of her but ordinary civility; how could she
refuse him that? It was a puzzle, and Faith found it so
as the weeks went on. It seemed to be as Mr. Linden had
said; that she could do little but be as she had been, her-
self. That did not satisfy Faith.
It was a great relief, when about the middle of Decem-
ber the family went to New York for a few weeks, and Dr.
Harrison went with his family. Once more she breathed
freely. Then Faith and Reuben made themselves very
busy in preparing for the Christmas doings. Means enough
were on hand now. Reuben was an invaluable auxiliary
as a scout ;-.--to find out where anything was pressingly
wanted and what; and long lists were made, and many
traIns laid in readiness against Mr. Lin~ n's arrival. And
then he came!
It was for a good week's holiday this time, and how it
was enjoyed two people knew-which ~was enough. Stu-
dies went on after the old fashion during that week, and
dinners and teas out made some unavoidable interruptions,
yet not on the whole unpleasant. And sleigh rides were
taken, day and nio~ht and walks and talks not to be man-
tioned. Then the 2Newyear's visiting-with such a budget
of new varieties !-how pleasant it was to go that round
again together; and it was hard to make short visits, for
everybody wanted to see and hear so much of Mr. Linden.
He stayed one extra day after that-to see Faith when he
had done seeing everybody else, but then he went; and the
coldness and quiet of winter set in, broken only by letters.
There was a break of another kind when Dr. Harrison
came back, in the middle of January; such a break to
Faith's quiet that the coldness was well nigh forgotten.
She had doubly resolved she would have a~s little as possi-
ble to do with him; and found presently she was having
quite as much as ever.
The plan of rendering him a grave account of what she
bad done or was doing with his money, so far as the plan


SAY AND SEAL.                     221.

220             SAY AND SEAL.

regarded keeping him at a distance, was a signal failure.
Very simply and honestly it was done, on her part; but it
suited the doctor admirably; nothing could better serve his
purposes. Dr. Harrison heard jier communication about
some relieved family or project of relief, with a pleasant
sort of attention and intelligence; and had skill, although
really and professedly unwanted in the like things, to take
up her plans and make the most happy suggestions and
additions--often growing a large scheme upon a small one,
and edging in the additional means so insensibly, so quietly,
that though Faith saw he did it she could not tell how to
binder and did not know that she ought. Mr. Linden had
sent, as he prQmised, his help for the library,-indeed sent
from time to time some new parcel; and without inquiring
whether the money he had left for his poor people was
exhausted, had sent her a fresh supply. But she had noue
too much, from all sources. It was a winter of great
severity among the poorer portion of the community;
work was hard to come by, and the intense weatherr made
food and clothing and firing doubly in demand. There
were few starving poor people in Pattaquasset; but many
that winter lacked comforts, and some would have wanted
bread, without the diligent care of their better-off neigh-
bours. And there as everywhere, those who gave such
care were few. Faith and Reuben had plenty to do. But
indeed not merely, nor chie~y, with the furnishing of food
to the hungry and firing to the cold; neither were those
the points where Dr. Harrison's assistance came most help-
fully in.
Little Ency Stephens wanted a Ilower now and then, as
well as a velocipede; and Dr. harrison gave-not to Faith,
but to Faith's hands for her-a nice little monthly rose-
bush out of the greenhouse. How it smiled in the poor
cottage and omi the ailing child I-and what could Faith do
but with a swelling heart to wish good to the giver. A
smoky chimney was putting out the eyes of a poor seani~
stress. Dr. Harrison 'quietly gave Reuben orders to have
a certain top put to the chimney and send the bill to him.
He even seemed to be undertaking some things on his own
account. Faith heard through Reuben that he had pru.
cured the office of post-mistress in Pattaquasset to be given

to the distressed family she and Mr. Linden had visited~ at
Neantidut; and that Mrs. Tuck and Mintie were settled at
the post-office, in all comfort accordingly. But worst of
all! there were some sick people; and one or two for whom
Faith dared not refuse his offer to go with her to see them.
Dared still less after the first time he had actually gone; so
great and immediate she found the value, not of his medi~
cineS only, but of the word or two of hint and direction
which he gave her towards their help and healing. Faith
began to look forward to May with a breath of almost im-
1)atienee. But a change came before that.
19*

4


SAY AND SEAL.             223

CHAPTER XVII.
T XIIE spring caine, with all its genial influences.  ~ot
now with such expeditions as the last spring had
seen, but with letters to take their place, and with walks
of business and kindness instead of pleasure. Yes, of
pleasure too ; and Faith began to find her "knight" not
only a help and safeguard, but good company. Reuben
was so true, ~o simple and modest-x~as walking in such a
swift path of improvement; was so devoted to Faith and
her interests, besides the particular bond of sympathy be-
tween them, that she might have had many a brother and
fared much worse. The intercourse had not changed its
character outwardly-Reuben's simple ceremonial of re-
spect and deference was as strict as ever; but the thor-
ough liking of first acquaintanceship had deepened into
very warm affection on both sides. With Dr. Harrison
Reuben gained no ground-or the doctor did not with
him. Though often working for him and with him, though
invariably courteous ~vith the most respectful propriety,
Faith could see that Reuben's old feeling was rather on
the increase.
With the spring thaw came a freshc~. It came suddenly,
at the end of the week; every river and stream rising into
a full tide of insurrection with the melting snows of Sattir-
day, and Saturday night bridges and mill-dams went by the
hoard. Among the rest, one of the railway bridges near
Pattaquasset gave way, and a full train from the east set
down its freight of passengers in Pattaquasset. over Sun-
day. They amused themselves variously-as such freight
in such circumstances is wont to do. Faith knew that the
church was well filled that Sunday morx4~g, but the fact or
the cause concerned her little-did not disturb th~ quiet
path of her thoughts and steps, until church was out and
she coming home, alone that day, as it happened. Then
she found the walk full and her walk hindered. Especially
by two gentlemen-who as the others thinned ofl, right and
(222)

left, still went straight on; not fast enough to get away
from Faith nor slow enough for her to pass them. They
were strangers, evidently, and town bred. One of them
reminded Faith of Dr. Harrison, in dress and1 style-both
belonged to a class of which she had seen few specimens.
But she gave them little heed (save as they detained her,)
nor cared at all for their discussion of the weather, or
the place. Then suddenly her attention was caught and
held.
"By the way I" said one-" this is the very place where
Linden was so long."
"Who? Endecott Linden ?" said Dr. Harrison's like-
ness~. "What was he here for ?"
"Teaching school."
"Teaching school I" echoed the other,-"Endecott Lin-
den teaching school !-Pegasus in pound !-How did the
rustics catch him ?"
"Pegasus came of' his own accord, if I remember."
"Pshaw, yes I-.--but Linden.' For what conceivable rea-
son did he let himself down to teach school ?"
"lie didn't-" said the other a little hotly. "He wouldn't
let himself down if he turned street-sweeper."
"True-he has a sort of natural dais which he carries
about with him,-L suppose he'd make the crossing the
court end. But I say, what did he do this for ?"
"Why-for money 1" said the first speaker. "What an
ado about nothing!"
"inconceivable! Just imagine, George, a man who can
sing as he does, teaching a, b, ab !"
"Well-imagine it," said George,-" and then you'll
wish you were six years old to have him teach you."
"How cross you are," said his friend lazily. "And
despotic. Was there nothing left of all that immense
property? I've just come home, you know."
"Not much," said G\eorge. "A little-but Endecott
wouldn't touch that-it was all put at interest for Miss
Pet. lie would have it so, and even supported her as
long as she staid in the country. What he works sd hard
for now I don't understand."
"Works, does he? I thought he was studying for
the church-going to bury himself again. It's a crying


(

224

SAY AND SEAL.

shame! why he might be member, minister, Secretary,
President !"                 4
"He !" cried George in hot. disdain,-" he soil his fingers
with politics! No-he's in the right place now,-- there's
no other pure enough for him."
"I didn't know you admired the church so much," said
his friend ironically.
"I don't-only the place in it where he'll Btand. That's
grand."
"And so he's at work yet ?"
"Yes indeed--and it puzzles me. That year here ought
to have carried him through his studies."
"Why what can he do ?-not teach school now,-he's no
time for it."
"He can give lessons-and does. Makes the time, I
suppose. You know he' has learned about everything but
Theology. Oliph~nt was telling me about it the other day."
"What a strange thing !" said the other musingly,-.
"such a family, so swept 'overboard! What a house that
was! You remember his mother, George ?"
"I should think so !.--and the way Eudecott used to sing
to her every night, no matter who was there."
"Yes," said the doctor's confr~re-" and come to her to
be kissed afterwards. I should have laughed at any other
rnan-but it set well on him. So did her diamond ring in
his hair, which she was so fond of handling. How did he
make out to live when she died ?"
"I don't know-" said George with a half drawn breath-.
a little reverently too: "I suppose he could tell you. But
all that first year nobody saw him-unless somebody in
need or sorrow: they could always find him. He looked as
if he had taken leave of the world-except to work for it."
"How courted he used to be !"-.----said the other-" how
petted-not 'spoiled, strange to say. Do you suppose he'll
ever marry, George? will he ever find any one to suit his
notions? He's had enough to choose from already-in
Europe and here. What do they say of him off yonder-.
where ho is now
"They say he's-rock crystal,-because ice will melt,"
said George. "So I suppose his notions are as high as ever."
"You used to admire Miss Linden, if L remember," said

SAY AND SEAL.

225

his friend. "What a ring that was !---I wonder if she's
got it. George-I sha'n't walk any further in this mud-.
turn about."
Which the two did, suddenly. Both stepped aside out
of Faith's way, in surprise-her light footfall had not
jnade them lower their voices. But in that moment they
~~uld see that she was a lady; in acknowledgment of which
fact the one gentleman bowed slightly, and the other lifted
his hat. Faith had thrown back her veil to hear better
what they were saying, not expecting so sudden an encoun-
ter; and as she passed, secure in being a stranger, gave
them both a view of as soft a pair of eyes as they had
either of them ever looked into, which also sought theirs
with a curious intentness, borne out by the high bright
tinge which excitement had brought into her cheeks.
Both of them saw and remembered, for swift as it was, the
look was not one to forget. But the glance added lit-
tle to what Faith knew already about the strangers, and
she went on her way feeling as if a stricture had been
bound tight round her heart.
The words about Mr. Linden's fastidiousness she knew
quite enough of him to verify; and in the light of these
people's talk it almost seemed to Faith as if there had
been some glamour about her-as if she should some day
prove to be ~' magician's coin" after all. *But though the
old sense of unworthiness swept over her, Faith was not
of a teixiper to dwell long or heavily upon such a doubt.
Her heart had been strangely stirred besides by what was
said of hi~ mother, and his old way of life, and his changes.
She knew about them of course before; yet as a trifle, the
touching of a single ray, will often give a new view of an
old scene,-those side words of strangers set all Mr. Lin-
den's time of joy and sorrow with such vivid reality before
her, that her heart was like to break with it. That effect
too, more or less, passed away from her mind,-never
entirely. Another thing staid.
"What he works so hard for now" 'Then he was work-
ing hard! and doing his own studies and correcting her
French exercises, and giving her lessons all the while, as
well as to other people; and bringing her gifts with the
fruit of his work! And not an atom of it all could Faith


226

SAY AND SEAL.

touch to change. She pondered it, and she knew it. She
doubted whether she could with any good effect venture so
much as a remonstrance; and the more Faith thought, the
more this doubt resolved itself into certainty. And all the
whil~, he was working hard! Round that fact her thoughts
beat, like an alarmed bird round its nest; about as help.
lessly.
Mrs. Derrick thought Faith was more grave and ab.
stracted than usual that day, and sometimes thought so
afterwards; that was all Faith made known.
Dr. Harrison thought the same thing on the next occa-
sion of his seeing her, and on the next; or rather he
thought she held off from him more than usual; what the
root of it might be he was uncertain. And circumstances
were unfavorable to the exactness of his observations for
some time thereafter.
It was yet early in March, when Mrs. Stoutenburgh
took a very troublesome and tedious fever, which lasted
several weeks. It was reckoned dangerous, part of the
time, and Mrs. Derrick and Faith were in very constant
attendance. Faith especially, for Mrs. Stoutenburgh liked
no one else so well about her; and gratitude and re.
gard made her eager to do all she might. So daily and
nightly she was at Mrs. Stoutenburgh 's bedside, ministering
to her in all the gentle offices of a nurse, and in that line
besides where Mr. Linden had declared Dr. Harrison but
half knew his profession. And there, and about this work,
Dr. Harrison met her.
Their meetings were of necessity very often; but no lec.
tures, nor discussions, nor much conversation, were now
possible. Faith felt she had a vantage-ground, and used
it. The doctor felt he had lost ground, or at the least was
not gaining; and against some felt but unrecognized obsta~
cle in his way his curiosity and passion chaft~d. He could
see Fai~h nowhere else now; she contrived not to meet
him at home. She was out with Reuben-or resting-or
unavoidably busy, when he came there. And Dr. Harrison
knew the resting times were needed, and could only fume
against the business-in which he sometimes had same reason.
One day he found her at her post in the sick room,
when Mrs. Stoutenburgh had fallen asleep. It was to~

SAY AND SEAL.                 227.
wards the end of the afternoon. An open Bible lay on
the bed's side; and Faith sat there resting her head on
her hand. She was thinking how hard Mr. Linden w~s
working, and herself looking somewhat as if she were fob
lowing his example.
"What are you doing ?" said the doctor softly.
"I have been reading to Mrs. Stoutenburgh."
"Feverish-" whispered the doctor.
"No ;-she has gone to sleep."
"Tired her !-"
"No," said Faith with a smile, "it's resting. Th~ Bible
never tired any one yet, that loved it~-J think."
"Well people-" said the doctor.
"Sick people! You're mistaken, Dr. Harrison. Sick
people most of all."
"Do you know that you will be sick next," said he
gravely, "if you do not takd more care?"
A fair little smile denied any fear or care on that sub-
ject, but did not satisfy the doctor.
"I do not approve of what you are doing," said he
seriously.
"Reading this ?"
"Even the same."
"But you are mistaken, Dr. Harrison," she said gently.
"There is nothing so soothing, to those that love it. I
wish you loved it! Don't you remember you confessed to
me once that somebody had told you you had but half
learned your profession ?"
Faith trembled, for she had said those last words wit-
tingly. She could not have spoken them, if the light in
the room had not been such as to hide her change of
colour; and even then she dared not speak the name she
alluded to. But she had said it half as a matter of con-
It drew forth no answer from the doctor, for Mrs.
Stoutenburgh just then stirred and awoke. And Faith
little guessed the train she had touched. There were no
indications of manner; and she could not, as Dr. Harrison
went leisurely down the stairs, see the tremendous bound
his mind made with the question,-
"Is it that book that stands in my way ?-~-or HE


~c~ev~k

SAY AND SEAL.

CHAPTER XVIJT.
M RS. STOUTENBURGH got well. And it was in
Faith's mind then, by some means to see very little
more of Dr. Harrison till Mr. Linden should be in Pattaquas.
set again. So much for human intentions. Faith fell sick
herself; and instead of being kept at a distance Dr. liar.
rison saw her twice at least in the twenty-four hours.
It was a doubtful privilege to see those soft eyes lustroug
with fever and a steady glow take place of the changing
and flitting hues which were as much a part of Faith's lan-
guage, at times, as the movements of a horse's ears are part
of his. But as after a few days it became evident that
there was nothing dangerous about Faith's attack, it is
probable that the doctor rather enjoyed his position than
otherwise. The freedom and authority of his office were a
pleasant advance upon the formalities of ordinary inter.
course; and to see Faith and speak to her and touch her
hand without any ceremonial but that of friendship, was an
advantage great enough to desire the prolonging thereof.
Faith was a gentle patient; and Dr. Harrison's care was
unbounded; though it was not alarming, even to Mrs. Der-
rick, as he assured her there was no cause.
For a week however Faith kept her bed, and even Dr.
Harrison was glad when at the end of a week she was able
to be up again. Especially perhaps as it was only in her
wrapper and an easy-chair; his office was not at an end;
the fever, in a remittent or intermittent form, still hung
about her and forbade her doing anything but taking care
of herself.
Not precisely in this category of duty were the letters
Faith had written all that week. She had written them,
how was best known by an aching head and burning
fingers and feverish vision. But an interruption of them
would have drawn on Mr. Linden's knowing the reason;
(228)

and then Faith knew that no considerati~14~Qiild keep
him from coming to her. It was towards~ ~~jd~of~tlie
study terifl he was working hard already; ~he~cQITiId ~r~it
endure that any farther bar should be placed in hi~ I~rt~y;
None should for her. And so, bit by bit when she could
do but a bit at a time, the letters were written. Exercises
had to be excused. And Faith was a third very thankful
when at the end of' a sick week, she was able to get up and
be dressed and sit in the easy-chair and see the diamonds
sparkling against her brown wrapper again.
It was April now, and a soft springy day. A. fire burned
gently in the chimney, while a window open at a little dis~
tance let in Spring's whispers and fragrances; and the plain
old-fashioned room looked cozy and pretty, as some rooms
will look under undefinable influences. Nothing.could be
plainer. There was not even the quaint elegance of Mr.
Linden's room; this one was wainscotted with light blue
and whitewashed, and furnished with the simplest of chintz
furniture. But its simplicity and purity were all in tone
with the Spring air and the cheer of the wood fire; and not
at all a bad setting for the figure that sat there in the great
chintz chair before the fire; her soft hair in bright order,
the quiet brown folds of the wrapper enveloping her, and
the flash of the diamonds giving curious point and effect to
the whole picture. Faith was alone and looking very
happy.
It wanted but a few weeks now of Mr. Linden's coming
home,-coruing home for a longer rest and sight of her; and
Faith had not seen him since January. Mrs. Stouten-
burgh's illness and Faith's consequent fatigue had in part
accounted to him for the short letters and missing French
exercises, but she could see that such excuse would not long
be made for her,.-his last one or two letters had been more
anxious, more special in their inquiries: how glad she was
that he need have no further cause for either. Partly
musing on all this, partly on what she had been reading,
Faith sat that afternoon, when the well-known single soft
knock at her door announced Reuben Taylor. He came in
with a glad face-how sad it had lately been Faith had
seen, sick as she was,-and with both hands full of pleasant
things. One hand was literally full, of~ cowslips; and as he
VOL II.20

J

d9


230              SAY AND SEAL.

came up and gave her his other hand, it seemed to Faith a~
if a gre~%t spot of Spring gold was before her eyes.
"Dear Miss Faith," Reuben said, "I wonder if anybody
can ever be thankful enough, to, see you better! You feel
stronger than yesterday, don't you, ina'am ?"
"I can't be thankful enough, Reuben-I feel that to-day.
How good you are to bring me those cowslips! 0 yes,--...
I am stronger than I was yesterday."
That Faith was not very strong was sufficiently shewn by
the way her hands lay in her lap and on the arm of the
chair, and by the lines of her pale quiet face. B@dily
strength was not flourishing there. Reuben looked at her
wistfully, with a half-choked sigh7 then knelt down beside
her chair, as he often did.
"I didn't bring them all, Miss Faith-I mean, I didn't;
pick them all. Charlie and Robbie saw me in the meadow,
and nothing would do but they must help. I don't think
they always knew which to pick-.-.-.-but I thought you wouldn't
mind that," he said as he laid the cowslips on the table,
their f~iir yellow faces showing very fair in the sick room.
Faith's face was bright before, but it brightened still.
"They look lovely to me-tell Charlie and Rob I will
thank them when I can. I don't thank you, Reuben,"-she
said turning from the flowers to him.
"No, ma'am, I should hope not," he said, answering her
smile gratefully. "But that's not all, Miss Faith-for Ency
Stephens sent you one of her rosebuds,".-.-.-and Reuben took
a little parcel carefully from his pocket. "It's only wrapped
up in brown paper, because I hadn't time to go home for
white. And she told m~ to tell you, Miss Faith," he added,
both eyes and cheek flushing-" that she prays every
day for you to get well and for Mr. Linden to come home."
The smile died on Faith's face and her eyes fell. "1-Je
ought to have this," she said presently, with a little flush on
her own cheek. "I don't feel as if it should come to me.
Reuben, c~oes she want anything ?" It was very rare,
even now, for Faith to speak directly to Reuben of Mr.
Linden, though she was ready enough to hear Reuben
speak of him.
"No, ina'am, I think not," he said in answer to her ques..
tion. "You know...~.~~did you ever hear, Miss Faith ?-that

AND S~AL.                 231
when Mr. Linden first xvent there she was kept in the
house the whole time,--.-nobody knew how to take her out-..
or took the trouble; and Mr. Linden carried her half a
mile down the lane that very first day. And you can guess
how he talked to her, Miss Faith,-they said she looked
like another child when she caine back. But is there any-
thing I can do for you, ma'am, before I go to the post-
office ?-it'5 almost time."
"If you'll fill that glass with water for me, Reuben-.-..
that I mayn't let my sweet cowslips fade-that's all. They'll
do me good all to-morrow."
Reuben went off, his place presently supplied by Mrs.
Stoutenburgh; ~~ho against all persuasion had insisted upon
coming down to see I~aith. And then Faith was left to
the calm companionship of her cowslips till Reuben came
back from the
He came up to Faith's chair, and taking out the letter
broke the outer seal, (a ceremony he generally performed in
her presence) and was just removing the envelope when the
doctor came in for his evening visit. The doctor saw a
tableau,-.-.Faith, the cowslips, and R~uben,-..-Mrs. Derri4k
by the window he hardly saw, nor what the others were
about. But that he had interrupted something was clear--
the very atmosphere of the room was startled; and though
Reuben's position hid both letter and hands, it was certain
the hands were busy. What was in them, and what became
of it, the doctor could not tell. Before he was fairly in the
room the letter had retreated to IReuben's pocket, and
Reuben stepped back and stood behind Faith's chair.
The doctor laid a hand on his shoulder with a 'How
do you do' as he passed; and accosted Faith with all the
free kindliness which his office of physician permitted him
to add to the friend. The doctor took all his advantage;
he did not take more; and not Faith herself could see that
there was any warmer feeling behind his pleasant and
pleased eye and smile. But it is true Faith was .a simple-
ton. She did not see that his pleasantness covered keen
scrutiny. The scrutiny found nothing.
"How do you do ?"~he said.
"I don't suppose I need say a word to tell you," Faith
answered smiling. "I am well, enough to enjoy cowslips."


232              SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.              233

fib

The doctor's eye fell slightingly upon them, which was
not wonderful.
"I think you must be very well !" he said with. some
trifle of addenda from lip and, eye. "You see you are
mistaken. I shouldn't have known how well, except fr~~i
your words."
"You are mistaken now, Dr. Harrison," said Faith in the
slow quiet way in which she spoke to-day. "You think
these are not splendid-but they are bits of spring !"
"They are not Spring's best bits, I hope," said the
doctor.
"What do you think of that?"
The doctor took the rosebud and looked at it.
"If I were to tell you what I think of it," he said with a
sort of grave candor, "you would dismiss me, and I should
come here no more I"
"Reuben brought me that, Dr. Harrison, from the little
lame girl you sent the rosebush to, in the winter. I wish
you knew how much good that rosebush has done ~
"I sometimes wish," said the doctor, "that I had been
born in a cottage !"
"Why, in the world?"
"It would be so pleasant to have people come and bring
me rosebushes 1"
"Or cowslips ?" said Faith. "Then you would have a
taste for cowslips."
"But then the people might get sick," said the doctor,
waiving the 'bits of spring' ;-" so I am content. How
are you to-day ?" He took Faith's hand and felt it, and
looked at her. The result did not seem to be unsatisfactory
on the whole.
"You mustn't read too much in that book," said he,
glancing over at it.
"Why not ?"
"You must keep quiet."
"For how long ?"
"It depends. There is a little enemy of fever hanging
about your skirts, that I will oppose with something else;
but all you can oppose to him is quietness."
Faith thought of the words-" The rock of my defence

232

and my refuge ".-what quietness was like that of their
giving; but she said nothing to the doctor.
iDr. Harrison gave Mrs. Derrick her directions on various
points; then taking his old-fashioned stand on the rug,
surveyed the easy-chair and its occupant and Reuben still
behind it.
"By the way, Mrs. Derrick," said he carelessly, ..-.-" I
have heard a pretty story of your friend iMr. Linden." He
noticed, but only that Faith had glanced at him and was to
0a11 appearance quietly looking down at her cowslips.
"I dare say, doctor," said Mrs. Derrick placidly. "I've
heard a great many.
"Have you heard it ?"
"Heard what ?" said Mrs. Derrick; "It's an old pretty
story that everybody loves him."
"J heard this only the other day," said the doctor. "It's
not of that kind. But stories will be stories-and people
will tell them."
How the colour flushed and paled in Reuben's cheek 1--.
he stood resting his hands lightly on the back of Faith's
chair, looking down. The colour on Faith's cheek did not
change.
"Who told this ?" said Mi~s. Derrick.
"People that have known the family. They say; he has
managed to run through a very large property, and that he
leaves his sister now to live upon charity."
It was impossible to tell from the doctor's manner whether
he put any faith in his story himself. It was as much like
delivering a report as bringing a charge. It might have
been either! He saw Reuben's colour become fixed and
very high, but though the doctor could almost have sworn
that there was a rush of hid tears nuder the boy's drooping
eyelids, yet the lines about the mouth took the curl of an
irrepressible smile. Mrs. Derrick picked up two stitches,
made a third-then answered.
"So that's virhat you call a pretty story! It was hardly
worth remembering to tell us, doctor,- you and I, and
Reuben, and Faith, know better." Now could not the
doctor tell for the life of him, whether the words were sim-
ply innocent, or-simply malicious! Mrs. Derrick was so
20*


234              SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.             235

imperturbable there, at her knittIng! Neither did the
doctor much care. It sounded to him just like Mrs. Der-
rick. He looked at Faith; and remarked lightly that "lie
didn't know anything !"
Faith was very quiet; he could not see that her colour
had risen more than a little, and a little was not enough to
judge by in her face. But in an instant mere after he had
spoken, she looked full and gravely up at him.
"Do you believe everything about everybody, Dr. liar.
rison ?"
"On the contrary! I don't believe anything of anybody!
-Except you," he added with a little smile.
"Do, you believe such a story ?"
Her steady soft eyes, which did not move from him, gave
him an uncomfortable feeling-perhaps of undefined reinem..
branch. "I don't believe it," he said returning her gaze.
"I don't do anything with it. Such things are said of
everybody-and of almost everybody they are true. I take
them as they come. But about this particular case," he
said with one of his gentle looks, "I will do just what you
say I must do."
Faith smiled.
"I don't say you must do anything. I am sorry for you,
Dr. Harrison."
"I am glad you are sorry !" he said sitting down by her.
"And there is reason enough; but what is this one ?"
"You lose a great pleasure."
"What one ?"-.
"You don't know ho~vto trust."
"Do I not ?" said the doctor, looking at the rosebud still
in his hand. "Well-.--..you shall teach me !" And spring.
ing up he bowed to Mrs. Derrick and went off-rosebud
and all.
Reuben stood still for about half a minute-.-.then came
round, and silently gave Faith her letter.
"Reuben Taylor !".-said Faith, as he was going after
the doctor. "You have been standing so iong.-suppose
you sit down for a minute ?"
Whatever Reuben thought of the request, he said no-
thing, but obeyed her, bringing a foot cushion to her chair
and bestowing himself upon it. Faith smiled at him as she

spoke again, though there was an unwanted fire in her o*n
eyes; and the blood came fast now to her face.
"Reuben, I wanted to ask you what all that colour Is
in your cheeks for ?"
Reuben hesitated.-there seemed a stricture across his
breast which made speaking hard work; but at last he said
frankly, though in none of the clearest tones,
"Because I'm angry, Miss Faith-and hurt too."
Faith's next words fell like pearls.-.
"It isn't worth the while."
"No, Miss Faith," he answered without looking up.
"It's too much honour to something that doesn't deserve
ft,~and-Reuben--it'5 too little to something that does."
"0 no, ma'am! it's not that!" Reuben said, raising his
eyes to her face with the old earnest look. "But Miss
Faith, there are some things one can't bear to hear said--
and said so," he added a little lower, and looking down
again. "And then-he's Dr. Harrison, and I'm only a
poor boy and mayn't answer him--and that fretted me;
and it isn't the first time, neither," Reuben said, as if he
were making a clean breast of it. "Oh Miss Faith! I'd
rather have had him knock me down, than speak such
words !" Tears were getting the upper hand in the boy's
voice.                  k
"Dear Reuben," said Faith, very quietly, though her
cheeks were two carnationsk-" what I am most sorry for is
Dr. harrison."
Reuben drew a long breath, with his "Yes, ma'am-1'na
sorry for him too, very often--when he talks about other
things. But I don't believe even you know just .-just
how false that was." Reuben spoke as if the words choked
him. "It's maybe never come in your way to know all he
did here for everybody, and-for me."
There was a quick pu1satio~m at that instant from Faith's
heart to the hand that held her letter,--but she only said,.
"Tell rae !"
"I couldn't begin to tell you all, ~ Reuben said,
a smile coming over his f1ace now,--" nobody could but
himself--and he wouldn't remember. I couldn't even tell
you all he's done for me; but one thing "--Reuben's eyes
and voice fell and he spoke very low. "You know, Miss


SAY AN~ SEAL.                237

238              SAY AND SEAL.

Faith, the rate of schooling here i~ fixed by the trustees.
And the first day I came father told me to say he didn't
know that he could find the money for more than one
quarter, but he had so much all ready, and he wanted me
to have so much. I thought it would be hard to ask, but
it was so easy-of him," Reuben said with that same smile.
"Mr. Linden didn't say much about it-only yes-but then
he spoke to father (that very day we were at the shore Miss
Faith) and told him I should come all the time-for the
pleasure of teaching me." (Reuben thought the compel.
inent went all to Mr. Linden, or he would not have told it.)
"But father wouldn't do that,-he said Mr. Linden should
have the money as fast as he could get it; and if he didn't
take it I shouldn't come. And it was paid all the year,
regularly. But then, Miss Faith-" there was a pause.
"What, Reuben ?" she whispered.
"Then instead of keeping it for himself, h~ put it all in
the bank for me.-And If never knew it till I opened the
letter he gave me when he was going away."
The brightness of the hidden diamonds danced in Faith's
face for a minute-half hidden too, but it was there.
"Reuben," she whispered, as he was starting up to go,
"what we have to do is to pray for Dr. Harrison."
"Miss Faith, how do people live who do not pray ?"
"I don't know!"
But Faith's voice did not speak the thanksgiving which
bounded in her heart to Reuben's words. She sat back in
her chair looking tired, with her letter clasped fast in her
hand. Reuben stepped forward and arranged the fire softly
-then giving her another wistful look he bowed and went
lightly out of the room. With gentle step Mrs. Derrick
came up to Faith, to kiss her and ask how she felt. Faith's
eyelids enclosed.
"Very happy, mother,-and tired too. Don't you think
I could have a light presently ?"
"This minute, pretty child. But lie down on the couch,
Faith, and I'll bring up the little table."
That was done, and then Faith read her letter, with first
a rapid and then a slow enjoyment of it, making every word
and sentence do more than double duty, and bring th every
writer near. And then she lay with it clasped upon her

boson', thinking those flowing trains of half feverish thought
~hj~h are so full of images, but which in her case flowed
with a clear stream over smooth channels, nor ever met a
rough break or jar. Even Dr. Harrison did not make an
exception, for Faith's thought of him was constantly soft-
ened by her prayer for him. ;ller mother drew near when
the letter was at last folded u~, and watched her from the
other side of the stand; but though mind and heart too
were full enough, she rightly judged that Faith needed no
more excitement; and so never mentioned Dr. Harrison's
name, nor even asked how he ~ime to carry off the rosebud.
Faith's trains of thought ended at last in a sleep which
lasted till past her tea-time. Mrs. Derrick was still by her
side when she awoke, and Faith opening her eyes as quietly
as she had shut them, remarked,
"Mother 1-letters are great things."
"Why child," said her mother smiling7 "what have you
been dreaming about?"
"Nothing..-That isn't a dream; it's a reality."
Blessing in her heart the sender of the reality which gave
such pleasure, Mrs. IQerrick answered, "Yes, child, it's real
.-and so's he."
Faith said nothing to that except by her smile. She
only spoke the hope that she might be stronger the next
day; a sentiment which though at first sight it might seem
to have nothing to do with the former subject, was really in
very close connexion with it.
But Faith was not stronger the next day. The fever
was not driven away and strength was in the grip of it yet.
The doctor gave her no nexv directions, but insisted very
much on quietness and care. There was nothing to be
apprehended of the fever but tediousness, and the further
and prolonged loss of strength; but that was quite enough
to have to avoid. For that she must take all sorts of care.
He also said that the c.~ise might go on without his over-
sight for a day or two, and that for that space of time in
the middle of the week he should be absent from Pattaquas-
set, having a very urgent call of business elsewhere.
And whether for that reason or needing. no fresh one, the
doctor having stated so much went on to tell about other
things, and made a long visit. The talk came upon the

I

237

236


238              SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             239

Bible again, Faith didn't know how, and grew very anj.
mated. Dr. Harrison had brought with him this morning
one of his pleasantest moods, or manners; he thought yes.
terday that Faith's eyes bad given him a reproof for slander
and he had no intent to offend in the like way again. lb
was grave, gentle, candid, seemingly-willing to listen, b~
that he always was to Faith; and talked sense or feeling
in a most sensible and simple way. Yet the conversation
ended with giving Faith great pain. He had asked her to
read something confirmatory or illustrative of the statement
she was making, out of the Bible; and Faith had complied
with his wish. That was nothing strange. She had often
done it. To-day the reading had been followed by a little
observation, acutely put, which Faith felt raised a barrier
between him and the truth she had been pressing. She felt
it, and yet she could not answer him. She knew was
false; she could see that his objection was foundationless
-stood on air; but she did not see the path by which she
might bring the doctor up to her standing-point where he
might see it to6. It was as if she were at the top of a
mountain and he at the bottom; her eye commanded a full
wide view of the whole country, while his could see but a
most imperfect portion. But to bring him up to her, Faith
knew not.' It is hard, whbn feet are unwilling to climb!
And unskilled in the subtleties of controversy, most inno-
cent of the duplicities of unbelief, Faith saw her neighbour
entangled, as it seemed, in a mesh of' his own weaving and
had not power to untie the knot. It distressed her. Other
knots of skepticism or ignorance that he had' presented to
her she had cut easily with the sword of truth if she could
'not untie; he had offered her one to-day that she could cut
indeed as easily for herself,-.---but not for him. To do that
called for not better wits, but for far greater controversial
acumen and logical practice than Faith ~kuew. lie did
not press his point, not even for victory; he gave the ob~
section to her and left it there; but while to her it was
mere rottenness of reasoning, she knew that for him it
stood. It grieved ~her deeply; and Mrs. Derrick saw her
worn and feverish all the day, without knowing what special
reason there had been. She tried to stop Faith's working;
but though not fit for it, Faith would not be stopped Sho

~dared not trust Mr. Linden with any more excuses or put-
~offs; and a feverish cheek and hand that day and the next
went over her exercise and letter. And enjoyed both, in
spite ~f fever. But when they were done, late in the next
day, Faith lay down wearily on the couch and consoled
herself with the thoughts of the letter to come; it was the
evening for one.
It was the evening for one and yet one came not. Other
letters came-the great leather bag was tossed out on the
statiQn-hOU5e steps, and thence borne off to the post-office,
where five minutes later Reuben Taylor came to wait for
his share of the contents. But when with the assurance
which has never yet known disappointment, Reuben ap-
plied at the window, Mintie gave him a rather coquettish-.
"No, Mr. Taylor-you're not in luck to-day,-there's
nothing for you."
In his surprise Reuben tried every means to make him-
~elC and her believe that she was mistaken; and urged a n~w
~xainiuation of all the letters, till Mintie made-or feigned
to make-it, with the same success.
Reuben turned away from the office in real sorrow of
~ieart. He had not now to learn what store was set by
those letters-especially now, when Faith was siek,-he had
noticed h~r holding of that very last one which had come.
~nd then, not merely to lose the pleasure, but to have the
iisappointment !.-.Then too, what had hindered the letter?
)ne sometimes came out of time, but the expected one
iad never yet failed. Was Mr. Linden sick ?-and what
would Miss Faith think ?-the letter might fail from other
~auses (hardly, Reuben thought) but what; would she
~hink ?-.-herself so far from well. And then, should he go
~t once and tell her-or let her find it out from his nou~
appearance ?
That last idea was promptly rejected, - she should at
east not be in suspense, and Reuben was soon at her door,
LS soon admitted. But he came in very quietly, without
hat spring of step which had so often brought a letter, and
standing by her chair said gently,-
"Miss Faith, I didn't find anything to-night-but I
thought I'd come and tell you, for fear you'd be cx-
~t.ino. ~


240                 SAY AND SEAL.                                       SAY AND SEAL.                  241
"Not find anyti~ing !"-said Faith raising herself half u~ Mr. Linden since she had. All these thoughts mingled,
with the start of colour into her pale cheeks. but with them something else. They would tick on, those
"No, ma'am,-they said at the office there was nothing ~jnutes, relentlessly, no matter what they were to bring or
Maybe it will come to-morrow." take away,-steady, unalterable, unchecked,-like the old
It hurt him to see the little patient droop of each feature idea of Fate. She tried to be steady too-tried to have
as Faith laid herself down again, that fixedi~ess of heart which says confidently," I will sing
"Thank you, Reuben," she said. "0 yes, maybe it and give praise." But she was weak yet, with the effect and
will."                                                even the presence of fever, and through all her thoughts she
seemed to feel those minutes tracking with light steps across
Words of consolation Reuben did not presume to offer, her breast. She lay with her hands clasped there, to still them.
but there was a great deal in his face and quiet low-spoken The sun began to slant his beams in at the window, and
"Can I do anything to-night, Miss Faith ?" c~iiing "Whew !"-the afternoon
"No," she said cheerfully. "There's nothing. Isn't ~ then with one lono' scree
time Mr. and Mrs. Roscom had some fresh eggs, Reuben? train flew through Pattaquasset, tossing out the letter bag
Mother will give you them." Ofl its way. Then Faith waited -~ watching intently for
Reuben only said he would stop there and see them. Reuben's step on the stairs.
The letter did not come next day. Reuben came, as Reuben on his part had watched the letter-bag from the
usual, in the afternoon, but only to tell his bad success. lie moment it was thrown out, ~ad followed it to the office, and
had not the heart to bring cowslips again, and ventured no there posted himself near the window to have the first
words to Faith but about some of her poor people. That chance. But his prize was a blank.
subject Faith went into fully.' After Reuben was gone she Sick at heart, Reuben drew back a little, giving way
lay quiet a while; and                                before Mintie's rather sharp "I tell you no, Mr. Taylor,"
took her indemnification in the even, and other people's earnest pressing forward to the window.
ing by getting Mrs. Derrick to read to her one or two of
those strings of passages which Faith called ladders. ]3ut when the last one had gone-those happy people, who
Whether she could mount by them or not just~ then, her had got their letters !.-Reuben again presented himselfand
mother might; and hearing them Faith went to sleep. She braved Mintie's displeasure by further inquiries; which pro-
said nothing about her letters, except to tell Mrs. Derrick duced nothing but an increase of the displeasure. lie
they had not come. turned and walked slowly away. It might have been any
That day and the next were quiet days, being the days of weather-he might have met anybody or heard anything;
Dr. Harrison's absence. And if some accident had befallen but when Reuben reached Mrs. Derrick's the whole walk
Wednesday's letter, there was good hope of one Friday. Ai~d was a blank to him. What was the matter-how would
as Friday wore away, Faith did not know that she was Miss Faith bear it-these two questions lay on his heart.
counting the hours, and yet could at any time have answered In vain he tried to lay them down,-for the very words
any question as to the time of day. It was one of those which told him that "the Lord doth not afflict willingly,"
calm days, within doors and without, which ebb away so said also that he doth afflict; and Reuben's heart sank.
noiselessly, that only the clock tells their progress. Faith's lie stood for a moment in the porch, realizing 'how people
little clock-(Mr. Linden had amused himself with sending live who do pray'-then went in and straight upstairs,
her one, about as big as a good-sized watch on a stand)-~ walked up to Faith's couch when admitted, and without
ticked musically on the table, suggesting a good many giving himself much time to think, told his news.
things. Not merely the flight of time-not merely that "Dear Miss Faith, you must wait a little longer yet.
the train would soon be in, -not merely that she might May I write by to-night's mail and ask why the letter hasn't
soon have a letter; nor even that it, the clock, had seen come ?-it may have been lost."
voL. 1~.               21


242              SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.             243

Faith started up, with first a flush and then a great sinking
of colour, and steadying herself with one hand on the back
of the couch looked into her messenger's face as if there
she could track the missing letter or discern the cause that
kept it from her. But Reuben's face discovered nothing
but his sorrow and sympathy; and Faith sank back on her
pillow again with a face robbed of colour beyond all the
power of fever's wasting to do.
"Yes-write!" she said.
Reuben stood still, his hands lightly clasped, his heart
full of thoughts he had perhaps no right to utter, if he
could have found words.
"I wish you'd write, Reuben," she repeated after a moment,
"Yes, ~ he said, "I will. Only-dear Miss Faith!
you know 'the darkness and the light are both alike to Him.'"
Reuben was gone.
Faith lay for a few minutes as he had left her, and then
slipped off the couch and kneeled beside it; for she felt as
if the burden of the time could be borne only so. She laid
her head and heart down together, and for a long time was
very still; 'setting her foot on the lowest step' of some of
those ladders, if she could not mount by them. A foot.
hold is something.
She was there yet, she had not stirred, when another foot.
step in the passage and other fingers at the door made her
know the approach of Dr. Harrison. Faith started up and
met him standing. The doctor looked at her as he came
up. So pale, so very quiet, so purely gentle, and yet with
such soft strength in her eye,-he had not seen her look
just so, nor anybody else, before.
"How do you do?" he said reverentially as he took her hand.
"I am-.-well,"-said Faith.
"Are you ?" said the doctor gravely, eyeing the mark of
unconquered fever and its wasting effects even on her then.
-" I am very glad to hear it, indeed 1"
"IL mean, that I feel-well," said Faith correcting herself.
"You will feel better if you will take a more resting posi.
tion," said the doctor putting her into the chair. And then
he stood and looked at her; and Faith looked at her little
clock, with her foot on that step of her 'ladder.'-" lie
knoweth thy walking tlwough this great wilderness."

"What have you been doing to yourself these two days ?"
said the doctor.
"Nothing-" she said ;.-" more than usual."
lie laid her appearance all to the account of the fever,
she was so quiet; and proceeded to a new examination
of the state of her hand, and to give her various profes-
sional orders.
"Miss Faith, can you do anything in the way of eating ?"
Her very face as well as her tongue seemed to answer
him, "Not much."
"Do you think of anything you c~uld fancy ?"
"I brought some birds home with me that I believe I
can answer for. Try to demolish~the pinion of one of them
-will you? It is a duty you owe to society."
"I will try,"-she said gravely.
The doctor wondered whether she had laid up against
him any of his former conversation.
"What do you think," he said with a kind of gentle
insinuation,-" of that argument I ventured to advance the
other day, on the matter we were speaking of?"
"1 don't like to think of it at all, Dr. Harrison."
"May I know why not?"
"Because I know it is false, and yet IL cannot make you
see it."
"Can you make yourself see it ?"
"I don't need to take any pains for that. I see it very
well."
"Perhaps you will find the way to make me see it," said
the doctor pleasantly.
"That would be easy," said Faith, "if__"
"If what? May I not know the difficulty ?"
"If you really cared about it."
"I do care about it. You mistake me when you think
that. But you must not think about anything now. Did
you know I carried off your rosebud the other night ?"
"Yes."
It was impossible to tell from the doctor's accept how he
viewed the transaction, and equally impossible from Faith's
answer to tell what she thought of it. Extremes meet-as
Mr. Linden had once remarked.


.244              SAY AND SEAL.

"I'll endeavour to atone for that presumption to-morrow,"
said he rising, for Mrs. Derrick now entered the room. To
her Dr. Harrison repeated his orders and counsels, and to
Faith's relief took himself away. her mother came tip to
the easy-chair with a smothered sigh on her lips, and laid
her gentle hand on Faith's forehead and wrist.
"Child," she said, "has that man talked you into a fever
again? I've a great mind not to let him come any more-~
I guess I could cure you better myself. If you'd send word
to somebody else, Faith, we'd have you well in no time."
"I haven't heard from him to-night, mother." Faith felt
the little start of her mother's hand.
"Maybe he's coming then," said Mrs. Derrick, ~-"he
might have meant to come yesterday and been hindered."
Faith did not think that.
"We shall know," she said to her mother. "We have
only to wait and be quiet." And she carried out both parts
of her stated duty to perfection.
There is a strange sort of strength in a certain degree
of weakness-or it may be that weakness runs sooner to its
refuge, while strength stands outside to do battle with the
evil felt or feared. Faith's gentle and firm temper was
never apt for struggling, with either pain or fear; it would
stand, or yield, as the case called for; and now, whether
that her mind had been living in such a peaceful and loving
atmosphere, both earthly and heavenly, that it could settle
upon none but peaceful views of things, or that bodily
weakness made her unable to bear a~iy other, she did mount
upon one of those 'ladders' and left her burden on the
ground. She thought she did. She was as quiet outwardly
as before; she told Mrs. Derrick, who looked at her in
misery,-and told her with a steady cheerful little smile,
that "she dared say the letter would come to-morrow."
But it is true that Faith had no power to eat that night nor
the next day; and that she did not know the hidden slow
fever-not of disease.-.-.which was ~running through all her
veins and making the other fever do its work again, bright
in iA1 cheek and eye and beating at her temples and wrist.
But she was as still and quiet through it all-quiet in voice
and brow-as if letters had been full and plenty.

N

CHAPTER XIX.
I T was about midday of Saturday, when Reuben Taylor,
proceeding up the main street of Pattaquasset on
some business errand for his father, was joined by Phil
Davids-no wanted or F ourite associate or companion.
But Phil now walked up the street alongside of the basket
which had come "into town" with fish.
"I say, Reuben," said Phil after some unimportant re-
marks had been made and answered,~" does Mr. Linden
ever write to you ?"
Reuben started-as if that touched some under current
of his thoughts, and answered "yes."
"I wish he'd write to me," said Phil. "I know I 'd like
it.I say, Taylor, what does he send you such thick letters
about ?"
"Such thick letters!" Reuben repeated, with a quick
look at his companion. "People put a great many things
in a letter, Phil."
"I guess likely. That's what I say. What does he
write to you about ?"
"Maybe I'll bring up one of 'em for you to read,"
said Reuben. "You've heard him talk, Phil-he writes
just so."
"Does he? I guess you wouldn't like to miss one of his
letters then, Reuben,.-would you ?"
"No."
"I s'pose it would be a worse job yet to miss two of
'em-wouldn't it ?" said Phil with a perfectly grave face.
"Phil Davids !" Reuben exclaimed, facing round upon
him, with such a flash of joy and hope and surprise and
eagerness, as made Phil wonder. "What do you mean ?"
he added checking himself. "Just turn your pockets inside
out, Phil, before we go any further."
"When were you ~t the poet ofti~co ?"
21*              (24i~)

ii
ii


240              SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.             24T

"Last night-and this morning." Reuben forced hiu~.
self to be quiet.
"Well look here,.-when you go there, don't you ask for
letters ?"
"Ask !-J've asked till they Were all out of patience."
"Suppose you come to the right shop nGxt time !" said
Phil, importantly producing the missing papers.
"Phil! Phil !-" was all Reuben said. lie caught the
letters-and stood looking at them with a face that made
Phil look. "Mr. Linden ivill love you all his life for this,
But how in the world did you get them ?"
"That's exactly what I'd like somebody to tell rue !" said
Phil. "I know who put the monkey's paw in the fire-hut
how the chestnuts got there, I'm beat !"-
"What do you kuow ?" said Reuben,-" where did you
get these? Oh Phil! I never can thank you enough !"
"It was because they were his letters I did it," said
Phil bluntly. "I wasn't going to let Mintie Tuck have
'em. But I say! Reuben, what have you done to spite
her? or has she a spite against Mr. Linden? or who has
she a spite against ?"
"I don't know. Did she give 'em to you, Phil ?"
"Not by a precious sight! nor to anybody else. Dromy
saw 'em in her drawer, and for all the gumph he is, he
knew the writing ;~ and I made him get 'em for me this
morning while they were at breakfast. Now Taylor," said
Phil, settling his hands farther down in his pockets as
they rapidly walked along,-" what bird's on that nest ?"
Reuben listened-with an intentness that spoke of more
than wonder. "In her drawer ?" he repeated,-." what,
down in the office ?"
"Not a bit of it! Stowed sway with her earrings and
ribbands upstairs somewhere."
"Phil," 'said Reuben wh~n he had pondered this strange
information in silence for a minute, "will you be in the
office when the mail comes in for a night or two ?-and
don't tell this to any one till Mr. Linden sends word what
should be done."
"You expect more letters ?" said Phil, with a not stupid
glance at his fellow.
"Yes," Reuben said, too frankly to increase suspicion;

"and if one should come it's very important that I should
get it. And of course I can't watch."
"She sha'n't get it !" said Phil. "I'll be there. I'll be
Siiibad's old man of the mountain for Mintie. I won't sit
on her shoulders, but I'll sit on the counter; and if there's
a scratch of Mr. Linden's in the mail-bag, I'll engage I'll
see it as fast as she will. I know his seal too."
"Ccndd she have done it to tease me ?" Reuben said,-
"I've never had the least thing to do with her but through
that post-office window."
"What did you ever give her through the post~office
window ?" Phil asked half laughingly.
"Questions enough-" Reuben said, his thoughts too
busy to notice~ any underhand meaning,-" and lately she's
given me rather cross answers. That's all."
"Well what do you suppose she stole your letters for ?"
"I don't know enough about her to guess,~~ Reuben said
frankly.
"Well," said Phil, "I guess Dr. Harrison won't appoint
the postmaster of Pattaquasset when I am President. I
rather think he won't."
"I wish you'd make haste and be President," Reuben
said. "But if he didn't know anything about Mrs. Tuck,
Phil, other people did-and thought she was honest at
least. And you know she's postmaster, by right."
"She-is the female of Dromy !" said Phil with intense
expression. "But Mintie aint a fool, and it's she's post-
master-anyhow Dromy says it's she that's Dr. Harrison's
friend ;-so that makes it. But that don't tell why she
wants the letters."
"Dr. Harrison's friend ?" said Reuben,-" what does she
have to do with him ?"
"I aint a friend of either of 'em, so I don't know," said
Phil. "But girls with pretty faces will make friends wit~i
anybody !"
A very high degree of masculine charity and correctness
of judgment was expressed in Phil's voice and words.
Reuben made no reply-his charity, of any sort, was not
in a talkative mood, and the two parted ~kindly at Phil's
cross road.
Not home to dinner now, for Reuben! The minutes


SAY AND SEAL.             249

24~             SAY AND SEAL.

of talk had seemed long to his impatience; he had borne
them, partly to get information, partly to keep down SUS-
pieion. But now with Phil out of sight, he turned short
about and took the way to Mrs~. Derrick's with almost ~y.
ing steps. True, he was not dressed for "Miss Faith's"
room-but Reuben Taylor was always neat and in order
and she must not wait. He hurried into Mrs. Roscom's~
there to leave his basket and every removable trace of his
work,-then on!
Faith had spent the early morning upon her couch ;-no
need to ask if she felt stronger than yesterday,-every line
and feature showed prostration-and patience. Breakfast
had been passed over nominally. What Mrs. Derrick could
do for her was done; what she could~ not, lay heavy on the
hearts of both as the one went down to make the day's
arrangements, and the other lay still to endure. Reuben
had not come after the morning train-there was nothing
even to expect till night, and Faith lay listening to her lit-
tle clock and watching the passage of the April sunbeams
through her room.
Suddenly a loud startling rap at the front door. But
she was powerless to go and see, ond after that one sound
the house seemed to sink into perfect stillness. Then the
door of her room opened, and Mrs. Derrick came in bear-
ing a large basket. A heavy one too, but Mrs. Derrick
would have spent her last atom of strength before she
would have let any one else bring it up. Her face looked
quite radiant.
"Pretty child !" she said, "here's something for you !"
It 'was needless to% ask questions,.-Mrs. Derrick's face
could have but one meaning. Faith neither asked nor an-
swered, except by the sudden start of the blood into cheeks
which were pale enough before. Slipping from thecouch
she was on her knees by the basket, pulling out the ends
of the knots by which it was tied, with just a tiny beauti-
ful smile at work on her changed lips. Her mother went
softly away (she thought the first sight of anything in that
line belonged to Faith alone) and the April sunbeams took
a new view' of things.
The knots gave way, and the basket cover swung round~
and the white wrapping paper came off; and within lay

50mething for her truly ! ----most appropriate! A great
stein of bananas and another of plantains, thick set with
fruit, displayed their smooth green and red coats in very ex-
cellent contrast, and below and around and doing duty as
mere packing, were sunny Havana oranges, of extra size,
and of extra flavour-to judge by the perfume. But bet-
ter than all, to Faith's eye, was a little slip of black-
marked white paper, tucked under a red banana-it had
only these words.-
"'Sweets to the sweet.'
Faith, I should put in more, but the basket refuses. it
is the measure of only one part of the proverb-do you
understand ?"
Faith knew oranges, she had never 'seen bananas or
plantains before. It was all one; for the time being they
were not bananas or oranges but hieroglyphics; and the
one fruit looked as much, like Mr. Linden's handwriting as
the other. She sat with her arm resting on the couch sup~
porting her head, and looking at them. Not the finest
picture that Goethe ever viewed1 or bade his friends view
as part of their "duty," was so beautiful as that basket of
red and yellow fruit to Faith's eye. And all the more for
that foreign look they were like Mr. Linden; for the com-
mon things which they said, it was like him to say uncom-
monly. How very sweet was the smell of those oranges!
and how delicious the soft feeling of peace which settled
down on all Faith's senses. Very different from the sort
of quiet she was in a quarter of an hour ago. She did not
trouble herself now about the missing letters. This told
that Mr. Linden was well, or he could hardly have been
out to buy fruit and pack it and pack it off to her. So
Mrs. Derrick found her-reading not words, but oranges and
bananas; with a face it was a pity Mr. Linden could not see.
It may be remarked in passing that the face was not lost
upon the one who did see it. Mrs. Derrick came and
stooped down by Faith and her basket in great admiration
and joy and silence for a moment-the sight almost put
everything else out of her head; but the~i she exclaimed,
"Child, the doctor's coming !-I saw him driving up to
the door."


I'         SAY AND SEAL.                 251

250             SAY AND SEAL.

Faith put the cover on the basket, and while Mrs. Der.
rick set it out of sight, she received the doctor as yesterday,
standing. But with a nice little colour in her cheeks to.
day, in place of yesterday's sad want of it. Dr. Harrison
came up with one hand full df a most rare and elegant
bunch of hothouse flowers.
"My amends-making---" he said as he presented it.
It was not in Faith's nature not to look pleasure and
admiration at such bits of kindred nature. They were
very exquisite, they were some of them new to her, they
were all most lovely, and Faith's eyes looked love at them.
Dr. Harrison was satisfied, for in those eyes there was to.
day no shadow at all. Their gravity he was accustomed
to, and thought he liked.
"How do you do ?" he said.
"I am-a great deal better. 0 mother-may I have a
glass of water for these ?"
"You said yesterday you were well, Miss Faith."
"You saw I wasn't," said Faith as she put her flowers
in the glass.
"That is very true. And I see also that your statement
to-day is not of much juster correctness. How came you
to say that ?"
"I said it without knowing-what I said," Faith an~
sweJ~ed simply. "What is this, Dr. Harrison ?"
e doctor puzzled over her answer and could make
nothing of it.
'~ That is a Fuchsia-and that is another."
"How beautiful !-how beautiful. They are not sweet ?"
~'You cannot always have sweetness in connexion with
everything else," he said with a slight emphasis.. Faith's
n4nd was too far away from the subject to catch his
innuendo; unless other lips had spoken it.
"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor, "I should like as~a
professional man, to know what portion of the wing of a
robin this lady can manage for her breakfast ?"
"Some days more and some days ~less," said Mrs. Der~
rick. "She was not very hungry this morning." (A mild
statement of the case.)
"$ome days less than the wing of a robin !" said the

doctor. "The robin himself is a better feeder. Mrs. Der-
rick, what fancies does this bird live upon ?"
The allusion drew a smile to Faith's face, which Mrs.
Derrick did not understand.
"She don't tell all her fancies,-.-she has seemed to live
on tea and toast, for eatables."
The doctor smiled, and went back to Faith who was
busy with the flowers; or as Mrs. Derrick said, seemed to
be busy with them.
"Are those better than cowslips ?" he asked lightly.
"They are more wonderfully beautiful-they are not
better in their place."
"How is that ?"
"I told you cowslips were bits of spring," said Faith
smiling. "These are not that. I think everything in the
world.-I mean, the natural world-has its place, that it fills."
"Better than any other would ?"
"I suppose so. Yes."
"That is admirable philosophy," said the doctor. "Ex-
cellent to keep one contented. Three feet of snow is then
as good as May zephyrs! Daisies and dandelions are fair
substitutes for geraniums and cacti! And these barren
granite fields, where the skeleton rock has hardly covered
itself skin deep with soil, are better than flowery prairies
of rolling land, and fertile wilderne~ses of roses !"
"Well," said Faith; "you needn't laugh. I think they
are."
"By what transmutation of philosophy ?"
Faith's philosophy was put to the test by certain sounds
which just then came to her ear; the hall door opened and
shut quick though softly, and Reuben came lightly upstairs
-two stairs at a time !-but his knock at Faith's door was
almost as quiet as usual. Whatever spirit of energy was
at work in him, however, calmed itself down at sight of
Dr. Harrison-whom he did not then stay to greet; but
coming up with a swift steady step to Faith's chair, knelt
down there and gave her his hand with, "Miss Faith, are
you better to-day ?"
If a rosebud yesterday shut up in the cold had opened
all its beams to the sun,..-that was Faith to-day, as she
took Reuben's hand and held it.

251

e
s
1


252             SAY AND SEAL.                                SAY AND SEAL.             253

"That is a very devoted servant of yours, Miss Faith"
said the doctor pointedly. "I notice he gives you homage
in true chivalric style. Does the transmuting philosophy
extend thus far also ?"
Faith turned the light of her face upon him as she an.
swerved, "I shouldn't be worthy of one of those knights or
of this, Dr. Harrison, if I would change one for the other."
Reuben had risen to his feet as the doctor spoke, and as
he quitted Faith's hand laid his own, with the slightest pos.
sible gesture, upon the left breast of his coat; which did
not mean (as it would with Sam Stoutenburgh) that there
was his heart-but that there were the letters! Then step.
ping back with a bow acknowledging Dr. Harrison's pre.
sence, Reuben went over to the window to speak to Mrs.
Derrick. The doctor had seen him before that morning
from the window, aswith some ordered fish Reuben entered
Judge Harrison's gate, and his dress was the same now as
then,-how the different offices could be so different and so
reconciled-or what this office was, were matters of study.
But clearly Faith was as strong for her knight as her. knight
was for her.
"I didn't understand the transmuting philosophy in the
former case," the doctor remarked.
"It is not that," said Faith with rising colour, for she
had seen Reuben's hand gesture. "It is just taking things
as they are."
"That is a philosophy deeper than that of transmuta.
tion P' said the doctor. "I give it up. But what is the
philosophy y in this case ?-" and he nodded slightly towards
Reuben.
"If you ever know him, you'll know, Dr. Harrison,"
Faith said softly.
"Is he so trustworthy ?" said the doctor thoughtfully
looking at him; but then he gave his attention to Faith,
and talked of herself and what she was to do for herself;
until seeing no prospect of the doctor's being out of his
way, Reuben was again passing them on his way out. The
doctor arrested him by a slight but pleasant gesture.
"What are you doing now, Taylor ?"
"Nothing new, sir,--a little for my father and a little for
myself."

L~J saw you doing something for your father, I think
to.day. Doesn't that hinder your studies ?"
"Mr. Linden used to say that one duty never really
hinders another, sir.
"Pleasant doctrine !" said the doctor. "I am tempted
to try it now. If you bestow a little time upon me, it will
not perhaps interfere with your going to dinner afterwards.
Poes Mr. Linden continue to hold some of his super-
vision over you? Do you hear from him sometimes ?"
"Yes sir.-both,"~--was Reuben's prompt answer.
"Then you have something to do with the post-office
occasionally ?"
"Yes sir."
"And know pretty well w~hat everybody in Pattaquasset
says of every other body,-don't you ?"
"I don't need to go to the post-office for that, sir,"
Reuben siUd quietly.
"No-I mean by virtues of another office-~--that which
you exercise for your father. But it is true, isn't it ?"
"Not quite, sir. Some people do not talk to me-and
some I never stop to hear."
The doctor smiled a little, along with an acute look of
approving intelligence.
"Well-do you happen to know what is said or thought
of the people I was the means of putting into the post-
office, half a year ago?"
"Not very well, sir. I haven't heard much said about
them."
"As far as yo4r knowledge goes, they seem to be doing
their duty ?"
"I make no complaint, sir."
Dr. Harrison glanced at Faith with a not pleased expres-
sion, and back again. "Does that mean that you have
none to make, or that you will make none? I am asking,
you surely must know, not officially nor judicially; but to
gain private information which it is desirable I should
have; and which I ask, and expect to receive, confiden-
tially."
"Sir," Reuben said gravely, though with a manner per-
fectly respectful, "why do you ask me ~ The gentlemen of
Pattaquasset should know more about their own post~office,
VOL. ii.               22

252

253


254             SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.            255

than the p fishers of Quapaw. There is a clannishnes5
among p r people, sir,-if I had heard~nything, I sho~
not like t tell you."
The doctor got up and took his old position on the car.
pet rug, a very slight air of haughty displeasure mixing
with his habitual indolent gracefulness.
"This is your knight, Miss Derrick! Apparently the
proverb of 'friends' friex~ds' does not hold good with
him. When you are a little older, sir, you will kflOW-....jf
you grow correspondingly wiser-that the fishers of Qua.
paw or of any other point are precisely the people to know
in such a matter what the gentlemen whom it more nearly
concerns, cannot get at; and you have yourself given the
reason."
Faith looked at Reuben with a little inquiring wonder,
But he made no answer, either to her look or the doctor's
words; indeed perhaps did not see the former, for his own
eyes were cast down. He stood there, the fingers of both
hands lightly interlaced, his face quiet to the last degree of
immovability. The doctor's first words, to Faith, had
brought a moment's flush to his cheeks, but it had passed.
with the moment; gravity and steadiness and truth were all
that remained. The doctor recognized them all, but all as
adverse or opposition forces.
"I will not detain you longer, sir !-I told you, Miss
Faith," he said sitting down and changing his tone, "that
I did not know how to cut up cake - still less how to
administer it. I found this family-very poor-over at
Neanticut, on some of my excursions ; - and somewhat
carelessly thought they could perform the duty of taking
papers out of a bag, as well as wiser people. There is a
girl too, the daughter, who seemed clever enough. But I
have had reason to doubt my own wisdom in the proceed-
ing, after all."
Faith heard the door close after Reuben with the first of
the doctor's words to her. She listened to tl~e rest with a
divided interest. Her mind had gone off to her basket of
bananas, and was besides occupied with a little lurking
wonder at Reuben's impracticability. But with nothing
strongly, the feeling of weakness and lassitude was so
taking the upper hand of every other. The relaxing now

began to tell of the great tension she had borne for a day
or two; the relaxing was entire, for wh~,t the basket had
begun Reuben's appearance had finished. Faith was sure
he had a letter for her, and so sat and looked at the doctor
like one whose senses were floating away in a dream-one
of those pleasant dreams that they do not wish to break.
"You are faint !" said the doctor suddenly. "Mrs.
Perrick, have you any wine in the house? I should like
some here."
But Mrs. Derrick's first step (it seemed but that) was to
Faith-taking her out of the easy-chair and putting her on
the couch before any one had time to say ay or no. Thde
she left her while she opened the closet and got out the
wine; bringing it then to iFaith and setting the doctor
aside most unceremoniously. Faith had not quite reached
the fainting point, though she was near it from mere inani~
tion. She drank the wine, and smiled at them both like
one who had a secret wine of her own that she was taking
privately.
"What will she eat, Mrs. derrick ?" said the doctor in
real concern. "Tea and toa t won't do !"
"I will take something presently," Faith said with
another of those childlike satisfied looks. They made
Dr. Harrison very unlike hi self, always. He stood so
now.
"Doctor," said Mrs. Der ick, in her odd, free, rather
blunt and yet kindly way, " on are a very good doctor, I
dare say, but you're not mu h of a nurse. Now I am-
and I'll find her something to eat, - you needn't be
uneasy."
He looked at her with one of the best smiles that ever
came over his face; right, ree and kindly ~ then turned
to Faith.
"What made your knight o cross with me ?" he said as
he bent over her to take her and.
"I don't know-.-" said Fa th. "I am sure he had some
good reason."
"Reason to be cross
"lie didn't mean to be cross. You doii~t know Reuben
Taylor."

254

255


256             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY ANI~ SEAL.              25~

The doctor was inclined to be of a different opinion, for
his brows knit as soon as he had closed her door.
Now mother I" said Faith half raising herself,.-.." please
let me have my basket. I am going to try one of those
queer things. That is what I want.?'
"Do you know what I want ?" satd Mrs. Derrick as she
brought up the basket. "Just to have Dr. Harrison find
Mr. Linden here some day !" Which severe sentence was
so much softened down by the weight of the basket, that it
sounded quite harmless.
Faith was too eager to get the cover off to pay present
attention to this speech. There they were again! the red
and yellow strange, beautiful, foreign-looking things which
she was to eat; too handsome to disturb. But finally a red
plump banana was cut from the stem, and Faith looked at
it in her fingers, uncertainThow to begin the attack. Look.
ing back to the little empty space where it had been, Faith
became 'ware' of an end of blue ribband beneath said
space. Down went the banana and down went Faith. The
loop of ribband being' pulled gently suggested that it was
not able to contend with an unknown weight of bananas;
but when Faith partly held these up, the ribband yielded to
persuasion, and tugged after it into the daylight a tiny
package-which being unwrapped revealed a tiny oval case;
wherein lay, last of all, a delicate silver knife. Faith's face
of overflowing delight it was good to see.
"0 mother !-.-how just like him !-~.Mother !" exclaimed
Faith,--." this is to eat those with I"
Could anything more be wanting to give bananas a fla.
your? They happened moreover to hit the fancy the doctor
had been so anxious to suit. Faith liked her first one very
much, and pronounced it very nearly the best of all' fruits.
But being persuaded to try one, Mrs. Derrick avowed that
she could not eat it and wondered how Faith could; declare.
ing that in her judgment if a thing was sweet at all, it ought
to be sweeter.
If Dr. Harrison could have seen the atmosphere of peace
and delight his knit brows had left behind them!
As soon as he was gone, Reuben brought up the letters.
And with sunshine all round her, Faith read them and went
to sleep, which she did with the little case that held her

kui'e clamped in her hand. Sleep claimed her while fever
took its turn and passed away for the day. Faith woke up
towards evening, weak and weary in body, unable ton3ake
,nu~h lively shew of the 'merry heart' which 'doeth good
like a medicine'.
"My studies don't get on very fast at this rate, mother,"
she remarked as she sat in the easy-chair at her tea, unable
to hold her head up.
"This has been a hard day,~" her mother said sadly as she
looked at her. "'Faith, I w~n't let Dr. Harrison pay any
more such long visits! he tires you to death."
"It wasn't that. Mother-I think i'll have one of those
things out of my basket-I wish Mr. Linden h~d told me
what to call them."
Mrs. Derrick brought the basket and looked on intently.
"When is he coming, child ?" she said.
Faith did not certainly know. Under the influence of a
plantain and the silver knife she revived a little.
"Mother-what made you wish Dr. Harrison might meet
Mr. Linden here ?"
"It would save him a world of trouble," said Mrs. Der-
rick kindly. "And besides, child, I'm tired seeing him buzz
round you, myself. Faith, Mr. Linden would say that he
ought to be told you're sick."
"I can judge for him once in a while" Faith said with a
little bit of a triumphing smile.
"Well-" said her mother,-" you'll see what he'll say.
I guess he'd rather you'd judge for him about something
else."

From that time letters
chaug post-office.

went and came through the Pat-

22*


SAY AND SEAL.             259

CHAPTER XX.
F AITH Tallied somewhat from the prostration that suc-
ceeded those days of anxiety; but then the fever
again asserted its empire, and strength, little b~ little but
daily, lost ground rather than gained it. Though not ever
very high, the fever came back with persevering regularity;
it would not be baffled; and such always recurring assaults
are trying to flesh and blood and to spirit too, bethey of
what they may. Faith's patience and happy quiet never
left her; as the weeks went on it did happen that the
quiet grew more quiet, and was even a little bordering
on depression. One or two things helped this uncom.
fortably.
The sense of the extreme unpleasantness of such a meet-
ing as her mother had wished for, perhaps startled Faith
to a fresh sense of what she had to do in the premises,
She resolved to be as grave and cool as it was possible to
be, in Dr. Harrison's presence. She would keep him at
such a distance as should wean him from any thoughts of
her. Faith tried faithfully to do what she had purposed.
But it was very difficult to keep at a distance a person who
did not pretend to be near, or only pretended it in a line
where he could not be repulsed. He must see her every
day as her physician. He must be allowed the kindly ex-
pression of kind feelings; he could not be forbidden to
bring to his patient, as her friend and physician, such
things as he thought her strength, or weakness, needed.
These instances of thoughtfulness and care for her were
many. Birds, old wine from his father's cellar, flowers
from the greenhouse, and fruit from nobody knows where,
came often; and the manner of offering them, the quiet,
unobtrusive, unexacting kindness and attention, it was
scarce possible to reject without something that would
have seemed churlishness. Faith took them as gravely as
she could without being unkind. Her illness helped her,
and also hindered the effect she wished to produce. Feel-
ing weak and weary and unable for any sort of exertion, it
(268)

waS the easier for 1~er to be silent, abstracted, unresponsive
to anything that was said or done. And also her being so
signified the less and testified the less of her rcal purpose.
Faith knew it and could not help it. She could not besides
be anything but natural; and she felt kindly towards Dr.
Harrison; with a grave kindness, that yet was more earnest
in its ~good wishes for him than any other perhaps that
existed for Dr. Harrison in the xvorld. Faith could not
hide that, careful as she was in her manner of showing it.
And there was one subject upon which she dared not be
unresponsive or abstractted when the doctor brought it up.
He brought it up now very often.
She did not know how it was, she was far from knowing
why it was; but the pleasant talk with which the doctor
sought to amuse her, and which was most skilfully pleasant
as to the rest, was very apt to glance upon Bible subjects;
and as it touched, to brush them with the wing of doubt-
or difficulty- or uneasiness. Dr. Harrison did not see
things as she did-that was of old; but he contrived to
let her see that he doubted she did not see them right, and
somehow contrived also to make her hear his reasons. It
was done with the art of a master and the steady aim of a
general who has a great field to win. Faith did not want
to hear his suggestions of doubt and cavil. She remem-
bered Mr. Linden's advice long ago given; repeated it to
herself every day; and sought to meet Dr. Harrison only
with the sling stone of truth and let his weapons of artifi-
cial warfare alone. Truly she "had not proved these," and
dlcould not go with them." But whatever effect her sling
might have upon him, which she knew not, his arrows were
so cunningly thrown that they wounded her. Not in her
belief; she never failed for a moment to be aware that they
were arrows from a false quiver, that the sword of tnuth
would break with a blow. And yet, in her weak state of
body and consequent weak state of mind, the sight of such
poisoned arrows flying about distressed her; the mere
knowledge that they did fly and bore death with them; a
knowledge which once she happily had not. All this wotild
have l)ained her if she had been well; in the feverish de-
pression of illness it weighed upon her like a mountain of
cloud. Faith's shield caught the darts and kept them from


SAY AND SEAL.261

260             SAY AND SEAL.

herself; but in her increasing nervous weakness her hand
at last grew weary; and it seemed to Faith then as if she
could see nothing but those arrows flying through the air.
But there was one human form before which, she knew, this
mental array of enemies would incontinently take flight anc~
disappear; she knew they would not stand the first sound of
Mr. Linden's voice; and her longing grew intense for his
coining. How did she ever keel) it out of her letters! Yet
ft hardly got in there, for she watched it well. Sometimes
the subdued "I want to see you very much,".-at the close
of a letter, said more than Faith knew it did; and she
could not be aware how much was told by the tone of her
writing. That had changed, though that too was guarded,
so far as she could. She could not pour out a light, free,
and joyous account of all that was going on within and
about her, when she was suffering alternately from fever
and weakness, and through both from depression and nerv.
osis fancies. Most unlike Faith! and she tried to seem her
usual self then when she came most near it, in writing to
him. But it was a nice matter to 'write letters for so many
weeks out of a sick room and not let Mr. Linden find out
that she herself was there all the while. His letters how.
ever were both a help and a spur; Faith talked a good
deal of things not at Pattactuasset; and through all weak.
ness and ailing sent her exercises prepared with utmost
care, regularly as usual. It hurt her; but Faith would
not be stopped. Her sickness she knew after all was but a
light matter; and nothing could persuade her to break in
upon Mr. Linden's terni of study with any more interrupt.
tions for her. And 'even to Mrs. Derrick she did not tell
the keen heart-longing, which daily grew more urgent, for
that term to come to an end.
Mrs. Derrick did sometimes connect the cause of her
weariness with Dr. Harrison, and was indignant in proper.
tion. Faith looked at him with different eyes, and her
feeling was of very gentle and deep sorrow for him. It
was by the appeal to that side of her character that Dr.
Harrison gained all his advantage.
Faith's shield caught his arrows of unbelieving sugges-
tion and threw them off from her, own heart; she could
not put that shield between them and the doctor, and that

was her grief It grieved her more than he thought. And
yet, it was with a half conscious7 half instinctive availing
himself of this feeling that he aimed and managed his at-
tacks with such consummate tact and skill. Faith would not
have entered into controversy; she would not have taken up
a gauntlet of challenge; did he know that? His hints and
questions were brought into the subject, Faith knew not
how; but the point of view in which they always presented
themselves was as troubles of his own mind-difficulties
he would willingly have solved-questions he would like to
see answered. And Faith's words, few or many, for she
was sometimes drawn on, were said in the humble yearning
desire to let him know what she rejoiced in and save him
from an abyss of false fathomless depth. It was more than
she could do. Dr. Harrison's subtle difficulties and propo-
sitions had been contrived in a school of which she knew
nothing; and were far too subtle and complicate in their
false wit for Faith's true wit to answer.' Not at all for
lack of wit, but for lack of skill in fencing and of experi-
ence in the winding of duplicity. So she heard things
that grieved her and that she could not shew up to the
doctor for what she knew them to be.
"I am no better than this little knife !" she thought
bitterly one day, as she was looking at her favourite silver
banana-carver;-" it can go through soft fruit well enough,
but it isn't strong enough or sharp enough to deal with
anything harder !-"
Faith did herself injustice. It takes sometimes little less
than Ithuriel's spear to make the low, insidious, unobtrusive
forms of evil stand up and shew themselves what they are
...-the very Devil!
"Reuben," said Faith one time when they were alone
together,-" did you ever hear any of the mischievous talk
against the Bible, of people who don't love it ?"
"Yes, Miss Faith,-J never heard a great deal at a
time-only little bits nc~w and then. And I've felt some-
times from a word or two what other words the people had
in their hearts."
"Don't ever let people talk it to you~ Reuben, unless
God makes it your duty to hear it," she said wearily.
Reuben looked at her.


262             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             263

"Do you think he ever makes it our duty, Miss Faith ?"
"I don't know !" said Faith, a little as if the question
startled her. "But you might be where you could not help
it, Reuben."
He was silent, looking ~rather thoughtfully into the fire,
"Miss Faith," he said, "you remember when Christian
was going through the Valley of the Shadow of Deat1~
the fiends came and whispered to him all sorts of dreadful
things which he would not have thought of for the world,
'But,' as Mr. Bunyan says, 'he had not the discretion
either to stop his ears, or to know from whence those bias.
phemies came'." Reuben blushed a little at his own advice.
giving, but made no other apology.
There was much love and respect and delight in Faith's
swift look at him. Her words glanced. "Reuben7 I an~
glad you are going to be a minister !"-..She added with th~
sorrowful kw~k stealing over her face, "X wish the worN~
was full of ministers l---if they were good ones."
His face was very bright and grateful, and humble too.
"Miss Faith," he said, taking up her words, "don't you
love to think of that other definition of minister ?..-.-you
know-..-.' ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure'."
"In that way the world is full now," said Faith; "in ~di
things except men. But by and by 'the great trumpet will
be blown' and 'they that were ready to perish' shall come,
from everywhere. It's good to know that."
"It's such a beautiful thing to know, just by believing 1"
Reuben said,-." don't you think so, Miss Faith? And then
whatever people say or do, and if we can't find a word to
answer them, we know down in our hearts, that the Bible
is true. And so 'by faith we stand'."
~~ButAWe ought to find words to answer them, Reuben-
or else, though we stand, they fall I"
"Yes, ma'am-sometimes," Reuben said rather hesita-
tingly. "Only-I've heard Mr. Linden say that a Chris.
tian must take care of his own standing first, and do
nothing to shake that; or else he may have his own light
blown out while he's trying to light other people's. You
know, Miss Faith, the five wise virgins would not give
their oil to the others. I've heard Mr. Linden talk about
it very often," Reuben added softly, as if he wanted to
screen himself from the charge of presumption.

If Faith was bringing charges, it was against herself
for she sat very silent and thoughtful, and weary also; for
when for the fifth or sixth time Reuben brought his eyes
from the fire to her face he saw that she had fallen asleep.
Mr. Linden's letters about this time told two or three
things, among the rest that he might soon be looked for
instead of letters. Moreover that he felt sure he was
wanted-and further, that Faith's letters had changed.
These two last things were not said in words, but Faith
read them none the less surely-..read thus first that her let-
ters really were different. Just what cause Mr. Linden
assigned to himself, she did not know, nor whether he had
fixed upon any; but it was clear that nothing but the fact
that his freedom was so close at hand, kept him from free-
ing himself at once and coming to Pattaquasset. And
second only to Faith did Mrs. Derrick long for his appear-
ance.
She had heard bits of the doctor's talk from time to
time, but for a while with some doubt of their meaning,.-.-.
as whether he was reporting what other people said, or
whether she had heard him correctly. But when by
degrees the goodness of her hearing attested itself, then
Mrs. Derrick's indignation began to follow suit. The
doctor's object she did not at first guess (perhaps made
it, if possible, worse than it was) but that made little
difference.
On this particular afternoon, when Faith woke up she
fouiid Reuben gone and her mother keeping watch. The
fair look that always greeted Mrs. Derrick was given her,
but otherwise the face she was studying was not satisfac-
tory. The roundness o~ the cheek was much lessened, the
colour was gone, and the lines of expression were weary
though she had slept. Or rather perhaps they were too
gravely drawn.
"Faith," said her mother decisively, "you want your tea.
Can you eat a broiled pigeon, if I broil it myself?"
"I can eat a piece of one, if you'll take the rest,
mother," she said with a smile at her. "I eat a whole
banana just before J went to"
"Well this ain't the doctor's pigeon, so I guess it will
be good," said Mrs. Derrick. "Sam Stoutenburgh brought


264

SAY AND SEAL.

it..-And I'm going to cook it here, pretty child, because ~
want to be here myself. I suppose the smoke won't tron.
ble you if it goes up chimney ?"
"I'd like it, smoke and all, mother,'~said Faith, changing
the resting-place for her head. "But you needn't slight
the doctor's birds-they were as fine birds as could be.....
when I could eat them."
"'Birds of a feather'.-." said Mrs. Derrick laconically
And she drew out some of the glowing and Winking
embers, and set thereon the tiny gridiron with its purplish
plump pigeon. "Sam's home now, Faith, and you'd think
he'd been through every degree of everything. But the
first thing he did was to go off and shoot pigeons for you."
Faith was inclined to think he had not got above one
degree. She sat in her easy-chair and watched the play
cookery with amused pleased eyes.
I should like to be in the kitchen again, mother-..doing
something for you."
"You shall do something for me presently," said her
mother, as the pigeon began to send out little puffs of
steam and jets of juice, which the coals resented. "This
one's fat, anyway-and there's a half dozen more. The
fun of it is, child, that Sam was afraid there weren't
enough !.-he wanted to know if I was sure they'd last till
to-morrow !.-.so I guess he's not in a fainting away state.
I told him we'd roast beef in the house, for you to fall
back upon, child," she added with a little laugh, as she
turned the pigeon. But her face wa~ very grave the next
moment, with the sorrowful reality. "Pretty child," she
said tenderly, "do you feel as if you could eat a muffin or
a biscuit best ?"
"Mother, that pigeon is making me hungry, it smells so
nice. I am sure I can cat anything'"
"Well I ~ made muffins," said Mrs. Derrick7 bustling
softly about with the little table and the tea-things. "Faith,
I'm afraid to have Mr. Linden come home and find your
cheeks so thin."
"I'm not," said Faith quietly.
"My !" said her mother, "you never were afraid of any*
thing he'd a mind to do, child. But for all I know, he may
carry you off to Europe in the next steamer. He's up

SAY AND SEAL.

265

to 'roost anything," said Mrs. Derrick stooping down by
the pigeon, and giving it the persuasion of a few more coals.
Faith said languidly that she did not think there was
much danger, and Mrs. Derrick for the present concentrated
her attention upon the tea preparations. Cindy came up
~jth a little teakettle, and Mrs. Derrick made the tea, and
then went down stairs to superintend the first baking of the
muffins, leaving the teakettle to sing Faith into a very quiet
state of mind. Then presently reappearing, with a smoking
plate of cakes in her hand, Mrs. Derrick took up the
pigeon, with due applications of butter and salt and pepper,
and the tea was ready. It was early; the sunbeams were
lingering yet in the room, the air wafted in through the
window the sweet dewy breath of flowers and buds and
springing grass over the pigeon and muffins; and by Faith's
plate stood the freshest of watercresses in a little white
bowl. These Reuben brought her every day, wet from the
clear stream where they grew, shining with the drops of
bright water, and generally sprinkled too with some of the
spring flowers. To-day the plate on which the bowl stood
had a perfect wreath or crown of mouse-ear,---..the pale pink
blossoms saying all sorts of sweet things. The room was
well off for flowers in other respects. Dr. Harrison's hot-
house foreigners looked dainty and splendid, and Mrs.
Stoutenburgh's periwinkle and crocuses and daffodils looked
springlike and fresh; while in another glass a rich assort-
ment of dandelions spoke a prettier message yet, frora
Charles twelfth and his little cotnpeers.
"And the mouse-ear is come !" said Faith as she applied
herself to the refreshment of salt and watercresses. "I won-
der whether Reuben does this becarise he loves flowers him-
self, or because he knows I d~o. I guess it's both. How
lovely they are! how my dairy must want me, mother."
Which was said with a little recollective patient sigh.
"I guess it can wait," said her mother cheerfully. "And
I guess it'll have to. You needn't think yo~i'll be let do
anything for one while, Faith."
"I guess I shall, mother. I am sure I ~am stronger to-
day,-and Dr. Harrison said I had less fever. And your
pigeon is good. Besides, I must,-.--~if I can,".-.-said Faith
with an anticipative glance this time.
VOL. II.                23

il
Ii


SAY AND SEAL.            267

SAY AND SEAL.

"It's my belief, child,"' said her mother, "that If Dr
Harrison had staid away altogether or never staid here
more than five minutes at a time, you'd have been better
long ago. But I think you are better-in spite of him."
Of the two subjects Faith preferred the pigeon to Dr.~
Harrison, and discussed it quite to her mother's satisfaction,
But if silent, she thought never the less. Both Reuben
Taylor's words and her mother's words quickened her to
thinking, and thinking seemed of very little use. The next
day when the doctor came she was as grave and still and
unresponsive as she could be. And it had no effect on hint
whatever. He was just as usual, he talked just as usual;
and Faith could but be grieved~ and be silent. It did not
enter her gentle imagination that the very things which so
troubled her were spoken on purpose to trouble her. flow
could it? when they made their way intQ the conversation
and into her hearing as followers of something else, as
harpies that worried or had worried somebody else, as
shapes that a cloud might take and be a cloud again-only
she could not forget that shape. It was near now the time
for Mr. Linden to come home, and Faith looked for his
coming with an hourly breath of longing. It seemed to
her that his very being there would at once break the mesh
Dr. Harrison was so busy weaving and in which she had no
power to stop him.
But the doctor's opportunity for playing this game was
nearing an end, and he knew it. He did not know that
Mr. Linden was coming; he did know that Faith was
getting well.
A day or two after the talk with Reuben it happened
that Mrs. Derrick was detained down stairs when the doc.
tor came up to see Faith. The room was full of a May
warmth and sweetness from the open windows ; and Faith
herself in a white dress instead of the brown wrapper,
looked May-like enough. Not so jocund and blooming
certainly; she was more like a snowdrop than a crocus.
Her cheeks were pale and thin, but their colour was fresh;
and her eye had the light of returning health,- or of
returning something else!
"You are getting well, !" said the doctor. "I shall lose
my' work-.and forgive me, my pleasure !"

uj will give you some better work to do, Dr. Harrison."
"What is that? Anything for you! "
"Jt is not for me. That little lame child to whom you
sent the rose-tree, Dr. Harrison, -she i~ very sjck. Would
you go and see her ?"
"Did you think I would not ?" he said rather gravely.
"I want to see her very much myself," Faith went on ;...-..
"but I suppose I could not take so long a ride yet.
Could I ?"
The doctor looked at her.
"I think the mother of the Gracehi must have been
something such a woman 1" he said with an indescribable
grave comic mien ;-" and the other Roman mother that
saved Rome and lost her son! Or that lady of Sparta
who made the affectionate request to her son about coming
home from the battle on his shield! I thought the race had
died out."
Faith could not help laughing. He had not been sure
that she would understand his allusions, but his watchful
eye saw that she did.
"Were you educated in Pattaquasset ?" he said. "Par-
don me 1"-
All Faith's gravity returned, and all her colour too.
"No, sir," she said, "I have never been educated. I am
studying now."
"Studying 1" ~said he gently. "You have little' need to
study."
"Why, sir?"
"There are minds and natures so rich by their original
constitution, that their own free growth is a fuller and better
harvest than all the schoolmasters in the world can bring
out of other people."
Again Faith's cheek was dyed. "I was poor enough,"
she said bowing her head for a moment. "I am poor now,
-but I am studying."
In which last words lay perhaps the tiniest evidence of
an intention not to be poor always. A suspicious glance
of thought shot from the doctor's mind. But as it had
happened more than once before, the simplicity of Faith's
frankness misled him, ~and he dismissed suspicion.
' if you want an illustration of my meaning,~~ he went on

266


268             SAY AND SEAL.

without change of manner, "permit me to remind ~
that your paragon of character,---the Rhododendron......do~
no stOdying. My conclusion i~ plain !"
"The Rhododendron does all it can."
"Well-" said the doctor,-."it is impossible to trace the
limits of the influence~ of mignonette."
Faith looked grave. She was thinking how very power.
less her influences had been.
"Don't you see that I have made out my position ?"
"What sort of studying-may I ask it ?-do you favour
most ?" he said with a smile.
"I like all kinds-every kind !"
"I believe that. I know you have a love for chynPstry,
and Shakspeare, and natural history. But I should like to
know Mignonette's favourite atmosphere."
"The study I like best of all is the one you like least,
Dr. Harrison."
"What may that be, Miss Faith ?"
"The study of the Bible."
"The Bible! Surely you know that already," he said in
an interested voice.
"Did you think so ?" said Faith quickly and with secret
humbleness. "You made a great mistake, Dr. Harrison.
But there is nothing I take such deep lessons in ;-nor such
pleasant ones."
"You mistake me too, Miss Faith. I do like it. You
are strong enough for it to-day-I wish you would give Inc
one of those lessons you speak of?"
"If you loved it, sir, you would not ask me. You would
find them for yourself."
"Another mistake !" said the doctor. "I might love
them, and yet ask you. Won't you give me one ?"
She lifted to his a look so gentle and grave that he could
not think she was displeased, or harsh, or even unkind.
But she answered him, "No."
"Don't you feel strong enough for it ?" he said with a
shade of concern.
"Yes.".
"You t1~ink you have given me one lesson already," he
said smiling, "which I am not attending to. I will go and

SAY AND SEAL.

269

see your little sick child immediately. But I don't know
the way! I wish you were well enough to pilot me. I
can't find her by the sign of the rosebush ?"
"Reuben Taylor will take you there, Dr. Harrison, if
von will let him. He goes there often."
"If I will let him ! Say, if he will let me! Your knight
does not smile upon me, Miss Faith."
"Why not ?"
"I'm sure I'm not qualiaed to give evidence," said the
doctor hail' laughing at having the tables turned upon him.
"Unless his chivalric devotion to you is jealous of every
other approach - even mine~ But you say he will guide
me to the rosebush ?"
"I am sure he will ~vith great pleasure, Dr. Harrison."
" d I will go with great pleasure-for you."
He was standing before her, looking down. There was
something in the look that made Faith's coJo~ur come again.
She answeredseriously, "No sir-not for mb."
"Why not?"
"I can't reward you," said Faith; trembling, for she
felt she was speaking to the point. "Do it for a better
reason."
"Will you shew me a better?"
She answered instantly with a bright little smile, "'Give,
and it shall be given unto you; full measure, pressed down,
heaped up, and running over, shall men give into your
bosom.'"
"In another world !-" said the doctor.
"No-in this. The promise stands for it."
"It's your part of this world-not mine; and unless you
shew me the way, Miss Faith, I shall never get into it."-
Then more gently, taking her hand and kissing it, he added,
"Are you tired of trying to help me
Faith met his keen eye, reddened, and drooped her head;
for indeed she felt weak. And her words were low and
scarce steady. "I will not be tired of praying for you, Dr.
harrison."
What swift electric current along the chain of associa-
tion moved the doctor's next question. He was silent a
minute before he spoke it; then spoke in a clear even
voice. "May II ~s1~ you-Is it impertinent - what first led
23*

II


2~O              SAY AND SEAL.

you to this way of thinking ?-Sophy says you were not
always so."
The colour deepened on Faith's cheek, he saw that, anc~
deepened more.
"The teaching is always of heaven, sir. But it came to
me through the hands of the friend who was so long in our
house-last year."
"And has that adventurer counselled you to trust no
friend that isn't of his way of thinking ?" the doctor said
with some haughtiness of accent.
Faith raised her eyes and looked at him the steady grave
look that the doctor never liked to meet from those soft,
eyes. It fixed his, till her eyes fell with a sudden motion
and the doctor's followed them-whither? To that gloved
forefinger which he had often noticed was kept covered.
Faith was slowly drawing the covering off; and something
in her manner or her look kept his eyes rivetted there.
Slowly, deliberately, Faith uncovered the finger, and in full
view the brilliant sparkled ~ danced and leapt, as it seemed
to Faith, whose eyes saw nothing else. She did not dare
look up, nor could, for a double reason. She sat like a fair
statue, looking still and only at the diamond sign, while th~
blood in her cheeks that bore witness to it seemed the only
moving thing about her. That rose and deepened, from
crimson to scarlet, and from her cheeks to the rim of her
hair.
She never saw the changes in her neighbour's face, nor
what struggles tha paleness and the returning flush bore
witness to: She never looked up6 She had revealed all;
she was willing he should conceal all,-that~ he could. It
was but a minute or two, though Faith's measurement made
it ~a more indefinite time; and Dr. Harrison took her hand
again, precisely in his usual manner, remarked that it was
possible he might be obliged to go south in a day or two
for a day or two, but that he rather thought he had cured
her; and so went off, with no difference of tone that any.
stranger could have told, and Faith never raised her eyes
to see how he looked.

CHAPTER XXi.
R. HARRISON sent away his curricle and walked
~home,-slowly, with his hands behind him, as if the
May air had made him lazy. To any one that met him, he
wore as disengaged an air as usual; his eye was as coolly
cognizant of all upon which it fell, and his brow never
looked less thoughtful. While his head never had been
more busy. He kept the secret of his pride-he had kept
and would keep it, well; no one should guess what he bore;
but he bore a writhing brain and a passion that was heav-
ing with disappointment. To no end-except to expose
himself-he had worked at his mining operations all these
months; nothing could be more absolute than the silence
of Faith's answer; nothing could be more certain than the
fixedness of her position. A against the very impassable-
ness of the barrier the doctor's will chafed, even ~vhule his
hope gave way. He ruthlessly called himself a fool for it
too, at the minute. But he was unused to be baffled; and
no man pursues long with such deliberate energy a purpose
upon which he has set his heart, without having all the
cords of his will and his passion knit at last into a cable of
strength and tenacity. The doctor's walk grew slower, and~
his eyes fell on the ground. How lovely Faith had looked
-even then, when she was putting him and herself to pain;
how speakingly the crimson hues had chased each other
all over her face, and neck; how shyly her eyelashes had
kept their place on her cheek; with how exquisite grace
her still attitude had been maintained. And ~withal what
a piece of simplicity she was! What a cQntrast those
superb diamonds had made with the almost quaint un-
adornedness of her figure in its white wrapper. A con-
trast that somehow was not inharmonio~, and with which
the doctor's artistic taste confessed itself bewitched, though
Faith's only other remotest ornament was that very
N                        (271)


SAY AND SEAL.                   2'~3

2~2             SAY AND SEAL.

womanly one of her rich brown hair. A piece of simplicity?
Could she be beyond his reach? With duty between,.....
yes; otherwise,-no! as all the doctor's experience told
him. And he walked leisurely past his own door, past the
houses of the village, on almost to the entrance of the
woody road; then turned and came with a brisker pace
back. lie still called himself a fool, secretly; but he went
into the library and wrote a letter. Which in course of
time was received and read by Mr. Linden between two of
his pieces of work.
It appeared the next day that Dr. Harrison had changed
his mind, or his* plans, about going south; for he came as
usual to see Faith. In every sense as usual; to her
astonishment no traces remained of the yesterday's conveiL
station. The ease and kindliness of his manner had suffered
no abatement, although a little touch of regretfulness, just
allowed to appear, forbade her to doubt that she had been
understood. Spite of herself, she could not help being
presently again almost at ease with him. Nevertheless
Faith wished he had gone south.
She did not feel sure that Mr. Linden would be pleased
with the state of matters, as days went on, and she~as
sure she~ was not pleased herself. There ~r~s something
she did not understand. The doctor's manner was not pre.
suing, in a way; neither did he obtrude even his sorrow
upon her; yet he took the place of a privileged person-
she felt that - and she was obliged t~o see his pain in the
very silence and in the play of words or of face which she
thought assumed to conceal it. She was very sorry for
him, and in the same breath thought she must have been
wrong in something, though she could not see how, or
things would never have come to such a point;
She could not guess-how could she !-that the doctor
was playing a desperate game and had thrown his last
stake on the chance of a flaw in Mr. Linden's confidence
towards her or in hers towards him, or of a flaw in the tem~
per of either of them, or a flaw in their pride, or affection!
There are flaws in so many characters! Did but either of
them lack moral courage, or truth, or trust, or common
sense, like a great many of the rest of the world-and the
doctor had gained his ground! For Dr. Harrison had de~

termined that Faith's religious opinions should not stand in
his way; she should think as he did, or-he would think
~jth her!
Of all this Faith knew nothing. She had only an intui-
tive sense that something was not right; and doubt and
annoyance kept her strength back. She lost ground again.
All summed itself up in a longing for Mr. Linden to come.
Meanwhile Mr. Linden had received and read the follow-
ing despatch, and studied and taught before and after it as
best he might.
Pattaquasse4 April, 18-.-~...
"MY DEAR LINDEN,
I do not know what impulse prompts me to write this
letter to you.-A very strong one, probably, that makes
fools of men-Yet even with my eyes open to this, I go on.
I have unwittingly become, your rival. Not in fact,
indeed, but in character. I have been so unfortunate as to
love a person you are somehow concerned in-and before
I knew that you had any concern of the kind. That is a
very simple story7 and only one to be smothered-not to be
brought to open air,--were it all. But the course of the
months past, which has too late brought me this knowledge
of myself, has also made me believe that-had I. a fair
field-were th re no contrary ties or fetters of conscience-
I should not love in vain. What those ties are I know
nothing - I have not asked-but the existence of some
obligation I have been given to understand. With certain
natures of truth and duty, that is a barrier impassable. You
would be safe, were I to act out of honour.
I am a fool, I believe; but I am not yet such a fool as
no to know that there is but one man in the world to whom
I coul vrite such a confession. Nothing better prompts
it than pure selfishness, I am aware-but with me that is
strong. I have that notion of you that you would not
care to keep what you held only by priority of claim. I
may be wrong in the supposition upon which I am going-
yet it is my chance for life and I. cannot yield it up. That
were the lady free-in conscience as well as in fact-she
might be induced to look favourably on me. I ought to
add, that I believe such a consciousness has never shaped
itself to her mind-the innocence with which she may at

)


214              SAY AND SEAL.

first have entered into some sort of obligation, would not
lessen or alter its* truth or stringency to her pure mind,
The game is in your own hands, Liziden-.so is
Your unworthy friend
JULIUS IIAI~RISON
P. S.-One thing farther I ought to add-.~-.tliat a SOfliC.
what delicate state of nerves and health, over which I ha~
been for some time watching, would make any rash broach.
lug of this subject very inexpedient and unsafe. II need
not enforce this hint."

CHAPTER XXII.
milE spring opened from day to day, and the apple
I
~ blossoms were bursting. Mr. Linden might soon be
looked for, and one warm May afternoon Faith went in
to make his ro6m ready. It was the first day she had
been fit for it, and she was yet so little strong that she
niust take care of her movements. With slow and unable
fingers she did her pleasant work, and then very tired, sat
down in her old reading window-seat and went into a long
dream-meditation. It was pleasant for a while, in har-
mony with the summer air and the robins in the maple; it
got round at last into the train of the last weeks. A
fruitless reverie ended in Faith's getting very weary; and
she went back to her own room to put herself on the couch
cushions and go to sleep.                          )
Sleep held on its way after a peaceful fashion, yet not so
but that Faith's face showed traces of her thoughts. Mrs.
Derrick came softly and watched her, and the spring air
blew back the curtains and fanned her, and brushed her
hair with its perfumed wings; and one or two honey bees
buzzed in and sought honey from the doctor's flowers, and
forsook them again for the fields.
Up there at last, following Mrs. Derrick, came Mr. Lin-
den. With few reasons asked or told of his sudden appear-
ance; with little said even of Faith's illness but the mere
fact, he went up to the sunlit room and there staid. Not
restingly in Faith's easy-chair, but standing by the low fire-
place, just where he could have the fullest view of her.
Mrs. Derrick came and went, -he never stirred. The sun-
beams came and went-wrapped Faith in their bright folds
and lay at his feet, then began to withdraw altogether.
They had showed hini the unwontedly pale and worn face,
and lit up the weary lines in which the lips lay asleep; and
just when the sunbeams had left it all, Mr. Linden became
aware that two dark eyes had softly opened and were
gazing at him as if he were ~a figure in a dream. So per-
(275)


276

SAY AND SEAL.

haps for a minute he seemed, touched with the light as he
was, which made a glorification in the brown locks of his
hair and gleamed about "pleasant outline~" standing as
fixed and still as a statue. But they wc~re not statue eyes
which looked into hers, and Faith's dreas~like gaze ~
only for a moment. Then every line of her face changed
with joy, and she sprang up to hide it in Mr. Linden'8
arms. lie stood still, holding her as one holds so~
rescued thing. iF7or Faith was too weak to be just herself
and weariness and gladness had found their own very ~
usual expression in an outflow of nervous tears.
Something seemed to have taken away Mr. Linden~
power of words. He did place her among the cushions
again, but if every one of her tears had been balm to hin
he could not have let them flow more unchecked. Perhaps
the recollection that they were tears came suddenly; for
with very sudden sweet peremptoriness he said,
"Faith, hush !-Are you so glad to see me ?"
She was instantly ~til1. No answer.
"What then ?" The intonation ~vas most tender,-so,
rather than by any playfulness, cancelling 4ils own question,
She raised her head, she had dismissed her tears, yet the
smile with which her glance favoured him was a sort of
rainbow smile, born of clouds.
"That is a very struggling and misty sunbeam !" said
Mr. Linden. "Is that why I was kept out of its range so
long ?"
Faith's head drooped. Her forehead lay lightly against
him; he could not see what sort of a smile she wore.
"Whereupon it goes into seclusion altogether. Mignon.
ette, look up and kiss me,.-.-how much longer do you sup.
pose I can wait for that ?"
He had no longer to wait at that time, and the touch of
her lips was with a tremulous gladness which was tale..te11~
ing. And then the position of the lowered head and the
hand which kept its, place on his shoulder showed him that
she was clinging, though with shy eagerness, like a bird
the.t with tired wing ha~ found her nest. With one of those
quick impulses whh~h to-day seemed to have taken the place
of his usual steadiness, Mr. Linden bent down and lAessed
her; in words such as she never remembered from other

SAY AND SEAL.

277I

lips. Not many indeed, but deep and strong, ..-as the very
depth and strength of his own human and religious nature;
words that stilled Faith's heart as with the shadowing of
peace; so that for the time she could not wonder, but only
rest. They made her tremble a moment; then she rested
as if the words had been a spell. But the rest wrought
action. Faith drew back presently a\~id looked up at Mr.
Linden to see how he looked. And then she could not
tell. Her puzzled eyes found nothing to remark upon.
"Endy-I thought you would not be here for two or
three days yet."
"It was nearly impossible. My child, when did you get
sick ?"
"0-a good while ago."
"'A good while'," - Mr. Linden repeated with grave
emphasis. "Well do you think it would have lengthened
the time to have me come and see you ?"
Faith's heart was too full, and her answer, looking down,
was a tremulous, quiet and tender,
"I don't think it would."
"Then wherefore was I not permitted ?"
"I didn't want you to come then."
"And again, wherefore ?"
"Why you know, Endy. I couldn't want you till you
were ready to come."
"I should have been most emphatically ready! What
sort of medical attendance have you had ?"
"Good, you know. I had Dr. Harrison."
"And he did his duty faithfully ?"
"I guess he always does-his medical duty," said Faith
somewhat quietly.
"Duty is a sort of whole-souled thing, to my mind," said
Mr. Linden. "Do you think all his ministrations did you.
good?"
There was pain and wonder, and even some fear in Faith's
eyes as she looked at Mr. Linden.
"They ought not to have done me any harm" she said
meekly.
"Did they, Faith? I thought-" Very softly and thought-
fully his fingers came about her hair, his eyes looking at
her, Faith could hardly tell how. The pain of those weeks
VOL.11.               24

if
II


278              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             2~I9

stung her again.-.-.the sorrow and the shame and the need.
lessness. Faith's head sunk again upon Mr. Linden's
breast, for the tears came bitterly; though he could not
k~1ow that. He only knew that they came. Holding her
with a strong arm-as if against some one else; soothing
'her with grave kisses, not with words, Mr. Linden waited
for her to speak.
"Child," he said at last, "you will do yourself harm,
Has he brought on this state of 'the nerves that he talks
about? And in what possible way ?"
"Don't talk about it, Endy !-~" said Faith struggling
for self-command-" I am foolish-and wrong-and weak,
I'll tell you another time."-But Faith's head kept its
position.
"Do you think I can wait, to know what has made my
coming home such a tearful affair ?"
"Yes. Because it's all over now."
"What is over ?"
"All-that you wouldn't like."
"Faith you talk in perfect riddles !-.-Jt is well that what
I can see of this very pale little face is less puzzling. Did
you tell Dr. Harrison of your claim upon me ?"
"What ?-." she said looking up.
"Well.-You know what that claim is. Did you tel)
him, Faith ?"
Her eyes fell again. "Yes-at least-I she wed him my
ring."
" In answer to his suit, Faith ?"
"No.-He was talking as I did not like, one day."-.
Faith's cheeks were growing beautifully rosy.
"Was it to protect yourself; or me ?" said Mr. Linden
watching her. Faith's glaiice up and down, was inex-
pressibly pretty.
"Myself; I think."
"You have a strange power of exciting and keeping
down my temper, at one and the same time I" said Mr.
Linden. "What did he dare say to you ?"
"Nothing about me. It was something-about you-.
which I did not choose to have him say."
Mr. Linden smiled, and called her a little crusader, but
the grave look came back. Dr. Harrison had known,

then, just what ties he was trying to break,-had felt sure
....-rnust have felt sure-~-that they were bonds of very deep
Jove and confidence; and thereupon, had coolly set him-
self to sow mistrust! Mr. Linden was very sllent,.-tlie
keen words of indignation that rose to his lips ever driven
back and turned aside by Faith's face, which told so plainly
that she coyild bear no excitement. He spoke at last with
great deliberation.
"You may as well shew it to all Pattaquasset, Mig-
nonette !-for all Pattaquasset shall know before I have
been here much longer."
"What ?-why ?" she said startling.
"For what you will, love. I think you need the pro-
tection of my name."
Faith could not deny it; however she looked quaintly
grave upon the proposition.
"Do you know how you will have to scour the country
now, and make yourself as much as possible like cowslips
and buttercups and primroses and mouse-ear ?" said Mr.
Linden smiling. "One day you may be a Spring beauty,
and the next Meadow~sweet, and when I see you a wild
pink I shall feel comparatively happy."
Faith with a very little laugh remarked that she did not
feel as if she ever should be anything wild.
"What is your definition of wild ?"
"Not tame."
"Does that meek adjective express the kind of pink you
intend to be ?"
"I didn't say what I should be-I only spoke of what
I am."
"Shall I tell you the future tense of this very indicative
mood?" he said touching her cheeks.
"If you know it!"
"If I know it !-You ~vil1 be (some months later) a
Linden flower I - whether wild or tame remains to be
Unless Linden flowers can be sometimes found a good
deal 'deeper-coloured than pinks, there was at least very
little present resemblance. The only notice Faith took of
this prophecy was an involuntary one. The door softly
opened at this point, and Mrs. Derrick came in to an-

279

278

~I1


280             SAY AND SEAL.

ounce tea. She stood still a moment surveying them
both.
"How do you think she looks, Mr. Linden ?"
His eyes went back to Faith, giving a quick reply which
he did not mean they should. ." She looks like a dear child
-as she is, Mrs. Derrick. I cannot say much more for
her. But I shall take her down to tea."
Mrs. Derrh~k went joyfully off for shawls and wrappers.
iMir. Linden was silent; his eyes had not stirred. But he
amused himself with taking some of the violets from the
table near by and fastening them in her belt and hair* the
very touch of his fingers telling some things he did not
speak.
"Sunbeam, do you feel as if you could bear transport.
tion ?"
"Not as a sunbeam. I could walk do ~yn, I think," said
Faith. Mr. Linden remarked that the trhth of that pro-
position would never be known; and then she was muffled
in a large soft shawl, and carried down stairs and laid on
the sofa in the sitting-room. The windows were open for
the May wind, but there was a dainty little fire still-every-
thing looked strangely familiar; even Mi'. Linden; though
his face wore not just its most wanted expression. He
had laid her down among the cushions and loosened her
wrapping shawl, and paid a little attention to the fire; and
now stood in Dr. Harrison's favourite place, looking at
her,-perhaps trying to see whether she looked more like
herself down ~tairs than she had done above. He could not
find that she did. Faith felt as if a great cloud haa rolled
over and rolled off from her; yet in her very happiness she
had a great desire to cry; her weakness of body helped
that. Her head lay still upon the cushions with fingers
pressed upon her brow. She hardly dared look at Mr.
Linden; her eye wandered over less dangerous things;
yet it saw him not the less. How sweetly the wind blew.
Mr. Linden went off to the window and picked three or
four of the May roses that grew there, ~and then coming to
sit down by Faith's sofa softly pushed one of the buds in
between her fingers, and made the rest into a breast knot
which he laid on the white folds of her dress. He put
other roses in her cheeks then, but it was all done with a

SAY AND SEAL.

281

curiofl5 quietness that covered less quiet things. Faith
took the flowers and played with them, venturing scarce a
look of answer. With the wasted cheek, the delicate flush
on it, and all the stirred 'fountain of feeling which she was
not so able as usual to control, Faith was very lovely; to
~liI~h effect the roses and violets scattered over her lent a
help of their own. Mr. Linden looked at her,-giving now
and then a little arranging touch to flowers or hair-with
an unbending face, which ended at last in a very full
bright smile ;~ though just why it ~rouged her cheeks so
instantly Faith did not feel quite sure. She felt the
rouge.
"I am glad you feel like yourself again," she remarked.
"how do you know that I do ?"
"ii think you look so."
"Qnite a mistake. I am only bewitched. That is some-
what lik~i~I yself, I must own."
Faith's face made a remonstrance, not at all calculated to
be successful.
"Please don't bewitch me then !" said Mr. Linden an-
swering the look. "You know I cannot help it-and on
the whole you don't wish I could. What do you think of
her now, Mrs. Derrick ?" he added, getting up to roll the
tea-table close to the sofa. The folding of Mrs. Derrick's
hands was significant.
"Yes, but you must not look at her so," said Mr. Linden
demurely arranging the table and sofa angles in harmonious
relation. "You should look with cool unconcern~as I
do."
"You!" said Mrs. Derrick. "Well I should like to see
that for once."
Faith laughed again, and was ready for her supper after
a new fashion from what she had known for many a day
past. There is no doubt but ~ and broiled pigeon
were good that night!
24*


SAY AND SEAL.             283

CHAPTER XXIII.
W HAT a twitter of birds was in Faith's ears as she
awoke next morning! Perhaps they were not really
more noisy than usual, but she seemed to hear them more;
and then it was a soft balmy morning, with a joyous spring
sunshine and a dancing spring air, which gave full effect to
all the~bird voices. Faith listened to the chorus, the choir,
the concert, the solos, with a charmed ear. The minute'~
hush; the low twitter-answered softly from bush and tree;
the soft chiming in of other notes; the swelling, quicken.
lug, increasing song---till every sparrow and killdeer in all
Pattaquasset drew his bow and clattered his castanets with
the speed and the eagerness of twenty fiddlers. Only
in this orchestra the heads turned gracefully on swelling
throats, an~ for the angular play of elbows there was the
lifting flutter of joyous wings; and the audience of opening
leaves 'clapped their little hands' for an encore.
Such were the sounds that came to Faith from without;
-within her room, Mrs. Derrick moved silently about,
lighting the fire, arranging the window curtains, the table
and couch, laying out Faith's dressing gown to air) but not
saying a word to her yet, lest she might be asleep. Faith
could see the relief and gladness in every step her mother
took-and well knew why, On the white spread before her
lay a glowing little bunch of spring flowers, the last night's
dew yet hiding in the depths of the violets, and sprinkling
the leaves of the May roses, and making the windflowers
look at her with wet eyes. Faith grasped these and held
a considerably long conversation with them; then found it
in her heart to speak otherwise.
"Mother," said she, with a little smile upon the contented
languor of convalescence,..-~."you feel better !"
Mrs. Derrick came quick to her side, and kissed her and
stroked her face. "Pretty child," she said, "so do you."
Which fact Faith~ confirmed by setting about the busi~'
(282)

~O5S of dressing with more energy and good will than' she
had for many a day brought to it. The pale cheeks were
not quite so pale this morning. The white dress was tied
roan4 the waist with that blue ribband of long ago-never
yet spoiled with wearing; and in it the roses and violets
made a spot of warmer colour.~ When at last she was
ready, and had stepped out into the hail, Mr. Linden met
her there as he had done the night after the fire ; and as
then, stayed her for a minute and scanned her face: with a
different look from then, with a different sort of gravity,
which gladness did not quite cover up. He asked no
questions but with his eyes, and did not say much but
with his lips; then carried her down to the breakfast-room.
"Mignonette," he said, "what time to-day will it iAease
you to take a drive ?"
The pleasure of the idea brought the colour to Faith's
cheeks. "I suppose I had better ask Dr. Harrison first
whether I may go," she said gravely.
"Not at all. He has nothing whatever to say about it."
"Then as soon as he is gone, I am ready."
"We will not wait for him;" said Mr. Linden.
"flut Endy, later will do just as well, won't it ?"
"No, love-not half so well."
"Why?"
"Principally, because I want you to be out when Dr.
Harrison comes." And quitting that subject, Mr. Linden
wheeled her round to the nearer consideration of biscuits
and coffee; leaving Dr. Harrison, for the time, quite out
of sight. Out of his own sight, that is; for Faith plainly
did not forget him. She was a delicious thing to take care
of this morning; in that delicacy of bodily condition to
which the strong love to minister, and a tenderness of spirit
which grew out of other things and which to-day she had
no force to hide. And there was an apprehension which
Mr. Linden could see behind her eyes every time they came
to his face. Faith was gathering her powers for a struggle.
Yet she had no mind to begin it, and waited after breakfast
till Mr. Linden should bring up the subject again. He'
seemed in no haste to bring it up. For some reason or
other, he was in a mood that could not do enough for her.
It was a mood Faith must try.


SAY AND SEAL.285

SAY AND SEAL

284

As the morning had worn on a~d she saw some pre1i~j.
nary movement on Mr. Linden's part, which looked like
action, she put her hand in his and lifted her eyes to his
face, with a gentle plea in them, speaking in musical soft.
ness. "Endy, will you let me wait till Dr. Harrison has
made his visit ?" The little hand was clasped and held fast,
"He would not wish to see you with me, Mignonette~.
and I certainly will not let him see you without."
"0 why, Endy?"
" Because-Mignonette I cannot tell you. Don't ask me,"
Faith flushed and looked troubled but somewhat timid
too, and asked no more. She puzzled over the subject.
"Then, Endy, suppose we don't go out to drive today ?"
"Suppose we do. What are you roughing your cheeks
for ?" he added smiling. "Faith, I know I have no legal
right to control your actions-.-and yet in this case you must
let me say for you what I should for my sister or my wife."
How Faith wished to know why. The rouge grew
bright; but forbidden to ask, she dared not ask. "Would
you care if we did not go out to-day ?" she said with some
timid hesitation.
"Very much."
She was silenced. That Mr. Linden had some strong
reason it was plain; not the less the thought of Dr. Har-
rison grieved her. But she said nothing. Nor did he,
upon that subject,-threw it to the winds apparently. The
first move was to take her up stairs again and bestow her
daintily among cushions, then to sit by her and spice her
cup of chicken broth with pepper and talk, till both it and
'~I~5 Faith were warm, and Mrs. Derrick in a state of delight.
The good, sweet effect of which mode of treatment, was
shewn in the way 'the fringed curtains' of Faith's eyes were
by and by dropped by sleep herself. When she awoke
Mr. Linden was gone; and Mrs. Derrick sat there keeping
watch.
"Has the doctor been here, mother ?"
"Why child," said her mother, "he's slipped off Stranger,
in some of his capers, and hurt his ancle,.-so Reuben says~
he won't come till to-morrow. Shall I tell Mr. Linden he
may come up ?"
f'Yes." Faith felt it a relief.

Mr. Linden came to tell her the carriage was ready.
it seemed to Faith as if Jerry knew his old driver, with
such good will did he set forth, with such little snorts of
high spirit and tossing of head a.nd mane. Down the old
farm road? among fields of fresh grain and fresh pioughmg,
where blue birds sat on the fences7 and jocund dandelions
sunned themselves by the wayside. The breeze came fresh
into Faith's face, tossing back her hair; and presently with
the scent of buds and flowers and ploughed land came a
mingling of the sea breeze, for Mr. Linden was driving
that way. He was right to make her come !-Faith felt it
in her heart, and so did he. There had been few words
spoken hitherto, but now he turned to her with a smile of
great satisfaction, saying,
"Mignonette, this breeze is telling upon your cheeks."
"It is going all through me I" said Faith, drawing an
eager breath of appreciation. Mr. Linden gave her shawls
and cushions some arranging touches, and to her a glad
word or two of answer, then drove on down to the shore.
Not at their usual bathing and picnic place, but at the fur-
ther out Barley Point; where the breeze came in its full
freshness and the waves rolled in white-crested. There he
made Jerry stand still for ~ while, and made Faith lean
upon him and so rest.
They were somewhat elevated above the sea, where the
barren face of the land broke down suddenly some twenty
feet. With what a sweet dash the waves broke upon the
beach, chasing up the wet sand and laying down a little
freight of seaweed here and there: how the water sparkled
and glittered, and was blue and white and green and neu-
tral tint,.-.how the gulls soared and stooped and flapped
their wings "jn the gay breeze, before which the white-
winged vessels flew on a more steady course. Jerry pawed
the turf and shook his head in approbation, and Faith's
head lay very still. Perhaps Mr. Linden thought she had
done talking enough that day, for he was rather silent;
only watching her lest she should be tired, or have too
much of the air. What he watched her for all the rest Qf
the time, was best known to himself. Her brow had its
old quiet again now, though her face was grave beyond its
old wont; and the eyes, as he could see them, were softly


286             SAY AND SEAL.

grave and softly glad together, intently going from the
white-tipped water to the white-winged gulls and the
clouds grey and white that sailed above them. Suddenly,
after a long roaming over the fresh life that was abroad
there, the eyes were lifted to jiis face.
Endecott-if 11 don't say anything, it is because II cafl'~
say anything good enough I"
"Faith," he said with that same glad look at her, "your
face says that you are getting better every minute. Not
tired yet ?"
"I feel as if I was in a grand dream."
"Do you ?" said Mr. Linden,.-.-." I am glad I do not.
It brings me out of a. dream to see you begin to look
like yourself. I have not felt so real before since [came
home."
"You are real enough," said Faith; "and so is every-
thing else. Jt is only my feeling that is dreamy. And
this air will wake me up, if I stay here a little while
longer. How good it is !"
"Do you see that dark rock out in th9 midst of the
waves? and how the waves half cover and then leave it
bare ?"
"Yes."
"I was thinking of what Rutherford says of the chang-
ing, swaying, unsteady tide of life-joys and sorrows
'Our rock doth not ebb and flow, but our sea'."
Faith thought her own life had not been much' like that
changing tide; then remembered his had, in nearer measure.
The next question was not far off; she put it, looking up
anxiously and regretfully. "Endecott, what are you work- 1'
ing so hard for ?"
A very gay change of face answered her.
"So hard as what?"
"As you do."
"What makes - you think I am working 'so hard,' little
Mignonette ?-~have I given you that impression? I did
not mean it. Do I look overworked ?"
"No-)' said Faith-.-."I think not,-..-...but that is not the
thing. Why do you, Endecott ?"
It was a very gently put question, but put with eyes and
lips as well as the sweet voice, dainty in its half timidity

SAY AND SEAL.

2S7

mixed with the sweetness. Mr. Linden looked down at
her till the question was finished, but then he looked off at
the dancing water; the smile which had been dawning
upon his lips breaking out into very full sunshine. It was
a strange smile-very enjoying and yet a little mosred.
"Mignonette," he said looking down at her again, "do
you know what a dear little child you are ?"
Her eyes wavered, then faced him again with ~ sort of
smiling gravity, as not relinquishing their answer.
"You will be dreadfully shocked if I tell you."
"Shall I ?"-she said, not believing him.
"Yes. But what do you suppose I am doing ?-what
has put all this into your head ?"
"I heard it," said Faith.
"From whom?"
"I don't know. But somebody that wondered what you
were doing it for."
"Most enigmatical information! What 'it' did some-
body say I was doing?"
"Working hard-giving lessons," said Faith dropping
her voice.
"Well-what else was I doing when I was here? That
should not shock you, dear child."
"You were not doing anything else when you were here.
-that is the very thing, Endecott."
"Mignonette--i have done nothing to hurt njiyselt as
you may see. I am very strong to work."
She gave a little grave glance at him, grave with a back-
ground of regretfulness, and placed herself back in her for-
mer position; pushing her questions no further. But Mr.
Linden did not look grave.
"I am quite willing 'to tell you all about my work," he
said,-"that I did not long ago was for two or three rea-
sons which you will understand. I told you once, dear
Faith~-....upon a night which I shall never forget-that I
had means enough to carry me through my studies; but
two things made me take measures to earn a good deal
more. One was, that I would always rather work than not
to have what I want to spend in various good and' pleasant
ways."

286

(i~
~It


288             SAY AND SEAL.

"Yes- ?" she said a little eagerly, lie looked at hei'
with that same smile coming over his face.
"It will shock you," he said,-" however.-.The other
reason was this. Wea~reed how I should choose etw~
two gardens wherein to place my Mignonette. But it ma~
chance that for even the offer of one I shall have to wait
-and for Mignonette I cannot. Voyez-vous, Mademoi.
selle ?"
Yes, plainly enough; as he could tell by the bright flush
which mounted up to her forehead and made her a Rho.
dora again. And d6ubtless Faith would have said several
things, only-she could not! and so sat like the stillest of
scared mice; with no more words at command. Mr. Linden
laughed-telling her he thought there was no hope of
benefitting her checks any further that day, and that to
judge by her eyelids sleep would be the next thing; arid
so turned the little carriage round and Jerry's head towards
home.

Ii

CHAPTER XXIV.
P INNER was ready when they reached home, so that
Faith was taken at once to the table; and when din-
ner was over, up stairs to go to sleep. And sleep held her
well nigh all the afternoon. The sunbeams were long, the
light of day was growing gentle, when Faith at last awoke
and arose, with a tinge in her cheeks anl a face getting to
be itself again. She put her hair and her dress in fresh
order, and went softly about doing the same office for
several things in the room; thinking all the while what
Mr. Linden had been working for, and how shut her moqth
was from saying anything about it.
"Where is MrE Linden, ~mother ?"
"Down stairs."
"I am going down too. I am quite well enough without
being carried. Come, mother."
"He won't like it, child~.~~you'd better let me call him."
"No indeed," said Fa~th. "I'll just take your arm,
mother. It will do me good."
So softly and with a little wilful pleasure on Faith's part,
the stairs were descended; and not content with that, Faith
went into the tea-room and began as of old to give a~ deli-
cate hand to the tea-table arrangements. Then when all
was done, slo~vly made her entrance into ~he other room.
But there, to Faith's dismay, were two gentlemen instead of
one, standing in the middle of the floor in earnest conver-
sation. Both turned the minute she opened the door, and
Squire Stoutenburgh came towards her, exclaiming, "Why
Miss Faith !-.--nobody gave me any hope of seeing you.
My dear, are you as well as you look ?"
Faith's instant extreme desire was to quit the field she
had so rashly ventured upon. iler answer to Mr. Stout-
enburgh, if made, was too unintelligible to be understood
or remembered* and meanwhile she was as~ the Squire had
hinted, looking very well~ and~ a picture of dainty confu-
sion. It might not help the confusion, though it did put
VOL. .11.25                            (289)

288


290             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             2~1

her face more. out of sight, to be rescued from the Squii'e~
hands and placed in the easy-chair.
"No, she is not as well as she looks, Mr. Stoutenburgh,
and therefore you must not keep her standing."
"I won't keep her-nor you neither-long," said
Squire. "Miss Faith, I hope you'll keep h~m-standing
or kneeling or something-all summer. How long are you
going to stay, sure enough ?"
"Till I must go." Faith heard the smile with which it
was spoken.
"Then I shall go home a happy man !" said Mr. Stout.
enburgh, with a sort of earnest heartiness which became
him very well. "My dear, I'm as glad as if you were my
own daughter-.--and you'll let me say that,, because your
father and I were such friends." With which original and
sincere expression of feeling the Squire went off.
"YQu naughty child," Mr. Linden said, coming back to
Faith's chair, "who gave you leave to come down stairs?
I shouldn't be at all surprised if you had been after
cream."
"No I haven't Endy,"-said Faith lifting up her face
which was in a sort of overwhelmed state.
"What is the matter ?" he said smiling.
"Don't mind me," said Faith passing her hands over her ~
face. I am half ashamed of myself-I shall be better in a ~;
day or two."
"How do ~ou feel, after your ride and your sleep ?"
"0 well !-nicely,"-she said in happy accents.
"What made you try to walk down stairs ?"
"I thought I could do it."
"And knew I would not let you. Will you be in a talk.
ing mood after tea ?"
"I am now. I have been wanting to talk to you, Ende.
cott, ever since you got home."
"What about ?"
"About these weeks."
The summons to tea came then, however; but when tea
was disposed of, and Faith had come back to her sofa in
the sitting-room, Mr. Linden took his place at her side.
"Now I am ready for 'these weeks'," he said.
Faith was less ready than he, though she had wished for

the talk. Her face darkened to something of the weary
look with which he had found her.
"iEndecOtt, I have wanted to see you dreadfully!" He
looked pained-not merely, she knew, because of that: but
the thought had no further expression.
"What has been the matter, my dear child ?"
Faith's hand and head went down on his shoulder, as on
a rest they had long coveted. "I am afraid you will be
ashamed of me, Endecott, -but I will tell you. You
know since II have been sick I have seen a great deal of
Pr. Harrison-every day, and twice a day. I couldn't
help it."
"And Endy,-he used to talk to me."-
"Yes,"-.-the word was .short and grave.
"'I don't know why he did it; and I did not like it, and
I could not help it. He would tallC to me about J3ible
things."
"Well ?-He used to do that long ago."
"And long ago ~QU told me not to let him talk to me of
his doubts and false opinions. Endecott, I didn't forget
that-I remembered it all the while,-and yet he did talk
to me of those things, and I could not tell how to hinder
it. And then, Endecott.-the things were in my head-
and I could not get them out !"..-The manner of Faith's
slow words told of a great deal of heart-work.
Mr. Linden did not start-but Faith felt f~ie thrill which
j~ passed over him, even to the fingers that held hers. Clearly
this was not what he expected.
"Faith,"-he said,-" has he touched your faith ?"
Faith's head drew nearer to his, with a manner half
caressing, half shrinking, but the answer was a low, "No-
never. "
"Child 1" he said with a sort of deep terror in his voice,
.-" I think I could not have borne that. I woJd rather
he had won away your heart from me 1"
Faith did not move, and seemed to herself scarce to
breathe, such a spasm of various feelings was upon her
heart. "It did not, Endy,"-she whispered.
He stooped to kiss her, as if that was the only answer


292             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND ~3EAL.                 293

he could give just then; merely saying, "Tell me all
about it."
"I don't know how he did it "-Faith went on hesi.
tatingly, as if the words were not easy to her ;-.u' and
always before I knew it was~ coming, it was said,-...some.
thing that troubled me; almost every time he came. ~
don't know whether it troubled him too, or whether~But
no matter what it was said for! lie would tell me of soi~
question that had occurred to him, or some difficulty that
he could not understand; or else it was a contrary fact that
somebody else had stated, or a cunning explanation that
somebody had found out, or a discovery that was against
the truth, or some train of consequences and inferences
that would undermine it. And these things were always
so curiously put, that though I knew they were false, Endy
never doubted that-I knew they were not the truth;
.-.yet I could not shew him that they were not; and that
hurt me. It pained me by day and by night ;-~but that
was not all." Faith hesitated. "These things never did
touch my faith, Endecott~but it seems to me now as if
they had shut it up in a fortress and besieged it. I hadn't
a bit of comfort of it except by snatches~only I knew it
was therefore ever so lono', When I tried to read the
Bible, often I could think of nothing but these thoughts
would push themselves in between.......like a swarm of gnats
humming in my ears ;-and often I had no good of prayer,"
.-.--she added in a yet lower voice.
"Have you now ?" Mr. Linden said. "Has that passed
away ?"
She hesitated again, perhaps struggling with some emo-
tion which she would not let get the better of her. I~Ier
words were quiet. '"It is passing. Earth and sky are all
cleared since you came-~...as I knew they would be."
Mr. Linden was silent and. motionless,..looking down at
her, curbing as he best might the grief and indignation
which w1ere by turns as much as he could manage. lie did
not spej~k for some time.
"I t~nk, Endy,"' said Faith, "I shouldn't have felt so if
I had been well and strong. I am almost sure it was
partly that. I wasn't strong in mind or body~and how I
wanted you !"

"And where was my place in the world if not here ~
"I didn't want you till you came," she said in a very
sweet low tone.
"Ah, child! you do not know what you are talking of,-.
nor what a snare was spread for you."
"Do you think that, Eudy ?" she said in a scared way.
"W'hat else?"
"But he always seemed-I always hoped, he was really
interested in those things himself."
"No man carries truth in one hand and falsehood in the
other;" said Mr. Linden sternly.
Faith was sitting upright, looking very thoughtful and
very grieved. "But you do not think, Endecott,-you do
not thiuk.-there was no truth in it ?"
His face caught her grieved look,-lie answered slowly,
"Child, you must leave all that. I only know that he tried
to get rid, of every barrier in his way."
"And how in this, Endecott ?.-What ?"
"He doubtless thought your belief stood between him
and your favour."
"And that if he could change that !"-Faith'~ head
sank with a low word of pain. Mr. Linden was silent. She
looked up again, with a face of yearning sorrow which it
was a pity perhaps Pr. Harrison could not see. "And
now," she said, "we never can do anything more for him I"
But Mr. Linden was not ready for the wish,-the stern-
ness of his face did not relax this time even under the
power of hers. Until as he looked, with the sight of all
her loveliness and the thought of all the wrong done her,
came the keen realization of why it had been done p-then
his look changed and saddened.
"Endecott," she said after a while, humbly, "do you
think anSr one who loves Christ could be brought to disbe-
lieve him ?"
"No-not really and permanently. The promise ~ays,
'Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore ~ill I
deliver him'."
"Then what did you fear so much for me, Endy ?"
She had cause for the question; he had spoken and looked
and listened with that intentness of sense which shews some
25*


294              SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             295

hidden anxiety,-..-.measuring jealously every look and word
of hers by some old well-remembered standard.
"You remember, dear Faith," he said, "that when tIle
thieves set upon one of the pilgrims, though he made out
to keep his jewels yet they todk from him all his spending
money; and in the want of that he went to the end of h~
life."
But the smile that answered him was an answering
smile. Though there was sorrow in it, and humbleness, and
even fear, its fullest burdens were the free guaranty that she
was not hurt, and an untold wealth of affection, that almost
breathed out of the moving and parted lips. "Endy,.~It
was only a cloud-.--I knew at the time it would scatter
away just as soon as you came.' I' knew it was a cloud, but
I wasn't well."
Mr. Linden lifted her face, gazing at it intently. "My
little Mignonette," he said, "are you sure that you 'hold
fast the beginning of your confidence'? Are you sure he
has not dimmed the light that used to shine so bright in
your heart ?.-that he has not made heaven seem less real,
nor the promises of less effect? Are you sure, Faith ?-Jf
he has, find it out now I"
She had never seen him look so-never heard him speak
with such~ earnestness. The words seemed to come from
the very Thpths of his heart; freighted not only with their
own moment, but with the pain which the raising such
questions had stirred in him. Faith knew little of even the
pictures of angels-if she had she might have thought of
one then. Her child nature would have thrown itself into
his arms to give the answer; as it was, the woman drew a
little back and spoke with veiled eyes.
"If he has, I don't know it, Endecott. It was a cloud
that hindered all enjoyment from me,-I knew at the time
it was no more. lit is gone, or almost. It was wrong to
be on me at all-but I was weak and not well." Her
spee~i was very humble, and the innocent trembling of the
lips was as on.p might answer an angel.
His eyes changed as she spoke, watching her still7 but less
clearly; and bringing her where she had not dared to place
herself, Mr. Linden kissed her again and again - as one
rejoices over what has been lost or in deadly peril. Not

many words - and those low and half uttered, of deep
~li~nk5giVil~g, of untold tenderness. But Faith hid her
face in her hands, and though she did not shed any tears,
shook and trembled.
"This will not do, for you nor for me," said Mr. Linden.
4~IV1ignOnettehave my words grieved you? they need
not-.--there was not a breath in them harsher than a summer
* "I didn't think it, Endy."
"What are you thinking of, my child 7"
"Nothing-Never mind me,-" she said deprecatingly.
"Tell me, Faith," he repeated.
But she did not. The quivering emotionipassed away or
'was overcome; and then her answer was. a~very grave and~
sweet look and smile; still such a one as might without any
force have been given to an angel. ~
"Faith, what will make you speak ?-this ?-..-. Tell me
wba~ you were trembling about-I shall begin to think you
have grown afraid of me."
"I don't think I have,-" she said very quietly.
"You are a sort of willowbrauch,-SO very pliant that
you glide out of reach on the very breath that comes after
you. Now I think the very profound confidence I reposed in
you this morning, deserves some return. I'm afraid I can-
not ask for it with such persuasive eyes.~~
"It's no confidence-" said Faith. "I didn't know I
had been in such danger; and"-she spoke with some diffi-
culty-" I didn't know what it would be to offend you."
"Did you think you could ?"
"If I did wrong--- ?"
"Faith," he said, "do you know what I should expect
'if I did wrong', as yo'u say ?-that you would break your
heart, perhaps, but never that you* would be offended. I
should 'expect to find you more than ever my sweet minis-'
tering spirit."
A look of intense grave earnestness followed and echoed
his thought with one or txvo of her4 own; then her gravity
broke in a radiant little smile. "I aTh not exactly like you,
Endecott," she said.
"What is the precise bearing of that remark ?"
"You might be offended - where I should have no


296              SAY AND SEAL.

right,-" she said with slow utterance and consideration of
her words.
"But why.-.-little Arabic poem ?~"
The colour started into Faith's cheeks, but she answered
"You are better than J,~-~.-and besides,.-you know, Endy!
~-it would be right for you to do what it wouldn't he r1gl~t
for me to do." Her colour deepened to brightness and her
eyes were very cast down. Mr. Linden looked at her...
smiling a grave sweet smile.
"Faith," he said, "I have heard-or imagined~that a
man might have an angel for his wife, but I never heard
yet of a woman who had an angel for her husband-....did
you ?"
Faith endeavored to shield her eyes and cheek with a
very insufficient hand. "You put me in the witness-box,.~.
what can I do ?" she said.
"You can do one thing as well as anybody I ever saw"
Mr. Linden said, taking her hand down. "Faith, where
did you get such pink cheeks ?"
"What is an Arabic poem ?" said Faith gravely.
"A pretty thing that requires translating. Faith, I have
a great desire to take you all about Pattaquasset and tell
everybody what you are to be."
"Endecott !".-said Faith with a startled glance.
"What ?" he answered laughing.
"Why do you say so ?"
"Just imagine the delight of all Quapaw, and the full
satisfaction of the Roscoms. Shouldn't you like to see it ?"
Faith looked at him in a sort of frightened mood of
mind, discerning some earnest in the play. Mr. Linden's
face did not reassure her, though he carried the play at that
time no further.

CHAPTER XXV.
JF the fears of the night before had not quite been slept
off, if the alarming ideas had not all been left in dream-
land, still it was hard for anything but peace and pleasure
to shew its head that morning: in at Faith's window came
the sunbeams, the tiny panes of glass showed each a patch
of the bluest sky, and through some unseen open sash the
morning air swept in full sweetness. When Faith opened
her own window, the twitter and song of all manner of
birds was something to hear, and their quick motions were
something to see. From the sweetbriar on the house to the
trees in the orchaid,-from the mud nest under the eaves
to the hole in the barn wall,.-.-what darting and skimming
and fluttering! Off in the orchard the apple trees were softly
putting on their nonpareil dress of blossoms, feeding the
air with nectar till it was half intoxicated; and d~own in the
garden a little bevy of bells stood prim and soft and sweet,
ringing their noiseless spring chimes under Faith's window.
IJnder her window too, that is within close sight of it,
stood Reuben Taylor and Mr. Linden. Not watching for
her just then as it appeared, but intent upon their own con-
cerns. Or rather, Reuben-in his usual da~rk, neat dress
and straw hat, with hands neither busy nor at rest, but
waiting and ready-was intent upon Mr. Linden-and Mr.
Linden upon his work. his hat was off, on the grass
beside him, and he himself-half sitting half leaning upon
an old crooked apple tree, had his hands full of cowslips-
thouo~h what lie was doing with them Faith could not tell.
Only from a fluttering end of blue ribband? that appeared,
she could guess their destination. The two friends were
talking busily and merrily, with little cowslip interludes,
and the yellow blossoms sprinkled the grass all about the
tree, some having dropped down, others been tossed off as
not worthy a place in the ball. For that was the work in
Mr. Linden's hands - something which Faith had never
seen.
(297)


298                SAY AND SEAL.
It was so very pretty a picture that Faith sat down to
look at it, and thoughtless of being found out, looked on i~
a dream. Mr. Linden's threats of yesterday did come hack
to her shrinkingly, but she thi;ew them off; the time was too
happy to hear tbe shadow of anything weightier than apple
blossoms. Faith looked out through them admiringly,
marvelling anew how Mr. Linden had ever come to like her;
and while her soft eyes were studying him, her heart made
many a vow before the time. She only felt the birds fly
past; her mind was taking strange glimpses into the
future.
Stepping jauntily out from the house,~Sam Stcntenburgh
came next upon the scene, the springtime of his man's
attire suiting well enough with his years but not so well
- with his surroundings; too desperately smart for the cow-
slips, bright and shining as they were there in the sun, too
new for the tulips-..-though they had been out of the ground
but a few days. For
In a little bit of garden ground
Where many a lovely plant. was found,
Stood a tulip in gay attire!
His pantaloons green as ever were seen,
His cap was as red as fire.
But the tulip was at least used to his cap...-.which wa~
more than could be said of Sam and his hat.
"Mrs. Derrick told me to come out here and find you,
sir," he said. "But what are you doing, Mr. Linden ?"
"I am making a ball."
"iX. ball I"
"Yes," said Mr. Linden,-" gratifying one of my youth~
ful tastes. Sam, I'll lend you my hat."
"Why! what for, sir ?" said Sam, a little confused and
a good deal puzzled, while Reuben smiled.
"Just to save you from the headache while you stand
there in the sun," said Mr. Linden, tying the ends of his
ribband together. "It's a man's hat, Sam-you need not
be afraid of it. That's a good lesson in whistling !" he
said, looking up into the tree over his head, where a robin
had just come to exercise his powers. But as Mr. Linden's
eyes came hack from the robin they caught sight of Faith

SAY AND SEAL.            299

at her window, and instantly he was on his feet and made
her a ~~St graceful and low reverence. Instinctively the
two boys turned and followed suit-the one with his straw
hat the other with his beaver.
Faith's contemplative quiet was broken up, and her~ f~4~
grew shy and flushed as she gave her tiny grave signs of
recognition; but a soft 'good morning' floated down to
them, f0lIowed~~nobody knows why-by a more particular
"Good morning, Sam."
"Miss Faith !" said Sam affectingly, "are you always
going to stay up stairs ?"
"No-I am coming down presently. You are early to..
day, Sam."
"Not earlier than I've been some other days, Miss
Faith."
Faith nodded at him and left the windQw; threw round
her the light shawl which she was expected to wear because
she had been sick, rather than because the May air called
for it, and prepared to go down. But in the second of
time which all this tqok, she heard her' name called from
the orchard-not very loud but very distinct.
"Faith!"
She knew who called, and it was with a little startled
thrill that she presented herself at the windoW to answer
the summons. Mr. Linden stood close beneath it.
"Can you catch this ?" he said, looking up at her with
laughing eyes. And the soft cowslip ball came whirling
up to bury its golden head in her hands. If Faith saw
anything else, it was the very evident astonishment of one
of the standers-by. But nevertheless she bravely put her
bright blushing face out again.
"Thank you, Mr. Linden," she said. "It's too pretty to
be thrown more than once."
"Are you ready to come yourself?"
"Yes, I'm coming."
He bowed and turned away, passing on into the house
with so quick a step that he was at the head of the stairs
as soon as she was.
"You are not going to carry me down to-day !"-.-said
Faith starting back. "I can walk down as well as you can
-or at least I can as well walk down."


800             SAY AND SEAL.

"There is rio one in the parlour, Mignonette."
"Then I'll not go there," said Faith smiling.
"I'll take you to the garden, if YOU prefer it. Is ti~
supposed fact of your being able to walk down stairs any
reason why you should not Iid me good morning ?"
There was neither that nor any other existing reason,
to judge by the quiet grace with which Faith drew near
to give the required good morning, or rather to permit ~
Linden to take it; and then placed her hand in his, as will.
ing to have so much aid from him as that could give, lie
held it fast, and her too, for a minute, while his other hand
busied itself with fastening in her belt a dewy, sweet, 5Ofl~j0
looking little sprig of May roses.
"How do you feel this morning ?" he said when he was
gravely considering the effect.
"Very much Jike Spring !"-Faith looked so, with her
other hand full of primroses.
"And otherwise ?"
"I don't feel otherwise !" said Faith laughing; the first
really free merry look of laughter he had seen on her face
since he came home.
"You are the sweetest of all spring blossoms," Mr. Liii-
den said, carrying her off with perfect disregard of the
supposed fact of her being able to walk. At the foot of
the stairs, however, she was~permitted to find her feet again.
"Where will you go, dear child ?...-the orchard is very wet,
but you may venture as far as the door."
"No, I have something to do," said Faith.
"What have you to do ?"
"What I used to take care of-part of it. I'm so glad
to do it again."
"Not to-day--.-you ought not !-.nor to-morrow. You
must come in here and sit quiet till breakfast, and for a few '
days more be content to be 'Love in idleness' as welL as
Miguonette. Will you promise ?" he said, seating her in
the easy-chair, with open window, and breakfast tahle, and ;
a gay little fire to make the captivity pleasant.
"But I like work, Endy and a little won't hurt me.
Those boys want yon.-.-and I'll make the coffee."
"Do you know, Mignonette, how pale you would be if I
were 'away ?"

SAY AND SEAL.

301

She shook her head.
"I do," said Mr. Linden,-" and as I am in a mood for
~~5es this morning, I want you to let me bring 'those boys'
in here~then they can see me and I can see you."
The roses cam~ started and brightened, and her eyes
looked a soft protest; but it was a minority protest and
gave way, and her face after all told him he might do what
he liked. He gave her a reassuring smile, and went back
to the orchard, presently returning with Reuben and Sam,
.-the one wearing a face of unqualified pleasure, the other
of almost as unqualified shyness. Sam was not quite sure
that his ears had reported correctly, but the doubt and the
new idea were enough to discompose him thoroughly. . He
listened eagerly to the answers Reuben's words called forth,
but seemed afraid to venture many himself. As for Mr.
Linden, he was combining another handful of flowers-
covering his amusement with very grave composure.
It was not bad amusement; for the exquisite simplicity
in Faith's manner, with the contrast of the coming and
going colour and the shy eyelashes, made a picture that
any one claiming interest in it would have been a little
proud of. And the roses in her belt and the cowslips in
her hand and the delicate lines of her face which health
had not yet rounded out again, all joined to make the
vision a very fair one. She was most shy of Sam, and did
not look at Mr. Linden.
"I haven't thanked you for your pigeons, Sam," she said,
after a few lively words with Reuben.
"No, Miss Faith, please don't 1" was the gallant rejoinder.
"Weren't they worth thanks ?" inquired Mr. Linden.
"I thought they were, when I was eating them; and
mother said they were the best I had. Don'tfyou like to
be thanked, Sam ?"
"When it's worth while," said Sam. "But you know,
ma'am-You know, Mr. Linden, it's thanks enough to do
anything for Miss Faith."
"I know that very well." Quiet as the words were
they brought all Sam's ideas to the ground like his own
pigeons.
"Where are you now in college, Sam ?" Faith went on
perhaps because she felt herself a coward.
VOL.11.               26


~02             ~AY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             303

[I         Sam  made answer, in a more subdued state of mi~
than was usual when he announced his Sophomorical clis.
tinctions.
"What are you going to d~o when you come out ?"
"0 I don't know, Miss Faith,.-father says I can do
just what I like."
"And you don't know what that will be, Sam ?"
"No-" said Sam. "I can't even guess."
'11        "A man who can do what he likes ought to do a great
deal," said Mr. Linden. "Reuben, will you take the upper
road home, and give these flowers to Ency Stephens for
Miss Faith ?"
"0 yes, sir !" Reuben said.
"No, Reuben! I didn't seu4 them," said Thiith eagerly.
"Tell her," said Mr. Linden smiling, "that they came
from Miss Faith's garden, and that I shall bring IMiss
Faith herself to see her, just so soon as she can bear such
a long drive." The bunch of flowers was laid lightly on
her hands for her disposal. "Now I must send you two
collegians-present and future-away, for you have had
your breakfast and we have not had ours."
At i~hich remark Sam took Faith's hand with a bow of
great perplexity and reverence, and Reuben drew near and
waited for the flowers.
"Give them to her from Mr. Linden," said Faith, rosy
red, as she put them in his keeping ;.-" she will like that
best, Reuben."
Reuben thought he knew how to combine the two mes-
sages, and the boys went off just as the coffee-pot came in.
"Faith," said Mr. Linden coming back to sit down by her,
"here is a rosebud so much like, you that I think I ought
to wear it. What do you consider the most appropriate
way?''
"How do gentlemen wear flowers ?-You'll have to stick
it in a buttonhole," said Faith half grave and half laugh~
ing,-" if it must be worn."
"But that is to treat it as a common flower !"
"You'll have to treat it so," said Faith glancing from
the rosebud to him.
"Look at it," said Mr. Linden,-."do you see how very
lovely it is ?"

She did look at it, more closely, and then at him with an
appeal of grave remonstrance, deep though unspoken. But
ft was met defiantly.
"If I am to wear this, Mignonette, you must put it in
place."
Faith was a little shy of even doing so much, and be~
sides was aware that her mother as well as the coffee-pot
had come upon the scene. However she took the flower
and succeeded in attaching it securely where she thought it
ought to go, on the breast of Mr. Linden's waistcoat; by
which time the resemblance between the two rosebuds was
perfect, and striking; and Faith drew back to her break.
fast, glad to have everybody's attention diverted to coffee,
which she declared was good with cowslips. It may be said
that the diversion was not immediate; for though her chair
was at once wheeled round to the table, yet Faith had to
take her thanks then and there-in full defiance of Mrs.
IQerrick's presence. After that, however, Mr. Linden-to
do him justice.-did change the subject.
Cowslips and coffee went on well till near the end of
breakfast, which to say truth had been rather prolonged as
well as delayed; and then there came a front door knock.
It was of no use for Faith to start, for breakfast was not
absolutely finished; and the next minute who should come
in from the hall but Miss Es~ie de Staff. As fresh as pos~
sible, in white dress and black silk apron; her black hair
from which she had drawn off the sunbonnet, in shining
order; the black eyes as well! Perhaps they dilated on
first seeing the party; more sparkling they could not be.
She advanced at a moderate pace towards the table, look-
ing and speaking.
"Mrs. Derrick !.-I didn't know you were such late peo-
ple. I have come to run away with your daughter, and
thought I should find the coast clear. Mr. Linden! I didn't
know Pattaquasset was so happy as to have you back, sir."
"We have breakfast late for Faith's sake," said Mrs.
Derrick, while Mr. Linden rose and gave the lady first his
hand and. then a chair, remarking that the happiness of
Pattaquasset was pleasant news to him too.
"But Faith's well again, isn't she ?" said Miss Essie,
waiting to get breath, mentally.


304              SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAr1.                ~05

"~he~s better,~" said .N{rs. Derrick,
"She goes out ?"
"She has been once."
"Is that all? Well it; will do her good to go again,
Sophy 4larrison and I made up our minds that she and I
K       and Faith would spend the day together-and so I've conk
to fetch her. ~iDo you believe in the possibility of ladies
falling in, love with ladies, Mr. Linden ?"
"I have more knowledge of gentlemen's possibilities,
Who is supposed to be in danger7 Miss Essie ?"
"Faith cannot go out to spend the day," said Mrs. Per.
said Miss Essie. "Mrs. Derrick, why
rick decidedly.
me? Faith, won't you go ?".-She had
the                  Faith's side, Wlioni
her eyes were now reading, or at least endeavouring to
spell out.
"Not to-day, Miss Essie, thank you."
the whole table. "Here will be Sophy and me horribly dis-
"Thank me? you ought to apologize to me." Miss
Essie took a chair in that place, where she could "rake"
appointed. We had counted on you. Sophy is all alone.
You know, Faith, the doctor is laid up ?"
II~       "We heard of it,"-Faith answered, not very easily.
"Well, do you know he says he is going South ?"
"I heard so," said Faith. Miss Essie could not make
much of the rising colour in her cheeks, it came and ~vent
so easily!
"What takes him off just now in such haste ?-.business?"
Faith looked up and ave her inquisitor a full clear look,
such as curiosity never ares for, while she answered with
quiet dignity, "He did not tell me, Miss Essie."
"It's a pity Dr. Harrison's just going now that you're
just come," said the lady of the black eyes, shifting her
ground. "You used to be such friends."
"What is a friend ?" said Mr. Linden-" By the way,
Miss Essie, you should make these crosses an excuse for at
least eating salt with us, and so prove your title to the
name."
"Dear me !" said the lady taking a handful,-" I thought
a friend was something more-more ethereal than that P

j    "Than what, if you please ?"
"A person who eats your salt !-I don't love crosses. I
am not one of Nebuchadnezzar's family. Where did you
get the fashion? It's French. Dr. Harrison eats them.
Did he teach it to you, Faith ?"
"I think I had that honour," said' Mr. Linden.
"I dare say you gave more lessons than were given in
~ said Miss Essie significantly. "What else did you
learn of him, Faith ?"
Faith gave the lady only a glance of her soft eye, but
her face and her very throat were charged with varying
colour. 'Her attention went from crosses to cowslips.
"I am saucy !" said the lady.-" Mr. Linden, are you
coming back to the bona fide school here? there'll be a
great many glad."
A very involuntary lesson to Miss Essie herself came
longingly to Mr. Linden's lips, but except from the slight
play and compression of the same she had not the benefit
of it. He spoke as usual.
"She has never learned the art of self-defence, Miss
; Essie, therefore I pray you attack me. No, I am not
coming back to the school-and to say truth, I think there
would be some people sorry-as well as glad-if I did."
"Your bad scholars ?"-said the lady, not intent upon
~. her question.
"No-my good friends."
"I should be glad," said Miiss Essie. "Who are your
friends that would be sorry? Dr. Harrison, for instance ?"
"The friends who like my present work better."
"And you are going to be a clergyman ?" said Miss
~ Essie, leaning her elbow on the table and 'studying' Mr.
Linden, perhaps some other things too, with her eyes.
I[e smiled under the scrutiny, but merely bowed to her
question.
"It's dreadful hard work !-" said Miss Essie.
"Dreadful ?-Miss Essie, you have not studied the sub~
ject."
"No," said she laughing,-" I said 'dreadful hard.' And
so it is, I think."
"'There be some sports are painful, but their labour
delight in them sets off'-is not that equally true of some
20*

304


806             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             30~

2
work?" said Mr. Linden, making one or two quiet addi.
tions to the breakfast on Faith's plate. Which means ~
assistance Faith inadvertently disregarded and pushed her
plate away.
"Do you suppose anyboffy delights in them?" said Miss
Essie. "J can't understand it-but perhaps they do. ~
minister is very much looked up to. But one thing is Cei~.
tain-of all things the hardest, it is to be a minister's wife !"
"Of all things! He must be a poor sort of a minister
who lets his wife have a harder life than his own."
"He can't help it-" said Miss Essie, walking herbiack
eyes about. "Of course he don't wish it-but Women
always do have a harder time than men, and a minister's
wife particularly."
"It's a comfort to think he don't wish it," said Mr. Lin-
den with a sort of resigned gravity.
"Well it would not be much comfort to me," said Miss
Essie. "When a woman marries, she naturally expects her
husband to belong to her;- but a minister belongs to
everybody else !"
"I see I have not studied the subject," said Mr. Linden.
"Miss Essie, you are giving me most important informa-
tion. Is this so inevitable that I ought in conscience to
warn the lady beforehand ?"
Miss Essie smiled graciously. "It would be no ,-~
she wouldn't believe you. I might warn her. I have
seen it."
"What have you seen ?"
"Why that !-.---that a woman who marries a minister
needn't expect to have any more of her husband than his
clothes to mend."
"Melancholy statement !" said Mr. Linden.
"It's of no use to tell it to a man I" said Miss Essie.
"But I have seen it."
"Not in my house."
"I shall see it in your house, if you ever let me in there
-but it will be too late to warn then. Very likely you will
not see it."
Faith sat with one hand shielding hei' face from this
speaker, though by that means it was more fully revealed to
the other. Her other hand, and her eyesas far as possible,

were lost in the bunch of cowslips; her colour had long
ceased to be varying. She sat still as a mouse.
"No, I shall not see it. To what end would your warn-
ings be directed, if they could reach her in time ?"
"To keep her from taking such a trying position."
"Oh-" said Mr. Linden. "Have you no feeling for
me, Miss Essie? It is very plain why you scrupled to eat
salt with me this morning !"
"I'll eat salt with you as a single man," said Miss
Essie,-" but if you are going to be a minister, be gener-
ous, and let your wife go! Any other woman will tell
you 50.~'
"Let her go where? With me - that is just what I
intend."
"Yes," said Miss Essie,.-" and then-you'll never know
it-but she will sit alone up stairs and sew while you are
writing your sermons, and she'll sit down stairs and sew
while you're riding about the country or walking about the
~ town; and she'll go out alone of your errands when you
have a cold that keeps you at home; and the only time she
hears you speal~ will be when you speak in the pulpit! And
if you ask her whether she is happy, she will say yes !-."
Despite all her desperate confusion, the one visible
corner of Faith's month showed rebellion against order.
Mr. Linden laughed with most unterrified amusement.
"If she says that, it will be so, Miss Essie - my wife
will be a most uncompromising truth-teller. But in your
picture I am the one to be pitied. Will she never sit on
the same floor with me under any circumstances ?"
"More than you deserve !" said Miss Essie. "You to be
pitied, indeed! You know the man has the stir, and the
talk, and the going from place to place, and the being
looked up to, and the having everybody at his feet; and
~ what has she?"
Mr. Linden did not answer, even with his eyes, which
were looking down; and the smile which came at Miss
J~ssie's last words, was clearly not meant for her. His wife
would have something-so it said and asserted,-and his
wire was not an indefinite, imaginary person,-it said that
too. And she was worth all that could be laid at her feet.
How much he had to lay there.~-~what homage his homage


303              SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.              309

was-even of this the face gave unconscious token. M~~~
Essie looked, and read it or at least felt it, much mole
than she could well have put into words. Then taking in
review Faith's bowed head, she turned and spoke in quite
a different tone.
"There is no use in talking to people, Mrs. Derrick,
After all, mayn't I have Faith ?"
"To spend the day? Oh no, Miss Essie !-she's not
strong enough," said Mrs. Derrick, rising from the table
and beginning to put the cups together. Faith left the
party and went to the lire, whid~ in the advanced state ~
the May morning needed no tending.
"Yet she must spend the day somewhere," said Miss
Essie wheeling round. "Faith !.-what are you going to
do with yourself?"
"Nothing, Miss Essie,".-came softly from the fire.
mender. But as her hand moved to and fro with the tongs,
the sparkle of the diamonds caught Miss Essie's eye.
"Child ! .-.-how did you get that?" she exclaimed,
springing to her side and arresting the tongs. Faith's low
"I don't know, ma'am".-.was inimitable. It was well
neither lady had sight of Mr. Linden's face.
"It's very beautiful I" said Miss Essie, controlling herself
into some order, and poring over the little hand she had
made captive. "I never saw a greater beauty of a ring-.
never. Do you know what it means, Faith ?" She dropped
her voice and tapped significantly the finger.
Faith answered like a person put to the question,-
"Yes."
"Do you ?" said Miss Essie in the same low aside and
half laughing. "I am so glad. I always thought it.
]3ut this is splendid, Faith. You don't know how handsome
it is. It is easy to know where this came from. I needn't
ask."
"I must ask you both to sit down," said Mr. Lind en,-
"Faith is not strong enough for much standing, Miss Essie."
"I can't sit down-I'm going away," said the lady. "I'll
tell~Sophy she may expect you the first day you can go out
for so long,"-she went on renewing her half whisper to
Faith. "Does she know of this ?"-touching the diamonds
which Miss Essie had not yet let go.

"N6, Miss Essie-." Faith stood in great confusion. Mr.
Linden left the table, and gently disengaging her from Miss
Essie placed her in the great chair, and stood resting one
hand on the back of it.
"Miss Essie," he said, "Faith belongs to me-.--and there-
fore if I take care of her strength in a somewhat summary
way, you will forgive me."
Miss Essie paused and looked at him in most bewildering
confusion. ile had spoken and she had heard, very clearly.
"I don't believe it !"-she said with an attempt at jocu-
1a~ity in which there mingled somehow, inexplicably, a
quality that was not pleasure. "Faith !-no double-deal-
ing. Two is too much."
"Or even the suggestion of two," Mr. Linden said.
"Do you mean," said Miss Essie looking at him with a
semi-comical endeavour to cover up discomfiture and other
things-"do you mean to say that I have made' nothing
here but an abominable mistake ?"
"I should give it a different adjective."
Miss Essie made a despairing gesture. "Oh !-I might
well say it's no use talking to people! Will you ever for-
give me, Mr. Linden, for all the mischief I have tried to do
you? I didn't know both parties were within hearing of
me, you know, sir ?.-"
"Miss Essie, I hope you may always be as successful."
Perhaps Miss Essie wondered, as she glanced at Faith,
~whether she had done any 'mischief' or no; but she ven-
tured no sort of repartee, being altogether in an uncomfort-
able and somewhat awed state of mind. She made hurried
adicus to Mrs. Derrick, more formal and extremely civil
leave-taking of Mr. Linden, parted in a sort of astonished
wise with Faith and the diamonds which evidently bewile-
dered her yet, and made what was also evidently an escape
out of the house. While Mr. Linden attended the lady to
the door, Faith softly and swiftly passed behind them and
made her escape too, up stairs. She was gone before he'
turned.
It was perhaps an hour after this, when Cindy entered
Faith's room and gave her a note. "I'm free to confess,"
said Cindy, "that Mr. Lindemi gave it to me, but who writ
it 11 don't know." But Faith did. It ran thus :-


810              SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.              311

"Mademoiselle-With great impatience I have waited
for my Sunbeam to break through the gloomy clouds of
doubt which surround me - but I perceive the 'warning'
has taken effect!
In keeping with this is~ the state of the outer world
which is even rainy ! -so that my purpose to take said
Sunbeam out to drive is for the present thwarted.
Conceive of my state of mind!
In vain I repeat to myself the comforting truth, that my
Sunbeam is shining somewhere, if not on me, there are
circumstances where philosophical truths lose all their
power.
I remember that the 'warning' contained some notable
mistakes,-as for instance, that I should ever-my pen re.
fuses to write the words !-or I do. As ~vell might it be
said that I should -~. Mademoiselle, you must perceive
the obvious bearing of these two upon each other.
If your interest in the writer has carried you so far, per.
haps he may indulge the hope that at some future time it
may carry you further-even to the head of the stairs-.
where it is needless to say you will be received with open~
arms.
It is also needless to sign this-it could come from but
one person !"
Some two minutes after, Faith's room door opened, and
a very flashing bright sunbeam came out upon the place
indicated, only a little peachblossom tinge in her cheeks
witnessing to any consciousness. She was met according
to promise-then held off and looked at with serio-comic ey~s~
"What a cruel child you are !" Mr. Linden said.
"What do you want, Endecott ?" said Faith trying to be
serious.
"low can you have the heart to sit up stairs and sew
while I am down stairs in my study ?"
Faith instantly came so close, taking the nearest refuge,
that he could not very well see her face; but that she was
laughing still he knew.
"Endecott !-don't talk so. I didn't know where you
were."
"Will it be in this sort of weather that you will 'go out
to do errands' and leave me at home ?"

"I~udecott !-If you don't want anything more of me,"
said Faith lifting up' a face which was an array of peach-
blossoms,-" I'll go back again.~~
"Will you ?-" with a little tightening of his hold, and
signification of his approval of peacliblossoms. "Faith,
you are a lovely child I Will it distress you very much if
II go off and ride about the country alone ?"
But noW,-Seeing she could not get away,-she stood-
graver; and the answer was very gentle, almost tender-
"Then you will not confess that you were frightened out
of your wits at the picture ?" said Mr. Linden smiling,
though with an answering change of tone.
"Did you think I was
"No-you are too much of a woman for that, even if you
had believed it true."
"Then you were not frightened ?-.-" she said with some
comicality.
"I? desperately I-my note did not give you any idea of
the state of my mind! Imagine me sitting down stairs and
saying to myself.-(words naturally suggested by the state
of the weather)-.
'0 how this spring of love resembleth
Th' uncertain glories of an April day,
Which now shews all the beauties of the sun,
And by and by a cloud takes all away!"'
One of the soft flashes of Faith's eye came first to an-
swer him; and then she remarked very coolly, (N.B. her
face was not so,) "I think it will clearat noon, Endecott."
"Do you ?" he said looking towards the window with a
counterfeit surprise that was in comical antithesis to his
last words,-" does it rain still I"
Faith's eye came back quick from the window to him,
and then, for the first time in many a long day, her old
mellow sweet laugh rolled over the subject, dismissing
make-believes and figures of speech in its clear matter-of-
fact rejoicing.
"My dear little Miguonette I" Mr. Linden said, "that
does my very heart good. You are really getting better,
in spite of lessons and warnings, and all other hindrances.


312              SAY AND SEAL.

Do you want to know what I have truly been thinking~o~
since you came up stairs? Shall we exchange thoughts ?"
"Please give me yours," she answered.
"They sprang from Miss Essie's question. Faith, when
she asked me what my wife would.have, I could not tell her
...-I could not answer it to myself afterwards very definitely.
Only so far-she will have all I have to give." Ills band
was smoothing and arranging her hair as he spoke-hjs
look one that nobody but Faith ever had from Mr. Linden,
She had looked up once and seen it; and then she stood
before him, so still and silent as if she might have had
nothing to say; but every line of her brow, her moved lip,
her attitude, the very power of her silence, contradicted
that, and testified as well to the grace of a grave and most
exquisite humility which clothed her from head to foot.
Mr. Linden was as silent as she, watching her; but then
he drew her off to the low couch in the wide old-fashioned
entry window, and seated her there in a very bath of spring
air and struggling sunbeams.
"I suppose it is useless to say 'Please give me yours',"
he said smiling. "Mignonette, we have had no reading
to-day----.do you like this time and place ?.-and shall it be
with you or to you?"
*       "It will be both, won't it ?" said Faith; and she went
*     for her Bible.

OIIAPTER XXVI.
TfIIE day was struggling into clearness by the time dinner
was over. Patches of blue sky looked down through
grey, vapoury, scattering clouds; while now and then a few
rain drops fell to keel) up the character of the morning,
and broad warm genial sunbeams fell between them. It
was not fair yet for a drive; and Mr. Linden went out on
some errands of business, leaving Faith with a charge to
sleep and rest and be ready against his return.
lie was but a little while gone when Jem Waters made
his appearance and asked for Faith. Mr. Simlins had been
ill-that Faith knew-but Jem brought a sad report of
how ill he had been, and a message that he was "tired of
not seeing Faith and wished she would let ~Jem fetch her
down. She might go back again as soon as she'd a mind
to." lie wanted to see her "real bad," according to Jem;
for he had ordered the best wagon on the premises to be
cleaned and harnessed up, and the best buffalo robe put in,
and charged Jem to bring Miss Faith "if she could any-
ways come." And there was Jem and the wagon.
Faith demurred; she had not had her sleep and didn't
know, or rather did know, how the proceeding would be
looked upon; but she also fancied more meaning in the
summons than Jem had been commissioned to make known.
And perhaps another little wee feminine thought came in.
to help her decision.
"Mother," she said, "I shall go. You need not say
anything about it unless you are asked. It isn't far to Mr.
Simlins'-I shall be home in time for my ride." So, quickly
ready, Jem drove her down.
Mr. Simlins she found sitting up, in a nondescript inva-
lid's attire of an old cloak and a summer waistcoat; and
warm as the day was, with a little fire burning, which was
not unnecessary to correct the damp of the unused sitting-
room. He was, as he said, "fallen away considerable, and
VOL. xx.               27               (313)

'K


314              SAY AND SEAL.                                     SAY AND SEAL.             815

with no more strength than a spring chicken," but for the
rest looked as usual. And so spoke.
"Well,-why haint you been to see me before ?"
"I have been sick, sir."
"Sick ?" said he~ his voice softening unconsciously to.~
wards her sweet tones. "Sit there and let me see.-1
believe you have. But you aint fur from well now !" lie
had some reason, for the face he had turned to the sunlight
bore all the quiet lines of happiness, and its somewhat faint
colour was replaced under his scrutiny by a conscious deep
rose.
"Don't you know," said he settling himself back in his
chair, -" I don't think I see the sun and moon when I don't
see you? Or the moon, anyways-you aint but the half
of my Zodiack."
"What did you want to see the moon for, Mr. Simlins ?"
said Faith willing to interrupt him.
"Well.-you see, I've been a kind of a latudinarian
too," said Mr. Simlins doubtfully..-" It pulls a man's mind
down; as well as his flesh-and I got tired of thinking' to..
day and concluded J'd send for you to stxp it." His look
confessed more than his words. Faith had little need to
ask what he had been thinking about.
"What shall I do to stop it, sir ?"
"Well, you can read-can't you ?-or talk to me."
There was a strange uneasy wandering of his eye, and a
corresponding unwanted simplicity and directness in his
talk. Faith noted both and silently went for a Bible she
saw lying on a table. She brought it to Mr. Simlins' side
and opened its pages slQwly, questioning with herself where
she should read. Some association of a long past conver-
sation perhaps was present with her, for though she paused
over one and another of several passages, she could fix
upon none but the parable of the unfruitful tree.
"Do you mean that for me ?" said the farmer a minute
after she had done.
"Yes sir-and no, dear Mr. Simlins !" said Faith look-
ing up.
"Why is it. 'yes' and 'no'? how be I like that ?"-he
growled, but with a certain softening and lowering of his
growl.

"The good trees all do the work they were made for.
God calls for the same from us," Faith said gently.
"I know what you're thinking' of~," said he ;-" but haint
I done it? Who ever heerd a man say I had wronged
him ~ or that I have been hal-hearted either ~ I nev~'
It was curious how he let his thoughts out to her; but
the very gentle, pure and true face beside him provoked
~neither controversy, nor mistrust, nor pride. He spoke to
her as if she had only been a child. Like a child, with
~aoh sympathy and simplicity, she answered him.
"Mr. Simlins, the Bible says that 'the fruits of right-
eousness are by Jesus Christ. '-Do you know him ?-are
you in his service ?"
"I don't know as I understand you," said he.
"I can't make you understand it, sir."
"Why can't you? who can ?" said he quickly.
"It is written, Mr. Simlins,-' They shall be all taught
of God."'-She she wed him the place. "And it is writ-
ten, 'Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,
and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach
us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths. '-That is it.
If you are willing to walk iu his paths, he will shew them
to you." Faith looked eagerly at the farmer, and he
looked at her. Neither heart was hid from the other.
"But supposing' I was willin'-which I be, so fur's I know
-I don't know what they be no more'n a child. How am
I goin' to find 'em out?"
Faith's eyes filled quick as she turned over the leaves
again ;-.-was it by sympathy alone that occasion came for
the rough hand to pass once or twice hastily across those
that were looking at her? Without speaking, Faith showed
him the words,-" If any man will do his will, he shall
know of the doctrine."
"That is the question, dear Mr. Simlins. On that 'if'
it all hangs." The farmer took the book into his own
hands and sat looking steadily at the words.
"Well," said he putting it back on her lap-" supposia'
the 'if' '5 all right-Go ahead, Faith."
"Then the way is clear for you to do that; and it's all


3~G              SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.           3I~

easy. But the first thing is here.-the invitation of Jesus
himself."
"Come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden,
and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and
learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye
shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and
my burden is light."
"You see," she went on very gently,-" he bids yo~
learn of him-so he is ready to teach you. If you are
only willing to take his yoke upon you,-to be his servant
and own it,.-he will shew you what to do, step by step,
and help you in every one.~7
"I don't see where's the beginning of the way yet," said
the farmer.
"That," said Faith. "Be the servant of Jesus Christ
and own it; and then go to him for all you want. He is
good for all."
There was a pause.
"I s'pose you've been goin' on in that way a good
while."
"A good while-yes, "-Faith almost whispered.
"Well, when you are goin' to him sometimes, ask some~.
thin' for me,.-will you ?"
He had bent over, leaning on his knees, to speak it in a
lower growl than ordinary. Faith bowed her head at first,
unwilling to speak; but tears somehow started, and the
drpps followed each other, as she sat gazing into the black
flreplace,.-she could not help it-till a perfect shower of
weeping brought her face into her hands and stirred her
not very strong frame. It stirred the farmer, robust as he
was in spite of illness; he shifted his chair most uneasily,
and finally laid down his head on his folded arms on the
table. Faith was the first to speak.
"Mr. Simlins, who takes care of you ?"
"Ugh !" (a most unintelligible grunt,) "they all do it by
turns-Jenny and all of 'em."
"What have you had for dinner to-day ?"
"Didn't want anything !" He sat up and brushed his
cloak sleeve across his forehead.
"Mr. Simlins, I shall send you down something from
home and you must eat it."

"The doctor said I was to take wine-but I haint thought
of it to-day."
"W'here is. it?"
He nodded his head in the direction, of the, cupboard.
Faith went rummaging, poured him out a glass and
brought it.
"You see," said he after he had taken it-"J've been
pretty well pulled down-I didn't know-one time-which
side of the fence I was goin' over-and I didn't see the
ground on the other side. I don't know why I should be
ashamed to say I was afeard !"-There was a strong, stern,
truth-telling about this speech that thrilled his hearer. She
sat down again.
"You had best take some yourself," he said. "Do
Faith !"
"No sir-.-.I'm going. I must go," she answered rising
to make ready.
It was strange how the door could have opened and she
not heard it-neither she nor Mr. Simlins in fact,-perhaps
because their minds were so far away. That the incoming
steps were unheard was not so strange, nor new, but the
first thing of which Faith was conscious was the soft touch
of a hand on either side of her face-she was a prisoner.
Faith's instant spring to one side brought her face to face
~rith everybody. Mr. Simhins looked from one to the
other, and his first remark was characteristically addressed
to Faith.
"Why you didn't tell me that!"
"Has she told you everything but that ?" said Mr. Lin~
den smiling, and giving the farmer's hand good token of
his presence.
"Where under the sun did you come from ?" said the
farmer returning his grasp with interest, and looking at
Mr. Linden as if indeed one of the lights of the solar sys~
tem had been out before his arrival. Faith sat down
mutely and as quietly as possible behind Mr. Linden.
"From under the sun very literally just now-before
that from under a shower. I have been down to Quapaw,
then home to Mrs. Derrick's, then here. Mr. Siinhins, I
am sorry to see that you are nursing yourself instead of
me. What is the matter ?"
27*


318              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.             319

"I'd as lives be doin' this, of the two," said the farmer
with a stray smile. "There aint much the matter. IJo~
long have you been in this meridian ?"
"Two days." And stepping from before Faith, Mr.
Linden asked her "if she had come there in a dream ?"
"Do you ever see such good-loohin' things in your
dreams ?" said the farmer. "My visual pictures are all
broken down fences, or Jem or Jenny doin' something' they
haint ought to do. How long're you goin' to stay in Pat.
taquasset, Dominie ?"
"Some time, I hope. Not quite so long as the first
time, but longer than I have bcen since that. Do you
know, Mr. Simlins, your coat collar* is a little bit turned
in ?-.--and why don't you give the sunshine a better web
come ?-.you two sick people together want some one to
make a stir for you." Which office Mr. Linden took upon
himself-lightly disengaging the collar, and then going to
the window to draw up the shade and throw back the shut.
ters,.-stopping on his way back to straighten the table
cover, and followed by a full gush of sunlight from the
window.
"It is so glorious this afternoon !" he said. And stand-
ing silent a moment in that brilliant band of lignt-looking
out at the world all glittering and sparkling in the sun,
Mr. Linden repeated,-" 'Unto you that fear my name,
shall the Sun of Righteousness arise, with healing in his
wings.'-~What a promise that is P'
"Where did you get those words ?"-said Mr. Simlins,
after the sunlight and the silence had given them their full
effect.
"From the Bible-God's book of promises. Do you
want to see the place ?"
Mr. Simlins turned down a corner of the leaf and laid
the book, still open, on the table. Then looked at Mr.
Linden with a mixture of pleasure and humour in his eyes.
"Are you any nearer bein' a minister than. you was a year
ago ?"

"Nearer in one way. But I cannot lay claim to the
title you gave me for another year yet, Mr. Simlins."
"You're Say and Seal as much as ever. What more
fixin' have you got to do ?"

I

"A little finishing," said Mr. Linden with a smile.
And he got up and went for Faith's shawl and gloves
which were on the table. Mr. Simlins watched the shawl.
ing and gloving with attention.
"You can tell Jem he won't be wanted again, Faith," he
said. "I guess you'll see him at the gate." Mr. Linden
smiled, but some other thought was on his mind,--.the face
that he turned to Mr. Simlins showed concern that was
both grave and kind.
"What can I do for you?" he said.
This aint the prettiest place in Pattaquasset; but maybe
you'll come and see rue sometimes-till I can get out my-
self," Mr. Simlins said considerately.
"You may be sure I will. And will you let me pray
with you now, before I go ?"
The farmer hesitated-or was silent-one instant, then
with a sort of subdued abruptness said,
"I'm ready!"-
They knelt there in the sunlight; hut when the prayer
was over Mr. Simlins felt half puzzled to know for whose
sake it had been proposed. For with the telling of his
doubts and hindrances and wants-things which he had
told to no one, there mingled so much of the speaker's own
interest,-wh~~h could not be content to leave him but in
Christ's hands.
There was not a word spoken after that for a minute,-.
Mr. Linden stood by the low mantelpiece resting his face
on his hand. The farmer, busy with the feelings which the
prayer had raised, sat with downcast eyes. And Faith
was motionless with a deep and manifold sense of happi-
ness, the labyrinth of which herself could not soon have
threaded out. The silence and stillness of his two com-
panions drew the farmer's eyes up; he read first, with an
eager eye that nobody saw, the sweet gravity on on~ half
hidden face, and the deep pure joy written in all the lines
of the other; and secret and strong, though half unknown
to hirnselg the whole tide of his heart turned that way. If
not before, then at least, something 'like Ruth's resolution
came up within him ;-" thy people shall be my people, and
thy God my God !" Mr. Linden was the first one that
moved.


320             SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             321

"Are you ready, dear child ?"
The farmer's eyes were on her too, even while he wrung
Mr. Linden's hand. But he only said before he let it go,.~.
"Give a glass of wine to her when she gets home."
Out in the sweet afternoon air, and driving through the
gate which opened on the highway, with Jein Waters on
hand to shut it, Mr. Linden brought Faith's face round
toward&amp; him and scanned it earnestly.
"My child, how tired you are! I wish I knew whether
it would do you most good to go straight home, or to
breathe this air a little longer."
"I hope you won't conclude to take me home," said
Faith. "I have been looking for this all day.
"Do you think you deserve to have it ?" said Mr. Linden,
turning Jerry's head however the way that was not straight
home. "Why didn't you sleep, and wait for me to bring
you down here ?"
"One reason was, Endy, that I half guessed Mr. Simlins
wanted to talk to me and that it might be better for him to
see one than two.
"I could have left you there for a while."
"No you couldn't!" she said. "And I couldn't have
driven off Jerry and left you-.-though that would have been
better."
"You could have driven me off. What was the other
reason ?"
"The other reason isn't really worth your hearing.
Don't you think this afternoon is too pretty to spoil with
bad reasons ?".-.she said with gentle eyes, half fun, half
confession.
"Entirely. Faith I think you Would bear the ride
better if you had a sort of afternoon lunch,-....shall we stop
at Miss Bezac's for a glass of milk ?"
"Oh no !".-.she said hastily. "Oh no, Endecott! I
don't want anything but to ride."
"And to hide-)' said Mr. Linden laughingly. "Another
bad reason, Faith ?"
She gave him a little blushing look, very frank and
happy, that also bore homage to his penetration.
"Stop anywhere you please,. Endy," she said honestly.
"I was very glad you came to Mr. Simlins'."

"Would you rather get it from Mrs. Davids ?" he inquired
demurely.
"No, not rather. Whichever you like, End ecott," Faith
5aid, hiding the start which the question in this real form
gave her. The afternoon sun through which they were
riding was very bright; the washed leaves were brilliantly
green; sweet scents of trees and buds filled the air, and
opening apple blossoms were scattering beauty all over the
land. Nothing could spoil that afternoon. Faith had a
secret consciousness besides that the very thing from which
she shrank was by no mean disagreeable to Mr. Linden.
She did not care what he did! And he,.-in the joy of
being with her, of seeing her grow stronger every hour, Mr.
Linden was in a 'holiday humour'.--in the mood for work
or play or mischief; and took the road to Miss Bezac's for
more than a glass of milk.
"Mign onette," he said, "what varieties of pride do you
consider lawful and becoming?"
"I know only a few innocent sorts," said Faith,-"that
I keep for myself."
"Luxurious child! 'A few innocent sorts of pride that
you keep for yourself'! You must divide with me."
How Faith laughed.
"You wouldn't thank me for one of them all, Endecott.
And yet-" She stopped, and coloured brilliantly on the
sudden.
"Explain and finish," said Mr. Linden laconically.
"If I told you what they are you would laugh at me."
"That would not hurt mc. What are they, Mi~nonette ?"
She spoke gravely, though smiling sonietlines; answer-
ing to the matter of fact, as she had been asked. "I am
proud, a little, of very fine rolls of butter, or a particularly
good cheese. I think ii am proud of my carnations, and
perhaps-" she went on colouring-" of being so good a
baker as I am. And perhaps-I think I am-of such
things as sewing and dressmaking; -but I don't think
there is much harm in all that. I know myself sometimes
proud of other things, where I know it is wrong."
"how do you know but I am proud of your rolls of
butter too ?" said Mr. Linden looking amused. "But
Miguonette, what called forth such a display of the carna~


822               ~AY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.              ~23.

lions you are not proud of? What was the force of that
'And yet' ?"
It brought the colour again, and Faith hesitated and
looked puzzled. Then she tried a new way of escape.
"Don't you mean to let me have any of my thoughts to
myself?" she said playfully.
"Don't you mean to let me have any of them for
myself?"
"You ?-Jlaven't you them almost all?"
"My dear I beg pardon !-.-.one for every carnation,~but
I did not know that I had so nearly made the tour of your
mind. I was under the impression that my passports were
not yet made out-and that my knowledge of your thoughts.
was all gained from certain predatory excursions, telescopic
observations, and such like illegal practices. I am sure all
my attempts to cross the frontier in the ordinary way are
met by something more impassable than a file of bayonets."
Faith looked up at him as if to see how much of this was
meant for true.
"But," said she naively, "I feel as if I had been under
a microscope."
"My dear !" said Mr. Linden again, with an air at once
resigned and deprecating. But then his gravity gave way.
"Faith !-is that your feeling in my company? I wonder
you can endure the sight of me."
"Why ?"-said she timidly.
"If I seem to you like a microscope."
"Only your eyes, like those power-glasses. .-Not for
size !" said Faith, laughing now herself.
"Ah little Mignonette," he said smiling, "some things
can be seen without microscopic vision. And do not you
know, my child, that carnations must draw attention to the
particular point round which they bloom ?"
"Endy, you shall know what I was thinking of" she
said. "You touched it already. It was only-that per-
haps sometime you would. be a little proud even of those
little things in me-because~Now you can punish me for
being proud in earnest !"-It was said in great confusion;
it had cost Faith a struggle; the white and red both
strove in her downcast face. Mr. Linden might not fathom
what was not in a man's nature; but Faith had hardly ever

perhapS given him such a token of th9 value she set upon
his pleasure.
"punish you ?" he said, leaving Jerry to find the road for
himself for a minute,-" how shall I do it ?-so? And how
much punishment do you require? I think a little is not
enough. 'Because' what, love ?"
"Endy !-" she said under her breath,.-"you know !-
don't ask me."
"Then-if I exceed your limits-you will not blame
me?"
"Limits of what ?"
"Limits of this species of executive justice." ~
"I don't think you would keep limits of anybody else's
setting," said Faith with a little subdued fun. "Look,
Endy !-we are coming to Miss Bezac's."
"iMlost true," said Mr. Linden, - "now shall you see
(perhaps!) one of the innocent sorts of pride that I keep
for myself. What have we come for ?" he added laughing, as
Jerry trotted up the side hill to the cottage,-" is it butter,
or carnations, or dressmaking ?-they all make a rare com-
bination in my mind at present."
"She is at home !" said Faith,.-"if she wasn't, the win-
dow-curtains would be down. Now she is going to be
pleased,-and so am I, for she will give me something to
eat." Faith looked as if she wanted it, as she softly opened
the door of the dressmaker's little parlour, or workroom,
and softly went in. The various business and talk of the
afternoon had exhausted her.
Miss Bezac, having in her young days been not only rich,
but also a firstrate needlewoman, now that she was older
and poor plied her needle for a different purpose. Yet
something of old habits clung to her still; she would not
take the common work of the village; but when Mrs.
Stoutenburgh wanted a gay silk dress, or Miss De Staff a
delicate muslin, or Mrs. Somers an embroidered merino-
then Miss Bezac was sure to have them go through her
hands; and for these ladies she took the fashions and dis-
pensed them exceeding well. Strangers too, in Patta-
quasset for the summer, often came to her, -~ and had not
Miss Bezac made the very first embroidered waistcoat that
ever Squire Deacon wore, or Sam Stoutenburgh admired

JO

Ii'

322


324

SAY AND SEAL.

himself in? So her table was generally covered with pretty
work, and on this particular afternoon she was choosing the
patterns for a second waistcoat for the young member from
Quilipeak, a mantilla for his mother, and a silk apron for
Miss Essie, all at once. In deep cogitation Faith found hei',
and Faith's soft salutation,-
"Dear Miss Bezac, will you let st~'angers come in?"
How gloriously Faith blushed.
"Strangers !" cried Miss Bezac, turning round. "Why
Faith !-you don't mean to say it's you ?-though I don't
suppose you mean to say it's anybody else. Unless-I do.
dare I don't know whether it is you or not !" said Miss
J3ezac, looking from her to Mr. Linden and shaking hands
with both at once. "Though if it isn't I ought to have
heard-only folks don't always do what they ought-at
least I don't,-nor much of anything."
"It is nobody else yet," said Mr. Linden smiling.
Whereat Miss Bezac laid one hand on the other, and
stepping back a little surveyed the two 'as a whole.'
"Do you know," she said, "(you wouldn't think it) but
sometimes I can't say a word !"
"You must not expect Faith to say much-she is tired,"
said Mr. Linden putting her in a chair. "Miss Bezac, I
brought her here to get something to eat."
"Well I don't believe-I don't really believe that any-
body but you would ever do such a kind thing," said iMiss
Bezac. "What shall I get? Faith-what will you have?
And you're well enough to be out again !-and it's so woll
I'm not out myself !-I'll run and see if the flu ~. ain't,~-.
the kettle ought to be boiled, for I wanted an ea.. ly cup of
tea."
"No, dear Miss Bezac, don't !" said Faith. "Only give
me some bread and milk."
Miss l3ezac stopped short.
"Bread and milk ?" she said-.-" is tliat good for you?
The bread's goody I know, baked last night; and the milk
always is sweet, up here with the cowslips -and most
things are sweet when you're hungry. But ain't you more
hungry than that ?-and somebody else might be, if you
ain't-and one always must think of somebody else too.
But you do, I'll say that for you. And oh didn't I say long

a ~                    ~         ~          4~
7      SAY AND SEAL.                325
ago !-" A. fanny little collective pause Miss Bezac
made, her thoughts going back even to the night of the
celebration. Then she ran away for the bread and milk,...-.
then she came back and put her head in at the door.
"Faith, do you like a cup or a bowl ?-.-I like a cup7
because 1 always think of a cup of comfort-and I never
he~~4 of a bowl of anything. But you can have which you
like."
"I like the cup too," said Faith laughing. "But even
the bowl would be comfort to-day, Miss Bezac."
The cup came, and a little pitcher for replenishing, and a
blue plate of very white bread and very brown bread, and
one of Miss Bezac's old-fashioned silver spoons, and a little
loaf of 'one, two, three, four, cake', that looked as good as
the bread., All of which were arranged on a round stand
before Faith by Miss Bezac and Mr. Linden jointly. He
brought her a footstool too, and with persuasive fingers
untied and took off her bonnet-which supplementary ar-
rangements Miss Bezac surveyed with folded hands and
great admiration. Which also made the pale cheeks flush
again, bat that was pretty to look upon. Faith betook
herself to the old-fashioned spoon and the milk, then gave
Mr. Linden something to do in the shape of a piece of cake;
and then resigning herself to circumstances broke brown
bread into the milk and eat it with great and profitable
satisfaction, leaving the conversation in the hands of the
other two. The sun sank lower and lower, sending fare-
well bearrw~,into the valleys, and shaking out gold pieces in
Miss Be~q~?s little brown sitting-room like the WIII-o'-
wisps in the 'Tale of tales'. Through the open door her
red cow might be seen returning home by a winding and
circuitous path, such as cows love, and a little sparrow
hopped in and out, from the doorstep, looking for 'One,
two, three, four', crumbs. Faith from her seat near the
are could see it all....-if her eyes chose to pass Mr. Linden ,~
what he saw, she found out whenever they went that way.
It was not~wonderful that Faith turned from the table at
last with a very refreshed face.
"Miss Bezac, you have made me up," she said smiling.
"Have I?" said her little hostess,-"well that comes
pretty near it. Do you know when I saw you I mean
voL.. II.             28                                 4


~26              SAY AND SEAL.

when I saw both of you, I really thought you had come fo~
me to make up something else? And I must say, I wish
you had,-not that I haven't dresses enough, and too
many-unless I had a new pair of eyes-but I always did
set my heart on making that one. And I haven't set my
heart upon many things for' a good while, so of course j
ain't used to being disappointed. You won't begin, will
you, Faith?"
Faith kissed her, hastily expressing the unsentimental
hope that her tea would be as good as her bread ~and milk;
and ran out, leaving Mr. Linden to follow at his leisure.
Faith was found untying Jerry.
"What do you mean ?" said Mr. Linden staying her
hands and lifting her in the most sumfriary manner into the
wagon. "Bread and milk is too stimulating for you, child,
.-we must find something less exciting. What will you
see fit to do next?"
"I can untie a bridle," said Faith.
"Or slip your head through one. But you should have
Seen the delight with which Miss Bezac entered upon the
year of patience that I prescribed to her !-and the very
(innocuous)
pride that lay hid in the prescription. Do you
feel disposed to punish me for that, Mignonette ?"
One of Faith's grave childish looks answered him; but
then, dismissing Mr. Linden as impracticable, she gave
herself to the enjoyment of the time. It was a fit after.
noon! The sunbeams were bright on leaves and flowers,
with that fairy brightness which belongs peculiarly to
spring. The air was a real spring air, sweet and bracing,
full of delicate spices of May. The apple blossoms, out
and bursting out, dressed the land with the very bloom of
joy. And through it all Mr. Linden drove her, himself in
a "holiday humour." Bread and milk may be stimulating,
but health and happiness are more stimulating yet; and
Faith caine home after a ride of some length looking not a
bit the worse, and ready for supper.

CHAPTER XXVII.
A MONTH passed awa.y,.-with apple blossoms, straw--
11 berry flowers, now with strawberries themselves. Roses
corning into splendour, carnations in full force, and both re-
established in the cheeks of Faith Derrick. What a month
it had been !-of weather, of work, of society. Lessons
~ter the old fashion, reading aloud, talking ~ going round
the country at Jerry's heels, or on the back of Mrs. Stout-
enburgh's pony~foP there she was put, just so soon as she
could bear it, passing by degrees from a gentle trot on
level ground to a ladylike scamper over the hills. Faith
had not been so strong for many a day as the longest day
of that summer found her.
Coming home from their afternoon ride by the way of the
postoffice, Mr. Linden found there a letter from Europe;
the seal of which lie broke as they entered the house, just
in time to give Faith a little enclosed note to herself as she
went up stairs to change her dress. Its words were few.
Referrino' Faith to Mr. Linden for particulars, it asked her
to let him come to Germany without delay. The aunt with
whom Miss Linden lived was at the point of death, appar-
utly-she herself in danger of being left quite alone in a
range land. Yet with all~the urgency of the case, the
whole breathing of Miss Linden's note was, "Faith-can
you spare him ?-will you let him come ?"
The question was settled before it was asked, in Faith's
mind; but what a laying down of pleasure and what a
taking up of pain was there! The rest of the vacation
was gone at once; for Mr. Linden could not go to Eu rope
and come back, even on the wings of steam, and have a
day left1 before study would begin again. No more of him
-except, at the best, snatches-till next year; and next
year was very far oft; and who could tell what might be
next year? But at the best, she must see little more of
him until then; and in the mean time he must put half the
world between them. Nobody saw how fast the roses
(327)

826


828             SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.

faded on Faith's cheek; she sat and looked at the matter
all alone, and looked it through. For one few minutes;~
and then she rose up and began dressing slowly, looking at
it still, but gathering all her forces together to deal with it,
And when her dressing was done, she still stood leaning
one hand and her head on the dressing table, thinking Over
all that was to do. She had remembered, as with a flash
of remembrance, what day the next steamed' would saiL...
from what port-she knew the hour when Mr. Linden must
leave Pattaquasset. And when her mind had seen all the
preparations to be made, and she thought she was strong
enough, she turned to go down stairs; but then feeling very
weak Faith turned again and kneeled down to pray. And
in a mixed feeling of strength and weakness, she went
down stairs.
First to the kitchen, where she quietly looked after the
state of the clothes in the wash, and desired Cindy to have
all Mr. Linden's things ready for ironing that evening.
Then attended to the supply of bread and the provision for
breakfast; saw that one or two things about the supper
were in proper order and progress; asked Mrs. Derrick to
make the tea when it was time, and finally, as quietly as if
the afternoon's ride had been the only event of the after-
noon, opened the door of the sitting - room and softly
went in,
For a while after reading his own letter Mr. Linden had
sat abso tely still,.-then with a sort of impatience to see
Faith, to give her what comfort he could, at least to have
her with him every minute, he had paced up and down the
sitting-room till she appeared. Now he took her in his
arms with all sorts of tender caresses-.with no words at
first but, "My little Mignonette !" Faith herself was quite
still and wordless; only once, and that suddenly and ear..
neatly, she gave his cheek the salutation she had never
given him before unbidden. From her it was a whole
volume, and thoroughly peace-speaking, although it might
intimate a little difficulty of words.
Keeping one arm round her, Mr. Linden began again
his walk up and down the room; beginning to talk as well
-.---teliing her what was in his letter, how long the journey
would take, and more than all, what she must do while ho

was away. flow long the absence would be-when he
should be at home again, that was little touched upon by
either; the return might be very speedy-that seemed most
probable~ but neither he nor Faith cared to put in words
all the uncertainties that hung about it. From every point
he came back to her,.-with injunctions about her strength,
and directions about her studies, and charges to take care
of herself for him-with other words of comfort and
cheering, spoken cheerfully from a very sorrowful heart.
One other charge he gave-..
"My little Sunbeam, my dearest Faith, keep both your
names unclouded !"
"I have had one lesson, Endy-"
She was a little pale, but had listened to him quietly as
intently; voice and smile both ready to do their part, albeit
gravely, whenever there was a l)art for them.
"I shall not forget-" she added now with a smile, a rare
one, after a little pause.
ile brought her back to the sofa then, kissing the pale
cheeks as if he missed their carnations. Yet-with the
stringency of the old law which saith that "Doublet and
hose must shew itself courageous to petticoat ".-Mr. Lin-
den gave her bright words, although they were words of a
very grave brightness-not contradicted, but qualified by
his eyes.
"Mign onette," he said, "I did not think next year could
gain brightness from anything-but I cannot tell you how
it has looked to me within these last two hours. If I could
but call in Mr. Somers, and then take you with me 1"
It brought a rush of the carnations; but Faith did not
think so extravagant a wish required any combating. Nei-
ther did she say what she thought of "next year."
That evening at least they had quietly together. What
Faith did after they had separated for the night, Mr. Lin-
den never knew; but the morning saw everything ready
for his departure,-ready down to the little details which a
man recognizes only (for the most part) by the sense of
want. And if cheeks were paler than last night, they were
only now and then less steady-till he was gone.
28*


SAY AND S1~AL.                    33~

CHAPTER XXVIII.
J~R. HARRISON took passage in the steamship VuI.
can, C. W. Cyclops, commander, for the Old W~rId;
having come to the conclusion that the southern coiAnti'y
was not sufficiently remote, and that only a change of hemi.
spheres would suit the precise state of his mind. Letters
of combined farewell and notice-giving, reached Pattaquas.
set too late to number the doctor with a bevy of friends to
see him off; but his sudden motions were too well known,
and his peculiarities too long established, to excite much
surprise or dismay by any new manifestations.
The Vulcan lay getting her steam up in that fair June
morning, with very little regard to the amount of high pres.
sure that her passengers might bring on board. Nothing
could be more regardless of their hurry and bustle, the
causes that brought them, the tears they shed, the friends
they left behind, than the ship with her black sides and red
smoke pipe. Tears did indeed trickle down some parts of
her machinery, but they were only condensed steam~-..which
might indeed be true of some of the tears of her pas..
singers.
Punctual to her time she left her moorings, steaming
down the beautiful bay with all the June light upon her,
throwing back little foamy waves that glittered in the sun,
making her farewell with a long train of blue rollers that
came one after another to kiss the shore. What if tears
sprinkled the dusty sidewalks of Canal St. ?-.what if that
same light shone on white handkerchiefs and bowed heads?
-The answering drops might fall in the state-rooms of
the Vulcan, but on deck bustle and excitement had their
way.
So went on the miles and the hou~s,~then the pilot left
the vessel, taking with him a little handful of letters~ and
the passengers who had been down stairs to write were on
deck, watching him off. In the city business rolled on with
its closing tide,-.--far down on the Long Branch shore peo-
(3~O)

u

pie looked northward towards a dim outline, a little waft
of smoke, and said-~" There goes the Vulcan." The fresh-
ening breeze, the long rolls of the Atlantic, sent some pas..
sengers below, even now,.-.others stood gazing back at the
faint city indications,-others still walked up and down-.-.
those who had left little, or cared little for what they had
left. Of these was Dr. Harrison, who paced the deck with
very easy external manifestations.
Some change of mind-some freak of fancy, sent him
at last to the other side of the ship-then to the prow.
Here sailors were busy,-here one passenger stood alone:
but if there had been twenty more, Dr. Harrison could
have seen but this one. He was standing with arms folded,
in a sort of immoveable position, that yet accommodated
itself easily to the ship's slow courtseying; as regardless
of that as of the soft play of the sea breeze; looking back
.-but not to the place where the Vulcan had lain a few
hours before. He was rather looking forward ,-looking
off to some spot that lay north or northeast of them: some
spot invisible, yet how clearly seen! Looking thither,-as
if in all the horizon that alone had any interest. So ab-
sorbed-so far from the ship,-his lips set in such grave,
sad lines; his eyes so intent, as if they could by no means
look at anything else. Nay, for the time, there was noth-
ing else to see! Dr. Harrison might come or go-the
sailors might do their utmost,-.--far over the rolling water,
conscious of that only because&amp; it was a barrier of separa-
tion, the watcher's eyes rested on Mignonette. If once
or twice the eyelids fell, it was not that the vision failed.
Dr. Harrison stopped short, unseen, and not wishing at
that moment to meet the consequences of being seen. Yet
he stood still and looked. The first feeling being one of
intense displeasure and disgust that the Vulcan carried so
unwelcome a fellow-passenger; the second, of unbounded
astonishment and wonder what he did there. He putting
the ocean between him and Pattaquasset? he setting out
for the Old World, with all his hopes just blossoming in
the New? What could be the explanation? Was it possi..
ble, Dr. Harrison asked himself for one moment, that he
could have been mistaken? that he could have misunder-
stood the issue of the conversation that morning in Faith's


~I32                  AY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL               333

sick room? A moment resolved him. lie recalled the
steady, dauntless look of Faith's eyes after his words,....~
look which he had two or three times been privileged to
receive from her and never cared to meet '-.--.he remembered
how daintily her colour rose as her eyes fell, and the slow
deliberate uncovering of her diamond finge~ from which
the eyes were not raised again to look at him ; he remelii.
bered it with the embittered pang of the moment. No l
he had not been mistaken; he had read hei~ right. Could
it be.-it crossed the doctor's mind like a flash of the intense.
est hghtning-.that his letter had done its work? its work
of separation? But the cool reminder of reason came like
the darkness after the lightning. Mr. Linden would riot
have been at Mrs. Derrick's, a~ the doctor had heard of his
being there, if any entering wedge of division had made
itself felt between his place there and him. No, though
now he was here in the Vulcan. And Dr. Harrison no.
ticed anew, keenly, that the expression of the gazer's face,
though sorrowful and grave, was in nowise dark or de.
spending. Nothing of that! The grave brow was unbent
in every line of it; the grave lips had no hard set of pain;
the doctor read them well, both lips and brow! Mr. .L1in.
den was no man to stand and look towards Pattaquasset if
he had nothing there. And with a twinge he now recol-
lected the unwanted sound of that name from the pilot's
mouth as he took charge of the letters and went off. Ay!
and turning with the thought the doctor paced back again,
as, unregardful now of the contents of the Vulcan, animate
or Inanimate, as the man himself whom he had been watch.
ing.
What should he do? he must meet him and speak to
him, though the doctor desired nothing less in the whole
broad earth. But he must do it, for the maintenance of
his own character and the safety of his own secret and
pride that hung thereby. That little piece of simplicity
up there in the country had managed to say him no with..
out being directly asked to say anything......-thanks to her
truthful hoi esty; and perhaps, a twinge or two of another
sort came to Dr. liziarrison's mind as he thought of his rela-
tions with her,-..yes, and of his relations with him. Not
pleasant, but all the more, if possible, Dr. Harrison set hi~

teeth and resolved to speak to Mr. Linden the first oppor-
tunity. All the more, that he was not certain Mr. Linden
bad received his letter,.-4t was likely, yet Dr. Harrison had
had no note of the fact. It might have failed. And not-
~~thstanding all the conclusions to which his meditations
had come, curiosity lingered yet ;-a morbid curiosity, un-
reasonable, as he said to himself, yet uncontrollable, to see
by eye and ear witness, even in actual speech and conver-
sation, whether all was well with Mr. Linden or not. his
own power of self-possession Dr. Harrison could trust; he
would try that of the other. Yet he took tolerably good
care that the opportunity of speaking should not be this
evening. The doctor did not come in to supper till all the
passengers were seated, or nearly so, and then carried him-
self to the end of the apartment furthest from his friend;
where he so bore his part that no mortal could have sup-
posed Dr. Harrison had suffered lately in mind, body, or
estate.
Mr. Linden's part that night was a quiet one, the volun-
tally part of it, and strictly confined to the various little
tea-table courtesies which with him might indeed be called
involuntary. But it so happened that the Vulcan carried~
out quite a knot of his former friends-gentlemen who
knew him well, and these from their various places at the
table spoke either to him or of him frequently. Dr. Har-
rison in the pauses of his own talk could hear, "Linden"
-" Endecott Linden "-" John, what have you been doing
with yourself ?"-in different tones of question or comment,
-sometimes caught the tones of Mr. Linden's voice in
reply; but as they were both on the same side of the table
eyesight was not called for. The doctor sat in his place
until the table was nearly cleared; then sauntered forth
into the evening light. Fair, bright, glowing light, up~on
gay water and a gay deck-fall; but Di'. Harrison gaining
nothing from its brightness, stood looking out on its reflec-
tion in the waves more gloomily than he had seen another
look a little time ago. Then a hand was laid lightly on
his shoulder, making its claim of acquaintanceship with a
very kind, friendly touch. The doctor turned and met
hand and eye with as far as could be seen his old manner,
only perhaps his fingers released themselves a little sooner

232

333


(

S3A4

~AY AND SEAL.

than once they would, and the smile was a trifle more broad
than it might if there had been no constraint about it.
"I am not altogether taken now by surprise," said he,
"though surprise, hasn't yet quit its hold of me. I hcar~
your name a little while ao'
Linden                 ~o. What are you dcing here,
"Rocking in the cradle of business as well as of the
deep," said Mr. Linden. "The last steamer brought word
that I must sail by this, and so here I am."
"Who rocks the cradle of business ?" said the doctor
with the old comical lift of the eyebrows with which he
used to begin a tilt with Mr. Linden.
"Duty and Interest rock it between them,-.-singing of
rest, and keeping one awake thereby."
"A proper pair of nurses !" said the doctor. "Why
man, they would tear the infant Business to pieces between
them! Unless one of them did as much for the other in
time to prevent it."
"Never-unless Inclination took the place of JnteresL"
"Don't make any difference," said the doctor;-."Jncli-
nation always follows the lead of Interest..-....-Except in a
few extraordinary specimens of human nature."
Mr. Linden turned towards the scattered groups of pas-
sengers, and so doing his eye caught the shining of that
very star which was rising over Pattaquasset as he and
Mignonette rode home two nights before. Only two nights!
-For a minute everything else might have been at the an-
tipodes-then Mr. Linden brought at least his eyes baclC
to the deck of tIi~ V ulean. "What sort of a motley have
we here, doctor? Do you know many of them ?"
"Yes-....-" said the doctor slightly ;-.--" the usual combina-
tions of Interest and Inclination. I wonder if we are
exceptions, Linden ?"
"The usual combination is not, perhaps, just the bests-
it is a nice matter for a man to judge in his own case how
far the proportions are rectified."
"lie can't do it. Ililuman machinery can't do it. Can
you measure the height of those waves while they dazzle
your eyes with gold and purple as they do now
"Nay-but I can tell how much they do or do not throw
me out of my right course."

SAY AND SEAL.

335

"What course are you on flow, Linden ?" said the doc~
tor with his old-fashioned assumption of carelessness, dis-
missing the subject.
"Now?" Mr. Linden repeated. "Do you mean in studies,
travels, or conversation ?"
"' In conversation, you have as usual brought me to a
point! I mean-if I mean 'anything,-the other two; but
I mean nothing, unless you like."
"I do like. Just now, then, I am in the vacation before
the last year of my Seminary life,.-for the rest, I am on
my way to Germany."
"Finish your course there, eh ?" said the doctor. "Why
man, I thought you had found the 'four azure chains' long
ago."
"No, not to finish my course,-if I am kept in Germany
more than a few weeks, it will not be by 'azure' chains,"
said Mr. Linden.
"That it will not !" said one of the young men coming
up, fresh from the tea-table and his cigar. "Azure chains?
-pooh !-Linden breaks them as easy as Samson did the
green withs. How biblical it makes one to be in company
with such a theologian! But I shouldn't wonder if he was
going to Europe to join some order of friars-he'll find
nothing monastic enough for him in America."
"Mistaken your man, Motley !" said the doctor; who for
reasons of his own did not choose to quit the conversation.
"The worst I have to say of him is, that if he spends an-
other year in germany his hearers will never be able to
understand him I"
"Mistaken him !" said Mr. Motley-" at this time of
day,-that'll do! Where did you get acquainted with him,
pray ?"
"Once when I had the management of him," said the
doctor coolly. "There is no way of becoming acquainted
with a man, like that."
"Once when you thought you had," said Mr. Motley.
"Well, where was it ?-~-in a dark passage when you got to
the door first?"
".Whenever I have had the misfortune to be in a dark
passage with him, he has showed me the door,"-said the


3343            SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL,

.doctor gravely but gracefully, in his old fashion admirab1~
maintained.
"If one of you wasn't Endecott Linden," said Mr. Mot.
ley throwing the end of his cigar overboard, "I shou}~
think you had made acquaintance on a highway robbery."
"Instead of which, it was in the peaceful town of Pat.
taquasset," said Mr. Linden.
"Permit me to request the reason of Mr. Motle~'8
extraordinary guess," said the doctor.
"So natural to say where you've met a man-if there's
no reason against it," said the other coolly. "But you
don't say it was in Pattaquasset, doctor? Were you ever
there ?"
"Depends entirely on the decision of certain questions iu
metaphysics,"said the doctor. "As for instance, whether
anything that is, is-and the matter of. personal identity,
which you know is doubtful. I know the appearance of
the place7 Motley."
"Are there any pretty girls there ?" said Mr. Motley,
carelessly, but keeping his eye rather on Mr. Linden thau
the doctor.
"Mr. Linden can answer better than 17," said Dr. Harri-
son, whose eye also turned that way, and whose tone
changed somewhat in spite of himself. "There are none
there that could not answer any question about Mr.
Linden. "-.
"By the help of a powerful imagination," said the per.
son spoken of. Mr. Motley looked from one to the other.
"I don't know what to make of either of you," he said.
"Why doctor, Endecott Linden is a-a mere-I don't like
to call him hard names, and I can't call him soft ones!
However-to be sure-the cat may look at the king, even
if his majesty won't return the compliment. Well.-.you and
I were never thought hard-hearted, so I'll tell you my story.
Did it ever happen-or seem to happen, doctor-that
you, seeming to be in Pattaquasset, went-not to church-
but along the road therefrom? Preferring the exit to the
entrance-as you and I too often do ?"
"It has seemed to happen to me,"-said Dr. Harrison,
as if mechanically.
"Well-George Alcott and I-do you know George ?-no

great loss-We were kept one Sun a in that respectable,
little town by a freshet. Whether iNas one of those
rains that bring down more things from tli~sky than water,
I don't know,-George declared ft was. If it wasn't, we
made discoveries."
"If you and George both used your eyes, there must
have been discoveries," said Mr. Linden. "Did you take
notice how green the grass looked after the rain? and that
when the clouds were blown away the sun shone ?"
"You're not all theology yet I" said Mr. Motley. "Be
quiet-can't you? I'm not talking to you. We were
sauntering down this same road, doctor-after church,-
falling in with the people, so that we could see them and
be taken for churchgoers. But there wasn't much to see.-
Then 4I~eorge declared that here was the place where Lin-
den had secluded himself for nobody knows what,-then
we fell naturally into lamenting the waste of such fine ma-
terial, and conned over various particulars of his former
life and prospects - the great promise of past years, the
present melancholy mania to make money and be use-
ful. Upon which points George and I fought as usual.
Then we grew tired of the subject and of the mud-t--.ttirned
short about-and beheld-what do you suppose, doctor ?"
"how far you had come for nothing ?"
"Imagine," said Mr. Motley, taking out a fresh cigar and
a match and proceeding to put them to their respective
uses,-" Imagine the vision that appeared to Balaarn's ass
..-and how the ass felL"
"Nay, that we cannot do," said Mr. Linden. "You tax
us too far."
"In both requisitions-" added the doctor.
"There stood," said Mr. Motley, removing his cigar and
waving it gracefully in one hand. "There stood close
behind us on the mud-she could not have been in it-an
immortal creature, in mortal merino! We -transfixed,
mute-stepped aside right and left to let her pass,-I be-
lieve George had presence of mind enough to take off his
hat; and she-' severe in youthful beauty', glorious in youth-
ful blushes-walked on, looking full at us as she went. But
such a look! and from such eyes !-fabulous eyes, doctor,
merino w
upon my honour.  Then we saw that the        as onl~r
voL. II.               29

336

i


338             SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             339

* a disguise. Imagine a search warrant wrapped up j~
moonbeams-imagine the blending of the softest sunset re~
fiction with a keen lightning flash,-and after all you ha~
only words-not those eyes. Linden 1-seems to me your
imagination serves you better here,-your own eyes are
worth looking at 1"
"Jt has had more help from you," Mr. Linden said, con.
trolling the involuntary unbent play of eye and lip with
which he had heard the description.
"Well, George raved about them for a month," Mr.
Motley went on, "and staid in Pattaquasset a whole week
to see them again-which he didn't; so he made up his
mind that they had escaped in the train of events-or of
cars, and now seeks them through the world. Some (lay
he will meet them in the possession of Mrs. Somebody-.
and then hang himself." And Mr. Motley puffed out
clouds of smoke thereupon.
"According to your account, he could not do better,"
said the doctor cynically.
"1 suppose the world would get on, if he did," said Mr.
Motley with philosophical coolness. "But the qucerity
was," he added, removing the cigar once more, "what made
her look at us so? Did she know by her supernatural
vision that we had not been to church ?-for I must say,
Linden, she looked like one of your kind. Or were her
unearthly ears charmed by the account of your unearthly
perfection ?.-for George and I were doing the thing hand-
somely."
~' It was probably that," said Mr. Linden. "Few people,
I think, can listen to your stories unmoved."
"Hang it," said Mr. Motley, "I wish I could !-.This
vixenish old craft is behaving with a great deal too much
suavity to suit my notions. I don't care about making a
reverence to every wave I meet if they're going to tower
up at this rate. But I guess you're right, Linden -the
description of you can be made quite captivating-and her
cheeks glowed like damask roses with some sort of inspira-
tion. However, as George pathetically and poetically
remarks,
'I only know she caine and went !'-.
the last part of which illustrious example I shall follow.

I'

Linden, if any story don't move you, you're no better than
the North Cape."
"Can you stand it ?"-asked the doctor suddenly of his
remaining companion.
"Yes-I have known Motley a long time."
"Pshaw! no, I mean this wind."
"I beg your pardon! Yes-for anything I have felt
of it yet."
"If you will excuse me, I will get something more on.
J have come from a warmer part of the world lately."
rme doctor disappeared, and found something in another
part of the boat to detain him.
Dr. Harrison had stood one conversation, but he had no
mind to stand a second. He did not think it necessary.
If by any possibility he could have put himself on board
of another steamer, or packet; or have leaped forward into
France, or back into America 1-he would have done it.
But since he must see Mr. Linden from time to time in
their present situation, he contrived that that should be
all. Even that was as seldom and as little as possible; the
art not to see, Dr. Harrison could practise to perfection, and
did now; so far as he could without rendering it too obvi.-
ously a matter of his own will. That would not have
suited his plans. So he saw his one-time friend as often as
he must, and then was civil invariably, civil with the respect
which was Dr. Harrison's highest degree of civility and
which probably in this instance was true and heartfelt; but
he was cool, after his slight gay surface manner, and even
when speaking kept at a distance. For the rest, it is
notable, even in so small a space as the walls of a steamer
shut in, how far apart people can be that have no wish to
be near. Days passed that saw at the utmost only a bow
exchanged between. these two; many days that heard but
one or two words. Mr. Linden's own plans and occupa-
tions, the arrangement of his time, helped to further the
doctor's wish. There was many an hour when Dr. Harrison
would not have found him if he had tried, but when they
were really together the non-intercourse was the doctor's
fault. For all that had been, Mr. Linden was still his
friend,-he realized more and more every day the value of

A t

338


340              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             341

1 J

the prize for which Dr. Harrison had played and lost; and
pity had made forgiveness easy. He was ready for all
their old kindly intercourse, but seeing the doctor 5hU~~~d
him there was nothing to do but follow the lead. Some.
times indeed they came together for a few miflUtcs-.---wcre
thrown so-in a way that was worse than hours of talk.
The Vulcan had made about half her passage, and a
fair, fresh morning had brought most of the passengers o~
deck. Mr. Linden was not there, but the rest were grouped
and watching the approach of a homeward hound steamer;
" when as she neared them Mr. Linden too came on deck,
lit was to talk with the Captain however, not the passed.
gers-or to consult with him, for the two stood together
speaking and smiling. "You can try," Dr. Harrison heard
the Captain say; and then he lifted his trumpet and hailed
.-the other Captain responding. Still the steamer came
on, nearer and nearer,- still the two on the deck of the
Vulcan stood side by side; till at a certain point, just where
the vessels were at the nearest, Captain Cyclops gave his
companion a little signal nod. And Mr. Linden stepping
forward a pace or two, lent the whole power of his skill and
strength to send a dispatch on board the Polar Bear. The
little packet sped from his hand, spinning through the air
like a dark speck. Not a person spoke or moved-Would
it reach ?-.would it fail ? - until the packet, just clearing
the guards, fell safe on the deck of the other vessel, was
picked up by her Captain and proclaimed through the
speaking trumpet. Slightly raising his, hat then, Mr. Lin-
den drew hack from his forward position; just as a shout
of delighted acclaim burst from bQth the boats.
"That went with a will, I tell youi" said Captain Cy..
clops with a little nod of his head.
"1 say, Linden !" spoke out one of the young men-" is
that your heart you sei~it home ?"
"I feel it beating here yet," Mr. Linden answered. But
just how much of it he carried back to his state-room for the
next hour has never been ascertained. Society had no help
from Dr. Harrison for more than that length of time.
Neither could proximity nor anything else make him,
visibly, aware of Mr. Linden's existence during the rest of
the day.

Mr. Linden knew the doctor too well - and it may be
said, knew Faith too well-to be much surprised at that.
If he could have spared Dr. Harrison the pain of seeing
his little air-sent missive, he would have done it; but the
letter could go but at one time, and from one side of the
ship-and just there and then Dr. Harrison chose to be.
But though the sort of growing estrangement which the
doctor practiced sprang from no wish nor feeling but his
own, yet Mr. Linden found it hard to touch it in any way.
Sometimes he tried-sometimes he left it for Time's touch-
ing, which mends so many things. And slowly, and gently,
that touch did work - not by fading one feeling but by
deepening another. Little as Dr. Harrison had to do with
his friend, almost every one else in the ship had a good deal,
and the place which Mr. Linden soon took in the admiration
as well as the respect of the passengers, could not fail to
come to the doctor's notice. Men of very careless life and
opinions pruned their language in his presence,-those who
lived but for themselves, and took poor care of what they
lived for, passed him reverently on some of his errands
through the ship. Dr. Harrison had never lived with him
before, and little as they saw each other, you could as well
conceal the perfume of a hidden bunch of violets - as well
shut your senses to the spring air-as could the doctor shut
his to the beauty of that well-grown Christian character.
The light of it shone, and the influence of it went forth
through all the ship.
"What a strange, incomprehensible, admirable fellow,
Linden is !" said Mr. Motley one day when he and the doc-
tor were sunning themselves in profound laziness on deck.
It was rather late Sunday afternoon, and the morning ser-
vice had left a sort of respectful quietness behind it.
"He must be !" said the doctor with a slight indescrib-
able expression,-"if at this moment you can be roused to
wonder at anything. ~
Mr. Motley inclined his head with perfect suavity in
honour of the doctor's words.
"It's a glorious thing to lie here on deck and do nothing !"
he said, extending his elegantly clad limbs rather more into
the distance. "how fine the breeze is, doctor-what do
you think of the day, as a whole ?"
29*


842                ~AXT AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             343

11
11
it

"Unfinished, at present1
"Well-'7 said Mr. Motley,.-..-." take that part of it Which
you with such precision term 'this moment',.-.-..what do you
think of it as it appears here on deck ?"
"S unny-.." said the doctor,-" and we are flies. On the
whole I think it's a bore, Motley."
"What do you think of the Black Hole of Calcutta, in
comparison ?" said Mr. Motley closing his eyes.
"The difference is, that that would have been an insuffer.
able bore."
Mr. Motley smiled stroking his chin with affectionate
fingers. "On the whole," he said, "I think you're right
in that position. What do you suppose Linden's about 'at
this moment' ?"
"Is he your ward ?" said the doctor.
"He's down below-" said Mr. Motley with a significant
pointing of his train of remarks. "By which I don't
mean! that he's left this planet.--.for truly, when he does I
think it will be in a different direction; but he's down in
the steerage-trying to get some of those creatures to
follow him."
"Which way ?"
"You and George Alcott have such a snappish thread in
you 1" said Mr. Motley yawning-... "only it sits better on
George than it does on you. But I like it -it rather
excites me to be snubbed. However, here comes Linden......
so I hope they'll not follow him this way."
'This way' Mr. Linden himself did not come but chose
another part of the deck for a somewhat prolonged walk
in the seabreeze. The doctor glanced towards him, then
moved his chair slightly, so as to put the walker out of his
range of vision.
He's a good fellow enough," he remarked carelessly.
"You were pleased to speak of him just now as 'incompre-
hensible'....-..may I ask how he has earned a title to that ?"
The tone was a little slighting.
"Take the last instance--." said Mr. Motley, - "you
yourself were pleased to pronounce the steerage a more
insufferable bore than the deck-yet he chooses it,--.and
not only on Sundays. I don't believe there's a day that he
don't go down there. He's popular enough without it--..

't1g~'t that. And nobody knows it--one of the sailors told
me. If he was a medico, like you, doctor, there'd be less
wonder-but as it is !---" and Mr. Motley resigned himself
again to the influence of the sunshine. A moment's medi-
tation on the doctor's part, to judge by his face, was delect-
able.
"There isn't any sickness down there ?" he said then.
"Always is in the steerage - isn't there ?" said Mr. Mot-
ley,-" I don't know !-the surgeon can tell you."
"There's no occasion, ---" said the doctor with a little
haughtiness. "He knows who I am."
And Dr. Harrison too resigned himself; apparently, to the
sunny influences of the time and was silent.
But as the sun went down lower and lower, Mr. Motley
roused himself up and went off to try the effect upon his
spirits of a little cheerful society,-then Mr. Linden came
and took the vacant chair.
"How beautiful it is !" he said in a tone that was half
greeting, half meditation. The start with which Dr. Har-
rison heard him was skilfully transformed into a natural
change of position.
"Beautiful ?-yes," said he. "Has the beauty driven
Motley away ?"
UHe is gone.--Your waves are very dazzling to-night,
doctor."
"They are helping us on," said the doctor looking at
them. "We shall be in after two days more --if this
holds."
Helping us on-perhaps the thought was not unqualified
in Mr. Linden's mind, for he considered that---or something
else-in grave silence for a minute or two.~
"Dr. Harrison," he said suddenly, "you asked me about
my course - I wish you would tell me yours. Towards
what--.-for what. You bade me call myself a friend-may
I use a friend's privilege ?" He spoke with a grave, frank
earnestness.
The doctor's face showed but a small part of the aston-
ishment which this speech raised. It showed a little.
"I can be but flattered !--" he said with something of
the old graceful medium between play and earnest. "You
ask me what I am hardly wise enough to answer you. I


344              SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.             345

II

am going to Paris, and you to Germany. After that, I really
know about as much of one 'course' as of the other."
"My question referred, not to the little daily revolutions
but to the great life orbit. Harrison, what is yours to be ?"
Evidently it was an uneasy question. Yet the power of
influence-or of associations-..~---was such that Dr. Harriso11
did not fling it away. "I remember," he said, not without
some bitterness of accent-..."yout once did me the honour
to profess to care."
"I do care, very much." And one of the old looks,
that Dr. Harrison well remembered-said the words were
true.
"You do me more honour than I do myself;" he said,
not so lightly as he meant to say it. "I do not care. I
see nothing to care for."
"You refuse to see it-.-." Mr. Linden said gently and
sorrowfully.
Dr. Harrison's brow darkened-it might be with pain,
for Mr. Linden's words were the echo of others he had
listened to-not long ago. In a moment he turned and
spoke with an impulse-of bravado? Perhaps he could
not have defined, and his companion could not trace.
"I refuse to see nothing !-but I confess to you I see
nothing distinctly. What sort of an 'orbit' would you
propose to me ?"
The tone sounded frank, and certainly was not unkind.
Mr. Linden's answer was in few words-" ' To them who by
patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour
and immortality, eternal life'."
Dr. Harrison remained a little while with knitted brow
looking down at his hands, which certainly were in an
order to need no examination. Neither was he examining
them. When he looked up again it was with the frankness
and kindliness both more defined. Perhaps, very strange
to his spirit, a little shame was at work there.
"Linden," he said, "I believe in you! and if ever I enter
upon an orbit of any sort, I'll take up yours. But-" said
he relapsing into his light tone, perhaps of intent,-"you
know two forces are necessary to keep a body going in one
..-..and I assure you there is none, of any sort, at present a~
work upon me I"

"You are mistaken," said Mr. Linden,-" there are two."
"Let's hear~-" said the doctor without looking at him.
"In the first place your conscience, in the second your
will."
"You have heard of such things as both getting stagnant
for want of use-haven't you ?"
"I have heard of the one being half choked by the
other," said Mr. Linden.
"It's so warm this afternoon that I can't contradict you.
What do you want me to do, Linden ?"
"Let conscience do its work-and then you do yours.~~
A minute's silence.
"You do me honour, to believe I have such a thing as a
conscience,"-said the doctor again a little bitterly. "I
didn't use to think it, myself."
He was unaware that it was that very ignored principle
which had forced him to make this speech.
"My. dear friend-" Mr. Linden began, and he too
paused, looking off gravely towards the brightening hori-
zon. "Then do yourself the honour to let conscience have
fair play," he went on presently,-" it is too delicate a
stream to bear the mountain torrents of unchecked will and
keep its clearness."
"Hum !-there's no system of drainage that ever I heard
of that will apply up in those regions I" said the doctor,
after again a second's delay to speak. "And you are doing
my will too much honour now-I tell you it is in a state
of stagnation, and I don't at present see any precipice tQ
tumble down. When I do, I'll promise to think of you-
if that thought isn't carried away too.-Come, Linden !"
he said with more expression of kindliness than Mr. Linden
had seen certainly during all the voyage before,-" I be~
lieve in you, and I will !-though I suppose my words do
seem to you no better than the very spray of those torrents
you are talking about. Will you walk ?-Motley put me
to sleep, but you have done one good thing-you have
stirred me to desire action at least."
It was curious, how the power of character, the power
of influence, had borne down passion and jealousy-even
smothered mortification and pride-and made the man of
the world speak truth. Mr. Linden rose-yet did not im-

BAA


* l~! 1:~
it~

SAY AND SEAL.

mediateTy begin the walk; for laying one hand on the dec.
tor's shoulder with a gesture that spoke both regard and
sorrow and entreaty, he stood silently looking off at the
colours in the west.
"Dr. Harrison," he said, "I well believe that your mother
and mine are dear friends in heaven-God grant that we
may be, too !"
Then they both turned, and together began their walk,
It lasted till they were summoned to tea; and from that
time till they got in there was no more avoidance of his
old friend by the doctor. His manner was changed; if he
did not find enjoyment in Mr. Linden's society he found
somewhat else which had value for him. There was not
again a shade of dislike or of repulsion; and when they
parted on landing, though it might be that there lay in
Dr. Harrison s secret heart a hope that he might never see
Mr. Linden again, there lay with it also, as surely, a secret
regret.
Now all that Faith knew of this for a long time, was
from a newspaper; where-among a crowd of unimportant
passengers in the Vulcan's list-she read the names of Dr.
Harrison and J. E. Linden.

346

I1
CHAPTER XXIX.
II and her mother sat alone at breakfast. About
F A*IaTfortnight of grave quiet had followed after the joy-
ous month that went before, with little enlivening, few in~
terruptiOnS. Without, the season had bloon~ed into greater
iuxuriance,-Within, the flowers now rarely came; and
FaIth's flowerless dress and belt and hair, said of them~
selves that Mr. Linden was away. Roses indeed peeped
through the windows, and thrust their heads between the
blinds, but no one invited them in.
Not so peremptorily as the roses-and yet with more
assurance of wetoome-iReuben Taylor knocked at the door
during breakfast time; scattering the abstract musings that
floated about the coffee-pot and mingled with its vapoury
cloud.
"Sit down, Reuben," said Faith jumping up ;-" there's
a place for you;-and I'll give you a plate." To which
Reuben only replied, "A letter, Miss Faith !"-and ~ntting
it in her hands went off with quick steps. On the back of
it was written, up in one corner-" Flung on board the
Polar Bear, by a strong hand, from steamship Vulcan, half
way across."
There was no need of flowers now truly in the house,
for Faith stood by the table transformed into a rose of
summer joy.
"Mother !" she exclaimed,-.-" It's from sea-half way
across."-
"From sea !-half way across-" her mother repeated.
"Why child, what are you talking about? You don't mean
that il\'Ir. Linden's contrived to make a letter swim back
here already, do you ?"
Faith hardly heard. A minute she stood, with her eyes
very like what Mr. Motley had graphically described them
to be, breaking the seal with hurried fingers, .-and then ran
away. The breakfast table and Mrs. Derrick waited-they
waited a long time before Faith came back to eat a cold    YI
(347)


r

348

SAY AND SEAL.

i Ii~l
fl~

~AY AND SEAL.

3A9

breakfast;, which tasted of nothing but sea-breezes and Wa~
therefore very strengthening. The strengthening eff~ec~
went through the day; there was a fresh colour in Faith's
face. Fifty tines at least the "moonbeams" of her eyes
saw a "strong hand" throw her packet across the sea
waves that separated the two. steamers; the master of the
"Polar Bear" might guess, but Faith knew, that a strong
heart had done it as well. And when her work was over
Faith put a rose in her belt in honour of the day, and sat
down to her books, very happy.
The books were engrossing, and it was later than usual
when she came down stairs to get tea, but Mrs. Derrick
was out. That wasn't very strange. Faith went through
the little routine of preparation,-then she took another
book and sat down by the sweet summer air of the open
window to wait. By and by Mrs. Derrick came slowly
down the road, opened and shut the gate with~the same air
of abstracted deliberateness, and came up the steps looking
tired and flushed. In the porch Faith met and kissed her.
"Where have you been now, mother? tea's ready."
"Pretty child !" was Mrs. Derrick's answer7 "how glad I
am you got that letter this morning !"
Faith smiled; she didn't forget it, but it was not to be
expected that it should be quite so present to Mrs. Der~
rick's mind. Yet almost at the same instant she felt that
her mother had some particular reason for saying that just
then.
* "Where have you been, mother ?"
"Up to Squire Stoutenburgh's," said Mrs. Derrick~ put.
ting herself wearily in the rockiug-chair,-J'and they were
all out-gone to Pequot to spend the day. So I lost my
labour."
Gently Faith stood before her and took off her bonnet.
"What did you go there for, mother ?"
"I wanted to see him-" said MrsriPerrick. "Squire
Deacon's been here, Faith."
"Mother! Is he back again ?-.-What for.?"
"Settle here and live, I suppose. lie's married-that's
one thing. What was he here for ?~z~..why the old story,
Faith,-he wants the place." And Mrs. Derrick'~ eyes
looked as if she wanted it too.

"Does he want it very much, mother ?"
"Means to have it, child-and I don~t feel as if I could
live in any other house in Pattaquasset. So I thought
maybe Mr.. Stoutenburgh would make him hold off till next
year, Faith," said Mrs. Derrick, a little smile coming back
to her lips. "I guess I'll go up again after tea."
Faith coaxed her mother into the other room aj~nd gave
her her tea daintily; revolving in her mind the while many
things. When tea was over and Mrs. Derrick was again
bent upon business, Faith ventured a question. "Mother,
what do you suppose Squire Stoutenburgh can do to 'help
us
"I can't tell, child,-he might talk Sam Deacon into let-
ting us keep the house, at least. We've got to live some-
where, you know, Faith. It's no sort of use for me to talk
to him,-he's as stiff as a crab tree .-and I aint. Ii think
I'll try."
"To-night, mother ?"
"I thought I would."
Faith hesitated, putting the cups together. "Mother,
I'll go. I dare say I shall do as well."
"I'm afraid you're tired too, pretty child," said Mrs. Der-
rick, but with evident relief at the very idea.
"I tired ?-Never," said Faith. "You rest, mother -
and don't fear," she added, kissing her. "I'll put on my
bonnet-and be there and back again in a little while."
The summer twilight was falling grey, but Faith knew
she could have a guardian to come home; and besides the
road between the two houses was thickly built up and per-
feetly safe. The evening glow was almost gone, the stars
faintly gleaming out in the blue above; a gentle sea breeze
stirred the branches and went along with Faith on~her errand.
Now was this errand grievously unpleasing to Faith, simply
because of the implication of that one year of reprieve
which she must ask for. How should she manage it? But
her way was clear; she must manage it as she could.
Spite of this bugbear, she had gone with a light free
step all along her road, walking rather quick; for other
thoughts had kept her company, and the image of her little
flying packet shot once and again through her mind. At
length she came to Mr. Stoutenburgh's gate, and Faith's
voL. II.               80

1 i


350              SAY AND, SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             351

foot paused. Light shone though the muslin curtains;
and as her step neared the front door the broken sounds of
voices and laughter came unwelcomely through. A rn~ost
unnecessary formality her knock was, but one of the chil.
dren came to the door and ushered her at once into the
tearoom, where the family were waiting for their late tea,
Mrs. Stoutenburgh-4ooking very pretty in her light sum.
mer dress-was half reclining on the sofa, professing that
she was tired to death, but quite failing to excite any syrn.
pathy thereby in the group of children who had not seen
her since morning. The Squire himself walked leisurely
up and down, with his hands behind him, sometimes laugh.
ing at the children sometimes helping on their play. Through
the room was the full perfume of roses, and the lamplight
could not yet hide the departing glow of the western hori-
zon. Into this group and atmosphere little Linda brought
the guest, with the simple announcement, "Mother, it's Miss
Faith."
"Miss Faith !" Mrs. Stoutenburgh exclaimed, starting up
and dispersing the young ones,-" Linda, you shall have a
lump of sugar !-My dear other child, how do you do ?-.
and what sweet corner of your little heart sent you up here
to-night? You have not-no, that can't be,-and you
wouldn't come here if you had. But dear Faith, how are
you ?"-ai4 she was rescued from the Squire and carried
oft' to the sofa to answer at her leisure. With a sort of
blushing, steadfast grace, which was common with her in the
company of friends who were in her secret, Faith answered.
"And you haven't had tea yet,"-she said remorsefully.
"I came to give Mr. Stoutenburgh some trouble-but I can
do it in three minutes." Faith looked towards the Squire.
"My dear," he said, "it would take you three years !"
"But Faith," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh-" here comes the
tea, and you can't go home without Mr. Stoutenburgh,-..
and nothing qualifies him for business like a contented state
of his appetite I"
Faith laughed and sat down again, and then was fain
upon persuasion to take a place at the table, which was a
joyous scene enough. Faith did little but fill a place; her
mind was busy with thoughts that began to come pressingly;
she tried not to~ have it seem so.

r

"My dear," said the Squire as he helped Faith to rasp-
berries, "what fine weather we have had,. eh ?"
"Beautiful weather 1".- Faith responded with a little
energy.
"Papa," said one of the children, "do you think Mr. Lin-
den's had it fine too ?"
"What tangents children's minds go off in !" observed
Mrs. Stoutenburgh. "Faith! don't eat your raspberries
without sugar, -how impatient you are. You used to
preach patience to me when I was sick."
"I can be very patient, with these raspberries and no
sugar," said Faith, wishing she could hide the bloom of her
cheeks as easily as she hid that of the berries under the fine
white shower.
"Poor child !" said her friend gently,-" I think you have
need of all your patience~" And her hands came softly
about Faith's plate, removing encumbrances and adding
dainties, with a sort of mute sympathy that at the moment
could find no more ethereal channel. "Mr. Stoutenburgh
drove down to Quapaw the other day," she went on in a
low voice, "to ask those fishing people what indications
our land weather gave of the weather at sea; and-he
couldn't half tell me about his visit when he came home,"
said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, breaking short off in her account.
"Linda, go get that glass of white roses and set it by Miss
Faith,.-maybe she'll take, them home with her."
Faith looked at the white roses and smelled their sweet~
ness; and then she said, ~' Who did you see, Mr. Stouten-
burgh ?-down at Quapafr ?"
"None of the men, my dear-they were all away, but II
saw half the rest of the village; and even the children knew
what report the men hadb ron ght in, and what they thought
of the weather. Everybody had a good word to say about
it, Miss Faith; and everybody-I do believe I" said the
Squire reverently, "had been on their knees to pray for it.
Jonathan Ling's wife said that was all they could ever do.
for him." Which pronoun, be it understood, did not refer
to Jonathan Ling.
"They're Mr. Linden's roses, Miss Faith," said little
Linda, who stood waiting for more marked admiration,-
"do you like them? He always did."


352              SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.              353

Faith kissed the child, partly to thank her and to stop
her lips, partly to hide her own which she felt were tale.
telling.
"Where did you get the roses, Linda ?"
"0 off the bush in the garden. But Mr. Linden always
picked one whenever he came,' and sometimes he'd stop o~
his way to school, and just open the gate and get one of
these white roses and then go away again. So we called
it Mr. Linden's bush." Faith endeavoured to attend to her
raspberries after this. When tea was over she was carried
off into the drawing~room and the children were kept out,
"If you want me away too, Faith," Mrs. Stoutenburgh
said as she arranged the lamp and the curtains, "I'll go."
"I don't want you to go, ma'ain."-.--And then covering
her trepidation under the simplest of grave exteriors, Faith
spoke to the point. "it is mother's business. Squire Dea-
con has come home, Mr. Stoutenburgh."
"My dear," said the Squire, "I know he has. I heard it
just before you came in. But he's married, Miss Faith."
"That don't content him," said Faith, "for he wants our
farm."
"Rascal U' said Mr. Stoutenburgh in an emphatic under.
tOne,-." the old claim, I suppose. 'What's the state of it
now, my dear?"'
"Nothing new, sir; he has a right to it, I suppose. The
mortgage is owing, and we haven't been able to pay any-
thing ~ut the interest, and that must be a small rent for The
farm." Faith paused. Mrs. Stoutenburgh was silent, look.
lug from one to the other an~iously,.-the Squire himself
was not very intelligible.
"Yes".-.he said,-." of course. Your poor father only lived
to make the second payment. I don't know why I call him
poor-he's rich enough now. But Sam Deacon !-.-.-a small
rent? too much for him to get,.-.and too little..-..Why
my dear !" he said suddenly sitting up straight and facing
round upon Faith, "I thought-What does ~your mother
expect to do, Miss Faith ?-has she seen Sam? What does
he say ?"
came to see her this afternoon, sir-he is bent upon
having the place, mother says. And she - don't like to
leave the old house," Faith said slowly. "He will take the

K farm, I suppose,.-but mother thought, perhaps, sir-if you
speak to Mr. Deacon, he would let us stay in the
house-Quly the house without anything else-for another
year. Mother wished it-I don't know that your speaking'
to him could do any good." Faith went straight through,
but the rosy colour sprung and grew till its crimson reached
her forehead. Not the less she went clearly through with
what she had to say, her eyes only at the last words droop-
ing. Mr. Stoutenburgh rose up with great energy and
~t~od before her.
"My dear," he said, "he shall do it! If it was any other
man I'd promise to make him do more, but Sam always
must have some way of amusing himself, and I'm afraid I
can't make this as expensive as the last one he tried. You
tell your mother, Miss Faith, that she shall stay in her
house till she'd rather go to yours. I hope that won't be
more than a year, but if it is she shall stay."
"That's good, Mr. Stoutenburgh I" said his wife with a
little clap of her hands.
Whether Faith thought it was 'good' might be a 4ues~
~ tion; her eyes fell further, she did not offer to thank Mr.
Stoutenburgh for his energetic kindness, nor to say any-
thing. Yet Faith had seemingly more to say, for she made
no motion to go. She sat quite still a few minutes, till
raising her eyes fully to Mr. Stoutenburgh's face she said
gravely, "Mother will feel very glad when I tell. her that,
sir.
"She may make herself easy. But tell her, my dear,"
~ said the Squire, again forgetting in his earnestness what
~ ground lie was on,-" tell her she's on no account to tell
~ Sam why she wants to stay. Will you recollect that,
Miss Faith ?"
Faith's eyes opened slightly. "I think he must know-
or guess it, Mr. Stoutenburgh? Mother says she could
hardly bear to live in any other house in Pattaquasset."
"My dear Miss Faith !" said Mr. Stoutenburgh,-" I
mean !-why she don't want to stay any longer. That's
what Sam mustn't know. I'm very stupid about my words,1
always."
Faith was again obliged to wait a few minutes before
she could go on. Mrs. Stoutenburgh was the first to speak,
30*

352


854              SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.              355

for the Squire walked up and down, no doubt (mentally)
attacking Mr. Deacon.
"I'm so glad !" she said, with the old dance of her eyes~.
and yet a little sigh too. "So glad and so happy, that I
could cry,-I know I shall when the time comes. Dear
Faith, do you feel quite easy about this other busiue~
now?"
"What, ma'am ?-about Mr. Deacon ?"
"Why yes !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughing,~"isn~
that the only one you've been uneasy about ?"
"I am not uneasy now," said Faith. "But ~ Stout.
enburgh-if Mr. Deacon takes the farm back again, whoni
does the hay belong to, aud the cattle, and the tools and
farm things ?"
"All that's on the land-all that's growing on it, goes
with it. All that's under cover and moveable belongs to
you.~'
"Then the hay in the barn is ours ?"
"Everything in the barn."
"There's a good deal in the barn'," said Faith with a
brightening face. "You know the season has been early,
sir, and our hay-fields lie well to the sun; and a great deal
of the hay is in. Mr. Deacon will want some rent for the
house I suppose,-and I guess there will be hay enough to
pay it, whatever it is. For I can't sell my cows ! -" she
added laughing a little.
Her tWo friends-the Squire on the floor and his wife on
the sofa-looked at her and then at each other.
"My dear," the Squire began, "IF want to ask you a
question. And before I do, let me tell you-which per.
haps you don't know-just what right I"-
"Oh Mr. Stoutenburgh !" cried his wife, "do please
hush !-you'll say something dreadful."
"Not a bit of it-" said the Squire,-" I know what to
say this time, my dear, and when to stop. I wanted to tell
you, Miss Faith, that I am your regularly appointed guar-
dian-therefore if I ask questions you will understand why."
But what more on that subject the Squire might have said,
and said not, was left to conjecture. Faith looked at him,
wondering, coloring, doubting.
"I never heard of it before, sir," she said,

You shouldn't; say regularly, Mr. Stoutenburgh," said
his wife,-" Faith will think she is to be under your control."
"I shouldn't say legally," said the Squire, "and I didn't.
No she aint under my control. I only mean, Miss Faith,"
he said turning to her, "that I am appointed to look after
your interests1 till somebody who is better qualified comes
to do it."
"There-Mr. Stoutenburgh,-don't go any further," said
his wife.
"iNot in that direction," said the Squire. "Now my
dear, if Sam Deacon will amuse himself in this way, as J
said, what will you do? Do the farm and the house about
counterbalance each other most years?"
Faith never knew how she separated the two parts of her
nature enough at this moment to be practical, but she
answered. "We have been able to pay the interest on the
mortgage, sir, every year. That's all. Mother has not laid
up anything."
The Squire took a turn or two up and down the room,
then came and stood before her again. "My dear," he
said, "you can't, tell just yet what your plans will be, so I
won't ask you to-night, but you had better let me deal with
Sam Deacon, and the new tenant, and the hay, and every-
thing else. And you may draw upon me for something
more solid, to any amount you please."
"Something more solid than yourself 1-0 Mr. Stouten-
burgh !" his wife said, though her eyes were bright with
more than one feeling.
Faith was silent a minute, and then gave Mr. Stouten-
burgh a full view of those steady eyes that some people
liked and some did not care just so to meet.
"No, sir !-" she said with a smile and also a little wist-
ful look of the gratitude she did not speak, - "if the hay
will pay the rent, I don't want anything else. Mother and
I can do very well. We will be very much obliged to you
to manage Mr. Deacon for us-and the hay. I think I can
manage the rest. II shall keep the cows and make butter,"
-she' said with a laughing flash of the eye.
"0 delicious !" cried Mrs. Stoutenburgh, "(I mean the
butter, Faith)-but will you let me have it ?"
"You don't want it," said Faith.


356             SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.

in

"I do ! -nobody makes such butter-I should eat my
breakfast with a new appetite, and so would Sam. W0
never can get butter enough when he's in the house. i'n
send down for it three times a week-how often do you
churn, Faith ?"
Faith came close up to her~ and kissed her as she whis.
pered laughingly, "Every day !"
"Then I'll send every day !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh
clapping her hands. "And then I shall hear of you Once
in a while.-Ungrateful child, you haven't been here before
since-I suppose it won't do to say when," she added, kiss-
ing Faith on both cheeks. "I shall tell Mr. Linden it is
not benevolent to pet you so much."
"But my dear-my dear-" said the Squire from one to
the other. "Well, well,-- I'll talk to you another time,
Miss Faith,-I can't keep up with more than one lady at
once. You and Mrs. Stoutenhurgh have gone on clean
ahead of me."
"What's the matter', Mr. Stoutenburgh ?" said Faith. "I
would like to hoar it now, for there is something I want
settled."
"What's that ?" said the Squire.
"Will you please go on, sir ?"
"I guess I'll hear you first," said the Squire. "You
seem to know just what you want to say, Miss Faith, and
I'm not sure that I do."
"You said we had gone on ahead of you, sir. Shall we
go back now
"Why my dear," said the Squire smiling, "I thought you
two were settling up accounts and arrangements rather fast,
that's all. If they are the beginning and end, that's very
~ve1l; but if they're only premonitory symptoms, that again's
different."
"And not 'very well' ?" said Faith, waiting.
"Not very," said Mr. Stoutenburgh shaking his head.
"How should it be better, sir ?"
"My dear, in general, what is needless can be spared."
"I don't know what I am going to do, Mr. Stouten-
burgh. I am going to do nothing needless, not wilfully
needless. But I am going to do it without help." She
stood before him, with perfect gentleness but with as clear

determination in both look and manner, making her means
~ ing known. Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughed, the Squire stood
looking at her in a smiling perplexity. Finally went straight
to the point.
"Miss Faith, it is doubly needless that you should do
anything more than you've been doing-everybody knows
that's enough. In the first place, my dear, you are your
father's child-and that's all that need be said, till my purse
has a hole at both ends. In the next place-shall I tell
her what she is in the next place, Mrs. Stoutenburgh ?"
"I fancy she knows," said his wife demurely.
"Well," said the Squire, "the next place is the first place,
after all, and I haven't the right to do much but take care
of her. But my dear, I have it under hand and seal to
take better care than that."
"Than what, sir ?".--said Faith with very deep colour,
but unchanged bearing.
"I don't know yet," said Mr. Stoutenburgh, ~~aNuy more
than you know what you are going to do. Than to let you
do anything that would grieve your dear friend and mine.
If I could shew you the letter you'd understand, Miss
Faith, but I'm not good at repeating. 'To take care of you%
as he would'-that was part of it. And because I can't
half carry out such instructions, is no sign I shouldn't do it
a quarter." And the Squire stood as firm on his ground as
Faith on hers.
No, not quite; for in her absolute gentleness there was a
power of intent expressed, which, rougher outlines could but
give with less emphasis. The blood spoke for her eloquently
before Faith could find any sort of words to speak for her-
self brought now by more feelings than one; 'yet still she
stood before the Squire, drooping her head a little, a soft
statue of immoveability. Only once, just before she spoke,
both Faith's hands went up to her brow to push the hair
back ;-a most unusual gesture of agitation. But her look
and her words were after the same steady fashion as before,
aggravated by a little wicked smile, and Faith's voice
sounded for sweetness like silver bells.
"You can't do it, Mr. Stoutenburgh ! -not that way.
Take care of me every other way ;-but I'll not have-of
that sort-a bit of help. "---~


K
Ii

SAY AND SEA.

The Squire looked at her with a mixture of amusement
and perplexity.
"I'm to follow suit-" he said,-" but then I don't ju~
know what Mr. Linden would do in such a case! Can yo~
tell me, Miss Faith~"
"It is no matter-it wouId~ not make any difference."
"What would not ?" said the Squire innocently.
"Anything that he could do, sir ;-so you have no chance."
She coloured gloriously, but she smiled at him too with he~
last words.
"Well, Miss Faith," said Mr. Stoutenburgh, "I have my
doubts as to the correctness of that first statement; but J'll
tell you what 1 shall do, my refractory young lady. If yo~
set about anything outside the limits, I'll do my best to
thwart you,-there I"
If Faith was not a match for him, there was no meaning
in the laugh of her dark eye. But she only bade Mrs.
Stoutenburgh an affectionate good night, took her bunch of
white roses and Mr. Stoutenburgh's arm and set out to go
home.

CHAPTER XXX.
,~ j~'AJTII put her roses in water and listened half ~ minute
32 to their strange silent messages. But after that she
did a great deal of thinking. If all went well, and Mr.
Linden got home safe from .abroad,-and this year were all
slic had to take care for, it was a very little matter to keep
the year afloat, and very little matter, in her estimation,
whatever she might have to do for the purpose. But those
"ifs" no mortal could answer for. Faith did not look
much at that truth, but she acted upon it; prayed over her
thoughts and brought her plans into shape 4i very humble
consciousness of it. And at the early breakfast the next
*~ morning she began to unfold them; which as Mrs. IDerrick
did not like them, led on to a long talk; but Faith as ustial
iliad her way.
After some preliminary arrangements, and late in the
~ day, she set off upon a long walk to Miss iBezac's. The
4 slant beams of the summer sun were again upon the trim
~ little house as Faith came up towards it. Things were
~ changed since she was there before! changed a good deaf
fiom the gay, joyous playtime of that visit. Mr. Linden In
* Europe, and she-" It is very well," thought Faith; "it
might not have been good for me to have too much of such
a time Next year"-
~ Would if it brought joy, bring also an entering upon real
~ life-work. Faith knew it; she had realized long before with a
~ thought of pain, that this summons to Europe had perhaps
cut short her last time of absolute holiday pleasure. Mr.
Linden could hardly now be more than a few days in P~t~
~ taquasset before "next year" should corne~-and Faith did
~ not stop to look at that; she never thought of it three
minutes together. But life-work looked to her lovely ;-~
what did not? Even the little pathway to Miss Bezac's
door was pleasant. She was secretly glad of that other
visit now, which had made this one so easy; though yet a
sympathetic blush started as she went in.
(859)

358


360                SAY AND SEAL.                                        SAY AND SEAL..                3~31

it

"Why Faith 1" said Miss Bezac,-~."you're the very per.
son I was thinking of; and the very one I wanted to see~
though I always do want to see you, for that matter, and
don't often get what I want. Then I don't generally want
much. But what a beautiful visit we had last time! ~
you know I've been conjuring ever since how your dress
should be made? What'll it be, to begin with ?.-I always
do like to begin with that-and it's bothered me a good
deal-not knowing it, I mean. I couldn't arrange so well
about the making. Because making white satin's one thing,
and muslin's another,-and lace is different from 'em both
.-and indeed from most other things except spider's webs,"
All which pleasant and composing sentiments were uttered
while Miss Bezac was clearing a chai~' for Faith, and put.
lAng her in it, and laying her various pieces of work
together.
"I shouldn't be the least bit f help to you," said Faith
who couldn't help laughing. "Can't it wait ?"
"Why it'll have to," said Miss Bezac; "he said it must,
-but that's no reason I should. I always like a reason
for everything. It took me an age and a quarter to find
out why Miss Essie De Staff always will wear aprons. She
wears 'em out, too, in more ways than one, but that's g.ood
for me. Only there's so many ways of making them that
I get in a puzzle. Now this one, Faith-would you work
it with red flowers or green ?-I said black, but she will
have colours. You've got a good colour to-day-O don't
you want some bread and milk ?" said Miss Bezac, dropping
the apron.
"No, thank you 1" said Faith laughing again,-.J'not to.
day. I should work that with green, Miss Bezac."
"But I'm afraid green won't do, with black above and
black below," said Miss Bezac. "Two sides t~ things you
know, Faith,-aprons and all the rest. I'd a great mind to
work it with both, and then she couldn't say she'd rather
have had othere. What things I have worked in my day!
.-but my day's twilight now, and my eyes find it out."
"Do you have more to do than you can manage, gen.
rally ?" said Faith.
"Why no, child, because I never take any more,-that's
the way not to have things-troubles or aprons. I could

have my hands full of both, but what's the use ?-when one
hasn't eyes-for sewing or crying. Mrs. Stoutenburgh
comes, and Mrs. Somers, and Miss Essie-and the land-
lord, and sometimes I let 'em leave me a job, and sometimes
I don't,-Send 'em, dresses, and all, off to Quilipeak."
*" Then I'll tell you what you shall give me to-day~in~
stead of bread and milk ;-some of the work that you
would send off. Don't you remember," said Faith, smiling
quietly at Miss Bezac's eyes,---" you once promised to teach
me to embroider waistcoats ?"
"Why yes 1" said Miss J3ezac-." and so I will. But,
my dear, are you sure he would wear it ?-and after all,
isn't it likely he'll get everything of that sort he wants, in
Paris? And then the size 1-who's to tell what that should
be ~ To he sure you could do the fronts, and have theni
made up afterwards-and of course he would wear any~
thing you made.-I'll go right off and get my patterns."
Faith's confusion was startled. It was Miss Bezac's
turn to look at her. She caught hold of the seamstress
and brought her back to listening at least.
"Stop !-Miss Bezac !-.-you don't understand me. I
want work !-.I want work. I am not talking of making
anything for anybody !-" Faith's eyes were truthful now,
if ever they were.
"Well then-how can you work, if you won't make any~
thing for anybody? Want work, Faith ?-you don't mean
to say all that story about Sam Deacon's true? Do yort
know," said Miss Bezac, dropping into a chair and folding
her hands, "when I heard that man had gone out of town,
I said to myself; it would be a mercy if he never came
back !"-which was the severest censure Miss Bezac ever
passed upon anybody. "I really did," she went on, -
"and now he's come, and I s'pose I've got to say that's a
mercy too-and this,-though I wouldn't believe it last;
night."
"Then you have heard it ?"
"My ears did, and they're pretty good ears too,-though
I do get out of patience with them now and then."
"It's true," said Faith, "and it's nothing very dreadful.
Mother and I have nothing to live upon but what I can
make by butter; so I thought I would learn and take wor1~
VOL.11.               81

ii I
ii     I

360

361


362

SAY AND SEALS

it

SAY AND SEAL.

363

of you, if you had it for me. I could soon understand it;
and then you can let people bring you as much as they will
-what you cannot do, I will do. I could think of nothing
so pleasant ;-.---io way to make money, I mean."
For a minute Miss Bezac sat quite still, -then she
roused up.
"Nothing to live upon but butter !"-she ~aid,-" well
that's not much,-at least if there's ever so much of it yo~ 4
want something else. And what you~ want you must have
-if you can get it. And I can get you plenty of work-. i
and it's a good thing to understand this sort of work too, i
for he might carry you off to some random place where
they wear calico just as they can pint it on-and that
wouldn't suit you, nor him neither. I don't believe thi&amp;ll
suit him though-and it don't me, not a bit. I'm as proud
as a Lucifer match for anybody I love. But I'll make you
pr6ud of your work in no time. What'll you do first? em-
broider or stitch or cut out or baste or fit ?"
"What you please -what you think best. But Miss
Bezac, what are you 'proud' about ?"
"0 I've my ways and means, like other folks," said Miss
Bezac. "And you can do something more striking than
aprons for people that don't need 'em. But I'm not going
to give you this apron, Faith-.--I sha'n't have her wearing
your work all round town, and none the wiser. See-this
is nice and light and pretty-like the baby it's for,-you
like green, don't you? and so will your eyes."
"I'd as lieve have Miss Essie wear my work as eat my
butter," said Faith. "But," she added more gravely,-." I ~
think that what God gives me to do, I ought to be proud
to do,-and I am sure I am willing. He knows best."
"Yes, yes, my dear-I believe that,-and so I do most
things you say," answered Miss Bezac, bringing forth from
the closet a little roll of green calico. "Now do you like
this ?--.-because if you don't, say so."
"I'll take this," said Faith, "and the next time I'll take
the apron. I must do just as much as I can, Miss Bezac;
and you must let me. Would you rather have the apron
done first? I want Miss Essie's apron, Miss Bezac !"
"Well you can't have it," said Miss Bezac,-" and what
you can't, you can't-.-.-all the world over. Begin slow and

go on fast-that's the best way. And I'll take the best
care of you !-lay you up in lavender,-like my work when
it's done and isn't gone home."
So laughingly they parted, and Faith went home with
her little bundle of work, well contented.
A very few days had seen the household retrenchments
made. Cindy was gone, and Mr. Skip was only waiting
for a 'boy' to come. Mother and daughter drew their
various tools and conveniences into one room and the
kitchen, down stairs, to have the less to take care of;
abandoning the old eating-room except as a passage-way
to the kitchen; and taking their meals, for greater conve-.
nience, in the latter apartment.
Faith did not shut up her books withot~t some great
twinges of pain; but she said not one word on the matter.
She bestowed on her stitching and on her hotisework and
on her butter the diligent zeal which used to go into French
rules and philosophy. But Mrs. Stoutenburgh had reckoned
without her host, for there was a great deal more of the
butter than she could possibly dispose of; and Judge Har-
rison's family and Miss De Staff's became joint consumers
and paid the highest price for it, that Faith would take.'
J3ut this is running ahead of the story.
Some days after Faith's appeal to Mr. Stoutenburgh
had passed, before the Squire presented himself to report
progress. He found both the ladies at work in the sitting-
room, looking very much as usual, except that there was a
certain not inelegant disposition of various pieces of muslin
and silk and ribbon about the room which carried the
appearance of business.
"What rent will Mr. Deacon have, Mr. Stoutenburgh ?"
said Faith looking up from her needle.
"My dear, he'll have what he can get," said the Squire,
"but what that'll be, Miss Faith, he and 1 haven't just made
up our minds.
"How much ought it to be, sir, do you think ?"
"Nothing at all," said the Squire,-" not a cent."
"Do you think not, sir ?" said Faith doubtfully.
"Not a cent !" the Squire repeated,-" and I told~ him
so, and said he might throw the barn into the bargain and
not hurt himself,"

~dd
p
"I'
'1'


II

K

,3~4                $AY AND SEAL.
"Will he agree to that, Mr. Stoutenburgh ?.-jII mean
about the house. We can pay for it."
"My dear, ~ hope to make him agree to that, and more
too. So just let the hay stand, and the house, and the
barn, ~nd everything else for the present. I'll tell you time
enough-if quarter day must come. And by the way,
talking of quarters, there's one of a lamb we killed yester.
day,.-J told Tim to leave it in the kitchen. How does
your ice hold out?"
"Do you want some, sir ?" said Faith, in whose eyes
there shone a~ soft light the Squire could be at no loss to
read.
"No my dear, I don't-though Mrs. Stoutenburgh does
tell me sometimes to~ keep cool. But I thought maybe
you did. Do you know, Miss Essie De Staff never sees
me now if she can help it-.what do you suppose is the
reason ?"
"I don't think there can be any, sir."
"Must be !" said the Squire,-" always is a reason for
every fact. You know what friends we used to be,.-it was
always, 'Hush, Mr. Stoutenburgh!' or, 'how do you know
anything about it?' Ah, he's a splendid fellow I-My dear,
I don't wish to ask any impertinent questions, but when
you do hear that he's safe across? just let me know-will
you ?" And the Squire bowed himself off without waiting
for an answer.

VA ITII found that sewing and housework and butters
12 making took not only, her hands but her minutes, and
on these little minute wheels the days glided off very .fast.
She had plenty of fresh air, withal, for Mrs. Stoutenburgh
would coax her into a horseback ride, or the Squire take
her off in his little wagon; or Mrs. Derrick and Jerry. go
with her down to the shore for clams and salt water. The
sea breeze was more company than usual, this summer.
By the time August days came, there came also a letter
from Europe; and thereafter the dispatches were as regu-
lar and as frequent as the steamers. But they brought no
special news as to the point of coming home. Mrs. Iredelt
lingered on in the same uncertain state, neither worse nor
better,-there was no news to send. Everything else the
letters had; and though Faith might miss that, she could
not complain.
So the summer days slipped away peacefully; and when
the mother and daughter sat sewing together in the after-
noon, (for Mrs. Derrick often took some little skirt or
sleeve) nobody would have guessed why the needles were
at work.
There was one remarkable thing about the boy Reuben
tiad found to supply Mr. Skip's place-he was never visible.
Nor audible either, for that matter, except that Faith at
her own early rising often heard the wood-saw industriously
in motion. He was not to sleep in the house for the first
month,-that had been agreed; but whether he slept any-
where seemed a matter of doubt. A doubt Faith resolved
to set at rest; and one August morning, while the birds
were a-twitter yet with their first getting up and the sun
had not neared the horizon, Faith crossed the yard to, the.
woodshed and stood in the open doorway, -the morning
light showing the soft outlines of her figure in a dark print
dress, and her 'white ruffles, and gleaming on her faultlessly
soft and bright hair.
(865)

OIIAPTER: XXXI.

0
l~1i


36~             SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.

I,

The woodshed was in twilight yet; its various contents
showing dimly, the phoebe who had built her nest under
the low roof just astir, but the wood work was going on
briskly. Not indeed under the saw-that lay idle; but
with the sort of noiseless celerity which was natural to
him, Reuben Taylor was piling the sticks of this or yester.
day's cutting: the slight chafing of the wood as it fell into
place chiming with the low notes of a hymn tune which
Faith well remembered to hav&amp; heard Mr. Linden sing.
She did not stir, but softly, as she stood there, her voice
joined in.
For a minute Reuben did not hear her,..-...theu in some
pause of arrangement he heard, and turned round with a
start and flush that for degree might have suited one who
was stealing wood instead of piling it. But he did not
speak-nor eVen thought to say good morning; only
pushed the back from his forehead and waited to
receive sentence.
"Reuben !"-said Faith, stepping in the doorway. And
she said not another word; but in her eyes and her lips,
even in her very attitude as she stood before him, Reuben
Taylor might read it all !-her knowledge for whose love
he was doing that work, her powerlessness of any present
means of thanks, and the existence of a joint treasury of
returned affection that would make itself known to him
some day, if ever the chance were. The morning sun
gleamed in through the doorway on her face, and Reuben
could see it all there. He had raised ~his eyes at the first
sound of her voice, but they fell again, and his only answer
was a very low spoken "Good morning, Miss Faith."
Faith sat down on a pile of cut sticks and looked up at
him.
"Reuben.-what are you about ?"
"Putting these sticks out of the way, Miss Faith"-with
a half laugh then.
"I shall tell Mr~ Linden of you," (gravely.)
"I didn't mean you should have a chance; Miss ~
"Now you are caught and found-do you know what
your punishment will be ?"
Reuben looked up again, but did not venture to guess.

"You will be obliged to come in and take a cup of coffee
with me every morning."
"0 that's not necessary 1" Reuben said with a relieved
face,-" thank you very much, Miss Faith."
"It is necessary," said Faith gravely ~ and you are
not to thank me for what you don't like."
"It waS partly for what I do like, ma'am," said Reuben,
softly pitching up a stick of hickory.
"It's so pleasant to have you do this, Reuben," said
Faith, watching him, "that I can't tell you how pleasant it
is; but you must drink my coffee, Reuben, or-I will not
burn your wood! You know what Mr. Linden would
make you do, Reuben." Faith's voice lowered a little.
Reuben did not dispute the commands so urged, though a
quick glance said that her wish was enough.
"But dear Reuben, who's coming when you're gone ?"
"Would you like Dromy Tuck, Miss Faith ?-but I don't
~ know that you ever saw him. He's strong, and honest-.
~ he's not very bright. I'll find somebody." And so th~
matter ended.
August went on,-.--Reuben sawed his last stick of wood
and eat his last breakfast at Mrs. Derrick's, and then set
forth for Quilipeak, to begin his new life there. The little
settlement at Quapaw was not alone in feeling his loss,-
Mrs. Derrick and Faith missed him every day. One of Reu~
ben's last doings in Pattaquasset, was the giving Dromy
in charge to Phil Davids.
"Look after him a little, Phil," he said, "and see that
' he don't go to sleep too much daytimes. He means to go
~ straight, but he wants help about it; and I don't want
Mrs. Derrick to be bothered with him." Which request, en~
forced as it was by private considerations, favoured Dromy
with as strict a censorship as he desired.
Fron~, Germany news came at last,-but it was of the
sort tha~t one can bear to wait for. Mrs. Iredell was not
able to be moved nor certain to get well. Mr. Linden
could neither come with his sister nor from her. And thus,
hindered *from getting home to his Seminary duties in
America, there was but one thing he could do-finish his
course in a German University. But that ensured his
being in Europe the whole year.! No question now of fall


368

SAY AND SEAL

ii

or winter or spring,-.-summer was the first time that could
be even thought of; and in this fair September, when Faith
had been thinking of the possibility of his sudden appear.
ance, he was beginning his work anew in a foreign land.
* It came heavily at first upon her. Faith had not knowa
how much she counted on that hope or possibility. But
now when it was gone she found she had lost a large piece
of her sunlight. She had read her letter alone, as usual,
and alone she struggled with her sorrow. It cost Faith
for once a great many tears. Prayer was always her
refuge. Bat at last after the tears and the signs of them
were gone, Faith went into her mother's company again,
looking wistful and as gentle and quiet.
Perhaps it was well for Faith that her mother knew what
this quiet meant-it saved her countless little remarks of
wonder and comnXent and sorrow. More devoted to her Mrs.
Derrick could not be, but she had her own strong box of
feeling, and there locked up all her sorrow and anxiety out
of sight. Yet it was some time before the little sitting-
room, with its scattered bits of work, could look bright
again.
"And I sha'n't see him again till-.-.~." It save Faith
a great pang. That "next year" she never looked at
much. She would have liked a little more of those inno-
cent play days which had been so unexpectedly broken oft'.
"Next year". looked serious, as well as glad. "But it i~
good for me," she said to herself. "It must be good for
me, to be reminded to live on what cannot fail. I suppose
I was getting to be too very happy. ".-And after a few
such talks with herself Faith went straight on, for all that
appeared, as peacefully as ever, and as cheerfully.
It was not long after this, that passing Mr. Simlins' gate
one afternoon, as she was coming home from a walk, Faith
was hailed by the farmer. She could not but stop to speak
to him, and then she could not prevent his carrying her off
into the house.
"'Twont hurt you to rest a minute-and 'twont hurt
n~" said he. "Why I haint seen you since Howe
long do you s'pose folks can live and not see moonshine?
Now you pull off your bonnet, and I'll tell Mrs. Hummins
to give us something good for tea."

SAY AND SEAL.
"WIu~t would mother do for hers, Mr. Simlins ?" said
Faith resisting this invitation.
"Well you can sit down anyhow, and read to me," said
Mr. Simlins, who had already taken .a seat himself in pre-
paration for it. "People can't get along without light from
one phenomenon or the other, you know, Faith."
She took off her bonnet, and brought the Bible. "What
do you want, Mr. Simlins ?" her sweet voice said ~
ingly.
"Fact is," said the farmer rather sorrowfully,. "I s'pose
I want about everything! I don't feel to know much
more 'n a baby-and there aint more'n three grains of corn
to the bushel in our minister's preachin'. I go to meeting'
and come home with my head a little more like a bell than
'twas; for there's nothing more in it but a ringin' of the
words I've heerd. Do you mind, Faith, when somebody-
I don't know whether you or II like him best-wanted me
to try a new kind of. farming ?-you mind it? I guess you
do. It never went out o' my head again, till I set out to
try;-and now I find I don't know nothing' at all how to
work it 1"
"What is the trouble, dear Mr. Simlins ?" said Faith
looking up.
The farmer hesitated, then said low and huskily, "I don't
know what to do about joining' the church."
"The Bible says, 'If a man love God, the same is known
of him,' "-Faith answered softly.
"Well, but can't it be known of him without that? Fact
is, Faith, I'm afeard t"-.-and a rough hand was drawn across
the farmer's eyes-" I'm afeard, if I do, I'll do something I
hadn't ought to do, and so only just dishonour the profes.
sion-and I'd better not have anything to do with it 1"
Faith turned back the leaves of the Bible.
"Listen to what God said to Joshua, Mr. Simlins, when
he was going to lead the people of Israel over into a land
full of enemies.-
"'Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a
good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed."'
"It's easy to say 'be strong '," said the farmer after
pausing a minute,.-"but how are you going to contrive
it?"

I!
if
4

if


370

SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.

37I

Faith read from the Psalms; and her words fell sweeter
every one. "'In the day when I cried thou answeredst me,
and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul.' Thati3
what David says, Mr. Simlins; and this is Isaiah's testi.
mony~-' They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their
strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they
shall run and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not
faint.'"
"Go ahead, Faith !"-said the farmer, who was sitting with
his head down in his hands. "You aint leaving' me much of
a corner to hide in. Turn down a leaf at them places."
Faith was still again, turning over leaves.
"Paul was in trouble once, Mr. Simlins, and prayed ear.
nestly about something; and this is what he says of the
Lord's answer to him..-.-'And he said unto me, My grace is
sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weak~
ness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my in.
firmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.'-.-.
When I am weak, then am I strong.' And in an other
place.-' I can do all things through Ghrist which strength.
eneth me.'"
"But he wasn't much like me," said Mr. Simlins-J'he
was an apostle audhad inspiration. I hadn't none."
"'He was a man, though," said Faith, "and a weak one, as
you see h' calls himself. And he prays for the Christians
at Ephesus, that God would grant them 'to be strengthened
with might by his Spirit;' and they were common people.
And the Bible says 'Be strong in the Lord and in the power
of his might ;'-.we aren't bid to be strong in ourselves; hut
here again, 'Strengthened with might, according to his glo-
rious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joy-
fulness.' Won't that do ?" said Faith softly.
"Have you put marks in all them places ?" said the farmer.
"I will."
"If that don't do, I s'pose nothing will," said Mr. Sim.
lins. "They're mighty words! And they've stopped my
mouth."
Faith wa~ silently marking the places. The farmer sat
looking at her.
"You do know the Scriptures..-4 can say that for you !"
he remarked.

"No, Mr. Simlins !-.--" said Faith looking up suddenly,-..
"I don't know this string of passages of myself.' Mr. Lin~
den showed them to me," she said more softly and blushing.
She went on with what she was about.-~
"Well don't he say you like to speak truth rather than
anything else ?" said the farmer. "If he don't, I wouldn't
give much for his discretion. When's he going to have
leave to take you away, Faith ?" It was half sorrowfully
spoken, and though Faith rose up and blushed, she did not
answer him quickly.
"My business must take me away now, sir ;.-good niglit."
But Mr. Simlins shouted to Jem Waters, had the wagon
up, put Faith in with infinite care and tenderness, and sent
her home so.
One rainy, stormy, wild equinoctial day in the end of Sep-
tember-not long after that letter had come, Squire Stout-
enburgh came to the door. Faith heard him paricying with
her mother for a minute-heard him go off, and then Mrs.
Derrick entered the sitting-room, with her eyes full of tear3
and her heart, at least, full of a little package,-~-it did not
quite fill her hands.
"Pretty child !" she said, "I'm so thankful !"-and she
went straight off to the kitchen, and the little package lay
in Faith's lap. The thick brown paper and wax and twine
said it had com'e a long way. The rest the address told.
It was a little square box, the opening of which revealed
at first only soft cotton; except, in one corner, there was an
indication of Faith's infallible blue ribband. Fastened to
that, was a gold locket. Quite plain, alike on both sides,
the tiny hinge at one edge spoke of a c~rrespondiug spring.
That touched, Faith found Mr. Linden. Admirably well
done and like, even to the. expression, which had probably
struck the artist's fancy; for he had contrived to represent
well both the pleasure and the pain Mr. Linden had felt iii
sitting for this picture, for such a reason. The dress was
that of the German students-such as he was then wearing.
Faith had never guessed-till her wondering fingers had
persuaded the locket to open-she had never guessed what
she should find there; at the utmost she looked to find a
lock of l~air; and the joy was almost as overwhelming as a
little while ago pain had been. Faith could hardly see the


372              SAY AND $EAL

picture for a long time; she called herself foolish, but she
cried and laughed the harder for joy; she reproached her.
self for past ungratefulness and motions of discontent, which
made her not deserve this treasure; and the joy and th~
tears were but enhanced that way. Faith could hardly
believe her eyes, when they~ were clear enough to see~
seem ed,-what they looked at,-too good to be true; ~
precious to be hers. But at last she was fain to believe it;
aad with blushes that nobody saw, and a tiny smile that i~
was a pity somebody didn't see, she put the blue ribband
round her neck and hid the locket where she knew it was
expected to find its place. But Faith forgot her work, and
her mother found her sitting there doing nothing, looking
with dreamy happy thoughtfulness into distance, or into
herself; all Miss Bezac's silks and stuffs neglected around
j her.
And work, diligent., happy, contented, continued, was the
order of the day, and of many days and weeks after. Miss
Bezac giving out that she would take as much work as was
~cdfered her, she and Faith soon had both their hands com~
pletely full. The taste and skill of the little dressmaker
were so well acknowledged that even from Pequot there was
now many an application for her services; and many a lady
from there and from Pattaquasset, came driven in a wagon
or a sleigh to Miss Bezac's cottage door.

CHAPTER XXXII.
I T was the month
"When beechen buds begin to swell,
And woods the blue bird's warble know,"-
the month of the unbending of Nature -of softening
skies and swelling streams and much underground spring
work. As $~r instance, by the daffodils; which by some
unknown ma~1~inery pushed their soft, pliant haves up
through frozen clods into the sunshine. Blue birds flut~
tered their ~v~ings and trilled their voices through the air,
song sparrows sang from morning to night, and waxwings
whistled for cherries in the bare tree tops. There the wind
whistled too, "whiles," with the full approbation of snow~
birds and chickadees, -the three going out of fashion
together.
It was a busy month at Miss Bezac's-two weddings at
Pequot and one in Pattaquasset kept her hands full,-and
Faith's too. Just now the great point of interest was the
outfit of Miss Maria Davids-the wedding dress, especially,
being of the most complicate and ornamented description.
Miss Bezac and Faith needed their heads as well as their
hands, Miss Maria's directions with regard to flowers and
furbelows being somewhat 4ike the Vicar of Wakefield's in
respect of sheep-only Mik Maria was willing to pay for
all that went on, whereas the Vicar wanted the sheep for
nothing.
Thus they stood, the two friends and co-workers, with
the dress spread out on a table, contriving where the
flowers should go and how many it would be possible to
put on. Miss Maria's box of Pequot flowers on a chair.
near by, was as full as her directions.
"lit would be better to take the box and turn it right
over her aft&amp;r she's dressed, and let 'em stick whera they
would!" said Miss Bez~tc. in some disgust. Whereupon,
VOL. ii,82                                 (873)

872


374              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.             375

dropping her grave look of thought, Faith's laugh broke
up the monotony of the occasion.
"Well that's good any way," said Miss Bezac. "And
I'm sure everything's 'any way' about this dress. But I
wont have you ab4 it a bit longer,-youre tired to death
standing up."
"I'm not much tired. Miss Bezac, let the lilacs have the
bottom of the dress, and the roses and lilies of the valley
trim the body.-Aud it wilL be like a spotted flower-garden
then !" said Faith laughing anew.
how little like her occupation she looked,.-with her
brown stuff dress, to be sure, as plain as possible; her soft
brown hair also plain; her quaint little white ruffles; and
that brilliant diamond ring flashing wherever her hand
went! N.B. A plain dress on a pretty person has not the
effect of plainness, since it lets that better be seen which i~
the highest beauty.
Up Miss I3czac's mountain road came a green coach
drawn by two fat grey horses; the coachman in front and
the f6otman behind being in the same state of plethoric
comfort. They addressed themselves to the hill with no
hasty approbation yet with much mind to have their own
way, and the hill yielded the ground step by step. At Miss
Bezac's door hill and horses made a pause.
"Coaches already !" said Miss Bezac,-.-" that's a sign of
summer, as good as wild geese. And you'd think, Faith,
not having had much experience, that it was the sign of
another wedding dress-hut nothing worse than a calico
wrapper ever comes out of a coach like that."
"Why ?"-said Faith looking amused.
"The people that drive such coaches drive 'em to town
for a wedding dress," said Miss Bezac sagely. "There's a
blue bi~d~ getting out of this one, to begin with."
While she spoke, a tiny foot emerged from the coach,
and after it a dress of blue silk, which so far from "stand-
ing alone" folloWed softly every motion of the wearer. A
simply plain shirred spring bonnet of blue ~.nd white silk,
made the blue bird comparison not altogether unapt,-the
bird was hardly more fair and dainty in his way than the
lady in hers. She stood still for a minute, shading her
eyes with her hand, and looking off down the road.; t~

slight, delicate figure, with that sort of airy grace which
has a natural poise for every position,.-.then she turned
uptly and knocked at the door.
Now it was Miss Bezac 's custom to let applicants open
and shut for themselves, her hands being often at ~a critical
point of work; so in this case, with a refractory flower
half adjusted-while Faith was in the intricacies of a knot
of ribband, she merely cried, "Come in !" And the young
lady came-so far as across the threshold,-there she
~ stopped. A quick, sudden stop,-one little ungloved hand
that looked as if it had never touched anything harsher
than satin? clasped close upon its gloved companion; the
~ shawl falling from her shoulders and showing the bunch of
~ crocuses in her belt; the fair, sweet, high bred face-spark-
~ hug, withal flushing like a June rose. For a minute she
stood, her bright eyes seeing the room, the work, and Miss
+ Bezac, but resting on Faith with a sort of intenseness of
look that went from face to hand. Then her own eyes fell,
and with a courteous inclination of her head, she came for-
ward and spoke.
"I was told," she said, advancing slowly to the table, and
 still with downcast eyes,-" I was told that-I mean-Can
you make a sunbonnet for me, Miss Bezac ?" She looked
up then, but only at the little dressmaker, laying one hand
on the table as if to support herself; and with a face grave
enough to suit a nun's veil instead of a sunbonnet.
Faith's eyes were held on this delicate little figure with a.
sort of charm; she was very unlike the Pattaquasset models.
At the antipodes from Miss Essie De Staff-etherial com.
pared to the more solid proprieties of Sophy Harrison,-
Faith recognized in her the type of another class of crea-
tures. She drew back a little from the table, partly to
leave the field clear to Miss Bezac, partly tG please herself
with a better view.
"A sunbonnet ?" Miss Bezac repeated,-" I should be
sorry if I couldn't, and badly off too- But I'm afraid you'll
be? for a pattern,-all I've got a-re as common as grass.
Not that I wish grass was uncommon, either-but what's
the stuff?"
When I came out this morning," said the lady, glancing
at Faith and then down- again, "I did not expect to come

(


3.~6                SAY AND SEAL'

SAY AND SEAL            8~tT

here. And-.-.J have brought no stuff. Can you send solna
one down to the village ?-4his young lady, perhaps.-..May
I take her with me now
"Why of ~course you may !" said Miss Bezac delightedly.
-" Just as much as if I was glad to get rid of her-.-.which
I aint,-and am too,-for she's tired to death, and I was
just wishing somebody that wasn't would take her home,
Or some horses."
There was a sweet amused play of the lips in answer to
this lucid statement of facts, and then turning towards
Faith, the stranger said, "Will you go ?"-the words were
in the lowest of sweet tones.
"Where do you wish me to go ?" said Faith, coming a
step forward.
"With me-down into the village."
"I will 'go," said Faith. "Then I x~~ill take these two
mantillas, Miss Bezac,-and you shall have them the day
after to-morrow."
The straw bonnet and shawl were put on in another
minute, and not waiting for her gloves she followed the
"blue bird" to the carriage, rather pleased with the adven-
ture.
The little ungloved hand took firm hold of hers as they
stepped out of Miss Bezac's door, and but that the idea
was absurd Faith would have thought it was trembling.
Once in the carriage, the two ship by side on the soft
cushions, the orders given to the footman, the coach rolling
smoothly down the hill, the stranger turned her eyes fulL
upon Faith; until the tears came too fast, quenching the
quivering smile on her lips. Her head dropped on Faith's
shoulder, with a little cry of:, "Faith, do you know who
I am
A sort of whirlwind of thoughts swept over Faith-
nothing definite; and her answer was a doubtful, rather
troubled, "No."-.
"I know who you are !" said the stranger. "You are
Mignonette."
"Who told you so ?" said Faith, drawing back from her
to look.
"Some one who knew !"-the face was lovely in its .A~pril
of mischief and tears.

Faith's face grew very grave, with doubt, and bewilder-
ment, and growing certainty, and drew yet further off.
Rosy blushes, more and more witchingly shy, chased in and
out of her cheeks; till obeying the certainty which yet was
vague, Faith's head stooped, and her two hands covered
her face. She was drawn back into the stranger's arms, and
her hands and face (what there could) were covered with
kisses.
"Faith, is it strange your sister should know ?-and why
don't you let me have the rest of your face to kiss ?-J
haven't half seen it yet. And I'm sure' Endy would' not
like to have his message delivered in these out of the way
places."
Even as she spoke, the hands quitted the face, veiled only'
by the rosiest consciousness; and laying both hands on the
stranger Faith gave her warm kisses-on cheeks and lips;
and then looked at her, with eyes alternately eager and shy,
that rose and fell at every new stir of feeling.
"How did you come here ?".-she said with a sort of
soft breathlessness. The eyes that looked at her were as*
intent, a little laughing, a little moved.
"How did I come here ?-Faith, I knew you at the first
glance,-how came you not to know me,?"
"I-could not 1" said Faith. "How came you here ?"
"Here? in Pattaquasset-how I love the name! Faith,
I shall expect you to take me to every place where Ende~
cott set his foot when he was here."
Faith's eye gave a little answering flash. "I don't be~
lieve I know them all. Then-" she checked herself-
"But how did you come here? Y'ou-were in Germany."
"Then what ?-please answer me first."
How Faith blushed !-.and laughed; but she grew very
grave almost immediately.
"Please answer me 1" she said.
"Yes, I was there-and I could not help coming here,"
Miss Linden answered.  "To leave him there, after all!
But I could not help it, Faith.  When he determined to
spend the year thei'e-.-and Ii never saw him look so grave
over a determination-it was for one reason alone. You
know what ?"
22*

376


SAY AND SEALS                                   SAY AND SEAL.

* Faith did not assent nor dissent, but her eyes
lowing every word.                         were swa!.
"It seemed then as if it might not much lengthen hi8
absence, and would ensure its being the last. And by-the.
by, fair ladye, Endecott said I might make the most of yo~
before he got home; for theh he meant to have you all to
himself for six months, and nobody else should have a~sight
of you."
As far as they could go, Faith's eyes fell; and h~r new
sister might study the fair face and figure she had not had
so good an opportunity of studying before. Perfectly
grave, and still to her folded hands.,
"After he was fairly launched in his work," Miss Linden
went on, "Aunt Iredell began slowly to grow better; and
as the Winter passed she took the most earnest desire to
come home-to America. Nothing could shake it; and
the doctors approved and urged that there should be no
delay. Then, Faith, I would have stayed,..-..but she was
exceedingly dependent upon me, and most of all, Endecott
said I ought to come. I believe he was glad to think of
my being here for another reason. He came with us to
/ Paris-it happened just then that he could come-and put
us on boardthe steamer. But we were three days in Paris
first,-O such pretty days !" she added smiling. "I'll tell
you about them another time."
The downcast eyes were lifted and rested for a minute on
the sparkling face before them. If a little warm light in
their glance meant that all ~as "pretty" about which those
two had to do, it said part at least of what was in Faith's
mind.
"Now I am to be your neighbour for a while," said Miss
Linden. "Aunt Iredell was ordered out of town at once,
and last night we came up to Pequot,.-..-so you must not
wonder if you see me every other day after this. 0 how
good it is to see you! Do you know," she said, wrapping
her arms round Faith again, and resting the soft cheeks
and lips upon hers, "do you know how much I have to say
of this sort, for somebody else ?"
"You are not going back to Pequot to-day ?" said Faith
softly.,
"May I stay in Pattaquasset till to-morrow ?"
4  9~t.j~~4'  V'4 &amp;v ~  r 1 ~  ~C~A  ~  ~I  *~  /  (4  ~1/  /

* "If I can take good enough care of you 1" said Faith,
kissing her half gladly, half timidly.
"And may I go home with you now?"
"Where are we going ?" said Faith looking out.
My dear, you ought to know! but I do not. I told
them to drive about till I gave contrary orders. Now you
must give them." And the check string brought the horses
to a stand and the footman ditto. A half minute's observa.~
tion enabled Faith to give directions for reaching the main
Pattaquasset road and taking the right turn, and the car-
ritwe rolled on again. There was a little pause then, till
Faith broke it. A rich preparatory colour rose in her
cheeks, and the subject of her words would certainly have
laughed to see how gravely, with what commonplace de..
inureness, the question was put.
"Was Mr. Linden well, when you came from Ger~
many ?"
"Faith !" was his sister's prompt reply. Faith's glance;
soft and blushing, yet demanded reason. Whereupon Miss
Linden's face went into a depth of demureness that was
wonderful. "Yes my dear, Mr. Linden was well-looking
well too, which is an uncommon thing with him."
"Is it ?".-said Faith somewhat wistfully.
"' Not in the way I mean," said her new sister smiling,-
"I thought nothing could have improved his appearance
but-Miguonette. And I suppose he thought so himself,
for he was never seen without a sprig of the little flowers."
Faith's look in answer to that was given to nothing but
the ground, and indeed it was worthy to have been seen by
only one person.
"Faith," said Miss Linden suddenly, "are there many
French people in Pattaquasset ?"
"No,---not any. Why?"
"Because Endecott gave me a message to y ~u, part ot
which I did not understand. But I suppose yo~i will, and
that is enough."
,"What is it ?" said Faith eagerly.
"You would not understand the other part, to-day."
Faith went back to her thoughtfulness But as the car-
riage turned into the Pattaquasset high street she suddenly
faced round on Miss Linden, flushing again before she spoke.

u
i


380              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL               381

ii

"Pet," she said a little timidly.-it was winning, this air
of timidity that was about her,-" don't say-don't tell ~1r,
Linden where you found me."
"Faidi! does he not know? is it something new? 0
dear child, I am very sorry !"-and Miss Linden's other
hand came caressingly upon (he one she held.
"Don't be sorry !~2' said Faith, looking as fearless and
sonsy as any real piece of mignonette that ever shook its
brown head in the wind;-" I wouldn't tell you, only you
must see it. You know, perhaps, that mother lived by a
farm.-Last summer the farm was taken away and we had
nothing left but the house. We had to do something, and
I took to dressmaking with Miss Bezac-where you found
me. And it has been very pleasant and has done very well,"
said Faith, smiling at Miss Linden as honestly as if the
matter had been of music lessons or any other accomplish.
meut. Miss Linden looked at her-grave and bright too.
Then with a sparkle of her eyes-" I won't tell Endecott
now, but some time I will tell him over what sort of a wed-
ding-dress I found you poring. But 'my dear child !-"
and she stopped with a look of sudden thought that was
both grave and gay. Faith's eyes asked what the matter
was.
~         not tell him now," Miss Linden repeated,-
while-.--he could not know it in; time for any.
thing but his own sorrow. But Faith! I am doing to make
one of those mantillas !"-and she looked a pretty piece of
defiant resolution.
"You shall do what you please," Faith said gayly. "But
-will you stop them ?-there is the house."
The coach came to a stand before Mrs. Derrh~k's little
gate and the two ladies alighted. Miss Linden had been
looking eagerly out as they drove up-at the house, the
fence, the little garden courtyard, the steps,-but she turned
now to give her orders, and taking Faith's hand again, fol-
lowed her in, looking at every inch of the way. Faith
drew the easy-chair out before the fire, put Miss Linden in
it, and took off her bonnet and shawl. She staid but to
find her mother and introduce her to the parlour and her
guest; and she herself ran away to Mr. Linden's room.
She knew that the brown woodbox was near full of wood

~h1~h had been there since his sudden departure nine months
ago. It was wel dried by this time. Faith built a fire
and kindled it, made the bed, and supplied water and tow-
els; opened the blinds of one or two windows, laid books
on the table, and wheeled up the couch. The fire was blaz-
ing by that time and shone warm and glowingly on the
dark wood and furniture, and everything wore the oI~.pleas-
ant look of comfort and prettiness. Then Faith went for
her guest.
"You will know where you are," she said a 1~itt1e vaguely,
-" when you open the cupboard doors."
Miss Linden stood still for a moment, her hands folded,
her lips again taking their mixed expression.
"And that is where he lay for so long," she said. It
was a mixed remembrance to Faith; she did ng t like to
answer. A moment's silence, and she turned her bright
face to Miss Linden.
"Let me do what I can for you," she said with that mix-
ture of grace and timidity.-." It isn't much. What may I
now, Pet?"
"You did a lifetime's 'work then, you dear child !..-.and
how I used to hear of it." And putting her arm round
Faith's waist Miss Linden began to go slowly about the
room, looking at everything-out of the windows and into
the cupboards. "If you could have known, Faith-if you
could have seen Endecott in some of the years before that,
you would hay.~ known a little how very, very glad I was.
I hardly believed that he would ever find any one who could
charm him out of the solitary life into which sorrow had
led him."
"I didn't do it !" said Faith simply.
"What do you suppose did ?"
"I think he charmed himself out of it~"-Faith said
blushing.
Miss Lind~~n laughed, holding her very fast. "You are
clear from all~harge of malice prepense," she said. "And I
will not deny his powers of charming,-but they are power-
less upon himself."
"Do you think so ?" said Faith. "A charm comes at
the rebound, doesn't it sometimes ?"
"Does it? How do I know ?"

381

880


2~2              SAY AND SEAL.

Faith laughed a little, but very softly. "Now shall ~
leave you for a little while ?" she said.
"Will you be busy, or may I come down when I like ?"
"I am going into the kitchen,-You wouldn't like to
follow me there ?"
"If I have leave-I am in the mind to follow you every.
where."
"Come then t" said Faith joyously.
Miss Linden might not be accustomed to seeing kitchens,
or she might! there was no telling from her manner. Cer~
tainly that kitchen was a pleasant one to see. And she 'fob.
lowed,' as she had said, wherever Faith went and watched
~ her whatever she did, conversation going on meanwhile amus-
ingly enough. Faith was making some cakes again; and
then concocting coffee, the Pattaquasset f~~te dish in ordi-
nary; while Mrs. Derrick broiled the chicken. With a great
white apron enveloping her brown stuff dress, and her arms
bared, running about the kitchen and dairy in her quick still
way, Faith was a pretty contrast to the 'blue bird' who
~miled on her and followed hey and talked to her throughout.
Then the cakes were baking, and Faith came back to the
sitting-room; to set the table and cover it with all dainty
things that farm materials cab produce.. And if ever 'Pet'
had been affectionately served, she was that night, and if
ever a room was fresh and sweet and warm and glowing, the
fire-lit room where she went to sleep afterwards was such a,
one.
But before that, when they had done tea, and talk and
motion had subsided a little, Miss Linden brought a low
seat to Faith's side, anq taking that left hand in hers looked
silently at the ring for a few minutes,-then laid her cheek
down upon it in Faith's lap. Faith's lip trembled; but she
only sat still as a statue till the cheek was lifted up.
)

CHAPTER XXXIII.
I N the early morning which Faith and her mother enjoyed
next day together, Mrs. ~Derrick was in a contemplative
nnd abstracted state of mind; assenting indeed to all Faith's
words of pleasure and praise, but evidently thinking of
something else. At last the matter came out.
"Faith, how much money have we ?~-I mean, to last
how long, suppose you didn't do anything else but the
butter ?"
"Why, mother ?"
"Why child, I've been thinking-do ~y ou know how much
you've got to do for yourself ?-.it woii~ t do to put that off
for Miss Bezac."
Faith's lips softly touched Mrs. Derrick's.
"Hush, mother, please !-Don't you think Dromy could
find some water-cress at the foot of the Savin hill?"
"Yes - like enough," said Mrs. Derrick, - "Reuben
could if he was here. And child, you may say 'hush,' but
things won't hush, after all." With which sentiment Mrs.
Derrick gave attention to the tea-kettle, just then a p~acti~
cal illustration of h~r remark.
About as bright and fresh and sweet as the morning Miss
Linden looked when she came down, but warmer and gentler
than March in his b.est mood. Her interest in everythfrig'
about the house and its two tenants was unbounded, and
without being really like her brother, there was enough
family likeness in manner and voice to give a pleasant
reminder iiow and then. While they were at l~reakfast the
man came from Pequot according to order, but sl~e went
out alone to attend to him, coming back to the table with a
sort of gleeful face that spoke of pleasure or mischief in
prospect.
"Faith," she said, "we cannot touch those mantillas this
morning."
"Can't we ?" said Faith. "Which part of Pattaquasset
shall we go to seer"(883)


384             SAY AND SEAL.

SAY AND SEAL.             385

"Suppose we go up to my room and discuss matters."..~
Faith was ready. Ready as a child, or as the "bird"
she used to be called, for any innocent play or work.
"My dear little sister," said Miss Linden as they ran up
stairs, the glee working out at the dainty finger ends that
were on Faith's belt, "don't you know that J promised y~
a 'message'? and don't you want to have it ?.-.O how
lovely this room is! That trunk is not lovely, standing
just there. Dear Faith, you need not think all my bag.
gage is coming after it I"
"I wish it could,"-...said Faith, looking after her 'mes.
sage.'
"I want to shew you the key of this-it has something
peculiar about it," said Miss Linden searching in her bag~
"Endecott said, Faith, that as you and he had been to.
gather so much in a French atmosphere, you must let him
do one thing in the French style. Td' which message~ as
well as to the trunk, you will find this the key."
Now attached to the key was a little card, on which was
written simply the word, "Trousseau."
Faith understood the word well enough, and it seemed
to turn her into a pretty petrifaction-..-..with internal life at
work indeed, as the rising and falling colours witnessed.
She stood with bended. head looking at the mysterious
key; then making a swift transit to the window she opened
it and threw back the blinds and stood looking out, the key
in one hand giving little impatient or abstracted taps
against the fingers of the other. It was a pretty landscape
certainly, but Faith had looked at it often before.
Miss Linden on her part followed Faith to the window
with her eyes and a smile, then sat looking' at the great
leather trunk in its travelling cover, which it wore sf11.
Once she made a motion to take this off-.--then ~ r
hands back in their former position and waited f6r
come.
"Pet," said Faith presently,.....-." have you looked out of
the window this morning ?" Which question brought two
hands round her shoulders in no time.
"Yes my dear, I have. What new be uties have you
discovered ?"
"It looks pretty in the spring light.-.-But I wasn't. think.

ing of it, either," said Faith blushing. And without rais~
ing her eyes, looking distressed, she softly insinuated the
key with its talismanic card back into Miss Linden's hand.
"Well? what, dear Faith ?"
"I don't know,".-said Faith softly. "You know."
"I know, ".-.-said Miss Linden, "that Endecott locked
the trunk and tied the label to the key, and it is a great
mistake to suppose that I will unlock the one or take
charge of the other. In the second place, I need not even
look on unless you wish. It can go to another room, or I
will leave you in undisturbed' possession of this. So speak,"
she said, kissing her.
Faith did not immediately. She wound her arms round
her new sister and hid her face in Miss Linden's neck, and
stood so clasping her silently for a few minutes. But when
she raised her head she went straight to the "trousseau"
trunk; pulled off, business fashion, the travelling cover;
set the key in the lock, and lifted the lid.
"I should tell iou, dear," said Miss Linden while this
was doing-she had seated herself a little way off from
Faith and the trunk, "I should tell you, that if it had been
possible to get a pattern dress and so forth, you would have
found nothing here to do but look. As it is, there is some
work for your fingers, and I hope for mine." The lid was
now open, and between the two next protecting covers lay
a letter. A. recognizing flash of eye greeted that; Faith
put it out of sight and lifted the second cover. From
where she sat Miss Linden could see her hand tremble.
There were two or three characteristics that applied to
the whole arrangement, choice, and filling of the "trous-
seau." The absence of things useless was not more notable
than ~jie~ abundance of things useful; and let not useful be
und~Y~od to mean needful,.-.--for of the little extras which
are so specially pleasant to those who never buy them for
themselves, there was also a full supply. The daintiness
of everything was great, but nothing was out of Faith's
line: the stuffs might be finer than she had always worn,
but the colours were what she had always liked, and in any
one of those many dresses she might feel at home in five
minutes-they suited her so xvell. She 'could see, well.
enough, that Mr. Linden not only remembered "her style"
VOL. ii.                ~33


386              SAY AND SEAL.                                       SAY AM) $EAL.              38T

but loved it,-.--in the very top rack, that was first laid open,
she had proof of this-for besides the finest of lawn and
cambric, there were dainty bands of embroidery and pieces
of lace with which Faith could ruffle herself to her hea~'t's
content.
At this point Faith drew a rather quick breath. She
was on her knees before the trunk, and shielding her face a
little from Miss Linden, she sat looking in-steadfastly.---at
bits of French needlework and lapping of the daintier
texture, lifting now and then, also daintily-the end or fold
of something to see what lay underneath. There was so
much food for meditation, as well as for industry, in this
department, that Faith seemed not likely to get through it.
How clearly she saw any one thing might be doubted.
She made no progress.
"You may see Endecott in everything, Faith," said Miss
Linden. "In the matter 6f quantity I could sometimes
give him help, but every colour and style had to be mafehed
with the particular pattern in his mind. I wish you conld
have seen it !-it was one of the prettiest things I ever
saw. Those three days in Paris !-I told you they were
pretty days."
Faith gave her a swift look, very flushed and very
grave. A pretty picture of wonder and humility she
was; and something more was borne witness to by
those soft eyes, but Miss Linden had only a second's
look of them.
The racks seemed to hold the light varieties, each done
up by itself. There was the little French parasol in its
'box; the fan box, with most pretty contents. There was
the glove box, beautifully filled, and holding among the
rest the prettiest of riding gauntlets-all of just the right
size, by some means. At the other end to keep this in
countenance, was a little French riding hat in its own
pasteboard container. The riding whip Mr. Linden had
given her long before. There were stockings in pretty
variety; and handkerchiefs-not laced and. embroidered,
kut of fine material and dainty borders. The various
minor things were too many to mention.
Faith was in an overwhelmed state, though she hardly
showed that. Her fingers made acquaintance almost fear~

P~lly with the various items that lay in sight; finally sh~
laid both hands upon the edge of the rack.
"'It is exactly like him !-" she said in profound gravity.
Ills sister laughed-a gay, pleased little laugh.
"lie said they were all like you, Faith. His fear NOf
touching your individuality was comical. Do you know he
says he sball expect you always to have a brown merino ?-
so you will find one th9re."
But first, at the bottom of the rack, under all the others,
was the flat mantilla box; and its contents of muslin and
silk, in their elegant simpleness, left Miss Bezac's "no-
where". How Faith would have liked to shut up the
trunk then and run away-nobody knew! For she only
quietly lifted out the rack and took the view of what came
next. It was not the brown merino !-it was something
made up,-the gayest, prettiest, jauntiest dressing gown;
with bunches of tiny carnations all over it, as bright as
Faith's own. Though that be saying much, for at this hers
reached their acme.
"How beautiful!-" she said gravely, while her poor
fluttering thoughts were saying everything else. "How
perfectly beautiful !-"
And as delicately as if it had been made of silver tissue,
Faith laid it off on the ~ck. Laid it off to find the nest
stage in the shape of ni~rning wrappers, also made up.
"They fit so loosely at best-" Miss Linden explained,-
"and Endecott knew your height."
Now neither in these nor in what lay beneath was there
such profusion as would furnish a new dress every day (for
an indefinite number) at a watering place; but there was
just such as befitted a young lady, who being married in
summer-days yet looked forward to winter, and was to be
the delight of somebody's eyes summer and winter.
They were downcast and wonderfully soft eyes that
looked at those morning dresses now, - as Miss Linden
could see when by chance they were lifted. But that was
not generally; with lowered eyelids and unsteady lips Faith
went on taking out one after the other. Below, the paek~
ages were more solid and compact, some close at both ends,
others showing shawl fringes. Dress after dress lay in close
order--muslin and silk and stuff; under them pieces of


388             SAY AND SEAL.

linen and flannel such as Pattaquasset could hardly have
furnished. One particular parcel, long and soft, was tied
with white ribband. Faith looked at it doubtfully.
"Must I open this, Pet ?"
"It is tied up for that express purpose."
A little suspicious of each new thing, Faith pulled the
easy knot of white ribband and uncovered what lay within.
It was a white embroidered muslin~ fine and beautiful in its
clear texture, as was the wrought tracery upon it. No
colour relieved this white field,-a pair of snowy gloves
lay upon it, with the lace and sash for its finish of adorn.
ment; with them a folded handkerchief; plain like the rest
but particularly fine. Separately wrapped up in soft paper
that but half hid them, were the little rosette slippers.
"He said you must have none but real flowers," Miss
Linden said-too softly to call for a look in answer.
That dress xvas what not even Miss Bezac had been able
to make Faith look at in imagination-and there it lay be-
fore her! Perhaps, to tell the truth, she had been hardly
willing to realize to herself the future necessity of such a
r
thing. The blood came deeper to her cheeks, then left
them in another moment pale. Faith laid her face in her
hands on the edge of the trunk,.-.-.for once overcome.
Again Miss Linden's quick impulse was to come to Faith's
side, and again she checked herself; thinking perhaps that
she was too new a friend to have her words pleasant just
then-feeling that there was but one person who could say
what ought to be said. So she sat quite still, nor even
turned her eyes towards Faith except now and then in a
quick glance of sympathy and interest; both which were
shewn in her folded hands and averted head. But very
sQon Faith was softly doing the parcel up again in its white
ribbands; and then she began to lay the things back in the
trunk, with quick hands but dainty. half way through,
Faith suddenly stopped.
"Shall I put these back here for the present ?"-she
said, looking towards Miss Linden.
"For the present, dear ?-J am not sure that I under-
stand."
"Just now-till I can arrange some other place to put
them."

SAY AND SEAL.                 389
"I have nothing to do with 'this place'," said Miss Lin-
den smiling,-"it came with my trunks, that is all."
Faith coloured again and went on with what she was
doing. Miss Linden watched her.
".Faith," she said, "don't finish that work just now,-sit
still there and read Endy's letter-won't you, darling? II
am going down to pay your mother a visit." And with a
kiss and embrace she was gone.
Faith's hands stopped their work as the door closed, and
she sat still, looking at the voiceless messages Qf love, care,
thought, and anticipation, which surrounded her. Looking
dreamily, *and a little oppressed; and when she moved her
hand it was not first to get her letter, but to draw out the
locke from her bosom and see Mr. Linden's face; as if she
wanted his Vook to authenticate all these messages, or to
meet her own heart's answer. At any rate it was not .till
after a good study of the little picture that Faith put it
away and took out her letter.
It wa~ not just like having him there to talk or caress
away her discomfort-and yet it was like it, though the
pages were well on their way before the trousseau was even
alluded to. But the words, the atmosphere of the letter
made Faith breathe easier,-it was like the wand of the
Fairy Order, smoothing out the little tangled skeins of
silk. And when that subject came up, it was touched so
lightly, so delicately, yet with such evident pleasure,-.--there
was such mingling of play and earnest in the charge given
her to be ready before he came, and such a strong wish that
he could have saved her all the work,-the terror of the
trousseau could not stand before it. And at the hope that
her taste would be suited, Faith's heart made a spring the
other way. She drank in every word of the letter; and
then feeling healed, though tender-spirited yet, she finished
putting away her riches and went down stairs.
Mrs. Derrick having gone off to attend to dinner pre..
operations, Miss Linden sat alone, singing to herself softly
in company with the March wind and the fire, and (of all
things!) at work upon one of Miss Bezac's mantillas. Faith's
two hands were laid upon the one which held the needle.
"Not to-day-" said the silver voice which Miss Linden
must learn to know.


390                 SAY AND SEAT4.

"Yes-unless you'll give me somewhat else to do !" she
said leaning her sunshiny head back against Faith. "I was
out of patience with myself because I could not do what
no o~e but Endecott could-so in my woman's pride I took
up ~mething which he couldn't. What are you going to
do, darling?"
Faith thought she knew why she was called "Pet"-but
she only kissed her. "I shall have to ask you a great deal
about those things up stairs," she said;-" but to-day I
want to see you. What would you like ?"
The thing Miss Linden liked best, was to see some of
her brother's old haunts;~ and a notable* drive the two had
that afternoon. Wherein, under the light of a Spring day,
Miss Linden saw Pattaquasset, the Quapaw people, (part;
of them) and not least of all, Faith herself; who showed
herself very much as the Spring day. And of Mr. Linden
his sister talked the while, to her heart's content, and Faith's
~in the full joy of that affection which can never say enough,
speaking, to that which can never hear too much.
It would be long to tell how the trousseau was made up.
Mrs. Iredell came from Pequot and established herself in a
farmhouse at Pattaquasset; and the two future sisters put
their heads and their hands-a good deal of their hearts
too - into the work that was done in Faith's blue-wain-
scotted white room. There they sat and sewed, day after
day; while the days grew warm, and the apple blossoms
burst, and the robins whistled. They whistled of Mr. Lin-
den's coming home, to Faith, and sent her needle with a
quicker impulse. She never spoke of it.
But Miss Linden knew whither the look went, that seemed
to go no further than the apple trees; and what was the
pressure that made a quick breath now and then and a
hurried finger. Perhaps her own pulses began to move
with accelerated beat. And when towards the end of M&amp;y
Mrs. Iredell found business occasion for being in Quilipeak
a fortnight, Pet so urged upon Mrs. Derrick the advan.
tages of the scheme, that she carried off Faith with her.
It would break the waiting and watching, and act as a
diversion, she said,-and Faith did not contradict her.

CHAPTER XXXIV.
TI~STABLISHE1~'Tair1Y in that great Quilipeak hotel,
lilA Faith found her way of life very pleasant. Mrs. Ire-
dell was much in her own room, coming out now and then
for a while to watch the two young things at their work.
A pretty sight !-.for some of the work had been brought'
along,-fast getting finished now, ~inder the witching of
'sweet counsel.' Miss Linden declared that for her part
she was s9rry it was so near done,-what Faith thought
about it she did not say.
Meantime, June was using her rosy wings day by day,
and in another week Mr. Linden might be looked for. Just
what steamer he would take was a little uncertain, but from
that time two people at least would begin to hope, and a
day or two before that time they were to go back to Patta-
quasset.
The. week was m~ear the ending-so was the work,-and
in their pretty parlour the two ladies wrought on as usual.
The morning had been spent in explorations with Reuben
Taylor and Sam Stoutenburgh, and now it was afternoon
of a cool June day, with a fresh breeze scouting round to
see what sweets it could pick up, and coming in at the open
window to report. On the table was a delicate tinted sum-
mer muslin spread out to receive its trimming, ~wer which
Faith and Miss Linden stood an cL,~ debated and laughed,-
then Faith went back to her low~ eat in the window and
the hem of a pocket handkerchie_ half looking out
and half in,-the quiet street sounds murmuring with the
rustle of the many elm leaves,.-Faith sat, the wind playing
Cupid to her Psyche; and Miss Linden stood by the table
and the muslin dress.
"Faith," she said contemplatively, "What flowers do you
suppose Endecott would get you to wear with this-out of
a garden full?"
"It is di~cult to tell"-.-.-said Faith; "he finds just what
he wants, just where I shouldn't look for it." And a vision
(391)


892~               SAY AND SEAL.
/
of red oak-leaves~ and other iIIustrations~ fiitt~d across Faith's
fancy.
"Very true," said Miss Linden,-" precisely what Aunt
iredell said when she first saw you,~-but I am inclined to
think, that the first day you appear in this you will see him
appear with a bunch of white roses-probably Lamarques;
if "
"Why Lamarques ?" said Faith sewing away. "Pet, how
pleasant this wind is."
Miss Linden did not immediately answer. She stood
resting her finger tips on the muslin dress, looking down
at it with an intentness that might have seen through thicker
stuW the colour in her cheeks deepening and deepening.
"Why ?" she said abstractedly,-" they're beautiful-don't
you think so?-~Oh Faith !"-With a joyous clasp of the
hands she sprang to the window, and dropped the curtain
like a screen before her. There was no time to ask ques-
tions-nor need. Faith heard the opening door, the word
spoken to the waiter,-saw Mr. Linden himself come in.
Pet sprang towards him with a joyful exclamation-an
unselfish one, as it seemed; for after a moment's concen-
trated embrace which embodied the warmth of half a dozen,
she disappeared out of the room. Mr. Linden came for-
ward, looking after her at first with surprise,.-then as if a
possible explanation occurred to him, he stood still by the
mantelpiece, watching the door by which she had tone.
Faith had waited behind her screen-she could not have
told why-utterly motionless for that minute; then a little
quick push sent the curtain aside, and she came to him.
"Faith !" he exclaimed-" are you hiding from me
My dear Mignonette "
She hid from him then,-all her face could; for her glad-
ness was of that kind which banishes colour instead of bring-
ing it. He let her stand so a few minutes, himself very
silent ~and still; then one hand brought her face within
reach.
"Little bird !" he said, "I have you safe now,-you need
not flutter any more
Perhaps that thought was hardly composing, for Faith's
head drooped yet, in a statue-like stillness. Not very
unlike a bird on its rest however, albeit her gravity was

SAY AND SEAL               393

I

profound. And rest-.---to speak it fairly-is a serious thing
p~ anybody, when it has beau in dbt or jeopardy, or long
withheld. What could be done to bring the colour back,
that Mr. Linden tried.
"Faith," he said, "is this all I am to have from your
lips-of any sort? Where did you get such pale cheeks,
precious one ?--did I frighten you by coming so suddenly?
You have not been ill again ?"
"No,".-she said, raising her eyes for the first time to
look fairly in his face. But that look brought Faith back
to herself; and though she drooped her head again, it was
for another reason, and her words were in a different key.
4~XJe~Te didn't expect you for a week more."
"No-because I didn't want you to be watching the
winds. Mignonette, look up !"
Which she did, frankly,.-her eyes as delicious a com-
pound of gravity and gladness as any man need wish to have
bestowed upon him. "Pet brought me here7-" she said.
"Well do you suppose I have brought an invoice of
Dutch patience ?"
"I don't think you gre particularly patient7"-~aid Faith
demurely,-" except when you choose. Oh Endy !-"
That last note had the true ring of joy. Her forehead
touched his shoulder again; the rest of hera sentence was
unspoken.
I do not choose, to-day, Mignonette,-therefore tell me
-do you think I have had all I am fairly entitled to ?"
She flushed all over, but lifted up her head and kissed
him. Mr. Linden watched her, smiling then though she
might not see it.
"My little beauty," he said, "you have grown afraid of
me-do you know that?"
"Not very-" she said. Certainly Faith was not good
at defending herself.
"No, not very. Just enough to give us both something
to do. Mignonette, are you ready for me
Faith's face was bowed. again almost out of sight. "Don't
you think," she half whispered, "that Pet must be ready to
~ee you, by this time ?"
For all answer-except a smile-she was led across the
room to a seat near the window. I~ut just there, was the


SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.            395

table and its muslin dress! Mr. Linden stopped short, and
Faith felt and understood the clasp of his arm about li~er
waist, of his hand upon hers. But he only said laughiru'v.
"Faith, was that what made you hide away ?" Th
"Pet hid me,"-Faith said. very much abashed ;-." n oti.
She let fall the curtain."
Mr. Linden let it fall again, in effect, for he quitted all
troublesome subjects, and sat down by her side; not loosing
his hold of her, indeed, nor taking his eyes from her, but
in the gravity of his own deep happiness there was not
much to disturb her quiet.
"I sent you a telegraphic dispatch this morning to Pat-
taquasset, dear Faith,-I did not mean to take you qnite
by siwprise. And my stopping anywhere short of that was
merely because the arrangement of trains forced me to lose
an hour here on the way. I thought it lost."
- "It hasn't proved so."
"There was such a doubt of my being in time for this
steamer, that I would not even speak of it. Faith, I have
not often heard such music as the swash of the water about
her paddle-wheels as we set off."
"Didn't you hear thee swash of her paddle-wheels as you
came in ?" said Faith merrily.
"No!" The wistful gladness of her eye was a pretty
commentary.
"Is Miss Reason in fall activity yet ?" said Mr. Linden
smiling,-his comment.
"She has had no interruption, you know, for a great
while."
"Take care of her, Faith-she has a great deal of work
before her." The look that answered this was a little con-
scious, but showed no fear.
There was nothing very unreasonable in the face that
bent over hers; the eyes with their deep look, lit up now
and then with flashes of different feelings; the mouth wear-
ing its sweet changeable expression. A little browner than
usual, from the voyage,-a little thinner, perhaps, with hard
work; Mr. Linden still looked remarkably well and like
himself; though Faith felt that nameless change-~that
mingling of real and unreal, of friend and stranger, which
a long absence always brings. One minute he was himself,

as he had been in Pattaquasset,-giviflg her lessons, riding
~jth her, reading to her, going off to school with one of
Mv Stoutenburgh's white roses. The next-he was ai
g eman just arrived from Europe !-.-from whom she
0ouid not get away. Perhaps the last impression was the
most remarkable. But in spite of this, Faith was herself,
every inch of her; with the exception of that one little dif~
ference which Mr. Linden had pointed out and which was
not to be denied.
Some time had passed, when Faith felt Pet's little hand
come round her neck-the other was round Mr. Linden.
Faith's start was instant; springing up she went to the
window where ~behind the curtain lay thQ work her hand
had dropped. Faith gathered it up. She would have put
that muslin dress out of the way then !-.but there it lay in
plain sight and~ close neighbourhood. Yet somebody must
do it, aud it was her business; and with cheeks of a very
l)retty deep rose that set off her white drapery, Faith ap~
plied herself to the due folding of the troublesome muslin.
In two minutes Pet came to help her, but in a different
mood, though her eyelashes were glittering.
"Endy, come here and look at this-I - think it is so
~retty. What flowers must Faith wear with it ?"
"Oarnations look very well."
"I said white roses. -
"Which will you wear, Migwonette ?" said Mr. Linden.
IJe was favoured with a glance from two gentle eyes,
which it was worth a little wickedness to get. It was only
a flash. "I think Pet is right, "-she answered with great
gravity.
He came close to her side, the low-spoken "you shall
have them-" touched more things than one.
"What do you suppose I found her doing?" said Pet,
folding down a sleeve.
"Pet !".-s~siid Faith. "Doll't touch that! ~ot to-night."
"Do you xvish me to leave it unfolded ?-the servants
will perhaps sweep in the morning."
"Pet," said Faith sofdy,.-.--."don't yoit raise a dust! We
might not lay it so soon."
"Endy," said his sister, "how do you do ?-yuu haven't
told me."

(


390              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SA~ AND SEAL.            39'r

"Perfectly well, dear Pet."
"Turn round to the light and let me see-.-You've grown
thin, chIld ~"
He laughed-giving her a kiss and embrace to make up
for that; which was oniy half successful. But she spoke
in her former tone.
"He looks pretty strong, Faith,.-.--I think ]I might tell
him."
"Mr. Linden," said Faith, "won't you please ask Pet
not to tell you something?"
"I will ask you," he said softly, laying his hands lightly
on h~r shoulders. "Faith-I think we may dispense with
'Mr. Linden' now, even before people."
She was oddly abashed; glanced up at him and glanced
down, with the grave air of a rebuked child. There was
nothing about it that was ~ot pretty; and the next thing
her eyes ~vent to Pet. How lovely and precious she looked
as she stood there! with her sweet shy face and changing
colours. Mr. Linden held her to his breast and kissed her
more than once,-but in a way that was beyond chiding.
"Why must I ask Pet not to tell me something?"
"It is nothing great !"-said Faith stammering over her
words-" Only you won't like it very well-but you will
have to hear it. I thought another time-that's all."
"He'll never hear it from you-what I mean," said Miss
Linden, "so he shall from me. We'lI see whether he likes
it. Know then, Endecott, that I found this child absorbed
in wedding dresses !"
"Wedding dresses !" he repeated. "More than one
"Oh Endy," said his sister with a sort of laughing mi-
patience, "what a boy you are! II mean other people's."
Faith stood smiling a little, letting her manage it her own
way.
"Imagine It," Miss Linden went on,-" imagine this one
little real flower bending over a xvhole garden of muslin
marigolds and silk sunflowers and velvet verbenas, growing
unthriftily in a bed of white muslin I" Mr. Linden laughed,
as if the picture were a pleasant one.
'~Mignonette," he said,-" how could you bear the sight ?"
"I was trying to make the best of it."
"In whose behalf were you so much interested ?"

"Maria Davids," said Faith glancing up at him. "But
I was not interested,-only so far as one is in making the
best of anything."
"Who is trying to make the best of her ?"
Faith looked down and looked grave as she answered
.-" Jonathan ~ Mr. Linden's face was grave too,
then, with the recollections that name brought up.
"There is one place in the house she cannot touch," he
said. "Faith, I am glad'she is not to take care of him."
"I have thought that so often !"
"Do you 1ike.~my story, Endy ?" said Miss Linden pres-
ently.
"Very much-the subject. I am less interested in the
application. Who next is to be married in Pattaquasset ?"
"I don't know"
"Aunt Ired says she wishes yo~ would be married
here," observed Pet demurely. To which insinuation Faith
opposed as demure a silence.
"Oh Endecott," said his sister changing her ,tone and
speaking in that mixed mood which so well became her,-~
"I'm so happy~that you are here! This week Faith has
been pretty quiet, by dint of being away from home; but
nothing would have kept her here next week-and I had
been thinking what we should do,-if the week should run
on into two-or if the wind should blow !" She spoke
laughingly, yet with a voice not quite steady.
"'So he bringeth them to the haven where they would
be' I" Mr.. Linden said. But his voice was clear as the
very depth of feeling of which it told. "Aunt Iredell cannot
have her wish, Pet," he added presently,-" there would be
at least three negative votes."
"I suppose that! But I shall come down Saturday to
hear what wishes are in progress."
"Won't you go with us, Pet, to-morrow ?" said Faith
earnestly. She had been standing in a sort of abstracted
~ silence.
"No, pretty sister, I will not. But I shall keep all those
ruffles here to flnish7iind Saturday Reuben Taylor shall
escor~ them and me to Pattaquasset."
VOL. U.                84

396


1'

#~
CHAPTER XXXV.

T 'IJINGS were yet iii their morning light and, shadow
when Faith set oft' on this her first real journey with
Mr. Linden. She felt the strangeness of it,-in the e~Iy
breakfast, the drive alone with him to the station,-.to stand
by and see him get her ticket, to sit with him alone in the
cars (there seemed to be no one else there!) were all new.
The towers of Quilipeak rose up in the soft distance, shin.
ing in the morning sun: over meadow and hillside and In-
dian-named river the summer light fell in all its beauty.
Dewdrops glittered on waving grain and mown grass;
laborers in their shirtsleeves ma~ e another gleaming line
df scythe blades, or followed the t~ ams of red and brindled
oxen that bowed their heads to the heavy yoke. Through
all this, past all this, the Pequot train flew on towards Pat-
taquasset; sending whole lines of white smoke to scour the
country, despatching the shrill echoes of its whistle in swift
pursuit.
Faith saw it all with that vividness of impression which
leaves everything sun-pictured on the memory forever. In
it all she felt a strange 'something new' ;-which gave the
sunlight such a marked brilliance, and made dewdrops
fresher than ordinary, and bestowed on mown grass and
waving grain such rich tints and gracious motion. It was
not merely the happiness of the time ;-Faith's foot had a
little odd feeling that every step was on new ground. It
was a thoughtful ride to Pattaquasset, though she was in.
nocently busy with all pleasant things that came in her way,
and the silveriest of tones called Mr. Linden~'s attention to
them. He did not leave her thoughts too much chance to
muse: the country, the various towns, gave subject enoQgh
for the varied comment and information Faith loved so
much. Mr. Linden knew the places well, anV their history
and legends, and the foreign scenes that were like-or unlike
-them,-or perhaps a hayfield brought up stories of foreign
agriculture, or a white sailing cloud carried them both off
(398)

to castles in the air. One thing Mr. Linden might have
made known more fully than he did-.-and that was his com-
panion. For several times in the course of the morning,
~rst in the station at Quilipeak, then in the cars, some friend
or acquaintance of his own came to greet or welcome him.
And Faith could see the curiosity that glanced at so much
of her as her veil left in view,-..-Mr5 Linden saw it too, with
some amusement. And yet though all this was a little
roughing, it was interesting to her in another way,-shew-
ing her Mr. Linden as she had never seen him, among the
rest of the worid,.-giving her little glimpses of his former
life; for the hits of talk were sometimes quite prolonged.
"Mignonette," he said after one of these occasions,
"some people here are Very anxious to make your acquaint-
ance."
"I am glad you don't want to gratify them."
"Why ?-Jn the first place, I do."
"Do you !"-said Faith, somewhat fearfully.
"Certainly. I, like you, am 'a little proud of my carna-
tion~'. How do you like this way of travelling ?"
"I like it such a morning as this,~ said Faith. "I don't
think it's the pleasantest. But today it's delicious."
"Yes-to-day," he repeated. "What way of travelling
do you like best ?"
"You know I never travelled at all, except to Quilipeak
and Pequot. I believe I like a wagon or a sleigh better
than this,--in general."
"That is our last whistling post !" said Mr. Linden.
"Faith, I shall be glad to get rid of that veil. And I
have so many things to say to you that cannot be said here.
Is Mr. Somers in Pa~taquasset still ?"
"Everybody's there-" Faith answered.
The little shake of the head with which this intelligence
(so far as regarded Mr. Somers) was received, Faith might
understand as she pleased, for in another minute they were
at the Pattaquasset station; the train was puffing off; and
she standing there on the ~Aatform with Mr. Linden. A.
little way back was Jerry and the wagon-that Faith saw
at a glance; but there to~, and much nearer, was Squire
Stoutenburgh-in do bt whether to handle the new corners
separately or together)in his great delight.

SAY AND SISAL.

399

)

p
n


lf4~
I,

SAY AND SEAL.

From all this Mr. Linden rescued Faith with most
prompt skill; carried her off to the wagon, shook hands
with Dromy and dismissed him, and then with the reins in
his own hands had her all to himself once more. And
Jerry dashed on as if he knew his driver.
"Mign onette, please put back your veil," ~vere the first
words. Which Faith did, and looked at him, laughing,
blushing and a little shy, all in one pleasant combination.
"What have you been doing to make yourself lovelier,
little Sunbeam ?"
"I have been a year ivithout seeing you,".-.~aid Faith
with excellent seriousness.
"My presence seems to have no counteracting effect. By
the same rule, I should be-marvellous I Do you perceive
it?"
Her eye gave one of its little flashes, but Faith imme.
diately looked away.
"Do you know," said Mr. Linden, "I can hardly believe
that this year of exile is over-and that there are none
others to follow it. What do you suppose will be the first
subject you and I shalr consider ?"
"Mr. Skip," said Faith gravely.
"Mr. Skip merits no consideration whatever. Is Miss
Bezac at work on that dress ?"
"Because he don't live with us any longer, Endecott."
"Does he not ?-IJnfortunate man I"
"And Dromy is in his place."
"My dear, my own place is the only one I can think of
with any intense interest. Except yours."
''Because we have had no farm to manage this winter,~~
said Faith; "so Dromy could d~ what we wanted."
"I am glad to hear it," said IMIr. Lin den,-." he never used
to be able to do what I wanted. Who has managed for
you? Mr. Simlins? And has Mr. Skip gone. off in a
pumpkin with Cinderella? Faith, there is the door where'
I had the first sight of you-my Rose of delight !" he
added softly, as if all the days since then were passing
through his mind in sweet procession.
Faith was silent, for she too had something to think of;
and there was no more time to finish either train of conver-
sation that had beQn started. Both dropped, even before

* Jerry drew up at the gate; and if she had not gained one
object she had the other.
By this time it was about eleven o'clock. It was rarely
very hot in Pattaquasset; and now though under a sunny
sky there were summer breezes rustling ifl the trees. Both
mingled in Faith's senses with the joy of going into that
hoi~se again so accompanied. That gladness of getting
home in a pleasant hour! No one was in the cool sitting-
room-Faith pushed open the door between and went into
the eating-room, followed by Mr. Linden. There was Mrs.
Derrick; and what of all things doing but doing up some
of Faith's new ruffles! It was a glad meeting, -what
though Mrs. Derrick had no hand to give anybody. Then she
went to get rid of the starch, and the two others to their
respective rooms. But in a very few minutes indeed Faith
was by her side again.
"Mother-has Cindy come
"She's coming to-morrow, child. But there's not much
to do for dinner,-that's all under way."
Faith bared her arms and plunged into dairy and kitchen
to do all that her mother characterized as 'not much,' and
a little more. When every possible item had been cared
for-the strawberries looked over-the cream made ready
-the table set- the lettuce washed -the dishes warming
for the vegetables -the pickles and biiead on the table-and
Faith had through all this delighted Mrs. Derrick as much
as possible with her company, sight and presence at least,-
for Faith's words were a trifle less free than usual ;.-when
it was all done and the eating..room in a state of pleasant
shady summer readiness, Faith went 'ben', as they say in Scot-
land. She ~came into the sitting-room, as quietly as usual,
and coming up to Mr. Linden laid a hand on his shoulder.
"My own dear little Mignonette ! - Do you feel less
afraid of me, now I am here ?"
She hesitated to answer at first, then spoke with a very
dainty shy look-" I don't think I ever had fear enough of
you to hurt anything."
"See that you do not begin now! What have you been
about, all these long months? You were as chary of
details as if I had no right to them."
Faith looked gi'avely out of the window before she

SAY AND SEAL.

400

401

'S.


402              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             403-

8aid, "I have not been studying this year, J~ndecott.'
There was so clearly some reason for it, that Mr. Lindeu'~
first thought was one of anxiety.
"What has been the matter ?"
"You know I told you i~1ir. Skip had gone away ?"
"Yes."
"And that he went because we hadn't any farm to
manage ?"
"What has the farm to do with your studies ?"
"What shall I do if I make you very ang~~y with me ?"
said Faith, the least touch of seriousness mingling with her
words.
"You ha\I better ask what I shall do. Has Mr. Deacon
come back and taken possession ?"
"Yes..-And you know, Endy, we used to live by the farm.
-When that was gone we had to live by something else,
I wouldn't tell you if I could help your knowing it."
"Mignonette, what have you been doing?"
"You know what Pet found me at ?"
"Yes."-.--She could not tell whether he saw the whole,-.-.
he was clearly in the mind to hear it, taking both her
hands in his.
)     "I did that," said Faith.
"Did what?"
"I got work from Miss Bezac..-.-She gave me lessons."
"For how long ?"
"Since-about a fortnight after you went away. It was
then Squire Deacon took away the farm. From that time
until Pet came .-.-" she added with a little rise of colour
in her cheeks.
"And that all the daylight and candlelight hours of each
day?"
7' 0 no, not that. I had long walks to Miss Bezac's, you
1kn ow-or rides-every day or two; for we kept Jerry; and
I never sewed before breakfast. And in the evening I used
to write letters.-..part of the evening.".
"Child! child !"-He dropped her hands and began to
pace up and down the moderate limits of Mrs. Derrick's
best carpet. Until after a few turns Faith put herself
straight in his way and intercepted him, with a very inno~.
cent face.

ii
iit

"Faith, did no one 'protest against this-for me
"Yes, sir."-
"And you knew that I had guarded-that I had tried to
guard you-against any such possibility ?"
Faith paused. "Yes, I knew,-but Endy, that couldn't
make any difference."
"It did not-How, could not ?"
"It ought not," she said softly and coloring.
"Can you tell why ?"
"You know, Endy, 'it was better,-it was right,-it was
better that I should work for myself."
"Never, Mignon ette-while I could work for you. How
do you expect to manage when you are my wife ?-And do
you think I had no right even to know about it ?"
"I thought-now was the best time-" Faith said.
"Am I to learn from this and similar instances what my
wife will expect of me if I chance to be sick or in trouble ?"
It touched her. She coloured again to th~ roots of her
hair.
"Do you think I did wrong, Endy ?" 'she said doubtfully,
yet in an appealing fashion
"I cannot say you did right."
"But when you could do me no good,"--.-.said Faith very
gently, -." and I should only have given you pain -A.for
nothing ?"
"It ~ou1d not have given me pain to have you tell it-.
and the thing does now. Besides, in a great many cases
the thought that it is pain 'for nothing' is a mistake. I might
know some remedy when you did not. Self sacrifice will
never run wild in my nature-as it is inclined to do in
yours, but just imagine it once in the ascendant and me
with a bad headache (which I never have), -it can only
give you pain to hear of it-so I tell you of it the next
day. But if I had told you at the time-what conjurations
of your little fingers! what quick-witted alleviations !-till
the headache becomes almost a pleasure to both of us."
Faith was very near the unwanted demonstration of
te~rs. She stood still, looking down, till she could look up
safely.
"I will not do so again, Endy.-About important things,
I mean?'
2

402-


404              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND, SEAL.           405

"You know, Faith, I am speaking less of this one case,
than of the daily course of future action. Is not perfect
frankness, as well as\ perfect truth, best? And if I call for
your sympathy in all manner of small and great thino'
you let mine lie idle ?"                      ~s, will
"I might like it,".-.--said Faith honestly. "But in great
things I will not again, Endecott."
"Take care you get the right measure for things," said
Mr. Linden smiling. "Frankness makes a deliciously plain
way for one's feet.'!
Faith looked sober again, at the idea that she should
have failed in frankness. Then put her hand in his and
looked smiling up at him.
"There is one thing I will not keep from you any longer,"
-she said.
"What is that ?-the seal of this little compact of plain
speaking ?"x
"Strawberries !"-
"Only another style of nomenclature,"-said Mr. Lin..
den.
"You must take the trouble to go into the other room
for them."
And light-heartedly Faith preceded him into the other
room, where the dinner was ready. A very simple dinner,
but Mrs. Derrick would not have had anything less than a
roast chicken for Mr. Linden, and the lettuce and potatoes
did very well for a summer day; and Faith's waiting on
table made it only more pleasant. Talk flowed all the
while; of a thousand and one things; fQr Mrs. Derrick's
sympathies had a widel' range since Mr. Linden had been
in Germany. Indeed the talk was principally between
those two. It was a remarkably long dinner without mul-
tiplication of courses-there was so much to say! Many
were the pleasant things swallowed with the strawberries.
It is said hunger is the best sauce' it
is a better.                  , 's not true; happiness
And then-what came then? Truly, the same over again
-looking and talking, without the strawberries. Which
were not wanted; especially when Faith was dressed out
with roses, as she was presently after dinner. As she would
wash the tumblers and spoons in th~ dining-room, spite of

all Mrs. Derrick' could say, ~ Mr. Linden would stay there
too; not indeed to do anything but Jook on, and bestow
the roses as aforesaid. Talking to her sometimes in En~
~lish, sometimes in French, with preliminary instructions
in German.
"Mignonette," he said, "I have three letters for you to
read."
"Letters, Endecott !-Who has written to me ?"
"Through me-three regions of ~ountry."
"What do you mean
Just as ~he spoke the words, Faith paused and set down
the tumbler she was wiping. Her ears had caught the
sound of a modest knock at the front door. She looked at
Mr. Linden.
"Stay here, Endy---.please !" she said as she threw, down
her towel and ran off But Faith's hope of a chance was
disappointed., She ushered somebody into the sitting-room
an~ came back gravely and flushed to Mr. Linden.
~'Jt's Mr. Somers-and he wants to see you, Ende-
cott !"-.
Jaith went at her tumblers, and simultaneously, greatly
to the dismay of one party as to the surprise of the other,
in walked Mr. Somers after her.
"Miss Derrick told me you were in this room, sir," said
the clergyman shaking Mr. Linden's hand,-" so I came
in. Ha! I am glad to be one of the first to welcome you
back. How do you do, Mr. Linden? You've been a gveat
while from Pattaquasset !-and you've been missed, I don't
doubt."
Apparently not by Mr. Somers! But Mr. Linden met
all the advances as he should, merely stating his belief in
the general proposition that there is always somebody to
miss everybody."
"Will you take a seat here, sir ?" he said---" or may I go
with you to the next room
"I-.4iave no choice," said Mr. Somers looking benig-
nantly around ;-~.--." it is very pleasant here, very !-cool ;-
perhaps Miss Derrick will have no objection to our taking
our seats here ?".--.
Faith did not say, but as Mr. Somers had taken her leave
for granted, and his seat consequently, she was saved that

405


406              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             407

trouble. flow she. reddened at the thought of the rose~
with which she was' dressed! And there she stood in full
view, washing her spoons! But Mr. Somers looked the
other way.
"I-I am very happy to see you again, Mr. Linden.
very happy indeed, sir! I heard from Squire Stoutenburgh
that you were expected5 and Ii lost no time. How have you
enjoyed' your health, sir, this year? A year's a, long time!
isn't it ?"
Mr. Linden, taking his seat as in duty bound, looked
abstractedly at Faith and the spoons and the' roses, and
answered according to the evidence.
"Yes? Mr. Somers,.-and yet it depends very much upon
how far the two ends of the year are apart in other re-
spects. The ' Voyage auteur de ma chambre' could never
seem very long, whatever time it took~"
"Ha !"-said Mr. Somers blandly,-he hadn't the re..
niotest idea what this speech might mean,-" no. Did you
have a good passage coming over? We had every sign
of it."
"Very good,"-said Mr. Linden smiling,-" and very
stormy."
"Ah ?"-said Mr. Somers,-." very good and very stormy?
Well I shouldn't have thought that. But I suppose you
have got to be such a traveller that you don't mind which
way the wind blows, if it blows you on, ha ?.-like Dr.
Harrison. He never minds the weather. Dr. Harrison's
a great loss to Pattaquasset too," said Mr. Somers looking
at Faith and smiling a little more openly ;-" all our-ha!
.-our pleasantest' members of society seem to be running
away from us! That's what Mrs. Somers says."
"One more spoon-and put them up,"-thought Faith,
.-." and then I'll be away !"~-.-.
"But I've come to see if I can't get you to do me a
favour, Mr. Linden," said Mr. Somers withdrawing his ey~~
and mind from her. "I-should be very much obliged to
you indeed! I'm almost afraid to ask, for fear I sha'n'1
get it."
Faith wiped her spoon slowly.
"I like to do favorss" said Mr. Lindenb-" at least ~
think I should. But I cannot imagine how you can give
me a chance, Mr. Somers."

"p~a't you think it wonid he a great gratification to all
your old friends in Pattaquasset, if YOU would consent to
Iill my pulpit next Sunday? They-I believe they'd come
from all over the country !-and it would be-..-a----it would
be a very great gratification indeed to me. Can't I prevail
with you ?"
Faith had ceased her work and was standing quite still,
with bended head, and cheeks which had gathered their
colour into two vivid, spots. On those carnations Mr.
Linden's eyes rested for a moment, with a strange feeling
of pleasure, of emotion. The sort of touched smile upon
his lips when he spoke, did not, it may be said, belong to
Mr. Soniers. His answer was very simple and straightfor-
ward.
"I should like to see and speak to all my old friends
again, sir, more than I can tell you-and I think they
would be glad to see me. I could do it so well in no other
way. Thank you, Mr. Somers !-it is you who confer the
"Then you'll do it ?" said Mr. Somers, delighted. "If
am very happy-very fortunate indeed! It will be quite a
relief. And a pleasure-a very great pleasure-a-I assure
you sir. It's profitable for a people to have a change-..
they listen-ha !-they hear the same things said in a dif~
fervent way ; and it is often striking. And it is certainly
profitable to the pa~stor. Well, Mr. Linden, I shall make
a great many people happy,.-and Mrs. Somers, she'll set
off on her side to tell the news. How long are you going-.-..
a-to remain in Pattaquasset ?-But I don't know," added
he laughing,-" as I ought to ask !"
Faith had carried her spoons summarily to the cup1~
board, and was sitting at an open window near it, looking
out.
"And I cannot answer," said Mr~ Linden. "I have hardly
got past my~ arrival yet, sir."
"No-certainly. I was-a-premature. You must ex~.
cuse me. And I have no right to take up any more of
your time,-as you have so kindly-a-consented to give
me Sunday. What is the state of religion now, abroad,
sir?"
The answer to which comprehensive inquiry drew on
I

II

406


408              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AN]) SEAL.            409

into atalk of some length, although Mr. Somers had de.
dared he must go and had no right to stay. For a little
wh~fle Faith sat still by her window, but then she vanished
and appeared at Mrs. Derrick's side in the kitchen. The
dishes were all done there too, and Mrs. Derrick wag
ticking " about,---talking to Faith and wishing Mr. Somers
would go, some time before he weuiL Faith heard the
closing door, and the light returning step,-then a c1ear~
not loud-spoken---" Mignonette-where are you ?"
Faith sprang back through the passage, and stood in the
eating-room again. Wit a very sweet sort of gravity. All
her mind and her face f~l~of the thought that he was going
to preach for Mr. Somers.
J' What are you about, little Sunbeam ?-are you busy ?"
"Then first r want a talk with you, and then a walk
with you,--do you want the same with me ?-or are you
tired ?"
"No-yes ;-I'm not tired a bit."
"Are you nervous ?" he said, drawing her off into the
next room.
"No 1" she said laughing a little ,-"did you ever tl~nk
I w~as, Ei~decott ?" - But Faith's heart beat somewhat
strangely.
"I am going to try you-" he said as he sat d?~wn by
her; "so if you are, shut up your eyes."
There was no sign of shutting up in Faith's eyes. She
00 ed at him, not indeed assuredly, but steadily, and with
a wee smile. Eye and smile were met and held, until he
had taken her left hand and held that too; but then look-
ing down at it, Mr. Linden gravely took out a little gold
ring and proceeded to try how well its dimensions agreed
with those of the finger for which it was destined.
Nothing moved of Faith but her eyes, which followed
his, and the fluttering colour-which fluttered indeed! went
and came like the lights on a wreath of vapour.
Silently the hand, with both rings on, was looked at for
a few moments-then held to his lips, with special greeting
of those two fingers; and then, as he took off the second
ring, Mr. Linden looked up at her.
"Mignon9tte, when may I put it on again ?"

There seemed to be difficulty in Faith's answering. Pro-
bably she was making up her mind to speak, but he had to
wait for her words to be ready. He waited quietly, as if
he expected it; looking down at the hand he held, and
saying nothing unless by the clasp of its little fingers.
"Do you know where you are going, yet Endy ?"-she
said in a very low voice."
"No, darling-not certainly."
"Then-do you want to know this yet ?"
"Very much."
Faith had expected no less; she had had fair warning;
and besides in her heart could not but confess that Mr.
Linden had reason. Little as she might care to disturb
the existing state of things, which to her mind was pleasant
enough, it was clear that his mind on the subject was differ-
ent; and she could not fijid fault with that. There was a
pause again, of quiet waiting on one side and great diffi-
culty of utterance on the other, and the words when they
came were in the lowest possible key.
"What do you wish ?"
"What I have been waiting for all these years."
"But as to time?"
"As little as possible."
"I know,-but what is that, Endy ?"-she said with very
timid intonation.
"'As little as possible' ?" he said, raising his eyes with a
laughing look to her face,-" the words hardly need ex-
planation-I might have stayed Mr. Somers this afternoon.
It cannot be too soon for me, Mignonette-but I do not
know what is possible for you."
What was possible for her! It almost took Faith's
breath away. Because she acknowledged Mr. Linden's
right to his wish. She was in great confusion, besides.
"I will do what you please !" ~he said at length. "You
may arrange it with mother."
"No, with you," said Mr. Linden,-" what do you please.?
Am I to repeat the passage of Qi~iapaw creek ?"
a She looked up and looked at him, and said yes. It was
look any man would have liked to have given him., Not
without a little fear of what he might say, those eyes put
such a pure faith in him and were so ready to answer his
VOL.11.

t

u


SAY AND SEAL.

pleasure. ~he waited for his answer, though her eyes did
not.
"You know, dear Faith, I sent you word to be ready for
me,-.--is that done ?"
"Yes-h-nearly."
"'Nearly' is soon dispatched," said Mr. Linden,-" and
this is the month when, 'if ever, come perfect days '-Shall
we say a week from to-day?"
She looked very startled, soft though the glance was that
again met his face. And for a moment the roses fairly fled
away. "As soon as possible" this was, sure enough. They
came back however, first stealthily an4 then swiftly, till
Faith's face was bowed and her right hand with futile intent
of concealment was interposed between it and Mr. Linden.
But whether Faith meant to speak or meant not to speak,
certain it is that words were none.
"I cannot have this 1" said Mr. Linden, as he took the
shielding ~hand into his own possession,.~-" Faith, you. shall
not look tale about it. This is the second time I have
banished the colour in the first twenty-four hours I have
been home. And these roses I see now, seem to* me to
come from the same tree as the white ones. If you would
look more boldly at the subject it would appear much l'ess
terrific-and the same might be said of me. What sort of
a face have I down there in the carpet ?"
There was a little clasp of his hand which answered that;
but though he could see Faith's lips give way he did not
hear them speak.
"Mignonette, the treaty waits your signature. ~
"Yes, Endy,"-she said quaintly enough. Mr. Linden
brought her face round within sight, saying-much as he
had done at QuaPaw creek-"Are you afraid, dear child ?"
"No-" she said timidly, and yet "no"it was.
"Then it only needs my seal.-In one of the northern
countries of Europe, Mignonette, the bride and bridegroom
are expected to stand at the open window for an hour or
two, in full dress,-so you see things are not so bad as they
might be. Now my 'little beauty-are you ready for youl
walk ?"

410

If

Iyy~                                     I-
rj~
CHAPTER XXXVI.
T was the pretty time of a summer afternoon. The sun,
in the last quarter of almost his longest journey of the
year, but high yet, sent warm rays to rest in the meadows
and daily with the tree tops and sparkle on the Mong and
its salt outlet. The slight rustle of leaves now and then
was as often caused by a butterfly or a killdeer as by the
breeze; sometimes by a heavy damask rose that suddenly
sent down its rosy shower upon~ the ground. It Was the
very pastime of birds and insects and roses,-with that
slight extra stir which told the time of day and that the
afternoon siesta was at an end.
Gathering roses as he went along, fastening them in her
belt or her bonnet, Mr. Linden led Faith down the farm
road by which he had driven her to the shore that first day
after her illness. There was small danger of meeting any
one,-it was not the time for loads of hay and grain, and
little else passed that way: the laborers in the fields were
seen and heard only at a distance. Mr. Linden himself
was in as gay and gladsome a mood as the day, more
lively indeed, and active-taking the "dolce far" ~i~thout
the "niente;" witnessing what "the year of exile" had
been, by his joy in being at home, with June and Mignon-
ette. The ~ talk had added something even Vo
both their perfections-he could not forget it though he
talked of other things. Neither did Faith forget it. Yet
~ she laughed at Mr. Linden and with him; though as far
~ as conversation was concerned she took a secondary part.
She started no subject whatever, of the least ~moment.
Subjects started of themselves-in numbers somewhat like
the little butterflies that roused out of the clover as the
intruding feet came by,-about as airy, about as flitting,
not quite so purposeless. And thus in a way more sum-
mery than summary, Mr. Linden and Faith arrived at the
~ shore. He found a shady seat for her, and with no "by
(411)


412             SAY AND SEAL.

your leave" except in manner, transferred her bonnet to a~
airy situation on a wild thorn.
"Mignon ette, do you know what I mean to do with you
after Thursday ?"
"No, Endecott."
"I shall put you before inc on the wooden horse spok~~
of in the fairy tale, turn the pin under his right ear, and
be off."
"What's that story !".-said Faith, looking round at him
(he was standing behind her) with the prettiest of bright
flushed faces. /
"An authentic account of how a prince carried off a
princess."
"How did he ?"
"Got her consent first-(couldn't get anybody's else, but
that did 7 ot matter)-ordered some one to bring the wooden
horse to the-front of the palace, placed her and himself as
aforesaid, turned the pin, and disappeared from the curious
eyes of the whole court. The story goes on to state that
they both enjoyed the ride."
"Was that what you meant when you asked me if I liked
travelling in cars ?-" said Faith, a very little laugh speak-
ing her sense of the application.
"Quick witted little princess !" said Mr. Linden. "The
horse that refuses to carry double for your service, shall be
dismissed from mine."
"But I don't see much, yet," said Faith. "I don't under-
stand the story nor you. I think you have taken me a great
many rides on that horse."
"Not en princesse" said Mr. Linden smiling. "The
story is very simple, my dear. After showing his wife
various places of interest, and letting his friends see her,
the prince arrives at home. ,It is said that he then finds
his fortune-but I think that part of the story is. fabulous,
so don't set y&amp;ur heart upon it."
"That's the story-but what do you mean, Endy ?"
"To give you such a ride. I mean that I am the prince,
and that you (will be) the princess, who shall do all these
things."
Faith jumped up. "Do you 1".-
"Truly I do, dear Mignonette."

SAY AND SEAL.                 413
Faith's face was changing. The undoubted joy in her
eye had yet a check somewhere.
"But Endecott-"
"Qu'est ce que c'est, Mademoiselle?"
"You haven't a wooden horse !"-she said with a
delicious and most delicate mixture of frankness and
timidity.
"Are you sure of the fact ?-.-and after all, Mademoiselle,
what then ?"
The same look almost answered him without words. "I
am not sure-" she said. "I thought so."
"What is the point of the remark ?"
She hesitated between the two feelings. But frankness,
or duty, carried it. "Because, Endy-if that were so,-~
I don't want to go !"
"How did your royal pride get turned about ?-..-that you
will look at none but a wooden horse ?"
She smiled at him, a little puzzled as of old, and not
choosing to venture any further.
"I suppose I know what you mean, my dear one," Mr.
Linden said, taking both her hands in his, and smiling too;
"but as I do not intend to be John Gilpin, you need not be
his wife,-not yet. Besides, the horse-.--of whatever sort-.
will require less than you suppose; and~ for the prince and
princess, they,
Being in the air,
Will not care
.How they fare !".~
Which words had an overcoming effect not onl~r upon
Faith's nascent scruples, but upon Faith herself; and a
perfect series of little laughs *of the most musical descrip-
tion rolled along a very limited extent of the shore, kept
corn pa4by flushing colours as fair as the lights which were
just then playing in the clouds overhead. Mr. Linden,
holding her hands still, watched his princess with the most
j perfect satisfaction.
"Is your mind at rest?" he said. "You know I threat.
~ ened to keep you all to ni4self for six months-though I'm
~ afraid four will be as nearlas I can come to it."
"But where are you going, Endy ?"
or"


414             SAY AND SEAL.

"That waits partly on your choice. In general, to hills,
cities, and rivers,-the Falls, the White Mountains, Wash.
ington, and the pictured rocks of Lake Superior. Then
to some shore where you can see real surf-and to delight
the eyes of some of my old friends by the way."
Faith's eye went gravely over to the sunny Long Island
shore, but her mind had made a perfect leap. The only
outward token of which was the unconsciously playing line
of her lips. Such a journey ! -with him! rfhe breeze
from the White Mountains seemed to blow in her face
already, and the capital of the country rose before her in a
most luminous cloud-view. With Mr. Linden to guide
her and to tell her everything l-She did not see the eyes
that were watching her, but when she suddenly noticed the
silence and turned towards Mr. Linden, the smile w~ on
his lips too.
"I thought I should go right to work," she said,
"to study-to make up for lost time. Can't I ~do that
too?"
"As much as you like! But don't you know there is a
lost holiday to be made up, as well ?"
"It is made up,"-she said gently, after a minute's hesi-
tation.
"How that grieved me when I went away !" said Mr.
Linden,-" to take from you what I might never be able to
replace. But sit down, dear child - I want to consult you
about various things."
Faith sat down and looked-like a grave child ,i~n deed.
Her journey for the present forgotten, and all h~r mind
bent on something more weighty and worthy.
"I told you I had three letters for you to read," said
Mr. Linden. "One reached me in Germany, two I found
waiting for me here. They are all about the same subject,
Mignonette: where you and I shall establish ourselves."
A flush rose, but she looked steadily.
"lou told me once," Mr. Linden went on, "that in such
a case I should choose the place where I was most needed
-where there was most work for me to do. Now you
shall judge. The pastor of a large 'manufacturing town in
Pennsylvania (I may say of the town-it is so in effect) has
accepted a call to Baltimore. I knew him formerly, and I

414

/

SAY AND SEAL.                 415
suppose it is through his influence that the people have
applied to me." Faith thought it very likely.
"How large is the town, Endy ?"
"Ten or fifteen thousand-I do not know precisely."
"And nether churches ?"
"Yes, but this is so much the leading one that the others
hardly hold their ground; and by the xyay, I think I would
rather have a call from one of them. Apparently the
churchgoers are in the minority."
Faith thought there must be work enough to do in that
place; but she only listened more gravely.
"An old friend of my father's writes the second letter.
He lives at Newport, and has pleased himself with building
a new church in a part of the ishind not much adorned with
spires. Climate and society are good, scenery picturesque,
and he is quite sure if I will only bring-Mrs. Linden !-to
his house, she will decide in favour of Newp~6rt at once."
Faith's eyes xvent down, and rouge of the richest and
frankest coloured her cheeks.
"Do you think she will ?" said Mr. Linden demurely.
"What is the other, Endy ?-You said three."
"The other, love, is from those very White Mountains
you are going to see. Another friend writes the letter,-
one who has built himself a nest there for summer migra-
tions. It is a strange place, Faith, by all accounts-I have
never been to that part of the mountains. A scattered
population, sprinkled about on the hills like their own dew-
berries, and to be found in much the same manner. Neither
church~or chapel, but only an unused schoolhouse-of
which Mr. Olyphant prays I will come and take possession.
Snow and frost, the valleys and the everlasting hills-that
would be your society."
Faith's eyes were raised now and met Mr. Linden's.
Grave, as one who felt the weight of the questiOn to be
settled; but with a brow unshadowed, and eyes unfeariifg.
A child's look still!
"Mr. Olyphant says there could not be better air for my
bird to sing in," he went on with a srnile,-"there was one
great objection to the place in Pennsylvania. How does
this seem to you, dear Faith ?-it is rather on a spur of the
mountains-not absolutely shut in. ~Then I am not sure


416

SAY AND SEAL.

1
a

ni

how much society you would have but mine,-what do you
think of it, in comparison with Newport ?"
She answered at first with a rare little smile, so happy in
its grave trust, and which withal a little significantly
deferred the question.
"1 know you will go where you thi r~k you ought to go.
Endy-1 don't know about places." /
"I doubt whether I shall grant more than half of Mr.
Alcott's request," said Mr. Linden. "I suppose if George
has not got home I may venture to grant that. Faith, it
is a very singular fact that everybody falls in love with
you."
To judge by Faith's blush, it was a somewhat painful
'fact~.' "Whom are you talking of?" she said doubtfully.
"The present occasion of my remark is George Alcott.-.
said to be absent on a crusade of search after a pair of eyes
he saw in Pattaquasset."
"I don't know him," said Faith laughing a little; hut
instantly recurring to business she asked very earnestly,
"Then, Endy, you think you will go to that place in the
mountains ?.-.-or haven't you made up your mind ?"
"I am inclined to that one, of the three-I cannot say
my mind is absolutely made up. It has had so much else
to do since I came home! Faith, do you mean to have any
bridesmaids ?"
Faith jumped up off her rock. "Endy, I want to rim.
down and look at these little fish. And it's growing late,
besides !"-
"Yes, but, you must answer me first," said Mr. Linden
laughing and holding her fast. "It is needful I should
know beforehand, because they will want supporters, if I
do not."
"I don't want any, Endy," said Faith with cheeks like
two pink roses, but standing very still now.
"Then come and shew me the fish. Don't you t~hi~ik it
would be gladsome work to seek out those untaughfl~nd
uncared for people up in the mountains ?"
They had come down to the rocks between and among
which at low tide the shell fish played in an inch or two of
water; and sitting on one of the mossy stones Faith was
watching the mimic play of evil passions which was going
V
/

SAY AND SIEAL.               41~(
on among that tribe of Mollusca below her; but her mind
was on something else.
"I read the other day," she said, "those words of Paul,
where he says to the Thessalonlails 'we were allowed of God
to be put in trust with the gospel'.-They made me very
happy.~~they make me happy now.-'What I thought of in
connexion with them, I mean."
"And what was that ?"
"That they are your words too,"-she said after looking
up as it~ she thought her meaning must be known~-"And
that even I-have something to do," she added lower.
Mr. Linden stood by her, looking off at the rippling
waves, then down at his fair little helper. "Yes, Faith-
it is a glorious thing to have any part of that work in
trust,-and the part which makes least show may be no less
in reality. 'In trust' 1" he repeated, looking off again.
"Such beautiful words !-..-such terrible."
"No !".-she said with a smile,-" I don't think so."
"Nor I, dear, from your point of view. But in the
world, Faith, where you have been so little, I have seen the
words of the trust to be boundless-the faithfulness of the
trustees within very narrow limits. And to be always
ready to 'sow beside all waters'-who is? ' Freely ye have
received, freely give', is the command-hut what Christian
sees with half perception what he has received !"
Faith paused and looked thoughtful, and then smiled
ag~iin. "I always think of the words you read to me one
day,-' On~ be thou: strong and very courageous,-for the
Lord thy od is with thee, whithersoever thou goest'. "-
The an 4wering look told that if Mr. Linden's words had
not been said for the purpose of drawing her out, they had
at least served that purpose.
"You are a dear little Sunbeam !" he said. "Acting out
your name, as I told you long ago. There is nothing
needful to get you ready for the White Mountains but a fur
cloak. Now come-it is growing late, as you say.
It was a late tea-time when they got home. They sat
down to tea and Faith had not told her mother yet! which
~&amp; she remembered with a somewhat uneasy mind. There was
nothing uneasy about the third member of the family !-the
poise and balance of the white strawberries upon each


418             SAY AND 'SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.            419

other was not more complete than the resting adjustment
of all his thoughts.
"Mrs. Derrick," he said as she handed him his cup of
tea, "what do you consider the prettiest time of day ?"
"The prettiest time of day ?" Mrs. Derrick repeated,...
"do you mean when the day looks best-or the people?
I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Linden, - I never watch any.
body from morning to night but Faith."
"I am talking of Faith-or what concerns her."
"0 well all times of day are alike to her,7' said hei'
mother fondly,-"she's just as pretty one time as another,
-and one day as another. Only the days when she used
to get letters."
"Mignonette," said Mr. Linden, "when should I have
heard such a piece of news from you?"
"I never knew it before," said Faith.
"How many hours does she need for a morning toilette ?"
said he, pursuing his researches.
"Hours !" said Mrs. Derrick-"you'd better say minutes.
It's less than an hour, commonly."
"But I mean uncommonly."
Mrs. Derrick looked thoroughly puzzled. But Faith
had go~ the key, and hopeless of stopping Mr. Linden she
thought the next best thing was to expedite matters.
"When I take longest, mother,"-she suggested in a low
voice.
"How long would she need to arrange orange flowers to
her satisfaction-" said Mr. Linden,-" or white muslin ?"
"0 !-" said Mrs. Derrick setting down the teapot with
her cup half filled. "I didn't know what you were talking
about."
"I am talking about next Thursday," said Mr. Linden,
with a gay gentleness of manner. "Because we have de-
cide&amp;-or I have-that Thursday is to be the prettiest day
of the week, and now we want to choose the prettiest time
of day.''
A little flush came into Mrs. Derrick's quiet face,-she
said not a word.
"You are willing it should be then ?" Mr. Linden said.
The mother's "yes" was very firm and clear, and yet

not in just her usual tone. That came back a minute after
with the relief which a thought of business always brings.
"That dress isn't made !" she said. Mr. Linden's
"Faith !-" was expressive.
"I knew that it could be done in a day at any time,
Thidecott," - said Faith, very grave and flushed. "It is
up stairs in my drawer, mother."
"Kept there by what piece of superstition ?" he said
smiling. "Did (~you think if you made it up that I would
never come back ~"


N

CHAPTER XXXVII.
RIDAY passed all too swiftly. Not in much ww'1e~so
F far as Faith was concerned-unless so far as Mr. Un.
den gave her work. Apparently she had been out of his
sight long enough-he was not in the mood to let her be
so any more. Saturday followed close in Friday's steps
until after dinner, then came a move., For Pet and Thu.
hen were to come in the afternoon ti'ain; and Mr. Linden
going with Jerry to the station to meet them, summoned
Faith to give "her sweet company."
So far as the station, Faith gave it; but there she drew
back into the furthest corner of the wagon, and waited,
while Mr. Linden walked up and down betweenn th wagon
and the front platform. Waited, and watched ,fiWtively,
everything; him and the people that spoke to him; with
those strange eyes that saw everything new. Then came
the whistle! the rush and roar of the train-the moment's
lull; and then Faith saw the three she looked for coming
towards her. Reuben a little in advance with Miss Linden's
travelling bag, she with one hand on her brother's shoulder
and her eyes on his face, coming rather slowly after,-talk.
lug, asking questions, some of~ which Faith could almost
guess from the look and smile with which they were an-
swered. It was a pretty picture; she felt as if she knew
them both better for seeing it. Before they had quite
reached the wagon, Pet received an answer which made her
quit Mr. Linden with a little spring and leave him to follow
with Reuben. And Faith had opened the wagon door.
"Faith! you dear child !" said Miss Linden, "what have
you been doing with yourself-or what has anybody done
with you, to stow you away here like a forgotten parcel ?"
She had entered the wagon no further than to rest one
knee there holding both Faith's hands and looking at her
with full, bright, loving eyes. "How came Endecott to
leave you here, alone ?"
"Two people must be alone-if they are not together,"
said Mr. Linden. "Pet, shall I put you in or out ?"
(420)

SAY AND SEAL.              ~ 421
She laughed, jumping into the wagon then and ~w~i~iii~
otie arm about Faith's waist, much like a spray of w6~d~*"'
birfe.
"What do you think I have asked him ?" she whispered,
,-"and what do you think he has told me ?"
"I don't know," said Faith ;-"but I guess."
A significant clasp of the woodhine answered that-~-then
the hand rested in a quiet embrace.
"How well he looks !" she said, her eyes taking glad
note of one figure on the seat before them. "Faith, how
are you ?"
"I am well. "-Nothing eduld be quieter in its kind.
"Did he tell you what he is going to do to-morrow, Pet ?"
"No-" she said looking her quick inquiry. Faith's
face might have told her before she spoke; such a joy sat
gravely on her brow and in the depth of her eyes.
"If you go to church tomorrow, you will know."
A sudden flush, both of cheeks and eyes, bore witness to
the interest of this news. The look met Faith's for a mo-
ment-then rested on. Mr. Linden, and then with that little
tide of feeling deepening its sweet flow, the eyes fell, the
unbent lips wavered and trembled. Faith ventured only a
~ silent act of free-masonry ; a fast clasp of her fingers round
~ Miss Linden's hand that rested on her waist; but maybe
~i nc~er yet in their short friendship had they felt their hearts
beat so close together. With one, there was perhaps some
; old recollection or association--some memory of the time
~ when such a day had been first talked of, that made self-
~ command a hard matter; for though the lips presently grew
still, and the eyes quiet, jhe gravity that remained was easily
~ stirred, and the voice spoke doubtfully.
There was more discussion of various things that evening
~ than Faith cared for, but it could not be helped. Sunday
~ brought a lull of discussions. But the gravity which sat
~ on Faith's face that morning was not the less but the
more. If a guardian angel had. shewn himself bodily, his
face might have worn such a pure distance from low and
trifling things and like kindred with the blue sky and the
truth it emblematizes. That day was the first of her new
life to Faith. Not such to Mr. Linden; but it was the
first of her seeing him publicly take the office to which )~i8
voL. ii.               36

*~~*


422             SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.            423

life was to be gwen, and in which hers was to be by hi~
side. She was a very grave "sunbeam" when she set out
to walk to church-and as clear!
There were sunbeams in plenty of the literal kind abroad;
it was a perfect day; and everybody was glad of that, though
some people remarked it would have made no difference if
it had rained cannon-balls. Never did Pattaquasset see
such a coming to church! never in the rememb z~ance of
Mr. Somers. They came from all over; the cou1~ry was
gleaned; and many a fire was raked up on the hearthstone
that day which most Sundays got leave to burn and some-
body to watch it. The fishermen came from Quapaw, and
the laborers from the farms all over the country; those
who did not directly know Mr. Linden, knew of, him; and
knew such things of him that they would jiot have missed
this opportunity of hearing him speak, for a week's wages.
The fathers and mothers of the boys he had taught, they
knew him; and they came in mass, with all their uncles,
aunts and cousins to the remotest degree, provided they
were not geographically too remote. The upper society
of Pattaquasset lost not a man nor a woman; they were
all there, some with great love, others with great curiosity.
The Stoutenburghs had plumed themselves. Mr. Simlins
was as upright as his new beaver. Miss Essie Do Staff
with magnified black eyes; Judge Harrison with benevo-
lent anticipation~ Mr. Stephens the fisherman had driven
his little lame child down to the Pattaquasset church, "for
once ;" Jonathan Ling was there with his wife, having left
the eldest child to keep house, and both being in great
smartness and expectation. Jonathan Fax was there and
his new wife; the one with a very grave head, the other
with a very light one, and faces accordingly. Mrs. derrick
and Pet had long ago been quIetly seated; when through
that full house,, after her Sunday school duth~s were over,
Faith came inK Her colour was very bright, and she trem-
bled; but it was not because m~ny saw in her an object of
curiosity; though Faith rememI~ered it, at that minut~l she
did not care. '$he felt the stillness of expectation that
filled the house, with which the little murmur of sound now
and then chimed so well; the patter of childish feat that
followed her up the aisle spoke so keenly to her wrought

up feeling of the other one of her class, who used to follow
him with such delight; that Faith felt as if the happy little
spirit long since received in at the golden gates, was even
there in the church, to hear once more his beloved teacher.
Who else ?.-what other angel wings stirred in the soft
breeze that floated through from door to door ?-what
other unseen, immortal senses waited on those dear mortal
lips ?-Faith's step grew lighter, her breath more hushed*
eyes might look at her-she looked not at them.
And eyes did look, from all sorts of motives; perhaps in
the whole church there was not a person who did not try
to see her, except the one who next to herself was the most
interested-Pet never moved. Her head was bent, her
hand half supporting half concealing in its position, like any
statue she sat there, nor even stirred when the stir of every
one else told who had come in. If she held her, breath to
hear every one of her brother's steps as he passed by, she
did not look at him; did not raise her head till his first
prayer was ended; then her rapt gaze wa~ as unwavering.
The service which followed could not be measured bythe
ordinary line and rule of pulpit eloquence and power,-
could not' be described by most of the words which buzz
down the aisles after a popular sermon. There was not
the "newness of hand" of a young preacher-for almost
from boyhood Mr. Linden had been about his Master's
work. To him it was as simple a thing to deliver his mes-
sage to many as to one,-many, many of those before him
had known his private ministrations~ and not a few had
through them first known the truth; and now to all these
assembled faces he was just what each had seen him alone;
as humble, as earnest, as affectionate, as simply speaking
not his own words,-for "Who hath made man's mouth-
have not I, the Lord ?" No ~ne who heard the ambassador
that day, doubted from what court he had received his cre~
denials. "In trust with the gospel 1" Yes, it was that; but
that with a warm love for the truth and the people that
almost outran the trust. As the traveller in the fountain
shade of the desert calls to the caravan that passes by
through the sand, - as one of the twelve of old, when
Christ "blessed and brake and gave to his disciples, and
41*


424             SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.            425

Jf~
if'

the dkciples to the multitude"; so did he speak from the
words-
"Eat, 0 friends! drink? yea drink abundantly, 0 be.
loved 1"
There were some there ~ho would never forget that day.
There were many to whom it eemed, that not the warm
summer breeze that floated in ~as gentler or sweeter than
the feeling that filled the place. The little lame girl, and
her older and rougher father and mother, listened alike to
their dear friend with moveless eyes; and drank such a
draught of those sweet waters as it was long, long since
either of them had tasted in a church. It was a white day
for all the fishing population; and nothing would have
kept them from coming 'in the afternoon. Miss Essie's
black eyes lost all their fire. Farmer Simlins, unknown to
himself, sat and smiled. And the one who listened most
tenderly and joyfully, listened indeed quietly to the last
word, or till her face had leave to bow itself from sight;
quietly then no longer, only that such tears come from no
broken-up fountains of unrest. They came freely, as Faith
recalled and applied the whole of her quoted sentence of
Paul to the Thessalonians-
"For as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with
the gospel, SO WE SPEAK."
She was very quiet when the benediction was spoken, but
she drew her veil closely as they left the church.
It was a lingering getting out, even for them, because
others would linger. Some turned to look, some stopped
to speak; and if Mi'. Linden had had twenty hands they
would all have found employment. Part of this the two
veiled figures saw as they made their way to the door, and
there Miss Linden paused and looked back. The broad
stream of sunlight that lay across the church, the shadowy
background figures,.-in that very spot of light, Mr. Lin-
den,-made a never-to-be-forgotten picture. Reuben Tay~
br stood close behind him, a step back, looking down; little
]~Thcy Stephens perched up on the pew cushions had one
hand; Robbie Waters-.far dpwn below-the other. Phil
Davids and his father, SquiYe Stoiitenburgh, and some of
-the Quapaw fishermen made up the group. Pet gave one
look, and then she went swiftly down the steps and on.

86*

Slow the people scattered away, up and down the road;
not with the brisk steps and busy voices that give token the
church service has but interrupted-.not suspended-the
current of everyday thought and behaviour. It was a fair
picture of a Sunday i~i a New England village; the abso-
lute repose of nature copied' and followed by hands that
other days let nothing stand still. Before Faith and Pet
got home the road was almost empty. Mr. Linden had
overtaken them, but all his greeting was to put Faith's
hand on his arm.-then he walked as silent as they. it was
a little thing, and yet it touched the 'very feeling she had
had all day-the beginning of her new way of life, with
him.
The afternoon was like the moiming. Not a creature
was missing of all who from far and near had filled the
house in the former part of the day! and doubtless it was
well that Mr. Somers could not hear the spoken and un-
spoken wishes that would have unseated him and caused
him to relinquish for ever his charge in Pattaquasset.
4 The afternoon air was enticing, the afternoon walk home
very lingering; then standing in the hall to look and taste
~ it still, the sweet peace of everything seemed to enter every
~ heart. Even Pet, who all day had been unheard and almost
unseen, stood with clasped hands looking out; and only the
heavy eyes spoke of the oppression that had been. But as
she looked the tears came back again, and then she turned"
to Mr. Linden-wrapping her arms round his neck.
"Endy, Endy I-do you remember the first time we talked
of~this day?"
Mr. Linden gave back her caresses without a word, but
,~ with a look of pain that Faith had rarely seen on his face.
It was some minutes before he spoke. "Dear Pet-she
knows it now!"
Miss Linden looked up then, mastering her tears, and
with a broken "Forgive ixe, Endy-." she kissed him and
went away up stairs. But Mr. Linden did not look out
any more. He went into the sitting-room7 and resting his
face on his hand sat there alone and still, until Faith came
to call him to tea.

424

425


SAY AND SEAL.             427

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
J~OW my two pets," said Mr. Linden as they left the
table Monday morning, "what are you going
to do?"
"I am going to work," said his sister. "Mrs. Derrick and
I have business on hand. You can have Faith."
"There is an impression of that sort on my own mind."
"But II mean to-day. Except for about five minutes
every half hour."
"It would be needless for me to say what I am going to
do," observed Faith quietly.
"If that is a little piece of self assertion," said Mr. Lin.
den, "allow me respectfully to remark that my 'impression'
had no reference to the present time. Do you feel molli-
fied?"
"No," said Faith laughing. "You are wide' of the
mark."
"Then will you please to state your intentions ?-So far
from being needless, it will be what Mr. Somers would call
'gratifying."'
"I don't know," said Faith merrily. "I understand that;
if I tell you, you will say I have no time for them I"-.
"For them !-enigmatical. Who told you what I would
say ?-Ask me." But Faith laughed.
"I am going to make Pet and you some waffles for tea."
"Do they require more time than shortcakes ?~'
Faith stood before him quietly as if she had a great deal
to say. "I am going to make bread, for mother and all
of us."
"What else ?"
"Sponge cake, I think."
"And after that ?"
"Crust for pot-pie."
"De plus?"
"Curds,"-said Faith, looking down now.
(426)

"PourquOi, Mademoiselle ?"
"To eat, said Faith demurely. "You like them."
"Mademoiselle, I prefer you."
"Each in its way,"-replied Faith admirably well, but
with a glance, nevertheless.
"There is only one in my way," said Mr. Linden. "Well
does that complete the circuit ?-I suppose nothing need go
between cheese and bread but waffles ?"
"I shall wish-.and I suppose you would wish that I
should, look over straxvberries."
"Where do you commonly do all these things ?"'
"The sponge cake and the strawberries in the other
room-other things, in the kitchen."
j. "We may as well begin as we are to go on 1" said Mr.
c~ Linden. "If you will not come and keep me company
~ I must do that for you. Faith, I think Miss 'Essie's state~
ment of fasts was much like the artistic representation
of lions and men, in the fable !"
7 Faith did tiot at all dislike this compounding of matters;
'~ and so the' strawberries were looked over, and the sponge
~ cake beaten in the dining-room; with various social enliven-
'1 ings. For besides Mr. Linden's calls upon her attention,
I and the subjects by him presented to be looked over along
; with the, strawberries, Faith made now and then a run into
4 the kitchen to see Mrs. Derrick oriCindy there; and if the
runs up stairs were less frequent, they took more time. For
Miss Bezac had arrived, , and she and Miss Linden were
deep in the white folds of Faith's muslin dress. There too
was Mrs. Derrick, for the touch and the making of that
dress stirred her very heart. Faith was often in demand,-
~ not to use her needle, but her taste-or to be fitted, or 'tried
on,' as Miss Bezac said.
Coming back' from one of these "trying" visits to the
three workers, Faith found Mr. Linden by the sitting-room
table; before him a package, in his hands a letter.
"Faith," he said, "come and look at this." Faith ran in
from the strawberries.
"Rosy fingers are not needed," said Mr. Linden, "but as
eyes are first called for they may pass. Sit down here by
me, Mignonette, and take off this wrapping paper."
Which very curiously and amusedly, and now with a little

(a


SAY AND SEAL.

429

428                SAY AND SEAL.
suspicious tinge in her cheeks, Faith did; remarking that
she could not help her fingers being rosy.
"Keep the roses to their chosen location," said Mr. Lin.
den gravely, as the first paper parted right ~nd left and
showed a second, which b0re this inscription.-~' For Mrs.
Endccott Linden.-with the warmest regards and respects
of W. and L. Olyph ant." Faith suddenly jumped up, pushed
back her chaii' and whisked back to the strawberries, where
she was found diligently putting the hulls into a dish by
themselves.
"Mignonette, y'bur fingers will be more rosy than ever."
Mr. Linden spoke from the doorway where he stood watch.
~ng her. Then coming forward he laid a key on the table,
" That belongs to you.~~
4      "Wouldn't you be so good as to take care of it?  You
see I am busy."
No my dear, I will not be so good. You shall have
that pleasure--as a reward for running away. Would you
like to hear this letter ?"
"If you please-" Faith said with a little hesitation.
"You shall read it to yourself if you like better-" but
he read it to her, a~ter all. It was a pretty letter, showing
so well Mr. Linden's place in the writer's affection that
Faith could not but enjoy it. Neither could she dislike the
messages to herself though they did cost her a few roses.
As to the contents of the package the letter gave no hint.
"What is that the key of; Eudy ?" she said, glancing up
after the letter was finished.
"I don't know !"-Faith went on with her strawberries.
Through the open hail door came little uneven steps,
tracking on through other open doors even to the dining~
room,-there the steps and Charles twelfth came to a pause.
"Ma said," he began,-then fixed his eyes and mind on
Mr. Linden with a concentration that was marvellous. The
general attire and appearance of the little potentate were
as usual, but both hands were in use to support a heavy
mass of red coral, hugged up to his blue apron in the most
affectionate manner. With a sigh of relief Charles twelfth
withdrew his attention from Mr. Linden long enough to set
the coral on the floor th
behind him.         ,   en gazed anew, with his hands

:~jii,~

"Charley !" said Faith laughing,.-" what are you doing!
...~-and what have you done ?"
"1~Ia said-" began the child, stopping short as before.
"Charles twelfth," said Mr. Linden holding out his hand
"do you never use anything but your eyes? Come here and
speak to me. Who is prime minister now
"You,".-was the very prompt reply. "Ma said so yes-
terday."
The laugh in Mr. Linden's eyes as he loQked at Faith,
was a thing to see. "Faith," he said, "the conversation
I is in your hands !"
Faith was in doubtful readiness to speak. "Charley !"-..
I she ~said as soon as she could,-" come here. Was that all
your ma said r"
'~ No," said the boy, "she said a heap more."
"Well what did you come here for to..day ?"
"I cai~ne to fetch that.-" said Charles twelfth with
I another sigh.
"Poor child !-What did you bring it for, Charley ?"
"Why for you," said Charley. "Ma said she didn't know
when it oughter come.- and she guessed you'd like it,
'cause it used to live off in the, place where you said they
eat up babies and people !" and Charles twelfth's eyes grew
large and round with the announcement. "And ma said
she's sorry 'twarnt more. I aint."
Faith's eyes went to Mr. Linden with a flash and a burst of
the uncontrollable littlelaugh; but after that they were sus-
piciously downcast, and Faith busied herself in providing
little Charles twelfth with the refreshment of a good saucer
of sugared strawberries, with which he sat down in a cor-
ner much consoled. And when he was setting off again,
Faith gave him a whispered message to ask his mother to
come and see her Thursday. Just what Mr. Linden saw
in the piece of red coral he did not declare, but when
Faith came back to the table he was looking at it very
fixedly.
"Paith," he said, that is not the worst token, nor the
worst envoy-that might be. What a shy child you were
that first time I took you down there! And you have not
changed any too ~nuch," he added, carrying her off to the

K


430              SAY A    SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             431

other room. "I am not sure that you ought to be indulged
-suppose you open this box."
"You do it, please, Endecott !"-she said with a crimson
rush to her cheeks.
"I do not believe there is any explosive material under
such an address? -however, if there is I prefer that my
hands should fire the train. Stand back? Faith !"-and with
cautious and la~t ghing deliberation the key was turned and
the lid raised. It was a very plain lid, by the way-mere
white pine.
"There is nothing here. (that appears) but silk paper and
cotton, - not gun cotton, probably," said Mr. Linden,
"Faith, do you wish me to risk my safety any further ?"
"Yes."
"My dear, you must have more courage. If I am to
open all your boxes I shall have my hands full, and-ne
vous en deplaise-J would ~rather see the work in yours."
And she was seated before the portentous pine box, Mr.
Linden keeping his stand at her side. Faith blushed and
didn't like it; but applied her fingers with a sort of fear.
ful delicacy to the silk paper and cotton, removing one after
the other.
The box had interior divisions, by way of help to the
silk paper, its different contents being thus more securely
separated. Faith's fingers exploring among the papers
brought out first a silver chocolate pot, then the dainty
china cups for the same, then the spoons, in size and shape
just suiting the cups. Spoons and chocolati~re were marked
with the right initials; the cups-chocolate colour them.
selves, that no drop of the dark beverage might hurt their
beauty-had each a delicate gilt F. L. twining about the
handle.
If the givers could have seen the gift uncovered and in.
specter !-the rosy delight in Faith's cheeks, the pleasure
in her eye! They would have considered themselves re
warded. She looked and bent over the pretty things, her
attitude and blush half veiling her admiration and satisfac~
tion, but there was no veiling them when she looked up at
Mr. Linden. "I am so glad you like chocolate !".-she said
naively. But it was worth a hundred remarks of ~stlietie
criticism.

"I am so glad I do !" he said, stooping to kiss her.
"Faith, one would almost imagine some bird of the air had
told them our chocolate associations."
"Now won't you put these back for me ?" said Faith,-
"because, if that sponge cake is to get done to-day I
haven't two minutes to lose !"
The pretty choco1ati~re was but the beginning, as Faith
soon found. ~~iiii~d to her most utter and unbounded
astonishment-though to that of no one else.
Tuesday arrived a packet from Madame Danforth, accoin~
panied by a note of affection and congratulation. The
present was peculiar. A. satin sachet, embroidered after
the little Frenchwoman's desire, and to do it justice very
exquisitely scented, was the first thing. A set of window
curtains and toilet cover, of a curious and elaborate pattern
of netting, made of very fine thread,- a manufacture in
which Madame Danforth delightedd and on which she prided
herself-was the second thing. The third was a pretty
breakfast service of French china.
Faith enjoyed them all, with some amusement and some
pleasure of possession, and not a little affectionate remem-
brance. Even the sachet, in this view, was particularly pre-
cious; tha the only use Faith saw in it. But the next
arrival gave great start.
It was ag t is ime a deal box, but immensely heavy;
and it was a strong box that Faith did not attempt to open;
marked only 'Grover &amp; Baker', which told her nothing.
There was no occasion indeed. A note was delivered with
the box, and a small covered basket. The note conveyed
the assurance of Sophy Harrison's love and a request that
Faith would let her shew it on the present occasion. It
went on.-~.
"Papa has sent you, dear Faith, an odd thing for a pre-
sent-for such a present-but I haven't been able to put it
out of his head. lie insists it is what you ought to have,
and that he shall have the pleasure of giving it to you.
To save you the trouble of opening the box before you
want it, I will state that it contains a sewing machine.
Papa has taken great pains to satisfy himself-and it
is certainly the best or one of the best. My o~ering,

430

431


432             SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.            433

Ill

dear Faith, is in the basket, and may be looked at with lesg +
difficulty."
Miss Sophy's offering was a kindly one. She had sent9,
little invoice of silver spoons and forks. Faith was
pleased; and yet she looked grave, and very grave, Over~ 
these things. She made no remark whatever to say
why.
If no one else knew there was to be a wedding, at least
the express man did! and probably in his mind joined I
these new packages with those he had so often brought
before, very comfortably. The next arrival was a delicate
pair of silver salt-cellars and spoons from Mr. Alcott,-then
a little framed sketch from the Captain of the Vulcan, por.
trying the meeting of two steamers at sea, with these words ~
underneath-' The dispatch post'. At which Mr. Linden
looked with much amusement. Faith was delighted.
First on Wednesday morning came Miss Bezac,--bring~ ~
ing the well assorted tokens of an elaborate needlebook
and a simple bread trencher and knife; and staying only ~
long enough to say, "You see, Faith, what made me think
of this, 0was that the first time I heard of that, was when
you came in for bread and milk. And now you'll have t~ 4
think of me, whether yoa sew or eat !"-with which tri- 
umphant sentiment Miss Bezac departed.
They say ill news flies fast,-in this case so did the good:
certainly people are quick to hear an4 understand what ~I
pleases them. The friends who had heard from Pet or
Mrs. Iredell what was to be, had spread' the information:
and in the same sort of way, from two or three old family 
dependents another class of Mr. Linden's friends had heard
it. Perhaps among all her presents the little tokens from ~
these people touched her most. They came queerly done
up and directed, sometimes the more formal 'Mrs. Linden' ~,,
changed into an ill-spelled 'For Mr. lJindecott's wife'-or ~$
'For the young lady, in care of Mr. Linden'. She knew ~
the name~ thereto appended as little as they knew hers,-
could only guess the ,--.the tokens were various.
A pair of elaborately carved brackets, a delicate rustic
footstool, trimmed with acorns and cones, -a wooden screw
pincushion, with a flaming red velvet top, -a case of
scissors, pretty enough to have come from anybody, declared

the trade of the sender by the black finger marks on the
brown wrapper, and a most mysteriously compiled address.
One~ of the old sailors who had crossed with Mr. LindeR
long ago, sent by Pet's hands a stuffed tropical bird of gor-
geous colours; a woman who had once been upper servant
in his mother's house, sent by the sa~me messenger a white
toilet cushion, made exactly after one that had belonged to
her mistress and which she had been allowed to keep. It
was worth while to see Mr. Linden examine these things,-
every name was familiar to him, every one called up some
story or recollection. Alternating with these, came richer
presents,-books and vases and silver; then from the poor
people in and about Pattaquasset, a couple of corn hllsk
mats, a nest of osier baskets. The children brought wild
flowers and wild strawberries, the fishermen brought fish,
till Mrs. Derrick said, "Child, we might as well begin to~
lay down for winter I"
Ency Stephens, having got Reuben to bring her two fine
long razor shells, had transformed them into a pincushion.
This she sent, with a kiss, by Mr. Linden.
"I half promised her that she might come before the rest
of the world to-morrow, Faith," he said. "She nevert~aw
any one married, and has the greatest desire to see you
-and I said if you were willing, Reuben should bring her
here at one o'clock." Faith was just then exploring the
* contents of a new package-or rather two: one of as many
spools of white thread as she had scholars in her little
class, presentedd by Robbie Waters) the other a wee far-
sent carved box of curled maple. She looked up with
wet eyes.
"Oh let her come, Endecott-I should like to have her
here."
Faith had been living in a strange atmosphere this week.
The first presents that came simply pleased and amused her
to a great degree; Judge Harrison's and his daughter's she
saw with a strong admixture of painful feeling. But as
tokens from rich and poor began to throng in-not of re-
spect for her wedding-day so much as of respect and love
for Mr. Linden, -Faith's mood grew very tender and
touched. Never perhaps, since the world stood, did any-
body receive wedding presents from friends known and Un-
voL. II.              87

432

433


434              SAY AND SEAL.

known with ~ more gentle and humble heart-return to the
senders. There was no least thing of them all that Faith
did not dearly value; it told her of something so much
better than the gifts, and it signified of a link that bound
her with that. How beautiful to her eyes the meanest of
all those trifles did seem! and for the rest, sh~ was as
quick to be delighted with what was really beautiful and
glad of what would be really useful, as any sensible child
could have been. So the amusement with which the week
began changed into a grave, loving, and somewhat timid
appreciation of each new arrival.
Meanwhile, on Faith's table stood a little silver saucepan
..-.sent by Mrs. Somers with the sage remark that she would
want it for others if not for herself; and near by, a beauty.
ful butter cup and knife from Mrs. Stoutenburgh. With the
butter cup trotted down a little mountain pony, with the
daintiest saddle and bridle that the Squire could find for
money.
Miss Linden's love had chosen for itself sundry channels;
from the silver knives of all sorts - which made their
appearance now, to various comforts, great and small,
which were to await her brother and sister in their new
home. In those Mrs. Iredell too had a share; her present
token was a silver tea-service, whereon the chasing devel.
oped itself in sprays of mignonette. A mark of attention
which Mr. Linden at least appreciated.

CIIAPTER XXXIX.
IT was very early indeed in the still sweet morning of
I Thursday, when Faith threw open the windows and
blinds of the sitting-room. No one was abroad, and not
even a wind moving. The leaves of the trees hung mo.-
tionless; except where a bird stirred them; the dawn was
growing slowly into day; sweet odours called forth by the
dew, floated up to the windows, and the twitter and song
of the birds floated in. The freshness and stillness and
calmness of all the earth was most sweet. Faith could not
read; she knelt upon a low cushion at the open window
and leaned her arms upon the~sill to look out, and breathe,
and think and pray. The morning was not unlike her.
She was as fresh, and as grave, and as still; and there was
a little flutter now and then too in her heart, that went with
nothing worse than the song of the birds, though it stirred
something more than the leaves of the branches. So Mr.
Linden found her.
So she met them all at breakfast; with the same unready
eyes and lips that Mr. Linden had seen before. It was
odd how Faith seemed to have put off the full realization
of Thursday till Thursday came. After breakfast 8he was
making her escape, but was detained before she reached the
staircase. What it was that Mr. Linden fastened in her
dress, Faith could not have told; neither did his words tell'
her.
"You must not think me extravagant, Mignonette,-
these are some old gems of mine which I want you to wear
in this form." ile gave her one grave kiss and let her go.
Faith sped up stairs; and with a fluttering heart went to
see what Mr. Linden had done.-.Yes, they were gems,-
clear, steadfast, as the eternal truth which they signified,
the blue sapphires shone upon Faith's white dress.
Faith was alone;~ and she sat before the glass an odd
long while, studying the brooch where Mr. Linden had
placed it. Her head upon her hand, and with much the
(435)


436              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.             437

same sort of face with which she used long ago to study
Pet's letters, or some lesson that Pet's brother had set her,
From the sapphires Faith turned to' her Bible. She wag
not or would not be interrupted, till it was time to attend
to business.
The first business was presented for her attention by Miss
Linden, who came in; basket in hand. There was no need
to ask what it was, such a breath of o~nge flowers anti
roses flllel the room. She fou~4,,, Faith ready; her hair
dressed as it always was; her mi~d~foo4~o judge by appear-
ances. Only Faith was a little more quiet t1~ian usual,
With the very quietness of love and sympathy Pet did her
part; with the swiftest fingers, the most noiseless steps.
Silent as Mrs. Derrick or Faith herself, only a sparkle of
the eyes, a pretty flush on the chQeks, said that she viewed
the matter from a greater distance. And yet hardly that,
so far as one of the parties w~as concerned. Never putting
her hand forward where Mrs. Derrick's liked to be, it was
most efficient in other places. Both used their skill to put
the soft muslin safely over Faith's smooth hair, but then
Mrs. Derrick was left to fasten and adjust it-Pet applied
herself to adjusting the flowers. How dainty they were!
those tiny bunches! sprays of mrytle and orange flowers, or
a white rosebud and a more trailing steiii of ivy geranium;
the breast-knot just touched with purple heliotrope and
one blush rose. Kneeling at her feet to put on the roset..
ted slippers, Pet looked up at her new sister with all her
heart in her eyes. And Faith looked down at her.-like
a child.
She had been dressed in Pet's room-her own-as being
larger and more commodious than the one where Faith had
stowed herself lately; and when the dressing was done she
sat down by the open window, and with the odd capricious-
ness of the mind at certain times, thought of the day when
Mr. Linden had thrown her up the cowslip ball,-and in
the same breath wondered who was going to take her down
stairs!
But she sat quiet, looking as fair in her soft robe with
its orange flowers as if they and she had been made for
each other. Faith's hair in its rich colour was only dark
enough to set off the tender tints of her flowers and dress;

hi
11111
II         I
I I

* it wanted neither veil nor adornment. Th~1very outlines
of het' figure betokened, as outlines are somewhat apt to
do, the spirit within; without ~ harsh angle or line. And
nothing could be too soft, or strong, or pure, to go with
those eyes. She sat looking out into the orchard, where
now the noonday of summer held its still reign-nothing
there but the grass and the trees and the insects. The cow-
slips were gone ; ~ Mr. Linden
Pet finished all that had been left unfinished of her own
dress? then in her rose-coloured summer silk, white gloves
in her hand, white flowers on her breast, ~she came and
stood by Faith. Mrs. Derrick had gone down stairs. It
was close upon one o'clock now; the shadows were losing
their directness and taking a slant line, the laborers were
coming back to their work, standing about and taking off
their coats, waiting for the clock to strike. Miss Linden
~ stood drawing on her gloves. Faith gave her one swift
~ glance, which rested for a second on her face with a look
~ of loving gratitude. A flush rose to her cheek, as if it
~ might have been the reflection of Miss Linden's dress; but
~ it was not that, for it paled again.
One o'clock!
It would have seemed a less .xveird sort of' thing if the
clock had made a little more fuss ,-twelve strokes, or even
eleven, would have been something tangible; but that one
clano'~scarce heard before it was gone, dying away on the
~ June breeze,-what a. point of time it seemed! The waves
of air were but just at rest, when Mrs. Derrick opened the
door and came in; her black dress and white cap setting
off a face and demeanour which with all their wanted sweet
~ pla~jdness, and amid all the tender influences of the day,
kept too their wanted energy.
"Come, pretty child ~ she said.
Faith was ready, and followed her rnothei~ without a
question. In the hall Mr. Linden stood waiting foil' her,
and she was given into his care; though again Faith lost
the look which passed between the two,-she, saw only the
startling white of Mr. Linden's gloves, lie handed her
down stairs, then gave her his arm and took her in; Mrs.
Derrick going first and Pet following.
There were but six or eight people there. On one side

*  'I

436

437


438              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             439

sat Mrs. Iredell in her rich dress; the rest were standing,
except little Ency Stephens who was in one of her perched
up positions by the window. Mr. Somers was lingering
about his position, his wife and Mr. and Mrs. Stoutenburgh
were opposite to Mrs. Iredell. Reuben Taylor furthest back
of all, in the shadow of Ency's window. Her little cry was
the only sound as they came in, and that hardly louder than
a sigh of delight.
Faith did not hear it nor look at anybody. Yet she
did not look dismayed at all nor abashed. A piece- of
very timid gravity the person nearest her knew her to
be; but hardly any person further off. A very ~ve1y
mingling of shy dignity and humility was in her face and
air as she stood before Mr.~ Somers; those who saw it never
forgot.
Except, I must, that same Mr. Sorn~ers! He saw only a
pretty bride whose orange flowers and roses were very
sweet. He had seen many pretty bri~c1es before, and orange
flowers were not new to him, And he pronounced his part
of the service which followed, with gratification, certainly;
.-..-Mr. Somers was always gracious and to-day he was ad-
miring ;--but yet with i~o more sense of what he was about
than when a hundred times before hehad pronounced it for
-very different people!
However there is a great system of compensations in
this world; and on this occasion there was in other mem-
bers of the party so much sense of what was doing, that it
mattered little about Mr. Somers' want of it. It mattered
nothing to Faith, how his words were spoken; nobody that
heard themforgot how hers were-the sweet clear sounds
of every syllable; only th~t once or twice she said "yes~,
where by established formula s e~hould have said the more
dignified "I do." Perhaps "yes" meant as much. Those
who heard it thought it did.
For Mr. Linden-his senses not being troubled by shy.
ness-just because his own heart was so thoroughly in what
he was about he did perceive the want of heart in Mr.
Somers. And, in the abstract, it did not suit his notionS
that even a man who had married five hundred other peo~
pie should put such questions to Mignonette, or to him, in
a commonplace way. So far his senses perceived,-.-.-but

Mr. Somers could reaAh no further. One touch of Faith's
hand had banished the officiate to another planet; a~id the
vow to love, cherish, and honour, was taken, word for Word,
deep in his own heart; the grave, deliberate accents of
assent seeming to dwell upon each specification. Yes,-.
he took her "for better for worse, in sickness or health, for
richer for poorer" !-.ever~ word was like the counti~~g over
of gold to him,-it was all "richer." Even the last words-.
the limit fixed, shone with light from another world. "Till
death shall you part" ;--yes, but to them death would be
but a short parting. And standing side by side there with
the blessing of his earthly life, Mr. Linden thanked God in
his heart for the future "life and iin~ortalit~"to which he
had called them both.
Mysterious is the way in which events are telegraphed
from the inside of a house to the exterior thereof! Hardly
were Mr. somers' last words spoken, Faith was not yet out
of Mr. Linden's hands, when there ea~ie a peal from the
little white church as if the bell-ringing' of two or three
Sunday were concentrated in one. Much to the surprise
of Mr. Somers; who to speak truth rather thought the
bells were his personal property, and as such playing truant,
But in two seconds the other bell chimed in; and all that
could ever be known, was, that Phil Davids and Joe Dea-
con had been seen in closer attendance on the two churches
than they were wont to be week days. Meantime, the bells
rang.
it was done; and those downcast eyes must be lifted up,
-if they could. But Faith was not unlike her usual man-
ner. The slight air of timidity which sat with such grace
upon her was not so very unusual and that besides touched
only or mainly one person. With blushing quietness she
let her friends kiss and congratulate her. it was ratiter
kiss and caress her; for they came about her, that llgtle
bevy of friends, v4th a warmth that might have thawed Mr.
Somers. ~Mrs. Derrick and Pet glad and silent, Reuben
Taylor very shy, the Stoutenburghs in a little furor of in-
terest which yet did not break pretty bounds. And then
Faith went up to Ency where she sat by the window, and
gave her two kisses, very grave and sweet.

h

438

439


440              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             441

"How beautiful you are, ma'arn !" was the chuld'~ truth.
ful comment.
"Do you know who 'Miss F~itl~'is now, Ency ?"
"Yes sir," the4child said-then shy of speaking it out..~.
"Stoop down and I'll tell~you."
Mr. Linden bent his head to hear the whisper, giving
her a kiss in return, and then carried Faith off to the next
room; where presently too the little lame girl was pehed
up at such a table as she had never dreamed of before.
It was a pretty gathering, both on the table and around
it. The party of friends, few enough to be choice, were
good and different enough to be picturesque; and had
among them a sufficient amount of personal advantages to
be, as Ency said, "beautiful." The table itself was very
plain with regard to china and silver; but fruit is beauty.
ful, and there was an abundance of that. Coffee of course;
and cream, yellow as gold, for coffee and fruit both. There
were more substantial things, to serve as substitutes for din.
ner, attesting Mrs. Derrick's good housekeeping at once,
and the loving remembrance of friends. There had been
little need to do mt~h in the house. Mrs. Iredell had taken
the wedding cake into her charge, which Mrs. Stoutenbtirgh
not knowing had taken it into hers, and into her hands as
well; so Faith had both the bought cake, of the richest
and best-ornamented to a point,-and the homemade ;-.
with plain icing indeed, but wherein every raisin had been
thought
put with a sweet
"This is-ha !-a very agreeable occasion !"-said Mr.
Somers, smiling at the ornamented plum cake which was
before him.-" 1-a-really, I don't see, Mrs. Derrick, how
anything could be improved for the pleasure of the party.
We have done a good thing, -and to good people,-and
it's been well done ;" (Mr. Somers vaunted himself)-.-." and
in a good time,-ha-this is the prettiest month in the
year, Mr. Linden ;-and now we are all enjoying a pleasant
sight, before us and around us 1-and I ei~joy my coffee
also very much, Mrs. Derrick. The only bad thing about
it is-ha-that it rather spoils one for the next occasion.
I assure you-I haven't seen anything like it in Pattaquas~.
set-since I have lived here! I wasn't married here, Mrs.
Stoutenbnrgh, take notice !"

eyrt

440

441

i

"I hope you don't mean to say you saw anything that
was on the table the day you were married, Mr. Somers 1"
said Mrs. Stoutenburgh irreverently.
"Let's hear what you mean by well done,.-.-..let's hear,
Mr. Somers," said the Squire.
"He r~ieans securely," said Mrs. Somers.
"I feel sure," said Mr. Somers with exquisite signifi..
cancy,-" I feel sure that part of my audience were at no
loss for the meaning of my words. Experience, somebody
says, is the best commentary-hey, Mr. Linden? is it
not so?''
"What, sir?"
Mr. Somers laughed, gently. "I see you coincide with
me in opinion, sir."
"I coincide with him in the opinion that it was well done
to ring the bells," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh. "Reuben, I
guess that was your doing."
"Never mind whose it was," said the Squire,-.-."the bells
were never put to a better use, week days, I'll venture.
Mr. Linden, won't that lady by you let me give her another
piece of chicken ?"
~ "No, sir,"-~came in a low voice that had a private chime
i of its own.
Little bird," said Mr. Linden softly, "do you know
that all your compeers live by eating ?"
'~ "Crumbs "-said Faith with equal softness.
"But of proportionate sine 1"
1d~~g,~7 said Faith.
to our know," he said in the same low voice, "to go back
maxim, those bells may stand for the music, and
we have certainly spoken a few sensible words; but if you
do not look up how will you find the picture ?"
She raised her eyes, but it was for a swift full glance up
into his face; she looked nowhere else, and her eyes went
back to her plate again. The involuntary, unconscious sig-.
nificance of the action made Mr. Linden smile.
"I have had mine now, Mignonette,-and ~Ency spoke
"How long does it take people to get married ?" came
in a good-.humoured kind of a growl from the room they
had left, the door to which was ajar.-"Aint it done yet ?"


SAY AND SEAL.            44

442         SAY AND SEAL.

1i~

"There's Mr. -Simlins, Endecott-" whispered Faith
colouring. -
" Come in and see !" said Squire Stoutenburgh. "Who
wants .to know ?" Wherewith the door was pushed open
and Mr. Simlins' long figure presented itself, and stood
still.               -    -'
"'What are you uneasy about, Mr. Simlins ?" the Squire
went on. "You may go and shake hands with Mr. Linden,
but don't congratulate anybody else." The farmer's eye
rested for a moment on Faith; then he went round and
shook hands with the bridegroom.
"Is it done ?" he asked again in the midst of this cere-
mony. .
"Yes."
"Pase* all help, Mr. Simlins," said Mrs. Somers.
"I am, glad, for one !"-Mr. Simlins answered. "Mayn't
I see this cretur here ?-I wish you'd stand up and let me
look at you."
Faith rose up,-he 'had edged along ,to her. He sur-
veyed her, profoundly. "Be you Faith Dierrick ?" he said.
"Yes sir."
He shook her hand then,.holding it fast.~ "It's the true,
and not a counter !" lie remarked to Mr. Linden. ".Now
if you'd only- take Neanticut !-I could die content, only
for liking to live and see you. Where are you going to
take her to ?"
S"I am not sure' yet."
"I guess I don't want you at Neanticut," said' the far-
mer, taking a cup of coffee which Faith gave him.-" Last
Sunday fixed that. But there'll a bushel of Neanticut nuts
follow you every year as long as I'm a Simlins !-if you go
to the Antipathies !--No, I don't want anythin' to eat-.
I've done my eatin' till supper-time."
The door-knocker warned the party that they must not
tarry round the lunch-table, and before Mr. Simlins had a
chance to say anything more he had on his mind, the prin-
cipal personages of the day were receiving Judge Harrison
and his daughter in the other room. Mr. Simlins looked
on, sonm~rhat grimly, but with inward delight and exulta-
tion deep and strong. ,MIiss Sophy was affectionate, the
Judge very kind ; the congratulations of both very hearty;

though Judge llardson complained that Mr. Linden was
robbing Pattaquasset and Sophy echoed the sorrow if not
the complaint. In the midst of this came in Miss Essie de
Staff with a troop of brothers-and sisters; and they had
scarcely paid their compliments when they were obliged to
stand aside to make room for some new-comners. Miss
Essie's eyes had full employment and were rather earnest
about it.
"She's beautifully dressed !"-she remarked to Mrs.
Stoutenburgh, evidently meditating a good deal more than
her words carried.
"Why of course !" was Mrs. Stoutenburgh's quick
response,-" so is he. iDon't' be partial in your examina-
tions."
"Oh he,-of course !"--.said Miss Essie, in the same
manner.
"I never saw two people set each other off better," said
Mrs. Stoutenburgh.
"Set each other off ?".-repeated Miss Essie. "Why he'd
set anybody off! I always admired him. Look at her !-
she hasn't an idea how to be ceremonious. "'-Faith had been
speaking to Mrs. Iredell. Just then a rosebud having de-
tached itself from her dress, she went round' the room to
Ency by her window and gave it to her. Near this window
Miss Linden had placed herself; the table before her cov-
ered with wedding cake and whie-ribband, Reuben Taylor
at her side to cut and fold, her little fingers daintily wrap-
ping and tying up. Ency already held her piece of cake
and white ribband, and with the promise of other pieces to
take home watched Miss Linden's proceedings with interest.
It was a busy table,-for thither came everybody else after
cake and white ribband. Thither came Mrs.'Stoutenburgh
now, quitting Miss Essie.
"Faith, what do you think Mr. Stoutenburgh asked me
Sunday ?"
"I don't know. What ?"-asked Faith with her half
shy, half free, very happy face.
"You should have heard him !" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh
laughing, but speaking in the softest of whispers. "You
should have heard the dismal way in which lhe asked me if

vot. u.

443

442

43


AAA4

SAY AND SEAL.

Mr. Somers would go anywhere e      if he could get a
Faith smiled, but evidently to her the question whether
Mr. Linden should stay in .Pattaquasset had lost its
interest.
"0 r can find her-never fear !" said Miss Bezac, fol..
lowed by Mix ~Linden in Faith's direction. "Though II
don't suppos&amp;:pu ever did fear anything. And I do sup.
pose, if I've thought once I have fifty times how she'd look
to-day--and I was right every time. Don't she look! I
always told her she didn't know what she ~v anted-and I'm
sure she don't now I" With which Miss Be~ac gave Faith as
hearty a congratulation as she had yet received. "Well-"
she said, turning to Mr. Linden, - "do you wonder I
wanted to make it ?"
"Not in the least !"
But what do I want, Miss Bezac?" said Faith laughing
~nd looking affectionately at her ojd friend and fellow work-
woman.
"Why I should think, nothing-" said Miss Bezac. "So
it seems to me. And talking of seams-didn't I (10 yours!
Do you know I should have come before, but I never can
see two people promise to love each other forever without
crying - and crying always makes rusty needles, - so I
wouldn't come till now, when everybody's laughing." Faith
was an exception, for her amusement grew demure. And
Miss Essie approached
Now Miss Essie's black eyes, although bright enough,
were' altogether gracious and in a certain way even propi-
tiatory. They were bent upon the gentleman of the
group.
"Mr. Linden," said the lady with her most flattering
manner,-" I want to know if you have forgiven me all my
dreadful speeches that~ I made once 1"-.
"Miss Essie, I never questioned your right to make them
.-..therefore you see my forgiveness has no place." Miss
Essie looked as if her 'study' of Mr. Linden hadn't been
thorough.~
"Thafs very polite," she said; "too polite. But do
you think Mrs. Linden will ever let me come into her
house ?"

SAY AND SEAL.

445

I

4

"Why not? It ~~not be worse than you imagined."
"Because," said Miss Essie earnestly,-" I want to come,
and I am afraid she will not ask me. I go everywhere, and
wherever you are I shall be sure to come there some time;
and then I want to see you and see how you live-and see ~
if my theory was mistaken. But I drew it from expe
ence
"D~id you ever hear of the ice palace th~ little brooks
built for himself?" said Mr. Linden.
"Lowell-oh yes !".-
"Mrs. Linden thinks she would like to try that."
If ever black eyes were thoroughly puzzled, that were
Miss Essie's! She glanced from Mr. I4nden to Faith, who
had fallen back towards e~nother part of the room, but
whose check gave token of her having heard and noticed.
Miss Essie's eyes caine back; she looked a little mortified.
"I see you have not forgiven me," she said. "But, Mr.
Linden, I only spoke of wlz~at I had seen. I had been un-
fortunate and I am sure I needn't confine myself to the
past tense! I knew nothing, you know."
"Miss E~sie," he said smiling, "your frame for the picture
may be correct-but the picture will be different. As you
will see when you come."
"Then, you will let me come ?" ~'
"I will let you come. Only if you hear that Faith is not
at home, do not feel sure of the fact till you have looked in
my study."
Miss Essie's face for a moment was notable; she was in
a certain way satisfied, and yet it wore a sort of compound
mortification-inexplicable very likely to the lady herself;
and perhaps that only~.an acute eye of another would have
read.
Before this dialogue had reached so much of a culmina-
tion, Mr. Simlins, who had been standing hooking at every-
thing like a good-humoured bear,-made his way across the
room and through the people to Faith, where she had
shrunk back out of the way. /
"I can't stay here all the afternoon !" said he,-" and I
s'pose it aint expected of me. Can't you step over yonder
and let a man have a chance to say a word to you-before
Igo?"
VOL.11.                88


446

SAY AND SEAL.

I;

F

SAY AND SEAL.

A4A1

Faith agreed to this proposition, not knowing that it was
going to take her literally into a corner; but to one of the
further corners of the room Mr. Simlins strode, and Faith
went after him; and there he sat down and she was fain to
do likewise. Then he Wasn't ready.
"I had something' to say to you,".-.-said he,-" but I don't
know how to say it!"-
"Try, Mr. Simlins," said Faith smiling.
"flow does the dominie manage to talk to you ?".-said
he looking at her. "I don't see how he can get on with it."
Faith grew crimson, and grave.
"'Well," said the farmer, smiling a bit,-" I s'pose I'll
have to get it out somehow. You see, Faith,-the thing
is, in my mind, I want you to have something that'll make
you-you and him too-think of Pattaquasset and me
once in a while. Now I'm goin' to give you that black
heifer. If you can, I hope you'll take her with you where.
ever you're '-if you can't, why you may turn her into
cash-but II guess you can. She's a real Simlins-she'l1
run, if you don't keep a fence round her; but if you treat
her right, she'll give you all your dairy'll want for some
time to come; and the very plague you'll he at to keep her
shut up will make you think of me."
"Dear Mr. Simlins !"-Faith said with her eyes full-.
"there is no danger about that!"-
"No !"-..said he rising, "and when you think of me I
know you'll do something else for me. Good-bye-till you
get back again." Off he went. Other people followed.
The room had thinned a little, when Pet left her table in
Reuben's charge and came to Faith's corner.
"Poor child," she 0said, "you must be tired. Faith I shall
defy ceremony and put you in Aunt Iredell's chair-she is
going to lie down. Oh !-how did that man get here !-.-.
and George Alcott 1" Pet faced round upon Faitb, folding
her hands with an air of dismayed resignation.
"What's the matter, Pet ?"
"I thought I was safe, here," said Miss Linden. "Faith,
I did not suppose ubiquitous people found their way to
Pattaquasset. You'll haye to run the gauntlet of that
man's compliments, child-however, Endy is a pretty good
safeguard."

Before Faith could see much of what was going on, Mr.
Linden was at her side. "Mrs. Linden-Air. Motley," was
all he said; and Faith found herself face to face with one of
those two well remembered strangers. So well remembered
that her slight glance at him was arrested, by what at first
she did not recognize, and unconsciously she gave Mr. Mot-
ley for a second a look sufficiently like what he had seen
before to identify her. That second brought it all back. '~
A blush of most rosy beauty came upon Faith's face, and
her eyes fell as if no one was ever to see them again. Mr.
Motley's eyes, on the contrary, expanded. But the whistle
which rose politely to his lips, was held in polite check-.
by Mr. Linden's presence or some other consideration-and
with no further sign than an under breath "Linden !" Mr.
Motley gave the bride his hand, claiming that privilege in
easy, musky words, on the score of old acquaintanceship
with the bridegroom.
"I trust Mrs. Linden has been well since I last (and
first!) had the pleasure of seeing her? Apart from the
occasion-it seems to me that she is looking even better
than then-though then I should not have believed that
possible."
"It is a long time, sir,"-Faith sa~id gravely.
"Linden," said Mr. Motley in a sort of aside, "even your
symmetrical taste must be satisfied !"-.
"With what ?" said Mr. Linden. Which rather shortly
put question brought Mr. Motley to a stand. Much as
when one pushes on into daylight, through the filmy fine-
spun work of a spider, that respectable insect looks about,
considering where he shall begin anew.
"It is so long," said Mr. Motley with soft emphasis,
"that I could hardly have hoped to be remembered."
"If I recollect right," said Mr. Linden,-" if you did not
misstate the case-it was the charms of your conversation
that made the impression."
"You are the most inconvenient person to talk to !" said
Mr. Motley With a glance at the handsome face, "Like a
quicksand-closing around one. Mrs. Linden, do you not
find it so? Ah-George !-talking to Miss Pet as usual.
Permit me-Mrs. Linden, Mr. Alcott. George, you cannot


I

448

SAY AND SEAL.

have forgotten Mrs. Linden ?"-That George had not was
very clear.
And that Faith had not forgotten, was very clear. She
lifted her eyes once more, to see if the second was the
second; and then stood, with the most exquisite cheeks,
though perfectly quiet. Tier gloves had not been Put on
again since the lunch, and the hand that held them bore
also the ring wlAch had been the gentlemen's admiration.
"Now what do you think, George," said Mr. Motley,
"of Linden's letting me tell Julius Harrison that whole
story, and never giving the least hint that he knew the
lady referred to ?-Except---yes once indeed, I do remember,
Mrs. Linden, his face took a warm reflection of the sub-
ject, -.but I thought that was due to my powers as a
"You couldn't high colour that picture," said Mr. Alc6tt,
in a tone Faith remembered well. "Mrs. Linden, I hope
we are to see you at Newport."
Faith felt in a tumult with all these 'Mrs. Lindens.' But
all that seemed unquiet about het, besides her cheeks, was
the flashing ring.
"Well, we must tear ourselves away from this place of
fascination," said Mr. Motley. "I believe, Mrs. Linden,
we ought to apologize for our intrusion-but it~ was an old
sayingamong this gentleman's friends that he never would
submit to 'bonds and imprisonment '- (there goes the
Bible again 1)-and some of them had a long standing per-
mission to come and believe their eyes if such an event ever
should take place. I can hardly~, now 1"
"Why do you, sir ?" Faith asked sini~dy.
"Really madam, because I can't helpkitl One look at
you, Mrs. Linden, is enough. In some circumstances all a
man can do is to surrender 1"
"He needn't till he's summoned-" said George Alcott
shortly. Though whether he had acted so wisely himself:,
was a question-as Mr. Linden said amusedly after they
were gone.
Faith turned away, feeling as if she had rather more than
enough, and occupied herself with Reuben and Ency again.
Then came in Farmer IDavids and his wife, and Phil. Phil
was forthwith in a state of 'glamour'; but Faith brought

SAY A~D SEAL.

449

I

him to the table and gave him cake and discoursed to him
and Reuben; while Mrs. Davids talked to Mrs. Derrick in
wonderful delighted admiration~ and
fixed upon Mr. Linden.            the farmer as usual
"We had the uncommon pleasure of hearIn' you speak
last Sunday, sir,"-said Mr. David~ with great seriousness.
"I sha'n't forget it, what you said. And you don't know
where you're going to fix yourself, sir ~
"Not certainly."
"I would rather than half what I sell oft' the farm, that
it was going to be where I could be within reach of you,
sir! But wherever 'tis-Phil and I, we con silted how we
could contrive to shew our sense of this day-we're plain
folks, Mr. Linden, and we didn't know how to fit-But if
you'll let us know where you're goin' to be, Mrs. Davids
she wants to send your wife a cheese, and there's some of
Phil's apples, and I want you to have some Pattaquasset
flour to make you think of us. And if you'll only think of
us every year as long as they come, it's all I ask 1" It was
said with the most honest expression of struggling regard,
and respect, that wanted to shew itself.
Then Mr. Linden was claimed by a new comer. Sam
Stoutenburgh, fresh from College, Quilipeak, and the tailor,
presented himself. Now it was rather a warm day-and
trains are not cool, nd haste is not a refrigerator,-never-
theless Sam's cheek were high coloured! His greeting of
Mr. Linden was far less off-hand and dashing than was
usual with this new Junior; and when carried off to Mrs.
Linden, Sam (to use an elegant word) was 'flustered.'
"Miss Faith," he began. "No-I don't mean that 1-I
beg your pai'don-but I'i~ very glad to see you again, and
I wish you were going to stay here always."
Faith laughed. "Will you stay here always yourself, Sam ?"
"0 I don't know," said Sam. "It's a while before I've
got to do anything yet. But Miss Faith--..I mean !-.-.since
you will go, won't you please take thisb?" -and Sam pre-
sented a ti~y box containing a pretty goki ~et cornelian
seal, en~rai~ed with a spirited Jehu chariot running away!
"It'll remind you of a day I shall never forget," said Sam
both honestly and sentimentally. If Mr, i~IApd~n CQuid
have helped IF~ith ~p~wer, he would
88*


I

SAY AND SEAL.

Faith's face was in a quiver, between laughter and very
much deeper and stronger feeling. But she shook Sam's
hand again gratefully.
"I shall never forget it, Sam,-nor what you did for me
that day. And I hope you'll come and see me somewhere
else-some time." Then Mr. Linden spoke.
'~ No one can owe you so much for that day's work as I,
Sam,-and since she is running away again, you must do
as you did then and find her."
Sam was somewhat touched and overwhelmed, and went
off to talk to Reuben about Miss Linden's dress. A little
while longer and the room was cleared. The two eol1~gi~
ans came last of all to say good-bye, Reuben lingering
behind his friend.
"You know" said Mr. Linden, holding the boy's hand,
"you are eemin~ to study with me, Reuben, if I live; we
will not call it good-bye. And I shall expect to see you
before that in vacation."
"And you know, Reuben," said Faith very low,-" you
have been a brother to me this great while."
Reuben looked down, trying for words. Then meeting
Faith's eyes as he had done that very first time -what
though his own were full, he said, "I am not sorry, ma'am
.-I am glad! So glad," he repeated, looking from her
face to Mr. Linden's. But his eyes fell then; and hastily
.clasping ~the hand she held out to him, jjie bent his face to
Mr. Linden~s and turned away. tine quick step Mr. Lin-
den took after him, and- they left the room arm in arm,
after the old fashion.
With Mr. Linden when he came back, was an oldish gen-
tleman, silver-haired, with a fresh ruddy face; not very tall,
very pleasant-looking. Pet's exclamation was of joy this
time, and she ran forward to meet him. Then Mr. Linden
brought him up to Faith. ~' Mignonette, this is my dear
friend, Mr. Olyphant." And Mr. Olyphant took both her
hands and kissed her on both cheeks, as if he meant to b~
her friend too. Then looked at her without letting go.
"Endecott !" he said turning to Mr. Linden, "whatever
you undertake you always do well 1" And he shook Faith's
hands again, and told her he could wish her joy wAh a clear
conscience.

The timid little smile which this remark procured him,
might have~ confirmed the old gentleman in his first expressed
opinion. Mr. Olyphant studied her a minute, not con-
fusingly but with a sort of touched kindliness.
"What do you call her, Endecott ?" he said.
"Any sweet name I can think of," said Mr. Linden smil-
ing,-.--"just now, Mignonette." Which remark had a mer-
ciless effect upon Faith's cheeks.
"It suits her, Mr. Olyphant," said Pet.
"So I see, Miss Pet-do you think I have lost my eyes?
Endecott, are you going to bring her to the White Moun-
tains ?"
"I think so, sir: that is my present inclination."
"How would you like it, Mrs. Linden ?"
"I think I should like it, sir."
"Not afraid of the cold?"
Faith's smile clearly was n9t afraid of anything. So ~vas
her answer.
"You must have a house midway on the slope," said Mr.
Olyphant; "half your ~parish above your heads, half at
your feet: and you will have plenty of snow, and plenty of
work, and not much els~-.--but each other, Endecott's face
says that is being very rich~-but he always was an Dnworldly
sort of fellow, Mrs. Linden,-I don't think he ever saw the
real gli4r. of gold, yet."
Did h eyes? But they were unconsciously looking at
riches of some kind; there was no poverty in them. "I
like work, sir."
"Do you think she could bear the cold, Mr. Olyphant ?.-.-..
how are the winters there? That is what I have thought
of most."
"I am no more afraid of the cold-than you are, Ende-
cott." How gently the last word was spoken! But Faith
clearly remembered her lesson. Mr. Linden smiled.
"She is a real little Sunbeam," he said. "You know
they make light of cold weather."
"Light of it in two ways," said Mr. Olyphant. "No-
I don't think you need fear the winters for her,-we'd try
and protect her."
"Do you see how much good the Sunbeam has done him,
Mr. Olyphant ?" said Pet.

450

SAY AND SEAL.

I

451

1


452

SAY AND SEAL.

"I see it; Miss Pet,-it does me good. I meant to have
been here to see you married, Endecott, and missed the
train. I shall miss it again now, if I am not careful. But
you must come up and stay with us, and we'll arraflge mat..
ters. Such neighbours may tempt me to winter in the
mountains myself-and thei~ I shall take charge of you,
3liss Pet."
"I should like that," said Pet.
"I see, my dear Mrs. Linden," said Mr. Olyphant smil-
big at her, "I see you follow one of the old Jewish laws."
"What is that, sir?"
"You know it was required of the Jews that they should
bear the words of the law 'as frontlets between the ~eyes'.
Now-if you will forgive me for sayiI~g so-in your eyes
is written one of the proverbs."
"Look up, Mignonette, and let me see," said Mr. Lin..
den. But oddly, Faith looked down first; then the eyes
were lifted.
"Is truth a proverb ?" said Pet laughing.
"0 you see too many things there !" said Mr. Olyphant,
.-" this is what I see, Endec~at-' The heart of her husband
doth safely trust in her'."-
A little veil of shyness and modesty suddenly fell around
Faith. Even her head drooped. But Mr. Linden's lips
touched the fair brow between those very fair eyes.
"I cannot praise your discernment, sir," he said. "It is
not more true than evident."
"I cannot half congratulate either of you," said Mr.
Olyphant smiling, "so I'll go. Good-bye, Miss Pet-re-
member next winter. Mrs. Linden we shall expect to see
you long before that time. Let me have a word with you,
Endecott." And Faith was again left alone, entirely
this time, for Miss Linden went up stairs to attend Mrs.
Iredell.
As they turned to go out, Faith turned the other way
and sat down, feeling overwhelmed. Everything w~s very
still. Pet's light steps passed off in the distance; through
the open windows came the song of kildeers and robins,
the breath of roses, the muslin-veiled sunshine. Then she
heard Mr. Olyphant's carriage drive oft' tmd Mr. Linden
came back. Faith started up. And very lovely she looked,

SAY AND SEAL.

453

with the timid grace of those ~till dyed cheeks and veiled
brow.
"My poor little tired Mignonette !" he said as he came
up to her~ Then lifted her face, and looking at it a moment
with a h~df smile pressed his lips again where they had
been so lately. But this time that did not satisfy him.
"Endy..~.-" she said, presently, "please don't praise me
before other people !"-.--..
"What dreadful thing did I say ?" inquired Mr. Linden
laughing. "Do you know I have hardly seen my wife yet ?"
....-To judge by Faith's face, neither had she.
"If I speak of her at all I must speak the truth. But
Mr. Olyphant knows me of old-he will not take my woids
for more than they are worth."
A slight commentary of a smile passed, but Faith did
not adventure any repartee.
"Are you very tired ?"
"Oh no!"
"Little bird !" said Mr. Linden holding her close. "What
sort of a sweet spirit was it that said those words at my side
this morning ?"
There was no answer at first; and then, very quaint and
soft the words,-" Only Faith Derrick."
"'Only.'.-Faith, did you hear my parting direction to
Miss Essie ?"
"Yes."
"Do you agree to it, Mrs. Linden ?"
He had spoken that name a good many times that day,
and to be sure her cheeks had more or less acknowledged
it; but this time it brought such a rush of colour that she
stooped her face to be out of sight.
"Do you want Miss Reason to answer that question, sir ?"
"No, nor Miss anybody."
"Prudence would say, there are shortcakes," said Faith.
"Where ?"
"In ~- hypothesis."
"If your shortcakes outweigh my study, Faith, they will
be heavier than I ever saw them !"
"You wouldn't take ReasoiPs answer," said Faith.
"What would it have been ?"
She looked up, a swift little ~Lughing glanc~ into his face.


454              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.             455

* "Parlez, Madame-.s'il vous plait."
Her look changed. "You know, Endy, I would rather
be there than anywhere else in the world !"
It moved him; the happiness to which his look bore wit..
ness was of a kind too deep for words.
"Do you know, love, if we had been going at once to
our work in the mountains, I should have asked a great
many people to come here .to~day.~~
"Would you ?-Why, Endy ?"
"To let them see my wife. Now, I mean to take her to
see them."
Faith was willing he should take her where he pleased,
though she made no remark. Her timidity moved in a
small circle and touched principally him. Mingling with
this, and in all she did, ever since half past one o'clock 1~o.
day, there had been a sort of dignity of grave happiness;
very rare, very beautiful.
"I wonder if you know half how lovely and dear you
are ?" said Mr. Linden, studying the fair outlines of char.
aeter as well as of feature. But Faith's eye went all down
the pattern of embroidery on her white robe, and never
dared meet his. "Have you any idea, little Mignonettc of
sweetness, after what fashion that proverb is true ?"
She looked up, uncertain what proverb he meant; but
then immediately certain, bent her head again. Faith never
thought of herself as Mr. Linden thought of her. Moving
of humility and determination were in her heart now, but
she knew he would not bear to hear her speak them, and~
her own voice was not just ready. So she was only silent
still.
"What will make you speak ?" said Mr. Linden smiling.
.-" I am like All Baba before the storehouse of hid
treasure. Is this the 'Sesame' you are waiting for ?" he
added, raising her face and trying two or three persuasive
kisses.
"There was nothing in the storehouse," said Faith laughs
ingly. "No words, I mean."
"I am willing to take thoughts.
"How?"
"Which way you like I"
"Then you will have to wait for them, Endy."

"Mignonette, I am of an impatient disposition."
"Yes-I know it."
"Is it to be your first wifely undertaking to cure me 7"
he said laughing.
"It takes time to put thoughts into action," said Faith
blushing.
"Not all thoughts, Mignonette."
She coloured-beautifully; but anything more pure and
sweet than those first wifely kisses of Faith, could not be
told. Did he kpow, had he felt, all the love and allegiance
they had so silently and timidly spoken? She had reason
to think so.

(

}

i
3
4
t
it

1
1


)

CIIAPTER XL.
I N a low whitewashed room, very clean though little and
plain, where the breeze blew in fresh from the sea, Faith
found herself established Friday afternoon. Mr. Linden
bad promised to shew her the surf, and so had brought her
down to a little village, long ago known to him, on the
New England shore; where the people lived by farming
and fishing, and no hotel attracted or held an influx of city
life. It was rather late in the day, for the journey had
been in part off the usual route of railway and steam, and
therefore had been longer if not wearier. But when Faith
had got rid of the dust, Mr. Linden came to her door to
say that it would be half an hour to supper and ask if she
was too tired to walk down to the beach.
The shore was but a few hundred yards from the little
farmhouse; green grass, with interrupting rocks, extending
all the way. Faith hardly knew what sh~ was coming to,
till she reached the brink. There the precipitous rocks
rose sheer a hundred feet from the bottom, and at the bot~
tom, down below her, a narrow strip of beach was bordered
with the billowy crest and foam of the sea. Nothing but
the dark ocean and the illimitable ocean line beyond; there
was not even a sail in sight this evening; in full uninter-
rupted power and course, from the broad east, the swells
of the sea rolled in and broke-broke,-with their graceful,
grand monotony.
The beach was narrow at height of tide; now the tide
was out. Fishermen's boats were drawn up near to the
rocks, and steep narrow pathways along and down the face
of them allowed the fishermen to go from the top to the
bottom.
"Can't we get down there ?" said Faith when she had
stood a minute looking silently. her face showed an eager
readiness for action.
"Can you fly, little bird ?"
"Yes-As well as the fishermen can
"If you cannot I can carry you," said Mr. Linden.
(456)/

And doubtless he would have found some way to make
his words good had there been need,-.as it was, he only
guarded her down the steep rocky way, going before her
and holding her hand in a grasp she would have been puz..
zled to get away from. But Faith was light and free of
foot and gave him no trouble. Once at the bottom, she
went straight towards those in-coming big waves,-.~and in
front of them stood still. The sea breeze blew in her face,
the roar of the breakers made music in her ears. Faith
folded one hand upon tl~e other and stood motionless.
Now and then the win,~ caught the spray from some
beaten rock and flung i in her face, and wave after wave
rose up and donned its krhite crest; the upstanding green
water touched with sun rr1~t and shadow and changing
tints of amber and olive, down which the white foam came
curling and rushing-sweeping in knots of seaweed and
leaving all the pebbles with wet faces. Mr. Linden let her
look without the interruption of a word, but he presently
~ put his arm round her, and drew her a little into shelter
~oin the strong breeze. It was a while before she moved
from her steady gaze at the xvater, then she looked up, the
joy of her face breaking into a smile.
"Endccott,.-.--xvill you shew me anything more grand than
this ?"
"You shall tell me, when you have seen the uprising
mists of Niagara," he answered smiling,-"or the ravines
between snow-caps 'five thousand summers old'."
iler eye went back to the sea. "It brings before me,
somehow," she said slowly,.-.-." all time, and all eternity !-.-.
I have been thinking here of myself as I was a little child,
and as I shall be,.-.and as I am," she added with her in~
veterate exactness, and blushing. "I seem to see only the
great scale of everything. "-.-.
"Tell me a little more clearly what you see," said Mr.
IAnden.
"It isn't worth telling. I see everything here as belong-
mg to God. The world seems his great work-place, and
life his time for doing the work7 and I-.--and you,"-she
said with a flash of light coming across her face,-" his
work people. And those great breaking waves, somehow,
seem to me like the resistless-sure-beautifu]4...doings of
voL. II.               89

SAY AND SEAL.

1,

457

n


458

SAY A~'ND SEAL.

his providence."-ShO spoke very quietly, because she was
bidden, evidently.
"Do you know how many other things they are like ?~
or rather how many are likened to them in the Bible ?"
"No! I don't know the Bible as you do."
"They seem to be a never failing image-an illustration
suiting very different things. 'The wicked are like the
troubled sea, when it cannot rest,'-and~then---' 0 that thou
hadst hearkened to me! then had thy peace been as a river,
and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea.'
"There is the endless struggle of human will and pur.
pose against the divine-' The floods 'have lifted up, 0
Lord, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift
up their waves. The Lord on high is mightier than the
noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the
sea.' 'Fear ye not me? saith the Lord: will ye not treni.
ble at my presence, which have placed the sand for the
bound of the sea by a perpetual decree, that it cannot pass
it: and though the waves thereof toss themselves, yet can
they not prevail: though they roar, yet can they not pass
over it?' And so in another place the image is reversed,
and God says, 'Behold I am against thee, 0 Tyrus, and
will cause many nations to come up against thee, as the
sea causeth his waves to come up.' Could anything be
more forcible ?"
A look was Faith's answer; it spoke the kindled thoughts
at work.
"Then you know," Mr. Linden went on, "how often the
troubles of God's children are compared to the ocean; as
David says, 'All thy waves are gone over me.' But then
the Lord answers to that, 'When th6u passes through the
waters I will be with thee, and through the floods, they
shall not overwhelm thee;' and David himself in another
place declares it to be true-' 0 Lord God of hosts, who is
a strong Lord like unto thee? or, to thy faithfulness round
~ about thee? Thou rules the raging of the sea: when the
waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.'.-.-I suppose," he
added thoughtfully, taking both her hands in his, "this is
one sense in which by and by 'there shall be no more sea'
-except that 'sea of glass, upon. which they stand who
have gotten the victory' !"

)

SAY AND SEAL.

459

Another look, a grave, full look, came to him from
Faith; and grave and soft her eye went hack to the sea.
The sunbeams were all off it; it was dark and foamy.
Speaking rather low, half to her half to himself, Mr. Lin~
den went on~
"'And they overcame by the blood of the Lamb and by
the word of their testimony: and they loved not their lives
unto the death'."
Her look did not move. Mr. Linden's went with it for
a minute or two, but then it came back to her differently.
"My darling, I am afraid to have you stay here any
longer."
"We can come again !" said Faith gleefully as she turned
away. "I want to look at them a great deal."
"We will come again and try how far a 'ladder' can
reach from this low sand."
She looked back for another glance as she began to
mount the rocky way. The mounting was an easy matter,
for Mr. Linden came close and took hold of her in such
fashion that she was more than half carried up.
"Do you feel as if you had wings now ?" he asked her,
after a somewhat quick "flight" up half the way.
"Folded ones," said Faith laughing and breathless. "I
don't know what sort yours can be !-.---I can go up by my~
self; Endecott."
"With folded wings, as you remark, Mrs. Linden. Do
you remember that infallible way of recognizing 'earth's
angels,' when they are not plumbing themselves ?"
"They never do 'plume themselves '," said Faith stopping
to look at him.
*    "Not when they are carried 1"
Faith's laugh rolled down the rocks; and then as they
reached the top she grew timid and quiet, a mood which
came Over her whenever she remembered her new position
and name in the world.
There is no room to tell all the seaside doings of those
.; days; the surf bathing, a~d fishing beyond the surf. A.
J week passed there, or rather more; then, Mr. Linden
having business in New York, the "wooden horse" went
that way. We cannot follow all its travels. But we must
stay with it a day in the city.

I

"1


SAY AND SEAL.             461

CHAPTER XLI.
JI~ VERYBODY who has travelled on the great route
from Pattaquasset to New York, knows that the
scenery is not striking. Pleasant it is, and fresh, in fresh
seasons of the year,-cornfields and hayfields and spark-
ling little rivers always make up a fair prospect: but until
the towers of Quilipeak rise upon the sight, with their leafy
setting of green, there is nothing to draw much notice.
And less, afterwards. The train flies on, past numberless
stopping posts, over bridges, through towns; regaling its
passengers with hay, salt water, bony fish, and. (in the sea-
son) dust; until the matchless flats ~~marshes-pOOl5-
sights and smells, crowd thick about llaarlem river, and
lure the traveller on through the sweet suburbs of New
York. Hither business demanded that the "wooden horse"
should come for a day or two; here they were to be re-
ceived by one of the many old friends who were claiming-
all over the country-a visit from Mr. Linden and his
bride. Through the dark tunnel the train puffed on, the
passengers winking and breathing beneath the air-holes,
dark and smothered where air-holes were not; then the
cars ran out into the sunlight, and in a minute more two
of the passengers were transferred to the easy rolling coach
which was in. waiting for them, and drove away. Past
warm~ brick fronts and pavements; past radish boys and
raspberry girls; past oranges, pineapples, vegetables, in
erery degree of freshness except fre~h. Of all which, even
the vegetables, Faith's eyes took most curious and intent
notic&amp;-.--for one minute; then the Avenue and fruit stalls
were left behind; the carriage had turned a corner, and in
another minute or two drew ~p before an imposing front
in Madison Square. And iA~ere, at the very steps, was a
little raspberry girl. low Faith looked at her!
"Raspberries to-day, ma'am ?"-said the child, encour-
aged by the look, or the sweet face.
(400)

"No, dear, I don't want any."
Faith went gravely up the steps. It was her first intro.
auction to New York. But Mr. Linden's face wore a smile.
There was no time to remark on it, for the door opened
and a second introduction awaited her.. An introduction
to another part of the world. A magnificent house, every
square yard of which perhaps, taken with its furniture and
adornments, had cost as much as the whole of Faith's old
home. A palace of luxury, where no want of any kind,
material, could be known or fancied. In this house they
were welcomed with a great welcome by a stately lady, Mr.
Linden's old friend and his mother's; and by her family o*~
sons and daughters, who were in another style, and whose
vivacious kindness seemed disposed to take up Faith bodily
and carry her off. It was a novel scene for Faith, and she
was amused. Amused too with the overpowering curiosity
which took the guise-or the veil---of so much kindness,
and beset her bec~use-.-Mr. Linden had married her. Yet
Faith did not see the hundredth part of their curiosity;
Mr. Linden whose eyes were more open, was proportionally
amused, both with that and with Faith's simplicity, which
half gratified and at least half baffled it. The young
ladies at last took Faith up to her room; and after lav-
ishing all sorts of attentions upon her, and making vari-
ous vain efforts to understand her, gave her the informa~
tion that a good d6al of company was expected to dinner,
~ and left her; baffled and attracted almost in an equal
degree.
They did not seem to have as puzzling an effect on
r~ith; for when Mr. Linden came out of his own dressing
~ room, he found her ready and looking as fresh and cool as
~ if she haa just come up from the sands at I3aukhead. She
was dressed in a light muslin, but no more elaborately than
she used to be at Pattaquasset; only that thjs time her
ruffles were laces. She was a little more dainty for the
dinner-party. Mr. Linden came with a knot of glowing
geraniums" Jewess" and "Perfection" and "Queen of
the ~'airie4" which, bound together as they were with
white ribband, he first laid against her dress to try the
effect (well deserving his smile of comment) then put in
her hand to make fast. They set off all the quiet el~~


462

SAY AND SEAL.

gance of her figure after their own style, which was not
quiet.
"Now Mignonette," he said, "I suppose you know that
I am to have the pleasure of introducing my wife to sundry
people ?"
"I heard they were coming," said Faith.
"If you will only stand by and look on, it will amuse
you very much."
"It will amuse me anyway," said Faith,-" if-" and
what a rose colour came up into her face,-" if; Endy, you
are satisfied."
~ Mr. Linden folded his arms and looked at her. "If you
say anything against my wife, Mrs. Linden, her husband
will n~ot like it-neither will yours."
"That is all I care about-not pleasing those two gen..
tlemen," said Faith laughing.
"Is that all ?-.-I shall report your mind at rest. Come
...-it is time this little exotic should appear." Faith thought
as she went with him, that she was anything but an exotic;
she did not speak her thoughts.
There was a large dinner company gathered and gather-
ing; and the "pleasure" Mr. Lind&amp;ii had spoken of-~--intro-
ducing his wife-was one enjoyed, by him or somebody, a
great many times in the course of the evening. This was
something very unlike Pattaquasset or anything to be found
there; only in Judge harrison's house little glimpses of
this sort of society might be had; and these people seemed
to Faith rather in the sphere of Dr. Harrison than of his
father and sister. People who had rubbed off every parti-
cle of native simplicity that ever belonged to them, and
who if they were simple at all..-as some of them were-had
a different kind of simplicity, mad~ after a most exquisite
and refined worldly fashion. How it was made or worn,
Faith could not tell; she had an instinctive feeling of the
difference. If she had set on foot a comparison, she would
soon have come to the conclusion that "Mr. Linden's
wife" was of another pattern altogether. But Faith never
thought of doing that. Her words were so true that she
had spoken,-she cared so singly to satisfy one person
there, and had such an humble confidence of doing it,-
that other people gave her little concern. She had little

r

SAY AND SEAL.

463

need, for no word or glance fell upon Faith that did not
shew the eye or the speaker won or attracted. The words
and glances were very many, but Faith never found out or
suspected that it was to see her all this party of grand
people l~ad been gathered together. She thought they
were curious about "Mr. Linden's wife;" and though their
curiosity made her shy, and her sense of responsibility gave
an exquisite tenderness to h~er manner, both effects only set
a grace upon her usual free simplicity. That was not dis-
turbed, though a good deal. of the time Faith was far from
Mr. Linden's help or protection. A stranger took her in
to dinner, and among strangers she m*mde her way most of
the evening. But though she was shy, Faith was afraid
never but of one person-nor much of him.
For him-among old acquaintances, beset with all man-
ner of inquiries and congratulations-he yet heard her
voice whenever it was possible, and knew by sight as well
as hearing all the admiration she called forth. He might
have said as at Kildeer river, that he found "a great deal
of Mignonette." What he did tell her, when the evening
was over, was that people were at a loss how to name the
new exotic.
"Row to name me, Endecott ?"
"As an exotic. "-.
"I don't wonder !" said Faith with her merry little
laugh. "Don't philosophers sometimes get puzzled in that
way, Endecott ?"
"Scientific philosophers content themselves with the
hardest names the~y can find, but in this case such will not
suit. Though Dr. Campana may write you in his books as
'Lindenethia Pattaquassetensis - exotic, very rare. The
flower is a double star-colour wonderful !"'
Faith stopped to laugh.
"What a blunder he will make if he does I" she said.
"It will shew-as Mr. Simlins says.-tliat he don't under-
stand common vegetables. "
"Well translated, Mignonette. How will it shew that,
if you please ?"
"lie has mistaken one for a trumpet creeper."
"A scarlet runner, I suppose."
"Was I ?"-said Faith seriously.


464

SAY AND SEAL.

"According to you. I am in Dr. Campana's predica-
ment."
"I should think you needn't be," said' Faith simply.
"Because you know, Endy-I never knew even how to
climb, till you showed me."
Mr. Linden faced round upon her, the quick flashing eyes
answering even more than his "Faith! what do you mean
But his lips played then in a rare little smile, as he said,
very quietly, in his former position, "Imagine Mignonette,
with its full sw6etness-and more than its full colour-sud-
denly transplanted to the region where Monkeys and Gera-
niums grow,-I like to think of the effect."
"I can't think of any effect at all," said Faith. "I should
look at the Monkeys and Geraniums 1"-
"Of course-being Mignonette. And clearly that you
are ;-but then how can INlignonette so twine itself round
things ?"
Faith thought it did not, and also thought of Pet's charge
about "charming;" but she left both points.
"Most climbers," said Mr. Linden with a glance at her,
"have but one way of laying hold-but this exotic has all.
There are the tendrils when it w~ints support, and the close
twining that makes of two lives one, and the clasp of a
hundred little stems that give a leaf or a flower wherever
they touch."
"Endecott !"- said Faith with a look of astonished
remonstrance and amusement in one.
"What?"
But the smile and blush with which Faith 'turned away
bespoke her not very much displeased; and she knew bet-
ter by experience than to do battle with Mr. Linden's words.
She let him have it his own way.
The'next day business claimed him. Faith was given up
to the kindness and curiosity of her new .friends. They
made good use of their opportunity, and their opportunity
was a good one; for it was not till late in the day, a little
while before the late dinner hour, that Mr. Linden came
home. He found Faith in her room ;-a superbly appointed
chamber, as large as any three of those she h~d been accus~
tomed to. She was standing at the window,' thoughtfully

J

SAY AND SEAL.                465
looking out; but turned joyfully to meet Mr. Linden.
Apparently he was glad too.
"My dear little Mignonette 1-I feel as if I h
you for a week."                         ad not seen
W~ has b9en a long day,".-.--said Faith; who looked
rather, it may be remarked, as if the day had freshly
begun.
"Mignonette, you are perfectly lovely! Do you think
you will condescend to wear these flowers ?" said Mr. Liii-
den, drawing her to a seat by the table, and with one arm
still round her beginning to arrange the flowers he had
thrown down there as he came in.
Faith watched him, and then looked up.
"Endecott-you shouldn't talk to me so. You wouldn't
like me to believe you."
Mr. Linden finished setting two or three ruby carnations
in the green and purple of heliotrope and sweet-scented
verbena-then laid the bunch lightly upon her lips and
gravely inquired if they were sweet.
"Yes,"-.-Faith said, laughing behind them. "You are
not hungry ?"
/     Why ?-and what of it?"
"You don't seem to remember it is near dinner time."
"Dinner time is a myth. My dear I am sorry I give
you so much uneasiness. I wish you could feel as com-
posed about me as I do about you. What have I done
with that white ribband !-.--don't stirp-..-.it' is in some pocket
or other." And the right one being found, Mr. Linden
unwrapped the piece of ribband and cut off what he wanted,
remarking that he could n&amp;t get used to giving her anything
but blue.
"Well, why do you then ?" said Faith.
"I feel in a subdued state of mind-..-owing to reproofs,"
'I said Mr. Linden, with the white satin curling round his
fingers. "I may not tell anybody what I think of my
wife!"
Faith looked amused, and yet a soft glance left the
charge and the 'reproof' standing.
"I feel so composed about you".---iMIr. Linden went on,
~ drawing his white bows-Faith did think the eyes flashed
under the shading lashes,-" so sure that you will never


460              SAY AND ~EAL.                                     SAY AND SEAL.             467

overestimate mo-much less speak of it. But then you
know, Mignonette, I never did profess to follow Reason."
He was amused to see the little stir his words called up
in Faith. He could see it in the changing colour and rest.
less eye, and in one look of great beauty which Faith
favoured him with. Apparently the shy principle pr~.
failed, or Faith's wit got the better o~ her simplicity; for
she rose up gravely and laying her hand on the bunch of
flowers asked if she should put them on.
"Unless you prefer my services."
She sat down again immediately, with a face that very
plainly preferred them. Half smiling, with fingers that
were in no haste about their work, Mr. Linden adjusted
the carnations; glancing from them to her, trying them in
different positions, playing over his dainty task as if he
liked it. The flowers in place, his full smiling look 4et~
hers, and she was carried off to the glass "to see his wife."
Hardly seen, after all, but by himself.
"She looks ready for dinner,".~-said Taith.
"Your eyes are only to look at !" said Mr. Linden with
a laughing endorsement of his thoughts, and putting her
back in the dormouse. "Suppose you sit there and tell
me what efforts they have made in the way of seeing, to-
day."
"Efforts to see all before them-which was more than
they could," said Faith.
"What did they see ?.-not me, nor I them,-that I
know."
"That was another sort of effort they made," said Faith
smiling-" efforts to see what was not before them. I
watched-whenever I thought there was a chance-but I
couldn't see anything that looked like you. We must
have gone half over the city, Endecott; Mrs. Pulteney
took me all the morning, and her daughters and Mr. Pub
teney all the afternoon."
"Know, 0 little Miguonette," said Mr. Linden, "that in
New York it is' 'morning' till those people who dine at six
have had their dinner.
"Like the swell of some sweet tune
Morning rises into noon,
was written of country hours."

".1 guess that is true of most of the other good things
that ever were written7" said Faith.
Mr. Linden looked amused. "What do you think of
this ?-.

'And when the hours of rest
Come, like a calm upon the mid-sea brine,
Hushing its billowy breast-
The quiet of that moment too ~is thine;
It breathes of Him who keeps
The vast and helpless city while it sleeps.' "~

"I never saw the city when it was asleep,~~ said Faith
smiling. "It didn't look to-day as if it coi~ld sleep. But,
Endecott, II am sure all the pretty part of those words
comes from,-where we have been."
"The images, yes. But connect any spot of earth with
heaven-by any tie-and it must have a certain sort of
grandeur. You have been working in brick and mortar
to-day, Mignonette,-to-morrow I must give you' a 'bird's-
eye view."
Faith was silent a minute; and then said, "It don't look
a happy place to me, Endecott."
"No-it is too human. You want an elm tree or a
patch of dandelions between every two houses."
"That wouldn't do," said Faith,-" unless the  eople
could be less ragged-.~and dirty-~and uneasy; and their
houses too. There's nothing like it in Pattaquasset."
"I have great confidence in the comforting and civilizing
i power of elm trees and green grass," said Mr. Linden.
"But Carlyle says 'Man is not what you can call a happy
animal-his appetite for sweet victual is so enormous'; and
perhaps New York suffers as much from the fact that
everybody wants more, as that some have too little and
others too much."
"Do these people wailt more ?" said Faith softly.
"Without doubt !-.So does everybody in New York-.
but me."
But why must people do that in New York, when they
don't do it in Pattaquasset ?" said Faith, who was very
like mignonette at the moment.
The appetite grows with indulgence, or the possibility


SAY AND SEAL.
468                 SAY AND SEAL.
of it. Besides, little bird, in Pattaquasset you take all and the flash in the eye as he came and stood
this breeze of humanity winnowe~I through elm branches, She could see what had been all day before h
There, you know, 'My soul into the boughs does glide."' mind; and how pain and sympathy and longing
"No,"-said Faith,-" it is not that. When my soul laid hold of the promise and rested there-."~
glides nowhere, and th6re are no branches, either ;-in the shall receive." Unconsciously Faith folded her
IRoscoms' house, Erjdecott-and poor Mrs. Dow's, and the least touch of a smile in the corners of her
Sally Lowndes',-people don't look as they look here. I in no wise contradictory of her. eyes' sweet grad
don't mean here, in Madison Square,-though yes I do, "I saw them too," she said in a low tone.
too; there was that raspberry girl; atid others, worse, I I. would rather speak to them out there, nude
have seen even here. But I have been in other places-. sky, if it wasn't a crowd,-than in the church?'
Mr. Pulteney and hi~s sisters tooi me all the way to the "I should forget where I was, after I began
great stone church ,Endecott." said Mr. Linden; "though I do love 'that 4
"Well, Sunbeam,-it has been a bright day for every    catholic and solemn,' better than all others."
raspberry girl that has come in y ur way.  What else did  "Mr. Pulteney asked me how I liked the chui
you see there."                                         Faith.
"I saw the church."                                     "He did not understand your answer," said ~
"Not the invisible".-said iMir Linden smiling,-" re- ' smiling,.-." I know that beforehand. What was
member that."                                             "I think, he didn't like it," said Faith.  "I I
"Invisible! no," said Faith. "There was a great deal seemed to me a great temple that men had bui]
of this visiblee"                                      own glory and pleasure, not for the glory and ~
"What th6 ughts did it put in your head 7"
"It was very -i wonderfully  beautiful," - said  Faith  "Since when, you have been to Mr. Tom Pu
thoughtfully."                                          a fable in ancient Greek to one who has learned t
"What else ?"                                        language at school and forgotten it."
"I cannot teiL.-You would laugh at me if I could.       "He did not understand me," said Faith laud
Endecott, it didn't seem so much like a church to me as the I blushing a little. "And I was worse off; for I
little white church at home."                                I questions he could not answer me. I wa
"I agree with you there,-the loss show of the instru- to the top, but he was certain I would be too tir
K           ment the sweeter the music, to me. But the street in front  But I heard the chime, Endecott !-..that was
of the church-so specially filled with beggars and cripples Beautiful !-I am very glad I was there."
..~I never go by there, Faith, without a feeling of joy:  "I'll take you to the top"-said Mr. Linden,
remembering the blind man who sat at the Beautiful gate not tire me. Faith, I have brought you another
of the temple; knowing well that there is as 'safe, expe~ present.-.talking of 'ancient' things."
ditious, and easy a way' to heaven from  that dusty side-  "What is that, Endecott ?" she said with
walk, as from any other spot of earth. The triumph of amused face.
grace !-how glorious it is! 1 cannot speak to all of them  "Only a fern leaf.  One that waved a few
together, nor even one by one, but grace is free! 'Not years before the deluge, and was safely bedded
by might, nor by power, but by my spirit saith the Lord when the children of Israel passed through the
of ilosts.' Faith, I have been thinking of that all I Went to see an old antiquarian friend this moi
day !"                                                 out of his precious things he chose one for mm
She could see it in his face-..---iu the flush on the chee1~ M'. Linden laid in 'her hand the little rough stom

469
before her.
is eyes and
desire had
~sk and ye
hands, and
mouth was
4ty.
"Endecott,
r the open
to speak,"
ome-.--.most
rch,".......said
~Ir. Linden \
it?"
L;old him it
It for their
measure of
Iteney like
he modern
~hing and
asked. him
uted to go
~d if I did.
beautiful.
.-."it will
r wedding
a bright,
thousand
in stone
Red Sea.
miug, and
e." And
ie; rough

I                                                            I

I


H

SAY AND SEAL.

on one side, but on the other where the hammer' had split
it through, the brown face was smooth, and the black leaf
lay marked out in all its delicate tracery.
"Endecott !-what is this ?".-Faith exclaimed in her low
tones of delight.
"A fossil leaf."
"Of a fern! How beautiful! Where did it come from ~" ~,
She had risen in her delight, and stood by Mr. Linden at
the dressing-table.
"This one from Bohemia. Do you see the perfection of
every leaflet ?"
"How wonderful-how beautiful," Faith repeated, study.
ing the fossil. "It brings up those words, Endecott,-'A
thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is
past; or as a watch in the night."'
"Yes, and these-' The counsel of the Lord, that shall ~
stand.' Compare this fern leaf, with the mighty palaces
of Babylon and Nineveh. Through untold ages this has
kept its wavy fragile outline,-.they are marked only by 'the
line of confusion and the stones of ernptiness.~~~
Faith looked up, with such an eye of intelligence and ~
interest as again would have puzzled Mr. Pulteney.
"Did your old antiquary send this to me, Endecott ?" she
said looking down at it~again.
"To you, darling."
"I have seen nothing so good to-day, Endy. I am very j
glad of it."
"Do you remember, Sunbeam, the time when I told you
I liked stones ?-and you looked at me. I remember the
look now 1" So did Faith, by the conscious light and
colour that came into her face, different from those of three
minutes ago, and the grateful recognition her eyes gave to
Mr. Linden.
"I don't 'know much more now," she said, in very
lowliness,-" about stones---but you can teach me, Ende~
cott."
"Yes, I will leave no stone unturned for your amuse~
inent," he said laughing. "Faith, if I were not so much
afraid of you, I should tell you what you are like. What
else have you seen
"Tell me wl~at I am like, ,Endecott."

470

SAY ANP SEAL.                  4~(1
"What sort of consistency is that-to coax me when I
don't tell you, and scold me when I do ?"
"It's curiosity, I suppose," said Faith. "But it's no
matter. I saw all that strange place, Broadway, Endecott;
we drove through the whole length of it."
"Well?" said Mr. Linden, throWing himself down in
the arm-chair and looking gravely up at her. But then
the lips parted, not only t6 smile but to sing a wild
Scotch tune.
"0 wat ye wha that lo'es me,
And has my heart in keeping?
~.O sweet is she that lo'es me,
As dews o' summer weeping,
In tears the rosebuds steeping;
o that's the lassie o' my heart,
My lassie ever dearer;
o that's the queen o' womankind,
And ne'er a ane to peer her!
"If thou hast heard her talking,
And thy attention's plighted,
That ilka body talking
But her by thee is slighted,
And thou art all delighted
o that's the lassie o' my heart,
My lassie ever dearer;
o tl~~t's the queen o' womankind,
And ne'er a ane to peer her 1"
"Did you see anybody like that in Broadway? Faith ?"
Blushing-how she blushed !.~-but she would not say a
word, nor stir, to interrupt the singing; so she stood there
casting a shy look at him now and then till he had stopped,
and then coming round behind him she laid her head down
upon his shoulder. Mr. Linden laughed, caressing the
pretty head in various ways.
"My dear little bird !" he said. Then presently-" Mig-
nonette, 1 have been looking at fur cloaks I"
"Don't do such a thing again, Endy."
"I shouldn't-if I could have quite suited myself to-
day."
"I don't want it. I can bear the cold as well as
you."


!LMi P

"Let it make up for something which you do want arid
haven't got, then,-you must bear the cold Polar fashion.
But at present, there is the dinner bell."
They went down; but with the fossil and the fur, Faith
was almost taken out ~f New York; and astonished Mr.
Pulteney once or twice more in the course of the evening,
to Mr. Linden's amusement.

CHAPTER XLII.
T HE Hudson river railway, on a summer Saturday after-
noon. Does everybody know it ?-if not, let me tell
the people who have not tried it-.or those more unfortu-
nate ones wh~ are tried by it, and driven into the depths of
newspapers and brown literature by the steam pressure of
mountains, clouds, and river,-.-.that it is glorious. Not on
a dusty afternoon,-but when there has been or is a shower.
Not the locomotive, or the tender, or the cars-though the
long chain has a sort of grandeur, as its links wind into the
bays and round the promontories, express. But get a river-
side seat, and keep your patience up the lumbered length
of Tenth Avenue, and restrain your impatience as the
train goes at half stroke along that first bit of road where
people are fond of getting on the track,-.watch the other
shore, meantime, or the instructive market gardens on this,
-then feel the quickened speed, as the engine gets her
"head,"-then use your eyes! Open your windows boldly
-people don't get cold from our North river air, -never
mind the sun-hold up a veil or a fan; only look. See
how the shore rises into the Palisades, up which the
March of Improvement finds such uncertain footing: how
the rising points of hill are rounded with shadow and sun-
light, and green from river to crown. See how the clouds
roll softly up on the further side-giving showers here and
there; how the white-winged vessels sail and careen and
float. Look up the river from Peekskill, and see how
the hills lock in and part: think of the train of circum-
stances that rushed down Arnold's point that long ago
morning, where a so different train now passes. Mark the
rounding outlines of the green highlands, and as you near
Garrisons' let your eye follow the sunbeam that darts down
the little mill creek just opposite the tunnel. Then on
through those beloved hills, till they fall off right and
left, a~vd you are out upon Newbnrgh bay in the full glory
of the sunset. After this, (if you are tired looking,) you
4G~(473)

SAY AND 8EAL.

47~2


4~4                SAY AND SEAL.                                        SAY AND SEAL.                4'~5

*1

may talk for a while7 till the blu~ heads of the Catskill
catch your eye and hold it.
The blue range was a dim outline-hardly that-when
Faith reached her journey's end that night. She could
hear the dash of the river, and see the brilliant stars, but
all details waited for morning. And the rnorfl~ng was
Sunday. Balmy, cloudless, the very air put Faith almost
in Elysium; and between dreamy enjoyment, and a timid
sense of her own new name and position, she would have
liked for herself an oriole's nest on one of the high branches.
Failing that7 she seemed-as her hostess and again an old
friend of Mr. Linden's told him-"like a very rosebud; as
sweet, and as much shut, up to herself."
Truth to tell, she kept something of the same manner
and seeming next day. The house was very full, and of a
very gay set of people; of whom Faith's friend, Mr. Mot-
ley, was one. Faith. met their advances pleasantly, but she
was daintily shy. And besides, the scene and the time
were full of temptations to dream over the out of door
beauty. The people amused her, but often she would
rather have lost them in the hills 6r the sunset; ~nd was
for various reasons willing that others should talk while she
looked.
So passed the first two days; and the third brought an
excursion which kept the whole party out till lunch time.
But towards the end of the day Mr. Linden was witness to
a little drama which let him know something more of Faith
than he had just seen before.
It was near the time of dressing for dinner. Mr. Linden
was already dressed and had come to the library, where in
a deep recess on one side of the window he was busy with
a piece of study. The window was very large and opened
upon a green terrace; and on the terrace in a garden chair,
just outside the open window, sat Faith; quietly and in-
tensely, he knew, enjoying the broad river* and the mountain
range that lay blue in the sunlight a few miles beyond; all
in the soft still air of the summer day. She distracted Mr.
Linden's thoughts from his study. He could see her per-
fectly though he was quite out of her view. She. was in
one of the dainty little morning dresses he had sent her
from the place of pretty things; nothing could be more

* ~s
I

simple, and it suited her; and she, looked about as soft and
still as the day. Meanwhile some gentlemen had entered
the library and drew near the window. Faith was just out
of if eir range and Mr. J4nden was completely hid in his
recess, or doubtless their remarks would have had a different
bearing. The remarks turned upon Faith, who was here
as well as in New York an object of curiosity to those who
had known Mr. Linden; and one of the speakers expressed
himself as surprised that 'Linden' should have married her.
"Wouldn't have thought it ? - would you," said Mr.
Motley. "To be sure,-he's able to do all the talking."
"She does very well for . the outside," said another.
"Might satisfy anybody. Uncommon eyes."
"Eyes !" said Mr. Motley. "Yes, she has eyes !-and a
mouth. I suppose Linden gets some good of it-if no-.
body else does. ~. nd after all, to find a woman that is all
eyes and no ton sue, is, as you remark, uncommon."
"She's not quite stylish enough for him," said a third.
"I thought Linden would have married a brilliant woman."
"He'll be a brilliant man, if you tell him that," said Mr.
Motley. "Corruscations-and so forth. I never thought
I should see him bewitched,-even by a rose leaf monop-
oly."
The conversation was interrupted. It had not been one
which Mr. Linden could very well break; all he could do
was to watch Faith. He could see her slightly bent head
and still face, and the colour which grew very bright upon the
cheek nearest him. She was motionless till the last words
were broken off; then, with a shy movement of one hand'
to her cheek, covering it, she sprang away, as lightly as any
bird she was ever named after. )
Mr. Linden was detained in the library, where as the
dinner hour drew near other member's of the family began
to gather. A group of these were round the table, dis-
cussing an engraving; when Mr. Linden saw Faith come
in. He was no longer in the dangerous recess; but Faith
did not come near him; she joined the party at the table.
Mr. Linden watched her. Faith's dressing was always a
quiet affair; to-day somehow the effect was very lovely.
She wore a soft muslin which flowed about her in full
draperies; with a breast-knot of roses on its white folds.

4'74

0


SAY AND SEAL.

476             SAY AND SEAL.

Faith rarely put on flowers that Mr. Linden had not given
her. To-day was an exception; and her white robe with no
setting off but those roses and her rich hair, was faultless.
Not merely that; the effect was too striking to be abso-
lutely quiet; all eyes were drawn to her.
The gentlemen whom she had heard speak were among
the party; and no eyes were more approving. Mr. Linden
watched, as he might, without being seen to watch. Faith
joined not only the party, but the conversation; taking her
place in it frankly; showing no unwilling ~ness to give opin..
ions or to discuss them, and no desire to avoid any subject
that ca~me up. She was taking a new stand among these
strangers, Mr. Linden saw it, and he could guess the secret
reason; no one else could guess that there was anything to
give a reason for, so &amp;olIy, so naturally, it was done. But
the stand was taken. Faith had not stepped in the least
out of her own bounds; she had abated not a whit of her
extreme modesty. She was never more herself; only it was
as if she had laid down a self-indulgent shyness which she
had permitted herself before, and allowed Mr. Linden's
friends to become~ acquainted with Mr. Linden's wife. ~ut
with herself! Her manner to-day was exceedingly like her
dress; the plainest simplicity, the purest quality, and the
roses~ blushing over all. It fascinated the gentlemen, every
one of them. They found that the little demure piece of
gravity could talk; and talk with a truth and freshness of
thought too, which was like the rest of her, uncommon and
interesting, soft and free at once. Faith went off to dinner
on the arm of one of her maligners, and was very busy with
company all the evening after, having little to do with Mr.
Linden.
She had escaped to her room earlier than he, however;
and when he came in she was sitting thoughtfully before the
open window. She rose up directly and came to him, with
the usual smile, and with a little hidden triumph dancing in
her eyes, and an odd wistful look besides of affection and
humility. She only came close to him for a caress, without
speaking. Mr. Linden took her face in both hands and
looked at it-a beautiful smile mingling with the somewhat
moved look of his own.
"What a child you are !"

I,

The colour rushed all over Faith's cheeks.
"Why ? -" she whispered. The answer to which,
~ cheeks and brow and lips might spell out as best they
could.
"Do you know ~hy I did not come with your flowers,
Mignonette ?"
"Before dinner ?-no. I got some for myself."
"I was on my way for them, and was entrapped and held
fast. My little Mignonette 1-I never thought to have you
put your hand to your cheek in that way again !"
"Again, Endecott ! .-Who told you ?"~-said Faith, as
usual jumping to conclusions.
"Who told me what, my beauty ?"
Faith's eye fell in doubt, then looked up searchingly.
"I believe you know everything; but you don't look dis~
pleased. How did you know, Endecott ?"
I saw and heard. And have seen and heard siribe," ho
~ added smiling.
A question or two found out exactly how it had been;
and then Faith put the inquiry, simple to quaintness~ "Did
I do better to-day ?"
"If you are so anxious for mc-" he said stroking back
her hair. "They did not deserve to have one of my wife's
words,-but her words were admirable."
It was worth while to *see Faith's cheeks.
"Will you trust me to ride with Mr. Middleton to-mor-
row ?" she asked presently, smiling.
"No-.Yes----I will trust you but not him."
"Does that mean that you will trust me to go ?"
"Not with him."
"But what shall I do ?" said Faith flushing after a dif-
ferent fashion-half laughing too-" I told him I would go,
or that I thought I would go."
"Tell him that you think you will not."
Faith looked a little troubled; she foresaw a charge of
questions she did not like to meet.
"Are you afraid of the horse, Endy ?" she said after a
pause, a little timidly.
"No, darling."
Faith was pretty; just now, as she stood with her eyes
cast down; like a generous tempered horse first feeling the


4'18              SAY AND SEAL.                                         SAY AND SEAL.                4~9

bit; you can see that the creature will be as docile as pos.
sible, yet he is a little shy of your curb. Anything like
conti~ol was absolutely new to her; and though her face
was never more absolutely sweet, there was with that a
touch of embarrassment which made an inexpressibly pretty
mixture. Mr. Linden might well be amused and touched,
and charmed too1 all in one.
"Mr. Motley asked me to ride too,".-she said after a
minute, blushing a little deeper, and speaking as if it were
a supplement to her former words. "lie wanted to show
me the Belle Spring. I had better' gi~e them both the
same answer,"
"Has nobody else preferred his request ?-.-they are just
the two people with whom I do not want you to rides" said
Mr. Linden smiling. "I shall have to ask you myself-or
claim you. Mrs. Linden, may I have the honour ?"-Faith
gave him a very bright answer of a smile, but with a little
secret wish in her heart that the other people had not asked
her.
Her denial however was perfectly well taken by Mr.
Motley; not indeed without a little bantering talk and
raillery upon the excessive care Mr. Linden bestowed on
her. But Mr. Middleton, she saw, was not pleased that she
disappointed him. Within two or three days Faith had
become unmistakably the centre of attraction to all the
gentlemen of the neighbourhood. To. walk with her, to
talk to her, to attend upon her, were not a coveted honour
merely, but a coveted pleasure. It was found wonderfully
refreshing to talk to Faith: her eyes were something pleas.
ant to look at, for more than George Alc~ott; and the truth
of hei~ enjoyment and gratitude made it a captivating thing
to be the means of exciting them.
Mr. Middleton was one of those men who think very much
indeed of the value of their approbation, and never bestow
I
it but where they are sure the honour of their taste and
judgment is like to be the gainer. One of th6se men who
in ordinary keep their admiration for themselves, and he-.
stow in that quarter a very large amount. Faith's refusal
to ride with him touched him very disagreeably. It was
impossible to be offended with her. But perhaps all the
more ~ie was offended with somebody; and it happened un-

478

luckily that some reported light words of Mr. Motley about
M~. Linden's care of his wife and especial distrust of the
gentlemen who had asked her to ride, reached Mr. Middle-.
ton's ear in a very exaggerated and opprobrious form. Mr.
Middleton did not know Mr. Linden, nor know much of
him; his bottled-up wrath resolved that Mr. Linden should
not continue long in his reciprocal ignorance. And so it
fell out, that as this week began with showing Mr. Linden
something of Faith that he had not seen before, it did not
end without giving her a new view of him.
Jt was a captivating summer morning when the cavalcade
set forth from Rye House, on a picnic to Alderney-one of
the show places in the neighbourhood. It seemed fairyland
to Faith. The beautiful country over which they travelled, in
summer's luxuriance of grass and grain ;-the river rolling
below at a little* distance, sometimes hidden only to burst
upon the view again ;-and towering above all, unchanged
beyond the changing lights and shades of the nearer
landscape, the long mountain range. The air was perfec-
tion; the sounds of voice and laughter and horses'.brisk
feet helped the exhilaration, and the lively colours and
fashion of caps and habits and feathers made pretty work
for the eye. Faith's ears and eyes were charmed. At a
cross road the party was joined by Mr. Middleton; whose
good-humour, at present in a loose-jointed state, was noise
improved at the sight of Faith. She rode then, at any
rate; and she sat well and rode fearlessly, that he could see;
and his eye, keen for such things, noted too the neat ap-
pointments of her dress, and saw that they were all right
and fitted her and she fitted them; and that her figure alto-,
gether was what no man might dislike to have beside him,
even a man so careful of his appearance as Mr. Middleton.
Not near Faith did he come; but having noted all these
things with gathering ire, lie sheered off to another part
of the troop.
It was a pretty day to Faith, the whole first part of it.
The ride, and the viewing the grounds they went to see.
These were indeed naturally very noble; and to Faith's
eyes every new form of natural beauty, of which her range
had hitherto been so very small, was like a fresh draught
of water to thirsty lips. It was a great draught she


480              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.            481

had this morning, and ei~joyed almost to the forgetful.
ness of everything else. Then came the lunch. And that
was picturesque too, certainly; on such a bank, under such
trees, with such a river and mountains in front; and Faith
enjoyed it and them so' far. But it was splendid too, and
noisy; and her thoughts went at one time away very far, to
iKildeer river, and remembered a better meal taken under
the trees, with better talk, and only, Bob Tuck to look at
them. She stole a glance at Mr. Linden. He was doing
his part and making somebody very comfortable indeed..-..
Faith half smiled to see it.
Mr. MiddletOn at another part of the assembled com-
pany, had been getting his temper up with wine and his ill
humour with the various suggestions and remarks of some
careless gossipers at his side. Finding that he winced
under the mention of Mrs. Linden and the ride, they gave
him that subject with as many variations as the Katydid
polka,-the simple "She did "-(or rather "She didn't ")
-skilfully diversified and touched up,-which brought Mr.
Middleton's heavy Piece of displeasure, already primed,
loaded, and at full cock, to the very point where his temper
struck fire. He leTt the table and drew towards Mr. Lin-
den, who was talking in the midst of a group of ladies
and gentlemen. Middleton knew which was he - that
was all.
"You, sir !"-he said like a surly bull-dog-which term
describes both his mental and physical features,-" my
name's MiddLeton-J want you to take back what you've
said about me
Mr. Linden at the moment was in the full tide of Ger-
man talk with one of his old fellow students from abroad; his
excellent poise and play of conversation and manner setting
off the gesticulations of the foreigner. WTith a look of
more surprise than anything else he brought eyes and
attention to bear upon Mr. Middleton.
"What, sir?" he said.
"Will you take back what you've said about me ?".-..The
dogged wrath of the man was beyond the use of many
words, to which indeed he was never given.
"I have not said anything, sir, which requires that."
And with a bend of the head-cool and courteous as his

words-Mr. Linden dismissed the subject; and placing
himself on the grass with his friend and some others, fell
back into the Germat~. Middleton followed fuming.
"I've come to speak to you !"-he said, beginning with
an execration,-" and you must get up and answer me.
Will you take back what you said ?" Stooping down, he
had thrown these words into Mr. Linden's car in a way to
leave no doubt whom they were meant for.
"I have answered you, sir."
"That is to tell you what I think of it !"-said Middle~
ton, dashing in his face the remains of a glass of wine
which he had brought with him from the board on purpose.
He was on his feet then !-with what a spring !-as in
the fairy tale the beautiful princess of a sudden became a
sword. Just such eyes of fire Mr. Middleton had never
been privileged to see. But Faith saw the hands drop and
grasp each other,-she saw the eyes fall, and the colour go
and come and go again, with a rush and swiftness that was
startling to see. Absolutely motionless-the very breath
kept down,-so he stood. And- even his assailant gazed,
in a sort of spell-bound wonder. The twittering birds
overhead, how they carolled; how softly the leaves rustl~d,
and the riVer sent up its little waves: and the sunshine and
shadow crept on, measuring off the seconds. The pure
peace and beauty of everything-the hush of human voices
-were but the setting of the deep human struggle. The
victory came.
With a face from which at last the colour had~ taken its
permanent departure, Mr. Linden looked up and spoke:
and something made the very low tones ring in the air.
"I have said nothing about you which needed apology,
Mr. Middleton. You have been misinformed, sir." And
with that same bend of dismissal Mr. Linden drew himself
up and walked away, bareheaded as he was. The trees hi~l
him in a moment.
Then there came a stir.
"What a coward !" cried George Alcott, pressing for-
ward,-" to do that to a man who you knew wouldn't knock
you down 1"
The young German had started up, sputtering strange
things in his native tongue.
VOL. II.              41


SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SENIJ.           483

"Mr. Linden is an excellent commentator!" said one
young lady, who took the liberty of speech pretty freely.
"How clear he makes it that 'The discretion of a man
deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass by a trans.
gression !'"
"I really thought," said Mr. Motley in a make-believe
whisper, "when Middleton first came up, that he had been
taking a glass too much,-but now I see that he took just
halt' a glass too little !"
"Sir," said Colonel Rye stepping forward, a man of
most noble character and presence both, "Mr. Linden is
my guest andfriend-you must answer this to me."
Before Mr. Middleton could make answer, Faith had
come in between and laid hold of the Colonel's hanl. She
was white, and quiet, but she could not at once speak. All
around stood still.
"Sir," she said, in words that were well heard for every.
body held his breath,-" Colonel Rye-this is Mr. Linden's
affair."
"I beg your pardon, my dear young lady-it is mine."
"No sir," said Faith-.--he felt how eagerly her fingers
c'asped his-"it is in Mr. Linden's hands. He forgives
Mr. Middleton entirely."
"I don't forgive him !" said the Colonel shortly.
"Sir," said Faith,-" Colonel Rye-this is not what Mi'.
Linden would wish. Endecott will tell you, sir, that he has
passed it by. Don't undo what he has done! No true
friend of Mr. Linden will make any more of this."
"I am willing to answer it to anybody,"-said Middleton
gruffly, but as if half ashamed of himself.
"There is nothing to answer to any one," said Faith
quitting the Colonel and turning to him; her face was so
white and gentle that it smote him, and those very steady
sweet eyes had a power in them just now that broke his
doggedness. "There is nothing to answer to any one-
unless, Mr. Middleton-" (how soft her voice was)-" un*
less you find you were wrong, and choose to tell Mr.
Linden-which I daresay you will. Colonel Rye-will
you see-for Mr. Linden's honour-that this goes to no
harm ?"
The extreme gentleness and the steady firmness of Faith

* ruled them all; and at her last appeal the Colonel's only
answer was to take her in his arms and kiss her-an ac~
knowledgment Faith would willingly have gone without.
But it was good for a promise.
"Mr. Alcott," she said seeking him in the group,-.
"you said we would go down the bank-" Faith did not
finish her sentence, but he saw her wish to finish it by
action.
She went with him till they were out of sight and away
from everybody; then slipped her arm from his and begging
him not to wait for her sat down on the grass. For a while
she sat very still,-whether her heart was fuller of petition
or thanksgiving she hardly knew. She would have rejoined
Mr. Alcott much sooner if she had guessed he was waiting
for her--like an outpost among the trees; but all the time
had not brought back Faith's cQlOur. After a while, other
steps came swiftly over the turf as she sat there, and before
she had raised her head it was lifted up for her.
"My precious wife !-what are you doing here ?"--Very
low the tones were, very grave, very tender.
Faith sprang, and after an exploring glance into his
face, knelt on the grass beside him, and threw her arms
round his neck, pressing her cheek very close as if she would
take off or share the affront that had been offered to his.
That for a minute-and then changing characters-she
raised her head and pushing the hair back from his brow
With her soft hurried fingers, she covered that and hi~ face
~ with kisses-with a kind of eager tenderness that could not
~ say enough nor put enough love and reverence into every
touch. All this while she was still; she did not shed tears
at all, as some women would have done; and she said not
one word.
Perhaps surprise made him passive: perhaps the sooth-
ing of her caresses was too sweet and too much needed to
be interrupted, even by a return. He let her have her. way,
nor even raised his eyes. One arm indeed was~ round her,
but it left her free to do what she liked. If Faith needed
any light on what the morning's work had been, it was fur-
nished by those few minutes. Only at last, with a sudden
notion Mr. Linden brought her lips to his, and gave her
back principal and interest.


484              SAY AND SEAL.                                  SAY AND SEAL.             485

'You blessed child !" he said. "Are you a veritable
angel already ?"
"I should have brought you a palm-branch, Endy "~
For almost the first time he had ever heard it so, Faith's
voice was unsteady.
Had she not done it ?-Mr. Linden did not say so, as ho
took grave note of her pale cheeks. Presently rising up
he passed his ann round her, and took her up the bank to
the rest of the party, nor let go his hold till she was seated
between Mrs. Rye and himself. Then from the fern leaf in
his hand, he proceeded to give them both an account of
ferns in general-living and fossil, extant and extinct; with
his usual happy skill and interest, and-except that the lips
never broke into a smile-with just his usual manner. And
never had the grave depth of eye been more beautiful, more
clear. Not Faith alone watched it with loving admiration,
but no one any more than she ventured word or look of
sympathy.
When at last the various groups began to draw in
towards a centre, and ladies put on their riding hats, and
grooms were buckling girths again, Mr. Middleton with
two or three others was seen advancing towards Mr. Lin.
den's quarter. Mrs. Rye rose hastily.
"I am sorry to find that I made a mistake, sir," said
Middleton with a sort of unwilling courtesy.-" I was under
misinformation-and I was not aware of your profession.
I beg your pardon for what has occurred."
Mr. Linden had risen too, and with folded arms and
the most unmoved face stood watching the party as they
came up..
"It is granted--." he said offering his hand. "But permit
me to say, Mr. Middleton, that you made a third mistake,
equally great if the other two had not existed."
Mr. MiJdleton's private thoughts were perhaps not
clearly disentangled. At all events he had no desire to
multiply words, and turned off'.
"So7 he has spoken, has he !" said Colonel Rye coming
up. "Like a bear, I dare say. Why do you think I didn't
fight him, Endecott ?"
A smile came over Mr. Linden's face then-bright and
stirred.

"I think, sir, you yielded to Mignonette's power,-as [
did long ago."
"You ?.-Did he ?" said the Colonel turning.~
" {o, sir-never !"-said Faith, laughing and blushing
till her cheeks were brilliant. The Colonel smiled at her.
"My dear," said he, "you conquered me !-and I don't
believe any other man more invincible than myself. Is this
your horse ?-No, Motley-no, George-she is going to
have an old cavalier for her ride home."
And much to Faith's pleasure, so she had.
41*

I

t

--I
a


C PTER XLIII.
O CTOBER'S foliage had lost its distinct red and purple
and brown, and had grown merely sunburnt; but the
sky overhead still keiit its wonderful blue. Down the
ravines, over their deep shadow, October breathed softly;
up the mountain road, past grey boulders and primeval
trees and wonderful beds of moss, went the stage wagon.
The travellers were going by a somewhat long and ~irre.
gular route, first up one of the great highways, then
across to that spur of the mountains where they were to
live. Mrs. Derrick was to follow in a few weeks with Mr.
Stoutenburgh.
It was late and dusky when the sLa~ge wagon transferred
the travellers to Mr. Olyphant's carriage which was waiting
fQr them at a certain turn of the road. Mr. Olyphant
himself was there, with extra wrappings for Faith; and
muffled in them she sat leaning in the corner of the
carriage, tired enough to in ake the rest pleasant~ awake
enough to hear the conversation; feeling more like a bird
than ever, with that unwanted night air upon her face, and
the wild smell of woods and evergreens and brooks floating
about her.
At Mr. Olyphant's they were received with warm wood
fires and excellent supper, the welcome spending itself iii
many other ways. But though Mi'. Linden did take her to
the door for one minute to hear a pouring mountain tor.
rent, she could see nothing that night. The stars overhead
were brilliant, the dark hill outline dim,-.the rushing of
that stream-how it sounded! Faith's whisper was glee.
ful.
"Endy.-I can't see much~-but it feels lovely !-J am so
glad to be here
The morning was wonderful. Such a sunlight, such an
air, such rejoicing of birds and brook and leaves. Mr.
Olyphant's house stood on one side of a woody slope, rocks
(486)

S~.Y AND SEAL.487
and trees crowned to the very top; in the ravine below, the
rook Faith had heard. She could see it now, foaming
along, quieting itself as it came into smoother circum~
stances. The most of its noise indeed seemed to be made
in some place out of sight, higher up. This slope was not
very high, other ridges before and beyond it looked down--
not frowningly, in their October dress. Not much else
could be seen, it was a mere leafy nest. A little faint line
of smoke floated over the opposite ridge, glimpses of moun~
tam paths here and there caught the sunlight, below Faith's
window Mr. Linden stood, like some statue, with folded
arms.
Faith hastily finished her dressing. As soon as that
was done she knelt at her window again, to look and to
pray. Those hills looked very near the sky ;-life~work
there seemed almost to touch heaven. Nay, did it not?
Heaven bent over th9 glorious earth and over the work to
be ~done there, with the same clear, fair, balmy promise and
truth. Faith could almost have joined the birds in their
singing; her heart did; and her heart's singing was as
pure and as grave as theirs. Not the careless glee that
~ sees and wants nothing but roses in the way; but the dee~
~ love and gladness, both earthly and heavenly, that makes
roses grow out of every soil. So she looked, when Mr.
Linden first discerned her, venturing from the hall door
and searching round for him.
"0 little Sunbeam !"-.--he said, "how you 'glint' upon
everything !-there is a general illumination when you
~. come out of the door. low do you feel this morning ?-
"As if I never had been tired. "-And Faith might have
said, as if she never would be tired again; but only her
eye revelled in such soft boasting. "Where is our home,
now, Endecott?"
The ridge before them, on the other side of the ravine,
rose up with swifter ascent into the blue air and looked
even more thick set with forest trees: but where it slanted
down towards the more open country, a little break in the
trees spoke of clearing and meadow and cultivation. The
clearing was for the most part on the other side, but a bit


488              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             489

of one green field, dotted with two or three dark objects,
swept softly over the ridge line.
"Are you in the sight-seeing mood ?" said Mr. Linden,
with a look as gladsonw as her own.
"Yes !.--and seeing sights too. But where is that,
Endy ?"
"I shall take you there by degrees-.--wait a moment,"
and he went in for the glass. "Now, Mignon ette," he said,
adjusting it for her, "I wish to ask your notice for a little
black spot on that bit of clearing. But first what does it
look like to you.-.-.-a hut or a summerhouse ?"
"Jt's too far off--it looks like nothing but a black
spot."
"No~v look-" said Mr. Linden smiling. 0 wondroJs
power of the glass !-the black spot remained indeed a
black spot still, but with the improvements of very de.
cided horns, black tail, and four feet.
"'Somebody lives there," said Faith. "It's a cow."
"Most true! What cow do you suppose it is, Mrs.
Linden ?"
Faith put down her glass to laugh at him. "It's no
friend of mine," she said. "I have a few friends among
cows, but not many."
"My dear Mrs. Linden, you always were rather quick at
conclusions. If you look again, you will see that the cow
has a surrounding fence of primeval roots, which will keep
even her from running away."
Faith obeyed directions, carefully. "Endy-.--" she said
in an oddly changed tone, "is it my black heifer ?"
"It is not mine," said Mr. Linden.
"But I didn't know she had come !"-said Faith; then
putting up her glass again to scan the far-off 'black spot'
and all around it, with an intenseness of feeling which
showed itself in two very different spots on her cheeks.
"Put down your glass, Faith," said Mr. Linden, "and
look up along the ridge to that faint blue wreath over the
yellow t~ree-tops,-...-.that is your first welcome from my
study."
She looked eagerly, and then a most delighted bright
smile broke over her face as it turned to Mr. Linden.

"I-Tow do you know it is in your study, Endecott ?-.-.-and
wh~ has lighted it ?"
~ "Some one !-.--AVe'll go over after breakfast and see."
~At breakfast many things were discussed besides broiled
chicken. And afterwards there came to the door two
of the rugged, surefooted, mountain horses, saddled and
bridled for the expedition. On the porch steps a great
1uu~h basket told of Mrs. Olyphant's care-Faith was up
stairs donning her habit. Mr. Linden ran up to meet
her.
"Faith," he said laughingly, "Malthus has just confided
to me, that 'if Mrs. Endecott has any things to take over,'
they would make tfrn way wonderfully pleasant to him."
"Who is Malthus ?"
The shy blush on Faith's cheek was pretty to see.
"He is an old servant of mine, who has been with Mr.
Olyphant and is coining to me agah~."
Faith thought it was good news, and as good for Mal-
thus as anybody! An important little travelling bag was
committed to him, and the ca4alcado set forth.
The way was far longer than the distance seemed to pro-
mise, having to follow the possibilities of the ground. A wild
way-through the forest and over the brook; a good bridle
path, but no better. The stillness of nature everywhere;
rarely a human habitation near enough to afford human
sounds. Frost and dew lay sparkling yet on moss and
~ stone, in the dells where the sun had not looked; though
~. now and then a sudden opening or turn showed a reach or
a gorge of the mountains all golden with sunlight. Trees
such as FaIth had never seen stood along the path in many
places, and under them the horses' footfalls frightened the
squirrels from tree to tree.
"Is this the only way of getting about here, Ende..
~ cott?"
"This or on foot-in many directions. That part of
our parish which lies below us, as Mr. Olyphant says,
can be reached with wheels. But look, Mignonette! "
The road turned sharply round a great boulder, and they
were almost home! There it lay before them, a little
below,-....an irregular, low, grey stone cottage, fitting itself
to the ground as if fitting the ground to it had been an


490             SAY AND SEAL.                                 SAY AND SEAL.            491.

impossibility. It was not on a ravine; the slope wer~
down, down, till it swept off into the stubble fields and
eIeaed land below. There was the sound of a great
waterfall in the distance, close by the house a little branch
stream went bounding down, and spread itself out peace.
ably in the valley. Dark hemlocks guarded the cottage
from too close neighbourhood of the cliffs at the back, but
in front the subsiding roughness of nature kept only a few
oaks and maples here and there. The cleared ground was
irregular, like the house, running up and down, as might
be. No moving thing in sight but the blue smoke and the
sailing clouds and cloud shadows. The tinkle of a cow-
bell made itself heard faintly-the breeze rushed through
the pines, then slowly the black heifer came over the brow
of her meadow and surveyed the prospect.
Faith had checked her horse, and looking at it all, up
and down, turned to Mr. Linden. There was a great deal
in her look, more than words could bear the burden of, and
she said none. He held out his hand and clasped hers
speakingly, the lips unbent then, though they went back to
the grave lines of thought and interest and purpose. It
was not merely his home he was looking at-it was the one
to which he was bringing her. Was it the place for Mig.
nonette ?-would it be too lonely, too cold? or was the
whole scene that lay before them, in its Wild beauty, the
roughness covered and glorified by that supreme sunlight,
a fair picture of their life together-wherever it might be?
So he believed; the light grew and deepened in his own
eyes as he looked,.-the grave purpose, the sure hope ; and
Mignonette's little hand the while was held as she had
rarely felt him hold it before.
Presently she bent down so that she could look up in
his face, answering him then with a smile.
"Endy-what are you thinking of ?-I am very happy."
* The last words were lowered a little.
Mr. Linden's eyes came to her instantly, with something
of their former look but very bright; and bending off his
horse he put one arm round her, with as full and, earnest a
kiss as she had ever had from him. "That is what I was
thinking of," he said. "I was thinking of my wife, Mig-
nonette."

"Aren't you satisfied?" she said in her former tone.
"Perfectly!-"
The look made a very personal application.
Faith shook her head a little and they rode on.
The cottage door was very near presently; Faith coul~1
see all the minor points of interest. Maithus who had got
there by a short cut, waited to take their horses-then a
white cap and apron appeared in the doorway for a second
and vanished again.
"You will find another of our old de y~endants here,
Faith," said Mr. Linden. '7
"Who is that ?" she said quickly.
"There were three women in our house," said Mr. Lin-
den? "that Pet and I called respectively, 'Good7' 'Better,'
'Best,'-this is Best.. Hers was a name in earnest? for we
never called her anything else; and it was always th~ de-
sire of h~r heart first to see my wife and then to live with
her. And~ I was sure she would please you."
"What must I call her ?-Mrs. Best ?" said Faith.
"No, you must call her nothing but 'Best.'"
"That's excellent !" said Faith gleefully. "I tho~gbt
there was nobody here but one friend of yours, Endecott.
- Now I shall get in order directly."
"That is what you thought you were coming to !" he
said coming to her side to lift her down. "How would
you like to be taken right back to Mr. Olyphant's ?"
"Not at all 1"-
*    In answer to which she was lightly jumped down from
the saddle .and carried off into the house; where Mr. Lin-
den and Best shook hands after a prolonged fashion, and
the old servant-not that she was very old neither-turned
glad and eager and respectful eyes upon her new mistress,
touching that little hand with great satisfaction of heart.
"It's warmer in the study, sir,'7 she said, "and there's a
fire in the kitchen-if Mrs. Endecott would like to see
that. And shall I make one anywhere else, ma'am ?"
Best's white cap and apron were very attractive; and so
on the other hand were Faith's blush and smile.
The hall in which they stood-rather a wide one, cut
the house from front to back, with no break of stair-
way. Through the opcn back door Faith could see the


492             SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             493

dark clift' and hear the brook. Mr. Linden asked where
"she would go first ?" Faith whispered, "To the study."
lie smiled, and opened the one door at her left hand and
led her in.
Not yet in perfect order, the book shelves yet unfur.
wished, it looked a very abode of comfort. For there were
basking sunbeams and a blazing fit'e, there were shelves
and cupboards of various size and shape, there were win~
dows-.-not very large, it is true, but giving such views !~
of the fair country below, and the brook, and the ascent,
and the distant blue peaks of the range. Warm-coloured
curtains and carpet and couch had been put here under Mr.
Oi~yphant's orders, and here were things of Mr. Linden's
which Faith had never seen~-his escritoire and study tahh~
among others. Her table, with a dainty easy~chair, at the
prettiest of all the windows, she knew at a glance-un~
known as it was before; hut the desk which she had had
long ago stood on the study table, nearer his. Mr. Linden
brought her up to the fire, and stood silent with his arms
wrapped about her for a minute. Then he stooped and
kissed her.
"How does it look, Sunbeam ?"
Faith was grave, and her eye went silently from one
thing to another cven after he spoke; then turned its full
sunny answer upon him. Faith certainly thought he did
too mach for her; but she spoke no such thought, leaving
it as she had once meant to leave other thoughts, for
action.
"You can put your books right in, and then it will be
beautiful," she remarked. "And look down the mountain,
out of that window, Endecott !-"
She was taken over to the window for a nearer view and
placed in her easy-chair to take the good of it.
"Do you see that little red speck far down at the foot;
of the' hill ?" Mr. Linden said-" in that particularly rough
steep place ?"
"Yes."
"That is the best thing we can get for a church at
present."
Faith thought it would be a very.good sort of a "thing"
when he was in it; but as usual, she did not tell all her

thoughts. They came back to her easy-chair and table,
and from them to Mr. Linden's face, with a look which said
"How could you ?".-But he only smiled, and asked her if
she felt disposed to go over the rest of the house.
For a house that was not in order, this one was singu-
larly put to rights. Boxes and packages and trunks there
were in plenty, rolls of carpet and pieces of bedsteads, and
chairs and tables and everything else; but they were all
snugly disposed by the wall, so that the rooms could be
entered and the windows reached. The inside of the cot-
tage was, like the outside, irregular, picturesque, and with
sufficient capabilities of comfort. The kitchen was in a
state of nicety to match that of Best; in a piece of ground
behind the house, partly prepared for a garden, Maithus was
at work as composedly as if they had all been settled in the
White Mountains for the last ten years.
Lunch was taken somewhat infQrm ally; then the riding
habit being changed for a working dress, Faith set about
reducing the rebellion among boxes and furniture. Best
had reason presently to be satisfied not only with the man-
tiers but the powers of her new mistress; though she also
judged in her wisdom that the latter needed some restric-
tion in their exercise. Gentleness was never more efficient.
The sitting-room began to look like a sitting-room; tables
~ and bookshelves and chairs marched into place. Mean-
while Faith had been getting into pleasant order one of
the rooms up stairs, which with what Mrs. Olyphant had
done was easy; enjoying the mountain air that came in
through the window, and unpacking linen and china. Mr.
Linden on his part had been as busy with some of the
rougher and heavier work,-opening boxes and unpacking
books; and especially taking care of Faith-which last
work was neither rough nor heavy. She was amused (edi-
fled too) at the new commentary on his former life which
this day gave her: to call upon servants when they were
present, seemed as natural as to do without them when they
were absent. Faith mused and wondered a little over the
old habit which showed itself so plainly-thinking too of
his life in Pattaquasset.
The day had worn on and faded, and Faith was still
busy, in a hunt for some of her wedding presents which she
VOL. u.                42


494              SAY AND SEAL.                                   SAY AND SEAL.             495

wanted to have on the tea-table. But Mr. Linden for 50lfl~
time had missed her; and entering upon a tour of search,
found her in a large closet near the kitchen, with a great
deal chest on' one side .and a trunk on the other. Between
the~i, on her knees, Faith was laying out package after
package, and pile after pile of naperies lay on the floor
around her. In the very height of rummaging, tl)ough
with cheeks evidently paled since the morning. Mr. Linden
took an expressive view of the subject.
"Mignonette, 1 want my tea."
"Yes !" said Faith eagerly looking up and then at her
work again,-"just so soon as I find some things-.-."
"I don't want 'things '-I want tea."
"Yes-but you can't have tea without things."
"I will be content with six napkins and ten tablecloths-.
just for to-night, as we are in confusion."
"And no spoons ?" said Faith. "Here they are
"Yes-h ere they are," said Mr. Linden, "and here is
everything else! Just look at the state of the floor-for
me to walk over."
"Not at all," said Faith,--"please keep out. I will
have tea ready very soon, Endy."
"You shall not have anything ready,"-and Faith found
herself lifted from her kneeling position and placed in a
not Wncomfortable nest of packages. "Now, Mrs. Linden,
whatever of these things your hands may touch, shall lie
on the floor all night. But as you see, my hands have a
different effect." And swiftly and surely the "things"
began to find corner mom in the closet.
"Endy !" said Faith catching his hands,-" please don't!
Just go away, and leave me here for three minutes."
"Not for one.-I'll turn them all out again in the worn-
mg, after the most approved fashion."
Faith sat down, the swift colour in her cheeks testifying
to a little rebellion. It was swift to go, however, as it had
been to come; and she sat still, looking on at Mr. Linden's
work, with a little soberness of brow. That broke too, when
she met his eye, in a very frank and deep smile.
"Well?" he said, laughing and leaning back against the.
closet door.

"Will you let me go and get tea now ?" she said with
the same look.
"You pretty child !-No, I want Best to get t~ea-and
you to be quiet."
"I'll come and be quiet in three minutes, Endy,-after I
get rid of the dust,".-she said winningly.
"Genuine minutes? If Ariel 'put a girdle round the
earth' in forty, you should be able to put one round your
waist in three-I suppose that is included in a feminine
'getting rid of the dust'."
Faith's face promised faithfulness, as she ran off towards
the kitchen; where in less than three minutes she and Best
had proved the (sometimes) excellence of women's business
faculties. Meantime a strange man lifted the latch of the
kitchen door, and carefully closing it after 'him remained
upon the scene of action.
"How d'ye do," he said. "Is the new man come?"
"Everybody's new here," said Faith. "Whom do you
mean
"Couldn't tell ye the first word! But I've been after
him better'n three times, if he aint,"-4he m~n spoke as if
it was " worse" instead of better.
"Whom do you mean ?" said Faith more gravely ;~~-J' the
minister?"
"Now that's what I call hitting the nail," said her visi-
~ ter. "Well if he's here, just tell him to come up the
mounUng, will ye ?"
"When?"
"Moon sets close on to nine-and its lighter afore
that."
"Where is the place?" said Faith, now 'very serious in-
deed ;-" and what do you want the minister for ?"
"I don't want him, bless you !" said the man. "If I did,
I shouldn't be standing' here. It's an old soul up our way.
lie's got to go up to the bridge~ and over the bridge and
otherr side of the bridge-and so on till he comes to it.
And the bridge is slippy." With which summing up, the
man turned to the door, rattling the latch in a sort of pre-
paratory way, to give Faith a chance for remarks.
"But who wants him there-and what for? you haven't
told me."


49'3                SAY AND SEAL.

"Why it's old Uncle 'Bias. Sen he's sick he's got
something on his mind--never seemed to afore.-.--and he's
in a takin' to tell it. That's all." And he opened the
doqr.
"Why won't to-morrow do as well as to-night ?"
"W~al" said the man slowly,-"s'pose it might. N~~q
ertheless, to-morrow aint worth much to him. Nobody'd
give much for it."
"Why?"
"'Taint certain he'd get what he paid for."
"Is he very sick?"
"Very enou~h-.
the door.    ~   "said the man with a~nod and Opening
Faith sprang forward. "Stop a minute-will you, friend
-and see Mr. Linden."
"That's his name !-as sure as guns," said he of the
'mounting.' "No, thank'ee, I don't care about seem'
him now-next .time'l1 do just as well, and it's time he
was off."
"Then wait and shew him the way, will you? how is he
to find it?"
"Do tell !" said the man slowly, "if he can't find his way
round in the moonlight ?"
A "Better than moat people," said Faith; "but Ii think he
~ would like to see you."
The man however chose to defer that pleasure also to
"next time," and went off. Faith went Th the study.
Coining up behind Mr. Linden where he was sitting, and
laying both hands on his shoulders, she said in a very low
and significant voice, "Endy-some one wants you."
Only that you never assert your claims," he said, bring.
ing the hands together, "I should suppose it must be the
very person whom I want."
Her head stooped lower, till the soft cheek and hair lay
against his. But she only whispered, "Endy-it is some
one up the mountain."
"Is it ?" he said, rousing up; but only turning his lips
to her cheek. "Well-people up the mountain must have
what they want. Is it now, Faith ?"
"Endy-they say it's a dying man."
"Where? Is the messenger here ?"

496

SAY AND SEAL.                 49~
"I couldn't make him wait-he thought he had business
somewhere else. The place is-I dare ~y Malthus knows
.-up the mountain, beyond the bridge--you are to go over
the bridge and on till you come to the house. And he says
the bridge is slippery." Only a fine ear could detect the
little change in Faith's voice. But she knew it was no-
Peed, from the smile on the lips that kissed her, two or
three times. Then Mr. Linden disengaged himself and
rose up.
"Faith," he said, "you are to wait tea for me, -and
in the mean time you must take one of 'Miss Bezac's
cups of comfort and lie down on the sofa and go to sleep.
Your eyes will be just as good guiding stars sleeping as
waking."
She said not another word, but watched him go off and
out into the half dark wilderness. The moon shone bright
indeed, but only touched the tops of many a woody outline,
and many a steep mountain side rose up and defied her.
Faith smelled the wi~I sweet air, looked up and down at
the gleams of light and bands of shadow; and then came
back to the study where the fire blazed, and sat down on
the floor in front of it. Gazing into the red coals, and fob
lowing in fancy Mr. Linden on his walk and errand. It
took him away from her, and so many such an errand
would, often; but to speak comfort to the dying and tell
the truth to the ignorant. Faith gloried in it. He was an
'i ambassador of Christ; and not to have him by her side
~ would Faith keep him from his work. That he might do
his work well-that he might be blessed in it, both to
others and himself, her very heart almost fused itself in
prayer. So thinking, while every alternate thought was a
l)etition for him, weariness and rest together at last put her
~ to sleep; and she slept a dreamless sweet sleep with her
head on Mr. Linden's chair.
She awoke before he got back, though the evening was
long set in. Feeling r&amp;reshed, Faith thought herself at
liberty to reverse orders and went to the forbidden closet
again, and to further conjurations with Best. They could
notQ have taken long; for when, some hour later, Mr. Lin-
den was nearing the house on his return, he had a pretty
view of her, standing all dressed before the fire in his study.
42~


498              SAY AND SEAL.                                    SAY AND SEAL.             499

The glow shone all over her---he, could see her well, aiia
her fresh neatness. He could see more. Faith Linden to~
night was not just the Faith Derrick of old time; nor even
of six months ago. The old foundations of character were
all there, intact; but upon them sat a nameless grace, not
simply of cultivation7 nor of matured intelligence, nor even
of happiness. A certain quiet elegance, a certain airy dig.
nity-which had belonged to her only since she had been
ilL". Linden's w~fe. She stood there, waiting now for him
to come home.
The firelight caught behind her the 'gleam of silver,
whether Mr. Linden could see it or not, where the little
chocolati~re stood brilliant. Faith had found that in her
last rummaging. Miss Bezac's new trencher and bread
knife were on the table too, with a loaf of Mrs. Olyphant's
bread; and the fireshine gleamed on Mr. Aldott's salt
cellars, and on the Mignonette tea service. Faith evidently
had pleased her ftincy. But now her fancy had forgotten it
or left it in the background; and for what, was well shewa
by her spring as she caught the sound of the coming step.
She met Mr. Linden at the door, gladness in every line and
movement, and yet the same grace over all her action now(
that a minute before was in all her repose. She said
nothing at all.

'Watching for me, my dear child !" he said. "Faith, you
have been on my heart all these hours."
She waited till he had come up to the fire, and then
softly inquired, "What for ?"
"'What for no' ?" he said smiling, but giving her face a
somewhat earnest consideration. "Have you been asleep ?"
"Yes. And then I thought I might gd after my choco-
late pot, in the closet."
"Sensible child! What did you think upon the great
question of setting forth to see me safe over the bridcre ?"
Her face changed, though smiling. She whispered,-
"I did see you safe over it." But his lips were grave in-
stantly, and the eyes even flushed. And Faith could see
then that he was exceedingly tired. Gently her hands
rather insinuated than pushed him into the chair, and she
ran away to give an orders coming' back to do two or
three other things for his comfort. Still silent, standing

there beside his chair, she presently stooped and put her
fresh sweet lips to his. Roses full of dew are not sweeter;
and if roses were sentient things their kisses could not give
sympathy more flagrantly, nor with more pure quiet.
Holding her fast, Mr. Linden asked what she thought of
her share of clerical duties, on the whole?
Faith answered somewhat quaintly, "Not much."
"You don't !-What a triumph for Miss Essie. Were
you lonely, Faith ?"
She was going to answer, then sprang away from him,
for Malthus came to the door. And the table was spread,
with as dainty exactness as if there were no disorder any.
where in Mr. Linden's household. The little chocolati~z'e
steamed out its welcome, Malthus was gone, and Faith
stood by Mr. Linden's chair again.
"It is ready, Endecott."
He had watched her from under, the shadow of his hand,
-her soft arranging steps and touches. "Faith," he said
looking up, "is this the night when I am to have sugarless
tea-to remind me of the over-sweetened cup of long
ago?"
Her smile and flash of the eye were conscious as well as
bright. "I guess sugar is 'potent' yet, Endy."
"You are !-" he said. "Have you been lonely, my dear
child ?-.You don't answer me.",
She hesitated a very littler "I felt you were away,
Endy-but I didn't wish you here. No, I wasn't lonely."
his eyes spoke a full understanding of both parts of her
sentence. But his words touched somewhat else.
"Those poor people up on the mountain !-poor as un-
belief could make them. Faith, I must go there again in
the morning."
"Is it far ?"
"Pretty far. On the crest of, the ridge."
"What about them, Endy ?"
"What were you looking for, here in the embers ?"
"I ?-" she said, the colour instantly starting as she uu~
derstood his question. "I was looking for you, then."
"I was sure of it. I saw myself distinctly portrayed in
a piece of charcoal."
She laughed, gaily and softly. "Wouldn't you like to


500             SAY AND SEAL.

have some tea, and then tell me what you saw up on the
mountain ?"~~she whispered.
"Ah little Sunbeam," he said, "I spent some weary hours
there. No, I don't want to tell you about it to-night. And                                        6
so at last I came home,-.thinking of the scene I had been ~
through, and of you-left alone here in this strange place,
And then I had that vision of my wife."
She was silent, her face showing certainly a grave con-
sciousness that he was tired and a full entering into the
feeling of his work; but for herself, a spirit as strong in its
foundations of rest, as full of joy both in his work and in
him-as a spirit could be. So till her eyes met his, then
the look broke in a winsome little confessing smile, and the (
eyes fell.
"Don't you want something better than visions ?" she
said.
"Is that a challenge ?"-lle laughed and rose isp, carry.
ing her off to her place at the table, and installing her with
all the honours; and still holding her by the shoulders
asked "if she felt like the head of the house ?"
"No indeed 1" said Fiiith.
"What then?"
"You know-" said Faith colouring-" What I am."
"Mrs. Endecott, I suppose. I have noticed, Mignonette"
said Mr. Linden as he went round to his chair, "that when
ever you see fit to agree with me it is always in your own
words !"
Which remark Faith. benevolently answered with a cup
of cocoa, which was good enough to answer anything.

END OF VOL. II.

500


  
             
         
       
   
