
    ----CITATION----
        Eldridge, Abby.. Norman Brill's Life-work .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8020
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Norman Brill's life-work 
            
               You came in time to keep me from it."-page 99.    RMA' MAN 1'3RILL'S "FE-WORK.  BY ABBY ELDRIDGE. 5, e,. , AUTHOR OF "CAST OUT," ETC,  I    -  NEW YORK: Temperance Society and Publication House, No. 58 READE STREET.  1875.           i   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year I875, by J. N. STEARNS, In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. ORPHANS' PRESS, CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION, BROOKLYN, N. Y.   NORMAN BRILL'S LIFE-WORK. CHAPTER I. AND to every man his work."  The words were ringing in the ears- of Norman Brill, and he could not hush them.- The solemn sermon of the night be- fore, of which these words had formed the text, had impressed him as sermons had rarely done before, and he could not throw off the thoughtfulness produced by it. The words had come to him when he first awoke, and amid the cheer and mirth of the breakfast table had kept him quiet, and now as he walked to his place of business, they had full sway. At last he said to himself, somewhat im- patiently:   6  Noran Brill's Life- Work, "Of course I have my work. I am in the store, and have my duties to perform, and I try to do them well." Then at the thought of how few those duties were, and how easily they were avoided, a laugh escaped him. "It is rather foolish to speak of my work thus. The oldest son of the proprietor, with money enough  for all my wants, and  no need for exertion, it seems absurd to reckon myself with those to whom work has been given. And yet the preacher said to every man work had been given, and for its right performance, he would be held .'accountable at the day of judgment. I trembled as he described one who had neglected his work, as he was called on for an account of his stewardship, and was speechless; and yet, should I be called upon, what could I say? With wealth and time, surely there must be work somewhere for me, but where is it to be found? How am  I to go about it when   Norman Brill's Life- Work.    7 it is found? What certainty have I that it will be well done? There are so many dif- ficulties that I feel tempted to go on in the old way, and run the risk. But then the judgment! It oppresses me." Suddenly his reverie was arrested by a sharp cry. It was a dreary winter's day. The driz- zling rain had been falling through the morn- ing, and froze as it touched the cold earth, so thalt it was very difficult to walk. Looking up to see whence the cry came, Norman saw that a little boy on the opposite side of the street had fallen down, and dropped his bas- ket. The bundles were scattered about, and the boy was evidently hurt, for all his efforts to get up were vain.  Norman stood and watched him for a moment, but by this time others had stopped about him, and he started on his way again.' "And to every man his work." The words came so distinctly now, that he looked around   8   Norman Bril's Life- Work. to see who had spoken, but no one was neat except a market woman, too busily engrossed in keeping dn her feet to take notice of any one else. "Well," he said, "what work? What has that to do with the boy? He has already been picked up, and for aught I know is already on his way.  Besides, he is nothing to me." But he could not stifle the voice that was speaking, and after a few more steps, he halted, looked around, saw. several still around the boy, and started towards him. By the time he came to the spot, all had dispersed, leaving the boy alone with a policeman. The latter was just saying: "Well, I see no way but to take you into the hospital near here, and let them see what is the matter. It is all I can do for you, for it will not do for me to leave my beat." The boy's face was the very picture of   Normnan Brill's Life- Work.   9 distress; and Norman drew near, and asked kindly, "Are you much hurt, my boy?" "Oh no, I hope not," said the officer. "I tell him I will take him to the hospital, and they will soon set all to rights. He has knocked the skin off his knee, and it is so stiff he cannot walk." "That is the best thing, to be done, I suppose," Norman said. "'They will be kind to you there, and you -need not be afraid. Come, be a man and you will soon be well again." Tears started to the boy's dyes, though he was trying hard to keep them back, and he' only had voice to say, "But the groceries?" Norman glanced into the basket. Some one had picked up the bundles, but the rain had wet them, and they had burst, and beans, coffee, &c, were mixed together. "These things are in a sad state," he said,   io   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "but I think I can soon make all that right. Where did they come from?" "Mr. Andrew Benson's." "Ys, I know the place. Well, you would lile me to go there?" he asked, kindly. "Oh! if you only would." "I will; and now you will go to the hospital with this man?" "Yes sir," the boy said slowly, but he' looked so wistfully at Norman that he spoke again. "There is something else wrong, I can see. Do not be afraid to speak?" "My mother,' he said. "Your mother will have  to find out for herself," the officer said, "for you are making this gentleman lose valuable time." "I know it," the boy said sadly, "and I didn't like to ask him to do it, but-" "Of course she must know of it," Norman interrupted. "It is strange I did not think   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   II of it myself. Where can I find her?"The boy gave the directions, and added, "Oh, sir, I shall be so glad! She would be so frightened. Tell her I am not much hurt, and will soon be home." Norman turned away, and then it occurred to him on what strange errands he was bent. It seemed so out of place for him, the weal- thy, aristocratic Norman Brill, to be walking about the city with messages from a little errand boy, that he almost repented of his promises; but not long. No sooner did he recall the look of relief and pleasure that had come to the boy's face, than he felt doubly repaid for whatever trouble he might have in carrying out his wishes. Mr. Benson's was near at hand. A man was standing near the door when Norman entered. "Can I' see Mr. Benson?" he asked "That is my name."   12   JNorman Brill's Life- Work. "Well, Mr. Benson, I come on a strange errand this morning. Your boy, while carry- ing these things home, slipped on the ice. Though I hope he is not much hurt, he could not walk, and so has been taken to the hospital. I brought your goods back," he said with a smile, glancing -at the contents of the basket, "though not in a prime con- dition." "I should think not," was the gruff reply. "You might as well have emptied them  in the street, for all the good. they are to me." "I knew that, but it was a relief to the boy, and so I promised to bring them here." "There is no sense in a boy's being so careless." "I beg pardon, sir, but it is so slippery a day, that it is not at all surprising that a. little boy like him should fall." "If he is not large enough to keep on his   Norman. Brill's Life- Work.   13 feet, he is not large enough to be of use to me." "You will take him back?" "Yes, long enough to pay for the things he has wasted to-day; then the sooner he goes, the better." "You cannot mean that, Mr. Benson?" "I certainly do mean it." "Then you will be very unjust." iI think I know my own business, sir!" "Perhaps so, but you certainly stand very much in your own light. You will, I hope, reconsider the matter." "When my mind   is made up, I never change it." "Very well, sir. I will ask your clerk to rmake a bill of the contents of this basket, and will pay it myself. I bid you good morn- ing."   ' Normane walked to the side where a clerk stood. He had been near enough to hear   i4   Norman Brill's Life- Work. the conversation, and having produced the bill, asked what should be done with the things. "They are most of them useless. Throw them out, as Mr. Benson said." "Then, sir, if you are willing, I will take the things round to Ben's mother to-night. She is very poor, and can make use of them." "Very poor, did you say?" "Yes sir, and they will miss Ben's wages, mean as they are. Poor little fellow! he is a good, obliging boy, and will feel badly to lose his place." "Something else must be found for him to do. Good morning." Norman was on his way from  the store, when his father entered and spoke to Mr. Benson. Then looking up, and seeing his' son, he said, "Why, Norman, you here? I thought you were at the store long ago."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   IS "So I expected to be, but I met with a singular adventure this morning. Instead of attending to the work of A. G. Brill, I have turned messenger for a little errand boy. What brought you here?" "I came with an order from your mother, and she wished to have it attended to at once," he said, turning to Mr. Benson. "Excuse me, father," Norman said, taking the paper from his father's hand, "but if you have no objection, I should like to close ac- counts with Mr. Benson to-day, and go elsewhere. My transactions with him this morning have not been of a character to exalt him in my opinion. I do not trust a man who is unjust in his dealings with the poor a nd needy." "I am sorry to hear of any disagreement," Mr. Brill said hurriedly, "but do, as you please. Only be sure your mother has the things," he said, turning to leave the store. "When may I expect to see you?" . ,   16   Normnal Brill's Life- Work. "Some time during the morning, I hope. My services are not so invaluable that I shall be greatly missed," Norman said with a smile, though a slight sigh followed it. Mr. Benson had looked on in astonishment from the beginning of the conversation, and now realized what Norman meant when he said he stood in his own  light. Crest-fallen and caught in his own snare, he turned abruptly, and went to another part of the store. Norman Brill found the place to which the boy had directed him, with some difficulty. As he reached the little frame house, he was struck with its neatness, though there was an air of poverty about it. A young girl an- swered his knock, and he went in at her invi- tation. A woman was in the room sewing, and supposing she was the one he sought, he said: "I came to see you in reference to a little boy; Ben, they called him, and I was directed here. Am I in the right place?"   Norman Brill's Life- Work.    r "Yes," she said, "I am his mother;" and a look of alarm came to her face. "There is nothing wrong, I hope?" "Nothing serious, I trust," was the reply. "It is very slippery, and he had a fall on the ice, andbruised his knee, so that he could not walk. He was taken to the hospital.  He seemed so distressed at the thought of his mother's anxiety that I promised to bring you word of his whereabouts." "You are very kind, sir. Poor little fellow, he always thinks first of me. You do not know how far the injury extended? Were you at the hospital?'  "No, I was passing when he fell, and went to him. An officer took charge of him, while I went first to the store, and then came here." "They know it there, then? I must go to see him at once, and thought of stopping there on my way." Mr. Brill hesitated, then said, "It would be *   i8   Norman Brill's L fe- Work,  useless for you to go there. Mr. Benson was  angry that he fell, and will not wait for him." At the words, a look almost of despair passed over the woman's face, and she said  bitterly, "The poor have no right to be sick, or anything else that will interfere with their  employers." "With such as he, it would seem   not," Norman replied. "I think it better he should leave there at any rate, as there was little prospect of justice or generosity. He can find another place." "Ah! sir, that is not so easy as you sup- pose. It may seem  strange that I feel so  ( badly at the loss of a position which brings but a mere pittance; but even that is of great 4 importance when it is the only thing to be depended upon, and there are hungry mouths  to fill."          *  Norman looked up, caught her eye, and a sudden memory of days gone by flashed upon   I i   Aorman Brill's Life- Work.   19 him, but that was all. Where he had seen the woman, he could not tell. She saw his puzzled look, but could not divine its cause. He rose to leave, saying he would see what could be. done, and whether there was not some other place for the boy. "I should be so thankful if you could find one, sir. God will reward you for your kind- ness to a stranger. We will see you again?" "Oh! yes," was the quick reply. "I feel quite interested in the boy, and shall want to hear from him. Good-morning." i'  CHAPTER II. OO my proud, aristocratic brother has taken to carrying grocery baskets, and to patronizing errand boys," said Harry Brill, as the family were seated at the table that day. Norman slightly colored, then said quietly: "Pray, who is your informant, Harry?" "I have it from good authority, so out with it, old fellow, and confess to the truth." "I cannot confess, until I hear the story, and know what I am confessing." "Well, then, James Massinger was angry with me this morning, and to vent his spite, said I need not be so proud and stuck up, and I need not   Norman BrWll's Life- Work.   21 boast any more of my big brother, for he had seen him acting very ridiculously to-day. He had been lamenting over a boy who had simply fallen on the ice, and had tried to pet him up, and carried his basket for him, &c. He made a very ridiculous story, and I told him I didn't believe a word of it. Now I would feel obliged to you for your denial, Norman. It was not true?" "Not as he told it, if there 'was anything ridiculous in it. It is true, a boy did fall on the ice and hurt himself. I sympathized with him, and took his basket where it belonged. If that is ridiculous, let it be, for I should be very likely to do the same thing again." "Bravo! Norman; I always said you were a trump." T 'Harry!" "Well, a brick then, mother." "That is no better." "What shall I say, then? A dear good   22   Norman Brill's Life- Work. fellow that I am proud to call brother. Was the boy hurt much?" "I do not know.  He was taken to the hospital. By the way, mother, did you re-l ceive the things that were ordered this morning?" "Yes, but from a new store. What did it mean?" "Mr. Benson was pleased. to discharge the boy because he was hurt, and I to take from him our custom, because he discharged the boy. You do not care?" "No, not at all, though if you undertake to see that all act justly, I am afraid you will have your hands full. Nevertheless, I am glad you are on the side of right." Saturday had come, and yet Norman Brill had not redeemed his promise to call again and see how his protege was getting along. He had not forgotten him, but such work was new to him, and now that the first   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   23 excitement was over, he felt a strange hesi- tancy in visiting the cottage again. He, though courted in fashionable society and at home in the circles of the great, found difficulty in so humble a service. There was another draw- back to his visit, also. Through the week he had kept the boy in mind, and had inquired in various places for a situation, but without effect, and he dreaded telling the mother how unsuccessful he had been. tie felt now that it would do to put it off any longer, and late in the' day, he was again at the cottage. The' lady herself opened the door, and a pleasant smile told him of his welcome. "I came," he said, " to see how your boy was." "He is getting along well," was the reply, "and we hope that in a week or two, he will be entirely recovered." "A week or two? Then he was hurt more than I imagined.  I expected to find him here by this time."   24   Normian Brill's Lzfe- Work. "The doctor says the injury is not serious, only tedious; and he requires perfect rest. I, wanted him  home, for we miss him sadly, but he is better provided for there;" and a slight sigh escaped her, involuntarily, for she was not one to pour her sorrows into a stranger's ear. "Had I known that, I should probably have been here before, but my efforts to. find Ben a place have been unsuccessful, and I did not like to disappoint you." "You are very kind, sir, and I do not know how to thank you for your interest in a stranger. It is well that it is so, for it would have been very hard for him to lie in bed, knowing he was losing a good place by it; God knows best, and it is safe to trust all in His hands. May I ask your name, sir?" "Brill!' "Brill? The name is very familiar, but   Norrnan Brill's Life-Work.   25 there have been so many changes during the last few years, that I cannot recall where I have heard it." "It is the name of one of the prominent business houses here, Maggie," interposed the young girl whom Norman had seen on his former visit. A faint smile spread over the lady's face. "That may be, Grace, but we have not lived here long. Besides I get out so little that I would not remember it in that connection. I am glad to know the name, however, for Ben asks very eagerly about you, and he will be pleased to know by what name to call you." "If he would like, I might go to the hos- pital to see him; though I am  afraid my visit would do him little good. I am  so unused to sickness." "It would be delight enough for him just to see you again. You entirely won his heart   26   Norman Brill's Life- Work. that morning, and a visit would beguile him from his loneliness." "I will go, then, soon," and he rose to leave the room. "By the way," he said with a laugh, as he stood with his hand upon the door, "it would be advisable for me to know whom I am to ask for." "I should think so. Ben Pugh." Norman started, then took a seat again, "You must excuse me," he said. "My emo- tion must seem strange to you, but I never hear the name of Pugh without a strange thrill. It was that of a very dear friend of mine, a teacher, who was more like an elder brother." "What was his Christian name?" the wo- 'man asked, her pale cheeks flushed, and the sadness of her eye rather increased. "M eredith Pugh. He taught in the academy in H-- . Do you know him?" "As -woman knows her husband."   Normy z Brill's Life- Work.  27 "Can it be so? and are you the Miss Mag- gie Burns who was his affianced at the time I knew him?" "I am the same." "I should never have known you," Norman said, after a careful scrutiny of her face. "Yes, there was something about you on Monday that recalled the past, and it is now accounted for. How strange we should have been thrown together in this way. Your husband was my favorite teacher. Lonely and homesick, he won me from my dejection; indolent and unam- bitious, he lured me to greater efforts. If I ever am worth anything, I shall attribute it in a great measure to his influence. Finding you thus, my heart tells me that he is dead. Oh! that once more I could have seen his face, and thanked him for all his kindness, for I never fully appreciated it, until I lost: sight of him." Mrs. Pugh hurriedly left the room, and   28   Norman Brill's Life- Work. Norman, fearing that he had needlessly grievqd her, arose to go, with a word of apology. As he arose, Grace arose too. Her color came rapidly, and she was apparently trying to speak. Norman stopped to give her time, and at last in low tones came the words: "You mistake, sir. He is not dead." "Not dead! Then what means this?" The words came unbidden to his lips, and he would have recalled them as soon as ut- tered, but it was too late. Grace did not speak, tears filling her eyes, and the bright color mantling to her cheek, but he was an- swered in another way. The door swung open, and a man reeled in, with a curse upon his lips. Grace shrunk  back just in time, for he fell full length upon the floor. Norman stepped forward, but she motioned him away. "No, please don't," she said in an under-   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   29 tone. "He will be angry, and we can manage him better alone." With a heavy heart he left the house. This, then, was the secret of the terrible story; this the wreck of what had been such a noble man; and strong drink had done it ill. Was it right to indulge in anything that would produce such ruin--such deep misery? This was a new thought to Norman, accus- tomed to wine from early childhood; using it day after day at the family board, and in the social circle, he had given no thought to the outcry against it, though he had often heard its use denounced. The temperance sermon preached that day was stronger than any he had ever heard before, and made its voice heard.  The past week had wrought a change in him. He, the idolized son of wealthy parents, the courted and flattered in the social circle, had spent his days comparatively free from care.   30   Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work. The cares-and sorrows of others had not reached him before, but now some of their depths had been suddenly unfolded before his eyes, and he could not close them to the stern facts. Hence- forth, without great violence to his better in- stincts, he could not be so thoughtless as before; nor could he forget that while blessings had been showered upon him, others were called upon to drink the bitter dregs of poverty and suffering. A very bright face greeted Norman Brill early the next week, as he entered the hospital, and very eager words bade him welcome. Ben was still on the bed, his knee being too stiff for him to use, but very seldom painful now, he said. As Norman had opportunity to study his face, he found it was very pale and thin, and it re- flected somewhat the sadness of his mother's. Even this young child had reaped the fruits of his father's wrong doing, and his heart was often overburdened with its load. Yet Norman   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   3 wondered at his apparent cheerfulness, his en- tire freedom from murmuring, as he lay con- fined to the sick bed. In answer to Norman's questionings, Ben said they were very kind to him, and though he did want to be well, so as to be at home again, and help his mother, he was so glad she was not troubled with him now. "You would not trouble her, I am sure," Norman said. "Oh, no, not in one way, but then you know "-He hesitated, but seeing the kind face bent over him, he was re-assured and went on. "You know, sir, I would have to have medi- cine, and mother is very poor. Then it would keep her from her work to have to wait on me, and that would fret me worse than being here." So young and yet so thoughtful. Norman could trace in this something of his father's dis- position, as he had known it in his better days. When he displayed  the white grapes and   32   Norman Brill's Life- Work. oranges he had brought with him, the child's eyes sparkled. "You are so kind, and you never knew me before."  "Not you, Ben; but your father was a very dear friend of mine, and all I can do for you, will not be too much to show my gratitude." A sad smile passed over Ben's face, and he looked wistfully into his friend's eyes, inquir- ingly, too, as if to ask whether he knew all. Norman hesitated to speak of what he knew was in the boy's mind, but thinking if he was to help him and his mother, he could do so more effectually by not having this secret come between them, he said: "I know what troubles you, Ben, but I hope for better days. We will work together, and see if we cannot do him good." Tears gathered in Ben's eyes, and his only answer was a warm pressure of the hand, for just then another visitor came to the bed.   Nlorman Brill's Life- Work.   33 "Well, Benny, how are you this morning? Very happy, I know, at having your friend herd." Then turning to Norman, he said: "I believe I need no introduction to you, sir, for I am sure from what Ben has told me that it is Mr. Brill. You must permit nme to thank you for your kindness to this little boy, for he is one of my flock, and as such very dear to me." "Indeed, Dr. Reed, thanks are not needed for what little I have done. On the contrary, mine are due you for bringing me to know this boy, the -son of a former teacher, and a very - dear one." "Indeed? But in what way am I connected with it? I believe I have never met you before." "I heard you preach a week or two ago, on 'And to every man his work!' So vivid was the impression made, that I could not shake off the feeling that I must go to this boy's rescue, when I saw him fall." "And that is the way in which it has come '**   34   Norman Brill's Life- Work about. We know preaching is not in vain, from God's own word; and yet it is pleasant to see it bring forth fruit sometimes. I am very glad to have had any part in leading you to this good work, very glad to find you about your Master's business." As Norman said good bye, Ben pulled him down and whispered, "May I give mother some?" "Certainly, if you wish. They are yours to do with as you please. I will come again soon if you do not get well too fast."   CHAPTER    III. HE close of the day found Norman in the midst of an evening   party. The rooms were tastefully decorated with flowers, and the -gay participants in the scene adorned in soft, fleecy robes; but it had not the usual fascination for him, and was in strange contrast to the scene he had witnessed in the hospital. Yet despite its sad side, that had given him more real enjoyment than these gayeties had ever done; and now, while passing through the intricate mazes of the dance, and listening to the light, trifling conversation of his companions, his thoughts were far away. He was several times rallied     36   Normai Brill's Life- Work. on his abstraction, and many wondered what had come over the usually gallant young beau. Late in the evening he stood with several others, partaking of the choice viands which had been prepared, when wine was brought. "You will, drink to my health, Mr. Brill?" said his young hostess, Miss Ida Morris. His glass was filled and lifted to his lips, when suddenly he became very pale, and set it down untasted. "You must excuse me, Miss Morris, but I must beg leave to decline." A look of surprise was her only reply, but another exclaimed with haughtiness, "Indeed, Mr. Brill! You act as if the glass was poisoned." "I feel that it is," was the rejoinder. "You surely jest," said Miss Morris. "No, Miss Morris; on the contrary, the poison is so deadly that I dare not drink of it."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   37 There was only deep, intense earnestness in the face that looked into hers, and as others were coming up, and she was in no mood to discuss the question, the subject was dropped for the time. That this was not the end, but that he would meet with a storm of remon- strance, perhaps even of ridicule, Norman was well aware. Those who knew him best, knew that to such opposition he could be as deaf as an adder--as immovable as a block of stone. At his next visit, Norman found Mrs. Pugh alone, The conversation was constrained and painful. They knew  that underneath their words was a deep current of feeling- a sub- ject they dared not approach. At length Mrs. 'Pugh said, abruptly: "Grace told me all, Mr. Brill. You knew him as he was; you have seen him as he is. In a time of great physical weakness, when   38   Norman Brill's Life- Work. life itself was a burden, the doctor ordered stimulants. When his health became better, he found, too late, that he was a prisoner, in a bondage, the terrors of which only the initiated know. The rest you can imagine; yet do not judge him harshy. He is very kind when he is himself." When Norman left, her words returned to him, "He is very kind when he is himself,'? A woman's love pleading through all this neglect and misery for the object of her affection. Truly "many waters cannot quench it." Was it kindness that hiad drawn those deep lines on her forehead, and whitened her raven locks? Was it kindness that had wast- ed the round, plump figure, and bent the erect form? Was it kindness that had caused the eye to lose its brightness, and tinged the voice with sadness? Ah! you who handle the wine cup, look upon the face of your beloved, and ask    Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work.   39 whether you would be willing to see it fading before your eyes, as the result of your own wrong doing! If not, stop now, lest, when it is too late, the cup of remorse be pressed to your lips, and you be forced to drain it to the dregs. "Not any, James." The words were spoken in an undertone to the servant who was about to fill Norman's glass with wine, but they were not low enough to escape the notice of a young man seated opposite to him. There was contempt and sneering in the voice of the latter, as he spoke. "Ah! Norman, I heard strange reports of your conduct the other evening, reports which I was not prepared to believe. From your present action, however, I find my denial of them was premature, and I now suppose you acted as foolishy and ungentlemanly as was reported."   40   Nornan Brill's Life- Work. The quick color came to Mr Brill's face, and he looked up haughtily.  "Those are harsh terms, Mr. Whitmore; terms that I am not used to having applied to my son; nor do I intend to have them pass unchallenged." The young man saw at once that he had made a mistake. However Mr. Brill might agree with him in the main as to his son's conduct, he had taken the wrong way to introduce the subject. Now?he hastened to do away with the efifct of his words. Pardon me, Mr. Brill. I spoke hastily and feelingly, for I feel deeply. Norman has al- ways been one whom I have been proud to call friend, so that any breach of etiquette or courtesey on his part, is very painful to me." "Norman discourteous,! That is certainly an unwonted thing for him. Explain, Nor- man."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   4 "Mr. Whitmore has introduced the subject, father. Let him explain himself." He spoke coolly, but there was a vein of indignation in his tone that could not fail to attract Mr. Whitmore, who rather regretted that he had spoken. Now there was no al- ternative; he must tell the story. He did so, as it had been repeated to him, with the embellishments which usually attend the recital of such a transaction. "Is that true, Norman?" "It is, father, so far as my refusing to take a glass of wine went. As for the rest, I hope you know me well enough to belieye that it bears a falsehood on its face.' "So I thought, my son; but why did you refuse wine? It is a new and unusual thing for you. "It is new, but it will not be unusual in the future. I have resolved to drink it no more." "Why, Norman?"   q4   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "Because I think it is too dangerous a thing to be trifled with." "May I ask if you have felt its danger, to your own shame?"The covert sneer Norman did not notice. "No, Mr. Whitmore, I am very thankful that I never have. Had I gone so far as that, I might not have been able to give it up; but it never affected my brain, as it does that of so many others." "Then, what harm can it do you, my son?" "To me, perhaps, none; but with those who drink with me it might be different, and my influence would be bad. Besides, I do not wish to tamper with a temptation, the strength of which none may know, until it has so wound its chains around him that it is al- most impossible to burst them." "You must be very weak not to be able to resist. Not many would thus own their weak- ness."   NVorman Brill's Life- Work.   43 Norman fixed upon his guest a firm, un- flinching gaze, and then said quietly  "I do not pretend to be so much stronger than my fellow-men; others have fallen, and there is no warrant that I shall not. I do not mean to run the risk." "What has caused this sudden change in your feelings, my son?" "In the last few days I have witnessed some of the evils arising from strong drink. I have seen a man noble, intelligent,' and fitted to take the highest position in society, degraded to the. level of the beast. I knew him in his bettcr days, loving, generous, and beloved; I have seen him in his worst, and it is hard to believe that he can be the same. The. woman whom he loved as his life, and promised to cherish tenderly, lie reproaches and neglects; he lounges about, and leaves her and a little son to work; he makes his home a place of misery, and all through the   "   mVorman Brill's Life- Work.      . love of drink. Can we too much hate and  avoid the cause of all this misery?" "But he is a brute. I would not compare myself to him." "Yes, father, you once respected and ad- mired him. It is Meredith Pugh of whom I speak, professor in the academy in H--; and I have seen him lying drunk upon the floor. Further still, it was not foolish tam- pering with a forbidden pleasure that brought all this evil to pass, but in time of bodily weakness, the doctor ordered wine. When his health was restored, the habit of taking it had gained such power over him that he could not break from its use. The sight of the misery which this one man has caused, the wreck of his hopes and aims, have preached to me a stronger temperance lecture than any I ever heard before. I have heard such things and thought them exaggerated, but now I see the half was not told me; therefore I give up wine."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   45 "And you in your turn had better become temperance lecturer." "Which I shall do, Mr. Whitmore, as far my actions and influence are concerned."  Some months had elapsed, and Norman was- ssing Mr. Pugh's cottage, when a sudden pulse led him to stop. Ben opened the or, and a bright smile came to his face, he saw who the visitor was. "Oh!" he said, "I am so glad you came to ;ht, for father is home." Norman knew  that the words "father is  me" implied that he was in a condition fit be seen. He spoke to the others, and then n said: This is my friend, father; the one that came the hospital, and that got my place for me." There was something of Mr. Pugh's old man-; r, Norman thought, as he rose to greet him, d said, "I am sure I am much obliged to you    -46   Norman Brill's Life- Work. for your kindness to my son. You are welcome, sir." "And am I not welcome on other grounds, for my own sake?"Norman said, extending his hand. "I am so glad to find you again, for I have often wished to do so." Mr. Pugh looked at him keenly. "I cannot recall you." 1- "No, I have changed much, I suppose, but perhaps you will remember my name, Norman Brill." "Indeed I do, and am very glad to see you again. Sit down and let us talk over old times." Norman did sit down, and they talked until the lateness of the hour obliged him to leave. "I have had a very pleasant evening," he said. "And I too, I can assure you, Norman. Will you not come again?" "Certainly I will. If I followed my inclina- tion, I am afraid I should weary you; but Ben   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   47 knows where I am, and any time you wish to see me when you have an evening to spare, send for me, and I will be only too glad to come." The wife and, sister knew what was implied in his words, and they hoped the promise might be used sometime as a plea to keep him in.   CHAPTER IV. HAT can that crowd mean?" H ) 7Norman Brill was walking with a -"v   young lady, when she suddenly inter- rupted the conversation by this question. Where?" he asked. She pointed in the direction, where in the distance a number of boys were hooting and laughing, and apparently much amused by some- thing. I do not know. There is no accounting for boys' crowds, as they are always ready for fun." As the crowd approached Norman saw some one was in their midst, who appeared to be creating all their merriment: and at last he discovered it to be a drunken .man.   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   49 "If boys only knew," he said in a sad tone, "how much misery just such things caused, they would not be so merry over it. My heart aches for that man's family, when I think of their sorrow in seeing him come home in that condi- tion. Miss Morris, such a scene as this unfolds a long catalogue of woes, known only in a drunkard's home. It is because of this I refused the wine you last offered me. Was I right or wrong?" "I do not think one glass of wine need have led to such results. You have often taken it before." "It need not, but often does; therefore I but choose the safe side. Let us turn the corner to avoid the crowd." As they did so, Norman gave a start, and a strange pallor spread over his face. He recognized in the. man, his old teacher, Mr. Pugh. Should he leave him to find his way home alone in that condition? Too far gone   50  Norman Brill's Life- Work. to steady himself, what might not happen.? But to be seen in the street with him, to be followed by the crowd, and so be made conspicuous! what should he do? He hesitated, glanced again, and this time saw that the man was not alone. His little son was trying to lead him. His head was bent to the ground in very shame, but even as Norman looked, he raised his eyes and caught a sight of his friend's face. Such a sad, beseech- ing look, Norman had never seen him wear before, and he hesitated no longer. He had promised in the hospital to help Ben in the effort to reclaim his father. Should he leave him alone in such a trying position, to fight his way through the crowd, how would his promise be redeemed? Miss Morris had seen his look and knew that something was wrong. "Do you know him?" she asked. "I do," he said, "and I cannot leave that child alone with him. Will you excuse my leaving you so abruptly?"   Norman Brill's zife- Work.   5r "Certainly," she said; "I do not need you. I wish you success in your work." He looked at her earnestly, saw no sneer, but only sympathy in her eye. She was be- ginning to feel there were depths in her com- panion's nature that all their frivolous inter- course had never revealed, and she respected him for his present act, requiring so much moral courage. "Thank you," he said. "I  will see you soon," and they parted. "Boys!" It was a loud, commanding   voice that made those addressed forget their merriment and look around; and something in Norman's appearance made them listen. "Are you not ashamed? If you do not care for the man, is it not cowardly to torment that poor child? How much harder you are making this for him."   52   Nornman Brill's Life- Work. There was a moment's silence, then one of the oldest boys said, "We did not think, sir, it is mean. Come, boys, let us leave them alone;" and suiting his action to the words, he ran down another street, and the crowd followed him. Then Norman approached Mr. Pugh and Ben. "This is too much for you, Ben; let me lead your father." The boy looked up gratefully into his bene- factor's face. "I knew you would help me; but indeed, Mr. Brill, you have sent the boys away, I can get him home now. I have done it be- fore." "You do not know what may happen before you get there. I cannot leave you alone with him," and drawing Mr. Pugh's arm  through his own, he tried to steady his faltering steps. It was the hardest work he had ever under- taken. As well known as he was, he was almost   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   53 sure to meet those he knew, and it required no little moral courage to meet friends or ac- quaintances in such companionship. Though he chose the most unfrequented streets, yet he met many; and was greeted by some with looks of pity; by others with incredulity, and by others yet, with scorn. Had these latter paused a moment to con- sider, perchance their scorn would have changed into true pity for the degraded man, and well earned admiration for his protector. But now, as ever, there are many thoughtless men and women, and we must expect to meet with them unto the end. Before they reached his home the drunken man had ceased his occasional outcries, loud laughter, and bursts of song. Though Norman. hailed it as a pleasant change, it required more physical strength to support the man, who was becoming as helpless as a child. "Run home now," he said to Ben, when they   54  i Norman Brill's Life- Work. were nearly there, " tell them we are coming, and let them have a ied ready." So it was that Norman found the door open, and Grace with pallid face by it. Mrs. Pugh had withdrawn, not daring to face Mr. Brill in such a scene of humiliation and distress. Norman got him upon the bed, and with a feeling of disgust left him to sleep away the effects of the liquor. Then he came and stood before the fire-place, and leaning his head upon the mantle, became absorbed in his thoughts. How long he stood thus, he knew not; but he was aroused from his reverie by a light touch on his hand. A plaintive voice said, "Please don't, Mr. Brill; it makes me so un- happy to see you so. I am so sorry it happened and that you met us." I, too, am sorry that it happened," he said, taking a seat, and drawing the boy to him, "but not that I met you. If it was hard for me, what would it have been for you?"   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   55 "I am used to it." There was such pathos in the tone that Nor- man had to turn away to hide his tears. When he spoke again, it was even in a gentler tone than before. "Let us forget the past, and hope for better things in the future. I have not forgotten my promise in the hospital, to try and rescue your father from this evil. You must help me to think of a way. What can I do?" "I don't know, sir ;" and the boy shook his head sadly, "we have tried so often. Per- haps you might talk to him, and he might listen." "I can but try, and if I fail, we will have to seek other means. Good-bye now, I will come again soon." He did not think it worth while to tell the boy how little hope he had, how utterly helpless he felt in this matter. The next evening, as he left home, he   56   Norman Brill's Life- Work. noticed a boy lingering near the house, wh6,  3n seeing him, advanced quickly. "Ah! Ben, is it you?" he asked. "Yes, Mr. Brill." Norman knew  from his manner that he wanted something, so asked, "Why did you come? Nothing is wrong, [ hope?" "No, sir, only we thought, mother and Grace, mnd I,--have you any engagement to-night, Vr. Brill?" "Yes, Ben, I have. I am  on my to a ;oncert." "Then of course you cannot come. Good   ' "ght."                    \ There was such disappointment expressed n the boy's whole manner that Norman :ould not let him go so. '"You must tell me first what you want, 3en."    "There's no use', Mr. Brill. I can not keep   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   57 you from the concert. I would rather not tell you." "But you will, if I wish it, Ben." Thus urged, the boy was only too glad to unburden his heart. "Father has been home all day. He is sober now, and looks sad and troubled. He is getting restless, and mother was afraid he would go out. We thought if you were there, you might do him good." There was a moment's struggle. The con- cert was to be an unusually fine one, and Norman was very fond of music; but the boy was looking to him for help, and he could not disappoint him. "I will go with you," he said. "Oh   I am so glad," the boy said, seizing Norman's hand, and giving it a warm pres- sure. He would not go with Norman, lest his father should think he had come in search   58   Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work. of him, and be displeased; but he hurried on before. Norman was not any too early. Already Mr. .Pugh stood at the door with his hat on, ready to start out. Norman could see from the relieved faces that greeted him, how anxiously they had awaited his coming. "Good evening, Mr. Pugh," he said. "You have not sent me word when I would be able to see you, so I don't know whether I shall be welcome to-night. Perhaps I ought not to come in now, as you are just ready to go out; but having come all this way, I do not feel like going -back again." "I would not have you do so, Norman. I am very glad to see you here, but I am afraid I shall not be pleasant company to-night." "I will risk that. I do not doubt you often found me anything but agreeable at school. By the way, do you know what has become of that teacher that used to laugh at you for taking so much notice of me?"   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   59 The conversation being thus started on old days and old acquaintances, an hour or more passed quickly away. At last the conversation dragged. There was some depressing thought at work in Mr. Pugh's mind that was silencing him. His wife, and sister, and child, hoping that Norman might try to influence him, had left the room, and for a few minutes there was deep silence. Then Norman spoke. "Something seems to trouble you, Mr. Pugh. Is it anything in which I can help you?" "No," he said sadly, "no one can help me." "Perhaps it. is not so bad as you think. You were not wont to look upon the dark side of things. Don't you remember one of your favorite maxims used to be, "Tis darkest just before dawn.' Perhaps it may be so now." Mr.. Pugh looked up with an impatient gesture. "I tell you, Norman, you do not know. Every- thing has changed since those days."'   6o   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "Truth never changes. If your maxim was true then, it must be now." "I tell you there is a difference. There is no dawn to such a night as I am wandering in." "There is, if you will cease to love the dark- ness, and search for the light. If you keep your eyes persistently closed, no light will ever en- lighten them." "I do not believe you, but I will test the truth of your words, or rather, of your belief in them. po you know anything of my life since I left the academy?" "I do." "Of its darkness and degradation?" "I do." "Then," he said, with an angry exclamation, "they have told you, the cowardly tell-tales! I might have known I could not trust a woman." "If you could trust yourself, Mr. Pugh, as you can trust your wife or sister, there would be no   Norman Brild's Life- Work.   6z fear for the future. They did not reveal the dark story of your past. I was here one day when you came home.   Yesterday I found you in the street, and brought you here. What your wife did, was to present to me such palli- ation as your course allowed, and to try as much as possible to shield you from blame. She is a noble woman, worthy of your highest confidence, and love, and protecting care." The man bowed his head in very shame, and said in piteous accents, "I know it, Norman. I knew my words were false; and that is part of my degradation that I can heap reproaches and sorrow upon one whom I love as my life. Ah! who would have believed it! I am sunk irre- coverably, and there is no help. What shall I do?" "Break from this evil course." "You know  not what you say.  You do not know the power of this demon which pos- sesses me."   62-   Norman Brill's Life- ork. "I do not, but something must be done. Fight against it persistently with the whole power of your manhood." % "My manhood!" was the bitter reply; "it is a thing of the past. I tell you the drunkard sacrifices everything; health, strength, honor, happiness; and what. does he get in exchange but such anguish and horror as only he can know." "You must struggle against it resolutely. There is no other way of overcoming." "You do not know, Norman, you cannot know the terrible power this evil exerts over its victims. Have I not resolved and tried, again and again, to break from its enthralment, and found myself bound hand and foot in its iron i grasp? This demon knows no law, human or divine. The unutterable thirst is overwhelming now. I must have drink, if it kill me." "And your wife and child?" "Yes, and my wife and child, too ;" and he   Norman Brill's Lfe- Work.   63 struck his fist heavily upon the table as he arose. "Where are you going?"Norman asked. "Where should I go?" "Nowhere to-night." "You cannot stop me." "I cannot by force, I know," Norman said sadly, " but I did so hope you would remember how in my boyhood you pointed out to me, the petted, spoiled boy, idle and careless, the better way, and roused my ambition, and led me to study, and awakened in me a thirst for what was true and good; and that now, in your hour of need, when I came to pay back part of the debt, and help you to the right path, you would not refuse. Mr. Pugh, for the sake of those old days, for the sake of all that is best and noblest within you, do not say me nay." A chord was touched in the man's breast. Old memories thronged powerfully upon him, and Norman saw that he was yielding.   ".   Norman Brill's L/fe- Work, "My head is throbbing, my pulses are beat- ing; I am stifled in this room, the air would revive me." "So be it; we will go together." They walked for some time, and then came back again. "You will not go out again to-night?" "No," was the' reply, "Nor to-morrow, until I come?" "What good would my promise do?   A drunkard's word is very little worth." "You have never yet deceived me. I will trust you, if you but give your word." "I will not give it." "Yes, you will, to please me." "So be it, then, Norman. You have a strong power over me to-night. To-morrow it will be gone, so I will yield this once."   CHAPTER V. HE next night, as Norman entered the cottage, Mr. Pugh seized his hat, and i   "  almost rushed from the room, but Nor- man's hand was laid upon his arm. "I thought you Would never come, Norman. I have given my last promise. You do not know what unutterable tortures I have endured, but I will end them now." "In what way?" "At the tavern." "That will be only to bring them back in. greater force, more unquenchable fury on the morrow." "I tell you I do not care for that. I know it   "   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  ! better than you, but I must have relief from this gnawing pain, this terrible void." "That will come in time; you must endure it now." "You speak as if it were an easy matter," he said, sneeringly. "Then I do not speak as I feel. I know it will require a terrible conflict, but only strive against it to-night, and to-morrow it may be easier." "I will'not! I will put an end to it at once." He started for the door, and Norman followed him. A backward glance revealed terror and despair on three pale faces, and he determined to let nothing remain untried, in order to re- store the man to them,- himself still. On and on they walked until at last a tavern was reached. Mr. Pugh halted. "I am going in here, so you had better leave." "I will not." "I must have drink."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   67 "You must not." "I say I will." "I say you shall not." You have no right to interfere." "I have the right every man has to keep another from ruin and degradation." They started again, and another hour passed by. "How long are we to walk, I wonder?" "Until you go home." "That will not be to-night, unless, I have a drink." "Then we will walk until morning." "Are you in earnest?" "Never more so in my life." "Norman, this is insufferable." ' Perhaps so, but you know I was always obstinate." "If that be so, I may as well go home." Such a sudden change of purpose made Nor- man doubt as to the motive of the return,   68  Naoriman Brill's Life- Work. and his determination was taken not to leave him without a promise that he would not g out again. When they reached the door, Mr Pugh said, !   "Good-night, Norman." "I have not gone yet," was the reply. "I am going in." "It is late." "I know  it, but I must have a promise that you will stay in after I go." "Thgt you will not have." "Then I will not go." "'I will not let. you come into the house." "Then I will wait outside." "If it were any one but you, I would knock you, down." Norman made no reply, but followed him into the house, where the' anxious watchers were awaiting his return. A pleased look' passed over their faces, when they saw he was sober, notwithstanding his harsh greeting.   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   69 "What'are you doing here? It is time for all .decent people to be at- home, and in bed." "Mrs. Pugh glanced anxiously at Norman, but saw -that the words did not move him, and she with Ben and Grace quietly withdrew. Mr. Pugh threw himself upon a settee, de- termined to fight it out, and withhold his promise. An hour or more of tossing, and then sleep came, for he was very tired from his long walk, and the want of stimulants had made him weak. When his loud breath- 'ing told of his sleep, Norman heard a light step on the floor, and Mrs. Pugh came to him. " What! are you not asleep?" he asked. "No," she replied, in a tone that implied how impossible that was under the circum- stances, "I have been so troubled about you, Mr. Brill. What will you do for rest?" "I will make myself comfortable here. One night's loss of sleep cannot harm me. Mean-   70   Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work. while let me beg of you to seek 'that rest you so much need. Your husband is safe un- til morning-I will take care of him." Seeing her still irresolute, he said, "It is really my wish that you should do so, and I will be greatly disappointed if you refuse my request." "Then I will do as you say. I cannot thank you, Mr. Brill, but may God in his infinite love give you his richest blessings." The night was a troubled one to Norman. The loud breathing of Mr. Pugh disturbed him, and fear for the future tortured him. The man was so weak, the demon of intem- perance so strong, that there seemed nothing but defeat in store for him. The victory of the past two nights had been by main force, simply because of his presence and determi- nation. When they were removed, what would the result be?  Truly the heavens were clouded, and not a star appeared to lighten   Norman Brill's Life- Work.    7z the gloom to Norman's sight.  Yet all the while a star was shining, that of God's prov- idence, and its light should grow  brighter from day to day. Mr. Pugh slept so late in the morning that Norman was obliged to leave, lest his continued absence should alarm his parents; and he engaged in his duties, heartsick and weary. At night Ben came to say that his father was quite sick, and for the present, at least, safe from temptation. As Mr. Brill had been up all the previous night, his mother thought he had better not trouble himself to call that day. Still Norman went for a short time, only to show his sympathy, and if possible cheer the sick man. The first days of sickness were very trying ones for the wife and sister. Curses, impre- cations, threats, were heaped  upon them, because they refused to satisfy his thirst for   i! 72   Norman Brill's Life-Work. drink. Violence, even, was attempted, to make them yield to his demands, but weak- ness thwarted his intention. Once indeed, it had nearly triumphed. It was evening, and Mrs. Pugh and Ben had gone out on an errand, leaving Grace alone with the sick man. He called her to his bedside. "Grace," he said, piteously, "will you not bring me just one glass to satisfy this terrible gnawing? I promise I will ask for no more." "Anything but that, brother. I cannot- must not do it." "But, Grace, only this once-for a poor sick brother, I do so long for it." "No, not even for that. It would not be kindness to you, it would only make- your misery greater in the end." Then his pleading changed to threats, but she stood firm, though her cheek paled, and her frame quivered at his words. At last, maddened to phrensy by her opposition, he   Norman Brill's Life-Work.    73 leaped from his bed, clasped his hands about her neck, and tried to strangle her. He had almost succeeded in his work, when a sudden spell of weakness overcame him, his grasp relaxed, and he fell heavily backward; Grace fell forward, her head striking against a chair. Thus Norman found them, a few minutes later. A strange fear seized him, and held him spell-bound for a time, but he soon recovered, and stooped to examine the extent of the harm. Blood was tricklitg from Miss Pugh's forehead, but he soon discovered that was a mere scratch, and felt relieved. In his efforts to restore her, he found the marks about her neck, and guessed the truth. "Fiend!"The word burst from  his lips, and his angry tone aroused Grace. She opened her eyes, and saw him bending over her. "Please don't," she said, wearily. "Don't what, Miss Pugh? You were uncon-   74   Norman Brill's Life-Work. scious, and I have been trying to restore you; trying to undo the work of that--" "Don't," she said, "please don't say that word again. He is my brother." Thoughtful of him, loving him still, though he' had but just attempted to take her life. Norman turned away to hide his tears, and his gaze fell on Mr. Pugh. At any other time the sight would have awakened his pity, but he was too angry for that now. His whole aspect was that of shame for what he had done, and cowardly fear as to the consequences. Norman assisted him to bed, and then left the room. --From that time a nurse was provided, until a low fever set in, and Mr. Pugh was too weak to harm even an infant. He had imbibed so much of adulterated liquor that his con- stitution was undermined, and the sudden giving up of all stimulants increased the dan- ger. His life hung by a very slender thread,   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   75 and for many days they looked to see him die; but at last he began slowly to mend. Through the many weeks of weariness and exhaustion that followed, Norman was a con- stant visitor; nor did he forget to see that the man. had nourishing food ; everything, in- deed, that could make him forget his thirst and longing for his usual drink. "You must excuse my stopping you, Mr. Brill, but I do not feel as if I could pass you without expressing my sympathy in the work you are engaged in, and giving -you my hearty thanks." It was Dr. Reed who spoke, as he turned a corner,' and encountered Norman. "I am very glad to see you, Dr. Reed. I feel my need of assistance in this matter, and I knew not to whom to turn. Poor Mr. Pugh -my heart aches for him." And he drew a deep sigh.   -76   Norman Brill's Life- Work. I "You have found the work a difficult one?" "So difficult, that had I foreseen it, I do not tlink I would have dared enter upon it." "Ah! Mr. Brill, that is but another proof of our Heavenly Father's love and wisdom. He does not let us see the whole work at once, but simply shows us the beginning, Then as day by day our need deepens, He supplies new grace, that we may not falter." "If there will only come success in the end ; but I can scarcely hope it. He is so utterly weak, so entirely helpless in the grasp of this iron temptation." "We must not despair, or our efforts will grow proportionately weak. We must work and wait, and if the victory do not come for long years, we have the assurance of God's approbation; and that to. the Christian is sufficient support. Is it not so, Mr. Brill?"   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   " "I do not know. I do not claim the Christian name; consequently I cannot lean for support upon that which sustains him." "Ah! Mr. Brill? Then I cannot wonder that you falter beneath the burden. Only God's' strength is sufficient to sustain such a load. You must -despair, because you do not go down to the root of the evil, nor know the only effectual remedy in such a case.  To the great power of this mighty evil, you can only oppose the weakness of human strength; and the odds are too great, the battle too one- sided to hope for victory." "Then I must give it up?" "No, no, not for the world! Do what you can still, and interpose all that you can to save; and meanwhile, strive to learn the nature of the only remedy for man's defile- ment, the only power which can snatch him from ruin, present and everlasting. I rejoice, my young friend, I must rejoice to see you   78   Norman Brill's Life- Work. engaged in any effort to benefit your fellow- men; and yet I fear lest, without the incentive of love, the many discouragements you meet will make you turn aside from the work. Once again, let me remind you of the words; 'And to every man his work.'  There is a personal work given to every man, and until that is attended to, he is not harnessed for the battle of life, nor able to do the work for others to which God calls us all. Will you not think of this, my friend, and turn your feet unto God's testimonies?" "Another question to settle," thought Norman, as they parted, "another problem to solve. Would it not have been better to live on in my happy, careless way, for these cares press heavily on my spirit, and I am no longer free for the world's pleasures? But, no.  Such frivolities, such trifling engagements are not worthy of true manhood, while sorrow  and suffering are at work around us. I cannot, I  F   Norman Brill's Lzfc- Work.   79 would not go back, yet know not how to go forward. When will the conflict, the doubt, the uncertainty cease? Or is it life-long, to be laid aside only at the grave?"   CHAPTER VI. MONTH had passed, and again we find Norman in the little cottage that occu- pied so many of his thoughts. Mr. Pugh had nearly recovered from his illness, and was able to be about the house. He was hoping to go out on the morrow, and their conversation naturally turned to the temptation which would meet him. "It -is not a strange thing, Norman," Mr. Pugh said, "for one so long confined to the house, to look forward with pleasure to being able to go out, and yet I dread it. What if 'I should fall, should pass through all the horrors of the past few weeks again! The   Norman  Brill's Life- Work.  8 thought makes my blood turn cold, my hair stand. on end." "But you need not fall. Three months and more have passed without your touching liquor. Why taste it again? Why put yourself within its power?" "Oh! Norman, I do not put' myself within its power. That is done when one first tam- pers with strong drink. The question is how to escape its power, when I am under its control, soul and body." "But you know its fearful nature now, you have tasted of the bitter fruits of yielding; can you do so again?'" "Can I keep from it, is the question. Can the broken dyke resist the mad waters that dash impetuously against it? Can the dis- abled ship resist the fury of the waves, or ride in safety in face of the storm? As I have so often said, you cannot understand. Again and again have I kept from its use for   82   Normzan Brill's Life- Work. a short time, with a firm resolve never to touch it again, but at the first temptation my good purposes proved to be as the spider's web, and I was overcome." "But has it not been  longer, that you have resisted this time?" "Yes, but only because I have been out of the way of temptation, and unable to sat- isfy my passion. The very smell of the vile stuff will so unnerve me that I shall be irre- sistably enticed, and then all this remorse, and agony, and terrible suffering will ensue. "Norman, the thought almost maddens me!" and the man bowed his head upon his arms, and wept as a little child. Oh! you who engage in this vile traffic, be- ware! Think not that you shall escape because you do it. on a large scale, and scatter ruin wholesale among your fellow men. Though in the eyes of many you may appear inno- cent, think not you shall escape the right-   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   83 eous judgment of God. And you who hold the cup to your neighbor's lips, remember that a woe is denounced against all such, even a woe from the God of truth and justice. Ye rulers among men, with a responsibility rest- ing upon you for which God shall call you to account, think you that you can wash your hands and say, "I am  innocent of my brother's blood;" when you give the right to sell the poison which you know  scatters death and misery on every side? Ah! all of you, who thus hold in your hands to the weak and tempted ones that which will surely betray, and watch them falling over the fearful precipice to which you have led them, beware how you turn away complacently and say, "It is nothing to me."- "Am I my brother's keeper?"God seeth not as man seeth, and when the tempter and the tempted stand, face to face, before his judgment seat, think not that you shall   84   z Norman Brill's Life- Work. escape the deserved condemnation of the Al- mighty.  Norman/ could make no further answer; but a sudden thought crossed his mind, and he took his hat, and went out. A few minutes later found him at Dr. Reed's door. He was not at home, but was at the evening service. lNorman would be sure to' see him  there, and as it was near at hand, he directed his steps thither, and waited until the con- gregation had dispersed. The Doctor lingered behind, talling with some gentlemen, but see- ing Norman enter the church, approached him. "I am sorry to interrupt your conversation, Dr. Reed," Norman said, " but I need your help. I have proved to-night the truth of what you told me. My strength is weakness; the way in which I would overcome, ineffectual, and I know not the true remedy. Will you go to Mr. Pugh and show him the right way   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   85 to resist temptation. I left him in great misery, and came to you, if, perchance, you could render him any assistance, for man's strength is utterly at fault in this matter." "And in every other, Mr. Brill, in which he hopes, unaided, to secure happiness. I will go to Mr. Pugh at once, and may God's blessing attend my effort in his behalf. Mean- while, will not you, my young friend, having proved in one respect the truth  of my words, search and see whether in  other things also, they were not those of truth and soberness?" When Dr. Reed left Mr. Pugh, an hour later, it must be confessed that he shared in no small degree, the hopelessness of Norman Brill. Yet had he known all, he would have found that this impression had been left with the man, that if in the hour of danger, feeling his own weakness, and really desiring to be delivered from sin, he called upon   I  86   Norrtan Brill's Life- Work. God for deliverance, He would be near to ji! preserve him from evil. With that truth i  dawning upon the mind, what might not yet be accomplished? "Where are you going to-night, Norman?" It was his mother who spoke to him one Sunday evening, as he arose from the sup- per table. "To Dr. Reed's Church." "Indeed? You seem quite infatuated with the man." "Infatuation is scarcely the right word, mother. He is earnest and instructive, and gives me something to think about, therefore I like him." "I confess I do not understand it, for the only time I ever heard him, I thought him quite dull." "So I once regarded him, but it has been different of late."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   87 "And you have been different, my son. Are you sure he is doing you good?" "I am afraid not, mother." "You are young yet to attend to such things; and I must confess I do not like to see you so sober as you have been of late." "If what the preachers say is true, no one is too young to think of what they tell us." "Well, I wish you would let them alone for the present. I was satisfied with you as you were. Have you any thought of becoming religious, Norman?" A flush overspread his face, and he looked annoyed at the question. ie did not like to be thus interrogated before the whole family, especially as his feelings were vague and indefinable, even to himself. "I have no definite plans, at present have no claim to any such worthy intention; though, I confess, there is more in it than I once thought. 'I admire those who are   88   Normain Brill's Lzfe- Work, good, even if I do. not follow their exam- ple." "But yot are good, Norman." It was his little sister who spoke. She had come to him, and putting her hand in his, looked up lovingly into his face. "I am glad you think so, May, at any rate; but I am not, in the way mother means. The more shame for me, I really believe," he said in a lower tone. Mr. Brill looked earnestly at his son; his lips opened as if to speak, but he left the table instead. He could not so far forget his early training, as to be wholly indifferent to the choice his son might make; and he wish- ed to add his approbation; but how could he, who had so far forgotten his own duty, thus condemn himself before all his children? So he kept back his words. For days Norman had been ill at ease. His former life was not satisfactory, as he looked   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   89 back upon it; and his present one was too much filled with selfish aims, or with no cer- tain plans whatever, for him to be content. The few words Dr. Reed had spoken to him had let in a little- light-had made him feel that perhaps his way was the true way, and so he was not unwilling to hear it explained more fully. So he went to his church this evening. The  text was, "One sinner destr6yeth much good." Norman was much interested as the preacher went on to describe the various ways in which sinners wrought evil to their fellow-men, by actual transgression and devi- ation from the way acknowledged right, even by many men of the world. He agreed with the preacher, but felt that his words did not reach his case. A feeling somewhat akin to self-righteousness took possession of him, as he settled himself down to listen to this con- demnation of other lives. But he was not g   o90    orman Brill's Life- Work, wholly to escape. Having concluded one part of his sermon, the speaker-continued: "But there are doubtless those among my hearers to whom thus far my words will not apply. Neither dishonest, nor profane, nor intemperate; free from all the vices to which I have alluded, upright and beloved, you feel that in these words you have no personal concern. But is it so? I believe that God's Word warrants me in declaring, even in such cases, that 'one sinner destroyeth much good.' "Granting all that you can claim, that your fellow-men cannot point to the faintest devi- ation from an honorable, upright course in your dealings with them ; that your friends and kinsmen declare you lovable and kind in all your social intercourse; that even your en- emies can bring against you no accusation; nevertheless, your influence is not on the side of the Lord. We urge men to seek the sal- vation of their souls --to lead godly lives. *   ormarnz Brill's Life- WI rk.  9I They point to you and say, 'None are better than these; yet they do not call themselves Christians. We have no desire to be holier than these, nor will we seek to be.' "So entering not the kingdom of God your- selves, you shut the gate against your fellows. My hearers, such among you as I have de- scribed, pause a moment and consider that even your virtues are made a stumbling-block, to keep others from walking in the way of eter- nal life. You perhaps acknowledge the general claims of Christianity upon mankind, perhaps many of your virtues are founded upon hearty approval thereof; yet this will not answer at the last great day. Oh! if you have no care for yourselves, if you are willing for your- selves to hazard eternal death, will you, dare. you meet there those of your friends and companions, your parents and children, lost through your example?" After this appeal, all Norman's self-righteous-   92   Norman Brill's Life- Work. ness fled. He knew his 'influence had been against Christianity, and shuddered as he thought that many might be already on the downward, road, because he had not helped them by word and life to seek that strength which could alone uphold them in the day of temptation. As for himself, he knew he was far from God, a stranger to his love, and the thought pained him as it had never done before. He passed a sleepless night; and when the morning dawned, it was with the determination that he would not give over the matter until he had found that Saviour, of whom for the first time he felt his need.   CHAPTER VII. DO not know how you will feel about it, Norman," said Mr. Brill the- next morning, "but I feel strongly tempt- ed to send you to New York, instead of going myself?" "I thought it was necessary for you to go yourself." "No.  You can attend to the business as well as I; and I am getting too old to like travelling as well as I once did." "I am not at all disinclined to go, father, though it does sound strange to hear a man as strong and hearty as you, speak of being too old to travel."   "   Norman Bril's Lzfe- Work. "Well, my son, that is a good plea to urge, as out of deference to age, one would be likely to respect it; but how about being ready? When can you start?" "To-morrow morning." "That is well, as the business is urgent, and the sooner yoi are there the better for us." Norman was very glad of the trip, for he felt he would be in a better situation to con- sider the great matter which lay before him. Away from his friends and companions, who would tempt him to scenes of social pleasure and amusement, he could give more serious heed to the question of his soul's salvation; and perhaps before he again reached home, it would have been decided once and forever. There were several visits to be made. One was to Mr. Pugh, whom he found at home, sober. He had not yet relapsed  into evil habits, as his wife told Norman, with a joyful smile.   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   95 "It is a hard battle, though," she added. "I hope you will not forget to pray for him, Mr. Brill." Norman  looked at her  for a moment, thoughtfully, then said, "I am afraid my prayers would be of little avail, Mrs. Pugh. I have rather the need of yours, for I scarcely know how to pray for myself." A look of surprise passed over her face as he spoke, which soon changed into one of pain. "It seems useless to say that you have them, Mr. Brill. 'How could I forget to commend to my Heavenly Father's care, one who had done so much for me and mine. But they shall be still more earnest now, for I had believed you to be a Christian. May He follow you with His blessing, and bring you very speedily into His fold." Norman's heart whispered, "amen," although his lips only said, "thank you," as-he took his leave. Next he went to Dr. Reed's.   96   Norman BrillOs Life- Work. "I will not detain you long," he said, see- ing the doctor ready to start out. "I came to say that I expect to leave home in the morning, and to ask, that during my absence you will perform the duties of both in re- gard to 'Mr. Pugh." "That I shall certainly do, Mr. Brill, but I shall want your help, and will be glad to see you back again. I am just on the way to a prayer-meeting, held in  our lecture room, and would be very glad of your com- pany." "I should be very glad to go, were it not that I leave in the early train, and I have several things to attend to to-night." "Then I must not insist; but let me com- mend you, during this journey, and through life, to the care of your Heavenly Father. Believe me, my young friend, no earthly happi- ness or treasures can compensate for the loss   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   97 of His love. May He lead you in the right way." We cannot enter upon the history of the' weeks that followed, of their conflict and strife, and of the new-born hope which be- gan tp dawn in the heart of this earnest seeker after truth. The Bible having been almost a sealed book to him, he searched it as an unexplored mine, and was rewarded for his diligence by the discovery of unfail- ing treasure. The way of salvation, in its simplicity and beauty, was unfolded before him. With the Bible as his guide, and God his teacher, he learned more in those weeks and months of study, than many another in as many years.  He had felt from the begin- ing, that with the prayers of God's children ascending for him, he might hope for a bless- ing, and so he had been led to pray for himself. Who ever went to God with an   -98   Normanc  Brill's Life- Work. earnest desire to be taught-of Him, and was sent away unblessed? When his business was over, and he  was ready to turn his steps homeward, he felt that his aims and purposes in life   were changed. Henceforth he was to be guided and governed by a desire for God's glory. As a learner yet, as a mere babe in Christ, and yet as one who recognized His claims to his life and service, he returned to his home. He entered his father's store with a light heart, spoke to the clerks, and went to the private office to seek his father. As he en- tered the door, the smile faded from his lips, and his face 'became ashy white. The scene before him froze the blood in his veins, and made him, speechless with horror. His father and a customer were sitting to- gether, each drinking a glass of wine. Standing a little, aloof was Mr. Pugh, holding in his b     1   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   99 hand a glass into which he was pouring the crimson poison. He was in the act of raising it to his lips, when with a sudden movement, Norman darted forward. Quick as a flash, before it reached his lips, the glass was dashed to the ground and broke to shivers. "Oh!"Norman said, with quivering lips, "I had heard such good accounts of you!" "And true ones, Mr. Brill." "Yet you drink this?" "You came in time to keep me from   it." Mr. Brill looked up  quickly, and ex- claimed: "My son, I am  glad to see you home again ;" while Mr. Pugh turned abruptly away; not, however, until Norman had obtained a promise that he would not leave the store until he saw him. As the door closed be- hind him, Mr. Brill said: at ff rl a QRut   zoo  Norman Brill's Life- Work. "You have startled us, my son. What does this strange conduct mean?" "Oh! father; how  could you?"Norman threw himself into a chair, covered his face with his hands, and groaned aloud. "Norman, you alarm me! Your words are as inexplicable as your conduct. Tell me what they mean?" "You have heard me speak of Mr. Pugh, father, how he had sunk into the depths of degradation and poverty through the use of strong drink; and of our efforts to snatch him from the evil?" "I have, Norman; but what has that to do with the present scene?" "Now, after months of abstinence, when we had begun to hope so much, you over- turn all by giving him wine to drink. Thank God, I came before he tasted it! I shudder to think of what the consequences might have been, had I come a moment later."   Norman Brill's Life- York.   Ior "Is that Mr. Pugh, your former teacher?" "Yes, sir, the same." "I did not know it, my son, or I should have been the last to place temptation in his way; for your sake, even if I had not cared for him. He came soon after you left, seeking employ- ment, and as I needed some one, I gave it to him. He has done well, and I suspected nothing of his tendency to strong drink, or I should not have ordered him to bring the wine this morn- ing. Yes, now I remember the, strange, wild expression that came to his eye at the command, and the white, compressed lips that met my gaze as he poured it out. I am so used to wine that I did not think, so I told him to help himself. I hope your coming was not too late. You had better go to him." Norman needed no second bidding. Search- ing for Mr. Pugh, he at last found him in the cellar, his head bowed in his hands, and his whole frame convulsed with agony. He did   102   Norzman Brill's Life- Work. not hear Norman's approach, and the latter spoke several times before he looked up. Then the look in his face frightened Norman. "Do not upbraid me, Norman, I cannot bear it now." "I did not come to upbraid, but to com- fort," was the reply, in tender tones of sym- pathy, as he seated himself beside him. "What am I to do?"Mr. Pugh exclaimed in agony. "I have withstood so long that I hoped my passion had lost some of its power; but it was so strong to-day that I could not resist. Had I only dared refuse to bring the wine! but when once I smelled it, though I knew all the horror that would follow, I could not resist taking it." "But you did not. Let us be thankful for that." "I am thankful, Norman, and yet I despair; for had you not come, I should have fallen, and you cannot always be at hand.  There I   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   1o3 is another thing that nearly drives me mad. There was one hope.  Dr. Reed held out to me a hope, to which I have clung as my only safeguard for- months. He said that when the hour of temptation  came, if I really wished deliverance, and cried to God for it, He would hear. I did call, and He left me to myself." "He did not, Mr. Pugh. Never will He leave any who trust in Him, to endure alone." "But I took the wine." "You did not taste it. I came in time to save you." A new light broke upon the man's mind. "And He did hear me, then, you think?" "How can I think otherwise? He chooses his own way to answer prayer. He would show you your own weakness, still, that you might not foolishy run into temptation; but in the moment of utter helplessness, He interposed to save, by sending me."   zo04  Norman Brill's LJfe- Work. "And I may still cling to my only hope?" "Yes, only with a stronger, firmer faith, because you have proved the truth of it." "I see it, I see it,", he exclaimed, "and I would like to thank Him for it, Norman." "Then do it now and here," was the answer, in a low, soft voice. "We are alone." "I cannot for myself. Will you not do it, Norman?" A flush-overspread his face, and his breath came quick and fast at the thought. He had but just learned to pray for himself; how could he do so in the presence of another! He looked at the man before him, thought of his past history, of the present crisis, and he could not refuse. They knelt together, teacher and scholar, and the heartfelt thanksgiving for the merci- ful interposition and deliverance of the morn- ing, and the earnest prayer for future strength, entered into the ears of the Lord God of   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  0ro hosts, and the answer came speedily. From that place of prayer wAent forth, with the one, a firmer faith in Divine love and power, and a longing desire to  prove it to the uttermost; and with the other the conscious strength arising from a duty done, even through self-sacrifice. They separated, and Mr. Pugh sought his employer. "I am'sorry, Mr. Brill," he said, "but I feel that I can no longer remain here. Will you be so kind as to fill my place as soon as possible?" "Why, Mr. Pugh, I cannot understand what this means. Surely I have done a good part by you! Have you any fault to find with your treatment?" "No sir, I have received only kindness; but-" "Then, Mr. Pugh, why do you leave? I am not willing at all to give you up."   mo6   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "Because, after this morning, I do not feel that I can remain."  "Is that all? That is easily overcome. I had nearly forgotten it already, and I surely' would not be willing to give up a trusty employee for the strange incident of the morning. Say no more of that, and think no more about it." "I do not think you quite understand my reason, Mr. Brill. I know no employer would like such scenes in the presence of strangers. They are, to say the least, annoying; but 1 was thinking of myself. It is not safe for me to stay where I shall be exposed to the same temptation that so nearly overcame me this morning." "That, too, is easily answered. Had I known anything  of your past history, you should not have been tempted this morning, and henceforth you shall not be." "Ah! Mr. Brill, you cannot understand the   Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work.   o07 strange, the awful power that liquor has over me. I might not be ordered to bring it, but where it is used, I might at any moment stumble upon it, and the smell of. it unmans me, and makes me weaker than an infant to resist its use." "It is so seldom used that I do not think you need fear." Mr. Pugh shook his head. "I have learned by bitter experience my own weakness, Mr. Brill, and I do not wonder that you cannot comprehend it." You are over scrupulous, Mr. Pugh." "I cannot be too particular in this matter." "You have served me well during the months you have been in my employ, and I have already been contemplating enlarged responsibilities, and increased wages. For a man with a family, such inducements are not to be despised." "And they are not despised. Ah! Mr. Brill,    o8   Norman Brill's Life- Work. if you knew the weight of a family, almost destitute except for your own exertions, and the strong temptation to provide for them at any personal risk, you would not tempt me. And yet I know they would rather starve than have me run the risk. I dare not accept your kind offer." "It does not seem as if you thought it kind, nor do you seem very grateful to leave me, when I so need your service." "I shall indeed be sorry to have you think me ungrateful, Mr. Brill. However, I must do right, and trust that in the end you will see things in a different light."   CHAPTER    VIII. OU look troubled father.   Has any- thing gone wrong this morning?" "Yes, I am thoroughly disappointed. I have found Mr. Pugh very efficient from the first, and he has continued to grow more so. I was in hopes that in a few months, by the time of my proposed visit to Europe, he would be so well acquainted with the business, as to be able to relieve you of much of the care." "Well, what reason have you to change your mind?" "He has given notice that he must leave."   rIo   Norman  Brill's Life- Work. "Ah!" "Yes, notwithstanding all my  offers of advancement." "He is ungrateful, then, at any rate, my dear; and so in the end might prove untrust- worthy. It may be a happy riddance." "Don't say so, mother, until you hear his reason for doing so.", "You knew  it, then?"Mr. Brill looked inquiringly at his son, and there was reproach in his voice. "No, father, I did not know it. He said nothing to me. about it, but I am not sur- prised. I was in hopes it might be averted, at least for his sake, for I did not know he was of so much service to you." "I tried promises and entreaties, but they were useless. What more could I do?" "There was but one way, and that I hoped would have suggested itself." "What was that?"    Norman Brill's Life- Work.   iI1 "I suppose he fears to remain, lest he shall be tempted to drink?" "Yes." "Then remove all ground for his fears, by allowing no liquor to be brought into the store." "But the customers expect it." "They would soon cease to expect it." "It would be yielding too much to Mr. Pugh." "No, father, not when his reason for fear- ing it is so strong. Had you seen his agony when the desire for drink was upon him, you would admire his resolution in refusing to subject himself to the temptation. Besides, father, yoti do not know all your customers, nor do you know to how many the glass of wine you offer, may be a step in the down- ward way." "I suppose you are right, my son, and I will try your plan. It is not a custom I   "2   Norman Brill's Life- Work. ever liked; it always seemed too much like a bribe. You may speak to Mr. Pugh, and tell him the place is open to him on those conditions. It would be better for you t; see him to-night, before he makes any other arrangements." "Yes sir, I will." Norman felt that haste was more needed to relieve Mr. Pugh's anxieties, and to supply him with fresh motives for exertion, than from any fear- of his obtaining another place. "I thought you would give me a glad welcome home," was Norman's greeting, after he had seated himself once more in Mr. Pugh's little parlor. The cottage had  already undergone a change, and the bare room had been supplied with several comforts. "I thought you would  give me a glad welcome, but your looks are rather a damper on my joy."   Nornman Brill's Life- Work.  113 "It is not for want of gladness that you have returned, I can assure you, Mr. Brill. We cannot be too thankful that you came when you did, even had we not been lohg wishing to see you," said Mrs. Pugh. "No, indeed; I can speak for them, Nor- man.' Your name has been constantly spoken among us, and we have often longed for you. We have .not so many friends that we can-- fail to miss one. when he is away. But to have a family dependent upon one, and then to be called upon to give up an excellent situation, is not an easy. matter. We cannot but be desponding." "At any rate, let us be cheerful to-night," said his wife. "Surely we ought, after this morning's deliverance." "Yes, Norman, my wife has been trying to' comfort me, by telling me that God, who saved me from falling to-day, called me to   i4e   Norman Brill's Life- Work. give up my place, will also opcn a way in the future." "And He surely will, husband." '"My faith is not so strong as yours, Mag- gie." "Yet it should be," said Mr. Brill. "Your wife is right. God has already opened a way. I bring you good news to-night." Eager eyes were turned upon him as he spoke, though no - question escaped them. Norman did not keep them  long in suspense. "You are to remain at the store with us, Mr. Brill." "How, Norman?" "You will not tempt him, too, Mr Brill?" "No, never, I trust; but there is no more danger. There is to be no more liquor brought into the establishment." "Thank God," exclaimed Mrs. Pugh, "not only for his sake, but for the triumph of the right. This is your work, Mr. BrillI.   Norman Brill's Lfje- Work.   iz5 "It was, my suggestion, but my father only could carry it out. He sent me with the message to-night. Now that my errand is done, and I find you comforted, I must go; for it is my first evening at home, and my sisters and brother thought it rather hard that I should leave them at all." Mr. Pugh followed him to the door, and after many thanks, and a hearty shake of the hand, said, "What am I to think of all this, Norman?" "That God loves you, and is watching over you; and that He asks for your love in re- turn." "Then He ought to have it, Norman. I will try to give Him what He asks, unworthy an offering as it is." "I am going to call on Miss Morris to-night, Norman, and came especially to have your company."   xz6   Norman Brill's Lze- Work. "I am sorry to disappoint you, Walter, but I cannot go to-night." "You have an engagement?" "I do not know that I can say that exactly, as it is only in my own mind; but the even- ing is appropriated, and I will have to leave Miss Morris till another time." "With such a lame excuse, I do not feel at all inclined to let you off. Miss Morris will. feel neglected." "Yes, I am afraid so; but present my com- pliments, and say I will call as soon as pos- sible." "Which  means when you have on hand nothing you like better." "Now, Walter, that is hardly fair. My en- gagement is really an important one to-night, and you know business has been very pressing since my return." "I know of one who will be sorry to hear of your engagement," his sister said.   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  z17. "Who is that, Nellie?" "May."  "Why?" "She hasn't been very well to-day. I was in the nursery a little while ago, and she was asking about you, and wishing supper was over. I asked her why, and she said because she wanted you to amuse her.  I told her you wouldn't have the time to spare, but would probably have some other engagement. She said you would not if she wanted you. She spoke very confidently, and I could not shake her belief in your devotion to her. Her last message was to be sure to send you up as soon as supper was over." Norman took out his watch, saw that it was getting late, and rising from the table, said, "Then, if you will excuse me, I will go up now." "If you have not time, Norman, never mind   "8  Norman Brill's Life- Work. May. I will tell her you could not come, and perhaps she will not care." "I know better than that, mother," said Nellie. "Yes, if she is looking for me, I will not dis- appoint her. Perhaps she will let me off with a promise of amusing her some other time." He went up into the nursery. May was seated in a little rocking-chair, looking thoughtfully out of the window. She did not hear Norman until he spoke. "A penny for your thoughts, May." "Oh! Norman, I am so glad you have come. Nurse said you would not be here, and wanted me to go to bed; but I knew you would, I have wanted you all day." Then she must have him now. Without say- ing a word about his engagement, he seated himself in a large chair, with her on his lap. "What do you want me to do, May?" "Tell me stories, and sing, Norman."   Nornman Brill's Life- Work.  119 He told her several, and then she asked for singing. He had usually sung songs, but to- night he was not in a mood for that, so he commenced a hymn he had often heard lately in the church he had attended. She raised her eyes inquiringly, but said nothing until he had finished. How. do you like that, May?" "Ever so much, Norman.   That is what nurse sings sometimes. Do sing some more " Before he finished that hymn, her eyes were closed, and he handed her over to the nurse. "It does me good, Mr. Norman," she said, "to hear you sing such things. Your voice is too sweet to be always used for songs, and it just suits those good old hymns." Sle stopped there, for she rather feared him, and was afraid she had said too much. His quiet smile reassured her, however, and she was emboldened to make a request she had long been meditating. "Sometime; when you have   i '      ' 120  Norman Brill's Life- Work. a few minutes to spare, Mr. Norman, might I speak a few words to you?" "You may speak them  now, nurse, if that will suit you." "It will suit me, but I was afraid you had been kept too long already." "So  much too  long," he said smiling, "that it does not matter how much longer now." "I will only keep you a few   minutes," she said; then hesitated, and stammered. "Do not be afraid to speak, nurse," he said. "I shall be glad to help you if I can." "It was not about myself; Mr. Norman, it was about Master Harry. James has told me you do not drink wine any more.  I wish you could keep Harry from doing it." Norman looked startled. "I did not knoxy he often did it." "Not often, Mtr. Norman, but once in a   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   121 while your father lets him have a glass, and it always excites him so much. I have no- ticed it several times, and I am so afraid he. will get too fond of it. You will not think hard of me for mentioning it, will you, Mr. Norman?"  "Hard, nurse? I am  glad you take so much interest in him, and thank you sin- cerely for mentioning it. I will see what I can do. Is there anything else you would speak about?" "No, Mr. Norman, nothing but that." "Then good-night," he said, extending his hand. "We will try owhat our united efforts can do." As he left the room, she murmured, "There's a change coming over him, some- how. I see it, and I am   very glad. It would be good to -have one in this house serving the Master." As for Norman, her words oppressed and   122   Norman Brill's L/fe- Work. troubled him; but not wishing to have other members of the family notice his anxiety, and question him, he tried to throw off all outward appearance of it as he rejoined them. "What! not gone yet?" was the exclama- tion, as he entered the parlor. "No, I could not get off; and you, I see, are in the same condition." "Yes. My company here was too enter- taining for me to desire to break loose. What has May been doing to amuse you all this time?" "That was not the order of things this evening. I had to amuse her.! She looked so pale, and seemed so confident that I would do what she wanted, that I hadn't the heart to refuse her." "I will know next time how  to obtain your compliance with my wishes," said Mr. Vane.   -Norlnla ]IrI's Life- Work.  123 "Don't be  too sure, Walter. Very few claims can come up to those of a little sick sister. She has right on her side, as well as confidence." "Right?" "Yes, of course. Who shall care for one another's comfort and happiness, if not bro- thers and sisters? When sickness comes to strengthen the claim, it is hard to break loose from it." "You are a strange fellow, Norman. I be- lieve that most brothers expect their sisters to comply with their requests, but I do not think they are all quite so  ready to ac- knowledge their obligations. With such prin- ciples guiding his conduct, Miss Nellie, you ought to have your full share of his com- panionship and service." Yes, I shall take care to secure them." "But remember, if you overstep the mark, you may find me rather uncompromising."   CHAPTER IX. VERY happy birthday to you, Har- ry." "Thank you, Norman," was Harry's reply, as he received a package from his brother's hand. "You never forget me." "His eyes glistened with pleasure as he opened the bundle, and found it contained several volumes by one of his favorite au- thors. "I guess it will be happy, Norman, if I can find time for these books." "We don't intend to give you time for them to-day. We are to have a late dinner, and all are to spend the evening at home."   Norman Brill's Life--Work.   125 "That will be jolly. Now, mother, I know you don't approve, but you must excuse me this once. I can't be proper on my birth- day." "If it were only on your birthday that you used such expressions, you would soon forget to use them altogether." ' Now, Norman, if you take mother's part, what shall I do? Two against one is too great odds ;" and Harry drew a long sigh, as if in great distress. "Well, one would think some heavy burden were imposed upon you, instead of merely being remonstrated with for using slang. However, we will not scold to-day; but re- member, it is a privilege conceded only on your birthdays." Harry made a wry face; and withdrew from the discussion with a strong " whew!" A bright, cheerful group gathered around the dinner table, Norman was a little late,   z26   Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work. and just as he entered the room, he heard his father say, "I drink to your health, Harry. Many hap- py returns of the day." Harry raised his-glass, and drained it of its contents. A shudder passed over Norman, and a pang of reproach, for he had so fully in- tended asking his father to omit this cus- tom for to-day, at least, and he had neg- lected it. By the time he took his seat by Harry, his glass was again filled in acknowl- edgment of his mother's toast. "Don't, Harry, please don't," he whispered. "Where's the harm, Norman? You cannot expect me to be so strict as you," and he drank it off. Norman's enjoyment for the meal was gone, and soon -that of others. Harry was accus- tomed to take only a little at a time, never more than one glass, and what he had now drunk soon reached his head, and displayed,   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  127 5 effects in his loud, boisterous tones. For time, Norman alone noticed it, but at  ngth Mr. Brill made some remark, and larry flatly contradicted him. Mr. Brill )oked up quickly, unused to such a thing om any of his children, least of all from le joyous, fun-loving, but affectionate Harry.  "My, son, what can you mean? "Just what I say," he answered, curtly. Norman saw where the fault lay, and anx- ous to avert trouble, whispered "quietly, "Harry, please don't. You are forgetting 7ourself. Think for a moment." "You are not my father, and I will not e dictated to by you," he exclaimed angrily. Fake that for your interference," and he struck him across the shoulder. The blood rose to Norman's face, and an angry reply was on his lips, but he checked himself, and remained quiet. Not so his father.   i2S   Nornzanaz Brill's Lzfe- Work. "'This is unbearable, Harry. We are all doing what we can to make you. happy, and you so far forget yourself as to be imperti- nent to me, and to strike your brother. If you cannot behave properly, you had better leave the table." "I will! I never stay where I am   not wanted," and he started up angrily, and left the room. His father saw him taking his, hat from the rack, and fearful of having him leave the house in that state, said to him, "'Leave your hat where it is, Harry. Go to your own room, and remain there until you are in fit condition to join us." Harry hesitated for a moment, but accus- tomed to obey, his usual habit overcame his inclination, and he went up-stairs, muttering to himself. "What has come over the boy?" Mr. Brill said. "He does not act like himself."   Norrman Brill's Life- Work.  129 "He is not himself," Norman said, in a low, disturbed voice. "What do you mean, Norman?" "The wine has gone to his head, and he has no longer control over himself. Oh! why did I forget to warn him! This might have all been avoided." He spoke so earnestly, and with such apparent sorrow, that his father said: "You should not blame yourself, Norman. It surely was not your fault." "I feel that it was in a measure, father. I knew  that wine was not good for him, and it was so careless in me not to prevent his taking it before this harm was done." "You really think it was the wine?" "I am sure of it, father." "And he is in danger, if he touches it?" "Yes, sir." That was all Norman said. He did not urge its disuse; he knew the fact had entered   30o   Normavz Brill's Life- Work. his father's mind, and he would leave it to work out its own results. And interference- on his part might only do harm. They did not linger much longer at the table, for all their enjoyment and comfort was gone. In a little while -Norman started to leave the room.  , "I thought you would remain at home to- night, Norman." "I am  not going out, father, only up to Harry's room, You have no objection?" he added, seeing his father looked grave. "No, not especially; only don't make him think he acted right, and try to pet him up. He has done wrong, and ought to be made to feel it." "I do not believe he will feel so any the less because Norman goes to him;" interposed his mother. "Then I have no objection." Norman found the door to Harry's room un-   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   13g fastened; and when he entered Harry was lying upon the sofa, his face very much flushed. Norman took a stool, and went and sat beside him. "What do you want?"Harry asked, angrily. "To sit with you a little while," was the quiet answer, "I wish you would do as I did, and not stay where you are, not wanted." "I will go if you say so, Harry," he said, rising. "I thought perhaps you needed me." "I don't need you." "Shall I go, then?" Harry relented as he saw his brother's grave face, for he sincerely loved him. "You can stay if you choose." Norman resumed his seat, and Harry closed his eyes. After a fow moments, he spoke again. "If you are going to lecture me, I wish you would do it now, and be done with it; I want to go to sleep."   32  Norman Brill's Life-Work. "I have no wish to lecture you. I should be glad if you could get to sleep." So saying, Norman brought a pillow, and would have placed it under his head, but Harry pushed him away angrily. "I do wish you would let me alone!" "Very well, Harry." Feeling that he could be of no use "then, Norman left him, and went to his own room. An hour or two passed, and Harry, who had been sleeping, awoke and found himself in dark- ness. For a time, he could not account for it, and knew not where he was ; but by degrees the truth broke upon him. Soon sob after sob broke the silence of the room. For awhile, Norman, who had returned while Harry was sleeping, took no notice of this, but as the sobs became more frequent and bitter, he approached his brother. Putting his hand gently on his forehead, he said;   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   33 "What is the matter, Harry? What is troub- ling you so much?" There was no answer, only an increase of the sobs. "Come, Harry, this will do no good. Let us talk it all over, and see if we cannot better matters a little.' "There is no better to them, Norman. I am an ungrateful, wicked boy. I don't deserve this kindness from you." "If we only got our deserts, Harry, our bless- ings would be very few." "But, Norman, only to think that I struck you; and I do love you." "I know it, Harry. I have not doubted that in the least." "And can you ever forgive me?" "Yes, fully, Harry." "I might have known it, my own good, blessed brother, but I cannot forgiye myself. Then, Norman, to speak as I did to father!   T34t  Nlormanz Brill's Life- Work. What must he think of. me? I do not feel as if I could ever look him in the face again." "That would not mend matters."     . "No, of course not. I must tell him how sorry I am. Norman, what could have made me act so?" "Have you no idea, Harry?" "No. I only know I was excited and angry, and had no control over myself." "And what could have produced such an effect?" Harry thought for a moment. "Could it have been the wine, Norman?" "I think so. It does affect some in that way. I have noticed before that it excited you." "And have I been drunk, Norman?" he asked, with a shudder. "Not exactly drunk, perhaps, Harry, but more under the influence of wine than I ever want to see you again." /,           a.   Norman. Brill's Life- Work.  135 "I did not take much." "Any is too much for you." Harry saw where the matter was drifting, and stopped short, but Norman would not let him off so easily.  "Are you willing to run a similar risk in the future, H'arry?" "How can I help it, Norman? Everybody, 4 at least almost every one drinks wine, and I heard Mr. Adams say the other day that it was weak and cowardly not to take a social glass." "It is never weak and cowardly to do right, Harry".' "I know you could never do anything that was so, but I am so young, Norman. I can't stand out if they urge me." ':Not if you have promised not to touch it?" "But I have not promised." "I want you to, to-night." "Please don't ask me to-night, Norman. I   z36   Norman Brill's Life- Work. feel as if I ought to do anything for you, after what has happened, but I do not want to do that." "I must, Harry, because I feel that it is your only safe way." "I am afraid I will break it." "I will help you keep it." "And by a promise made in boyhood, H will be bound all my life?" " You will never regret it, that is in your wise moments." "I cannot, Norman.  Make it for a year; and I will give the promise." "Well, say for a year, then.  By that time I trust you will be willing to renew it. And now we ought to rejoin the family."  "Oh!  Norman, you do ask such hard things." "It is only right, Harry. They have de- voted the evening to your pleasure, and   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   37 you must do your part towards making the remainder of it happy." "Because  I have made the   rest of it miserable. You are always in the right now- a-days; Norman.  I suppose that is the rea- son I cannot resist you. What shall I say to father?" "What you think is right. Go now, and I will come in a few moments." "Not by  myself, Norman. I must have you with me." " It was rather a sober company that met their eyes as they entered the parlor. Har- ry's heart failed him as he saw it, but a look from his brother reassured him. He walked up to his father, who was apparent- ly deeply absorbed in his newspaper. He looked up, however; on feeling a hand upon his shoulder. "Ah! is it you, Harry?" he asked, coldly. "Yes, father. I came to tell you how   138   Norman Brill's  Life- Work. very sorry I am for the way in which I spoke to you. Can you forgive me?" Mr. Brill was taken by surprise at this ready apology from his son, for though warm-hearted and loving, Harry was in some cases rather intractable. "This is Norman's influence," thought he. "I need not have feared to trust him."  Taking Harry's hand, he said, kindly, "Such frank acknowledgment of a fault will always claim forgiveness. Let us forget the occurrences of the afternoon; and now for the amusements of the evening. Come all, I know you are ready." ,IF;   CHAPTER X. DID I not see you going into   Dr. Reed's lecture room  last night, Norman? If it was not you, it must have been your ghost." "It happened to be me, Walter.  So you need not account for it supernaturally." "What could have taken you there last night? Was anything unusual going on?" "No, it was the regular lecture night." "And do you go  to church during the week? My conscience is satisfied with the Sunday service." "Neither my conscience nor my desire is, so I go in the week."   z40   Norman Brill's Life-Work. ,His friend looked inquiringly into his face. "Norman, where is this to  end? You have changed so much since your return from New York, I begin to believe the re- ports I have heard. Are they true?" "Not knowing the reports, I cannot an- swer for their truthfulness." "Well, then, it is said you have become a saint. I always disbelieved, until to-night, but your words seem  now  to corroborate the statement. Is it true? Do you  count yourself among the saints?" "I do not feel that I have any claim to so precious a name," Norman said, seriously, not noticing the covert sneer implied in the word. "You  only evade the subject. That is not an answer to my question." Norman  was  greatly annoyed by his friend's word and manner, but feeling that   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   141 very much depended  upon his not giving way to anger or irritability, he made a 'great effort to colitrol himself. He succeeded, for when he spoke again, his   voice was very calm. "If, by being a saint, you mean one who loves God, and desires to spend his life in His service, then I am one." "Truly, Norman?" "Truly, Walter." "And you mean to renounce the world?" "In so far as it is inconsistent with that love and service, yes." "Then you mean, also, to renounce our company, I suppose, Mr. Brill?" interposed a young lady.  "Such sinners as we are could hardly be fit companions for so exalt- ed a being." "Mr. Brill looked at the speaker with ,a serious, questioning gaze, that made her drop her eyes.   qa - N  . -rmna Bri-i LZ WoarLk "It seems, very stran'ge to me, Miss - CoG- way;- that because a person is: willing  to a c wiedg -is- rrors and. wrong' doing in  thfi pat- and. his. own weackness,. and, to laok for help t-  One who is' mighi ty to  sve, that, lie should. he accused of' tlinkinm  htifmslfb hetter than others."  "So, itcdoes to, me,  tr. Brill.  cannot  Inderrstanid, thie reasoning;  I. have a friend, tkhe lXveiV est person - know, and. becasee shA  E a Christian, andi tries,-' to do righit people  call her self-righiteous. .They say, when she refises to do what she feds to be wrong, 'St &   f r for. Iam Ii holierI than tlu' T .Tley know; as well as' I do, that, there is nothing oaf that spirit about her. I believe it is- because  they Iraio she: is in the right, and: their, con.  sciife-e tells' them they are in- the wrong, that. 4 t4iaey speak sa.,?am got a, Christian iyr self, bit I heieve, in being just, and ite: does make.   Norman BrPi's Li-     rk.  -q    ' e very angry to hear people talk as they  i ndeed, Mr. Bril, you are flattered in har-  g so fair a defender. Perhaps you,- too, are t his side, Miss Morris?'  '"No, I can lay, no claim to that4 however :tter I think it might be, were I with hm in '--: is matter  So Norman s position had been taken among  - s worldly' companions, -in a way t hat he  oudd not have chosen,; for he shunned pu bli- ty, but'he coud not reret it tafter it was e r .                     ' - That evening, as he entered the parlor oa  -  s return' home, lhe found hs parents sfl .- lere.       ,         .  "X\hat, up so late? he said, iand alone, Yes, we Wee just going up-; but iff y a i11 gve .s ytour company. we wifi be agad to    z4   ANoriman Brill's Life- Work. stay longer. We have not seen much of you lately." "I know it, mother. I was thinking of it to- night, and feared you might feel neglected, but I do not mean it shall be so any longer, that is if I can help it. There are so many things to take one's time." "Yes, I know it," his father said, "such as operas, balls, &c." "You have had cause to complain of them in the past, but you shall not in the future; that is, .I hope not." "I do not know, my son.    They will attract you as much as ever." "I hope not.  I do not feel as if they would. That is one thing I wanted to speak about to-night. My views in regard to such things have entirely changed. My past life does not satisfy me, and in the future I purpose, with God's :help, to live differently. I hope, inr a short time, to unite with Dr.   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  145 Reed's church, and I wanted to mention it to you before I took such a step." "We have no right to govern your actions now, my son." "Not to govern my actions, father; but so long as both live, you have a right to the respect and reverence which are always due to parents. I hope you do not oppose me -in this thing?" "Would it have any effect if we did, Nor- man " "No, mother; that is, not so far as direct compliance with your wishes is concerned. God's, command is positive, and I dare not disobey, but I should be very sorry to know that you did not approve. You do not object, mother?" "Only so far as I said before. I have no. sympathy with you in this matter; and I am afraid you will in time look down upon me as frivolous and trifling, or that you will   1 6   Norman Brill's Life- Work. be so far above me that I shall lose my hold on you." His only answer was to put his arm about her, draw her head down on ,his shoulder, and kiss her. "And you, father?" "I certainly do not oppose you, my son." There was something in Mr. Brill's face and manner that made Norman say, "Is that all you can say, father?" -- "No, Norman, it is not. I am glad of the choice you have made.  I rejoice that you  have decided to do right, even if a father's example was not what it should have been. Your grandmother's prayers have been answered for the son, if not for the father." "It is not too  late yet, father. If you would only come with me." "If I only could," he said; then  rose abruptly, and left the room. Conflicting emotions swayed Norman's breast   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   147 as he knelt in prayer that night. There was a feeling of thanksgiving that his father thought sometimes, at least, of his duty, arid was persuaded of the truth and blessedness of Christianity; and there were earnest de- sires that his own conduct might be such as to win both of his parents to walk in the way of salvation. The sense jof his responsi- bility for a time overcame him, but he carried his burden to that Saviour who has bid us cast our cares upon Him, and there came an answer of peace. In two weeks the decisive step was taken. Norman  Brill was  publicly baptized, and' received into the church of Christ. He did not know  that his father was present to witness the 'ceremony, nor that his emotions almost overcame him; but one good result of his decision he did see. His father 'con- cluded to leave his own church and go to the one Norman had chosen. He gave-the   z48$   Nornman Brill's Life- ;ork. excuse that he did not like the family divided; but the  earnest way in which Dr. Reed presented the gospel, had more to do with  it than that. Norman rejoiced   that those he loved were thus placed under faithful ministra- tions.     " CHAPTER XI.  " THE summer drew on, and Mr. and Mrs.  Brill and their two daughters sailed e for Europe, leaving Norman and Harry  behind. It was very quiet and lonely for    Harry, but Norman tried to make it pleasant  for him, and gave up many of his evenings to his companionship. One evening he was de- tained out quite late, and on entering the house, inquired for Harry.  --"He is not at tome," was the -reply. "Not at home at this late hour? Where can he be?" "I do not know, sir. He dined with the   I5o   Normanc Brill's LSfe-Work. Morrises to-day, but came home an hour or  two ago, rather excited, and asked for you. When I said you had not come in yet, he went out again." "And he left me no message?" "No, sir, he  only seemed fretted that you were out." Norman Avas perplexed and troubled, and seeing no better course, determined to seek him at the house where he had dined. The. company had' separated, but several of the family were yet in the parlor. "You must excuse me," he said, "(for coming at so late an hour, but I understood that Harry dined here, and thought if I did not find him here, he might have mentioned where he was going." "He took rather an abrupt leave," was George's reply, with an ugly laugh, "so of course, he did not mention his plans." "There was something in his manner that   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   z51 Norman did not like, so he said, "An abrupt leave? Was there any reason for that?" "Oh!" was the careless, sneering reply, " he was in a fault-finding, irritable mood, and I suppose he did not find our company agreeable, so determined to go elsewhere." "That was certainly strange." "O  no, not at all," was the' rejoinder from Mr. Herbert Morris. "I suppose his head was a little confused, and that accounts for it." There was a secret satisfaction in the young man's tone, that did not fail to attract Nor- man's ear. He knew it was thought a good revenge on him, because he had refused to faste wine on several occasions, but he was too troubled to take notice of it now in any word or act. "Did he take any wine while here?" "Yes, a glass or so, but where's the harm in that? You cannot expect any one to be   152   Norman BriE's Life- Work. so abstemious as yourself. The only trouble is that his head is weak, and he cannot stand much." Norman, heartsick and faint with fear, arose to leave the room, and Miss Morris followed him. "Mr. Brill," she said, as they stood alone in the hall, "I am deeply mortified' by what has taken place here to-night, because I feel that we alone are responsible for it." "I did not think it could happen," was the. reply, "for he  had promised me not to touch it, and I trusted him." "You must not judge him   harshy; Mr. Brill. He refused to touch the wine, and stood out bravely, telling of his promise, notwithstanding sneers and taunts which many an older person could not have withstood." "What made him yield, then.?" "I am ashamed to tell you, and yet it is only just to him that I should. My father   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   r53 told him he should consider it a personal favor to himself if he would drink to his health. He urged that you were tyrannical, and had no right to demand such a promise, and that therefore it was not binding, and so he yielded." "And the restriction once removed, he paid no heed to how much he took?" "There you are mistaken.  He only took the one glass. The wine, being strong, was too much for him; and I suppose the feeling of dissatisfaction at having broken his promise, made him the more irritable." "And was he really rude and boisterous?" "For him, yes; but not more so than boys of that age usually are." "Oh! Miss Ida, why did you not interpose, and help him to stand firm? So much sor-. row might have been saved." "I did long to do it, Mr. Brill, but could not. I had taken wine myself, and my pride   z54  Norman Brill's Life- Work. would not let me openly condemn that in which I was indulging." Norman  looked earnestly into her eyes. She. read in his face the question he would have .put, and it was better than words. Hastily bidding her good evening, he left the house. Not knowing where to go, he turned his steps homeward, hoping that by this time Harry had returned. About a square from, the house, he met Mr. Pugh. "Ah! Norman," he said, "I am  glad to see you. Harry needs you sadly." "You have seen him, then?" "Yes.  I found him walking about the streets, and as it was late, and I fancied there was something excited in his manner, I joined him. He said he had been home, but not having found you, he was too rest- less and dissatisfied to stay there alone, so he had come out for a walk. I did not like   Normanz Brill's Life- Worlk. 155 to leave him alone, so I walked with him for a while. Gradually he told me what it was that troubled him. I gave him a bitter page or two of my own experience, hoping it would be a warning to him, and I think he was impressed. I left him just now at the door, and I think you had better go to him." "I am so very much obliged to you, Mr. Pugh. It is a service that I cannot requite, for Harry cannot have been in a fit state to be alone." "No, he was not; but, Norman, how  can you, who have done so much for me, talk of service and obligation? Thank God for the day in which He made our paths cross, else what might not I now have been!" Norman found  Harry in his bed-room, walking back and forth in deep thought. As he entered, he went up to him.   156   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "What is the matter, Harry? It is time you were in bed." There was such tenderness in his brother's tone, that the tears sprung  unbidden to Harry's eyes. "Oh! Norman, I do not deserve, such kindness. You will be so angry." "No, Harry, not angry, only so   very sorry." "You know it, then?" "I would only have to look at your heightene&d-color and excited manner to know it, had I not heard all." "And you despise me for my weakness, and cannot trust me again, Norman?"  - "Yes, Harry, I trust you so much that I want you to renew your promise to-night. This has been a bitter experience, but one, I hope, not without its good fruits. I am very glad you withstood sneers and taunts as you did; but now  you know  that fair   Normnax Brill's Life- Work.  157 speeches and persuasive lips are as great a snare, and against these you must keep a strict watch." "Oh! Norman, how   can I escape? Mr. Pugh has told me to-night of the frightful power strong drink had over him, and  I know if it once gains a hold on me, it will be even worse. It frightens me to think on what a fearful precipice I stand. Norman, help me, I am so very, very weak!" Norman put his arm around him, and drew him to a seat beside him. "Harry," he said, "this feeling of your own weakness 'will be but a safeguard, if it leads you to trust alone for help on One who is mighty to save."   *  "That is what I want to do, Norman. I am sure if it were not for you, and that I thought you woIld help me, I would de- spair." "Ah! Harry, you mistake. I am only too   z58  Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work. glad to help you all that I can, but I can- not always be with you.  What will you do when you are tempted, and I am   far away?" "I do not know," he said, despondingly. "If I should tell you of a Friend who is always near, whose ear is ever ready to lis- ten to your call for help, whose arm is all powerful to snatch you from temptation or to disarm it of its power when it does come, what would you say?" "I would say, show him to me, Norman, and let me cling fast- hold to him; but there can be none such. If you cannot help me, no one else can; no one else will." "No one on4 earth, perhaps, Harry. You look to me, because as a brother you can trust me; but we both have an Elder Brother to whom we can go in all times of our need, with a certainty of his sympathy and help." "You mean the Saviout, Norman?" was the     Norman Brill's Life- Work.   I59 reply, in a subdued tone;" but I do not know. I cannot see Him-how can I trust Him?" "Because He has given such abundant proof of His love to you in His death upon the cross. Oh! Harry, if you turn aside from this assistance, you can find help nowhere else in heaven or on earth." "And will He really care enough for me to help me?" "Yes, if you love and trust Him. It is His own promise, 'Him, that cometh unto Me, I will in no wise cast out.'" 'How can I go to Him, Norman?" '"In earnest prayer, telling Him of your need, of your longing for His help, and giving yourself up to His direction. Shall we go to Him now, Harry?" His ohly answer was to' kneel beside his brother. In earnest, longing petitions, the desires of their hearts were made known, and then and there, the light which was to   z6o   Norman Brill's Life- Work. guide the boy to the cross of Jesus, began  to dawn upon his soul. "Norman," he said, as he arose from  his knees, "I give the promise again now, not only for a year, but for always, if He will give me strength to keep it." , . ,'  i A   -         IS)   CHAPTER XII. F'  OOD morning, Norman." "Good morning, Dr. Ellis. I am glad to find you in." "Nothing is wrong at home, 1 hope?"  "Not very, I think, but Harry has been ooping for some days past, and I called see what had better be done for him." "What seems to be the matter?" "Nothing, so far as I can judge, except nguor. He has no appetite, and sits list- ssly about the house. It is so unlike him at I thought I had better speak to you out it. It is nothing serious, I hope?"   ' ,  *         I   162   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "Oh! no, I daresay not. He has proba- bly run down a little, and needs building up. I do not believe he needs medicine. Give him wine several times a day. That will give the appetite, and strength will soon follow." Norman looked up in consternation. The doctor saw his puzzled, wondering look, 'and said, with a laugh, "Why, Norman, you surely have heard of such a thing before. If I mistake not, there is plenty in your cellar." "Is there no other remedy, doctor?" "That is an excellent one; you need no other." "Whether excellent in any case or not, I do not wish to argue at present; but it is not in Harry's, I am sure." "Pray, sir, when did you study medicine?" asked the doctor, in an irritated tone. "I do not claim to know  anything about   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   163 it, but I am fully convinced that for Harry, wine is- a very dangerous remedy. Had you seen him as excited by its use as I have, you would agree with me." "Of course that may be so when he takes too much. I prescribe only a little at a time." Norman shook his head. "I am fearful of any. Besides, I doubt whether he would take it, even if I told him what you say. He has made'a promise to that effect, and it is one he does not care to break." "The promise was made to you, I judge," the doctor said, eyeing him keenly. "Release him from it, so far as to take wine as a medi- cine.. "I cannot conscientiously do it, doctor." "Then you must go elsewhere. When any one is disposed to question the wisdom of my prescriptions, lie is perfectly at liberty to seek   z64   Normzan Brill's Life- Work. other advice, but I cannot continue my ser- vices." "I am sorry, Dr. Ellis, that there should be any disagreement or unpleasantness be- tween us. When we have been friends so long, I do not think such a thing as this should separate us." "No, perhaps not," the doctor said ; "but remember, if you please, that you have no cause of offence, while you deliberately set aside my judgment. When you look at the matter in the right light, perhaps you may be willing to acknowledge that I have just cause for being offended." Norman turned away, seeing that at present it was of no use to argue the point with the doctor; but he called' him back. "I 'do not wish Harry to suffer for your obstinacy," he said. "There is a Dr. Mason in Monroe Street, in whom I have confidence. I believe him 'to be skilful and talented; and   Norman Brill's Life- Work.    z65 as he is not so old as I am, and has his reputation to make, he may not be so averse to being dictated to." With a simple word of thanks, and "good morning," Norman left him. He felt irritated and annoyed at the doctor's  manner, and feared to trust himself to speak further. "I cannot help admiring the boy, after all," said the doctor, as Norman disappeared from sight. "He has principles, and is not afraid to own them, or to hold to them  either,-- principles which it were better for this place if all our young men possessed. I wonder what has  changed him, for I have often seen him take wine, even as a boy. However, for his sake, I am glad he is opposed to it low. I half think he was right after all, but then I am too old to be 'dictated to. I am afraid I was rather snappish. I, hope I haven't offended him, for I have loved him from  a child; and now,-well, if I must    z66   Norman Brill's Life-Work. confess it, I respect him for his adhesion to principle. I will call at once on Dr. Mason, give him a hint as to the state of the case, and recommend 1Harry to his special care. "Ah! Dr. Mason, you look rather lazy this morning," was Dr. Ellis's salutation, as he entered the office of the former, a few moments later. "Yes, that is just the word that expresses it, Dr. Ellis, and I am afraid it will soon become chronic.  To tell the truth, there is so little sickness in the place that it is rather a starving time for the doctors." "It has always been a healthy place. Had I not known you had other resources, I should have warned you against settling here. As it was, I suppose I was a little selfish about it, for not being young any longer, I liked the idea of having some one on whom    I might throw off my practice as my strength   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   z67 might demand. I have come now to speak to you about a patient. Has Mr. Brill been here this morning?" "No, sir." "Well, he is coming.". "Mr. Brill? I thought that would have been the last family to throw off, and that you and they were special friends." "So we have always been, and doubtless I have stood in my own light; but to tell the truth, Dr. Mason, I was a little miffed this morning. I ordered wine for his brother, and he refused to give it. I would not change my prescription, nor he his determination, and so we parted. I recommended him to you, and he will certainly come, so I call to put you on your guard. He is a fine fellow, and you will doubtless become attached to him. As to the wine, I expect on the whole he is right. At least his is the safest, the most   z68   Norman Brill's Lzfe- Work. prudent course, and it is one I have most igenerally followed." Late in the day Norman went to Dr. Ma- son. In a few words, he told him the whole truth, and the doctor went home with him. They found they were not strangers, for though unacquainted by name, they had met by Mr. Pugh's bedside. "From what you have told me, Mr. Brill," said Dr. Mason to him on their way, "I sup- pose you are a total abstinence man. I ac- knowledge I should hardly have thought it probable, from the circle in which you move." "No, it is a late thing with me. In fact, I had never given much thought to the subject, until circumstances forced it upon me. Stern 'fact has made me feel that its use is danger- ous always, therefore I prefer the safe ground. What are your views, doctor?" "What yours were a few months back," he   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   z69 said, with a smile. Stern fact has not yet taught me the lesson you have learned." "And yet you stood with me at the bed- side of Mr. Pugh, and knew that his sick- ness and misery were brought on by its use." "Yes, its immoderate use. Of course that I always disapproved. Men should never make brutes of themselves." "That is just the point. How does any one who takes the first glass know  where it will end? No one ever yet began   to take wine, or any other liquor, either with the intention or expectation of being a drunkard; yet how many have by so doing made shipwreck of their hopes for time and eternity." "That is very true; but when once a man feels that it is gaining a mastery over him, he ought to stop at once, and   give it up."   Io7   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "That  is easier said than done. Some can do it, some have done it, but how many more have not known the danger un- til the - passion was so strong that they- could not break from it. Depend upon it, doctor, this moderate drinking, which so many allow, and even uphold, is a danger- ous thing, one on which more lives have been wrecked than on almost any other temptation known to our country. Itl is a national sin, and one which, as a nation, we ought to repent of and forsake. I shudder to think of the hold this passion for strong drink has on so many of the young men in this place and yet they do not see the danger, 'and are rushing headlong in a ca- reer which is only too likely to end in ruin. I wish there was some strong hand to stay  ! them." "You speak very strongly, very earnestly on the subject, Mr. Brill."    Norman Brill's Life- Wore.  ./ ",Because, as I told you before, I have had a stern teacher. You saw Mr.Pugh i his sickness, but you did not see himn in his fierce struggle with temptation, his wild craving for that which he knew  was killing him. You saw him in his degradation, but you did not know the height from which he had fallen. I knew him in his noble man- hood; and when after long years of separa- tion, I saw him again, debased and degraded, and was told that drink had done it;and that not through wilful running into danger, but in obedience to a physician's command, do you wonder that I abhor the thing, that I oppose all like prescriptions in the future ? Oh! sir, as you value your own peace, or the happiness of those whose health is con- t fided to your care, beware how you make use of such a remedy." "Your picture is certainly not one that I care to realize in my own experience," said  T72   ivorman Jfrzlls LzJe- Worvt. the doctor, as they neared the house; I would be very  sorry to place temptation  in any  one's way, or to be responsible for the ruin of any." Harry's sickness, as, Dr. Ellis had  said, proved to  be nothing  serious. A simple  safe remedy was given, and in a few   weeks he was himself again. *    W   CHAPTER XIII. SAY     it is unbearable. if Norman Brill wants to be good himself, let him be so, without forcing his good- ness upon us. "I do not understand, Fred. It seems to me he is very modest and retiring." "Very, indeed, when only last night he was quoting Scripture to us. If he wishes to obey it himself, he has a right to do so, but that is no reason why we should." "Now, Fred, you are not just. How could he help doing as he did last night ? You attacked him, asking his reason for not using    r74   Nornan Brill's Life-. Work. wine, and challenging him to bring any authority which would uphold him in the stand he has taken'." "I am  sure he brought no command, merely a general statement that may be good in certain cases, but that is by no means binding." "Perhaps not, to those who do not ac- knowledge their obligation to obey any command of Scripture; but to those who not only profess, but do make it the guide of their life, I must allow it would have great force, as much as that of a positive com- mand." "My curiosity is excited, Fred. You know I was not .present last night. What words are those of such acknowledged authority that all Christians should be bound  by them?" "Ask Walter. He may know them, as he seems to have been so struck by them."   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   175 "Well, Walter, let us have them." "'It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby thy bro- ther stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak.' " "I must confess, I do not see their pecu- liar force." ",' None are so blind as those who will not see ;'" quoted Walter, with a light laugh. "How do I know that my brother will be offended?" , You never know, when you take a glass of wine in the presence of anoher, bt that that one act will be a temptation to him which will lead him donward through all his future life." Ah i so you have turned temperance lec- turer, too. Our town will be soon well sup- plied, if they increase as rapidly as they have done  of late. I suppose you never mean to touch a drop again."   I 76  IA7 ; man Brill's Lfe- Work. 't, 'Walter's face flushed. -:- "I wish I had enough resolution to say that I never would, but I do not feel equal to that yet. Nevertheless, I do feel that Norman's ar- gument was a strong one. We all know how very weak malny, even among our acquaintan- ces, are made by its use and if it could be entirely banished from all our homes, there would be a great increase of happiness and peace." "Pshtaw! this thing must be stopped. I, for one, like it too well to give it up, and I do not mean to    that fellow spoil, all, our pleasure. I will teach him yet, that if he does not choose to use wine himself he has no right to interfere with others enjoyment of it. His wisest course is to keep his opinion to himsef." "Even when asked for? Theni you might very justly taunt him with being a coward; or else say that- his position could not be sus- tained by any argument." /      '?   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   1" "I do wish you would hush, Walter. If Norman has spoiled you for our club, it shall be at his cost. If we cannot reach him, we  can others." Walter walked away with a quiet "good morning." The last words spoken had made no special impression upon him. If he had understood their full import, he would never have supposed his friend capable of putting them into execution. "Mr. Pugh, would you do me a kindness, this evening?" Mr. Pugh was just leaving the store, when he was thus accosted by a young man whom he had seen several times with Norman, and with whom  he had a speaking acquaintance. "Certainly," he said, "if it is in my power, and will not keep me too long. I must not be late at home, as I have an engagement to-night."   178   Norman Brill's Life- Work. "I am  sorry to trouble you, but as iny house is on your way home, I do not think  it will detain you long. We had a discussion last evening as to the meaning of a bronze representation. As I knew from Norman that you were well versed in classical allusions, I thought you would lend us your assistance in explaining it." "'I shall be very glad to do so," was the reply, "so far as I am able." "Norman is away, I believe?" "He has been for some days, but he is expected back to-night." The two went together to Mr. Fred. Danver's house, and into his room in the upper part of the house, where several young men were assembled. Mr. Pugh wondered, as the figure was shown to him, that it needed any ex- planation, as it was one of the best known of mythological characters. He did not, how- t   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   179 ever, show his astonishment, but stated what it was, and then turned to leave. "I am  very much obliged to you, Mr. Pugh," Mr. Danver said, with a sly wink at his companions, "but oVait a moment. You must need something after the labors of the day, and you have quite a walk before you."  "Thank you, Mr. Danver, but tea will be waiting for me, and I need nothing until then." "But you will not refuse, when I am anx-. ious you shall take something." Opening a closet, Mr.' Danver handed out some cake, and proceeded to pour out a glass of wine. A strange pallor overspread Mr. Pugh's face as he saw the wine, and he said quickly: "Excuse me, Mr. Danver, but I cannot wait. Besides, I do not touch wine." "No? But then that is no reason you should   S80   Norman Brill's Life-Work. not do so here, among a few friends. It is good, I can assure you." /     I "In my opinion nothing of the kind is good," was Mr. Pugh's reply, in a somewhat haughty tone, for the young man's persistency rather,annoyed him. "I wish you good evening." He laid his hand upon the door, and found it locked. "What does this mean?" he asked. "Simply that we do not like to be intruded upon when we meet in this social way." Mr. Pugh began to fear that a trap had been laid to ensnare him. Instantly judging that calmness and 'coolness would serve his purpose better, he said quietly: "Ah! it is not pleasant to be intruded upon; but as it is getting late, and I have an engagement, I would be glad if you would let me out." "Is it a very pressing one?"Mr. Danver asked, coolly.   Norman Brill's Life- "Work.  8Sr "Yes, one that I should be very sorry to break." "Very well. It lies with you whether you break it or not, does it not, young gentle- men?" "Yes," was the unanimous answer, while a smirk was visible on most of their faces. "I do not understand. Your words have no meaning to me." "Indeed! Well, to explain them, then, as soon as you have taken a glass of wine, you may go." "I have told you that I did not take it."' "Then it is time you   did. You  will doubtless thank us for giving  you that pleasure."  X Mr. Pugh looked the young man full in the face, and said, calmly, "Your  conduct is certainly unjustifiable. You asked me here as a favor, and I came   182  Norman Brill's Life- Work. at your request. It would be no more than gentlemanly to let me depart when I wish." "I do not aim to be more than a gentle- man. You may go when you take a glass { of wine-not before." Mr. Pugh saw that present resistance was vain, and that his greatest strength lay in quiet waiting; so he seated himself, and took up a book. Meanwhile the others were drinking, and the fumes filled the room. He took out his handkerchief, and tried to shut out the odor. An hour passed. His companions were growing noisy, and the room so stifling that he could scarcely breathe. Notwithstanding the months of total abstinence, the old pas- sion was fully stirred within him at the smell of the liquor, and a terrible struggle was going on, more fearful from the dread- that he would not be able to withstand much longer. Oh! to be delivered from the   Normanz Brill's Life- Work.  S83 temptation! to be in the free air, away from that foul odor, and the sound of glasses. He went to the window and opened it. "Ah! old fellow, you need- not think to escape in that way," said Mr. Danver. "The windows are high, and the house too far from the street to be able to attract atten- tion. Better give in at once, and  yield gracefully, where you cannot help yourself." Mr. Pugh heeded not the words, for from the first he had felt the impossibility of deliverance from that quarter; but the fresh air fanned his brow and brought back a lit- tle strength to his much weakened nerves. Away from the smell of the liquor, it was not so hard to resist yet longer. Alas! it was not long before the pent up air found an outward passage through the open window, and once again -the fumes enticed him. Try as he would, he could not escape from them, and their power was well nigh irresistible.   z84   Norman Brill's Life-Work. He was almost maddened by the fierceness of the temptation. A horror of\ great dark- ness was upon him, and a wild cry of an- guish broke upon the night air.   CHAPTER XIV. EANWHLE, Norman Brill, wearied with the day's journey, had returned to his home, and thrown himself for rest upon a sofa in the parlor. Scarcely had a half hour passed, when a ring at the door bell aroused him, and steps approaching the room announced a visitor. "Oh!" he said, with a sigh, "I was in hopes of being left undisturbed this evening. I am not in a fit condition for visitors," and he languidly assumed a sitting posture. His langor vanished immediately when the door opened, and Ben Pugh stood before him,   186 A^ra     Bi Lnfr-Wwork. r h face pale with sorrow  d a his large moarnful eyes filIed with tears. O:Ii  Mr. Brill, can you tell me anything about father?" he exlaimed. "He has not come homE-yetf and we have been so fright- enecd about him," "No Ben, I have just. returned to town, and have not seen him for several days. But do not be s o frightened. It is not late yet, and he wi1l probably be home soon.." He tried to speak cheerfully, though his own heart had already taken the alarm. "I ts late for him, Mr. Bril"l' "Yes, Ben, but somethng-  may have de- taied him at the store." "I went there, but could not find him. Besides, he wouldn't have let anything detain im, to-nimht, for it .s church night, and there was a special reason, why he should not be absent., "Ah't he was to have been baptized, then? 4l   Norman Brills Lfe- Wok.    i87 Having been away, I had forgotten this was the night. Are you sure that having been detained, he did not go directly there?" "Father knows too well how frighteied we would be. Besides,- I 'went to the church, and he wasn't there." -"WeIll, said Norman, rising, "it is useless to sit here surmising things; we will go out to look for him." Yet as he thought how little idea he had in what direction to turn his steps, he fastened a sorrowful look upon the pale face of the boy, and gave an inward shudder at the fierce dread that would come, in spite of himself. At the foot of the steps they halted, doubt- ing where to turn; when Walter Holmes approached, and accosted Norman. '"Ah T Norman, is that you? When did you arrive?" "About an hour agot"     .   i88   Norman Brill's Life- Work. There was something about Norman's face and manner that awakened suspicion, and Mr. Holmes asked, "Is anything wrong, Norman?  You look so grave." "I hope not, Walter," he rejoined, quickly. "By the way, you know Mr. Pugh, who has been with us for months past. Did you see anything of him this evening?" "Yes, I invariably do, as I pass the store just as he is leaving. Why do you ask?" "Because he has not majde his appearance at home yet, and I should like to find him." "I do not know anything about him, but I may be able to direct you to some one who can give you a clue to his whereabouts. I - He left the- store this afternoon with Fred Danver." A  strange fear seized Norman, but he simply said,   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  189 "We will go there, then, and inquire about him." "And I will accompany you, if you have no objection." "Thank you," was the reply, in a low voice; "I may have need of you. As for you, Ben, I think it would be better for you to return home, and tell your mother we have heard who was with your father this evening, and have gone to make inquiry. We will let her know as soon as we hear anything." There was silence for a few moments, as Norman and his companion walked along; then Mr. Holmes spoke: "You say you may need me.   Have you any fear that Mr. Pugh may have been drink- ing again?" ' I can hardly bring myself to think it," Norman replied; "yet his non-appearance on this night, of all others, is very strange and alarming."   1o0   Norman BrYZils Lzf- [Wfrk. Again there was silence, when suddenly Norman felt his arm jerked by his companion, and the latter exclaimed: '"Could it be possible that Fred's words meant anything?' "Explain, Walter," Norman said, quickly. "A week or two ago, I was talking with him. He was condemning you in strong terms, and ended by saving, 'If we, cannot reach him, we can others. The words made no impression on me at the time, but could it be possible that he would tempt Mr. Pugh to drink.'" "Why should he tempt him? Mr. Pugh can never have harmed him'. "No, but Fred knows what an interest you have taken in him, and he may have done it out of revenged. "Revenge, Walter ' I cannot understand; please explain." "Why, Norrian, you must know  that the stand you have taken against drinking has very , ,   Norman Brill's Lfe- Work.  ir9 much displeased him. He says you have no -ason to enforce your opinions upon others." "I was not aware that I had done so." "Nor I; but he will not reason on the sub- ject, and I suppose seeing others yielding to your influence, makes his own conscience accuse him. Besides, he was especially exasperated last night because Miss Morris refused to take wine; and upon being rallied on the subject, said she had come to the determination never to use it again. He blamed you for this, and says after a little while every one will become temperance, and then there will be no such thing as living in this place." A semblance of a smile flitted over Norman's face as he heard this, notwithstanding his heavy heart, for there were reasons why he was especially glad to know that Miss Morris had been led to take such a stand; but it quickly passed. "I know Fred is a very thoughtless man,"   192  Norman Brill's Life- Work. he said, "but could hte possibly be guilty of so fearful a thing as placing temptation in the way of a reformed drunkard?"  "Not if he understood the full purport of it, but JI' do not think he realizes the strong power a passion for drink has over a person. He often laughs at the idea of danger from such a source, and says that any man weak enough to become a confirmed drunkard, is hardly worth saving. I sometimes have strong fears for him, he seems so fond of everything of the kind." "I, too, feel fearful often, but hope I may be wrong." As if by instinct, they quickened their steps, li and soon reached the house. As they entered the garden, and walked up the path, a terrible cry broke upon their ears; and looking whence the sound proceeded, they saw a man leaning out of the third story window. The bright light within revealed plainly to them   Noroman Brill's Lzfe Work,  ' 93 the pallid, distorted features of him for whom they were searching. A violent pull at the bell showed how it affected them. At the sound of Mr. Pugh's cry, Fred Danver glanced from the window, saw the two men, and immediately divined the cause of their coming. "Be quick, comrades," he said, "or all our evening's effort will have been in vain. Here come Norman and Walter to the rescue." In an instant Mr. Pugh felt his arms seized from behind, and he was thrown to the floor, and held fast, while Mr. Danver took the glass and tried to pour the wine down his throat. Mr. Pugh held his mouth so tightly closed that his effort was in vain.. "One of you open his mouth," Mr. Danver said, in a hoarse whisper, or it will be too late." One of the others, letting go his hold, opened his mouth, and the wine was placed to his lips; when with a violent effort Mr.   z94- Norman Brill's Life- Work. Pugh freed one of his arms, and dashed the glass to the ground. Meanwhile Norman and Walter had ascend- ed the stairs, tried the door, and found it locked. They heard a tumult within, glanced into each other's faces, saw the determination written there, and with a simultaneous movement threw themselves against the door. It burst open before Mr. Danver had time to recover from his astonishment, and refill his glass. Caught thus in the act, the young men  looked much ashamed, and relaxed their hold of their victim. "What does this, mean?"Norman asked, sternly. At the sound of that voice Mr. Pugh felt that deliverance had come. Jumping up quickly, he exclaimed, "You have come at last, Norman. Thank God, you are not too late!" Seizing his hat, lie rushed from the room,   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  .S but not so quickly but that Norman over- took him before he reached the door. Once outside, he turned away, but not in the di- rection of home. "Are  you not going home?" Norman asked, gently. "They are very much troubled about you." "I know they must be, Norman, but I. cannot go there. I should be stifled under a roof to-night. The fierce fire raging within me would not brook confinement, and I need the fresh air to stifle it." Norman  stopped a, moment, and looked back, but he felt his arm seized, and held as in a vice. "Norman, you must not, shall not leave me. I dare not stay alone to-night." "I know it, Mr. Pugh, and nothing was further from my thoughts than leaving you alone, but I must send a message to your wife."   796   Normnzn Brill's Life- Work. "Yes, I had forgotten," he said, drearily. Mr. Holmes was near at hand, and received the message. "Tell her that he has been fearfully tried," -Norman said, "but that he has withstood the temptation. He will not be home to- night, but she need not fear; I will remain with him." The conflict in Mr. Pugh's  breast was seeking relief in his hasty walking. After the first excitement was over, Norman felt weak and overcome with fatigue, and was convinced that he could not keep pace with him, so he directed their steps to a livery stable. They were soon in a buggy, and driving rapidly out of town. On and on they went, past all dwellings, farther and farther from any sign of cultivation, guided through the woods by the light' of the moon. Not a word was spoken for several hours, and the   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   I97 first faint streak of dawn was visible in the horizon, when Mr. Pugh broke, the silence. "You may turn homeward now, Norman." "His voice was calm, and his companion felt that the storm had spent its fury. They had nearly reached his door when he spoke again. "Norman, my deliverer, you have proved a friend indeed. In your hour of need, may He who sent you to me, also provide a helper for you. But oh! Norman, may you never know the fierce agony of this terrible night. It is beyond my power to paint it." "Were you long there?" "For hours-shut up with the fumes of that vile poison penetrating to my brain, setting it on fire, and awakening a torturing desire to taste. And in the last bitter moment, when, as they forced the wine to my lips, a few drops penetrated through and touched my tongue, arousing that unquenchable thirst   198   Norman Brill's Life- Work. which made me feel I must have it if it killed me body and soul-oh! Norman, the thought of it makes me recoil, and my blood freezes at the remembrance! Norman, I did not see you, did not know  that you were coming. I only felt that it was useless to struggle longer-that I was lost. I should have yielded, but there came to my mind those precious words, thrice precious for ever- more to me, 'Satan hath desired to have you, that, he may' sift you as wheat; but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not! It -was those words that nerved me to the final effort, and then you came.  To God alone be all thie glory, for it was indeed his 'strength that was made perfect in weak- ness,"   CHAPTER XV. T was a busy  season, and so Mr. Pugh and Norman- had to be at their posts the next morning, notwithstafnd- ing the sleepless night they had passed. Mr. Pugh was pale and haggard, his eyes were sunken, and his whole appearance was that of one who had passed through a severe spell of sickness. Norman started as he saw him enter the store, for although he had known something of the fierceness of the trial, he had not real- ized it in its full extent, nor was he prepared for the change it had wrought. Many ques- tioning glances were directed towards Mr. Pugh by his fellow clerks, and once Norman   200   Norman Brill's Life- Work. noticed sneering looks exchanged between two of them. It flashed upon him how the man's appearance would be interpreted; a natural thing for those who had seen him in perfect health the day before, and in such weakness now. He felt that it would be wrong to let such an impression pass undenied, and so approached them for the purpose. He was just in time to hear one sneeringly say, "Yes, he looks dreadfully, and it does not speak well for his reform. Doubtless last night could reveal tales that "- Seeing Norman, he stopped suddenly, but Norman took up his words. "You are right, Mr. Mason.  Last night could reveal a tale of agony of which few rmen can have experience, but not a tale of sin. I was with him through the night, and know that of which I speak. Mr. Pugh was basely tempted, almost forced to do that which might have proved his ruin, but he   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   201 did not fall. The fiery nature of the trial through which he passed you may judge from his appearance. Please, if you hear any hints as to any other cause, for it, deny them utterly." Later in the day Mr. James Ryan entered the store. Passing several with a friendly nod, he made his way to a part of the store where Mr. Pugh was at work. Mr. Pugh's back was turned, and Mr. Ryan did not see his face 'until he came near to him, and then it was by a reflection in a mirror. He stopped suddenly, gave a slight exclamation of surprise; then turned away, and accosted the first clerk he met. "What on earth has happened to Mr. Pugh? He looks like a ghost. Has he been sick?" "No, he looked well and hearty yesterday. Some strong temptation came to him  last night, and this is the result."   202  Norman Brill's Lfe- Work. "What was its nature?"Mr. Ryan asked; growing pale as he spoke. "I suppose it was to drink. You know he was once sunk very low by drink." "No, I' did not. Who is your authority?" "Mr. Brill." "Where can I find him?" "In the private office." The door of the office was open, and Mr. Ryan  entered without knocking, not even heeding the grave, repelling look upon Nor- man's face. "Norman, is there any foundation for the tale your clerks. tell me?" "What tale?" "In regard to Mr. Pugh." -"-It depends altogether upon what they have told you." "They say that he formerly drank very hard, that a strong temptation assailed him   Norman Brill's Life- Work.   203 last night, and that his altered looks this morning are a consequence thereof." "For that there is assuredly foundation. That he is not again to-day in all the depths of misery  and woe, from  which through so much sorrow  and trial he has been extricated, is due alone to God's sus- taining grace, His almighty power." "Norman, is it the truth that you are speaking?" was the almost fierce inquiry. "It is," Norman said, fixing his eye stead- ily upon his questioner, and replying 'calmly. Mr. Ryan turned abruptly away, and left' the store. When Norman reached home that evening there was a note from Miss Morris, urging him not to be absent from the meeting of the sociable at her house that evening. He felt very weary and ill at ease, but there were reasons why he wished to see her, and   204   Norman Brill's Life- Work. would not refuse the invitation. A number were already assembled when he reached the house.  "Indeed, Miss Ida," he said, "I ought not to have come to-night.  I am  not fit to entertain any one, and shall have to find a secluded spot to rest." "Very well," was the rejoinder. "Do as you please, but I wanted your presence to sustain me in a certain decision this evening, and I am glad you came." Mr. Holmes' words the other night flashed across him, and he knew her meaning. "Indeed, Miss' Ida, in that case I am only too glad to be here.  No bodily weariness would make me urmindful of such a pleasure." "I thought you would be pleased," was he quiet answer, as she moved away to wel- come other guests. When refreshments were handed round that evening, wine was superseded by iced lemon-   Norman BriY 's Life- Work.   205 ade. "A look of disapproval passed from one to another; and one more bold than   the rest, said: "You have broken through the rules, Miss Morris. It was understood that the only re- freshments were to be cake and wine." "Yes," she said, while a flush overspread her face at being brought so prominently for- ward, "I have broken through the rules; but as they were made that there should be no vying with each other in' expensive entertain- ments, I did not think I was violating the spirit of the rules in offering that which you all know to be less expensive than wine." "So you are going on the economical plan, Miss Morris?" "Yes, if you choose to have it so," she an- swered calmly, taking no notice of the covert sneer. "We have Mr. Brill to thank for this tem- perance movement, I suppose," said another.   206   NormYan Brill's Life- Work.     X "I certainly have Mr. Brill to thank," she  said, turning towards him and bowing, "for it was he who first drew my attention towards the danger of using such things. As' for the rest, I believe those who know me best will testify to my being accustomed to act for my- self." "And is this to be the usual state of things, Ida?" asked one of her cousins. "It is," she said, while a bright light beam- ed in her eye. "My house is open as ever to my friends, and I am as ready as ever to make theiri coming pleasant, but never again shall I offer to any among you that which might prove a great temptation. If any among you falter and fall in tampering with strong drink, you shall not have it to say that mine was the hand that held out the poison, or in- duced you to quaff it." Norman held out his hand, and shook hers warmly.   Norman   Brill's  Life- Work.     207 "I am only too grateful, Miss Ida, that you have come to my rescue, and have not left me to fight out this battle alone." "I, too, am on your side," said Mr. Holmes, stepping up and reaching out his hand. "I have thought for some time that your ar- guments in favor of total abstinence were strong, but it was hard to  yield. Last night's experience, however, has been too great to withstand. As God is witness, and as He may give  me strength, never again will I use that which can make its victims so far forget their manhood, and the sympathy due to their erring fellow-men." Many eyes were fixed inquiringly upon Mr. Holmes as he said this, as if to ask to what he alluded; but Norman spoke. "That to which Walter refers is known only to a few, and it is better not to speak of it further. Sufficient is it to know that out of wrong, God hath brought forth good,    208   Norman Brill's Life- Work. and that once again is proved the truth of his word: 'Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee, and the remainder of wrath thou shalt restrain.'" Another hour passed by, and most of the guests had departed, but Norman and Mr. Holmes still lingered. Presently they heard a ring at the bell, and a moment later Mr. Ryan and two who had been his companions at Mr. Danver's the evening before, entered. "You must excuse us, Miss Morris," Mr. Ryan said, "for coming at this late hour; but we felt that we must see Norman to- night. Having sought him at his home, and learned where he was, we came directly here." Norman's face had become very serious as the three entered the room; and a sternness was there which was seldom  called forth; but at sight of Mr. Ryan's haggard face, it somewhat relaxed.   Norman Brill's Life- Work.  o29 "Let us leave them then, Mr. Holmes;" said Miss Morris, rising. "No, Miss Morris," said Mr. Ryan. "Walter already, knows something of the matter. As or you,--well, if we had done nothing to be ashamed of, we would not be ashamed to have you know it; and your knowledge of the affair can make it none the worse. "'Norman," he continued, turning now to him, "I went to the store this morning to apologize to Mr. Pugh for what had been done last night; for what up to that time I had felt was only a thoughtless joke, ungentle- manly and rude, truly, but nothing worse. When I saw the change that had suddenly come upon him, and heard the right version of it, I was too much shocked to speak to him. I dared not ask pardon of one whom I had so needlessly caused such intense an- guish. If my suffering can avail, he is avenged. Deep remorse has made this day a terrible   210  vMorman  Brill's Life- Work. one.-- Nay," he said, as Norman was aboul to speak, "hear me out. Let me give you what justification I can of my conduct; faint indeed, I own, but it was not occasioned by premeditated cruelty. Fred asked us there last night, as he said, to see some fun; and we went, entirely unconscious of the nature of it. When we saw Mr. Pugh there, and Fred's attempt to force a glass of wine upon him, we concluded it was only a little joke, and that when he persevered in refusing it, he would be at liberty to go. That he had ever been a drinking man, I had not the least idea; indeed, I supposed from the very fact of Fred's wishing to tempt him, that he was a strong advocate of temperance. One would have thought I had seen enough of the evil of strong drink to make me shun it myself, and dread seeing it offered to another; but it is hard to break from a habit strengthened by indulgence since childhood, and I was   Norman Brill's Life- Wortk.  2" thoughtless. But to finish the story, when at last Fred tried to force it down his throat, and called upon us to help him, the wine we had been freely using had clouded our senses, and made us ready for any frolic. We yielded without. a thought of what we were doing. The rest you know, but you do not know the fire that has been burning within to-day. The thought that, but for his persistent re- fusal, and your timely coming, I should have helped to plunge him into those depths from which he has been so hardly recovered, and to bring upon his family those miseries the horrors of which  I know only too well, haunts me, and almost unmans me. Oh! that I should have been so near to becoming a murderer! The term is not too hard, for if not at once deprived of life itself, he might have been of all that made life desirable, both in this world and that to come. Oh!   212   Normnan Brill's Life- Work. Norman, what can I do to show my sorrow, and to make amends for my error?" "First of all," was the serious reply, "thank God  that His hand has turned aside thee evil which your thoughtlessness might have brought upon  you. Then think what you ought to do in regard to that the free use of which you acknowledge has once clouded your senses, making you incapable of judging what was right, and capable of doing that which might have made you miserable through your whole life. What it has once done, it may do again. Is it wise, is it safe to tamper with anything which thus destroys your rea- sol?"' "No," was the reply, "it is not. The experience of to-day has taught us that. We came to-night to pledge to you our word that we would abstain from, its use in the future; that is, if our strength is sufficient. Will you help us keep the pledge?"   Norman Brill's Lif-4 Work.   213 "So far as I am able," Norman said. "All of us, Miss Morris, Walter, and myself are with you in this. We will help each other to the extent of our power; but, my friends, it is a hard battle we have to fight, and many temp- tations await us, and human strength is very weak. Let us one and all seek strength from Him who alone can- save us, from Him who in wonderful love and mercy has averted the blow which threatened so much sorrow." "Ah! Norman, I would give much to-night to have your faith; to feel that I had a Helper in this conflict, whose strength could not fail." "You have only to seek Him, earnestly, prayerfully, and He will be your Helper; none ever sought His face in vain." f "Mr. Ryan, there is one thing in this matter inexplicable to me. Why should Mr. Danver wish to tempt Mr. Pugh?" "On Norman's account, J suppose, Miss Mor- ris. From the first he has strongly opposed   2Iz   Norman Brill's Life- Work. him on this question, and as he has seen his influence at work, he has become more an- noyed.; What has brought things to a crisis, I imagine, is this; Fred's father has begun of late to feel that his son was rather too fond of the wine cup, and has attempted to restrain him in the use of liquor. Fred, who has not been very strong of late, went to two doctors in hopes of inducing them to order Nwine, but neither of them would do so. From some-, thing that passed in a conversation with one of them, he was led to believe that Norman had in some way influenced him against order- ing it as a remedy, and so Fred felt that Norman stood between him  and that which he desired. He knew that Norman was inter- ested in Mr. Pugh, and, I suppose, in a moment of thoughtlessness and anger, determined to seek revenge in leading Mr. Pugh astray." "Does not the. movement against intemper- ance that is taking place at the present day   Norman   Brill's -Lje- Work.  215 seem wonderful?"It was Miss Morris who spoke. "Yes," replied Norman. "The women en- gaged in it are earnest and courageous, and I wish them all success in their work, and all wisdom to guide them in their efforts, that 'the work be not brought into condemnation thr ough mistake of theirs." "Though we may not go out, like them, into the public streets to preach against this evil, yet have we not in a quiet way joined ourselves in opposition to it? Would it be amiss, in view of the triumphs of the evening, to sing that with which they welcome their victories?" Norman looked at Miss Morris while she was speaking, with kindling eyes, and as she finished, began the words: "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow; Praise Him, all creatures here below; Praise Him above, ye heavenly host; Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost."   zz6   Normanh Brill's Life- Work. All soon took leave, excepting Norman, who lingered yet a moment. "Miss Ida," he said, seating himself beside her, "this has been a happy evening, and yet not so full of joy but that you can add to it greatly by word of yours. One in this matter, shall we not be in all else; together fighting life's battles; rejoicing in its joys; triumphing over its temptations; and supporting one an- other in its sorrows? Shall it not be so, Ida?" She raised her blushing face to his, and he read in her eyes that which confirmed his hopes. "You have taught me, Norman, to see my responsibility, and not to shun the duty it imposes; and to keep close to Him from whom a'l strength to conquer comes. Can I be wrong in trusting myself to you for the future?" "I hope not, Ida; only let us both remem- ber, that as to one another we cling for   Normaz  B  'rill's 'Le- Wor. 217 love, and. sympathy, and support, it must be in constant dependence  upon Him from whom all blessings come. How much I thank IIi; .fto-night that to all my earthly bless- ings, He has added the greater one of your love." Here let us leave  them, joyful in the prospect of establishing another home, full of bright hopes because a Christian home, from which holy influences are to go forth to bless others. And among other influences, the blessed one of trying to shield men from the fierce temptations of intemperance. Already the leaven has begun  to work among their friends; let us trust that it will go forward until the whole are leavened. And not only so, but all through our land let men and women labor and pray that God may bring to an end the great and wide extended evil, until our people shall re-   218   Norman Brill's Lfe- Work. joice with great joy in the work which He hath wrought in our midst; making us a hap- py people, because 'the Lord Jehovah is our God.     PUBLICATIONS OF THE National Temperance Society AND    PUBLICATION JOUSE.  THE NATIONAL TEMPERANCE SOCIETY, organized in 1866 for the purpose of supplying a sound and able Temperance literature, have already stereotyped and published three hundred  and fifty publications of all sorts and sizes, from the one-page tract up to the bound volume of 500 pages. This list comprises books, tracts, and paamphlets, containing essays, stories, sermons, arguments, statistics, history, etc., upon every phase of the question. Special attention has been given to the department For Sunday-School Libraries. Over sixty volumes have already been issued, written by some of the best authors in the land. These have been carefully examined an1l, unani- mously approved by the l'ublication Committee of the Society, represent- ing the various religious denominations and Temperance organizations of the country, which, consists of the following members: ,PETER  CARTER,       REV. J. B. DUNN, REV. W. M. TAYOR,       REV. A. G. LAW\SON, A. A. ROBBINS,         REV. ALFRED TAYOR, REV. HALSEY MOORE       R. R. SINCLAIR, T. A. BROUWER,         REV. C. I). FOSS J. N. STEARNS,         JAMES BLACK, REV. WILLIAM   HOWELL TAYOR. These volumes have been cordially commended by leading clergymen of all denominations, and tv various national and State bodies, all over the land. The following is the list, which can be procured through the regular Sunday-School trade, or by sending direct to the rooms of the Society: Rev. Dr. Willoughby and hais Wine. 12mo , 458 pages . By Mrs. MARY SPRING WALKF R, author of"The Family Doctor," etc,  . . $1 5 This thrillihglv interestir. -' Iok- dpiets it a vivid tin, er the terrible Iflluence exerted by those who stalltl as the servants of .od, aud who sanction the social custoln of wine-drinlit)g It is ltir and faithfll to the truth. It is not a Litter tirade asaislot the chttrch or the minislry On the contrary, it plainly oanl emrnestly atknowlelides that the millistr; is the friend of mour:li! y, and the great l;ulwark of practical virtue.  At Lion's Mouth. 12m1o, 410 pp. By Miss M^At DWINELL CGLInt Is, lauthor of "Temperance Doctor," "Out of the Fire," "Aunt Dinah's Pledge," etc., . . ...... .              .. $1 2, This is one of the best books ever issled, writtelt in a t simple vet thrillitng tnd interest Ig style. It speakls boldly for the enti  s Puup)rcsioa of tho liquor traffic, tepi tijl vividly t. misery anit wrongs resulting Ironi it. The Cdristti,i tone is most excellent, showing the cces; sity of God's grae ins te i eart to overcome temptation and the power of appetite, and the htuueuce which one zealous Christi an can exer' upon hlt comD,anionls atd the community.   Aunt Dinah's Pledge.     21110, 318 pages. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, author of"Temperance Doctor,'   "Out of   the  Fire" etc.,......       ..   $1 25 Aunt Dinah was an eminent Christian wo- man. Her pledge included swearing and smok- ing, as well as drinking. It saved her boys who lived useful lives, and died happy; and by quiet, yet loving and persistent work, namnes of many others were added who seemed almost beyond hope of salvation.'   / The Temperance Doctor. i2mo, 370. pages.  By Miss MARY DWINELIi CHELLIS       ....... $1 25 This is a true story, replete withl interest, and'adapted to Sunday-school and fanily read- Ing In it we have graphically depicted the sa ravages that are caused by th e use ol intox- icating beverages; also, the blessings of Tem- perance, and what may be accomplished'by one earnest soul for that reform. It ought to find Teadern in every household. Out of the Fire.   i2mo, 420 pages. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, author of "Deacon Sim's Pray- ers," etc.,           $125 It is one ot thie most effective anti impressive Temperance books ever published. Tile evils -otlhe drinking custoims of society, and the blessings of sobriety and total abstinence, are strikingly developed in the history ol various famithes in the communnity, History of a Threepenny Bit. x8mo 216 pages,....... $0 *7 This is a thrilling story, beautifulily illus- trated with five choice wood engravings, The story of little Peggy, the drunkard's daughter, is told ill such a sunple yet interesting mnatiner that no one can read it without realizing more thasn ever before the snature and extent of in- temperance, and sympathizing more than ever with tilhe patient, suffering victim. It should be in every Sunday-school library. AS!0opted.  i8mo, 236 pages.    By Mrs. E. J. RICHMOND, author of "The McAllisters," .     . $0 60 This book i s written in an easy, pleasant yle, seems to be true to nature, true to itself, and withal is full of the Gospel and Temper- ance. The Red Bridge. ximo, 321 pages. By THRACE TALMAN,      . $$0 90 We have met witlh few Temperance stories rontainin- so many evidences of decided ability ntud highterary excellence as this.   The  Old  Brown   Pitcher,   x2mo 222 pages.   By the  Author o? "Susie s Six Birthdays," "The Flower of the Family," etc., $1 00 Beauti'ully ilustrated. This admirable vol- umne for boys and girls, containing original stories by some of the most gifted writemr for tihe young, will be eagerly welcomed by the children. It is adaipte I alike lor the family circle and the Sabbath-school library. Our Parish.   i8mo, 252 pages.   By Mrs. EMLY PEARSON, .      $0 7 The manifold evils resulting roies ts 15" still" to the owner's family, as well as ts tie families of his customers, are truthfully presented. The characters introduced, suchse as are found ip almost every good-sized village, are well pop- trayedl. We can unhesita ingly commend it, and bespeak for it a wide circulaioun The Hard Master.    i8mo, 278 pages By Mrs. J. E. McCoNAUGHY au- thor of"One Hundred Gold Dbol- lars," and other popular Sunday- School books, .   ....    $0 85 Tilis interesting narrative of the temptations, trials, hardships, and fortunes of poor orphan boy illustrates in a most striking manner the value of "right principles," especially of honesty truthltulness, and TEtMPUBANCg. Echo Bank.   xi8mo, 269 pages.  B ERIE.    . . .  . . .  . $0 8 This is a well-written and deeply Interesting narrative, in wtich is clearly shown the suffer- ing and sorrow that too often follow and the 'dangers that attend boys and young men at school and at college, who suppose they can easily tlake a glass or two occabionally, with- out tear of ever being aught uore than a mode- rate drinher. Itachel Noble's Experience. i8mo, 325 pages. By BRUCE EDWARDS. $0 90 This is a story of thrilling interest, ably and eloquently tol,- ,d is an excellent book or Sunday-school libraries. It isjnst the book for the home circle, and cannot be read without benefiting the reader and advancing the cause of Temnpeiance. Gertle's Sacrifice; or   Glimpses at Two Lives.   i8mo, 189 pages. By Mrs. F. D. GAGE,    .  ...$0 50 A story of great interest and power, giving i "glimpse at two lives," and showinghoo Gertie sacrificed herself at a victim of falolSn, custom, and law.   Eva's Engagement Ring. 12mo, i89 pages.  By  MARGARET   El. WIL- mEeR, author of "The Little Girl in Black,"   .   .....$0 90 In thiis Interesting volumne is traced the career of the moderate drinker, who takes a glass in the name offriendship or courtesy. Packington Parish, and The Diver's Daughter.   I2mo, 327 pages.   By Miss M A. PAULL,      . . $1 25 In this volume we see the ravages which the liquor traffic caused when introduced in a hitherto quiet village, and how a minister's e'es were at length openied to its evils, thongh he had always declared wine to be a "good creature of God," meant to be used in modemra tion. Old Times. i2mo. By Miss M. D. CHELLIS, author of "The Tem- perance Doctor,"    "Out of the Fire," "Aunt Dinah's Pledges" "At Lion's Mouth," etc., . $1 25 It discusses the whole subject (,f moderate Jrisnking in the history of a New England vil- iage. The incidents, various and aImusing, are li facts, and the characters nearly all drawis from real life. The five deacons which figire no conspicuously actually lived and acted as re- ,resented. John  Bentley's  Mistake.   S8mo, 177 pages.  By Mrs. M. A. Hoi r, $0 50 It takes an Important place among our tetn- perance books, taking an earnest, bold stand kgaisst the use of cider as a beverage, proving that it Is often the tirst step toward stronger drinks, forming an appetite for the more fiery liquids which cannot easily be quenched. Nothing  to  Drink.    z2mo, 400 pages.   By  Mrs. J.   MVCNAIR WRIGHT. author of "The Best Fellow in the World," "Juu-or- Not,"How Could He Escape.? etc., ......           $1 50 The story is of  light-houe keeper nand thrilling adrventures at sea/ being naltivcal, scientific, assd partly statistical, written in a charming, thrilling, and convincing manner. It goes out of the ordinary line entirely, most of the characters being portraits, its ssenery all from absolute facts, every scientific and natural-history statement a verity, the sea ihi- ildents from actual experience from marine lisastern for the last ten years. Nettle Loring.   zrmo, 352 pages. By Mrs. GEo. S. DowNs, $1-25 It graphically describes the doings of sev- eralSyoung lsdles who resolved to use their infliuence on the silo of temperaice andi banish wine from their entertainments, the scorn they serxited, and thb good resul's -hbich f II wed.   The Fire Fighters. 12mo, 294 pages. By Mrs. E. J E. MCCONAUGHY, au- thor of"The Hard Master," $1 25 An admirable story, showing liove a number of young lads banded themselves into a ,.oiety to light against Alcohol, and the good they did in the community. The Jewelled Serpent.    12mo, 271 pages.  By Mrs.  . . JRICHMOND, . author of  Adopted," "The Mc- Allisters," etc.,'. .... $1 00 The story 1i written earnestly. The charace ters are sitell delineated, and tahk en from the wealthy aii, fsli ionable portion ofa I irge city. The evils wlhich tlow Iroin fashiosnable drink- ing are well portrayedl, and also the danger arisinn" frosm the tise of intox)cans when sIsed as mteilicins, forming' al appetite which last::s itseif with a deadtly lold upon its victim. The Hole in the Bag, and Other Stories.  By Mrs. J. P. BALLARD1 author of "The Broken Rock'; "Lift a Little," etc. I2mo, $1 40 A collection of well-written stories by this most popular niuthor oi the subject of temper- ance, inculcating ian3uy valuable lessnis itn the ui ids of its readers. The Glass Cable. 12mo, 288 pages. By MARGARET E. WILMER, au- thor  of  "The  Little  Gil in Black,"   "Eva's   Engagement Ring," etc., .$1 25 Thie stlvie of thils book is goorl, the characters well selected, nnd its temperance and religious truths most excellent. Tie moral of the story shows those who sneer at a child's pledge, comparing its strength to a glass cable. thant it is in many cases strang enough to brave the storsia and temptations oh a whole lifetime. Fred's  Hard  Fight.   12mo, 334 pages. By Miss MARION HOW- ARD  ..  ......       $1 25 While it shows the trials which a young lad endured throtugh the temptations and entice- ments offered him by those opposedn to Iis firm temperance and religious principles, afnd warns the reader against the use of every kind ,dfalcoholic stimulant, it points also to Jesus, the only trueisource of strength, urging all, to accept ithe prosmises of strength' and salvation offered to every one who will seek it. The Dumb Traitor.    t2mo, 336 PP. By MARGARET E WILMFIR, $1 25 Intensely interestine, showing how the prospects of a well-to-do New England family were blighted through the introduction of a bos of ainse, kivpn i-' f iendship, used as me- dicine. t ptrvi;:,rr , ." Sni tritc-r in th/,'n.     Hopedale Tavern, and What it Wrought. 12mo10, 252 pages. By J. WILLIAM VAN NAMEE, . $1 00 It shows the sad results which followed the Introduction of a Tavern and Bar in a beauti- fiuland quiet country town, whose inhabitants had hitherto lived in peace and enjoyment Tile contrast is too plainly presented to fail to produce an Impression on the reader, makitng all miore desirous to abolish the bale of all in- toxicants Roy's Search; or, Lost in the Cars. 12mo, 364 pages. By HELEN C. PEARSON,     ,    ..... $1 25 This pew Temperance book is one' of the most interesting ever published-written In a fresh, sparkling style, especially adapted to please the boys, and contains so much that vili benefit as well as amuse and interest that ae wish all the boys in the land nmight read it. How Could He Escapel? 12mo, 324 pages.   By  MRS.  J. NCNAIR WRIGHT, author of "Jug-Or- Not."  Illustrated with ten en- gravings, designed by the au- thor .   ..$... .     $1 25 This is a tr:ue tale, nnd one of the writer's best productions. It shows the terrible effects of even one glass of intoxicating liquor upon the system ot one unable to resistits influences, and the necessity of frace in the heart to resist temptation and overcone the appetite for strong drink. The Best Fellow    in the  World. 2amo, 352 pages.    By  Mrs. J. McNAIR WRIGHT, author of "Jug- Or-Not,"  "How   Could He Es- cape?" "Priest and Nun," $1 2. "The Best Fellow," whose course Ihere portrayed, is one ofa very large class who are ledtay and ruinedl simply because they are uch " good fellows." Toall such the volume speaks inl thrilling tones of warnthtu, shows the inevitable consequences of indulg!;ng in strong drink, and the necessity of divine grace in the heart to ittefpose aund save from ruin. Frank  Spencer's  Rule  of  Life. i8mo, 18o pages.    By JOHN  W KIRTON, author of "Buy     Your Own Cherries," "Four Pillars of Temperance," etc., etc., . ,$ 50 This is written in the author's best style, imaking an interestitg and attractive stoi y for thildren. Work and Reward.    i8mo, 183 pp. By Mrs. M. A. HOLT, . $0 50 Itshiows that not the smallest effeit to do good is lost sight of by the all-knowing Father, and that faith and prayer must accompany all temperaoce efforts.   The Pitcher of Cool Water. x8mo, 180o pages. By T. S. ARTHUR, author of"Tom Blinn's Temper- ance Society," "Ten 'Nights in a Bar-room," etc    .  . . . $0 50 This little book consists of q series of Tern. perance stories, handsomely illustrated, written in Mr. ARTHUit'S best style, and is altogether one of the best books which can be placed in tlhe hands of children. Every Sunday-school library slould possess it. Little Girl int Black. i2mo, 212 pages. By MARGARET E. WIL- MER,              $0 90 Her strong faithl in God, who she believes will reclaims n erring father, is a lesson to the reader, old as well as young. Temperance Anecdotes,    iamo, 288 pages, ... $1 09 This new book of Temperance Anecdotes, edited by GEO(so; W. BUNIoAV, contains near- ly four hundred Anecdotes, Witticiseus, Jokes Conundrums, etc , original and selected, and will Ineet ia wratt long felt and often expressed by a very large numinber of the numerous friends oc the cause In the land. TIhe book is hand- sotiely illustrated with twelve choice wood engravings. The Temperance Speaker.     B  J. N. STEARNS, .    .  . The book continis 288 pages of Declamations and. Dialogues suitable tor Sunday and Day- schools, Bands of Hope, and Temperance Or- gainzations. It consists oT choice selections of prose ans poetry, both new and old, Irom - the Temperance orators and writers of the counttry, Ianlly of which have been written. ex- pressly 'or this work. The McAllisters.   i8mo, 211 pages. By Mrs. E. J. RIcHMoNb, . $0 50 It shows the ruin brousih t on a family by the father's intemperate habits, and the strong faith anti trust of the wife in that Friend above who alone gives strength to bear our earthly trials. The Seynmours.   2rmo, 23   pagres. By Miss L   BATES, .   .  $1. 06 A simple story, showing how a refined and cultivated family are brought low through the drinking habits o( the flatier, their joy and sor- row as lie reforms oul to fall again, and his final happy release in ajdicstAint city. Zoa  Bodman.   xImo, 262 pages By Mrs. E. J. RIcHMOND,    $1 00 Adapted more especially to voung girls' reading, showing the influene they wield In society,/and their responsibility for much of its drinking usages. 4   Time will Tell. i2mo, 307 pages. By Mrs. WILSON, ..      . $1 00 A Temperance tale of thrilling interest and unexceptionable moral and religious tone. It is full of incidents and characters of everyday life, while its lessons are plainly and forcibly set before the reader. The pernicious results of thie drinking usages in the family and social circle are plaintly set forth. Plilip  Eckert's   Struggles   and Triumphs,   i8mo, 226 pages.   By the author of "Margaret Clair, $0600 Thit interesting nirrative of a noble, tinuily boy. in an intemperate liome, fighting wit the wrong and battling for the righlt, should be read by every child in the land. Jug-Or-Not. i2mo, 346 pages. By Mrs. J. McNAIR WRIGHT, author of "John   and  the  Demijohn," "Almost a Nun," "Priest and ,iun,"etc.,   . ....$1 J2 It is oneof her best books, and treats of the physical and hieredit try effects of drinking in a ltear, plain, and familiar style, adapted to )0pular reading, anl whiich shouhle be re:d by l classes in the community, and fiud d a place in every Sunday-school library. Tile Broken Bock. m8ing, 139 pages. By  KRUNA, author of "Lilt a Little," etc.,..        $0 50 It beautifully illustrates tie siletnt tild holy influence of a mieek and lowly spirit upon the heartless rumseller until the rocky heart was broken. Andrew Douglass. i8mo, 232 pages, $0 75 A new Temperance story for Sunday-schools, written in a lively, energetic, and popular tyle, adapted to the Sabbath-school and the family circle. - Vow at tie Bars. i8mo, 10o8 pages. $0 40 It contains four short tales, illustrating, fur important principles connected with the rein- pernece miovement, and is well adiapted for tilhe faltily circle and Sabbath-school libraries. Job  Tufton's   Hest.   xmo, 332 pages, ........ $1 g5 A story of life's struggles, written by the gifted author, CLARA LUCAis BALFOUR, depict- lng miost skilfully and truthfully many a life- struggle with the demon of into tperaInce Humpy Dumpy.    x2mo, 3x6 pp. By ,Rev J.}.DANA,      .    $12 In this book, a corser grocery Is the sonure of much evil, aud a resslon-school, by Iti Chrstitan teachings, the meit of reculllH many trolt the downward path.   Frank OIldfield; or, Lost and Found. i2mo, 408 pages,     . . . $1 50 Tli;s excellent story riceived the prizes o( 100 in England, out of eighty-three mann- scripts submitted; and by asn arrangement with the publishers we piublish it in this coun- try with nil the original illustrations. It is adimirably adaptedl toStunday-schlol libraries. Tom  Blinn's Temnperance Socle)0, and  other  Stories.   21110  316 pages, .  .....     ..     25 This is the title of a snew book written by T. s. AsTHUit, the well-known author of ' Tesn Nights in a Bar-roosm," iand whose fatie as an sanuthor should bespeak for it a wide circulation. It is written in Mr. ARTHUR'S best style, foul posed of a series o tales adapted to every fainil1 and library ins the land. The  Harker  Family.   i20io, 336 pages.  By EMLY   HOMPSON, $125 A simple, spirited, and interesting narrative, written it a style especially attractive, depict- ing the evils that arise frtom itellmperance, and the blessings that followed the eartest efforts ofthose who soughlt to win others to tite pathis of total abstinence. Ilubtrated willsth thr n-. gravings. The book will please all. Collie liome, Mother.    I1mo, tJ3 pages.  By  NELSIE BROOK.     Ii- Iustrated with six choice engrav- ings .....             O 50 A tmiost effective rtnd interestins book, de- scribing the downward course of thie motluhr, nuld'giving ani account of the sad scenes, but ef- fectu'al enudeavors, of the little one in brhitgiuig her mother back to friends, nnd leading Iheir o God. It sihould be read by everyboudy. TIm's Troubles.    12mo, 350 pages. By Miss M. A. PAULL, .     . $f 50 This Is the second Prize Book of the Unite0 Kingdoi Band of Hlope Union, reprinted in this country with all the GriginAI illustrations, It is thie companion of"Frank Ollfielid." written in a high tone and will be found a valuable addition to out Temperance literature. The  Drinking   Founttaiu  Stories. 1imo, 192 pages, ...       $J 00 This book of illustrated stories for childeon contains articles front some of tihe best writens lor children in America, and is beautifully Il- lustrated with forty choice wood'esgravings. The White Rose. By Mary J. fedg es. :i6mo, 320 pages, . .    $1 2 Tihe girft ofa shtI)npl whtse rose wits the tnea of ietuihLg tihose whou cared for it to thile SHiuI'. How it was lone is very pl asanstly told, st4 so the wrotugs resulting iu the use of stovu r;tik furcibil. shown.   Esther Maxwell's Mistake.    i8mo, 236 pages. By Mrs. E. N. JAN- VIER, author of "Andrew Doug- lass,"  .        . 1 00 This book is full of Gospel truth, and writ- ten in a simple but earnest style. showing the utter absurdity of endeavoring to lorget trou- ble by the use of strong d, ink, which Esiher, like many others, found isoon tormed habits eot easily broken. Her sudien awakeniiiig to this fact, and turning to her Savioour bor pairdon utIl help to renounce the temptstion to drink, make one of the mobt touching narratives ever written. Wealth and Wipe.    x2mo, 320 pp. By Miss MARY DWINRLL CHELLIS, author of "*Temperance     Doc- /tor," "At Lion's Mouth," $1 25 This book is written In her best style, show- ing the deception of the winr-cup anndi file power of woman's influence, toget her with tie evil Influence ofsocial andt mo lerate driinking. Its moral cand Cliristian tone is excellent, and none can faill to be profited by its teachings.   The Life Cruise of Captain Bess Adams.   '2mo, 413 pages.   By Mrs. J. MCNAIR WRIGHr, author of Nothing to Drink, etc., $1 60 A sea-story, filled with thrilluig adlventures on the deep, and intensely interesting scenes on land in the midst of a quaint old sea-coast town, proving effectually, that alcoholic drinks ire not needed on hpboard or on iand, and ashoui be absolutely banished. The brave Christian character of Captain Adams and thi Ieroi.-n ol Ihis datiuhier, Hess. together with the pure religious tone pervading ercry page, make this one of the most Interesting booke ever written. The Model Landlord.    z8mo.  By Mrs. M. A. HOLT, auihor      of ' John   Bentlev's   Mistake," "Work and Reward," .. $0 60 It shows how a " model landlord" who keeps a gilded saloon for fashiionable wine. drinke;s, tiiough he may attend church, give money to the poor, eind cilculate in the "firast society," may be the greatot instrument in leading the young down to destruction.   Miscellaneous Publications.   The Bases of the Temperance Re- form. i2mo, 224 pages. By Rev. DAWSON HtRNS.    . . . . $1 00 This is an English prize essav, which took the-second prize under ,the liber I offer of James Tear.- for the best. essay on the entire temperance question. Bacchus   Dethroned.   i2mo, 248 pages. By   i'REDERICK, POWELL, $1 00 This is an English prize essay, written in re- sponse to a prize offeredl by .1mces Teare, of Englaind for tise best ftmperance essay., The question is presented in all its pihasce, physio. i-,g:cai, social, political, moral, and lell- gious. It is very comprehensive. The National Temperance Orator. 12mo, 288 pp. By Miss L. PEI NtY, $1 o00 This is issued in response to the many ur- gent calls for a book similar to the 'New Temlperance Speakei," used widely througli- out the countsy. Is contains artirk'l by the best temperance writers of the day, poems, recItations, readings, dialoglues, nuil choice extracts from speeches from some of the ablest temperance speakers In tie country, lor the use of all temperance workers, Lodges, Dlvi- sions, Bands of Hope, etc., etc. Bugle Notes for the Temperance Army. Price, paper covers, 80 cents; boards ..... $0 85 A new collection if 'onga, Qunrtets, nnd Glees, for the use of all T"olifpeathce g:titer- ngs, ee clubs, eti., togctln-v wit;: the Odes of the Solis of Tenmpertsn e uan 1 Gcw)d T snsplusra.   Temperance   Chimes.    Price, tn paper covers, 30 cents, single copies, $25 per hundred.    Price, in board covers, 35 cents: per hundred,          . $30 00 A Teimperance Hlymn and Tiune-BoA'k of 128 piges, comprising a grel't varietly of Glees, Sonigs, aiir tvymns designed for the use of Tem- !eriate Meetings amt Organizations, Bands of IIt 'pe, Gle Chibs, and the Home Circle. Many of the Htymns have been written expressly for this book by sosuro of the best writers in ths Conllltry Bound Tolumes of Sermons, $1 50 Seventeen sermons delivered upon the invi- tation of The National Temperanlce Society, and publlished in the National Series hlave all been bouind in one volhine. makinsg 00 page, of the best temper mnce imatter of the kind ever published. The sermons are by Revs. Henry Ward Beecher, T L. Cpyvlir,'l. De WittTal- mage, J B. Dunn, loliu Hall, .J. P. Newman, J. W. Mears, C. D. Foss, J. Ronievni Berry, ierrick Johnson, Peter Stryker, C. ft. Fowler, FH C. Fish. H. W Warren, S. Ht. Tytig, and W. Mi. Taylor. Text-Book   of  Temperance.    By Dr. F. R. LEES .    ... $1 50 We c im also furniish tihe above book, wiicsiLsda d-vided into the following parts: 1. Temlper- ance as a Virtue. 2.. Tie Chimical History of \Icoliol. 3 The Dietetics of Temper:iace 4. Tlit Pathology o'JIiiteunper n e. ft. Tle Medi- cal Questioii O Temp.-ran'ee in Relaitio to tile H ble. 7. Historical 8. Th'i National Q cestion nnl tiltte R-medy. Y T:i, Phsilosophi/ of Teimperance.   Forty Years' Fight with the Drink Demon.   i2mo, 40oo  pages.  B CHARLES JEWETT, M D., . $1 5l This volume comprises the history of Dr Jewett's public and private labors from \5186 to the present time, with sketches of the tuit populir and distinguished adfvoctes ot tie cause in its earlier stages.' It also records the results of forty years observation, study,. aind reflections upon the use of intox;cating drinks and drugs, and suggrestions as to the hbo-t methiods oi advancing the cause, etc. The book is bantdoonsisly bounid, anit containu illustrated portraits of early champions of the cause Drops of Water. z2nmo, 133 pages. By Miss ELLA TWHEELER, $0 75 A uew book of fifty-six Temperanuce Poems by this young anrd talented' .ulthress, suitablet for reading in Testmperace 'Societhes, Lodeg Rooms, Divisions, etc. The simpltcitvy ofnuias- ner, beauty of expression, earnestness of thoueght, Rtnd nobleness of sentiment running through all of thesi m:nke this lbook a reali gem, worthy a place by the side of any of the poetry in the country. Bound   Volume   of  Tracts.   500 pages, ..   ......$1 00 This volume contains all the four, eight,and twelve page tracts published by the Nsational TrtAtpemera ice Oet., tlssd compuises Argu- ments, S&atistics, hk i tiches, ail Essays, which make it ans invaluable coliiecti a (for every friend of the Temperance Reforuni Bound Volume of Tracts. No. 2. 384 PP.      , ...... $100 Containiug all the twenty4four and forty- eight page pamphlets and prize essayspublish- -ed by the National Temperance Society since Its erlrgaliUon. Scripture  Testilm ny  Against In- toxicating Wine. By Rev. WAt. RITCHE, of Scotland,   .  . $0 60 An unanswerable refutation of the theory that the Scriptures favor the idea of the use of intoxicating wine as a beverage. It takes the different kintIs of wines mentioned in the Scriptures, investigates their specific na- ture, aindt sihows wherein they differ. Zoological Temperance Convention. By Rev. EDWARD HTCHCOCK, D D., of Amherst College, $0 7Ai This fable gives as interestinsg snd enItnrt-is. ing account of a Coivention of Animrals lisel in Central A'rica, and reports the 'l.-.I- made on the occasion.   Delavan's Consideration of the Tem- perance Argument and History, $1 50r, This condensed aut comprehensive work ton- ta ns Essays and Selicticins from differvut au- tieors, collected and edited by Ew aWn C. DE- i AvNs, Ei., and is one o0 tXhe most vawtuble tt xt-books on the subjeck of Temperance ever iesiued. Bible  Rule  of  Temperance;   or, Total Abstinence from all Intox- icating Drinks. By Rev. GEORGE DvrFFILD, D D.,        $0 60 This i- the ablest and atmost reliable work wuict1h Is i beeu issuet on the subject. Thie tn- inor:lit st rhe us , sale, anwl mianufacturo of istoxicat iig liquors as a beverage is constiered ill tilhe ligt of tise ,criptures, and the will aust l    sw , t -i, d-rlvprireneted t Alcohol: Its Nature and Effects. By CHARLES A. 'STOREY, M D., $0 0 This is a thoroughly esientific work, yet written in a fresh, vigorous, anid popular style, in language that the imaaes can understand. It cousists of ten lectures carefully prepared, and is an entirel ew rk y new work baupy onaply com- peteipt toaprsent the-subject. Four Pillars of Temperance. By JOHN W. KIRTON,      . . $0 75 Tihe Four Pillars are, Reason, Science, Scrip- ture, ani Experience. The book is argumenta- tive, historical, and statistical, nnd the facts, appeals, and arguments are presented in aimost' convincing and masterly manner, Conmmunion Wine; or, Bible Tem- perance,  By Rev. WILLIAM    M. THAYER. Paper, 20 cents; cloth, $O 50's An unanswerable argument against the use ofintoxicating wine at Communion, and pre- senting the Bible argument in favor of total abstinence Bible Wines;; or, The Laws of Fer- imeltation  aindl Wines  of tile Ancients,   x2mo, g39pages.   By R  ,v. WaM. PATTON, D D. Paper, 80 cts.; cloth,   . .   . $0 60 It presents the whole matter of Bible Tem- perance ansd the wines of ancient times in a new clear, and satis'actory irantner, develop- log the hlaws o fermentation, and giving a large. nutaber of references and statisttcs never before collected, showing conclusively the existence of unfermented wme lu ihe olden time. Alcohol: Its Place anid Power, by JAMES MLLER    and Tile Use and Abuse of Tobacco, by JoHN La- P  ZARS .  .......       $1 00   The Medical Use of Alcohol. Three Lectures by JAMES  EDMUNDS, M D., Member of the Royal Col- lege of Physicians of London, Senior Physician to the London Temperance Hospital. z2mo, 96 pp.  Paper cover, 25 cents; cloth, ..   .     $0 60 D. Edmunds Is one of the ablest physicians of Eugland, has thoroughly studied the whole n ustlon from a Medical stand-point, and not   in the Interest of the cause of Temperance. It is, however, clearly ehown that Science and Temperanct both point in one direction, and this ook should find its way Into every house- hold in the land. The three Lectures are as follows; 1. The Medical Use of Alcohol. 2. Stimulants for Women and Nursing Mothers. 3. The Dietetic Use of Alcohol. It is a full and reliable exposition from one of the ablest physicians of the world, and we hope it will be widely circulated.   The Youth's Temperance Banner The National Temperance Society and Publication House, publish a beautifully illustrated Monthly Paper, especiall adapted to children and youth, Sunday-schol and Ju enile Tem- perance Organizsations. Lch number contains several choice engravings, a piece ef music, and a great variety of artieles from the pens of the best writers for children in America. It should be placed in the hands of every child in the land. 5ERRM8 IN ADVANCE, INCLUDING POSTAGE:   Single copy, one year ...... .....$0 85 Eight, to one address ............ 08 Ten,   * :....:-..: .    ...  Twenty,-           21 .. 0..... 2 so   Thirty copies to one address....$4 05 Forty,  '    ............ 5 40 Fifty  ,   " . "  ......... 6 7i Onehundred,  "  . .......... 13 00   THE NATIONAL TEMPERANCE ADVOCATE. The National Temperance Society and Publication House publish a Monthly Temperance Paper, the object of which is to promote the interests of the cause of Temperance by disseminating light from every quarter upon its moral, social, financial, and scientific bearings. The best talent in the land will be secured foritseditorsandcontributors. Terms in advance, including postage, one dollar and ten cents a year. 10 copies, to one address $10; 20 copies, to one address, $18. All over 20 at the last-named rate, which includes postage. Twenty-four Page Pamphlets. (With Covers.) Five Cents each; 60 Cents per DOz.   Is Alcohol Food t Physiological Action of Alcohol. Adalteratiou of Liquors. Will the Coinlng M an Drink Winel History and M ystery of a Glass of Ale, Bible Teetotalism.   Medicinal Drinking. Drlnking Usages of Society; Fruits of the Liquor Traffic. Is Alcohol a Necessary of Lif!  A High Fence of Fifteen Bars The Son of My Friend.   Band of Hope Supplies.   Band of Hope Manual. Per dozen,   $0 60 Temperance Catechism. Per dozen,    6 Band of Hope Melodies. Paper"  .. Band of Hope Badge. Enanelled, $1 -25 per dozen: 12cents singly. Piatn, il. per dozen  10 cents sillgly. Silver and  Enamelled, 50 cents each.   Juvenile Temperance Speaker,    - o 2 Illuminated Temperance Cards. Set of ten.        -    .  .  35 Juvenile Temperance Pledges. Per100,  00 Certificates of Membership. Per 100, - 3 00 The Temperance Speaker,         15 Catechism on Alcohol. By Mi-s Julia Colman. Per dozen,     -  ,  60   J. N. STEARNS, Publishing Agent, 58 Beade Street, New Yorl :     
         
       
   
