
    ----CITATION----
        Wall, Sarah E.. Orange Grove .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8175
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Orange grove 
            
               I
OSARGISE Grort
1
4 p
4(7 '4'
'p


ORANGE GROVE:
-A-
TALE OF THE CONNECTICUT.
"I SLE1'T~ and dreamed that life was Beauty;
I wo~, and found that life was Duty.
Was thy~dream then a shadowy lie?
Toil on, sad heart, courageously,
And thou shalt find thy dream to be
A noonday light ana truth to thee."
WORCESTER:
PUBLISHED BY B. ~. HOWES,
2Th Main Street.
1866.


I

N

4

Tyler &amp; Seagrave, ?rinUrs, 212 Main Street, Worcester.

t

CHAPTER 1.
"And 'mId f~air hills where cultivation smiles,
The Connecticut, white with sunlit sails,
Flows down and up with his unwearying tides."
FLOW on gently, noble river, as thou hast done
from the beginning, ever faithful keeper of the secrets
entrusted to thy bosom! What tales could'st thou
not tell us of human joy and human sorrow; of
want,~ wretchedness and wo; of tragedies that would
chill the heart's warm life-blood at its source; and
think God for the blessed gift, thou could'st tell us
also of human love, pure, deep, fervent as that
ushered in on the first Christmas morn.
Beside thy still waters have lived and died earth's
nameless heroes, saints t~nd sages, pure and humble
spirits that have won victories grander than were
ever achieved on battle-field; from thy verdant banks
*     the unlettered savage and the civilized Thritan have
raised their dgly orisons to God; and here also have
*     wrestled 'in deadly conflict the vengeful ire of the
Anglo-Saxon 'and the vengeful ire of the hunted
Indian, ~s the native child of the forest vainly strove


i

to defend his ancient home from the grasp of his
remorseless, but victorious foe.
But it is not of scenes like these we ask thy records
now,-no thrilling tale of heroic deeds; startling
adventure or disappointed love. It is the simple
record of the human soul in common life, affected
by no extraordinary incidents save such as fall to
the lot of all.
Now that the age of Puritan bigotry has passed,
one may breathe freely while treading the field of
romance. Reverently let us judge those stern vir-
tues whence superstition s~)rung as the natural reac-
tion of the spiritual despotism that seiit from the
church the children of her own faith, to seek in aus-
terity an antidote to the universal corruption from
which they had fled. Shocked by the heartlessness
of the forms they had b on taught to regard as wor-
ship, and still more by ti e hypocrisy that enthroned
itself in church and stat as the supreme Head to
wIii~h all must swear all glance, they looked upon
life as one sublime but ful reality, presenting no
middle ground, aiming at one sole, absolute purpose,
to escape the terrors of hell by obtaining the blessed-
ness of heaven. For this should prayer and praise
be raised, the ritual observed, and good works per-
formed.
Whatever pertained to the pleasures of this life,
* aside from that one ultimate object, was considered
too trivial, if not too sinful, to engage the attention
of immortal beings, with such a momentous future
before them. What were, our earthly sufferings,
either physical or mental, magnified, to the extent of

CONNECTICUT.

7t

our imagination, co~ipared to the miseries which
one lost soul must endure through ages and ages of
eternity, beyond what the imagination can conceive?
The rigor with which 'they sought to enforce this idea
fostered the very evils they sought to eradicate.
By separating the ~sthetic from the moral and
religious, by cultivating one faculty at the expense
of another, aiid setting up their own standard as the
infallible test for all, they ranged bigotry and super~
station on the one side ,-unrestrained vulgarity and
licentiousness on the other. In banishing from their
houses all fictitious works in order to avoid contami-
nation with what was low and sensual in them, they
could not banish imagination .nor repi'ess the mnag-
netism of human nature, which'would find expression
through such sources as the public patronage per-
mitted. If denied access to the pure and virtuous,
it would eater to the ~prejudices of the thoughtless
and profane.
One of the greatest instri~mentalities of moral
and religious instruction exists under the name of
fiction6 Its office consists in bringing us to a more
intimate acquaintance with human nature, not, so
much to pliilosophizO upon it as to present it as it
is, leaving the reader to draw his own inferences.
It reveals the secret springs of human action, upon
which, more than upon public deeds and military
prowess hangs the fate of nations. By appealing
directly to the feelings, the heart is touched when
the intellect would never be reached 'by logic. A
truth is often uuconsc~ouslj~ imbibed under the gor-
geous coloring of the imagination, when it would find

6               A TALE OF' THE

I
'I

I

6


8               A TALE OF THE

no response if presented from the'simple stand-point
of right and duty. Jesus recognized this principle
when he. imparted his great lessons in the form of
parables, to which the com~non people listened
gladly.
The human ~ou1 is merely a repetitlon of itself in
different combinations, under different circumstances.
The child of to-day must .pass through the same
mental, moral and physical discipline to learn the
use of his muscles, subdue his passions and train his
intellect,~-is guided by the same instinct to distin~
guish right from wrong, as in the days when Cain
slew his brother, and sought~ to conceal his guilt by
attempting to deceive his Maker.
In one sense there is no such 1~hing as fiction.
Every invention of the imao'ination has its prototype.
Every recorded thought and act has come .within the
range of some one's experience. There is but one
original Architect.
Could we read the inner life of the humblest
individual, and compute the results by supplying the
many little ~ which are not all the mere 1)1 ay of the
i imagination, we should have the material for a more
won(lerfid ron~ance than was ever published. Not
alone in the dazzhinr theater of the world, nor in
those individual convulsions that rouse every passion
and set in motion every latent power of the soul,
I)ut in solitude and seclusion can we trace from phases
of our oxvn experience, how a word lightly spoken
may stir the depths of a nature usually placid as the
gentle summer breeze, so deeply as to reveal those
stormy passions that agitate and uph cave the fouPda~

~ONNE&amp;r1CUT.

U.

9

tions of society. The world is full of romance and
our lives are full of, j)lOtS. We naturally shrink from
exposing to the cold critici~nn of the 1)tllAic, those
hidden influences and inward experiences that1 con-
tribute most powerfully to the formation of charac-
ter, the benefit of which may be imparted under the
combined imagery of fact and fancy.

8


III

CONNECTICUT.             11

CHAPTER II.
"Oh! if the soul immortal be,
Is not its love immortal too?"
Partiahl~ sheltered from observation, in a recess in
oiie of the most elegant and luxuriously furnished
apartments a New England city could l)oast, recently
enriched ny some of the liio'hest productions of lite-
rature and art that a refined taste cultured by a few
years residence in Europe could select, sat a gentle-
man and lady engaged in earnest conversation. A
brilliant assemblage bad gathered there, wealth and
beauty dazzled the eye xvith their gorgeous splendor,
a Ii(1 uninterrupted festivity ruled the hour. These
two guests heeded not the airy forms flitting by, the
voluptuous swell of the music, or the fascinating
mazes of the dance. Subjects of graver and deeper
importance, and of surpassing interest, to them
en grossed their thoughts.
It Was a time when theological strife ran at its
greatest heio'ht, and every man, woman and child
enlisted as combatants. So perverted and distorted
had become every opinion upon the sul~ject that tile
individual who stood outside the conflict, in closer
communion with nature's teachings than with the
scholastic essays of th~c divin of;, might hi ave been wel-
comed, if not as a harbinger of salvation, at least as
(10)

a lallacea that would help to allay the ~fierce contend~
tion.
Society was composed then, as now, of every grade
~nd shade of opinion,~from the outspoken tenets of
I,       Calvinism to the milder and more poetic sway of that
unconscious relirioas fervor, which captivates and
moulds by the consistency of its own life rather than
by the profession of creeds. Men there were whose
austerity in morals shut out every ray of social
warmth; women whose more secluded lives led to
greater concentration of thought and purpose, but
whose greater depth of feeling counteracted the
stoicism of the philosopher, and led them to crucify
their affections upon th~ alter of a life-long martyr-
dom.
There were others whose dogmas were laid on .the
shelf for particular occasions, from whom uncon~
sciously flowed that spirit of charity and tolerance
which saw in every man a friend and brother, ready
~o recognize him as a co-worker in any noble cause
that had for its aim th~ elevation of humanity.
Sometimes maternal fondness overpoxved. every other
emotion, and the joyous laugh and festive dance
assumed quite another character iyhen mothers saw
their own children among the merry participants.
Put oftener, under the overshadowing wings of a
Puritan ancestry all the tender amenities of life were
hidden beneath the rigid crust of doctrine and belief
whence, only occasionally', they flower out like some
Vare, exotic plant, the richer for its culture.
To such influences, doubtless, is mainly owing the
sti~ength of New England character. While other

11


CONNE4Y1~TGUT.               13

12

A TALI~ OP Trni~

nations, corrupted by~ a profligate ancestry, or prose
tituted by their own inherent vices have been wrecked
on the shoals of national decay, the spirit of Ply~
mouth Rock, misguided, but conscientious, will
outlive ~the errors f a few generations, and land us
safely in the haydn of universal toleration without
regard to clime, c~lor, sex or condition, recognizing
only the brotherhood of the human race.
Alfred Claremont and Marianne Beaufort might
have been called the representatives of the two anti-
podes of theology and religion. She was emphati-
cally acliild of nature. Her parents died when she
was very young, leaving her to the care of a maiden
sister of her father, who, if she did not enter so
readily as some into the sports of children, or under-
stand so well the thousand little wants of their
minds, certainly possessed one eminent quality, that
of caring for their physical education.
She allowed her free exercise in the open air, and
never iiiterfered with her own choice of eI~joyment.
There was not a hill or valley, wood or stream, for
miles around that she had not explored. Possessing
a healthy, happy temperament, and a contemplative
mind, she grew and e4pand~d into luxurious bloom
under the ,joyous, cloudless sky of nature, through
which she looked up to God as a tender, loving
Father, who had wade this earth so rich in beauty
and so lavish in its gifts to luau.
Her spiritual organization was such that it. was
safer to trust her to her own instincts than t~ at-
tempt to control it, and she had never met with those
conflicting influences that so me times warp and harm

a child's nature more than positive neglect would do.
0
Having, no young corupaniolls at home she was per-
haps more reserved and thoughtful than sh~ would
otherwise have been, but this circumstance did not
cast a shadow over her happiness, which she diffused
Wherever she moved by the magic influence of her
pl~esenCC, the radiance of her inner self.
During one of those lingering twilight that grace
the early autumn she had retreated to a favorite
grove, where, under the blue canopy of heaven,
eardi, air and the deep blue river blended in one
~we~t accord, to swell the rapturous emotion of her
owli soul and breathe their soothing influences over
another, whose stern mental conflicts had of late
* dimmed for him the brightness of the material as well
as Pie spiritual world. Unconscious of each other's
1)resence, although but a few rods apart, until they
accidental exchanged glances as both turned to
leave, the momentary impression made upon him
was not exactly that of a Puritan maiden, for she
was not rigid enough in thought and feQling for that,
but of one whose purity ~f thought and feeling
shone through every feature so strikingly as to arrest
his attention. Her image remained vivid in his
mind, not from any expectation of seeing her again,
but for its association with his own peaceful feelings
that evening, which contrasted so happily with his
previous hours of skepticism and despair. No
romance had ever tortured him with its idle dreams,,
for life had been too stern a reality.
He was an Englishman by birth, the youngest soil
of a wealthy merchant, and had been attracted to


CONNECTICUT.             15

14

A TALE OF THE

our shores partly from a love of novelty, but more
from sympathy with our democratic institutions.
His att~ntioii was first arrested by a consideration of
the laws of primogeniture which seemed to him so
absolutely absurd and unjust, that in seeking to trace
their origin for some show of reason upon which
they could rest, he was led to a general review of all
governments; both human and divine, ~which could
end only with a recoiistruction of his former views
and opinions. Educated into the most rigid tenets
of the church of England, whi cli he repudiated as
his mind expanded, lie was now passing through that
dark period when the soul, relinquishing the dead
letter which it has been taught to regard as the life-
giving ~soiirce of religious inspiration, is loosed from
its moorings, and drifts about on the fathomless
ocean of its own conjectures and reasoning crc it
reaches in safety the other shore.
The spiritual element must be felt, it cannot be
demonstrated. Vain is the most glowing rhetoric to
hini whose intuitions have not unlocked those sub-
lime realities of the unseen' world which the human
intoiject alone can never grasp or unfold. An in-
fluence more~ subtle than mere words can diffuse
convoys the higher knowledge of the soul, which she
selects according to the laws of affinity, making' the
b
meat for one poison for another, from the inability of
the one to comprehend the language of the other.
In rejecting a rigid code of belief there is often a
tendency to materialism and skepticism. Reason is
a safe guide when it has a stand-point; otherwise it
is like a ship without a rudder. When a doctrine

has been enforced upon it as an essential article of
religious faith which it could never reconcile with
itself, it begins to question whether there is any
such principle as religious faith, and what its value
to the soul when it involves such absurdities. Its
proper function is to search out and eradicate those
errors of opinion that conflict with the spiritual per-
ceptions, by which we recognize certain truths inde-
pendent of the intellect, but harmonizing with it,
being the highest development of the innate con-
sciousness we call faith, which is the ijatural endow-
ment of every living soul. It is manifest in the
child when he runs to his mother for protection be-
fore he has learned to lisp her name; in man, in the
confidence with which lie looks forward to the fulfil-
ment of every relation of the material universe
towards him as a dependent on its bounty. In its
highest manifestation forming the basis of the roli~
gious sentiments, lt is no m6re to' be confounded
with belief than theology with religion. One per-
taiiis 'to the intellect and is as diversified as the
human mind, the other is the divine~ illumination by
which alone we ascend to a knowledge of' things
divine, and feel the glow oP the ineffable love that
gilds life's saddest hours with a foretaste 'of the
blessedness of immortality. Belief is the mental
result of the effort to reduce it to a system, and
varies with the progressive stages of civilization. It
can no more change its essential nature than the
different modes of training a child can affect the,
nature of parental love.
"Man's extremity is God's opportunity."

15


I

CONNECTICUT.

When skepticism ran highest in the mind of Alfred
Claremont, came one of those inward revelations,
one of those floods of light with which the darkest
moments of human wisdom are sometimes uAdo
luminous with a halo of celestial inspiration.
The loveliness of this autumn sunset sent its ray
of light and cheer to herald the dawn of morning
twilight upon his dreary night of doubt and uncer-
tainty. lie drank in its beauty and felt its inspira-
tionA An impression made at such times is as
ineffaceable from the memory as it is grand and
elevating in character. Years of sorrow and suffer-
ing may succeed, but the recollection of it will spring
up like an oasis in the desert to revive and stron~then
the fainting hopes of the weary traveller as he takes
* up. the burden of life, it may be, forever alone.
And if over all we feel the sympathy of a kindred
spirit, what matter if the lips be silent ? Do we not
feel th~ responsive echoes qf the eternal harmony of
nature, a~ soul speaks to soul in a language no
tongue can express; and the law of a~I~ity run-
ning through all human intelligence w1~ich makes
the eye the heart's best interpreter and mc~st eloquent
logician? The consciousness of this fast ought to
make the humblest and most barren life i ejoice that
it has this power to confer happiness which no out-
ward circumstance can take away; sometimes prov-
ing more precious to the friendless one than gifts or
gold, because freighted with the richer sympathy of
the human heart.
Not many months afterwards both these individuals
met at the house of ~i mutual friend, who, on his

A TALE OF TUE

16

~t7

return from Europe had prepared an entertainment
for the reception of his numerous acquaintances,
which rivalled in splendor any previous event of the
kind in that city. At a table which literally bloomed
with the rarest and most beautiful flowers it was
possible to obtain in mid-winter, a casual remark
attracted Mr. Claremont's attention ; which imme-
diately revealed to him his unknown companion in
the grove. The recognition was mutual, needing not
the formality of an introduction, and thus coma
menced a friendship of equal benefit to both parties.
It was a fortunate thing for him at this time to come
in contact with a person resting so calmly in the
'bosom of God's love as did Marianne Beaufort. She
needed not to be told that God is,-she felt hi~
presence in every breeze that fanned her brow, in the
murmur of the forest, iii the sparkling rivulet at her
feet. It was the all pervading element of her nature,
the focus in which concentrated every other emotion~
whether in solitude, or surrounded by the votaries
of the world.
If she could not' alxvays meet his arguments, her
faith and trust were never for a moment shaken., and
the confiding assuraiice with which she looked for~
ward to the solution of all his problems forced him
to acknowledge the supremacy of that instinct which
trusts before it can understand, over all the dedu~-
tions of logic.
This was just what he needed. The fervent,
longing aspiration of his soul could not bc met by
argument. He had had enough of that. '1~he reW
gious sentiment was strong within him, and required
2


9

4
U
(I
141
I'
U

A TALE OF THE

only to be allowed to follow its own dictates in rising
to the highest standard of which he was capable,
instead of being forced into a given channel.
A student of human nature might have been
interested in the physiognomy of the two. In con~
nection with a well developed physical organization,
though of rather irregular features, which, however,
did not detract from the general air of refinement
he inspired, he had a high, full forehead, eyes so
varying in their expression as to reveal every Omo-
tion of his soul, a firm set mouth indicating decision
of character, about which there played a tender
smile, not the evanescent passion of the moment, but
habitualr-the index of a highly sensitive nature.
She had a finely moulded , graceful form, syrnmet~
rical features, large, lustrous hazel eyes, full of mean-
ing and earnestness; long, silken ~yelashes, and
eyebrows of the same shade, as delicately curved as
if drawn by a pencil; soft brown hair that shaded a
well developed brow; an exquisitely formed mouth
wbich, when at rest, bore the faintest image of a
smile as if giving kittera.nce to her own happy
thoughts.
Though beautiful she was not brilliant. Possessing
a mind of uncommon cultivation, she made no clis~
play of it for the admiration of others. To be
a.dmred she must be drawn out, not by a mere
casual observation, but by some real, earnest thQught
striking the chord of sympathy within, when it
would vibrate to the slightest touch. Mr. Claremont
was fortunate enough to touch this chord and it re-
sponded.

CONNFCTICUT.

19*

*     Fortunately or unfortunately, an acquaintance of
this kind, a friendship founded on the most serious
and disinterested principles it may be, very often
gives rise to emotions of quite another nature from
those which were at first of engrossing interest.
*      Many a reverend divine, shaking his head over the
*   romantic follies of his young parishioners whence he
draws his text for a Sunday sermon upon the bad
tendencies of novel reading, finds himself the
unconscious hero of some unwritten tale, trenching
somewhat on the sanctity of his profession. When
we can banish love from the world, it will be possible
to write a story for the faithful delineation of human
nature which shall leave out this interlacing of the
emotions.
On a bright May morning the following spring,
Marianne returned i~rom her accustomed walk with
a basket full of her favorite flower, that modest
spring beauty, th~ trailing arbutus. Having arranged
it for her table in the loose, careless manner she
liked best to see it, she collected the finest, largest
specimens which she had reserved, in a bouquet. The
morning 1)~J away before it was completed, and.
one might perceive by the unusual care manifested
in its arrangement that something more than fancy
was nerving her fingers to the task.
First she gave it a cone-shaped appearance, but
that looked too stiff, and they were all speedily sepa-
rated and arranged in an umbel form, which struck
her as being as far the other way, and it is uncertain
how inaiiy more attempts sh~ would have made had
not the door bell rung just as she had completed it

18

)

11


41

r~ iji
di
"I
:1
~f
~1
.111.

20              A TALE OF THE
for the third time, ushering in the intended recipient
of her gift. 11cr time and 6are were lost, for either
would have been equally acceptable to him.
There was such a child-like simplicity in her man-
ner as she glided across the room, such a sparkling
aiiiination in her countenance as she asked him to
accept the bouquet, that crc lie was aware, he gave
expression to the thought that rose instinctively and
unpremeditatedly to his lips, saying, "No, unless I
can have the hand that holds it."
Love's golden hours flew quickly by, and the next
May day witnessed the consummation of their
lighted vows. Ere three summers passed away, a
fairer Rose than ever graced their favorite, bower
.bloomed in their household, and the months glided
peacefully on, as day by day added new charms to
their treasure, and blessed them with the precious
influences of childhood.

I

CHAPTER III.
"Child of Genius? in thine eyes,
I can see thy soul arise;
All the poetry of feeling,
In their changeful depths reveiding."
The first-born! who can define the world of sensa-
tions and emotions that spring into existence at that
magic word. Like every other deep impulse of the
soul, language is powerless to express it, imagination
hi its loftiest range comes far short of reality. Others
may come to share an equal love,-.-none to excite
the same novelty of emotion. The numerous little
arts and feats of wisdom common to all children then
force theiiiselves on thee observation of the parents
for the first time. And though those little hands
may be motionless in death, and those little lips never
more rejoice their ears with* their sweet music, that
inanimate form has bequeathed an immortal legacy
from lleaven,-a new link in the golden chain of the
affections.
Rosahind, perhaps, was not a child of remarkable
talent in any given direction, but she was certainly
an original child. 'She neither resembled other
children, nor imitated herself. She was constantly
unfolding some new trait of character, and present-
ing herself in a new aspect. She inherited her
father's physical. activity and perseverance, and coin~
2*                (21)


22              A TALE OF THfl                                             CONNEOTICtTT.              23

bined his logical with her mother's contemplative
powers. Every thing that came under her observe~
tion was subjected to the strictest scrutiny for its
why and wherefore. Nev~r weary in her restless
activity, she was constantly puzzling that little brain
with questions oftentimes beyond the comprehension
of ini~ch older heeds. She c~~mbined the dignity of
the woman with the artlessness of the child. Appealed
to through the -reason and the affections, she was
gentle and. yielding as a snow-flake; approached with
a command, or a request that did not suggest its
own reason, she was firm and unbending as the oak.
For her father she always manifested a most un-
common affection, reluctantly submitting to a~~y
other control, and never was a person better fitted
for such a trust than he. He had early perceived
* her peculiar traits, and the immense importance
resting on her early culture for her fixture happiness
and usefulness. She must have a sphere for her
activity, or she would grow up a fretful, impatient,
discontented woman. She must be guided by a gen~
tIe, yet firm and steady hand, to bring into harmony
the opposing tendencies of her choxacter, or they
might neutralize the good she would otherwise
accomplish. It was a delightful task to him to study
o~it her original propensities, and observe the latent
germs of future promise whose develop inent might
some day require his most careful attention. He
often felt that he was instructed as well as amused
by the unaffected simplicity she displayed in the
perception and correction of her own faults. The,
iiijSsiO~i of children is ever a holy one, though the

4

cares and trials devolvh~g on the parents~ blind. them
frequently to the beautiful naivete with which their
unperverted instincts dive at the essence of things,
without going ~1ie circ~~itous route which prejudice
and the force of habit constrain them to traVd*tO
9
arrive at the same conclusions.
Great patience and discrimination are require~ to
ascertain how far children shall be indulged in their
natural inclinations, in order to develop a healthy,
well-balance~l character; and when they sh~1l be re-
strained, that their will may not get the ascendency
instead of being the servaht of their moral nature.
Mr. Clarcmbnt quite thoPoughly un derstooci this
principle, as well from experience as from observa-
tion. He could perceive the difference ~i1 the effectual
security of obedience between a peremptory c0m-
maud and decisioii, not necessarily implying a
command.
When Rosalind was four years old she Was pre~
sented with a miniature steamboat Which had
attracted her attention. It was not a common toy,
but made of wood, in external appe~irance the fac
simile of a boat capable of 1)~ing set in motion. The
gentleman to whom it belonged was so pleased at her
curiosity to 9 xamine it that he gave ~t to her, although
coii~trncted ~ his son when a little boy, to gratify
his passion for mechanical.. art and invention.~ One
day she insisted on seeing it sail. After several vain
attempts to convince her that it was impossible, her
mother provided her a place to try the experiment.
Filled with vexation at seeing it remain. stationary in
the water instead of gliding, gracefully on its surface,

lilt

23

22

e


Li~M

CONNECTICUT.

25

* ~41             ATALEOFTUE
in a~ fit of impatience she struck her mother who was
standing by. Just then her father entered. Though
neitheP of them said a word, her manlier at once
* indicated that she knew she had forfeited his accus-
tomed kiss. After dinner, instead of returning to
her playthings as usual when her father left, she sat
with her hands quietly resting in her~ap for ahuost
the first time in her life, or stood gazing thoughtfully
out at the window. She w~s evidently in a dilemma,
and was exerting all the powers of her mind to ex-
tricate herself from it. Love was the very centre of
her existence, and especially she could not live with-
out her father's kiss. As tile hour drew near for his
return she went up softly to her mother, and said in
a low voice, "Mother, I want to kiss you."
After receiving the proffered kiss, observing that
she still stood with her large, wondering blue eyes
fixed upon her, she said, "What is it, Rosa, what
do you want to say?"
Loaning her head a little on one side, still looking
wistfully at her, she answered, "I wish you would
say it., mother, I can't."
"Say what, Rosa, that you are sorry you struck
me?"
"Yes, yes, mother, that's it," and, evidently with
a feeling ~of great relief she ran to the window to
watch for her father. When she saw him coming,
instead of running to meet him she retreated to the
sofa, which was her plac~ of refuge in every emer-
gency.
Seeing that she showed no disposition to come for-
ward as he entered the room and that he did not

notice her; her mother, who had attentively observed
her actions all the afternoon, said to him, "I think
Rosa is waiting for a kiss from her father."
As he approached she did not move or speak, but
fixed upon him an arch, inquisitive expression as if
sure of 'reading in his countenance a confirmation of
her own consciousness of having solved a great
problem.
When he asked her what she had done with her
boat, she drew herself up with the air of one whose
sense of dignity has been offended ,.and said,
"Father ycu will please not to say anything more
about it."
Why," said he, "I want to explain it to~ you, so
you will see what was the reason it would not sail as
you expected. Now will you get it and let us ex-
amine it? "
"No, it is where I cannot g~t it," speaking with
as much decision as if she had been the parent, ahd
he the child, "and so we may as welIdrop the sub-
* ject, it isn't pleasant."
"I think it is. I should take a great deal of
pleasure in showing my little daughter how it differs
from a real steamboat, and I think she will be far
happier to receive it back to her favor as we have
received her to onr~."
With a suppressed smile and much more 'of hu-
mility in her tone, she replied,
"I, will show you where it is, if you will get it for
me~
Under tile attic stairs was a large, dark closet, the
general receptacle of such miscellaneous articles as


I

collect in every hou ehold, where, behind barrels and
boxes the offendin~ boat was found. They were.
* soon both engaged &amp;ith so much enthusiasm as to
remind one of some important interest like the Thip-
'ping of a valuable c ajrgo rather than the mere amuse-
ment of a child. Perhaps it was more important,
for who can calcul~tte the result of the slightest im-
pression made on the susceptible mind of the child?
IRosalind's happiness was very much augmented
when Walter, her little brother, three years younger
than herself, grew old enough to share her sports,
and receive her instruction. She was never satisfied
with doing a thing for its own sake. She must have
an object, a purpose. To impart to him the knowl-
edge she gained, furnished, a double motive for
acquiring it.
Her strong will sought a mastery over the foi~Aes
of the child's intellect, in her eager desire for the
attainments belonging to years and experience, and
she could not patiently submit to the law of growth
and development; but her aiThetions, trusting the
love she knew was seeking her best welfare, prompted
her to unquestioned obedience, and sirn tried to rec~
oncile the two. She would have had less reverence
for her father if he had been less exacting, or lowered
the standard to which he proposed to bring her.
Engaged in one pf her puzzling explorations in
her f~tther's presence, wheii Walter was scarcely old
enough to talk, she tried in vain to enlist his sympa-
thy, and theii vented her vexation upon him by
reproaching him for his stupidity.
Mr. Claremont bade her leave the room till sho

could treat him properly. Looking up to see if there
was 110 alternative, she ran out in great haste closing
!j~ the door not very gently. The next moment she
'~ opened it just far enough to put her head through,
and said pertly, "Father, I don't love you." About
half an hour after she entered with a soft, light step,
and intruding her curly head before the paper he
j wa~s reading, looked in his face with groat affec-
tion, saying, " Oh, father, I do love you," and put
her arms around his neck for tile pardoning kiss.
She looked for reproof oftentimes when she did
not get it, and was very jealous of any given to
Walter. It required the nicest discrimination to
know when to observe, and when to pass by those
many faults, which, noticed too often, would have
discouraged her efforts to overcome them; and with-
out sufficient and judicious restraint would have
produced a capricious but self-willed character.
Doubtles~ many were suffered to go unrebuked, that
would have been deemed worthy of censure in Wal-
ter. She knew it.
Hearing her father reprove him once for something
comparatively trivial, she looked up from the kitten
she was ~arraying in a wreath of clover blossoms,
saying, " Why father, I have done worse than tivat a
great many times, and you didn't say anything to me
for it."
He was always firm in exacting her obedience to
;~. what she knew to be his wish; but it was through~
love, not fear, he gained h~r submission. Qnce ho
counteracted hmi~ decision, which, she frequently said
in after life, made one of the greatest impressions

26              A TALE 013' THE                                        CONNECTICUT.              27

I
j

27

26


CONNECTICUT.             29

28

A TALE OF THE

ever received,-.4t w~1s so unexpected. *She was
iii the habit of throwing . her playthings at i~andom
when any thing puzzled or vexed her. It grieved
her as much as it did her parents, but when a fit of
vexation came over her it was done quick as thought.
She had a beautiful, large wax doll which she
handled with the greatest care. One day in her
absence, a child who was visiting there got hold of it
and disfigured it sadly, besides tearing its delicate
garments in shreds.
The sight of it in this plight, being the first inti-
mation she had of the misfortune that had befallen
it, was too much for her. having a pair of scissors
in her hand, she tI irew them with all the force she
could qxert across the room where Walter happened
to be. Fortunately he escaped with no injury but a
slight graze up~on the cheek. She rushed into her
father's ~arms and burst into tears, a thing unusual
for her. "01, Rosa," said he, " I cannot let you go
to ride with u to night."
This was a reat privation, 'for there was nothing
she enjoyed in re than their summer evening drives,
but she bore it bravely until she saw him leavii~g tile
house, when she burst out crying again, and said,
"Oh father, won't you kiss me before you go? I
want to kiss you." As he returned she threw her
arms so lovingly around his neck that he was over~
come, and recollecting that mercy xvas coeval with
justice, he told her to get ready and she might go.
She looked' at him with astonishment, then with joy
sparkling through th~e tears in her eyes, soon joined

them. Her little hands were ever tractable after
that.
It was her peculiar characteristic to avoid every
thing of unpleasant associations. Th~ doll was en-
tirely negiocted, and sadly as she missed it she never
spoke of her loss. A poor child once enlisted her
sympathies so much that. she begged the privilege to
give it to j~er, but upon going to get it, the thought
of parting with it forever revived her old attachment,
and she replaced it affectionately, telling her mother
that it would seem very hard to her if she should
want to, give her away because something had hap-
pened to spoil her looks.
After her father had tested ,her for six months, he
brought her home a hew doll, quite equal to the
other, which she received very graeidusly, and after
re(rardino' it attentively some *~ said, ~
b                  for      mlnuues,
a look of serious concern,
"Doii't you think the other Dolly would feel bad
if she thought I loved this one best?"
Now trials awaited her. Every new experience
revived the old strife between the conflicting elements
oIls her organization, and she had the battle to fight
over again. It had been comparatively easy to yield
when there was no opposing influence beyond herself.
School brought its teniptations. Being controlled
more through her intellect and affections than. by her
moral sentiments she was far more the su~joct of
surrounding influences than Walter. Passing from
the constant supervision of her parents to the com-
panionship of those who had not been so carefully
guarded at home, she grew impatient of restraint,
3

I
A
V


30               A TALE OF TUE

and her father saw with grief that he was losing
something of the hold through which lie had gained
her obedience without asserting his authority.
Near the scl~ool she attended lived a very eccentric
widow who seemed to have sworn eternal enmity to
all children. She would not allow them to set foot
on her premises, running out with a broom to drive
them off, like a brood of chickens, if she sqxv them
coming in the direction of her domain. This course
frequently indicted them to little acts of depreda-
tion which otherwise they would not have thought
of. They lost no opportunity to annoy her, pelting
her door with stones which were hurled back at
the shortest notice; and the contest generally ended
by her going after a policeman, but as she alway~
told their of her intention, they were sure to be mis-
sing when he arAved.
Rosalind and her companions never joined this
rude set, but they would si~ on the steps leading to
her house, and if she failed to~ make her appearance
soon began to sing, which brought her out with a
vengeance, her gray hairs flying, as she never wore a
cap, and her dress not by any means a la mode, so
she presented a very unique appearance. Withal,
the multiform'wrinkles into which she contracted her
face when uttering her threats completed the picture,
-threats they knew to be perfectly harmless, for she
was never known to harm a single living creature,
not ~ven to defend the privacy of her grounds. The
stones thrown were never intended to 'hit those
aimed at. To the adventurous nature of child-
ren this was great sport, but very exceptionable in

CONNECTICUP.

31

the view of Mr. Claremont. lie remonstrated with
Rosalind and tried to persuade her not to go there,
but his reasons were unsatisfactory. There was no
intention of mischief, and it could not hurt her in
any possible way to sit on Wer steps, and she was sure
that, living such a lonely life, she otight to be very
grateful to them for singing her a song occasionally.
if it made her cross, it was her fault, not theirs.
Thus she argued.
HerYather was not a man to be trifled with. He
forbade her going, which at first overawed her, but
when she joined her companions, who, ~s soon as
school was over urged her to go with them again,
SilO held a council in her own mind, and decided that
it was very arbitrary in him to deprive her of enjoy-
ments which were not denied to others, arid she
accompanied them, not, however, with a very keen
sense of pleasure..
At dinner, in answer to her father's inquiry if she
had obeyed him, she replied, no, but she had not
done any thing wrong or out of the way, she thought,
and was very sorry he should think otherwise, 1~ut
she could not help it. That little will had gained
ascendency much faster than he thought, but lie did
not forgot that he had been a child, or ~that grown
people are as unwilling to submit to what seems to
timin, oftentimes, the arbitrary demands of their
Heavenly Fathei~,. and he maintaiiied his self-control.
With a child's quick instinct she perceived the
sacrifice of feeling it cost him to enforce her obe-
dience, which was another proof of his tender love,
~a love that could suffer as well as enjoy,-and her

30


32              A TALE OF THE                                         CONNEOTICIYIX              33

affection for him was thereby increased. Neither did
she ever after manifest so much impatience when
any thing baffled her-comprehension.
The summer she was fifteen she passed under her
father's tuition, which was a source of great enjoy-
ment to both. 11cr cager desire to fathom every
branch of science to which her investigating mind
led her, was often~ the cause of great annoyance to
her teachers, for the~r could not see why a girl need
to ask so many questions, who would never have any
~ise for her knowledge. She felt the injustice of the
censures sometimes incurred by her inquisitiveness,
and could scarceIy'~ brook with go.od grace the par-
tiality that tolerated, seemingly with greater patience,
the insensible questions of the most stupid boys.
She did not understand the customs of society, far
more prevalent then than now, assigning to manhood
a career,-to womanhood, marriage or a blank.
Whatever Mr. Claremont's views in this respect,
he intended to gratify and assist Rosalind in prose-
cuting her studies to the extent of his power. Though
engaged in a large mercantile establishment, his
financial ability and prompt business habits relieved
him from many of the cares and perplexities attend-
ing men of~ his class, so that he had more leisure to
spend at home and devote to her thaii usual with
business men. He was one of the small company of
successful merchants who had a conscience that
could not be wrapped up in his Sunday suit, and a
religion that he carried into his counting room, prac-
tising good will to mcii on six days out of the seven,
thus saving his soul from the all-engrossing vacation~

and anxieties of trade without detriment to his
* worldly interests, and redeeming it from the neces-
sity of doubting the old maxim, that honesty is
ultimately the best policy under all circumstances.
With him the acquisition of wealth was only a sec-
ondary consideration, honorable as 'the means to an
end, but not the end itself.
Itis enough to make one shudder, wl~o steps for
the first time out of the blissful ignorance of private
life into the great maelstroom of intrigue and du-
plicity, swallowing up th~ world at large. Specious
promises ~nd reckless investments on the longest
credit constitute the badge of trade; punctuality in
the payment of debts as a moral duty passes at a
discount, and the industrious mechanic, dependent
on his daily labor, deprived of the comforts of life
through the negligence or dishQnesty of his employer,
considers society at best only a ~ombination 6f rogues.,
and gives up in despair or resolves to try his own
fortune by playing a game at the same table.
a roomy being Rosalind's favorite science, was
subject which called forth most the brilliance of her
intellect. The wonders there unfolded were adapted
to her ardent thirst for novelty and grandeur, and
sufficient to engage the intense activity of her brain.
She was fascinating to observe, when, on a keen
frosty night, she came in with her father after they
had been out to trace the constellations, her eyes
beaming with delight and her cheeks glowing with~
the rosy hues of health, a good model for a picture
:~ of youth and happiness.
3*


84              A TALI~ OP THE

CONNECTICUT.             35

She never possessed the quiet beauty of her
mother; hers was father the expression of soul.
When a great thought animated her, or some stirring
emotion communicated its subtle enthusiam to her
features, there was an irresistible charm that iliSOli-
sibly atti~aeted all wl~o came, within reach of her
influence. Her chief feature of physical beauty was
her flaxen ringlets, yet her complexion was fair, and
her eyes resembled her father's in expression. In
no other particular was there any resemblance be-
tween herself and any other member of the family.
The same might also be said of her character, which
was two4'old, but not deceptive. Exhibiting neither
boldness or reserve, nature came forth in full measure,
sometimes rushing on like some wild mountain
stream, then like the calm summer ripple, gently and
soothingly breathing its sweet message of rest and
peace, as it was reflected from its owa quiet bosom.
Such an organization is born to suffering from its
want of harmony, but when this is once effected,
there is a strength of character seldom displayed by
a person of an even temperament naturally.
Walter was an exception to this rule. Combining
a healthy physical frame with a well balanced mental
organization, he presented an example of a highly
moral, deeply religious nature without those sharp
angles which chequer ~he lives of most people with
their alternate sunshine and shade, as thdy bear wit~
ness to the decisive conflicts and victories throudi
which they have triumphed.
The following incident furnishes a good illustra-

tion of his character. His teacher having occasion
to leave the schoolroom for a short time, appQinted
him monitor in his absence, cons~dcriug him the
most trust-wortJ~y scholar he had. It was an unen-
viabl&amp; position, and one which confiiet~d with Walter's
sense of honor to report the conduct of his fellows.
One of the boy~ who had too much of the fun-loving
disposition to le~ such an occasion go unimproved,
and too much artfulness to allow himself to be caught
in the trap he set for others, winked to his nearest
companion who took~ the hint and jogged th~ elbow
of a boy sitting before him writing. Never passiiig
by an affro~mt without showing proper resentment, the
latter rose hastily to grasp the offender, and upset
the inkstand over his clean copy-book which landed
in a little girl's lap in front of him, who began to cry
at the dismal picture her new pink apron presented
with its long streaks of jet, like so many black marks
against its fair fame. There was a general titter
throughout the rooxn as all sprung iimstantly to their
feet to see what was happening. Just then the
school-master entered,-poor, mortal being,-~vith
the dignity becoming such a functionary, who cast
some menacing frowns on the little miscreants in the
quarter whence had originated this confusion, thus
flinging an imputation at his boasted renown for
securing good order and obedience, and also setting a
snare which cost him a still greater loss to his reputa~
tion ,-~the equilibrium of his temper. Addressing
Walter, whose close }$roximity to the scene of action
forced him to be an eye witness of the whole, but
who alone remained unmoved, having neither. smiled


86              A TALE OF TIlE                                     CONNECTICUT.              37

nor spoken, he demanded .a full account of the occur-
ence, with the names of the offenders; to which he
replied that he had nothing to sa~r, and positively
declined to give aiiy information.
"You\ have nothing to say? and yet you know all
about it, who and what have been the cause of this
mischief, but refuse to tell me," giving him a look
that Walter, brave as he was, trembled to encounter,
~an angry, defiant look.
"Answer me now, were you yourself concerned
in it?
"No, sir."
"You confess to a knowledge of the facLs which
you refuse to communicate, do you?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then mind you, sir, the punishment that should
have been the culprit's., shall be yours! "
If ever there was a class of persons who need a
double shareof patience in order to meet the respon-
sibilities resting upon them, and , discharge them
acceptably to themselves and the community, it is
school-teachers. Entrusted with the n~oral and in-
tellectual training of a score or two of juveniles,
with all sorts of temperaments, and all sorts of bring-
ing up, and some with no bringing up at all; some,
so full of fun and rogu.ery that an attempt to repress
them seems like turning nature~ out of her course;
others, so obstinate that the most to be hoped for
is sullenness, instead of submission, their parents the
while watching with jealous eyes any assertion of
authority which they have not seen fit to maintain;
the person who successfully manages the hetero-

generous elements without committiiig some errors,
must be an uncommon adept in the science of human
nature, and of remarkable self-control.
Mr. ~crantum, unfortunately, was not above the
ordinLary level of human endurance, but he was very
conscientious, and, when led into an indiscretion,
sought every means to make reparation, if it could
be clone without weakening his authority. He felt
the keenest reproof in Walter's future conduct which
never manifested the least revengeful feeling; and
he had gained an influence over the school that
transcended his own.
Those young souls had never seen such heroism
before. They ~vere lost in silent admiration. Even
the boy who gave the sly wink, though not 1)rave
enough to come forward and save him, thereby losing
the opportunity to gani ahuost equal honors, appre-
ciated the young martyr-spirit that could suffer for
others, and profited by the lesson thus taught him.
When the term drew tb a close, anti the conne&amp;
tion between teacher and pupils was about to cease
the former gave these parting~ words,-~" My young
friends and pupils,-~-now that we are on i~he eve of
separation, and shall probably never all meet again
in this world, I feeL that justice to one of your nun~
* ber demands a fexv words from me. You recollect
the unpleasant incident that occurred here a few
weeks since, when, to maintain the discipline of the
school, an innocent person suffered for the guilty.
The names of those concerned in that affair, and the
motives of him who refused to serve as informer, I
* have never learned but if there are any among you

86

37


A TALE OF THE

who feel any ~ompunctions of conscience and wish
to make restitlAtion, or any who would like to know
whom among ~rou all I would recommend. as an
example most ~ort~iy of imitation, I will point them
to Walter Claremont."
All eyes were fixed on Walter, the unconscious
hero, whose look of puzzled surprise added to the
interest of the occasion; and all gathered around
him as one boisterous cheer proclaimed the end of
school regulations. When they gained the liberty of
the open air, they waved their caps in great exulta~
tion that they too had a favorite, which circumstance
served them as the political occasion to imitate their
seuiors-.and "hurrah for Walter," from the boy who
spilt the ink, ended i~~ three times three.
"And terror to sly winks! " shouted the boy who
pushed his elbow. But Sly Winks was silently rid~
dling the philosophy of the ~'proverb, "Behold what
a great fire a little spark kindleth," to reap its fruits
in due season.

F

GREATER IV.
"Woods have their blossoms which we ne'er behold,
And skies their worlds whose light is never shown,
Ocean its treasuries of untold gold,
And earth her heroe~ that are all unknown.
You meet ithem as you pass, and heed them not;
You may not kiiow what hosts before them fell;
You may not count the battles they have fought-
The wreaths that crown them are invisible."
In a by~street not far from the mansion of the
Claremont's, in a miserable basement, which always,
however, bore the marks of tidiness though not of
comfort within, might have been seen the other
extremes of human life ;-poverty without a ray of
hope to cheer it; childhood without a smile ~f joy to
welcome it.
Amelia Crawford was two years older than Rosa~
hid, but so pinched was she by want, so stunted in
growth, so passionless for want of the little attentions
necessary for the healthy expansion of the child's
liature, that she seemed more than two years younger.
Tier mother had drained the dregs of the terrible
cup of suffering presented by the demon of intem~
perance, rendered still more bitter by the injustice
of the law which consigned tQ the husband the sole
control of his wife's person and property.
Surrounded al; h6me by all that could make life
joyous and hopeful, she knew no more of its respon.-,
(39)

*

88


40              A TALE 01? TilE

41

sibilities, or of the world -and its hypocrisy than the
pets left behind her, when, at the early age of six-
teen, she confided all her prospects of earthly happi-
ness to the keeping of another. Too young to, com-
prehend the full nature of the new relation she had
assumed, or scan the possibilities of the future, it
was bnly the realization of youth's sunny dreams,
enhanced by the rich treasure of aii added love. In
reply to a suggestion made by a friend who knew
Mr. Crawford much bettor than she did, that the law
should be changed which vested the xvife's property
in her husband at the moment of her marriage, thus
exposing her needlessly to all the Vicissitudes of for-
tune that business or speculation may incur, she
spoke with a tone of indignation unusual to that
gentle nature, " Do you think I would trust myself
where I would not trust my property ? Whatever is
mine shall be, my husband's ! " a pledge that was
fulfilled very differently from what she anticipated.
Not naturally an indulgent man, and being ten years
the oldest, it was very easy to assume a control to
which she unresistingly yielded. He might have
been ordinarily kind if strong drink had not made
him a tyrant.
Always having borne a good reputation, and scorn-
iiig drunkenness as if it had been a loathsome reptile,
he prided himself greatly on being able to control
his appetite; but, on joining a club of young men
who met for convivkd purposes, he found the power
of restraint passing away, and, lacking the strength
toresist his associates, resolved to change his resi-
dence.

Though a great trial to the young wife, she fol-
lowed him unsuspectingly, ignorant of any reasoit
that could induce him to leave the home of her child-
hood where they were so pleasantly situated. When
* she ventured to make any inquiry, his manner in-
stantly silenced her, without the wished for ~informa-
tion. He hoped that* in leaving his old companions
and the scene of his temptations he might break off
his former habits and save his reputation which he
regarded as the apple of his eye, from any imputa-
tion by his old friends.
Here he was mistaken. Although moderate drink-
ing was fashionable, the world was not so stupid, as
it never isj, to regard a man with quite so much fayor
pfter he has begun to debase the god-like within him,
* which it discovers much sooner than he is aware.
For three months he struggled bravely with his
appetite, and kept his resolution; but, alas! one of
his old companions followed him here, and enticed
him again to the terrible abyss whence he had appa-
rently escaped. Knowing the weak side of his char-
acter, and exaggerating the facts, heTersuaded him
that it was a vain attempt to save the respectability
already lost, for every body knew the reason of his
sudden removal. A certain ingenuousness about Mix
Crawford made him spurn hypocrisy, and these
* words added to the humiliation already felt. That
* proud spirit chafed under the galling thought of
honor irretrievably gone, an~l his craving thirst for
drink was too strong to be resisted by one whose
controlling sentiment was pride rather than priiici-
pie, and he fell never to rise again.
4

CONNECTICUT.


I

* Late one evening, after losing heavily by gambling,
be tried to drown his mortification and remorse by
excessive indulgence, and came reeling home in a
state of beastly intoxication. Being his wife's first
suspicion of his l~abits, though she had often won-
dered what kept him out so late, it gave her a stun-
fling blow, which he had just sense enough to observe.
* Maddened by the conviction that he had lost the last
claim upon the love or reverence of any human be-
ing, he vented his raging passions upon her and her
sleeping babe.
Mrs. Crawford lacked the strong will, which, if it
might have made her more rebellious, would have
helped her to rise above her fate, and her native re-
finement and purity of character revolted at the life
of degradation she must live with him. Like a fair
and delicate floweP rudely transplanted from, the
watm and genial breezed where it has been tenderly
reared, she drooped and faded at the first rough
wind. It was true she had shed mainly bitter tears
that year as a gentle child ~1oes at t~ie occasional
harshness of its parents, and then dries them again
and smiles at the first pleasant word, but love always
found some excuse in the pressure of business and
its vexatious, and sought yet to be happy in striving
to make him so.
Suddenly hurled from the fond anticipations of
the young wire and mother into the overwhelming
depths of despair, she saw nothing before her but
darkness and desolation. Every night she trembled
at the sound of his footsteps, and every morning
grew more hopeless and heartsick at sight of him.~

42              A TALE OF THE                                        CONNECTICUT.               43

I

Even the infant in her arms failed to arouse any
einQtions of joy in her soul. She looked upon him
as one born under a curse, and when, a few months
after she was called upon to render up her little
charge to Him xvlio gave it, did so without a mur-
mur. And when. another, and another came and
went in quick succession, she felt that it was in niercy
God had taken them unto himself. Like one whose
grea~-~verwhelming weight of sorrow had checked
the ordinary tides of grief, she seemed alike insensi-
ble to the ebb and flow of the surging sea of human
passion or human affection.
The fourth boy survived the birth and death of
the fifth and was quite a sprightly little fellow of
three years, bringing a ray of sunshine fo the poor
mother's soul, for whose ~sake she was willing to live
and suffer. One day a neighbor's child gave him a
little kite which to him was the wonder of the age.
to ~V~i': ~ coining home, he sprang forward
wood that lay in his path, which he hurled a stick
of                                      at him
with ~uch force as to inj are his spine so se~Aously he
never walked again. After lingering for some
months in great pain, he was taken to~ the fold of hi~
little brothers, safe from farther harm. Mrs. Craw-
ford no longer exhibited the resignation and indiffer-
ence before shown. Uer newly aroused sensibilities
lent acut6ness to her sufferings, and she felt the full
force of a mother's inconsolable bereavement. She
I
prayed for death, but it would not come, a~ it never
 does at our bidding. Though so often breaking in
ui~on our most cherished plans, and bearing hence

42

43


I I
ii'
~J1
4
I
p
H

A TALE OF THE

our choicest treasures, it is never the lover to be
wooed and won.
About three niontlis after Amelia was born. When
laid in her mother's arms, she turned her face away
with a look and tone those present could never for-
get, saying, " God forbid that she should live to suf-
fer what I have suffered; better that she should
never see the dawn of another day!" But Amelia
was destined to live, to thank God for the life he had
given her. She was a dull, spiritless child, yet a
close observer could perceive that thQre was not so
much lack of talent, as want of development. Her
mother was too broken-hearted to infuse much ani-
mation, which was very essential to such a passive
nature as Amelia's. She was shy of every body, and
her home, poor as it was, constituted her world, for
it was all she knew of it. Mr. Crawford was now an
object of constant terror. Unfit for any rc gular
occupation, no hour of the day was secure from his
intrusion, and, as if to vex his wife to the utmost, he
sought every means to annoy and abuse Amelia.
The first time she ever manifested any enthusiasm
was when accompanying her mother~ to Mr. Clare-
mont's, she heard the sound of music, and looked up
with a pleased expression, saying, "Oh mother, what
is that ? " He being present, persuaded her to go
into the parlor where his wilje was playing on the
piano. She even permitted him to take her into his
lap, sitting like one entranced until the music ceased,
when she resumed her former listless expression,
and slid down immediately to her mother's sidQ.
This little incident awakened quite an interest in

CONNECTICUT.

45

her, and gave rise to various trifling attentions which
overcame in a great measure her timidity towards
them all, except Rosalind, whom she regarded as a
kind of sup-crier being.
She was indeed quite a curiosity to that scrutiniz-
ing little personage, which Amelia had tact enough
to perceive, knowing very well she was not what she
* ought to be, and was therefore exceedingly shy of
her. Once, being sent there of an errand, she saw a
large Newfoundland dog eating from the same dish
with a cat, the result of Rosalind's untiring efforts
* to make them friends from the moment her father
introduced the noble looking animal who received no
smaff share of her attention, as she tested him in
every possible way to see if he was cross or good
nature, and great was her self congratulation for
her wonderful achievement~ when she saw them sleep-
ing quietly side by side and eating together in the
greatest harmony.
Amelia was not accustomed to such scenes of
peaceable companionship, which excited her wonder
in the highest degree. Seeing Mr. Claremont stand-
ing in the dpor, she ran towards him with unusual
animation, saying, "There's a dog and a cat eatin'
out of the same scoop, I seed~'em with my own eyes,
ii did." This quaint exclamation excited the mirth~
fulness of Rosahind, who was within hearing and
burst into a loud laugh.
The timid child shrunk into her herself again, and
nothing could induce her to speak another word
until she was gone.
'Mrs. Crawford was now reduced to extreme pov-
4*

44


&amp;
:1,'
ii
Pt
i11
d
p1

erty. She might have provided well for herself and
child had they been alone, by her own industry.; but
words are needless to explain here what is so well
known to every drunkard's family.
At times the miserable man experienced all the
horrors of a drunkard's remorse; when hcr feelings
of mingled pity ~nd affection banished every other
thought. His career was fast drawing to a close, and
ended in delirium tremens when Amelia was twelve
years old. One of the horrid phantoms of his dis-
eased imagination was that of his little boy whosO
death he had caused, chasing him with a club, and
cursing him with the most fearful oaths. In a com-
paratively, lucid interval, a by-stander, thinking to
comfort him said, " Your son is an angel now, inter-
ceding for you in the name of a holy Savior's love,"
but he was quickly interrupted by the raving maniac,
who, starting up with glaring eyeballs and convub
sive gestures, exclaimed at the top of his voice,
"hush all your deceitful wiles about a Savior and
his love and angels, I tell you there's no such thing,
nothing but the seven hells of the bottomless pit
where we shall all go," followed by such curses and
imprecations as would congeal the stoniest heart.
This death-bed scene haunted Amelia for years
after, in dreams and in her waking hours, giving her
passive nature its first quickening impulse and an
unfavorable one too. Its effect on her mother was
still more disastrous. The reaction consequent on
being so suddenly relieved from all fear and anxiety,
and the time now left for reflection, soon produced a
melancholy state of mind.

Memory was plying her ~busy fingers among the
withered leaves of what was once the gay and glori-
oiis blossoming of youth, and retrospection *sternly
casting accounts of the blighted joys, bleeding affec~
tion~ and blasted hopes of a life that had promised
at its opening to be as bright and beautiful as Mrs.
Claremont's. How vividly rose to mind the bright
anticipations with which she had stepped from the
threshold of a dear and luxurious home, to share the
destiny of one whom she reverenced as the embodi-
ment of all that is great and noble, and what a destiny
it had been ! Then how quickly faded the memory
of his faults and vices before that overpoxvei:ing love
which sought to palliate them through the med nation
of siirroundiiig influences or some short-coming of
its own, and which magnified his virtues in the same
proportion.
it is no blind idolatry that makes the virtues of
departed ones so far outweigh their faults to surviv-
ing friends, but a prophetic intuition soaring to
the higher life the spirit attains as it ascends
from the ills flesh is heir to, which beholds it
trausflgured into the divine symmetry designed by
its orEfinal Architect, and which is the birth-right of
immortality.
It is hard to conquer human nature. How fondly
we cling to the perishing clay even when wasted by
disease, and the mental faculties are impaired by suf-
fering,, with a strength of affection unknown before.
It is the conflict of flesh with spirit, of mortality
with immortality-a crisis of love.
Mrs. Crawford was too much prostrated, mentally

46              A TAL1~ OP THE                                      CONNECTICUT.              4T

46

47


P
I
~ll
41
111~
p1t
iI~
Ii

and physically, to pass it safely.

0-
Her constitution

gradually gave way, sand after four years of great
unhappiness she died. Thus ended these two lives,
a sacrifice to the fell spirit of Mammon, ~which, like
a desolating scourge, annually sweeps its thousands
of victims from the strength and pride of the land,
the ~hole extent of which will nevor be known* until
the grave shall be endowed with the marvellous
,faculty of speech.
Who is responsible for this state of things? To
whom sh~ll be addressed the question, Where is thy
brother? Not alone to him whose avarice has cased
his feelings in a rock of adamant, or who indirectly
contributes his influence by permitting those whole-
sale traffickers in the ruinous poison to walk unblush~
ingly into the ranks of respectable society, but to
that other half of the human race who have hitherto
been the unresisting sufferers, the silent victims;
from whose dark and fathomless abyss of deep and
bitter woes should arise an appeal to the feelings and
conscience of that. over shifting, but ever ruling ele-
ment, public opinion, thereby gaining access to the
various channels through which it is moulded into
law, and, speaking in the name of all that is pure
and holy in womanhood, demand that it shall no
longer be desecrated by permitting that Gorgon of
pollution to roar its head under the name of respec-
tability and success, as it now does at the ballot-box.

CHAPTER T'
"Life is the hour that lies between
Earth and the heavenly spheres;
And merges like some tranquil dream
In love's immortal years."
*1
Joy and sorrow~ pain ani peace, are the inevitable
counterparts of nature, as essential to the complete~
ness of life, as the different shades of coloring to a
picture. If Mrs. Claremont furnished in herself, an
isolated illustration of the principle, that happiness,
and not suffering, is the normal state of the soul,
when health aiid vigor predominate in the physical,
harmony in the intellectual and moral nature, and
surrounding influences are favorable to their devel-
opment, her daughter furnished another evidence,
that under the most favorable circun~ stances for the
existence of su~h a temperament, licr~ dietary descent
and early training hail failed to do the work, and
only by that lax~ which has instituted suffering as the
appointed agent fo~ the perfection of the soul, could
she reach the spiritual plane on which her mother
rested. There was too much clashing of the ele-
ments, too much of the restless spirit of inquiry for
the meek, sustaining eye of Faith, calmly to steer,
her course in such a complicated organization as
Rosalind's.
It was not thus with Walter who resembled hi~
(49)

48

4 TALE OF TII1~


50               A TALE OF THE

CONNECTICUT.             51

mother. Nature seemed to have cast him in an even
mould and bestowed on him her rarest gifts. Rosa~
lind excelled in intellectual capacity; he, in intuitive
knowledge. The truths others gained b~ reasoning,
he knew by intuition. The triumphs others won by~
edutinued effort and stQrn seW-denial, were but the
natural unfolding of his oww character.
Her sense of justice was very keen, arriving at
results more through the intellect, than' the moral
perceptions. The ~reverse was true of Walter, whose
reception of a truth preceded the argument. lie
desired proof to test his decision, not to help him
form it; while she must trace all its logical results
before accepting it as positive. Their influence over
each othei~ wa~ mutually- beneficial. ~he looked up
to him with reverence for the readiness with which
* he complied with the wishes of his parents, while she
was considering every possible motive that could in~
duce them to desire any thing contrary to her own
inclinations, not doub~r~ng its propriety more than he,
but it was a necessity of her nature to understand
the reason. She commanded his admiration for the
noble qualities displayed in conneetlon with her
faults, and, in her sudden ebullitions of temper, lie
liked to trace those heroic elements through which
she rose sublimely to a conquest 6ver self never
deenilng it any virtue in himself to do what cost him
ito effort. It was a most fortunate thing for her to
be blessed with parents who had the time and ability
to study her peculiar traits before attempting to
control her. Conscious Qf her faults, more depended

on their patience in her own process of 9orrecting
the in, than in any direct reproof.
~    The autumn had beeii unusually mild, the woods
assuming their variegated tints, independent of the
frost-king, who had scarcely fulfilled his allotted
tasks. The autumnal flowers, and many of the sum-
~mei~ ones, more lavish than others of their blossoming
season, were in full bloom until late in the month of
October crc he touched them with a breath of his
regal power.
To Rosalind's enthusiastic soul it was a season of
intense enjoyment. Many were her rambles in the
~ groves, those majestic temples of nature, where the
lingering breath of summer wooed heir to gentler
melodies in fanning the fevered heat, that at times
burst forth in youthful impetuosity from her ardent
thirst for knowledge, which was now beginning to be
slaked at its fountains.
Her father often accompanied her, watching with
pleasure the indications that the impatient restless-
ness of her childhood was subsiding into the health-
ful activity of youths A more tranquil, contented
expression cast its radiance over her features which
he hoped would, in~ time, entirely chase away the
look of perplexity that cast its shadow over so much of
her early years~ The last walk they enjoyed togeLhe~,
at Rosalind's s~~ggestio~, they held a family pic-nic in
the grove where her parents fir~t met, which circum-
stance gave rise to many a merry joke between
~. them, and to many questions by the children, to
whom this was a very interesting piece of news.


Ii
44

A TALE OP THE

The air was as balmy as a day in June, and a gay
time Walter an~ the squirrels had, of whom he
w~s particularly fond, a fact which they seemed 'to
divine. The birds were Th.salind's greater favorites
who~ chirped abo4t her as if to impart the joy they
felt for this genial1 breath of summer air.
Mrs. Claremont lived over again the days of her
girlhood, comparing their measure of happiness with
that of mature years, and arrived at the sage con-
clusion that the prevalent idea of the greatest amount
of happiness being possible to young people, because
free from care, was as erroneous as it would be to
call the learner of the alphabet more enviable than
the matliematiciaii, or the astronomer, as the demand
is less on the intellectual powers. She did not fail
to comprehen~, however, how much truth there is in
this idea, for the majority of the world, whose over-
'whelming cares oppress their faculties to such a de-
gree, that their minds have no opportunity to expand.
"Philosophizing yet," observed Mr. Claremont, a~
he and the children surprised her on a little mound
where she was sitting, apparently lost in contempla-
tion, her eyes fixed on the blue expanse of water in
the distance.
"Was it thus you philosophized in the days of*
'auld lang syne,' ~' said Walter with a mischievous
twinkle in his eyes, " when father did a wooing go?"
"Imp udenee beyond measure," retorted Rosalind,
kicking along the chestnut burrs at her feet, "when
the frost comes in good earnest, we'll have another
stroll here after the chestnuts. I wa~ going to say
this has been the happiest day of my life, but had

CONNECTICUT.

58

the good luck to remember that II should forfeit th~
long promised present you are to make meif I will
break off the habit of these extravagant compari-
sons."
"And you ought to have an extra one for this act
of self-denial, for I came very near saying it myself,"
said he as he pulled her down into a hillock of dry
leaves, covering her with kisses, and then held her
by main strength until he had covered he~ with the
leaves.
"Do look there," lie suddenly shouted, permitting~
her to raise her head, "I verily believe the senior
couple imagine themselves young lovers again. See
how cozily they are walking along, arm in arm, as if
they composed the whole of the world, and nobody
else was worth thinking of. I mean to just remind
'em there are two others," starting to run after them,
when she pulled him back, and kept hold of him
until they reached the house.
"II like to see them," said she, "and you need not
be so jealous of a little cozy talk they are having.
Perhaps they are considering how hey shall train us
in the way we should go," and bot ~ giving a bound,
each ran a race to see who woul reach the house
first.
Before entering, she called his attention to a little
root of candy tuft near the house, hich had escaped
the frost, as she supposed, from i s sheltered situa;
tion, when she observed a curio s expression in his
face, and stopped abruptly.
"You didn't know I have cove ed that every cold
night to see how long I could mal e you think it 'had
5 1
2'

52


54               A TALE OF THE

I

CONNECT UT.              55
when we have not had any eally cold weather this
season. I should think you were about ninety."
"Well, candy tuft shall ecide for us," said he,
rising to go into the house.

defied the frost. I had a curiosity to know what
kind of a judge of the weather a person would make
who couldn't tell a plant from a weed. I am going
to hand your name to the society on natural science
for a diploma as an eminent naturalist."
7' Now stop, Walter," closing his mouth with her
hands, "just because I happened to pull up the rest
of it, thinking it was a weed which it exactly re~
senibles."
"As much as a lemon does an orange," said he
with as much distinctness as she would let him. "I
am proud of such a distinguished sister, for the im-
portant acquisition she will make to the science of
Botany."
"Well, I don't care if you have covered it up, it
looks so smiling when every thing around it is killed.
Here it is the middle of November, and a plant in
bloom out of doors, but it does not look half as in~
terestin~ to me now, as when I thought it resisted
the cold of it~ own strength. I had watched it with
a great deal o~ interest."
"I knew tl~at would spoil it for you, you are such
a philosopher,] but I love it all the more, it looks so
grateful for niy care," and he petted it as if it had-
been a conscious thing.
"There's no knowing but it might have been just
so if you had not covered it."
"Then for the sake of testing it, and letting you
have a chance to carry out your point, we'll let ii
run the risk of the next cold snap."
"It amuses me to hear you t~lk about the cold

ft
'I

54


CONNECTICUT.             67

CHAPTER VI.
HOME.
"There blend the ties that strengthen
Our hearts in times of grief,
The silver links that lengthen,
Joy's visits when most brief'
Drear and lone upon the window pane sounded
the ceaseless patter of the rain, as twc little naked
feet shivered on the door step, and two sad, but
piercing eyes, peered through the casement into the
cheerfully lighted drawing room, ere the puny hand
ventured to raise the knocker that would admit the
little mendicant into the rich mm's mansion. Scarcely
had she produced a sound when the dog set up a
loud bark, which frightened the little homeless wan-
derer into the desolate street again, until the watch-
man should provide a scarcely more inviting shelter.
"What is the matter with Ponto? " said Walter,
looking up from his task.
"I thought I saw a glimpse of somebody as I passed
the window just then, but it x~as s6 faint, if there
was any one, I could not tell whether it was man,
woman or child," answered Rosalind, and resumed
her reading.
~Phere's no one at the door, Milly?" inquired
Mrs. Claremont, as she entered.
(~%3)

"No," replied she, "us IL was passing through the
hail I heard something that sounded like an attempt
to raise the knocker, but there was no one to be
seen."
"Perhaps it was the wind."
"It must be a very trickish wind to set the dog
barking, raise knockers and make you see a~pari-
tions, Rosa."
"I hope nobody is cast away in such a storm as
this, Jam sure."
"You are so absorbed in your book you fancy
yourself on Crusoe's desolate island I really believe,
'talking as if any body could be cast away on land.
Read on: I suppose when you get through you will
favor us with some of your sage reflections, won't
you Rosa? for you look amazingly puzzled some-
times, as if you had got into a quandary and didn't
know how to get out."
"Well, I have read it tl~rough at last, and there is
a striking resemblance between it and Pilgrim's Pro-
gress," said Rosalind, after a few moments of silence,
as she pushed from her an elegantly bound volume
of Robinson Crusoe, with such force as to startle
from her slumbers the old gray cat who had been
permitted to take her evening nap upon the table.
"Is that all," said Walter, holding up his hands
with a comical gesture, "I thought some very impor-
tant announcement was coming from the flourish
you made, something that might possibly affect the
moon's setting or the sun's rising."
"More likely dispel some of the clouds that darken
the intellects of men."
5*

Ii ~"
~I~i
~
'It
III
hi

ii'


58              A TALE OP THE                                        CONNECTICUT.              59

i~i

"Really then, you are turning philosopher, and so
I suppose, have drawn your comparisons. It would
be a grand idea for you to write a book arid make
yourselC the heroine.
"And get shipwrecked on the same island and
finally become Crusoe's wife."
" Oh fie! can't have a book without turning it into
a love story. I wiA~ somebody would offer a prize
for the most interesting novel that can be written
without mentioning that ~subject. I believe it would
be a benefit to tIre 1~umarr race. Some of tl~c girls
at school are fairly b ewi tel~ed with some novels which
they bring with them sometimes, and when they can
catch a moment that the teacher's back i~ turned,
steal them out from under their other books and pre-
tend to be studying very hard when he looks towards
them again. It excited my curiosity, and one day I
watched my opportunity to get hold of one of them,
and such a silly mess of stuff I never saw."
"That is the way you pass judgment is it, assume
that all other stories bear~the same stamp."
"Oh, don't talk to *me any more, I want to finish
this equation. Wouldn't it be a joke on Tom Mid-
dleton if I should do it without airy assistance, he
was so confident none of us could, because his brother
couldn't, and as for his part he was not going to try.
A great fellow thrce years older than any 1)ody else
in school, ai~d so self conceited, he thinks he knows
as much more as ire is older. One day Ire perched
Irimself on the desk, getting off his airs, when John
llincks, a smart, cunning little fellow, gave him a
slight push that sent him sprawling on the floor. He

V

is good nature, and never gets offended, so we like
him after all."
"Is there any prize offered to the one who gets the
right answer without assistance?"
"No. Mr. Spindlebotham,-that is such a funny
name I always want to laugh when I speak it,~-told us
to see who could do it alone, and Ton'i had so much
to say about it that three of us resolved to try our
best, as much for a joke en him as anything, he
amuses us so with his airs. One morning,, being late
at school, he wanted to be very polite~ so he touched
lri~ hand to his forehead and said, 'Good morning
Mr. Spindlebotham,' which made us all laugh, for
none of us ever think of addressing him by name.
Now Rosa you must not talk to me any more, for I
have almost got it if you have not put it out of my
head,-x plus y equals
"I should think you were a little beside yourself
to~.niglrt, wl~en you have done all the talking, to turn
round and charge it to me. Never mind, go on."
After watching him for a few moments in silence,
until he appeared about as much puzzled as he rep-
resented her to be, she rose, took the cat and pressed
her closely around his neck, to which pussy responded
by a faint mew.
"Father, I wish you would take care of Rosa, do
see how she acts with us both."
Leaving the cat to Walter's mercy, she bounded
off into her father's lap, throwing her arms about
his neck, in which posture The remained some mo~
ments in silence, while he amused himself with
twining her curls around his fingers.

I'
~jf

I'll

58


A TALE OF' THE

CONNECTICUT.

She was the first to speak.
"Father, what kind of a place do you think heaveu
is ?"
"Why child, what        you ask such a ques-
tion ?
"It must be a place with a good many different
apartments in it, to admit all the various sorts of
people who expect to get there to the exclusion of all
others who differ from them, and with whom they
would not wish to associate."
"What have you been reading or puzzling over
now to put that in your head?"
"Oh, nothing particular. How is it that so many
sects, as wide apart as the poles, all claiming the
J3ible on their side, preaching that there is no other
way but their own through which we can expect to
be happy, can all be right, or any of them wrong?"
"Oh Rosa," said Walter, "you are a genius cer-
tainly! It would take more than a philosopher to
understand you. There are as many sides to your
character as a chameleon has colors, and as many
oddities in your brain as a monkey could act out in
six mouths. I suppose it is on the same principle
you draw your comparison between Robinson Crusoe
and Pilgrim's Progress. What kind of a problem
do you call that where all sides cannot be right and
yet none of them wrong?"
"I give it to you as a mathematical problem to
solve after you have finished your equation."
"Don't talk any more, for I am very busy,-..~3x
plus 4y-."
"Equals the summit of all eai'thly ambition, and

makes one so abstracted that he fancies some one
else is talking when he is hearing himself think.
Just as you and I get engaged, father, he will take
up the conversation and then scold me for it."
"Well Rosa, what was the idea you intended ~to
bring out?" said her father.
"That if there is a certain standard all men must
recognize and live up to in order to be happy, how
are we going to know what it is when opinions differ
so much? One person says this is the only true faith
and another says that."
"I think you ar6 laboring under a inis~pprehen-
sion of t~rms. You confound theology with intui-
tion. One is spiritual, the other intellectual."
"Theology, how I hate that word! I never could
understand it, and what it has to do with a person's
life in making him good or bad. Why should we
- assume to be nearer right than others?"
"That assumption of right is based on a correct
principle. In order to start an opinion or truth we
must assume its infallibility until convinced of its
error. We must have a stand pohit whence to draw
our conclusions, which will be truth to us so long as
we conscientiously believe it. The error lies in ex-
cluding others from the privilege of exercising the
same prerogative, whose opinions are entitled to the
same respect as ours. By tolerating and discussing
each other~ s views the errors are detected, over which
the truth, from its divine character, must ultimately
prevail.
The claim set up by every sect to be founded ou
th~ Eible is not so absurd as it seems as first thought.

I

60

61

11.11
("I
~ji


62              4. TALE OF THE
The Bible bein~ an exposition of' tr~th as it has been
revealed to different nations in d ~fferent ages, and
receiving its coloring from all varieties of tempera~
ment, may be brought to the support of every shade
of opinion and every form of belief. But the mo-
ment any sect sets up its claim to infallibility and
shuns investigation, it begins its career as a spiritual
despotism.
The religious element is inherent and will find
expression in some form. It gives rise to church
organizations which, though an imperfect expression
of what the soul would asph'e to, are in their origin
the outward symbol' of a truth yet but dimly revealed
to the inner consciousness, destined to become clearer
and more spiritual in its conceptions, so long as free-
dom of thought counteracts the natural tendency of
organizations to supplant the living spirit by the dead
letter. The great error of the religious world is, its
proneness to substitute the infallibility of belief for
the immutability of faith, and hence the conflict ever
going on between faith and conscience on the one
side, and belief and temporary expediency on the
other, ~which makes every age a protest against the
religious creed of the preceding one. As there is
but one God there can be but one manifestation of
his spirit. It is the same trust in him, the same
hatred of wrong and oppression, that has inspired the
prophets and apostles, the martyrs and reformers of
all ages, whether believers in the Jewish rituals, the
stern tenets of Calvinism, or the mild and beneficent
sway of that eternal and unchanging Love by which
the ever n~eroiful Father. overrules the sins of all his

CONNECTICUT.

63

erring children, that he may draw them unto him~elf.
He has implanted in every human soul a divine in~
stint which the Quakers call 'the inner light,' which,
if properly heeded, will guide us safely through the.
world, its temptations and perplexities. Through it
we may learn to appropriate the pure and good, and
as certainly reject the wrong. It also reveals the
hidden mysteries and sublime inspiration contained
in the Bible, which would otherwise be a sealed book,
and confirm us in superstition, rather than lead us
to the light."
"It seems to me there are some very sensible
things about the Quakers. If they didn't condemn
music, and require their members to be so odd in
some things, I should like to join theme"
"I should have supposed that would be the very
reason why you would like to join them. I think
you take pains to be different from others," inter-
rupted Walter.
"Have you finished your equation? I should ad~
vise you to attend to that. I don't try to pattern
after others. It would be the height of stupidity to
do or believe a thing because somebody else did. No,
I choose to have an opinion of my own, and it would
suit me all the better not to agree exactly with any~
body. That shows independence which is a very
desirable quality, and one to be commended even if
it does sometimes lead to eccentricity."
"So on that principle ~you anticipate a compliment
for yourself, instead of waiting, as the custom is, for
others to bestow it, themselves being judges. It is a
trait of independence in the Qi~akers to be so odd in

I


64              A TALE OF TilE                                                                65

CONNECTICUT.

some things, wh~ch you have been censuring in them.
Not very consist~ nt art thou."
"I don't puz Ac my head over consistencies. I
want to follow the bent of' my own mind. What
looks consistent to one may not to another. They
believe in following where the spirit moves, and that's
what I like. This feeling obliged to do something,
because it is right, I don't believe in. If it is right,
we must feel a desire to do it to be a virtue."
"I fear, Rosalind," said her father, "you would not
be so willing as you think. What they mean by that~
is not original with them, neither is it confined to
them. The dictates of conscience are to be obeyed,
let them lead us where they will, as they often do,
contrary to our inclinations. That would be hard
for you. The cross must come before the crown.
Freedom of conscience, which forms the basis of
every religious organization at its birth, means the
freedom to act according to our convictions of duty,
however they may conflict with our own will, or the
judgment of others, yet so imperative that only in
yielding obedience to them can we obtain the peace
of mind essential to happiness.
The higher our faculties, the greater the evil re-
sulting from a perversion of them. hence it is that
religious despotism is more cruel aiA intolerable
than any other, rind the reaction in the effort to over-
throw it often results in the other extreme, and re-
pudiates much that is good. The Puritan and the
Quaker were the legitimate children of a profligate
ministry,' and a general corruption of church and
~tate, who, instead of following in the wickedness of

their fathers, rose up to protest against it in tho
name of the religion they professed; and the perse-
cutions inflicted on them for daring to attack the
corruption, naturally led them to a bolder renuncia-
tion of the forms and creeds so tenaciously cherished,
and a more rigid adherence to their own convictions.
Thus began a superstitious reverence' for opinions,
often trivial in themselves, and an undue importance
attached to questions whose only merit consisted in
the defence of the great principle of freedom of
thought and expression~. Because amusements had
not been kept within rational bounds, they were
wholly banished, and the divine gift of music con-
demned."
"I think it is wicked to condemn anything so re-
fining and elevating in its influence as music, and
for no other reason than that it is pleasing to the
ear. I would go without the crown before I would
take up such a cross. It is no more rational than to
mortify the flesh as the Catholics do. I had a good
deal of sympathy with that Popish priest in Robinson
'Crusoe. Seems to me lie was about the right sort of
a man, and Crusoe himself passed through similar
experiences to John Bunyan."
"Just as I said," again interrupted Walter, "you
can accede to any thing, or draw a comparison or
contrast that would never enter another person's
head. I guess you'd find some of th~ graver sort
would shake their heads at you for daring to place
l~obinson Crusoe on the same footing with Pilgrim's
Progress."
"I know that Priscilla' Greenwdod was greatly
6

64

65


66              A TALE OF THE

shocked the other day because I said, when speaking
of the two books, that, as a work of fiction, Pilgrim's
Progress greatly excelled. She started and ex-
claimed, 'You don't call that a novel do you?' I
laughed, and said, 'Why, what is there so dreadful
about that to make you look so frightened? I never
thought of calling it a novel, but, coi~e to think of
it, why isn't it a religious novel. It is cei~ta.inly a
work of fiction, 'and so far as an approach to facts is
concerned, there is much more of plausibility in the
shipwreck of, Crusoe on a desolate island, than in the
hobgoblin adventures of Christian.'' She has been
shy of me ever since. What say you father '?"
"In the common acceptation of the term, Pu-
gi~im's Progress would hardly be called a iiovel,
although literally it may be proper ~iiough. It is
rather a delineation of time spiritual pilgrimage, and
as a work of genius, stands unrivalled, not merely
for its combination of talent, but also for its adapta-
tion to all ranks and every condition in life, exclus~ivc
of no sect or creed."
"So you think father, thai it should not be classed
with Robinson Crusoe."
"I do not think it will suffer from contamination.
I was not comparing, the merits of the two, only
speaking of their different characters. The other,
you knew, is not strictly spiritual, but comprises also
physical enjoyments and ~privations, representing out-
ward and material life with the inner, whereas the
first represents only the inner."
"So much the more sensible then, for we cannot
separate the inner from the outward life on this

66

CONNECTICUT.
planet. There is more of the foundation.of facts in.
Crusoe, just ~s I said, and therefore as a work of
fiction, John Bunyan's work is the most romantic."
"Stick to it Rosa, like a. hero, perched up there
like a queen on a throne. I've just thought of a
good sketch of yourself as the heroine of a story.
Imagine yourself so original and independent, you
long for some sequestered spot where you will be
subject to no control, and therefore set sail for some
lonely island in the, Pacific, where you can reign.
with such undisputed sway that no human being
darc approach you."
"Why Walter, I would like to know whether you
meant that all as a joke or half in earnest. You do
not really mistake me so much as to suppose I spurn
all control? It is one of the hiappi~st sensations of
my life to be controlled as I often am by you, and if
you did n6t know it then here is my confession."
"I think Walter understands you Rosa, but I am
glad to see you come out with so much frankness and
arrest even the least suspicion of a misunderstanding.
I. hope you will act on that principle through life,
and not allow yourself to harbor in secret an unkind
*    feeling towards another which might be at once cx-
plained away, or shown to be without a cause. How.
*    many cases of hatred and ill will, and their still
more sinister sister, revenge, might have been avoided
if, instead of allowing the passions to add fuel to the
flame, by suggesting a thousand things to the inaagi-,
nation, that had not a shadow of truth, reason and
judgment had been followed by going to the source


CONNECTICUT.             69

68               A ~~ALE OF THE

of' the matter, and confronting it in its first stage
without any exaggeration."
"The theatre is a good place to illustrate this, and
now we will discuss that subject. What a quiet time
we are hating. It seems all the pleasanter for the
storm outside. Mother, why don't you speak?
"You had better give her a chance. She could
not get a word in edgewise," said Walter.
"It's you that fill up the chinks. After telling me
repeatedly that you did not wish to b.c interrupted,
you have improved every opportunity f6 slide in
some thing, and now do not even allow mother the
time to answer a question."
"It seems to me my children delight in running
each other to night. Walter, how doe ~ your sum
progress, or your equation rather?" /
"Oh nicely. I shall get it one df thes days, that
is, if Rosa will let me alone."
"Walter! I wish father would send you from the
room till you have flnisl~edit."
"I fear if I did, my daughter would be interceding
for him to come back. How i~ it about the theatre,
what speculations have you been making upon that?"
"Priscilla Greenwood's mother says it is a very
wicked place, and she would not allow a child of hers
to go there upon any consideration. I know you
never appeared very anxious for us to go, yet you
have taken us there sometimes, and I have enjoyed
it. llavn't you Walter?"
"I don't like it. Nothing but love, love, love from
the beginning to the end of the chapter. Dying for

love, hating for love, and last of all killing some-
body for love."
*       "It would be a marvel for you to agree with me
in anything II say to night."
"Walter has not yet entered. those mysterious por-
tals," said Mr. Claremont in an undertone to his
wife, but sufficient to attract Walter's attention.
"What was that you said, father," demanded he,
rising from his seat.
"Something to your credit, though not essential
for you to know," replied h~s fathQr.
"Rosa, won't you tell me," continued he in a
pleading voice, coaxingly placing his hand in hers.
"Don't you wish you kuew~? ~"
"No, I'll find out by my own knowledge."
"That's what you wilt if you live long enough;
you've gone back to your sum in high dudgeon.
*    The next we shall know it will be done at short no-
tice."
*      "Walter, I admire your good sense in that remark~
* . about the tl~eatre. One of the most perHicious influ.-
ences resulting from it is the low, sensual character
in which it presents the holiest emotion of this mor-
tal life, trifling with that sacred instinct which from
its divine and spiritual nature should claim exemp-
tion from the vulgar affinity with base-born passions
there so invariably and notoriously represented."
"'i et, father," said Rosalind, "such is a true
picture of actual life, if history bereliable. It is full
of machiiiations and plots of that description, and
*   Shakspeare's genius, fertile as it was, probably did
no~ exceed the~reality. Nothing takes like his plays."
6*


70               A TALE OP TUE
"I know it. We do homage to talent wherever
we find it. I suppose it is all we can expect of a
theatre since it professes to be oniy a place of amuse-
ment, totally indifferent to the moral or immoral
influences engendered, farther than to ensure a suc-
cessful patronage from the comnmnity~ I was
thinking of the good it might exert, calling into ex-
ercise our highest and noblest feelings by arraying
in equally attractive colors the triumphs of virtue
over vice, instead of displaying so much that is bloody
and revengeful, to kindle the passions. Love of the
dramatic is implanted within us which it is lawful to
gratify within certain limits. I do not think it dis-
plays a highly cultivated and refined mind to be a
habitual visitor at the theatre, for the reasons I have
stated, yet if well disciplined will generally be proof
against its debasing effects, from the fact that it can
have no affinity with the lower passions. But before
the c1iara~cter is formed there may be great danger
of vitiating the moral sense with such an indiscriini-
nate mixture of virtue and vice, therefore I have.
been very guarded in taking you there. I did not
think it best to exclude you from it ei4irely as the
time must come when you will have to flux with the
world, discover its baseness and hypocrisy, and also
be surprised with much that is noble and honorable
where you least expect to find it."
"You think then that we may learh something of
real life there don't you?"
"Oh yes, as we do in novels. A proper discrimi-
nation is to be made. The sickly, sentimental trash
that has so disgusted Walter should be universally

CONNECTICUT.

71

condemned for the benefit of the human race as he
said, but there are those truly exalting and benefit
cent in their influence, whence we may derive a
more thorough knoxvledge of. human nature, than
from any other source."
"I think it would be a great advantage to Mrs.
Greenwood to read something in that line besides
Pilgrim's Progress. She has the most narrow, con-
tracted mind of any body I ever knew, and thinks
there can be 110 good people but those who believe
as she does. She will not allow Priscilla to leave
her apron strings except to go to school, and then
gives her strict orders how to beh~ve, forbidding her
to join the oth~r girls in any of their sports. If she
happens to 1aug11 out loud at home her mother is as
cross and crabbed as a sea owl. I should be perfectly
miserable to live so. I couldn't. She wouldn't
control me as she doesher."
"That's what she wouldn't; yo~~ spoke the truth
then, Rosa, but wh~tt kind of an animal is the sea
owl ?" ejaculated Walter.
"Seeing you are so smart, you may find out that
by your own knowledge, too."
"How happens it that you and she have contracted
so nuich of an intimacy when there is no resemblance
between you, and you do not like her mother well
enough to enjoy going there very much."
"Of course that's reason enough for her to like
her," said Walter.
"Well, she talks upon subjects that I like to talk
about, and though we do not agree, I enjoy drawing
her out, and sometimes she gets pretty well puzzled


A TALE OP TIIfl

73

with my arguments. I think she has a superior
mind, but it has always been cramped up in a nut
shell. Her mother would riot like to have her asso-
ciate with me if it were not for our grave conversa-
tion. She has no fear of my influence over her, and
indulges great hopes that her's over me may be an
instrument for my salvation, for with all her cross-
ness she thinks the world of Priscilla, and well she
may.
"My dear daughter, I am afraid you judge Mrs.
Greenwood too harshly. Nature has not endowed
her with the soft, musical voice of your motlier, or
that genial temperament which carries smiles and
content wherever it goes. Besides, her plans for life
were thwarted in her youth, and she seems to have
borne the cross ever since without anticipating a
crowii, and seems conscientiously bent in training
her daughter just so."
"Did you know her when she was young?"
"Oh yes. She was one of the gayest girls that
ever tripped the floor at the fashionable balls in the
city, though without her parents' knowledge. They
lived in the country a few miles distant, and were
strict Calvinists. A young man of respectable con-
nexions, and for ought I know, of respectable char-
acter, sought and secured her love. The bitter
opposition of her parents, on account of his different
religious vkws, wrought so upon her fears and con-
scientiousness, that she broke the engagement, and
soon after joining tho church, became a scrupulous
observer of its rituals; but it was evident to all who
had previously known her, that it was not a within~

CONNECTICUT.

sacrifice. She grew morose and reserved, care fully
avoiding all her former associates."
"I never could see how Mr. Greenwood could
fancy her, he is such a contrast. I know his religious
views are as rigid as hers, but he is always so pleasant
and agreeable, and so handsome too, any one could
not help liking him."
"IJandsome, Rosa! if that isn't the weakest speech
I ever heard you make, as if beauty would make us
love a person any better,~' observed Walter.
"How you do take me up in every thing I say.
Affection is not founded on beauty, but you cannot
deny that beauty is attractive and very properly so,
but the want of it never weakens our attachment nor
prevents us from loving as much. I think mother is
handsomer than you, father, but I must say lE love
you a little the most. You will not be jealous, will
you mother?"
~' No, my darling, I shall never be jealous of the
love your father wins.
"Crackee! I didn't think beauty was coming un-
der discussion. Mother, don't you care! I believe I
love you a little the most, not because you are the
handsomest, but because you are my mother-a good
reason. But Rosa is so different from other folks;
and somehow-don't you think I care any thing about
it, father ,-it always seems to me as if you love Rosa
a little bit more."
"Than I do you? All secrets seem to be coming
out to night. Come here a moment Waiter, and rest
awhile, though I do not think you have hurt yourself
fr~


75

74              A TALE OF THE                                         CONNECTICUT.

by close application. Oan you give any reason for
thinking so?"
"No, father, I told 'yo'u I did. not 'care 'any thing
about it. I feel as mother dOes."
"That is not answering my question frankly, as
you generally do. Do not fear that you will dis-
please me. You will observe that I have not yet
disputed you, but I have a curiosity to know in what
light you view it. Then I will talk it over."
"I don't believe you will get me to say any more
than I have said."
"Wouldn't you like to have me speak for you
Walter. I know where the pinch is. He is afraid
he will have to give himself too much credit. He
knows' that I have been so much more trouble than
he has,-.---"
"Why don't you go on Rosa? that's smart to leave
right off there," said Walter.
"I gue~.s I shall have to speak for both of you, I
see you understand it. Rosa is as conscious of her
faults as we are, and she will excuse my plainness if
II allude to them noxv. She has been The source of
care and anxiety you never were, Walt~r; not so
much for the faults in themselves, which doubtless
age and experience would do A~much towards correct-
mo'; but certain tendencies of her mind were very
unfortunate for a happy or successful issue, with all
the vicissitudes and disappointments that meet us
through life. For this reason I have sought earn-
estly, not to change her character, which I do not
desire, but so to guide her that she will of herself
perceive and rectify her mistakes. Her perseverance

has excited the admiration of us all, and inspired me
with the hope that she will display the same energy
and fortitude to overcome the obstacles and bear the
trials that may beset her future pathway ; ~but still I
know that it will not be without suffering and con-
flict she will attain to that peaceful submission, -which
in you, Walter, is a state of quiet content iilseparable
from your uniform, happy nature.
Sympathy with suffering often creates an attach-
F ment that would otherwise never exist, and one
already existing strengthens, if possible, which is not
inconsistent with the law of natural affection; for
those who are strong in themselves being less de-
pendent on others for support or enjoyment, can bet-
ter dispense pith it. But what ax~i I saying? My
head feels a little confused to-night. I do not mean
that Rosa is not strong, or that you are not equally
dear to me. I mean that she has imposed upon me
the greatest responsibility, and consequently, has
engrossed more of my thoughts. If called upon to
choose which of you I would most willingly surren-
der, I fear that it would be a trial like that of the
woman whom Solomon judged, 'and I should cry out,
both, if need be, but spare me from choosing."
And a voice whispered, "Thou shalt be spared thd
r.    trial.''
For a few moments there w~s a deep silence.
Mournfully the wind 'swayed the old oak which but a
few weeks before had swept the window with its leafy
robe, whispering, as it sighed over its present bleak
and desolate appearance, of the alternate joys and
sorrows of three generations of men, whose home

'i4


A TALE OF THE
had nestled amid its branches; yet in all the
changes time had brought, no woodman's axe had
been permitted to invade the luxuriant growth which
often interfered with their own convenience.
At length Walter left his father's embrace and
i~esumed his task, but not until he had reminded
Rosa of the burden she might possibly be if she kept
her present position much longer. "I am afraid
father is tired," said he, in a low voice.
"Oh I never thought of being heavy, I will get
down a few minutes, but shall come back again, for
I want you to sing to me yet father, as you did when
I was a little girl, and mother must play on the
piano.
"No, no, sit still, you are not very heavy."
"Then I will get a cricket whiqh will make me a
little lighter."
"Sit still Rosa, I'll get you. a cricket; it seems to
me you are calculating on a pretty long evening. It
is already nine o'clock?'
"We have talked enough for the present, only
there's one thing I'd like to know. Speaking of
Shakespeare, do you think there is anything of an'
immoral tendency in his plays, fattier 'p"
"No. lie gave a faithful representation of his
times, exposing their glaring inconsistencies under
the fascinating guise of his own inventive genius.
In general the highest order of plays acted at
a theatre are his. Their historic character invests
them with a deep interest, and impresses the mind
so strongly with the pernicious consequences of
the low estimate set upon morals, that we instinct-

CONNECTICUT.               77
ively recoil from the gross sensuality masked under
such gorgeous colors as the reflection of the perverted
moral sentiment of that period, instead of being
attracted, as weak minds are, by the sickly senti-
mentalism which a vulgar taste assimilates to itself
in the lower order of theatrical entertainments,
sanctioned neither by the general refinement of the
present age, nor our own individual convictions of
what, should constitute a healthy, refined taste.
Good and evil are so closely intertwined ii~ this world
that it is impossible to dethie clearly the exact divid-
ing line between 'them.) Our first care must b6 to
build up a genuine, virtuous character, strong enough
to be proof against the follies and seductions of the
clap-trap of alluring sensations which please, while
they fail to exalt, or serve only to debase in what-
ever guise they come. I received one of the highest
ii'npressious ever made upon me at a theatre. In
the midst of a battle scen~ the curtain rose upon six
young maidciis dressed in white, with olive branches
in their hands. Instantly all discord was hushed,
every weapon dropped, ajid all eyes were fixed upon
them as if entranced by an angel 'vision.~ Even now
I seem to feel the inspiration of that hour."
"JJo you think it is ever right tor meii to fight
and kill each other?"
This was a hard question for him to answer. He
who had dwelt with such enthusiasm upon the heroic
details of the Revolutionary war, leaving his native
land to enjoy the blessings of the free institutions
which were its glorious fruits; he who had followed
Washington, in imagination, through the pains and
"1


CONNECTICUT.

'78

A TALE OF' THE

trials of that eventful struggle, and sympathized with
him when, owing a duty to his country his eminent
qualifications fitted him to discharge, he was the
peculiar mark of jealousy which the pressing emer~
gency of the hour forbade him even to notice; he who
had admired the greatness with which, with a single
eye to his country's good alone, he triumphed over
all and won the imperishable title of "Father of his
countryy" "first in war, first in peace, first, in the
hearts of his countrymen;" should he di~isent from
the first and only incident upon which his future
fame rested, his success, in war, to answer unequivo~
cally as instinct suggested, the simple question of a
child?
Perhaps a faint radiance from the opening glories
of another sphere 'just ready to burst upon him,
illumined his conceptions at that mo~menL With a
confident voice and a mild assuring look, that met
the earnest gaze of Rosalind as her eyes queried the
reason of his long silence, he answered, while soul
and sense negative the other answer, which would
not have failed to bring on questions he might be
still ~nore puzzled to reply to. "I think not, my
child."
"Now we will drop our discussion for tonight and
sing the rest of the time. I like a stormy evening
occasionally. There is such a pleasant contrast be-
,tween our cheerful room and the howling wind and
beating rain outside, but I hope there is no one suf-
fering, especially that little beggar girl. I wonder
what has become of her'?"
"Then you think there was a beggar at the door?

If I had had the least suspicion of it I should have
gone out in search of her," said her father.
"I did not think much of it then, as Milly said
she went to the door, but Ponto never barks at
nothing, and perhaps he frightened her away. The
more I think of it, the more confident I am of a
glimpse of some sort of a bonnet. Oh Ponto! you
must learn better manners. That was not civil.
You should frighten only rogues away. There, see
how penitent he is, he seems to say, 'Forgive me this
time, and I will never do so again.'"
~' I've got it, I've got it!" exclaimed Walter.
JIalloa, pussy cat, doii't rub it out, stretching your
bug paws out here, and opening your mouth as if
you wanted to swallow all the knowledge you can get
without working for it. Father, did you ever see
such a funny cat? She will sit straight up and go
to sleep, and nod just like folks; and if we speak to
her shell open her eyes just a little bit and then
nod as if assenting to what we say."
"She's a wonderful cat, no doubt~ and one of h~r
most wonderful feats is, as you will think, that she
kuows your step. She will start out of a sound
sleep when s!ie hears it and look for you as e~gerIy
as a child for its mother."
"I've noticed that she's always up and wide awake
when II coinc in, but never stirs afterwards for any~
body else."
"Then you've finished your equation have you,
let me see it?"
"Yes, Rosa, it i~ finished at last, and that is won~
derful, in the midst of your. talk."


80               A TALE OP TILE

81'

"In which you had to take part now and then.
Yes, that is right. How smart you will feel now.
Sit down on the cricket and lay your head in my
lap. Father is going to sing to us, and presently
we'll join in concert."
"No indeed, Rosa, I don't come down to that yet,
to sit at your feet. You may go back to 'little
Johnny Homer, sitting in the comner,'-as most
suitable for you, and I will go on-to Cicero," and.
lie, whistled merrily away.
"That's a good idea. I wish you would sing little
Johnny Horn r, father."
So he began with the nursery rhymes of her child-
hood, gradually, waxing oii to a more serious strain
when she join d her voice with his; and at her so-
licitation her other accompanied them on the piano.
The rich; musical tones of Mrs. Claremont's voice,
the rapturous ~low of her countenance, the graceful
play of her features suggested, as Milly often ob-
served, the presence of an angel, and perhaps the
suggestion was. never more apt. It is for such choice
spirits one would fain reserve the dispensing power
of those celestial harmonies, whose inspiring anthems
speak to the lowly sons of earth to r~ise4them heaven
ward. Nothing can be more dissonant than listening
to them from a voluptuary.
Surely we may pardon much to the superstition of
that sect which, . recognizing the divine character of
music, in their argument that only those whose devo-
tional feelings were sufficiently pure and exalted to
prompt them to such sacred expression of them
should be permitted to do so, in their zeal banished
it altogether to prevent its abuse.

CONNECTICUT.

"ilome, sweet home," was then sung with a most
joyful appreciation of it by this trio. From this.they
passed to the happy sequel, when, all pain and sor-
row ceased, and separations known no more, a blest
reunion awaits us, and sung "The better land."
When they reached the lilies,
"Then those who meet shall part no more,
And those long parted meet again,"
*Walter chimed in to complete the family circle though
somewhat to impair the melodious symphony of
sounds, not haviiig so good a voice as the others.
They closed with the hymn,
"Spirit, leave thy house of clay;
Lingering dust, resign thy breath;"
When singing the last line Mr. Claremont felt a.
sharp paili through his teniples, but did not speak of
it, ajid they retired ~'or the night ;-Walter, to dream
of new triumphs ;-Rosalind, to meditate upon this
evening's enjoyment, and picture to herself new
realms of thought which lured her on, till, lost in
rapture, life rose before her as one grand panoramic
scene, upon which she would leave no trace of im-
perfection to mar its beauty, no discordant back-
ground to impair its imposing sublimity. Little did
she dream that the web of Fate had so closely en-
t~ngIed in her delicate net-work every cherished an-
ticipation of the future, every prompting of a
noble ambition; that only from the purified incense
of a love sanctified through suffering, would sbe
walk victor-crowned as one of the heroic band who
have learned to say trustingly, "The Father's will
be done," ere permitted to rise higher.
7*

IW

I.

80


CONNECTICUT.             8

CHAPTER VIL
"There is no death, 'tis but a shade,
In kindred dust the form is laid;
There is no death,-it is a birth,
A rising heavenward from the earth."
The next moriiing being very clear and cold, which
IRosalind thought a favorable time to test the endur-
ing qualities of the flower discussed between Walter
and herself the day before the storm, she hastened
down stairs to look after it, when she met her mother,
whose anxious countenance immediately arrested her
attention. "Mother, is any thing the matter?" she
abruptly enquired.
"Your father is very seriously ill," Mrs. Clare-
mont replied in a tone of voice which unconsciou~ly
betra~red her secret fears to IRosalind's quick appre-
l~eiuisi
$he immediately sought his presence, but only to
listen to his incoherent words. He had passed a
restless night with frequent paroxysms of pain, then
showing signs of delirium. The frequei~t visits of
the physician indicated his anxiety about the result,
whose opinion Mrs. Claremont never asked, divining
it too well to subject herself to the torture of being
told. Day after day passed without bringing any
encouragement of his recovery, aiid the only solace
of hoping against hope was finally merged in her
(82)

k

overpowering desire that, if life must be despaired
*     of, consciousness might be restored onqe more.
Another glance of tender recognition, another word
spoken in the familiar tone which ~as such sweet
music to loving hearts, was a coveted boon that would
soften the anguish of the stroke, and be a hallowed
memory through the coming years.
After a night of intense solicitude, w~ien life
struggled with death, as the morning dawned under
a most propitious sky, and the sun was slowly gilding
a feathery cloud in the orient, reason returned, and
Mrs. Claremont thrilled with joy upon hearing her
name called as of old. "What day is it? " he en-
quired. On being informed that it was Thanksgiving
morning, he drew his wife nearer to him, and with
that peculiar smile which always lent a charm to his
happiest moments, said, "Could a more lovely morn-
ing be desired to blend the last of earth with the first
of heaven? Mourn not for me. In a few short
years you will come to share with me the fulness of
a love, beside which ours here on earth, pure and
perfect as we thought it, is but the, opening bud to
the full blown ros~." As the eyes of the dying man
rested on his darling Rosalind, who had scarcely left
his bedside during his illness, a momentary pa~ng dis-
turbed his serenity, and he closed them as if in
prayer. Pale as a statue, she had maintained the
most rigid composure through it all, watching every
*     motioti, and listening to every sound, trying to catch
the faintest ray of hope. Not a tear came to her
relic f through those long watchful hours. The
j     shadow of death hovered about her like the spectral

88

I
1~


CONNECTICUT.             85

84

A TALE OP THE

vision of' a dream wh~ch it is the greatest joy df the,
waking thoughts to dispel, but which alas, chilling
all the warmth of her nature, was now to be faced
as a reality. 'Mr. Claremont opened his eyes again,
and motioning her to kiss him, thus addressed her,
* "Trust your Heavenly Father as confidingly as you
have trusted me and all will be well with you. If
his diseipliuie shall seem sterner than mine, r~mem~
ber that he has also as much greater power to re-.
ward." At these words all her pent up anguish burst
forth, and she fell weeping on the bed. He raised
his hand feebly to fondle for the last time the pet
curl, one shorter and more silky than the rest, a~A
giving the other to Walter, said,
"I go to the Promised Land,
Wher&amp;all who meet shall part up more,
And those long parted meet again."
His voice faltered, his hand dropped from the curl
that had twined itself around his finger, a smile of
ineffable love, joy and peace passed over his features,
and his spirit crossed the portals to the unseen
world. He had gone to his Thanksgiving feast in
heaven.
There is something deeply significant in the placid
serenity of the death smile. In the tumultuous rush
of emotions that crowd upon 'us at such a moment
when every careless word and thoughtless act come
like so many accusing spirits, we feel that all is for-
given, a~nd nothing can disturb that peaceful repose.
Is it not so?
In that realm of higher knowledge to which the
spirit ascends in its nearer approach to the infinite
Source of all wisdom and love, no dross of earthly

corruption will be permitted to shroud its vision, or
dim the glow of affection's golden chain whose indis-
soluble links bind mortality to immortality. It will
know and feel only the power of that love which is
stronger than death, broader and deeper~ than the
perversities of human nature, and capable of diffus~.
ing its own immeasurable greatness over the remem-
brance of the errors of diis life.
Beyond the objects of our oi4ward sense, stPonger
than any tie of earthly recognition, deeper than any
other emotion of the soul, stretches this invisible
bond, invisible because immortal, aiA inmiortal be-
cause divine. The object of love may be taken from
us, but the power of loving is increased thereby.
That which was only lent is withdrawn that we may
know how much more precious is that which has
become a part of us-the emotion incorporated into
the spiritual nature, which is ours through eternity.
"God gives us love. Something ~' to love
He lends us: but when love i~ grown
To ripeness, that on ~vhieIi it throve
Falls ofi and love is lcft alone."
It may be       to the intimate connection be-
tween body and spirit that the latter leaves such a
serene and happy expression as that presented by the
death smile, in the same manner as the emotions in
life are reflected through the countenance.
To Walter this had an intense charm. "Look
Rosa," said Le, "he is trying to tell us how happy
he is." He felt a sacred presence pervading the
house, uniting heaven and. earth, as it were, in the
holy communion that attends the departing soul. To
his hopeful, trusting nature, sorrow was a stranger.

I

85


86               A TALE OF THE

Life was a perpetual joy, springing, not from boyish
thoug!itlessness or youthful indifference, but from a
maturity of mind, which with the growth of years,
accepted its vicissitudes of good and ill as alike
blessings sent by a Father's hand. Even death was
but the birth of a new life, the blessed Liberato5
bringing to thousands the first great joy of existence.
When Rosalind's emotion had subsided, nothing
seemed real. All was dreamy, shadowy. As they
laid him beneath the pine4ree's shade, amid the
glorious beauty of that Indian summer day, she felt
the awakening vigor of a new life, as if spring-time
had come, and was bursting forth in song amid the
solemn arches of that majestic grove where so many
had lain them down in their last sleep, but over whose
spirits the grave had no power. Often as she had
trodden those paths by 'her father's side and watched
the day's soft decline through the wild lattice work of
dense foliage which no human hand ever imitated,
when the last rays of the setting sun sent his golden
beams across the silvery waters to this chosen site of
the honored dead, discoursing of the beauty which
tree and shrub and tiny floweret lent to the impressive-
ness of the service to which it was consecrated, lie had
never seemed so near, nor the sky overhead appeared
so glorious, nor such celestial voices floated round
her as now. Millions of angels sung their anthems of
welcome to him who had just yielded to the divine
summons, which the inspiration of the hour wafted
in voiceless yet audible strains to the quick ear of
the soul's intuition.
"Dust to its narrow house beneath~
Soul to its rest on high."

86

CONNECTICUT.                   87
"Why should we mourn," said Walter a few days
after as they were sitting in the twilight, "when we
know that he is so much happier? We shall miss
him, oh yes."
I'     "We shall miss him at the fireside circle, and in the crowded hail,
We shall miss him at the morning dawn, and when the twilight
shadows fall,
When the noontide sun is shining, when the midnight moon is
beaming.
And the stars in silence twinkle, o'er the calm of nature gleam-
"Is ino~~~that some of your composition?" a~ked Rosa-
lind, in the first familiar tone of voice since the even-
ing before her father was taken sick, when they
indulged in so much joking.
"Yes, I composed that and another verse the night
after father was carried away, which I will repeat if
you like. I never felt so lonely as I did then. While
ho was in the house it scorned as if angels were
present, hovering about him, and I could not realize
that lie was not here and would never speak to us
again. Then I thought how selfish it was if we really
believe what we profess to, to cling so to our friends
here. Don't you think so mother?"
"Certainly it is. After watching by your father's
bedside and witnessing his suffering, I cannot de-
scribe the sensation of relief Ii experienced wheii his
spirit passed its last mortal agony and soared beyond
the reach of earthly pain, which I try to keep before
me. What must come to us all has only come to
him a little sooner. Where's your poetry?"
"Yes, I miss thee dearest father, in every oft frequented place,
I am told of thy departure by every fond, familiar face,
Lone and pensive, sad and tearful sit I beside thy vacant chair,
While the drooping fioweret whispers, I too have lost th~ tender
care."

I I'
.11;
iii~
I'
A


88              A TALE OF THE                                          CONNECTICUT.

89

"That is very goo~," observed his mother.
"I had no idea that I had a poet brother," said
Rosalind. For a few moments her 'interest in Wal-
ter's poetical attempt rallied her drooping spirit, but
immediately a reaction came, when an overwhelming
surge of grief bowed her like 'a bulrush, and she
buried her face in the sofa and wept.
*      *      *      *
There are some bold, inquiring spirits who will
never accept reason or written evidence, as proof of
those great truths which must become a part of the
inner consciousness, to be felt as well as believed.
It is written, "Ask and ye shall receive; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you;" and if the soul
occasionally rcachqs after knowledge that belongs not
to this world, it~ is only anticipating what shall be
revealed hereafter. When first we stand in the
presence of a deep affliction, as. if the fountains of
life were suddenly unsealed, we are prompted by the
rushing stream of emotion. i~o accept the present and
its vicissitudes only as we can dive into futurity and
solve the problem of life. It is perhaps fortunate for
most people that the healing effect of time, and the
retaining attractions of the world, divert them from
such a field of speculation, as fruitless ~s it is per.
plexing.
The investigating mind of Rosalind was not to be
satisfied with any thing short of the uttermost bound
of human possibility, seeking from analogy with the
most minute details of positive knowledge, the solu-
tion of those mysteries that belong to eternity.
This sudden diversion of the healthy vivacity of

44
d

youthful feeling into the stern, rigorous channel of
intellectual problems, soon induced a morbid state of
mind. All former amusements and employment
were dropped, her books neglected, and every inci-
dent associated with the past studiously avoided.
Her companions gradually forsook her, youth being
of too buoyant a nature to dwell long in the presence
of sadness, for which she cared not.
All that a mother's unwearying love could invent,
and a brother's untiring devotion devise, were power-
less tp divert her from her mournful reverie, but
they did not despair. Trusting the inherent strength
of her character to win the victory in time over
present faults and inconsistencies, with a sweet, ten-
der patience they waited.
Still she neither murmured nor made any outward
'I   display of the keen shaft that had wrenched every
fibre of her being. It was a silent, tearless grief.
The elastic step was gone, the merry laugh was
hushed, and the lustrous beauty of her eyes had
faded. In tbeir stead came a listless indifference even
iii minor details to which she had been wont to bring
as much of the activity of her mind as in. the more
important one~, while the serious decision with which
she inflexibly resisted every attempt to interest her
in any of the pursuits congenial to her tastes, con-
trasted painfully ~itl~ her former enthusiasm.
There was no more kindling rapture in th4t face,
as the hour of sunset drew nigh, and the silQnt
majesty of the heavens awakened fresh emotions of
the divine Omnipresence.
The stars looked down with a mournful light, the
8

88

j~4~
~ji~
'liii
I ~

Ni
11
4~41
1:
4~4i
44


90              A TALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.              91

evening shadows exchanged the fantastic variety of
her childhood's imagination for the gloomy phantoms
of a vague, undefined sensation of dreariness; the
moon, that shone in unclouded splendor through the
whole week of the Indian Summer, which, owing to
the unusual mildness of the season, had protracted
its annual round until December, shed its pale, cold
i'ays cheerlessly enough over copse and meadow, ra-
vine and cliff. Every one knows the changed aspect
of the whole material world, when one of the lights
that radiated the inner self has merged in to shadow,
leaving us to grope our way in darkness, until the
radiance of a new light, emerging from ourselves,
shall penetrate the shadow and shine with the com-
bined brightness of both. Even Spring, with its
freshening gales and whispering zephyrs, when floxver
and bird, the springing grass and the murmuring
brook, attest the birth of a new life from the ice-
bound shroud of Winter, may suggest to the lonely
mourner oiily the painful association of decay and.
death which hang like a sable pall over all familiar
objects.
Not such was Mrs. Claremont's experience.
Though many an hour of daily anguish and mid-
night prayer bore witness to the severe struggle
through which she was passing, her abiding faith
illumined the dark valley, and nature's sweet1infiu~
ences reminded her of the "Better Land," where
sorrow and sickness cannot enter,
"Beyond the clouds and beyond the tomb."
il3anisiiing her own grief, in the presence of her
children she always wore a cheerful smile, and

Rosalind often reproached herself for the stupid in-
difference with which she rewarded her thousand
delicate attentions; but she treasured them in her
mind, and marvelled at the great forbearance that
never gave way to a word of impatience or rebuke.
Her mother understood her temperament too well to
attempt any futile parade of argument in order to
convince her of her unreasonable grief, which would
only intensify it by driving it more despairingly in-
ward. Reason is always a comfortless comforter at
such times. It may serve to regulate, but it was
never intended to control the emotions. They bring
us joy,-they bring us grief; and we havo not the
power to say, Why comes thou?
Submission will come at length, but it must come
according to its own natural laws; it cannot be forced
upon us by any mechanical art of the human intel-
lect. It is the serene, spiritual child of prayer and
faith, born of speechless suffering, but borne tri i~mph-
ant in the loving Father's arms to a world of joy
and peace.
"Only with silence as their benediction
God's angels come,
When in the shadow of a geeat affliction
The soul sits dumb."

ll~
1ii~I
jI!~
IA
U,
~i~t
ii


CONNECTICUT.

CHAPTER VIII.

"Each has his own one path in life,
A circle small within his ken-
And a small circle too, perchance-
We cannot all be famous men."
No unimportant personage in the household of the
Claremont's was. Kate Drumn'~ond, the cook. Of
Itish descent, she was fall of the mirthful humor of
her race, with which was combined much of the
sober, solid sense of the Anglo-$axon. Never given
to fine-spun theories or useless regrets, she turned
every accident into a joke, and practiced the philos-
ophy others spent their time in preaching. Jiavin~
talent that would ennoble any occupation, if it had
been developed' and cultivated ,she never subjected
herself to' the discipline of' a thought that would
check the wild exuberance of her nature. She had,
a quick perception of fasts and could make" a correct
application of principles, which, however, had no'
more connection with each other than the random
strokes 0g a fiddle with the clement of music.
A trustworthy servant,, and scrupulously exact in
every duty devolving upon her, she was not so fully
developed in the region of conscientiousness as to be
always careful of the propriety of speech, or wound-
ing the feedings of others, 'when she could thus serve
a turn fom'~ indulging her fun-loving disposition.
('92)

This was a source of annoyance to Walter, whose
fastidiousness about any approach to dissimulation
and strict regard for truth, often led him to reprove
her, but with no other effect than to have a fresh
joke served on himself.
He was a great favorite of hers, whom she was ever
ready to serve, whether up to her elbows in suds, or
engaged in the more delicate art of cakes and pastry,
the most tempting specimens of which were always
reserved for him.
Another inmate of the family was Milly Dayton.
The opposite of Kate in every respect, singularly
enough they contracted quite an intimate friendship.
In both existed a prevalent vein of good humor
that was never out of sorts with anybody or any-
thing; one passing by trivial vexations as not worthy
of notice; the other laughing them ~1own as the
most philosophical way of disposing of them, meeting
here on the same level. Milly was a philosopher
whose ideas were founded on principle and method.
Q~tiet ahd reserved, theoretical rather than practical,
possessing a mind of great depth and i~eflnement,
cultivated as her own private property rather than
for the advantages it might confer on others, she was
one of those gentle, meek spirits that resemble the
modest little flowers growing in the lifts' of the
rock, which elude the superficial gaze of the world's
busy throng, but attract the attention of the student
of nature, who discovers even here the embodiment
'of that great law of symmetry and beauty which
stamps every created object with the divine purpose
of its being.
8*

93

II
A
ii1~
I~
ii
~
*1,


94             A TALE OF TIlE                                        CONNECTICUT.             95'

She belonged to the order of dumb prophets who
stand on the threshold of eternity, gazing into the
divine purpose which reveals fragmentary glimpses
of what we are and what we must become; by their
own innate perceptions comprehending the bound~
less capacities of the soul with its susceptibility to
the slightest sway of virtue or passion; and praying
for a touch of inspiration that shall serve as a key to
unlock the prison doors of their divine conceptions,
that they may come forth to elevate aAd purify the
grosser, outward life of themselves and \others. To
such the ordinai~y routine of worldly c 4res and the
bustle of a mere business life, is like a crushing milb
stone, grinding continually the finer sensibilities with
a secret, acute pain. The part assigned them in the
universe often leads through paths diverse from the
rest of the world, as if they stood aloof from choice,
when in reality compelled to it by a necessity of
their spiritual organization. Enjoying society, it is
so seldom they meet with those to whom they can
unfold their innermost thoughts without being mis-
understood, they shun it as if no power of response
existed in their souls.
Doubtless if Milly had spent her youth in an at~
mosphere calculated to develop rather than sup-
press her true nature, her inner life would have
asserted itself more strongly; while on the other
hand had she been less submissive, or her experience
more painful, forcing nature to assert her rights, the
hour of utterance might have come.
Left an orphan at an early age, she was deprived
of those tender home influences which childhood so

95

94

so insatiately craves, and to which it is entitled.
Plie family who took her out of p~ty, having many
children of their own, were' well disposed and intended
to discharge their duty' towards her. Belonging to
that large class who consider business the paramount
aim of life, from which childhood had no immunity,
their Sons were t~ken from school as s6on as they
were able to work in the field, and their daughters
sent to assist them in pitching hay and gathering
potatoes. Fortunately they were not endowed with
the delicate, sensitive organization of Milly, and the
words of command' or sharp rebuke issuing from the
lordly head, were received as the most familiar house~
hold dialect known among them. As they grew up,
imbibing the same ideas that governed the parents,
the world received a new accession to its business
thrift ~rnd house-wifely tact. Better so than to fall
into pernicious habits or slovenly neglect of domes-
tic duties, which have driven many a man to dissipa-
tion, but it is not amo~ig such natures the finer
emotions of th~ soul are developed. Milly~s imagina-
tive mind was not at home under these influences,
and suffered continually in its silent craving' for
sympathy. Possessing little of the boisterous ele-
mont of childhood, she had an intense yearning to be
loved and cared for, as in sunny dreams she felt again
the warm embrace of her mother's arms and listened
to her fond xvords of endearment, from which the
shrill voice oC the housemaid summoned her to the
dreaded, monotonous round of toil; when a cloud
sometimes rested on her spiPit, but it was only tran~
sient, always looking forward to a future which

*1
'I
I,
Ii
11
'if
iii


*   96              ATALEOFTUE
somehow would respond to this uiianswered longing
of the present.
All dreamy, poetic natures have this prophetic ~in~
*   sight, which the unthinking asp~rai~~ arter mere
worldly treasures can neither attain nor comprehend.
It was impossible for people, whose constant motto
was work, an hour of Suiiday for religious reading
being observed very much as a disagreeable duty,
the cross that would ensure their salvation and
which comprised the extent of their intellectual pur-
suits, to understand this child seer, this prophet
maiden, whose sublime and beautiful trust buoyed
her above her trials and imparted a degree of cheer-
fulness that was mistaken for content.
From eighteen to twenty she lived with an aunt, a
sister of her father, who treated her with very little
kindness. Unwilling to take her when a friendless
orphan, on account of the trouble, she was little dis-
posed to atone for it now by acting the part; of a
mother and friend. Besides her incessant habit of
fault-finding, the family jars between herself and
husband gr4ed harshly on the ear of one who was
ever dwelling on the beauty and harmony of life, as
it might be, if the supremacy of love were acknowl-
edged.
The bone of contention was often very trifling,
such as the state of the weather, one saying it was
warm, and the other cold; and one pleasant Sunday
was embittered by their different opinions about the
wind, lie maintaining that it blew west by the sound
of the bell, and she, that it blew east because her

CONNECTICUT.

97

head felt so bad. She was nervous, and he obsti-
nate, two very uncongenial qualities.
In one particular they agreed,-.the tenets of Cal-
vinsm. Here they met~at the same altar, and bowed
before the same God. Grace was regularly said at
every meal, the morning and evening devotions
punctiliously observed.
She was more self-righteous than he, and conse-
quently more exacting. Unmindful of her own
faults, she held others to the most rigid standard of
profession and morality. Even towards woman, who,
through the pressure of want or any other cause
yielded to temptation, she was severe and inexorable
in her judgment, tolerating no palliation of the act
from whatever source it came. Milly could scarcely
have foumid a more uncongenial home. Her bound-
less charity sought to exonerate every one from the
charge of being as bad as appearances indicated, a
point upon which they differed so widely as to pro-
voke an estrangement of feeling whenever the suW
ject was mentioned. Her devotional feelings could
easily have been moulded to any creed embodied in
a loving spirit, and had her aunt manifested the least
interest in her happiness, she would have twined
around her with all the intensity of an ardent nature
craving something to love. As it was, an insuperable
barrier existed between -them which it was impossi-
ble to remove. Mihly was so sensitive, that every un-
kind word forced back the natural flow of affection
which would otherWise have been manifested under
these circumstances, and might possibly have dis-
armed s~mue of her aunt's coldness and harshness.

II
Iii
ii
If'


98

A TALE OF THE

It was a pleasant contract to her former life when
she went to reside in Mrs. Claremont's family, ai~d
one that fostered the ideal element of her nature
which sought expression in writing. Sympathizing
through her own experience with those sensitive,
bleeding spirits that dot here and there the pathway
of life, lacking the strength to buffet its stormy waves
and faint by the wayside, whom we ti~ead on daily
without knowing it, and the world passes by as un-
worthy of notice because it cannot appreciate the
wealth of soul, nor discern the ~delicate fibres quiver-
ing beneath the unprepossessing exterior, she wished
to plead their caus~, but, unfortunately, lack of the
power of expression so dwarfed the natural language
of the soul as to rob it of its vitality in the attempt
to give it utterance. At length she hit on the idea
of writing a novel which furnished amusement enough
for Kate,~ who had no sympathy with abstract theories
and metaphysical speculation, and yet liked to hear
Milly's views, which gave her something to criticize
and dissect. Enjoying new ideas which she chose to
embellish in her own careless style, her impulses
came out in a rough diamond way; sparkling, un-
couth, yet vigorous and racy. Above all w~s that
dominant love of fun which appropriated every thing
to its service, no matter how serious, with which was
mingled no small share of good sense.
"You write a novel!" said she, ~' I should as
sooli think of Walter setting' himself up for a stage
player, or Miss Rosalind as a pattern young miss in
a coquettin' shop. You'd make it as solemn as a
fresh made wider with borrowed weeds and onions

CONNECTICUT.
in her eyes; but never mind, I'll make the fun for
you that'1l make it as green as a country landscape."
"I have already commenced it with too romantic
an affair I fear; it sounds so sentimental and school
girldike. It is so hard to find a beginning."
"If you can write anything of that sort you ought
to thank your stars and take cour~e. The charm
of a story is to have so~nethin' in it that never did
happen nor never could, and it must be full of all
manner of shines to make it take."
"I don't know about that. Stories are most suc-
cessful that represent the real passions and emotions
of the soul, and are most true of life.'~
"Fudge! who cares whether they are true or not,
if they are only funny, b~tt I want to hear yours to
see what you can write, whether its worth cryin'
over."
"It opens with a widower, Mr. B~izport and his
daughter, Merilinda."
"Capital choice o' names! I like 'em, they sound
so merry. Buzport, that means buss."
"Mr. Buzport is her father, not her lover ,so you
needn't come to the kissing part yet."
"That's just like you, can't think of anything but
a lover connected with a buss, while all I was thinking'
on was a good hearty smack, seems as if I could
hear it 110W."
"The place where they lived was one of tradition-
ary interest. In the times cf the skirmishes between
I
the early settlers and the savages, a man had lived
there, a Quaker by birth, who was a great friend of
the Indians and suffered very little from their depre-


100o

A TALE OF TUE

nations. In QnC of these skirmishes, when the whites
were victorious, one of the savages fled to him for
protection, whom he concealed in a little cave that
had recently been discovered in the. roar of his house,
just large enough for a ~nian to crawl into. He was
so grateful for this act of kindness, that somb y~ars
afterwards when a plot was formed by the savages
for a general massacre of the whites; he stole away
from his tribe to inform his benefactor and have him
raise a signal from the mouth of the cave that they
might spare him and his family. The humane
hearted man revolted at the idea of saving his own
life while his brethren were sacrificed, and ho im~
medfately set out for the wigwam of the chief bear..
ing such messages of good will and pledges in the
name of the whites, that they were deterred from
their murderous purposes, and he returned in safety
to exact the fulfilment of his pledges. Around this
Qave an enclosure was built "~
"1 don't like your sentiments there, I should call
the whites the savages. What business had they to
come and drive off them that had more right 'here
than they had. I'd a skinned 'em all alive an' sent
'em back to where they come from till they could
come and trade like decent folks, and show that they
was civilized themselves."
Oh Kate, it makes me crawl to hear you make
such expressions as skinning alive."
" Oh yes, you are very feeling then but it wouldn't
make ye feel so bad to think of the poor savages bein'
driv' from their old homes they loved so well, an' had
a right to."

CONNECTICUT.

101

" I don't think that was right and have not said
anything to sanction it, but let me go on. 'Around
this cave an enclosure was built to co~imemorate the
event, which Mr Buzport had removed, and substitu~
ted in its stead a hedge supplied with seats.' "
"That don't sound right. That enclosure might
as well a' been a hedge as anything else, and then it
sounds as if the seats Was put right into the hedge,
and them would smash it all down." -
"It was a favorite retreat of Merilinda's, and a
delightful spot, exceedingly so on the night alluded
to here.
Gently the zephyrs breathed the wooing melodies
of that bland Indian Summer day, as the sun set in
his regal sple~idor behind the western waves, while a
few fleecy clouds lingered behind to do the worship-
fiul honors of his departure; and as the twilight
deepened into the shades of evening, not a single mist
dimmed the twinkling of the stars as they gradually
made thcir appearance; the Milky Way with its
myriad worlds suggested its mysterious wonders to
the fertile imagination of Merilinda, soon to be eclipse*
ed by the modest glory of the moon, which, shedding
her soft, silvery light over spire and terrace, moun~
tam and meadow, gently banishes all this splendid
retinue from her train that she may reign supreme.
Merrily the waves danced their joy around a magnifi-
cent steamer proudly completing her maiden trip
over the peaceful waters of the beautiful river which
stretched far and wide in silent adoration."
"I'm afraid something' awful sentimental is comm'
now, after such a operationn"
9

'I


102             A TALE OF TI11~                                         CONNECTICUT.             103

"While Merilinda sat there enjoying the scene, Mr.
Melrose walked round the other side of. the hedge
opposite to where she was sitting, when catching a
glimpse of her he was entranced by her extraordinary
beauty. Her neck looked like alabaster~ and her"
"You don't mean to say she sat there with her
neck bare at that time o' year do ye. If consume
tions had been as common in then~ days as they be
now, she'd a' watched her death o' cold dressed as
warm as could bQ, setting' there so long, that time o'
year in the moonshine.
" I'll alter that, but then, in a story there must be
some play of the fancy."
"I suspect that ain't all fancy. I 'spose you've
heard about Mr Claremont and his wife first meeting'
in a wood the first time they ever see Qach. other."
"No indeed! they did? I should like to know all
about it, do tell me. How did you know?"
"Yes, I knew that would be what you'd like, but
then I promised never to tell of it. You see my
Cousin used to live here, and one time when she was
goin' by that piece of woods out there she see 'em
walking' arm in arm, and heard him say, 'there's no
place on earth seems to me like this wood 'cause here
I first saw you.' Lie didn't say anything about aiiy
hedge, I guess that had been pulled down afore his
time, nor about any seats; I guess they stood up. I
don't believe they had any such moonshiny courtin'
as you tell about. Now that's just what I like, lovers
and moonshine, one is just as fickl~ as the other."
"Do you call moo~ishine fickle?"
"Yes, if you should agree to walk out with your

lover some bright, moony night, it would be sure to
go into a cloud.''
"You needn't dwell so much on that, for mine is
not intended for a love story."
." I'd like to see you write one that wan't. It would
pop in some how, just as it has into your'n at the
beginnii~'. Don't you 'spose I could se.e through that
Mr. Melros~, what was first in your mind, whether.
*   .  you meant it or not.   Folks don't see alabaster
necks without a cause, I reckon."
"I shan't have that in. I want something more
*      sensible and dignified. There's too much of such
trash written already for the benefit of pung people."
"I guess if you don't have any thing in but what's
goin' to benefit somebody, a pretty lean kind of a
mess you'd have of it, but you want some poetry to
start with, and I've got some for the first chapter.
You know you want a place to lay. your siege.?'
"Scene, you mean."
" No, that's what I call a siege. I 'spose you think
I don't know what that means.
Oh, b1e~sed Killarney,
Flowing' with lassos an' honey,
And nice golden buLter made of skhu~mi1k."
"Butter made ot~ skim-milk! Couldn't you have
gone a little wider of the mark?"
"No matter, that'll do for a play of the fancy, and
sounds rich, as if we could almost taste the melted
butter and molasses running . And then it makes a
kind of a puzzle whether lasses means molasses or
country girh~.
Now I've thought of a capital character to last you
all the way through~ Ben Sykes, or, as he was al-


4

104

A TALE OF THE

ways called, Sykes, 'cause his father was dead and
the title of the family descended on him. He was
studying' for a minister, but he didn't know reachingn '
from praying , and I've cut up the most shiiies with
him and he never found it out. Ho wanted to know
one day what we was gem' to have for dinner, and I
told him, a dead calf."
"A dead calf! " says he, "I shan't eat any of it."
"'Very well,' says I, 'you can do just 'as you like,
but I guess the rest on 'em will be glad enough to
eat it.' So lie didn't eat any, and looked at 'cm so
wishful as if he wanted to tell 'em, which' was just
what I wanted, but he didn't. The next day we was
gem' to have a chicken for dinner, and there was a
little bit of a hen coop out in the yard which I got
and cleaned up to put on the table with a live chicken
in it, and says I to him, thinking ' you wouldn't eat
a dead chicken I've got a live one for you,' and then
I guess he understood what the dead calf meant."
"Where did he preach when lie got through
studying?"
"Iii the kitchen. He was the awkwardest man
you ever did see, besides bein' so scatter-brained.
His hands come down half-way between his knees
and his to.es, and his shoulders reached the top of his
ears. ,lie had green eyes, white eyebrows, and yel-
low hair that stuck up like the quills of a porcupine
on his head. He used to come into the kitchen to
practice, and the way he'd fling his arms up, they'd
touch, the plasterin',- and he'd bring his foot down
with such vengeance they shook down the stove-pipe
once."

CONNECTICUT.

1~

-105

7

"'Thar,' says he, 'don't you see, the judgment's a
vomm', close follerin' at our heels?'
"'And you are the very old feller himself, I do
believe,' says I."
"What were his doctrines,, did they correspond
3'
with himself? "
"A-hem y-e-s,----his doctrines was enough to set the
world a-fire without any stove-pipe with the smell o'
the brimstone as the words come out of his mouth.
His favorite text was the lake of brimstone and fire
that come raining' down out of heaven. I said to him
one day, says I, 'Sykes, rain and fire don't agree
very well together and seems to me it would be more
consistent and sort o' christian-like to take for your
text where it says,
"He sendeth his rain on the evil and on the good;
on the just and on the unjust."
"'Yes,' says he, 'that's pleasing' to the ear, and
shows that you are born of your father,' the adver-
sary and devil, thinking' you shall escape the burning'
lake.'
"'Why Sykes,' says I,' we can't have but one father,
and if God is our. father, how can the d6vil be too?'
That sort o' staggered him, though I don't pretend
to be divine, nor know nothing' about necrology or
what you call it, but I could talk hhii down any day,
and make him .go and study his cataplasm all over
again."
"If you should try I wonder if you couldn't use
words more at random. This is a profitable way of'
spending time listening to your raillery."
9*


S

106

A TALE OF THE

"A great deal more 'profitable than writing' noveh~.
I don't think much of these literary genuses whose
* heads are always in the clouds and never kiiow
nothing' of what's goin' on here. I don't believe
some on 'em, if they should starve, could get a meal
o' victuals. Now I take a great deal more pride in
getting' up. a good. ~dinner than I. should in bein' the
most prodigious literary genus that ever lived."
"There's a great deal of good ~done by writing, or'
books would not be such a source of. enjoyment and
instruction to us. It opens a communication be~
tween ourselves 'and other minds which could not be
done in any ot ier way, besides being good mental
discipline for ti e writer."
"Oh get ou with your discipline. I get enough
of that from Wafter. He had the impudence to tell
m~ to day that Dinah, Miss Daggett's cook, was as
good as I was. I'll bear anything in the world from
Walter, but when he goes to comparing' me with a
nigger I won't stan' it no how, not if it come from
the holy Virgin Mother herself. I'm goin' to fry
some jackAiints for breakfast as black as the king's
crow for him, and P11 see if he thinks black cakes
are as good as' whiteones."
"Then it's time for you to retire, and I begin to
grow sleepy." gve had enough of your nonsense for
one night."
"No no~ yet, I see you. are bound to go on with
* your novel; and( I've got a 'little' anecdote for' you.
Where I lived' at' a country parson's once there come
a young couple to be married, not very young though,

K
k' ~
I

'I

107

forty or the like, but real green, they didn't know
nothing' about tyin' the knot."
"So when the minister asked the woman if she
would promise to love, honor and obey, she flew into
a teapot and out at the nose; 'did you 'spose,' says
she, 'that I was* so sheepish as to come here for that?
No! I come here to be married, an' I'll be bound
if I'll ever promise to obey any man. No! that's
what I won't, I'll live an old maid and turn into ashes
an' fly out o' the top of the chimney fust! '"
"'An P11 be bound if' you' shan't have the chance
afore I'll marry ye, Sal,' says the man an' took his
hat and walked off, leavin' the astonished parson to
mourn over the awful depravity of human natur',
instead of regain' himself on the marriage fee."
"Not much love there, but then there's no truth
in it; you made it up.
"You little innocent fool, you don't 'spose every
body marries for love do you?"
"They ought to."
"Did you know I was married once?"
"No! how did that happen, and what became of
your husband?"
"What become of him? I don' know. He died
and I never troubled myself to know what 'come ow
him afterwards. I thought wouldd be a port o' pretty
notion to have somebody to wait upon me, bring in
wood an' chips and. draw a pail o' water, but what do
you think, if I didn't have it all to do and take care
o' him into the bargain. That's the way, all honey
forehand, sour grapes afterwards.".

CO1~NECTICUT.


108             A TALE OF TH1~                                       CONNECTICUT.             109

"It was good enough for you if you had no higher
motive than that."
"Half the folks iii the world does jest so, only they
don't .come out honest an' say so. But I come off
rather worse than some on 'em, for he was a mean
old scamp~; but then I was lucky, he didn't live Ion o''~
* "And you were glad of it?'?
*" Of course I was. What did you 'spose I wanted
to be harnessed to him all my life for ?."
"You have made up this s~or~ to impose on my
credulity. If true you wo~ild not make so lio'ht of
it."
"Jest as you like, but I guess if you'd had to live
with him, you'd believe it fast enough. He come
home one night with one of his drunken cronies, and
set up and talked and laughed till he put his jaw out,
and how he did look."
"Was that what caused his death?"
"No in deed, I guess he didn't die so easy as that.
The other man went after the doctor, an' he, poor
soul l~ad just gone to bed, and didn't want to be dis~
turbe~i I 'spose for a drunken man's frolic, or may
be he thought 'twas nothing' but the ager, and instead
K.
o comm' he sent two big black pills, an' then I
thougi~t I should'a died laughing' to thifik how they
*   was goin' to set a man's jaw when it was out o'
jint."
"How hi~eartless that was in you when he was suf~
* fearing SQ much."
"My laughing' didn't hurt him any, and it made
me feel better. 'Twas bad enough for it to happen

108

1

109

and get the doctor out o'bed suCh a cold night with~
out my makin' myself miserable over it."
"Then the doctor came afterwards; did you go
after him? "
'Me go a1~er him! no, guess I didn't. I'd a' set
it myself first. One o' the neighbors liappenin' to
be out late come home jest then and see, what was
* gem' on, and he went and got him. I guess he
thought he never should grow very rich on such
practice for he never got his pay. I might have paid
him."
"Why didn't you? I should have thought you
would from a sense of honor, if nothing mo#e, when
he had to get up at midnight too, which is worse than
daytime."
"Did you 'spose I'd be so green as that, to pay
him when I had all the wust of it."
"He was not to blame for what your husband did,
and I think he had thc worst of it."
"Yes he was to blaii~e, or somebody else jest like
him, to let such stuff be sold that will make a man
act so like a heretic, and then throw all the trouble
of him on his wife. No, he didi~' come that over
me. Once they brought him, so drunk they couldn'tt
have him in the rum shop, home to me to take care
of, and that was all well enough."
Let that be as it may ; you married him, which
you ought not to have done unless you loved him;
and then, if lie had lived as long, and acted as bad
as Amelia's father, you wouldn't have it in your
heart to talk so about him now he is dead."


110             A~TALE OF THE

L ~

~' Oh dear, now I pray, don't go to preachifvin'.
I'd 'a just hung him up in a slima-noose on a bean~
pole. If he'd been somebody else's husband I should
have called him an upright mean f~1ler, and the
sooner the world was rid on him the better~, and his
bein' my husband don't alter the case. That's good
common sense doctrine. I did all I could for my
old man when he was livin', and now he's dead, peace
to his ashes and greater peace to me. Good night
and pleasant dreams.~~
if

CHAPTER IX.
"Oh Friendship! flower of~ fairest hue,
To earthly hands so seldom given;
Thy bloom shall other climes renew,
Thy native soil is Heaven."
"Now Rosa, I q~m going to show you something
that will make you laugh if you will come with me,"
said Walter to Rosalind one day as he sauntered
from school, and met her just ready for a walk. She
accompanied him to a shop window where was dis-
played a comical looking picture, representing fun
and mischief, with the inscription, "Mother is gone
away."
A merry looking little sprite, with a curly head and
dimpled hands, had found the way to hei~ mother's
choice drawer containing her costly laces, jewelled
fan, and various delicate fabrics, and seated on the
floor with a kitten in her lap was creating wild havoc
among them, while at a little distance a broken vase
with scattered flowers, and an overturned inkstand
deliberately pouring its contents over books and em-
broidery, attested the child's innate love~of freedom.
Rosahind looked at it but was far more attracted
by another picture, in which the clasped hands and
upraised face awakened a sympathetic thrill of emo-
tion.
Concealing his disappointment at the little notice
(111)

110


112             A TALE OF TILE
she took of his favorite picture a~ well as he could,
Walter observed to a school-fellow standing by,
"'Wouldn't yc~u like to be an artist and dwell in
such a world of beauty?"
"No, not I. I would rather be a spectator of the
beauty after it is created, than work so hard to create
it. Only think what a task it must be to get every
tint and shade just right, and you know an unnat-
ural painting is a most ugly thing to look at."
"That's true. One ought to have a natural gift
for it like Michael Angelo when he saw a divine form
imprisoned in a block of marble. , As for the labor,
an artist must enjoy it, thus being able to create
from the resources of his own mind, and never can
suffer for want of any thing to kill thought."
"Then I suppose you will be an artist," replied
his companion.
Oh no, I am going to be a lawyer."
"You a lawyer! impossible! I would as soon be a
thief as a lawyer."
"Why ? in a theoretical sense it deems to me one
could do so much in that hin~ for promoting the web
fare of the world, when law and government form
the basis of society."
"For promoting the misery of the world I should
say, in a practical sense. They'll lie' as f~st as they
can speak, and make black white if they can advance
their client's cause, and make a penny by it," retorted
his companion as he walked along.
"Don't you think that is a funny picture," said
Walter to Rosahind, trying a second time to get her
interested in it. "You used to be so fond of paint-

CQNNECTICUT.              113
ings I thought you'd enjoy that, and there's just
enough variety to suit you."
"It is: a very pretty picture," said she, as she
turned away.
The artist who had quietly observedithem from
the inside and heard their conversation, now stepped
to the door and invited them in to look at his picture
gallery. She could not be persuaded, much to his
regret, hers being a face he wished, to study. The
conversation, rambling as it was, had interested him
on all sides, particularly between the two lads, for
the investigating spirit it displayed in both of them
beyond their years.
Walter accepted the invitation, while Rosalind
walked moodily homeward, reproaching l~erself for
the discourtesy she had shown.
A slight shade of impatience flitted across Walter's
brow as he met her that night, which she observed.
It increased the dissatisfaction already felt, and at an
early hour she retired to her chamber.
"Oh dear," said he to his mother after she had
left, "I wonder if ~osalind is never going to be her-
self again. I cannot get her interested in any thing,
and she was once so enthusiastic. I was in onO of
the finest picture galleries to day I ever saw, but could
not persuade her to go in or scarcely look at a paint-
ing which I thought particularly pretty, and one that
would have pleased her so much once. Mother, why
couldn't she have been more like you?"
"Have patience with her my son; it is something
new for' you to be lacking in that.* I never heard
you co~nplain so much before."
10

{

I'


114

- 115

"mover sawh&amp; so disrespectful before. It troubles
her, as I saw by her looks when she went out to-night,
We should have had such a nice time if she had gone
in. The proprietor of the gallery took great pains
to explain all the pictures, many of which he brought
from Europe. lie hasn't been here long, and has
just completed the arrangement of his rooms, lie
invited me to call often, whenever I wished, and I
shall be pretty certain to avail myself of the invita-
tion. Mother, are you ivilling I should invite him
here ?"
" Certainly, I would like to become acquainted
with all your friends."
"You will like him I know. You know there is
something about some people that seems to elevate
us by coming in contact with them. That is the way
James Morgan says I influence him, which I neicr
was vain enough to believe. He came along to day
when we were standing at the windowand was quite
huffy because I said I was going to be a laWyer. I
don't see why it isn't ,just as respectable to be a law-
yer as a minister. They are both professions, and
both followed to obtain a living as a general thinoQ'
"Poor boy, his father has been swindled out of so
much by ui'principled lawyers that he probably thinks
they are all alike. Mr. Kingley had the money to
bribe with, and they managed to get Mr. Morgan's
place away from him by as unfair means as ever w~re
devised. Mrs. Morgan had some propei~ty when she
was married which was swallowed up with the rest,
a fact she never could forget."

CONNECTICUT.

'Why mother, how could they be. bribed when
they were under oath to tell the truth ~"
Mrs. Claremont smiled sadly at the check his en-
thusiasm had received upon his favorite theme, and
his uncOnSciousness of the intrigue and wickedness
carried on in its name.
"There are sometimes doubtful points which an
unscrupulous man may, with a little cunning, bring
to. the advantage of his own side without directly
violating that moral principle which he barters away
for money."
"When I am a man and get to be a lawyer, as I
*    mean to be, II shall look after some of these rogues,
and Ii don't believe they would dare to face me with
their m~iiey bought arguments which I would demol-
ish in the name of that justice law was framed to
secure," replied he with great warmth which drew
another smile from his mother at his youthful ardor.
"I suppose Posalind will not care to have that
young artist invited here," resumed he after a pause.
*      "Why? I do not think she can have any objection."
"No, I suppose not, only she must be embarrassed
to see him after treating him so unceremoniouSlY.
She looked at him, and walked straight by without
answering a word. I guess he was puzzled enough
by the way he watched her, but he almOst smiled.
She put on such an air of defiance as if she thought
it was impudent for him t~ ask her to come in. They
s~y artists must study human nature to be successful,
and I shouldn't wonder if it would please him right
well to have an opportunity to get hold of sueli a

A TALE 01? THE


U',
1:11
I ~
In

A TALE OF THE

singular character. She is real. good, and he'll find
it out.
" What is his name ?"
"Ernest ~Livingston, and it is a name I like too. '~
Not many days elapsed before Walter invited him
to spend the evening at his mother's house. Rosalind
as he feared, gave him a cold reception. She took
very little part in the conversation, and even left the
parlor before the departure of their guest. She
looked upon him very much as an intruder, and
anticipated frequent repetitions of his visits from the
intimacy she saw springing up between him and
Walter. So far as they were concerned she was glad
of it, not being naturally a selfish person, but grief
is always selfish, and she did not wish to have their
own private circle broken in upon by strangers.
They had made no new acquaintances since her
father's death and she coveted seclusion. However,
she always acted entirely independent of him, and
he never urged her into conversation. Aside from
treating her with true gentlemanly courtesy as he did
every one, he took little notice of her. A very friend~
ly feeling sprung up between him and Mrs. Clare-
mont, the latter offering him the hospitality of her
house whenever it would be agreeable to him, which
was quite often. She could not have selected a
more desirable companion for her. son, and his being
several years his. senior she considered also a great
advantage. Though only a boy, Walter's quick per-
ceptions and moral intuitions imparted the maturity
of manhood, so that his most intimate associates
were always older than himself. He soon became

117

CONNECTICUT.

reconciled to Rosalind's coldness towards his friend
when he found he was not annoyed by it. She pur~
sued her eccentriC way unmolested by any one, and
apparently without interfering with the happiness of
any. So she thought at least, and tried to quiet her
conscience.
One pleasant afternoon, Walter persuaded her to
take a walk with them in the woods. She was quite
cheerful when they' started and Ernest tried for the
first time to draw h.er into conversation. She chat-
ted pleasantly for a while, until he and Walter glided
away in pursuit of a squirrel which was nimbly seal-
in g the wall. When they met her again a singular
transformation had taken place. She scarcely spoke,
and watching her opportunity preceded them hbme-
ward. The chill she left behind so clouded their
spirits that they too walked home in silence.

116


~ hJ4
I
~
I
j4

CONNEOTtOt)~T.

CIIAPTER X.
"There goes a gentle angel
Throughout this earthly land,
To comfort all earth's sorrows
Sent by the Fathers hand;
And in his look is quiet,
And mercy soft and mild-
0, follow him forever,
Patience, the Angel Child!
J~eply he hath not always
In answer to thy quest:
'Endurance' is still his motto,
Not far the place of rest;-
And so, without much speaking,
lie journeys by thy side,
And thinks but of the fair, grand goal,
Far in the distance wide."
Oh Life, what would'st thou be worth but for the
hereafter! Liable at afty moment to be clouded by
sorrow, thy suiffliest hours are but a passing dream!
iI'hy happiest memories chilled by some poignant re-
gret, thy noblest aspirations checked by the prompt-
ings of distrust or inefficiency, thy highest sense of
duty overpowered by timid counsels, thou art one
continued struggle between heaven-born impulses on
the one side, and earth-bound propensities on the
other. A ye, but it is for the ~hereafter thou wast
created.
What we call life is only birth ;~-birth of the spirit-life, the soul,
First link in the chain of being, part of one harmonious whole..
Through toil and sacrifice; up the rugged ascent
(118)

44
4...
4     4.
2
A
444
44
4  4
A
44
44
44-
*
44

*

which is gained only by prayer and faith, down the
steep chasm whence thou shalt rise again through
the deep waters of repentanCe and huiniliatioi~, dost
thou reach the b11ssf~l summit whore thou shalt lie
down in green pastures beside the still waters, feel-
ing that the Lord is thy Shepherd and thou. shalt not
want forevermore.
lit was a dull day in December. The snow had
not yet whitened the earth, but the leaden grey aspect
of the clouds portended an approaching storm.
It was particularly a dull day to Amelia Crawford,
who had accepted ~1rs. Claremont's offer 'of a home
in her family th6 present winter. Her brain had
been unusually busy for a few weeks, and now wear~
ied and exhausted, she sat listless and sad over her
work. Days, weeks and years passed heavily by as
she plodded on her lonely, way after her mother's
death, not knowing of . a single human being with
whom she could claim kith or kin, and feeling lik&amp;a
waif on the ocean strand, waiting for another wave
to hear her onward into the circle of the great human
family, the only kinship she was henceforth tqknow.
When that wave came it swopt her to the threshold
of a new existence. Hitherto separated from all. the
influences that stimulate to thought and action, con-
tact with the world aroused 4neW feelings, and awak-
ened aspirations to which she was before a stranger.
Introduced to the society of books, history, ethics,
romance and biography brought their treasures to
her awakening faculties, among which ~she revelled
with that delicious sense of rapture a fresh acquisi-
tion of knowledge brings ~to the enquiring mind,

119


.120

~intil a labyrinth of wonder and perplexity opened
before her as she began to comprehend the compib
cated net-work of desire and aspiration, passion and
sentiment, and other diverse agencies through which
the human soul works out the great problem of its
existence and destiny.
Developing too suddenly for a healt ful activity
of the brain, which gave her power, but 1 ot a llarmo~
nious character, she displayed many e centricities
that stood in the, way of gaining the fr the
social element of her nature coveted now, though
by the surrounding influouce~ of her Cilildilood had
undeveloped before. The diffidence early ingrafted
able       seldom venturing beyond a monosyp
addressed to her, which
made her quite an object of curiosity to Walter, who
could not imagine h6w it was possible for any one to
live in this bustling world without manifesting some
j         degree of animation, and wondered whether she could
be thinking at all or whether her mind was a vacuum.
lie would have been astonished to know what was
going on there. Though apparently so timid and
quiescent, underneath the seeming dullness existed an
energy of thought, and a determination of purpose
not to 'be resisted or overcome. One accustomed to
study human nature, could read this in the knitting
of tile brow, and the compression of the lips as she
sat earnestly plying her needle on this December
afternoon. Little given to conversation generally,
she was now resolutely mute, wishing no one to speak
o 11cr, and replying briefly as possible to any ques-
tion. Too many unpleasant memories flitted through

A. TALFI OP TIlE                                                                                 121
71

CONNECTICUT.
her mind, too many unanswered questioning arose
from the depths of her soul, for the wearied mental
powers to throw off and play the agreeable. Milly
sat at another window busily engaged in hemstitch-
ing a ruffle, sometimes looking tout upon the dreary,
angry aspect of the water in the distance as a gust
of wind howled by, and occasionally stealing a glance
at Amelia, as if desirous to enter into conversation if
she only knew what to say. There were many points
of resemblance between the two, which unfortunate-
ly,, combined the qualities in each most unfavorable
for 'an intimate acquaintance.
Kate made one of her unceremonious calls, banter-
ing Milly about her ruffle which sile "was very sure
meant something' out of the common course, or she
would not be doin' such finery work instead of writ-
in' her novel," sending a blush to Milly's cl~eeksand
almost bringing a ~niile to Amelia's motionless lips
on witnessing her confusion.
Suddenly recollecting that her presence had been
requested in Mrs. Claremont's room she iA'imediately
withdrew, without waiting for a word of reply, and
thus continued her remarks to Rosalind and her
mother as she passed through the open door near
which the former was seated.
"There's a chance for you' to get a little diversion
by goin' into t~c other 'room and looking' at the two
spinsters if they was only a little older, sitting' up
there as straight as a broomstick at eacll winder, and
I don't think they've spoke the whole afternoon. IL
started 'em up a little, and it would have done you
* good to See Amelia brighten up as she did for a

121


r.
I I
11

A TALI~ OP TIlE

minute, always l~~kj~' so like a moonbeam gone to
sleep. It's strange how mighty takin' 'tis to every
body to hear the leastest hint about getting' married.
No~w I never said a word, only .touched Milly up a
little about a ruffle she's takin' so much pains with,
and conscience, I don't know but there'd been a SCOUC
right straight off if I hadn't left. I shouldn't have
posed Amelia was bright enough to catch the mean-
in' of anything, and Mihly for all what she's said that
she wouldn't marry a man that drinked or smoked,
now she's got most round the first corner, I shouldn't
wonder if she'd change. her mind. Nobody knows
what they'll do til! the time comes."
'.' I don't know how it happens that she is so free
to talk with you. She never seems disposed to enter
into conversation with the r~st of us," observed Rosa~
lind.
"Just the easiest thing in the world. She thinks
you all know so much mor'n she doe5, but I'm so
hight-head~~ and careless, she ain't afraid of a von-
ture with me."
"Milly knows enough if she only knew how to act
it out, and I admire her good sense, having too much
confidence in her to think she will qver swerve from
her principles."
Kate cast a quizzing glance, as Rosahind said this
without looking up from her work, wondering what
ihight be passing through her mind then, and regret~
ting that the proprieties of her station as a domestic
forbade the familiarity with which. she would have
treated a similar remark from Milly.
The early twil o'ht soon forbade their sewing long-

CONNECTICUT.             128
er, yet, still they sat, maintaining an, unbroken silence,
as if some strong magnetic force riveted them to the
spot. Milly had an intense desire to penetrate the
inner sanctuary of Amelia's soul, but was denied the
privilege. No human being was the confident of her
thoughts. Perhaps a slight feeling of regret for
some neglected duty, either through ignorance or
thoughtlessness, which might have mitigated he~r
mother's sufferings, lent poignancy to the sorrow
working in the outlines of her face, anon compress~
ing the lips still more, as she looked into the dreary
distance, and thought of the still more dreary hours
of the long night whose sleepless vigils she kept.
Not for~ a life of ease was she born, and there was
work for her to do.
When other homes were made miserable by the
same curse that had robbed her of childhood and
blighted the sunniest years of youth, she could not
be content to lead a life of comfort and self support
merely, but what could she dQ? A question that
implied no unbecoming self-distrust, for no one could
seem less qualified for any ordinary undertaking.
Apparently as cold as an iceberg she was never
swayed by a single momentary impulse; looking '
as Kate expressed it, "so like a moonbeam gone to
sleep." But those dull eyes were yet to be lighted
with the brightness of a high, spiritual life ;---that
timid, faltering voice to grow strong in the inspire
thin of God's truth.
Was Milly content now that she lived in the midst
of those tender affections which had been the Alpha
and Omega of her day dreams, and of which she had

'F,

122

I ~
I
I

128


124

A TALE OF THE

Ii
Ii
44

CONNECTICUT.

125

also be en deprived through the whole part of her
early life? Not by any means. Neither was she
unhappy.
It is not always the severing of a tie, or the awaken-
ing thrill of anew love, that sends us in quest of
higher knowledge, and a grander, deeper life. It is
the natural unfolding of the divine nature within us,
a reaching after something we cannot grasp~-4he
natural ci2'y of the mortal child for its immortal pa-
rent. There come such moments to all men and
women, varying in degree according to different
temperaments, but none the less real,-times when
the unutterable aspirations of the soul may bQ com-
pared to a prisoner bird longing to soar aloft in the
full and free exercise of its powers, and ye4 unable
to free it~elf.
Have patience ;-a time will arrive when an angel
will come to unlock the prison door; ~while through.
these years of earnest waiting the needed preparation
goes on for the appointed work.
There are those, patient waiters, faithful watchers,
whose mission seems to be, to serve by waiting, and
no idle mission is it. They are an indispensable ele-
ment in society,-..the medium through which the
leaven of a bolder truth than they have dared, or had
the ability to proclaim, finds its way by their accept-
ance of it to circles whence otherwise it would be
excluded.
It is true that to some only "it is given to know
the, mystery of the kingdom of God," who are the
ordained servants of the lowest, speaking for them in
terms they readily understand, but which they have

I

not the capacity themselves to do. Milly had the
knowledge but not the capacity to communicate it.
She had an undefined consciousness, a dim fore-
shadowing of the beauty and glory of that guarded
sacredness of life which is reserved for those who
drink of the cup from which J&amp;sus d~ank; so ethereal
that no outward eye can form any conception of its
grandeur, so intensely spiritual that no outward
sense can comprehend or explain its celestial attri-
butes.
Such a person could not be satisfied with an ordi-
nary life, and she was one not likely to lead any.other~
than an ordinary life. No stern "1 WILL" ruled that
gentle nature ;-no indomitable persistency of pur-
pose revealed those strong points of character which,
if they display greater faults, press through. every
obstacle to achieve a triumph all its own.
Had she suffered like Amelia, or committed some.
great error, which demanded an expiation, all the
latent forces of her soul might have gathered in a
single heart-throb, and, bursting from the effect of the
pressure, startled 4he world front its slumber to set
the seal of condemnation upon some foul wrong
which, perpetuated from generation to generation~,
hoary-headed with age, had obtained the reverence
of mankind. Had she known. how her mother had
suffered, how day by day she toiled her life away to
obtain the pittance that was to secure a home for
herself and child together, she might have denounced
in terms of righteous indignation the oppression that
still threatens the chastity of thousands of defence-
less women who, in stifled attics and damp basements,
11

I

I


ii
it
I
I
I
'1
.1
~
j {

waste their health and bloom merely to keep body
and soul together, uncared for by those enriched
thereby.
An organic wrong, the inonied interest will take
no thought for, the selfishness of which will rear a
barrier like adamant, and woe to the trembling hand
that shall dare to raise the feeblest blow; but what
pow~r can resist the tongue of eloquence? Even
selfishness stands aghast, and the little crevice through
which the penetrating ray first finds an entrance
closes and opens with every vibration of the popular
heart, until the adamantine barrier gradually and
unperceptibl3r crumbles away.
Mr~. Dayt6n was a woman of refined tastes and
artistic perceptions, which, not being able to indulge
on account of the grim n~.aster. poverty, that sat like
a relentless tyrant at the threshold of her parental
home, hurried her into the rash step that led to
greater evils than poverty, seeing nothing before her
but the menial occupations then open to woman.
Cruelly deserted by her husband shortly before the
birth of Milly, the extra exertions she was obliged to
make to support them soon undermined her health.
It was a pleasant room they occupied, where the
morning glory shaded the window, and the air was
fragrant with lilac, and honeysuckle. Reared among
such influences could Milly be other th~n poetic in
her aspirations? She came like a blessed sunbeam
to cheer, her mother's soul, and when the tie was
severed and the child left alone, a dependent on
strangers, how like a crushing weight the blow came!
As Mrs. Dayton had married in opposition to all her

CONNECTICUT.

friends, she received none of their sympathy and.
Milly was the more unwelcome, none of them 'being
disposed to take. her.
*      *      *      *
The snow came that night accompanied by a strong
north-easter which piled it in drifts, and imparted a
fantastic beauty to the surface of the earth, dazzling
the eye with its pearly whiteness as the sun' ku'rst
forth in his greatest splendor towards noon of the
next day. Amelia still felt an unusual depression of
spirits, meaijhile reproaching herself for- shutting
her eyes to ~l~e beauty of the outward world, which
ought to buoy her upward in songs of gratitude and
praise for the manifold blessings bestowed upon her.
Why should she not stifle every feeltug of discontent
and quench evei'y aspiration th4 sought a broader
life, being satisfied to live as others did, seekii~g only
present enjoyment and accepting the time-worn ruts
of past ages as sufficient for the pathway of all the
future ?
Yes, why, that is the question. Thousands have
asked it who, wearying of the search, have abandoned
it as a fatal delusion. Persevere and the moment
will come. Then no more vain questioning. Soul,
be still, and listen for the answer
BIWAUSN THOU ART IMMORTAL.
She went to church that evening but not to listen
to the preacher. He had no power to minister unto
sorrow like hers. The sound of tfte music awakeifed
no thrill of rapture now, though it had by no means
lost its charm and power. She longed for intercourse
with some sifch choice spirits as she had held corn-

126             A. TAL1~ OF TUE                                                                127

I

3

G

126

127


UJ
ttii
I
i ii
d
If
f h
II
; ij~
f   If
j ii
~
~HA

A TALE OF THE

union with in books, the inspiration of whose noble
thoughts had hallowed many an hour of her lonely
lot, that she might derive consolation from their
sympathy and support, instead of wandering
alone in doubt and despondency. And yet
not alone. He whose midnight anguish has immor-
talized the garden of Gethsemane was walking
beside her,-a still greater tban he was holding her
in his arms. Now that she was buried to all sense
of worldly aspiration, a glorious resurrection awaited
her.
Suddenly as if borne on the tongue of a heavenly
messenger came a voice, "Follow me and I will give
thee inspiration; what thou askest I will grant."
Then, as in the twinkling of an eye, this world
which, but an instant before was so dark and dreary
she would gladly have closed her eyes on it forever,
was transformed into a paradise of light and joy,
full of beauty, poetry, music and love; a new radi-
ance shone from ev~ry eye, and she saw in every
human being the type of God's own image, a fellow-
traveler in the pilgrimage of life, and felt in each a
companion and friend.
*      *      *             *
it is at such moments we truly live. Then comes
the proof of immortality--the finite is lost in the
infinite, and the soul touches the realities of the
eternal world.
Because some are not susceptible to these influ-
ences but go sighing through life for a "witness,"
despair has erected her throne on the hopes of thou-
sands whom the religion of universal love might have

129

CONNECTICUT.

sent on their way rejoicing in the sunlight of God's
smile. Only in the crisis of a great emotion, as the
conflicting elements~of certain peculiar organizations
are contending for the mastery come these marked
phases, of the human soul. To this order of minds
Amelia belonged, but not Milly, who was more evenly
balanced in her mental constitution.
It is doubtless a wise ordination that this rapt
exaltation, this fullness of the soul's need, is not per-
mitted to remain long, for then aspiration would be
silenced. Neither exaltation nor depression is its
normal state, but the crisis to note its progress,-the
predominance of its strength or weakness. How
often are we obliged to confront our faults again after
we thought to have conquered them forever, yet each
time rising with a .more resolute purpose, learning
that it is- only by continued effort the soul gains the
height where she can resist reacting influences, over-
come every weakness and silence every doubt.

128


Ii
'II II
'I''
iii
If
I ir
~
I'
~1' I
III
I ~m
~d
i~ii
I~I
lid
~1i
Id
II

CHAPTER XL
"Thought is deeper than all speech;
Feeling deeper than all thought;
Souls to souls can never teach
What unto our souls is taught."
"Oh, for 'the tongue of an angel," soliloquized
Milly one autumn afternoon when alone, as she sup~
posed, but Kate was just within hearing.
"You little wicked minx to be covetin' what you
can't have and what wouldn't do you no . good.
'Spose you. was an angel, what wofild it amount to?
'Spose I should turn into one, for all the preachmn.'
there is about it, I guess they'd wan~t me to turn into
a sinner again and make 'em something' good to eat,
for I couldn't do that and be flyin' up into heaven
every minute. That's the way with these folks that
preach so much, thc3r don't do more'n other folks
when it comes to practice,. 'cause they are always
thinking' of some great thing that's a goin' to be done
sometime, nobody knows when nor who's a goin' to
do it."
"I didn't say I wished I was an angel, but that I
had the tongue of 'an angel to give utterance to my
thoughts and feelings, and I should be happier."
"So you would, but I'm doubtful whether angels.
have tongues. That kind o'talk they have, I b'lievo,
ain't done by word of mouth. P11 tell you what
(130)

makes me think of angels most of anything I know
of, and that is soap suds. When I'm a washing' and
the suds is a flyin', why it 'pears to me I could write'
poetry, there's something' so mighty inspiring 'in em.
All them little bubbles look s6' pure and white, it
seems to .me there must be an angel imprisoned in
every one on em, and I want to let 'em out."
It is sometimes a rest and diversion to meet with
a person so careless of the future and satisfied with
the present in all its phases, especially when mingled
with so much common sense as Kate displayed.
To Milly's weary brain it brought relief, the friction
of the contact being just what she needed. Kate
found enough to amuse her in the few sentences she'
had ju~t written, in the form of an essay, and sub-
mitted to her judgment as if she .were a 'chosen
friend to advise, instead of a thoughtless Iiumor~~t.
"I always knew you'd turn into a 'parson or phi-
losopher 'fore you got through. Yo~i are sentiment~
tal enough to write a whole budget of novels, bnt you
ain't got the romance, or fun, or soi~ethin' to carry
it on with, such as knocking' a feller down for sport.
You'd make it too sober. P11 warrant you'd have
deaths enough in it to plant a seminary. You like
fun as well a~ anybody when it's ready made for
you, but you don't know how to make it. Now
~spose you aiA I should go in company, I'd make
a hero out of Sykes, and you could make a dozen
out of Miss Rosalind, and we'd smash up a great
business under the firm of 'Milly &amp; Kate, whole~
sale and retail book-makers.' It would be well
enough to have a little moralizin' now and. then by

CONNECTICUT.            181

131


132

A TALI~ OF THE

way of spice. Read what you've been writing , maybe
it'll do for one of Sykes' sermons. We'll have your
book to start with, and the title of it shall be, ' The
novel that never was written.'"
"Lif~ is fragmentary ".~-
"Just as true as the Bible. All cut up into washing'
and bakin', b~ewin' and mending , and nothing' but the
little odd bits ~,nd ends left to ourselves. Sometimes
a spare minut~ to take a pinch o' -snuff."
"Here and there' a thought is struck off clearly
illustrating to &amp;ur own minds the idea we would wish
to present, but meeting the counter current of an~
other soul ".-
* "That's just it exactly. When I lived at Syke's
I went up garret one night after something' in the dark
and was just~ thinking' how nice it was not to have to
light myself round as other folks do, when I stepped
into a coal-hod on the stair, and down I come, coal
and all, and such a racket you never did hear. It
was right over the. front stairs, and there was~ com~
pany in the parlor, and they come running' out, and
one on'em said, 'The devil's in the house! ' 'No. he
ain't,' says I, nothing ' but his image. I stepped into
a coal hod and fell down, that's what's the' matter.'
Sykes stretched up his long neck, and says he, 'did
it hurt the hod?' When I was thinking' what if I
had broke my neck and its loss to the world, he was
thinking' how much the ~hod cost, as if that was the
most consequence. Go Qn."
"A careless word or deed may inflict a wound on
some sensitive soul that time can never heal, and a1
sympathizing look may lighten the sorrow o'f the

CONNECTICUT.

183C

broken-hearted spirit that shall sen&amp; it rejoicing on
its way."
"That's true as the four gospels. I washed out
my old apron once and hung it on a pile of wood in
the back yard to dry, and thought nothing . It was
a bright, moony night, and pretty soon, Sykes, white
as a ghost, come running' in, pantin' for breath.
'Why Sykes,' says I, 'what's the matter with you,
you look like a scart o~rl.' 'Oh,' says he, 'I've seen
a Jew without a head.' 'A Jew without a head,'
says I, ' I never heard o' such a thing.' 'Well,' says
'he, 'I'ye heard on 'em, but I never see one afore, and
I'm afraid he'll steal all our pork.' NQW Sykes loved
pork and beans.
"'Never you fear,' says I, 'I'll see that you always
have pork enough.' An' he looked up so grateful to
think heM lways have pork enough, but I see he
was kind o' frightened and kept looking' round as if
he thought something' was after him, and so I thought
I'd just look and ~ce what it was that ~cart the poor
fellow so. '~IIercy on us,' says I, 'that's an old
maid's husband!' He stared open his, big eyes, and
say~ he, 'I thought old maids didn't have any hus-
band!' jest as honest now as a Methodis' deacon."
"I wonder if you ever had a serious thought in
your life."
"I guess it' you'd had a broken foot as I have you'd
not be askin' inc that question. Walter, he under-
took to talk to me but II got round him slick. Wheu
you was gone away last winter and I slipped on the
ice hanging' out clothes, he was in the kitchen when.
I come in, and says I, 'Oh dear, I thought I was dead

i jJf~I
t j~tI
' i'h
III
lIP
1ff If
I


CONNECTICUT.            135

134             A TALE O1~' THE

when I started to get up, as much as ever I thought
anything ii~ the world.' 'No you didn't,' says he,
'how did you suppose you could stir if you were
dead?' 'Why not,' says I, 'as well as for a hen to
fly round aftei~ her' head is cut off?' 'Didn't you
want the priest sent for,' says lie, 'to confess your
sins, but' .1 guess you wouldn't have cheated him,
though he might have been glad of your money.'
'Time priest,' says I, 'I could bite his he ad off, and
lie never'd' know it.' 'Well,' says he, 'you needn't
think you can ever deceive rue, or I can always de~
tect you.' Thinks I to myself, 'old feller, you'd pet-
ter not be too sure. I'll make you take that back
just as sure as I'm Kate Drummond, and you are an
honest boy."
"How extravagant you are to call a little sprain a
broken f~ot."
"Non of your moralizin' now, let me tell my
story. I wanted your help, but I couldn't have it,
and so I took Amelia, and it did her a wonderful
deal of good. She was quite waked up about it.
You know Walter has a weak spot in the good side
of his character. He could be very easily imposed
upon by beggars, he's so afraid of turnin' off some-
body that's needy, so II knew how I could work him.
I jest borrowed an old gray wig and found a pair of
spectacle bows without any eyes, and I jest pasted on
some' green' paper and covered 'em with isiuglass, so
they looked jest like green glasses. I asked Mrs.
Claremont's leave to go out that evening , and you
know she always lets me go when I want to, and
Amelia was to tend the door. I got her to draw up

a paper representing' me as a deaf amd dumb woman,
and she was to take it to the family. I'd no tho~ight
when I asked her she'd be willing' to do it; but she
fell right in with it. I guess she was glad of some-
thin' for a change. So I rigged myself up in some
old rags, and the wig and spectacles, and an old hood
I've got laid away in the attic for such occasions, and
knocked at the side door. Amelia opened it, and
carried the paper into the parlor, and pretty soon
come running' back, mighty tickled. Mr. Livingston
was there and told her she'd better not leave me
alone a great while. I 'sposo he was afraid I should
steal something . Pretty soon Walter came out and
then went back and got the rest. 'I believe I shall
give her half a dollar,' says he, 'if she should be
really suffering' I never should forgive myself.'
Miss Rosalind was as moody as a 'broomstick, and
didn't say a word to let a body know what she
thought, but Mr. Livingston suspected me at ~rst
sight I know. There couldn't no1~ody deceive him.
He took a lamp and come to hold it in my face, and
then I thought I was gone for, bitt I turned from
him and drew my tatters closer round me and heaved
an involuntary sigh. 'Oh don't' says Walter,~'likely
she's got some feelings left yet,' and he come and
slipped the half dollar into my hand. I wanted to
be so grateful for it that I started too ~quick and one
of my isinglass eyes dropped out, and I put my hand
up to my eyes to cover 'em so he wouldn't see it.
'It always seems as if such poor creatures
couldn't express their gratitude enough,' says he, 'I
don't believe they could be so deceitful as~that.' IL'


CONNECTICUT.              13'T

136G

A TALE OF THE

wanted to laugh~then, but I could have held in if it
hadn't been for something' else. A big boy was goin'
by under the window singing' out at the top of his
voice, 'Pop goes th~ weasel,' when a little boy,
passing' by at the same time, cried out still louder,
'Where did he pop to, I want to see him?' Then I
couldn't help laughing , but as I had got the half dol-
lar I didn't care. But you never did see anybody so
cut up as Walter when he found he was the only
dupe there was. At first he thought Amelia was as
ignorant as him,-.---and she played another trick on
him. I reckon he always thought she wans't very
smart, and as for that may be all the rest on us thought
so too, but I tell you, I guess Amelia knows more' n
we was thinking' for. He looked right straight at her
in the eye, aAd says he, ~ Am3lia, did you know that
was Kate?' And she looked right straight at him in
the eye, and says she, 'Kate, is that Kate! Isn't
she really a deaf and dumb woman ? ~ just as iiuno-
cent now as if she just come from among angels.
He was staggered then, he didn't know what to make
of it. I heard~'em taking' a long time in the parlor
about it. lie thought it was wrong to impose on a
body's sensibilities so 'cause it harden's 'cm to real
suffering . That's true I 'spose, but I wan't gem' to
be cheated out of my fun. Mr. Livingston told him
a good many anecdotes of how the beginn, classes in
Europe grow rich in this way that he had seen. I
'spose that's the reason he couldn't be cheated."
"Mr Livingston has been about the world too
much to be easily deceived. I guess he would prove
a match for you anytime."

137

"A match for me! ha, I'd like to serve a joke on
him fust rate. But he ain't one o' these familiar
sort o' folks that you don't mind speaking' to any time.
II. always feel as if I must stand on ceremony when
I'm speaking' to him."
"I am glad if there is anybody you stand in defer-
once to. It's, a pity you couldn't be in awe of him
all the time, and be brought into some kind of sys-
tem."
"I hope you don't think I'm afraid of him. With
eyes a~ gentle as a purrin' cat's, he makes a body
feel when he's looking' at 'em so kind o' soft and ten-
der that they don't want to use any rough words.
But I'd like to have him try his hand on me to bring
me into system, wouldn't I have a gay time."
"No danger of his trying. He knows it would
be a hopeless task."
"I 'spose you think I'm too awfully depraved to
have any hopes of. It tickles me to see these folks
that pretend to be saints, when I guess if they could
shop their 'count books they'd find some as big sins
set down agin 'em as ever I did. Why there's tour
aunt, I knQw all about her for I lived next house to
her 'fore you. ever see her, and I think you must
have been pretty near a saint to live with her as you
did, she was a perfect torment to her husband and
he was ditto, and so that wan't no matter. Now
50cm' you like to puzzle over such things, which do
you think is most christian like, to take this world
fat and easy as I do, and the next world for all the
good we can get out of it; or, I don't know much
about what'~ in the Bible, but I believe there's a sort
12


138             A TALE OP TIlE

of a story there that described her, about rnakin'
broad prayers and long faces while their hearts are
far off; pray like a hypocrite, and fret like a scold?"
"Don't go to raking that up, let it be dead and
buried. I don't like to think of it."
"You don't get rid o' me that way. What's all
your thinking' goin' to amount to if you can't answer
a simple question? NoW I know which I should
rather do. I'd rather take my chance of getting' to
heaven through a bright sunshiny track right straight
ahead than to go up a dark lane full of sour faces
and wry tempers, the scapegoat of a multitude of
sins.
"You talk as if every body was of that class
because you happen to know of one."
"Happen to know of one I could name a hun~
dred. There's Mrs. Greenwood, a very saint as the
world goes, snapping' at every innocent frolic a child
has, and wanting' to harness a cross on to 'em as soon
as they can run alone, so as to save 'em from purga~
tory I 'spose, but I'd go there first."
"Well, I know she doesn't understand children's
nature at all, and so far as that goes, very few people
do. They seem to forget that they have been child~.
ren, whose wants and wills should be regarded as
much as grown people's. I do not believe there is a
class wronged more than they are."
"Now you begin to talk sense. I3ut~ when you
go to smoothing' over everything that's done under
long-faced professions you don't do right, Milly."
"I don't try to smooth it over. You go into such
extravagant phrases it is of no use to try to talk or
it

CONNECTJCIJT.

139

reason with you. I always stood up for children
because it is in their training this fretfulness begins.
If parents were always pleasant to each other, as
well as to every member of the family, their children
would catch the same spirit, instead of growing up
in this fretful way of speaking, a habit it is hard to
get out of, when really no ill is meant by it."
"Ah, you hypocrite! What good is all your praying'
and preaching' goin' to do if a body ain't no better
for it? Now you see it's this forcing' natur' out of
her course in not letting' the little ones enjoy them-
selves 'cause it's good for 'em to be crossed, that
makes 'em so soi~ir when they get well broke in."
"It will do very well for you to talk, Kate, who
never had aiiy experience. Perhaps if you had half
a dozen children ~to take care of they would some-
times be crossed when they ought not to he, and you
might lose your temper occasionally. That would
not make it right, to be sure, but it shows how
much easier it is to preach than to practice.~~
"Any body'd think you'd had as many children
as the old woman thai lived in a shoe to hear you
talk, as if you knew all about 'em. I want talking'
about myself who don't Pretend to be ~ but
an old sinner, I want you to tell inc wherein good
folks differ from bad ones."
K        " What a question ! Your own observation ought
to tell you that."
"So it does to my way of thinking . I've tried all
the afternoon to get your. notion about it,, and ain't
no wiser now than I was when I begun. I 'spose

138


CONNECTICUT.            141

11
p
Ii
ii
B
iii

when you ~et that tongue you wanted, you'll tell
"It don't mnke any difference whether I tell you
or not, you'll be just as light-headed. I should
have to go over so much ground to do justice to
both sides you'd have no patience to hear me half
through."
"That's a fact. You'd have to begin at Genesis
and explain how it happened that Cain killed his
brother without being so wicked as to do it."
"When a person becomes so perverted as Cain
was, I admit that the sin committed assumes a very
different character in his eyes from what it appears
to one who is pure and innocent. Stop Kate, hear
me through. I am not defending him, I oily say
that if Cain and Abel were so different naturally, it
is unfair to expect one would be just ~s good as the
other with the same effort. So it is in all othei~
cases."
"Pm fox~ havin' good folks better'n bad ones.
That's necessary f5 society to stand on. Knock out
that underpinning' imd what comes 'on us all? "
"I never supposed you cared whether it stood up
or fell down."
"I guess you'd find wouldd falldown pretty quick
if there wan' t no such folks as me to hold it up.
There neverfll any good come of your writiii', and
more' n all that you'll burn it all up when you get it
done.
"I have a chapter~ here on that subject, called the
'Philosophy of Writing.' it gives a few of the reasons
why some people think so much more than others."

11
4

"Common sense could tell that, because they do
nothing' but dream as you do, spinning' cobwebs that
]I have to keep brushing' down."
"The world suffers for no lack of hooks; and as
the motive spring is oftener the need of the writer to
express his thoughts and develop himself thus, than
of the world for the knowledge so communicated,
possibly ho who withholds his.works from publication
may be the greatest benefactor of the two, since he
must incorporate his ideas into his own practical life
in order to answer that great want of his soul which
another supplies by the response of some other soul
to this vibrating chord of human sympathy, which in
its sweetness dispels that intense earnestness whereby
its unuttered aspirations carve out some noble action
as the expression of its ideal. In these two classes
may be embraced the whole ~vorld~"
"That's the biggest whopi~er that ever was told."
"Why?"
"You've made it out that the whole world writes,
and I never writ a word in my life. I don't think
you know yourself what you tried to make out there."
"I guess I did not word that just as I meant to
have it understood, lut let me read the next and see
if it does not explain it. That last sentence did not
belong there; it ought to have been placed after the
next paragraph."
"That's what I call turning' round in a pint dish.
You try to get off spmethin' that'll make a great
flourish, and when you get through you are just
where you was when you begun, not a bit bigger
place to turn round in."

A TALE OF THE

140


142             A TALE OF THE                                              CONNECTICUT.             143

Ii
~4I
41
ii
1~
1]
Its

"You must hear the next, and you'll sec what I
meant. 'One represents the literary class, the*
thinkers, people who seek a law for every event ali
a principle for evei'y act, thins separating themselves
from the masses, the people of action, who go for-
ward to perform whatever their hands find to do
without any settled law or principle to guide them.
~i Yet these last have the dim outlines of some unde-
fined emotion which language fails them to express,
but 4o which they can readily respond when clearly
represented by the former class. So one acts ~s a
supplement to the other.'"
"There now, stop there, and don't go to getting' off
any more big words. The trouble with you is that.
when you've said soinethin' sensible you spile it all
by goin' into something' you don't know notluin' about,
ai~d that the king of England nor his court fool
couldn't understand. What you said there last is
just my sentiments; that these folks that think so
much and pretend to be so knowing' ain't the ones
th~it does the work. And just as you said, them that
does the work know just as much after all only they
d~'t know how to express it. Now you see that
first big' sentence you got off wa'nt clear; but its
most tea time, and I must leave you to your destruc-
* tion, only don't set the house a fire with your novel,
cause we shall want somewhere to stay, and can't
turn into angels~ and fly away as you want to."
Milly looked out at her window upon the meadows
Where the cattle were grazing in quiet content, and
the misty shadows were resting on the hill-sides, she
Ustened. to the song of the birds and inhaled the fra~

142

grace of the lilac as the gentle breeze boi~e it up-
ward, then crossed her hands upon the window sill
and laid her head upon them. Angels came and
blessed her, and her spirit turned with yearning to-
ward that beatified state where self is known no
more, and the higher language of the soul shall make
itself understood without the feeble power of human
lips to give it utterance.
It was the overshadowing of the divine Presence
coming to nmiiiister to that humble one meekly bow-
ing before his throiie, and impart knowledge for
which slm~ thirsted, but which tongue could never
express.
She was one of those of whom it is written,
"Blessed are the pure in heart fQr they shall see
God." A priestess in his temple,'Ue revealed himself
to her as a j~ist and upright judge, full of mercy and
love, from whom the most guilty need not shrink if
they come in penitence and prayer, and to whom the
righteous can come only as they acknowledge the
need of the injunction, "Watch and pray lest ye
entei&amp; into temptation."
Lapsing into a state of half unconsciousness the
oi~tward world glided from her senses, and Mrs.
Claremont, missing her from the place she was ac-
customed to fill, an event of rare occurrence, went
to her chamber, and laying her hand gently on her
shoulder, was met with a warm embrace as Milly
raised her hands involuntarily crc consciousness re-
turned, and whispered, "Mother!"

143


4
211

CHAPTER XII.
"This world is full of beauty, like other worlds above;
And, if we did our duty, it might be full of love."
Thanksgiving came round again, being the second
anniversary of Mr. Claremont's death. Rosalind had
been more cheery of Iat~, and since the walk in' the
woods where we l~ft her, she had treated Mr. Livings-
ton with moire courtesy, but still was very far from,
being on familiar terms with him. This day, which
was spent in a very quiet mani~er, lie was their guest.
A sudden change in the weather took place the night
before, and a violent northeast snowstorm set in,
which continued till late in the afternoon, wl~en the
wind sud lenly changed again, and the evening was
very cleai~ and cold. Rosalind was suffering from a
severe co~d which combined With the storm to make
her feel niore gloomy than usual.
In the evening, as the family were pleasantly chat-
ting around the festive board after having done full
justice to its contents, they were starthxl by a rapid
knock at the side door. "Will somebody please come
and help us, for mother is dying and father is crazy,
and the fire's gone out, ,and what will become of poor
little sissy and me?" came in hurried tones from a
ragged, but intelligent looking boy of eight or ten
years, whose eager importunity was not to be resisted
(144)

I

CONNECTICUT.              145
by a woman of Mrs. Claremont's benevolent impulses,
and she ordered her carriage to accompany him home
escorted by Walter, greatly to the joy of the little
intruder, being sure now, he said, that mother would
live, when he saw the little articles of comfort Kate
deposited in the carriage.
Rosalind followed them to time door, and watched
them down the avenue as they glided over the un-
broken crust beneath the merry twinkling of the
stars which shine with such brilliance on a clear,
frosty night. S~me closed the door with a shiver and
returned to the parlor. Resting her elbow on the
mant&amp;l and her head upon her hand she looked
thoughtfully into the grate for some minutes, and
then broke the silence by saying, "There is very
little in life worth living for."
Earnest looked at her with wonder as he replied,
"That is a singular remark for you to make, sur-
rounded as you are by all that wealth or affection
can bestow."
"I was not referring to myself particularly, I was
thinking of that little boy who will soon be left, per-
haps, without a friend in the world, and be obliged
to get his living as a street beggar."
" You would still be his friend would you not ~
Your mother's visit there to-night may be the source
of joy that will atone for hours of bitter suffering.
The elastic nature of childhood cannot long be re-
pressed."
"That is true, but ~~hen grown to manhood the
majority of people have to suffer far more than they
enjoy, and this world mu.st lose its attractions."

145


I P
ii j~
till
iIii~
Iii
till

A TALE OF THE

"Perhaps they' would not tell you so i~ you were
to ask the question. There is a joy fox~ those who
weep as well as for those who smile. o you not
think afflictions are exalting in their character ?"
"Yes, but that does not niake us covet or even
endure them willingly."
"Did you never, when a child, have to submit to
~vhat seemed to you a great trial and privation at the
time, but which in the end was of incalculable benefit
to you, either for your own improvement, or for the
tender proof it gave you of your parents' untiring
love ?"
Rosalind cared not to pursue the theme farther,
and she seated herself in a chair with her face turned
from him without answering.
lie saw that he had touched the wrong key, and
he too was silent, meanwhile studying her attentively
until her mother's return.
Walter brought in a golden haired girl of three
years whom he placed in Rosalind's lap, saying she
must, adopt her as her name sake, her name being
Rosie, and having blue eyes resembling her oxvi~i.
The only attendant her mother had when Mrs. Glare-
mont arrived there, she was standing by the bedside
affectionately stroking her face, as if that were all
that was needed to restore her to consciousness. The
father, it seemed, had come home in a fit of delirium
trenens, and his wife, being in delicate health, had
fallen into a swoon. After taking the proper' meas-
ures to remove him to the almshouse, where he died
soon after~ Mrs. Claremont took home the little girl

CONNECTICUT.            147

146

for a few days, until her mother should recover her
usual health.
"Would you like to come and live with the lady?"
said Walter to* her as she surveyed them all with
eager curiosity, seated in Rosalind's lap.
"No, doss not, mama '11 want her 'ittle din ," lisped
the little one.
"What would you do if you should lose your
mother? Who would feed and take care of you,"
asked Ernest as she bent forward to grasp his watch
key.

ii
'4
'1
ii
'Ii
II

"Mama says he who takes care of the 'avens when
they ky, will feed me too."
What do you have to play with at home, dolls
and toys?"
"I'se dot a 'ittle pussy."
"What do you give her to eat?"
"We don't have anything to dive her to eat, she
catches her own meat."
Saying this she jumped down to look at the pictures
and other curiosities that met h~r eyes, appearing as
much at home as if reared in a palace. She gained
their affections so much that it was with great reluct-
ance they parted with 'her, and Mrs. Claremont
would gladly have kept her, if for no other reason
than to awaken the interest of Rosalind in some ob-
ject, who manifested much of her old enthusiasm in
replenishing her scant' wardrobe and listening to her
childish prattle.
This was only one of many instances of a similar
character that came under Mrs. Claremont's obs~rva-
tion during that winter. There was a great deal of.

147


148               A TALE OF THE

I I
II I
lull

suffering among the poorer classes, arising from a
scarcity of employment and the high prices of pro~
visions, but more than all from the increasing vice of
intemperance.
Even women sometimes partook freely of the in~
toxicating draught which their husbands were much
more lavish to provide than food, and which often
served as a stimulus to take its place. These were
exceptional cases, however, as there were conipara-
tively few women so lost to all sense of duty as
mothers to debase themselves thus.
Pinched by cold and hunger, and tortured by
abuse, it was marvelous that they had the ambition
to try to appear respectable, and the perseverance
labor so untiringly to guard their children against
the ill effects of the vices their fathers taught them.
Thus Rosalind thought who often accompanied her
mother to these abodes of wretchedness and poverty,
but whose mind was not in a state to be profited
thereby, and Mrs. Claremont ceased at length to take
her with her, fearing to increase her morbid tendency
to dwell on the dark side.
Among those associated with Mrs. Claremont in
this work, was ~ young lady whose overflowing zeal
in all those tender charities that constitute such a
charm in buddi ig womanhood cast a beneficent halo
around her pro once in every circle, and commanded
the respect of th most thoughtless by her unaffected
interest in the I wly. and unfortunate. As beautiful
in person as she was lovely in character, she might
have been envied as a rival but for the entire absence
of self consciousness and the unobtrusive manners

and sprightly conversation which won all hearts.
The self reliance that imparted such graceful mien
and dignified bearing bore no trace of selfeonceit,
and the ease with which she mingled with all classes
left no room for the disaffection of any.
Walter would have been exceedingly gratifle4 to
see. a friendship springing up between her and Rosa-
lind, thinking it might prove beneficial to the latter
beside ~ getting her interested in something that
would employ her mind profitably. With great re-
gret he observed her apathy, and the inutility of
every effort to arouse her from it. As the time was
drawing near when he was to leave home for college,
she was a source of great anxiety. Never having
been separated he feared she would become still more
Exclusive when deprived of his influence and society.
Though little disposed to talk upon the subject he
could see that the thought of the separation already
depressed her spirits..
Another member of the Benevolent Association,
without which no city can be perfect, was Mrs. Friz-
zlewit. She formed a sort of connecting link between
high and low, rich and poor, an indispensable element
in the successful prosecution of an enterprise of this
character. She and s-race Blanche were opposites in
every~ thing, yet both filled their respective 1)laces,
and, by being united, universal hafinony prevailed,'
for no one would have the presumption to hazard the
alienation of the queenly Miss Blanche. Yoijtii and
beauty, it i~ useless to deny, wield a sovereignty far
more potent than their subjects dream,. and when.

Id

IA
i~I
Ii
I
I!
frI

CONNECT1CtTT.

149

148


150             A TALE OF THE                                               CONNECTICUT.             151

with these are combined true nobility and greatness
of soul, the possessor reigns absolute.
A very brisk, blithe, dapper little body was this
Mrs. Frizzlewit, just the woman for her place. If
she ever did make a mistake, it was in getting mar-
ried, evidently not being fitted for that. Household
cares pressed heavily upon her, and it was sometimes
whispered that her home was not happy, but it was
only a rumor.
If sometimes fretful it was because she had mis-
taken her mission, and instead of going from house
to house, and from shop to shop to enlist sympathy
and help for some unfortunate family, a task for
which nature had fitted her, she was obliged to attend
to menial duties at home, uncongenial to her tastes
and inclination. Not that she did not love her family,
but was animated by a ruling passion for helping
others. Had she heeii able to hire servants this diffi-
culty would have been, obviated in a great degree.
Her husband was poor and the whole care of the
children devolved upon her. However, she always
managed to take a prominent part in any benevolent
object that sprung up, when others were pressed for
time, and filled such a useful nook that no one could
think of sparing her. Never baffled by repulse, most
any disagreeable task others shunned found a ready
instrument in her.
Many were the heartfelt thanks arising from mis-
erable hovels for cheering smiles and kindly words,
aside from the more substantial assistance given by
those two ~sisters of mercy, Mrs. Claremont and her

I

II

young friend, aided by many others among their
social circles.
Young men caught their enthusiastic spirit, and
gave liberally of their means, voicing with each other
who should win the. most approving smile of the
lovely Miss Blanche. 'Although she cared not for
their obsequious favors farther than for the good they
enabled her to accomplishit was an Elysian field she:
trod, in which she saw only the bright side of life'
gilded with youth's romantic dreams; for the suffer-
in~s it gave her so much joy to alleviate haddleyer
formed a pad of her cup, and how could they throw
a. shadow across her path?

~ I


CHAPTER XIII.

"We endow
Those whom we love, in our fond, passionate blindneSS,
With power upon ~ur souls too absolute
To be a mortal's trust."
Among the many admirers of Grace Blanche was
Mr. Carleton, a man of middle age, and a Southerner
by birth and education. His residence for the last
ten years in different parts of the North had oblit-
erated every trace of his southern breeding. An
accomplished gentleman in the popular sense of the
term, his shrewdness of wit and unaffected gallantry
won his way to the most select circles, and few ladies
could 'resist the peculiar charm of his c iiversation.
He had a soul, tender, refined and affectionate, and
also strong animal passions which gained the ascen-
dency when beyond the restraints which female society
threw around him. His real character could iiot
escape detection from such a practiced student of
human nature as Ernest Livingston, who felt a
brother's\ interest in Miss Blanche, her wealth in ad-
dition to rare charms of mind and person being a
source of temptation to others, and. he volunteef'ed
many words of counsel and caution which were al-
ways accepted in the spirit in which they were given.
She was' the youngest child of her father who doted
upon her, and made her an heiress to. most of his
(152)

CONNECTICUT.            153

wealth, to the exclusion of his other children, which
alienated their affections and left l~er comparatively
alone. She l~ ad a stepmother, a very inefficient wo-
man, who ne#er exerted an influence anywhere, .and
whose experience in the world was of little worth to
any one.
Mr. Carleton's eye was ever on the alert, and no
sooner did he perceive the fascinations, riches and
beauty had in store, than he began to devise some
measure wI: ich should chime in with the drift of her.
feelings, to secure his grasp to such a treasure, and
adroitly commenced his work. Without appearing
to manifest any particular interest in her he assumed
a mock spirit of philanthropy, and not only gave
freely of his means, but discussed the causes and
prevention of pauperism with an ability and zeal
that could not fail to gain the sympathy and appro-
bation of his hearers, and finally succeeded in win-
ning the public confidence to such a degree that he
filled some of the highest offices of tru~t and honor
in the city.
lie could allude to the victims of misfortune in
terms of charity that would draw tears to all eyes,
and plead for the innocence of childhood and the
chastity of woman iii strains of eloquence that would
send the burning tinge of shame to the most gloating
sensualist, or the most hardened trafficker in that
which robs a man of his reason and affectiQns. His
praise was in every mouth and his1 smile courted in
avery corner. No uninterested observer of his rising
fame was Grace Blanche, the more interested because
of hi~ indifference, showing no sign of vanity at his
13*

hi
ill


154            A TALE O~' THfl                                        CONNECTICUT,            155

sudden elevation, nor ambition to seek higher honors.
What she deemed most noble lie appeared to be.
Mr. Livingston could not overcome his natural
aversion to the man, neither did Mr. Carleton feel
quite easy at the intimacy existing between him and
Miss Blanche, but he was wary of his opportunities
and in the most nonchalant manner discussed with
her, when they met, plans that he knew would meet
her approbation.
He. watched her kindling eye and repressed enthu-
siasm with suppressed emotion, never for a moment
betraying the concealed purpose of his soul. Imper-
ceptibly her life glided into a fairy dream where all
sense of beauty and promptings of duty were so
magically blended that the roses which bloomed in
her pathway were divested of their %orns, ever win-
ning the purest homage given to girlish innocence
and true womanly charms. A May day Festival was
held on the Scriptar~ plan of inviting the poor and
the unfortunate, which originated with these devoted
ladies who, during the previous six months, had la-
bored so assiduously in their behalf. Speeches were
made of the usual complimentary character, but
foremost among them all for its disinterestedness a~d
graphic flights of eloquence was that of Mr. Carle-
ton. It was an ambrosial 'treat to Grace Blanche
whose ai4istic taste for all that was beautiful lent her
a keen appreciation of the divine gift of oratory.
She had yet to learn ti~at it, no less than music, may
be bestowed upon the ~roluptuary as well as the saint.
[le watched the rapture with which she hung upon
jiis lips, and measured ~he probabilities of the present

moment for future success. He knew well the eva-
nescent nature of such sudden popularity, and his
own inability to sustain the character he had won,
wheii his fame should be trumpeted to other places
where better known. Besides, the mask assumed
was beginning .to be burdensome and he longed for
his old freedom from restraint. Only the evening
before he had been traced to a place of doubtful
fame by oi~e who had long been Suspicious of his real
character, and the information was communicated to
Mr. Livingston. Being one of the assembly, it was
with ill concealed grace the latter listOned to his hypo-
critical dashes of rhetoric. The two measured each
other's glances as they met in the neighborhood of
Miss Blanche. They read each other's souls, and she
read their antagonism.
At this juncture Mrs. Frizzlewit fortunatQly made
her appearance and relieved all parties from their
embarrassment. Mr. Carleton was about to turn
awaxr somewhat disconcerted at the moment he hoped
to win, but not in the least disheartened. Miss
Blanche could not doubt the real, conflding friend-
ship of the one and she dared not insult it by b~stow-
ing on the other those approving smiles prompted by
the occasion and the lingering breath of his own
words, which, with that delicate tact a Woman so
readily understands, she knew he would appreciate
more than popular applause. lie read her soul,
beix.ig as quick an adept in the science of human na-
ture as Mr. Livingston.
'~ Mr. Carleton,'~~ said the little blackeyed woman
whose hair suggested the appropriateness of her
&amp;

155

154

11
S
i


156

A TALE OF THE

name, "will you give me ten dollars for a poor
widow whose husband w~s killed at the great fire last
winter? She wishes to build a house for herself and
children, towards which I have already obtained a
large sum, and here is a list of the donors if you
wish to see them; Mr. Perriwinkle, Mr. Guzthorp."
"Oh, never mind the names, here is your money,
and may God bless you for all the good deeds you
are doing, as he certainly will. Such disinterested
beneficence never goes unrewarded," blandly replied
Mr. Carleton, fixing his eyes on Miss Blanche with
their most fascinating expression. The little black
eyes sparkled as they turned towards Mr. Livingston,
only to meet a courteous refusal, Mr., Carleton
observing it walked away with her to a neighboring
group where some half dozen ladies and gentlemen
were discussing a dandy frolic that took place the
evening before, which resulted in the coiiflagration
of one of the finest buildings in the city. One of
the company passing through a hall where repairs
were being made, heedlessly tossed his lighted segar
among the shavings scattered on the floor, which was
observed by others following, but whose inoi~dinate
exhilaration prevented them from noting the conse-
quences, until they saw the flames bursting from the
roof a few hours after.
"You are just the ones I want to see," said Mrs.
Frizzlewit, her curls shaking with enthusiasm. "Mr.
Carleton here has ju~t given me ten dollars for some
sufferers by fire, and I am sure that y ou will give me
as much more."
There was no need now to adduce the other names,

CONNECTICUT.
the one just mentioned being. sufficient to carry all
the weight influence could produce. One of the
group stepped back thinking to avoid a direct collis-
ion, but the piercing black eyes were upon him.
"1 am sure you will not refuse met" she said, "if
you cannot give so much, every little helps you
know," laying her hand on his arm. lie gave her~a
dollar, thinking himself well off to escape so. From
the whole group she collected the ten dollars asked
for, and straight tway sallied to another circle seated
near the speaker's stand.
They would gladly have made their egress, not
from lack of sympathy or avaricious motives, but
from tile disagreeable sensation of being continually
importuned for money, and a secret desire to be for
once present at any place secure from the intrusion
of The bustling Mrs. Frizzlewit.
" It is well for the world there are people in it like
Mrs. Frizzlewit, but begging may become a passion
like any othei~ pursuit," observed Mr. Livingston to
Miss Blanche, as soon as the subject of his remark
was beyond hearing.
"True," replied she, "but you cannot say of it
what you can of most any other pursuit, that it will
ever incite to rivalry for the sake of its monopoly."
Not much danger of that cei4ainly, and pity '~is,
'tis true."
"I often think so. The raising of money for any
object is generally the most disagreeable as well as
the hardest part of the work. I have the highest re-
gard for Mrs. Erjzzlowa on that account, and appre-
ciate her services, accordingly. No one ever excited

1.

I
L


158              A TALE OF THE
less enmity in p portion to her acti'~ity and zeal, for
you probably know how prone the world is to attribute
selfish motives to a person who displays the persever~
ance really essential for the prosecution of a disin-
terested act. She does not seem to care for it if they
do, and goes from one to another with as much ease
as if she wePe their agent."
"Doubtless she considers herself so. It probably
does not occur to her that others m4y lack her feeF
ing of. interest, or that there is just as much reason
why her family should have a house of their own as
the woman she is begging for. I think she has earned
one for her disinterested efforts in helping others,
and I would gladly~ give ten dollars for that pur~
pose.
"Probably she would objeQt to that. She does not
appear to think of herself or her own comfort at all,
unless this business is so agreeable to her that it is
her greatest comfort."
"I think it is so. It does not prove because she
is so forward that her sympathies are really quic1~er
than those of many~ others, only a remarkable gift in
that direction, and I am glad to see her improve it.
At the same time I do not feel any iIlQre obligation
to give, perhaps less, when I ki~ow how large a pro~
portion of the money thus given does not proceed
from pure benevolence, but from a desire to please
and be thought public~spirited and generous-hearted.
I admire that passage of scripture, 'Let not thy left
hand know what thy, right hand doeth.' Do iiot un~
derstand me as casting any reflections on Mrs. Friz~
zlcwit. Doubtless she would give you the same

CONNECTICUT.

159

opinion if at liberty to express her honest sentiments,
but the mdney does just as much good given from
whatever motive it may be, although not equally
bb~ssed to the donor."
"Do you not think it was generous in Mr. Carle-
ton to give that ten dollars so freely?"
"That depends on his motive in doing it. Had I
more confidence in the man I should be more ready
to give him credit for his acts. As it is, I attribute
them to the bas~st hypocrisy."
He said this unconscious of the sting inflicted by
his words upon the tenderest emotions of Grace
Blanche. Although realizing Mr. Carleton's motives
he had not suspected the nature of her feQhings to~
wards him, and was glad to throw out these hints as
a warning. Neither was she fully conscious before
how much she had' yielded to the strength of his in-
fluence, nor how esseiitial to her happiness his pres-
ence had~ become. Having too much confidence in
Mr. Livingston as a friend, and in his judgment as a
man, to suspect him of prejudice or envy, these words
assumed the character of an oracle, the certainty of
which she never thought of questioning, predicting
the impending doom of being compelled to witness
the disent~ronement of her idokfrom its place in. her
affections.

*

*

*

*

At twenty, when youth paints all nature in her
roseate hues there is no seeming, lending a pleasant
reality, which leaves no disposition to doubt its gen~
nineness. At forty, the gilding is fallen off, shams
are detected, aiA the experience of the intervening

i
V
'I
V I?
I
I
ii
4
VI
V
Vi
U
4'
4
ii
4
U
K
ii


160             A TALE OF THE                                            CONNECTICUT.             161

twenty years has fortified us to bear unnerved the
disappointments of the greatest expectations. Then,
if our confidence has been misplaced, it only furnishes
another example of the fickleness of human integrity
to which we have become accustomed, and the world
undergoes no especial change in our eyes. But it is
not thus when the young imagination finds for the
first time that things are not what they seem. When
the vei~eering drops off,. the sight is* ugly in the cx-
treme,~ and the sensation a chilling one.
It is almost as if a portion of our own souls is
taken from us and the void filled by painful illusions.
Then for a time skepticism of all men's motives pre~
vails, and we look around in vain for some one to
trust. Sometimes in desperation all faith in hiiffian
goodness is cast off, and the high resolves with which
we had started to make it felt as a power for the
accomplishment of some noble purpose are bitterly
cast aside as a vain delusion.
When in the solemn and mysterious hour of disso~
lution immortality claims its own, and we are per~
emitted to look only on what is mortal of a departed
friend, whose glazed eyes and rigid lips are forever
sealed to the gushing of our s~mpatliies or the loving
impulses of our affections, it is little we know of the
deepest pathos in life, the most sacred sorrow, when
the world closes like a desolate tomb around us, as
we waken to the delusion that all the fair visions of
joy and happiness, love and devotion, that havc risen
before us like some enchanted garden are but deceit-
ful shadows, and they to whom we have looked up
hi reverencer-around whom our affections have

twined like the tendrils of the vine around the oak
for sympathy and support, have suddenly shaken us
from their embrace, and stand before us divested of
every superhuman virtue with which our fond imagi-
nation had invested them. Then comes no seraphic
vision of future bliss when those joys that have died
to us on earth shall rise again in immortal bloom in
the perennial garden ~ heavenly verdure, but, like
blasted copse or blighted heather no trace of life or
sign of x~egetation appears to revive the drooping
spirit. Let such derive consolation~ from the follow~
ing words of a celebrated writer, words that go so
deep into the inner sanctuary of the soul and reveal
so much of the real poetry of the heart-life that they
cannot be too often repeated;
"If ever you have had a romantic, uncalculating
friendship,.-a boundless worship and belief in some
hero of your soul,-.-if ever you have so loved, that
all cold prudeiice, all selfish considerations have gone
down like drift-wood before a river flooded with new
rain from heaven, so that you even forgot yourself
and were ready to cast your whole being into the
chasm of existence, as an offering before the feet of
another, and all for nothing,-.4f you awoke bitterly
betrayed and deceived, still give thanks to God that
you have had one glimpse of heaven. The door now
shut will open again. R~joic~ that the noblest capa-
bility of your eternal inheritance has been made
known to you; treasure it, as the highest honor of
your being, that ever you could so feel,-that so
divine a guest ever possessed your soul. By such
experiences are we taught the pathos, the sacredness
14

A
I'

160

161


1~2              A TALE OF THE

of life; and if we use them wisely, our eyes will ever
after be animated to see what poems, what romances,
what sublime tragedies lie around us in the daily
* walk of life, 'written not with ink, but in fleshy
tables of the heart.' The dullest street of the most
prosaic town has matter in it for more smiles, more
tears, more intense excitement, than ever were writ~
ten in story or sung in poem; the reality is there, of
which the romancer is the second-hand recorder."

A
fri

CHAPTER XIV

"The blue
Bared its eternal bosom, and the dew
Of summer night collected still to~make
The morning precious: Beauty was awake!
Why were ye not awake ?"
What is it Rosa, makes thy eye so bright, and thy
step so light? Has some ministering spirit been
whispering to thy troubled soul some sweet message
of peace and love? Ah yes, it is even so, but be n~t
too sanguine Rosalind; perhaps it is only the delu-
siVe calm that precedes a still greater struggle, and
it may be,-the last.
Who that has trod the mourner's path, has not felt
gleams of God's own sunlight b~irsting through some
overcharged cloud ~of despondency and despair, as if
to reveal a glimpse of the blessed future beyond, and
nerve the soul for a sterner conflict?
Such x~as the experience of Rosalind, as she rose
early one lovely June morning and sauntered down
the shaded avenue to the gate, which con4manded a
full view of the Connecticut sporting with the sun-
beams.
The sky was cloudless, the air soft and breezy, the
birds carolled their joyous notes from the tree4ops
overhead, and she looked upWard to that far off
world whither her father had gone, wbe~i distance
(163)

-I

ii

162

9


164

A TALE OF THE

was annihilated, and it seemed to have suddenly come
down to her. She slowly retraced her steps, catch-
ing a glimpse, now and then, of the graceful curve
of the fountajix spray through the openings of the
trees on either side, and stopped at a flower bed in
front of the house laid out in the form of a circle,
which had been preserved with scrupulous care in the
exact style originally designed by her father. It
comprised some of the rarest plants of the season,
now in luxuriant bloom; and, glistening in their
tear-dropsof dew she thought they never looked half
so beautiful before.
She stooped lovingly down to fondle them, as she
had done in years gone by, when she pointed out
triumphantly to her father some new law she had
discovered relative to their organization and growth.
While thus engaged, Earnest came up the walk, bring-
ing her his hands full of pond lilies he had that
morning gathered. She was dressed in a simple
white morning wrapper with no ornament whatever,
and the glossy ringlet ~vhich had received more thaii
its usual care, looked glossier than ever, as, disen-
gaging itself from the oth~rs~, ~t gently swayed in the
shining rays~ of the morning sun.
He had never seen her in one of thos~ trance-like
states necessary to display her spiritual b auty ~vhen
she was so much at peace with herself and all the
world that nothing could disturb her ser~p nity. She
was not communicative at such times, tile cominun-
ings of her thoughts being of a character to9 intensely
spiritual to be symbolized in human language. Ernest

CON~ECTTCUT.

165

I

B

was well pleased with this, being -more accustomed
to reading the language of the soul in the lilleaments
of the face than in the utterances of the lips.
He conceived the happy thought of Painting her
portrait in the act of taking the pond lilies. "What
can be more beautiful," said he to himself.
He returned to his rooms, and, immediately after
breakfast set about the pleasant task, putting aside
his other sketches, and worked at it incessantly for
three days, making the most rapid progress. He
wished her to know nothing of it until its completion
when he intended to surprise her with it as a present.
[       The~e is a delicious sense of rapture in being the
sole repository of one's own secret. Even if another
is to share it before it can become a reality~, there
may be a kind of cruel pleasure in feeling that that
one is yet in innocent ignorance of the fact. Ernest
had reached that point when anticipation included
the reality just enough to lend enchantment to every
object of the physical sense as well as the diviner
feelings. Nature spoke to him more kindly than
before, and the subtle influence of a kindred soul,
though unacknow1edg~d, softened into beauty every
rugged outline of her coloring.
The next day he was invited t~ join, a party of
young people in an evening stroll, where he fell in
company with Grace Blanche. The close affinity of
tastes between them always brought them together.
when both were present, which produced sufficient
occasion among all who were given to gossip and
some wh~~ were not, to link their fates together. It
14*


166              A TALE OF TUE

is useless to censure the public for it's interest in all
affairs of this kind, being just as natural as to breathe
in the fresh morning air. As they were deeply
engaged in conversation the rest of the party with~
drew, leaving them unconsciously to tread a path by
themselves. When Ernest observed it lie smiled at
thoir conceited knowledge, but was entirely satisfied
with the position assigned to him. Rosalind was
not invited, having lived a very secluded life since
her father's death, and Miss Blanche filled her place
better than any one else could. 'But of what was
~he dreaming? Why was Rosalind so closely associated
with his deepest thoughts? She had not even given
one token of regard for him. It was the instinctive
trusting nature of love, which could afford to wait
and be patient.
Grace Blanche felt lonely and sad, more so than
he knew of, and the peculiar turn of his conversation
which sometimes touched upon themes extending
beyond this world soothed and, consoled her. It
might have been dangerous to her happiness ultb
lately, to form such aii intimate friendship at this
particular time.
Especially is this true of ordinary minds, but
Grace Blanche had too much sense and strength of
character for that, ~r to continue the acquaintance
of a gentleman whc~ was open to suspicion like Mr.
Carleton. Much a~ he had woi~ her affections, she
was not so blinded ~s to discard wise counsel con~
corning him without giving it sufficient consideration.
Bier own judgment warranted the cohchision ar~

I

*

~ilt

CONNECTICUT.               167
rived at by others, that it is possible for vice to as~
sume the garb of virtue, and resolutely she deter~
miiied to oppose the current of her feelings. Most
opportune came this brief interview with Mr. Liv~
ingston to strengthen her in this decision, and with
the most friendly feelings, but none other, they
separated.


CHAPTER XV.
"Thy path like most by mortals trod,
Will have its thorns and flowers,
Its stony steps, its velvet sod,
Its sunshine and its showers."
A rather eccentric genius was at this time asso-
ciated with Kate in the kitchen department, upon
whom she now vented her fun4oving propensity.
Aunt Polly as she was called, had been grievously
disappointed in her young days, and, not lavishly
endowed with amiability of temper before, grew sour
and morose. She seemed to cherish eternal hatred
to the whole race of mankind, except a distant rela-
tive who had been the Governor of a state; upon
which fact she prided herself. She sought refuge
under it for every imaginary insult, which was
quickly resented with the remark, "Ain't I a cousin
of the Governor?" This furnished great amusement
to Kate who missed no opportunity of provoking
her to it. Aunt Polly could not help liking her,
although the source of constant vexation. Kate's
kindness of heart did not fail to flow towards her,
which, in a measure, atoned for the many jokes she
played upon her, so that on the whole they got on
very well together. No one could ever quarrel with
Kate. She had too much sunny humor to prolong
angry feelings, if she did excite them.
(108)

I

There came one of those uncomfortable, chilly
mornings, accompanied by a driz~Iing rain, when it
scorns as if the earth, half repenting herself of the
blessings she is about to confer o~ an expectant
world, sullenly retires behind a cloud to evade the
sun's quickening rays. A i lan that had been laid
out for that day's work, requiring fair weather, was
consequently defeated, so that it was comparatively
a day of leisure, and Kate must have her fun. As
she was clearing ax~ ay the breakfast, singing a snatch
of a love song, she said abruptly, "Come Au~~t Polly,
tell us some o' your experience iii courting , I love to
hear old maids tell over their love stories." Her
eyes darted fire as she retorted, "Don't you know
no better ii' to insult me in that way, and I a cousin
of the Governor ?"
Kate replied in her usual merry tor~e, "Oh Aunt
Polly, don't be so snappish, may be the Governor 'II
come to see you to-day, nothing' strange, and you'll
want to 130 in a pretty good mood. Wish I was
cousin to the Governor, I'd make him give me a good
fat office, an' I'd fare like a pig in the clover."
She had a great lassion for stuffed figures. having
among her possessions aii old mask, a hideous looking
thing, which she fitted to quite an imposing looking
figure, shaped of various articles, pillows and bed-
clothing ~ollectod from the attic, duly attired, she
placed it in the diiiing-roo m, aiid told Aunt Polly a
gentleman wished to see her.
"Who can it be," said she, "rna~ be 'tis the Gov-
ernor. I callers kind o' thought he'd be looking' of me

11
tI~

CONNECTICUT.            169


170.              4. TALE OF THE                                                 CO~{NECTICUT.               171.

up, if he should ever hear of me, but I must put on
otherr cap, and a clean apron."
"He looks as if he might be a Governor or some-
body," quietly replied Kate.
Aunt Folly hastened up stairs, put on her otherr
cap with' its capacious frifi, and, smoothing the folds
of her clean checked apron, she opened the door into
the dining room, when, lo and behold! instead of the
courteous smile of the Governor, she was met by this
horrid ,grinning figure, with its great glaring eyes,
and mouth distended from ear to ear, Mortified and
vexed beyond measure, she beat a rapid retreat into
the kitchen, but Kate had shut herself into the pan-
try convul ~cd with laughter, and she was obliged to
defer giving vent to her ill-concealed wrath until a
more convenient season. At this moment Rosalind
entered, having just returned from a short walk.
Meanwhile a great change had come over her feel-
ings. Another wave of anguish had hurst upon her,
well nigh sweeping away the little, oasis which so
greatly refreshed her in her desert wanderings.
Having gone out, as she often did, to shake off her
melancholy feelings, she this morning returned with
seven spirits bluer than herself. In reply to some-
thing Aunt Polly muttered to her, which was not
very agreeable in' her present state of mind, she did
not speak with her usual courteous tone,-at least,
so it seemed to Aunt Polly's disturbed temper.
"Ye needn't feel so pert this morning, Miss Rosa,
and as for that Mr. Livingston ye never'll catch him,
that's what ye won't. He's a courting' or ilirtin', I
don't know which, with that Miss Blanche, but br,

he won't have none on ye, and if ye do I guess ye'11
find him a livin' stone sure enough. I wouldn't
trust a soul on 'em more'n I would a heap o' black
snakes."
This unkind and unmerited thrust of Aunt Folly's
filled the Zneasure. Her cup was full, and needed
only the additional drop to make it run over, which
she was about to add herself. To be sure she did
not care for Ernest, oh no, of course she didn't, but
then, what was it? she was miserably unhappy. She
reproached l~ei~self for ever thinking he c4red for
her. As for Grace fllanche he might have her if he
wished, of course he might, it was nothing to her.
Aunt Polly was what might be called an odd jobber.
She did washing, house-cleaning, carpet. mending;
and whatever else of heayy work came in her way.
Oonsequ~iitly she did not remain long in one place,
and going from house to house gathered all the idle
gossip, which lost nothing by repetition. It was her
sole recreation, and people bore with her out of re-
gard to her friendless position, and because her ser-
vices were valuThle in her line. Very few cared for
what she said, knowing her loquacious propensities,
and little reliance was placed on what she did say.
Ordinarily, Rosalind would not have given to her
remarks a second thought, but the uncommon asper-
ity with which they were spoken rendered them par-
ticularly annoying at a time when she needed to be
soothed instead of irritated. She was vexed with her
for this4 needless wound to her feelings, and vexed
with herself for allowing so trifling an incident to
disturb her. She tried to drive the whole subject

Ii


1T2             A TALE OF THE                                               CONNECTICUT.

from her thoughts, which was not very easily done.
Grace Blanche was a dear friend of theirs and she
could not help feeling a deep interest in whatever
concerned her welfare. But then to give heed to
such senseless talk, coming as it did from one deeply
irritated, was the height of absurdity. She knew she
ought not for a moment to harbor such an imputa-
tion upon the character of Ernest Livingston whether
she cared for it or not, and soon found herself
struggling against a new current in addition to her
other troubles as unexpected as it was painful. She
did not reproach herself for the manner in which
she had fornmrly treated him, but rather approved it
as singularly wise, since it showed that she had no
particular ~regard for him, which might be a great
advantage to her now. What did she reproach her-
self for? Nothing, perhaps; b~it there was a vague
restlessness, an undefined feeling of remorse that
made her wretched.
* The next morning was as delightful as it was three
days before, but what a transformation in her. She
did not leave her chamber until summoned to break-
fast. Instead of the white wrapper she was dressed
in a dark print; and her hair, carelessly smoothed
over, showed by the somewhat tangled state of her
curls that her fingers had neglected their task.
11cr mother smiled on observing her, and said,
"Well Rosa, what made you dress up so this morn-
ing? Are you expecting company?"
She . made an attempt t~ smile at one corner of her
mouth, and was silent.
Walter looked at her with mute surprise, secretly

wondering what could make her so changeable.
When th~ meal was over she went to the door and
looked out, then immediately returned to. her cham-
ber, disconsolate and sad.
The sun shone in its splendor, but it shone not for
her; the flowers bloomed in their beauty, but she
heeded them not; the birds warbled their songs of
thanksgiving, but they chanted the funeral dirge of
her hopes of earthly happiness.
As Fate would have it, Ernest came this morning
als6, to invite her to ride. She went down without
making any change in her appearance, and i~net his
invitation with a cold, disdainful and prompt refusal.
She turned abruptly away to fondle a little white-
footed Naites~ kitten Walter brought home one eve-
ning, which had strayed away from home and was
now amusing herself by catching at the fountain
spray as she lay basking in the sunshine. Ernest
watched her sadly, contrasting this picture with the
other, but as good outlives evil he said to himself,
"She will yet repent this and need all the sympathy
I can give her," and walked away.
She did repent it before he reached the gate at
the foot of the avenue, but it was too late. The
cruel words had gone forth, words that were to go
down the silent stream of time, never to be recalled
or forgotten. Healing waters might flow over it,
but the wound would forever leave it's scar, the
memento of deep and bitter suffering.
Walter was sitting in the arbor reading, where he
could hear and see all, unobserved by them. Inex-
pressibly pained as he was, he never uttered a word.
15


174             A TALE OF THE

of rebuke or complaint, nor alluded to it in any way.
Rosalind did not meet him until dinner, when she
colored deeply as his eye sought her's, though with-
out the least suspicion that he knew what had trans~
pired. She felt guilty of base ingratitude in thus
wounding the feelings of his dearest friend. A
powerful reaction took place when she returned to
her chamber that morning, and was brought into
close communion with her inner self; the secret
sanctuary where all her acts and motives were laid
bare to the probing finger of conscience. The proved
author, of all her misery, although at first disosed
to cast the blame on Aunt Polly, a very common
trait in our faulty humanity, she could frame no
excuse to justify her in a breach of courtesy which
should have been extended to a stranger, to say
nothing of his intimate friendship in the family and
the uniform kindness with which he had always
treated her. ad she been educated into the belief
of total depravi y no more convincing proof of it's
truth would ha e been miceded than her own self-
condemnation a that moment. Was there evei~ a
person so ungra eful, so unkind, so utterly unworthy
of the k~nderness and devotion that had always beemi'
lavished upon her?
Th6 days rolled on, bringing with them many un-
pleasant reminiscences o~ the past, one of which
was the little white-footed kitten. She had always
enjoyed a special privilege which she was unwilling
to yield-that of climbing on Rosalind's shoulders
to play with her curls, and when tired, to 'pat her
cheek with her paw as a signal to take her in her lap

4

IF

174

CONNECTICUT.              175
to rest. 11cr innocent gambols now sent a thousand
arrows through her soul, and she tried to get rid of
her society, but Miss Tabby would not take the hint.
One morning after being pushed off by her mis-
tress, slip looked up at her reproachfully and then
scampered away in search of mischief, which was
soon foujid in the shape of an elegant fancy hat that
had been carelessly left on the dressing table xvith
the strings hanging dmi~n just 'far enough for her
claws to drag on the floor, where, after disarranging
the flowers to her heart's content she snugly enscon-
~ed herself within it for her morning I1~p.
Milly went out one day, and seeing some children
with a quantity of pond lilies, begged a few for Rosa.
li~id, knowing her fondness for them, and thinking to
surprise her agreeably by placing them in her room.
She was doomed to disappointmePt by hearing .a
painful " Oh! " as Rosalind entered one door while
she was going out at the other. By way of apology
Milly retur~~ed and took. t~he flowers saying, " Oh ii
suppose Mr. Livingston brings you all the lilies you
wan u.
iRosaliiid 50011 followed her out, having too much
strength of character to allow herself to be long dis-
composed at the expense of another's happiness. Of
great self-~ouitrel there was nothing in her manner to
indicate that she suffered now more than usual, and
the real goodmiess in her temper, always came out in
the opposite scale in connection with her greatest
faults; a fact no one was quicker to perceive than
Ernest Livingston.
Milly and Walter were busily engaged with a lame


iTO             A TALE OF THE

squirrel the former had picked up in her walk, to
whom Rosalind rendered timely assistance by binding
its leg which she feared was broken. Walter was
delighted, being exceedingly fond of pets, and par-
ticularly of squirrels. He provided a cage and every-
thing necessary for the comfort of her majesty, but,
after a f~w days, when the wounded leg had time to
heal, Madame Squirrel showed her gratitude for their
kind attentions by walking off the first opportunity,
not liking the luxuries of her city home. The little
unconscious thing was the source of the greatest
happiness iRosalind knew since she last saw Mr.
Livingston.

CHAPTER XVI.
Who bears no trace of Passion's evil force!
Who shuns thy sting, 0 terrible Remorse!
Who would not cast
Half of this future from him, but to Win
Wakeless oblivion for the wrong and sin
Of the sealed Past!
"What the deuce has sent you here?" said James
Morgan, laying down his sixpence for a glass of
spirit, P5 Walter Claremont who was just entering
the bar-room, a place where he had never been seen
before. /
"Your good angel, I trust," replied Walter, as he
looked calmly round on the bloated faces that lined
the room. Then taking James' arm, he led him
reluctantly out just as the tempting draught was
within his reach.
Not a Word was said as they walked on and on to
a wood where they seated themselves. Walter was
the first to break the silence. "Do you love Mary
Kingley?"
James started at the directness of the question,
and replied by asking an other, "Why, what Ao you
mean by that?"
"Because I have made a solemn pledge that makes
it necessary to ask it. Oh James! Are you aware of
the abyss into which you are so madly plunging,
(iTt)

1


I

178

A TALE OFt TUE

bringing ruin upon yourself, and blasting the happi-
ness of others? That day you fell from the bridge
and were taken up senseless, I passed by Mr. King-
ley's on my return home, and Mary stood in the
door pale as death. I inteixded to pass without
speaking, as you know we are not much acquainted,
and I felt that she would not care for the notice of
any body at that time; but without ally ceremony
she asked me~~ hurriedly if I had seen you, and how
you were. I told her I had, and that you were not
considered seriously injured. Then, her voice slightly
trembling, she asked if I knew what made you fail.
I hesitated a moment, and seeing by her chaiigiiig
6olor, the nervous motion of her lips, and the ~keen
penetration of her eyes when she raised them, that
she read the truth, and it was vain as well as wrong
to conceal it from her, I resolved to answer~-"
"Oh Walter! you did not tell her, did you? I
would not have her know it for the world! Oh, my
Mary! y6u will not cast me off! you must not!"
"Do you suppose I would deceive her? No! I
should want any body to tell m~r sister, and you
ought to have seen how like a hero she bore it. As
white a~ marble, she was firm as a statue. You know
some girls would have fainted, or gone into hysterics.
I was standing omi the door step, and she on the sill.
She leaned against the side with her eyes fixed On
that little bench under the great elm-tree where you
used to sit together so much when you were children,
as if beseeching it to try to save you. It was an
awkward position for me I assure you. I did not
know what to say next, and turned to leave. She

CONNECTICUT.              179
beckoned me to follow her into the. summer-house at
the end of the yard. You know that stands against
the side of the house which is not generally occupied,
so that nobody could see or hear us. It was towards
night when her father was liable to come home any
moment, and I knew by her constant lookout what
she was afraid of and saw where I could cut through
the back yard if he did come, so he would not see
me. I am almost afraid of that man."
"You needn't be. he'd be glad enough to have
you go there, and to see Mary too. lie hates me I
know, and would hate mb if I were as good as you
are. Mean rascal, it's lie that's made my father
drink. I can remember when I was a little boy how
he used to get him in there and treat him, and if it
had not been for that, I might have been as steady
as you are."
"There* is no time now to talk about that, or make
choice of epithets. Mary asked me if I did not
think there was amiy possibility of making youi reform.
XVhat to say I did not know. You know how many
times II. have talked with you, James, to no purpose.
After a few minutes pause, I said, 'I shall do all in
my power to reclaim him, but I cannot promise you
success.' Her eyes brightened as she replied, 'Oh
do ! if anybody can influence him you can. Will
you l)i'omlse to try 011cc more? I know you are one
of James's confidential friends, or I sho~ild not have
taken the freedom I have,' when her eyes dropped,
and the color rushed into her checks,-how I pitied
her! Modest and retiring as she is, I knew what a
desperate struggle it must have cost to make such a


180              A TALE OF THE                                              CONNECTICUT.             181.

confident of me, and then I am so much younger
too, that I felt greatly honored to be entrusted with
such a mission., My compassion and admiration were
both so much excited that I forgot to answer until
she looked up at me imploringly, and I could see
the tears were fast coming into her eyes. 'I promise
it solemnly,' said I, and liximediately bade her good
night, for I knew she must prefer to be left alone
then. She is a prize, James. The next day I received
t~ letter from her in which she disclosed her plans.
She said that if you persisted in your present cou~'se
cvery consideration of duty must prompt Ler to break
the engagement existing between you. 'Bat,' said
she, 'if you can only induce hin~ to reform, and he
should refrain entii~ely from his old habits one year,
I will see him again at the end of' that time.'"
"Then she refuses to see me, she despises me, Oh
Mary! Mary!"
"Why, James, you are beside yourself, how can
you say that in truth? How could you ask her to
become your wife when your love of strong drink is
U      greater than your love for her. Certainly you would
not have her so degrade herself, or be so false to all
sense of self respect as to marry under such circum-
stances. Only think of the life of misery she must
lead. Look at your fat er, and see what your mother
has suffered. If he h d been in that habit when
they were married and he know it, do you think she
would ever have forgive herself? It is bad enough
when it cannot be helpe ."
"She might let me see her again. At any rate, I
will see her."

I

k

"Oh James, do not be so heartless. Do have
some regard for her feelings. You must know how
tantalizing it would be to hold any farther intercourse
with you, if she felt that it must be broken off some~
time. I wish you could have seen her, you would
not have any distrust of her then. She will never
be any whiter when she lies in her coffin, her lips
were as bloodless as they'll ever be, and yet she
looked so trustful, so loving. I would go to the
ends of the earth and live on bread and water, to
serve such a being. Only think what a risk she
runs to trust you if you will keep steady a year.
There are ten chances to one that a man will fall
back into his old habits when the restrainI~ is gone,
and he has gained the prize he sought. And now
James, as II shudder to think of the possibility of
such a thing, if I shall be in the least instrumental
in effecting your union, do you pbdge yourself here
in the silence of this wood with none but God to
witness, that you will never bring that reproach
upon yourself, such an iinfailing source of regret to
me, and such lifelong misery to your angel wife."
James buried his face in his hands and wept like
a child. For a moment Walter feared that he had
spoken too strongly, but recollecting that former
interviews had proved fruitless, he knew that it was
only by a strong, decided course he could hope to
wield any influence over him, and sought not to
arrest the current of feeling in which alone lay the
hope of salvation.
At length James rose abruptly, saying, "Walter,
]i shan't stay here any longer."

I


A TALE OF TILE

CONNECTICUT.

182

"Why, where are you going?"
"To the river!"
Walter shuddered as he stepped in front of him,
and thought what might be his intention. Laying
his hand on his arm, he said calmly, but firmly,
"No James, you must not go yet, I have something
more to say to you."
With that unconscious power Waltei~ possessed
over others, he sway9d the impulsive James who
sat down again, gentle and passive as a child.
"Can you not summon the resolution t~ sa~ that
you will never taste another drop?"
For the first time since they left the bar-room
James met the fi4l~gktnce of Walter's eye. He read
in it something so confiding, so full of comfort, that
the stroiig burst of passion was subdued, and he
answered hopefully, " I will try if you will help me."
"I will, to the extent of my power; but it is your
own will that must decide your fate."
"You, Walter, situated as you are, know nothing
what it is for me to resist the temptations by which
I am continually surrounded."
A slight tone of reproach curled his lips as he said
these words xvhich pained Walter, who felt the truth
of the remark.
"I admit it, James, but that is no reason wh~r I
should not seek to save you. I have formed a plan
for you to leave this place with all its associations,
and beyond the reach of your present companions
begin a new life. I know a place about six miles
from here in a pleasant country town, where I think
I can obtain a situation for you as clerk in a store,

I

V

and will also see that you have a good boarding
place, secure from the voice of temptation. An
elderly gentleman, a friend of my mother's, lives
there, who, III think, can be prevailed upon to take
you iiito his family, for he is too kind..hearted t8 rc~
fuse any opportunity of doing good. Ui~ wife would
be a real mother to you. Now, what do you say to
that? I will go and see about it to-morroW, if you
say so."
"Anything, I will do anything you advise, if it is
to stand on my head."
Walter laughed at the seriousness with which this
was spoken, and they quitted the wood. When they
reached Mr. Morgan's do or they parted.
The next day Walter succeeded in procuring the
desired situation, and before the week was out James
entered on hi~ new duties. The first month seemed
very long. He missed the excitement to which lie
had been accustomed, and most of all he missed
Mary's society. The thought that lie could not see
her for a whole year distressed him greatly, but it
helped to strengthen his resolution, so as to be per-
initted the privilege at the end of that time. When
he thirsted for his cup, Walter's suggestion that he
loved it more than her made him abhor it.
He was a young man of great promise and rare
talent, of prepossessing appearance, which gained him
numOrous friends and acquaintances, some of whom
were too fond of good cheer for his advantage. Easily
influenced, as genial characters are apt to be, unless
endowed with an uncommon share of firmness, he

183


184

A TALE OP TILE

was led into a career of intemperance before he was
aware.
At the time Mr. Ringley set up his business as
liquor seller, Mr. Morgan was a respectable, we1bto~
do man of the world, a~~d if he did not have such a
marked effect in society as some others, he bid fair
to leave his children an honest namQ. Mr. Kingley
was poor, and. many, a favor Mr. Morgan had done
him, being very gen~rous4mearted, and he, in pre~.
tended friendship, would treat him. Then it was a
practice of customary hospitality, but Mr. Kingley
was too avaricious a man to be very free with any
thing of his unless he expected to fill his coffers in
return. As he grew rich on his ilbgotten gains, he
began to despise his victin~ms when they grew poor in
consequence. His daughter Mary was his only child,
and his affection for her was his only redeeming
feature. To. his wife he was 1.~aseiy lacking in kind~
ness and refinement.
James and Mary were about the same age, a~nd had
always been playmates together until their affection
ripened into love. Her father raised no objection so
long as Mr. Morgan's fortunes were above his own,
but, as they gradually sunk, and Jhmes became the
dissipated son of a drunken father, he watched them
with jealous eyes. Having do ted upon Mary and
indulged every wish, it was very hard to say anything
to her, but he did not spare James. He threatened
and annoyed him in every way possible, and hurried
him on to ruin as much as lay in his power, knowing
very well that Mary's good sense would be sufficient
to guard her against such mm imprudent marriage.

I

CONNECTICUT.

185

'He missed no opportunity to exaggerate his faults
in her hearing, which had the opposite effect of
exciting her pity, and intensifying her love. Slip
despised her father's business, and knew that whaP
ever were Jam9s' failings, h&amp; was in a great measure
responsible for them. She felt no inclination, or
prompting of ditty to cast him off, until she had
made an effort at least to save him. She never
doubted the sincerest love on his part, and that in
her pure eyes was enough to warrant the hope of
redemption. If that failed, surely no other earthly
means could wrest him from the temptei~'s gm~asp.
Walter was four or five yt~ars younger than James,
but, as he was always forming friendships with those
older than himself, he was strongly attached to him
as a schoolmate, and their intimacy continued as
they grew into manhood.
Walter was so old for his years, that lie assumed
a rank in society, amidwas looked up to as a friend
and counsellor much sooner tha~m is usual for young
men. His sincerity and earnestness won for him
entire confidence so that Mary felt no hesitation in
trusting him wfth this most momelitous question of
hers. His youth relieved her of much of the enm~
barrassment she would have experienced in speaking
so freely of what every woman wishes to keep to
herself, to a young maim of her own age. It was,
as he said, a desperate struggle for her to do it, but
what will not any of us do when a beloved one stands
on the brink of a fearful precipice, down which he
is to plunge from our gaze forever, unless some
friendly hand intervenes?
16


186              A TALE 013' TIlE

* Had Walter and James both moved in the same
circle, Walter's influence would have been more
steadily exerted over him, btit as the democracy of
childhood was merged into the exclusiveness which
attends scholarship, James' pursuits led him into
a different rank of associates. Again and again,
when they occasional met had Walter remonstrated
with him for the society he kept, and James had as
often promised ai~iendment7 but his promises were
as often broken~.

CHAPTER XYJI.
was an evening bright and still
ever bitished on wave or bower,
from heaven, If nought ill
Could happen in so sweet an hour."
Six weeks passed away without bringing any con-
solation to Rosalind. She had not seen Ernest, nor
hoard anything of him since that eventful morning.
There could be no doubt then that she had banished
him forever from her presence, and perhaps also
broken the friendship existing between him and
Walter, the thought of which alone oppressed her.
There was just as much reason to fear that the b6nd
of affection between herself and her father would be
dissolved as the Th~k that bound together those two
loving souls.
Tlicre is a peculiar sacredness in the term friend-
ship, a something essentially holy in its character
which belongs to no other human love. Family ties
have their own particular sanctity, and the marriage
relation, its omnipotent, heaven-inspiring, all-enibrac-
ing love; but friendship, independent of family ties,
recognizing no external bond of union,-~-.the sponta-
neous out-gushing of kindred spirits towards eac~i
other, breathes in an atmosphere peculiarly its own.
RosaUnd had often dwelt in thought upon the beau-
tiful intimacy that had sprung up between Erx~est
(187)

ii

t


188             A TALU OP TUE                                              CQNNEOTICUT.             189

and Walter, and the congeniality which had drawn.
them iiito such close companionship that the most
trifling minute~ of the daily life of each was unfolded
to the other, in their discussions always assimilating
in the end, though they might reach it by different
opi~jons on the way. Often had she watched them
from her chamber window as they strolled down the
avenue, breaking a twig from the trees, or so en-
grossed in convOr~ation they turned neither to tho
right nor left; or sitting on the greensward in front
of the house watching the play of the fountain where
she occasionally joined them-~--Ponto lazily stretched
upon tlie grass drowzihy opening his cycs when
Mademoiselle Tabby marched up in a warlike attitude
and then contented herself with performing a dross
parade around his tail-had she heard them discourse
of men and things with the sageness of philosophers,
'and indulge in anecdotes that sent, their merry peals
of laughter through the air. She could endure this
suspense no longer,, and resolved to tell Walter the
whole, if she could find a way to begin, but that was
a puzzle. Innumerable obstacles beset her. She
would not in any case betray any other f:~eling for
Ernest than as his 'friend, whk~h she hadn't! there-
fore, what need of precaution? She was entauglod
in a web, not so easily .brushed away as spun.
Of course he had no particular regard for her
except as his friend's sister. Certainly not. Then
it was not such a serious affa4r after all, he merely
invited her to ride, and she~ refused~ not so cour-
teously as she ought, and the reason? That i~mcluded

:1
ii

the whole affair, and was not to be gaimisaid or
evaded, especially by her outspoken self.
Finally she turned philosopher, and reasoned
wisely and well, if life could be reasoned out instead
of, lived. It was altogether, best she should never
~e married, sim~ce it was so hard for her to submit to
the trials she must be prepared to meet in assuming
the responsibilities of such a relation. But what
had that to do with Ernest, or what she wished to
say to Walter? Aim! instimict was more powerful
than reason. 11cr whole soul's being was stirred
and no incidental phrase could meet it's demands~
in such a crisis.
Then she decided to put all scruples aside and
ask him simply if he knew what had become of
Ernest that he did not come to see them as formerly.
Here arose a choking in her throat as if that were
an imposition not to be thought of for of course she
knew. Then she thought of a picture he had given
her which might be laid carelessly on the table to
attract Walter's notice, when she could remark
naturally enough that he had not been here lately.'
How could she be so heartless as to treat lightly
what had cost her so much agony? No, she would
do no such thing, and' tolerate no disguises~ but
manage the point some way to get information of
him which did not, of necessity, demand an explana.
tion. The ice once broken, possibly she might pro..
ceed without embarrassment.
The day was very warm and sultry, and she felt
languid and depressed. Walter was going to be at
home that afternoon, and she was determined to ask
16*


U
ii
lii

him the first time they met alone if he knew any-
thing of Ernest. Soon after dinner ~there caine a
vio~nt thunder shower, accompanied with hail, which
did a great deal of damage. The hailstones were
very large, coming with such force as to shiver ii~to
atoms a window in the dining-room whore the blinds
had~ just been opened to admit the light. The family
had collected in the front hall, and Kate was the first
to rush in to see what had happened.
"Good heavens!" said she, "if the day o' judg-
ment's come won't we have a merry time kicking' all
this glass about, and pelting' each other with stones
'fore we take our leave? A merry dance we'll have,
and go up in the clouds."
The storm abated, and Walter was obliged to go to
the glazier's as soon as it was over. He did not re-
turn until tea-time when he brought an invitation for
them all to spend the evening out, about three miles
distant.
He was very much surprised and disappointed
when Rosalind resolutely refused to go. She gen-
erally" acceded to his wishes in such things, and he
was almost impatient with her for so wilfully persist~
ing in denying herself the pleasure a ride must afford
when every thing was so bright and smiling, as if all
earth's sorrows, like the summer's n~ ontide heat,
must vanish before the invigorating br~ ezes and in-
spiring emotions of such an evening.
Tears camb into her eyes as Walter said, "Well,
Rosa, I hope you will have a good time here all
alone."
Of course ~he coda not reproach him for it, but

[i~

reproached herself for being so selfish as to be un-
willing to gratify him in so trifling a matter. She
watched the carriage as it rolled slowly down the
avenue. The slight motion of the horse's mane, as
he set up a gentle trot, reminded her of other days
when a little girl her father lifted her in childish
glee to put her hands upon it, and seated her upon
his back. A dear old creature he was, always so
docile a child might drive him, yet full of energy
which he still retained, although he had lost some of
the fire of his youth.
It seemed as if an age had passed since those days,
an age that had transformed this world into a differ-
ent sphere from what it was then, yet in outward
aspect the same. This led her into a close investiga-
tion of the causes that had produced the change and
a rapid retrospect of her own experience for the last.
three years. No very flattering picture she drew of
herself, the background of which was of too sombre
a hue to admit much of the sunlight necessary for
an agreeable impression, and the finishing touch was
not of a character to redeem it of its ugliness. She
felt the utter sinfulness of wasting these golden
years of her life in worse than useless~ repinings,
shutting out of her soul those genial influences which
God gives us to beautify and ennoble it) and refusing
the enjoymei4 of the blessings which home and
friends were so ready to lavish upon hjr. SIie did
not pursue this train of thought long. Her mind
soon wandered back into the old channel which had
engaged it that day, how to introduce Walter into
the secret of her present troubles. tier last .conclu~

190             A. TALE Ol~' THE                                           CONNECTICUT.             191

191

190


CONNECTICUT.            193

192              A TALE OP THE

sion wa~ to enquirer about Ernest, as her suspense iii
that respect began to overpower her own personal
relations in the matter. This was a course coinpar-
atiyely easy, but now the opportunity was wanting.
The next day he was going away, and it seemed
almost impossible to rest another night. Then in a
few weeks he was to leave home, and how could she
liVe without him under these circumstances.
After restlessly diverting herself by going from
one thing to another to no purpose, she sat dowii by
her chamber window which overlooked the front
yard. It was already twilight, that hour so deeply
suggestive of past pleasures and future hQpes, so full
of vague yearnings to the restless wanderer, whose
day dreams assume a spectral shape as the visionary
hour of night approaches. She beguiled th6 weary
moments by gazing into the dim distance which
returned no answering smile of cheer or consolation.
All along the unbroken stillness seemed to come an
irresistible impetus to her ardent desire for question~
ing Walter, until she tortured herself into the belief
that something had really happened to Eruest, some-
thing for which her conscience told her she would
be responsible. Tl ore was still a faint hope of an
opportunity that ni ht on Walter's return. A habit
had existed between them from childhood which he
had been particular ly careful to observe for the last
six weeks, a good i ight kiss. If he staid out until
she had retired to her chamber he sought entrance
there, and would lie i~ot do it now if she. failed to
meet them at the door on their return. Then recol-
lecting how earnestly he had plead with her to

192

accompany thorn, would not his patience be exhausted
by this time, and thus this last anchor of hope float
14. As all visible objects began to grow indistinct
she could just perceive the little frolicksome kitten
performing her wild antics in the flower circle. She
rested her head on her hand to shut out, if possible,
these unpleasant associations.
*      *       *      *       *
In another chamber sat Milly and Kate discussing
their o14 topic; the novel, which Kate broached by
an unceremonious entrance, singing at the top of
her voice,
The sun was hiringg brightly
Over the fields and the clover,
The grasshoppers chirped,
The bobolinks winked,
And the little pigs squealed right merrily.
"There's some poetry for you to put at the head
of the second chapter, and no play of tl~c fancy.
neither, but a real farm scene out in the country.
That's what I call a five4egged metre."
Milly felt unusually languid that day, and scarcely
noticed Kate's merriment. For the last few ino~
ments she had been watching Rosalind who went to
a white rose-bush a~ if to pluck a rose, then suddenly
changing her mind, returned to th9~ house; She was
now pondering why she did not go to ride with her
mother and Walter. Half mentally she said in a
low voice, which Kate's quick ear readily caught.
"So true it is that the lips may .be 'wreathed in
smiles while the heart is torn with anguish. One
would think iRosalind might be perfectly happy."
"And its her own fault that she ain't. If she
likes to be at cross pints, she must, that's all."

193

'I


195

"You judge her too harshly. She used to be the
light of the house."
"I should call her the spite of the house from the
way she acts sometimes, but then she has always
treated me well."
"She is walking through the shadows now."
"I should think she was walking' through shudders,
and has a mighty likin' for 'em too. I should think
she'd be afraid of ghosts in the way she treats Mr.
Livingston. Give her as much to do as I have and
she wouldn't h4ve no time to be hunting' 4 shad~
ders."
'~ Why, how does she treat him? I've wondered
~hy he doesn't come here now."
"I guess he won't come here again, behave as she
did when he asked her to go to ride. I'd a sent her
otherr side the moon chasm' after the stars."
"I can't believe that. He will come to see Wab
i~er. IDid he really invite her to ride?"
"Sartain. lie had the handsomest hoss and shay
you ever see, and he looked so happy and smiling' I
could 'arid to heaven o~i his smile, and livcd on the
light of his eyes when I got there. You see II mis~
trusted what was a foot !whdn I xve~t to the door and
see how spruce he looked, and see the hoss and team
out at the gate. So thinks I to myself I'm goin' to
see how this affair comes out. Well, so I xvent up
to call Mi~ss Rosalind, and bless my stars, how she
looked! I thought she must be dressed up to go
out washing . It Was easy enough to change her
frock you know, but her hair was in the same plight,
and it would take longer to smooth out her curls,

Think, says I, I hope his patience will hold out till
she gets fixed up. If you believe me, she went down
just as she was! What do you 'spose he thought?
But that wan'~ the w6rst of it. You see my curiosity
was pretty well pricked up by that time and I thought
I'd listen right behind the screen there. lie spoke
*      so soft and low I couldn't hear what he said~ but she
snarled out something' as crabbed as sour vinegar,
and then went off and left him standing' there."
"Is thatso?"
"I'm ready to swear to it by all the saints and
holy virgins."
"You needn't go so far as that Kate, but that is
incomprehensible anyhow."
"Don't go to usin' any stich long heavy word as
that; come right to the pint, and say she ought to
have her nose put out o' jint for ~uttin' such a shine
with him. She might live a spinster and spin street
yarn for amusement all the days of her life afore I'd.
stand between her and the sun again."
"What is the reason you never told of it before,
if you knew it?"
"You don't 'spose I'm such a fool as to tell all I
know, do you?"
"I don't think Rosa ever cared about marrying,
but that needn't have prevented her from going to
ride."
" Oh, don't you believe that. All these young
girls mean to be married, only they like to flirt a
little first. I expect 'twas something' she heard, about
;~   Miss Blanche that nettled her up so. I'll warrant
you she gets some of Mr. Livingstou's visits now."

CONNECTICUT.

194              A TALE OF THE

194

K


CONNECTICUT.               ~19T

A TALE OF THE

"If he really loves Rosalind lie won't give her up
so. The more faults he sees the more pity he'll have
for her, and love her all the more."
" Gracious Peter! if that ain't the essence of love
extracted out of a moon-struck sunbeam.! The more
hateful a person acts, the better folks will like 'em.
'I2hat beats' good folks bein' no better 'n bad ones.''
"I mean when a person sincerely loves another,
his or her faults will not diminish that love because
it is so strong as to overlook them in the excellence
of other qualities which first drow it out."
"Nonsense! But look at my hair, what if the
bell should ring? It looks as if Moll Pitcher's
young ones had quarreled over it and loft it in a
fright. There's somebody comm' up now, looks like
Mr. Livingston's ghost," and she made her exit as
quick as she had made her entrance~
It was not Mr. Livingston, but Mrs. Frizzlewit,
who was now on a begging mission for a poor emi-
grant family just arrived, and wished to see Mrs.
Claremont and Walter. Learning that they were
not at home, she made no stop; but immediately
sought Miss Blanche, to consult her upon the most
feasible plan of rendering them assistance. "If you
will ask Mr. Livingston to contribute," said she, "you
will do inc a great faVor, find besides, I think lie will
be more likely to give to you than to me."
"No, never," replied Grace Blanche with much
spirit, "I should not ask him if there were an op-
portunity,, and I do not know that I shall ever see
him again."
Mrs. Frizzlewit inherited the iiatui:al propensity of

liking to gather news, especially concerning young
people, and she was confident by the tone and man-
ncr in which her friend spoke, that something had
happened which would be exceedingly interesting ti
know. No persuasion, however~, could extort any-
thing more, and she was obliged to content herself
with the suspicion that a misunderstanding had
occurred between them. "A most unaccountable
thing though," she, kept soliloquizing, and what was
more unaccountable still, became so engrossed by it
as to forget the farther prosecution of her mission
for that night. The bell rung nine before, she was
aware, and never allowing herself to be absent from
her family later than that hour unless some uncom-
mon occasion demanded it, s~e hurried away.
It was quite a relief to Miss Blanche, who was
already beginning to regret the betrayal of her own
feelings in that unguarded remark. She also, in
common with Rosalind, was lost in reverie at the
time Mrs. Frizzlewit made her appearance.
Mr. Livingston had deeply wounded her feelings
by passing her unrecognized on the morning of his
unfortunate adventure at Orange Grove. Pre-occu-
pk~d as his mind then was, the air might have been
full of Grace Blanches and he would not have seen
them. Only one image was present to his mind.
No matter if it was unseemly, it was capable of
transformation, and in that light was constantly
reappearing.
For all this however, the shock to his sensitive
nature was greater than he was willing to acknowb
edge, which rebounded in another shock to Miss
1'j~

196


198~              A TALE OF THE

Blanche's equal sensitiveness at this particular time.
He had not imagined that any thing oQUld so disturb
his equanimity and self-possession, as he was obliged
to confess by many instances of absence of mind
which occurred that day.' lie came near ruining the
picture upon which lie was at work, liy an involun-
tary suggestion that the eyes did not sufficiently
resemble. Rosahind's to be of any worth, forgetful
that hers was closely veiled and put away out of sight
until-lie knew not what. The contrast between that
morning and the other was too painful to be ban-
ished.
Miss Blanche, however, knew nothing of this, and
experienced an equally painful sensation in contrast-
ing his friendliness towards her only two evenings
before and his coldness now. Every one kiiows the
chilling effect produced by meeting unrecognized
~one whom we have learned to respect or even a cas-
ual acquaintance, as if the sympathetic vein of human
nature was robbed of some of its vitality thereby.
Yet it is a very common experience, towards which
we unconsciously contribute our own share when
engrossed with care, or burdened with anxiety.
Mr. Livingston was seldom, if ever, guilty before
of such a breach of courtesy, being one of those
persons the sight of wlioni rejoices one like the sun-
shine after a shower; so much of the kindliness of
the heart welled up iiito tlie look of recognition
which no ordinary care or anxiety could repress, and
whose respectful bearing flowed equally towards all,
whether friend or foe, if he had any; the lady in
foreign laces, or the beggar iii homespun.

T ii

CHAPTER Xviii.

"Why should J murmur? for the sorrow
Thus only longer lived would be;
Its end may come; and well, to-morrow,
When God has done his work in me,
So I say trust.ing,-as God will!
'And trusting to the end, hold still."
Although it was with no happy sensation 1~rnest
dcp~rtcd that unlucky morning from his brief inter-
view with Rosaliiid, he experienced no feeling~ of
b
reproach or vexation. As he rode oii amusingly, and
felt the gentle breeze fm~om the river, flowing calm'
and peacefullyy, as if nothing iii tlii~ outward world
could disturb the eternal harmony with which God
had rounded and perfected every wave that its rip-
pling murmur should be heard through ages to come
as it had been through ages past, a quiet peace over-
spread his soul, and he felt a willingness to trust all
With unshaken confldeiice to Him who had power to
command the winds and the sea, and they obey him.
Love alone is immortal, for only in the divine attn-
butes pertaining to its own comprehensive character
is incarnated the Deity himself. Just iii proportion
as man possesses the gift which is 'free to all who ask
it, can he wield the power flowing from it to heal the
sin~ of humanity. somethingg of this nature, like
the breath of inspiration, swept through the brain of
(199)

hi

198


200             A TALE OF THE                                            CONNECTICUT.             201

Ernest. He returned to his room and sat down to
give the finishing touches to a painting laid aside in
his eagerness to sketch iRosalind. When it was com-
pleted lie proposed to himself a short walk, indulging
a hope of coming in contact with Walter. Ho had
not proceeded far when he met the post-boy bringing
him' a letter. It contained a message from a near
friend of his, an old classmate, who was fast wasting
away in the last stage of consumption and wished to
see him as soon as possible. Deeming it necessary
to start next morning he had no time to lose, and
instantly set about preparations for the journey,
expecting to return in a few days. Seeing that his
friend would not probably. survive~long lie did not
leave him ag in, and after his death was detained
several weeks ii business he desired him to attend
to. His thou hts constantly revei'ted to Rosalind,
and the conjec arcs she would have about him, which
made the time cern very long. Under other circum-
stances he would have written to Walter and explained
his absence.
At length the wished-for day of his return arrived,
when he secured a seat iii the old lumbering stage
coach which had a welcome, home-like look as it
rumbled over the hills and valleys9 At sunset he
was safely landed at the door of the hotel which, in
those days, was none ~he less popular for the ruin-
ous traffic it carried on. Scarcely observing the
fierce altercations and rude s&amp;iffling in the bar-room,
sights and sounds that seldom failed to give hiia~ a
painful sensation for the reminiscence they brought
of the first and last night he ever spent in the society

of staggering limbs and wandering brains, since which
time not a drop of' champagne had passed his lips,
he hastened by to a private entrance through which
he gained access to his own room. Refreshing him-
self a few moments after the heat and dust of the
day, lie soon traced his steps in the familiar direc-
tion of Orange Grove.
When Mr. Claremont was married he built a large
and elegant mansion on a landed estate formerly the
possession of one of his wife's ancestors. He laid
out the grounds according to his own taste, preserv-
ing one old oak tree for its antiquity, which stood
near the house. Mrs. Claremont had a great passion
for orange trees, some half dozen of which were in
fall bloom at one time. From this circumstance he
gave their residence the poetical name of Orange
Grove.
As Mr. Livingston walked up the shaded avenue
in the dusk of evening, a perfect silence reigned
throughout the house and over the grounds. The
rooms were not yet lighted, and there was no sign of
any living thing save the little white-footed kitten
capering in the flower, circle, who signified her web
come by scampering off as fast as she could go when
he came up, unconscious of the invisible fibres of
the human soul she had iii her power to twinge with
unutterable pain! She called up sd vividly the
memory of that other morning, as to unsettle for a
moment the confidence with which he had looked
forward to this hour, but quickly reassuring himself
and banishing his fears, he ascended the steps and
pulled the bell. Kate fancied there was a slight
17*:

200

201


jfrI
a',
~ij1
I~i~
'11

A ~TALE OP THE

tremor in his voice 'as he enquire~1 for Rosalind which
disappeared upon being told that she was in.
Being vexed with her Kate would not tell who the
visitor was, but announced simply that a gentleinaa
wished to see her. With the coolest indifference
Rosalind descended to the parlor, neither caring nor
guessing who her guest might be. As she met again
those eyes that had never looked upon her but in
kindness and love, and pressed again the hand that
had so often pressed hers in silent sympathy, the
floods of feeling swept away all self-control, and she
burst into tears.
Weep on, Rosa, those tears are the seal of thy
baptism into a higher life.
The barrier was dissolved. Deeper than all speech,
more expressive than any outward symbol, was the
impressive silence of that hour, the charm of which
he sought not to break. It was the soul's confession.
To him there was sweeter music in those sobs than
ever came from sylvan lips. There was no more
restraint or embarrassmeAt, and in parting that night,
though the outward pledge remained unspoken, each
felt that they were wedded before God.
The moon, just risen, gave a sparkling radiance
to the river whose peaceful flow they sat up long to
watch in their respective chambers, to them symbolic
of the quiet, noiseless manner in which their own
lives had thus suddenly and silently merged into
one.
Walter and his mother did not return until nearly
midnight. She trembled at the sound of his foot..
steps lest he might intrude upon her meditations,

CONNECTICUT.

208

desiring now to be left to herself. He, judging by
the lateness of the hour and her own silence that
she must be asleep, did not disturb her.
There was an evident change in her the ~e~t
morning, but being full of changes these times, no
comment was made. It was the subdued expression
of a soul in which suffering and sorrow had been
assuaged by a special revelation of inward peace.
Neither Walter nor his mother could sympathize with
her in the peculiar spiritual experience through
which th~ singular combination of her mental powers
led her, which fact, doubtless, accounted for the
extraordinary affinity existing between herself and
her father; whose organization her own resembled in
some of its strikii~g points.
It was instinct, more powerful than any outward
demonstration of affection, that drew them together~
even in her babyhood, through which he derived his
great influence cver her.
At breakfast Walter joked her some in the course
of the conversation upon the evening's entertain~
ment, about the 9njoyn~ent she lost, to which she
quietly' replied that she had enjoyed herself at home.
Interesting herself in her mother's plans with more
spirit than was her wont, and Walter being absent, a
quiet, yet happy time they had, which was not inter-
rupted by a single visitor. Human nature is so
magnetic that we cannot resist the contagious influ-
ences arising from the emotions of joy or grief. If
t~ person is happy an involuntary radiation uncon-
sciously raises the spirits of all within its sphere.
Rosalind diffused this peaceful contentment over

202


204             A TALE OF TIlE

the whole house 'that day. Milly and Kate felt it
whenever they came in contact with her, and many
conjectures they held privately of what might have
taken place the night before, but one thing Was cer-
tam Kate said, "lie did her a mighty deal o' good
anyhow," and became quite reconciled to the possb
ability which Milly had suggested, "that if he really
loved her he would have her yet,," though it did not.
quite square with her ideas of what a young man
should do when a young lady "cut up such a shine
with him." She really liked Rosalind better than
sh~ was willing to acknowledge, but Ernest was her
ideal of perfection and she could not tolerate any
breach of courtesy towards him from any source.
Walter had just entered the drawing room after
his return that evening, when Ernest was ushered
iti. He met him with shouts of welcome, exclaim-
ing, "'I did not know' you had come; did you know
it Rosa?" She was silent. Not all the powers of'
the universe could have induced her to answer 'the
question at that moment.
"Yes," said Ernest, "Rosa knew I had come, and
it shows she can keep a secret," taking her hand in
his' as he seated himself beside her on the sofa.
Walter looked puzzled.
"I did not know but you had cut our acquaintance
as you did not write to Walter," said Mrs. Claremont,
ironically, to which Walter quickly replied by way
of turning the cQnversation, "A bad penny soon
returns, so I had 'no fear we should i~ot see you
again.

CONNECTICUT.             205
left. I was gone much longer than I expected when I
You knew where I went?" remarked Ernest.
"'No, I went over to your room that morning
just in season to get a glimpse of you in 'the old
stage coach., and .1 made up my mind that as you
had gone off without ceremony, you might return
without ceremony, and I would let you enjoy it."~
"Walter is such an easy genius he uever~ borrows
any trouble for aught that happens," observed his,
mother, "he would make light of it, and sat, 'Oh, he
knows his own business, lie will come back when he
gets ready, I know he will,' which nobody doubted."
rillie curious expression of Walter's face when his
mother said this, convinced Ernest that he know the
r   whole, iii spite of his assumed indifference as he said
abstractly, "And so you did, didn't you? but it's
been lonesome enough here without you."
All this conversation was torture to Rosalind.
She would have givcii worlds had they been at her
command to have blotted out that littic page of her
history. As Ernest held her hand he imagined lie
could feel the blood conic and ~o; and to relieve
her embarrassment, proposed going to an exhibition
that evening, which in reality had no interest for
either of them. As she rose without any hesitation
to get ready, WaiLer glanced curiously from her 'to
her mother, very much to the aniusem&amp;nt of Ernest.
She had not spoken since be entered the parlor, and
her evident confusion betrayed a personal interest in.
the matter which c~cited her mother's curiosity iiot
a little,.
"That's a mighty funny affair," said Walter, after


CONNECTICtIT.           207

206              A TALE OF THE

they had gone, "how ready she was to go off with
him to-night when she has always been so afraid of
his company."
Mrs. Claremont smiled. Soon Milly came in,
looking vei~y much amused.
"Milly," said Walter, "was Mr. Livingston here
last night while we were gone ? "
"That's for you to find out," she smilingly replied.
"Well I know how I can fit~d out, I'll make Kate
tell me," continued he, rushing out.
Kate, did Mr. Livingston call here last night
in our absence?"
"An' sure, you don't 'spose I'd be for tellin' the
young lady's secrets do you?"
Walter had not been so "easy" as his mother
represented or as his own manner indicated. He had
a great deal of anxiety about the consequences.
The friendship of Ernest was something beyond price
and the thought of sacrificing it he could not tolerate.
After witnessing wh t he had~ there seemed to be
reason for his' stayii g away, and consoled himself
with the belief that t fings would all come out right
yet, a favorite dogma in his creed. He knew Ernest
too 'well to suspect ilm of any such weakness as
breaking a friendship voluntarily because of Rosa~
lined's incomprehensible freaks. lie might feel em-
barrassed about calling, which led Walter to seek
him next morning, and watch his return, deeming
it incumbent on himself under the circumstances to
make the first advance.
Ernest and Rosalind walked on past the door of
the exhibition, which it is doubtful if either knew

when passing it to a favorite little dell, near the
water's edge where he and Walter had held many a
'lively chat and grave conversation. A fine breeze
from the river was well calculated to cool the fevered
brow of IRosalind; and the rising moon smiled
beneficently on them as if to chase away her disqui-
etude, and breathe over each the holy calm emanat-
ing from it's own bosom. Rosalind gazed at it for
some moments in silence, apparently unconscious of
the still more earnest gaze fi~eci upon her by the
soft, loving eyes of Ernest, whose soul-lit radiance
testified of a joy too deep for utterance, as they read
in that young, thoughtful faco the traces of a kin~
dred sorrow which had bound thejr two souls in one,
and sanctified their love by the couscioushess that it
* ~ was no dream of butterfly existence, but a sober
reality in which trials were to be m~t and endured,
; as well as blessings shared and enjoyed.
"A faithful watch the moon and stars keep over
each other,." said she, playfully.
"As faithful as you and I will be to God, and to
' each other?"
" Oh Ernest, how dare you trust me?"
"Trust you, Rosalind? I have always trusted you,
and I always shall!"


CONNECTICUT.

209

* CHAPTER xix.
"1 love to go
Out in the pleasant sun, and let my e~e
Rest on the human faces that pass by,
Each with its gay and busy interest;
And then I muse upon their lot, and read
~Iany a lesson in their changeful cast;
And so grow kind of heart, as if the sight
Of human beings were humanity."
It was a pleasant morning in the early spring, such
as makes one feel an irresistible longing to be out in
the open air and enjoy the warming genial influences
which seen'i to open our hearts to nature's kindly
teachings as much as to penetrate and dissolve the
icy shroud of winter.
Amelia Crawford, who had been busily engaged
all the week in assisting at preparations for a grand
fete that was to come off that evening, being at leisure,
resolved to avail herself of the privileges of the day
and take a walk, which she always enjoyed for the
opportunity it afforded her to come in contact with
the busy crowd that thronged the streets, in whom
she took a lively iiitere~t, though apparently so iuac-
cessible to human susceptibility  She stepped into a
store where she was acquainted, in one of the prin-
cipal thoroughfares of the city; and stood for some
time at the window watching the passers by, an inter-
esting amusement, and one ~vhich furnishes many
(208)

I

an interesting theme for reflection~ to 'an attentive
observed~.
The merry child, rudely jostled aside in th~ midst
of his harml6~s play by the bustling man of business,
little dreams of the ruder thrusts that await his moral
as well as his physical man in this work-day world of
ours, when something sterner and more practical
than a few childish tears must come to his relief.
Age, leaning on its staff, looking down the narrow
path which, ere long will close entirely to its foot-
steps, is fortunate indeed, if occasionally, one of the
busy throng vouchsafes a kindly smile in recognition
of its kindred nature.
There in the middle of the muddy street stands a
girl, fourteen perhaps, fighting her way against a
troop of boys who wantonly upset her basket con~
taming a few nondescript articles, one of which she
quickly seizes and hurries out of sight, while they
hoot after her with the cry of "thief," whether with
just cause or not no one asks or cares to know.
Amelia watches her, with a half resolution to inter-
cede in her behalf, or plead with her to tell the truth
in the matter; but while debating within herself and
halting at the door, she loses sight of the gil~l, and
stands there regretting her own want of decision in
not seizing that opportunity for affecting some good,
thus perhaps, missing the slender thread on which
hangs the reputation of many an individual whose
name might never have been remembered; but for
some trivial occurrence which first opened the way
for other deeds which have won the gratitude and
admiration of the human race.
18
t


210              A TALE OF THE                                                                        211

210

In a few moments she was roused from her reverie
by a smile of recogtiition from Ernest Livingston,
and directly behind him followed' Grace Blanche,
who gave her ~no friendly greeting,, although she
worked for her only .tho day before. Her mind was
too much occupied with the figure before her, in the
line of which she kept such an even balance, that,
turning his head on either side, he would miss a
glimpse of her. Imagination had been too busy at
work during those several months for conscience or
reason to act calmly or wisely; and if she~ had not
intended to harbor any unkind feeling towards him,,
it would have been impossible for her to deny truth-
fully the existence of a little revengeful spirit that
day.
It is said that woman is less forgiving than man,
doubtless owing to her greater power of endurance,
and to her more secluded life. Contact with the
world leads to a~ study of himan nature; which dif..
fuses a more catholic spirit as we learn-to compre-
hend it in its many phases, and overlook what seems
~t the moment inexplicable, confident that a knowl-
edge of all the circumstances would materially change
the aspect of affairs. Then Grace Blanche had met
with no affliction since she was old eiiough to realize
it, a school more powerful than any other to soften
the feelings and educate them into a magnanimity
that cannot afford to notice trifles. But this was not
a trifle. Disappointed as she had been in the confi-
dence placed in another, the ~ffect of which made
her a little inclined to think the whole 'world false,
it wa~ no light thing that this friend in whom she

ii

CONNECTICUT.

trusted should treat her with coldness at the very
moment she most needed sympathy. It was a most
unfortunate thing for her that Mr. Livingston should
have been called away at that time, since, had they
met as usual afterwards, this little incident might
have been forgotten.
On his return, her reserve excited no less surprise
and regret on his part. His affections were intense-
ly strong as his unwavering attachment to R~salind
proved, and the thought of this friendship being
broken, pained him deeply. Again and again he
vi~ied to approach her with his wanted familiarity
and was as often repulsed.
In the meantime Mr. Carleton improved his oppor-.
tunity to regain the esteem he feared h~d been
lowered through Mr. Livingston's influence. Keep-
ing himself well informed of the movements of th~
latter, his absence was known to him sooner than to
most of his friends, but it was sometime before he
~uccecded in ingratiating himself into her favor
sufficiently to be on intimate terms as a friend. Miss
Blanche never lost faith in Mr. Livingston's integri-
ty which made hoP hesitate long, before surrender-
ing herself again to the fascinating influence of Mr.
Carleton. There was an irresistible desire to cling
to something, and in desperation she yielded.
Never oculd a perso~i show more tenderness and
devotion than he, being capable of' the most exalted
emotions, though transient. rfhlere xvere gleams of
a better nature rising within i him, acted upon by the
transcendent qualities of this pure and noble woman,
which doubtless lessened her confidence in Mr. Liv-

211


212             A TALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.             213

ingstdn's impression of his character, and made her
feel a little disposed to reproach him for it.
In the autumn previous, Mr. Carleton was taken
\ sick, and for many weeks his life was despaired of.
Though not his constant attendant, Miss Blanche
was often by his bedside, and the attachment before
existing was greatly strengthened. As he grew
weaker, the higher elements of his nature were
developed while the passions lay dormant, and even
his foes yielded to the conviction that a change must
have takeii place which would transform him into a
different character if his life should be spared. When
able to talk, his fascil4ating gift of conversation shone
forth with greater brilliance than ever. As the
disease began to abate, the physician recommended
a winter residence at the Southas the only m&amp;ans of
fully restoring his impaired health, which brought.
to his side many of his former friends, eager to efface
any disagreeable record they might have left of wan-
ing friendship. Among this number Ernest Livings-
ton did not appear, there being no occasion for it.
He had never borne any malice toward the man,
neither had ho ever honored him with his friendship.
This was sufficient to convince Urace Blanche that
he had not changed his opinions concerning him.1
Mr. Carleton left for the South as soon as he was
ablekeeping up a correspondence with her through
the winter, yet nothing had ever been said of mar-
riage. Doubts still existed in her mind, of the pro-
priety of her couVse, the responsibility of which she
cast upon him who had' it in his power to have pre-
vented it if he had. not forsaken her in the hour of

trial. This reflection preyed upon her more than usual
the day of the great party, which gave rise to her
excited feelings towards him then. She was playing
onthe piano when Ernest and Rosalind arrived that
evening, the latter having been detained by company
which made them late. 1~4Ir. Livingston was exceed-
ingly fond of music, in which accomplishment Miss
Blanche excelled, and she was performing the same
difficult but exquisite part that won his admiration
the first time he ever saw her. Could it be that she
harbored an ~nnkind feeling toward any human being,
and especially ~toward him who had given her no
cause of offence, thought Mr. Livingston, as the
sound floated upward, making him feel that he could
foi~give the greatest personal injury ever committed
by a human being. Probably ndt many among that
brilliant throng would have shrunk from the same,
acknowledgment, listening as they were with the
most intense enthusiasm to this melodious inspira-
tion, scarcely knowing which were most fascinating,
the thrilling notes of the music or the beauty and
gracefulness of the player, enhanced now by the
fervor of soul thrown into, the performance.
He resolved to make another attempt, and speak
to her as if nothing had happened when she rose
from the piano, not doubting that amid the crowd
of people and the exalting influences of the moment
she would, like himself, banish all former distrust,
and treat him at least courteously. But he mis-
calculated that time.
She experienced the opposite sensation. She
knew when he entered, knew where he was standing,
18*


If"

*214

A TALE OF THf~J

and felt that he was listening to her admiringly,
which fact contributed not a little to throw more
spirit and ferVor of soul into her performance. Its
intimate association with their first meeting, brought
to mind all the disagreeable incidents of the broken
links of a once warm and generous friendship, which
roused a greater alienation of feeling than before.
3he swept proudly by him, not so much as deigning
f1       ~o give him a look of condescension, displaying with
uch coi;scious intention as to arrest the attention
&amp; all eyes, which followed her as she rose. Rosa-
~ind looked wonderingly from her to Ernest, and
from him to her. She saw an expression in his eyes
which she never saw before, nor ever after. Hitherto,
he had felt grieved, but not vexed. When his indig-
ation was excited it was n~t easily quelled, until
determined to know in this instance, having been
cause was removed, if any existed, which he was
embarrassed by her enough, let it be what it mio~ht
and therefore resolved to seek the first opportunity
I
to demand an explanation. He did not have to wait
long. Evidently unhappy, the admiration she had
excited was uncongenial t~ her feelings, and she
stepped aside into a conservatory whither he fob
lowed her.
"Good evening Miss Blanche," said he, qs he ex-
tended his hand, "I believe 'you did not recognize
me as yowpassed by me."
ConventionM in all her ways, she was surprised
by this unexpected sally from one as conventional
as herself. Mechanically giving him her hand, her
eyes dropped, being too confused to reply.

CONNECTICUT.

215

Never did ~he look more charming in her queen-
ly beauty, than when that delicate, rose-tinted blush
rayed a momentary lack of the self possession
which seldom deserted her in any emergency. It
was pleasant to feel the pressure of his hand once
more, but what was to be done next? There they
stood, liable at any moment to be surprised and em-
barrassed by others. He had not studied his lesson
beforehand, and probably by this time was wishing
himself out of the dilemma he had so unceremoni-
ous:y rushed into. He let go her hand, and she
looked up 'at him with a half smile, in her usual
dignified manner. He smiled the' smile she had
once so much enjoyed. All bitterness melted away
in an instant, and it is not' known what explanation
might have followed, bat for the sudden aniiounce-
ment of Mr. Carleton which was as unexpected to'
her,' as to the rest of the company. She turned
deadly pale, and the interview was abruptly termin-
ated.
She did not leave the conservatory for some time,
remaining unobserved as she supposed, amid the
dense mass of flowers and shrubbery, which gave it
the character of an artificial garden. There she
was struggling with the contending emotions of her
soul, haviftg just beo'un t6 tread that delicate laby-
rinth whose intricate findings would disclose a mine
to fathom which; the brief space of twenty years had
not given her the first sounding plummet. She was
surprised to find that she did not' even know herself.
The very moment~ she felt the pressure of Mr. Liv~
ingston's hand all feeling of ill-will vanished,' and


216             A TALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.             217

he was restQred to her confidence, while his repul-.
sion to Mr. Carleton was as sensibly communicated
to her as if the latter had openly avowed himself in.
her presence the arrant hypocrite the former assum-
ed him to be. If it is true that a woman's quick
instinct empowers her to be an unerring criterion
of character; there are so many controlling influen-
ces to modify it, unknown to herself, that it seldom
acts with full force.
"What hastened you back so soon, Mr. Carleton?"
said one of his friends, as they stood near the door
of the conservatory, through which his observant
eyes detected the object of his search ever since he
entered the parlors.
"A little item of business, in fact a powerful mag-
net has attracted me here," said he with a signifi-
cant wink, in a voice too loW to be understood by
Miss Blanche although the sound of his voice was
instantly recognized by her. An involuntary shud-
der crept over her as she looked round for a chance
of escape, and the next moment saw ~iim advancing
towards her.~
"Why Miss Blanche, what is the matter, you are
ill! " exclaimed he as he felt the icy touch of her
hand, and 6bserved her deathly pallor, at the same
time throwing his arm around her to lead her to
the open air. This act sent the blood coursing
through her temples ~nd restored her self possession.
Remembering where she was, and how long she had
been absent from the company, by a strong effort
she, succeeded in throwing a mask over her feelings
so as to attract no attention during the rest of the

ening, except from Ernest Livingston, by whom
she felt she Was closely observed. Mr. Carleton did
not leave her for an instant, although she tried in
vaiii to assure him that she was not ill, hoping that
lie would leave her to herself.
"Those flowers," said lie, "have delightful odors,
but do you know that the fragrance of flowers in a
close room is thought by some to be poisonous?
(     That may have been the cause of your slight illness.
If you will go with me to the sunny south," said he
lowering his tone, and assuming his peculiar musi-
cal inflection of voice, "we can enjoy the beauty of
flowers such as you never saw here, without suffer~
mg from their poisonous exhalations, as no hot-bed
culture is needed there. And do you know that
there is a wide field of usefulness for every woman
who would employ most beneficently that higher
order of talents With which God has endowed her,
that she should beautify this world with noble works
even as he has adorned it with flowers."
The sireii voice had penetrated her soul. She
looked up at him. What a beautiful light shone in
his eyes! Oh, deceitful world!
* * * * *
But, asks the reader, where is Amelia, is she still
standing in the door? No, gentle reader, the spring
day has closed aiid she is in her quiet little room
again buried in the land of dreams. No broken
friendship disturbs her thouglits,~-she is not rich
enough in this world's enjoyment for that; no hin-
g~ring regm~et for the past pleasures never to be re-
called,-she knows nothing of si~ch experience.


218

A TALE OF THE

That day, at least, has been one of tranquillity, one
of calm, placid content, when she was willing to live
in the present, and asked for nothing more.
Thank God for such days, for the rest they bring!
and yet how soon we weary of them. Work, work
for both mind and body, is what we crave, and none
can be truly happy without it ,-these little intervals
arq but preludes to a mightier effort.
Amelia ~lreamedf going to a wedding where she
was to iheet her mother, and after waiting and
searching for heir until the guests were nearly' gone,
learned that she had bug since left in a carriage,
leaving her to follow on foot. The disappointment
awoke her when she found that mother she had
none, with weddings she had nothing to do, and the
disagreeable sensation of toiling on foot roused her
to a consciousness bf labor to be performed before
she would be permitted to go to lici' mother. So she
slept no more tl;at night, and lays restl~ssl~~ and
anxiously devising ~ some scheme that should satisfy
the demands of what some call conscience, others the
development of o r own nature, while the nimble
feet of the merry dancers iii yonder mansion still
kept time with the merrier mdsic. There were those
present who could sympathize with Amelia, those for
whom the festivities of the hour had no ci arm, serv-
ing merely as safety valves to let off some of the pres-
sure preying upon them in their luxurious homes.
Morning came at length when she must be up and
doing, for this was 'to be a day Qf weariness and toil,
doubly wearisome because the labor of her hands
would be in such striking contrast with the current

CONNECTICUT.              219
of her thoughts. Her service was engaged to a lady
who was neither a Grace Blanche, nor a Rosalind
Claremont, but a person whose primordial existence
reminded one of the latest fashion-plate. Doubtless
sh~ had her moments of aspiration after something
gher, if any one was fortunate enough to detect
them beneath the apparent heartlessness and shallow
perceptions that the in~st su erficial aims and worth-
less education coRld dovelopi 1-low she might excel
in dress was her paramount study, and this clay had
been selected for service in that department that she
might avail herself of the great fashion emporium ~f
the previous evening. The nervous exhaustion re-
sulting from th~ excitement of that night, including
some real or fancied slight from one whose flattering
attentions she was particularly anxious to gain, made
her uimusually hard to please ; and Amelia, indiffer-
ent as she generally was, to praise or the lack of it,
began to feel impatient at the total want of apprecia*
tion of her best endeavors to give satisfaction.
She was not the one to be pitied, however, for
more harrowing sensations, more torturing anxieties,
greater restlessness and weariness thah she ever
know, tinctured the existence of this votary of fashion
and pleasure. No sxveet slumber came to her pillow
as the blessed reward of wholesome toil, or the con-
sciousness of making a single effort to make others
happy. But judge her not harshly. Too many but-
terflies still flit in our pathway, who, like the transient
sunbeams, dazzle with their brightness, but leave no
*,~. radiance behind to cheer the day of sorrow, or lighten
the cares of home. And' yet how many instances


220             A TALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.             221

occur in which we are surprised at the strength of
character and energy of will displayed by this same
class when the illusions of youth have lost their
charms, 'and a false education has exhausted its
frivolities.
A great injury has been done to woman, for which
she is not alone responsible, in cramping her intellect
just at the period it is most active, when the excite-
ment of school-life passes away, and she needs some-
thing to satisfy the insatiate craving of that most
wonderful mechanism, the human mind. The atten-
tion of many deep thinkers has been turned ti this
point, and hence volumes of homilies by both sexes
upon the duties and employment of unmarried wo-
omen. Why should they not be written for unmarried
men as well? Because society allows them to mark
out a sphere for themselves. A man will always
find. enough to occupy his mind after completi~v~ the
established routine of education, without hurrying
into a premature marriage as a woman often does,
to escape this oppressive blank in her existence.
Aspiration is immortal, and. every act which tends to
silence it dwarfs the divine nature, and embitters
the human.
rrliere are crises in life from xvhich few are exempt,
when our only safety lies in a great overwhelming
impulse, that shall draw us aside from the trouble
draining the heart's life-blood, into some active chan-
nel where self is forgotten in the measure of respon-
sibilities, which, in our disposal of them, lift us into
that eternal future where our influence shall mould
the ages, but in which we, as individuals, are but

220

-4

I ||N h i I I I I - - - - - - -

221

atoms in the personal relations of joy and 'sorrow
born of this world, and. in this world. to have an end.
We may engage in a benevolent operation to re-
lievo present suffering, or by some act of self-sacrifice
deserve a martyr's fame, without exciting that all-
absorbing interest which calls into play the highest
faculties of the soul, overpowering with their compre-
hensive sublimity petty trials of transient duration,
in that exercise of faith and hope which carry us
forward to those higher conceptions of the great pur-
pose for which life was created, as impossible to~ gain
in lWcs of frivolity and ease, as t6 be ignored in the
safe combat with the waves of passion and prejudice
flowiiig out of them. Responsibihity,-a reaching
forward to grasp momentous issues which extend
beyond present interests, and embra:cc a wider field
than our own individual necessities require, is an
inevitable condition for the normal development o~
the spiritu~ii nature of every mag and woman.
19


CHAPTER XX.

"We shape ourselves the joy or fear
Of which the coming life is made,
And fill our Future's atmosphere
With sunshine or with shade."

" What will you bet?"
"The honor of my wife."
"You have no wife. Don't think you are going
to come that game over me. I'm as much of a yan~
kee as you are, born and reared in a yankee town."
"I'll come back to you within three months with
the handsomest wife yankee land can produce, and
whose life is as pure as a cotton ball before it is cursed
by slave labor, for hang it Jim, since I went north
I believe slave labor is accursed. Say, will you bet?"
"Bet? yes, I'll bet you that thousand dollars I've
just won, and have it drawn up in writing. But a
man of your character will never get a yankee girl
of that stamp. They are too shrewd. You don't
know 'em as I do. You judge 'em by the character
of our southern women which may be lMl~C enough
for anything I know, but by thunder they'd all have
to live old maids if they should be as particular as
they are up north. I'd as soon live in a straight
jacket as be cooped up with one of them all my days,
and a man wants his liberty sometimes; you know
that. That's the charm of southern ljfe to ~ hich
(222)

I!
11

K

CONNECTICUT.            223

223

you are not altogether insensible, if your northern
life does make you a little sensitive on that point."
"I'll bet you a thousand dollars drawn up in writ~
ing that I can do as I said, bring you the handsomest,
and the most innocent woman you ever saw, as my
wif~ too, and we'll have the writings drawn up this
afternoon and I'll set off to-morrow."
i3ring the certifleate With you that we may know
the banns have been proclaimed, fbr that is so unlike
you to go up north to marry a puritan when there
are so many southern beauties languishing for you,
that I shall not tak6 your word for it."
"Will you stake your thousand dollars ? for I am
in 9 arnest."
'$ I see you are terribly in earnest, and I begin to
repent for the girl's sake. Ii say Bill, it's too bad for
you to palm yourself off on am~ innocent girl. I.
don't care for these loose characters that would just
as hief share their nest with a quadroon as any way,
but it's rather mnorc'n I should want t~ answer for
to set a snare for an innocent victim."
care how you impeach my character or I'll
have you up for defamation. I'll stand by my word,
and if you don't, I'll send you a challenge! "
That was a losing game for you, and for niy part
I wish we hadn't played it. Suppose now II share it.
with you, 1 11 give you five hundred back again if
that will settle the matter."
"No money will settle it. You., must either take
my word or accept my challenge."
"WAI then the guilt be on your head for I will
wash my hands of it. Squire Tomkins will come in


224

A TALE OF TH~

from over the way and satisfy you as to the claims
for I don't want any thing said about it~ I will draw
up a paper and he shall witness our signatures, so
that it shall be binding to your satisfaction."
One of the characters in the preceding pages will
be readily recognized as Mr. Carleton who had lost
heavily in a gambling operation with a fellow rogue
in broadcloth. Both of them had too much of the
northern element of refinement in th6ir natures to
mingle promiscuously with southern society, and the
Yank~e born was not yet so lost to the early teach-
ings of his childhood as to yield unscrupulously to
the worst princiDles of southern depravity. The
other, judged by his early education, was not aiiy
lower in the scale of morality. There is scarcely a
man so depraved that he has not a redeeming trait
somewhere, through which he feels instinctively a
certain degree of reverence for a noble and virtuous
woman. While one scrupled at the thought of vio-
lating what was left 6f his dim perceptions of honor,
the other justified himself by indulging that spark
of manly feeling which really glowed in his bosom at
the thought that he might win the love of sq pure a
being, which ought to refute the charge his frie iid
brought against his character, and which had really
incensed him to persevere.
The result was his sudden exit, and his' sudden
appearance ofl the evening alluded to. After leaving
home, when his anger had time to cool, and reason
to return, so many doubts arose in his mind about
being able to accomplish his purpose within the time
specified, if at all, that he lost no spare moments in

4
K
"a
K
A
'  a

C0N~ECTICUT.             225
devising schemes for his success. Very discreet in
his blandishments and reasonable in his propositions,
the innocent heart' was beguiled and the first day of
June was appointed to celebrate their nuptials. He
would gladly have hastened it sooner, but yielding to
her feelings of regret at the thoughts of leaving her
northern home, he deferred it as long as possible,
and really acted honestly in doing so. There was
an irresistible charm about him when he gave full
play to his higher nature that would justify the con-
fidence of as pure~minded a woman as Grace Blanche.
She tried. hard to forget that any cause evdr existed
to doubt hi~ sincerity, but since the night she received
Mr. Livingston back to her friendship, she felt the
strength of his former influence. They met seldom
now, and he never mentioned the subject, feeling
that it was' too late, He could only hope that a re-
formation had taken place, and sh~ might be happy
in her new relation. It was a source of regret that
she was to leave the city, but southern corruption
had not been so fully revealed then as now, and' no
one thought of raising that question as an objection
to her departure, either in relation to her happiness
or his depoi4ment. Tier numerous friends sent their
congratulations, past rumors were forgotten, and all
seemed to go merrily as marriage bell, save that
leaden weight at her heart.
The bloom faded from her cheek, but elicited no
comment. The . wedding day came, the ceremony
was performed, and the bridal couple were cheered
with all t~ie good wishes it was possible for loving
friends to shower upon them. Ernest Livingston
19*

'I
JI-


~~1
81
'tj~
I;

A TALE OF THE

happened accidentally to be the last person of whom
she took leave, whose hand she pressed long and ten-
derly, mentally asking his forgiveness for the cold-
ness she had' once shown him. The grasp was re-
turned, he saying in a low tone, as Mr. Carletoni
stepped one side, " Remember that I shall always be
your friend."
This remark was wholly unpremeditated, and was
no sooner made than regretted for its seeming im-
propriety. Although it might be understood as a
guaranty on his part against any future broken
friendship, it sprung from no such source, and was
quickly cons rued by Mrs. Carleton as an ill-portend-
ing' omen. f a tumultuous character were her
brida anticip tions, neither unmixed with regrets nor
without the  arm of an all-confiding love.

~1

4
'-3
:1

88

~I
~f
11!
ii'
ii'
J

CHAP TER XXI.
"Who, looking backward from his manhood's prime,
Sees not the spectre of his misspent time;.
And through the shade
Of funeral cypress, planted thick behind,
Hears no reproachful whisper on the wind
* From the loved dead!"

The first year of Walter's college life drew to a
close, and Rosalind was full of joyous anticipations,
laying-every plan with reference to his return, and
neglecting no means her imagination could suggest
to enhance the pleasure of his visit with agreeable
surprises. Her mother and Ernest were equally
joyful, but her enthusiasm cast their's into the shade.
If they started a new idea, she was sure to add some-
thing to it which would increase the interest of the
.occasion. Ernest was very cager to add one, to the
list of her surprises, in which she could have no shard
being as much of a surprise to her as "to Walter, if
he could do it without at the same time giving her
pain.
This was the presentation of her picture which
had long been finished, and carefully veiled from aill
eyes except his own. She was so sensitive to the
most indirect allusion to 'that unhappy occurrence
between them, that he had not even ventured to
give her any pond lilies.
After considerable. deliberation, he decided that
~(227)

226

LI
8'


~il
'liii
I~i
11

the greatest kindness ~ovards her would be to help
her overcome this needless shrinking from recur~
rence to an event which was not worth a painful
thought, and which had long since lost eve~'y pain~
ful association. lie gathered some lilies, of which
a few yet remained, and presented them to hOr the
day before Walter's return. Notwithstanding an
effort to appear grateful for them, an expression of
pain flitted over her features.
"Rosalind," said Ernest in a serious tone,' "why
should those lilies, or any reminiscence of lasts sum~
mer' s experience cause you or me an unpleasant
sensation? Do you think you are alone in nced~
lessly disturbing your own peace by a thoughtless
act? If so, he who now stands before you can relate
a personal experience as much more painful than
yours as it' is more impossible to retrieve an error
With thb dead than with the living."
Startled from ~her motionless attitude, the lilies
dropped from her hands upon the table, and she
gave him a look of surprise, saying, "You, Ernest ?"
~' Yes. I had a mother once, as kind, as devoted
as yours, and I loved her as intensely as a child could
love a parent, ~vhich she returned by treating me as a
companion, rather than as a son over whom she might
exercise a parent's control. Our' lives in. this matter
very much resembled yours here, and perhaps my
youth wa~ as blameless as' Walter's. My mother's
health was always delicate,, though never such as to
excite alarm. I never left her until II went to college.
I know now the struggle it' must have cost her to
part with me, but I did not realize, it then. As full

228             A TALE OF THE

228

CONNECTICUT.             229
of joyous anticipations as Walter at the thought of
~the new paths of science I was about to tread, I
scarcely cast a lingering regret behind rae, and she
summoned her fortitude to bid me a cheerful good
bye, saying it was needless to caution' me against
fal1in~ into bad habits, a compliment of which It was
justly proud. Then she -wrote me such beautiful
letters which I always answered promptly. Before
I was aware, the temptations of college life were
undermining my fixed principles of conduct, and
in a thoughtless moment I yielded to importunities
to which once I would not have thought of listening.
Convinced of my folly before really committing any-
thing bad, had it not been for the associations con-
4   nectQ(l with it, probably it would have left no lasting
impression. I consented to join a party of students
in high life, for what purpose I knew not, except that
they were to meet for a convivial frolic, which needed
no nice interpretation to foresee its character among
'such a set of fellows as those who first proposed it.
Not requested to assist in the preparations, probably
knowing I was not sufficiently initiated for that, they
merely asked me to be present as a guest. At first
my conscience hesitated a hittl~, but it soon became
quieted with the reflection that there was no neces-
sity to set myself above others who were to be pres~
ent, the sons of clergymen and professional men of
th~ highest re~pectabihity in the land, not thinking
that perhaps they were taking their first lessons in
the downward career of vice. I cannot imagine
w, how it was possible for me to have remained a
whole hour in the presence of such conduct ~s I the~~e


"ii
11;
lb
'Ii
ft I

A TALE OF TIlE

witnessed; how I could have sanctioned for a mo~
mont such utter violation of' the laws of the institute~
tion, and every principle of correct habits and a
refiuied taste. Being unaccustomed to such scenes
I must have been dazzled, bewildered at what I saw,
and the congratulationis I heard passing from lip to
lip that IL was one of their number. how they ever
managed so secretly gs to carry out their plan 'suc~
cessfully without being detected, has always been a
mystery. Making no secret of it among themselves,
as the champagne was freely passed around the circle
the toast to one and another of the Faculty was
drunk, boasting of the delicious fowls their granaries
had contributed to their bacchanalian feast, and
exulting over the depletion of the kitchen larder.
suddenly, as vividly as if she had stood there before
me to utter them, the last words of my n'iother when
standi~ig in the doorway to give me her parting bene~
diction occurred to my mind. 'There is no need to
caution you against falling into bad habits,'
"I rose instantly from the table, leaving the meal
untasted, and hastened to my room. The sudden-
ness of' my departure' pi~obably stupitied their won-
der as they made no effort to detain me, or seek an
explanation. There IL found a letter written in a
strange hand, announcing the sudden illness of my
mother, who do sired my presence immediately. The
anxiety of that night and the upbraidings of con-
science I will not attempt to describe. To go from.
such a debasing scene as I had just left, to the death
bed of my beloved mother, seemed like tainting the
pure aix of heaven with the malarious exhalations of

230

CONNECTICUT.
some noxious pit. Then I recollected my neglect
in answering her last letter, the first instance of the
kind. Why it was I could not tell, but as if a
lightning flash had come from heaven to reveal me
unt;o myself, I saw at once how the excitements of
my new life were fast blunting the acute perceptions
of my moral natur'~ and how rapidly, yet uncon~
sciously, my conscience was becoming seared. The
next morning as soon as I could obtain conveyance,
I started for home, arriving at nightfall, but i~ot
until the vital spark had fl.6d. All day I had been
revolving the question in my mind how I should
meet her with that sense of guilt on my &amp;oiil ;
whether to confess it or spare her last hours the pain
of that disclosure. Facing my sin alone in that
chamber of death, what would I not have given for
one short hour to pour into her ears the tale of n~y
contrition, and hear from her lips tho sweet words
qf forgiveness. No such comfort remained. No
I~iore loving words of hers would ever again bring
sunlight to my soul, and henceforth, through the
stormy waves that had come thus early to buffet me,
no beacon smile of joy would lead inc in triumph,
nor tender admonition warn mc of danger. I now
thought I could not live. The loss of my mother
alone seemed too hard to bear, and the addition of
this terrible burden of remorse seemed hell itself.
For months I wandered in my restless agony with~
out being lilAc to fix my mind on any kind of busi..
ness, or particiPate in any pleasure. Abandoniiw
all thoughts of completing my collegiate course, IL
resolved to make a tour in the old world to visit its


232             A TALE OF THE

curiosities, and if possible, divert my. attention from
such useless regrets. While there I visited a studio
of one of the most eminent Italian artists, where a
painting of extraordinary excellence riveted my gaze.
Such exquisite coloring and perfect representation of
natural beauty, such life-like delineation of human
character I never before observed. There were
several groups in the picture, each representing differ-
cut pliases.of~ life, one of which particularly attracted
me, which I still remember as if it were but yester-
day. An old lady sat bonneted and shaxvled in the
corner, with spectacles resting ow the tip of her nose;
watching with concealed merriment a group of young
persons who were trying to manage something
they did not. understand ci, and evidently wishing her
out of the way. The scornful ~xl4ression of their
lips as they glanced backward tu see if she were
looking at them, and their uneasy glances at each
other showed as plainly as words could express,
that they knew she c~ uld give them all the informa-
tion desired, the thought of receiving which from
her they spurned. riji~ scene was evidently intend-
ed to represent the o~d adage, "Young folks think
old folks are fo~Is, and old folks know young ones
are," which was most clearly illustrated in the chuck-
ling expro~sion of the old lady's face. Though out
of keeping with the current of my thoughts, it sug-
ge~ted to me the idea, "Why not be. an artist?"
What a~ thrill went through me at that mdmnent!
It seemed like a monitor from heaven sent to calm
my troubled soul by leading it to that eternal sense
of Beauty which is the source of all inspiration,

232

L

B

forming an indi~oluble bond between man and his
Creator; as it is through it the divine perceptions
are shadowed forth in visible types of the Infinite,
and recognized by a corresponding artistic combina-
tion of the immortal attributes of the human soul.
I immediately engaged myself as a pupil nuder the
instruction of one of the most celebrated masters,
and succeeded beyond my most sanguine expecta-
tions. After sufficient practice, I undertook a sketch
of my mother from memory. I was advised not to
make the attempt as it would probably prove a fail-
ure and dampen my ardor. But my soul was alive
with the idQa, and nothing could deter it. Here
my anticipations were also realized, and the result
was a most perfect representation of' her features
and expression. Even the eyes beamed with the
serene radiance of faith and hope which constituted
such a beautiful feature of her daily life. That pic-
ture has ever since been my guiding star to lead me
to a higher life. In it I read the sweet words of
forgiveness so much desired, and the loving spirit of
charity needed to make me lenient toward the faults
of erring humanity. Formerly I had been too exact-
ing, holding others to the rigid standard I proposed
to myself, and expected to carry out, which is well
if done in the right spirit. .~s I found in my own
experience, no person knows his own power to with-
stand surrounding influences until exposed to the
temptation. That mercy we ask for ourselves we
nrnst show unto others, and judge them by their
different temperaments and comparative education
aud advantages. After sufficiently qualifying my-
20

288

C0NNEC~ICVT.


234              A TALE OF THE

self for my profession, I spent two years, at ,a ITniver-
sity in Germ
land.       any and thou returned to my native
My good fortune brought me to this j)lace
just before I formed your acquaintance, and th~ rest
you know. I have long wished to make this relation,
hot only for the relief it brings, to make another the
confident of our secret sorrow, but also to show you
how little we know of the faults of the wisest and
best in some unguarded moment of their livcs, and
how our errors as well as our virtues, may be the
stepping-stone to a higher order of perfeefion."
The sympathy excited in Rosalind by this narra~
tion imparted an unwanted degree of tenderness
which shone in ovory act and word through the day.
The admiration before felt for Ernest was increased
to unbounded reverence, feeling the force of his im-
plied admonition to reconcile her to herself and the
world. A new expresSIon appeared on her counto-
fiance, not physically so animated, but more spirit-
ually beautiful, which betokened a calm pensiveness
of experience as if she had opened a new page in the
book of life, interesting as well as affecting, and pro-
phetic of life's great purpose.
This inhised more of seriousness in Walter's re-
ception, thaim she had a~~ticil)ated, but not in such a
manner as to impair the enjoyment of the occasion,
rather enhancing its interest. When the other sur-
prises were over, Ernest improved a favorable oppor-
tunity to bring on his.
Walter and Rosalind were quietly chatting together
on the sofa after tea, when he entered with a picture
which lie handed to Walter, saying, "Here is a

CONNECTICUT.              235
present for Rosalind which is inteiiclcd to surprise
you both." Turning to her he said, "Let no uu~
pleasant associations cQnne(~ted with it disturb you,
for I want you to cherish it as I do, aniohg the
sweetest memories of life. If it shall remind us of
suffering let us remember that it is through suffering~
the soul reveals her noblest gifts."
Walter unveiled the picture, and j u~nped up with
a joyful exclamation of surprise, holding it before
the astonished eyes of Rosalind which were soon suf-
fuscd with tears at this unexpected feature of the
programme. Quickly suppressing them, she arose
without speaking and approached Ernest, throwing
her arms around his neck and kissing him in such a
natural, child-like manner as to bring fresh to mind
the memory of those happy days when the child and
the father walked together in such close and loving
companionship, not without their trials, yet blessed
in the end.
Walter's buoyant spirit was yet unclouded by
trials. Affectionate and deferential as when a child,
he exhibited a self reliance which sought no out~ido
guidance, yet so gentle and submissive in i~s nature
that it sought instinctively the protcct~ng paiioply of
a mother's blessing. The moral firmness of his
character snone conspicuously amid the temptations
V      of his new life, never for a moment swerving from
the path of duty. Even the most reckless and un-
principled of his classmates loved and honored him
for his genial temper, frankness of manners, and
the resolute stand he maintained in opposition to
their habits and vices.


CONNECTICUT.            237

CHAPTER XXLL
"Link by link th~ chain is made,
Pearl by pearl the costly braid,--
The daily thread of hopes and fears,
Weaves up the woof of many years.~
And well thy labors shall have sped,
If well thou weav'st thy daily thread."
A far more important event than anything that
occurred at home awaited Walter's return from col-
lege. James Morgan's year of probation drew to a
close. Just a year from the night they had the in-
terview, he sat down and wrote the following letter:
"My own beloved Mary,-.--One year ago to-night
I pledged myself before God, in the presence of Wal-
ter Claremont, that I would never again touch the
intoxicating cup. Through divine help and your
influence, Mary, I have kept the pledge. You may
call it selfish, but I never should have had the strength
to do it if it had not been for you. Many, many
times should I have yielded to my craving thirst, but
for the agonizing thought of being separated from
you forever. Mai~y, my angel guide, I will conceal
nothing from you, so that you shall never have it
to say that I deceived you. All my bad deeds you
know, and my struggles against temptation will not
certainly lower me in your eyes, especially when I
have triumphed over them.
One Saturday night it seemed to me I could not
live through another Sunday without some kind of
excitement. 'That is the hardest day I have, because
(236)

t
~ 2

it gives me the most leisure. Mr. Brewster and his
wife with whom I board are very kind to me, and
do every thing they can for my happiness. They*
give me a plenty of books to read, and invite ~xie to
share the society of all the company they have, as
much as if I were one of the family, but what is all
that compared with one letter to read of your hand-
writing, Mary, or an hour spent with you? As I
lay there thinking it over, and longing for a sight
at you, or a talk with Walter which you know was
impossible because h6 was away at college, it sudden-
ly occurred to me that I would slip over to ,Briar
Street Church where you go, the next day, and see
if I couldn't get a glimpse of you, Mary, it would do
me so much good. It was leaping over the bounds
I know, and running the risk of meeting my old
associates, some of whom go there, but God pro-
tected me; I did not see one of them. I kept otit
of sight until all the congregation had gone in, and
then I went in and sat down on the back seat where
nobody could se~ me. I could just get a sight at
your bonnet, that pretty little white bonnet trimmed -
with pink and white ribbon that you. know I liked so
well, Mary. Once when you turned your head round
I got a side glimpse of your face. Oh Mary! that
did me more good than all the preaching of. twenty
years against drinkiiig could have done. I felt as
if you would not disappoint me, I knew you wouldn't;
and when you leaned your head on your hand, I
knew you were praying for me, and I prayed for my-
self.
Never did music sound so sweet before. I felt as
if I was wafted on the wings of angels to a better
land where all temptation was swept away, and you
and I could b~ perfectly happy in each other's love.
Oh my own dear Mary! I am afraid this is too much
to think, that I shall, never be permitted to realize it.
ii know I am not worthy of you, that a whole life-
20*

237


238            A TALE OF TIlE                                       CONNECTICUT.            239

time is not enough to atone for my sins, and li could
not blame you if-oh no, II cannot think of that.
Do trust me, Mary.
Never since that day have I had such a strong
thirst; you overpowered it. My destiny is in your
hands,-.~-you will not cast me off. I do not doubt it
Mary, only I want it from your own lips that you
love me still, and will now become my wife. That
has been a blessed thought to me, and my greatest
support. If I could keep steady by thinking of you
how much more can I do it by being with you. Per-
haps you will think I should have done it before, but
you do not know how hard it is to resist, when every-
body around me was urging me just to drink a little,
and then I loved it so and wanted more. I did it
without thinking what the end would be. Oh! the
cursed viper! how it has maddened and tortured me.
Now you will let me come and see you, won't you?
Walter is at home and will take this letter to you.
God bless him for what he has done for me. He will
bring me word what you say, but I know what
you will say. I know you will keep your word, only
it seems almost too good to be true that I shall soon
see you, and hear you say with your own sweet lips
that you still love me JAMES MORGAN.
lit was a grave responsibility resting on Walter, to
be in any way concerned in the future destiny of
this young couple. He I~iad kept up a correspondence
with James, and written\ occasionally to Mr. Brews~
ter whom he had partially acquainted with the cir-
cumstances, in order to l~iiow better how he kept his
promises. The answers ~ie received were very s~t-
isfactory.
After he had called on James and taken charge
of this letter for Mary, it was a subject of grave dis-
cussion between himself and his mother, Ernest and

238

I

Rosalind, how far it would be wise for him to act as
negotiator between theni.
"I almost wish," said his mother, "that you had
never been mixed up with it, although it was a noble
motive that prompted you. Her father is bitterly
opposed to the union, and he thinks it is broken off.
Perhaps he will turn, her out of doors, or lock her
up, if she should receive James again, he is such a
furious man when angry."
"Suppose he should, I do not see how I could
have done otherwise, or how I can refuse to act for
tMm now. I have jiever advised Mary, of course I
should not be so weak as that, but when she made a
friend of me and asked my assistance, how could
any body help doing for Mary Kingley? Neither
would it be honorable for her to break her word with
him and refuse to see him, when lie has faithfully
performed the conditions she required for her sake."
"She will run a great risk even now" said Ernest.
"It is one thing to deny himself the gratification of
his appetite when the prize is to be won, and another
to persevere against all temptation when the die is
cast, and he knows, let come what will, there is no
longer any outward barrier to restrain him."
" Why, it would be the most cruel thing in the
world for her not to have him now when he has given
her all the proof he can of his repentance and reform.
That love is not worth much that is not 'willing tQ
trust something."
The slight tone of rebuke conveyed in these impres-
sive words of Rosalind, and the~ earnestness and en-
thusiasm with which she uttered them, excited such

289


240

A TALE OP THE

a comical smile on the lips of Ernest, that when she
glanced at him her face and neck were mantled in
crimson. Nothing more was said then upon the
subject, and Walter, who agreed most heartily with
Rosalind, acted according to his own conviction~,
and carried the letter over to Mary the next morning.
As ho was ushered into the parlor he met her
father in the hall just going out, who, hearing his
daughter s name called, gave him a cordial grasp,
saying,
"Good morning to ye sir, very glad to see ye sir.
You'll always l~e welcome, to my house and to my
well, we'll talk about that byand by sir. Ye are
pretty young yet,, but there's some folks a good deal
older'n othei~s at' the same age. llain't got through
with your college larnin' yet I 'spose. Well, that's
a fine thing to git a good dedication, may be you'll
be. President yet and beat 61d Adams all holler.
Well, they say, every dog' must have his day, and
he'll have hisen, I 'spose, but we shall oust him out
at the next election , that's spire. Mary 's a fine gal,
a fine gal, and will make on of the genteelest ladies
in the land,"
Walter was somewhat embarrassed by this an'ibig-
nous speech, but he walked into the parlor without
making any reply. Mary did not make her appear-
ance until her father was gone. Though very pale
when she entered, she grew more so on receiving the
letter, the handwriting of which she imiX'iediately
recognized. Thinking his presence might be an in-
trusion at this time, Walter took his leave, saying he
would call again the next day, and asking her if she

I

J

CONNECTICUT.

241

had any choice when. After pausing a moment she
said, "To-morrow morning at ten."
She could scarcely have felt worse on returning to
her chamber if that letter had been her death-war-
rant. It lay ,in her lap many minutes unopened.
The crisis had conic, a crisis as it were betwech life
and death. She never faltered a moment as to her
duty, nor wavered in her attachment, btit she knew
as well as Ernest the difference between maintaining
self-imposed restraints when there is an object to
be gained, and after the conditions requiring them
no longer exist. Then reproaching herself for in-
dulging in such a doubtful strain instead of re-
joicing over its contents, which she assumed to be
what they really were, she began to read it. The
tears came thick and fast, causing her to stop many
times before it was finished. stronger than any
other consideration rose the all conquering power
of love. If she refused him, not only would she
incur the risk of his ruin, but carry within her
own soul the blight occasioned by the sealing up of
her young heart's affections, which would render it
callous to every other human love. A sensation of
joy and hope, such as those only can know who have
witnessed, the rescue of a dear one from 'some immi-
nent danger and anxiously watched the signs of re-
turning consciousness, swept away every emotion of
doubt and fear, and her soul rose in thanksgiving to
Him who is the source of every joy. As the dinner,
hour approached she thought of her father and the
difficulties that awaited her in gaining his consent,
who had always boeu. an indulgent parent, and


Cl A 0

242             A TALE OF THE

therefore it would be a much harder struggle to act
counter to his wishes. lie did not como home until
tea-time. At table he looked at Mary with a very
benignant smile saying, "Well my bonnie lass, you
had a call from Master Claremont this morning didn't
you ? iI&amp;s a fine looking' youngster, improved very
much since ho's been gone, and many 's the gal that'll
envy you my lass, but be sure you keep your cyc on
the money, that's the main pint ye know."
"Father, I don't understand you, what do you
mean ? "
"All right, all ri~Iit, Mary, it's perfectly natural
that you should feel a little shy about iL; that's thd
way your mother did,, and when I went up and put
my ann round her so, ~he acted as if she~ wanted to
get away, but I guess she never had reason to be
sorry she married Nico~las Kingley, if lie was a poor
boy, and had to make his way up in ~he woi'ld, did
ye, oh! Poll?"
rp1011 f suppose you will have n ~ objection to
James Morgan, now lie is steady?"
lie started as if a revolver had whistled past his
cars.
"Jim Morgan, the wretch, have you seen him?"
"N6, I have i~ot seen him."
"Then you shall not see him so long as you live
in this house ! No ! my daughter shan't disgrace
my name by marrying a drunkard's son~ whether he
is drunk or sober ; no, never ! " bringing his fist
down with such force upon the table as to shatter
iji pieces a very delicate and curiously designed
vase standing upon it.

CONNECTICUT.
Mary's resolution was not to be shaken. As an
act of duty, it was no more than she ought to do to
atone for the wrong he had done James. Tho~igh
never lacking in filial respect, she w~s not so blinded
by indulgence as not to see in its true colors the
misery ~er father had wrought.
The nest morning she rose early and looked out
at her chamber window, which commanded a romaa~
tic view. hills and vales alternated here and there
with a sheet of water whiQh found an inlet from the
niaiii stream ; manufacturing establishments i.ose in
proud preeminence above the little low-roofed cot-
tages, that seemed to start up wherever there was a
coi~venient spot of ground to erect one ; and the
children, some half-dressed, were vicing with each
other to see who of them would venture nearest the
forbidden stream.
Just opposite the window lay the rural cemetery
in the bosom of a beautiful grove bordering on the
lake. Mary looked at the white gate she had so
often seen swung back to admit the funeral proces~
sion, bearing hither sonic precious treasure that had
been the abode of white-robed innocence, torturing
disease, or loathsome sin, whose spirit had gone to
the bar of its final Judge, freed from the prejudice~,
the temptations, and the ills of its earthly career, to
receive its due reward from the measure of impar-
tial justice; subject only to him in the light of whose
all-seeing eye every secret shall be revealed, and
every motive clearly read. She looked beyond the
toff~b, and felt that life is but a few years, a speck in
the balance of eternity, but love is immortal. What-


244

A TALE OF THE

ever changes might betide her, if, in surrendering
herself to it, she should reap a life of wretchedness
and want, because he in whom she trusted had not
strength to resist the overpoxvering influences of this
world, freight he not when taken from them become
again the pure and loving spirit lie now is? fier
present duty she saw and would perform it; the fu-
ture she must trust to God. Oh Love! what magic
is thine! no barrier so great but thou can't o'erleap
it! She took her Bible and read a chapter before
going down to breakfast. Vanquished was evei'y
trace of earthly anguish, and her father's averted
look had no terrors for her now. The meal was
eaten in silence.
As Mr. Kingley rose to go out she said to him;
Father, may I speak with you a moment ?
" You know Aiat I told you last night, " and his
voice grew husky with rage,, "if you consent to see
James Morgan, y u leave this house forever! I am
in earnest."
Mary was pre pared for this, and preserved her
composure. She saw that her only alternative was
to take her father at his w6rd and quit the house.
Where to go was the question, but she must leave
that to be decided when Walter came. Every mo-
ment was now needed to make the hasty preparations
for her departure leaving no time for reflection
or regret. ~f he canary birds in her window sung
their liveliest songs, striving to drown the music of
the little birds who sang on. the apple tree boughs,
but she scarcely breathed a sigh at the thought that
it was in all probability the last time she would ever

I

11
K
h

CONNECTICUT.

245

listen to their sweet notes, or that the step she was
about to take would sever her forever from her child-
hood's homer Hark ! what is that she hears ? A
light foot is on the stairs, a ~oft voice is in her ear;
her mother stands before her.~ " Oh Mary, you will
not leave me will you ? "
It was hard to answer that pleading. Mary was
the only. sunbeam that had cheered that poor wo-
man's existence since she had led a married life.
Tiiw~arted in her early love by the opposition and
interference of her friends, she had accepted Mr.
Kingley out of revenge on them, which, alas! fell
most heavily on herself. Neither bringing him any
love, or receiving any in return, she was borne clown
under p despotic rule which was submitted to only
1)Ccause she mnusL Her sympatl)ies were all with
Mary, whose trials called up a paii~ful reminiscence
.of hoP own bitter experience, but in tl.ie loneliness
of her heart at the though. t of being separated from
her, she almost chided her f6r permitting another
love to step between them. Mary looked at her for
a few moments with those trusting, modest blue eyes
of hers, ii ow beaming with the celestial glow of spirit-
nal triumph, saying, " Mother, it is not all of life to
live ; the future is beyond. Whatever happiness we
are deprived of in this life, we shall certainly reap
hereafter if we do our duty; or if we commit an
error, shall not he who has himself shared our weak-
ness, out of that unbounded mercy which it was his
mission to preach here oiu earth bear us in remem~
branee to the Thronp of pardoning grace, where all
sins shall be blotted out when, hike the prodigal son,
21

11
I.
IA


246             ATALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.             24'T

we feel the magnitude of our transgression, and re-
turn confidingly to the loving Father's arms who
never casts us off, but in tender compassion guards
us pityingly frdrn the pit our own hands have duo'?"
She little thougl~t as she said these last words
which had reference to James, how exactly they am
plied to her mother. Such a devoted, forgiving na-
ture as hers could never havo understood those darker
passions which would hazard its own purity and in-
tegrity in the strife betxVeen its own promptings and
the malicious designs of others. Mrs. Kingley's
heart was full. It seemed as if a now elixir of life
quickened her pulse and sent its healing balm through
every pore~ She said no more to dissuade Mary,
but lent her assistance in many little thin's tha t.she
understood best how to manage, without asking a
word of her plans and intentions. The trunk was
paQkcd and Mary was ready at ten o'clock when Wal-
ter caine. She met him with a smile, calm and
self-possessed. He had the forethought to ask his
mother's leave to invite her there to meQt James,.if
it should be deemed advisable, so that point was soon
settled to Mary's great relief. At eleven the hack
came, when she bade adieu to her childhood's home.
As her mother asked no questions she t1~ouglut it
best to give her no information of her destination,
thins enabling Mrs. Kingley to reply to her husband's
inquiries that they had held no private interview.
She gave her a long and affectionate embrace, Idaving
a message for her, father that she had acted solely
on her own responsibility, without asking or receiving
the advice of any human, being.

246

An arrangement was made for .~ames to go to Mrs.
Claremont's that evening. A great change had
taken place in his looks in one year. His large,
handsome eyes had recovered their natural, innocent
expression, and his erect bearing and reliant step be-
spoke a noble purpose, and the decision to carry it
out.
How Mary's heart fluttered as she beheld with be-
coining pride the manly form whq had wrestled with
a o'reater foe than baI1~ or sword had ever slain, and
spoke the sacred words of more than usual solemnity
to her, "I will be thine forevermore."
Under the circui~istances it was agreed that it
would not be best t6 defer the marriage more than a
mouth. When Walter and his mother were holding

I

It was not without some misgivings Mr. Kingley~
came home to innerr that day, some vague suspicion
that he should not fi1id Mary there. When convinced
that she was really gone, his rage knew no bounds.
lie cursed and sxvore, charging his wife with being
accessory to her l)lanS. When told that all she knew
about it was that a hack came and took her away,
he said, "And so you let her go all peaceably did
you? Why didn't ye sen after me you cussed hussy?
if you'd 'a gone inst ad of her it would have been
the most fortunate day Qf my life."
lie never thought that Mary would dare to go off,
his threats being intended to prevent James from
coming there. His pride forbade his makiuu~ any
Thither ii iquiries for her, and he settled down morose
and reserved.

247


248

.' A TALE OF THEU

a consultation about her remaining there, Rosalind,
as usual, decided the question.
"Oh yes, let her stay here and I will help her get
ready ; and let them 'be married here, and Walter
and I wil stand up withi them."
"Perhaps Mary will prefer to choose her own
bridesmaid," said Walter', laughing.
James wiselv decided to remain where lie was, and
hired a little-cottage of Mr. Brewster, near his own
*.1
residences, where they were to set up house-keepmng
on a small scale, their means being very limited, but
it was for them the most attractive, little home, ivluch
they would not have exchanged for a palace.
There was a plenT to. absorb Rosalind's- energies.
She worked incessantly from early morning till late
at night, and assumed the whole charge of the wed-
ding preparations, having great practical business
talent. This was a great help to Mary, who needed
the assistance of some one, whlen contending with
so many unpleasant recollections, that she would
gladly have foregone all needless ceremony. But
Ros'ahnd was not to be put off. Marriage, she said,
was something that did not take place every day,
and ought to be properly observed. She insisted
getting' her a white muslin, to corrsodwt
one of her own, so they might be dressed alike ;
and white, dhoe said, was the only color suitable for a
bride. Mary consented with her sweet, pensive
smile, though prtsigall the while that she should
never wear it afterwards. She did wear it to Rosa-
linid's ~wedding.
James came over and took tea with het every Sun-

U

I
I

21*

I

day afternoon, a custom which Ernest also observed,
so that was a joyous night at Orange;Grove.
Mrs. Claremont enjoyed it, Walter enjoyed it, and
a stranger looking on must have enjoyed the sight of
so much happiness. It is seldon we see three young
men associated, of such interesting appearance, pure
and refilled tastes -as Ernest, James and Walter.
One must feel sure in looking at them and reading
their frank, honest countenances, that if either of
them committed an error, it was the fault of the head
and not of the heart.
Those were halcyon days to all the parties,-days
which came back to the memory like the golden
tinge of suuset on the fleecy cloud after the fervid
glow of the -noontide heat. Like all other days
these must have an end, and this soft, summer hour
of twilight give way to the reality of earnestness
with which we must enter the arena of life and accept
both its sunshine and its shadows. The wedding day
arrived. There was no invited guest save Ernest,
and all went on quietly and serenely as that smiling
summer day.

ii

i

~0
4
Iii
A
i~4

CONNECTICUT.

''249


CHAPTER XXIII.
"All the world's a stage,
And all the men and women merely players;
They have their exits, and their entrances;
And one man in his time plays many parts."
flow often it happens when looking forward to a
particular event with a certain degree of pleasure,
by some capriefous freak of the nervous system our
prospects are defeated, and we experience tho reverse
of what we anticipated. It was thus with IRosalind
on Mary Kingley's wedding day. The cares she had
assumed for the last month had been somewhat ox-
haustino' and the thoughts of her own approaching
bridal agitated her as she and Walter accompanied
them to the parlor. Just as th~ ceremony was about
to commence, Milly, who was sitting by the side of
Ernest, whispered to him, "No~~ you can see how
you and Rosalind will look when you stand up."
The oddity of this remark in the midst of the so-
lemnity of the oc6asion, so out of keeping w~ith her
accustomed reserve, especially towards him, excited
an involuntary smile, which, observed by Rosalind,
brought back to her cheeks the color that had mo-
mentarily forsaken them.
The usual salutations passed, when Ernest, being
in a playful humor, and amused by her childishh per-
turbations kissed her instead of the bride, which
(250)

I

CONNECTICUT.
heighte~ied the flush on her cheeks, and gave rise to
a merry laugh all round.
The cake was passed, but i~ot the wine, and before
the evening shadows gathered, the happy couple were
enjoying themselves quietly in~ their own neat little
parlor, where they wore soon visited by Deacon
Brewster and his wife, who came to offer their con-
gratulatio~s, bringing with them a refreshing draught
of iced lemonade.
"What a pity," said Kate, as the c5riage rolled
down the avenue, "wlieii the minister was all here
and every thing was ready, that it shouldn't have
been all (lone up and saved the trouble of getting' up
another marrying. "
"You looked as white as a ghost, and trembled
like a frighit~ned bird when you took my arm," said
Walter to Rosalind after they returned to the parlor,
where she stood nervously opening and shutting her
fan, lookiiig neither grieved, vexed nor pleased, but
the personification of childish helplessness, mutely
appealing from one to the other without receiving
the assistance it craved.
"And I stood on tiptoe ready to get the selling'
salts.if you should faint ,~' remarked Kate, intruding
her head in the doorway.
"They do not know what it is to be so near be-
coming a bride do they," observed her mother, who
was immediately succeeded by Walter with the re-
mark,
"I guess, sis, you wish you hadn't been quite ~so
officious to act a pr~miuent part in the play yourself,
-rather too real, wasn't it 'U'

-' pv.d

I
ii~


252

A TALE OF THE

"I never felt so bad in my life," replied she in an
earnest, emphatic tone.
"Oh yes you have," said Ernest, in that quiet, sig~
nificant way of his, the meaning of which Rosalind
comprehended, when one of her sudden impulses
seized her, and she thrust herself unceremoniously
into his lap, pulling one of his curls with such force
that lie was obliged to interfere in its defence.
Milly laughs d at this unexpected turn of affairs
and left the rd om. She had enjoyed the day greatly,
and was thi4ing now how she, could approp~'iat~
some of its clients to her novel. Going to her
chamber, she found it already occupied by Kate,
whose mind was busily manufacturing weddings on
a scale to suit herself.
'~ Now Milly," said Kate. after singing a snatch of
a song, for she never sung a whole one, "wouldn't
it be a capital joke if we could get you married off
next. Such a funny thing, if the author of a novel
should knock the whole thing in head by getting' mar-
ried herself. Ye wouldn't find it quite such a moon-
shiny'affair I reckon, as what ye make it out in your
n6vel. Well now, we are in the business, I want to
describe Sykes' wedding . That was a most magnifi-
cent affair, and would be a mighty takin' thing for
your book. il3ut before that I must tell you some of
*his encounters with iniskeeturs, cause you know
when w person 's married, it's just the same as if they
was dead. I shouldn't want to bring him up after
wai'ds."
"I hope you. don't think you are going to impose,
* that thing on me. I never believed there was any

I

I

CONNECTICUT.

253

such person as Sykes, and you'd 'have told of his
marriage before now if there were. I don't care,
about hearhi g a d description of it."
"Nonsense Milly, there's no use in being so offlsh
~tout it. You've got to hear about Sykes' wedding ,
whctlnu you want to or not, it was such a magmfi~
cent affair. He used to love to take a nap outdoors
in the yard and IL used to love to plague him, and
he'd always thin  '          ceturs. Sometimes
I'd sprii ~kle water in his face, and when he got up
I'd ask lim if he had a good nap, and he'd snail up
his face like a knot and say, ' Yes if it hadn't been
for them tarnal critturs.'
Why Sykes ! " says I, " what if you should get
that word into your sermons, you never' d get a cub
prit's place in the world. Now ho was very fond of
Enolish titles, he always thought he descended from
the Emxhish, whi cli gin him a sort of nobility in his
f     than minister,"
own eyes, and he'd rather have the title of culprit
Curate, you mean," retorted Milly.
" No matter, it's all 'the same, if they could only
get the mouicy."
" \ Therc did it take place, in a shed or a l)alace ? "
Hush, Milly, you forgot yourself. You shculdn't
make light of sober things, and that was awfully sol-
cmii. But then it was such a magnificent affair there
had to be some extensive preparations about it. In
them days, 'twau't a great while ago though, but you
know iii country towns they have some extra building's
fdr school'oiises, and so it was thought best to lease
one o' them for the occasion, and it was fitted up in


254             A TALE OF THE

the most fitting' style for such a magnificent affair.
In them days, oh 'twan't long ago though, school
'ouses were built in a plain substantial style, xvith
rough, wooden benches, and Sykes, he had a good
deal of taste aiid he thought that wouldn't exactly
correspond, and so lie had 'em covered with black
drapery. Now he xvas such a simple, honest-hearted
sonl he didn't know the difference between a wecidin'
and a funeral, and it strikes mc there wouldn't be
so much disappiniment in the world if folks giner~
ally took that rational view of it. Now Sykes, he~
had a gQod deal of taste, and was very fond of flowers
so lie had wreathes of sunflowers all round the room,
and lie made a great bouquet of sun-flowers he meant
to have the bride hold in her hand, but she had so
much else in her hiands'~that she looked as if she was
goin' to drop it, and so lie just took it and laid it
down on the floor between 'em. Then in another
thing lie showed great taste as if he wanted to have
things about right. He liked the effect of h~vin' it
dark which xvould make it a much more magnificent
affair than as if 't was light, ~s well as more solemn.
So he had the rough board shutters closed and lit
sonic taller candles. He hadn't no candle-sticks and
he showed his common sense agini, in not hem' over
nice on such a solemn occasion. He put oiie in a
pewter mug, all pdiished up so it looked like silver,
and one, in a chany scarcer that belonged to one of his
grandmothers in England. Such associations made
it pleasant you know. Them stood, the mug in front
o' him, and the chian~r sarcer in, front o' her, so they
could see they hadn't got hold of nobody else but

I

CONNECTICUT.            255

'themselves. Then he stuck some up all round the
room in the wreathes of sun-flowers. I was afraid
they might burn down so as to set the sun-flowers
a'fire, but theii 'twas all over so quick after they got
ready there wan' t no danger. Now I've come to the
most interesting' part, how they was dressed. She
wore a green calabash on her head, "
" A what ? "
"A green calabash. Don't you know what that
is ? A sort of winuerin' mill they used to wear on the
head, with a bridle in front to hold it down, and big
enough to put a cheese inside, on each side of the
head. Then on that she had a blue gauze veil, and
on one arm a work bag with knitting' work in it; and
on the other a basket. I can't tell what kind of one
it was it wan't round nor square, but long with two
coversto it like a half moon. In that was her head-
dress, a funny sort of head gear it was tQO. It had
a broad white linen frill on one side, and sonic pink
gauze on thu other, and right in the middle on top
was the imitation of a sun-flower. I 'spose that was
the reason she couldn't wear it with her calabash
'cause that set down kind o' flat on the top of her
head. In one hand she had a yeller silk pocket
handkerchief to correspond with the sun-flower, and
in the other which had on a gentlema~9s black kid
glove, she held a smelling' bottle. That's where they
showed their good sense agin, 'cause if any body
ever wants smelhin' bottles, then's the time. Then
she had on' pin silk stocking's and cowhide shoes, and
he had on white slippers and blue cotton stocking's.

J


2.56         A TALE OF THE.                                               CON~TC                      5

"Oh dear! don't give any more of your shocking
descriptions."
"Why that was sensible, and Sykes was one that
never would let his taste outrun his good sense.
She might have damped hei~ feet and took cold, wonmn
are so kind o' tender you know, excep' ~vheii they
have a shiftless husband to tak&amp;care of. Next come
the ceremony which was very imposing. It was ab
together the most magnificent affair you ever wit-
nessed
" When the Squire that was to marry 'em asked
him if he would promi~c to love and. take good, care
of her ~nd so on, just as if his sayjn' so would make
any difference, he pulled back her calabash and gin
her such a smack yoi~i could 'a heard it h~df a mile,
and says he, ' That's what I reckon II will. '7
" What did she say ? did she promise to obey ? "
Oh 'she ~was all kind 'o took aback, and then was
the time she used the smehlin' bottle. Well, th~e
Squire waited until she recovered her senses agin,
so she would fully understand what he was sayin'
to her, and then proceeded in a solenm voice to tell
her how she must honor and obey luni in all things
whether sick or well, drunk or sober, and then the
poor thing went clean off. Howbeit, with the use
of the s'nelHn' bottle she come to agin, and the Squire
he was very considerate, he didn't exact any promise
of her and it was just as well as if lie had, 'cause it's
no inatt&amp;r how much a woman pron~ises she always
means to have her own way if she can get it."
" That's th~ end of the chapter is it, about long
enough I think."

V

* " That's the last I ever heard of 'em. I e4ect
he's preached himself into paradise, and his wife
into purgatory long 'fore this."
"Then he didn't think so much of her afterwards ?"
"Of course he wouldn't, who does ? There's
something' kind o' strange about some o' them things.
I never could understand it no how. You take a
couple 'fore they's married, and how careful they'll
be of each other, as if the very earth wa'nt' good
enough for 'em to walk on, and then 'fore the year 's
out half on 'em would git unmarried agin if they
could."
"They should have a bottle of smelling salts by
them all the time."
"Then another thing 's mighty strange~ when a
body dies, how mighty good they is all at once. I
never thought my old man was any better for hem'
dead."
"Well, James and. Mary are married, and I be~
hieve they will be happy."
* 22

256

257


*

GUAPTER XXIV

"Go, feel what I have felt,
Go, bear what I have borne-
Sink 'neath the blows a father dealt,
And the cold proud world's scorn-
Thus struggle on from year to, year,
Thy sole relief, the scalding tear.
Go, weep as I have wept,
O'er a loved their'ss fall,
See every cherished promise swept,
Youth's swec~ness turned to gall,
Hope's faded flower strewed all the way
That led me up to woman's day."
To some it is given to reach the haven of domestic
peace and happiness through troubled seas and stormy
winds~-to others, is appointed a stern hife~work as
rich in experience, as susceptible of infinite joys, as
keenly alive to the sorrows of the human family, as
if they had tasted all the varied emotions of bliss
and pain that lie within the charmed circle of home.
To this latter class Amelia was assigned. Nothing
had occurred to enliven her lot,-~-nothing save the
constant communings of her spirit with that invisi-
ble Presence, which was drawing her more and more
under the shadow oi~ its own protecting love, silently
moulding her for her future, destiny.
She had becir an uninterested observer of the
events here recorded ,~uninterested because they
werebut atoms in the great world of joy and sorrow
(258)

CONNECTICUT.            259

I

I

which was opening, like a prismatic view in every
shade of coloring, before her awakening faculties
and higher consciousness of a duty to be performed.
Was that duty to devolve on her,-insigniflcant,
uneducated as she was? without a friend to sustain
her, or one even to whom she might confide the no-
ble impulses of her soul, and, in return, receive
sympathizing counsel?
The past, with its sufferings, rose up to urge her
on; the present, with its oppressive inaction, was un-
endurable; and the future. presented no attraction,
save as it should veap through her some inestimable
benefit to the world.
She ~aw all around her evidences of the des6lating
scourge th6t had robbed her of her childhood, blighted
the fair promises of early womanhood, laid her pa-
rents in dishonored graves, and now hung like a pall
over the budding hopes of every hearth-stone in .the
sand. Was there not work here?
But what could she expect to do. when the mighty
ones of the earth were silent? True, there was
sometimes an effort made, rarely a successful one,
to save an individual, wliile tens of thousands were
every day rushing into the~ whirling vortex. The
church occasionally breathed its anathemas against
excessive driukimi g, which availed little, since it would
have toppled to the ground if its denunciations had
fallen on the heads of those who had growim to be its
chief pillars and support through the ill gotten gains
they had derived from holding out temptations to
that very class whose wiek~dness was comxdemned.
surely, a P~amIid responsibility rested somewhere,~a


260              X TALE OP TILE

CONNECTICUT.            261

stern necessity ~vas laid on some one to cry out
against the wi6kedness.~ If the strong ones were
silent it might be because their experience had not
been like her own.
Had not the weak things of this world been chosen
to confound the strong? Was not He who had corn-
missioned her for this work able to guide and sustain
her through it? But then, perhaps he had not
chosen her, and she was only the victim of her own
delusions, the ~elPsent messenger on an errand die-
tated by the morbid sympathies flowing from her
own sufferings. She would banish then~i forever
from her mind, rise in the morning with a firm de-
termination to harbor no more such irrational con-
clusions, and resume her daily task contented and
cheerful.
The next morning was sure to bring a stronger
conviction of her own duty, a greater restlessness
under the self-imposed restrictions of it, and she sub
emitted to what seemed to be the only alternative to
decide the point. She must make the attempt, and
the result would very soon show under whose leader-
ship she acted; the mortification of a failure being
no harder to be borne, than present upbraidings of
conscience, arising from resistance to this conviction.
* Her resolution once formed she must confide it to
some friend who would be willing to assist her, and
she selected James Morgan. He did not give her
the desired encouragement, but she was not Ais-
heartened. The idea struck him as a novel one, and
coming from suel a source he had serious doubts of
it~ results in aid f the cause. Her design was to

give a public lecture in the village where he resided,
choosing that place instead of her own city, as it
would relieve her of ninny of the embarrassments
that would attend her where better known. lit was
almost an unheard of thing for a woman to speak in
public at all, and that Amelia should propose su~h a
thing seemed a most absurd delusion. Finding she
was not to be dissuaded, he promised to consult his
old friend, Mr. Brewster, who was an Orthodox dea-
con of high standing in the church, and also a select-
man of great influence in the town. To his surprise
he heartily approved of it and encouraged Amelia to
go on, saying,- "Ocd only knows what great good
may come of an ii~sigi~ificant beginning." Strangers
are much more ready to trust a person in a new en-
terprise than well known friends, as it is not easy to
get over early impressions, or forget known faults
which seriously detract from admitted virtues.
Deacon Brewster, however, was no distrusting sort
of man. He encouraged people by trusting them,
not blindly, but with a great deal of discretion and
sound judgment. Amelia's unyielding determfna-
tion impressed him favorably, and he dared not, if
he felt doubts, discourage the least attempt to stay
the swelling tide of intemperance.
A firm adherent to the rituals of the church, he
n~vee considered his creed too sacred to be tested by
deeds. No construction of, Scripture texts ever de-
terred him from giving his heart and hand to every
effort for the elevation of the human race.
If one quoted St. Paul against woman, he quoted
Jesus against St. Paul. If ho Was cautioned against
22*


262              A TAL1~ 01' TEI~I                                           CONNECTICUT.               26~

the danger of innovations, he cited Christ,. the
prophets and apostles as the greatest innovators for
the banishment of' all existing wrongs wherever
found. "Whatever thy heart and thy hand find to
do, that shalt thou do," was his* motto. If those
who promised well for a time gave out, he was neither
discouraged nor lost his faith in human nature. If
he subscribed to the doctrine of total depravity, he
could not obliterate the lurking consciousness some-
where that in every individual, however vicious and
depraved, was a gTham of the divinity of manhood,
which commended him to the everlasting mercy of
an ever merciful God, to which he appealed in love
and trust, not in fear and anger, aiA his labors were
fruitful.
The arrangements were made for Ameliato speak
in the school~houseas she preferred that for her first
~ttenipt to the church, which he offered to obtain for
her. He also kindly volunteered to preside, after
assisting her in every other way. It was crowded
and surrounded with eager listeners; some, out of
curiosity, others, especially. women, from their heart-
felt sympathy and interest in the cause.
As she passed through the crowd with Mr. Brewster,
many remarks, some not very flattering, reached her
ears. There were groups collected in every corner
discussing the subject, in o~e of which she distin-
guished two or three familiar voices* inveighing
against the propriety of women appearing in public,
an.d predicting certain failure. One was the \voll
known YQiOO of Mr~ Kingley ,'greatly excited.
":1 should like to I~now what business it is of her'n,

262.

and~the long and short on~t is that it ain't none of
her business, and she shan't meddle with our'n, she
shall be put down and I'll raise a ~ow to stop her
mouth the first. word."
"Hush! keep still, and let her make a fool of her-
self if ~he wants to, I'll risk all the damage she does
to our business, the boys will hoot her out of town.
Let her alone, and I'll warrant a brisker trade to-
morrow than we've had yet. I wouldn't take no no-
tice of such a little upstart."
"A pity we took notice ~n~oug1i on her to come
and hear her Ii think," said a third, "but I kind o'
wanted to see what Bill Crawford's darter expects
she is goin' to do agin us all. Any body 'd 'spose
she thought she'd got some mighty big blood in her
veins, to think what's got to be endured can be
cured."
Some little confusion ensued after the remarks of
the last speaker who was about half deprived of his
reason, and clearly not one of the "caste" who dealt
out the poison. rho equivocal sound of his last sen-
tence gave great offence.
A fourth stepped in as a mediator. "Let her
alone," said he, " and she will soon show herself out,
tbr nobody will, run after such a whim but silly, weak-
minded wives, disconsolate widows, and discontented
old maids."
This was evidently thought a good hit from the
coarse laugh that foAowed, and very creditable to the
profound sense of the lawyer dandy who uttered it
and afterwards marched into the school-house with a
very comfortable appreciation of his own merits.

268


264             A TALfl OP TIfl~                                          CONNECTICUT.             265

Amelia heard this conversation as they slowly ad-
vanced, halting every moment for the crowd to give
way, who were apparently unconscious of her iden-
tity with the they had turned out to hear.
She looked very much like other people, and they
expected to see-~-an elephant. There was .no little
dissatisfaction and disappointment among curiosity
seekers when she took her seat.
Deacon Brewster rose and addressed them briefly.
"My friends," said he, "1 congratulate you upon
the privilege that awaits you to-night in listening to
one who has herself experienced the evils flowing
from the curse of intemperance, which no pen is ad-
equate to describe, and of which no lips can in any
measure set before you the reality of its fearful rav-
ages. Yet she has suffei~ed no more than thousands
of others, no more than some of you; but as none
ean suffer who have not in some form fallen victims
to this terrible scourge. \ Look around you, ask for
the greatest cause that has peopled your jails, your
* asylums, your almshous~s, and your penitentiaries;
the answer will come back in thunder tones-~--.Jntei~-
perance!
"Ask what has desolated so many homes, turned
so many innocent children beggars into the street,
plundered and dishonored so many defenseless wo-
men in ~he bloom of youth and beauty; we hear the
dismal echo-Rum!
'~ Seek the causes that most disgrace society any-
where and you will find them in the bloated forms
and blighted manhoc~d of those who have sacrificed
talent, honor, and the noble aspirations God gave

264

Wi

1

them, in the maddening pleasures of the bowl. I
welcome woman to this stand. She who has suffered
p     most must be the one to exert the greatest influence
in this holy cause.
"When a man becomes so degraded ~1s to accept
i.    the gutter for his lodging place, he is insensible to all
the refinement of his nature, and does not realize
his situation, while his wife is compelled to witness
from day to day the gradual sinking of her brightest
hopes and noblest conceptions of what constitutes a
pure and honorable manhood, down, down below the
lowest attributes of.the brute creation. Oh, woman I
what hast thou not suffered! Never until speech is
given to the green sods of the valley, which have in-
terposed their friendly hands to shield forevermore
from mortal suffering the mouldering dust that has
lain down in gladness to embrace the cold mother
earth as its dearest protector, *~ill be known what
agonies have been thine! 0! young maiden! now
weaving beautiful visions of the future ; young men
rejoicing in the strength of youth, with the future's
unclouded prospects before you, would you know
the direst fo6 you have to dread, the wariest serpent
that will infuse into your brightest anticipations the
bitterest, rankest gall and wormwood mortals cai~
partake,-it is the intoxicating cup."
r
As Amelia rose, a sinking sei~sation began to creep
over her, when she cast her eye in one corner where
Mr. Kingley sat crossed-legged, arms folded across
his chest, head leaning one side, and his scornful
eyes peering at her with a malignity that reminded
her of one particular evening, when her mother,

265


267

266            A TALE OF THE                                            CONNECTICUT.

goaded to desperation, implored him for her sake
and for her child, if nothing more, to sell her hus-
band no more drink. With brazen impudence he
took hold of her roughly and pointed to the street,
when she, not heeding where she went, fell down
several stone steps, from the painful effects of which
she never recovered. There was no more weakness,
no more trembling, no more hesitation,-~--only tho
bitter. memories of the past 5w filled her mind.
"Friends,~' said she, "~~ou may think an apology
is due from hie for presuming to address you, young
and inexperienced as I am, unqualified as I feel my-
self to be for the position I now occupy,-4ut, my
friends, there are sorrows before which weakness and
inefficiency rise into strength and iiidomit~ble perse-,
veran~e, circumstances under which timidity and
doubt vanish before the sure and irresistible tread of
that invincible courage born of suffering and despair.
"I am not here to tell you of single instances of
cruelty and starvation, or midnight broils that have
resulted in the prison or the gallows, all of which
are as familiar to you as the stars that t~vinkle over
our heads to-night.
"I am here to speak in the name of woman for
all that she holds deai~ and sacred in the heaven of
domestic life ;-to plead for the rights of innocent
childhood, which have been violated by those who, in
assuming the highest responsibilities God has im-
posed, have turned traitors to the holiest instincts of
their being, by consigning to a life of misery and
degradation, those immortal germs which they had
no right to accept from the Father's hand, save to

266

I

train them in the paths of virtue, purity and love,
that they may be shining stars in his diadem forever.
Is not woman a responsible agent in society? Does
it not devolve on her more than on man so to culti-
vate the faculties of the child,, that they may expand
into the full fruition of the glorious birthright which
is the heritage of all mankind, and grow like unto
him, in whose image they were created, in goodness
and perfection?
"Can she, do this, while in the land preys a vam~
pire sucking out the life~bIood of all that is pure and
noble, loving and generous iii husband, father, and
son; making them the dregs of society  burdens on
its resources, and a miasma hilts moral atmosphere,
thus counteracting the refining influences she in-
spires, and the lessons she would daily~ instil into the
minds of her ~1illdr~n?
"Shall woman then be silent? Has she not re~
possibilities as a mother that rise above and beyond
all momentary considerations, even above the iiar-.
row limits custom has assigned her, that should urge
her to raise her voice against the mighty tide of sen-
sualism and debauchery that meets her at the thres-
hold of those high and momentous duties, which, if
they prove not life's highest blessings, will, be its
greatest curse?
"Woman fats a right to speak, because she is the
greatest sufferer. When her husband and son are
maddened by the excitement of strong drink, insen-
sible to the wreck they have made of themselves, it
is she who sits trembling and shuddering at hon~,
starting at every sound, listening to every foot-fall


268             A TALE OF THE                                             CONNECTICUT.             269

which, in the dread silence of the night, is the por~
tentous omen for the coming morrow.
"What hope has she to cheer her? what sign of
joy comes to penetrate. the gloom closing thicker and
darker around her little ones, for whom alas! she
sees nothing but a future of degradation and shame.
"Oh, God! the sufferer's friend! Thou alone
knowest the wringing anguish, the desolation of sor~
row that has made its home in thou~ ands bf poor
mother's hearts, to be revealed only ~in that judg-
inent day when the tempter and his victim shall be
summoned to the bar of eternal justic~, supplicants
for that mercy which, while extended to all, abates
naught of the exact measurement of the relative
claims of each, neither absolves any from the right-
eons law of retribution which visits them in due pro-
portion to their guilt.
*     "The first and most important question for us to
decide, is the person to whom attaches the greatest
* guilt. Where is the fountain-source of this long
catalogue' of woes? It is of little use to lop the
branches while the root is left untouched. It is
wrong, as well as useless, to condemn the drinker
and spare the seller, if we wish to eradicate the evil.
Eradicate it? You will doubtless say that is impos~
sible, and perhaps it is, so loi~ig as avarice and selfish-
ness rule the human heart. But we may place it
wider the ban of society, we may award to it the
same condemnation as t~ other sins, and, like high-
way robbery, make it the exception,-not the rule.
Is it not ten-fold worse?
"The highway robber only plunders the pocket;

268

6

the man who sells liqilKor sends both the body and
soul of his victim into, the hell-fire of the most loathe
some corruption and deathless remorse. My friends,
ar~ there any among you who have felt the drunk~
ard's remorse? Is it not the most perfect exempli-
cation of the horrors of the burning pit it is possible
to conceive?
"Stung with reproach at the thought of' what he
might have been, tortured by a raging thirst beyond
human power to assuage, life presents a fearful prec-
ipice, whence, to look back is misery and woe; to
look forward is the ghastly blight of immortal powers
and aspirations destined for the development of god-
like capacities, which, from their perversion, goad
him with a double edge in those momentary gleams
of reason aiXd consciousness, when, in utter despair,
he strives to drown them all by plunging into still
greater excesses. Is his guilt t6 be compared with'
that of the other, who, in t1~ full possession of his
faculties, in the broad daylight of the wretchedness
and wo his hand has wrought, still deals out the
deadly poison to continue the work of desolation?
Is he any more deserving of the penalty of the law
for crime committed under the influence of strong
drink, than he who lets him have 'it, knowing its pei~-
nicious effect'?"
Fixing her eyes on Mr. Kingley, who sat with head
down, and his cap pulled over his face, as if
screen himself as much as possible from the gaze
of the crowd, she continued, "If there are any
within sound of my voice 'to-night who presume to'
set at defiance the laws of God, the welfare of society,
23

269


A TALE OF' TILE

CONNECTICUT.

the sacred claims of' the family, by sending this
flaming scourge into thousands of ~ which
would otherwise have been the abodes of happiness
and plenty, I implore them as one who has suffered
too much to cherish towards them one revengeful
feeling, to take this question home to their own fire~
sides, to put it to their own conscience, as men who
must one day answer to the query, 'Where is thy
brother?'
"Is there not a ~park of the smothered instinct of
humanity left to tjrer4de at the accusing voices that
shall rise from l~eart-broken wives and mothers,
starving babes, 'an d the ghastly wrecks of what were
once stamped with the nobility of manhood, radiant
with health and buoyant with hope?
"As you hope for happiness hereaft~, and pray
to be forgiven, I beseech you in the name of all that
is pure and holy, just and true; in the name of
every man who values honor and virtue; in the
name of every woman who values the sanctity of
home as the essential i'e quisite for the development
of those qualities that constitute the ornament of
society; in the name of every child whose claims
upon parental love and care have been ruthlessly set
at nought, I implore and beseech you to turn aside
from' your evil doings, and endeavor to atone in some
measure fbr the past by good works in the future,
striving to bind up the wounds you have inflicted,
and heal the hearts you have broken."
11cr remarks were listened to throughout with
deep attention,.-.iiot a murmur of disapprobation
was heard, and young men who had gone there to

I;

jeer and taunt, came away with Veverence and plau-
dits for the youthful speaker, many of whom went
up to sign the pledge Mr. Brewster had drawn up.
When she closed there was manifested a deep sen-
sation among the crowd, in the midst of which arose
an old man apparently, with trembling limbs and the
other accompaniments of an unsteady life, who spoke
with a loud voice, saying,-
"I want to make a temperance speech!"
A general titter ran through the groups of boys
collected here and there in every available space,
which increased as he went forward to occupy the
desk at Mr. Brewster's solicitation.
"Young men," said he, "look at me. You may
laugh at 'me now, for if you set aside the pity 'I
ought to inspire, I must indeed cut a ridiculous fig-
ure. 1 was once young like you, the pride of my
motherland the joy and support of my father, who;
thank God, ~vent to his home in heaven before he
was aware of the curse I was to bring on his honored
name. The world was just ais full of attractions to
me as it is to you, and Ii indulged, in all *the joyous
anticipations of honor and fame common to every
boy as he verges into manhood.
"Look at mc iiow, you see what I am,-a looking
glass for you all. You think me old, butl tell you
if it had not~eeii for rum I should still be in the full
vigor of life, in the. flush enjoyment of all my facul-
ties. Do you think I meant to be what I am when
I first touched the drunkard's cup? Ahi! I abhorred
that word drunkard as much as you can. I don't
know but Ii should havc knocked a man down if he

1.

270

271

'I


272

A TALE OF T1fl~

had told me I should ever be a drunkard. But you
see what I am; my tottering form, my bloated face,
my tattered garments; for I tell you what if is,
young men, a drunkard will always be in rags,-it
is not in the power of any woman to keep him tidy
and clean.
"I despise myself not only for what I am, but for
what I have made others become, victims of the
drunkard's curse. What you have heard tonight is
but a faint picture of all its miseries, and I tell you
wbat it is, that the lake of eternal torments is the
mildest picture that can be drawn of the tortures of
remorse aWaiting the drunkard's reflecting moments.
"And now I am going to sign the pledge, and
leave my children the consolation that their father
died a sober death as a slight amend for bequeathing
them such a miserable legacy as my own debauched
life. Young woman, go on! and heaven will bless
you. You are not the first woman who has been a
blessing to me."
He grasped the pCII co~vaLively and wrote his
name with a firm though trembling hand. A breath~
less silence pervaded the room, and all eyes were
fixed on Henry Morgan, foi~ such was his name; the
father of James; on Mr. Kingley, whose head was
now bowed down upon his knee~; upon James and
Mary who sat a few, seats behind him, both of whom
.were deeply affected. The tempter and his victim
were confronted, the scales were about to be adjusted
in accordance with the sure and uiierring justice of
heaven.
It was the first time Mary had seen her father since

I

CONNECTICUT,

278

he refused to listen to her before her marriage. She
was agitated with ~ningled emotions of pity, affection,
and sympathy with all the sentiments that had been
expressed.
Mr. Kingley never after flourished as before!
Never since he turned Mary from his door had he
been regarded with the same respect, even by his
companions, and that hardening of his heart put out
the little ray of warmth she had excited in his rough
and ungenial nature. He did not relinquish his
business, but reverses swept over him, and, he at last
received a mortal injury in the attempt to put out of
his house two intoxicated men who resisted him with
a savage fury.
28*

Ii

I]
'I
I:
4
4
4


CHAPTER XXV.
"The hours are viewless angels,.
That still go gliding'by,
And bear each minute's record up.
To Him who sits on high."
The f~w weeks of Walter's vacation in the sum~
mer passed so quickly that Rosalind scarcely realized
their flight until the time came for his departure.
Every moment was so occupied, and events of such
interest and importance transpired, that it left very
little of the impression of a holiday recreation to any
of the parties. When the excitement was over and
the hous~ settled into its usual quiet, the active,
restless spirit of Rosalipd was far from being con-
tented and happy, even in anticipation of the pleas-
ant prospects before her. Her visits to Mart Kingley
were very frequent, and, excepting the time ~he spent
with Ernest, they constituted the happie4 part of
her life through the ensuing autumn. TI~e promi-
iieut part her brother had acted in effectin~ James
Morgan's reformation, aiid the wide scope recently
given to the genius of her own mind, were the kind
of life she coveted, and having once tasted the enjoy~
mont of it, nothing less could satisfy her. She was
so original in character that it was impossible to fall
into the common ways of the rest of the world and
(274)

I
I

CONNEC~~IOUT.

275

take hold of an enterprise already started with any
egree of enthusiasm.
When the news of Amelia's successful uiidertaking
reached her she was more dissatisfied thaw ever.
That she, a girl of no culture, no advantages, no
friends,, and apparently below the average of people
in point of talent, should have so far outdone her,
who had all these advantages, made her own lifer
seem very insignificant. Neither was. she lacking in
experience, tl~e deepest source of inspiration, for few
of hex' age had passed through a sterner discipline.
/ She felt no prompting to such a mission, hut the
boldness and independence of the step commanded'~
her warmest admiration.
Amelia possessed an advantage in. not having' any
position to sacrifice, but on. the contrary, a reputation
togain in the course she was pursuing. If in the
eyes of the world she was .stepping out of her~ sphere,
no one could deny an amount of energy and ability.
which surprised them all, and won a certain kind
of respect. Being of too gentle a nature to exhibit
those prominent traits of decision and self-will which
are apt to be conspicuous in those who contend suc~
cessfuhly with opposition, she could be accused~ of
nothingg unfeminine in manner or speech, and the.
deep religious feeling pervading all her actions only:
added to the prevailing sentiment of the higher re~
ligious nature attributed to woman. There was no
longer a lack of animation, a new life coursed through
her veins and radiated every feature. Friendsgath~
ered around her, not. only from among those she had
risen to save, but from all classes.

II

I ii
ii
ti~~

Ii
.tI~
ij
Ii
lit'
ii
I~l
Pt
i/f
jill
ut'
Pt
i/i
iiii
i/i

L
'II
I
l~i

I


276

A TALE OF THE

An incident soon occurred, however, which was
sufficient to engage IRosalind's mind, and start a train
of thought that was not likely soon to be exhausted.
A crime had been committed, and suspicion fas-
tened upon a poor young girl, who led a Wander-
ing life and obtained a living, no one knew how.
Valuable goods had been stolen, and her presence
the same day at the store whence they were taken
was considered sufficient proof to warrant her arrest.
The missing articles were also found in the building
whither she resorted, of which th~ other inmates de-
clared themselves wholly ignorant, and she was si-
lent, making UQ reply t~ aiiy interrogatories addressed
to her. Her stolid indifference surprised even the
hardened officials who took her in ci~stody, and
yet there was something in her face in strik~n g coii-
trast with her apparent recklessness. An air of in-
nocence breathed through her demeanor, wholly
irreconcilable with the low companionship she seemed
to have chosen; but neither persuasion nor entreaty
could draw from her a single word of her history.
When asked if she had any friends who would in~
terest themselves in her favor, she resolutely shook
her head, and it was evident to all that she must
suffer the full penalty of the law, so strongly conch
sive of her guilt were all the circumstances against
her, while no one appeared in her behalf.
Amelia had frequent interviews with her, and
after repeated attempts succeeded in drawing her
into conversation.. She denied all participation in
the theft, but confessed to a partial knowledge of
it. By degrees Amelia drew from her a sketch of

I
I

277

her life, degraded enough, yet free from aeti~ia1 guilt
or personal dishonor and extremely touching. Amelia
related some of the leading incidents to Mr. Brewster
and his wife, and also to James Morgan, all of whom
felt a deep interest in the prisoner, and a strong de-
sire that she should have able counsel. To this, how-
ever, she seemed perfectly indifferent, refusing to
communicate to any one but Amelia.
The pen of an author may sketch in glowing pic-
tures the story of some isolated sufferer, whether the
creature of fact or fiction, which shall stir every gen-
erous emotion. of the soul, while every day, had we
but eyes to see; and hearts to feel, the same incidents
are coming within the range of our observation,
and we carelessly pass them by without a thought.
The real poetry of the soul which it is the true fune-
tion of the novelist to portray, fails to make itself
felt in its daily contact with others, unless there is a
corresponding delicacy of perception which is able to
distinguish the lineaments of real suffering from the
impositions so often practiced in its name.
Fortunately it happened that Walter was at home
at the time the trial was coming~ on, and having
been acquainted with the facts, resolved to defend
her himself. True to the choice of his boyhood,
his mind was still fixed on the legal profession as
the pursuit of his life, toward, which he looked as
the goal of a laudable ambition, where he would
have ample opportunities to befriend the friendless,
as well as to gratify hi~ own ardent aspirations. This
ease enlisted all the benevolent impulses of his soul,
and kiu~ied anew. the enthusiasm he had ever felt

I'll
~Ij1 i
~ll
1.~

w
i
Y
ii'

I

CONNECTICUT.


i!1
~II!I
1111
JBi

A TALE OP TH'~

in the study that science reverently' described as
"Law, which \has her seat in the bosom of God."
Without solicitation, or even preparation, he took his
scat in the co~irt-room,. and listened to all the OV~
dence, carefully observing the prisoner who stood
with downcast eyes, manifesting the same indiffer-
ence, scarcely appearing to notice anything that was
said or done, until Walter arose, when those who
observed her, perceived a slight tremor, a flashing of
the eye when he began, which gradually softened as
he went on. He spoke strongly against the danger
of accepting circumstantial evidence as the conclu-
sive proof of her guilt, discussed the divine nature
of law, and the solemn responsibilities resting 011
those who assume its official duties, to see to it that
injusticQ is done to none, urgiiig the oft-repeated
truism that it is better for a dozen guilty to escape
than that one innocent should suffer. He then
alluded to the possible circumstances of her child-
hood, the friendlessness of her position, the helpless-
ness of her situation, and drew a vivid picture of all
the difficulties attending "a homeless, penniless fe-
male sent from door to door in destitution and
misery until every spark of self-respect has fled, and
she gladly' accepts the meanest hovel proffered by the
* lowest and basest of humankind, if so she may shel-
ter her head from the biting blast of the north wind,
and the still more biting sarcasm which too often
awaits her at the rich man's door. Is she to be in~.
discriminately condemned, because, perchance, the
* frowns of the respectable have compelled her to ac-
cept the charities of the vilest? At whose door lies

278

CONNECTICUT.

279

I
4
"4
44

the greater guilt? At hers, or that of the millionaire
who, while his hands horde the wealth fortune has
lavished upon him, regardless of her appeal, lends
his influence to keep her where she is by withholdip~
the assistance and encouragement which might sav~e
her from such a life of degradation, and which it is
his highest duty as a christian to render. Think of
a young woman whose misfortune may be her great-
est crime, dragged to these halls. on the mere breath
of suspicion, where no friendly woman's voice shall
cheer her, no kindly face shall beam on her in sym-
* pathy with her woman's nature, and yet for all that
it may be that she here meets with the greatest kind-'
ness her life has known,"-
*   A shriek from the prisoner here interrupted him,
and her indifference now gave way to raving demon-
stration s. The, proceedings were suspended, and she
was remanded to her cell a maniac. The judge and
jury were released from giving their decision, for a
higher tribunal than theirs wq~s to award the verdict.
A physician was called in who expressed no hope of
her recovery, and advised her removal to a more
commodious apartment as soon as the paroxysm sub~
sided; her strength being too far gone to sustain her
much longer in that state of excitement. She was
removed to an upper chamber of the prison, where%
in a few days she became. calm. Her first rational
words were t~ask for the counsel who had defended
her.
Walter was sent for, and when he entered her
room, she exclaimed,

ii
ii


CONNECTICUT.            281

~8O.             A TALE OF TEE

"May God, forgive me the wrong I have done you,
and done myself!"
Walter extended his hand, and requested an ex~-
planation.
She was very weak, and the effort that exclama-
tion cost her had iiearly wasted the little strength
she had. Desiring to be raised in the bed, she looked
round the chamber, and fully consc~ou~ of ~hwt had
taken place, and where she was, spoke hi substance
as follows:
"Here I am within the walls of a prison, awaiting
the penalty of the law, instead df sharing its protec-
tion, if God should see fit to spare me; and yet I
speak the truth when I say that never before since
my mother l~ft me, have I been so comfortably pro~
vided for, or kindly eared for. For four years your
face has haunted me; yes, you have been the evil
genius that has driven me to desperation. Nay, do
not start, it was all my fault, I see now how wicked
it was in me, but I did not know any better, and
there was nobody to teach me."
She stopped, and closed her eyes as if to shut out
some bitter memory, then rallied again and pro-
ceeded. Her voice was fainter iiow, and Walter
would have had her rest, but lie feared it was the
last opportunity, and his curiosity was greatly ex-
cited to know what strange connection he had with
her.
"My mother," said she, and she lowered her voice
to a whisper, as if afraid even to speak it now, "was
a slave. She ran. away before I was born and came
north, where she lived until I was ten years old.

She used to tell me about it, and try to assure her~
self' that she was safe now and had nothing more to
fear, but child as I was, I knew she was afraid of
something, by the way she used to start when she
heard an unusual noise, or when a stranger spoke to
her. She would tell me sometimes that if ever any~
.body attempted to carry her off, never to tell that she
was my mother, for then they would take too,
and that was what she ran away for so that I should
not be a slave. I am quite white you see, she said
I had my father's complexion, who was her master,
and therefore a white man. She would not let me
call her mother, but maimny, as the most sure way
to escape detection. I. dou~t remember hcw she
lived and got along with me, I only remember these
things that I wish I could forget, for they have
burned my very soul ou~ of me. They came and
took her one day when she was at work at a tavern,
a~id I saw her go. She rn~de no outcry. I have
wondered so many times since why she did not, but
perhaps it was for my sake, thinking if she went
peaceably I should not be discovered. She gave me
one agonizing look, and motioned me to be still. I
suppose she thought it impossible for me to have so
hard a fate here under any circumstances as I should
meet th&amp;re. i~erhaps not, but this is a hard world.
I only ask tha1~ I may die now, and II will trust the
mercy of God4'
She sunk back exhausted, but revived again in a
few i~oments.
* "After she was gone I was afraid of everybody,
afraid they would carry me off too, and I wandered
24

8

:


282              A TALB OF THK

about begging a subsistence, going every night to a.
place where my mother had made it her home; but
they soon got tired of me, and treated me harshly if
I failed to~- bring them home something. After a
while found it was impossible to get enough to sat-
isfy my own hunger; and one dark, stormy night,
when I was suffering intensely with cold and hunger,
not daring to go home, as I called it, I thought I
would try some of the rich folk's houses, and see if
I could get something there.. Seeing a bright light
in a large house standing a little back from the
street, I ventured to go there, and before I dared to
knock, I peeped through the window; and then a
dog barked and frightened me, and I ran off. That
night, and what I saw ~through the window, I never
could forget, I suffered so much. I knew you the
minute I looked towards you in the court-room, and
the first' thought was that you had come to seal my
fate. You were a young boy then, but your face is
m~ot changed. You looked so happy as you sat at
the table ; and right opposite i~as a girl with curly
hair, who looked up as I turned away, and. a cat lay
there asleep. I thought of my own wretchedness,
when a spirit of revenge and hatred took possession
of me, that I, a child, should be doomed to such
misery, while even the brutes of the rich maii's fain-
fly were oared for and fed. XVhat had I done that
no one should care for me? When I went into the
street again a watchman took me up and put me in
a room somewhere where they kept me till morning,
when, with a reprimand, I was permitted to go at
large again. I grew heedless of my looks and ac-

V

V
I

CONNECTICUT.             283
tions, caring only to stay hunger mid get a lodging-
place for the night anyhow, with anybody. But I
never stole in my life, never did a real wicked thing
though I have been the witness of a great many.
$ornething had kept m6 from it, but then I have
~iuned iii 6ther ways. I have hated the 'whole world
because I. was so wretched, and chosen my associates
from the vilest classes, because they have shown me
hospitality that the respectable would have denied
me,-but then such a hospitality! Oh, little do you
know, young anA unsuspecting as you are, what dens
of sin and corruption those are driven to accept who
feel that they are the outcasts of society, when a sin-
gle friendly hand, interposed at the right time, might
save them from destruction;"
She ceased speaking, being too exhausted to say
more, and Walter hastened home to acquaint his
mother and Rosalind with this novel arid- affectii~g
item of his experience. He would have considered
the whole relation an effect of her mental aberration,
but for the accuracy of the little incident connected
with himself. Rosalind went alone to visit her the
next day, to see if she would recognize her. She
opened her eyes languidly without appearing to no-
tice her at first, b tit in a few moments she spoke as
if talking to herself, " Y~. that is she, the girl with
curly hair, but she has grown older since the~i ; now
I wonder if the gray cat will come next to make out
the pictatre that has haunted me so. If they should
carry inc to tiia~t big house to die, then it would be
complete, but no, 1 am here a prisoner confronted
with my hite, and JoQking back over the invisible

i


284            A TALE OF TIlE

UON~ECTICUT.            285

threads I have so unconsciously spun into it, I can
see what a slender one has separated me from what
I mi~hf have been. If they gather round me now
in my misfortune after the squalid life I have led,~
what might they not l~ave done when I was an inno~
cent child?' Yes, I se~ it all now, it was wicked in
me to put no more fa~th in human kind, to believe
they all hated mc, an ~l then in turn to hate them
with such bitter, cruel!* hatred. But I was not all to
blame, how could I know any better? Didn't I see
my mother taken away, and why shouldn't I be
afraid of everybody? Yes, I see it all noxv, how her
master came there and knew her, and when she
went out to the pump he followed her and gagged
her so she could not make any noise, told her she
was 'his slave and threatened her if she gave any
alarm, and so she went off. Oh God! why should
we live to suffer so much?"
She appeared to be slightly wandering in her man~
ner, but her words were coherent, and impressed
one wit1~ a strong~ degree ci truthfulness, yet it
seemed~ scarcely credible that such a deed could have
been done without being knq~wn'.
She startedup suddenly, and spoke at the top of
her voice,
"Yes! you will be brought to judgment! for
such deeds as these whiQh you think will never be
known, shall this nation yet be clothed in sackcloth
and ashes! Oh God! receive my spirit, Thou who
art the poor one's friend."
She sunk back exhausted, panting for breath, and'
soonAeli into a quiet slumber. As she lay there

passionless and still it was easy to trace the hinea~
ments of a highly wrought organization; too proud
to stoop to things low' and mean, too sensitive to
brQok the world's scorn. While desperation had
driven her to the vagrant life she led, it was evident
that the publicity of being arrested as* a criminal
/     was so much of a shock to her nervous system, in
addition to the powerful reaction which took place
when Walter appeared in her behalf, that her mind
lost its balance; the rigor of a prison life having
rapidly undermined the health that had previously
begun to fail. '
At set of sun her spirit passed away. It is' impos~
sible to describe the sensations of Liosalind as she
gazed on that motionless form, looking even beauti~
ful in death. Now that all feeling of hatred had
passed away, a heavenly serenity revealed a loveW
ness of feature hitherto unobserved amid the tumult~
ucus passions of her earthly life. That one so
young, and so innocent, should have been shut
out of the social and' refining influences of society,
whether the result of chance or that lack of sym~
pathy which too often repels those who would othor~
wise be attracted within its pale, was a source of in-
C
xphicable mystery to the wonder.~seeking spirit of
Posahind, which still preserved some of the unsatis~
fled character of her childhood in searching the cause
uf everything that happened. This was an instance
where blame attached to no one, and it was impossi-
ble to arrest the chain of circumstances, beginning
with the barking of a dog which bad driven this
friendless one to seek the companionship of the low-
24*

I


286              A TALE OF THE

est, until her reputation was so tainted as to result
in the almost certain conviction of a crime., Hard
it is to fathom that overruling Wisdom, which in all
its workings, compels us to acknowledge a divine
power, and yet, to our short.siglitedness, often
-" hides itself so wondrously,
As though there were no God,"
that we stagger blindly in our finite conceptions of
that infinite plan, which, knowing the end from the
beginning, assigns to every human agency, be it evil
or good, its appointed sphere in the harmonious
cycle of the universe, and always in such a way that
the eiye of faith cannot fail to discern how the evil is
overruled by the good, which, in due time, if we pos:
sess our souls in patience, will be made nianifpst
even to our finite conceptions.
." Ah, God is other than we think,
His ways are far above,
Far above reason's light, and reached
Only by child-like love."

I

CHAP TER xxr.

" Anon through every pulse the music stole,
And held sublime communion with the soul,
Wrung from the coyest breast the imprisoned sigh,
And kindled rapture in the coldest eye."

IRosalind's mind was soon too deeply engrossed
with her own personal affairs, to d well much on the
sad events recorded in the last chapter. After pro~
curing a decent burial for the unfortunate girl, and
.transplanting a white rose-bush from their own gar-
den, to designate the spot where the weary and
homeless one had at last found a resting place, every
thought was given to an approacliung event of the
most vital interest to herself. The day which had
long bee~n set apart as the celebration of their nup-
tials was near at hand, with its usual accompaniment
of bustle and preparation. Notwithstanding she had
often said, that there was no necessity of being so
hurried at the last moment, if sufficient time wore
allowed, so much was crowded into the last few
weeks, that she scarcely realized what was about to
take place. As Mrs. Claremont's house was sufi-h
ciently large to accomm'odate them all, a few changes
only being deemed necessary, they were saved the
labored details of a fresh outfit at house keeping.
But then there were so many last calls to be made, so
many little things to be attended to, which, in a sud-
( 287 )

I

I

I


288

A TALE OP T1I1~

den event of that kind, might ju~t as well have been
dispensed with, that it was almost by compulsion
Ernest could gain her undivided attention, even for
a single evening. Like a cat just ready to jump,
unless there was something to consult him about, her
hand was on the point of withdrawing from hi~ the
moment he took it, as something was sure to recur
to her mind that must be done then, or it would be
forgotten. Systematic in all her arrangements, her
rulitig desire that every trifling thing, unconnected
with herself, should be properly attended to, sprung
from a consciousness, which iti her demonstrative
nature could not fail of expression, that she had
reached a dividing point in her life where the closing
hours of the era just past would yield satisfaction
in proportion to the duties fulfilled, though they
might be nothing more than to gratify her love of
order and completeness. Any one similarly con-
stituted will understand this feeling from experience
on other occasions than this. A journey yields
much more pleasure upon the reflection that no duty
has been neglected, and every thing has been left in
its proper place at home, even at the expense of a
hurried preparation. Rosahind was of such a pos-
itive nature that any omission, however slight, dis..
turned her peace of mind. Perhaps she had proiu.
ised some poor, lone woman, to spend an hour in
reading to her, or to repair some article of dress
for which young eyes xvere needed, but not so. much
as the bloom of young hearts, which detained her
when Ernest was Waiting for her at home, whom she

I

CONNECTICuT.

289

held in reserve, intending to atone in the future for
her .scexning neglect of him then.
A Po~' widow, whose only daughter and only child
had recently died, received her last share of atten-
tion, to whom it was a great consolation to be thought
of at such a tiurn, and Rosalind subjected herself to
much inconvenience to gratify her.
The Saturday night before her bridal witnessed
g
all her plans completed, and she seated herself by~
r
the side of Ernest, with an evident feejiiig of satis~
faction which lent an additional charm to th3ir last
private social interview as lover and maiden. The
excitement of the last few weeks had not worn off
sufficiently to come to the sober second thought of
their approaching marriage; which was not even
alluded to. Ernest enjoyed her rtlloughtlc ss girlish-
ness of manner, which to a &amp;tranger contrasted
strangely with the sedateness of Ihe woman a Pm-
ment's thoughtfulness was sufficient to transform
her into. The next morning, at break of dawn,
she was up and doing. An pdd memento she had
long since promised to her mother when Aaugh-
ingly reminded of her strong attachment to home, a
picture, representing the bride's farewell, suddenly
recurred to her memory, which she immediately
secured from a mass of articles collected for Kate,
*     and hastily adjusting it to a frame, hung it in her
mother's room, where her eyes would be likely to
fall upon it as soon as she awoke. The affectionate
embrace Qf mother and daughter was very touching,
but the anger of the bridegroom at this manifesta-
tion of feelitig which he expected to monopolize was
/


290             A TALE OF THE                                             CONNECTICUT.              291

shown by his irritable looks as his hand grasped the
door with a half intention to leave her where she
was.
Mrs. Claremont smiled as she met her daughter
at breakfast, but her thoughts were turned into a
channel too serious for much demonstration of levity.
When she arose, she approached Ro salind, and throw-
ing her arms around her, said,--." And is this the last
Sabbath morning on which I can call you exclusively
my own?"
A sudden revulsion df feeling swept over Rosalind
at these words, and it w~s difficult for her to restrain
the fast coming tears. Thoughts of her father and
the reflection that ~he ~yas so soon to part with the
freedom ar.d indepond5nce of giulhood, tinged. her
anticipations with a sort of mournful pleasure. With
a thoughtful and reverent air the remainder of the
day was chiefly devoted to her mother whose side she
scarcely left. At church the sound of the music
thrilled her with unusual fervor as if it heralded the
advent of a new life whose record would be pure or
sullied as she cultivated in her own soul those graces
which should make it worthy the love of him who
had chosen her for his companion through the storm
and sunshine of their earthly career, and most ar-
dently she prayed for strength.
The wedding day at length arrived, the day which
for its tender and sacred associations, was scarcely
less of interest to Mrs. Claremont than to the pro-
spective bride. It was a day of her own selection,
the anniversary of her marriage twenty-two years

before, the memory of which brought no sadness,
but a perpetual joy.
Sorrow had no power over a love and faith like
hers ;-it was only the heavenly dew-drop to quicken
- their celestial growth. In witnessing her d aughte~'s
bridal, she lived over again her young days without
a regret to dim their radiance. Her passion for
orange-bloom was not abated, and as it had presided
at her own marriage festival, she wished it also to
grace Rosalin d's. Sh~ had then three trees laden
with blossoms whose perfume filled the rooms. Then
her favorite arbutus was strewn in~ lavish profuson,
and a few exotics, like stray visitors, were welcomed
to add their rich and varied beauty to the festivities
of the occasion.
Rosalind wore a charmed expression, one of unu-
sual serenity. She had accomplished every thing
she intended, and nothing was left for this day which
could be done before. She indulged in all the poetry
of soul such an hour is calculated to inspire, and
when the tiinb came for her to dress, went about it
as calmly as if she were merQly to spend an &amp;vening
out. Ernest re-arranged the orange blo6m in. her
hair according to his artistic taste, after which they
were ready to descend to the parlor.
Kate, who with becoming. de1~rence had refrained
from her sallies of wit during the day, could no
longer control herself, after being permitted with
Milly and Amelia The honor of assisting at the bridal
decorations, and addressed him, Saying,-" If you do
not look out she will take wings and fly to the seventh

N
II
r


292             A TALt~ OF THE

heaven before you get her half way through the
knot," glancing at the lace drapery which hung in
rich profusion over' the pearl colored silk that was
Mrs. Claremont's choice for her daughter's wedding
dross.
Upon reaching the stairs, a sound as of distant mu-
~ic fell upon their ears, wl~ich gradually approached
nearer until they reached 4 the parlor, when a choir
of infant voice~ in an adjoining room suing a hymn
appropriate to the occasion. It was well for Rosa~
hind that she had attained so much composure that
day, or she would have found the exercises too
lengthy, notwithstanding all she had said about the
hasty inannei in which the marriage ceremony is apt
to be coiisummated. When with solemn emphasis
'the minister addressed her with the query, "if she
would promise to love, honor and ol~ey," she gave
not the slightest token of response. rrl)~t ~ti-
gating mind had unpremeditatedly started off on a
train of thought suggested by the occasion and the
words, which could not comprehend the connection
of the phrase with their relations to each other.
The hour was too sacred,-the lingering influence of
the music too exalted to be desecrated by an assent
to any unmeaning phrase or unhallowed require-
mont which would give the lie to the pledge of mu-
tual love, reverence and ~quality each acknowledged
as their bond of union.
When the services wei~e concluded, a troop of six
young girls, dressed in white with wreaths of the
arbutus and orange bloom inte~'twined with sprigs of

CONNECTICUT.             293
myrtle upon their heads, entered and stood before
them, singing,-
"Now we come to greet you."
The whole was 'a surprise, arranged by Mrs. Clare~
mont.. Her own married life had been so singularly
harmonious and happy, sbe could scarcely -harbor a
doubt that according to present indications her
daughter's would be equally so. So insignificant in
the presence of an overwhelming joy seems the re-
membraiice of' all our griefs, that the future only,
with its blank pages of virgin whiteness opens before
us, about whiTh it seems almost a sacrilege to breathe,
the thought of coming sorrow. The sound of the
infant voices died away, and soon after the vibrations
of the piano, when an impressive silence followed as
the most fitting response for feelings too deep for
expression. It was broken by the officiating minis~
ter, n~xv slightly silver~haired, who, when a young
man, had joined the hands of Alfred Claremont and
Marianne Beaufort.
"I cannot forbear," he said, "giving utterance to
my heartfelt joy, arising from emotions excited in
an hour like this. ill have often wished that music
had been ordained a part of the marriage ritual.
Nothing could be more appropriate to such an occa-
sion,-nothing could shed a more hallowed influence
over the trials and triumphs that lie hidden in the
dim future.
"During my experience of the last quarter of a
century I have seen much, very much to pain me.
2      I have been called to administer consolation in deso~.
late, homes whence the angel of love and charity
25


294              A TALE OF THE                                                                      295

seemed to have departed, when I have ~dmost invol-
untary whispered to myself, 'Surely there is, not
music enough in life.' And again I~ have been the
witness of joys that seemed all too holy to be of mor-
tal birth; when I have felt that the melodious har-
mony of heaven was reflected on ear ~h in strains of
sweetest music.
"My yo~ang friends, standing at the threshold of
that portion of existence which yields the holiest
emotions as well as the keenest afflictioiis, permit me
as one who has experienced both its purest joys and
its sacred sorrows, t~ assure you that in the storm
as in the sunshine, God's love is over all, and you
will find that not alone in the springtime of love,
when the sunny future opens in unclounded beauty be-
fore you, but in the waning summer and the chilling
autumn, amid blossoming hopes and the blight of
disappointments, the green tree of affection which
you have planted in your hearts will put forth new
verdure, and like the orange scent of these rooms,
will make your souls redolent with heavenly per-
fume. Life is not all poetry, and in those stern prose
moments which will come to you as they come to us
all, may the music soling of this hour, like the grand
old anthem which was chanted at creation's birth,
float over you as a prophetic inspiration of the future
haven which shall witness the consummation of more
than wedded. bliss.
"Pardon me for this trespass upon the evening's
festivities, and permit me to introduce you to these
assembled guests is Mr. and Mrs. Livingsto "
There were not many dry eyes when he e1os~d his

GONNECTICUT,

remarks, and one among those not the least affected
was Mary Kingicy, now Mrs. M&amp;i~gan. Only through
tears could her joy and swelling gratitude find relief
9      as the trying scenes of her life passed in rapid review
before her, arid her soul responded to the sentiments
0
f the speaker, though she had yet but sipped of the
full contents of the cup, whose varied mixture could
scarcely admit of greater contrast than she had
already experienced.
This was the first time she had visited the city
since she left it, which was in accordance with a
promise Rosahind had exacted the day of her mar-
riage. It was tho source of great pleasure to her-
to theni both, for the four weeks they had spent to~
gather so happily had united them in bonds of the
closest friendship. One thing alone detracted from
its unalloyed enjoyment, which was her longing de-
sire to visit her old home and see her mother. This.
could not be, since her father had abated none of his
former harshness, arid had absolutely forbidden her
mother to see her on any condition whatever. Often
in the silence of the night with none l)Ut God to wit-
ness, had she wrestled with this in ward pain, and as
resolutely shut it out when day brought its cares
that none might know, especially James, the strug-
gle it cost her.
Rosahind, who often visited and sympathized with
her, knew more of it perhaps than any one else. In
answer to a salutation with which she frequently
greeted her, "As happy as ever?" she would say,
"Oh yes ! only one thing to mar my happiness,"
and then immediately turned the conversation.
I

294

295


296              A TALE OF THE

Walter was at the height of enjoyment. His visit
home and meeting ~so many old friends, combined
with the occasion to render it more than usually in-
teresting to him. Rosalind saw his eyes mischievously
following her as i he had some fun in contemplation,
and she studio ly avoided him. lie watched his
opportunity befor the guests dispersed when ho saw
her and Finest t gather, to whisper to him that the
ceremony was bu half performed, and he had better
see to it before it was too late that Rosahind should
enter into her part of the contract. In vain she
tried to check him by placing her hand over his
mouth. "I think I cafi manage that part," replied
Ernest.
The clergyman being near, caught enough of what
was said, to assuPe him what was going oii, and
stepping up, said, "As the power is all on the gen-
tleman's side, man and wife being both one, and that
one the husband, it matters little what she assents
to; "but my young friend," said he, slyly addressing
her, "if you should be heavily oj)pre~sed, remember
you will find a friend in me, who can defend you
upon the testimony of this evening."

296

it
r

How quickly glided by those long summer days,
gone they scarcely knew whither, nor how they had
been spent, yet not idly. It is not always a waste of
time when the hands are unemployed. There are
hours of physical repose when the soul acts most
~eeniy, yes, demands it, in order to assert herself
more strongly~; not a languid inactivity, but a health-
ful abnegation of* all labor for The time being. This
is the charm of twilight. The outward eye and the
inner sense hold sweet communion there, and no
hour is so dear for social converse.
Then come the longer autumn evenings, and the
hour of pleasant chat beside the cheerful winter fire
before the' usual avocations are resumed, all these
being just as novel and susceptible of fresh enjoy-
mont in every different situation of life, as if they
had never come within the range of our experience
before. So a newly wedded pair finds in every day's
occurrence a fresh sensation of delight, so different
from what they have ever knoWn before, even as
lovers, and on the real blending of their souls at that
period depends mi~ch of their future happiness as
25*             (297)

y
(

* CHAPTER XXVII.
"'Our souls at least are free, and 'tis In vain
We would against them make the flesh obey.~.-
The spirit in the end will have its way."


298              A TALE OF THE

299

CONNECTICUT.

husband and wife. No two persons can know each
other intimately in any relation of life until they
have lived together long enough to discover the
sharp angles and latent virtues which elude the ob-
servation of casual observers, no matter how often
they meet, if they do not come in contact sufficiently
to clash. It is only by a rough blow the steel emits
its spark.
It was about six months after they were married
that Mr. Livingston was invited to deliver an oration
before a literary society in a neighboring city whither
he was to be accompanied by two acquaintances who
dined with him the same day. His wife was deeply
interested in their conversation which turned mostly
on literary and scientific subjects.
After dinner she left the three to themselves and
withdrew to her chamber where she remained until
the hour came for their departure, when Ernest re-
paired thither. He was surprised to find her sitting
in an abstracted manner, looking thoughtfully out
at the window, and scarcely observing his entrance.
"Why Rosa," said he, "how blue you look!
One might take you for the heroine of a love-tale
whose honey-moon is over, and she i~ wishing herself
back to maidenhood again.".
She answered his salutation by a vacant smile, still
watching the horizon. He observed her with no
little curiosity for a few moments, and then sitting
down beside her, took one of her hands in his, and
gazed inquiringly into her face. He had seen her
in many different phases before, but none resembled
t~iis.

In

298

I
1~

"I was thinking, said .she, "why it is that women
must be excluded from such honors and pursuIts as
you are going to share to-night. Why should not*
your enjoyment be increased byQur presence, instead
of being selfishly reserved to yourselves? Do you
think affection can be weakened by exercising the
intellect, or are your festivals of such a nature that
you fear her moral character will suffer from con-
tamination?
"If God has given us intellectual 'faculties, why
should we not use them as well as you? What would
be said of a young man, who, when his education is
considered completed, should content himself xvith
the frivolities of fashionable life? He would be re-
garded as weak and effeminate, lacking those noble
qualities of heart aid soul that lead to an honorable
ambition, both for his own development and the
world's good.
"To stimulate a woman's affections, which is done
by educating her into the belief that that is her only
sphere, and provide her with no means of access to
other channels to absorb her attention when the ob-
ject of them is withdrawn, is to subject her to a stern
ordeal of mental suffering. The mind must have
food of some kind or it will become a prey to itself.
We are reproached for being silly and weak~minded,
because we spend so much time on dress, and study
nothing but fashion, when, really, it is you who, have
forced us to this kind of life, by giyirmg us no other
means of relaxation and amusement. Even-the wo-.
man, who is oppressed with the burden and care of
a family through the day, would often find, it a rest


301

Ill

A TALE OP TIlE

300

CONNECTICUT.

and diversion to spend an evening in mental enjoy-
ments, where she would derive profit as well as
pleasure.
"Every organ is stamped with its own particular
function, which another cannot usurp, and only as
each is developed according to th~ law that governs
it, can we expect pure rational enjoyment, or advance
to perfection. Affection can no more take the place
of in telle9t, than meat can take the place of drink.
The two should be considered as compliments to
each other, not substitutes for each other.
"Mark how different the conversation when ad-
dressed to a lady from that .to a gentleman. Even
your friends this morning never thought of directing
a remark to me. All that a woman is expected to
be interested in or capable of appreciating is the
merit or success of the last opera,-the most appro-
priate dress to be worn to a party, or,~ if seriously
inclined, the prospects~ of the last revival. When
you come to those sublime ti~uths that un~iIerlie and
uphold all this material world of ours,----t~zie knowl-
edge of those laws that govern the plane ~s in their
spheres, which sound the depths of the o~ean, and
measure the distances of the fixed stars, ~ou club
yourselves together as if God had been a~ narrow-
minded as yourselves, and only created light enough
to illuminate one~half of the world, leaving the other
half in ~total darkness."
Ernest was both amused and puzzled by this cx-
tempore speech, which he could easily see by its
earnestness of toije, a~id the deep revealing of those
eyes so intently filed on his, into which had risen all

the passion of her soul, that it was neither the out-
growth of a momentary impulse, nor one of those
transient, effervescent passages of her life, with
which she often regaled him. Taking out his watch,
and seeing it was time for him to go, he rose, saying
to her caressingly, "Rosalind, as you are yet young
&amp;      and have such a fondness for literacy pursuits, why
don't yoi~ devote to them a portion of your tin~e? I
have formed too high an estimate of you to suppose
you ambitious of mere worldly fame, and perhaps
the assistance and. approval of your husband may
atone for some of the honors and privileges you envy
us, and I do not say, without just cause."
She replied by a grateful smile, and he left her
immediately. He was very conservative in his tastes
and habits, and it had never occurred to him, as it
never has to many other, men, that a woman could
want anything more after her affections were satisfied.
Nothing that game from hi~ wife was ever deenied
unworthy of consideration, and there was so much
of truth embodied in her remarks that he could not
have thrust them aside if he would. He felt that
there was not quite so much honor as is boasted in
being styled the "lords of creation," and when
greeted with applause and complimented with toasts,
the sound of that, delicate but keen reproach stung
his sensibilities, and he felt more as if he had done
somemean and cowardly act that merited disgrace
than one deserving praise. He coveted more the
smiling approval of his wife than all these courtly
honors.
Rosalind never intended the personal rebuke she
I


302             A. TALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.             303

unwittingly administered. Not since her father's
death had she taken any interest 'in her former
studies, and her books still lay neglected on the
shelves where they had heen last deposited before he
was taken sick. Since her acquaintance with Ernest
her mind hdA been engrossed with other subjects, and
it was not until that morning, in Listening to the con-
versation on her favorite topics, that her old passion
for them revived. All the latent energies of those
years burst forth in a single flame and with scorn
and contempt she spurned~ the established usages that
stood between her and the highest summit to which
her capacities fitted her to ascend.
Whon Ernest was gone she reproached herself foi~
the sarcastic manner in which she had spoken to him,
as if she meant to censure him for the fault of society.
Yet was he not one of that society which by its tacit
consent perpetrated these unjust customs that de-
barred woman of~ rights and privileges coeval with
nature, which, as they were God-given, no man had
tI~ authority to take away? Then acting upon his
suggestion she set herself expeditiously to work to
withdraw her books from their long hiding places.
What a throng of associations they brought! Here
were Latin exercises, there were diagrams, and care-
fully wrapped up so no dust or stain could reach
them were some astronomical cuts, looking as neat
and new as when her father brought them home.
The afternoon glided imperceptibly away, and as her
mother was absent, no one disturbed her in her dis-
integrations. Thio floor was literally covered with
books, papers, and drawings. So engaged was she

802

I

V
I
.~ I
I

HII

that, she scarcely realized the absence of Ernest, who
surprised her late in the evening, lost in reverie o~er
the i~ystic shades of the Past, which seemed as un~
real as the joys of the Present, yet fascinating from
their' strange power of inspiring reverence for what
has passed away. Before her on the tahle lay an
open writing-book in which she had completed the
translation of an English story into . Frenc~h, and
written at the close, " Voila ict fin de cette Itistoire!
and Puss hasnodded her approval of every word of
it." Beneath was written in her father's hand-writ-
ing, looking so familiar that it seemed to bring him
before her as if it were but yesterday,." Et tu l'a
ecrit a merveilie, ma chere ,~ but think not that I
shall accept the testimony of a stupid cat to decide
its merits." How freshly it brought to mind the old
dray cat whose presence was such a painful reminder
of scenes that could never be recalled, but whose
death had been mourned as if she were a thinking
member of the household from her association with
those scenes. She rested her face on her hands and
gave herself up to reflection, in which position Er-
nest surprised her. She looked up with an exclama-
tion of joy as he removed her hands. "What t "
said she, "home so so6n?" to which he replied
laughing, "The time cannot have seemed very long.~
if you call this soon, nearly midnight."
* "It has been a very busy day with me and a
pleasant one too,' I confess, though mingled with
much that is sad; and I was so still in my closet
looking over some books in a trunk that Kate did
not hear me, and thought I was out when Mrs. Lane

803


804             A TALE OF THE
called, so I id not see her. But then it was not
much matt r. Probably she would have talked
mostly abo t the great party that is to come off
'Thursday evening. To tell the truth, if it were not
for the looks of the thing, I should rather stay at
home,-what does it amount to? So much labor
and trouble just for a few minutes of enjoyment if
we are so fortunate, which is too often paid for by a
sick headache next morning."
"Really, you have taken a very practical turn to-
'.
night. Then you do not like these social entertain-
ments? You, ladies are i~iot so happy there as you
profess to be?" -
"Now Ernest, you know as well as I do that the
greatest motive a lady has for going is to show off
and be admired. If fortunate enough to succeed in
that she is happy for the time being I suppose; if
not, look out. for a nervous headache. And you
gentlemen, laugh in your sleeves to think we are
such dunces as to have our heads turned with a little
flattery. But how shall we amuse ourselves? lit is
not expected we shall take part in any sensible con-
versation."
"You will have a motive for going to Mrs. Lane's,
br Professor M., the great astronomer, is to be there,
and you will enjoy his conversation."
"A precious little of it IL fear I shall have the
privilege of enjoying, for he will collect around him
a company of gentlemen; and if by chance a lady
gets into the circle, he would perhaps remark that it
is a very pleasant evening, in the midst of a rain
-f         storm. IL don't wonder that it is so. It would be
1*

305

disagreeable on both sides to talk upon subjects which
one party is. not familiar with, and a man coming
down from lofty themes to some trifling affair might
be so embarrassed as to make a ludicrous blunder.
We ought to be able to entertain him."
"Perhaps it will be a . rest, a diversion, to leave
those lofty themes for a while and indulge in a little
chat on common place affairs."
"Oh yes! now you've said it. When yov. are tired
and want a little diversion, woman serves a vei~y good
purpose for you to amuse yourselves with, and pos-
sibly if you should have the sick headache or find a
rent in your coats, she might be very useful; but
whoever dreamed of any benefit to the literary or
scientific world through her? It is not expected, and
therefore she must take her rank as the appendage
or ornament of social circles whose highest sphere is
4~Ihavc ~io objection to the presence of woman
the prevailing ton to all fashionable society."
should enjoy it,
they are better content to stay
away. How many ladies of your acquaintance would
not shiriiik from conducting the conversation with
Professor M., if the opportunity were tendered
them?
"Probably most of them would, because they arc
uot educated or qualified for it, and are too much
the slaves of custom to step out of the path you have
assigned to them. But if he is there I shall avail
myself of as much of his conversation as I can, re-
gardless of etiquette. Perhaps you will regret then
26

CONNECTICUT.


~1I
ii
.1
if
II
N

A TALE OF THE

th~tt I had not Promised to obey, but it is too late
now, and you ~vil1 have to make the best of it."
"I will introduce you to him, and tell him I hae
the Thk~fortune to be joined to a ftry refractory little
wife who will have her own way, even to talking u pen
the science of Astronomy." So with a merry laugh
and pulling his curls which was returned by~ pinching
h~r ear the subject was dropped.
The morning was far advanced pre Rosalind could
slumber. The thought of resuming her old pursuits
through the enchanting mazes of science, and a i~apid
survey of the intervening years since she dropped
them, with the varied scenes of pain and pleasure
they had brought, so filled her mind as to chase the
sleep from her pillow. At break of day she fell into
an unquiet ~luinber when she returned in dreams to
the happy hours of her childhood and was again
little girl sitting on her father's knee, or coasting
down hill with him for a companion. Then came
confused images of fireside pleasures, playing with
wax dolls, imaginary tea-parties, and calculating'
eclipses; and lastly,' she saw her father an angel
seraph beckoning to her to follow him. She essayed
to rise but was held back by an invisible power.
She opened her eyes and saw Ernest standing o~ver
her. lie had risen early and taken his accustomed
walk, returning to the chamber just in season to see
the smile that flitted across her features, and the
partial j~aising of the hand.
~" Oh Ernest~" said she, "I have had such a beauti-
.fuldream!"
Its influence followed her all day, imparting one

806

307~

CONNECTICUT4

ft
II,

of those trance-like states common to her, when
every trace of earthly passion vanished and her
countenance was so~ radiant and serene with an in~
spiration, not of this world, that she reminded one
of some saintly picture, rather than the iml)ulsive
girl of yesterday.
She met with the desired interview on the evening
of the party. Standing among the " Literatif" who
gathered around the Professor as the honored guest
of the evenu~g, she sustained her part in converse~
tion with an ability equal to any one of them; and
oven Ernest was surprised at the extent of her
knowledge. Never was hQ more proud of her than*
at that moment. All the genius of her soul was
kindled which glowed with a wealth and splendor far
surpassing the rich profusion of satins and laces that
grace~l the outward forim -

L[L~


GHAPTJ~R XXVIII.
"Holy and fervent love! had earth but rest
For thee and thine, this world were all too fair!
How could we thence be weaned to die without despair ?"

iRosaliiid found much time~ to devote to her studies
during the winter, in which, being occasionally
assisted by her husband, she found a charm that dis-
pelled many of those vain q~ieries she was so prone
to enter into. That intellect was finding rest at last,
for it was a rest to be satiated in its demands, no
matter how much labor it cost the brain to follow
that untiring will. Domestic duties might preSS
upon her, or benevolent enterprises require her as-
sistance, but nothing could usurp the paramount
claims of her natu~x.~ upon that scicuce which, more
than aught else, revealed the mystery of the world's
creation, and reconciled her to the decree which has
appointed unto all men to suffer, since into all is
breathed a spark of the divine life whose omnipotent
genius call5~ all these worlds into existence, and
which will still exist when they shall cease ~o be.
The sufferings of a few shoit years were swallowed
up in the presence of the glorious eternity toward
which all were hastening, and which was already be-
ginning to dawn upon her as she threaded the sub-
lime wonders so closely connecting the divine law
(308)

CONNECTICUT.             809
with the intellect of man. Others might reverently
approach the Throne of Infinite Wisdom with so
much of the childlike simplicity of faith in their
organization as to abandon all doubts and questiOn-'
ings, but not so this investigating mind. She was
subject to natural laws governing her organization,
by obedience to which she could alone intelligently
worship at the Throne .of infinite love and knowl-
edge. So long as she felt blindly led, stumbling
blocks were sure to hedge her pathway, but when
intellect, the. channel through which all her convic-
tions must receive their moulding process, was a].-
lowed its normal sway, her trust and faith. wore as
clear and firm as Walter's.
During Walter's next visit home in the summer
vacation, James Morgan and his wife paid a visit to
Orange Grove, with their little son, a sprightly babe
of six months. Mary had a gre~t desire for her
parents to see the little felloxV, thinking it possible
her father might relent at the sight of the priceless
treasure, possessing such uncommon merit in her
eyes. As it would not do for her to go there, it was
decided that Walter and Rosalind should take him
to Mr. Kingl9y's, thus affording his wife an oppor-
tunity to see him, whether he consented to it or not.
They did so, and she was overjoyed, laughing and
crying alternately as she fondled and kissed the babe
again and again, while the little cherub kicked and
crowed as if the whole world was bound to make
him happy. Mr. Kingley received them coldly,
taking no notice of the baby. He peeped suspiciously
at them from under his shaggy eyebrows, showing
26*

if
ii
i'll

II

'1!
Ii
I

i


810             A TALE OF ~flE                                                                    811

CONNECTICUT.

11
ill
iii'
dl
i~I

plainly by, his actions that he considered them as in
traders.
As they rose to leave Mrs. Kingley clung to the
child with affectionate tenacity, when he spoke for
the first time, addressing h~r,
"Don't woman ,~ct so like a fool, let the young
un go to his motIiei~."
Althoiiigh Mary ~ad not expected her father to
treat her with his f~ rmer indulgence, she did thiiik
he would show som~ signs of lingering affection, and
not until they returned and gave an account of their
reception, did she realize how niuch she had calcu-
hated on this unconscious mediator as the repairer of
the breach between thQm. She now gave up every
hope of reconciliation, and wheii Rosalind i~estOred
to her her little charge, who immediately began to
set up a clamor for his ~'ights, the sight of his mother
having suddenly reminded him of his morning lunch,
she withdrew to her chamber, and atter lulling
him to sleep, gave way to a passionate flood of tears.
She felt a sense of languor when her grief had
spent its force, and, lying down by the side of her
sleeping babe, a deep slumber soon came to her re~
lief, which Rosaliiid thought best not to disturb when
she entered the chamber to summon her to dinner.
Finding the child awake, who was laughing and coo~
ing gently, but not sufficiently loud to awaken the
sleeper, she took him to the table where they had a
merry time, showing ~he type of royalty to which
homage is most readily given. The etiquette 6f the
dinner table wa~ dispensed with in the presence of the
unconscious stranger who was making his first debut

at this family board. Rosalind tried to learn him to
eat, and put some food in his mouth, for which, evP
gently, he had no appetite, or he was so excited by
his novel position, that he could not give his atten~
tion to that duty. Finding himself the centre of
attraction, as he looked from one to another of the
group, he gave occasionally a leap and a bound,
which excited their laughter, and in which he joined
as heartily as any.
M~ry awoke soon after, feeling greatly composed
by the tranquilizing influences of steep, and inter~
erupted their merriment by her appearance, at which
he recovered his appetite, and the cimtomary honors
of the table were soon resumed. James came the
next day to take them home again, having left them
the first time he was there at the urgent solicitation
of Rosalind, which, however, he regretted before
reaching his house. Desolate~enough it seemed with~
out the two lights that had of late radiated it, and~
he found food for reflection, at the thought of what
was, and what might have been. Scarcely could that
manly frame resist the gathering tears, as his soul
ascended in praises and thanksgiving for the narrow
escape from a life of degradation. a kiud Providence
had vouchsafed tQ him.
Honors and fame awaited him, but nothing could
win him from the' side of his beloved Mary, where
every evening was spent which could be spared from
the pressure of businQss, being now admitted as a
partner in the firm to which Walter first introduced
him on that memorable day when he vowed before
God never again to touch the intoxicating cup.

310

311


'I
fit
111
I I

"Every inmost aspiration is God's angelundefiled,
And in every '0 my Father! ' slumbers deep a
'HERE, MY CHILD! "'
The novel was quite neglected of la;te, yet not
abandoned. Kate had contributed nothing towards
it since the "magnificent affair of Syke's wedding '
being now very much occupied during her leisure
moments with a newly married couple, both of whom
were ignorant of the first duties of housekeeping.
Though an inexcusable fault in her eyes, "not
knownn'" she said, "what any woman c9uld be
thinking' of to bring up a girl in that way," her usual
kindness of' heart prompted her to render them every
assistance in her power. She had once lived in the
family of the bride's mother, and thus was on famib
jar terms, indulging in as much raillery as she pleased
without givin g~ offence, which was just what suited
her. If she tl~ought it showed a lack of common
sense to put~ be~ns in the oven to bake without boib
ing, or to pour thot water on glass ware, she 'did not
hesitate to say s to which her pi~pil always assented.
She could not , afford to do otherwise, for Kate's as-
sistance was of great service to her, being at some
distance from,       er, and flndin~ 1
her moth             b ier domestic
duties of a much more complicated nature than she
anticipated, so as. to be occasionally discouraged.
(312)

CONNECTICUT.

313

CHAPTER XXIX.

4

i
L * L
i

"I found her cryin' tonightt" said Kate to Milly,
as ~he came home one evening, "and 't wan't nothing'
neither. I, should have cheered her up pretty quick
but there was an old croaker there, I don't know
who she was, that Was as mournful as Job's wider.
She sat there with her hands clinched, the corners of
her mouth hanging' down, and her eyes lookm'
straight into the fire as if all the light there was in
em would have to conic from there. She fetched a
long sigh, and says she, "That's the way when folks
get married ;gais never know When they're well off.
This world 's full o' trouble'
"If this world 's full o' trouble," s~ys I, "then it
don't make no difference whether we are married or
single, we've got to have it any way."
She fetched another sigh, changed her hands,
putting' the one that 'was underneath on top, pressed
heit lips a littlO closer together, then opened her~
mouth with a voice that sounded as if it had run
away from the tombs, 'Young woman,' says she,
'it'll do for you to laugh now, but when you get to
be as old as I am and see all your ancestors comm'
up round you as thick - as weeds in a garden, not
minding' their ways to walk as they'd ought to in the
straight and narrer path I fetched my children up to
walk in, may be you won't feel like laughing' then.'
"I chuckled a~ay~ to myself, thankful enough to
see her gdt Up to go when she had said that, and she
hadn't more'n got to the door. when Jenny come and
tdok hold of my arm, sniiliu' like a fresh peach, and
says she, 'I am so glad to see you, for I wanted to
make some hasty pudding' and I didn't know anything


If

A TALE. OF THE

CONNECTICUT.

It'

how to go to work. I didn't know whether the
water ought to be hot or cold, and so I've only got
so far.' Wh
mixed       at do you think she'd done?  She'd
some meal just about right for a johnny cake
and was goin' to put it into the water and let it dis-
solve, when she foujid otit whether it ought to be
cold or hot. 'That wan't what you was cryin' for
was it? says I. 'No,' says she, 'not exactly. IL
was puzzlin' over it and thinking' what a bad day I've
had of it tryin' to bake, when that old woman come
in and begun her mission as Job's comforter by
sayin' that this was nothing' to what I should have to
meet with yet, and almost made me think I never
should see another minute's happiness in the world.'
I laughed outright, and says I, 'I guess ycu won't if
you are goin' to give up so.'
~Iilly's mind had been wandering among other
sceiies than the vekations of young house-keepers,
and Kate soon left her to her own meditation~, not
receiving any reply to her running remarks. She
had watched the gorgeous sunset, until its flaming
tints of crimson and gold contrasting with. the clear
azure of the vault above had kindled in her soul that
intense rapture which so abstracts it from the com~
mon affairs of this work-day life as to turn to them
again with reluctance. Wihlihgly would she have
become a disembodied spirit, to soar away among
those heavenly regions whore the miseries of this
world could no longer pain the ear, and she might
realize the ideal, whose fair proportions then rose
before her miii'd's eye, not to be revealed in human
language. Like the first rude sketch of the artist,

I

314

her conceptions at that moment embraced the out-
lines of a millennial st~itc, clearly comprehended by
the inner sense, but not tangible to others.
Gradually as tho shades of evening gathered
around her, darker pictures of the poverty and
wretchedness of life cast their shadows over these
fair visions, and instead of wishing herself released
from her earthly abode; she felt the~sublimity of a
life that demanded, not rest,-not absolution from
the trials of this world, but a devotion to 'its highest
interests here.
She thought of the thousands unto whom the light
of day comes only as a dreaded tyrant, at whose
approach the weary, worn out frame must bid adieu
to its needed repose; of the multitude of children
treading the paths of sin and vice, through want of
a mother's tender care to guide them; of homes
surrounded~y every physical comfort; made miser-
able by the discord reigning x~ithin, and she thought
of those also whose in fatuation on some favorite
theme of pecuniary gain or xvorldly fame blinded
them to the richness and beauty of this outward
hifQ, thus voluntarily depriving themselves Qf those
blessed influences which, in her poetic nature, were
closely associated with all solki enjoyment and mdi-
vidual perfection.
t;~ose restless spirits, always discontented with their
Mihly was never unhappy, neither was she one of
present position,' but she was one who, approaching
middle age, could not look back with satisfaction
upon a life devoted to no other interest than the
trivial occupation of the unmarried woman. Retro-
I

315

''I
11
P
P
I I


I
I ~
1!

CONN~2CTIC1Y I~.

section always affords little enough to satisfy us,
oven when engaged in the most philanthropic enter-
pie; for whatever we may have done, our ideal, the
key-note of aspiration, is still unattained. One of
the greatest blessings of any occupation, is the little
leisure it gives for reflection and regret. Repentance
is good, and when the mind stops there, leaving the
past to bury its dead, groat results follow. Regrets,
whether with or without cause, should never be in-
dulged in. The conscience becomes morbid, the
intellect clouded, rind the mind is unfitted for the
satisfactory performance of any duty or participa-
tion in any enjoyment. To prevent this it nmst be
supplied with other ~pod to fill the vacancy, and
employ it, something which shall create an interest
aside from the mere occupation. The matron of a
hospital, or the care-taker of a family of ori~.ban
children, finds a rational enjoyment the pleasures, of
home could not yield unless her presence were
needed there for something more than her society.
Let the construction of the text be what it may,
concerning laThr being ordained as a curse, it must
be the conviction of every candid h~ind that it was
ordained as a blessing from the begipuing of the
world,----not that labor which consigns thousands to
a cheerless life in crowded attics or sunless baso-
ments every hour of the twenty-four, in order to
ward off starvation from the door, but the healthful,
stimulating exercise for both body and mind every
iPdividual craves as the requisite of a sound physical
and mental bodily development.
Kate, in her rough, unpolished way, lived out this

theory. She had a more serious vein of humor than
was indicated by her trifling manner of conversation.
Milly could detect in many a homely phrase and
jesting remark, a depth of thought that suggested
original ideas to her own reflections, and she never.
wearied of her, if she did sometimes leave her to
pursue her theme of discussion alone. She admired
her unceasing activity, if sometimes culminating, for
the sake of diversion, in the nonsensical affair of
~" Syke's wedding," which might be of more value
in enlivening sonic low-spirited invalid, than all her
idle dreaming of a world renovated by a philosophy
she could never expect to be put in practice. It was
easy enough in the solitude of her chamber to dissect
men's motives and analyze their main-springs of ac-
tiol l)uiidmg up a logical basis of principles f6r the
reconstruction of society Which would amelioi'ate
some of these social evils, but let her take her theory
outside, avid wluit was it? Most fitly expressed by
Kate, a mere cobweb, the first contact with the world
swept away. And thus she dreamed on, yet per-
haps not idly. Every pure and elevating thought
that comes into the mind is worthy of reception
there, and should be welcomed as a heavenly guest
leading us higher in aspiration until the subtle fet-
ters that bijid us to a selfish ambition and the love of
worldly approbation melt away in the approving
smile of Him who created us to be heirs to his glo-
* rious promises.        dreamers, mere visionary
and earnest in
thought, whose labors are warren of practical results,
27

81.6             A TALE OF THE                                                                        817

11111

316

317


r
4

LI

tending rather to confuse t1~e intellect, than to en-
lighten the conscience, of whom we cannot say they
have lived in vain. By their faults do they teach us,
and by their wanderings amid arid sands and dreary
icebergs do we learn to appreciate the infinite attri-
butes of that Being whos9 compassionate love entitles
him to the crowning glory which permits all his
erring children to addr~ ss him reverently as, Our
Father!
Our Father! this is no~idle sounding title. When
the world misjudges us and friends grow cold; when
the burden of our Sins~ oppresses us and no human
eye deigns a glallce of sympathy; when prejudice
hurls its stinging dart and no avenue of defence
opens before us, the weary soul turns with yearning
confidence to this sure and steadfast Friend who
never casts it off, and unto whom no aspiration as-
cends unheeded.

818             A TALE OF TUE

818

CHAPTER XXX.
"Home is the sphere of harmony and peace,
The spot where angels find a resting place,
When7 bearing blessings, they descend to earth."
Shall we describe the angel child Lilly, whose sym-
metrical features and quiet ways were the exact
counterpart of her father's, or shall we leave her to
the creation of the faucy, after giving the brief out-
lines'? Fair as adily her straight soft brown hair was
of the richest hue in which nature asserted her inde~
peadence, a~ that of both her parents curled. Mrs.
Claremont christened her the Mayflower~ Kate de~
dared her the "most perfect incantation of the saint
she ever knew," and Milly abandoned hey old daily..
occupation of analyzing men and things, to devote
her attention exclusively to this new revelation of
the divine genius. It had never be9n her fortune to
live with a baby before,~ and her warmi~ affections soon
twined around her with all the strcmigth of a nature
which had expanded without any particular object of
love. This ~weet companionship with a child form'ned
one of the most blessed experiences of her life. A
~1iCCiC55 blessing to this sorrow-strickeim world is evev
the presence of childhood. When bowed with age
or rent with an guisli, cheerily sounds the innocent
little laugh coni ing from a soul bubbling over with
its own merriment. And the bounding little foot-
step amid the roguish little hand, alike ruffling to the
(319)


7
ii
p
if
Ii
4
1
I
di

A TALE OF THE

temper and provocative of smiles, win us from thQ
staid maxims of life to that primeval state when the
impulses gush out in rude defiance of any estab~
lisheci principle to guide them. AAd the vexatious
cares that have burdened many a mother whose
strength was not equal to the tasl~, are suddenly
transformed into coveted enjoyme ~its that would
bring joy and health to her again, when the ,little
form is hidden from her eyes forever.
The criI~, the " half-worn shoe," broken toys, and
anon some lost trinket, accidental discovered where
it has been secreted by roguish hands, speak volumes
tlmt pci: c6uld nevei~ express, and form more sacred
relies than were ever gathered by pilgrim bands.
Lilly was an active, playful child, but so still that
she iiever disturbed any one. A frcqueat visitor at
her father's studio, those little baby fingers amused
themselves with drawing birds, kittens and flowers,
wheii her lips could only lisp their names. Ilaviiig
a great passioli for flowers her father appropriated a
little spot of grQund solely to Lw use where she was
permitted to go at any time to pick them, and taught
to understand that they were at her own disposal as
her private property, which afforded un bonn dod de-
light. Nearly every visitor at the house was
sented whh a flower, sometimes with a bouquet. An
aged man, who had apparently seen iburseore years,
one day made his appearance at the gate when she
was busily engaged with her watering pot. Her
father pointe~1 him out to her and, dropping the pot,
slie' hastily gathered a pansy and a daisy to Dresent
to him. The old man was deeply moved by th&amp;

CONNECTICUT.

321

friendliness of the little gift, and turning to Mr.
Livingston said, "If every body had been as consid-
crate as that little child, I should not be where I am.
When any body begins to go down, the world keeps
pushing him down, not even deigning to give him so
much as a daisy to cheer him."
"Qh the little darling , what a blessed angel you
are," said Kate, as she ran out and snatched her
from her father's arms on their return from an even-
ing ride, and sallying into the kitchen, kept up such
a constant chatter and laugh, that when Milly took
her to prepare for her night's rest, the child was so
excited she did. not go to sleep until midnight.
Talking with h~r eyes more than with her hips, Kate
liked to watch their sparkle when any thing pleased
her. And~ then she had such cunning little hands,
neither chubby nor lank, but just full enough to
*    take off their bony look, which was her conception.
of a beautiful hand.
Walter came home that day, having completed his
*    studies and prepared himself for the practice of his
profession, intending to commence itin his own na-
tive city, and if successful, to establish himself there
permanently.
A curious little adventure happened that afternoon
as he and Mr. Livingston were out looking at a beau-
tiful collection of plants, where they happened to
meet an old classmate of the latter, whom he had
L      not seen for many years.
Being a student of botanical science, and also
somewhat eccentric, lie asked Mr. Livingston if he had
any rare specimens of plants to show him, in reply
27*

820


322'            A TALE OF TIlE

CONNECTICUT.            828

to an. invitation to call at his house. With a mis~
chievous twinkle in his, eyes which, however, was
unperceived by his friend, he informed him that he
had two very rare specimens of the rose end lily, lie
would be very 11~appy to introduce to him. I~~pa-
tient of delay, ii~ the anticipation of such rich treas~
uries, the. bachel~ r friend could wait no longer, and
called (hat evei~ ing, just after Lilly was taken . up
stairs to her mo her After the usual salutations,
Ernest hastened after them, fearing it might be too
late for, Lilly to appear in her most interesting mann
ncr, as it ,was getting late and she might be sleepy.
On the contrary, he thought she never looked so
pretty before. The excitement had imparted a deli-
cate flush to her cheeks, and her eyes, which re-
sembled his in expression, were sparkling with hap-
piness running over. Taking her in one arm and
giving his wife the other, he took them to the parlor
and after introducing them, said, " These are my
Rose and Lilly, and iii granting your desire to in-
form you where you may be able to obtain more of
the same species, I have only to say that profiting by
my experience, you must select your rose from the
purest love, and you will never feel its thorn, and
fairer than any hot-house plant will bloom the lily
of your household." The bachelor friend was raIh~r
abashed, but enjoy&amp;l the joke. Whether this little
incident awakened emotions that had long been slum-
bering, or Milly's pleasant face and unassuming ways
alone attracted him, it was evident by his frequent.
calls before leaving the city and' inquiries after her
when not present, that he felt an uiiusual interest in

her. What might have been, but for Lilly whom no
stranger could supplant in her affpctions, romance
doth not say. She was too happy now to desire any
change.
When Lilly was three years old her father painted
her picture, which was a source of great delight to
them both. She would steal softly into his room and
look over his shoulder when busily engaged upon it,
and without interrupting him by a single xvord stand
perhaps half an hour, when, giving him a kiss and
receiving one in return, she glided out as still as she
glided in.
Halcyon days were those, fitting scenes for a nov-
elest to dwell upon. In the reality of life There is so
much of pain and sorrow to sicken the soul, one
turns with irrepressible longing to a fairer world,
where affection, divinely commissioned of heaven, has
powcr to assuage many a sorrow and heal many &amp;
pain. Such homes do exist in real life, sufficient to
show that we can form no ideal so high even in ro-
mance, as to be unattainable. The Ideal is the di-
vine part of our nature and it is in striving to make
it real that progress is made.
The function of the novelist, however trifling or
detrimental it may seem to the prosaic mind, is an
important one. Through the fascinating power thus
wielded over others a great influence ma~ be exerted
to Slevate the moral tone of society by presenting
pictures of domestic life that shall array the merit~
and demerits of virtues and vices, delineating those
delicate threading among the counter currents of
passions and emotions that control the individual,
which escape the observation in actual life.


* CHAPTER XXXL
"Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide,
In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side."
"Shall tongues be mute, when deeds are wrought,
Which well might shame extreinest hell?
Shall freemen lock the indignant thought?
Shall Pity's bosom cease to swell?
Shall Honor bleed 2-Shall Truth succumb?
Shall pen, and press, and soul be dumb?"
Before Walter commenced his professional career
as a lawyer, he started on a journey that had been
a subject of his thoughts for many years, intending
to visit the tomb of Washington, the Capitol of his
country, and other places of interest at the South.
He was a very enthusiastic politician for one of such
precise ideas of morality, much more so than Ernest
who took very little interest in political affairs gen-
erally. They often discussed the leading topics of'
the day, upon which the latter kept himself well in-
formed, but he did not care so much to enter into
the arena of debate as Walter. He liked argument,
liked to probe the depth of every measure to see if
it rested on a sure foundation, and was unsparing in
his criticisms if it did not. Party spirit thou ran
high, and a new element was just beginning to tinge
the waters of civil commotion, which was soon to
sink all other issues in its transcendent importance.
Already Mammon began to tremble, and priestly ar~
(824)

CONNECTICUT.              325
rogance to, hide itself behind the bulwarks of tradi-
tion and sophistry.
Although Walter had studied. his political creed
under the most conservative teachings, his religious
convictions had not parted with that cardinal point
Which i~ the unquestioned heritage of the Protestant
faith, the right of private judgment. It would have
given liini no pleasure, and it would have been no
inducement to travel anywhere under a restriction
of any opinion he might hold on any sukicet that
came under his observation.
On reaching Washington, meeting an old acquaint-
atice who was o~o1v~ directly to Mount Vernon, he
accompanied hint, lie visited the tomb of the great
Patriot and Defender of his country, and ranibled
over the OTOUIidS so often pressed by his weary feet.
Descending a slope that led to the spring in a se-
questered, b~it most enchanting and romantic spot,
he sat down to ~cst and feast his soul upon a beauty
of natural scenery that, aside from the interest it
inspired by its association with the illustrious dead,
was well calculated to lead the thoughts from the
narrow range of the present over the boundless fields
of the past, and the ungathered harvests yet to be
garnered in the golden sheaves of the future. He
dWelt upon the long list of British aggressions that
had fired the i~idigiiant souls of Adams and Otis, un-
til the flames of war kindled the whole Atlaiitic sea-
board, when, by the united voices of those sitting at
the helm, the rising ship of state was entrusted
through its varying fortunes to the skill and wisdom
of a youbg man whose successful career had laid th~


826              A TALE OP TEE                                                                     327

CONNECTICUT.

foundation of a nation stretching its arms over the
oppressed of all lands that they should find here an
asylum and a home, unmolested in the enjoyment of
freedom of conscience, and he grew in of
himself and lodged to be another Washington. Full
of these reflections lie left this favorite Mecca of the
Americans, undisturbed in his delightful reverie un-
til he reached his hotel in Washington. There he
overheard two gentlemen discussing a slave auction
that was to take place the next day, one of whom
was lately from the North and apparently a novice
in such masters, to whom the other w~as giving in-
structions hoxv to proceed to secure a good bargain
,in the pound of human flesh. His revolting details
of l~ersollai exaiiinations, and the heartlessness with
which lie described the shrewdness necessary to elude
the deceptions of the slave-trader on the one hand,
and the pretended sensibilities of his victims on the
other, clashed greatly with Walter's ideas of the
sacredness of. humanity.
The next clay he attended the sale, which was not
calculated to allay his excited feelings. J~Ie saw there
beauty, that the 'aristocratic circles of hi~ native city
might envy ; children whose saddened c untenances
indicated the weight of years rather than the buoy-
*anc.y of childhood; aged men and women, whose
bowed heads betokened the utter Qespair of their
hearts. Around them was a motley crew, mostly
vulgar and brutal; yet occasionally. one of gentle-
manly bearing stood .a little apart like himself, as if
ashamed, and' disgusted at this nefarious exhibition
of depraved passions and filthy lucre. foremost t

e.

among the latter class was th~ prospective Northern
slaveholder, shrinking a little from the unwelcome
task before him,-unWelCoinC, because the Northern
prejudices against the system instilled into him
among the granite hills of his native state wore not
quite conquered, yet bearing on his brow the well
defined outlines of a dogged perseverance when the
Yankee's love of money should overpower the nobler
instincts of the soul. lie bid off at an exorbitant
price a beautiful Quaciroon, not the best investment
of money, which was of little moment just now, as
he had fixed upon her, at any price, for a present to
his young bride;' but retribution soon followed them
both, for the Quadroon became the fire-brand of do-
mestic discord. The sale went on very much like
our sales of cattle and swine, with the exception of
a more barbarous set of tradesmen.
When Walter returned to his hotel he made some
remarks upon the revolting cectacle he had wit-
nessed, and drew some disparaging comparisons of
this inhuman tr~ffio with the theory of our demo-
cratic institutions and religious professions, which'
stirred the chivalric blood of the hot-headed Soi4hron.
"You'd better look out, young man, how you come
here to meddle with our institutions. They are our
right, and we will have none of your Northern inter~
ference," said a well-dressed sprig of the Southern
aristocracy.
"I did not come her6 to meddle with your insti~
tutions. I caine to visit the tomb of Washington,
the founder of this Republic, and I ought to have the
right of free speech any where within its precincts,

226

327


828             A TALE OF TUE

CONNECTICUT.           829

upon any subject, or it would not be deserving the
name of a Republic," quietly, but firmly responded
Walter, eyeing his opponent.
you," said the latter, doubling his
assuming a defiant attitude, "iii the name
and honor of our darling institution that you. have
insulted."
"I fight no duels," calmly replied Walter, "the
cause that descends to sncli low means for its defence
shows the most convincing proof of its own weak-
ness."
A tumultuous roar of voices now succeeded. The
slave traders who had resorted thither after the auc-
tion, inflamed with whiskey, made use of the most
obscene language that ever greeted his ears, hide-
pendent of the epithets applied to himself.
" Set him on a rail and give him a right smart
treat of our hospitality," drawled out a thick set,
low-browed, savage looking, tobacco chewing repro-
sentative of the "sacred" soil of Virginia, who, no
doubt, would faithfully execute any deed of that na~
ture imposed upon him.
"He I)rates about Washington as if that was any
thing to us. He was an old fool that he didn't get
his old woman from your cussed North, instead of
humoring their spleen. That's where he missed it,
and ~uade us a heap o' trouble, that he didn't make
them understand in the beginning what's what.
Made 'em know tI.~at they'd got to obey the laws, and
stop this old confounded prattle about human rights
and the nigger, but we shall have 'em yet tighter 'n

a vice, then we'll see 'em squirm. Our plans are all
fixed."
This defiant speech of one of the cotton lords
was followed by a roar of exultant laughter, and a
knowing shake of the head of one of the lower class
as he called out to a craven looking huckster stand-
ing in the door,
"You woi~ked the card slick James when you got
your nigger wench from the North, and there wan't
no outcry about it nuther that ever I cheered on, shows
how much they .care for the nigger arter all. That was
right hard on you when she run away, hem' the only
one 'you ever owned, you might a' raised a right
smart stock from her, and she never was wuth nothing'
to ye afterwards."
Walter was on tl4c point of asking a question or
two here, but thelandlord managed to draw him one
side and besought him to leave as soon as ho could
or they would both get into trouble. He had bean
witness of too many such altercations to be unmind-
ful of their results. Walter had no desire to stop
longer among such society and he hastened away
disgusted and disheartened by what he had seen and
heard in the heart of the nation. It so happened
that before he left the precincts of slave-dom, he was
the witness of another auction. This was a more
private sale, being the bankrupt stock of an indivi&amp;
ual lately deceased. He was an unusually indulgent
master, and the grief and lamentation of the slaves
as they were put up was heart-rending. lore was a
favorite slave wbman, nearly white, who was born

28


830             &amp; TALE OF TIlE
and reared n the family, and had never known a
single hardsh p. Her mistress was a very inefficient
woman, free from the jealousy commonly c~cited
among Southern ladies by the presence of slaves Sn.
period to themselves in personal attractions or men-
tal capacities. The consequence was, this WOU~aI~
exercised far more sway than she did herself, and
was naturally proud spirited and sensitive. The do-
Iiant look she cast when ordered to take the stand
roused the passions of a Southern slave-dealer who
had often seen her and tried to obtain lier of her
master, and he determined now to have her in his
power to conquer. lie subjected her to every species~
of insult in his questions and examinations, while
she trelubled from head to foot through fear of falling
into his hands. The price ran high, being a desire~
ble article, so to speak of a human boing, aad he had
to pay an enormous sum. When helaid hold of her
to take her away the resistance she made ruptured a
blood vessel and she bled to death on the spot. The
wrath of the slave trader knew no bounds when thus
foiled of his prey~ ai~d he swore and kicked her,
while the bystanders exulted in his loss, some of
whom were sadly disappointed at not being able to
obtain her for themselves. The little notice taken
of this event, merely as if she had been a dog or a
horse, was an outrage to civilization Walter would
not have believed could exist in his own country if
he had not been an eye Witness of the fact. His en-
thusiasm received such a check that he had no qesire
to continue his journey farther, even if allowed the
free expression ~fliis opinion. True, he knew slavery

CONNECTICUT.

331

existed in the land, but it never came home to his
conscience in this, light before. Like thousands of
others he accepted the current phrase that this was
the freest country on the face of the globe, the truth
of which, tested by Massachusetts institutions, there
seemed no reason to question. He returned to his
Northern home, but it no longer wafted o'er his brow
the free, pure air that inspired his childhood's boyish
dreams. A deadly taint rested on all the supei'struc
ture to which he had formerly turned with reverence
as the embodiment of human wisdom, extending its
privileges for the benefit and protection of every
child of the human family; and he saw Law, which
was associated in his mind with the first principle of
divine order, perverted to the vilest of purposes,
while no one questioned the rightfulness of the foul
work to which it was prostituted4. lie went into a
searching examination of all the various channels of
jurisprudence to which his native tongue ~gave access,
and sought in vain for a vestige of the shadow of
right to barter as merchandise ~. humami being under
any pretext whatever. Even Blackstone, the child
and advocate of a monarchy, gave to Liberty the
broadest interpretation that could ho safely done in
accordance with the reserved rights of the individual,
and in no ease were the latter to be given up except
for the benefit; of society, in which he would share
as one of its members. Again and again did he re~
peruse those ~ages to trace there the pri~cipIe that
governs all history, and under the guidance of a new
light, which the Law school of Cambridge could never
yield, he gradually unfolded the divine plan by which,


882             A TALE OF THE

through storm and revolution, the passions of the
multitude and the unflinching fidelity of the few
combine, from the irresistible necessities of the hour,
each acting in its own characteristic oh annel, one
through fire and blood Pie other through th~ preach
ing of truth alone, to baptize anew the idea incar-
nated at creation's birth, when man was ~i'eated in
the image of God, that as such he should enjoy all
the prerogatives, immunities and heirships to which
lie is entitled as an immortal being, irrespective of
clime, color or condition. His resolution was formed.
lie would exert his own influence to rouse the slum-
bering conscience of the North to a sense of its
participation in the common guilt by maintaining
silence when such enormities were 'perpetrated in
the heart of the nation. Especially was it incum-
bent on the church, whose mission it was to preach
the gospel to every creature, to remember the op~
pressed as bound with them and to warn the oppres-
sor of the day of judgment, when if he did not heed
the divine command to break every yoke, he would
be visited with fire and sword, with pestilence and.
famine, to take up this question and present its
claims to the religious world.

CHAPTER XXXIL
~ "XVaik
Boldly and wisely in the light thou hast,
There is a hand above will lead thee on."
Walter was disappointed in the sympathy and en-
couragemen.t he expected to meet with in the social
and religious world. Friends stood aloof, and the
church looked with suspicion upon any innovation
calculated to raise excitement. Previous to this
time "order reigned in Warsaw." Theological dis-
cussion was lulled, and if the same animosity existed
between the sects, it was considered the wiser course
to let each pursue its own path, trusting to the
mercy of God for its conversion, rather Than protract
such useless controversies.
The excitement upon the slavery question which
followed the revolutionary war h9 also subsided,
and Southern markets plied their busy trade without
hindrance fro ~n any source. Nort1i~ern avarice and
27 ~uthern cupi ity joined hands in unholy wedlock,
while the priest and Levite stood by to bless the banns.
The graven image was set up, the altar unto Mo-
lock was consummated, and it was only the strug-
ghing of the victims which began to disturb the con-
science of a disreputable few who dared to confront
the selfishness and prejudices of the community iii
28*              (333)


884              A TALE OF THE

CONNECTICUT.               885

defe~21ce of the inalienable right of every man to him-
self, the right of every woman to her chastity, and
the sacredness of the parental relation.
a young and enthusiastic person like Walter,
whose inexperience in the world led him to suppose
others would be just as ready as he to condemn a
wrong or reject an error wheii it should be cleady
proved, it was a source of the greatest perplexity
why individualss standing high in the church, and
making . the loudest professions of philanthropy
should be so indifferent to this wholesale system of
plunder and concubinage, to say nothing of the im-
mortal interests involved, wherein according to their
creed it was impossible for its victims to escape the
miseries of the damned. Could they lead the lives
which should make them heirs of salvation when
bound by the laws of the land to submit to those
very sins which are denounced in the Bible as de-
serving of hell-fire'?
With that fearless moral independence whicl.~ was
such, a conspicuous trait iii his character he spoke
his honest thoughts regardless of consequences, al-
though it was often trying to his warm-hearted and
generous nature to meet the . coldness of former
friends who, through his whole life; had showered
him with kindness, and given him their warmest
benedictions, justly meriting his deepest gratitude.
But the greatest trial he had to pass through, which
was as unexpected as it was painful, was the opposi-
tion of his mOther. lie had never dreamed that she,
whose sympathies o~rerflowed towards the whole hu-
man f~inily, and whose hD ~id was ever ready to assist

tb~ md~~mtnnate, and succor tko dLtressed could
shut her ears to the cry Of the opj)re~sed because
shijcled un(h~r the imposing panoply of law. it was
this circumstance probably that modified the severity
of his judgment and the sharpness of his criticisms
which, in after years exonerated him from much of
the harsh censure visited on his co-laborers in the
same cause.
lie saw that it was possible for people of the most
honest intentions tenaciously to cling to error, and
how easy it was for the conscience to be so misgi4d-
ed as to set the form above the substance when
clothed in the imposing garb of religious ceremoni-
als. There is no association so hard to break off as
that which binds individuals together in a religious
organization, and very justly so. Starting with prin~
ciplos founded on the highest emotions of the soul,
however erroneous the intellect may be in reducing
them to practice, there is a bond. which has corn-
man ded the reverence of childhood, and. strength-
ened with every succeeding year, both through storm
and sunshine. The friends who have stood by us
in the most solemn hours of life and proffered their
words of sympathy and consolation, accompanied by
deeds of kindness which should entitle them to our
life-long gratitude, are not to be parted. from without
a struggle. Neither should any differezrne of opinion
demand a separation from them; but at that time
social standing was measured by allegiance to certain
prescribed tenets of religious belief, and social pro-
scription meted out accordingly. Few were the
spirits bold enough and strong enough to breast this


836             A TAtE OP THE
popular wave of opposition, and maiiy of those wL~
did, lacked the discretion a few years of experience
in dealing with the prejudices of the times would
have' taught them hat much more of the evil exist-
ing in the world is perpetuated by thoughtlessness,
particularly among the masses, than by a deliberate
p~1rpose to commit a wrong. Although prejudices
arc not to be disarmed by soft words, nor truths
bluntly spoken to be dependent for success on the
silver tongues that utter them, there is a certain in-
ward perception of human nature which sees in the
masses a confused mixture of noble purposes and in-
consistent vagaries, causing them to vacillate between
the casual glearPs of some rising star of millenial
glory on the one side, and superstitious bigotry for
some ancient relic of heathendom on the other, and
gathers their unorganized impulses into a cohscious-
ness of the merits and demands of an idea which
stretches beyond the present into a future that shall
actualize our conceptions, thus reachiiig the intu~
itions when reason would reject it as a delusion.
Another tendency to neutralize the pi~ogress of
a reform is that spirit of timidity in a certain eJass of
persons who recognize its beneficent objects, which
leads them to ignore it out of deference to the opin-
,ion that suggests the possibility of error . because
others have erred before them, and that the 'fallibility
of human nature, out of charity for itself, should
attempt nothing higher than it has been found able
to attain, forgetful that it was under th6 inspiration
of their own. great thought that Galileo and Luther
severally pressed forWard to challenge th~ world to a

CONNECTICUT.            337

criticism of its merits, and crystallized it into an act
which has crowned their names with honor for the
fidelity with which they gave expression to God's
immortal purpose as it was revealed unto them, and
for its benefit to the human race.
If charity is commended as the greatest of christian
graces, it xvas never intended that it should be per-
verted into a cloak for unrighteousness, or that it
should exert so tolerant a sway as to lose sight of the
principle at stake. The mistaken views of the well-
meaning, or the sensitiveness of near and dear friends
afford no palliation of a great wrong which is upheld
by the powerful and influential, and toward which
they contribute their influence; being no less oppres-
sive to its victims because unintentionally or bliiidly
sanctioned.
Mrs. Claremont's brilliant hopes and anticipations
in which she had indulged with all the fondness of
maternal pride were thus to be dashed to the ground
*    at the beginning of his career. She had irnver cov-
eted honors or fame for the sake ~f reputation, but
with that honest love of approbation which courts
the applause of the wise and virtuous, she had looked
forward t6 a future wheil Walter should be an orna-
*     ment to his profession, and his moral integrity and
manly independence win greater laurels still. All
this she lived to see, but only with anointed vision.
From worldly eyes was hidden the immortal wreath
angel hands were, weaving, and dusky forms were
waiting to bear in grateful homage to the coronation.
The glitter of wealth and the praise of the world
are of very little moipent in comparison with the


888              A TALE OF THE                                           CONNECTICUT.               8S~9

sublime inspiration of an jdea, but it is not so easy
to disregard the feelings of a beloved friend, partic.
ularly when the apathy of others gives rise to a feeb
ing of isolation especially desirous of their sympathy,
and Walter was so accustomed to his mother's en~
encouraging smile that it seemed almost impious to
expect a blessing upon any effort which she disap-
*proved.
Months rolled on, increasing, rather than diminish-
ing the trials of both mother and son, and casting a
shadow over the whole family. No reproachful
words were ever uttered between them. They man-
ifested the same tenderness for each other, but the
barrier of prescribed opinions chilled the gushing
warmth of their souls.
From the first, Walter had dreaded the dissent
from his views he felt sure to encounter with Ernest.
Though oftimes differing in mere matters of opinion,
there had never been any radical difference of prin~
V ciples between them, and Walter had generally de-
ferred to him as being older and having more ex-
perience.
Ernest was n~ re tenacious of the established or-
der of things, an sought to introduce the new by
preserving the o d, instead of destroying the, old to
put the new in its place. He had unbounded rever-
ence for man in whatever position he stood,- whether
high 6r low.
Walter reverenced m~an, but he reverenced princi-
pie more. Whatever the position of the maix, if
principles were disregarded, ho should be called to
account, because in them xve~e embodied the rights

of the individual which are apt to be lost sight of in
a collective capacity which regards only the rights of
the majority~
The vieWs of Ernest accorded generally with Mrs.
Claremont, but he was more practical in his belief of
the supremacy of conscience over all matters of
opinion, iiever do4ibting that fidelity to it would
eventually lead a person into the right path, whatever.
errors he might for a time embrace. He believed it
to be a vital article of the Protestant i~aith, and a
right which has existed from the foundation of the
world, subject to no censorship from any human tri-
bunal, and therefore amenable to God alone. His
varied experience. in contact with all classes of so-
ciety, of every shade of opinion, and all creeds 6f
religious faith, had taught him to search farther than
mere professions for the true life of the soul; and
he learned to regard every human being, however
degraded in person or erroneous in theory, as a spark
of the divine intelligence, whose absolute sovereignty
in all inattevs of thought none can question. He
had too much faith in Walter's moral perceptions
and sound judgment to harbor any fear that he
would embrace any serious fallacy of reasoning or
unwise method of action, and never did he stand so
hi~h in his estimation as imow. Knowing the sacrifice
of feeling it must have cost him to adhere to his
present convictions of right, he manifested all the
sympathy in his power,. which-was deeply touching
to Walter. Being a man of few words,, it was very
little he said upon the su1~ject, as they did not agreo~
but his manner spoke louder than words.

I


840

A TALE 01? THE

Rosalirid's enthusiastic soul was just adapted to
the* reception of these radical ideas, but it was little
she said. With that delicate instinct which swayed
them all she made no allusion to her mother's oppo~
sition, not even to her husband. All felt that a
shadow was resting over their happiness and none
liked to allude to it. Even little Lilly seemed to
comprehend the changes in the family atmosphere,
and prattled less than formerly,-perhaps because
the repressed buoyancy of their spirits failed to draw
her out. Nestled in her father's arms she would
sometimes sit a whole hour in the. evening perfectly,
quiet save when he caressed h~r and brought into
her eyes a radiant gush of happiness, when she would
look around the room from one to another to see if
they shared it, which of course they did for her sake.
Doubts and fears arose to perplex the young m~n 's
soul. "had I not better give it up," said he to
himself; "is it iiot a filial duty I owe to my mother
to regard her feelings ~n the matter? Is it; not a re-
sponsibility which rests on the church alone?
Leaving his meal untasted he arose from the tea.
table and withdrew to his chamber. After pacing
the floor for a few in~ments, he sat down by the wiii-
dow, mechanically turning the pages of a Bible that
lay open before him on a table near. Chancing
to glance at its contents his eyes rested on the pas-
sage, "Whoso loveth father or mother more than
me is not worthy of me."
A iiew meaning suddenly emanated from those
simple words, word~ that were as familiar to his ears
as their own family names, and yet never arrested

CONNECTICErT.             341
his attention before. They applied so pointedly to
his own case that all doubts fled, and his future
course was immediately decided on, in which he
never wavered for another moment. By the sacrifices
he was ready to make must his devotion be tested.
Rosalind entered his chamber that afternoon but
he took no notice of her presence. 'He sat at the
table with his head bowed on his hands, and seeing
that he was beyond the reach of human sympathy
she left a kiss on his brow and silently withdrew.
When she heard his elastic step on the stair and saw
the cheerfLd smile with which his face was lighted as
K     -he entered the parlor and met his mother's glance
K
with more confiding assurance than he had done th~t
day, she exchanged enquiring glances with her hus-
band who was equally surprised at the change he as
quickly observed.
Mrs. CIaremo~it had experienced ~s restless and
painful day as Walter, which was someWhat relieved
by this momentary recurrence of his wanted buoy.
5    ancy of spirits; but at~ the same time she felt an in-
explicable sense of uneasiness and anxiety as he sat
down beside her. She longed for the familiar inter-
change of congenial sentiments which had formerly
drawn their spirits together as one, and something
within her queried whether in reality they were so
far apart now. The harshness with which a new
idea ever grates qn the settled habits of the inin4
wa~ beginning.to wear off as she became accustomed
to an unvarnished' statement of facts, so that uncon-
sciously to herself the issue between them was ~cally
of a different character from what it was at first.
- 29


342             A TALE OF TIlE

CONNECTICUT.            343

She no longer doubted the imperative duty of every
individual and church organization to set the seal of
I,         condemnation on the sin of slavery as a crime of the
instead of being satisfied with
this he was going on to embrace heresies that would
undermine the foundations of society. This she
thouo'h t, although not rigid in her religious tenets;
b
~ut age had 'somewhat moulded the fresh impulses
of her youth into a ~mild form 6f conservatism, to
which her social position of wealth and influence
contributed not a little.
There is always in the wilder and uncultivated
mass of society a class ready to he attracted to any
novelty that comes up, wlieth~r of a moral, dramatic
or tragic nature, which gives to tl~e incipient stage of
every reform an anomalous, disreputable character,.
repulsive to the staid habits and fixed principals of a
large body of people who would otherwise flock to
the same standard, and which excites the derision of
a respectable and influential, but superfici'al order of
literary genius. It generally requires a mind of
more than ordinary patience of investigation, and of
rare independence and strength of will to sift, the
question so thoroughly as to detect the wheat from
the chaff when ready to meet it.
Mrs. Claremont had reached the point where she
could recognize the principle that first actuated Wal-
"fanatical
ter, but she could not tolerate the      disor-
ganizers" as they were termed, on the one* side;
and the low, motley crew on the other, with whom
he was thus brought into close communion. She for
got that Christ called his followers from the despised

rabble of this world as well as from the devoted Sauls
of tIme established church.
On retiring to rest that night she. had a singular
eam,-one that impressed her with a ,strange - viv-
idness of reality. She thought that she was a slave,
and had been sold away from her mother. All the
agony she had ever known, compressed into one mo-
ment, could not equal what she suffered for two
hours when she lay sobbing convulsively on her
mother's breast, with her master standing by, ready
to grasp her at any moment. At last he bade her
rm~e. She looked out at the window where the moon.
was shining brightly as if in mockery of her wo, and
the trees were waving gracefully in the calm beauty
of the evening's delightful solitude regardless of her
suffering.
She was ready to curse the God who gave her hf9,
and then looked complacently on the misery it
brought her without interposing an avenging lmamA,
when she felt the touch of her master's hand on her
arm and bade him desist at his peril. The burning
indignation with which she shrunk from his touch
and defied him as if her soul were on fire, awoke her.
There she lay with no other sensation tbau. that of
awaking from peaceful sluniber,-no startling emo-
K      tion, no hurried breathing, the usual accompaniment
of such nightmare dreams disturbed her, but she
could not rid herself of the awful, frenzied despera-
tion with which her Anglo-Saxon blood rose in re-
volt, contrasting it with the unrevengeful submission
of the African to centuries of oppression, and the
sublime fervor of his religious nature with that

I

842


844                A TALE OF' TILE

spirit of rebellion which prompted her to curse the
Author of her being for permitting such a violation
of his revealed attributes of love and righteousness.
She now made the slave's case her own, which she
had iiever done before. With the indifference so
common to us all she passed the subject by as one
pertaining to some far o~'f race which imposed no
personal responsibility, without seeking th ascertain
the measure of the nation's guilt, or the connection
of each individual therewith. That proud Anglo-
Saxon blood was humbled when confronted with the
deeper religious trust of the African who could
still praise God in the midst of clanking chains and
bleeding wounds.

II
if.

CHAPTER XXXIII
"Get but the Truth once uttered, and 'tis like
A star new-born, that drops into its place,
And which, once circling in its placid round,
Not all the tumults of the earth can shake."
Unable to sleep any more, Mrs. Claremont arose
very early the next morning. She was impatient to
Walter, and yet scarcely knew how to meet him.
to atone for her lack of sympathy at the
moment he most needed it, not knowing th~t the joy
of his new-born faith was greater than he could de-
rive from any favor this world could dispense, yet so
softening in its tenderness as to be doubly apprecia-
tive of the faintest ray of human cheer.
He had reached that spiritual height where com-
miseration for the blindness of those who sought to
prison an idea swept away every other feeling;
and for them, not for.himself, he breathed in earnest
prayer that the divine effulgence of infinite Love
might penetrate the darkness and lead them unto
that peace which would make them one with God,
ing their souls with the heavenly manna which
comet from above and is sufficient for all things.
Then would they see~ the folly as well as the impo-
tence of every attempt to roll back the onward march
of human progress, whether in the intellectual
achievements of science or :the moral influences at
work for the elevation of humanity.
29*              (345)

844


346              A TALE OF THE

CONNECTICUT.            347

Having passed the night in the peacePul repose
of a quiet conscience he arose unusually early and
went out in the orchard to inhale the ~'ragraiiee of the
fresh morning air, laden with the od cjrs of flower and
fruit, tho sweet scented clover and the newly mown
hayalI Mw baptised in one common faith by unseen
agencies that needed not the laying on of earthly
hands. Filled with the spirit of adoration the whole
earth looked to him as if kneeling before its Maker
in grateful praise fdr the, blessings of the night in
which he was ready to join.
Presently the sound of a footstep behind him dis-
turbed his devotions, and looking round he saw 'his
mother approaching with such a benignant smile in
her eyes, that ere he was aware, his arms encircled
her neck.
"Mother! "
" Walter!"
Not another word was said. Soul met soul, and
language was needless. They walked into the house
in silence where they found the rest of the family
already astir. Unknown to themselves Ernest was
an observer of the scene as lie looked from his chain-
ber window and called Rosalind, but she was not
quick enough. At breakfast an indescribable joy
pervaded the -whole family as if a great shadow had
been suddenly lifted, which was no less a trouble that
it was only a shadow. All felt the change but none
knew huiow it happened. Even Lilly seemed to com-
prehend it who slid down from her chair, and going
to Walter, put her: hand, on his knee, and looked up
into his face, as much as to say, "Can't you tell me
what makes you so happy?"

~lI

Whore now were all the heresies she had attributed
to Walter? banished, like a noon-day illusion. Now
that Mrs. Claremont' had embraced the "spirit that
giveth life," she could se~ how "the letter killeth."
She saw that the Sabbath, which was made for man,
could not be too sacred to plead for the rights of
~ ,   man; that the religion which was too sacred to ad-
mit the humblest to its communion as children of
the same Father, and therefore entitled to the same
birthright as the highest, was not worthy the name,
of Christian, whatever good works it might perform.
"Did not even the Pharisees the same?" "Not
every one that saith unto me Lord, lord, but he who
doeth the will of the Father shall be my 'disciple."
What is the will of the Father? Not merely to
visit the widows and the fatherless in their affliction,
but to undo the heavy burdens and let the oppressed
go free. What is faith without works? Of what
use the daily prayer to God that righteousness shall
prevail through all the earth, without making use of
the human instrumentalities he has ordained for its
accomplishment?
In the following autumn Walter visited the classic
ground of his Alma Mater. On the first evening of
his arrival a large meeting was held to discuss those
very questions to which he had consecrated his life,
awakening no little interest in the community, for
excitement ways then at its height.
The reverend doctors of divinity, and the honor-
ables of every profession met in solemn convocation
to decide what limit should be assigned to free speech,
and how far a man should be amenable to God in

846


CONNECTICUT.            349

848             A TALE OP THE

yielding to the dictates of his conscience. IRev. Dr.
Southron open d the meeting with prayer, which
consisted more i ii a statement of its objects than an
approach to the throne of Qrace for wisdom to be
guided in an im partial verdict, after which he made
.a short address, taking for his text, "The powers
that be are ordained of God," inculcating the prin-
ciple that governments are divine, and resistance to
them a crime against God and man. Then he pro-
ceeded to show what constitutes rebellion against a
government, and what course should be pursued to-
ward thcse. who stirred up sedition and revolt. "If
we let them go on," said he, "what anarchy and
confusion will follow, divisions in the church, dissen-
sions in society, and the overthrow of all law." ile
closed with an argument in defence of slavery based
on the Bible, beginning with the patriarch Abraham
and the Mosaic law, and ending with the since thread-
bare .tale of Paul and Onesimus under the new dis-
pensation.
This was going rather farther than most of the
audience were ready to endorse, not being yet quite
enough indoctrinated into the southern catechism to
answer in the affirmative: "Is not the chief end of
* man to glorify God by enslaving his brother so that
he may also teach him to glorify him?"
* They believed in submission to the laws whether
good or bad, in standing by the country, whether
right or wrong, but it was a bitter pill to swallow on
the soil of the Pilgrims, concocted of the alien, idea
that a ten-fold wors6 oppression than that they sought
~o escape should promote the very . end. they had in

view. There was a slight murmur of disapprobation
K    when he took his seat, which; however, was quickly
supprQssed as the silver tongued orator, whose name
was a synonym for all that was chaste in language
and classical in style, arose to defend the Union.
lie sped an arrow's flight beyond the comprehension
of the people who could see very little connection
between the elements of that massive structure ~nd
the consequences likely to result from the unlimited
exercise of free speech. He was, however, vocifer-
ously cheered, as every word coming from his lips
would be, if it had been expressed in an unintelli-
7   gible language. At the close of his remarks, another
gentleman arose who took exception to some of his'
sentiments.
"There was no need," he said, "to defend the
Union, for that rested on a foundation as sure as the
everlasting hills. Our fathers made it, and we have
no right to question its integrity, or doubt its stabile.
ity. Let us not harbor a thought that it can be rent
asunder by any force brought to* assail it, the possi-
bility of which it would be a, sin to admit, a libel on
the wisdom of our fathers!"
A strong feeling of dissatisfaction was here mani-
fested by the audience, who, though they in no wise
differed from the last speaker, would not tolerate the
appearance of dissent from any sentiment advanced
by their pet orator. The latter was also evidently
misunderstood, for his remarks were intefided more
as a rhetorical flourish to pass encomiums on those
who framed the Union and present them as models
for the present generation to follow, than to intimate

348


850             A TALE OP TIlE                                         CONNECT1CUT~.             351

danger, thus conveying a negative rebuke of that
spirit which assumed to be wiser than they. This was
more to his taste, and accorded better with his
methodd of dealing with an evil than l3ositive con~
demnation.
True, he was in favor of making free speech an
indictable offense, but his argument was so plausibly
worded as to make it appear something else than an
open denial of the constitutional right of freedom of
speech. His intentions might not have been bad,
nothing more nor less than to preserve the fraternal
feeling he supposed to exist between the north and
south, without which the ship of state would floun-
der, and all these magnificent proportions of an over~
arching striictu re which stretched forth its friendly
arms to embrace the oppressed of all lands who
sought its protection, would crumble into atoms.
The slave, what was he? Only a wedge to make
it still firmer, the fruit of whose toil would 1ie1p to
swell the streams of benevolence so profusely applied
to the evangelization of heathen lands. Did he suf-
fer? No matter, if thereby the Union was made
stronger.
Before order was fully rc~tored a young man was
seen to approach the stand, a stranger to most wh~
occupied it, but famihiai~ to many persons in the gal-
leries who shouted and cheered anew; for what rea
son they did not themselves know. It was Waltei~
ClaremonL No little interest was manifested at the
youthful appearance of one who had the boldness to
come forward after so much distinguished talent,
and his winning appearance prepossessed all in his

::~ favor. He stood, surveying the audience until sb
lence reigned throughout the crowded hall.
"Law is divine," said he. "Prom the starry
worlds overhead to the minutest insect at our fe&amp;t,
law is the one great fact which binds every object
and every being to an immutable fiat that is coeval
with creation, and which our puny efforts may strive
in vain to oppose. The same is true of the moral
world. God has written his law in every human
soul, with the penalties annexed *for its violation ;
and as xvell might you attempt tc~ blot Areturus from
the skies as to evade its retribution on the evil doer.
What is government? The reverend gentleman who,
occupied this platform asserts that governments are
    divine, when all history teems with their sacrilegious
*   proceedings. Or does he mean simply that this gov~
eminent is divine ? If so, where is its sign-manual?
*    TI~e proper function of law as applied to society, is
the protection of the rights of the individual. When
it fails in this it is no longer binding on the con-
science, according to the authority of one of the
brightest lights in~ jurisprudence, whence this nation
borrowed its common law. In other words all human
enactments must conform to the natural or revealed
law before they can impose obligations to obey them,
since that is coev~il with mankind and dictated by
God himself; of binding force over all the globe in
all countries, and at all times. The reverend geii-
tlemen raises the objection, that if every one were
allowed to follow the dictates of his own conscience,
anarchy would soon follow; and draws a lamentable
picture of divisions in the church, civil war and a

nul

fi!

350


852            A TALE OF THE                                        CONNECTICUT.            353

whole catalogue of evils, if a person be allowed to
speak his own honest thought and call a sin a sin,
whether committed in high places or low. Does he
think we shall avoid them by continuing in our
wickedness? Is that the kingdom of Ood he was
sent to. preach? Dare he stand in the sacred desk
and ask the blessing of God on his efforts to christ~
ianiz~ the heathen of foreign lands, when defending
a system which "denies the Bible to the heathen on
our own shores? Nay, more, who charges him with
giving it his divine sanction?
"There is a certain recognized moral standard
which requires no logic for its interpretation, nor
scholastic display of forensic ability to decide its
claims on the coliscience, being as clear and indis~
putable to the simplest child as to the most learned
professor. Once admit that we may legislate crime
into a, law, and what bec9mcs of our obligations to
God? What anchor have we to prevent us from
drafting on the dark and dismal shores of Atheism
the moment we ~et up injustice as the b ~ilwark of a
nation's safety,-the God whom we are omman~cd
to worship and oh4~y? in vain may you plead laws
and precedents; iufcri9rity of race, or ch\ristianizing
influences if that were possible; you cannot abate
"one iota of the crime you commit when you take
from a single human being, however degraded or
debased, one of the absolute riglits that are the birth-
right of humanity.
"Injustice may flourish for a while, and the nation
grow rich on its spoils, but so sure as He sits on the
throne of the universe, there will not be wanting at

I

the appointed time a Moses or a Joshua to lead forth
the oppressed from their long captivity, in vindication
of their outrages at the hands of those who have as-
sumed prerogatives that belong only to the Almighty.
"Allusion has been made to the dangerous ten-
dency of free speech, and in the same connection
the memory' of our fathers commended to th~ highest
reverence and their example presented as worthy of
all imitation. Who was it that said, errors of opin-
ion might be safely tolerated where. reason was left
free to combat them, and trembled for his country
when he reflected that God was just, and had no
attribute that would take side with the oppressor?
XVho described that crime for denouncing which this
meeting has been convened to call us to account, as
'one hour of 'which is fraught with more niisery
than ages of that which our fathers rose ii~ rebellion
to oppose?'
"A gentleman here says that the Union 'rests on
a foundation as sure as the everlasting hills.' Did
not the Eternal City claim a foundation just as sure,
and what has been her subsequent history? Go on
if you will, and close every avenue to free, discus-
sion, the mind will still be left to conquer, whose
empire is absolute and irresistible, and which has
itself the jowcr to snap this Union in sunder when
it shall no longer serve the purpose for which it was
intended.
"Under the despotisms of the old world it may be
possible to shoulder free discussion at the poiiit of
the bayonet, but not in a republic where every man's
80

9


854             A TALE 013' THE

'thought is a power in the state and the life of the
government.
"Again and again has constitutional liberty turned
on this very point, and again and again has it beei~
baptized in the blood of the martyrs who defended
and bequeathed it to us their children as the richest
heritage God or man can bestow. Shall we be re-
creant to the trust and barter away this glorio~~~
magna-charla of our liberties, that the most flagrant
crime that ever darkened the universe of God may
pursue its mad career!
"You cannot imprison the immortal soiff of man.
An emamition from th divine One who spurns alike
the lordly tyrant and the cowering slave, it is Ovor
towering upward to m et the stature of its prototype.
"Ye learned doctor of divinity and versed ox-
pounders~of the law, te I me if you can where, in the
annals of paganism, or the advancing light of civili-.
zation, you can point tc~ a single nation that has laid
its cortier-stone in the v elated instincts of the human
soul, and reared its pill ~mrs at the expense of its own
acknowledged principal~ s of justice, without meeting
sooner or later those d Onvulsions that upheave tim
foundatiojis of society ii thb struggle for the maim~-
tenance of those right which antedate every text
and every l)archlnent. The spirit of the Pilgrims
who first sought these ~hores that they might enjoy
unmolested the blessing~ of civil and religious' liberty,,
still lives on this soil. j You cannot conquer it, for
it is invincible. Heed i ~, be guided by it before it is
too late! Once submit to the dictation of the myr-
midons of the south, an~I before this gcneratiojj shall

II

854

I'

CONNECTICUT.              355
11ave passed away, you will witness one of the blood~
iest civil wars on record,"
I      An awe-struck silence pervaded the assembly when
he took his seat. They were so taken by surprise
that passion forgot to vent itself. All were speW
bound, and it was some moments before the cli~Pirinan
arose, when the meeting was adjourned.
Many of' Walter's old classmates were present,
who went to express their sympathy with the objects
of the meeting in whatever way accorded best with
their spirit and inclination ; either by cheering those
xv1~o dePmd~d them or interrupting any who might
chance to speak in opposition. They were professed
law and order" men, as ready to instigate a mob
fur their preservation as to institute a well-ordered
police' to guavd the peace. Though graduated at a
uniVCP5U~Y, they had not been taught to know the
diffei'e~ice. Exceptions existed of course, but they
wore of too modest and lukewarm a character to
vole nicer their honest opinions in the face of over-
whelming opposition. All, however, were for the
moment swayed by an involuntary sense of admira-
tion. There was something so bold and manly in the
moral courage he had displayed, ~o truthful in his
utteranc~s and instructive in his prophetic warnings,
as to command a hcayty response from the untrani-
uXeled impulses of their souls, then just passing under
the tuition which afterwards culminated in such 'mel-
aicholy expositions of the " higher law," and garbled
interpretations of scripture texts, by which, when the
laws of God and man conflict, the latter have been
made to appear the better of the two to people of
easy COIThCICLICCS.


chAPTER xxxiv.
"Love, which prot~laiins the Iminan, bids thee know
A truth more loULy in thy lowliest hour
Than shallow glory taught to human power,~
WHAT 'S IIIJMAN IS IMM~OETAL !"
June came again ,-J une with its wealth of roses
and lovely green, its clear skies and breezy nights,
bringing scarcely less of joy and gladness, beauty
and song to the outward world than to the loving
and' happy spirits of Orange Grove. 'The whole fain-
ily were planning an excursion to the sea-side (luring
a few weeks of the hottest season, which prom~scd
quite a change for them, as they rarely felt any in-
ducement strong enough to tempt them away from
their own pleasant home. Lilly appeared to feel the
most pare QI any one about going, and really looked
quite sad at the thought of leaving the two little
kittens and the rabbit, whose frolics toget her ~ainus&amp;d
her for hours, and sometimes caused her to ho quite
noisy a~ she clapped her hands and shouted at the
retaliation of old puss if they unceremoniously broke
'in upon her meditations when not disposed to join in
their levity, though she said she thought it was a
prettier sight to see her play with them. Then who
would keep the chickens, also her l)ets, out of her
garden, which had received quite an addition to its
former dimensions, in fulfillment of a promise her
(&amp;~G)

I
CONNECTICUT.             857
father made the previous summer because she wanP
ed "vegables" as well as flowers. Finally every
thing was settled to her satisfaction.. Kate prom-
~    ised to feed the kittens and take care of the garden,
~nd she looked forward td the anticipated journey
with as much joy as any of them, provided they did
not go before her peas were large enough to eat, as
she was to have a little dinner party then, to be serv-
ed from her own garden. There was no end to her
questions about the probable growth of everything
during their abseiice, asking her father to drive in a
stake before they left, about as high as he thought
her corn would roach when they returned, to see
how good he was for guessing. The oats she thought
might be quite ripe so she could teed them to the
horse. "Oh father, what if they should all dry up
and wither before I get back ; then I should wish I
had took a little ~ketch of my garden," said she laugh~
ing and jumping at the novelty of the idea.
But one bright summer morning, when the air
resounded with the song of birds, and the hum of
bright winged insects testified to the gladness of
their short life; when the sun's penetrating rays
quickened the earth's vegetation with the promise
of golden harvests, the heavenly Reaper came to
gather in his more thaii golden treasure which need-
ed neither summer rain nor autumn sun to perfect
it for his hands. Lilly, the May-flower, sickened
and died. No skill could save her, no rending cry
of anguish could wrest her from death's grasp. Her
misSion on earth was ended, angels waited to bear
her spirit joyfully to the other shore, and beautifully,
3Q*


a58            A TALE OF' THE                                       CONNECTICUT.            359

lovingly, she took her flight. Towards noon she
came to her mother and laid her head in her lap,
saying "Mother, will you please take me up, i'm so
tired !"
A high fever already coursed through her veins,
and she fell a victim to a mortal disease very preva-
lent among children that summer; but she had
always been so healthy not one of the family had
thought of feeling any anxiety for her. Little, were
they aware hoxV firmly their affections were centered
in her, or how important a part she lornj.cd of every
plan for the future. If the thought ever suggested
itself that she might not live, it was banished with a
feeling akin to that a child feels for a mother, who,
associated with every moment of life, and sharing
every joy and sorrow as no other person can, forms
such ai~ essential part of existence, that the thought
of parting with her is as unwelcome as a nightmare
d ream.
Lilly did not suffer as much as seine. During
most of the time she lay in a languid state, smiling
faintly when spoken to, and seldom making an effort
to speak. She died in her father's arms, and the
last words she said were, "Father, I cannot see you
now; but you can see my picture."
That picture! The death Angel touched it and
straightway it was transfigured into a celestial beauty
earthly I)ands could not impart, nor earthly passions
take away. But who shall describe that father's
anguish! During her sickness he had scarcely eaten
or sleptand his nervous system was now prostrated.
As long as there was life he felt there was hope, and

even after the vital spark had fled he reluctantly
gave her up, not until Rosalind whispered, "Shall
we not restore unto God his own?"
Tier fortitude through it all ws~s remarkable. She
was redeeming the pledge made unto God at the
time of her marriage. If her experience had taught
her anything it was that she had no right to assume
any voluntary relation that should subject her to the
vicissitudes of life and death, unless willing to meet
them more submissively than she had done the loss
of her father. Often had she renewed this pledge, as
day 1)y day she watched the unfolding of this fair
flower, and asked herself :l~e question, "if this treas-
ure should be called for at my hands, could I give
her up?"
Then leaving a kiss on that innocent brow she
strove within herself to feel that ~hc was only lent,
not given. She marvelled at her own strength in
this hour of trial, but, was anything ever asked of God
in prayer that ~as not granted? All the exquisite
tenderness of her nature burst forth, and she turned
from' the dead now at rest to the living who needed
her consolati9 n and support, banishing her own grief
in ministerin unto others. In her self-forgetfulness
lay her stren th, and the sight of her husband's s~r-
row made hmem~ rise above her own.
Mrs. Claremont was the animating spirit of the
house. So cheerfully she set about the performance
of every duty, and attended to all that had been
Lilly's special care, those parents felt that it would
have been an act of ingratitude to have appeared
otherwise than cheerful in her presence. From the


869

0(1.4

A TALE OP TIlE

little garden she gathered flowers to make a wreath
to encircle her head, and an opening white rosebud
to place in her hand, while at the head sl~e placed
the little vase that had~ been supplied with a boquet
throughout the season, arranged by Lilly's own hands,
and which was still preserved in its old place on her
mother's work-table, and as tenderly cared for by
Mrs. Claremont.
What sight is more touchingly beautiful than that
of an infant shrouded for the tomb? How innocent
'is the expression of every feature! How symbolic the
little hands, of a pwfeet trust in the great Father's
watchful care over all, as they repose so naturally on
the little bosom that will never again heave in an-
guish or shake with laughter.
The family circle seems scarcely complete without
the presence of an angel child. While others bring
care and anxiety, if not sorrow to their parents, one
they may always point to as pure and undefiled,
ministering in the Father's kingdom, to win them
from the attractions of this world through this nearer
glimpse of heaven, sometimes coming in the silent
watches of the night, or sanctifying daily toil with
the hallowed breath of inspiration. Not alone through
joy and sunshine, but through pain and tears, love
is strengthened; and we are false to the highest teach-
ings of revelation, if for every tie that is severed, we
do not make propitiation to the living by fresh efforts
to raise the standard of family devotion above the
petty bickering and jealousies which are born of
the passions, and can have no aflinity with the higher
faculties of the soul* that are to fit her for the im-

I

I

I

CONNECTICUT.             ~U.L
mortal destiny for which she was created and toward
~hieh she is tending.
Human tears are God's dew-drops, not always the
syml)Ol of sadness, but the workings of the most
sacred emotions, which are thus softened and pun-
fled until the soul responds with the most touching
sincerity, The Father's will be done!
Though Mr. Livingston tried hard to appear recon-
ciled he could not conceal the heavy grief that settled
It'
upon his spirits. He sought to banish it by close
{ application to his pencil, but the little silky brown
'~i~ head claimed admission there, and drove all other
subjects from his mind. Ho journeyed, but the in-
finite charm that had been wont to steal over his
senses when he gave himself up to revelry among the
scenes of nature, had suddenly departed, and in its
stead came another charm, one of peculiar sacred-
II
ness, revealing an angel presence ever flitting before
him and dulling his senses to the perception of other
objects. Accompanied by Rosalind, it was only in
her society that he found any consolation, either at
home or abroad. She always met him with a cheer-
4    ful smile which elicited' one in return, and that grief
must be very obdurate which will not give way in the
presence of two smiling faces.
It was a hallowed hour in that lonely home, one
of tender and sacred memory; when another form
constantly glided before and whispered to them
words of the most endearing love. Whether at home
or abroad, on the velvet turf or in the dusty street,
wherever the foot pressed or the eye rested, the
little silky brown head came to remind them of


862               A TALI~ OF THi~

CONNECTICUT.            863

* other days and turn their thoughts heaveiaward
whither she called them.
But, "'Tis the work
Of many a tea~', and of many a prayer,
To win the he .rt back from an infant gone."
At times the oods of human sorrow dashed in
overwhelming sur es against the anchor they thought
was moored fast in the peaceful waters of a wise
resignation. And the garden; 0 Earth, how caust
thou smile on in such bitter mockery of human wo?
Ahit is a decree of God's own ordination, whereby,
if a seed die it shall rise again and put forth new
verdure, prophetic also of the resurrection of every
joy in that immortal sphere toward which all are
hastening.
There was another upon whom Lilly's death fell as
a heavy stroke of affliction, to whom Mrs. Claremont
sought to administer all the consolation feeble words
could convey; feeble indeed, for they fall so far short
of what the soul craves at such times, that it is
almost a mockery to utter them. And yet will all
these little kind offlc&amp;s be treasured up in the store-
house of memory as precious mementoes which will
not fail to be appreciated in the maturer wisdom of
future years.
There are as many different kinds of affection in
the world as there are different mental organizations.
One kind is strong, ardent, full of enthusiasm and
demonstration, like Rosalind. Another kind, just as
strong, just as ardent, but so quiet and undemon-
strative, as scarcely to reveal its existence until some
shock threatens to rend asunder the very heartstrings

11

of life, was illustrated in Milly. Isolated as she was
in every human tie, her affection for Lilly had stirred
her soul's depths as they were never stirred before.
When sighing for one more touch of that little hand,
one more gentle pressure of that soft cheek against
hei own, o~n~ more merry twinkle of those eyes be-
foi e which sadness vanished like the misty morning
vapors before the rising sun, Mrs. Claremont, clivin-
ing her feelings, thus soliloquized, " Why shut up in
the dark tomb all tlie rich blossoming of that young
j   life?  Why not permit it to exhale its fragrance
among these numberless relies that need only its in-
spiring breath to consecrate them as joyous meinen-
toes of the love and happiness this world has the
capacity to confer, and the other world clai~ns.only
to purify and perfect? She is leading us into the
deep waters that we inay gather thence its choicest
pearls."
A new idea was suggested to Miliy.~ She turne~
to her novel with a fresh interest, and felt the quick~
ening of iiew powers, and revelations of a higher
order of. beauty for which those latent germs of un-
defined aspirations had struggled from her earliest
memory to be developed into their highest capabilities.
ry different from those labored effusions which
excited Kate's facetious criticisms-the passages
now coming from her pen were full of meaning and
rich with inspiration. Lilly was no longer a departed
spirit, but a presiding genius that stood between her
and the pages of her book, ready to interpret those
dark phases of human experience Which for a time
shut us out from the beauty and glory of this out-

862


S64              A TALE OF THE

ward world that the inner vision may become clearer,
when, purified and sanctified, clothed, and in our
right mind, w~ may sit down at the right ,hand of
Jesus, accepting his condition, "That unless we be-
come like one of those little* ones, we can in no wise
enter the kingdom of heaven."
But as novels, even of the highest order, should
serve only as recreation, instead of food for the mind,
there is a higher and more practical work to be en-
gaged in than writing them, if it is only to carry out
the ideas presented, and to this work Milly was des-
tined. The rich poetry of that inner life was to
burst forth in deeds moi~e beautiful thai! any sketches
flowing from her pen; not to be compressed within
the mute pages of a book, which, however, served a
high purpose as a precept for the rule of her life.
She had no sooner written it than the high standard
she had presented struck her as being too visionary
~r realization, and fearing the~ strong pictures she
had drawn of the strength and omnipotence of affec-
tion had recei~ ed too high a coloring from her own
sensitive orgai~ ization, it met with the fate so often
assigned to rea\l merit, in never being permitted to
enrich the woi4d with its treasures of thought, but
they were nev~ rtheless incorporated into her daily
life and she experienced the blessed consolation of
knowing that 'she had neither dreamed idly nor
turned into a mere visionary enthusiast.

4,
a
p

CHAPTER XXXV.
~ Those laughing orbs, that borrow
From azure skies the light they wear,
Are like heaven-no sorrow
Can float o'er hues so fair."
The merry month of May again came round, bear-
ing in its bosom a merry gift for those stricken
parents. Another daughter was born, not the coun-
terpart of Lilly, but that was no matter. A baby
had come to enliven the oppressive stillness of the
house, which was never still afterWards, and there-
fore was thrice welcome. Full of life and motion
she demanded as much attention as one little body
could well lay claim to. She never folded her hands
so meekly, you could almost fancy the bliss of heaven
clasped there, as Lilly had been wont to do. From
the time her eyes were open in the morning uixtil
they closed at night, was one gala-day of fun and
frolic. her merry laugh apprised every one of her
approach, and her tireless activity and thoughtless
hove of mischief required constant amusement and
wat&amp;hfiilness. At nine months of age she walked,
and then not a work-basket, trinket or anything else
could be left within reach that did not suffer from
her roguish fingers. When there is such a dominant
love of fun it is almost impossible to keep a child out
~f mischief, not from a wanton love of it, but from
81               (865)

364


366             A TALE OF TUE                                      cONNECTICUT.             367

an unconquerable desire to laugh at the effects of it.
Her sunny temper was never ruffled by the vexatious
queries so annoying to her mother's childhood.
Having blue eyes and curly hair, she resembled her
somewhat, yet not so much a~ that picture of her
father's which first arrested Walter's attention and
opened the way for their acquaintance. She some-
times visited her father's studio, but only to misplace
every thing she could lay her hands upon and add
variety to his sketches after her QWII plan. The
whole house was at her command and she reigned
queen over them all, for no oiie could think of being
impatient with the source of so much happiness.
Mr. Livingston seemed quite like himself again, ant
Kate, who had been the impersonation of gravity
since tho death of Lilly, finding no words to express
her gri6f, made the house ring with music as she
kept time to the patter of childish glee. This was
bettor fun than criticizing Milly's novel, a theme
already exhausted for her, and she seldom intruded
into that sanctum now. Better also than settling
the troubles of young house-keepers, or ellumeratiug
"Sykes" adventures. Such is the unconscious power
of childhood.
" Will mother have a full blown rose this morn~
ing? " said Mr. Livingston as he brought her in
crowned for the first time with a wreath of flowers
as he had often crowned Lilly ii~ her babyhood. Her
rosy, dimpled cheeks and joyous laugh showed how
fully and keenly she entered into the lively appre-
ciation. of every pleasure the physical world affords.
Hear her now as 8he' gives a jerk t6 free her hands

ii
Ii

froin~ her father's clasp, who holds them the more
tightly to prevent her from teari~~g the wreath from
her head crc her mother sees it, which she very well
understand. And when he does let go how quickly.
it falls crushed and mutilated at his feet; and then
hear the ringing laugh! And the next moment she
is out of his arms and out of sight, playing, ." bo~
peep!" and ore he can catch her, away again.
Once while Kate had her in charge in the vicinity
of Milly's room, the latter left the door ajar for a
second as she stepped into the hall, which the little
Rosie quickly perceived and bent thitherward her
nimble feet. The next instant the inkstand was up-
set over a pile of manuscript. "Why Rosie, what
woift you do next?" exclaimed Milly~ as the devas-
tating sight met her eyes. Kate ran in to see what
had happened and laughed as sh~ remarked,
"A rather melancholy end fbr your novel to comC
to isn't it?"
On looking for the child she was not to be found
up stairs or down. Kate at last espied her behind a
large rocker in her grand-mother's chamber in a
little niche that would just admjt her, With eyes so
wild and big as to be scarcely recognized, and curled
up in the smallest possible space. She looked so
comical that she ran to call Mr. Livingston, who had
just entered. . lIe could scarcely suppress a smile at
the unwanted seriousness of that roguish little head
which sought to retreat farther back, showing how
keen a child's instinct, is to comprehend that it has
done something wrong, deserving of reproof, being
then only a year and a half old. Reluctantly she

9 '


368              A TALE OF THE

left her place of refuge as he lifted her into his arms
to visit the scene ~f her unlucky exploit. This was
too much for that little bosom to contain, and lie
was obliged to give her to Kate to console, which
she quickly did by proposing a game at "hide-and.
seek!"
The little golden haired girl who made her first
appearance at Mrs. Claremont's when Walter placed
her in Rosalind's lap that Thanksgiving evening they
visited her mother in her distress, had been adopted
into the family at hei~ mother's death which occurred
shortly after Lilly was taken from them, and was
~QW an interesting girl of twelve years. 11cr devo~
tion to the child made her a most trusty caretaker,
and being full of sunshine herself, the atmosphere
about them was so merry there was no room for a
cloud of sadness even to hover about those parents
now, or if so, they felt it would be a sin not to dis..
pel it at once, although never cherishing the feeling
~f security upon such a treasure they once did.

i

CHAPTER XXXVI.
"There I maddened. Life swept through me into fever,
And my soul sprang up astonished-sprang full stature in an
hour;
Know you what it is when anguish with apocalyptic Never
To a Pytl~iafl height dilates you, and despair sublimes to power?"
It is well human nature is so constituted that one's
joy is not banished by another's sorrow, otherwise
there would be no enjoyment in this life. To every
individual, sooner or later, comes his own trial-hour,
and that is sufficient for himself. The world may
not know of it, but no matter, the purification goes
on, and the inaudible sigh is nct unheard in heaven's
chancery, whether surrounded by the music and
mirth of loving friends, or the thoughtless indiffer~
once of those who are incapable of extending the
cordial grasp of sympathy.
While the vicissitudes of life were bringing their
alternate sunshine and shade to peaceful homes in
the lovely vale of the Connecticut, mellowed and
sanctified by the transfiguring touch of love in which
the human was blended with the divine; on the
banks of the Tennessee, passion was contending for
the mastery with love, and in the end came off con-
queror.
Mrs. Carleton's first impressions of Southern life
were ijot of the most agreeable character, which,
however, gradually wore off, until, like other northern
31*              (869)

II

868


9

870

A TA~IE OF TILE

ladies, she yielded to their customs, and even the
repugnance at being waited on by slaves was soon
overcome, the more rer~dily as the change of climate
at that season of the year enervated her physical
energies.
As Mr. Carleton was s~4dom cruel unless rouse dby
L
some strong passion, an 41 his plantation not an exten~
sivo one, his wife was never w~itness of the worst
features of slavery, if by this term we mean the great~
est physical suffering. Deeming kindness the most
effectual barrier against the crime of running a way,
when they showed their ingiatitude by doing so, he
was as merciless as any other. During his residence
in the north lie had been led to doubt considerably
the expediency. of slave labor, from the contrast
continually presented between northern thrift and
southern indolence, but his convictions on this point
never touched upon the first grain of principle and
were soon forgQtten on his return to its borders.
Tue most of his slaves were inherited from his
father, whose death occurred a short time previous to
his acquaintance with Miss Blanche. One beautjfuh
bx~unette he. bought soon after his marriage for a
waiting maid for his wife, who seemed well enough
pleased with the selection, inasmuch as she shared the
northern prejudice against color, and such familiar
contact with the Africah race as the Southern mode
of life produced, was ex ~rernoly repulsive to the staid
influences of her northern education.
This slave had just enough of the negro blood in
her veins to ripple her hair slightly, which was of the
glossiest black, and impart to her countenance that

371

CONNECTICUT.

doubtful hue, which puzzles the beholder to -know
whether the flesh and blood he sees before hii~-is an
unmixed specimen of the superior race, and thus
entitled to the rank and privileges of a human being,
or whether, owing to the vices of that superior race,
sanctioned by the existing laws of the land, a chattel
slave is the highest rank to which this immortal soul
can ever aspire. She bore none of the badges of
servitude, her carriage and mien resembling more the
northern prostWute, than the subj~iissive victim of
southern institutions. Lost to all sense of degrada-
tion she glories in her fascinating power over others,
for at the same time she held her master in thrall,
her mistress was so won over by her proffered kind~
ness and thousand little acts of dissimulation, that
the slightest breath of reproach from any of the feb
low slaves would not have been tolerated by her, but
this confidence was of short duration.
Mrs. Carleton was not a woman of an investigating
mind. Of benevolent impulses, she delighted in
relieving cases of suffering that came immediately
under her observation, but of their causes and char-
acter she knew far less thap. Rosalind, or even Milly.
She was none of the world's deep thinkers.. Gaining
the affections of all who saw her by her rare charms
of manner and conversation, and possessing also a
dignity that forbade any unbecoming familiarity with
inferiors, at the same time that she mingled respect
with condescension, the spirit of caste was not
offended, and* she was no less a favorite in her new
home among all classes than she had been at the
north. No one who saw her in the opening bloom of


~72              A TALE OP THE
womanhood, gliding about on her errands of mercy,
could have imagined that the futur~ had in store for
her such a mingled cup of bitterness and strife.
None probably had met with less ~to discipline the
character up to the time of her marriage.
Another slave, about the age of Mr. Carleton, and
once a particular favorite of the flimiiy, though by no
means the counterpart of the brunette, either in perh
sonal attractions or profligacy of character, deeply
aggravated by a sense of the wi'ongs she had suffered,
could not brook with indifference this new invasion
of her own domain, nor the duplicity thus carried on
before the eyes of the unsuspecting wife. By nature
of ~ meek, inoffensive disposition, the degradation to
which she had been forced roused all the spirit within
her, and she assumed a tone of defiance toward all but
Mrs. Carleton, in whose presence a habitual melan~
choly had always pervaded her features, exciting her
curiosity to know something of her previous history,
which, failing to learn from her husband, she resolved
to gain from the slave herself. He divined this, either
from his adroitness in reading the expression of the
human countenance, or from inere conjecture, and~
forthwith established a system of surveillance which
was rendered complete by introducing this young
slave to be the constant companion of her mistress,
thus rendering all interviews b~txveen her and the
elder sl~ve impossible. It was a source of no little
discomfiture to the latter to be thus supplanted by
the young brunette, not only for the loss of station
sh~ had lately enjoyed in being the first in her master's
confidence, which she prized in spite of her contempt

CONNECTICUT.            373

for him, but also, in being deprived of the society of
her mistress to whom she was becoming strongly
attached.
Mr. Carleton soon found himself between two fires.
He was obliged to conciliate the one and studiously
avoid giving offence to the other, since only in main-
tailiing his swat over their feelings and fears, could
he hope to preserve, undisturbed by jealousy, the
reverefleC and affections of his wife. His attentions
to her in the meantime never waned, either in ten-
der~iess or devotion, manifested by the many little
:~   acts WI)ich would promote her comfort or increase
her happiness~
Ten years passed by, ten years of agony to the
hopeless slave from whose nightly couch arose earnest
supplications for deliverance from the house of bon~
dage; ton years of guilt and shame to the hardcn~d
master tbus heaping upon himself tenfold more of
retribution against the day of judgment; ten years
of mingled joy and sorrow, hopes and fears, doubts
and anxieties to the young wife, who, undisturbed
by the gross violation of all the sanctities of humanity
in the midst of which she lived, because sanctioned
by existing laws and therefore must be endured, was
then called 'to face the fearful chasm into which all
that was dearest and best of her life's being had been
cast.
Whatever misgivings she might have harbored
concerning her husband's character xvere carefully
locked within her own bosom, and he believed her
still in ignorance, when, suffering from an attack
of brain fever, some delirious expressions escaped her

K

878


A TALI~ OF THE

CONNECTICUT.

which were sufficient to convince 'him that she Was
not so unsuspe tingas he had imagined. From that
time his manne' changed, and before she recovered
his neglect bec me so marked that a return of the
fever was feare in consequence of the effect on her
nerves.
The elder ~lavo woman, who had been so aggrieved
at being separated from her mistress, was now per~
mitted to attend her, and nursed her as tenderly as
a mother. When the patient was so far convalescent
as to talk without injury, she besought Chrissy, her
nurse, to relate her history.
"Not now, honey," she replied, "for it is a long,
sad story, and 'pears like it might give you a misery
somewhere. There now honey, lie down and rest
you and P11 sing the New Jerusalem."
As the shrill notes of her sonorous voice rung out
clear and loud upon the evening air, accompanied
by that swaying motion of the body which aLtends
their highest state of exaltation, Mrs. Carleton was
reminded of an old legend familiar to the days
of her childhood, of an elfish looking woman who
was said to inhakit a certain retired locality in her
native city, where her wild song often resounded
through the midnight air, though no one was ever
able to trace her home, where she caine from or
what became of her. Her sleep that night was dis.
turned by fearful forebodings of the future, until
towards morning when a quiet shimber was varied
with pleasant dreams of home, a home ~ucIi as it
should be, where in the society of her two children,
her tim6 was divided between her attentions to them

and some benevolent mission, such as she had once
engaged in at the north, bringing the most pleasure~
able reminiscences of old friends and scenes long
since forgotten.
Being in too weak a state for the mind to throw
off these unfavorable reactions, it was many days
before any iinprovem~flt was discernible, and Chrissy,
whose quick perceptions readily divined the cause of
her protracted recovery, was so guarded in all her
inquiries concernillt the state of her 'health and
topics of conversation generally, always omitting any
reference to Mr. Carleton, that her patient was well
aware of her comprehension. of the true nature of
the case. As she ki~y one day absorbed in reflection
the sight of the swarthy face so pitifully fixed upon
h~r filled her with a most painful apprehension, and
she again entreated her for a sketch of her history.
This time she refused, shaking her head ominously,
and heaved a deep sigh as her eyes vacantly rested
on a large magnolia tree that stood sentinel at the
corner of the lawn. Chrissy was ~what is denominated
among the blacks a "yallev woman," a t6rrn, some~
times significant of a doubtful kind of esteem, either
from a dim sense of its immorality, or an inherent
feeling of contempt for these mongrel specimens of
races, representing neither one nor the other, and
which do often excite a painful sensation as if nature
had stepped out of her course, when the yell6wish
skin is accompanied with eyes and hair of the same
hue. She was rather dark, and her eyes were more
of a gray, her hair straight and black, so that she
would about as readily pass for a dark skinned white

I

874

375

1']


A TALE OF TIlE                                       CONNECTICUT.            377

woman, as a representative of the African race.
Standing on the average level of moral perceptions
she would have maintained a virtuous character in
an ordinary community, and that she could not do
so here, added to her sense of degradation and ren-
dered her indifferent to anything higher.
The brunette was still there, now the presidiiig
mistress of the house, exciting both the hatred and
contempt of the other sla;-es, by her assumed supe-
riority over them, as if a free white woman. Mrs.
Carleton had long since dispensed with her attend-
ance, since which time she had maintained a more
independent position than before. She followed her
business as seamstress, subject to the control of no
one, not even of her master, over whom she had
obtained such unlimited sway that every desire was
granted, and her wardrobe equalled that of her mis-
tress in beauty and richness.
The time came at length when Chrissy volunteered
an account ~f herself. Mrs. Carleton had gained
strength rapidly for a few days, having nerved her-
self tq bear her fate with becoming resignation, and
resolved that her happiness for the future ~Iioul.l be
centered in her two children, a son and daughter,
both of whom closely resembled their mother. She
intended to preserve them as much as possible from
the demoralizing influences by which they were sur-
rounded, and instil into their minds northern ideas
and the precepts that had formed the basis of her
Own dedication. Not yet fully awake to the crippling
nature of slave institutions, it had not occurred to
her that they could interpose a barrier between the

white mother and her child, by laying any restriction
upon the widest range of development the highest
moral training could promote.
The children were soon removed from her control
by the introduction of a governess to whom was as-
- signed the entire supervision of their education.
This was done without consulting her at all, and but
for the strongest effort of self-control, her nerves
4
K     would have again been shattered by this insult to her
sacred relation of wife and mother. Realizing her
helplessness to diango the ciirrent domestic affairs
were taking, she considered it the wisest course to
get along with as few words as possible, always having
regarded a family outbreak as one of the most pain-
ful things to be dreaded.
Soon after this Mr. Carleton started on a business
tour which was to take him to New Orleans, and no
little surprise was excited when it was discovered
that the brunette was also missing; but whether they
had left together, or she had taken advantage of the
opportunity to secure her ox~rii freedom, all of them
were equally at a loss to conjecture. One thing. was
ascertained that she did not leave the city with him,
which was hardly to be expected. under any supposi-
tion; as they would be much more likely to meet oft
the route. All her jewelry and the most valuable
articles of her ward-robe were gone, and what were
Chrissy's amazement and dismay, when by some uner.
ring instinct she was 'led to her only secret drawer
containing the only treasure now remaining of her
master's former regard, a gold ring, and found it was
no longer there! Her rage knew no bounds. She

I

22


878              A TALE OF THE

tore her hair, stamped on the bed formerly occupied
by the brunette and whatever else remained that she
could in any way deface. It was the more aggravating
that she had often this ring in scorn at her rival
i~or presuming to tell her that he never cared for her,
which was also resOntQd by warning her that such
would be 1her fate, 'when age should in the least rob
her of her charms.
Then rushing into Mrs. Carleton's roqm, who
turned deadly pale at this sudden outbreak of pas~
sion, she vehemently exclaimed, "Yes, I will tell
you all, no mattel' if he is your husband, he'll soon
enough be of no account to you. lie robbed me of
every thing, and then brought this vile wench here
to insult and plunder me, but bless me honey~ what
am I doing? I forgot that you. was Hs wife."
Here she stopped abruptly, wringing her bands
desperately, and struck with terror at ~the thought
of her boldness and its consequences, when she saw
her mistress sink down in a chair as if ready to
swoon. By a strong effort Mrs. Carleton ~oon rallied,
and, anxious to hear what this strange \wornan had
to say, urged her to go on as calmly as\ she could.
Clirissy softened down considerably at the sight of
her agitation, and in a quiet, submissive tone pro-
ceeded.
"I beg your pardon, missus, but there are times
*wheh I forget that I am a despicable slave, and think
only of myself as an outraged Woman, and then such
a misery as I have here (laying her hand on her bo-
som), I feel as if I my heart was bleeding' at its roots.
And then when II come to think of the blessed Jesus,

CONNECTICUT.              379
and how he suffered and how they put a crown of
thorns on his head, and how mighty pretty he bore it
all and only asked to have 'ehi forgiven, l'se so happy
A    to think he was willing' to come down here and die for
us and then be nailed on to the. cross on Cavalry, I'se
wjllin' to ~uflbr any thing. But you see I forgets
him. when the troubles heaps upon me," throwing
her arms passionately across her breast, and violently
rocking to and fro, as a fresh s6nse of her wrongs
Whether it is owinc~ to th
swept over her.                        e unci4-,
tivated state of thoir religious convictions, an~ the
g~nieral neglect of moral t:'aining, or the familiarity
with the Deity to which their large imagination has
prompted them, in the absence of earthly friends to
K     hear the story of their suffering; thei~e is iii the Afri-
can ~i'aee a strange mixture of religious enthusiasm
an d earthly passion in the same breatL Possessing
an uncommon share of the devotional element, they
have an inherent sense of the mercy and goodness
of Cod, and an unfaltering faith in his promises, that
belongs to no othdr race. Apparently through out-
side forces the most propitious soil for its develop-
mont, Atheism finds no foothold there. Visions of
the New Jerusalem and the Heavenly Land have led,
them through the fiery furnace of outraged affection
and excruciating tortures, until they. reached those
shores xvhdre master and slave know no other dis-
tinction than the unerring scales of justice award to
them. Steadfast in their belief in immortality, 41
the sufferings of thi~ life are swallowed up in glorious
/ anticipations of its realities.
Chrissy arose and rciigh ed her pipe, a powerful


380              X TALE OP TILE
sedative in recoiiciling them to their fate, according
to their own confbssion; an.d after smoking for a few
momentss, gave her brief narrative, only relating its
most staking points.
"I was raised in old V'irginuiy, but I won't give
the first particulars of my life, which you xvill be
soon enough to find out, but honey, I wish'. you'd
smoke a pipe, it would-make you feel so much better,
it does me so much good when I have a trouble. I
was about sixteen when my old ixiaster brought us
here with the rest of his things, about sixty head of
us in all, mostly field-.hands, but I had a sister a Little
older, a house servant, who was married to my mas~
ter's coachman, and they had one child. A slave
* trader came one day and ~auted to buy her, offering'
a right smart price, but he didn't want the child.
My master would not consent to separate 'em at first
for 'she was a pretty creetur and so was the child, but
he wanted the money, and the bargain was made.
To do the thing up as quiet as possible, the child was
sent off to a nelghl)oring plantation on ~oxne pre-
tence, when sh~ was told to g~t ready as quick as
she could.. Such screeches as she made frightened
me 'and I tried to beg her off. We had both been
treated well, and as I was very near of kin I felt sure
he would listen to me. All the answer I got was
that he W~uld sell me too if I didn't shut up. So
with a crack of the driver's whip she was hurried
into the cart and I never see her again. 11ev' hus-
band took on mighty bad that night when he come
to be alone, and when the child came home, and
asked so mournfully for his mother every few miii-

CONNFCTICLXT.

I-
'A

381

utos, I tell you missus, I felt mighty bad too. I tried
to comfort 'em, and told 'em how the Lord Jesus
knew it all and how we must go to him with all our
troubles, and how he liked little children and took
'em in his arms, and they seemed to feel a heap bet~
ter. My young master was always very kind to me,
and when David got over it a little bit ,and Wanted
to marry me, he let us have a little cottage close by
where he used to come very often, and that was the
trouble, missus, he come too often. He made me
presents, that ring she carried off, (throwing down
h~r pipe and stamping her foot with great vehemence
on the floor) ha, ha,. I hope she's run off. He never
thought of my runniix' off, but freedom's sweeter 'n
any thing else. My husband was sold before one
year was out, toni away from his two children, &amp;r II
had a little baby then, and 1 never shall forget how
he watched it up and kissed it that morning' 'afore I
was up, and said 'good bye Chrissy, I've got to
leave you,' and was hurried off without giving me a
chance to say a word. Then I took to his oldest
child more'xi evcrb He looked just like his father,
and peeredd as if he was almost speaking' to me when
I heard him talk, but before I had time to get over
it he was sold too. My young master was still good
to me and tried to comfort me, saying, my baby
:xever should be sold, for lie wouldn't permit it and
tEe blessed Jesus took it to himself soon after.
Though I was all alone then, it was nothing' like its
bein' sold, for I knew where it was and it wouldn't
suffer no more. Well, one night after my young
master had gone away, pretty much as he has now
32*


882             A TALE OI~' THE
I was sitting , thinking' how I'd like to be free, when
a spent see ned to say to me, run. And T says to.
myself, where shall I run to? and it' kept sayin',
run. Then I got to thinki' about my child, how
it wotild be born a slave and might be sold, and I
did run that very night. and got away 'without hem'
overtaken. I had money that my master gave inc
and good clothes so I could pass for a white woman
with a veil over my face. Ii lived at the north t~~i
years, but I never could get over the feeling' gener~
ally that Ii *should be took sonmtime, and it grew
upon ~ne~ I won't stop to tell you all I suffered
from the want of a home and the Ibar of hem' dis~
covered, but it seemed so good to be free. To pre~
vent the child's bein' took if '1 was I didn't let folks
know she was mine when I went into the city to get
work, and When they got me at last I ~ever said a
word, but went right off for fear of making a stir
that would bninQ' out. was as as
~ it all    She      white   any
child and looked some like h~r father. If I could
only know that she was took care of, it wouldn't hurt
me so to think of her. When they got me back my
young master, that I'd all along kind o' clung to,
brought in an old black nigger, that was the ugliest
one then on the plantation, and always the one that
done the whippin's, and told me I'd got to marry
him. If 't had beeii my old master, nothing' would
'a been too bad for him to do, but that it should 'ave
beei him, and all because I wanted. to have his child
free, and he knew how I felt about it. Well, that
wanzt all I suffered, but it was' the worst for me to
hear. He went north soon after, and I found out

383

CONNECTICUT.

afterwards that he'd been there before, and that was
the way lie got track of me. He didn't come back
again to sl~ay till the winter before he brought you
here, and his father was dead then. He nevei' took
much notice of me, but I follereci him like a ghost.
[hadn't any fear of him then, and was so afraid he'd
sell my children that every time a stranger was
round I listened. Well, one night I listened," then
turning to Mrs. Carleton, "be strong honey, and cast
all your trouble on the Lord Jesus, that's the way I
do, and when I feels very wicked he comes and quiets
me and tells me about his crowii of thorns, and how
he suffered that I might be good, and then I feel's
7     willing' to bear it all, but it will come over me again
when I forgets him."
Chrissy here related the substance of the cover~
station narrated 'in a previous chapter, and then
sti~aighteniug herself up with an air of triumph,
continued, "I kept it all to myself and didn't even
let the birds know what I'd heerd, 'cause you know
They'll carry things strangely sometimes. When you
first came he treated me with his old kindness, and
I felt as if I was Willin'. to forgive him for all he'd
done to me;, then he brought that young thing here
and told me I wan't needed any more and he was
goin' to hire me out. All my blood was in a boil
then, and I spoke right out and told him what I'd
overheard, but didn't let him know I'd overheard it.
Says I 'Massa~ you know we was children together,
and you treated me like a sister, as I was, and when
helpless in your power, I wanted to save your child
from bein' the miserable slave that I am, I went off;

U


384             A TAL1~ oi' THE

CONNECTICUT.            385

you got me back and forced me to live with that
brute to raise you slaves for the market, and just
a~ sure as you take m~ out of this house .111 tell he,',
or somebody that it will ~et to her, or if you, sell
~rther of my cirihiren.' The oldest one was sold to
help pay the debts after his father died, and I hadn't
forgot it. He turned as white as a sheet and I
thought he almost trembled, but whether with anger
or fear I could riot tell. I knew I was havin' my
revenge, and I was as firm a~ a stone. I had no
more fear of him than as if lie had been my slave,
and he knew I had him in my power, unless he took
my life. I always knew lie was afraid I should tell
you about his child, but if he'd treated me well I
shouldn't, for I loved him enough never to lia~ve run
away if it hadn't been for fear of the' child hem'
sold, and I khew there was no confidence to be put
in his word more than any body else, arid that it
wouldn't be any safer than if it had been Davi&amp;s."
Mrs. Carleton listened to this recital apparently
unmoved, but a storm ~f agitation was ragiirg in her
bosom, arid before it was finished her resolution was
formed which, ore two days passed away, resulted i~r
another exit from the house of Mr. Carleton. A
fugitive wife and her two children took a train of
cars for the north, and when her husband returned
at the end of a week, he found himself minus the
brunette, the wife and children, for whom he really
had a very strong aWection. Chrissy met him in her
Lisual fearless manner secretly exulting. in his mor-
tifying predicament, a~nd nothing daunted. The
brunette he was obliged to give up as lqst property.

Nothing would subject him to the humiliation of
raising onnO inquiry respecting her, and he could
easily perceive in the forced gravity of his slaves
that they h~d a ludicrous perception o~f matters and
things as they then stood. Unusually obsequious in
all their endeavors to please, many a smile he could
detect suddenly vanishing into a most comic, serious
expression when lie turned quickly towards them.
"TIalloa Sambo, how are you?" said he to the
coachman, who was shaking his sides as a bi'oad grin
displayed his shining ivory to the best advantage,
unmindful of his master's presence. " Tol' able
thank 'cc sir, tol' able, and hopes massa' s right well
too," replied he, stepping, significantly on th~ toe of
the ostler which was suffering from a corn, causing
him to scream, which gave rise to a roar of laughter
ai~ong the whole gang who had gathered around to
welcome their master.
Thero was a general tumbling and rolling on the
grass by the younger members of the group when
Mr. Carleton returned to the house.
"Wonder of massa '11 put de bloodhounds on do
trail to-night" said one.
"Wonder heder he'll try to c~tch missus or do
nigger fust," said another, which caused a fresh out-
burst of laughter, a.cco~npanked with the remark,
"Guess if she knew you called he~ a nigger, she'd
be arter ye wid a pitchfork."
" Uon't tink massa feel like *jumpin' Jim Crow
to-night," said a nimble young pure-blooded scion of
Ethiop, as he turned somerset and landed on his feet
before the words had fairly escaped his lips. Little


886

A TALE OP TJfl3J

did they think while indulging in so much merrp
mo~it at their master's expense what a cloud was just
rcaldy to burst over their heads. The business that
had galled him to New' Grlcans was of vital 'mpoi\.
tanee to his Pecuniary relations, and the result had
proved very unsatisfactoi'y The estate was deeply
embarrassed at th6 time of his father's death, and
though a number of the slaves were sold to clear
somQ of the debts, it was by no means in a prosper
Gus condition 11Th own conduct had contributed
not a little to involve it still farther, a Convictio,~ of
which rendered his reilectiofi5 that night of a very
Jiupleasailt character. , aside from the chao~,
s6 uncerem~iou5l~ deserted ~in of being
Tho hundreds of dollars he had spent on the bru~
nette, and other similar transacti0115 recurred to his
mind with great force, and, heartless though it
seemed, his recent calcuiatioi~s on the exorbitaiit
price she would bring, if 'flatters came to the. worst,
were so unexpectedly baffled, he paced the room
under the most galling sensatioi~s of mingled regret,
humiliation disappoii~t,~e1j~ and despair. He saw
no way to escape bankruptcy and in ordep to avoid
the di~culties that encompassed him like a hedge
on every side, he resolved to flee the state. Having
no doubt of his wife's destination ~ he intended to
follow her.
Fortunately owing to her father's providential
disposition, of his Property, besides the large portion
she brought her husband he bequea~ej to her the
eld family rnansioj~ which could not be alienated
during her lifetime, and afterwards descended to her

CONNECTICUT.              387
children if she had any. To this place she repaired
as her future home, wisely resolving to make the
utmost endeavors, to leave the past behind her, and,
once more surrounded by the friends of her young
days, seek to retrieve this fatal step by devoting her
life to the relief of the misery existing around her.
Little did she know the secret inroads her trials and
sufferings had produced upon her physical constita-
tion, or the mental exhaustion which was fast Pros-
trating her whole system. These causes alone were
sufficient to ch ange the whole atmosphere of her
northern home, and when in addition came the
consciousness of the. waning affections of those who
had gathered around her so adoringly in the happy
days of her youth, which even ten years of separa-
tion may produce, that frail bark stranded, and she
sunk down on her couch never ~expecting to rise
again.
Heroically she struggled with the painfully con-
tending emotions that were fast sapping tbe vital
currents of her life, for the sake of the two beautiful
children who seemed to have inherited all the graces
and virtues of their mother, and none of their father's
vices. At this time the parting words of' Mr. Livings-
ton, which fell so ominously on her ears on th6 day
of her marriage, came freshly to mind, and banish-
ing every di~trusting thought of his sincerity as
unworthy a place in her mind, she resolved at the*
earliest practicable moment to seek his sympathy
and counsel, hoping to find in him a friend and prom
sector for her children, if, as ~he feared, her own
life should not be spared. He lived at some distance

387


888              A TALE OF THE

CONNECTICUT.           ~89

from her and before she succeeded in this arrange.
what were her        indignation and terror
ment,              surprise,
at being apprise of Mr. Carleton's arrival at her
own door ! Str ugely enough she had not thought
of his following ier, although having her fears at
times that lie wo Id take some measure to rob her
of her children. Instead of being paralysed with
fear, all the slumbering forces of her soul wore
instantly roused into action. Instead of the gentle
and patient being, who had silently and submissively
borne every indignity, he saw before him all the un-
passioned energy of woman's nature when once pro.
yoked to resist her wrongs.
It is but justice to him to say that for a time he was
deeply luimbled under a heavy feeling of remorse,
and his wif&amp;s repi:oaches~ were borne without making
any attempt to reply to them. But this excitement
was too much for that delicate frame, already totter-
ing under the weight of intolerable wrongs, and sh~
was again prostrated by another attack of brain fever,
when her life was despaired of. He would have
been very attentive had not the sight of him made
her rave ten-fold worse, and the only ~vay she could
bQ kept quiet at all was to place her children beside
her, to whom in her delirium her ~iind was con-
stantly reverting. If they were not present when
she opened' her eyes she started up with all the
energy of despair to go in search of then-i. however
she rallied from this attack and again gave hopes of
recovery.
In the meantime Mr. Carleton recovered from his
momentary twinge of conscience, and seeing no
0

prospect of' his own comfortable residence there unless
she were out of the way, began to devise measures
to rid himself of her. With the aid of a physician
bearing the same reputation as himself, and one of
his most i~~timate friends, she was conimitted for
safe keeping, on the plea of insanity, to a lunatic
asylum where, to the disgrace of all civilization
be it said, any man under the sanction of the same
law which entrusted to his sovereign care and
protection the tender and helpless being he had
chosen for his wife, might consign her with no other
evidence than his own biased testimony and that of
his interested friends, whenever, to serve any base
purpose of his own, he wished to 'rid himself of her
presenc~. There none of her friends might be 'allowed
to hold any intercourse with her, and inexorable as
fate, the law closed every avenue of defence through
which an impartial investigation of facts might pro-
duce a reaction in her favor, and ~he was doomed to
suffer day after day, and year after year the most
cruel indignities, the most refined torture tl~at a per-.
v6rsion of the family institution into an engine of
domestic tyranny could produce.
The holiest institution that God has ordained, one
which immediately and remotely effects all the inter-
ests of society, i~t is impossible to trifle with or enter
ligl~tly into without incurring the most serious results
to ourselves and to ~he community.
Viewing it in this light and perusing the annals of
legislation, no wonder that the soul is sickened by
such harrowing details of social life, both public and
private, in the pages of history. As domestic virtue
33

888


390            A TALE OF TIlE                                       CONNECTICUT.            391

I

and happiness lie at the foundation of all other vii'~
tue~ and enjoyments, home is the sa~rcd spQt that
should be the most carefully guarded and protected
by all the provisions it is possible for legislation to
throw around it, and how has it been?
The whole history of jurisprudence does not fur-
nish another such a paradox as the assumption that
a usurpation of her rights is the highest blessing and
the greatest protection that can be accorded to wo~
man by the supreme majesty of the law. Peruse the
decisions of eminent lawgivers, and note the universal
approbation with which she has been consigned to
the most abject despotism under the plea of protect.
tion.
A learned judge in New York once said, "That
we often see acts of tyranny and cruelty exercised
by the husband towards the person of the wife, of
which the law akes no cognizance, and yet; no man
of wisdom and reflection can doubt the propriety of
the rule gives to the hnsbarid the control and
custody of the ~vife." "It is the price which female
wants and weal ness must pay for their supply and
protection." Magnanimous man ~
is The whole force of public opinion on this subject
founded on a series of contradictions, absurdities
and falsehoods, so palpable, that when driven to the
strong hold of defence, it cannot show the least I~es-
tige of a principle to justify it, and resorts to that
most effeminate of all devices, flattery.
It begins by quoting Scripture from Genesis to St.
Paul to show that woman through her sinfulness and
weakness is the vassal of man, and needs his benefi-

cent control and protection to guide her in the way
she ~ho~ld go, and ends by conceding what woman
i~ever claimed and St. Paul never asserted, that she
is an angel, and must not be permitted to sully her
spotless purity, and lesson her divine influence by.
coming in contact with that .demoralizing element
which, under the semblance of manhood, defiles
every department of public life. And yet it never
occurs to our wise legislators that she will be any
the less a delicate and refined woman for living in
the most intimate relation of life with the most de-
graded specimen of humanity. All their gallant
sympathy and protection explodes, when the angel
they worship so far condescends to come dowmto
the plane of mortals as to become a wife.
Admitting that it does not conic within the scope
of the law to regulate the marriage institution, which
is the province of a higher tribunal, the conscience
and the affections, it is the true~ pi:ovince of legis-
lation to recognize the equal rights of both sexes
in entering into the relation, thus removing a great
source of selfish mOtives in the thirst for gain and
love of power.
When Mrs. Carleton became aware of her incar-
ceration, having been lured from home under the
pretence of a journey for her health, her excitement
brought on another attack of fever when it seemed
a certainty that her carUily troubles would soon be
at an end. But again she rallied, and as soon as
consciousness was in any degree restored, thoughts
of her children came to nerve her once more to
combat with the inroads of disease.

I.


892             A TALE OD' THE

393

During her convalescence she was entrusted chiefly
to the care of a young girl, who was regarded
as too stupid to be of any available service to the
inmates in any project they might devise to effect
their deliverance, being one of those sensitive spirits
that could expand only in a congenial atmo~pliere,
and was employed to go of errands, in which capacity
she was always so t~'usty that no very strict watch
was kept of her whereabouts so that quite an un-
limited freedom was hers. Between her ~nd Mrs.
Carleton a reciprocal feeling of attachment sprung
up, and many a tedious hour was whiled away in an
interchange of affection's offices which were as highly
appreciated by one as the other. In this way the
days dragged their weary length along, and month
after month passed by with no more hope fqr the
future, during which Mrs. Carleton, struggling ~with
her fate as bravely as possible, tried to be calim and
quietly await the ordering of events if not so for-
tunate as to devise any method of escape.
But oh! what a xvrctched existence wa.s she drag-
ging out! With what yearning tenderness did her
mother's soul long to embrace her* darlings, who
might, perhaps, even now be languishing on beds of
pain, moaning for her tender care. But for him
who had been the guilty cause of all this woe, she
felt only loathing and disgust.
How to escape from her living tomb was her first
thought; where to go, and how to get possession of
her children was the next; one as hopelessly impos-
siNe as the other. In the phirenzy of despair she
someti es gave .w~y to freaks of passion that might

CONNECTICIIT.

impress strangers who knew nothing of the circum-
stances with the conviction of her insanity. Wish-
ing to turn this fact to his-own advantage Mr~ Carle-
ton took with him one day a friend of his to visit her,
an unsci'upulOus lawyer. The sight of her hus-
band and his ciiiel indifference to her agony at thus
being separated from her children stung her to mad-
ness. Her eyes flashed, and in no very tender tones
she called God to witness that vengeance would one
day be visited on his head. The lawyer shook his
head with that complacent acquiescence in the wishes
of his client so agreeable to his pocket, if not to his
conscience.
The thought of appealing to Mr. Livingston again
flashed across her mind, but how was a question.
Every avenue of communication with her friends was
cut off except by letter, and even that must be sub-
mitted to the inspection of those who were ignorant of
her misfortunes and in sympathy with her husband.
While pondering upon this subject one day, her
young attendant, as if divining her thoughts, said
with an abruptness and decision that surprised Mrs.
Carleton, "If you want to send a letter to any body
I will put it in the Post Office."
Looking at her with doubt and astonishment she
replied, "They would not ~allow you to do that."
The little wise-acre with the most innocent sim-
plicity remarked with a knowing smile, "I go just
where I please."
Mrs. Carleton hesitated a moment about the pro-
priety of sending her on an errand so utterl~r at va-
riance with the established rules, bt4 a~ it involved
33*

I
K4

892


11
Pt
11
ii
lj
'U
I

A TALE OF THE

no deception, the girl neither being forbidden to go,
nor likely to be questioned on her return, she quickly
decided in the affirmative.
She wrote a letter to Mr. Livingston. remiudhig
him of his Proffered friendship, and imploring him
to come to her assistance, or obtain her release in
some way. She told~ him frankly how 'she had suf..
fered and what insults and outrages had been heaped
upon her, facts of which he needed no fai'ther proof
than his own observation could vouch for. She gave
him directions about her address, naming the da~
when she would send for it at the office. In her
desperation she assumed that something must be
done in which no alternative was presented.
It was very trying to him to be obliged to crush
the faintest vestige of a hope of procuring her 're~
lease, or of gaining access to her children. He told
her of all the exertions that h'ad been made, and the
deep interest excited in her behalf, closing with
the proffer of his services in any way that could be
of advantage, and assuring her of his undiminished
regard and deepest sympathy.
It was such a consolation to receive a friendly
message and sympathizing words from any one, that
she almost overlooked the substance of the letter
saying nothing could be done, remembering only th9
offer of assistance to which she clung as a certain
omen that something remained, and to discover what
this might be, knowing it to be dependent on herself,
she bent all the energies of her mind, hut with litJe
sticcess.
* "What, shall I give it up so," she said, ".drag my

CONNECTICUT.

P

395

life out here when my children have such a claim
upon me, because he whom the world recognizes as
my husband has unlimited power and may violate
the obligation resting as strongly upon him as me,
because he is a man, and I a woman? No! By all
these powers God has given me as a wife and hiother
I will get away from here to proclaim to the world
the iniquity of its laws and the baseness of mankind,
though my life be the forfeit."
She scanned the distance from her window to the
ground, her room being fortunately in the second
story, and formed her determination.
"If any human being is willing to assist me," she
thought, "I should detest myself if I could not
devise some way to raise myself above this degrade~
tion. I would jump from this window if only sure of
escape afterwards. Let mc think. If I should write
to him to be here with his carriage and the fleetest
horses he could procure, at such tifrie of day as the
house is most quiet, would there not be a possibility
of getting beyond the reach of pursuit before they
would get started?" It was a desperate venture,
but she was desperate. Closely watched it required~
the greatest precaution to manage the affair without
exciting suspicion that something was on foot, as
well as in writing her letters. If Mr. Livingston
should consent to her proposal which might well be
doubted, not knowing what rash plan she had formed,
of which she had not dared to give him the least mW
mation because it was rash, how could she be sure of
any time when, no one would be on the premises to
stand in the way of her flight. Her anxiety d tiring that

2

894


CONNECTICUT.

896              A TALE ~F THE

short period was equalled only by her previous su~
fering. If this plan failed no other avenue of escape
presented itself to her burning brain. Through
weary years, perhaps, 114 miserable existence migilt
be protracted, though it seemed scarcely possible.
That rich auburn hair ~as already stVeaked with
gray, and that fair, smooth skin s~ withered* and
* wrinkled with the agony of torturing days and sleep~
less nights that one would scarcely recognize the
wreck of What was once so beautiful and lovely.
Though t~ of her children made her cling 'to life with
about equal desperation, and for them she wrestled
with many a temptation to crave for herself the
blessed boon of lying down in her last sleep.
Her experience was not without its salutary les-
sons. While at, the south her own troubles had
somewhat blinded her to the sufferings of others
notwithstanding her generous nature, and the enor-
mities of tile slave system never impressed her with
such vividness as now, when she could realize the
glorious blessing of liberty, and the utter heartless-
ness of any system that separates parent and child.
"ll&amp;w can such wickedness be tolerated," said she
to herself, and then quickly recurring to her own
ease she, marvelled all th~' more, "how is it that I,
* here in the land of my birth, surrounded by friends
* . who have known me from childhood up, and once
the favorite of every circle, am left to pine here in
this living tomb? Why don't they come and batter
* down these doors? How can they go about their
business with such cruel indifference when they
know what a fellow-being is suffering, and a woman

too? Know? How can they know when they never
experienced it? Down with all your pretended ten-
K derness for woman's feelings! It is all hypocrisy.
"Mothers, sitting by your own happy firesides,
how cart you be so quiet, when others are suffering
so much, and denied the privilege of sitting by their
firesides? Yet have I not done it? We never feel
K    another's woe until it; becomes o~r own. Is it possi-
ble if II should get away from this place I should
ever sit quietly down forgetting the misery around
me? Get away from here! What if I never should!
'S
Oh God, art thou just?"
As she thought of the doubtful chances of her
escape after the letter was sent, and nothing remained
to be done but to await the result, her shattered
* nerves gave rise to the most torturing apprehensions
concerning her future safety, and the trou~Aes she
might bring upon others in pursuing this course. A
deadly hate towards Mr. Livingston had always
existed in the breast of Mr. Carleton, and she did
not know what injury his anger might prompt him
to commit if he should be the instrumentality of
effecting her deliverance.
The dangerous feat from the chamber, windoW was
another source of the most agonizing solicitude lest her:
courage should fail if the carriage did come. Every
night her restte~s slumber was disturbed with visions
of perilous adventure and hair breadth escapes.
But all this anxiety was swallowed up in the over-
whelming ~uspeuse lest the letter should not meet a
favorable reception. Perhaps she would never hear
any more from it. At this suggestion fear and


~98            'A TALE OP THE

CONNECTICUT.            399

weakness fled, and no attempt, promising the least
hope of success, was too hazardous~ for her to make.
There was one who could not sft. quietly by her
own fireside when another was suffering so intensely.
This was Mrs. Livingston. All her mother's soul
was stirred, and she would have shrunk from nothing
which promised the least ray of hope, let the risk of
danger be what it', might. Timidity was not one of
her faults.
On the receipt of this letter from Mrs. Carleton,
Mr. Livingston naturally hesitated about the wisdom
of acting according to her suggestion. That flight
was her intention could not be doubted, although in
what manner remained to be seen.
The extreme hazard of the attempt presented itself
in every form to his better judgment, and discretion
prompted him to second no step that might result in
the most serious consequences to herself as well as
others. His wife was not to' be so summarily dis-
pos9d of. Her temperament was of that hrdent,
impulsive character which inspires courage and
energy into an enterprise that requires perseverance
rather than forethought, though not always the one to
depend on in an emergency, or to solve .the wa~ out
of a difficulty. Excess of feeling is not balanced by
sufficient caution to avoid perplexities a little discre-
tion might easily. foresee. WarmThearted and geii-
erous, justice does not always go before generosity,
nor prudence act with sufficient firmness and moder-
ation. ' Mrs. Livingston, however, united with her
bounding impulse sufficient consideration and firm-
ness to guide it. She never acted' rashly or blindly.

Her decision was promptly rendered that it was best
to go with the carriage and horses, and trust to Mrs.
Carletoil for the rest. No alternative was presented
to her mind.
"Do you think," said she, "that if I were in her
place, separated from my children, I should consider
any. proffers of friendship or expressions of sympathy
as coming from sincere motives which. would not
prompt so much of an effort as that for me? I
would move heaven and earth to the rescue if possm~
ble. I will go, and it seems to me more, advisable
for Walter to go with .me than for you, Ernest."
Mr. Livingston yielded, and Walter raised no
objection to the arrangement. He had exhausted
his fund of legal knowledge in the vain hope of
detecting some lcop-hole through which the innocent
might be rescued and the guilty meet his deserts;
but though in the liberal construction of the law
every other prisoner might be entitled to an impar-
tial hearing, woman, in her married state, was such
a nonentity that 'this privilege could not be accorded
to her, and he felt the force and justice of Rosahind's
appeal.
They started on the appointed day, which was very
warm and sultry, and fortunately encountered no
one on their. approach to the seQue of adventure.
The avenue being a winding one, the carriage would
not come in sight until very near the entrance to the
house, and by walking the horses so little noise was
made that no attention was attracted to the spot from
the inmates.
The disagreeable sensations agitating Mrs. Carle-


400             A TALE OF THE
ton as the hour drew near cannot easily be imagined.
Unable to obt&amp;n any sleep the night before, her
nervous system was stretched to its utmost tension,
and the frightful leap from the window tormented
her with the most fearful apprehensions lest courage
should fail at last. As her chamber fronted the main
avenue leading to the building, no carriage could;
escape her observation, but it was possible for some
other to come; and it might be unsafe to rely on her
indistinct vision, now so impaired by sickness and
suffering, to guide her accurately. Many such fears
arose, all of which fled when the hand pointed to the
hour and no carriage appeared. Not a person was
stirring outside the building and every thing was
propitious as could be for the adventure. No shrink-
ing now from the hazardous leap-she was not afraid
to jump on the soft greensward below, or perform
any other similar feat, with the prospect of escape
afterwards. Could it be possible he would disappoint
her? low every moment swelled into an hour!
*      *      *,     *      *
There comes the carriage and no mistaking the
driver, Walter Claremont, whose frank, manly face
and large brown eyes it was easy to recognize. A
moment more and she was on the ground. The leap
was effected with less of harm thaim she expected,
laming her considerably, but not enough to disable
her from rising. She reached the carriage by the
time it stopped aiA Walter lifted her in. Exhausted
nature then gave way and she fell into a swoon.
Mrs. Claremont's fbrethought fortunately provided for
this emergency in supplying Rosalind with cordials,

CONNECTICtYT.             401
which she applied as well as the circumstances would
allow-if not sufficient to restore consciousness, the
little strength remaining was thereby enabled to sus-
tain her until the ~end of the journey. Not a moment
wa~ to be lost and fleetly sped the horses. That the
hour should have been chosen when no one was
stirring on the grounds, seemed aln~ost an interposi-
tion of providential guidance as such an opportunity
was seldojn presented. The carriage was seen by
some of the inmates -but Mrs. Carleton was not, and
making no stop, it was supposed motives of curiosity
brought the travelers there to see the building. A~
no one had occasion to go to her room until tea time
two or three hours after, she was many miles beyond
their reach when her absence was discovered by the
functionaries in chaPge.
It so happened that the attendants were unusually
engaged that afternoon in preparing for a little cnter~
tainnmnt to be held in the evening for the diversion
of such of the inmates as were considered in a proper
state to participate in it, but Mrs. Carleton knew noth-
ing of it wheii she wrote her letter, being afterwards
informed by her young attendant, whom she encour-
aged to assist in the preparations thus ensuring her
absence; and as she was seldom visited by any one
else, she might feel quite sure of being left alone.

34

4


CONNECTICUT.            403

CHAPTER XXX J2L
"Am I mad that I should cherish that which bears such bitter
fruit?
I will pluck it from my bosom though my heart be at its root."
No little commotion was excited when it was dis-
covered that Mrs. Carleton had escaped from her
prison. By what means she had effected the escape
was* a mystery. Every one was ignorant of any
circumstance connected with the affair that conld
afford the least clue t6 its solution. Even the little
wise-acre when questioned answered with her usual
indifference, manifesting no interest to obtain any
J~nowledge of her, which rather surprised the other
attendants who had observed the apparent attachment
between the~n. She had her conjectures from remarks
Mrs. Carleton made that morning coupled with
expressions of gratitude for all her kindness to her,
which, howeyci', would have left no particular im-
pression if she had not disappeared, but how the
flight was accomplished she was equally puzzled to
guess. Suspicions finally rested on the carriage as
having some connection with the mystery, and Mr.
~rleton, Upon receiving the information, at once
suspected. Mr. Living~ton, though unable 'to compre-
hend by what Possible means any communication
could have, been effected between him and his wife.
(402)

It was sometime before he gained any certain tidings
of her as the affair was kept very secret, none outside
the family circle knowing of her presence at Orange
Grove. She was still unconsciOuS when she arrived.
there, but by the aid of powerful restoratives, life,
accompanied by a high fever, returned to contend
once more for the mastery with death. When the
fever abated the attending physician gave very little
encouragement that reason would ever resume its
sway if her life was spared. Mrs. Claremont and
Milly were the only ones it was safe to admit to her
bedside. Th~ sight of Mr. Livingston and his wife
excited her to such *a degree that it 'was impossible
to hold her in bed. "Has he come," she would say,
"is he. hero? You will not J~et him take me will
you? Oh my poor children! II must not stay here,
II must get away.~~
Mrs. Claremont's soothing words and assurance of
safety as with gentle force she remanded her to her
bed, promising to guard' her aga~ist every harm,
generally calmed the invalid, whose strength could
sustain her no longer in that state of excitement.
As days wore on she became more quiet, but gave
very little evidence of returning strength. Upon her
will, in a ~eat measure, depended her recovery.
Whether consciousness would b~ restored sufficiently
to make her understand this was very doubtful. With
the first gleam of reason came the maddening recol-
lection of her stinging wrongs, and her brain reeled
again in that unconscious state which comes of dis-
pair,
Mr. Carle ton once made his appearance there with

C


404             A TALE OP THE                                                                  -4Q5.

an officer , thinking he might intimidate the family to
give her up, but IRosalind proved more than a match
for him.
"Do you come~ here," said she, "expecting us to
deliver her into y~tir custody, because you claim the
power the law gives you as her husband, when you
have treated her worse than a brute? No! Sooner
would I trample on every law in the state than be
guilty of such perfidy!"
One morning, wlieii unusually rational, Mrs. Clare~
mont removed her patient in front of the wii~dow
whicW commanded a full view of the lawn, whose
verdant beauty was resplendeiit with sparkling gems
fresh from the hand of it~ Maker, as 91e sun sud-
denly emerged from his misty shadow.
Mrs. Carleton gazed at it long and quietlyy as if
lost in reverie. Mrs. Claremoni approach d to speak
to her, but was anticipated by the suff~r~ r with the
remark, "What a lovely morning!" iLr manner
indicating that so meting~ farther was seeking utter-
ance, Mrs. Claremont proceeded with the task of
arranging her hair without making any reply.
She continued, "As the earth smiles so lovingly
from its lap of tender green after ~he gathering
shades of darkness have merged in ~Vhe tranquil
morning light, so d6e~ my soul respond to the giver
of all blessings for his kindness and watchfulness
over me"
"There are many blessings in store for you yet, I
firmly believe," replied her faithful friend and nurse.
"You remember the promise of old, 'All things
wQrk.together for good to those who love God.'

CONNECT1CUT~

"I am afraid that I have not loved him as much
as I ought. I should have been more willing to
trusV Him when my troubles rose in such magnitude
around me. Much as I wish to see my children, I
feel now a resignation to wait His time, and a cheer-
ful willingness to submit all my wrongs to that
impartial tribunal which alone is able to award a
~j  righteous verdict. Why should we, weak mortals,
presume to invoke vengeance on~ an erring fellow
A perceptible change for the better was soon to be
observed in the invalid, and her recovery was very
rapid.~ Meanwhile, owing to the indefatigable exer~
tions of Mrs. Livingston, efforts were being made for
the restoration of her children. A great deal ~of
sympathy was awakened in all circles by the story of
her sufferings, her marvellous escape, and the for-
giving spirit she now manifested. Men ~n the legal
4    procession whose consciences were not so seared as to
prevent them from discerning a moral principle be~
hind the law, were eager to discover some process
through which they could effect the desired object.
It was done although we can scarcely tell how. The
law is a tricky old tyrant, and the man who is ingen~
ious enough to understand all its crooks and turns
wields a powerful sceptre either for good or evil. By
the rendering of a single phrase fortunes have been
gained and lost, life made the sport of chance and
the destinies of natioiis materially changed for cen-
turies to come. By a liberal construction on the
side of justice, reforms have been peacefully carried

34*

405


406              A TALE OF THE
through coflstitutional measures, which otherwise
would have triumphed only through fire and blood.
Probably no calling has been more maligned than
the legal profession. Entrusted with responsibilities
extending alike to the proudest ruler and the h~i~
blest citizen, covering with its broad uiantle all the
vital interests of society by its culmination In the
supposed wisdom and integrity of the judicial ermine,
before whose decisions both church and state bo~ in
reverent homage, there is none which calls for a
higher exercise of all those pre-eminent virtues which
constitute the true Christian, patriot and statesman.
On the other, side, through its monopoly of the
knowledge of the technicalities of the law, about
which the mass of thq people take no trouble to in-
form themselves, there is no profession in which an
unscrupulous luau 'can so openly and respectably
trifle with the most momentous interests of the hu-
man family, individually or collectively, as in the
practice of law. Society is not guiltle~ so long as
I
t delegates irresponsible powers to any class of men
inheriting the common passions and vices of man-
kind, and such powers are delegated whenever, blind-
to its own interests, or forgetful of the Supreme
Ruler of the universe, it permits human laws to over-
ric~e the' divine.
Walter Claremont was too honest to take advan-
tage of any ambiguous phrase where the intentional
Ineaning was not to be denied, but his influence in
presenting thG moral bearings of the case contributed
materially towards gaining a decision in favor of
Mrs. Carleton.

CONNECTICUT.             407
She saw hjm once *at her own request, but not to
taunt him with reproaches. She told him that al-
though he had forfeited all reverence as a husband
she wished him no ill, and while she should not seek
to lessen her children's respect for him as their father,
she could not teach them to cherish his memory by
perpetuating his name as a household word, which
would henceforth never escape her lips either in their
presence or in the presence of others.
Had he nQt lost every spark of manhood, which in
his younger days was at times sufficient to overpower
his sensuality with something like the pure gush of
feeling, he would have shown some emotion, but he
was as unmoved as a statue. Even the affection he
had once manifested for his children seemed to have
died out of his bosom.
He departed to seek a more congenial home at the
south, the more willingly that a prospect opened
before him to retrieve his fallen fortl4nes, having quite.
a stock in trade in the way of information concern-
ing several fugitives from different parts of the south,
whose former masters he had known, which he kept
properly booked. This proved a most invaluable
acquisition to his credentials for admission again to
southern society, a. path that might have been rath-
er difficult of access after his precipitate retreat.
The old slave law of '93, though sufficiently strin-
gent in its provisions, had never been very effectual
in securing the end for which it was enacted, owing.
to the prejudices still lingering in the northern mind
against the anti-republican theory that only white
men were created free and equal. The southern

407


408                   A TAL1~ OF' ~IflF~

lords of the lash began to sit uneasily in their chairs,
* and their timid accomplices at th~ north, the law and
order men wei'e laboring~ with untiring zeal to con~
Vince them of their own readiness to act at their
bidding, the sincerity of which was proved when
they were called* upon to "conquer their prejudices."
As the contest went Qn the little remnant of'
northern conscience which had hitherto endorsed in
theory, if not in practice, the doctrine that, every
man had an inalienable right to liberty was ready to
pronounce it a" glittering generality," and the teach~
ings of Christ were. reversed,...~" I was a stranger
and ye took me not in" being made the test of na-
tional christianity. In the reverent stillness of a
New England Sabbath the church bells sounded their
call to morning prayer; from choir and organ
rose the swelling anthems of praise, but only to the
white man's God. The black wa~s that day struck
out of existence. Only in secluded alleys and dark-
ened cellars, in. the crowded attic where his living
flesh could be stowed away so that it might be over-
looked among the enormous piles of other "mer-
chandise," could his soul pour itself to God in
prayer.
Then wtis the hour of triumph for such as Mr.
Carleton. On the scent of their human prey they
skulked abroad under the ensign of the American
Eagle, to. proclaim the infatuated lie that "black men
had x~o rights, which the white man was bound to
respect." But over these scenes humanity would
willingly draw a veil.

CHAPTER XXX VITh
"In our spirits doth us spirit shine,
As shines the sunbeam in a drop of dew."
"What a magic power is a kind word! And when
it is not the mere impulse of the moment, but the
perpetual atmosphere of home, how softly go the
hours! hearts .grow young and cares press lightly,
pain loses half its sting and affliction half its sorrow.
Were this truth more fully realized how much of
this world's misery might we escape, how much of
bitter self-accusations and life-long regrets." Such
was Milly's soliloquy one afternoon, as she sat musing
upon the wonderful transformation that might be
effected in this world of disappointment, if the affec-
tions were more tenderly cultivated. This was a
theme upon which she had been dreaming all her
life, and the desire to effect something towards this
transformation had prompted her to write the novel,
which, however, was not likely to accomplish much
so long as it was carefully concealed in her drawer.
Reader, did you ever try to amuse your leisure~
moments of thought by picturing to yourself the
real life of the unmarrIed woman? Well, whatever
your speculations may have been you niay rest pretty
sure tat they are a failure. She might just as well
attempt to appropriate to her own experience the
hidden sanctities, honored or profaned, that lie within
4)

U


410              A TALE OI~' TilE                                                                   411.

CONNECTICUT.

the charmed circle of conjugal love. Can she sym~
pathize with you either in joy or sorrow, when with
a mother's gushing tenderness you clasp in your
arms the idolized child, which in a few short months
is hidden from your gaze forever? Certainly not.
She may portray your feelings more vividly than you
could yourself, but the realization is not there. You
in your innocent simplicity may look upon her occa-
'sionally, perhaps with sympathy if realizing your
anticipations of wedded bliss, because. she cannot
share your joys, or it may be that burdened with
care and wearied with watching you almost envy her
her frecd~m from the responsibilities resting upon
you. Farther than this you seldom go, having
neither the time nor the inclination to enter her
secret sanctuary and participate in her joys and sor-
rows; and perhaps if' you did you would not be ad-
mitted. She has more time for reflection than you,
and knows how insignificant, they will seernto you.
You readily uiidcrsta.nd that hiarriage is the natural
relation of every maii and w9man without which
neither can be fully developed, but did it ever occur
to you what air anomalous life that must be, in a state
of society which carries this principle so fair as to
consider it the only sphere for woman's development,
when all those faculties and affectiojis that naturally
centre in a family must be diverted into some other
channel. If established in business th~t gives sttffi-
dent range ~o all her powers, or fortunately so con-
stituted as to find the greatest happiness in minister-
ing unto others, 'she may prove an exception, yet
even then her life is distinct from yours.

When you see a quiet person, like Milly making
so little stir that you almost forget her existence, do
not for a moment imagine she is the unobserving
person you might judge her to be, or that her life
flows so smoothly on she has no care or anxiety to
disturb her. Those instincts and affections implanted
for the fulfilment of the high trusts imposed on the
family relation are by no means stifled in her bosom,
and upon her success in guiding these through nor-
mal channels to other objects and interests, in a great
measure depends her happiness
On the same day an animated discussion was held
in another room among the other members of the
family, of which Milly was the uncOnscious subject.
That year ~iad witnessed one of those financial
crises that occasion ally sweep over the land like a
tornado, wrec~dng the millionairQ of yesterday and
carrying dismay and starvation into thousands of
hamlets but lately the abodes of happiness and com-
fort, as the laborers are thus thrown out of employ-
ment and their little all swallowed up in the general
crash. The sad spectacles constantly presented of
large families dependent on their daiW toil for sup-
port, with no prospect before them but beggary or
vice to meet the rigors of the coming winter, aroused
Amelia Crawford, whose whole life was now devoted
to the work of reclaiming the intemperate and vicious,
to make some organized effort towards alleviating
their distress.
For this purpose she appealed to a number of indi-
viduals noted for their beneficence, whose fortunes
escaped unharmed, among whom was Mr. Livingston.

11

411

410


412             A TALE OF TILE                                        CONNECTICUT.             413

flier proposition was, if the means could be raised, to
found a home for the destitute, and furnish employ-
mont both for them and others, who with a little
help could provide one for themselves. Amelia
was one of those practical, persevering spirits who
never put hand to the plough and look baei, and
consequently she never failed in any undei'taking,
which fact inspired confidence in those whom she
consulted, that they might safely rely on her success
in' any achievement of this kind.
Not every one she consulted, however, had the
means at his command to effect so much towards
the consummation of the desired object as Mr. Liv-
ingston, of which circumstance he was fully aware.
First, he had a powerful helpmeet in his wife, who
was always equal to any emergency pressed upon
her; next came h~r mother, whdse long life of disin-
terested effoi4s in benevolent channels gave her a
wide spread influence she could wield to great ad-.
vantage in furthering this enterprise; and then he
knew of another whose highest happiness it' would
be to witness its accomplishment, Mrs. Carleton,
over whose placid features the benign radiance of a
peace which comes not of This world shed a diviner
beauty; and last though not least, came Milly, whose
m4k, quiet offices in ministering to a family of un-
fortunate ones, he could foresee would iiivest her
with a sort of unconscious dignity that would develop
the latent powers of he~ soul. With an artist's quiuk
perception he had ofte~i, when observing her, taken
in the whole range of what her thoughts, feelings
and aspirations might bejust as, wheD solving a diffi-

cult niath~mO'tiCal problem, a knowledge of the geu~
eral rules leading to its solution, enables us to cal-
culate about what process it will be necessary to go
through. There were also strong~ points of resemb-
lance in their mental organizations, which would
enable him to understand hei' more readily than his
practical, business-like wife, full of demonstration
and enthusiasm, could possibly do. When he laid
Amelia's suggestion before the latter, which met her
cordial approbation, she immediately consulted Mrs.
Carleton, who warmly espoused it thp~igh it was little
she could contribute besides her influence, being,
broken down in health, and having no pecuniary
means to resort to. Rosahind, whose fertile brain
never lackedexpedients toeffe'~t any end she desired,
made a proposition to her that if she felt willing to
give the use of the old family mansion, which was
very large and commodious for such a purpose, they
would most cheerfully provide her a home in their
family, a pbint that had already been discussed with
her husband and Mrs. Claremont. This proposition
was very cheerfully accepted, not only for the benefits
thus resulting to others, but also to herself in dwell-
ing among such genial influences as were empowered
within 'the sylvan retreats of Orange Grove. By the
addition of a single room in a retired part of the
house which rather added to the completeness of the
whole, and therefore had long been desired 'by Rosa-
hind, Mrs. Carleton could be furnished with apart-
ments for herself and children entirely distinct from
theirs, and without any inconvenience to thenispives.

85

$
4.
I


414              TALE OF TIlE

415

CONNECTICUT.

The selection of a suitable person to take charge
of this lieterogenious assemblage, whose mental
and moral natures were to be provided for as well as
their physical wants, was found the most perplexing
part of the work, being the subject in debate upon
the afternoon alluded to, when Mr. Livingston pro-
posed MiJIy as one possessing the necessary qualifi-
cations, greatly to the amazement of his matter-of fact
wife, who would never have perceived anything pi'ac-
tical in such a dreamy, poetic nature as hers.
"Oh, Ernest !"' she exclaimed, "you cannot be in'
earnest. She is not adapted to the responsibility of
such a position, and I don't believe she would ac-
cept it if offered to her, being entirely unaccustom-
'ed to anything of the sort. She may have capacity
enough, but it must be developed in the right way
to be available. 'A person must do something be-
sides theorize. She is amiable, aff6ction ate, and
would make a model wife for, somebody."
"It seems, then, I made a serious mistake when I
was married. I began to think so the month pre-
vious, when you were so much more ready to attend
to everybody else than to me, and doubted seriously
if' my turn would ever come at all, and whether such
a business-like wife was just the one to l&amp;ve me."
"Oh, now, you needn't put on such a doleful air,'
when I know you were congratulating . yourself all
the time upon tour good fortune in getting such a
wife. Haven't I been devoted enough to you since,
to make it all up.?" ~said she, fondly stooping over
his shoulder, where she had been standing, twining
one of his shining loeks around her finger. "But

really this is~a serious question about Milly, in which
we ought to put aside every personal consideration."
"Certainly we must, and I am serious too.~ Well
now, my sv~eet Rose, I have yielded to you hitherto,
gven when my own sense of discretion would have
prompted me to do otherwise, because I had confi-
dence in 'your judgment, and will you. not for once
trust me in mine ?"
"To be sure I will,. but don't imagine that I sup-
pose you. are so yielding as to give up to me unless
I am able to convince you. of the plausibility, at least,~
of my undePtaking. 'Mother, what do you say?
You ought to know Milly quite as xvell as I do."
"She is not one I should have thought of propo-
sing for the place, but I am not ready to deny the
possibility of your husband's, prediction. If she feels
herself competent for the task, and~ desirous to go, I
should have no fear. These artists are more accu-
rate judges of the real qualities of the soul than such
prosaic beings as you and I. ii could mention many
among my acquaintance who thought Ernest Liv-
ingston as wild in his selection of a wife as you now
think him to be, but I 'rather think he is fully satis-
fied that he did not refer the question to their judg~
ment, or oven judge you by appearances.
With a merry laugh Mr. Livingston then rose, and
after hastily pressing his blushing wife to his bosom,
threaded his way to Lilly's garden, whither he had
just caught a glimpse of Milly passing, that being ~
chosen retreat of hers, and also her special charge.
now. Flowers bloomed there through all the blos-
soming season in greater beauty than in any other

414


A TALE OF THE

CONNECTICUT.

part of the garden, as they receiiTed the greatest
share of attention, and were also associated with the
lovely spirit whose unseen presence consecrated thorn
to an eteri~al beauty. This was a place seldQm fr&amp;
quented by Ernest in the glarc. of open day,-he
liked better tho calm, still hour of twilight, to hold
Converse with those Scenes which even now seemed
to inspire his highest day dreams with something
like the prophetic Visions of old, when the lion and
the lamb shall lie down together, and a little child
shall lead them. In his mind's eye lie realized
somewhat of this ideal in the beneficent results of
the institution tp establish which they Were all devo.
ting their energies, and Milly seemed to him just the
one to lead in tI~ e work.
She was a litde surprised at being accosted by him
in that spot, where she had never met him before.
After a few casual remarks lie hitroduced the sub-
~ect, at the mention of which her face kindled with
a glow of enthusiasm, and he S~.w at 011CC that she
comprehended more than tho mePe outer details.
At anothe..' time she might have shrunk from th~
thought of being herself installed in a station of so
much importance, through fear of her incapacity to
meet its responsibilities, but now her soul responded
with a grateful amen tor the Opening t~.f the prison
door, as with a prophet's glance her intuitive per-
Oeptions foreshadowed realities sublime than any
sketch of tongue or pen.
With~~t any hesitation she agreed to accept the
position he offered, if such a course should meet the
approbation of all parties concerned, which condition

he knew was settled beyond a doubt, as a majority
of those who had contributed most. liberally to the
funds were glad enoug' to be relieved of the labor
and care of inaugurating the work, to yield readily
to any plan proposed by those who were willing to
hear its burdens. So after the necessary preliminary
arrangem~nt5, including a proper degree of patience
with the cavilling of thos~ who had little else to offer
by way of assistance, the following Christmas wit-
nessed the dedication of the old, stately mansion of
Christopher Blanche, once the envied abode of
wealth, luxury and ease, to the service of the most
unfortunate of the other extreme of society.
rrIii~ was a delightful scene to INlirs. Carleton, and
one which atoned for the years of bitter suffering she
had experienced. The rather dilapidated state into
which the' grounds had fallen for want of an owner's
interest in them during the last few years, suggested
to her the passage of scripture, ",Tl~e wilderness and
the solitary place, shall be glad for them, the desert
shall rejoice and blossom as the rose," which was
literally illustrated as spring advanced, and a gen-
eral air of thrift succeeded the former neglected ap-
~earance. The magnificent lawns began to assume
their former tasteful simplicity, the hedge-rows were
neatly put in trim, the climbing vines, clematis and
honeysuckle, carefully trained around the pillars of,
the garden porch, as in days of old they were wont
to grow under the supervision of the same watchful
care which was now superintending all these im-
provememits, the old gardener.
He had los't ghi the ca~'eful savings of many years

A

-416.

411


418             A' TALE OF THE                                        CONNECTICUT.'

through the failure of a reputed wealthy firm in the
city, and found himself at threescore without a
penny in the world, having a feeble wife and several
young children dependent upon him. He was ac~
cordingly employed to take general charge of the
premises on Which was located a little cottage, his
former. residence when iii that service before, and in
which he and his family were again reinstated.
The change inside was no less marked and pleas-
ing to the observer. Old age and cliild.hood met
there arid blessed each othei'; the most restless and
turbulent spirits were soothed, and became 'contented
and happy under Milly's genial influence. The most
perplexing case she had to deal with was that' of a
bright little boy, of ten years, whom 'Amelia had
found in the street, without home or friends, and
getting a lodgiiig wherever he could, but oftener
under no roof at all. His unusual intelligence made
him a great pr6ficient in all the vile habits engen-
dered by a too familiar intqrcourse with street influ-
ences, and few could exceed, him ~u lying and pro-
fanity. He was also a confirmed smoker, sporting
his cigai', when he could get one, with as much poni~
posity as any young dandy who considers this one
of the first accomplishments of the gentleman.
By a little cajoling he could always get a pipe
from some of the old people, with whose confirmed
habits she knew it would be 'of little i~se to interfere,
but she would not tolerate the practice among the
young, deeming this the only effectual field in which
to labor for its suppression. Besides being consci-
entiously opposed to the use of tobacco in all its

forms, the pure instincts of .her soul repeTh3d t1~
sickly, sentimental taste, that puts aside woman~1y
delicacy to profess admiration for the curling smoke,
which only suggested to her a mist in the smoker's
brain like that in the atmosphere he so 'persistently
pollutes.
The juvenile offender at length had the satisfac-
tion of being domiciled in) a pleasant little apartment
in a retired section of the house until he was cured.
At first I.e was going to be very brave, and stay
there just as long as Miss Milly wished, determined
not to' ~how any sign ~f penitence; but before the'
first day was out ho found it decidedly tedious not
to be his own master, and run about as he had' done.
In vain he framed every excuse to get out, and plead
with Milly, but she was inexorable. Always pleas-
ant and kind, she bore patiently his childish threats,
sometimes takng him with her to walk, that he
might have the benefit of air andexercise, but i~ever
permitting him to ~o alone. Sometimes he feigned
sickness, which however did not move, h~r at all;
neither was she alarmed when he was really sick,
and lost his appetite in consequence of being Wholly
deprived of his accustomed stimulus. She nursed
him faithfully, and provided delicacies that won his
childish gratitude wheii he had no relish for them.
As he recovered, a sincere reformation took place,
and he became one of the most obedient and affec~
tionafe of children.
Milly soon after found her counterpart in a little
rphan girl, ~brought there by the watchman accord
ing to the instructions of Mrs. Living~tou, who had

418


OF ~UE CONNECTICUT.

the fttC fate of
unoruna          Chrissys daugh-
~k She~ had lived in ~seven different families, from
the last of which she r~n away, because she thirsted
for words of kindness which ~he did not receive
ther~ The fear of discovery deterred her froj~
giving any otber account of herself than that her
name was Alice; and her unusual thoughtfulness
and great desire to make herself useful, forbade any
pressing inquiries, it being evident enough that if she
had been treated kindly, no blame would have rds~d
on her. She became warmly attache&amp; to Milly, and
earessihg her one day, said with touching tender~
ness; "Miss Milly, why won't you let me call yen
mother, I do so want a mother." it was impossible
for that loving soul to deny such a request to this
lonely one~ and she adopted her under the name' of
Alice Dayton, and richly was she, repaid by her affec-
tionate devotion. Life was now opening before her
with a rich harvest. In the most depraved and de-
graded she found the germ of some noble purpose,
which needed only the right kind of influence to
nourish and perfect it; iP the most humble and unpre-
tending, rare gems of thought and modest worth,
which, as if by intuition, she grasped and unfolded.
The dumb prophet had found a voice at last; a
voice \vlIiCh has many times been echoed through the
land during the stirring events of th~ last few years,
as woman has in thousands of instances come up
from the painful inactivity of home into a sphere of
happiness and usefulness, where by ministering unto
others iii camp and: hospital, hovel and prison, she
has foirn, ~eaeh deed of lAessing a triple bonedie-
tion for ~ ~elf.
4,  4
/44,

7,-
~.
:~


  
             
         
       
   
