
    ----CITATION----
        Whitcher, Frances Miriam Berry, (1811-1852). Widow Spriggins, Mary Elmer, and Other Sketches .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8269
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Widow Spriggins, Mary Elmer, and other sketches 
            
               6/
I
-~Y4
0
0
0
-7
I/)
:.~p  /          0
43
0
6               0
to
0
MA

WIDOW SPIRIGGINS,

MARY

ELMER,

AND OTHER SKETCHES.

BY
MRS. F. M. WIHTOHER,
AUTITOE OF
"WiDOW; J3E1i~(TT PAPERS?'

EDITED, WITH A MEMOIR,
BY MRB~ M. L. WARD WHITGHBR.

With Uomz~c Illustrat~n~s.

NEW YORK:
Geo. W. Carleto7z &amp; Co., P~Iiskers.
LONDON: S. LOW, SON &amp; CO.
MDCCOLXVIL

ill'
lyji

i~;f
'1~
I

--t


Entered according to Aet of Congress In the year 1867, by
G. W. CARLETON &amp; CO.,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New
York.

JL

J. E. FARWELL &amp; CO.,
Stereotypers and Printers,
37 Cou37ess Sti~eet,
Boston.

CONTENTS.
BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.................................................11
RECOLLECTIONS OF WIDOW SPRIGGINS..........................................39
CHAPTER I.
I DESCRIBE MYSELF - I GO TO BOARDING ScHooL- I HA~~E A BEAU- MY HEARTLESS PA-
HINT -I LOESQITANDER FROM THE HUM OF MY YOUTI1~~ I WRITE SOME VAISES . 39
CHAPTER II.
1 MATE Hiooi~s PATENT MY NA!rYVE PLAClI- I WRITE TO MY CREWIL PARINT-I HAVE A
NEW LUVER, AND I EGSSPT HIM-I GIT A LETTER FROM MY CHEWIL PAINT AND I CON-
CLUDH TO ESTABLISH A SIMMINARY-I WRITE SUM STANEYS NY MOONLIGHT .
CHAPTER III.
I WRITE AN ADVERTYZEMENT FOR MY SIMMJNARY-I OBTAIN MY WARDROBES AND I RE-
CEIVE CALLS FROM MY PATHONERS - I RELATE TO THEM MY MAWLONCOLLY EGSPRHIENCH
-I WEITE AN EPIGEANNY
CHAPTER IV.
I BEGIN MY SIHM1NARY AND I TEACH-I MEET JABEE SI'RIGGINS-I WHITE SOME RAISES
- I GIT INVITED TO A PARTY..........................................................67
CHAPTER V.
I DIIESS AND GO TO A PARTY - I HAVE SOME ADYHEFUES THERE - I WR~TE A POETICAL
CONFUSION   .  .                                                            77
CHAPTER VI.
JABEE SPRIGGINS PROPOSES-I HAVE COMPANY TO TEA-I WRITE SOME STANEYS TO JA-
BEE SPEIGGINS
CHAPTER VII.
I GET KETOISED IN A SHOWER-THE GENTLEMEN ESCORTS MR TO MY SIMMiNARY -IWRlTH
ANODE.........................................................................

95


6

CONT ENTS.

CHAPTER VIII.
I HEAR OF MY MATERNAL PARINT'S ILLNESS, AND I START FOR HUM -I HEAR OF PHILAN-
V#ER'S GETTING MARRIED AND I HAVE H[GHSTERICKS -I WRITE SOME POlTRY ON A
LAMENT AND I DON'T SPEAK TO NOBODY....................... .. .....104
CHAPTER IX.
THE STAGE GITS UPSOT - I LOOSE MY GRIST -I HAVE GRATE TEIBBELATIONS, AND -I
WRITE 'SOME LINES AND HAVE SOME LINES DEDICATED TO ME........ .. .....11
CHAPTER X.
I FIND MY CRIST- I GO TO NEW HARTFORD TO MEETIN' -I MAKE A GRATE SENSATION,
AND -THEN I GO HUM -I HEAR OF MY, MATERNAL MOTHER'S DEATH -AND AT HER
GRAVE I WRITE A FUGITIVE FRAGMENT.....................  .  .......123
CHAPTER XI.
JAE SPRIGGINS COMES ONClH MORE TO SEE ME -I DISC0lpER MY AFFECTION FOR RIM-HRE -
PROPOSEdS, LIKE LORD MORTIMER - I WRITS SOME BLANK POITRY -I GO TO UTICA AND
GET MARRIEIR, AND THEN I DON'T SAY NO MORE........... . .. . .........-13
MARY ELMER, OR TRIALS AND CHANGES,

7

CONT ENTS.
CHAPTER VII.
JERUSHA'S STORY-A CHANGE IN MRS. SMITH'S DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS .
CHAPTER VIII.
MRS. SMITH RECEIVES A CALL FROM A NEW ACQUAINTANCE   .  .   .  .
CHAPTER IX.

MARY ELMER GOES HOME-A FUNERAL..... ......
CHAPTER X.
A DREAM1 AND A WALK IN THE GRAVEYARD  ...
CHAPTER XI.
THE AlD SOCIETY . . . -
CHAPTER XII.
CONCLUSION . . . .

216

. . .2300

.  , . . .244
.  . . . . . .253

278

MISCELLANEOUS.

CHAPTER I.
MfRS. LEE -MRS. GRANT AND HER DAUGHTER SUSAN ELMER ..
-   CHAPTER -II.
MIIS LEE'S VISIT TO MRS. FLMER  ........

CHAPTER III.
MRS. LEE'S DEP4ARTURE - A NOTE, AND SAM LUDLOW .
CHAPTER IV.
MIRS. ELMER'S- REMOVAL, AND A NEW F1IIENID...
CHAPTER V.
MARY ELMER GOES TO'LIVE WITH MRS. SMITH .'..
CHAPTER VI.
A DAY AT MRS. SMITH'S-THE DOG.BOUNCE .  ..,

LETTERS FROM TIMBERVILLE  ,.....

. .143
. . . 156

..2..07.gg

AUNT MAGWIRE'S ACCOUNT OF THE MISSION TO MUFFLETEGAWNY .
GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT  .........,.

.  .  345
, 36.g7

.170

1~'8

,  ,  . .'  . 187

. .199


1310 GRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.
4


BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.
'LIE favorable recep~n hich \~he public gave to
the Widow Bedott Papers, by Mrs. F. M.
Whither, has induced the publication of another
volume of the works of the same author.
It is a natural desire tlm'~ we wish to know something
of the personal history of those who have amused or in-
terested us, and the~ reader feels a claim upon a favorite
writer, kindred to the claims of friendship.
For this reason,, we have deemed it not inappropriate to
accompany the present collection with a brief biographical
sketch of their author.
Itmight at first be supposed, that the life of one whose
writings prove her' to have possessed such a remarkable va-
riety of talents, must furnish rich and abundant material f~r
an extended memoir. But itmust be borne in mind, that
true "genius is often allied to oreitt delicacy and re-
~'. UN
serve of character. And thus while it was apparent to al~
/
who knew Mrs. Whither, that she was a person of supe~
I      '                             nor intellect, she was perhaps in every-respect the oppo-
site of all that we learn from the term, "a strong-minded
Woman." And so singularly modest and unobtrusive
(11)

/


12        BIOGRAPHICAL INT.R 01) AUCTION.                               13 10 GRAPIIJ CAL INTRODUCTION.     13

were her habits, that her life might safely yield in variety
of incident, to the humblest champion of woman's rights;
or the most obscure victim of woman's wrongs.
While her only claim to eminence is found in the re~
markable genius which her writings display; a respect
for that shrinking timidity with which she ever avoided
publicity, seems to forbid us to do more than to dwell
upon those features of her character which are in some
degree the property of her readers, and our sketch, there-
fore, will necessarily be meagre; but we shall enrich
it with .such extracts from her letters and her poems, as
will give to the appreciative reader ,a better idea of heP
mental qualities than can b~ conveyed in any words of
our own.
Mrs. Frances Miriam Whitcher, was the daughter of
Mr. Lewis Berry, and was born at Whitestown, Oneida
County, New York, on the first day of November, 1811.
This village shares with the township the name of its
earliest settlers, and is one of the oldest, as well as one of
the most beautiful villages in Central New York.
That fine scenery which everywhere marks the valley of
the Mohawk River, is spread out with particular magnifi-
cence and beauty, in this immediate locality. The beauti-
ful hills, the broad, luxuriant valley, and the gently
flowing waters of the river, are among its natural attrac-
tions, 'while the noble elms, which cast their grateful
shadows over its principal street, are a pleasant and per..
petual memorial of 'those who might be truly termed its
" first families."
In 'its earlier history, Whitestown was the shire town
of Oneida County, awd' the courts being held here, added
to its other attractions as a home for gentlemen of the

legal profession. Many whose names have been high in
forensic distinction and brilliant upon the pages of his..
tory, were then counted among its citizens, and gave' to
the social circle of that time a character for liberal culture
and refined taste inferior to none in the State.
Thus, fortunately, her early associations were such as not
only furnished examples of superior mental excellence, but
were well calculated to develop those germs of latent
genius, the possession of which she showed even in child-
hood.
While' yet only two years old, and ignorant of her al.
phabet, she learned to 'recite long pieces of poetry, and
very early began making rhymes herself.' The first of
these of which any record is preserved, is a parody on the
familiar verses entitled "My Mother," ivhichwere common
in the juvenile~Readers of that time. The " Grandfather"
alluded to in the parody, was a member of her father's
family, with whom the child was far from being a favorite.
Her lines ran thus: -
Who was it, when our friends were here,
And In the room I did appear,
Said, "This is Middy, she's our dear"?
My Grandfather.
Who was it, when I swept the floor,
Would make me sweep it o'er a~d o'er,
And say, "Come back and sweep it more"
My Grandfather.
And when I let the platter$all,
Who said, as loud as he could bawl,
"Now just come back and break them all"?
~Iy Grandfather.
A short time previous to the composition of ths parody,
2

12

13


BJOGRAPIZI CAL INTI? OD LOTION.

14       BIOGRAPHICAL INTROD fICTION.

when five years old, she made "her first pictorial ex-
ploit," as she afterward termed it, by drawing the likeness
of an old gentleman, who, by familiar, but" not intention-
ally offensive joking, had incurred her displeasure.
The 'circumstance forms the subject of the first picture
in a series of humorous sketches, which were made years
afterward for a friend to whom she had promised an illus-
trated volume of her, life.
Her first teacher seems to have been an antiquated
maiden, who did not sufficiently gain her respect to escape
her ridicule; for we find her in the same series in many
sketches, where the position evidently was not chosen for
the benefit of the sitter.
From this juvenile institution she was promoted 'to the
primary department of the village academy, 'where her
mirth-loving propensities found a new and wider field for
exercise, which she did ~iot fail to improve; for here noth-
ing capable of a ludicrous construction escaped her deli-
cacy to perceive, and ability to portray; and while this
"mischief" often brought her under discipline, her pun-
ishments we find, in turn, made the subjects of her
~3~ches -so emphatically did her ruling passion "grow
by what it fed on."
A better account of this may be learned from her own
words, in a letter' to Mrs. Alice B. Neal, a friend to whom
she was known only through the medium of the pen, and
the symp~4hy of kindred intellectual tastes.
"'Yo~ ~las't kind letter was very gratifying. The ac-
quisition of a new friend is a 'source of great pleasure to
me; for I assure you that it has never 'been my lot to
have. many friends. You possess the happy faculty of
drawing all hearts at once to you; but. I, unfortunately,

do not. And I will tell you, what I believe to be the
secret of jt: I received, at my birth, the undesirable gift
of a remarkably strong sense of the ridiculous. I can
scarcely remember the time when the neighbors were not
afraid that I would 'make fun of them.' For indulging
in this propensity, I was scolded at home, and wept over
and prayed with, by certain well-meaning old. maids in
the neighborhood; but all to no purpose. The only re-
ward of their labors was frequently their likenesses drawn
in charcoal and pinned to the corners of their 'shawls,
with, perhaps, a descriptive verse below. Of course I had
not many' friends, even among my own playmates. And
yet, at the bottom of alL this deviltry, the e was a warm,
affectionate heart -~- if any were really kiiPl to me, how I
loved them!"'
One little picture in the series, alluded to from her
"ideal world," which has pleased us particularly, is en-
titled "The Adventure." It is thus described by herself,
during a walk on the banks of the river about a mile from
her home, she related to her companions thus :-
"Once I was walking here, when I 'saw on that stump
of a tree a beautiful Bible all bound in gold lying open.
I started to get it, when a little angel with shining wing8
came flying dowh towards it, and when I 'reached the
place the book was *a heap of ashes, and the angel was
gone.~~
Her school education was completed in her native vil-
lage, with the exception of some lessons in French, from
a very superior teacher in the neighboring city of Utica,
where she acquired a' high proficiency in that language,
but with an instinctive horror of affectation and display,
she always avoided, both in conversation aud in writing,
the use of any foreign words or phrases.

I


16       BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.                           1310 GRAPHI6AL INTRODUCTION.      17

In the t~rt of drawing, in which she has left such abun-
dant proof of her taste and skill, her only instruction was
a few hints from a similarly gifted relative.
In epistolary correspondence she particularly excelled,
her pen gliding without an effort into rhyme, and making
the most trivial occurrences attractive by her happy power.
of expression, as well as by the most life-like pen draw-
ings, with which her letters are embellished, and in which
she often introduced herself in some most ludicrous or
preposterous manner.
Nothing was allowed to escape her pencil or her pen,
and even the every-day occurrences in a quiet family fur-
nished material, which when embellished by her genius,
became amusing and interesting. The following mock se-
rious lines on the death of a pet crow, show her ability to
mingle the ridiculous with the sublime:
No sigh was heard, no tear was shed,
/      And not a word was spoken,
But the pale cheek and drooping head
Told how their hearts were broken.
There was no outward sign of woe,
Though every hope had failed 'em,
A chance observer scarce would know
That aught uncommon ailed 'em!
Manhood and youth and age were there,
Touched with the same deep sorrow;
~h~y thought of pne whom they must bear
~o his harp-yard grave, to-morrow.
There in an old tin pan he Jay,
The once beloved an4 cherishe~,
Alas, how soon he, passed away,
How cruelly he perished!

And one was there, once gay and spry,
'Twas one that did adore him;
A maniac glare was in her eye,
She silently bent o'er him.
She loved the dear departed crow
Like dearest friend, or brother,
And watched his infant graces grow,
Just like some tender mother,
Love, like some tender Ilower of earth,
Long in her heart had wasted;
Tom, like the sun, had called it forth,
And death, like winter, blasted.
11cr grief was silent, dark, and dcep,
For1 oh, she loved him, dearly;
'Tis never those who loudest weep,
That sorrow most sincerely.
There is a grief that dwells within,-
A grief beyond my telling;
When all the outward man grows thin,
But oh, the heart keeps swelling.
They tied his feet with cotton yarn,
And to his grave they bore him;
They burled him low behind the barn,
And stuck two shingles o'er him.
Then burst the torrent of her grief,
That long had lain concealed;
11cr inward woes found some relief,
In being thus revealed.
"Oh never more," she wildly cried,
"His cheerful voice shall greet me;
He'll never wander by my side,
He'll never fly to meet me.
J
"He used to get upon my chalr
When I was busy sewing;
2*

K


28

BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.

And tangle up my braided hair,
Almost without my knowing.
"Heused to steal my knitting sheath,
His legs were wondrous nimble,
And once I ducked him most to death
For carrying oil' my thimble.
"But let his faults forgotten be,
For he has gone forever;
His like again we ne'er shall see,
Oh, never! never I! never! ! I"
Some words of comfort then I said,
In vain those words were spoken;
Despondingly she shook her head,
1 knew her heart was broken.
The views and opinioiw of' John Calvin were believed
and taught more than any other system of religious
doctrine, in her native village at that time; and she was
baptized in infancy, early instructed in the shorter cate-
chisin, and while yet in her teens, was, at the close of a
revival, received into membership with the Presbyterian
Church, a connection which was for many years retained.
11cr religious feeling and attachments at this time are very
pleasantly recorded in her lines on the removal of the old
church.
All silently the twilight falls,
This ancient temple round,
And mournfully within these walls
My echoing footsteps sound.
Well may this heart with sorrow swell,
These tears of sorrow 110w,
I come to breathe a last farewell,
A last sad look bestow.

(
BIO GRAPhICAL INTROD AUCTION
No more shall bands of brethren meet
Within this hallowed place,
To worship at a Saviour's feet,
And seek a Saviour's face.
No more the inquiring crowd shall press
Tolearn the road to heaven;
Nor here the bleeding heart find peace,
The mourner feel forgiven.
~o more the word of life shall fall
From hearts with love that burn,
Nor truth invite, nor mercy call
The wanderer to return.
No longer here shall music roll
Its thrilling strains along,
Nor pure devotion lift the soul,
In union with the song.
Here often hath my God revealed
His goodness and His power;
But now, old Church, thy doom is seaI~d,
And thou must be no more.
I stand alone within these walls;
There is no being nigh
To check the bitter tear that falls,
Or chide the rising sigh.
I weep, dear consecrated spot,
That thou must cease to be,
And oft, full oft, when thou art not,
Shall memory turn to thee.
1 love thy sacred aisles! -'twas here
Where first my footsteps trod,
And mother gave, with holy fear,
That little one to God.
And oh! 'twas here that awful vow,
To be the Lord's, was spoken!

19

/


4
1'4
.4
.4
y

BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTW.y.

21

20

/

BIOGRAPIIIOAL LYTROD AUCTION.
The paiuful~thought comes o'er me now,
How oft that vow I've broken.
Alas my soul, how oft thy wings,
E'en in the house of God, -
Have sunk 'neath vain imaginings,
And kissed earth's fleeting clod.
I love this place I While musing 'hero
On pleasures known no more,
Some pleasant thoughts of former years
Float my lone spirit o'er.
Here I was wont to sit with some
1 loved in childhood's day;
Many are in the silent tomb,
And many far away.
Here have I gazed with tearful eye,
Upon the death-cold brow
Of some whose spirits dwell on high,
Whose forms tire mould'ring low.
Perchance ~ now that sainted throng,
Those spirits of the dead,
May glide these ancient aisles among,
Where they were wont to tread.
Methinks they've left those realms of light
And glo~y,-where they dwell,
And hover o'er this place to-night,
That once they loved so well.
And many forms remembered well,
Andonce mostdearto me,
Who long have ceased on earth to dwell,
Among that band I see.
Methiflks I see that blest one too,
So lovely and so dear;
Who, scarce one little month ago,
Was sweetly singing here.

Young Harriet, who with dying breath,
The Saviour's love confessed,
Exulting raised a song in death,
And, swan-like, sunk to rest.
Sweet spirit I lift that tuneful voice
As thoi wert wont of yore,
Let these devoted walls rejoice
In thy sweet strains once more.
'Tis gone I The heavenly train is flown!
The sweet illusion fades!
And I am musing here ~ilone,
'Mid evening's gath'ring shades.
Farewell I doomed temple of the Lord,
Foi~ thee my tears shall flow;
I grieve to speak the parting word;
With ling'ring steps I go.
What, though npon thiB sacred spot
A statelier pile 1 Bee;
Dear house of God, when thou art not,
Shall memory tui~n to thee.
Later in life she found in the doctrines and teachings of
the Protestant Episcopal Church, a system of religion
more congenial with her taste, and mor~ in harmony with
her judgment.
Jn person Mrs. Whitcher was above the medium height,
erect in figure; stately in her walk,, with an air of reserve
and dignity. Her large dark eyes. were full of expression
and~ soft liquid light. Her hair of glossy black wa8 al-
ways kept in the most tasteful and careful manner, while
her dress showed scrupulous neatness, and v ~s character-
ized more by an absence of bad taste, than by any effort
at effect in its arrangement.
One who often met her has said in our hearing,

i


22       BJOGRAPIIICAL INTR OD UCTIOiV                   BIOGRAPHICAL INIROD ACTION.    23

1~
I
(
$

"It seemed to me Mrs. Whitcher always wore the same
dress," a remark that shows that she appreciated that sen-
sible maxim, that "to be well dressed, a lady's attire
should be so arranged as never to excite a thought."
She possessed a high degree of conversational ability
in the circle of congenial friends; their presence seemed
to inspire her, and to devcdop many little graces and at-
tractions which the first critical glance frightened away, so
much that among strangers and ordinary acquaintances,
she became reserved 'and timid to a degree which was
often regarded as haughtiness and pride, or a sense of
conscious superiority. But amid the genial circle of fa-.
miliar friends, her eye brightened with intelligence, her
features glowed with enthusiasm, while the liquid and har-
monious flow of her words possessed almost the charming
power of music.
The story of the Widow Spriggins was among' the ear-
lier productions of her pen, and was originally written for
"The M~oonian Circle," a social and literary association,
sustained by persons of taste and ability. The liter-
ary productions of the Circle were presented to its mem-
bers in the form of a paper, which was for some time
called " The Momus," a liame which it fully merited.
Among the members~ of the Circle, however, there, were
some who deemed the paper too much devoted to "the
harmless comedy of life," and it was accordingly changed
in name, and somewhat in character, to "The M~onian.
The circumstances form the subject of an article from the
"M~onian," which may be found in the present volume.
The Widow Spriggins' articles were afterward favor -
ably, though not very extensively, introduced to the pub-
lic by Mr. Calvert Comstock, late editor of the Albany

Argus, who was at that time editing a weekly paper at
Rome, New York, and was a personal friend of their
author.
She received no pecuniary compensation for any of her
articles, until the summer' of 1346, when she became a
regular contributor to "Neal's Saturday Gazette." Its
editor, who was a humorist of acknowledged ability,
highly appreciated the genius of his contributor. 'But
neither his enthusiastic praise, nor the flattering reception
with which her productions were received by its readers,.
could overcome her habitual self-distrust and timidity. In
a letter accompanying one of the Bedotts, she says:
"I fear criticism; I fear 'the world's dread laugh.' I
fear a repulse, a failure; there are a thousand things to
make me shrink from taking a step which may look like
courting publicity; and I assure you, no1~hing but the
hope of one d~ay reaping some pecuniary benefit, induces
me to offer myself as a contributor to your paper."
On the sixth of January, 1847, she was married to the'
Rev. B. W. Whitcher, and in the following spring re-
moved to Elmira, Chemung County, where Mr. Whither
assumed the pastoral care of St. Peter's church.
The following playful rhyming letter, written during
her husband's temporary absence from home, a few days
after their marriage, may not be inappropriate here.
I will weave an idle rhyme, dear,
A simple rhyme for thee,
For it seems a wei~ry time, dear,
Since yester morn to me.
It seems a long, long while, dear,
That I've been left alone;
And I miss thy cheerful smile, dcar,
And I miss thy kindly tone.

'~1
Is

22


BIOGRAPHICAL INUCTION.
Through the busy morning hours, dear,
I've missed thy cheering wor4;
While I watered all the flowers, dear,
And fed the little bird.
I've been busy in your study, dear,
And made it nice and neat,
But I found it rather muddy, dear,
(Why don't you clean your feet?)

Your books and papers all, dear,
I've arranged the nicest way;
Your bump of order's small, dear,
It grieves me quite to say.
Ere you've been here a day, dear,
'Twill look as bad as ever,
Don't say I'm Caudling, pray, dear,
ror I never mean to - never.
It was a real pleasure, dear,
To fix each tumbled shelf',
And each old dudj a treasure, dear,
It looked so like yourself.
I've been talking with my mother, dear,
And with my father, too,
With my sisters and my brothers, dear~,
And still the theme was you.

*       *       *

The weary day has flown, dear,
'Tis silent evening now,
And I am all alone, dear,
ButWillie, where art thou?
And how employed? not smoking, dear,
Good gracious! if you should, -
But surely you were joking, dear,
When you threatened that you would.
Good-night- good.uight! God bless thee,
My dearest a~d my best;
May no dark dreams oppress thee,
But angels guard thy rest:

IHO GRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.
From every pain, and sorrow, dear,
I To guard thy precious life,
And bring thee back to-morrow, dear,
To thy true and loving wife.

25

Her peculiar traits of character were not particularly
adapted to her new sphere of life; her retiring and r~
served disposition illy qualified her for a position which
makes so great demand upon the demonstrative sympam
thies, as that of a clergyman's wife. And, although she
found in Elmira a few whose friendship and kindness were
ever held in grateful remembrance, the greater number
of her new acquaintances regarded her with distrust and
suspicion; and her greatest pleasure was fo~ind in her
domestic relations. As a wife, she was ever kind and
thoUghtful,' placing a high estimate upon her marriage
duties, requiring the i~iost refined and exalted tenderness,
which it was her constant aim to inspire.
In Elmira the "Bedott Papers" were continued and
completed. The "Aunt Maguire 'Letters," published in
Godey's Lady's Book, were written here, and a series in a
difThrent style u~der the name of "Letters from Timber-
yule" were begun, which her death left incomplete. A
few of the first chapters of the story 'of Mary Elmer were
also written at this place.
Though. Whitelier's literary reputation will perhaps,
most particularly be identified with her humorous works,
she has left in 'her little poems and sketches and in the
graver composition- of Mary Elmer, abundant proof that
she was not confined, in the range of her genius, to any one
department of literature, but might have gained a brilliant
reputation in the various walks of authorship. Those who
haver~nown 'her heretofore only as the author of mirth-
a

24

/

:1
(I
ii


26       BIOGRAPLTICAL INTRODUCTION.                         BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.      27

-provoking productions, will find with surprise the depth,
tenderness, and~ spiritual beauty which her more serious
writings reveal. Possessing at ~he same time an eye for the
ridiculous, a sense of the grotesque in combination, and
the quaint in character, with a genuine love of the beauti-
fal, and admiration of the grand, her productions had'
power not only to please the fancy, but to satisfy the higher
wants of the mind. Even her humorous articles do not
stand upon their wit alone as their chief merit; true, they
make you laugh, and thus they answer the true test of their
excellence in this respect.. And the Widow Bedott might
have graduated as the very worst speller in the "bad spel-
ling" school 'of 'literature so popular at the present day,
but her humor was always the vehicle of sense "to point a
moral or adorn a tale," and even when the widow ~iseour-
se5 "on punkins," she reads a wholesome homily to the
troublesome neighbor who "borroweth and repayeth not
again."
As an' appreciative critic has said, "There is as clear
delineation of character in these writings as in. the works
of Dickens or Thackeray. They are the cleverest, as 'well
as the'~most popular of any articles of the kind by an Amer-
ican author. Those doomed perforce to 'immortality by
the hand now stilled forever, should be &amp;itisfied that they
have secured what so many have labored assiduously to
obtain."
Saxe finds" it is a very serious thing to be a fanny
man," and Mrs. Whither found it "a very serious thing"
to be a funny woman. Few" writers since the days of
Coleridge have been so much at the same time ~e subject
of panegyric by their friends and of censure from their
enemies; for while the reading public were convulsed with

laughter over the inimitable drollery and cleverness of her
sketches, and editors were eagerly striving to ~secure the
popularity which her contributions commanded in whatever
publication they appeared, their author was being assailed
with the greatest vituperation and personal insult from
those who fancied they had unwittingly furnished models
for her sketches; and in one instance Mr. Whither was
threatened by a man with legal prosecution for damages,
which Mrs. Samson Savage had done to characteristics
which he fancied belonged exclusively to his wife, and
other less prominent characters were zealously searched 'out
and applied, as many an indignation meeting could witness.
"This means you," and "this means such a one," the
said, as 'each fitted the garment to a neighbor's back, whik
all tmited in aiming resentment at the author with as much
anger as if she had labelled their parcels with their individ..
ual names.
So high indeed ran the tide of angry feeling that it soon
became apparenI~ that Mr. Whither's usefulness as a
clergyman would find fewer obstacles in some other parish.
Such a result was entirely unanticipated ,by Mrs..
Whitcher. Her characters 'were not designed 'simply to
represent individuals, but were types of different classes;
and however closely they may apply to particular persons,
it is illiberal to so universal a genius as hers as to attempt to
confine its application simply to one locality. But not in
Elmira alone were hunted up ~originals for her portraits.
A few weeks after the publication of the sewing society
articles, Mrs. Whither wrote thus to a friend :~
"'It is an amusing fact that several villages are eon-
tending for' the honor of being the birth-place of 'Mrs.
Samson Savage.' A man from a village in County


ii
U
~ll

BIcLGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.

came into one Qf the bookstores the other day to get some
'Lady's Books,' saying that they were all alive about it in
his place, because they hadl a 'Mrs. Samson Savao'e'
there. And we have heard from -, a village twenty
miles distant, that they have fitted the coat to a woman
there."
And yet Mrs. Samson Savage and Mrs. J. Pixley
Smith are only representatives of that large class where
ignorance and vulgarity are only made more conspicuous
by wealth. Sam Ludlow is a character by far too common
in real life; an unruly son of a ruling deacon; while Per-
milla Spriggins is but a pitiful illustration of the effect of
the continual reading of love stories on vain and weak-
minded girls. Almost any one can find "a Hugelina," a
would-be-literary character among their own acquaintances,
however limited the circle may be.
It is true Mrs. Whither has been charged with satir..
izing, in some of her characters, things which should be
held sacred from ridicule. But whether Sam Ludlow
"gets religion" for the' purpose of getting hold of the
"old man's" purse-strings, or the Widow Bedott resorts
to Elder Sniffles for religious instruction with habeas cor-
pus intentions in her mind; if we examine closely~ we find
that it' is only where selfishness and hypocrisy steal the
cloak of piety, that they are held up and made at once
odious and ridiculous.
Few lives have perhaps furnished better examples of sin-
cere piety and devotiQn than hers. That rare humility of
which we have already spoken, was not only a part of the,
ornament of" a meek and quiet spirit," but of one scrupu-
lous in the conscientious discharge of duty. She not only
loved the public services of the church, but was constant

BIOGRAPHICAL INTROD UCTIO.Y.

29

hud faithful in those devotions which receive the promise
of" Him who seeth in secret."
The following lines written during a period of suffering,
show how well she had learned that hardest of all Christian
lessons, resignation to the solemn ascription, "Thy will
be done."
Afflict me, Father; let thy heavy rod
'Fall on my sinful head;
I would not shun the sufferings of my God,
whose blood for me was shed.
Afflict me, Father; I will take the cross
Unmurmuringly and still,
By thy good help; and bear all earthly loss,
Iflmaydothywill.
Ay, slay me, Father, and I will not fear
The coming of Death's dart,
If I may see the Lord's kind angel near,
To strengthen my weak heart.
Not only in religious duties, but in the offices of friend-
ship was she eminently uniform and faithful, and a good
impression once made upon her feelings was enduring. In
illustration of this tenacity of feeling, we insert a letter
which was written not many years before her death, 'and
which refers to an affection, of which "Time but the im-
pression stronger made." This letter was addressed to the
same person as the one from which our former extract was
made.
"I was quite alone all last evening, and my mind wan-
dered to you. I cannot tell why it is, but your idea is
always associated in my imagination with a dear sister of
mine,' who died at sixteen, when I was oi4y five years~ old.
8*

28


30      BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION                       BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION    31

I recollect 'her perfectly. They say she was a genius; and
I remember that she was beautiful and joyous, and always
good to me. I loved her better than any one else.' She
used to put me eyery night in my' little crib, and sit and'
tell me stories till I went to sleep, and hear me say my
prayers and little hymns. She had a thousand winning
ways. There was one pretty mark of love that seems very
pleasant to me now as I look back to it. She used often to
reward me for being good, by putting some trifle under my
pillow after I was asleep, and it made me so happy to
'wake in the morning and find it. How easy it is to please
a ohild!
"This sweet sister took more pains with me than any-
body else ever did. It was a great calamity that I lost
her. Yet I have alw~iys felt that there was still a bond
between us. When I was little, I used to dream of hef
almost every night, and, as I grew older, I thought about
her a great deal. In my lonely rambles, I often fancied
that she called me; even now I sometimes think I can
'hear her distinctly pronounce my name in the night. I
know not~ why it is 'so, but I fancy that you are like her.
I was thinking of it last evening as I sat aloiie, and I threw
aside my sewing and scratched down these simple verses to
you. View the~n, dear -, not as poetry but as a little
token of affection.
Of the "verses ~' here mentioned, we will select two, as
illustrative of her attachment to the memory of her sister,
and of her~ belief in the intin~ate union between departed
spirits and their friends on ealth : -
True, some will call it fancy's flight,
And say it ne'er can be,
That in the wakeful hours of night
An angel speaks to me.

I " The wondrous and mysterious ties
Some hearts can never know,
That link the loved in paradise
With those they love below."
Another little poem adctressed to the same sister ran
thus :-.
MY SISTER.
Would I were sleeping on thy peaceful breast,
Friend of my infimt years!
Thou who couldst lull my wayward heart to rest,
And soothe my childish fears.
Oh, 'tis a blessed thing like thee to die
IBefore the dark hours come!
Before the light reflected frorri on high
Is lost in earthly gloom.
Peace t~ thee, bud of paradise! expand
In the Lord's garden; there,
The flowers arc nurtured by the Almighty hand,
To bloom in heavenly air.    /
Look down on mc, 0 sister! think of me,
By sin and suffering tost;
Lonely and sad my heart turns back to thee,
So loved! so early lost!
In the autumn of 1850, Mrs. Whither returned to
Whitestown. Her literary labors had been almost sus-
pended during the year just passed, as her time had been
occupied' in the care of her infant daughter. Few women
have discharged with higher appreciation or greater love
their maternal duties, than was now ehown in her devotion
to her child. Her health,' which had for some time been
delicate, now began more perceptibly to fail, and the symp-

4


32       BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.                           BIOGRAPHICAL INTROD ~LCTION.

32

toms of the consumption, which for a' long time had hung
like a threatening shadow over her, now made their pres-
ence more apparent. Still she declined to receive medical
aid, feeling reluctant to begin a contest where the struggle,
promised to be long, and the result uncertain.
It soon became apparent to those who loved her that it
was,
"The little rift within the lute,
That by and by should make its music mute
And slowly widening, silence all the sound!"
- /
Prompted by maternal affection, she applied herself to
making her child's wardrobe and, as opportunity offered,
resumed her labor on the story of Mary Elmer.
It had long been her intention to write something in a
graver style 'than anything *hich she had hitherto offered
to the public. Much as sh~4 excelled in the comic vein, we
think it was not chosen to gratify her own taste or inclimv.
says, "II am heartily sick of Bedotting and Maguiring,
tion, for in one of her le ters written from Elmira, she
'and only wish I could be as well paid for more sensible
matter." She would no doubt have found more pleasure in
the exercise of a higher aiA purer taste, but her inclina-
'~ tion was overruled by circumstances. ' The intense pathos
of Mary Elmer may have been heightened by the fact that
it was written during a period of physical suffering, but it
proves that its author possessed as great power over the
pathetic' as the risible emotions of the reader, and like the
"immortal bard" when she chose to "come no more to
make you laugh," possessed equal ability to present " such
solemn scenes as cause the eye to flow,"
Like many other humorists, hei~ natural, tendency was
more to melancholy than to mirth, and we learn from one

33

who loved her, that her pen which was employed so suc-
cessfully for the amusement of others, was' often guided
by an eye dun with unshed tears.
Although, like Hood, she had found the public ear
more open to melodies than to maladies, with him she felt
that "a life of mere laughter is like music without its(
bass, or a picture of vague unmitigated light, while an~
occasional melancholy is like those rich old glooms of'
Rembrandt."
The pathos of Mary Elmer was as easy to her pen as
the humor of Sprigginsor Bedott; for her gifts were like
song to the bird, or perfume to thefiower; and thus the
success of her writings does not depend upon her energy,
for she was easily discouraged, and always self-distrusting,
while her humility kept her always from self-assertion,
and often from effort. Thus her life became one of obser-
vation, rather than of action; and to the last her literary
productions were cast doubtingly upon the uncertain
stream of public favor.
She never shoved any undue devotion to the material
and practical, and seemed strangely unconscious of the
possession of those talents, which, if united with greater
worldly wisdom,. might earlier have brought her th~
grateful reward of fame, as well as those more tang-
ible returns which the world counts as the criterion of
success.
That remarkable sagacity with which she appreciated
the springs of human passion, and which with such rare
perspicuity her writings display, she seldom brought into
working use, for she was credulous and unsuspecting in a.
marked, degree.
The story of Mary Elmer, ~n which she bestowed her


34       BIOGRAPHICAL INTROD (JCITION                                                            35

"~il

last literary labor, was left unfinished. The last letter she
ever penned was one which accompanied some chapters
of hc~r manus~ipt to her publisher, and was written only
three weeks before her death. From it we make an ex-
tract:
"I never sent off a manuscript so unsightly as this.
But I can do no better. You will see that it bears evi-
dence to the trembling hand and miserable body sustained
by opiates. Oh, the horrid stuff! There would never be
any danger of' my becomijig' an opium-eater from choice.
I hope the compositor will nQt be utterly confounded. I
send three chapters, and the rest will be forthcoming' as
soon as circumstances will permit. I have been verx de-
sirous to finish this story, probably the last I shall write.
And I trust there will be nothing in it 'which, dyii~g, I
should wish to blot.' Perhaps Mr. '.may thipk the
style too~ plain and homely. I have been so anxious to
avoid the grandiloquent style of many of our femiile story
writers, that I may haye gonef too far the othei~ way.1 I
have become so entirely disgusted vith1 that sort of com-
position applied to the commonest and most trifling, sub-
jects, as well as to those more important, that I never.
have patience to get through ~tn article of that descrip-
tion."
Her manuscript ha~ been. carefully preserved by Mr.
Whither, and it was not until after repeated efforts to get
it completed ly others had failed, that the present writer
attempted the task of" ending,?' not to say "finishing"
it, not unconscious of the presumption with which the. act
might be regarded by many, for one without literary ex-
penence, or even literary ambition, to attemptt to add to
anything a genius like hers had left incomplete, yet aux-

34

BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION.

ious to give to usefulness a little tale which seemed quite
too good to be lost.
After sending away her last letter, her health began 'to
fail more rapidly, and her'time was devoted to more im-
mediate preparation, for death.
Jeremy Taylor's Holy Living and Dying was now her~
constant companion, as it had been a solace and comfort
in hours of health.
She received with humility the holy communion, and all
the consolations which the Church of England has in store
for her departing children.
The sun which rose on the fifth anniversary 'of her
bridal day, shed its last rays into the room where she lay
clothed in the bridal robes of death. With the solemn ser-
vice of the Church she had so much loved, they committed
her body to the dust.'
In the rural grave-yard of her native village, in the
little enclosure where lie those to whom. she was connected
by family ties, and beside the sister for whose companion-
ship' she had so long and fondly yearned, she rests. And
who can say but in "those heavenly habitations where
the souls of them that sleep inAhe Lord Jesus 'enjoy per-
petual felicity," their spirits are united in nearer and purer
ties, as in communion with the saints beneath the altar,
they join in the solemn anthem, "How long, 0 Lord," as
in earnest hope they wait the final benediction.
In accordance with her own humble wishes, her name
'and age on a little 'tablet is all . that marks 'her resting-
place. But in the hearts of those who loved her as a
friend, and admired her ds an author, is written a brighter
and more enduring word of her virtues than can be traced
by the pen of the biographer, or graven in the eloquence
of sculptured marble.                 M. IL. NV.

35


WIDOW SPRIGGINS.


a

WIDOW SPRIGGINS.
CHAPTER 1.
1~They called me bhie.eyed Mary,
When finds and fortin smiled,
Bitt oh I how fortins vary,
I now am BolTer's child I"  OLD 5O~G~
WAS born in Podunk, a charming~ and sequesterat(
villidge on the banks of the morantie and meande:
in' Mohawk. My father's name was Nathan ku~
~les; he was an emigranter from Vermount, at
he married a Dutch young woman by the name of Vii
Hogobome, a native of Podunk. I was the oldest of t~
childern, five boys and five gearis. The boys wa~ Nad~
and Abihu, (twins,) Cornelus, Bemas, and Gad. TI
gears was Pe~mil1y, (that's me,) Mirtilly, Ketury, (that
a Dutch name,) Axy, and Vine. But I was the flower c
the family. I've heern my mother tell that 11 was a wot
derful cretur from the time I was knee high to a hop-toa
Afore I was 10 year old I knowd eny most all the primm~i
and I could say them are passes in't clean, from, "I
Adam's fall," to "Zaceheus .he did climb the tree," without
mission' a word. And when I want but fourteen I know
by heart, all that are gret long piee~ of poetry that Joli
Rogers writ jest afore he was burnt to a ~ta~ke.
(89)

4
Lb
.5
1-
1..
n
it
d
a


40              WIDOW SPRIYiWINS.

W1ie~i I was about sixteen our folks sent me to Miss
Van Dusen's boarding-school to Scaticoke. She was a
cousin of my mother, and whilst I was there besides lair-
nin' all monner of accomplishmentss I took a mazin' notion to
reading' and red Rosabelly, and Alviry, and the Childern of
the Abby all through. Well, arter staying' there three
months I went hum, and at my departer Miss Van 'Dusen
give rue the Childern of the Abby, 'cause 'twas my favorite
book and I was her favorite puppil, teRm' on me to
read it cerfully and wouldd improve my taste and under-
standin' amazin'ly.
Well, I returned to the paternal ruff, and I tell ye I was
a touch above' the vulgar, but I'd or'to tell ye how II
looked. My hair was of that lovely hue that folks calls red
and novels calls auburn. Sometimes I suffered it to flow
cerlessly over my alabaster shoulders, and sometimes I con-
fined it on the tip top of my head with a quill. My face
was considerate immineAtly honsome. My bigger was on-
common graceful, and I had a gret , deal of dignitude.
But more 'n all that, I writ poetry of the first order, and
was called the biggest genyus in Podunk. ~I knowd I was
a touch above the vulgar, as I said afore, and so I kept
myself putty scarce. I didn't let nun of the fellers come
within gunshot of me tho' there want one there but what
would a jumped sky high to git me, but I didn't incurridge
'er~i, for I was detairmined I wouldn't give my affections to
nobody that didn't look like Lord Mortimer, him that the
Ohildern of the Abby tells about9 and nun of the young.
men in Podunk want no touch to him,, for the biggest part
on em was aniazin' fleshy and he ~&amp;ant. Well, a number
on 'em art a spell plukt up curridge to make up to me.
There was Bonypart Buggins, a risin' farmer, he took arter

I

WIDOW SPRIG GI.YS;
me consairnedly. One afternoon I was a sitting' under a
tree in the orchard reading' in the Childern of the Abby,
and II tho't I heern a noise, so I lookt up, and lo and be-
hold 'twas Bonypart leanin' agin a stump.
"Your sarvent," says he~ I gin him an all-to~pieces
stiff bow, and went on continuyin' reading , - at last says
he, -
"Miss Ruggles."
"Hold yer tongue,". says I.
"Ye needn't be so ferce," says he.
Then I riz right up and says I, "What do ye mean by
contrudin' yer pesky presence on my solitary modifications,
hay? If 'twant for disgracin' this ere book I'd heave fl at
yer head." So he cleared out considerable skeart and never
bothered me no more.
And there wa~ another young man in our town by the
name of' Yokop Van Snorter, a merchant, 1~hat lived nigh
by, makin' money and doin' well. There want a gearl in
Podunk but what would a had him ony me, and I was the
ony on~ he took a notion tew. But he was as fat as a
hoss, and more 'ii all that he had such a name 'twas enuf
to disgust me. Well, he was kinder timersome and
darse~at speak to me, so he writ me a "billydux," (that
are's the French for loveletter,) I can't remember edjackly
how 'twas eupprest, ony I know he writ how't.he loved me
better'n sour crout or flitters, or anything on airth, and
wanted me to marry him right off. Now in all the novil~
I'd read, nun of the y~ung men didn't make a supposition
in sich a stile, so I jist, took it and writ on t'other side
o'nt, -
"You gret unheerd of Dutch lubber; ye don't know how
to tell a young woman the state of yer feeling, rind if:ye did
4*
1-

A4


42              WIDOW SPRI0GINS~.

* I wouldn't have ye nor touch to, so ye may giv up yer en-
devers." I sent the letter over by my little brother Gad,
and that evening' we were all a sittin' round the kitchen lire,
mother a dipping' candles, Nadab and Abihu twisting' nut-
cakes, and Mirtilly a fryin' on'em, Il3emas and Ketury knit-
tin', (my mother dedicated all her children jest alike. She
didn't approve of havin' the boys do all the Qut-door work
and the gears all the housork, so in the afternoon the
gearls went out and heipt the boys chop wood and hoe
taturs, &amp;c., and in the evening' the boys cum in and heipt
the gearls do up the chores,) but I was a reading, I never
had nothing' to do with kitchinary consairns for I reckoned
and mother reckoned tow, that a young woman that had
been to boardin'-school and lairnt phizziology, and trigge-
ology, and astrology, besides painting' jtnd mongers,
shouldn't or'to do no housork, and I never read in nonovil
of a heroine that washed dishes and fried nutcakes, and
so forth. An~iandy Malviny Fitzalen didn't' do't, and Ii
was detairmined I wouldn't do't, tWo' father used to jaw me
about it, for he never had no sense of properiety. But I
didn't think 'twas any disparagation to resist mother in sup..
perintendin' the children, for I reckoned 'twas quite interest-.
in' to teach their young ideas how to fire, as Poke says,
and the evening' I speak on I'd jest ben piittin' Cornelus and
Gad, and Axy and Vine, to bed in the trundle-bed, and
was beseated reading' in Cecely, (a nov11 belonging' to a na..
ber of ourn,) when father came in and says he to me, says
be, '~ Milly,"- says I, "Sir!" "Come up chamber,"
says he, "I want to see ye a minnit." So I shot up my
interesting novil with a sythe and follered my ferce and
grumpy looking' payrent. When we got up chamber he
shot the door and says he, "Milly," - says I, "Sir,~~

42

says he, "Yer a darn fool." "Be, hay," sa I, "what
for?" "Why," says he, "I've been over to Van
Snorter's store, and he told me all about that a e mean
dirty trick you've ben a sarvin' him, with tears in his eyes.
If you'd ~a writ him a decent letter tellin' on him you
couldn't marry him, it wouldn't a ben so bad; but. even
then you'd* a ben a fool, for you'll never git sich another
chance, - but to send him sich a sassy, crusty mess of
stuff; why you'd or'to be flogged for't. I tell'&amp; him if I
was him I never'd speak to ye agin, - but he says he
takes art~r ye yit, and wants me to persuade ye to have
him, and I tell ye ye'd better do't."
"What!" exclamigat~d I, "me have York Van
Snorter? why, he don't look no more like Lord Mortimer
than a back-log does! You may manui~e me in the most
gloomiest 4unjir~ in Podunk, you may deny me the, en-
fuence of the surviving' atmosphere, you may deprive me
of every gratication in life, but you will never conduce me
to giv my willing' consent except agin my inclination, to be ~
led to the Ilymonia" alter by a, bein' I can't bestow my
hull affections on, so I boseech on ye not to speak of him
"Well, I don't~ know now," says father says he,
"whether ye mean ye'Il have him or not."
"No, never!" e~clamigated I, "I never can, be
hissen I
"You aint hal - itted," says he, "them are plague
no'vPs you've been a digging' at's used up what little sefise
ye ~had afore, - yer a standing' in yer own light, and I'll
let ~e know I aint a guayne to have ye cut up any more of
yer, capers."
So sayin' he went off and I beguwteariu' my hair and Ia'.

43

WIDOW SPRIXWINS.


* 44;              WIDOW SPRIG GINS.
ruentin' my sorrers the wost way. Putty soon Mirtilly and
Ketury heern me, and they come up.
"Massy sakes U' says Mirtilly, "what's to pay?"
"Gracious!" says Ketury, "what under the sun ails
ye?"
its' ails me?" says I. "Ax the ragin' oshun when
billers rQlls high what ails it? Ax the
stormy sky when kivered with thundering' clouds what ails
it? but ax not me what ails me, -' my woes is incompre-.
hensible and iihcombounded. I am surrounded on all sides
with miseries, and attacked on every hand by distractions.
A cruel and torranical father threatens me with his ever-
lastin' vengeance if I' don't marry an unadmyrable Dutch
josey! Oh happy Mirtilly! Oh unsofisticated Ketury!
ye hant no notion of the sorrers of the most onfortinate of
creturs!" ' '
"how much she talks like a book," says Ketury.
"How much' she talks like a fool," says Mirtilly, and
off she went to bed. But Ketury was more feeling , and
she staid a spell and tried to ~mfort me.
"But," says' I, "leave me, Oh leave me alone in my
,desperation, and go and seek ' tired nature's sweet restorer."'
So Ketury went out and putty soon she cum back and
brung a gret hunk of candy to me.
"Offer me no candy," jackleated I.
Says she," Why you tell'd me to git ye something sw~et
to the store, and when' I tell'd Van Snorter how't it was
foi~ you he wouldn't take no pay."
"Gokrnck," says I, "misunde~etandin' child, and throw
it at his head." So she went, and when she chin into the
store she buy it as hard as ever she could right ihto Vau
Snorter's face, and made his nose bleed. Onfortinately,
A

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.         45

father he was in there, tho' she didn't see him, and when
she huv the candy he jumped up aiid grabbed her afore she
had time to get away, cryin' out "What do ye mean, ye
little wretch?" Says she, "Permilly tell'd me to do it."
So father he cum right strait home and into the chamber
with a cowhide in his fist, and, says he, "'You'll sUp~ sorrer,
I tell ye, for that are caper of yourn.". So sayin' he cum
at me, but I jumped over the bed, and afore he could hit
me, I got outside the' door, and strapt it so 's he couldn't
git out, ~- then I ketcht my bunnit and shawl, stuffed the
Children of the Abby in my pocket, went to father's chist
and hookt his leather money p'tiss, and was out of the house
in. a minnit. I see Ketury a cryin' by the gate, and says
I, "Go in and tell mother that I've absquandered to the
world's eend, and tell her not to have father let out in 3
hours, if she valleys my everlastin' peace of mind." So say-
in' I IIuv my arms round Ketury and giv a partin' kiss and
then~" like a fair lily surcharge with tears," * I run
across the meads and fields till I cum to a tavern about
five miles from Podunk. I gxed 'em if I mut lodge there,
and they said I bought, and says I to the lonlady, "Good
dame, give me a department alone by myself, for I desire
to ponderate, unseen by vulger eyes, on the heft of misfor-
tins that oppresses me."
"What is't ye want ?7' says the ignorant cretur.
Says I, "Giv me a room alone, and fetch me a candle,
and sum ink, and sum paper, and a pen.
So she did, and I couldn't but admire to think 'how much
my situation was like Amandy's when she was so druv,
and arter collection' my ideas, I writ the follerin passes. I
reckon their considerable touching .
~Childern of the Abby.

I

"A


irrn~ w sriaaazNs'.                                           WIDO ir SPRIGGINS.              47

Dear me I no cretur ever had
So many dretful struggles -
I~o geari was ever half so sad,
As poor ?erxnilly Bugglesq
The cruel Mr. Buggies druv
Away his charming' dorter,
Jest because she couldn't love
The pesky York Van Snorter.
I won't commit self-suicide,
Because it's so unbuman;
But oh! I wish I had a died
Afore I was a woman.
Arter I'd writ this poim, thinks me, '-well, what's to be
did now? Arter considering' a spell, I concluded to take
the stage in the morning' and perched to the town of Hig.-
gins Patent,, where my father had a sister livin', married
to a Mr. Jorroeks, a forehanded farmer. He was dretful
poor when Ilie Lust took arter aunt Huldy; and her parents
wouldn't consent to her havin' on him, so they got married
uiibeknown to nobody but the justice and sot right off. for
higgins Patent. For a spell grander Ruggles wouldn't
speak to her, but when uncle Jonah begun to be well to do
they made all up, a~nd went 'a visiting' to see each other.
So in the morning' I paid the damage, got into the stage
and travilled tew days and tew nights till II arrive to, hg-
gins Patent. When we drove up to aunt Jorrocks's door,
the driver he hulled and out run uncle Jonah rubbing' his
eyes, for 'twant but 4 o'clock in the morning . Aunt she
stuck her head out of the winder to see who'd come, and
when 8he recognated me she was 'mazin' glad, for IL never'd
ben there afore, and I was a gret favorite of hern~ 'But
they was dretful astoundered when they, see I hadn't no
'baggidge, and when we went in the house I tell'd 'em the
hull.description of my leaving' huni from beginning' to eend.

Aunt Huldy. said I'd did right, and uncle Jonah said he
hoped 'twas all for the best. "And now, my deat rel-
atyves," says I, "I want to keep .in retired state of con-.
dition, and don't want no livin' cretur but you! tew to
know I'm here till I can send hum and git my clus," (for
I hadn't nothiA' but the gownd I had on with me, and that
was a yeller calicer every day one.)
But I guess I've writ enuf for a chapter. In my next
I'll conform ye what happened to me whilst I was a resider
at Higgins Patent.
S                    -
CHAPTER II..

"And while that charming' voice I hear,
And whilst them lovely eyes I see--
Angelo maid~,forever dear
To my fond bussom shalt thou be."

UrNBEKNOWN.

RTER breekfnst (I didn't eat much only a few
* slapjacks - Amandy couldn't eat much when she.
was in distress, no more couldn't I), arter breek-
"fust I sot down and writ the follerin' pistle to my
father:
Gruil but reverated father - Your onfortinate d&amp;rter
now t~kes her pen in hand to conform you that she is to
'Uncle Jorroeks's, obleejed by your uncomparelled cruihy
to elope from th~ hum of her youthood and seek a sylurn in
a distant section of Iegion. The only thing' that supports
me in my trials is the consoling' circumfiexion that I have

I


48              WIDOW ,~rRIaGINS.
did right in refusing' to unite my fate to a cretur I didn't
beloye and adore. As I intend to make Higgins Patent
my native place for a spell, ye needn't suspect to see me
to Podunk very soon. And I desire you to send me some
money; and if you ain't as tight as the bark to a tree,
you'll send me more'n there was in your old puss when I
took it. It didn't much more'n pay the traveling' damage,
and I want sum more for I desire to add some additions to
my library. Tell my darling' mother to put. up all my
wardrobes (clus), in Nadab's gret chist, and send it to
me immejuntly; and arter you've did all I tell ye, ye
needn't giv herself any murder oneasiness consairnin' yer
afflicted and mawbtreated but still affectionate and forgivin'
dorter,                             PI~RMILLY.~"
About a week arter this, (I hadn't got no letter from
hum yit, mind ye) I was a settin'in my room where no-
body couldn't see me, and nobody only uncle and aunt
didn't know I was there. Well, I was a setting' by the
winder reading' in "Thaddeus of Warsaw," quite aninter~.
estin' nov11 of Aunt iluldy's, when I heern a knock to the
front door, so I 'run into the square room and peeked thro'
the curtain to see who 'twas, (f0r uncle and aunt had rid
over to the town of Uti~a to sell butter and eggs arid git
sum things), so I peeked thro' the curtain and who sho'd I
see standing' there but the ginteelest, tallest, elcgantest
young man ever I see. So I cut into my compartment and
stuck my head all full of morning' glories that growled by                   $
my winder, and then huv my white leno vail kerlessly over
my shoulders, and you never see an interestiner looking
beein than I was that minnit'; then I went and opened the
door. Tl~e minnit the young man see me he throw up
K

U
1'
'it


"I
I
K I
I

Miss Spri
ond ggins, having read a sensation novel, grows hysterical,
tears her hair after the n~anner of ilrst.class heroines.......
$ee ~age 44.

1.

WIDOW SPRIaGINS.

49

his arms with admiration, and saye he, "Ondoubtedly the
inchantin' 9retur I see is Miss Permilly Buggies." "Jest
so, that's my name," reiterated I. "Won't ye come in?"
So in he walked, and IBot a cheer for him and:he teild me
that he'd ben' a traveling' 'for his heith and stopt a spell ill
Podunk, a~id bein acquainted with the postmaster there,
(Mr. Smith) he'd heern the hili 'of :my history from him,
and he said that the account' Mr.' $mith had.givhimofmy~
character and tippearance, mi~fo4ii~s and pairsecutious; had
made him very muck ~oneairned and interested about me.
This surprised me amazinlyj for I knowd Mr. Smith want
no frind~ of mine when I was' in Podunk .-~ n~e' to laff about
we, and once Li heerd he said I was a born fo6l. Well,
the young juan went on to say how't kin' in the post.
office' 'the day 'he left 'Podunk, my 'father cum in ~with a
letter he ~wae a guayne to put in the mail to me, and' ~o he
telld father how't he was a g~xayne right thro' Higgins
Patent to git hum, and~ he'd carry ihe letter free-gratis.
"$o," says the young man, "I took the letter iind here
it i~; ~d I don't know whether to likas. or curse the minnit
I agreed te 'be the bearer on't, a~it h~s introduced' me into
the presence of an angelic cretur that rnabby'll disdain me,
and so be m~ ruination?" V blushed "ee1e~trial rosy red,"
and took the hitter. "Oh," continued the charming'
stranger, layin" his hand on his heart, "pei~haps you'll be
surprised when I tell you that the Lust sight"of~ou has en-
tranced and enraptured my spent. You will be amazed to
hear me confess that I, who, an hour ago, had~ never be-
held you, am now your. devoted admirer and humble
suitor." So sayin*~, befell down on his knees before me
and grabbed. hold of my hand.
"You're 'mistaken, young man, says I, "in thinking'
5

A


50             WI~OW SPRWCINS.

I'd be astonished to see ye so besmitten at fust sight. I've
read of sich. things time and agin, but as you're a stranger
to me it would be onprudent in me to permit ye to pay
your devours to me. Howsomever, I won't dis~ncourage
ye entirely, for your mouner of declaring ' the state of yer
feeling's has possessed me considerable in yer favor, and I'm
purty sartin from your appearance you ain't no country
bushwhacker; so I beseech on ye to rise.~~
"Fairest of created creturs," says he, "I cannot rise
till you promise to reserve a leetle corner in your heart for
the despairing' Philander."
Thinks me, what a beautiful name he's got. "Git up,
Philand~r," exciamigated I, "the promise is yourn." So
he rjz, and then says he, "Seraphic gearll grant me one
of the flowers that decorate your head, to gaze on when
alone." So ill gin him a morning' glory, and arter kissing'
my lilly band he went away syin'. As he was stepping'
out, says~ I, "Philander, be you sure your affection won't
never prove uneonstant?"
Says he, "jest as sure as the vast firmament of sun,
moon, and stars moves round this terrestrious globe I
never will be false." So I shot the door and went up
chamber to look out of the winder at him as long as I
could see him, and when he got over the hill t'other side
of the house he hov away the posy I giv hint and he begun
to laff as if he'd go off. At fust I w~is surprised to see
him laflin' so consairnedly when 'he seemed to feel so bad
at leaving' on me. So I watched him till he got out of
sight, and he kept a laffin', and every little while he'd kick
up his foot as if he was tickled, and finally I concluded he'd
got a highsteric fit brung 'on by his overpowering' feelings.
Arter he'd made his disappearance I sot down to read

father's letter.
copy ~on't.

WTDO If ~PRIGGIN~.              51
I've got the letter yet, and this ere'~ the

"GOOD FOR ~oTmN' PORTER MILLY You're mistaken
if you think I'll giv myself any oneasiness about ye. I'm
darn glad you've cleared out. Tobe sure I'd a ben ~
to keep ye to hum and sho'd a did well by ye if ye'd a had
common sense, and acted as ye'd or' to; but you know
you've giv me more trouble for the last seven year than
you're w~th - you haint airnt the salt to your porridge -
and more'n all that you'd begun to spile Ketury, and put
yer silly notions into her head. I tell ye agin, I'm glad to
be rid on ye, and hope ye'LI stay to Higgins Patent till ye*
can make up yer mind to act decent. Neighbor C6gsdill's
Obadiah'5 guayne west next week, and he'll carry yeyer
chist of duds. I'll send ye a leetle money, though you
don't deserve a cent seem' ye hookt my puss, and it'll be
the last ye'll git from me, for I'm peskily druv, and I've got
children enuff to hum to support, without takin' care of
them that runs away. Nor I aint a guayne to let ye be a
burden on yer uncle nyther ye've got to get yer own
livin', and if I hear of yer idlin' away yer time I'll go and
fetch ye hum and put ye in the factory to work; Yer
mammy's sick - your goin' off has brung her c1?~an down,
for ugly as ye be ye'r her darling, but sen she heerd yer to
Higgins Patent she feels better - she telld me to tell sister
Jorrocks to take good care on ye, and I hope she will take
care on ye 'and train ye up and make ye stand round.
Yer daddy,
NADAB RUGGLEs."
As soon as Ide red this onfeelin' communication I begun
bemoaning' my sorrers consairnedly. "0! wretched me!"
jackleated I, "reduced to the horrid altei~natyve of working'
for a livin' here or guayne into a factory to IPodunk?. I'm

p


52             WIDOw SPRIGGINAS'.

pairsecuted and miserable, and i~othin' pervents my spirits
from sinking' into entire dispair in this tryin' hour except the
cheerin' idee of my greacef'ul Philander." I must a looked
very interesting' setting' there leaning' on my elbow, syin' and
groanin', my eyes swimming' in tears, and father's cruil
pistle lyin' afore me. So I took the Child&amp;n of the Abby
to comfert myself by reading' a spell, and turned to the 5th
chapter cause there's a description in 't of Lord Mortimer
that's eny most ezackly like Philander, I remember it now
word for word, and though my Amandy Malviny Spriggins
has got the book now there aint no need of my looking' in't,
for to describe Lord Mortimer, it says,
"He Was now in the glowing' prime of life his person
was strikinly eloquent, and his mouners insinniatinly
pleasing' seducij~i' sweetness dwelt in his smile, and his
expressyve eyes could sparkle with cotitelligence, or beam
with sensibility, and the harmony of his ~Voice giv a charm
to the equation of his language which seldom or never
failed of hem' um~esistible."
Now that's jest the way Philander lookt. lie was very
tall, and the slimmest creetur fever did see; his eyes was
as black as two coals, and good grievous! how expressive;
his hair was. black tew black and shiny as a crow's tail ;.-
and he had gret-big whiskers; on the hull he was the f'ac-
sinatinest beein I ever beheld. Be sure I'd a ben ladder
'if he'd a happened to seen me and fell in love with me
without known' who I was; wouldd a ben snore moran-
tick Ye kpow Lord Mortimer couldn't find out for ever
so long who Amandy was, ~rnd' he was eny most puzzled
to pieces. But then if he did know all about me I didn't
know nothing about him, who he was, nor where he cum
from: ~o I had jest as mucl~ un~airtinty and disquietude

consairnin him as Lord Mortimer had consairnin' Amandy,
and I tell ye 'twas quite interest4' to be so sittyated.
Jest then Aunt iluldy and Uncle Jonah cum hum, and
I run down stairs and showd 'em father's letter. Arter
they'd red it, says aunt says she,
"The consairned old hog! he's mistaken if he thinks
I'm a guayne to let ye work for a livin' - so he may just
hang up his fiddle - and ye needn't be nun ~onsairned
about it; ye shan't work nor touch tew.". -
"Oh my darling' relative," says I, flingin' my arms
round her and kissing' on her, "yer extrornary kindness 'in
this gret and sad emairgency will never be blotterated from
my rememberation.* But I shan't be unindustrious, for
the idee of bein' manured in a factory as father threatens, is
shocking' to me, so I'll retire to my compartment and
ponderate for a spell,~and then cuin and tell ye the result
of my circumfiexions."
So IL went into my chamber and was a wondering' what
Amandy would a did in sich a dilamby - when all of a
scudding I happened to think how't when she had' so much
trouble with Lord Mortimer's father she went off to Scot-
land and kept school, and thinks me, I'll keep school tew.
So I went into the pitching and sot down betooxt uncle
and aunt, and I say-s to 'em, says I," Dear friends - re-
duced as I be to the dretful alternative of doing suthing
for a livin' or beein' shot, up in a horrid dunjin, I've 'con-
cluded what occerpation I'd folly."
"What is't?" says they.
I continued~ "What can be more interesting' and digni-
fyin' to a lovely young creetur in my distressing' eirciim-
8taIiOes than to impart construction ~to. the risin'_gi~tion'
* Children of the Abby.
5*

WIDO If SPRIG GINS.           53


and devil-up the youthful understanding ? so I'm detair-
mined to do it."
sa~ Well, I'll be darned if I know now what ye mean,"
UncleJonah.
"You gret coot you," says Aunt iltildy says she
"don't ye know nothing ? she means she'll teach a siminary;
and now that's jest what Higgins Patent needs to make it
a rael gihteel place."
"Yes," says uncle, "and Permilly's the very one to
do it, for any body that knows so many big words as she
does, ort-to keep a siminary and I'll see about it right
off."
Arter tea I retired to my chamber. 'Twas a despot
charming' moonshiny evening' and I sot down by the winder,
and the beauty of the prospect, and the stars, and the
moonshine, and the gentle breezes that fanned my cheek,
and the quiosity of natur, and the idee of my own individ..
dyal sorters begun to operate so on my inimaggination that
I was overpowered with mawlancholy, and so I sung
"blu&amp;eyed Mary," (1 was a very purty singer I be
yit,) and jest as I'd got done that affectin' line where it
says,
"I now am sorrer's child."
I heei~n somebody heave a sythe; so I looked out of the
winder, and Jo and behold 'twas Philander standing' about
three feet from the winder.
"Enchantin' beein!" says he, "yer music has eny most
annilliated me! enrapurin' tones! ravishin' strains!"
" Oh Jemmeni !" says I, "I'm sure I shall faint away.
I'm so flustered seem' you here; if you'd only gone off
without syin' or sayin' nothing' wouldd a ben jest like Lord

/

Mortimer's seem' Amandy the fust time, and hearing' of her
sing unbeknown to her."
"Oh 1" says he, "if his surprise and delight had a ben
as gret as mine he c~ouldent a went off without some kind
of exciamigatiOn, 0 Miss Ruggles, I'm a lingering' round
here to bask in the sunshine of your presence, and here's
the dear flower you giv me - I've gazed on it ever sen."
"Massy!" says I, "I see ye heave it away when ye
got along a-piece, and I should like to know what made
ye kick up and laff so. I reckoned ye'd got the high-
steriCs."
"Not so," says he, "'twas a conniption-fit - I'm sub-
ject to 'em arter beein' overcome as I was when I fust see
you - when I recovered I returned and pickt up this
flower."
Says I, "It looks as fresh as if yot~d jest pickt it off this
ere vine.
"I've kept it fresh," says he, "with my tears while it
was sticking' in 'the buttonhole nighest my. heart."
"I entreat you to depart and leave me," says I;
Atnandy used to very often send Lord Mortimer off9
"Sweetest of maidens!" says Philander says he, "I
obey your high bequest." So sayin' he vanished and'dis-
appeared, and I took my pencil and paper and. writ the
follerin' "stauzys by moonlight."
Iu,%ay distractin' sittyation,
Oblee~ed from hum to wander,
I han't but jest one consolation,
And that's my dear Philander.
I never saw so sweet a swain,
So faithful and so tender
So full of sythes, and groans, and pain,
As my own dear Philander.

54             wwow SPRIG GINS.                                           WIDOIf SPRIG GINS.          55


56               WJJJO W SPRIqqI~r~J*                                                                               57

WIDO If ~rRIG GINS.

Ain't that

And I'r3l dctairnrined while I live,
Though father tries to hender -
My heart and hand to nun i'll give
But Jest my dear Philander.
If mother cried and father swore,
And other folks should slander;
If even the Dragon st~odin the door
I'd stick to my Philander.
touchin'? Arter I'd writ it I went to bed.

CJ1APTEI~ Ill.

((jo I walk-ed out one evening fair,
For to view the acIds and take the air,
I iieerd a damsel syhi' say,
'The youth I love is a guayne away.~~~
MICHIGAN MINSTREL.
EXT mornih' whilst we was eatin' breckfast, Uncle
Jonah he says to me, says he, "Permilly."
Saysl"hay?"
Says he, "1 went all round last night a gittin'
scholars for you and everybody was astonished when iF
tell'd 'em about ye, for nobody didn't know you was here,
and Missis Peabody, and Missis Dickens, and Missis Jones,
and Missis Doty, and Missis Hio'oins, (if she gits done
making soap in time) and their hi4bands, is a coming here
thisarternoon to see ye."
Oh dear! ~' says 1, "IF wish ye hadn't a went so soon
for my chist han't cam, and I han't nothing' to put on."

4

"Well," says he, "it can't be heipt now - them are
wimmin don't want to send their dorters to school to a
person they han't seen, so you must jest fix up th&amp;best
way you can, and do yer purtiest."
"Well," says I, "but where's my seminary to be
loquated?"                                     y
"In deacon Peabody's chamber," says he, "he's got a
master gret room, and we'll jest put some benches into 't,
and ittle be jest the thing; and you must write an adver-
tysement, and I'll stick it up in Doty's bar-room." So
arter breckfust I went into my room and writ the follerin'
advertysement: (
"Miss Ruggle~, recently from Podunk, hem' obligated
by unrecountable misfortins to lobsquander from the hum
of her childhood, and desirin' to devairt her niawlancolly
mind sumhow - woul4 conform the inhabiters of Higgins
Patent, and its civility, that she has resolved to instruct a
seminary of young wimmin, or shemales, from six~ years
old along up. Miss R. would insure the public of her
complete comptitude to undertake this undertaken', and
han't no doubt she'll giv general satisfaction. Besides
under8tandin' all the branches that's taught in any siminary
she will larin 'em to paint on velvet, and to b~ perlite~ and
she don't want nobody to think she's a going to .dQ it. for
money, for she despises remoneyration, and only jest wants
to teach to percent herself from sinkin' in despair. She
caliates to begin on Monday the 15th of June,"
' I hadn't more'n got it writ afore I heerd a racket, and I
Iookt out of the winder, and lo and behold, 'twas Obadiah
Coggedil - thunderizg along' with a waggin load of tin
pans and lanterns, &amp;e., and as much as f6rty fQlks arter
him - for tin pedlars didn't own to Higgins Patent often

56

57


WIDOW SPRIcciys~.
and when they did cum the folks made a general time on't.
*fle stopt afore uncle Jorrockses, and all the people gath-
ered round to egzamin' his stuff, and he was so bizzy
raisin' of' 'em up that I begun to be afeard he'd forgot my
~chist. Byrne by says on~ on 'em,
"What ye got in this gret box?"
Says Obadiah says he, "That are's a chist of clus old
Ruggleses folks sent out to their Milly; she run off with..
out takin' anything with her, and I wouldn't a brung the
plaguy thing if I hadn't a ben a frind of the old man. I
tell'd 'em if I was them I wouldn't send the slut nothing ,
for she don't deserve to be treated no how."
You never see a madder creetur than I was that minnit.
fqr there was some of the fust folks in the village
standing' there, and says one on 'em to another one,
"Why, Squire Jon~s, this must be the same young
woman that's a guayne to teach the seminary."
* "Sure enuff, deacon;" says he, "and I say we'd better
make the feller tell all about her, for he seems to know
what do you think about it, Dr. Davis?"
"Why," says he, "I think we'd or't to find out the
hull, for I'm sure I don't want to send my porter to school
to a person that ain't respectable, if, she's ever so accom-
plished."
"No more don't I," says Squire Jones .--" nor I
nyther," says all the rest.
j tell ye I couldn't hold in no longer; so I stuck my
bead out of the winder, and says I, "Misters I" They
all lookt up, and when they see we th~y was bethunder-
struck; ~nd I must. a lookt very st~ikin' had a gret big
lalo~k stuck in my head, and my jen that I'd hen a writing'
with in my hand, and I stretched out the hand that had the

'I

59

WIDOW SPRIG~G INS.

pen in, and laid t'other on my heart, and was jest a guayne
to begin when, Obadiah he see me and says he,
"Golly! Miss Ruggles, is that you? well, I've fetched
y er old chist" -
What else he signed~ to~say I don't know, for Dr. Davis
took holt on him and shook him and says he,
"Stop yer yaw-hawin; don't ye see the lady's guayne
to speak."
So he etopt and I begun agin, and addressed 'em as
folders: "Gentlemen - as ye don't know nothing' con-
sairnin' me only what you've heern from this ere ignorant
creetur, I spose you must entertain strange idees about
me; but if you knowd what I've underwent to hum - if
you knowd my afflictions, and maltreatment, you wouldn't
blame me nun for lobsquanderin', nor ye wouldn't listing a
ininnit to the agrogious disrepresentations this killing pro-
mulgates, and if you'll call on me this afternoon ru tell
ye the hull of my history from eend to eend."
So they convairsed together a spell and then Dr. Davis
he stept out from the middle on 'em, and says he,
"We'll do ourselves the honor of calling on~ Miss Rug-.
gles this afternoon."
So sayin' he hysted his hat and made a low bow, and I
made a curchy, and the men they went hum, but I oh-
sairved Dr. Davis look back at me in admiration, and I
knowd he was besruitten at fust sight; but thinks me, it
won't do to ineurridge him, for my affections is unrecover-
ably' gin to another; (Dr.. Davis w~s a widdyer, a very
nice, smart man-very much set b9 - and an oncommou
good physicianer too.) Well, Uncle Jonah he went out
and brung in my chist, and then I read my advertisement
to him and his wife, and they said 'twas fast rate, and, uncle

2


60             W'IDO W SPRI~GIN&amp;

W'IDO JY SrRIGCINS.         61

he telid me to write four or five on 'em to stick up in the
towns round there. S~ I did and when I'd got 'em writ
I reckoned twas time to habiiate myself for the company
that was a comm' to see me, ~o I ~nlocked my dust, and
took out a white dimity with a long short with a blue rib.-
bin' round the bottom on't, and put it on, and 'tied a red
nash round my waist; then I took and tied a yeller
ribbin round my head and stuck, a numbe~' of' morning'
*   glories in it; then I' huv a pink silk long shawl round' my
neck, and my twilight was completed. So you see I didn't
depart from the elegant simplicity always conspicuous in
my dress. Arter dinner I went and sot down in the
square room and purty soon .1 heerd a master loud talking'
so I looked out, 'and~ 'twas Dickens, and Jones, and
'Peabody, and Doty, and their wives, and Dr. Davis, a
.comin' up the hill; so I fixed myself in a reclinin' poster,
and took the Chuldern of the Abby and begun reading .
IPurty soon they knockt, and Aunt Huldy she' hollered,
"Walk in " -~so in they all cmxi, and aunt she introduced
us, and the gentlemen made bows, and the ladies and me,
we made curchys to one another, and we all said' we
hoped for better acquaintance. Artier talking' about the
weather a spell, says Missis Peabody says she,
"So you're a guayne to set up seminary, hay?"
~' I sign to," says I, "if I can git patternage"
'Says Missis Dickens says she, "we've all agreed td send
oi~r dorters to ye, but we've heern rather an unfavorable
account~on ye from ~tin pedlar from your place."
S aye Deacon Peabody says he,   'my wife and I we thot"
says Missis Peabody, interruptin' of ltim "I teild
Mr. IPeabody that ~eein' you was a guayn~ to teach in our
eliop~ber if you was 'raly sich 'an obstropelous young

woman as the pedlar tell'd for - 'twQuld bring reproach on
our house, and Mr. Peabody's ben deacon risin' 20 year,
and has always been lookt up to by the hull town, so says
I, Deacon, I 'guess we'll go and lam the truth on't."
Says Deacon Peabody says he,"' I says to Missis Pea-
body, says I, it looks kinder suspicious."
"No, you didn't," says she, "'twas we said it to you
says I, Deacon, sa~ I, it seems to me it looks kinder sus-
picious for a youi~g woman to come here atid keep herself so
scarce for more'n a week. I reckon we'd or~t to' know more
about. her afore we giv her our chamber to teach in." So
they kept on continuing talking' for ever so long, and at last
says Dr. Davis says he,             'Miss          a
"We cum for the purpose of hearing'     IRugg~1eses
explanigation, and if the ladies can cum to a ceesation for'
a spell, we'll listen to her."
Soiwith my eyes cast down - my face diffused with*
blushes - with a mournful sythe, begun:
"My FRIENDS : - My history is uncomboundably mis-
fortinate. I concurred the~ displeasure of a cruel and tor-
ranical father, by bein' unwilling' to unite my destination
with a creetur I couldn't belove, for I couldn't experience
for him the uncontrollable affection that is desirable to ren-
der the mattermonial state agreeable, and I'd cum to a
determination not to have nobody that want as pleasing'
and elegant as Lord Mortirner, the young man~ this ere
charming' book tells about, (here I took and kist the Chil-
dern of the Abby,) and he want no more like him than a
punkin's like a potater, and you will sairtinly compatigate
my sorrers when I conform you that my unfeelin' parent
even threatened to confound me in a gloomy dungin if I
C

I


62.           WIDOW SPRIGGINS.

WIDO If SPRIG GINS.          63

* didn't obey his unreasonable command; and who, I ax,
wouldn't, when circumstances arrive to sich a pitch who
wouldn't, if she'd the least jot of sensibility who
wouldn't elop from the paternal ruff, and seek a sylurn in
a distant land? Alas ! "' says I, raisin' my eyes swimming'
in teaks, and layin' my hand on my busting' heart -
lobsquandered to this place, hopin' to spend my time in
unbeknown sequestration - intending' to wander in these
inspiring' woods, givin' ritteration to my woes in poetry
for I write poetry. But even here I couldn't be let alone,
for i've ji~t~received from my father a pistle charged with a
mandrake to make me go to work immejuntly, or else he'll
remainder me back to that dretful dunjin 1've'jest escaped;
J 'md as I don't desire to employ my fair hands in wroughtin'
at sairvyle labor, I thought, seem' I was entirely qualifi-.
cient, I'd teach a simininary."
All the while I was makin' this speech ye never see a
surprisder looking' set of folks than them I 'was addressing'
and for a spell arter I'd done there wan't a word spoke
- and Dr. Davis he seemed to be wonderfully affected,
for he turned his face round and lookt out the winder all
the time. At last says Deacon Peabody says he,
" Well, I never beeltd sich a ~master sight of crooked
wards in my day. I rather guess my porter han't no
season to lairn sich stuff." I s'pose Missis Peabody was a
waiting' to see what opinion the deacon would express so 's
to have hem conterary to it, for she broke right in and
says she,
* ' "I rather guess, mister Deacon Peabody,' ittle be as I
say. My Mirandy shall go to this ere young woman's
school, for, I never heerd nobody use eleganter language
in my life, so you may shet yer head,"

I tell ye the deacon did shet up his head and lookt as
if he wished he hadn't opened it. As soon as Missis 'Pea-
body ixprest her mind the rest of the wimmin up and
agreed with her, and it was '~urty evident that she was the
rulin' woman in Higgins Patent. They all on ~em said
they'd patternise me, and the men they lookt purty grumpy,
but they darsent say a word.'
Arter a spell, says Deacon P. says he, "I guess we'd
better be goin'."
"Well, I guess I ain't a guayne 'to be in no hurry,"
says his wife, "you may go as soon as you please, tho'."
"So may you," says Missis Dickens to her hu~band.
"So may you'," says Missis I)oty to hem.
"So may y~u," says Missis Jones to the squire, and so
the men folks ~went off, and the wimmin stayed. "Now
do take off yer things and stay to tea," says Aunt Huldy.
"Well, I didn't cum to siay," says Missis Peabody.
"Nor I nyther," says Missis Dick~ns.
"Me nyther," says Miseis Jones.
"No more didn't I," says Missis Doty.
"But I don't know but I'll stay," says Missis Peabody.
"Well, I guess I will," says all the others.
So they took off their things, and purty soon every one
on 'em hailed out their nittin' work, and I tell ye, they
want nun on 'em slow to talk but I can't spend time ~to
tell about their visit. In the evening' arter they'd all, gone,
I went out to take a walk, and as I w'ent by the house
everybody cum to the doors and wonders to look at me,
arid when I past by Dr. Davises office I see him a peekin'
out, and I pitied him amazingly, for I see he was despotly
took with' me - and thinks me, I'd ort to let him know
right off that his ease is hopeless9 So I went 'into the

U


434                 JrIL~O Jr SPRIeWINS.

woods and took my pencil and paper and. writ the follerin'
billet:
" RESPECTABLE DOCTOR: It is with compunctious distress
that I conform you I never can be yourn - my affections is
gin. incondttbitably gin to another I'm plighted to Philan-
der - try to forget me I boseech on ye -~ may that peace
and happiness ~OU so truly desairve to possess be yourn -
and may they never agin meet with sich conterruptions. as
they have received from the unable hit pittyin'*
"PERMILLY ~
When I'd writ it I went and huv it into his office winder,
and then I went back into the woods to ponderate. So I
sot down on a log under a tree, and whilst I was a think-
in' I heerd sumbody sythe, and I lookt round and, lo and
behpld, 'twas Philander leanin' agin a tree with his honker-.
cher up to his eyes. So I goes up to him and says I,
takin' hold of his hand, "Philander, why ~so mawlan-
colly?"
"Alas!" says he, "lovijest of created being's, I must
leave you."
" Leave me!" says I, " I shall sairtin faint away; do
ketch me!" So he led me to a log, and I sot down, and
says he, "Compose herself, my angell"
Arter a spell says I; "i've composed, myself, now per-
ceed."
And says he, "I'm obleejed to depart."
~And says I, "Don't for massy's sake tell me where yer
a guayne, fci~ 'twont be half so interesting' as 'twill to be
in onsairtinty consairn~n ye."
* Obildern of the Abby, chap. 17.

64

He's gone, ~ sure I don't know where,
Nor when he'll come agin;
And there's no telila' what dlspah'
My drooping' heart Is in I
6*

'WIDO Jr SPIIUGINS.            65
"Well then," says he, "let me jest tell ye we must
part for a number of months, - perhaps a year, - and oh!
my charmer! can you remember ihe?"
"Gracious!" jackleated I~ "don't ye know yer Per-
milly's heart is oncapable of bein' faithless?"
"I can't doubt it," says he, ~' but it's enuff to split my
heart, - it's like cutting' me into inch pieces to bid ye fare-*
well! but it must be so." So he prest me to his bussom
and went groaning' off; but afore he'd got fur I happened
to think and says I, "* Stop a minnit, Philander, don't ye
know when Lord Mortimer went away he gin Amandy his
picter, and I want yourn."
"Alas!" says he, "I han't nun; but I can make one
in a minnit." So he took a piece of paper out of his
pocket, and took my pencil and drawd a head on't and gin
it to me.
"Why," says I, "that don't look nun like you.".
"Yes, it does," says he, "it's exact, - you'll see by
daylight." So I took it, and then arter takin' another
farewell he departed, and I sunk down oii the log over-
powered. But then I was comforted in thinking' how much
our partin' was like Lord Mortimer's and Amandy's ~ so
sudding - and how much they underwent when they was
apart, and how it did seem as if they never would meet
agin; and thinks me, mabby ittle be jest so with us, -no
known' - but any how it's to be expected., I'll take on
while he's gone, - so arter shedding' a copious flood of
tears, I writ the follerin stanzysK


66              WIDOW SPRIG GINS'.

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.         67

And! dear me sue! when we're apart
If he forgite Permilly,
'Twill sairtin break her lovin' heart,
And make her brain grow chilly.
Murder! can he be false to me I
i'd kill me if he should
lInt no! I guess he'll ct)netaut be,
Because h~ vowed he would.
lInt goodygracious! what shall I
Do when he's gone away?
On this ere log I'll sit and cry,
And sythe and groan 1 say.
When I'd got this poitry writ the moon was a shining ,
and I reckoned it must be purty late, so I went hum, and
when I went by Dr. Davises office I heerd him a talking'
and itiffin consairnedily with sumbody that sounded jest
like Philander, but I'd no idee 'twas Philander for he
felt too distresst to laff, and I reckoned the doctor hadn't
found my billet, yet, for if he had he couldn't a felt so
cherful.
Arter this there want nothing' worth relating' took place
in several days till I begun my school, only I writ the
follerin' epigranny one night whilst I was a gazin' on the
minnyture of my absent Philander:

Re feared that I'd forget him quite,
As soon as he got out of sight-
Re wouldn't think me so vile
Jf~ie should see inc ev'ry night
Ily moonshine or by candle light,
A looking' at his profyle.

CHAPTER IV.
"'Tie eddycation forms the eom~on mind,
Jest as the twig is bentthe tre~s inclined.'~
ENGLISH READER.
S soon as Aurory had opened the porticos of the
horizoA, the fair Permilly ariz and ~arranged her
attire - for 'twas the momentuous morning' that
her seminary was guayne to begin. I put on a
yaller streeked open gownd with a flounce round it, and a
long green sash round my waist, and a blue crape turbine
on my head, with one long black ostrtdge feather stuck in
it, then I put niy pink silk long shawl round my neck,
and then condescended down into the breckfust room.
Arter breckfust Uncle Jonah he gin me his watch, sayin'
I'd need a time-piece in school. 'Twas an exttornary gret
silver watch -don't' see no sich big watches no~r~days.
So I tied it to a red ribbing and hung it round my neck,
and 'twas so big I couldn't stuff it under my sash, sol let
it hang outside. Bein' all ready for a start I happened to
think how't I or'to carry Philander's picter with me all
the time, and what to do I didn't know, for I was afeard
wouldd get rubbed out. So I went to Uncle Jonah and
axed him if he hadn't sum kind of a small flat box he
could lend me (didn't tell him what I wanted on't
hadn't said a word to him nor Aunt Huldy about Philan-
der). So he w~nt to his chist and hawled out a tin to-

66

67


~. 68               WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.          69

backer box with a snap to it and axed me if wouldd do.
"That are's the very thing." So I put the~ picter in't,
and jammed it under my sash, and tookiny parrysol and
set out for school, and as II went by the housen 'twas curus
to see the folks peeking' out and. exolaimin', "There goes
the new school-ma~m. Did you' ever!" an4l sich like.
*   Well, I cum to ~the deacon's and Missis Peabody she
cum to the door and showed me the way into the school.
room, aud you never heerd sich a racket as there was
there afQre I went in, but as soon as they see me they
was as still as mice. There was about thirty gearis there,
* and a number cmxi in arter I did, so't I had forty~seven in
the hull, and sum on 'em -was purty big; so I made the
big ones s'~t on one side and the leetle ones on otherr side,
and arter i'd~ got 'em all arranged, says I, "Siminary's
begun:" and then I made 'em read round in the English
Reader. Arter they'd read, I axed 'em if they'd ever sy..
phered, and they all said "No." So I tell'd 'em to take
their slates, and I was surprised to find out that more'n
half on 'em couldn't make figgers so I tell'd 'em to take
the rethmetic and copy 'em out on't.
"KNow," says I, "make one side of yer slates jest as
full of fingers as ittle hold." - So they did; and then says
Mirandy Peabody says she, "What shall we do next?"
'~ Don't ye know nothing? " says I, "make t'other side
full." So they did: and then says Mirandy," What next?"
"Rub 'em out," says I,-" and put up yer sites; ye've
syphered enuff for one day; the big ones may go out
whilst I hear the little ones spell," (for spelling' I always
'tho't was the most importinate part of eddycation:) so I
made the little gearls stand up in a row, and I to9ka spell-
in' book in one hand and a switch in t'other, and says I,

"Now the fust one that misses shall be whipt and go to the
foot."
"Well," says Drusilly Doty, says she, "what w4il'l be
did to me if I miss?" (she was to the foot.)
"Nun of yer s~trce," says I. Well the fust time round
they all spelt right but Philandy Dickens, and I did as I
said I would to her. Next time round I put out "grub,"
'to Hepsy Hawkins; 'she was to the head, a a s she,
"g-r-w-eb, grub."
"There aint no sich letter as 'eb,'" says I, "go down
to the foot." So she started and run as fast as ever she
could so's I couldn't git a chance to whip her.. "Now,
Hepsy Hawkins," says I, "to pay for that are trick of
your'n you shall always be in a ~Aass by herself."
"Good!" says she, "then I shall always be at the
head."
"Go long and set on the floor under the table," says I.
So she went and then I put it out to Bricy Stokes and she
spelt it right. "Now," says II, "what's 'the meaning
on't?" Bricy couldn't tell, nor nun of the rest on 'em.
So says I, "What eats up the cabbages ~"
"Why, folks," says Ritty Rickets.
"Well," says I, - "what eats 'em up when they're
growing' in the guarding "
Says she, "The critters gits in and eat 'em sum-
times."
"Don't ye know nothing? " says I, "why worms eats
'em and worms is grubs."
"Now," says Melissy 'Peabody, "I know what for
father say~ every day how't we're all worms - it's cause
we eat sich a master sight of calibages."
"Set down," says J,~' "every one on ye; ye talk so

'I

'-


0

'TO              WIDOW SPRIGGINS.
~much there an't no sich thing as hearing' on ye spell."
Arter a spell I tell'd 'em they might go out and send the
big ones in. So they run hollering' and yelling' and tearing'
down stairs, and it did seem as if the, hull house would
cum down. Thinks me, P11 f~z 'em for that. Purty soon
flepsy Hawkins - she't was under the table -~ says to
me
"Miss Ruggles, maytent I go out?"
"No, ye inaytent," says I.
"I'm sorry I was sassy," says she, "I won't be never
agin if ye'll lenune go out."
"' Well, go," says I. Whilst she was guayne, says I,
"Ye'll never be sassy agin, kay?" -
" No, straw," says she, and cut out of the door.
Thinks me, she'll gitit! Well, the big gearls cum in and
I axed 'em if they'd ever studied grommer. Most on 'em
said they had sum. "Well," says I, "it's best to 'be
pairfect in't; and seem' you've' studied' sum afore, ye may
lairn half' way through 'at once so's td git done quick and
go to parsin'." So they went to studying' and I went to
the door and called the little ones in, and arter I'd holler'd
to 'em I. went behind the door and as fast as each one cuin
in I hit her a cuff, and when Hepsy Hawkins cum in I
took and slung her round and round, and made her go
back under the table4 Well, they all yelled and bellered
'like1 split; you never heerd sich a racket, I'm sartin.
Purty soon I lookt at my watch and see 't~ras time to let
out, so I tell'd 'eni they might go hum, and they all went
only jest ab6ut a dozen that brung their dinners; I'd brung
mine tew - for 'twas most a ~xnild to Uncle Jorrockses
so I took it out of my undispensible and eat it. 'It sub..
listed of two slices~ of bread and butter stuck together, a
7

WIDE? W SPRIG GINS.

71

hunk of cheese, a pickle, and an apple turnover. That
was all' the dinner I tool~, for I never had no great of an
appetite - bein' like Amandy, ye know she only took sum
"slight refreshments" and whilst I was eatin' thinks
me, I wonder if Amandy ~had sich a ~tussle gittin' along
with her school as I do; I'll look into the Childern of the
Abby when I get hum and see, for I've eny most forgot;
my memory's rather forgetful sumtimes, but 0 I I never
shall forget my Philander. So I topk out my tobaccer box
and lookt at him. Arter~" gazin' on't with agoniziji' ten-
derness '~ for a spell, and syin' and groanin' and kissing'
on't, I put it back, and I see all the gears a whispering'
and wondering ; so says I to 'em:
"0 gears I the belovedest and vallyablest thing I've
got is in this ere box."
"What is it?" says they, "and what makes ye cry and
groan over it so?" '~
"Ax me no questions,'~ says I~" I don't desire to dis-
pose confidence in nobody."
Well, purty soon the scholars all cum in and I begun
school. Then I made the little ones all take their sowin',
only Hepsy Hawkins and. sent her under the table agin,
and she went without makin' a apeck of fuss. I see she
had sumthin' under ~her apern and I axed her what 'twas,
an(1 she said 'twas her spelfin'-book. Well, I sot the little
gears to sowin'; sum on 'em had pieces of caliber to
make bed..kivers on, and sum on 'em had cloth to lairn to
mark letters and make birds and trees 'on. Then I heerd
the big ones recite in grimmer, and they kept a stopping' for
me to ax 'em questions, but says I, "That an't. no way;

Childern of' the Abby, chap. 17.


72             WiDOW SPRIG GINS.                                           WIDO TV SPRIG GIAS.

73

ye must begin to the beginning' of yer lesson, and say clean
to the eend on't without stopping' once." So they tried;
but they made blunderin' work on't I had to keep tellin'
on 'em all the time what cum next, and when they got
into eases it earn Sophire Joneses turn and she'd forgot
what cum next. So says 1, "Nammi, Poesmine,' Oh-
jine." Says Sally Ann Higgins, says she, "Miss Rug-
glee, what's the meaning' of them are words? they're
master queer!"
Says I, "Miss Sally Ann Higgins, I gue~s ye hadn't ben
under' very good deseplyne in the schools ye've ben to afore
yit, or ye wouldn't darst to ax yer school-inarm questions,
and sich questions! want to know what's the meaning' of
Nomini, Posswine' Objine! Why, its grimmer that's
the meaning' on't so shet yer head."
When they'd got don~ sayin' grommer I' tell'd 'em they
~night~ paint the rest of the afternoon. So they took out
their velvet and paints and cam to I'd forgot my picters "~
so I sent Ann Mariar Dodge 'down arter 'em and when she
cum back I tho't I'd give 'em Nomy and Ruth for the fast
lesson. So I stuck it up agin the wall and heipt 'em cut
out the theories, and they begun, and sum on 'em done
very well, but sum made dretful work, 'specially about the
artificial flowers and feathers on Ruth's bunnit, and sum on
'em made Nomy's 'nittin'~work look as if all the stitches
* was dropt. Byrne-by I tell'd 'em to put up their painting'
and sowin' and put on their things, for 'twas time to let out
school, - so they did. Then I tell'd 'em to stand up in a
r6w all' round the edge of the room. "Now," says 'I,
"clasp 'yer bands across yer waists as I do -now make
yer manners as I do." Then I made a low church, and
they all did jest as I did., "Now," says I, "I shall sus-

pect ye to make yer manners ev~ry arternoon when school's
out without my showing' of ye, how - Siminary's out."
* So they ali' went hum only Hepsy Hawkins - I made her
stay a spell arter. So I slickt up my~' table, and then I
called Hepsy Hawkins out and says I,
"Be ye sorry for disbehavin' so to-day 1" Says she,
"Yis, marm?'
Says I, "Won't ye never misconduct so agin?"
"No, marm," says she. ".Well then ye may go hum,"
says I. So she ketehed her bunnit in less than no time
and run off hum. Then I took my parrysol and walked
eff humwards with the greatest deliberosity and dignitude
for I reckon a school-marm can't be tew digniEed. Whilst
I was a guayne' along every body lookt out of the binderr
and laift, and I met a hull grist of boys gt~ayne hum from
deestrict school, and they hoorawed and clapt their hands.
Thinks me, IL wonder if this ere's the way they suppress
their adinireation to Higgins Patent. At last wheW I was
eny most hum I met a young man descendin' up the hill
he had yeller hair, and a .gret red face and snuff-colored
clue on and a slate under his arm. Well, he stared at me
and jest as I'd got along by says he, "Marm!"
Saysl, "Hay!".
Says he, "Did you know there's a dead critter tied to
your sash?"
"Gracious'!" says I, "you don't say so." So he stept
up and took it off for me and as true as natur' 'twas an old
dried-up dead hen, and I lnowd in a' minnit that Hepsy
Hawkins had did it while I was a fixin' my table. 1 never
in my hull life had anything happen to me that made me
feel so bad as that are did~ sQl jest sot down on the, hill
and begun to cry.'
7

7

At

I

I,
I
I

g 11


74

TVID 0 W SPRIG GRINS.

* "Don't take on so," says the stranger, "sich mean
tricks, hurts them as does 'em more'n them they're did to.
Ii wouldn't worry about it, young woman."
"01 dear me suz I '~ says I, "if Amandy had ever had
a dead hen tied to her I wouldn't care - but there aint
nothing' in the hull of the Childern of the Abby about a hen
nor any other thing hem' 'tied to her, tho' she had all kinds
of trouble besides; but goody grievous! my sorrers is big-
ger than hem."
"Well, I don~t know nothing' about Amandy," says he.
"What!" says I, "you hant read the Childern of the
Abby!"
"No, I han't," says he.
"Well," says I, "it's time ye did then, and I'll lend it
to ye, for I feel extrornary obleejed .to ye for the sairvice
ye've did me, and ye'il have my everlasting' gratitution'
for't." So sayin' I waved my hand for him to go - but
he didn't seem to take the hint, so says I, "Don't you ap-
prehend hat are motion?"
"No,~ I don't," says he.
""Well,"' says I, " 'twas the same as tellin' of ye to
make yer disappearance." "'Twas, hay?" says he,
"well, I should like to. be better acquainted, marm."
Well ," says I, "you can have the felickity of seem'
me by calm' to Mr. Jorrockses, - f~r I shall always esti-
mate ye for disbegagin? of me from that are consairned old
carcass - but friendship is all I can profferate ye."
~ "Well, I'll cum there," &amp;tys he. Then I waved my
hand to h~m agin, and he understood that time; so he
went off. Well, I got hum, and Aunt Huldy she axed me~
how I got along teaching . "0 grander grievous " says
I, "I never had so much trouble in one day in my life."

I

1~
A
-A
-t

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

75

"Didn't!" says she,
"No, didn't!" says I. So I tell'd her the hull, and
says she, "As for that are hen I shouldn't care tew oents
about it, don't let it giv ye no trouble, darling. "
"Thank ye, beloved aunt," says I, "sympathy is
sweet in the most deepest affliction." Arter tea I thought
I'd take a walk; so I took my pencil and paper and a
shingle to write on, and winded my way to the very un-
dentical spot where I parted with Philander, and sitting'
down on a log I writ the follerin' vairses:
A-,
'Twas here I parted with Philander,
Thro' the wide world he's gone to wander,
Six times the morning' sun has rizen
Sen I beheld that face of hisn.
I've~ sceree ben able for to speak
.Thro' all this mawlancholly week,
And sairtin nobody would wonder,
If they shouldonly see Philander.
So tall, so slender, and so straight,
So very kerless in his gait -
His hair is black - his hands is white.-.
His voice is sweet his eyes is bright.
The sorrers I endure; Good Landyl
Are like the sorrers of Amandy.
But whilst I'm blest with sich a beau,
I'm within' for to -suffer woe.

But whilst he's gone what shall I do?
Dear sun? how shall I live it through V
If all the world was mine I'd gin it
To see my darlin' half a miunit.
Six times the morning' sun has rlzen ~
Sen I beheld that face of hisn
And here each night I'll cuin and cry,
I hope we'll meet agin byrne-by.

'I

I


76             WIDOW SPRIG GIN1~,                                         WIDOW SPRIGGINS.            77

Arter I'd .writ it II went hum and Aunt Huldy tell'd ~me
that Missis Wilkins bad sent her and me an invitation to
cum to her liQuse the next evening' to a party.
"I'll go if you do," says I.
"Well, I shall go sartin," says she, "for Widder
Wilkins haint never invited me there afore. She haint
lived ~o Higgins Patent but 2 or 3 year, and haint took
much notice of the wimmin here. I always reQkoned she
felt above us 'cause she's rich and lives purty grand; but
r~iabby she don't."
Well, bed time cum and I retired to my couch of repose
and fell into a gentle and survivin' slumber and next
morning' I woke up revigorated and went to my seminary.
Things progranced about as they did the day afore, only
Hepsy Hawkins didn't cum, and Mirandy Peabody said
how't Missis Hawkins said she couldn't cum no more
'cause I was partial. I tell ye she'd a got a peeling' if she
had a own.

76

R 1

I

p

CHAPTER V.

77

"She sent him word she couldn't wed,
He heard the tale and reason fled."
UNBEICNOWN.
And when at last his mind got right,
He went and married out of spite. -
ADn1TIO~ BY ME.
HE second day I kept school as I was a winding' my
~ way hum I set down under a tree to look at Phi-
VI lander's picture. And whilst I was a syin' and
groaning' over it, lo and behold, the same young
man I see the day afore cum along with his slate under his
arm, and more'n a hundred boys arter him, cuffin' and
fighting' and throwing' stuns.' When the young man ~ee me,
says he, "Yer sarvent, marm."
I bowed to him putty stiff, and he cumn right u~ and sot
down aside of me, and, says he, -
"Seems to me ye look inawlancolly, young woman;
hope ye haint had no more ti~ouble to~day.".
"Mister," jackleated I, "I beseated myself in this ere
solitaryy spot to zuedificate alone, and gaze a spell in raptor
on this dear thresher, the ony thing that produces me any
satisfaction, and I don't desire to be contruded upon, so I
intreat ye to go off, and whilst you'r about it, jest ikuock
over ten or a 'dozen of them are boys," (there was a mes8'
of the little wretched got on top of the hill and stood there
7*


78              wlvo w /SPRICcINS.

79

a yelling' at me, "coo-coo-doodle-doo, cluck-cluck-cia.-
cluck."
"Well," says he, "if ye'll show me that are treshure,
as ye call it, i'll clear out." ~So I, handed him the toback~.
er box, and arter looking' at it a minnit says he, "I swan-
ny! I' don't wonder ye cry when ye look at it, for it's the
consairnedest looking' thing ever I see. What in natur' do
ye keep it for?"
I grabbed the box and riz up without sayin' a word, and
walked off indignatious.
"Curus cretur, by golly," says the young man; then
he ketcht up a club and took arter the boys, and they all
run hooting' and bellerin' down the hill, and I didn't see
no more on 'em. When I arrove to hum I found Aunt
Huldy beginning' to rigg for the party, so I begun to fix
tew. And I'll tell ye how I drest; I reckon I neyer lookt
equal t~ what I did that evening , in my life. j put on a
white spencer with sh~orL eieeves and blue ribbons tied roi~nd
the bottom ~n 'em, whic~i counteracted finely with my
snowy arms; then Ii wore a yaller canton ompe skeart
with' red ribbon loopt~ up all ~j'ound the bottom on't, and a
pink-'sash round my waist. My hair was quirld up on the
tip-top of my head, and confined with a dretful high-toppt
comb, (I've got it now,) and was jest a guayne to put my
artifishel wreath on my head; when thinks me, I wonder
how Amandy 'd a fixed her head on sich a casion.' So I
took the Childern of the Abby and red where it tells about
her guayne to Missis Kilcorban's ball, and I found she had
on a turbine with sum feathers in't. So I took my green
shawl with sprangles all over it and wound it round and
round my head, and' stuck sii black ostridge feathers in't.
Then thinks me, I must put a chain to 'Philander's pieter,

IYIDO If SPRIG GItjS.

as Amandy used. to have to her mother's - (wonder she
didn't wear Lord Mortimer's, but I s'pose 'twas so big she
couldn't.) So I took a string of glass beads as big as
bullets, and all the different colors ever ye see, and fas-
tened the box to it and hung it round my alagaster neck.
Jest as ide finished habiliatin, Aunt Jiuldy cum in, and
says I, " Aint ye struck with my surpassin' loveliness "
"Yis, I be,." says she; "I never see ye look so putty;
but how do I look?"
"As well as could be expected," anserd I," from a wo-
man that's past the moridion of youthful facksination."
"Well, cum on then, if yer ready," says she; "but we
must eat suthin afore we go, tho' I haint no doubt Missis
Wilkins '11 have enuff stuff to eat." So we went into the
pitching and aunt and uncle eat 3 'or 4 bowls full of butter-
milk' pop, but I didn't eat but a little mite. 'Then I put
on my monte to kiver my clus, so's the folks wouldn't be
staring' at my unresistable elegance along the road, and huv
my leno vail over my head and we sot off. Well, we got to
the place o~" rendyvows," and Aunt Huldy and a hull grist
of wimmin that cum in just behind us went into 'the dress-
in'-room to take off their~ things, but I sot dowxi by a win-
der in the ~ia1l, and when the wimmin cum out to be rush-
ered into the parlor, Aunt iluldy ~he spied me and says
she, "Why don't ye take off y~r mantle and cum along?"
"Cause nater," says I.
Why," says she, " they'll think queer on't."
"4 don't ker if they do," says 1; "1 don't want to go
in when everybody else does; besides, I want to set here
apd ponderate a spell afore I plunge~ into the giddy whirl-.
fool of fluctuation, where there aint no bussom to particki-
pate in my soPrers nun but cold-hearted strangers; and~


80            WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

my belovedest' fur away! 0 let.. me be!" So she went
in and I was left alone to my solemeolly run~irations.* Ar-.
ter setting' there a spell I heerd a noise, and purty\soon
soiiie~folks begun to condescend and says one,
"0 doctor, I'm half. frightened to death!" and says
another, "I'm skirt tew." The door stood on a jar and
they pusht it open and went in. Arter they'd shet the
door thinks me, it's time for me to make my debutte. So
I took off my montle, ~agested my feathers, and so forth, and
opend the door, and lo and behold, the minister was a
prayin' - thinks me, I wonder if they always begin their
parties here witk praying ; but I didn't ker. So I recovered.
my oomposher,~ and with my natural elegance walkt up the
room,* and there was a general buz of admiration as I
Stept along, and seem' a sofy at the upper eend of the
room and a row of folks standing' up afore it I went along
and squoze into one eend on't. Missis Wilkins was standing'
* nigh by and she reach out and gin me a twitch and says
she, ~ Miss Ruggles, you've ~got the bridesmaid's seat."
"The dragon!" says I - and I gin a spring 'and jumpt
clear into the middle of the room, and everybody stared at
we to kill. I tell ye I was considerable frustrated. So I
sot down in a cheer and put my fan up afore my face, and
I guess I kept it there ~a spell. Byrne by the minister got
done praying' and beg7m marrying' of 'em and thinks me,
I'll giv a look and see who 'tis. So I lookt up and my
wonderation can be better imagginated th~in described,
'when I see Dr. Davis a standing' there holding' holt of Mary
Ann Wilkinses hand!' Never in my born days was I half
surprised as I was that minnit; but I knowd that Davis
*Chuldren of the Abby, chap. 20.

'WIDOW SPRIGGINS.                81
bad jest did it. out of spite cause I wouldn't have him.
There was tew bridesmaids and tew groomsmen, but I.
didn't know ary one on 'em - but one of the groomsmen
lookt eny~ most egzactly like Philander, ony he hadent no
whiskers. Purty soon the serrymony was over, and they
begun to lead up the folks to kiss Mary Ann, and jest then
sumbody gin me a hunch on my elbow, and I lookt, and
P and behold, 'twas the yaller-headed young man that
ontied the dead h~en, and thinks me, he's a takin' arter me'
jest as Sir Charles Bingley did arter Amandy, and I must
treat him decent as she did him - tho' I can't incurridge
him.
"Good evening' to ye, Miss Ruggles," says he.
"Good evening , Sir Charles," says I. .       -
"Golly!" says he, "that aint my name.
"Ainthay?" says I.
"No!" says he, "my name's Jabez Spriggins I
teach the deestreckt school up here."
"Do, hay?" saysl.
"You look amazing' honsome to-night,' continnyd he.
"0 law!" says I, "mabby you think so; and you
don't look much as ye did this. afternoon." No more he
didn't -~ he had on a Iong tailed pepper and salt summer
coat, thunder and lightning' jacket, and streeked trowsers.
Then he had sich a master wide ruffle to his shirt with a
wonderful big breast-pin 8tuck on't and his hair was
tallered as stiff as all nater, and hysted up to a peak aforo
much as a foot high. He raly lookt surprisin' well.
"Now," says ii, "I wish you'd tell me who that are is
that looks so much like Philander?"
"I don't know who ye mean," says he.
"Well," says I, "who's that are feller that's leading~ up
Californy Coon?"


K
WIDO W SPRIG GINS.

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

Says he, "That's Dick Johnson, he goes to Hamilton
Collidge. His parents lives to the eastward, and he's ben
hum spending' the vocation. He stopt here on his way back
to collide so's to be groomsman - he's a piirty wild chap.
That are short feller that's leading' up ~Lorindy Rickets is Bill
Johnson, another collidge feller, and that are one with
curly hair is Sam Wilkins, the bride's brother - he's
mighty perlite to Grashioshy Hawkins, but he keeps a
looking' at you neverstandin'."
"Well," says IF, "IF wish you'd introduce me to John-
son, for ~he looks so much like Philander I want to get
acquainted with him."
"Who in the name 0' nater is Philander?" says Sprig-
gins, says he.
"This ere's him," says I, hawlin' out the tobacker box.
But whilst IF was a hawlin' it out the string broke and the
box rolld right in amonkst a mess of folks that was a
stand' round the bride.
"'Hullo!" says Loisy Hocus, "suthin' cum bunting'
agin my foot." ~' Ijumpt up and run, Spriggins he follerd,
but afore I could git it Josh Jones (Dr. Davises student,
a rael mean feller) pickt it up.
.  2~
"Here - giv that are up!" says IF, "it's mine.
"Giv that are up," says Spriggins, "it's Miss Rug-
gleses."
"* Good landy!" says Missis Hawkins, "IF want to
know' if you chaw tobacker.?"
"No, I don't,~' anserd I, "that are box has got a
treshur in't, so jest gin it up."
"Do for grammany's sake open it and s~e what's in't,"
says i~1issis Hawkins, (she spited me on, account of the
chastigation IF gin Hepsy.) So Jones he hawld it out and

begun to holler and laff at it and was jest a guayne to hand
it round when Johnson he ketcht it away from him and
without ever looking' at it gin it to me.
"Ten thousand million thanks," jackleated I, "I ~
a knowd that ~anybody that lookt so much like Philander
in face and bigger couldn't help resembling' of him in nobli-
tude of mind." Johnson's face turnd as red as fire. I
spoi~e he felt dashed to be praised up by si~h an interesting'
bein' as I was.
"Now," says I, "IF wish sumbody'd recoverate my
box."
So Johnson he rummaged round and found it and gin
it to me, and I put the profile into't and stuift it under my
sash, and went and sot down in a cheer at the murder eend
of the room. Purty soon Spriggins cum up with the three
feller8 and says he,
"I've brnng these ere young men for to introduce 'ejn
to ye - this ere's Mr. Johnson, Miss Ruggles - this ere's
Mr. Tomson, and this ere's Mr. Wilkin~."
"Yer sairvent, gentlemen," says I, rizin' and makin' a
low church.
"Have you ben up to slute the bride!" says Johnson.
"No," says I,' "I guess taint best - ittle ony make the
doctor feel' bad." So they all drawd up cheers. and sot
down round me. "Don't be surprised Mr. Johnson,"
says I, "if I stare at ye considerable, for you do look
amazingly like sumbody I know.
"0 stare as much ~s ye please," says he, "IF like to be
lookt'at by the ladies."
"0 my conscience!" says Tomson, "I'd giv all my
old shoes to obtain sich a felicity as Johnson enjoys under
the sunbeams of them electrifyin' gorbs 1"

82

83


84

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

" So would I," says Wilkins, syin'.
Jest then the cake and stuff cum round to me and John-
- son took off a gret hunk and put it on a plate and- gin it
to me.
Grandfather grie'vous!" says I, "you don't suspect
me to eat all that are, I hope."
"To be sure," says he.
"Why lay to't," says Spriggins, won'tnt hurt ye nun."
"I shan't do't," says I, "I don't scarce ever eat any-
thing, and han't no casion now."
"Well, you'll take sum of the egg-nogg; won't ye 1"
says Spriggins, hollering' at the same time to a nigger.
wench that - was carrying' round a server full of suthin' to
drink.
"These ere timbales aint full enuff," says Spriggins, so
be emptied tew on 'em together and banded 'it to me.
Everybody in the room was looking' at us - pertickleely at
me. So- says I, purty loud, "Ii tell ye I hant no casi~n."
Uncle Jonah he was clear acrost the room and he hollered
out,
"Don't tease Milly to let into the vittals and drink;
she's right when she says she han't no casion, for she eat
dretful hearty of buttermilk pop jest afore we cum, and
if she takes down all that are stuff she'll sairtin be sick
"Gracious " say~ ill, "that are's the everlastinest lie I
ever heerd in my life."
"So 'tis," says Aunt Huldy. "She ony eat tew bowls
full af'ore we cum."
I tell ye it did -seem as if I should i~pire. "0 misery
me!" exelamigated I, "I shall faint away do lead me -
out into th~ hall.~' So Johnson he took holt of one arm and

WIDO W SPRIGGINS.

85

Tornson he took holt of t'other and Wilkins he too
fan and blowd me,, and Spriggins he follered arter groanin'
consairnedly half scart out of his wits. And whilst
they was a takin' of me out - my head hanging' over on
Johnson's shoulder - my feathers fell out of my turbin, and
says I, "Sumb~dy jest pick up them ~are ostridge feathers
afore they git stompt on."
"I vanny she aint faint," says Missis Hawkins.
"I be faint tew," says I. So they took me into the
hail and sot me down on the stairs, and sum on 'em blowd
me and sum on 'em stuift smeflin' bottles up my nose. Dr.
Davis he felt of my pulse and his hand trembled dretfully,
and tho' my eyes was shot I could tell that he was dret-
fully agitated. Purty soon Jones (mean crittur) he took
and stuift a nastyfetity pill down. my mouth and made me
as sick as a dog. So then I cum tew, and I riz up and
says I, "I think I've had about eny most enuff trouble for
one evening , but I don't ker, I han't had no more'n Amandy
7
had to Miss Kilcorban's ball, and I know't if my beauty
and merits was less conspiccious, I should escaped it,* and
if sumbody 'II have the carriage drew up I'll return to
Castle Jorrocks."
"Bless yer gizzard," says Aunt iluldy, "don't ye know
we cum afoot?"
"Well," says Spriggins, "I'll go hum and git our
waggin if Missis Wilkins will let her nigger boy drive ye
hum."
Wilkins said, "sairtinly." So Spriggins went hum and
putty soon he cum back with his houses and wagging, and
Johnson and Tomson and Wilkins they helpt me git reddy,

* Chilleni of the Abby, ~ha~.2O.

8


Sf3              JYIDO TV SPRIG GINS.                                             WIDO TV SPRIG GINS.             87

and then Spriggins he went out t6 the wagging and helpt
me in, and say&amp; he, "I shan't stay much longer now
you've gone, for there aint a young woman here I. care
teppence for but you, and Ide go clear hum with ye if it
want for staying' to git sum of that are egg-nogg - but I'll
stop and see ye to-morrer when I go hum from school, if
you're will-in'." Thinks me, if he'd a leff out ~rhat he said
about the egg-nogg and guayne to school wouldd a ben
jest like what Sir Charles Bingley said to Amandy when
she was guay-ne away from Missis Kilcorban's ball. So I
giv him permission jest as Amandy did Sir Charles and
then the driver druv off; and 'twas. a gret bi~ flamber-'
gasted lumber wagging and it jolted most consairnedly, and
I got knockt round from one side to t'other, and ouce in a~
while I houndid up much as three or four foot into the air,
and I tell ye I was all but did over when I got hum. I
retired immejuntly to my compartment, and buy myself
down in a cheer by the winder, jest as Amandy did. The
woods, slivered by the beams of the moon that rode mojes~
tic in the furmanent of stars, recalled to my rernemberation
the vows of unchanngable regard that had ben utterated
there, so I took my pencil and writ the follerin' poetical
-I
confusion': -~

V

My dearest - my slickest - my loveclest has went,
I
Fur ~-fur-from Permlll~~ his steps he has bent.
His profile is all that is left for to cheer,
01 grandfather grievous I I wish he was here.*
Arter a spell Aunt Huldy cum hum, and she cum in to
see how I did - she had her work-pockit ctammin' full of
cake.
"0 aunt," says I, "how could. ye be so oufeelin' as to
say I eat tew bowls full of buttermilk pop?"
"Cause ye did," says she, "and I'm Sure 'taint much
for a hearty young woman to eat, but I'm sorry I teild
on't, seem' ye feel so bad about it; so you jest eat a hunk
* of this ere cake, mabby ittle chirk ye up."
So I took rather a small sized hunk and eat it, and
Aunt Huldy she went out - and then fatigewd and distrust
I huv off my splendid habileations, flung myself on my
couch and arter a spell closed my tearful gorbs in a re~
freshin' and recoinposin' slumber.
* This was arterwards printed in the "P~dunk flhirmlnator."

Good gracious! good gracious! I'm sinkin' with sorrer,
My spevrits -is low and my heart's full of horror,
The rendyvows joyful of gay dissipation
Aint-no phye for me in my sad sittyation.
And when I'm ,alone I lament and take on
Because' my Philander's departed and gone.
The men Is t~ll syin' and dyin' about me, ~
And declarin and vowin' they can't live without me.
But if they pursue me from morning' to night
My darlin' Philander I never will slight,

p.


WIDOW SPRIG GINS.          89

88              WIDO II~ ,SPRIGGIN~.

CHAPTER VI.

ME.

HE morning' arter the wedding' I got up the minnit I
waked, cause Jabez Spriggins was a guayne to
call on me on his way to school, and his school
begun airlier'n mine so I hurried and drest me
afore breckfust ~ drest very plain that morning' - dident
put no riggin' whatsoever on my head, but I let my hair
in its own natyve and glossy hue float over my shoulders, *
but I couldent make it. quirl nun to save my gizzard,
though I put it 'up in papers~and tin, and everything else;
and I wondered , ~and do yit, what mad&amp;'Amandy's hair al-
ways hang in graceful stringlets over her shoulders; but I
was detairmined ide let mine hang down for once whether
or no. Then I put on my bhie caliber long..short, with a
yeller skirt under it, hung my watch round my neck, and
was just a guayne to put Philander in my pocket, when
thinks me, fle look at it. fust. So I opened the box, and
;lo and behold, the picter was entirely rubbed out - they'd
finger it so much the night afore to Missis Wilkinses.
~So I t6ok a pen and draw'd it over agin as nigh like t'other
tOhildern of the Abby.

as I could. Jest as Ide got it draw'd, Aunt.Huldy cum to
the foot of' the stairs and hoilerd to me to cum to break-
fust. So I condescended down, and as soon as ever Uncle
Jonah see me, says he,
"Land o' liberty! Permilly, what in the name of nater
have ye got yer hair all raked down so for? it looks like
the dragon!"
"It don't nyther," says Aunt Huldy, says she, "it
looks j~f1ike the young wimmin's in the novels - so you
jest hold yer jaw."
"~'Vell," says I, "-I don't ker what nobody' says about
it; for it's fixed putty much as Amandy did bern, and she
knowd what was what, and I don't think men has any biz-
ness to meddle with wiminin's dress, specially them that
don't know nothing' about nothing. "
"I vum ! '~ says Uncle Jonah, says he, "Permilly's
rather warm wife; can't ye give her .a little b*itterxnilk
popto cool her off?"
"Nun of yer sarce about buttermilk pop," says Aunt
Huldy - so sayin', she gin him a grip, but he deluded her
grasp, and grabbing' a hunk of short cake he cut out
doors, and then he stuck his head into the winder, and
says he,
"Ye better both on ye take a chaw of tobacker out of'
Milly's box. I reckon ittle callum yer minds." So sayin'
he run off, and says aunt, says she, "That are's the pro-
vokine~t creetur ever I see, and the wost on't is he never
gits mad. I wish 'I had a little of Missis Peabody's grit.
I tell ye I'd stir him up then he wouldn't darst to pester
me so. Jest then I looked up and see Spriggins a cum-
mm' over the bill. "There!" says I, "he's a cummin'."
Aunt Huldy she lookt Qut and says she, "0, that tir&amp;'a

The roosters was crown' 'to wake 'up the folks,
The sun was beginning' to shine over1iea~,
And dry up the dews that besprangled the oaks,
When the lovely Permilly got out of her bed.

89

88


90             WIDO W SPRIG GINS.                                                                 91

Jabez Spriggins; and cum to thijik on't, seems to me he
took a master shine to you last night."
"I know it," says I, "and I don't know what to do
with the creetur; Amandy always used Sir Charles Bingly
well, but when she wouldn't have hiui he ceny most
died."
'.' Good landy!" says Aunt Huldy, "you don't mean to
sairve 'him so I hope. He's a nice staidly young man as
ever was, and his father's got a rael productive farm, and
nary child in the world ony Jabez, and his parents set a
nation store by him - he's always ben a master hand to
study - ben to school evry winter till he's got to be the
best arithmeticker in town - and now he keeps the dees-
trict school, and I tell ye what, ye can't do better'n to -
take him if he axes ye, but good now! I wonder if he
haint got a dead' creetur tied to him."
"Yer granny's a dead creetur as much!" says I,
"why, them are's my ostridge fethers sticking' out of his
pocket."
Putty soon he began knocking' to the 'door. "Y9ugo
to the door;" says Aunt Huldy, "you look slicker'n I
do.
"No, no," says I, "that aint according' to etiquit -
you- go, and'when he axes for me, you cram out and call
me." So she ~went and ushered him in; and arter a spell
'says he, "Where's that tire young woman that's here?".
I was a waiting' in the pitching, and aunt she screamed out
and, says she,"' Hullo, Milly! he's axed arter ye." I was
* kinder mad to hear her up and yell so, but I went in, and
arter we'd saluted, one another, says 'aunt says . she, "Did I
- do that according' to gunter?"
"No!" says I, "you'd orto, 'come out and called me
instid of hollerin' at me so consairnedly."

I

she went says she, "I'll know how next time." Then
and says I to Spriggins, "Well, how did
yerself last night arter nay departed?"
middlin'," says he, "I got a putty good chance at
the egg-nogg and stuff- but I don't like to see folks act
they did. Arter the old peopic went huni the young
on like sixty. The fellers they. got yer. os-
and stuck 'em behind their ears, and caperd
and hollered, 'Ilooraw for the yin/c of PQdUfllc!'
the bride said she thought you'd or'to teach fainting'
in your siminary, and the gears all on 'em did act
consairnedly. I tried ever so long to git yer feathers, and
couldn't. At last Johnson took 'em and laid 'em on the
table, and as soon as I got a chance I ketcht' 'em unhe-
known to nobody and cum off."
"Well," said, I, "Pm unexpressibly obleejed to ye for
doom' on't but I don't ker teppence for what the gears
said, for I know 'twa'nt nothing' but envye but them are
students, I raly think 'twas strange they should act so,
seem' they was so took~ with me."
"I wish every one on 'em was lickt," says Spxiggins.
As I was comm' by there this morning, " continyd he, "'I
see em all a standing' round Davises office door, and I was
a ~ straight by, but 'Toinson he yelled out and says he,
'Hu~ Jonathan!' where ye guayne?' Wilkins he gin
him a bunch, and says he, 'Why, Tomson, 'that's Mr.
Spriggins that you saw last night.' 'Ah!' says Tom-
son, 'excuse me, Mr. Spriggins, I thought 'twas an old
acquaintance of mine.' '0 ho I' says Johnson, 'I see
you've got Miss Ruggleses feathers in yer pocket.' 'Yis,'
says 'I, 'and I'm a guayne to carry 'em to her she's a
luazin' putty young woman according' to my notion.' 'So

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

90

91


WILYOJY SrRIGGIN~$~.

92

she is,' says they 'but,' says Jones, .' you mustent tell
her how we acted last night.' 'I will, by gosh,' says I.
'0 don't,' says Johnson, 'we only frisked round a little
with her feathers to please the ladies, you know they're all
jealous of Miss Ruggles 'cause she's so honsoine and in-
terestin' don't tell her.' 'I will, I sonnyy' says I.
'Well, then,' says Tomeon, 'tell her and be darned to ye
we're all a guayne to see her this evening' for we've all
fell in love with her - and we'll convince her to the con-
terary.' Then I cum off, and Johnson he hollered to me,
'Take care how you take arter, her if you don't want to
fight a duel with us.' 'Golly!' says I, 'do you think ye
can all on ye~ giL her?' and whilst I was a cuminin' along
thinks me, I'll be hanged if I won't up and ax her to have
rue - and I tell ye what, Miss Ruggles - I aint a jokin'
when I say I set more by ye and like ~e better'n ary
young woman ever I knowd - for I took a notion to ye
the very day I fust see ye, when I untied the dead hen,
and if you'll have me I'll have you, and we'll have one
another. What do ye say to't?"
"Grandfer Griffin!" says I, "is that are the way you
propose herself?"
"Why," says he, "ain't that are th~ right way.?
"I've got as gret a mind," says I, "as. ever I had to
eat no - as ever I had not to eat, to go right strait
off out of your society without 'dainin' to give ye any an-
ser - but seem' you've did me tew or three good turns,
and as I entertain v~. gret steem for yer character I won't do't
- and here's the Childern of the Abby, the book I prom..
ised to lend ye, and do ye take it hum and pruse it atten-
tyvely, specially the 8th chapter, fust volluin, and there
ye'lI lairn how to offer yer'~ hand and heart ~- and arter

93

you've airnt how ye in cum and ax mc~ agin if yera
mind ow - my asto shin nt that you sho'd have the au-
da ak~ arte e s only exceeded by my surprise,
and I? sha'n't sa a no~r no to yer supposition till ye lairn
to promulgate it better~" So sayin' I riz up to go out,
and jest as I got tp. the door says Spriggins, says he,
"Stop a minnit." So I stopi, and says he,." As fur as
I can understand what you've ben a sayin', I take it ye
won't be put out if I cum to see ye once in a while whilst
I'm reading' this ore book."
"0 no!" says I, "Amandy always treated Sir Charles
Bingley with the greatest condescension so I give ye
permission to cum." So sayin' I walkt out of the room
as stiff as stillyards, and went up into my chamber and as
I lookt out of the winder I see Spriggins guayne over the
hilireadin' in the Childern of the Abby as he went.
Looking' at my watch I see it lacked a half an hour to
school time, 'so I sot down and writ with ainazin' rappid..
dity the follerin' Stanzys:
TO JABRZ 5PRIGGThT5.
Alas, poor swine,* with yaller hair,
I'm sorry for ye, I declare;
I hate to slight ye, but I must,
Tho' i'm afeard yer heart will bust.
0 gracious I how you'll ri~ and swear,
APd mabby cry and tear yer hair,
And Cuss the fatal minnit when
You met me with the old dead hen. -
I can't be yourn; this heart of mine
Is phighted to another swine;
And them besides that git besmitten,
Must all expect to git the mitten.
*Swain

JUDO TV SPRft)UIN&amp;


WIDOW SPRICCINS.
0, if I had a thousand hearts,
They'd all be full of Cupid's darts,
~And evry single dart would be
Fired from the eyes 6f my dear P.
So, poor young man with yaller hair,
Giv up and die in grum despair,
Set down and sythe and Weep and mourn,
Permily never can be yourn.

I never showed that are to Spriggins till arter -' but
I won't anticipate. Arter. 'twas writ I went to school -
but I guess lie discontinny, ~nd tell what concurred that
day going tew and from my seminary in another chapter.

CHAPTER VII.

"On pranced the gallant steed,
Proud of the heft he bore,
O'er hill and vale and flowery meed
Unto the castle door."    SrRIGGIN5 MIS5ELANY.~

ELL, I went and put up my dinner and put on my
~ ~T things., and as 'twas a dretful cloudy morning' I
'~ reckoned ide take an umbril - so I went and axed
Aunt iluld v to lend me thairn; but she said 'twas
;a new one and as it looked like for rain she guest I hadent
better take it for she didn't want to have it git wet, so I
went without none; but afore Ide got half way there it
begun to rain' consairnedly, and r~eein' Dr. Davises office
door open I run in there, and there was all them fellers

TYIDO W SPRIG GINS.             95

and you never see sich a fluster as they made when I cui~
in, and I must a lookt amazing' interesting' with my hair all
beshovelled, and my habileations dripping' with moister.
"0 dear me suz, gentlemen," says I, "I've got ketcht
in a shower, and if ye'll lend me an umbril I'll be obleejed
to ye." So they all jumpt to git it and then they had
a tussle which sho'd accompanate me evry one on
'em wanted to go. At last says Jones (the doctor's
student) says he, "Let Miss Ruggles take her choice."
"Agreed," says they. So says I, " I can git along well
enough without nobody, but se~in' ye're so anxious to go
with me lie choose Mr. Johnson." When I said this the
other fellers ript out a mess of wicked iswearin' words, and
shook their fists at Johnson. "Now, gentlemen," says I,
"I beseech on ye not to fight a dull with the favored swine,
for I set store by all on ye, ony I admire Mr. Johnson be..
cause he resembleates my Philander so much." So Johnson
he gin me his arm and we started,~when Jones up and says
he, "Miss Rugg'les will get her long-short as wet as muck
Ile jest bring my surtoot and let her put it on." So he
run and brung his surtoot. That Jones want a very putty
appearing' young man, and I was real pervoked at him for
givin' me the nastyfettity pill at the wedding' - but when
he ~was. so consairned about me as for to offer me his sur-
toot, thinks me, Lie surmount my nantipathy to him. So
they all helpt me on with it and Johnson he buttoned it
round me. "Now," says I, "what's to 1~e did? it's a
master sight too long." Jones was wonderful tall, and his
surtoot was a terrible long drab one with a number of capes
sich as they wore in them days, and II was uncommon sl~ort
and fairy-like in my bigger. -.
"lie tell ye what," says Wilkins, "fle go behind and
hold it up."

9A4

95


96            WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

I

"0 no, let me," says Tomson.
"Now, gentleme~y" says I, "if it's so desirable to go
long of me, s'pose one of ye holds up each skeart."
"Thattle be charming, " says Wilkins. So they took
holt, and we sot off, and Jones he stood in the door, and
lookt at us. Whilst he ~as guayne along, says John5on
says he, "0! the delightsome gratifaction of sheltering' the
most heautiftillest of created creeturs from this outragin'
storm!" " Ah, it's exquizzitte!" says Tomson. "It's
the squintessence of pleasure," says Wilkins. And sich
like ixpressions they made all along.
Putty soon we arrove to the deacon's, and hem' quite
late the scholars had all cum and sum on 'em was looking'
out of the wonders, and when they see us they hulled to
t'others and they all run to the wonders to look at us, and
ye never heerd sicb a roaring' as they sot up in yer born
days; and when we got into the house they all cam out on
the stairs to see us - I tell ye I was awful mad to see 'em
so unrespectful, and I should a let right into 'em and
knock over a few if I hadent a concluded to chano'e
monner of teaching' a little, for that morning' whilst I was
a dressing' I happened to think how't I'd orto look into the
* Childern of the Abby to see how Amandy managed her
school for ide forgot, that hem' a part of the novil. not
very interesting' to me; so I stopt in th~ midst of my twi-
* light and read about it and it said she never jaw'd 'em
nor~chasigated 'em, but let 'em do jest as they was a mind
to. So I of course detairmined to do ~so tew. Well, the
young men resisted me to take off the surtoot, and whilst
they was doin' on't, I see Amarilly Peabody, the deacon's
oldest dorter, and Polly Mariar Dawson, (a cousen of bern
visiting' there,) a peeking' through a door and laffin dis-
~                         ~.


WIDOW SPRIG GINS.         97

Widow Spriggins faints away, and resuscitation is attempted by
Doctor Davis.-"S66 page 85.

tvactidly I s'pose they was dretful jelous. 0! what a
terrible thing jealousy is! It distils pison into the most
secret and unbeknown recessions of the heart, - it discom-
poses and frusterates the finest affections of natur', and
scatters 'the firebrands of confusion and pt~rgatory through...
out society.
Arter I was disbegaged from. the ~surtoot, says Johnson
says he, "If the rain continys all day we'll ourn arter ye
this afternoon."
"0! don't pester yerselves," says I.
"Pester us!" says Wilkins says he,: "why, it would
be the most con~ummjt satisfication for us to' attend ye
neverstandin' we should git wet to the backbone."
"~0!" ~says Tomson, raisin' his eyes and layin' his
hand on his bussom, "Ide be willing' to kiss yer footprints
-'twould be exquizzite."
"0 landy! '~ says I," that wouldent be woth while -
ye may enjoy the felickity of imprintin' a kiss 'oii my lily
hand "- so I reach it out and' all on 'ei~ kist it, and says
I, "I intreat that ye won7t nun on ye. permit yerselves to
entertain hopes that must univittably b&amp;disr~alis~d and eend
in. disappointment, '- for I may as well coflf6rm ye fust as
last, that I'm engaged to the most charminest swine on
airth." So sayin' I howled out the tobacker box and kist
it, and put it back agin ~- and~ then makin' a~ low eurchy I
perceeded. up chamber, and as I went along I could hear
all the fellers a syin'.
When I went' into the school-room the gears was all
setting' down looking' jest as if they suspected a knockin'-~
but. I went strait to mj cheer and sot down, find says I,
"Gearis, I aint a goin" to exercise no more severitude to-
werds ye. A number of my puppils has left m~ simin~ary,

P
97


98            WIDO W SPRIG GINS.

WIDOW SPRIGGINS'.             99

and it must be on account of my extrornary strictness, for
I can't think of nothing' else that could a had an attendance
to dimminnish my scholars, - ~o I sha'n't giv nobody. no
murder 'casion to complain of my stairnness." Ye never see
creeturs act as my scholars did that day cause I didn't jaw
'em nun - more'n forty times I was on the pint of coffin'
sum on 'em; but then Ide happen to think -~s6 I let 'em
go on jest as they pleased.. In the afternoon when the
little ones had went out, and the big ones was a painting ,
and I was givin', Glorianny Stokes sum coi~structions con-
sairnin' the ~icter she was a copying , ('twas Gineral P~~t-
nam ridin' down the mountain' -~-- an uncommon splendid
and.highly finished picter,) Philindy Ann Eliggins hollered
out, -
* "Do look, Miss Ruggles."
"Timothy Titus!" says I, "if that are aint my retinow
a cuinmin," - and sure as~ creation, 'twas Johnson, and
Wilkins, and Tomson, a cummin' with a hoss to take me
hum. The gearls all snorted out. a laffin', and says
Mirandy Peabody, says she, "I never see sich a bony,
scrawny hoss, in my life."
* "Shet up!".says I, "it's a spirited, fiery steed."
Then I stuck my head out of the winder, and says I,
"Gentler~en, what for did ye cum so airly? yer altogether
tew punctable, - but ye may cum in and visit my siminary
if ye want to." So. they was a cummin', and says I, "Ye'd
best tie up the boss fust, -2mabby 'II he'll run away."
~ "Run away!" says Drusilly Potter "he wouldn't run
away if ye should jam him with a red-hot poker from now
to next never - it's father's old Billy.; he's game legged
and eeny most blind, -- much as a body can do to make
him stir at all."

Well, they cum in and sot down, and says I, "Now,
gears, don't let yer attention be extracted by these ere
young men it's very improper,," So they all on 'em
kept on painting , ony jest Drusilly Potter, and she kept her
head out of the winder and talked to the old hoss Billy all
the time - she was a~ terrible hawbuck. The hoss he
knowd her voice and he begun a snortin' and ye never
heerd sich a consairnid rackit in yer born days. I was
dretful 'shamed, for the fellers must a thought strange on't;
but I didn't want to jaw her, for wouldn'tt a ben like
Amandy. The young men egzamined the painting's and
admired them amazin'ly, and putty soon I hollered to the
little gearls to cum in, and 'twas ever so long~re they
obeydid the summonses. Finally they cum and sa#s
I, "Ye may put on yer things, for I don't want to keep.
these ere gentlemen waiting. " But the fellers said they
waiit in no hurry, and begged on me to continny my con-
structiQns so I heerd 'em spell, and then the fellers
wanted to hear 'em read; so IL tell'd 'em to git their En -
lish Readers, and they did. They read in the poetry in
the afternoon this time; I told 'em to read the~ peece be-.
ginnin', "Dear Chole, while the boosy crowd "- 'twas a
gret favorite of mine, and I read it beautiful -~ I always
read a vairse fust for each on 'em, to show 'em how. The
gentlemen was inraptered with the read~n'. Then I tell'd
em to put on their things and make their manners so
they did;~ and says I, "Siminary's out "*- and they all
cared out.
So I begun to git-ready, and the fellers went down and
brung up the old surtoot.
"It don't rain," says I, "I han't no 'casion for that
are."


"But," says Johnson, "it's' damp, and we're afraid
ye'Il ketch yer death a cold without it." So they put it
on, and they exerted me down stairs, and resisted me to
surmount the hoss, and there in the medder aside the
house was all my scholars a waiting' for to see me go.
Johnson he led the hoss; and Wilkins and Tomson walkt
on 'each' side on't, and in that sittyation we went clean hum
and ev'ry once 'in a while the h2ss would stop still, and
Tomson, (tender-hearted young man,) inside of thumping'
on him, would giv his tail a jerl~ and make him go agin.
All the gentlemen kept a payin' on me complements all the
way about my. majestic appearance and everybody stared
at us; but nobody couldn't ~ay a word - they was all
speechless with adinireation. I must a presented an iinpo-
sin' appearance with the gret long surtoot a hanging' over
the bosses back, and my hair a floating' over my shoulders;
but I was quite uncomfortablee, for 'twas dretftzl' warm, and
the si~irtoot was dretful heavy, . and the sun beet down
awful hot, so't my ,phiziogermy was all kivered with swet-.
spiration.
Well, we got hum. I unmounted, and Johnson giv the
boss a slap, and he limped off to Potter's. "Walk in,
gentlemen," says I. So they all cum in, and desisted me
off with the surtoot, and I opened the square room door,
and rushered 'em in. " Bcseat yerselves," says L Then
I .we'nt up chamber and arranged my dress; wiped the
swetspiration off my face; done up my hair,, it felt so
warm; stuck a couple of ostridge feathers in my head, anc~
condescended to the square room, where I found Aunt
Huldy and Mr. Jabez Spriggins, and his mother, an old~
erly woman, of oncommdn good' understanding , and very
agreeable, but very nigh-sighted and considerable deef'; ~o't

she didn't appear as much, struck with my looks as she
otherways would a ben. She'd ben there all the arter-
noon, and Jabez stopt on his way hum from school; they'd
ben a setting in the pitching Iong of Aunt iluldy.
"Yer sarvent," says Jabez, "I make ye acquainted
with my mother.~~
"how do ye dew?" says I, but she didn't look off her
nittin' work. So Jabez' he hollered right in her ear,
"Miss Ruggles axes ye how ye dew?" '~ Miss
says she, "well, why couldn't she speak up so's to be
beerd?" So I went and sot down nigh by her and
yelled out as loud as ever I could,
"Yer considerable hard of hearing , ain't ye Mi~sis Sprig-
gins?" "Hard of hearing " says she, "yer mistaken;
my hearing's as good as ever 'twas, ony I can't hear whis-.
penn' no more'n anybody else that hadn't alwas ben used
to't; if they'd talk as they did when I was young I could
= bear well enuff." Well, I talkt to Missis Spriggins a
spell, and she seemed to take quite a notion to me, 'cause
I hollered so loud - said I talkt as they did in old times.
Byrne by tea was reddy, and aunt cum in and called us
out so we went into the kitctiing, and says aunt, "Set
by." So we sot down to the table, and we had punkin
pie, and apple-sass, and short cake, and nuteakes, and
sweet cake, and pickled cowQumbers, and sage cheese.
"' Missis Spriggins," says Aunt Huldy, "is yer tea
agreeable? "
"Yis," says she.
"Jabez is yourn?" . " Fust rate," says he.
"Mr. Wilkins, is yourn?" "Excellent," says he.
'~ Mr. Johnson is yourn?" "Delishus," says he.
Mr. Tomson is yourn?"
9*

100             WIDO IF SPRIG GJNS.                                          WIIJO If SPRIG GINS.         101

100

101


102             JYIDOIf SPRIG GINS.                                              WWDO If SPRIG GINS.           103

p

"Exquizzite," says he.
"Well now," continyd she, "do eat, and don't be
bashful do try to make out a supper:" and they all did
eat putty hearty but me - I ony took a dish of tea, and
didn't eatnotbin'..
Putty soon arter tea old Spriggins cum in a wagon arter
his wife. Aunt and uncle went in the kit~hing and I was
alone with four interesting' young men: so says I, "Gen.
tlemen, what good do ye spose it's a guayne to do ye to
take arter me? I'm undessolubly united in the bonds of
affection on Philander; I can't incurridge nary on ye."
They all put their honkerchers to their eyes - Spriggins
he lookt dretfully pleased, and says he, "Ye don't mean
me tew, 'cause ye ain't a guayne to giv me my anser till
I've larut that are you know what, and thattle be putty
soon, I tell ye.
"0!" says Wilkins says he, "don't put a momenta-
rious eend to all my hopes."
Says Tomson, " Don't break my heart by sayin' ye
'won't be mine."
Says Johnson,' " Don't, for goodness sake drive me to
desperation. and discomboberation by sich soul-diatractin'
~words
"My gracious, Mr. Johnsqn," says 1, "how much
that.are speech of yourn 'did sound like Philander," K'
"Murder!" says he; "don't mention the name of that
detistable rival." Putty soon they all went, and if ever
'there was three fellers felt bad, them are three coilidge
fellers did.
Arter they'd went I went to take a walk, and I rumbled
down' to ~he lower eend of Uncle Jonah's farm 'a moran-
tic and. secluded spot, where there was a swamp with

4
bushes all round it, and the air was impregginated with the
flagrance of thousands of lilies that growd there in gret
lugshuriance - and havin' my writing' consairns along I sot'
down~~ on a stump and convoked the aid 6f the musses as
follers :~                                A
ODE TO MEMORY.
0! memory if 'twant for thee
I should forget my lover-
And then how wretched he would be
My feelings to discover!
And gracious! I shouki be bereft
Of every consolation,
And sink right down beneath the heft
Of my sad sittyation.
Tho' troubled, I won't make no fuss,
If memory doesn't fail m'e -
I can't imagine nothing' 'wusa
That possibly could all me.
Tho' natur seems, when he ain't here,
As doleful as December-
I'd rather he'd be gone a year
Than for to disremember.
Them lilies when the sun was up
As stiff as pokers grew,
J3ut now they're jest a~ wet as sop,
And all bent down with dew.
*           So Milly's onforgitful heart
*             -is bending' down with sorrer;
I'll weep as long as we're apart,-
I wish he'd cam to-morrer.


104            WIDOW S.PRIG GINS.                                       WIDOW SPIUGGINS.           105

CHAPTER VIII.

"C~ptix~g, where's my gallant sailor,
line desirous for to know?"
"Madam, if you mean Sam Taylor,
He was married a week ago."

OLD SONG.

L, the anteceedin' week of things went on
~      urty much as they did the proceeding ; but a
{Saturday an event conspired that changed my
destination. When I went hum from my sim-
mary, lo and behold, there was a letter from Podunk for
me; and I opened it and found 'twas from father - here's
a subscription on't:
"DORTER MILLY Ourn hunt right strait off you yer
marm is to the pint of death. She was took last, week with
a dretful cramp in her side -~awfal crick in her back - blind
headache and terrible cold feet. She's talkt about her
Milly ever sen she was took, and wanted to have us send
for ye at fust, but as I reckoned she'd git up agin aforo
long - (cause she's ben took so a number of times ~nd
never died afore) I thought 'twant best to send for ye,
we've had sich peccable times ser~ ye went off; but she got
wus and wus, and now we don't have no idee she'll git
well - so ye jest cum hum as quick as ye can, and dew
make up yer mii4 to be of sum service to as when ye git
here.,                  Yer daddy,
"NADAB RUG~LEs."

Now, thinks me, my exhibition 's all knockt in the head
- (for yer must know I was perjectin to have an exhibi-
tion in my seminary) and I mustent think of nothing' now
only my beloved parent - so I buy myself on the bed
,~aiid jackelated, "0 mairciful creation! support and
strenken me in this tryin hour, and enable me to cumfort
my onfortinate mother af'ore she dies." Jest as Arnandy
did when she heard of her father's illness. Then I thought
Ide go into highsterics. So 1 begun kicking' and squallin'
and rollin' my eyes consairnedly. Aunt Huldy she heerd
ine and she cum up.
"Grandfer grievous!" says she, "what's to pay?"
"0 dear si~z!" says I, "read that are letter and ye
won't wonder at me. for my everlasting' dear mother isent
suspected to live from* one day to t'other."
"You don't~ say so," says she. So she took and read
it, and says she, "Ile go hum with ye, for I must see
Viny once more afore she dies; jump up, Milly; we'll git
reddy right off; and go in the stage when it cuins along
this evening "
"Onfeelin' woman]" says I, "how can ye tell me to
git up when I've got the highstericks so owfully!"
"I know it," says she, ~' poor child ! but then if ye
don't git over it the stage will go along afore yer reddy -
and don't ye remember how Amandy hurried to git to her
rather when she heerd he was sick." So I hopt up in the
most agonizing' state of condition and begun to giL reddy.
I put on my black rottenette gownd, and a black bomba-
zeen long shawl that mother gin 5e, Qne she wore when
she was in mourning' for Grandfer Hogobone then I tied'
a black ribbon round my bunnit, and stuck one amazing'
long black ostridge father in't. Then I stuift all the rest

104

105


(

166

WIDOW SPRIG.CINS.

of my things in my chist. and lockt it up. Whilst T was
* fixin', Aunt Huldy went out and told Uncle Jonah, and
purty soon they cum in, and says uncle, says he,
"WhyMilly, it's all nonsense~ for yer aunt to go hum
with ye."
- "I guess lie go for all you - so there, now," says aunt.
"Well," says uncle, "T shant giv ye no money to go
with. Ye never hear of any of y~r relations bein' sick
but what ye want to go and see 'em die, and cut a worth
to the funeral, and ye might better stay hum and take care
of yer family."
"Mighty family!" says Aunt Huldy, "ony one old
coot to se&amp; tew!"
"Mister and Missis," says I, '~ if ye want to qurril on
this inawlancolly ciision ~I wish ye'd retire to the kitchenary
department, and not disturb me by yer discongenial ex-
ploteration." So they went off, and I sot down and writ
the follerin' notice to my school:
* "DARLIN PUPPILS : - It is with the biggest sorrer I
* denounce to you that I shall be enable to construct you
enny more at present; and whether I shall ever consume
* the delightful task to develop yer minds enny more is a
* circumstance that lies hid in the unbeholden debts of
futrinity. I am summoned to contend the death-bed of an
only and beloved mother but I wish to desire to make
one last request of ye. I want ye all to, go to meeting' to-
morrer drest in black gownds and black ostridge fathers in
yer bpnnits, and when nieetin's out, perched to the front
of Deacon Peabody's door. range yerselves in a row
and sing the follerin' stanzy to the tune of the long meetre
* doxyology:

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

107

"Alas 1 our darling' teacher's gone,  - /
That's why we put these black gowuds on;
We can't submit to't tho' we must;
It seems as if our very hcarts would bust."
Arter supper the stage cum along, and Uncle Jonah run
out and hulled, "Pas~enger for Podunk;" so they druv
up, and we all went out, and whilst the driver was helping'
Uncle Jonah put my chist into't, I huy my arms round
Aunt Huldy and kist her agin and agin, exclamigatin',
"Farewell belovedest, darlinest Aunt Huldy may all
the biessins of Heaven be condescended upon yer." Then
I stretch out oiie hand and had t'other on my heart, and
looking' round me with a heavy sythe, says I thus: "Adool
sylvaific shades of. Higgins Patent! no longer will ye giv
a syluin to the fair Permily. Ad~oo! sweet umbraggious
shady grove where I parted with Philander - no more will
my fairy form wander amonkst yer exciudid shades, to
court the musses and think on my distant swine -II bid
ye an interminable farewell !"
There was three gentlemen in the stage, and they stared
at me consairnedly, and says one on 'em to Aunt Huldy,
"Is the young woman derangedd"
"Deraunged! no;" says she, " ony she's rather
smarter'n common folk~."
Well, I got in and we druv off. 0! if there is a
minnit in this subernary state of egsistence, when the sad
and sorrerful sperrit fells as if it wouldent giv teppence
for all ~creation, 'tis when we part with finds. It felt so
then - so I huv my head languidiously over onto the
shoulder of the man that sot aside of me, and bust into a
simmuhaneous hood of tears.
Arter Ide recovered a little I raised my droopin' head


108              WIJJO W SPRJGGINS~                                                WFDOTF SPRIG GINS.            109

and Io~kt round and I never see tew surprisder lookin'
ereetms than the men that sot opposite of' me. They
opened their eyes as big as sarcers and begun whisperin'
about me but the one next to me didn't say a ~r6rd, So
I lookt round at him and good gracious~.! he lookt so much
like Philander, (ony sum older,) that I utterated a percin'
skreik and tumbled prostracious on~ the bottom of the
stage. They all jumpt up and resisted me to rise and arter
I was beseated, says I, "Gentlemen, mabby you think
strange of me, and for fear you should entertain oranious
impressions regarding' me, lie tell ye my history, if ye'd
like to hear it." They all said they'd like to hear it wonder-
fully so I teild 'em the hull I've telld my readers; only
I couldn't remember all the poetry; but I had a coppy of
my Ode to Memory in my work pocket, and I took that
out and read it to 'em. The young man that set aside of
me said he never heerd enny thing equal to it; but the
other men didn't s~iy a word, and nary on 'em didn't speak
to me agin - they was elderly men and uncommon ruff
looking , but otherr one was a rael slick looking' feller -he
telld me he lived in Utica; and like most of the resides
of that extensive and anncient city he was uncommon gin-
teel in his appearance, and refined in his monners. Well,
purty soon we arrive at Utica, and the stage druv up to
the' stage-hoQse, and there was a lot of men standing' round
and when the young man got out, there was one run o t
~monkst from 'em and shook hands with him; so I poked
riiy head out t~ giL a better sight on him, and as true as crea-
tion, 'twas Philander! my long-lost Philander. He was
considerb]e altered, and I should thought 'twas Johnson
if he hadent a had on the same green coat With a black
velvet collar he had on when he paid his distresses to me;

but there was no mistake; so I jumpt out of the stage and
run towers him. The men all gin ~ay for me and I rushed
ahead exclamigatin, "0 Philander! my own darling' Phil..
ander! Heaven ~has at last restored you to your mourning'
but faithful Permilly."
So sayin' I buy my arms round him and ceny most had
a highateric fit. There was ever ~so many young men
standing' round, and amongst 'em I see Wilkins and Tom~.
son, and they all hoorawd. Philander, instid of returning'
my enraptured caresses, Iookt rael mad, and didn't know
what to do. At last the young man that cum in the stttge
with me says he, ~"The young woman's crazy- she's
taken my brother to be sumbody else;" and says Philan.
der, " We'd better take her into the house till the stage is
reddy." So he and his brother led me in and sot me down
on a sofy~ and all the other fellers hollered arter. Philan-
der and his brother whispered together t~ spell, and then
Philander went out, motioning' to t'other fellers to accompa~
nate him. Arter they'd all went ony Philander's brother
and me, he cum to me and says he, "Miss Iluggles;"
says I, "Hay!" says he, "I've got suthin to tell ye,
thattle no doubt make ye feel rusher bad, and tho' I'd
rather have an iron spike druv thro' me than to communi-
cate sich a piece of intelligence, yit it's my duty to do it,
and if II don't ye'll find it out sum time or other."
"Dew tell ,". says I, "my curiosity is rung up to the
biggest pitch - dew tell me."
"Well," says he, "if I must I must--- Philander's
married!"
If a thousand muskits had ben fired at my head, and a
million baggeinets run through my~ body, I shouldent a ben
more bethundersf~ruck nor no nigher killed than I was that
10


JUDO W SPRIG GLVS.          lii

110           WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

minnit. I yelled out as loud as ever I could, a~id then I
got up and took off my bunnit and laid it on the ~table, and'
begun tearing' my hair most awfully, and ravin' and
screemin' the wost way, ~o't all the folks in the house cum
running' in to* see what was the matter. Arter Ide got
coinplectly desausted I s~t down and gin vent to my scorer
in heart-spflttifl' groans~ and sythes, and thinks me, how
would Amandy acted if she'd heern Lord Mortimer was
married? There's no tellin'. But I know how she acted
when she heerd he was a guayne to be.. She lost her
appetite and growd as thin as a rail; but didn't say a
word about it to nobody - tho' she took on when she got
alone. And thinks me, like enuff Philander's torrannical
father has ben a makin' of him git i~iarried agin his inclina-
tion, jest as Lord Mortimer's father was a guayne to make
him.. So says I, "Did his cruel father impel him to git
married agin his inclination?" and 1 lookt'round to where
Philander's brother sot, and lo and behold, he want there.
I spose he was so overcum by my suffering  he couldn't
stand it, and so cleared out, and* I never see no more on
him nor Philander nyther from that day to this. I han't
no doubt but what Philander had been conducted to believe
that I was onfaithful to him. Lord Mortirner wouldn't a
wiped his old shoes on Lady Euphrasia Sutherland if he
hadent a posed Amandy was unfaithful no more would-
&amp;ntiPhilander a married anybody else if he hadn't a posed
Ide forget him, and ide be willing to bet a boss that John-
son and Wilki~is and Tomeon bad been a lyin' to him about
me; 'cause they wanted me themselves. Well, arter
thinking' on't all over I got up and. dun up my hair, and put
on my bunnit, and tho' there was more'n fox~ty {olks - men,
wimmin, and children, axin' of me questions - I dident

anser 'em nor tell 'em what aided me, but arter Ide got
fixt I went out and stood by the door till t'other stage got
reddy to go, and then I got in' aud huv my head agin the
back side of the stage and shot. up my eyes and didn't
open 'em agin whilst t'other passengers was a gittin' in,.
nor for, quite a spell arterwards: but there I sot a ponder-
in', and my ruminations was the most distressing' I ever
experienced in my born days, and whilst I was a setting' in
that persition I composed sum very mournful stauzys, and
I thought Ide write 'em off so I opend my eyes and I see
tw~s considerable daik, so't I couldn't ede the folks that
was in the stage, ony so fur as to see that they was all
men folks, and I was the ony shema~e in the stage. So
says I, "Gentlemen; I. want to write down sum poetry
and I don't see how line to do it, it's so dark."
"0!" says one on 'em says he, "I can write as well
in the dark as I can without a light. fle write it for ye if
ye'll tell me as I go long."
'lie be obleejed to ye to do it," says I: so I gin him
my pencil hind a piece of paper, and he took his hat and
writ on top oi't, (me tellin' on him a line to. once) the
follerin':
ON A LAMENT.
Did you ever see Philander?
0! he was a charming' swine;
He was tall, and he was slender;
He was honsome; he was mine.
To a maid he took a notion,
She his love did soon return,
And while he was on the oshun
She believed his heart was hem.
He Intended for. to marry;
But alas! his mind he ohaunged
Now she's ravin' like old Harry;~
He Is false, and she's deranged.

111

110


112               WIDOW SPRIG GINS.                                                    WIDOW SPIiIGGINS.               113

"That's all,"~says I, "noW giv it to me."
"0 no I" says he, "you must allow me to read it to
my friends it's exquizzite." As soon as he said that I
kn~w'd who 'twas: "Land of' liberty!" says I, "Mr.
Tomeon, is that you?"
"Egzackly," says he, "and I vow I believe this is
Miss Ruggles- IL dident know ye afc~re - and here's Mr.
Johnson and Mr. Wilkins. I hope we shall have the
pleshure of yer company to Skenackady."
"I declare," says Johnson, "this is truly a happifyin'
circumstance."
"Piy George!" says Wilkins, "we're a fortunate s~t
of fellers to be so unexpectedly favored with Miss Rug.-
gleses company."
"Hold yer jaw," says I, "yer a mean, contemptible
set of killings; I won't have nothing' to say to nary one on
'ye; so jest giv up that are poetry."
"This is strangee" says Johnson," how on airth have
we offended you?"
"Purty question for you to ax, you tarnal wretch," says
IL, 'shaking my fist in his face.
"What have we done ?"' says Tomson.
"Dun?" says IL. "Haint ye ben the means of dashin'
the dish of felicity from my lips? -~- Hlaint ye undermined
me in the affections of Philander? Haint it ben thro'
your instrumentality that he's went, and married another,
and left me to uncornboundid dispare?"
"0 yer mistaken!" says they all to once.
"I aint nyther," says. I so I atuft my fingers in my
ears and held 'em so ever so lono~. At last Tomson
begun to read the poitry he'd writ down for me out loud,
and when he'd red it the sung it to a Methodist tune.

Toinson he lined it as they do in meeting . So I took my
fingers out of my ears to listen to 'em, and says Johnson,
"Music hath charms to sooth a savid~ge! I tho't you'd get
over it."
"I hadn't got over it nyther," says I so I stuck my.
bead out of the winder and hollered "Murder! murder!"
as loud as ever I could yell. Well the houses they was
dretfully skirt, and took off as tight as ever they cDuld
pull. The driver he tried to hold 'em in, and kept a
hollering' "hoe!" but they went faster and faster, and
purty soon they went tearing' down a hill and .huv the
stage right over; and we all cum tumblin' out ~n massy
but this ere's an uncommon long chapter, so I must curn
to an eend just where I shouldn't orto.
CHAPTER IX.

"Come tell me, blue-eyed stranger,
Say whither dust thou roam,
Q'er this wide world a ranger,
Hast thou no friends nor hum?" (

OLD SoNG.

T fust IL reckoned we was all killd, but arter a spell
we found we was all alive, ony considerable stunted
but the driver was. the maddest creetur ever I
see; he cusst and swore, and &amp;tid if it hadent a
ben for me the bosses wouldent a run away. Well, there
was a house nigh by and a man and &amp;big boy cum out and
helpt 'em fix~the stage, and arter 'twa~ fixt the fellers was
10*


114             WIDOPRIf~GINS.
a guayne to help me into't agin, but says I, in a senatorial
voice, "Lemnie alone, I aint a guayne to travel a step fur-.
derwid ye!"
"Unpossible!" says all three of the fellers, "you
ustent leave us so."
"Hold yer jaw," says I, "yer a set of thundering' mean
scampers, I won't be seen in. yer company - I despise ye
more'n I dew the airth I tred 'on - I don't consider ye
worth t~irnin' my nose up, at."
"Well," says the driver, "if ye did ye wouldn't have
to do it, seem' it's aireddy arranged in' that persition."
When the driver said that, the fellers all laift consairn-
edly.
"0, lawful suz I" says I,"' ye all begin to laff, now
seem' ye can't git me. Jabez 'Spriggins teild the truth
about ye when he said ye tho't ye'd lairnt all there was to
be lairnt to Hamilton Collidge and so sot off for I)urrup
Collide to use that up tew; but I can tell ye if ye go to
all the Collidges' in Americy, ye w~~'t know B from
broomstick - so Mister Perliteness" continuedd I, ad-
dressin' the driver)~ "jest take off my chist, for lime a
guayne to stop to this ere house. "Yer chist," says he,
"~yeJl~n't no ehist." Sosays I to the man, "Mister, I
wish ye'd let yer boy there go up to Utica and get my
chi~t - they forgot to put it aboard ~'the stage." But the
driver up 'and says he, "Don't ye dew it; she han't got no
chist; she's crazy."
"Ye lie like split," says I, "I'm a young woman of
th&amp; biggest respecterbility - of Dutch distraction on the
'mother's side, and New England co sent on the father's,
and my Grandfer IRuggles fit, ble , and" died in the revo-
lutionerry tussle, and~arterward5' drawd a pension, and if

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.         115

it want for all these ere sircumstences my own individdyal
extinction would be enuff to skewer me the steam and ad-
mireation of all creation."
"Well," says the driver, " ye've got to pay as much
damrnage as if ye went to Durrup" So I' took out my.
puss and paid him and they druv off and I went into the
house; and says I to the man and woman, "That are
driver haint no reason to think I'm derannged, ony cause
I wouldent trail with' the company he's carrying , and I do
boseech on ye to send arter my chist to Utica, for it's got
all my notions in't."
"Well,"~says the man, "it's pitch dark now -.--- I can't
let JToky~go to-night, but mabby I will to-Inorrer."
"Well, then," says I, "jest give giv me a compart-
ment for I want to go into a~ state of retiracy."
"Give' ye what?" says the woman.
"Why, a room to sleep in you," says I.'
"Well," says she, "ye'll have to sleep "with Zady, for
the schoolmaster's a boarding' here this week, and he's got
the spare bed, and he's gone to bed now." So she took a
lontern and went up chamber and I hollered arter, and she
rushered me into a room that was in considerable of a
condition - there was a half a looking gla~s, an QId three
lcgg~d cheer, and an old shaken' table that would tumble
over if ye lookt at it~hard; and in the corner was a trundle
bed and a gret fat' gearl asleep on't a snorin' the wost
Way.
"Good woman," says I. "My name's Missis Hitchins,"
says she.
"Well, Missis Hitchins," says I, "ye may make yer
disappearance." So she went off, and I took the lontern
and went up and took a realizing' sense of the trundle bed;


116              WIDO If Sr1i~Ia GINS.                                          WiDOW ,SPRIG GiNS.             117

and besides the snorin' of the fleshy gearl, the uncommon
narrowness of the trundle bed was sich ~s to. render it on-
possible tQ repose there: so thinks me, I'll set up all night.
So I turned the old cheer over and sot down on't, and be-
gun to ponderate ;-~and thinks me, how much my sitty~tion
is like Amandy's when she stopt to old Byrnes ilamber-
gasted cottidge. What a pity she di4ent have my genyus
for makin' poetry - what an interesting' account she'g a gin
of her misfortins; but taint everybody that has a natural
~     genyus for't, and if it don't cum natural there's no use in
tryin' - they bought as well try to make a univairse as
to try to' make poetry without beela' naturally gifted that
way and seem' I've got' sich gret poeticle talents Ide
or'to improve 'em, and certainly the sollein sittyation line
placed in to-night should or'to inspire me with a wonder"
ful frenzy for composin'. So I lookt in my ridicule and
there want no paper there.
Just then I heerd suinbody in the contigruous room ut-
terate the terriblest percin' skreek I ever heerd in my born
days. So thinks me, sr~mbody's dyin' or sumbody's mur-
deAn', sumbody; and hem' indeed with uncommon cur-.
ridge, I ketcht the lontern and run in there - but there
want no noise nor nobody' there ony sumbody in bed; so I
Went up to the bed to ~ee whether the occerpyer was dead
or alive - and lo and behold, there was a very interesting'
looking . young man asleep there, and thinks me he had the
nightmare when he yelled so no doubt he was a dream-.
in' of his own sorrers and misfortins, for I knowd from his
looks that he want a strannger to greef. 1k had on a red.
~nightcap with a tossil on top, and a number of holes in't
thro' which his dark hair was pokin' in graceful neglitude.
0! (solliquized I,) greef has did its w9rk on that are

long thin nose and turned up the tip on't with continyl
sobbin'! greef has undoubtedly drawd down the corners
of that are mouth, and dreams of unrelentin' ennemys
pursuing' of ye has certainly skairt ye to sidh an alarming
degree as to make 'yer ears start out so and bust them.
holes in yer nightcap! peace to yer ashes, mournin' swine.
So sayin' I turned round to go out, when I obsairved sum
paper lyin' on the table. So I reckoned Ide help myself
to a sheet on't to write sum poetry on; but seem' an ink-.
stand and pei~ there thinks nje, lie write here cause. this
ere table don't shake so as t'other does. So I drawd up a
cheer and sot down, and my medifkations resulted in the
follerin' confusion:
Who knows but what I'm setting' nigh
To sum extinguished stranger,
That from his hum was forced to fly
O'er this wide world a ranger.
Mabby his father was onkind,
And tried to make him wed
Sum geari that wasent to his mind,
And so from hum he fled.

Tho' others blame ye, mournj~~ man,
T~ie fafr Permllly'll praise ye,
Because ye~wouk1
entjineyerhand
To disbeloved J~uphrashy.
Wake I long-nosed marquis! lord or earl,
Open your eyes and see
A mourning , pinin', weeping' geart
To simpathise with thee.
Oh dear! if you knowd my distress,
I'm sure ~ raise yer dander,
For now I mourn the onfalthi~ilneas
Ot my once true ?hilander!

*

116

117


118.            WIDOW SPRIa~c INS.                                            WIDOW SPRIGGINS.              119

And like enuff (for taint oncomfllOn
For earls to git the mitten),
That you've ben shipped by sum young woman,
And now yer hearts splittin'.
reace to yer ashes, sleeping' swine,
Dear brokeu4iearted creetur,
'Tis ~IiIIy Ruggles, writes these lines,
.Whe~i morning' cums ye'11 meet her.
When Ide writ this affeetin' poem, I laid it in Pike's
Rithtnetick I see lyin' there; then I turned to take one
more look of the young man ~ab~ed - and whether or no
the lontern shining' in his eyes woke him up or* not I don't
know; enny how he opened his eyes and lookt up at me;
arter starin' at me a spell with the biggest wonderation
depictere~ on his phizziogermy, says he to me, says he,
"Jimmini! ~ho in the name of wonder be you?"
"lDon't ax who I be," says I, "jest look in Pike's
rithuietick and that-tie giv ye the denowment who I be."
"Pike's Rithmetie," says he, "I know a manah~ut my
size that can find out eeny most ennything by studdyin'
out on't - but by gum! I don't see how True to find who
you be if I cipher out on't from now to next never.
"Well ," says I, "you look right next the kiver and
you'll~see." So sayin' II made a curohy and vanished, into
t'other room leaving' my lonter~2l behind.
Arter I. went out Iii listened to the door and heerd him.
git up and go to the table and read the confusion out loud.
Arter he'd read it, says he,, "Jimmini 1" a number of
times - then I heerd him a mendin' a pen. and then he
* begun to write and writ for. ever so long. At last I got
tired listening , so I tho't ide set down agin; but as I went
to beseat myself I got on the wrong eend of the cheer -

N

(ye know 'twas turned down) - and it let me right onto
the floor, and it made sich a rackit it woke, up Zady, and
she bollerd out; "Gmndfer Griffin! what in nature's to
pay?" I never said a word. "Arter all," solliquized
she, "mabby~ 'twan't nothing ' but me dreamin'." So sayin'
she gin two or three grunts and turned over and Went to
sleep agin. So I got up, fixt the cheer, and sot down
strait, laid my head on the table and went to sleep, and
didn't wake up agin till morning ; and then my neck was
so .stiff holding' on't so long in that betwistid persition that
J couldent scerce move it for ever 80 long. As soon as it
got limberd a little I riz and arranged my dres~ and went
down stairs, 'leavin' Zady sound asleep. The ~~an and
woman was up, and art~r a. spell Zady got up and cmii
thumpin' down. I was- setting' behind the door so she did-
ent ~ee me, and she took tew pails and went off to inilkin',
and the woman begun to get breckfust, and says she,
"Young woman, ye'll have- to be sairved as the rest on
us be -for the master's got to 'have the silver spoon~
and the chany teacup and sarce~."
"Well, I-don't ker,~" says I, "Amandy had to drink
ut of a noggin to old Byrnes." /
." Who had tew??' says she.
"Aryiandy Fitzalan," says I.
"Sumbody I don't know," says she.
Then she went out to pull suri inyons, and ~vhi1st she
was gone~ the master cum down he didn't see me so
I kehawked and he lookt round.
"Good mornun', Miss Ruggles," says he, makin' a
scraping' bow.
"Good mornun' to yer lordship," says I, curchyun'.
Says he,"' I feel ex~trornary honored by the visit ye


120             WIDOW SrRIGGINS.                                         WIDOW SPRIG GIATS.          121

made me last night - and that poetry! Jimmini, it's fine!
I couldn't rest till ide writ an anser to 'it - for line a poit
of~ considerable merrit myself- I've had a number of arti~
des printed in that are well-conductid perryodical, the
Mohawk Meteor and Marcy Republican.. You've on-
doubtidly seen and admired the poetical contributions
signed 'The Mudhow Minstrel;' them's 'mine. I'm no
stranger to yer reputation, Miss Ru~ggIes, for line an inti-
mit' find of young Spriggins - a gret 'admirer of yourn
and he and I corrisponds; his pistles is full of your
praises, so. that my curiosity to behold ye had arrive to a
wonderful pitch, but Ide no idee of it's bein gratifacted in
the interesting' manner it was by yer morantic visitation
last night."
"But," says I, interruption' him, "ye said how't ye
writ an anser to my poiin. II should like to see it."
So he put his hand in his pocket and took out a fol&amp;d
paper containing' 45 amazing' putty vairses, and tho' it
would take tew much time to cop~y 'em all, I can't help
substractiri' a few on 'em. Arter guayne on to say how't
he want asleep when I went into his room, but ony "per~
tending' for to sleep," he continnys in the follerin manner:
"0! slob a face I never see
Sence Ion airth was born!
'Twas brightest noonday's sun to me,
With lflusbing hues of morn.
"And then I seen you starin' round,
Jest Iik~ sum creetur's ghost,
That cuin to lind, from buder ground,
Sumthin' it had lost.
"And then i~iy pen I s~ez~ you take,
My pape; ink, and cheer,

And then set down an for to make
That poetry so dear.
"And o'er the'sheet the pen you drew,
In rhymink fury 'dashing,
And from yer eyes the idees flew,
Like lightning bugs a flashing."
Here comes in a number of stanzys about Mister
Shakespeare, rollin' frenzy, &amp;o.; and then he goes on,
"And when you'd got it writ, you took
And put it in my 1'ike-..
That jewel of a ciphering book-
You must a knowd I like.
"Dy day I read that arithmetic,
It bccerples my slumbers,
'Twas there Ilearut to rhyme so slick,
-   ''And got so skilled In numbers.
"My streekid sky's ben black and blue,
A world of botheratlon,
As you have ben, so I've ben through
A sight of tribulation."
Then he goes on to tell about his sorrers - ho~'t he'd
ben in love a number of'timesand always got the mitten,
and so finally made up his mind not t~ try no more
but taint woth while to subscribe that part, as there's 18
vairses on't. So he contains,
"Alit Shakespeare says,.-"
(I spose this Mr. Shakespeare's sum intimit frind of'
'hissen.)
"' Ab I Shakespeare says, and Shakespeare knew,
(To you and ~me that's plain).-
That true Jove never did run true,
nut always oro~s the grain."
11

V

t


Ii
t I'
.~ I
d
1~
Ii

WIDOW SPRIGGIN~
4
CHAPTER X.

Then he goes on through a number of stanzys to dis-
cribe the oncerting natur of love - the coldness of the
world in general, and the shemale sect1 in perticler - the
trials that genyus has to undergQ and at last eends as
follers, -
"Now sence in rhyme my woes and struggles
lye had a chance to po~Ir ~
lie jest subscribe myself, Miss Ruggles,
Your friend, P. ZEBIDEFJ GGBUM."
I didn't read all the poetry then; I put it in my ridi-
cule, and arter thanking' the master for't, says I, "I hope
ye won't tell these folks about my guayne inter yer chom-
* ber last night; cause if ye dew they'll think the driver
telid the truth when he said I was crazy."
*   "0! 1 won~. mention it," says he, "but how on airth
did you git here?"
I was jest a guayne to conform him, when Missis
Hitohins and 1Zady and the old man cum in. Zady was
bethunderstruck to see me, and they was all supprized
enuff when the master introduced me to 'em. Arter that
they was amazing' perlite. Well, we sot down to breck-
fust but I must resairve whet concurred that day ('twas
Sabberday ye know) for another chapter.

122             WYDO W ~PRIGGIAtS'.                                                                      123

I

"01 Sangerfield
Where is thy shield
To gard agin grim death!
lie aims his gun
At ever9~ene,
And lires away their breath!"
SANGERFIELD HUDDLE BARD.
RTER breckfust I axed Mr. Hitchins if iloky mut
go arter my chist, and he said seem' 'twas me and
seem' 'twas a case of necesserty he bought, tho'
was agin his principles to ride anywhere a Sab..
berday ony to meeting . So Hoky he put op his Sundy
clus, and taller his hair, and harnessed the hoses to the
wagging and sot off for Utica, and he cum hum in about
tew hours. Missis Hitchins axed me to go to meeting' with
'em - (they attended dervine sairvice to Nev&amp; Hartford,
about a mild from there,) but I telid her ide rather wait
till afternoon, cause my chist hadent arrive yit.
"Well," says she, "we shant be hum a noontime,, so
how'U ye find the way to meeting ? "
".0!" s~ys Mr. P. Zebidee Gorum, "Be* stay till
afternoon and so go with Miss Rugglea~"
"Well," says she, "if ye want anything to eat ye'll
find a platter of nutcakes in the cubberd, and sun~.heese
on the buttery shelf."
So she aud Mr. Hitchins and Zady sot off for meeting ,

122

123


h
n
if

IIYDO W SPRIG GIYS'.

and II and the master was left alone together,- and we con-
~ vairsed about things in general, and I discovered that Mr.
Gorum was a young man of uncommon bright immagin
nation and highly cultivated mind, * I axed him to write
me an ode on the death &amp;f my mother.
"Is yer mother dead?" says he.
"No," says I, "but I suspect she will be by the time
I get hum." So sayin' I put my honkercher to my eyes,
and was dretfully overcum for a spell.
Bymeby Hoky arrive with my chist, and as I was a
guayne out in the stage that evening' I reckoned I wouldn't
have it carried up chamber. So I took out my kee and
unlocked it, and took out sick articles as I contended to
put' on, and went up into Zady'8 room and arranged my
apparril.
Deem' a very warm dayl tho't I wouldn't wear no bun-
nit to nieetin'. So I done up my auburn treasis with my
bigh-toppt comb, tied my six black oshidge feathers together
with 'a black ribbing and stuck 'em in my head - ye know
I had on my black rottenette gownd - wells I rolled 'up
the sleeves to make 'em. look ~short, and put on my long
black cambriek gloves, then ]~4~iv my black 'long shawl
round my neck and pined it down on one holder with a
black bow' with tew eends to't much as a yard and a half
'long, then I loo~t the skeart of my gQwnd up on one side
and pined a black bow on't and my 'dress was completed,
and certingly if ever a creetur lookt interesting' I did, that
minnit in my mournin' habileations.
Arter I was drest I condesendid, and I never see a sur-
prisdex~' creetur than the master was - he w~s quite over-
cum' with admireation, and declared that he never see a
more charinin' appearance than what I ~ereented all in

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

125

black. Well he went into the buttery and brung me a
piece of cheese on a f9rk, and then he went to the cubberd
and fetched me a wonderful long nutcake on another fork.
Then he helpt himself and arter we'd eat 'em he said 'twas
time to be guayne. So I took my parrysol and we lockt
ar~ns and off we sot for meeting, and I don't bleeve that
tew more interesting' beeins ever prerambleated the scrub..
urbs of New Hartford afore oi~ sen.' Mr. Gorum was
drest with the biggest taste; he had on a bug-tailed yaller
thin coat and nankeen trowsis. Well, we walkt purty
slow and when we got to meetiii' the folks had most on
~em 'arrove there, and as he walkt up the broad ile the peo..
pIe stared at us as if they was bethunderstruck. The miii-
ister wa~ a reading' the sam, and be stoppt as much as a
minnit; but Missis Hitchins and Zady was surprisder than
anybody else. I never extracted so much attention inniy
life as I did that day in the New Hartford presbiteerian
ineetin' house -~ once' in the sairmon 'the minister illuded to
the sorrers and disappointment of airth, and I groaned out
loud, and everybody lookt round at me, and' sum ~nfeelin
folks laift; then the minister he 'lookt awful r~iad, and
stopping' right short in his dizeourse, says he," My f'riuds,
the sanctooerry aint no place to be' merry." So they
stoppt laffin, and the 'men folks generally stoppt staring' ~
'but' the winnmin folks couldent help peekin' round once in
a while.
- Bymeby. meeting' was out and we went hum, and arter
tea I arranged my dress for traveling', and about six
o'clock the stage cum along. I. axed Mr. Hitchins what
was the dammidge, but 'he wouldn't. take nothing . So I
thanked him and. then I had a ~very affectionit partin' with
Mr. Gotum, ('he was ividentjy' took 'with' me) and then I

124


dl
I'
H
ii'
III
i}
Ii
I
I
Ii
II

WIDO Jr SPRIG GINS.

got into the stage and started for Podunk. There was five
men folks in~ the stage; all on 'em uncommon muffins but
one, and he was sich an attracktyve man I can't help de-
scribin' on him; he had &amp; 'very dignified but summat
stairrin' phizziog~rmy - tho' when he addressed himself to
rue a brand smile played over his feeders but I never see
the beat of hisconversationable powers afore 'nor sen. The
otI~er passengers was electrificated by his eloquation, and
didn't say but very little, and no wonder! He was talking '
about Utica~ when I got ~ and it was evident that he was
a resider qf-that citty.~ ~
"GentP~men," says he, "our citty is the centre of the
State - I may say of the United States. It is as remark-
erbJe for its intairnal arrangements as it is for the
enlightenment and information of its inhabiters. It is
in all respects very fur previous to Phelideiphy. New York
itself can't hold a candle to it. Gentlemen! where will
ye find such refinement of manners and elegance of ap-
peerence as the ladies of our city pozzess? and where sich
intellectitude of mind - sich profundity of talents
sich overwhelming and captivatin' abillyties as our men of
sighence egsibit? our young men partickleary I may
saf~Iy say they are previous to any other young men in
the ~Jnited States, and subsequent to nun in the univairse."
TheiIturnino~ to me with a ravhin' smile, says he, "Mum,
have ye ever been in Utica, mum
"Yis," says I, syin' "I was there yesterday under
very distres~in' circumstances."
"Ab!" says he, with a very greacef'ul inclination of
his boddy, "may V enquirer what distressing' ok-kurrence
ok-kurred? ~' S&amp; I countered the hull' of my history
frqm beginning' to eend, and when Ide finnishid, says he,
with another graceful inclination, -

126

WIDOW SPRIGGINS.               127.
"It seems to me, mum, you've hen the artifisher of yer
own misfortins by givin' way to the sensibilitude with
which you are indew~d by natur' the egshuberance of
your imagination and, vivacitude of your sperrits has in.
timely outstript your discretionary powers, mum."
Jest then we cam to Little Falls, and the four codgers
got out and a remarkerbie ginteel woman and a little boy
about five year old got in. It was considerable dark and I
couldn't see her feeters extinctly, but putty soon she 'spoke
to the little boy, and I recognatid her voice in a minnit.
"Goody gracious, Miss Van Dusen!" says I.
"Maircifal heavens! my dear Permilly!" says she -
and we buy ourselves into one another's arms.
0! if 'there is a minnit when the heart-broken sperrit
feels as if it would go off the handle with joy, 'tis when long
severatid friends onexpectedly meets! For a spell we
strained one another in a silentimbrace without utteratin'
a sillybull pny jackilation -" 0! Miss Van Dusen!"
"0! Permilly!" at which Mr. Spluttergut, the gentle-
man from Utica, -seemed much affected. When we was
recoveratid from. ~ur jouful surprise I axed her ~where she
was guayne, and she conformed me that she was a guayne
to visit her i"elatyves in iDurrup, and that she had ben
married ~a number of year to Squire Stokes,. one Qf the fust
men in Little Falls.
~' Do tell 1" says I, "and is this ere sweet little cheru-
bim yer son?"*.
"Yis,"' anserd she, "my on'y son."
"What's yer name, you little d~arlin'?" says I, kissing'
of him'~- but instid of anserin' ,he begun to belIer, and his
mother said he. was dretful sensatyve~; always cry'd when
stranngers spoke to him -." his name's Lord Mortimer,"


F
H
I
I I
H'
ti~ I
Ii
ii
4'
I'

WIDO If ~srRIG GINS.

continyd she, "1 wanted to giv him a cognomer that wo'd
sound 'well in congress I intend he shall write it 'L.
Mortimer' Stokes.'"
"'Charmin' name," says I. Then she axed me where I
was guuyne? And I begun to the heginnin' of my history
arter I left her seminary and tell'd her the bull, and she
was very much affectid.
"0!" says she,."~~~wd that yer sensaty've and mo-
rantic nater would have to suffer wonderfully from the cold
onfeelin~ world." Then she went on ~dvisin' of me to re-
ci~perate Jabezes affection, sayin' that a heart like hisen
was woth possession , and more'n all that 'twas time I. was
~settled down.
Well, bime-by we arrive to Durrup, (or Skenackedy,
as 'sum calls it,) and Missis Stokes invited me to 'accompa-.
nate her to her father-in-law's and becin' eeny most tired
out, for we'de rid all night, I thought I would. So we
got out and I ax~ed Mr. Spluttergut to call on me if ever
he ciim our way, and he wanted to be conformed where F
resided; and I tell'd him in the villidge of Podunk. "Ah,
egzactly," says he, ~with a graceful inolineation, "I re-
member the loquation very well now it's a short distance
previous to Schaticoke."
"Jest so," says I. So then we sepperati4, and I never
see a bow that was a sircumstence to the one he made a&amp;
our partin'~
Then my former instructoress and me winded our way
to Mr. Stokesis, and the old folks was wonderful glad to
see Silly, as they called her,. (her name was Prisilly miter-
ally,) and I raly tho't they'd eat up little Lord Mortimer,
and they was very perlite to me tew, and said that if Ide
stay till arter dinner they'd send m~ hum in their wagging,

WIDOW SPRIG GINS.

'129'

and so I concluded I would, "-tho' ev'ry minnit," jackilatid
I,." that restrains me from my adored mother seems like
an eternity of a hundred year." Well, we had dinner, and
then Philo Stokes - the old folksis youngest son got
the wagging reddy, and arter tellin' the Stokesis to cum to
Podunk, Missis Silly Stokes perticklearly, and imbracin'
her tenderly, I and my chist, and Philo set off for Podunk.
We got there about 4 o'clock, and as we was a drivin' into
the villidge, I cryin' and ringin' my hands distractiously,
we met Mr. ~mith, the ~nfeelin' postmaster, and says
he,-
"No wonder ye cry; ye've ben the means of yer poor
mother
"Benthe means on her," says I.
"Yis," anserd he, "' Missis Smith says she haint a
doubt but what 'twas takin' on about you sot her into the
dizorder she died on she was.. berried yesterday."
When he said that I sunk faintin' away in the 1~ottom of
the wagging jest as Amandy did when' her father died -
and I remaindid onsensible till we got to fathet"s. Philo
was eny most skeart to death. "What ails yen?" says he.
"I've fainted away," retorted I, "ye must git ~umbody
to ~help ye lift me out when we-git to father's." So he
druv as tight as ever he could and eny most jolted me ~to
death, 'and seem' father to work in the feeld he hollered to
him.
"Iluilo! Mr. Ruggles, cum and help git yer porter
out of the wagging she says she's faintid away." So
father he cum, and he and Philo hawld me out head fust
and eny most kilt me doin' on't. Ketury she cum running'
out, and with her resistancee I manidged to git into the
house 'and onto the i5ed. Ketury she sot down aside of me

128


130             unDo w I~PRIa GINS.                                           WIDOW 'SJG~fl~.              131

and father he sot down and went to ending' the hoe
handle.
Arter ide staid onsensible a spell, I.open'd my eyes and
says I, "Is it true that my belovid mother's deaa?"
"xis," says father says he, "dead as a door nail, and I
hope now you've cum hum ye'll try to behave betleAl ye
did afore ye went away - there's enuff to be did; for sen
Mirtilly got married, ev'ry thing's gone to rack."
"Mirtilly marred?" interrigorid I.
"Yis," says father, "she's married merchant Van
Snorter and did well tew he's a inahin' ~noney fast."
"/Grandfer grievous I" says II, "well, I 'spose Jake
jest took her 'cause she was my sister; but she's a fool to
git married so young, she's six year younger'n I be."
"She may be," says father, "and not be no chicken
nyther the fact is, Milly, you're gittin' along, and lie
bet a beef critter ye'll be an old maid."
"Me an old maid?" says 1, "lie tell ye what, old
feller, there's more young men khan you could shake a stick
at that would jump sky' high to git me."
I gess they'd jump sky high arter they'd got ye."
says he.
II lookt at my hoggish parent with a look of suverin'
contempt, and riz up and went into my chamber Ketury,,
follerin' ~- and I tell'd Ketury I wanted to visit my mother's
grave, and she said she'd, go long. So I huv Ketury's
black vail over my head put my pencil and paper in my
ridicule - and we sot off. As we went along, me groaning'
an4 ~obbin' the wosf way, ev'ryboddy stared out of the
ho~iseri at me; but I never lookt at nobody. Well, we,
curn '~o 'the gif~ve~y~ard and clum over the, fence and went
up to' in~aher's grave. It had ben a' raining' and. the grass

was as~ wet asimuok, but what did I ker! I huv ~rnyself
onto the ground and gin utteration to my greef' jest as.
Arnandy did at her mother's grave. "0!" says I, "it
would a ben better if this spot had a received both the
mother and the porter at the same minnit; better by a jug
full than for me to live to mourn over blastid hops and ag-.
onizin' vikissitudes! but how perzumptnous am I to ropine
at the will of creation I" Sich was my words at my
mother's grave, where I sot
"Like a fair lilly surcharged with tears." *
Then IL tell'd Ketury she needent wait for me so she
went hum - and I todk out my pencil and paper and writ
the follerin' stanzys in about 15 minnite:
TEE DI5ArI'INTEP.
"01 what a cat-a-strophy dire
InPodunk did befall,
When she was called for to Ixpire,
And leave us mourning' all.
0! never was there greef afore
Like that of poor rermilly:
That fair and interesting' flower:
That pale and droopin' lilly.
My heart Is broke; my P. estraxinged,
*          My fond affections crushed,
My plans of futur' bliss deranged,
And all my prospects squshed.
The world onfeelin', cruil, cold,
Looka on with wondering . eye,
~Iy misery for to behold
I certainly shall die.
* Ohll4ern of the Abby: don?~remernber which chapter.


132                                                                        WIDOW S2'RIGGINS.             133

WIDOW SPRIGGINS.
And when at last my heart-strings snap,
And all my woes is dun,
0 take the follerin' epitaj~
And 'scribe it on my stun:

"Of stranger, stop and wipe yer eyes~
And spend a min~iit weeping ;
A broken-hearted sperrit lies
Deneath this tombatun sleeping. "
I soon arter sent these vairses to Mr. Gorum, and he
had 'em insairted in "The Mohawk Meteor and Marcy
Republican," with the following' paragrab atop of 'em.
"The insulin' eloquent and touching' stanzys are from the
quill of a young lady, who, tho' yit in the highday of
* youthful facksination, is ividently dyin' of a broken heart
- her most sangunary prospects blited in the bud. What
heart will not bust! What soul will not dissolve! What
~
gizzard will not split, on peruse 'em dictated as they be
* by ginnuine inspirationn" Arter Ide compleatid 'em I
returned to the poternal ruff.
NOTE A BEAN. -Mr. eddyter: In general I've been very much gratifacted by
the manner in which you or your men folks has printed my life; there ain't but
jest one thing I feel to complain on, and that is, the way ye spell my mother's
name. 'Twant Vine nore Ving, as It's ben onvariably printed in your paper, but
it was Viny. I ony write this for to Jet folks know how't my moternal parent
hadent sick a barbarious cognomer as what they spose for.

CHAPTER XL.
"Now the capting loved her dearly,
Loved her as he did his life,
And seem' she wasleft so dearly,
Sally became the capting's wife."
~    ELL, tew weeks passed away in the most molan-
~ T choly monjier the state of my mind wouldn't
admit me to engage in no o&amp;Wrpation if Ide a
wanted tew. Father he jawe4 cause I didn't
work, and Nadab and Abihu made fun on me. I dident
do nothing' but romnble in the woods and medders mourning'
and making poetry. On the hull my sittyation was most
miserably interesting . I tell ye I mist the Childern of the
Abby (Spriggii~s had it .ye know). If ide a had that
would a ben a gret comfort to me, and the circumstence
of my thinking' so much about the enchanting' vollums con-
duced me sumtimes to think about the swine ide lent 'em
tew, and thinks me, he's more like Lord Mortimer arter
all than ary feller I ever knowd, for he sticks to me thro'
thick and thin jest as Lord Mortimer did to Amandy, and
then I remember Mis~is Stokeses advice to me in the
stage, and putting' all things together, my feelings wascon-
siderable changed, and Ii felt my sentimints towers the
youthful Jabez grown oncommon~tender.
0! woman is a fraggIe~,. and loyin' creetur. The she..
male heart is s~ chuck full of. affection that its purty on-
12

132


-U

135

134

WIDOW sPRIGtaINs.

WIDOW SPRIG GIN~

possible to use it all up on one bein'. Who, I ax, would
want to live in this ere cold, onf'eelin' world without a.
4dndred sperret to share its joys and sorrers with? and
when the swine that a young woman has placed her affec..
tions on prove constant it's a pity if she maytent bestow
her heart on another more worthier one, and I haint a
speck of doubt but what Amandy'd a married Sir Charles
Bingley if Lord Mortimer had a ben raly faithless, and
it's a pity if I've got to be a dried up old maid jest a cause
Philander got married.
Sich was my circumfiexions as I sot one day under the
gret ellum tree that growd afore our house. I must a
lookt very interesting' a setting' there in profound pondera-
tion. 1 had on a black skeart, and over it my white long
short with a~ row of black crape loopt up round the bottom
on't; then I had my leno vail wound round my head. for
a turbine, and my ostridge feathers stuck into't, and there 'I
sot a leani4' on my ~lbow, now sythin' and now wipin' off
a tear LhaVstrickled down my cheek. Arter continuing' my
modifications a spell, I took out my pencil and writ the
follerin' piece of blank poitry : -
*          A FRAGMENT.
0! she was fair I no angel ever was
Nor ever could be fairer than Permilly;
Her auburn hair In greaoef&amp;al tresses did
Hang down upon her holders only jest
When she did stick it up with her high comb.
Her eyes was blue, her skin was snowy, and
Her cheeks was red as roses olily jest
When she was In distress, then they was as
White as tew limes: butneverstandin' all
Her beauty and her chai~ms, she had a~ much
Trouble as any creetur ever had.
The swine she loyed so well w~as faithless and
Went off and wed another maid; and then

* It second as if Fermilly's heart would bust.
0! what a tender thing the shemale heart 1st
$o crammin', jamrKlin', full of love and truth,.
And faith, and hope, and pure affection, and
Some other things tqo numerous to mention I
No wonder when it's stuft so dretful full
A little blow should bust it ---for it rAust
Be indent to all obsairvin' folks
That when it's fihid so full, the skin outside
Must be streckt dretfully and always in
Danger of bustin~. - So IPermilly's heart
Has bust, and all the overplus run out,
But still there's quite a considerable of
Love and affection in it yit, and she
Has purty nigh made up her mind to giv
What's left to some more worthier object than
The faithless one. 0 1 haste upon the wings of
Lovemy dear Jabez -your Permily feels as
If she could seart~ely wait a minnit longer
For to behold thee, Jabez ..-Jabez, haste.
I
When Ide finished writing' the oversuin' lines I was jest,
a guayne to retire into the house when I heerd sumbody
blowin' hi~. nose; so I lookt up the road and as sure as
Tine a hvin' creetur 'twas Jabez Spriggins a hoesback.
The niinnit I see him I run down street to meet him, and
when he see me cuminin' he got right off his hose and c~un
towers me. Well, I run right up and ketelit holt on him,
exciamigatin', "0! my Jabezl I'me overjoiced to see
~
He lookt wonderful surprised, and says he, "I dident
suspect to find ye so cosy, but I'm dared glad ye be.
The minnit I heerd ye'd cum hum I detaix'mined to follow
ye, but I had to wait till my.quarter was out afore I could
cum, and the fust day arter my quarter was out I got on
my creetur and sot off arter ye for fear I should lose ye if
I dident hurry - I've got that are speech of Lord Morti-
f


C'

136

WWO w" ~PRIGGINS.

mer's ~all by heart; ben a' sayin' on't over all along the
ro~ils so's not to forget it, and I rather guess I can say the
hull on't without~missin' a word."
Well, I ushered him into the square room and, sot
down~ and he cum up to me and says he to me, "To call
you mine is ~he height of my wishes on your derision!
I rest for happiness. 0! my Amandy I
*" Say '0! my Permilly I "' says IL
"0! my Permilly! 01 my Permilly I -.-.there I
swon I've got up a stump," says he.
"No matter," says I, "you've proved to my satisfica-.
tion the devotedness of yer a~taehxnent, and lie be yourn. '.'
"'Will, hay?" says he.
"Yis," says I, "now ye must imprint a kiss on my
rosy cheek." So he went to kiss me and whiskt off my
turbine. Arter ide got my turbine adjusted agin, says he,
"'Well, when will you be reddy to giL married?"
"'Right off," says I.
"Well,"' says he, "fle go and talk to the old man
about' it."
"No, ye needn't," says I, "father never'll consent on
airth - he's dretfully opposed to my gittin' married but
Tie have ye neverstandin', and TIe tell ye how we'll man~
age. You git on yei~ hose and go strait to Utica and wait
* there till I cum, and TIe contrive to get there afore lon&amp;'
"That's the checker," says he.
SQ he surmounted his hose and rid off, and I went in and
teild Ketury all about it, eau~e I knowa she wouldent tell
nobody. Says I, "I sht*ll clear right out, and if father
axes arter me you tell him~ I've gone over to Skaticoke to
~ee Mirtilly" (Mfrtilly h~d moved to Skaticoke). Ketury
was dretful pleased a~tid said she'd ik jest as I telid her to;

WIDQIY SPRIG GINS.

137

and she promised to have my chist sent over to me as soon
as possible. So she and I we took a gret Work pockit~ and
put my consairns into't that'~ I wanted to be married.in -
then I put on my travellin' habileations and arter imbracin'
Ketury ii sot off, for Dorrup. Well, 'twas five mile there,
and when I got therethe stage had went nut. So I went
over to~ old Mister Stokeses~ and telid 'em Ide found my
mother dead and concluded to go right back to Higgins
Patent cause Ide ort to be in my simminary. Well, they
telld me that old Mr. Stokes was a guayne to Utica in the
inornin' on bizness in his own waggin, and if I was a mind
to I mut go with him. "Well," says I, "I reckon I
will."
"But," says Missis Stokes, "where's yer chist ?"
"0!" says I, "I reckoned I wouldent be bothered with
it, and they're a guayne to send it on." Well, I stayd
there all night, and in the morning' we sot off for Utica.
Old Stokes didn't drive very tight, and so we was three
days a guayne to Utica - but as I waiit to 'eend my Rec-
ollections in this chapter, I won't tell nothing' about the
jerney, tho' it was quite eventerful.
We arrive to Utica jest at the edge of the evening' and
stoppt to Baggeis tavern, and I axt for a room and 'then I
drest myself as follere. I opend my gret ridicule and took
out my white long short and put it on,, and thinking' Ide.
"ort to have sum colors about me I betwisted a yaller ribbin
round the black crape trimmin' on the bottom on't - then
I put on my blue sash, and huv my artifishel reath ker-.
lessly round my shoulders, then I done up my hair with my
high-toppt comb - took my leno vail a~pd fastened one
eend 9n't into my comb, and so lat it float over my shol-
ders then I stuck my six. ostridge fethers ~in on side of
12*


138            WIDOW SZ'RIGCINS.                                          wwo w spRiaajys.           13~

my com~b, and tied a pink ribbin round my head to keep'
'~m in - and I tell ye I did look compleat.
Beein' thus attired I took my parrysol and sot out to
look up Spriggins, and you nevei' in all yer born days see
sich a staring' as there was whilst I walkt up Ginnisee
Street - everybody cum to the doors and wonders, and
evet' so menny men and boys followed artei~, me a hoorawin'
and inakin' a terrible fuss - but I was so akustomed to
admiration I 'didi~'t mind it a bit, but plummenaded 'along
with the biggest onconsairn and dignitude. Well, arter
preambleatin' a number of 'streets, finally I cum round to
~a place they called the "Reading. Room," and I stopt to
the door and looked in. The room was full of' gentlemen,
and ~is sure 'as a gun, in the midst on 'em was Mister
Spluttergut (the gentleman I met in the stage), and he
was a harangewin on 'em with the most oncomparalleled
eloquence, and they was all a listening' with 'the biggest
attention~
Well, whilst I vi~as a listening' to the s1~rprisin' and capti-.
vatin' .sentinAents he' pored forth' consairnii~' railroads and
canals, I see suthin' yaller 'a sticking' up amonket a mess
of beads' in the fur eend of the room, and whilst I was a
w6nderin' what 'twas, the heads moved, and lo and be-.
'hold! 'twas the tip top of Jabezes hair. As soon as I
see him I skrield out, "My Jabez 4 My Jabez!" and
rushed into the room - Jabez he' see me and he lookt sur-
prised enuff- we squoze thro' the men, and when~ we
reach one another I buy myself' fainting' into the arms of
my adoring' Spriggins. I never see a surprieder set' of
folks than the men in' the Utica Readin' Room was that
minnit. 'They all gin way and fixt a seat for me -~- even
Mist~r Spluttergut stopt ~his harangew, exelarnigatin',
"Quite an ok-kurrence."

Well, arter a sp4l one of the young men hild a lit segar
to my nose, and that fetcht me tew. So I riz up and takin'
hold of Sprigginses arm we perceedid to Baggses hotel.
Arter we arrive there Jabez axed me whether ide be mar-
ried there or wait till we got to Higgins Patent.
"0 here, certingly," says I, "in this ere celebrated ho-.
tel in the ginteelest siLty in creation."
So Spriggins went arter the justice, and there we was
married. As soon as the serrynnony was overdone, husband
he caild for~ some pie and cheese, and after weed eat it he
brun~ up his hoss, and as soon as ide arranged my tray-.
ellin' dress, he surmounted his creetur, and I, resisted by
a number of gentlemen, got on behind him, and I sonny
II bleevo the hull town of Utica was collected to see us go,
and wh~n we whipt up the hoss and sot off, they gin three
all-to-pieces cheers, in honor of us. ' Well, we went as
fast as the hoss could go with sich an. uncommon heft and'
arrove to Higgins Patent about leven 'o'clock at night.
Mother and Father Spriggins was abed, but they got up
and I tell' ye they was awful glad to see me. The neit
afternoon Aun~t Hukly made quite an extensive set down
'~f'or me', and if I didn't cut a worth it's no matter. -But I'
hadent ort to be tellin' what took place arter we was
married - 'cause the Childern of the Abby don't say a word
consairnin Amandy arter h~r marriage no more don't no
dther novil I ever read say nothing' about the heroines
arter they git married. Howsumever, I can't help' tellin'
how't we took a bridle tour the next week to all~ the most
eclebratid places in the entry - Utica, Rome,. Whites-.
burrow, Sockwait Springs, and Verona Spa - and I kept
a jernal along the road, and when P. Zebidee Gorum cum
a yi5itifl' to see us I showed it to him, and' it. afforded him

b
C


140           WIDOW SI'RZGCIN&amp;

.If

the biggest satisfication; and it's in my persession yit -
and mabby at sum futur day lie lay it afore the public.
"Theeend of all the woes and struggles,
-   And trials of Permilly Buggies."
NOTE A BEAN. Mister eddyter: You ondoutedly know
that arter injoyin' 15 year of the biggest conjuggial 'felic~
itude, my adored companion, my beloved Jabe~z, was took
from me by a dizeaze in the spine of his back; but mabby
you've never ben conformed that arter mourning' the wost
way for eeve~l year I finally united my destination to that
of P. Zebidee Gorum, (now deaconGorum,) he havin',~ ben
married and lost his pardneT. My Recollections was writ
dunn' the mawlancolly period of my widderhood but as
the circumstences attending' my second marriage was quite
interesting , the deacon has advised me to write an account
on 'em for the benefit of the nisin' generation; so if ever
you git run ashore for stuff to put in yer paper, jest let me
know, and if I aint too much occerpied with my domestic
abberations, lie be happy tp giv ye sum account of my
"second love"
YQurn to everlastin'
PEEMILLY R. SrRraGI~s GORUM.

MARY EL~IER,
OR
TRIALS AND CHANGES.
'4


MARY ELMER~'
* OR
TRIALS AN1i~ CHARGES.
CHAPTER 1.
HAT modest-looking white house that stands
somewhat isolated, whose is it? lit seems the
abode of ease without pretension."
It belongs to Mrs. Lee, widow of Dr. Lee;
whose sudden death, some fifteen years ago, cas&amp;~a gloom
over the whole community. He was in the prime of life.
Talent and probity had raised him to an enviable standing
in his profession, when by the mysterious ordering of
Divine Providence, he was cut off without a molnent*s
warning. Yet not, we trust, without preparation, fQr one
whose life, like his, is a oon~tant exercise of Christian vir
tues, cannot be unprepared for death, however or when-
ever it may arrest 1~im.
He had just returned from visiting some distant patients,
and was caressing his only child, when Mrs. Lee left the
room to make preparations for tea. A few moments after,
litt.Ie Mary came running out, crying:
(14~3)


144            AIARYRLAIER, OR                                    TRIALS AND 'CHANG ES.       14~

"Mamma, I can't wake papa, do come and help me
wake papa!"
Mrs. Lee supposed, however, that he had fallen asleep
through weariness, and telling the little girl "not to dis-
turb papa," took her by the hand and led her softly back
into the apartment. But what a sight was she destined to
behold! Her husband had sunk back in his chair- and,
one glance at his face revealed the awful certainty -~ he
was d~ad! A piercing shriek rang through the house,
and then for many hours the wretched woman knew noth-
ing of what was passing around her. The horror and
agony of the first hour of returning, consciousness, I
could not, if I would, depict.
It was long, very long, before she recovered from the
shock, for. she had loved her husband devotedly. Yet
after his death she felt that she had not fully appreciated
his 'noble character. She knew not all hi~ excellence until
he was gone. None but herself, thotight that Margaret
Lee had failed in any duty towards th~ departed. He had
never thought so. And yet before her mind arose a
fk~usand little errors and delinquencies, which her teiider
conscience magnified into great faults 'and failures resulting
from. gross selfishness. She did not say, as many would
in a like affliction, "He was my idol and therefore Heaven
has taken him from me." But she said, in the bitterness of
her heart, "I did not love him as I ought. I did not do
half that I might have done to make him happy, and thus
am I punished."
The weight of such a sorrow would have crushed her,
had not the care of her little daughter contributed to
divert her thoughts from running always in the same dark
channel. There had been a wonderful affection between

this child and, her father, whom she: strongly resembled
both in features and disposition~ She was but three years
old when he died, and for some time, she could ~not coinpre-
hend that he was to return no more. At every sound of a
c~irriage, or step in the hall, she would, run out to meet
"'papa." When at length she was made' to understand
that he could not come back to her, but that if she 'was a
good girl she would one day go to him, she gave up look-
ing for her father, and seemed only desirous to ~e very
good, that she might go to him. 'Many times in the day
she would go ~to her mother, and folding her arms upon
her knee would say, "Now mamma tell Mary about papa."
And then the heart-broken mother told her of her father,
and the blessed place where he was waiting for them both.
As she looked at the bright little being who stood with her
dimpled hands resting on her mother's lap, and her deep,
thoughtful eyes turned up so' earnestly to her face; she
trembled that one so pure and skinless should be left to her
weak 'and erring guidance.
"But God has committed her to me,' said 'she, "and
He will: help me." 'And 'earnestly did' she pray 'for His
help.
Every evening when her mother was undressing her, the
little one never failed to ask the question, "Mauxma, has
Mary been a good girl to-day?" And on receiving an
approving answer, she' would say her prayer and go to
sleep very happy..
A few months ~after her father's death she was stricken
with the scarlet fever. For' two days she suffered in-
tensely, and~ appeared' scarcely conscious of anything save'
~her own pain. 'On the Third, at evening, this abated, ~an4.
13 '

'N


146            MARY ELMER, OR                                        TRIALS AND CHANGES.         147

the little girl as she lay in her mother's aims, looked up
and said faintly:
"Mamma; h~is Mary been a good girl to-day?"
Mrs. Lee pressed the precious child to her bosom and
whispered, "Yes, darling, Mary is always a dear, goQd
little girl."
An expression of perfect peace passed over tl~e cherub
face. She murmured her childish prayer and then fell
asleep - a long, quiet sleep it was, from which she awaked
in Paradise.
Who can understand the utter desolateness of the child-
less widow as she sat alone in her solitary dwelling' from
which she felt that light and joy were forever departed!
And yet there was no other place on earth so dear to her.
It was the home whither she had come a bride, but a few
years before, ~nd those few~ years had been by far the
happiest of her life. The happiest yet clouded by the
greatest sorrow she had ev~ known. And here she
resolved to . pass the rest of her days. She therefore
rejected all' solicitations to return to the east, her former'
home, and where her only surviving near relation, a
sister, still resided.
This sister who was many years older than Mrs. Lee,
had married very rich, and her family lived in a style. and
rnqved in a circle wholly at variance with Mrs. Lee's taste
and circumstances. An annual visit of a few weeks was
all that she would proniise1 them. From this visit she
always returned eage4y to her own unostentatious home,
and the graves of her buried treasures.
She no longer, mingled in general society; it had lost
all attraction for her. Her visits were mostly visits of
mercy. She was not rich, but ,her income was much more

I

than sufficient for her own expenditure; and the overplus
she devoted to charity~. She was not like those careful
far-seeing persons who are always laying in store for a
"rainy day" to come, such 4ays were instantlyy falling
in her pathway. They were the suffering and the needy,
and she thanked Heaven that one consolation remained to
her in the midst of her afflictions the power sometimes
to alleviate those of others. She had few intimate friends,
for although there was that in her grief which invited sym-
pathy, the dignity of her manner checked all familiarity;
and those few only knew the real humility and sweetness
of her character.
Year after year passed away, and Mrs. Lee remained
the same. 'Unchanged in her simple habits and retiring
manners. Unchanged in her quiet, unobtrusive, way of
doing good. Unchanged in her silent sorrow. Un-.
changed in her mourning 4ress. She was a wonder to
many who knew that ~with her youth, her appearance,
and her station, she might, if she chose, be the idol off a
flattering crowd, the leader of fashionable society. And*
they thouglit it" astonishing that she didn't at least go
into second mourning,, which would be so much more be-
edming to her style of beauty."
And so, with her loneliness and her prayers, her corn.
munings with the departed and her labors of love, we .w4l1
leave her awhile.
In the outskirts of the same town, or what was then
0
the outskii'ts, stood a poor old house, which has long since.
been demolished to make way for new ones. Old and
poor it certainly was, but still neat and comfortable. And
in it dwelt another widow and her only daughter. Mrs.
Grant had been the wife of an industrious and thriving


1148            AI'ARYJ~!DfER, OR                                          TRIALS AND CifANGES.          149

mechanic, who left a prosperous business in a small village
not far distant, and came hither in the hope of doing
better. But unfortunaP4y he soon fell into intemperate
habits wasted his little property died miserably and
left his wife and child to struggle with poverty as best
they might.
Susan, the girl, was too young then to do much, and
Mrs. Grant was obliged to work very hard to maintain
them both, andipay the rent of beE small tenement. But
as Susan grew older she became very useful. When she
was thirteen or fourteen years of age, she 'learned the
business of dress-making; and in ~ few years was able to
earn a comfortable subsistence for herself and her mother.
The latter through anxiety and over-exertion, had become
prematurely infirm, and was only equal to the discharge
of her own household duties. These she performed while
Susan went her daily rounds amongst her employers. The
evenings they passed happily together.
Mrs. Grant was a truly religious woman, and she had
trained he2 daughter to piety and an abhorrence of eVery..
thing that is evil. The young gh'l was ~often thrown in
the wa~r of temptation as she pursued her calling, but, she
overcam&amp;it, and grew up good and virtuous, a pattern
of neatness and quiet industry. Everybody liked Susan
~4rant. And when at length she married, almost every-
body 4iought she had done remarkably well to get George
Elmer, a young man of excellent principles and great
activity. In fact one who was called a very "enterprising
young man."
There were some, howev~, who pronounced him "vis-
ionary." That is, wanting ~n stability and perseverance.
For. although he was both active and intelligent, and

always engaged in. some sort of business, he ~nevei' fob
lowed any one occupation long enough to acquire much
pro~fidency, or realize much profit in it.
He had been a carpenter, a printer, a merchant's clerk,
had studied medicine~a short time, law a still shorter time,
and had abandoned the last for dentistry, in which he was
engaged at the time of his marriage. Thus he went fx~om.
one thing to another, ~iever exactly failing in any, but
always relinquishing each for something else which his
sanguine nature imagined would prove much moi~e lucra-
tive.
With this propensity to change, it is not surprising that
George Elmer laid up little or nothing. His family was
always. comfortable it is true. But that was the result of
Susan's good management more than of his. Still he was
a very kind husband and father, and there was nowhere a
happier family to be found than theirs.
Susan's mother lived with them, and was. regarded by
the affectionate young couple as a great blessing and come
* foi~t. She did indeed make herself useful in many ways,
particularly in sharing with Sus t care of the children,
- of whom there were two, - ~, t pretty little creatures
as ever blessed a fireside.
When these were about six and four years old, George,
who had long since given up dentistry for something else,
and that again for something else, bought out a daguer-
nan who was going to California, and began the business
on~his own account.
For several months he worked vigorously at it, making
wretched likenesses, having a world of trouble with his
"chemicals," and consequently very' little patronage, as
18*


:Uso

MARY ELMER, OR

there was a rival professor in the place, whose skill was
unquestioned.
But at length his efforts were crowned with success. He
fairly mastered the ttrt. His "chemicals" worked admir-
ably, and he turned out pictures~ that were more life-like
than the originals themselves~ His "Daguerrian Gallery"
became famous,. and that of his rival dwindled into insigni-
ficance. He had plenty to do. His pictures commanded
a good price. His circumstances began visibly to im-
prove, and he felt warranted m taking a larger and more
commodious house for his family.
Such was the ~tate of things, when George Elmer sud-
denly resolved to follow the example of his illustrious pre-
decessor, and go to seek his Portune in California. This
was in the early stage of the "gold excitement." The
daguerrian had not been heard from. But one other' di-
vidual had gone from the same place, a shoemaker, the
first who had ventured, and wonderful accounts of his
success had travelled back.
Susan Elmer heard the announcement of her husband's
intention with a heavy heart. She tried to dissuade him
from the undertaking. The perils of the journey, the
dangers of the climate, the uncertainty of success, and
the. unavoidably long separation from his family in, any
case, all these she represented to him, but in vain, lie
saw no possibility of failure. His mind was made up.
"0 George," said she, ." we are doing well enough.
You are just beginning to realize something ~frorn yOur
present business, with a p4spect of making a handsome
support in time."
"0 but it takes such an everlasting* while to get rich
here. I can make more in California in one year than I

I

15;1

TRIALS AND CHANCES.

could here in my whole life-time. Just think of Smith,
the shoemaker! he's making money like dirt. I don't
mean to be away over a year, and a year's soon gone you
know. And then -~ hurrah, Susy! we'll roll in gold
dust!"
Little Johnny who stood 'beside his mother, sobbing out
of sympathy with her, thought "that wouldn't be nice at
all, it wasn't pretty to roll in dust."
"We shall see, my son," said his fatherer patting his
head, "we shall see.~~
Susan was silenced but not convinced. She saw thatE
her husbar~d was fully resolved upon going. She there-
fore ceased her opposition and went to work diligently to
prepare his wardrobe. But despite her efforts to look on
the bright side of things, she had many sad forebodings.
And so had Mrs. Grant. She thought it a great risk to
run for a very small gain.
Elmer sold out his daguerrian apparatus for much less
than it cost him, settled up his business, and prepared to
take his departure. Susan proposed that he should carry
with him his case of dentist's instruments. "It won't
take a great deal of room," she said, "and you may find
it necessary to do something besides dig for gold, before
you come back."
George laughed and said, "So I suppose you think
that the little I do succeed in turning up would be profit-
ably left behind in people's teeth."
But Susan, when she packed his trunk, put the case of
instruments in the bottom, thinking that at least they
would do no harm.
A sum of money that would have sufficed to support
them all in comfort for a year or n~ore under Susan's care-


S

152

MARY ELMER, OR

Cal management, was requisite for George Elmer's outfit
and travelling expenses, ~onsequently he was unable to
leave, them much. The man wEG had taken his da-
guerrian apparatus, a Mr. Green, - not long resident in
the village - bud not yet paid, but was to band the money
to Mrs. Elmer in the course of a week or~ two. This,
George said, w6~iid be ample for all their expenses, until
he. should send th~ii a supply, which he hoped to do before
many months. Ailil in a year or a year and a half at
the farthest, "he would be with them again. And then
I "
they would have a house of their~own suck a house too
And so George Elmer bade his wife and children fare-
well. With some tears it is true, for be loved them dearly,
and it was for their~ sakeq that he left them; yet with high
hopes and brilliant anticipations of a golden future. Poor
Susan could not speak at all. *The little ones cried aloud,
and old Mrs. Grant as she pressed his band in both her
own, said with a trembling voice: "God bless you, my
son, and bring you safely back again."
"Ask it Qf Him every day,' mother," responded the
young man, "and a11 of yo~m pray for me daily till we
meet again, as I surely shall for you. Keep up good
courage 'twill notbe long after all - a year is soon gone."
For some little time after George's departure, 'his family
contrived to get along without incurring~ debts. But
Susan'~ small stock rapidly decreased.~ The winter was at
hand. Wood and many other necessaries ought to be pur-
chased. But so far from beings able to procure these, she
had scarcely enough 'to supply their immediate wants. The
man .Green, to her great disappointment, had left the place
without 'paying what he owed, and gozme no one knew
whither. Very soon after her hd~band went away, she

t

TRIALS AND CHANGES.               63
p
resumed her old occupation pf dress-making, took the
work in, and devoted to it eveijy moment of time that she
could spare from her other d&amp;ities, which were rendered
heavier by the increasing feebleness of her mother~ The
winter came. Another child was added to the little flock,
- a nice boy. His mother looked sadly in his unconscious
face and wondered "what would become of him."
"Trust in the Loi~d," said the grandmother.
"It is all I can do just now," Susan replied with a deep
sigh. About this time the r&amp;nt fell due. Mrs. Elmer had
not th~ means to pay it. She therefore sold some of her
furniture to meet this and oth6r expenses, for she was re-
solv~d not to go into debt as long as it could possibly be
avoided.
Soon after this her heart wa~ gladdened by intelligence~
from George. He had reached San Francisco in safety,
and was about to start for the diggings," and trusted soon
to send her some of the results of his labors. It was
cheering to know that he was alive and well, and Susan
plied her needle with renewed energy every moment that
her baby did not require her attention. Mrs. Gratit,
though suffering under a slight paralysis, could still get
about with a cane, and assist somewhat in the household
labors. And Mary, the eldest child, was very good about
amusing the little one, who fortunately was not at all*
fretful.
Still with all her exertions, itwas very little that Susan
could earn by sewing. She had not regained her former
strength since the ~Arth of her ~child. ~Never before had
she sewed so steadily. She felt that it was undermining
her health, but she was determined to struggle on and keep
out of debt until the promised aid should oom~ froui her


I

154

MARY ELMER,~ OR

husband. And what if she should receive no such aid?
What 'if George after all should be unsuccessful and finally
return as 'poor as he went away? At any rate, he should
have no debts of hers to discharge, even though she should
be obliged to part with every superfluity to avoid them.
As the winter wore on, expenses increased. The avails
of 'Susan's 'labor were quite inadequate to. meet them, and
she accordingly sold several more articles of her furniture,
thinking that if all should end well, their loss could be
easily supplied.
The spring was somewhat advanced, when Smith, the
shoemaker, returned from California, and brought news of
George Elmer. But 0, what 'news!' lie called to see
Susan, and thus his story ran. Poor Elmer had died
of the prevailing feyer on the very day that Smith left San
Francisco. He had become discouraged with digging for
gold, gone to San Francisco, and returned to his former
occupation of house building, which was~ very profitable
there, and in which he would undoubtedly have done well,'
had he not been taken down with . the fever which carried
him off in a few days'. Smith saw him the day before he
came away. George then did not believe that his illness
Would terminate fatally, and~ hoped soon to resume his
work. He sent many affectionate messages to his family,
with a handsome gold brooch for Susan containing, a lock
of his hair and a daguerreotype likeness, and recjuested
Smith to say to them that he should come home in six~
months or thereabouts.
"But we all knew," continued the narrator, "th~~t he
couldn't get well, he himself was the only one who had
any hope. The doctor told me then that he couldn't live
through the night. And so it proved. The next morn-
ing I heard he was dead."

TRIAkS AND OIIANGES.

155

During this recital Susan Elmer sat like one tut~ned to
stone. She uttered no cry. She spoke not a word. Nor
did she look towarek Mr. Smith, when he took his de~
parture. The grandmother cried violently, and so did
little Mary who was old enough to understand something
of their loss. Johnny cried too. But for a long time
Susan remained in that same immovable state, grasping
the brooch as though it 'was all the world to her now.
I know not how long she would have sat thus, had not
the baby awaked from a long sleep in its cradle and begun
to cry. No mother's ear was ever deaf to such a sound.
Susan took up her little one and attended to its wants, and
then. she wept. She remembered that ~t was fatherless~
"I'm glad to see you cry, my child,~ said her mother,
'.' I fared you never would."
"I feared s&amp;too, mother," said Susan, "and I thank
God that I can."
"Trust in the Lord," pursued the old woman. - "He
will not forsake us." Susan did not reply.
As soon after this sudden and great affliction as Susan
could command her thoughts sufficiently for the task, she
tried to fix upon some plan by which her expenses might
be lessened, and her income increased. As ~a first step,
she disposed of all og her remaining furniture excepting
only the bare necessaries, and a small mantel clock, which
had been George's gift to ~her on the last anniversary of
their marriage. She then oved to a small house, or
rather two rooms of a house not far distant, at a much
lower' rent, and though almost broken down with fatigue
and sorrow, applied herself more constantly than ever to
her needle. The poor have no time for idle grief.


156             AFAR Y ELMER, OR

157

TRIALS AND fJHANGEAS'.

CHAPTER Ii.

HE report of George Elmer's death soon reached
Mrs. Lee. This lady, of whom the reader
'already knows something, had not heard of the
family before. At least not particularly, for 'she
resided at the 'opposite extremity of the place. She had
visited Elmer's daguerrian 'rooms, and remembered the
proprietor as an intelligent, well-mannered young man.
Had the poverty of the Elmers been generally known,
she would long since~ have made acquaintance with them.
But Susan was no complainer, and very few persons 'had
any idea of their destitution. In fact none save those who
had bought their furniture for less than half its real value.
An~ they were not the ones likely to interest themselves in
b~ha~f of the poor.
But Mrs. Lee heard of George Elmer's death, heard
how 'suddenly and unexpectedly the blow had fallen upon
,his poor wife. The name "widow" had always the
power to elicit her deepest sympathy, and Mrs. Elmer's
'a1iliodon~ affected her unusually. It was like the one great
sorrow. of-her own life. So unlooked~.for and overwhelm-
ing. Her heart went out towards the bereaved woman,
an'd she resolved to go and see her.
'~Ac~ordingly, after a' few days, she inquired the way and
went. It was' after the family had removed. She knocked
at the door of the huzhble dwelling, and was admitted by

)

Johnny, who showed her into the room where his mother
and the rest were collected. Susan's sad, worn face was
bent low over her sewing. The old motrier was knitting
socks at ~ixpence per pair for a neighboring variety store,
and little Mary was holding the baby on her lap. When
Mrs. Lee announced her name, Susan and her mother rose
and i~elcomed her. They knew her by reputation.
"Mrs. Elmer," said Mrs. Lee, "IF have heard ~of your
affliction, and am come, not to intrude 'upon your grief,
but to offer you the sympathy which none can so truly feel
as those who have experienced a like sorrow."
Susan thanked her kind visitor, while tears flowed freely
down her pale face. T'need not repeat all the conversatk~n
which'ensued. ~iisan was not a great talker, but the little
she. said impressed Mrs. Lee very favorably. As to the
latter, she possessed the happy faculty of saying just
enough, and~ just the right things. On this occasion' she
completely won Susan's heart; for. she was free alike
from that patronizing manner which offends the sensitive,
and thal~ haughtiness which repels them. After conversing
some time with ~Mrs. Elmer and her mother, Mrs. Lee
turned to the children, and taking from her pocket som'e;
sugar~plums, gave theni '~to Johnny, telling 'him to divide
them with his sister.
"But you see," said Johnny,. who was a very loquacious
little fellow, "she can't hold the sugar-plums ~nd the baby
too, so if you'll please to take Georgey, then I'll give her
some."
Susan"was somewhat alarmed at the boy's boldness, and
was beginning to check him, when Mrs. Lee reassured her
by saying, with a smile, to Johnny,
14'

136


158 '          MARY ELMER, OR                                         TR IA 14 AND CHANGES.      150

"That's just what I want to do, if the baby will let me;
I don't like to frighten babies and make them cry."'
"0, but our baby don't cry at strangers," said the
little boy eagerly, "he isn't afraid ~f anybody, he'll go to
you and stay as long as you want him to."
"He looks like a good baby,'~ Mrs. Lee replied; "bring
him here, my dear, I'm a great friend to babies."
As the little girl advanced with the "infant prodigy,"
(as she and Johnny considered him,) Mrs. Lee observed
her more particularly than she had done before. She ~was
a very pretty child, and her deep blue eyes and~light curl-
ing hair brought to the mind of the lonely lady the
image of her own lost darling. She took the baby on her
lap, and putting her arm round his sister; asked what was
her name.
"Mary," the little girl answered.
Mrs. Lee's eyes filled with te~rs. She looked earnestly
in the child's face for a moment, kissed her cheek, and then
told her to go and get her share of the sugar-plums.
The baby ,fully sustained the reputation. which Johnny
had giyen him, by laughing an~26Wing at Mrs. Lee, 'and
taking great liberties with her bonnet and shawl, to her ev~-
ident satisfaction. She had a great fondness for children,
although she was not wont to manifest it in the boisterous
manner of some. But ~while apparently wholly occupied
with the baby, she was not unobservant of the two older
children who' retired to a corner for the purpose of dividing
her trifling gift. She was much pleased at the manner in
which this was done.
Mary counted them (Johnny could not count so many)
and divided them into two equal optionsns, one of which
Johnny poured into her apron.

"And here's 'two more because you're the biggest,"
said he, taking a couple' from his own share and adding
them towers.
But Mary objected to thig arrangement. "NoJohnny,
you must keep a whole half and two wore because you re
the littlest, you know;" and she put ft~~r of them back in
her brother's apron.
~' No, Mary, that isn't the way,~' Johnny began, and I
know not. how much longer they would have argued the
point, had not a knock at the door interrupted them.
The new arrival was no less a personage than Mrs.
Smith, wife of the returned shoemaker of that name. She
lived not far from the Elmers' present abode, and having
seen Mrs. Lee go there, thought she would take that occa-
sion to make a friendly call and find out the object of
that lady's visit. iCt wa~ reported that Smith had come
back rich. He had indeed a good deal of money and was
making quite a noise aboht it. He had followed his busi-
ness while absent, and found it much more profitable than
digging in the mines. 'But of this he said nothing. He
merely said, "he'd been to~~California, and 'therq was no
farther necessity for his making shoes; he meant to drive
a bigger business." His help-meet, who had long pined
for "a large house and a hired girl," was now about to
have these wishes realized. She therefore felt "as good
as anybody!"
But we shall have more to do with her hereafter, there-
fore we will dismiss her for the present. Soon after her
entrance Mrs. Lee took leave.
'As she walked homewards she reflected upon the little
incident connected with the sugar-plums, the entire absence
of~ selfishnes~ shown by both the children in the division of


16O~            MARY ELMER, OR                                              TRIALS A1VD cHANGES.           161

what was to them quite a treasure. She conjectured, and
with reason too, that such a disposition had not been
formed or cultiyated by any particular course of training
pursued by their parents, but r~iust be th~ natural result of
perfect unanimity between those parents. This was the se-
cret. George and Susan Elmer were not wise or learned
persons. They had no theory of family government -
system of "suasion" upon which~ they acted. But they
* ' had no differences. They agreed in every thing. With
this example of mutual confidence and respect before them,
how could the children be other than they were, loving and
obedient?
That evening, when these little ones knelt by their
mother's knee to say their prayers, Mary, who repeated
hers first, voluntarily added the name of Mrs. Lee to those
for whom she daily prayed; and her brother followed her
example. Thus ran the simple petition.
"0 God! forgive, all my sins, and make me a good
child, and bless my dear father, and mother, and grnnd..
mother, and ~ brothers, and Mrs. Lee,. and everybody, fort
Jesus Christ's sake. Amen 1"
After the children had gone to bed, Mrs. Grant said to
her daughter,
"Susan, is it - right to let the children pray for their
* father now?"
"I don't know, mother," replied the sorrowful woman.
"I have thought a good deal about it myself, but some-
how 'I cannot bear to tell them they must no longer ask
God to bless their father. It se~ms like breaking the last
link between him and us, and something tells me it is bet-.
ter to let them do it. It cannot do them any harm, and
surely it cannot hurt poor George, can it, inothei?"'

"Just so, it cannot, my child, and I don't believe it will
be laid to your charge as a sin."
Thus answering, the old mother took off her spectacles
and wiped the tears from her eyes, and the two worked on
for some time in silence. At length Mrs. Grant said,
"Susan, what a difference there is between folks!"
"A very great difference, mother. Were you thinking
of Mrs. Lee and Mrs. Smith? I was at that moment.",
Yes, they were the persons I had in my mind when I
spoke.' I noticed the contrast more, I suppose, because
they happened to b~ here at tl~e same tune. What a per-
fect lady Mrs. Lee is~! how kind and pleasing in her
manners!"
"She is indeed. It seems to me I never before realized
how much there is in kind words. I have felt better ever
since"
"Yes, they were what the Bible calls 'words fitly
spoken.' But that Mrs. Smith! Somehow I can't help
thinking she only came~ to spy out the nakedness of the
land! can you?"
"It did appear so certainly, but you know it isn't right
to judge from appearances. She may mean very well,
though she isn't at all like Mrs. Lee.."
"Very true; she, may mean well, and have an odd way
with her."
It ,wa~ evident to Mrs. Lee that the Elmers were very
poor. K The apartment in which she had found them,
although it had an air of comfort which cleanliness and or-
der always give to even the meanest abode, yet betokened
extreme indigence, and sh~ thought it strange~ that George
Elmer should have left his family. so destitute. She in-
14*

4

s


162            HART ELAf.~14 OR

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

quired farther concerning them, of Harriet, her maid, who
was one of the knowing kind.
Harriet was able to give her the required information,
for she had found out 'a good deal about them from the
1~'Ludlows, who had 'boughtno small part of. Mrs. Elmer's
furniture.
"0 yes, I meant to tell you ttbout 'em," said she, "for
~' I thought likely you'd do ~6mething to help 'em. They're
dreadful poor I guess, thou h he left 'em quite cornforta-
ble when he went away. But she's been sick a good deal
since, and they seem to have run out pretty much. She
takes in sewing, and the old woman knitting; 'but I guess
it's precious little they earn, for since ~he heard of his
death, she's left the good house they lived in, and sold off
the chief of her furniture very low indeed. Mrs. Ludlow
bQught a nice set of chairs, and a handsome bureau, be..
sides several other things of her. She said she though it
..was a deed of charity to take 'em; but *for my part, I
thought Mrs. Ludlow got a bargain."
Mrs. Lee no longer hesitated. She procured a quantity
of knitting yiirn, and the next morning set qut with it for
the house of Mrs. Elmer. Aftersome little conversation
with the woijien, she said, laying the package on the table,
"I have brought yarn for Mrs. Grant to knit into
stockings for me. She can do 'them at her leisure, as I
shall not need them until next fall."
* Mrs Grant thanked her, and Mrs. Lee turned the con~
versation to, other subjects. She tpiked with Susan about
the children, especially Mary, in whom she already felt ai~
* unusual 'interest.
"Your little girl is like my own, and you must spare
her to me for a day now and then."

U

Susan acquiesced cheerfully in this proposal, and it was
settled that Mary should go to Mrs~ Lee's one day during
the following week. Harriet was to come after her.
"0~ I shall be ~o glad!" exclaimed the light-hea~aed
child; "but then who'll help mother take care of the'
baby?"
"I can do that," said Johnny, straightening up with an
air of importance. This difficulty disposed of, another
suggested itself to Mary'a mind.
"Mother," she whispered, looking down at her patched
and faded clothes, "What shall I do? my frock is real
rusty." -
"You have another, my dear;" and Susan colored
slightly.
"1 know it, but that's just as rusty as this you know."
"Never' mind the frock," said Mrs. Lee., smiling. "It
is Mary and not the frock that I care about."
'Then calling Johnny to her, she gave him a gay wooden
soldier, and rose to go. At the same time she dr&amp; from
her pocket a five dollar bank note, and proffering it to
Mrs. Grant, said,
"I will pay you now for the knitting."   -
"1 thank you, but I can't change that," said th6 old
woman; "and besides I don't know how much to charge
until I see how many stockings the yarn 'will knit."
" Keep it all if you please," returned Mrs. Lee;' "there
is none too much ~ the yarn will knit several pairs, and
knitting is slow work; we should always consider the
time."
Mrs. Grant saw at once, and appreciated with heart-'
felt gratitude the ~good lady's delicate manner of bestowing,
a charity. '~She thanked her again, and not without tears

163

162


164             MARY ELMER, OR

TRIALS AND CHANGES.         165.

in her eyes. Mrs. Elmer joined her- mother in expressions
of' gratitude, and Mrs. Lee, after. a few more words with
the children, and a kiss to the baby, took her departure.
"What a woman!" exclaimed Mrs. Grant; ." she
didn't even a~k me what I charged. There's not many
who do~so, Susan."
"Not many/indeed. She 18 ~ne of a thousand."
"I feel as if the Lord had raised us up. a friend who
knows how tQpity us, for she is a widow herself."
"Yes, she is a widow, and that's enough to bear with-
out being poor like us, mother."
The old woman thought there was something like a
murmur in these words, and it grieved her.
- "Look there, Susan!" she said, pointing to the' chil...
dr'en1 "the Lord leaves yrou all those; yet he. saw fit to
take from 'Mrs. Lee the only one she had."
Susan turned her tearful eyes towards the little ones,
then clasping her hands, said in a low voice, "Thy will be
done."
It was-indeed a pleasant sight. The baby was in the
cradle, crowing over the soldier which Johnny had put
iiito his hands, while' the other children sat, one on each
side, watching his performances w~ith great s~ti~faction~
You like my traii~er don't* you, baby!" said the little
boy. "Mrs. Lee's a nice lady; isn't she, baby? I mean
to keep my trainer always, wouldn't' you, Mary?"-
"YesI' would," answered 'his sister, " but then you'll
have to take it away from baby, fo~ he'll soon have the
paint all Qff.".
"Sure enough, I never thought of that. I'll get him
something else." So he raii and 'brought a cord with sev~.
*~ral empty spools strung upofi ~t, a plaything which be-

came a novelty by the occasional addition. of another spool,
and aided by Mary succeeded in extricating the trainer from
his perilous situation, and in pacifying the baby, who was
at first disposed to gruiiible at the exchange.
Notwithstanding Mrs. Lee had said that she should not
need the stockings for some months to come, Mrs. Grant
determined *to. go to work upon them immediately, as
"there was no knowing what might happen." On open-
ing the package of yarn, she found ~n. it a note directed
to Mrs. Elmer. It contained a few kind words and the
sum of twenty dollars. At this additional proof of Mrs.
Lee's goodness, Susan's tears flowed afresh, and her
mother said,
"'He th4 bath pity. on the poor, lendeth unto the Lord V
that womati is surely laying up 5easiires in heaven."
When little Mary went to pay the promised visit to
Mrs. Lee, she wore a neat new calico frock, and she said to
the lady, "My mother told me I must thank you for my
new frock."
The child wa~ very happy that day, looking at books
and pictures, and talking with Mrs. Lee ~about thex~i.
Then' running out into the pleasant' garden among the
many beautiful spring flowers, and expressing her childish
wonder and delight to Peter Jackson, the colored man who
was working there, asking him a hundred questions which
Peter good-naturedly answered. Tlw~n back ag~in into
the house, to wonder and exclaim at the variety y of interest-
ing objects there. In Mrs. Lee's ow room she saw a
child's chair, which delighted her o~reatlf
"0 what a pretty chair I" she. exclaimed; "I had just
such a one when we were in the ~ther house, but I think
mother has given it away; the house where we live now is

I

0


166            MAR Y ELMER, OR                                         TRIALS AND CIIANGES.        167

too little to hold many chairs. May Isit down in itMrs.
Lee?"
This had been little Mary Lee's chair; no child had
ever sat in it since *her death. lit was guarded as a sacred
relic, and more closely associated with its owner than any
other of her little pps~essions so carefully preserved by the
bereaved mother.
"Yes, you may ~it in it, m~ dear," said Mrs. Lee.
"It seems exactly like my own chair," pursued the
child as she rocked backwards and forwards in it. "I
always used to sit in mine when mother and father were
reading. And too, I used to sit in it when I was learning
my hymns after 'mother."
"Say me some ofyour hymns, d~irling."
*     iVNry repeated the simple verses that her ihother had
taught her,~ and wondered why Mrs. Lee cried so all the
while.
"It must be" thought she, "because she feels so sorry
that my father is dead." So she thought she would say
* something to comfort Mrs. Lee, and pausing in the
midst of her hymn, she laid her hand on the lady's arm,
and said -
"0, don't cry so Mrs. Lee, that's a great deal better*
place than this, there's no trouble there, and nobody ever
dies, and all good' people shall see each other there again.~~
1V1r~. Lee looked wonderingly in the face of' her little
comforter. The deep blue eyes, so like those that had
once been turned lovingly up to her own as she, talked of
heaven and the angels, were fixed upc~i her. It seemed
as though the spirit of her sainted child was looking through'
them' into her very heart, and tenderly rebuking her long-
~ cherished sorrow. A feeling of awe 'stole over' her,~ and

pressing her lips to the forehead of the little girl, she arose
and led her from the room.
Mary went home at evenings happy as child could be.
She carried a basket containing several nice books for her~
self and Johnny, some pretty stuff to make frocks for the
baby, and a bottle of cordial for her grandmother. There
was also a mysterious package for her mother, neatly tied
up, which Mary was very curious about, but she was too
well-bred to ask questions. This was' a suitable mourning
shawl for Mrs. Elmer. "Mrs. Lee accompanied the little
girl home, and frequently offered to relieve her. But Mary~
insisted upon carrying the basket all the way, declaring
that it wasn't the least bit heavy. And as she trudged
along she chattered incessantly.
"0 won't they be glad when I come? How Johnny
will jump when he sees his book! and won't the b4aby look
pretty in his new frocks! his old ones 'are growing so
small, another hasn't got him any in~ ever so long. I
wonder~ if the little ro~ue has4~ missed me. It seems a gre at
while since I went away this morning, I never was gene
so long before."
Thus she rattled on; and Mrs. Lee, who had resolved
upon asking Mrs. Elmer to let her take little Mary, to
be trained and educated as her own daughter, abandoned
the idea when she saw how the childioved her home and
family. Nay, she almost reproached herself for having en-
tertained it. But she had conceived a strong affection for
the )ittle creature, and determined to do~all that she ~oiild
for her, without having her constantly under her own eye.'
As soon as they entered the house, Mary rushed up to
the ba~y ~ whom his mother was. undressing, and nearly
red him witlikisses. ' -

166

167


2 7

I
~u~ii, oi~
Ix
"0 baby, I've got something for you," she said, wav-
ing the basket triumphantly. "And, Johnny, you don't
~know what I've got fQr you. And, grandmother, some-
* thing for you too. And for you, mother. And I've had
such a nice time. .If Johnny had only been there "-.
"We will hear about it~by-and-1~y," said her mother,
as she rose~ and pressed Mrs. Lee's h~~nd. Mary stopped
abruptly, when she remembered who was in the room, and*
taking off her bonnet and cape, sat downquietly with the
baby in her arms, somewhat impatient it is true, to display
the contents of the basket and relate her adventures. In
fact, she could not help whispering them over for the
baby's benefit, beginning each description thus : -
"And what do you think, baby, - I saw - And
w~atdo you think; baby! Mrs. Lee said And where
do y~u1 think, baby! Harriet went "-
From this time the circumstances of the Elmers were
much improved. Many comforts were added to their hum-
ble dwelling through the kindness of their new friend, who
soon begaii to consider the subject of assisting them to hire
a more comfortable house~ She had determined to do so,
and was intending to speak of it to ~1rs. Elmer very
shortly, when she ~as summoned to attend the dying-bed
of her sister. She had not time to see the Elmers before
leaving. She however penned ~t hasty note to Susan, in
whi&amp;h, Tafter stating the cause of her sudden departure, she
expressed the wish that Mrs. Elmer would seek ~ better
house, ~nd to enable her to do so, she enclosed afl amount
sufficitto }~ay a quarter's rent, as we4I ~is what would be
41Le~ on ie~rThgh~rp~es~nt abode,:and ~ne~Iing ov~r. "I
eanuot tell," ~he ~@ote, ~' how loiigLrnay be absex~t, per-
~end mouths. 'i
hap~                 Ifjyou sMisld w*~nt i~y assistance

p
F1
It
L
I
N


TRIALS AND CHA.
before I return, do not hesitate to
ately" (here she gave the addi'ess).
a privilege to aid you Tell
my litt.
~,arden for flowers whenever she lii
give theni to her, and may the God
fatherless bless and k~ep y~u all."
____                                                                This note she gave to Harriet, tell
portent, and she wished it to be carr
soon as she should be at leisure. U
the time, assisting in Mrs. Lee's pre~
the afternQon rue.. Setting the hot
)ing moth-preventives from garret*
hanging, spreading this, that'and the
and what not. Besides which she Ii
pack, for she was to go to her Lathe
in the stage, which usually went ou
__                                     N                   the cars.  There she would remain ni
The door-key was to be entrusted 2
worthy colored man already spoken o
the house during Mrs. Lee's absence~
note sating, ~as she put it carefully it
"I will run down with it as soon
She really intended to do so. ~
world have told a lie, or wilfully fail
tress, but - alas poor human nature
Widow Spriggins as she appeared while on a bridal tour.-See
~ge 139.

1VCES.            109.
write to me immedi-
"I shall consider it
le Mary to eome to my
~es, Peter will always
of the widow and the
her that it was im-
jed to Mrs. Elmer as
arriet was very busy at
rationss for leaving in
ise in order. Scatter.-
to cellar. Folding~
other for safe keeping,
her own trunk to
r's, ten miles distant,
t about an hour. after
ritil Mrs. Lee's return.
~o Peter Jackso'~i, the
f, who always slept in
3. Harriet took the
i her reticule
asI see you off."
he would not for the
~d in duty to her mis.


170            MARY ELMER, OR                                        TRIALS AND CHANGES.         171

CHAPTER III.
S soon as Mts. Lee had gone, Harriet prepared for
her own departure. She dressed herself hastily,
fastened ~he window-shutters, dragged her trunk
to the porch, locked the door and ran down to
Peter's with the key. After delivering Mrs. Lee's directions
to Peter, she went to the stage-house to bespeak her
passage. Being told that the stage would call for her in
about an hour, she hurried back to parry the note to Mrs.
Elmer, who lived in another direction.
As. she was passing De~icon Ludlow's, which was nearly
opposite .Mrs. Lee's, Miss Eunice called to her from the
window. The Ludlows had been watching the proceedings
at Mrs.~ Lee's with great interest all the morning. They
had seen that lady depart, evidently on a journey, and it
was much earlier than she usually' made her annual visit
east. But Harriet would 'come in and tell them all about
it soon. When,, however, they saw that she too was prepar-
ing to 'go away, they felt a slight degree of uneasiness;
and seeing her, at length actually about to pass their house
without stopping, they feared losing her' altogether and not
I
finding* out anything, and therefore arrested her progress~ as
above stated.
"Where are you going, Harriet?" exclaimed .the mother
and three daughters, all in a breath.
"0 I've got to go up street on an errand, but I'll stop
and say goo&amp;by when I conie back."

"0 stop now, stop now; can't you?"
"Well I suppose I may as well come in a minute now,
the stage don't go in nearly an hour yet."
And so she went in, to the great relief of the Ludlows.
Harriet, although as honest and faithful a girl as ever lived,
had a great talent for gossiping, and not being encouraged
to exercise it at Mrs. Lee's, was very glad to indulge in an
occasional outpouring at Deacon Ludlow's, where it was
fully appreciated and, drawn out. In fact their made a.
good deal of her there, always invited her to attend the
weekly prayer-meeting whenever it was held at their housp,
and noticed her in several ways in order to keep her good
matured~ Of course the simple-minded girl was flattered
by such attentions, and often "ran in," after her work was
done up, to chat an hour or so with them, She had no
suspicion of the ~stimation in which ~they really held, or
professed to hold, her among their acquaintances, to whom
they frequently remarked,
"What a pert, forward thing that Harriet is! I wouldn't
keep such a creature round me, but I guess Mrs. Lee's not
very particular who she has, if she only gets her work
done.,~
Had Harriet known of this, she never would have gone
in there again. Not~so much on her own account as Mrs.
Lee's, with whom she had lived nearly seven years without
a wish to change her place, and whom she regarded as ap~
preaching nearer to perfection than any other living person.
On this occasion the Ludlow~ had a thousand questions
to ask; and Harriet, in her zeal to tell all the whys and the
wherefores, the hows and the whens of Mrs. Lee's move-
Inents, as well as her own, allowed her minute to be a very
long one. After running on for half an hour with great


Ii

MARY ELMER, OR

velocity, she jumped up suddenly, declaring she must go,
~~for she'd got to take a note to Mrs. thner. But then she
was assailed With another volley of questions', on the subject
of Mrs. Lee's intercourse with die Elmers, and she could
not' resist the temptation to sit down a moment longer and
tell about Mrs. Lee's kindness t~ that family, at least as
much as she knew about it, for she had often been sent
there with vegetables and' other things. "And sometiuThs
there was such a load that Peter Jackson had to go, with
-it." '
"0, shedoes a great deal for them, and there's many a
poor family ~an say the same. She's always doing good,
I never saw the beat of it; why, some-folks would get rich
on what she gives away" -
"I wonder if she don't expect to ride to heaven on her
~good works," said Mrs. Ludlow.
Well, I guess that's, a pretty sure-footed horse ar~y
way," responded Harriet with some warmth.
"0 Ijarriet, Harriet!" said Mrs. Ludlow solemnly,
',' Pm sorry to hear you speak so, it shows what influence
you've been under. Dpn't you know the Bible says our
own righteousness is but filthy rags? Nothing but a living
faith cam save
"Yes, I know it, a living fi~ith, and that's just Mr~,
Lee's kind Qf faith, for 'faith without works is dead,' the
same Bible says, you know."
"I'm' glad you read your Bible," said Mrs. Ludlow with
a slight sneer, for she felt a little chagrined that the 'girl
was able to give her' blow, for blow with her own weapons.
Harriet noticed the sneer and answered, -
"Well, I won't take credit that isn't my due. I own I
don't read my Bible as much as I ought to, though I'+e no

TRIALS AND UHAN0E~S~

173

excuse, for I've got-a beautiful one that Mrs. Lee gave me.
I~ut I hear it read every night find mornii~g, so I know
something about what's in it."
Perhaps she would have made a few more quotations,
liad she not at that moment he~rrd the stage horn.
"0 dear me! what shall I do! there's the stage and I
~haven't carried the note to Mrs~ Elmer! ~
"Never mind," said Miss Eunice, "Sam can run down
with it, or one of us can take it to Mrs. Elmer!"
Poor Haifriet had no resource but to accept Miss Ludlow's~
offer. So she gave her the note saying that it was very
important, and she would like her to have it sent as soon
as possible. She then hastened out, and s~w the stage
still at a little distance off, taking in some passengers. At
the 'same moment she observed Sam Ludlow standing by
Mrs.' Lee's gate watching the approach of the stage.
"I'll give it to Sam myself,~' said she, turning back to
the window in time to see the four Ludlows' heads close
together over the note, which Miss Eunice was holding up
to the light. Just in the midst of their comments upon it,
they were startled by the voice of Harriet shouting, -
"Give it to me! there's Sam by our~house.".
Eunice could do no less than surrender the note, though
she would gladly have kept it a little longer to satisfy her-.
self in regard to its contents. ' Harriet was somewhat vexed
at the curiosity of' the Ludlows, and fe1~ glad to get the
nOte back again; she thought it was much better to give it
to Sam herself, and 'see him start with it, then she should
feel as though it would reach its destination safely. Sam
Ludlow was a lubberly boy of, fourteen. He was often
hanging abou&amp; Mrs. Lee's gate; and had several times gone
on errands for Harriet;. for which she always paid him. a
15*

172


174            MAR Y~ELAIER; OR                                     TRIALSLS AND CHANCES.          175

* sixpence in ~tdvance. Sam was very fond of a sixpence,
and was much more ready to do errands for Harriet than
for his mother. or sisters, as they would nut.pay him.
"IIexe, Sam," said she, "I want you to take this note
to Mrs. Elmer right away, I'm going in the. stage and
haven't time."
"Who was your waiter last year?" was Sam's r@ply.
Harriet knew that this was the way in which the inter-
esting youth usually answered his sisters when they re-
quested him to do anything, and she remembered that she
bad always paid him for waiting upon her. But she had
now no change in her purse,. her money was in bills, she
could only promise a reward, she however persevered.
"Do take it for me, Sam, tlmt'~ a good fellow, and when
I come baAk I'll give you a shillino-"
"Give it to me now."
"I can't, I haven't got the change, my money is all in
bills. Will you take it? see, the stage is close by, I'll
surely ~pay you the shilling when Ii come back, and that
will be before long I expect."
~ Swear you'll do it."
No, Sam, I won't swear, that's wicked; but I ~ol-
emnly promise."
"Well; kiss my jack-knife then, it's all the same in
Dutch." And he took out% the weapon 'so dear to every
boy's heart, and held it up before her.' They were lifting
her trunk to the stage top.
~N~Till you carry the note if I'll kiss that?"
"As sui~e as gunflints."
"And right away, without going home first?"
"Right off, as quick as a streak 'o lightning."
"Are you coming?" shouted the driver.

Harriet kissed the jack-knife,~ gave. Sam the note, and
jumped into the stage, calling after Sam to be very care-
ful, and not loiter a moment on the way. As she
stretched her neck out of the stage window, she had the
satisfaction of seeing the young gentleman start on his ex-
pedition; not quite so quick as lightning, but at a very
brisk pace.
His sisters called to him from the window~ but he hur-
ried on without noticing them. Not so much that he
wished to do his errand faithfully, as because "he didn't.
care for them."
"She's mighty a xious about this note, seems to me,
said Sam, mentally, as he went on his way.
"Wonder what 's about! feels as tho~gh~ there was
something in it - s wouldn't wonder if 'twas money - pay
for sewing I 'spose."
The note had been hastily written, and the envelope
fastened lightly with a wafer. Sam thought hq'd like to
just see what was in~ide~ Harriet was only a hired girl,
what did he care for her! Some other vague thoughts
floated through his mind. He determined to open it; he
could easily stick it together again if he wanted to. So
he turned to see whether the stage was out of ~i~ht~ It
was no~ longer visible.
A few paces on he turned aside into a narrow lane,
went behind an old shed, no mortal eye was upon him, he
felt quite safe; and, taking out his jack-knife, he slipped
the blade under the wafer, which .yielded without difficulty,
and Sam found his conjectures correct. Where was
money, more money than he had ever seen together be-
fore. He blundered through the note as well as he could,
and found that the money was a gift, not from Harriet,

K


176            MARY ELMER, OR

177

but from Mrs. Lee. JXe thought of several things that he
wanted very much, especially a;fighting~cock, owned by a
man who kept a ten-pin alley, and numerous other articles
quite as useful and desirable. The temptation was strong.
lie saw that the amount was not mentioned in the note.
There were several bills; he could take 9ne, it never
would be found out. So he stuffed a "five" into his
pocket, wet the wafer a little and fastei~ed it ~down again,
and then contemplated his work wifh satisfaction.
It was well done. Nobody would ever have suspected
that the note had been opened. He went on a few steps,
and then paused to contemplate it again; and as he did so
he reflected, "Why not take the whole while i t~ was in his
power? But Harriet ,and Mrs. Lee would Aome back,
and then he would be found out. What then?" "Never
mind," said the tempter in his ear. "The old nian'll
have to fork over, that's all, and you'll have the good of
the money."
"And the old woman," thought Sam, "how she'll jaw
and jaw, jf I'm ever found out."
"Never mind that neither," pursued the tempter,
"they can't blame you, they expect you to cut up now,
you aint converted yet."
"So here goes,~~ said Sam, and he tore open the enve-
lope, took out the rest of th&amp;money, chewed the note until
it became a soft wad, then threw it at the~old shed, where
for aught I know to the contrary, it is sticking to this day.
He then took his way to the residence of the game-cock's
owner, where he astonished divers youug geutlerncm by his
display of the ready, although he was careful not to ex-
hibit. the whole amount in his possession. It was a strange
thino' to see Sam Ludlow with more than a shilling~ in his

hands, and of course the "five" which, he drew from his
pocket created some surprise.
"Why, Sam, where did you get so much?" "Found
the way to the old man's locker?" "Old boy loosened
his purse string~ at last, eh?" were some of the questions
showered upon the young thief. But he contrived to
evade them. "Pity if he couldn't h~ve a little money as
well as other folks. He didn't see what there was tcr
make such a thundering fuss about."
When Sam left the ten-pin alhjy, his five was nearly
exhausted. He had entered to his het~rt's content into
the amusements of the establishment. A thing which he
had not been able to do before for want of funds. He
had also regaled himself with various good things; and as
he walked homewards with his long-desired game-cock
under his arm, he felt a high degree of satisfaction; for,
notwithstanding he had lost all that he staked \in the
games, he still had a large sum left, upon which he meant
to revel for a long time to come. /
On his arrival at home, his sisters questioned him con-
cerning the note. But he gave them no satisfaction.
"Didn't you notice what was in it when she opened
it."
"No; I didn't go in the house at all."
"Well, I should like to know whether there was money
in that note. Why didn't you wait a minute and see, you
stupid fellow!"
"What do you s'pose I cared about knowing what w~is
q~ the plague note? What business was it of mine?"
The game-cock did not attract much attention at the
deacon's San~i was alway~ bringing home something of
the animal kind to annoy the family, and generally bar..
gained it away for something else in a few days.

N

TRIALS AND GRANGES.

17e


TRIALS AND 0HAN6~ES.       179

178             MARY ELMER, OR

Deacon Ludlow, although himself a worthy, religious
man, unfortunately took very little pains with the early
training of his children. He never questioned Sam in re-
gard to where he spent his evenings. In f4ct, he seldom
reproved him for anything. Mrs. Ludlow, it is true,
scolded and fretted at-the boy frequently, but he regarded
her words no more than the idle wind. Sam Ludlow had
started in the road to destruction, and there was no voice
to call him' back.

CHAPTER IV.
HE Elmers wondered what had become of Mrs.
Lee. Many days passed without one of her wel-
come visits. The chafty, 2~ood-natured Harriet,
t6o, they missed her almost daily calls. And it
was but natural that\they should miss the comforts she
was wont to bring. ~After some time it was settled that
they must have gone away. At length they questioned
Peter Jackson as he was passing one day, and from him
they learned the facts.
About a fortnight after Mrs. Lee's departure, Mrs.
Elmer's mother was suddenly reduced to a state of entire
helplessness by another paralytic~ stroke~ She was con-
fined wholly to her bed. Her mind also was greatly af-
fected, and she shQwed an irritability and fretfulness quite
foreign to her nature. Susan's 'labors were'increas~d ten~.
fold by this calamity. Her mother required more~ care

than an infant, and could not bear to have Susan out of
her sight for a moment. Her speech was much impaired,
but her sight and hearing were, if anything, quickened.
She would have the window~curtains down, for the broad
daylight hurt her eyes. The children's noise disturbed
her very much, and Susan was obliged to send the two
older ones out 'of doors to play, many 'times when she
would gladly have kept them in. Her~sewing too, had to
be almost wholly abandoned. She had but little time for
it during the day, and then 'the room was so dark that she
could scarcely see at all. When the evening came, and
the little ones were all gone to their rest, the old mother,
too, at last asleep, and Susan sat down with her work in
hand, she was usually so worn and weary that her fingers
almost refused to move.
Things went on in this way for a month, and Susan's
resources were nearly gone. She 'had for some time past
reduced her own and her children'~ food to the smallest
possible quantity, and that of the coarsest kind. A little
of a better quality she still managed to procure for hei
mother, and tIle old woman complained that this was not
as good as she wished. Susan knew that her poor mother
was not herself &amp;~ny longer, and she never manifested the
least impatience with her murmuring. But sh9 missed her
encouraging 'words, the "trust in the 'Lord, my child.
lie will not forsake you," with which she used to cheer
her in times of despondency. And she thought if her
mother w&amp;uld only speak so now, she could bear up better~
under her trials.
'And George, too, how she missed him now! more than
ever -~ more eVery day. She could not help itt. 'The
future looked very dark. Pay-day was ~drawing on, and

C

179

178


180             AfAR Y ELMER, 01?                                          TRIALS AND ChANCES.           181

where w~is her rent to come from! Pay-day came, and
Susan was not ready. The landlord, a hard-fisted, grasp-
ing man,, called for his dues. Mrs. Elmer told him it
was utterly impossible for her to pay then, she had not a
dollar, but if he would give her a few days' time, she hoped
to be' able to satisfy him. He appeared to doubt her
word, and pointing ,~ to the mantel-clock (Geor~ge's last
'gift before he went from home), he intimidated a wish to
take possession of ~it.
"I'll take that," he' said, "seeincr you don't seem to
have anything else that's worth much; though 'it's a poor
concern, 'still, I don't know jut I'll take it and let you ~4f,
considering."
Susan looked at him with astonishment. She was not
accustomed to such meanness. She knew that the clock
had cost more than double the amount of her debt, a~id
she knew that the nian must be aware of its value. ~$4~ e
hesitated a while. It went to her 'heart to part with it.
"Well, what do you say? shall I take it?"
"' It is a valuable clock, sir, it cost more than twice as
much as I owe you, and has not been in use a year yet."
The tnan advanced close to her, and impertinently ex-
amined her brooch, which she always wore.
"That'll do,", said he, after satisfying himself that it
was real gold.' '~ P11 take that if you aint' a mind to let
the clock go. I'll take it and say square; guess it's worth
five dollars. You' owe me twelve; but considering your
circumstances, I'll ~be satisfied with that."
Long before the conclusion' of this speech, Susan had
covered h~r brooch with her hand, as if his very look were
profanation; and when he finished, she turned towards the
clock, and said hurriedly,

4
"Take that."
He proceeded to take 'jt down, and after it was safely in
his possession, he told Mrs. Elmer that she must vacate
the house before night, as he bad rented it to some one
who would be ready pay. - Susan's indignation .was roused
at this shameful injustice, and she said, -
"Surely, you do not mean to turn i~e out of the house
now, with my helpless mother and little' ones. That
clock, too, is fully worth another quarter's rent, and 4
good deal more. You will allow me to remain a few\
weeks, and meantime I will be looking for another house."
"This clock worth another quarter's rent, hey!" and
he laughed heartily at the idea. "Why, woman, you
know nothing about the value of, things, if you did you'd
think I've let you: off pretty easy. As for the house,
didn't I tell you I'd let it already to a family that's to take
possession to-morrow. I've done the best I can by you.
'Everybody must look to their own interest, y~u know, and
if I have a chance to let a tenement to better advantage
than I can to you, why of course it's my duty to do it., I
owe it to my own family ;. scripture, you know, says
everybody must provide for their own.
Susan said no more, she was not accustomed to disput-
ing, and she, allowed 'the face-grinder to depart' without
farther parley. When he reached the door, he turned
back and remarked that "he should expect to find the
4 remises cleared early in the morning of the' follQwing
ay." She merely bowed in reply, and he went away, to
her great relief'.
But where should she go? No, home and no means of
procuring one. ' It was still earlj in the day,' not more
than ten o'clock. The old woman appeared confused and'
16

180

181


182            MARY ELMER, OR                                         TRIALS AND CHANCES.         183

tpuzzled at the scene which had'~just taken place, and asked
some questions, although she did' not comprehend anything
of it. 'Susan, brought her a cup of tea and' a 'bit of toast,
sa~ by her, and answered her questions in a manner that
sa~jsfied. her, and before long she fell into a sound sleep.
Susan' immediately gave the baby into Mary's charge, told
Johnny 1'to sit quietly beside his grandmother's bed until
her return, put on her bonnet and shawl, and slipped
quietly into the street.
Where should she go? where, where? If Mrs. Lee
were only at home! The thought of writing to her for
aid to enable her to remain in her. present abode, crossed
her mind. But it was too late. ~She mu4 quit to-day.
She looked up the street and then down, undecided which
way to go.
At length her eye fell upon an old, brown, barnish look-
ing 'house, standing alone on a slight eminence,' a little out
of the town. She knew it was the residence of Mrs. Mad-
dock, the ~voman with whom she learned the business of
dressmaking. INow a widow like herself, and poor, too,
but nQt in want, for she owned the house which she occu-
pied, and by her own labors, she still pursued her former
occu potion,~ supported herself and two children, something
older than Susan's two eldest. She had also' four children
still older, who were all earning their own living at differ~
~ent trades. Two sons had gone from home, and two
daughters, tailoresses, boarded with their. mother and took
in wox~k from the shops.
Thither Susan determined to bend her. step~. She had
not Been much of Mrs. Maddock since her marriage, but
she remembered her as a very kind-hearted woman.
'"Perhaps she can help me," thought the desolate

woman as she pursued her way. "I, recollect how kind
she used to be to us apprentice girls. How in pleasant
weather she always sent us~ out on the grass plot twice a
day to have a romp, and stretch our limbs. She said
our health required it. And what pleasant cooling drinks
she used to make for us in hot days."
Many other little circumstances Susan recalled as she
went along, all of them in Mrs. M.'s favor, and she could
not help feeling that she would do something for her now.
Nor was she mistaken Mrs. Maddock bad heard of
George Elmer's death, but not ,o~/ the circumstances of his
family. .She listened to Susan's sad story with tears, and
when it was endod, freely offered her a shelter in her own
house.
"There is one good-sued room at liberty, on the ground
floor too, and if you can get along with that, come. We're
poor but we have health, and no helpless ones amongst us."
"But perhaps I never shall be able to pay you."
"'Don't borrow any trouble about that, dear. If you
ever should be able to pay ~ne, as I hope you will for your
own sake, why well and good. And if you shouldn't
'twont kill me. I shan't be any poorer for it a hundred
years hence."
" No, indeed -you will not," said Susan as grateful tears
fell from her eyes. "'He that giveth to the poor lendeth
unto the Lord; ' and He will surely reward you whether I
ever can or not."
She then arose, saying that she x~ould go and\ hire a cart
to remove 'her furniture.
" Wait a moment," said Mrs. M.., "and I will run
over and see ifNeighbor Grey's' team is at liberty to-day,
if it should be it will save you the expense of a cart, for
they have offered me the use of it whenever I wish."-


TRIALS AND CHANGES.      i8~

1~4           gARYELAWR, OR

So she hastened to Neighbor Grey's, and soon returned
~ith the pleasing intelligence, that she could have the,
team all the~ ~afternoon, and David Grey to drive. It was
arranged that immediately after dinner, she would come
down with David and the team. She would have a bed
laid in the wagon, and Mr&amp; Grant should be removed be-.
fore anything else, lest she might be worried by ~he noise
and. confusion.
When Susan returned home, she found things just as
she had left them, anA her mother still sleeping. She
prepared their scanty dinner, and soon after they had
eaten it, the 6old woman awaked. While Susan was
giving her a rather more substantially meal than the rest of
hem bad enjoyed, she told her of the approaching change
in their circumstances, and at length succeeded in making
her understand that they were going to a new home, much
more comfortable than the present one, where they would
have no stairs to ascend, and where a very nice woman
was living.
She appeared rather pleased with the idea of a change,
and when the kind-looking Mrs. 1\ktaddock, and the good-
natured David Grey boon after came in, she' was quite
willing to have them sand Susan lift her gently from the
bed and carry her out to the wagon. They laid her .ip an
easy position on the soft bed and pillows which Mrs. Mad-
dock had arranged, and Susan seated herself beside her on
the bed, holding a parasol to shade her face. Mrs. Mad-
dock went on the sidewalk carrying the baby, while Mary
and Johnny trotted behind her as merry as birds, shouting
and talking to the baby, who crowed and laughed back to
thorn. They reached the house before 'the rest of: the
party, who advanced very ~Iowly and carefully. Susan

talked cheerfully to her mother, and the old woman seemed
to enjoy the ride very much.
When they arrived at Mrs. Maddock's, Mrs. Grant was
laid upon Mrs. M.'s bed ur~til her own could be prepared.
She appeared rather uneasy at being in a strange house,
and would not suffer Susan to leave her~at alL. Therefore
Mrs. Maddock kindly offered to go back with the wagon
and superintend the loading up of the furniture. There
was not much, and it was soon transported. The small
piece of carpet was laid down, the bed was set u~, and the
old woman was deposited on it, to change no more until
she should lie down in the last resting-placeK of us all.
As Susan went rbout, arranging her few articles in the
quiet room, she felt a degree of satisfaction that she had
not known for months. For she was sure that, happen
what might, there was now no danger of her poor mother
and little ones being turned into the street. She was
more cheerful than she,~ad been in a long, long time.
There was a certain hymn which she used to be fond of
singing, and George of hearing, and this evening as she
rocked her baby to* sleep, ~he sang it for the first time
since she had heard of her husband's death. It had a
chorus which ran thus :-
I
"Look up, ~uy soull be like the lurk
That singing soars afar -
There7s ne'er a cloud however dark
~Ut veils a shining star."
When she had laid her baby down and ceased singing,
her mother, who had been lying very quietly for sometime,~
said, "Sinr it again, child."
16*


186             MARY ELMER, OR                                         TRIALSS. AND CHANGES~          187

Surprised and pleased pusan complied, and when she
had finished, the old woinaii said,
"Once ~nore, my child~ it sounds so good."
So 8he sang it a third tjme, with a tremulous voice and
shedding thankful tears all the while. And when it was
ended, the old mother took up the last words, "shining
star," and~ murmured them over several times, each time
fainter, until they died away entirely, and she fell~ asleep.
The children, who were in their little bed, had been
lying awake, listening to theh~ mother, and presently she
heard Mary say in a low voice,
"Johnny, are you awake?"
Yes, are you?
"Yes, did y~u hear mother sing ? "
"I guess IL did, didn't it sound pleasant, Mary?"
the auo'e
"0, it did, it made me think~ ~ ls with shin-
ing wings that live above the clouds."
"So it did me, how funny that we should think of the
same thing!"
"So it was, Johnny, it made me think of father too, did
it you?"
." Yes, I thought -about father while I was thinking of
the angels."'
"So did I. He used to like to hehr mother sing .that,
you know. -
"Did he? 1 forget."           -*
"Why yes, johnny, don't you remember how he used
to ~ay; ' Oome, Susey, sing the "shining star"?"
"0 yes, I do remember about it now."
"I wonder if he heard her sing 'it now!" said the little
girl musingly. And then they went to sleep with their
arms round each other's necks.

As Susan sat by her little taper, she thought over these
childish words. She thought too of her mother's pleasure
while she was singing, and of heir peaceful falling asleep
afterwards. Then she wondered that she had so long lost
sio'ht of the "shining star," and w~s glad sh~ had found'
it again. It had made them all so happy. And she knelt
down and prayed that her afflictions might.soften her heart,
and draw her ~nearer to God. That she might no longer
look at the cloud, but through it, and ever keep her eye
upon the "shining star" beyond. From this tjme she
went about her daily round of toilsome duties, resigned,
and even cheerful, and every night she sang the "Shining
Star."

CHAPTER V.

IRS. ELMER was much more comfortable at Mrs.
Maddock's than she had been before since Mrs.
j Lee went away. Her quarters were narrow, it is
true, but there was a shady, pleasant door-yard,
where Mrs. Maddock permitted the children to play when-
ever they chose. ~There they passed several hours when the
weather was fine.. And sometimes they hail the baby with
them in a little wagon ~belonging to Jane and Sarah,
Mrs. Maddock's little - girls. Meanwhile their mother was
busy -within, now at the old woman's bedside, now at her
household work, and now. patching and mending for herself
and children.

x

180

- 187


I

188

MARY ELMER, OR

Her evenings Susan devoted to sewing for Mrs. Mad-
dock. By this means she hoped to p~y her rent, and she
was therefore, surprised when after finishing the first piece,
that good woman proffered her full pay..
"0 no, Mrs. Maddock," said Susan, "I wish to pay
the 'r~nt of my room in this way."
"Fie! fie! dear," returned 'Mrs. M., throwing the
money into her lap, "don't speak 'ohi~at again, if you do
I shall be offended. Don't you know you must have
something coming in t&amp; live on? You may just as well
help me about my sewing, as to take it in on your own hook.
IL have more calls than II can possibly attend to. And
besides, my eyes are not as strong as they once were. I
can't sew of evenings~ any more excepting on the plainest
parts, an~your help will be ,a great accommodation to me.
It will enable me to serve all my customers. So if you
will just take hold and lend me a hand whenever you feel
like it, and allow me to pay you what it's worth, I assure
you it will not only be some assistance to you, but 'twill
actually put money in my pocket too."
"Thank you! thank you! Mrs. Maddock. Then I
will do the nicest parts and you the plainest, for my eyes
are perfectly strong and good yet."
"Agreed, that's a nice arrangement. Butt you mustn't
try your 'eyes too much and spoil them while you're a
young woman. You shall have one of my lard lamps in
here. I have two,. and the girls. and I never use but one
nt a time. 4They give a bright light and then they're very
economical. You 'can burn any kind of grease in them,
and that saves the expense of oil,"
'Susan thanked her again, and said she hoped there
would come a time when~ she should be able to repay' some

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

189

of this kindness, and the conversation ended with Mrs.
Maddock's 'commanding her never again to speak of obli-
gation.
This worthy woman's kindness did not stop here.
Scarcely a day passed without ?ome token of her interest in
the Elmers. A pie or a cake for the children. And often
a bit of fish, an egg, or some other little delicacy for, the
old woman. ~nd every morning a pitcher of milk.
"You will at least take pay for the milk," said Susan,
almost imploringly.
"Bless your soul aiid body, dear woman," Mrs.' Mad-
dock replied, "do you think I shall be ~ny the poorer in
a hundred yeai~s for giving you a little milk? I never sell
milk to anybody that's worse off. than I am. My cow's a
first-rate animal. I make all my own butter and have
several pots to spare every fall. And when a rich family
wants to buy milk of me, why I take the piiy-of--~-course.
But as for selling milk to poor folks, I can't do that. 'My
mother before me never did it, and I never will."
"Your mother must have been very good."
"Good! I never' saw the like of her. I didn't know
how good she was when I was a young, giddy girl. It
wasn't so much by what she said as by what she did, that
she showed her goodness. But after she was dead and
gone I began, to realize it. And when I was married and
went away, and saw more of the world, then it struck me
how much better my mother was than most of people. And
when my family began to gzow up rom~d me, and I had
my own trials and troubles, I remembered how many my
mother had, and how patiently she 'bore them. 0~ how sor-
ry I felt that I hadn't been more dutiful and loving ~to ber.
So I tried to do as she used to, for I remembered her ac

1*

I


190            'MARY ~ELMER, OR                                          TRIALS AND CIIA~G ES.          191

tions better than her words. And rye tried to keep them
always before me. But if I should live hundred and fifty
years I neVer should come to be what my mother was."
Susan looked at the poor wreck upon the bed, and
thanked God in her heart that she too had been reared by
a good mother, and was now privileged to sustain and care
for hers in that state of helplessness9
Notwithstanding Mrs. ~Maddock's unvarying kindness,
there were some circumstances which rendered Susan's situa-
tion rather unpleasant to one of her temperament. The feel-
ing of dependence which constant~j.weighed upon her spirit,
was jncreased by a si1spicion~ that the two older daughters
of Mrs. Maddock were not satisfied with her being there.
they were good-tempered girls, and there was never any-
thing rude or unkind in their deportment towards herself.
But occasionally .a hasty expression to her children esQaped
them. And once, as she was passing through the enti~y~
she heard one of them say to the other,
"I' tl;iink we have children enough of our own without
keeping other people's. I should think she might put
Mart out." Susan did not blame th~ girls. She thought
it natural that they should feel so. But it made her very un'T
happy. She had not thought of putting Mary out before,
and it Wrung her heart. But she felt the necessity of doing
something. If Mrs. Lee were only~ home.. She knew
that she might count upon help from her. She was almost
sure that she would have been glad to take Mary, and tbat,
she could have borne, for Mary loved Mrs. Lee, and would
no doubt have been happy with her. But she was gone,
and there was no 'one who knew when she would be back.
While she was in this state of perplexity, an opportunity
offered for getting Mary a place, and she embraced it.

Not without many secret tears, still in the hope that the
separation would not be long. The child her~eIf was at
first unwilling to go. She could not bear to leave hei
mother and Johnny, and above all the baby. And then
too, Mrs. Smith, with whom she was going to live, was
not a bit like ~Mrs. Lee. She did not look as pleasant.
If it was Mrs. Lee she would be willing to go and 'live
always with her.
But her mother talked long and seriously to her.
"You are a little girl, 'Mary," she said, "but you are
old enough to see that I have to work very hard ~to get
clothes and food -for you all. Mrs. Smith offers to feed
and clothe you, which is very kind. And in return you
are to help tare care of her biLby, just as you do of your
own little brother. Don't you see that will be helping me
very much?"
When the little girl understood that it would bej relief
to her mother, she became il~econci1'ed to the idea ongoing,
and the next morning, after a great many kisses all round,
and numerous hugs administered to the baby, she set out
for Mrs. Smith's, with a basket on her arm containing 'her
small wardrobe, and Sarah Maddock to show her the way.
"I don't half like the looks of that Mrs. Smith where
Mary's gone," said Mrs. Maddock to her daughters.
"Nor I," said Martha.
"Nor I neither," said Anne. "I should be\very sorry
if the -little thing wasn't Well treated, for she's a good
child."
Both the girls fdt some compunction for having wished
her away; and they made amemids afterwards by constant
kindness to Johnny and the baby.
The Mrs. Smith with whom Mary had gone to live was

100

191


192           MARY ELMER, OR                                    TRIALS AND CHANaBS.         193

the one before, mentioned, wife of the man who had made
~his fortune in California, no longer "Jonathan Smith the
shoemaker," but "J. Pixicy- Smith, the leather merchant~"
The exact amount of Mr. Smith's acquisitions in California
was ~not known; but to judge from the change in his out.
ward circumstances since his return, it must have been
considerable. He was doing business on a pretty large
scale; and' Mis. Smith, from a small, unpainted house,
where' she "did her own work," was elevated to a tall, red
brick one, with bright green window blinds, and there,
reigned over a hired girl and also a baby nurse. An ex-
tract from a letter which she wrote about this time to a
sister in 'Vermont, will give some idea both of the woman
and her mansiofl:
"'It's but of brick painted reds three story high, and
very tall chimberly tops, and a fuller kitchen in the base-~
ment underneath. The upper story we haint furnished
more than to put shades to the windows to make a show
on the~~ou~side, but the first and second stories is complete.
I've g6t two parlors with folding doors between 'em; the
frorrt parlor is furnished with mahogany chairs and a sofa
cushined with hair'cloth, and a looking glass bigg enough
ito see the 'whole of yourself in, and two ottermans, anda
splendid 'centre4able with a tremenjous bigg astorial lamp
in the middle of it. The mantletry shelf is supported by
xn~rble pillows, and atop of it stands three Jo, Randals, the
middle one nearly a yard high, with rising of a hundred
diamond dependents hanging from it.' Over the sofa hangs
Mr9 Smith'~ portrait as natural as life, and the windows
has gold' cornishes as much as a foot wide, and musling
curtings of the most costliest description. And tl~e carpets
I i~ouldu't describe if I shc~old try forever, 'they "being alike

in both parlors, and all covered with magnificent flower
pots bright enough to dazzle common folkses eyes. In
the back parlor stands Henrietta's pianb; we calculate tO"
have her learn music; then there's two tater tates, yo*u
know what they are I spose, and chairs and mantletryasheif
like them in the front parlor, on Which staiids'a n~imber of
pappy Mash ornaments, that's very fashionable nowj You
never saw any like em, they being intirely~new fashioned,
and named after the inventor, old Mr. Mash. I shouldn't
wonder if it 'was the one we used to~know, he was always
inventing something you. know, and a number more things
of various descriptions. At the. lower end I calculate to
* have a family' picture to hano~; it's. nearly done now, and
Mr. Boggles is a painting it'; you can imagine how supe-
rior it is when I tell you that we shall have to pay twenty-
five dollars for it. It represents the four oldest children a
standing up in a row; Ferdinand stands first with a book
in his hand, J'Ienrietta next with a bokay, Josephine next,
a holding her doll, and Columbus last a drumming-on his
little drum. On one side sits me a holding the babe, J.
Pixley Junior in my arms. In the foldi~ig doors stands one*
of these Elizabeth Ann chairs, that's considered so undis-
pensable in every genteel -parler at the present time, with
a high-pinted back and cushined with red -velvet, and very
uneasy if a body ever wanted tc~ set down in em, but they
don't. We calculate to have the house heated by a furniss
iii the basement next fall, with legislators in the floor to -let
the heat go up' stairs you. knJw. Stoves ain't considered
gei~'teel any longer only ~n kitchings. I tell you Line as
good as 'anybody now. I've had a nuniber of calts from
ladies that never come near me before; they seem to jest
found out' we live in town.. Californy' gold dust aint like
17

/

4


Ii

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

195

MARY EL MEl? , OR
other dust; it seems to open some folkses eyes all of a sud-
~ding, instid of blinding em. "I keep a bigg girl that does
the heft of my work, and have to pay her a dollar a week;
and besides her I've got a small one to take care of J. Pix-
Thy, and I get a good deal out of h~r and it's all clear gain,
for all IL pay her is her clothing and vittals, and the cloth-
'lug aint much, as I shall make her wear the girls' old
things; the food is something, for such children eat aw-
fully, but I watch her pretty close; she's only seven year
old but I never saw a child of that age so handy with a
babe. A good deal 6C the furniture I've described, husband
bought to a vandue in New York, very cheap indeed, but
don't you never breathe a sillyble about it to no living crea-
ture, but come as soon as convenient and see how we look
in our new residence."
When little Mary arrived' at Mrs. Smith's, Sarah took
her ~t&amp; the basement door and then left her. She knocked
and ~Vas told to come in. There was no one in the kitchen
excepting the hired girl,~ who was washing up the breakfast
things. She was an odd looking girl, almost as dark as a
squaw, with a flat nose and a long chin. She was cross-
eyed too, and her stiff black hair was cropped close to her
head. Mary was almost frightened when she first looked
at her. 'But when she spoke in a pleasant voice and asked
if" this was the' little girl that was to live there," her fears
subsided% and she answered in the affirmative.
"Well then ,~ take off your things and I'll put them up
stairs; you'll sleep with me."'.
Mary surrendered her bonnet and cape, as well as her
basket to the queer-looking girl, who patted her head and
said, "How nice your hair curls! is it natural ?"

* "Natural?" said the little" girl inquiringly.
"I mean do you roll it up in papers, ~or does it curl
itself?"
"0, it ourls itself. I didA't know what you meant at
first."
" Well, that's beautiful. Now I suppose you must go
up stairs to Mrs. -Smith's room. No need of my going
with you; right up this stairs and then along the hall, and
into the room where you hear a dreadful hullabaloo.~~
These directions enabled Mary to find the room without
difficulty. She tapped at the door, but was not heard.
So she opened it and, went in. Such was the commotion
inside that her entrance was unnoticed. The two girls
were disputing furiously' about Josephine's sun-bonnet,
which she declared henrietta had hidden. Columbus, a
boy about three years old, was stamping about in an old
pair of his father's boots, and Mrs. Smith, baby ~,jn arms,
was standing at the window, knocking and screaming at
Ferdinand, the eldest hope, who was loitering in the street,
instead of going to school.
"You do know where it is, and you know you do," said
Josephine. '
"I don't neither, a'nd you know I don't."
"You lie, and you know you lie."
"I don't lie, you lie yourself. Say ma! shan't she give
mc up my sun-bonnet? I want to go to school."
"I don't care whether she does' or not," shouted Mrs.
Smith turning quickly round. "I'm half crazy with this
everlasting racket; go to school, sun-bonnet or no sun-
bonnet." And she gave them each a hearty box on the
ear and pushed them out of the door, while phey xetaliated'
by calling her a" mean old thing," "old cross-patch," &amp;o.

Ii
ii
'ii
Ii
ii


'ft
{J~
'I

MARY ELMER, OR

As. Mrs. Smith opened the doer to eject the girls, 'she
perceived little Mary, who stood trembling behind it.
"'0 you've come, have, you? well, I'll attend to you
soon." She then seized Columbus and shook him violently
with the hand she had at liberty..
" What do you mean, you little scamp, clattering round
in them boots'! get out of 'em quicker ;" and she lifted
him up by the arm so that the boots fell off. The boy
bawled lustily.' At 'this moment Mr. Smith entered the
room, evidently much 'excited.
"At it again hey ~" said he. "You're always abusing
that boy. ~Lumruy, my~son, come with pa," taking hold of
his arm..
Mrs. Smith did not relax her gripe on the other arm.
The boy was a constant bone of contention between his
parents.
"I wish," she said, "you wouldn't always interfere
when I'm a trying to correct him, Mr. Smith."
"A~nd I wish yQu'd be good enough to let ~o of hi
Mrs. Smith."                                 s arm,
As the mother labored 'under a disadvantage on account
of one arm 'being occupied with J. Pixley, 'Junior, she was
in the end co~npel1ed to yield, and the affectionate father
led his son off in triumph to the "leather store."
Poor little Mary, to whom such scenes were new, was
nearly frightened out of her wits at it, and felt quite re-
lieved to find herself alone with Mrs. Smith and the baby.
Mrs. Smith was a tall, poking woman, with a sallow com-
plexion, and a long, sharp nose. She turr~ed to Mary as
soon as 'the coast was cleared, and oi'dered her to go to the
kitchen and tell Jerusha to send her a 'basin of water, right
from the pump to wash the babe. Mary obeyed, and after

TRIALS AND CHANGES'.

197

sending her to fetch half a dozen more things, Mr~.
Smith was ready to begin the ablution of J. Pixley.
He was a very fat baly, with cheeks hanging down on
his shoulders, and a pointed head, crowned on the summit
with a tuft of stiff, black hair about an inch long, which
stuck up straight in spite of all his mother's efforts with
comb and brush, to make it lie down. Little Mary's first
movement was to run up and stand by Mrs. Smith, as she
always did by her mother when she washed their baby.
"What makes' him cry so?" she asked. "Our b'aby
never does when he's washed."
"Well, I shouldn't wonder if your ma takes the chill
off the water. Some folks don't know any better, but it's
no way. I always wash my children in the colde~t' water
I can get, and in the summer I put a chunk .oC ice in it."
Mary no longer wondered that J. Pixley cried, nor that
his skin was so red. She noticed whenThis mother put on
his clothes, that she pinned his waist bands as tight as she
could possibly draw them, and she concluded that this was
done to push up the flesh and make his cheeks fat.
"How funny his hair looks," remarked the child in the
simplicity of her. heart. "It doesn't curl round like our
baby's, his i~ real pretty; it goes so;" and she described
several half circles with her finger on J Pixley's head.
K Mrs. Smith never forgave her this speech. She glanced
spitefully at the little girl's head, covered with those short
golden rings which are so beautiful in childhood, and which
art cannot imitate7 thinking as she did so, of the stiff, mud..
colored locks of her own children, and after a moment she
said,
"So you think curly hair's mighty pretty? Well I don't
agree with you. I'm glad he hasn't got curly hair,. nor
17*

I

1963

~1


ii
iji

any of the other children. It looks so nigger. If your
ma expects me to fuss With yours as she does, and keep
it ~quirled up in that ridiculous way, she's mistaken."
"My -mother doesn't fuss with, it. She only combs it
out in the morning when I get up," said Mary, in some
alarm, fearing that she had done something wrong.
"You talk too much child, "said Mrs. Smith sharply.
When she had finished J. Pixley's toilet, she laid him
in the cradle still screaming, and told her to rock him to
sleep.
"And if he won't go to sleep so - take him up and
walk with him till he does; do you hear?"
"Yes, ma'am," answered Mary.
"And then sit down on that stool by the cradle and
sew on this till he wakes up. You can sew some, can't ~
you? you're old enough anyhow."
Mary answered that she could sew a little on coarse
things, and she took from Mrs. Smith's hand a towel begun
to be hemmed.
as soon as he wakes, -let me know; do you -
hear?"
"Yes, ma'am," said the child, and then Mrs. Smith
went into the kitchen.
Mary rocked the cradle, 'singing the while a childish
tune. There was something in her voice and manner
soothing to the poor baby after his mother's rough hand-
ling, and he soon ceased crying and fell asleep without
Qbliging Mary ~to take him up. And then the little nurse
began her sewing. She felt very sorrowful, as she sat on
the little stool in that strange, disorderly rooih, and thought
of the angry words she bad heard, and the angry faces she
had seen there, and ~then of her own home where all~was so

198            AfAR Y ELMER, OR                                      TRIALS AND CHANCES.          199

I'

(

different. It seemed as though she had been a longA loiw
time away, and she could nJt prevent ~ few tears roihi~g
down her cheeks. But she wiped them hastily off ~jvith the
rough towel4 she was hemming, and said to her elf, "I
mustn't do so. I must try to be good and 'contented, and
help my mother as~ much I can."
Poor little one I She had entered upon her first real
trials. But. we must reserve the account of then~ for
another chapter.                       .
CHAPTER VI.
T this moment the little girl was startled by a
strange noise under Mrs. Smith's bed, and pres-.
ently a large Newfoundland dog emerged,
stretched, shook himself, and looked round. As
soon as he caught sight of the strange child sitting by the
cradle, he showed his- teeth, and uttered a low growl.
Poor. Mary was dreadfully terrified. What should she
do? If she were to stir or cry out, he might spring at
her and tear her to pieces before any one could come to
her rescue. Therefore she bethought herself to try coax-
ing. She remembered to have seen her father once con
ciliate a ferocious dog in this manner, when she was out
with him; and so, frightened as sh~ was, she ventured ~to
speak to him.
Poor fellow-! poor old fellow."
The dog relaxed his countenance somewhat, and came a

198


i~i

MARY ELMER, OR

few steps i~earer. She spoke again, in a low, sweet
vo1c~.
"Doggy, good doggy, y@u won't bite a poor little girl,
will you?"
The dog advanced close to her side. She took courage
and patted his back, though her hand trembled a little,
still talking in the same pleasant way, and very soon the
creature sat down and laid his head caressingly on her lap.
Little Mary was greatly relieved, and resumed 'her sewing.
This animal had a great antipathy to children past the age
of infancy; caused, undoubtedly, by his having been cpn~
stantly teased and worried by the little Smiths. lie was
the terror of all the urchins in the neighborhood, who
would scamper off whenever they saw him. He was not
accustomed to kind ~woi'ds, and they had a magical, effect
upon him, when uttered by Mary's sweet, child-like voice.
So~ from this time, Bounce and the lade girl were th~ best
of friends.
When Mrs. 'Smith came in 'shortly after, she 'was ex-
ceedingly surprised at the phenomenon which met her eyes.
'After her astonishment had in a measure subsided, she in-
quired "how that dog came there." Mary 'answered that
'he came' from under the bed.
"Well, how came he'to be so friendly with you?"
"I don't know, indeed," said Mary, "only I thought
he was going to bite me, so I said, 'poor fellow,' and
talked to him, and after awhile he came up to m~ very
good."
"So you've been coaxing him, hey! Well, I'll let you
know I didn't get y~u here to play with the dog; here~
Bounce, get outyou nasty quadrupled;" and she assisted
him with her foot to obey the command.

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

201~

The commotion awaked the baby, whereupon' his
mother took him up, and then ordered Mary to "fly
round and put the room to rights." The child was very
expert at "putting to rights," for she had been taugj~it to
assist her mother in this way, but she never before had
quite so unpromising a field to work upon.
how can I ever get it to rights?" thought she; " it
is so dreadfully to wrongs." But what with her own ideas
of propriety, and Mrs. Smith's instructions where to plane
tide, and how to fix that, she~-did at length succeed in get-
ting the room into a state something like order; a 'nearer
apprQach ~to it in fact, than had been achieved in a lono'
time.
"I-hereafter," said Mrs. Smith," I shall expect you to
do this every morning without being told; d'ye hear?"
Mary answered in the affirmative, and then her mis-
tress told her to bring on her sewing, as she wanted to see
what sort of work she made of it. Mary' brought it to
her, and she ,at once pronounced it "distress-ed," the'
stitch s, she said, were a foot long - she wondered that a
great in like her couldn't sew better, and 'ordered her to
take m re pains in future. Mary said ~' she could sew
a good dea better when she had a thimble, but she had
not brought hers.
"So you haint fetcht no thimble, hey? Well, it's curi-
ous your ma didn't think of it. Shouldn't wonder if you
hadn't any.",
"0, yes ma'am, I've got a nice silver one, that father
gave me on my last bivt~hday before he went away.~~
"Silver thiiHble for a young one like you that's all the
while a growing; a bright idee, I must say, for folks in
your situation."

20

ill
hf


ill
U

202              MARY ELAFER, OR
"But mother said when it's outgroWn I can gi~ve\ it to
some little girl that's littler yet than I. So I mean t give
it to Hannah Fenno, she's oniy four, and when she gets
too big for it, she ~'can give it to little Ellen, and after
Ellen, little Maria, that's a baby now can have it, and so
you see it never'll- be lost."
"' Well, I declare! I did not know there was anybody
so green in creation! give away a silver thimble, when
you can't get vittals to eat~ nor clothing to cover your
surfisses. But it's a mystery to me that your ma didn't
have you fetch it along."
"I suppose she didn't think you'd want me to 'sew."
"Didn't, hey~? I wonder what she calculated to have
you do all the time the babe's asleep; hold your hands and
play lady?"
To this question the child made no reply, but she ven-
tured' to ask if she might go home and get her thimble.
"There! jest as I knew wouldd be, ready to jump at
any excuse to trot home. But I'll tell you wkat, Mary
Elmer, once~ for all I tell you, and do you listen to me
and remember'what I say. I aint a going to halve no run-
fling back and forth every day from our house to yourn,
d'ye hear?"
no, not every day, of course; but only' once in a
~hile~to see the baby, you know," said the little girl tim-
idly.
"Yes, yes," responded Mrs. Smith, snappishly. "You
couldn't exist I s'pose, without seeing that elegant curly-
beaded cherubim once in a while. And then wouldd be
so interesting to me to have you come back and ding-dong
it into my ears the rest of the time. A wonderful help
you'd he to me in such a case.' No, you aint to go home
at all, I give you to understand. D'ye hear?"

TRIALS AND CHANCES.        203

Mary would have answered, bu~ something came up in
her throat and prevented her. She tri~d to choke it
down, inwain, and after a moment she burst into teari.
"You 'great cr~-baby," said Mrs. Smith; "1've a
great mind to send you home ~and let you all starve to-
gether, or go to the poor-house."
These words alarmed the child, and she said hurriedly,
"0, don't. send me home, Mrs. 'Smith, mother cannot
provide for us all. I'll tl7y to be good, I won't cry any
more.~~
Mrs. Smith was graciously pleased to be mollified at
these prQmis~es, and after giving Mary a lecture touching
her future conduct, dwelling at large on the poor-house
and starvation in case of any act of disobedience, and her
own kindness in being willing to save her from such a
fate, she brought out Josephine's thimble for her t6 use
until she could have an opportunity to send for her own.
She soon after told her to take the "babe" into the
kitchen for his dinner. Mary obeyed, and Mrs. Smith
followed.
In the kitchen Mrs. Smith passed the greater portion
of her time. She was unaccustomed to servants, and
wholly ignorant of the proper manner of treating them.
She had not the slightest confidence in Jerusha. Not be-
cause she had any reason to doubt the girl's honesty, but
because she regarded all "hired girls" as the natural ene-
mies of their employers, and ready to take advantage of
every opportunity to defraud them. She therefore. kept
up a system of petty esjj~onage over all Jerusha's move-
ments, both to see that she did not purloin or waste any-~
thing, and to be sure that she was constantly busy, and
- not trying to slight or "shirk, off" her work.

N

203.


204            MARY ELMER, OR                                      TRIALS AND CHANGES.         205

Therefore, whether she had anything to do in the
kitchen or not, she was generally there; for the most part
gossiping with Jerusha, and asking her all sorts of ques-
tions about families where she had lived, which the girl,
"like many others when encouraged, was ready enough to
answer.
Occasionally, however, Mrs. Smith 'was visited with an
attack of reserve. A sudden sense of her own greatness
and importance as mistress of the house, came over her,
and she determined tQ let Jerusha "know her, pla~."
At such times her bearing towards her drumstick, " as she
called her, was dignified in the e4reme. She 'moved
about with a queenly air, and although she continued her
visits to the kitchen as~ usual, 'she always brought with her
"' Thaddeus df Warsaw" (the only book in the house), ~
and pretended to read while she *kept a good look-out
upon Je~usha. These attacks occurred just after she had
received a call or an invitation from soine one whom she
considered genteel, or after a spat with Jerusha, which ~as
no rare occurrence. Jerusha, 'who was a shrewd girl, and
knew the difference between a "lady ~" and "no lady,"
was both provoked and amused at these "genteel fits," as
she called them.
But' let us not forget J. Pixlcy's dinner. This consisted
of a large' quantity of mashed potato well buttered, the
soft part of a huge piece of apple~pie, and a bowl of
milk. Mary thought it a "funny" dinner for a baby of
ten months nbt yet weaned, but she 'did not dare to say
'so.
While she was feeding him the children came in from
school, and 'a terrible uproar~ ensued. The girls. made
themselves merry for a while in commenting~, upon little

Mary's appearance; particularly ~her curly golden hair,
which they considered vastly inferior to their "own mud.-
coL~red pigtails, and then fell to quarreling as usual,
while Ferdinand amused himself by jogging her elbow, to
make her spill 'the baby's food. Tbb poor child was
frightened at the conduct of the great rude boy, and was
just on the point of crying again, when the 'entrance ~f
Bounce diverted the young gentleman's attention from her.
The dog had barely time to run up and gree( his new
friend with a wag of his tail, when the same tail was
seized by Ferdinand, who began to drag him about the
room by it. '~ Bounce neVer would bite his master's chit..
dren, but he often barked and snarled terribly under their
treatment. At this indignity he sent forth a succession of
yells which\ alarmed Mary, although she did not blame
him at all. The yelling of the dog, the shouts of Ferdi-
nand, an~d the boisterous quarreling of the two girls, cre-
ated a concert such as the quiet little creature had never
heard before.
",Get out o' the house every live soul of you," screamed
Mrs. Smith. "I can't stand this racket, and' I won't
stand it." Then seeing that the children 'did not start,
she seized a broom exclaiming, "If you won't go I'll
make you go," and drove them forth into the back yard,
with orders to stay there till dinner was ready.
And then Jerusha proceeded to s~et the table. They
ate in the kitchen. The dining-room was only used when
they had company. While Mary was yet feeding the
baby, Mr. Smith returned from his store dragging along
Columbus; who was roaring at the top of his voice.
"If ever I take this boy to the store again "- thus
18

q

N


206             314RY EL~JIER, OR

TRIALS AND ~HANGES~        207

far had Mr. Smith proceeded, when Mrs. Smith broke
in.
"I wonder what's the reason you're forever tormenting
that child. Lummy, my son, what's pa been doing to
you?"
"He's been shippingg me," blubbered the cherub.
"Whipping you, hey ~ Mr. Smith, I should' like to
know what business you have to whip this boy?"
"I whipped him because he deserved it; he's done
more mischief at the store this morning than his neck's~.
worth, confound limIt"
"Mischief, hey ! tha1~s a likely story! come here to ma,
Lummy, darling 1"
Columbus obeyed, and took refuge in his mother's lap;
and then turning to ~h~s father, said with an air of great
satisfaction,
"E ce,, ya ya, I don't tare for you."
Dinner was now ready, and little Mary was not sorry
when Mre. Smith sent her back in the bed-room with the
baby, to1 wait. until they were 'through. She was begin-
fling to feel very hungry, but she thought she would
rather go without her dinner altogether, than to sit down
with the children, to say nothing of their parents. When
at last she was called out to dinner, there was no one there
beside Mrs. Smith, Jerusha, and Columbus, who was still
at the table, being always allowed to sit and stuff huin~elf
as long as he chose. Mrs. Smith took the baby, and mo-
tioned Mary to - not a seat, but a stand by a very dirty
plate which one of the children had used. Jerusha, who
had dined (she always ate with the family excepting when
they had company), offered to wait upon the little girl,
but Mrs. Smith declined, saying she would attend to her

herself. She then put a large potato on her plate, cut it
up in chunks, and sprinkled #salt over 'it. To this she
added a very small piece of meat, 'and then told Jerusha
to take' off the dishes. In obeying this~order, the girl, as
she took up the bread plate to take it away, offered it to
Mary. Mrs. Smith pushed it quickly from her, saying,
"She don't need bread with her potato."
Mary did want a piece of bread, but she dared not to
say so. There was a 'small piece of pie left on Jerusha's
plate. To tell the truth she had reserved it on purpose
for little Mary. She handed the plate to her, saying as
she did so, "Would you like this hit of pie?"
Mary thanked her, but-before she had time to take it
Mrs S. said with much excitement,
"Columbus may want that."
"He's got more on his plate now than he can manage,
and he's as full as a tick already," said Jerusha.~ "And
besides it's a piece I saved' a purpose for her," and she
slipped it off on Mary's plate.
"Jerusha U' said Mrs. Smith, turning v~ery red with
anger. "W'hen I said I'd attend to her myself, I meant
so. And I wish you'd mind your own business, and .not
go to loading down her plate and stuffing her with vittals
you haint any right to."
"I didn't mean to stuff her," replied Jerusha, "I
thought there was no harm in giving her that little piece of
pie."
"Don't you know that such children will always make
themselves sick overloading if their food aint: portioned
out to 'em. It was for her good, of course, that I didn't
want she should have the pie."
"And for Columbus's good too, I s'pose that ~you

N


K

208

AfAR Y ELMER, OR

wanted he should have it, I don't know why 'taint as bad
for him to overload a~ for Mary."
As soon as Jerusha had 'delivered this speech, she began
to sing, the way in. which she usually terminated the fre-
quent spats between herself and Mrs. Smith, for whom
sh~ had not the smallest respect.
After this~scene, our little Mary was too much frightened
to eat the pie, and taking the baby returned to the bed-
ioom, (Mrs. S. had not yet learned quite enough* of gem-
tility to call it "the nursery,") Mrs. Smith banged after
her, enraged at not being able to have the last word with
Jerusha. On reaching that apartment she threw herself
down in the rocking-chair, rocked furiously for a few
minutes, then jumped up, took down "Thaddeus 'of
Warsaw," from a shelf in the closet, and banged back into.
the kitchen.
During, the afternoon Mary had only occasional glimpses
of her, when she came and poked her head in at the door to
see. how matters stood there, to administer a warning or
threatening word to the poor little nurse, and then hastened
back to her favorite post. It was a doleful afternoon to
the child. The baby fretted 'almost constantly. Mary
thought his overloading bad something to do with it. It
rained and therefore he could not be taken out in his little
wagon. She tasked all her powers to aniuse him. She
talked to him, sang to him, took him to the window and
tried to interest him in the sights outside. But the dhly
way that she could quiet him at all, was by carrying him
up and down the room.
0' how her poor litth~ arms achedi for he was a very
fat, heavy child. Once they gave out ~iitirely, and she was
compelled to drop him into the cradle to rest them. But

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

209

he screamed so tremendously that it brought his mother
from the kitchen, and she crave Mary a terrible scolding
for "letting him lie, there and cry." Mary said she had
only laid, him down a little' while to rest her arms.
"Time enough for that when he's asleep," said the affec-
tionate mother, "don't you let me catch you doing so
So Mary took him up and~ walked with him; up and
down, up a~d down, until she felt as though her ankles
would break and her arms drop off. At last it occurred.
to her how very tightly his mother had pinned his 'clothes
in the morning, and she thought that after si~cli a dinner as
he had ~eaten they mirst be verjr~uncomfortable. She ven-
tured to examine. They were very tight indeed, she could*
hardly get her finger under them. She knei~ he mkzst be
suffering on that account, and after some hesitation she de-
termined to loosen them if possible. ' This was no light
task for her, but she 'accomplished it after a time. She
carefully extracted the pins. But when she had got them
all out, and begun to put them in again, her fingers
trembled a little, she was so fearful of pricking the baby.
"0 baby," she said, "~vhy doesn't your mother have
strings on y&amp;ur clothes, as my mother does on little
Geor~ey's? I'm ~o afraid I shall hurt you."
But she did not hurt him. He was much more quiet
,while she was undoing and doing him over, and when she
had finished, his cries ceased entirely. Mary had really
done this nice little piece of work as well as any grown
perso; ccluld, and the child was completely relieved. He
stretched his limbs out to 'their full extent, and~seemed de-
lighted to be able' to do so. Indeed, Mary fancied that he
looked up gratefully in her face, and she felt an interest in
18*                           -


210

MARY ELMER, OR

the homely little thing, that she had not felt before. She
kfssed him, and he tried to return the caress, then laying
his cheek against hers fell asleep in a few moments.
"Dear baby," said Mary as 'she laid him in his cradle,
"how glad you are to be made comfortable; perhaps you
will. get to love me though your mother doesn't, but 0
how tired I am!" And throwing herself on the floor at full
length, she stretched out her arms aiid enjoyed for a few
minutes the luxury of resting.
"I must be careful not to test too long," she thought,
"or Mrs. Smith wilhcome and be angry with me. I'll
be up directly and go td my sewing." But "directly" she
began to, think it was very pleasant to lie so, and then she
had a confused idea ~f not caring whether Mrs9 Smith came
in or not, and then - she was. asleep.
Fortunately Mrs. Smith did not coAie in during her ~~Pt
which was soon cut short by a great noise under the
window. It was the young Smiths 'returning from school9
She was at fkst alarmed to find that she had been asleep,
but was~reassured on seeing the baby just as she left him,
and sitting down on her little stc~ol began to sew. She
had just finished one end of the towel when the baby waked,
- ~nd she took him into the kitchen for his supper, as Mrs.
Smith had directed. The family were taking tea.
"I was in hopes that young one wouldn't wake till we
got through," said Mrs. Smith, as she began to prepare
his supper, for which he was clamoring loudly. This meal
fully ~quallea his dinner in quantity, although it differed in
quality; being a bowl of crackers and milk, accompanied
by a lai~ge ginger-cake. She placed them on a stand near
the tea.~table, where she could keep an eye upon Mary,
and see that she did not "eat it half up herself," and then

TRIALS AND aIFANGES.             211
the little girl sat down, and began the prQcess of stuffing
the infant Pi~dey.
While ~rs. Smith was lool~ing round to watch Mary,
Columbus, who sat in a high chair near her, reached- out
to help hir4iself to something, and in so doing turned over
her tea-cup. She gave him a ringing box on the ear,
called him ~t "tormented tyke," and was in the act of - ptit-
ting him down from the table, when his father interposed,
caught him up, chair' and all, carried him round and seated
him next f~o himself, saying it was shameful to cuff a child
fqr a mere accident.
Columbus, finding himself in security, cast a look of ~
ultation at his mother, and pouting out his lips informed
her that he didn't tire for her! The three elder children,
who bad successively undergone the same process of traim.
ing in their earlier childhood, and who gave daily and
hourly evidence of its legitimate effects, applauded the boy's
spirit with such expressions as these: "That's you, Luni !"
"Stand up for your rights! " "Give it to her!" Fer-'
dina~~-even went so far as to propose" Three cheers for
Lum!" -
Mr. Smith was highly delighted at this piece of wit, and
laughed heartily ; but Mrs. Smith, not viewing it in the
same light, t6id Ferdinand to "hold his tongue." This
command the young gentleman 9beyed literally,, by thrust-
ing out that member and taking it between his thumb and
finger; at which performance the merriment of the young
ladies became excessive. Mrs. Smith stormed, Mr. Smith
escaped to the storeand the " table broke up in confusion."
Mrs. Smith then removed the cakes and apple-sauce
that remained, she kept all such things under lock and key,
and always took care of th~m herself~ Having cleared the

I

I


212             MARY ELMER, OR                                         TRIALS~ A'N1? CHANCES.       213

.9

table of every thing eatable, excepting one piece of bread
and a little apple-sauce left on her husband's plate, she
plastered the latter on the bread, and placing a cup of
'water beside it, took the baby from Mary and told her to
go and eat her supper3 Jerusha did not interfere although-
she 'looked.~ round several times as though she wondered
why Mrs. Smith did not go to her'own room with the baby,
as -she usually did directly after tea, there being nothing on
the table to require her attention. Mrs. Smith, however,
did not take the hint, but remained~ until Mary had eaten
her small allowance, and then giving her the "babe," sent
her back to the' bed 'room, where she found that the two
girls had preceded her. They had called Bounce in, and
when Mary entered were adjusting an old shawl over his
back, at which the dog was greatly ahnoyed.
One corner of the shawl had a hole in it. This they
drew over his tail, and having tied the other two corners
round his neck, pronounced it a first-rate saddle. Bounce
did not, sUbmit ~patiently, but growled and snarled all the
"time. "'The girls, however, knew by experience that his
growling when directed at them meant nothing, and so they
continued to tease him in every possible way, and to laugh
and shout at hi~ vain efforts to disengage himself from the
shawl. Mary felt very sorry for the poor creature..
"0 girls, don't plague him so," said ~e, "see~how
bad it makes him feel."
"Who told you to stick in your gab?" said Henrietta.
"' Who cares if it does make him feel bad?" said Jo-
sephine.
Mary ventured to say' that she cared, and again besought
them to take the shawl off.
'~ Just hear her, Jo," said Henrietta, "what business is
'~it'~bf hers what we do?"

"Sure enough, the little nasty pot -wrastier ," responded
the amiable sister. "Come, Hen, let's set him on to her."
This proposition was received by Hen with great glee.
"Seek her, Bounce, seek her!" she said, clapping her
hands, and pointing at the little girl. The dog turned and
looked at Mary. It was not such~ look as that with which
he had greeted her in the morning, but one of supplication.
It seemed to say "Will you not help me? or do you mean
to join my tormentors?"
"Go it, old fellow! seek her!" cried both the 'girls,~
clapping their hands with renewed vigor.
"Poor Bouncey! poor Bouncey!" 'said Mary, in those
sweet low tones of hers, which had 'already won him.
As soon as he heard her voice, he ran directly up to her
and licked her face, uttering at the same time a pleading
oan. She immediately went to work to extricate him
'fr~i the shawl. A rather difficult task because of the
b~b~on her lap. But she succeeded after a few moments,
to the great delight of the dog. He jumped about licking
her face and hands, and also bestowing his caresses upon
the baby, whom' the sagacious creature had discovered to
be the 'object of her care, much to the astonishment of Hen
and Jo, who bad witnessed the scene in silent wonder.
J~ist then Mrs. Smith came in and, seeing Bounce,
demanded angrily "who let that dog in there."
"Mate let him in," said Henrietta without hesitation,
at the same time winking at Josephine.
"0 no, no, 'Mrs. Smith," said Mary. "I didn't let
him in, did I, Josephine?"
"Indeed you did, and you l~now you did," answered
that unscrupdous young lady.
"And you lie if you sayyou didn't~," chimed in Henri-
etta.


214            MARY ELMER, OR                                      TRIALS AND CHANGES.        215

"You little hussy "- began Mrs. Smith.
" Now I guess you'll catch it, Mate," said Jo (Mate
was the euphonious nickname which the children had
given her). -
- "0 how can they say II did it?" sobbed the poor child,
as the tears rushed to 'her eyes; "he was here when I
came in and they were putting the shawl on him."
In her agony she appealed to flounce himself.
"Don't I tell the truth, Bounu ~ I didn't let you in,
did I?"                                       /
Bounce could only wag his tail in reply, at which the
girls laughed immoderately and said it meant "yes, you
did." Mrs. Smith 4tutned him out, and then catching
Mary by the shoulder, and shaking her almost hard enough
to dislodge J. Pixley from her lap, addressed her thus:
"So you expect me to believe you against both the girls
do you you good-for..nothing little hussy! Didn't I
tell you this morning that I wouldn't have that dog in
here? )Vhat possest you to let him in - say?"
Mary ~ould scarcely articulate "I didn't let ~him in."
"-Don't tell me such~a lie as that," screamed Mrs. Smith,
giving her another and harder shake, while the girls looked
on with entire satisfaction.
"she didn't let him in, ma," said Columbus, issuing
from his sister's bedroom adjoining, whither he had gone
on a voyage of discovery like his famous namesake.
"What have you been doing in there, you little plague?"
exclaimed both the girls, hoping to prevent his giving any
further information. But Mary too, had caught his
words, and said imploringly,
"You know I didn't let him in, don't you, Lummy?"
"Yes, I know you didn't do it. Hen letted him in,

she opened the window and tailed him in. Jo tailed him
too." -
Before this speech was finished the girls had vanished.
Mrs. Smith saw at once that the J~oy spoke the truth, and
that her daughters had told a lie. But she said nothing
to make amends to the poor child who had suffered so
severely in consequence of it. She commanded Lummy
to "stop his talking'" and -then saying it was time to
undress the "babe," took him from Mars's arms and told
her to p~it Coluz4us in bed. He slept in a crib in the
girls' room. - At first he utterly refused to go, and his
mother had just announced her intention to "give it to
him," as soon as she was done with the baby, when Mary
induced him to comply by promising to tell him a pretty
story, which promise she faitl~ifully kept by relating the
wonderful history of "Mother Hubbard and her door"
which had such a soothing effect upon Columbus that he
was asleep before it was finished.
When Mary returned, Mrs. Smith was ready to deliver
up J. Pixley to her charge to be walked to Bleep. She did
not notice the loosening of his underpinning, which gave
his little nurse the courage to go through with the process
of relieving him thus as often as she f6und him suffering
from being pinned too tight.' She then ~nt to the kitchen
where she had "something to do." This something the
reader will, perhaps, fancy to - have been a boxing and
scolding of her girls for the lie they had told her. By
no means. This grievous sin was passed over without a
reprimand without even an allusion to it, when every
day she punished her children for faults that were nothing
in comparison with it.


A
216              MARY ELMER, OR
I
CHAPTER VJJ.
~ ARY walked with the baby for some time but he
showed no signs of sleepiness, his 'afternoon ii~p
had made him wakeful. He was quiet, however,
and at length she ventured to lay him down
awake, for to. say the truth, her arms could hold out no
longer. When Mrs. Smith came back nearly an hour
afterwards, with a candle,. she found Mary and the baby
*   both fast asleep, the latter on her little stool with her head
~resting against the cradle for it was long after her ordinary
bed-time. Mrs. Smith was vexed with herself for not
having left a light that Mary might have gone on with her
sewing.! She roused her with two or three smart raps on
her back, called her a lazy thing," and scolded her
roundly for" shirking" in that way when she might have
gone and got a candle and sewed, instead of snoozing away
the time. ~Mary was too worn and sleepy to ~omprehend
all that Mr~&amp; Smith said, and rubbing her eyes she asked
if she might go to bed.
"You may as well," returned Mrs. Smith, "for I see
plainly you aint a going to be. good for anything in the
evening; come along~ you're to sleep with Jerusha."
She led the way up the back stairs, to a desolate look~
ing garret room, whose unpiastered walls admitted many a
*    goffa
ray of star-light (" there ~s no need of finishing
servant's rQonl"). * It contained a dirty bed and one old


p

ti
ii
I

'4.-
'- s-.

/1

/
/

Widow Spriggin departs from the President's House "with oneo'fr
mon' ~1ignity."-&amp;C page 3'r.6.~.
I       7.

217

* chair. Some nails were stuck round in the beams for
b;iiging clothes on, and several of them were appropriated
by Jerusha's scanty wardrobe.
Mary's own little basket sat on the floor. ill one corner,
Jerusha had. carried it up. Mary was nota co~rard, JJ~i~
she had that dread of strange, Jonely sleepiffg rooms which
is natural to childhood; and she inquired timidly whether
Jerusha would b&amp;up soon.
"What, you aint afraid I hope," said Mrs. Smith, "a
gr~at girl like ~y~ou afraid of 4he 'dark! I'm ashamed of
you. Come! be spry, take off yotirclothes~ndji~mnp iii.
I can't stand I here all ikiight waiting for you. Hereafter
you're to come up alone, and without a light."
So th'e tr&amp;nibling child undressed h~rseif as quickly as
possible; took a night-gown froiii her basket, bun ed it on.,
got into: bed, and wa~s left alone in the dark, uneou~foxtable
room. She was thoroughly awake n&amp;w, ~nd. ~despite her
weariness, ~she :e0uhj not :get a~leep.'. She felt so forlorn
~nd frier~dless, ~Jone in ~he ~~rld as it were ~. 'She thought
how ha~ipy 8h~Ji~diheem~'...With~ her 0ther. and little broth..
ers, and she began to weep bitterly that she ~niist be away
from :th~di, not eveti pe nitt~dct~ gocan4 sees them. She
thought of good Mrs. Maddoekand how 'she had said to
'ile!jas she was corning away, "~~u must run round very
~of~en to see us." 'She .thought of. 1~frs.Lee',~;audtivague
;I~iOfl crossed' 'her* mind that if :~h~ had b~en at home, all
~wou~4~ b~ve been different. she wondered whether she
(31d ever came backs.' Then she thought of tier dear
father, ~nd wished 'that she *~s in' the "Good Place,"
with bbz, where there is no more trouble, and that re~
minded her that she had not said' her prayers. So she.
rose on her knees in the bed andirepeat~d them devoutly.' ~
19

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

s


I
V
4
V
Ii
~i I
II'
I
V
I'
ii
Ii

219

Then lying down again she comforted herself with the
thought that if she tried to be good and do right always,
God wouhj take care of her, and in the end all would be.
well. With this feeling, she soon dropped asleep.
Not~ long after, Jerusha came in. She stepped softly
up 'to the bedside, and holding the stump of a candle
which she carried so as to reveal the 'face of the sleeper,
she looked at her for a moment. The tears were still
standing on the~ quiet face, although. her last waking
thoughts had left a peaceful expression there.
"' What a pretty little creetur!" thought Jerusha. "I
almost hate t~ wake her, she must be so tired."
She then put down the candle, and touched the child's
forehead lightly, at the same time pronouncing 'her name.
"Mother! mother! did you call me I" said Mary,
opening her eyes and fixing them wonderingly upon quite a
different face' from her mother's.
"Don't be frightened," Jerusha said gently. "It's
'only me - Jerusha to bed."
"Q; yes, I know now. 'I thought I heard my mother
calling me."
"I guess you was'dreaming about your mother."
"Perhaps 'I was."
"Don't you feel pretty tired? "
"'Yes, quite tired, the baby is so heavy.'~
"And some hungry too, aint 'you? I know I often feel
quite hungry after I've worked hard all' day."
'"Yes, I do feel 'rather hungry."
"' Well take~ this; 'taint a good thing to go to bed
hungry." And she drew prom her pocket one'of the large
ginger-cakes that had been on the table at tea, her own
allowance, which had 'found its way from her 'plate to her
pocket, while Mrs. Smith was overhauling Columbus."

"Thank you, Jerusha," said the little, girl with evident
pleasure. "Did Mrs. Smith know you brought it to me?"
"She saw me take it, eat it -up, you'll feel the better
for it." 'So Mary 'sat up in bed sand ate the cake with a
good appetite while Jerusha was undressing~ In the ful-
ness of her gratitude, she said,
"It was very good in you Jerusha to think to bring me
something."
"Law no. I only reckoned you might like a mowful;
I can fetch you something amost every night, but you
needn't say nothing about it, for Ferdinand would make
fun of us for eating in bed you know."
Jerusha . had perceived Mary's fear and dread of this
odious boy, and thus availed herself of it. to prevent the
child's exposing her. Not on her own account however.
As. far as she was concerned, she would not' have cared
a straw if Mrs. Smith had found it ~out, but she feared
Jb ringing trouble upon ,the little girl who already had
enough to bear.
Jerusha, rough and coarse~ as she was, bad good im-
pulses, not often drawn out, it is true, in such a life as
hers. had been. She was naturally affectionate,~but she
had never been treated with affection, in fact she had never
met with real kindness. She was an orphan. Her easiest
recollections were associated with an almehouse from which
she was taken when very young by a farmer's wife who~
felt no greater interest in her welfare than did Mrs. Smith
in Mary Elmer's. She was knocked about and treated
with much less kindness than the domestic animals of the
establishment. Compelled also to perform drudgery, both
in and out of doors, which would have been too hard for
even a stout boy. Never spoken to by her mistress in any

I

4-

MARY EL2~IBR, OR

218

TRIALS AND cHANCES.


t '~ ~i
IL
U
U'
I}
lit
~ I
Ii
n
I I
Li

but a harsh, commanding tone, and on account of her ugly
face and ungainly figure made the constant subject of the
coarse jibes and jests of the men about the farm, who
gave her the name of '~ handsome Josh," it is no wonder
that'Jerusha developed into a very disagreeable, sulky girl.
Many of I~Irs. Marsh's 'visiting acquaint~~ces wondered at
Mrs. Marsh for keeping her, and that lady herself declared
she "only did it out of pity, for she was awfullV tried with
the creetur." But it is not our pui~ose to relate Jerusha's
history at length. Let it suffice to' say that when about
fifteen, she contrived to run away, and by dint of begging
along the road, now a meal and now a ride, in the course
of a few days she had travelled more than a hundred miles.
She cared not where she vent. Her oi~1y wish was to go
far enough to escape forever from Mrs. Marsh. She did
not yet consider herself entirely safe, but being very weary
she determined to stop for a few days at a certain large
town and if possible earn enough to carry her as far as she
wished to go. She presented herself at numerous doors
with the question, "Do you want to hire?" but her ap..
pearance always called forth an unhesitating negative, until
she applied, almost discouraged, to the keeper of a very
Iarge~ hotel, where servants were always in requisition.
She had so little confidence, and had learned to think her-.
self such an object of disgust, that she was quite surprised
when the proprietor, after a few questions to ascertain her.
capacity, 'engaged her for a month. When he inquired
what wages she wished, she answered,
"0 anything you please; I never worked for wages
and don't know 'what I ought to~ have."
Lie Looked at her for a moment with some surprise, but
not being over serm~tpulous about his hired people if they

but did their work well, he asked no further questions,
but' conducted her into the kitchen where she was soon
hard at work.
Here for a while she experienced the same treatment
that she had always endured elsewhere. She was the butt
of all the servants, both male and female. But she never
answered ~igain. In fact she never spoke at all excepting
as her work required it. She was silent, and always busy.
At length they ceased to annoy her, or to try to penetrate
the mystery which surrounded her, and left her to herself.
That important personage, the "head cook," I should
have said before, had appreciated her from the first. Je-
rusha's business was to assist her, and she protested that she
had never before known a young girl so faithful, or one who
would do half as much hard work in a day; without corn.-
plaining too. The work was indeed hard, but compara.-
tively light to the' poor girl' who had been accustomed to
such arduous tasks 'as 'were exacted from her at Farmer
Marsh's. The accounts of her usefulness' and industry
rendered by this functionary to the master and mistress of
the establishment, made them very desirous to retain her
after the expiration of the month, and Jerusha would will-.
ingly have stayed now that she ha4. become contented 'in
her new situation, ~nd found herself giving satisfaction,
had she not a few days previously caught a glimpse of a
man who was a near neighbor and intimate acquaint..
ance of the Marshes. He was just driving away from the
door as Jerusha came out to draw water, amid did not see
l)er. But she had been very uneasy ever since, and deter.-
mined to 'push on farther as soon as her month was up.
No entreaties could prevail with her to prolong her.stay.
Both the. proprietor and his wife were extremely urgent,
19*       '                           6
)

220           MARY ELMER, OR                                      TRIALS AND CHANGES.        221.

+1


222~            MARY ELMER, OR                                         TRIALS AND c'IIANCES.        223

and the cook was still more peremptory.. But the girl
continued firm. At length th~ mistress said with some
asperity, that it did not look altogether right for her to be
so anxious to leave a place with which she appeared to be
satisfied. Jerusha felt hurt that Mrs. Mayhew should
entertain any suspidons of her, and~very sorry to be thought*
ungratefuL to the first persons who had ever treated her
with any consideration. She knew that she had done noth..
ing wrong in 'escaping from Mrs. Marsh's tyranny, so she
requested Mrs. Mayhew *to step aside with her a little
while and~ frankly told her painful story.
"0 Mrs. Mayhew," she said in conclusion, "do you
think I would willingly leave the first place where 'I wa~
over used like a human being, if I wasn't afraid evei~y min
ute o1' being found out and forced back to that awful place
where I'm bound to sfay till I'm eighteen~"
Mrs. Mayhew saw at once the truth of Jerusha's story
and appreciated her anxiety to be still farther removed from
danger, andshe no longer opposed her going. She com~~
municated it to her husband who agreed with her, and so
Jerusha was permitted to depart in peace, with several
presents from Mrs. Mayhew and more money in the shape
of wages from Mr. Mayhew thaii she had ever expected to
possess at one time. The head cook was inconsolable and
gave her a new gingham apr~n, and the other female ser-
vants who had for some time felt compunction of conscience
for their' treatment of a poor girl who evidently had some
sorrow at 'heir heart, came~ forward and affectionately bade
her good-by, which they accompanied each with some lit-
tle keepsake. Mr. Mayhew also kindly 'advised her as to
her coi~rse, and the place which he designated as the one
where she would probably be as much out of danger as

* ~nywhere~ proved to be our own thriving town. She ac-
cordingly came hither. But we have already gone much
farther into her history than was our original intention and
must rapidly despatch it.
It was not the poor wanderer's good fortune to fall into
the hands of any 'of those benevolent characters who are
found in every city. or village; five years had passed since
she came here, and she had never experienced the treatment
which she met with at the hotel. Wherever she had lived,
her life haq been rendered a burden to her by the insults
and jests which were constantly heaped upon her. In
many instances she was defrauded of her wages, and knew
no means of redress. She of course became constantly
more unamiable and surly. She regarded every one as an
enemy, and, herself as an object of disgust and hatred to all
the world. Mrs Smith had hired her because she could
obtain her services at two shillings, less by the week than
those of any others to whom she had applied. And now
let us return to the, forlorn little' garret room where we left
our two girls.
Mary readily promised to say nothing about eating in
bed; "indeed she'd not tell of ~t and have Jerusha laughed
at by such a naughty boy as Ferdinand." After' Jerusha
had lain down, Mary said innocently,
"You don't say your prayers until after you get in hod,
do you?"
Jerusha, not knowing what else to reply, said, "No."
* "Well, I always say mjn&amp;before I lie down when rm
with my mother; we kneel down, Johnny and I, beside
her and say them. But to night, what do you think! I
forgot it. I forgot to say my prayers until after I'd 2been'
in bed a great while. Wasn't. I wicked? And then I

J


~224           MARY ELMER, OR                                         TRIALS AND CHANGES.         225

_ had to say them where I was, for I was afraid to get out
of bed in the dark in this strange place.. But I must stop
talking and give yow a chance to say yours."
After 'waiting a few minutes, and perceiving that Jeru-
sha was, silent, she said,
" Do you say'your prayers to yourself?"
Jeriish~ hesitated a moment, and then answered frankly,
but with so petulance,
"No, I don't say any prayers; I never had anybody to
learn me."
".Had you no father or mother?"
"Not as I remember of."~
"Who took care Of ~QU when you were little?"
"Nobody. I lived in a poor-.house."
"Poor-house I dreadful I that's where Mrs. Smith says
I shall go if I don'$ be, good and mind her. It's. an awful
place, isn't it?"
Not so awful as some places where I've lived since."
"Where hava you lived since?"
"I~verywhere, and 'nowhere that anybody ever cared
for me, and so let's go to sleep and not talk any more."
"But I care for you," said the child, putting her arm
round' Jerusha. *" I care for you, and I'll learn you a
prayer; not my little one, but 'Our Father;' one that's
meant for everybody, big and little, to say; wouldn't you
like to learn it?"
"I don't believe I can learn it if I try."
"Yesyou can if you say it over after me as I did after
my mother when I learnt it."
And so little 'Mary 'began saying the~tord's prayer,
pausing after each petition for Jetusha' to repeat it after
her, which the girl did very correctly, and when 'it was
concluded, Mary said,

"0 you can learn it very easy. If we repeat itso every
night, after a little while you can say it all alone, and' that
will be so nice!"
Then the fair and lovely little one raised her bead and
kissed the forlorn, forsaken creature beside her, and a mo-
ment after was sleeping sweetly. The first kiss that had
ever been imprinted upon that distorted face. The effect~
was wonderful Jerusha had from the first moment that
she saw the child felt an unusual interest in her; but now
/ she knew that there was a bond between them which never
would be broken. And she vowed to herself to protect
the little girl 'to the utmost of her power. She loved Mary
with the first affection that had ever warmed her 'icy heart.
Long did she lie awake; new and strange thoughts were
in her mind. She wondered whether she had ever been as
innocent as the child beside her. She was almost sure she
never was. And then she wondered what she ~ho~ild have
been with a mother to guide, and teach, and love her in
childhood, and she pitied from her heart the little creature
who was~ compelled to. be separated from so excellent a
parent as it was evident Mrs. Elmer must be'.
"How entirely different she is," thought Jerusha,
"from these Smith children! It's plain enotigh~ she's had
quite another sort of bringing up. Poor thing! She'll
have enough to bear here. I'll do all I cam for her, but
dear me! that won't be much among such a set."
The next morning as soon as Jerusha was dressed, she
called Mary, and after telling her that she need not hurry
her head off, went down and left her. So' the little girl
threw on her clothes, said hei prayers and followed.
When she reached the kitchen she found a basin of water
in the sink to wash herself,~ and a clean, coarse towel; her


226            AfARr ELMER, OR                                     TRIALS AND CHANCES.        227

own towel, Jerusha told her, and no one else should use
it, and she would always find it in one particular spot,
which she showed her. Mary thanked the kind girl, who
then fastez~ed her clothes, and combed her hair neatly.
Not long after, ding, dong, went Mrs. Smith's bell. Mary
obeyed the summons, and going to the bedroom where the
infant J. Pixley. was roaring in his cradle, was order~ by
his mother to take him into th~ kitchen till she got dress
*But we are not intending to accompany our little hero-
ine through another day at Mrs. Smith's, for all succeeding
days varied but little from the first. Every day brought
with it the same round of wearying labors, of vexations and
insults from the children, and harshness, nay, even abuse
from Mrs. Smith; and every night the same stolen kind-
nesses from Jerusha, who at the end of a week could say,
"Our Father" without any h6lp from her little teacher.
Afterwards they repeated it together.
Susan Elmer was surprised, that Mary did not come
home sometimes, and growing anxious about her, went
one da~ to'Mrs. Smith's to seethe child. Mary was de-
lighted, and would have thrown herself into her mother's
arms, but the pres&amp;nc~ of Mrs. Smith restrained her. The
latter gave ~.o many plausible reasons for not allowing
Mary to go home; such as ~the fear of its making her dis-
contented, her extreme anxiety that she should be happy
and contented, &amp;c. &amp;c., that S~s~n was reluctantly com-
pelled to acquiesce. Mrs. Smith treated Mary with
unusual kinchiess in Mrs. Elmer's presence; hut a mother's
eye i~ quick, and Susan ~aw clearly by the child's counte-
nance th at.sh~ was not happy. She told Mrs. Maddock
on he~ retur~i~~t she was convinced it ~as n~t just 'the
place 'for Mary at Mrs. Smith's; but she lived in hope that

something would turn up' ere .long, which would change
the order of affairs. She scarcely acknowledged to herself
that this something for which she looked .so ardently, was
the return of Mrs. Lee.
In this manner several weeks elapsed, and then a change
took place in little Mary's circumstances, and unfortu-
nately, not a change for the better. Mrs. SmitWs suspi-
cions had been for some time excited By the 'rapid
'disappearance of certain articles from Jerusha's plate at
tea. At length, by very close watching, she actually saw
the transfer of a buttered rusk and piece of cheese from
plate to pocket.' It was indeed the poor girl's own por-
tion. She was never allowed'to take anything twice, and
this piece of self-denial she daily practiced to keep her little
fiworite from starvation.'
Mrs. Smith said, nothing. ~She pretended not to see,
but she determined to find out "what became of the
victuals."~ She therefore kept her eye on Jerusha all th&amp;'
evening, but discovering-nothing, she followed ~stealthily
up stairs soon after the girl went to her room. She bent
her ear'close down to a crack round the door, and heard
Mary thank Jer~isha for the rusk and inquire whether she
would not like 't~ eat a piece ~of it herself.
"0 no," returned Jerusb~, "I dcm't want any; I
brought it all for you."
This was enough for Mrs. Smith. She opened the door
suddenly, and stood before the ~two astonished girls, a
perfect picture of' rage and maliceL,~
"I've caught ye. at last I ~you nasty, underhanded
snoops. I've long suspected this, and now I'm satisfied.
What business 1~av'e you to be a stealing~ victuals to bring
up here and stuff that young one? say I"


228             JTAR r E~gER, 01?

TRIALS AND CH4NaES.           229#

Jerusha, who was somewhat alarmed at first, had time
to recover her composure during this tir~k.
"Stealing, did you say V' she aske~ looking the
woman full in the face.
"Yes,, stealing; carrying off my victuals unbeknown to
me to feed that young one."
"Mrs. Smith! I never stole a. mou'ful of victuals from
you in all my life, apd you know IL didn't. Whatever I've
brought to Mary. I've took from my own share, that you
was willing
her g I should have. I've robbed myself to keep
from starving, joor little creetur! If that's stealing,
I'll steal again."
"You would, hey? You say that to my face, do ye?"
"Yes, I do, and to any other face of clay you'll bring
on."
"You sassy, impudent trollop! quit the house this
minute. I won't harbor ye no longer."
"Very well, pay me my wages and I'll quit .to-night."
"Wages! you're a pretty one to talk about wages!
Not a ~red cent do you get out o' me, after such conduct."
~" So you don't mean to pay what, you owe me? Mrs.
Smith, I've worked hard and faithfully here for three
months, and you've only paid me for the first month of the
times I sha'n't leave the house till ii get the rest that's due
me."
"Sha'n'they?"
~" Non sha'n't."
"Well, I guess we'll see who's mistress here."
'With these words Mrs. Smith slammed the door fu..
riously and. went down stairs. During this colloquy, little
Mary lay buried under the bed-clothes, trembling from
head to foot. 'As goon as Mrs. Smith was fairly gone,
she uncovered her head and said in great distress,

"0, Jerusha, what have you done? What is Mrs
Smith going to do? What will become of me if you go
away?"
"Don't feel so bad, Mary," said Jerusha, beginning tQ
undress. "I know well enough what she'll do; she'll be
all over it by morning, and want me to stay."
"0, I'm so glad."
"Wait a minute. I sha'n't stay, if I get my wages,
( and Mr. Smith won't dare to hold onto 'em, if she wants
to ever so much; and I shall clear out 'in the morning."
"0, how badly you make me feel! Th9re'~ nobody
here that cares for me but you. Bounce does, but he can't
do much for me. He likes to 'stay by me, and often
growls at the children when they plague me. I know he
would bite them if' they should lay a hand on me; but he
isn't always by when~ they tease me. Baby loves me, too,
but he isn't like you, Jerusha. 0, what shall Ii do?"
"Jest so, that's the only reason why I hate to go, you
poor little creetur. But maybe I can do something' for
youafterlgo."
"What can you do then?"
"Why, if can't I do anything else, I can go'and tell
your mother all about it, and she'll come and take you
home. But I know she'd like to have you get a good
place where they'd be .kind to you; and who knows but'
what I can find you such a place?"
"0, if you only could! Some place where they would
let me go and see my mother when I want to, perhaps the
same place where you go. But would Mrs. Smith let me
"She'd~ have~ to I guess, if- butno matter, let's say
our prayer~ and go to sleep."
20


)

230

MARY EL R~ OR

After prayers, Mary, sobbed out, "0, how lonesome I
shall be, sleeping here alone."
"Don't you remember," said Jerusha, "what you said
to Jo, t'other day, when she iyas bragging that nobody'
saw her take that car~dy? yc~ said, '0, Jo, don't you
know that God is everywhere, and sees all we do?"'
"Yes, I remember, and how Jo laughed and made fun of
me. But I'm glad 'you spoke of it, and I'll try to think
about God watching over me, and the holy angels being
around me every night when I come to bed."
"And I hope it won't be many nights you'll have to
think of it~ in this place."
And then they went to sleep.

CIIAPTEI~ VIII.

HEN Mrs. Smith reached the. kitchen, she found
T her husband there, and requested him to "go
straight up stairs and turn Jerusha out ~of the
house." He asked an explanation. She gave
'it; whereupon 'he called her a fool for making a muss about
it.
"Don't ~you 'see,". he, said, "how 'twill work if you
send her off? She'll 'blaze it all round, and the whole
neighborhood will be up in arms about your starving the
kelp. ~And now's the time,' you know, for us to be
doing all we can to get into good society; and there's

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

231

some that's envious of us who'd be glad to make the most
of it.~ And besides all that,' you can't get another girl
that will work so 'well and so cheap as she does. I ad-
vise you to pass it over, and let things go right on in the  t..
morning as if nothing had happened."
Mrs. Smith could but acknowledge that this would be the
wisest course; and 'after indulging in a terrible out.pour-
ing against Jerusha, and Mary, too, she concluded to adopt
it. Accordingly in the morning she said nothing to Je-
rusha about leaving, nor did the latter speak of it until
Mr. Smith made his appearance, when she immediately
asked him for the money due to her, saying that Mrs.
Smith had told her to quit, and she wished to do so as
soon as possible. Mr. Smith remonstrated, but she wa
immovable. Even Mrs. Smith condescended to request
'her to remain, and said c~ she'd got over her feelings."
"Well, I haint got over mine," said Jerusha. "1
can't stay another day in a house where I've been treated
as I was last night."
"'Well, you won't get any recommend," said Mrs.
Smith.
"I want none from you," replied 'Jerusha, with con
tempt.
her at length saw that he could do no less than pay
the money, which he did with a very ill grape, and
under a. storm 'of words from his wife, who protested
"there was' no need of his paying a cent," &amp;c., &amp;c.
When Jerusba had received the money she went to her
room, packed up her few articles in a 'bundle, and started
off. Smith was standing in 'the outer door as she passed
through, and said to~her, with' a look and tone intended
to be very~ impressive, -


232            MARY ELMER, OR                                   TRIALS AND CilAYGES.        233

"Look here! the less you say the better."
"Th~e better for you, I knoyv it," she answered, with
great unconcern, as she too~ her way down the yard.
Mr. Smith's emotions at this cool rejoinder, "may be
better imagined than described."
When she reached Mrs. Smith's bedroom window
which looked out upon the side yard, she saw little Mary
standing by it, baby in arms, and she knew that the child
had stationed herself there to see, her when she passed, as
her favorite post was by the window next the street.
Mrs. Smith was still in the kitchen, brooding in impotent
rage over her troubles. Mary's eyes were brimful of tears
which she could not suppress, as she stood there waiting
to see the last of her only friend. But Jerusha did not
venture to stop and speak, for she knew that Mr. Smith
was watching her, and feared that it might increase the
little girl's trials if they were to hold any conversation.
So she merely said in passing, -
"Keep up, you'll hear from me soon.
It~;was a sultry morning in August, when Jei\isha went
forth, as she had often done before, homeless, friendless,
and not knowing whither to go.
"But first and foremost," she said to herself, as she
slowly pursued he way. "Imust see if anythingcan.bc
done for Mary. But dear me! where shall I go? I can't
tell who'd be likely to treat her well; I'm sure I've never
lived~ at any plaee here where I'd be willing to have her
go, the precious little innocent creetur! Well, if I can't
do anythingelse, I can go and tell her mother all about
it, and she'll take her right home, better starve, there than
at Smith's. If that Mrs. Lee she talks so much about
was only at home, I'd go straight there. She's a good

woman, I kn6w, and she would take her away. Who
knows but she has got ~home? Any how, I can go see.
So she retraced some of her steps, and turning a corner,
went directly to Mrs. Lee's house. As she approached
it, her courage rose on seeing the front windows thrown
open. She went round to the back door and knocked,
but no answer. As she4was about to repeat the knock,
Peter Jackson, who was at work in the garden, and had
seen her enter the gate, came round. In answer to her
inquiries, he said that Mrs. ~4~ee would be home that very
evening. She had sent word several days before, and he
had been "given the house a good airen, to be ready for
her."
"0, dear!" exclaimed the disappointed girl; "I'm so
sorry, I want to see her dreadfully."
"Important business with the missus, has the young
oman got?"
"Yes, very important; but P11 be sure to come in this
evening, rain or shine."
She then pursued her way in search of employment,
and at last offered herself at a large public house, where
she h~uI never, applied before. It was a busy time with
them. The court being' in session, the house full of
boarders, and servants scarce; she was hired for a fort-.
night, and no recommendation required. A hard, rough
'place, but she was used to such places.
As 500fl as Jerusha was out of the house, Mrs. Smith
began to vent, her rage upon little Mary, whom she re-~
garded as the cause of all her troubles. During the pro-.
cess of washing the baby, she improved the time in pouring
forth a storm of indignation against the child. ~Phe
shrill tones of her voice, the incessant screaming of J.
20*

232

233


234             MARY ELMER, OR

rixiey, the consternation of Mary, who ~~as flying abont
; "setting to rights," altogether made it a "scene for a
painter.'~ When the washing was completed, Mrs. Smith
laid ~the baby in the cradle, and ordered Mary to finish
hemming that apron, while. she was rocking him to
sleep.'
"As soon as it's done," she added, "come out in' the
kitchen, there's plenty to do there now.~~
And after dropping the curtain to shade the room,
she went out, and Mary took her station by the cradle.
There she sits, the patient young watcher, rocking the
cradle with her foot, and while she sews, she sings too.
"Husl~,niy dear, lie still and slumber,
Roly angels guard thy bed,"-
'The baby is very quiet now. His eyes are open still,
but he' seems to be in a serene and comfortable state of
mind. At length the lids begin to droop, Mary is watch-
ing them, and her voice falls too. And gradually as they
droQp lower and lower, so lower and 'lower are the tones
of that childish voice', until they fall as gently on the
baby's ear, as the "Heavenly blessings" she sings of, on"
his head. And now they die quite away, for the baby is
fairly in Dreamland.
How fast those little fingers move over the hem! It is
morning, a~nd 1the child is not 'yet worn' out with the' day's
labor.. Besides, ~there is~ a hope in her heart. She~is
thinking about Jerusha, and something whispers her that
'deliverance is i~ot far off. ' Hark! she hears a noise, a
very pleasant sot~nd. She paizses in her work a mou~ent
and listens to it. She knows whence it proceeds, for she
hears it almost every day. A young lady wh~ lives

TRIALS AND CHANaE~               23~i
4/
opposite teaches, a few scholars at her own home, and now
these children are out enjoying their, pastime in the yard.
Mary loVes to watch them at their play. It is next thing
to being out at play herself. Many a time has she stood
at the window with the baby in her arms, while her feelings
entered warmly into their animated sports. She rises and
steps softly across the ro&amp;m, as softly as she can with those
great chims~r shoes which were not made to~ftt, but to be
grown into, and furnished from Mr. Smith's shop, who has
plenty of leather on hand of course, but Mrs. Smith. "is
not a going to be getting shoes every month for the hussy
to bang out." In fact, she thinks it all nonsense for her
to wear shoes at all, she wouldn't allow, it if she didn't sup-
po~e her mother would make a fuss about it, if she should
~happen to come in and find her barefooted.
She raises a corner of the curtain and1 peeps out. how
beautiful everything looks on this soft n~orning of the wa-
ning summer I' especially that d6or-yard opposite. There
are several fine trees in it, and the little girls are frolicking
so merrily under them! A canary~-bird's'~ cage hangs
from one of the branches, and he too, seems blithe and~
contented in his little pr~on. And ever and anon, one of
the number runs up and speaks to him, and he carols joy-
ously back. And all the time the pleasant-faced young
lady sits by her epen window regarding their sports, with-
out appearing to be the slightest check upon their hilarity.
And our little nurse rejoice~ too, as' all sweet innocent
natures do in seeing others happy.
She stands thus. for some minutes, with one hand holding
out the~ curtain, and her head thrust a little way behind.
Her sewing is in the other hand, and has not adVanced any
since she came'to the window. She has; however, but an

N

{


236              MAR r" ELMER, OR
inch or two more to hem, and she is going on with it di-
rectly. She does not intend to look long. But~tha't merry
group. is very fascinating. Ah little one! I greatly fear
you will stand gazing until the teacherr calls them in, unless
something prevents you. But something will prevent you.
Come away, Mary ! come quickly I There is a step in the
passage, a step that bodes you no good, but you are too
absorbed to hear it. The she-wolf is close upon you, haste~
little lamb, to your place by the cradle side, while ther&amp; is
yet time. She will never know that you have left it. It
is but an innocent fraud, we cannot bear that you should
fall into her hands to-day, when she is so furious. Come
away, little lamb! still heedless! The Good Shepherd
alone can protect you now. Look! she dreams not of
danger, until she feels herself suddenly dragged backwards
by the arm and furiously shaken.
"You miserable, wretched hussy! this is the way you
mind me, is it? this is the way you stick to your sewing
when my back's turned?" (Another terrible shake.) "0
you deceitful little slut! i've a good mind to take your
hide off, you richly deserve it~ you viper!" (another !Ind
harder shake; how pale the little one turns! but she does
no~ispeak a word.) "What business have you to be a
looking out of the window? I never gave you leave.
'Twould do me good to pound you within an inch of your
life."                      /
'See! she is raising her arm! Hold, woman ! you are not
going to strike that defenseless creature! you cannot do it.
Look ~t that poor little white face! as white, as a dead
child's almost, but not so calm. It is the very image of
despair. Look at it.! have you no compassion? no bowels
of mercy? 0, have you not children of your own?

TRiALS AND CHANGES.        237

There! the blow has fallen! another ~! yet another!
God of mercy, stop her! Hark! a ring at the door-
bell -
"There, run to the door, and be thankful for getting off
so well."
But the child has sunk on the floor and she 'does not rise.
She is stunned and bruised. She did not even hear the
bell.
"Get along to the dooryou stupid thing you," (with a
kick.)" Don't you hear the bell a ringing ?~"
The child is on her feet now, but how changed! The
bright and hopeful look which we saw on her countenance
but now, is gone; an expression of agony ha~ taken its
place. But beside this, there is something strange, some-
thing never seen there before. The colorless lips are
pressed closely together, and the blue eyes have an un-
wonted fire in them. The crushed worm will turn soon.
The little girl has not uttered a souiid, but her spirit is
roused, and says within her, "It is enough, I will go to
my mother, I \vill go~this very day if I can but escape."
"Come, make haste for the door! and don't go scuffing
along ~o; lift up your feet, can't ye? Show 'em into the
front parlor, if it's a laily."
When 'Mary reached the door, she opened it to a pleas-
ant-looking, handsomely dressed lady, who hiquired for
Mrs. Smith. There was but one thought in Mary's mind
then, - how to escape, instead of answering immediately,
she laid her hand on the lady's arm, and looked up into her
face with a strange pleading expression, that surprised her
not a little. But she did not speak.. After a minute or
two, the lady said,' -'
"' Did you not understand memy child? Is Mrs. Smith
at home?"


238           MARY ELMER, OR                                  TRIALS AND CIIANGE&amp;        239

Then the little girl recovered herself, and was frightened
that she had dared to be so free with a stranger, ~and she
answere~l quickly, and led the lady to the parlor.
When she annoiimced to Mrs. Smith the name of Mrs.
Bennet Squires, the former experienced no slight degree
of elation at the honor of a visit from so distinguished a
personage, for Mrs. Bennet Squires was, in fact, tJ~ie leader
of the ton in our town.
"Dear me 1" she exclaimed, "so she's condescended
to call at last. Well, I'll~ let her know I'm as good as she
is, any how."
So she hastened to change her dress for a flaring plaid
silk,. stuck on her fabe front, with a very, elaborate, un-
tasteful cap above it. She had plenty of her own hair,
hu2t it was beginning to turn gray which she considered a
great disfigurement, and always concealed on important
occasions, either with an ugly dye, or a still uglier false
front and cap. She also put on her California jewelry;
an audacious pair of earrings, a watch and cable chain,
with~a pencil case and half a. dozen ~y looking ornaments
besides dangling to it, several clii ni~inger rings; and an
enormous pin Ab full of red, blue an green stones. She
was delighted with an opportunity of showing off these
fine things ~s well as, the splendor of her parlors to one of
the "upper crust."
Mrs. Squires meantime was entertaining herself 'with a
survey of the parlor decorations~ .She was a woman of
correct taste, and a strong sense of the ridiculous, and
of course could not but be highly amused at the appear-
ance of this parvenu establishment. The huge pyramids
of brass and glass which' glittered oti the mantel, . the
gaudy' cornices, and other tinsel articles, she ~{otested

made her eyes ache for a whole week afterwards; while
the stiff arrangement of the furniture,, about the sides
of the rooms, looking as if it did not feel at home. in the
least,~ gave her a very uncomfortable feeling, and a* strong
desire to relieve it from its uneasy position. But the
"family picture "astonished her more than anything else.
She had travelled aiid visited many galleries of paintings,
but bad never seen a work of art that would in any degree
compare with it. Her ecstasy was so great that she could
not help indulging in a hearty laugh all by herself.
When her amazement at the 'grandeur which surrounded
her had in a measure subsided, the pale, pleading face
of the little girl returned to her recollection. There was
an expression about it that impressed her greatly, and she
knew that there must be something in the child's present
circumstances which had caused her singular manner when
she spoke to her, and she regretted that she had not said
more to her.
The entrance of Mrs. Smith interrupted these reflec-
tions~ She advanced towards Mrs. Squires with an air
of perfect self-satisfaction, and much iustljng of silk.
"I'm very glad to see you," she said; seizing Mrs.
Squires's hand and shaking it up and down like a wood-
chopper. "You've been so long a coming that I begun
to think you didn't mean to call at all. Set down in the
rocking~chair, do."
"I thank you, my seat is very good."
Ai~d. so Mrs. Smith dumped herself down into the rock-
ing-chair, and immediately began to rock back and forth,
in a manner characteristic of nervousness and vulgarity
combined. "Won't you take off your things?" and
"how's Mr. Squires?" exclaimed Mrs. Smith, hurriedly.
"Mr. Squires is very well, I thank you."


Ti

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

"I'm very glad to hear it, health is such a blessing , I
feel to envy well folks, since I'm getting so delikit."
"I noticed a beautiful little flower near the gate in your
yard, Mrs.~ Smith, is it an annual?"
" I don't know whether that's the name of it or not, I
never troubled nTiyself to know what it was; you see my
nurse girl had some seeds, and my little boy asked ijie to
let her plant 'em somewhere, so I told her to stick 'em
down there; but I aint no great hand for flowers any
way; but my husband has a great deal of taste in the fine
arts, and so have I, and our family picture is a satisfaction
to us both. I sejested- the suppositions myself, and if the
cost of a thing~ is any criturion, I am sure' it ought to be
good, for Mr. Smith had to pay thirty dollars forit; for
my part I don't begrudge tle money, ~e don't he; law
what's thirty dollars to him?" )
Thus she went on, rocking and t44king, until Mrs.
Squires who had come in on an errand, felt impatient for
an opportunity to say what she wished and be gone. At
Jendth she ventured, during, a momentary pause in Mrs.
Smith's volubility to take out a paper and pencil, hoping
thus to attract her attention.
!The latterhowever, was only the more gratified, as she
*     took it for granted that Mrs~ Squires intended copying the
*     family picture.
"It heard you drawed beautiful and I like to have folks
see the picture, that knows ho* to appreciate it."
" The effect is very striking," observed Mrs. Squires,
"and such a painting is certainly quite an addition to a
room, but Gf course, the greatest value of a picture is t1~
faithfulness with which it preserves the likeness of a friend."
Yes, At's very gratifying to have a real good picture."

"Time adds to the value of these little mementoes, when
God has taken our friends forever from us," said Mrs.
Squires, sadly as she placed her band instinctively upon a
little miniature of her own dear mother, who had died but
recently.
"That's so," said, Mrs. Smith, "but 'then fashions
change so fast, and I never could endure an old-fashioned.
picture, I've got a painting' of my mothe~ for instance, it's
a real pretty face, but dear me, the hair is stuck up~ so
high on her head, and such an old-fashioned mankiller, I
always keep it in the back chamber. If Professor Boggles
will just put a new-fashioned cap and Barskeeh on it, I
will hang it in the back parlor; for' they say it's all the
fashion to have your parents' pictures in your best rooms
now."
Mrs Squires had always tried to show the respect of,
civility to opinions not in harmony-with her own; but fear-
ing that she might be tempted to violate her rule, if' the
conversation continued, she determined to make the ob-
ject of her call apparent and to terminate it ~as soon as
possible.
Making a courageous effort for this purpose she said,
"I called, ~Mrs. Smith, 'to ask you to contribute something
toward getting new lamps for the church. You know that
our lamps are getting shabby, and many of them ar~
broken."
Mrs. Smith's countenance fell, her voice seemed sud-
denly to lose its utterance, her heart sank within her and
her rocking-chair which had kept time by rapid or slow
vibration 1~o the energeticc or moderate demonstrations of
its occupant, came to an unwanted stop. -
"After all she haint come for a regular call only a beg.
21

MARY ELMER, OR

246

241


242            MARY ELMER, OR

TRIALS AND CHANGES.           243

ging, and I've a good mind not to give her a single cent,"
thought Mrs. Smith, "but then she'll see I haint got no
money t9 command," and she continued aloud. "Oh,
yes, certainly, I'm glad somebody has got public spirrit
enough to attend t~ them lamps; it's high time somebody
took hold, but you've happened to ketch me at an unfor..
tinate time. You see I dismissed my dramestic this morn-
ing, quite unexpected, and after Mr. Smith had gone to
the store, and so I was obleeged to pay her out of my
private purse, and it pretty near cleaned it' out, and Mr.
Smith not being in you l~now, - I haint g~t i1~ replenished.
But when he comes home to dinner,, I'll get a supply and
send some round to you."
As this speech was all a falsehood, it was no wonder
that Mrs. Smith hesitated so~newhat in delivering it, and
Mrs. Squires, who understood it to be such, was disgusted
as well as amijsed. 'She, however, thanked her' for the
promised aid, and handed her the paper, to' put down her
'name and the -amount she would give.
Mr8. Smith looked over the names, and noticing that
dollars was the largest sum given b
two                                  y any one, she
placed that amount opposite her own name in very large
figures and lThnded the paper back with an air of triumph.
"I'll send it round by my nurse girl, this afternoon,'~
she said, as if to impress upoti Mrs. Squires 'the fact that
she kept a girl to take the care of, her child.
"By the way, was it.your n~irse girl who came to the
door?".
'"She is a beautiful child, and. very y~ng, I should
think to have the care of an infant."
I guess there aint no dancer of her hurting herself,"

said Mrs. Smith, somewhat annoyed by the lady's expres-
sion of interest. "She's a complete little~ shirk, I only
keep her out of charity, they are so awfully poor."
"Whose child is she?"
"Well her father'8 name w~as Elmer, he went to Gala-
forny and died there and kft his family dreadful destitute."
"Indeed,~' said Mrs.. Squires "then she is Susan
Grant's child. I had no idea they were so reduced.
Susan was a very good girj."
"But poQr and proud, too proud to let her sittiwation
be known, but I happened to 'find it out almost by acci-
dent, and so I took this young one off her hands; but I
don't know whether I can ever make anything of her or
not, -can't trust her a minnit when I aint by to watch her,
she spends half her time a looking' out the winder when the
babe's asleep, inside of sticking to. her sewing."
Mrs., Squires made no reply, but soon took her leave
with a feeling of sorrow for the poor little child, which
Mrs. Smith's unkind words had failed to diminish, and as
she continued her'. labors, the pale, sad face of the little
girl arose often.to her recollection, and she determined to
do what she could to rescue her from a position which she
felt must be full of misery.


244

MARY ELMER, QR

CHAPTER IX.
N the sinking ~f hopes and the rising of fears, which
the progress of Mrs. Squires' call had developed,
1~Irs. Smith's amiability had in no way increased,
and as Mrs. Squires had not even invited her to
"return the 'call" as she bade her a coldly polite good
afternoon, Mrs. Smith said to herself "I am almost sorry
1 ,signed the paper at all, but it's t~o late now."
'The baby had awaked during the call, and little' Mary's
bands being now literally "full," Mrs. Smith was com-~
pelled to prepare dinner alone, but she had only succeeded
in~ replacing her finery in the clothes press when Mr. ~naith
and the children came in, and the disorder and confusion
became m7ore intolerable than ever.
At length dinner was placed on the table, and when the.
more clamorous demands of the children were silenced as
Emith said by "letting their victuals stop their mouths,"
the subject of'Mrs. Squires' call was mentioned.
"I think it's high time some of them sort, of folks begun
to take a little notice of us; we have paid a' big house rent
about long enough for nothing."
"Isha'n't be in. any hurry to return the call. I guess
Pm as goiA as anybody."
"Hadn't better be too particular; it's to my interest to
get in with them sort of folks.".
"'Yes, and be dunned for a ~ubscription every day of
4 '

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

245

your life4 That's one thing she wanted this very day; all
the upper crust are signing round to get new lamps for the
meeting-house, and so she wanted to see how much she
could get away from us. But she's a polite beggar I must
say, for she didn't come right out on the start; but it's all.
the same if they only get the money."
"That's so, and it's very obliging to offer to spend
your money for you, but I hope you let her see you could
give as much as any of 'em; folks can't be popular withQut
its costing anything. I often see men signing ever so
much for foreign missions and such like things, when I
know they are distressed to death with their grocery bills;
but here's the money, and you had heifer send Mary right
over with it. You see it won't be any less for waiting, and
then it will show her that we are prompt and on hand
about the matter."
"Don't be in such a desperate hurry; I guess Mary
can wash up the dishes before she goes.~~
The meal was finished; Mary went about her task,
baby was unusually quiet and amiable, amusing himself
with s6me green apples which had rolled on the floor from
Ferdinand's pocket, and which he stoutly maintained a
schoolboy had given him, while his mother as firmly de-
clared, that they came of, her "don't-seek-no-farther tree
and she knew they did."
Mary applied herself to her task with renewed energy.
There was a calmness and determination in her manner
in which one of greater penetration than Mrs. Smith might
have read a sense of despotism and a disposition to resist-
ance, for she had felt the spirit of insurrection rising in her
heart, which already beat with accelerated pulse at the
thought of escape from thraldom.
21*


But Mrs. Smith only congratulated herself that Mary
knew she had got the work to do, and as she had told her
"the quicker it was done the bettr," she innocently
thought Mary was fulfilling her own instructions. Very
different, however, were the thoughts which occupied the
mind of our little heroine. '~ If is not right for Mrs.
Smith to treat me so, and if mamma knew about it she
would not have me stay here another day. It will not be
disobeying her if I go home," and the child was glad that
the errand to Mrs. Squires gave her an opportunity of get-
ting started on her way, and when, after her bonnet and
shawl were on and she ready for a start, Mrs. Smith said,
"Now take that money and go straight to Squareses,
and then come straight home, and don't let the grass grow
under your feet ," Mary answered, with a calmness which
quite surprised her mistress,
"I shall go and see my mother first." Mrs. Smith
would have forbidden this rebellious act but she remem-
bered that the very day before a little boy.had brought an
u~gent6request that Mary might be allowed to come home
to see her grandmother.
Amid the contending thoughts whi~h had occupied Mrs..
Smith's mind she had quite forgotten the x~equest, and now
when it arose to her recollection, instead of sending any
apology 'to Mrs. Elmer, she only said,
.' Well, go along, gad-about, you will be a small loss
here; after you have got starved out, maybe you will un-
derstand what I am trying to do for you; but miii dyou
leave the money to Squareses, and just tell her I sent it,
and don't ~make a little tattler of' yourself, for tattling is
awful mean, do ye hear?"
Mary was soon started on her journey.. She was met

at Mrs. Squires' door by that lady, who was now ready to
resume her. morning's labors. She asked 'the child pleas-
antly to come in, but Mary was too anxious to reach her
own home to stop long on the way, although the tidy sit~
Pug-room looked very inviting. A great many questions
suggested themselves to the lady's mind, but she deter-
mined not to direct the child's attentiQn to ~the unpleasant-
ness of her present condition, until she could decide' on
some w~y of improving it.
On learning that Mary was on her way honie, Mrs.
Squires prepared a little basket of cakes and fruit for the
family, and as she walked along with her, learned what she
could of them, and asked her to call again at her house.
"0 yes, ma'amjY~ill come and bring back the basket."
This was just what Mrs. Sqt~ires wanted, although she
had not mentioned that the basket was not included iii the
little gift, but the child's bringing it back would, die hoped,
give her further opportunity of learning the needs of her
old acquaintance, and of 'furnishing to her assistance in an
u~iobtrusive and
dined         acceptable manner. She felt greatly in-
t~o, go home with the child that very day, but Mrs.
Squires was not in the habit of acting upon new inipulses,
and her time had already' been appropriated to th6 church
business; therefore on bidding the, little girl good-by, she
gave her maiden name for her. mother with messages. of'
kind regard, and a promise' to call very soon to see her.
The remembrance of Mrs. Squires' kindness made the*
child continue her walk with a quicker step and a lighter
heart. She thought how pleased grandma would be with
a Nhice baked apple, and" how Georgy would crow and
laugh over his cooked, and mamma w6i~ild have no excuse
-for not taking one, as' there were 'enough to go around she
was very sure.
4

246              MARY ELMER, OR                                           TRIALS AND 6YIIANGEASt.        247

247

246


248            MARY ELMER, OR                                    TRIALS AND CHANGES.         249  ~

[I

But as she reached her home she was greatly surprised,
and wondered what was going on. A bedstead was 'lean-
'ing against the end of the house, while quilts and pillows
were airing upon a clothes-line. A boy was holding
some horses near the gate,~ while two or three grave-look-
ing men were engaged in a quiet consultation near the
door. She had begun to fear that mamma h~d got to
move again, but felt reassured when David Gray spoke
kindly to her, and before she had fairly reached the door,
Johunie came running out, saying, "Why did not you
come last night, M~iry, when' we sent for you? grand z~ia
was almost gone then, and we all wished you was here."
As Mary passed into the house, there was not &amp;ne famil-
iar face to greet her. A coffin, covered, with a black pall
rested upon' the table in the front corner of the room.
~ small bouquet of violets stood on the stand in an old-
f~ishioned wine-glass, while two grave-looking women
were engaged on a mourning dress. The 'little gid paused
a few moments to gaze in silent reverence on that v~nera-
ble fa~e 'which, though the animation of life had forever
fled,' yet seemed already ~touched with that triumphant
brightness which betok~ns the dawn of immortality, she
pressed her lips silently to that aged brow, and tli~n as
quietly passed up ' stairs t her mother's room. Mrs.
Ekuer was seated in her accustomed sewing-chair beside
the little table, with her child in her arms, and although
be had been asleep some time she~ did not lay him down,
but pressed him more closely to her heart as she thought
how few were left to claim her love or demand her care.
The little fellow, quite unconscious of the sorrow which
had deprived him of his usual lullaby, had asked for the
"shining star," but his mamma could not sing it for him

to-night, indeed she could scarcely see beyond the cloud
of desolation and sorrow which oppressed her; yet she
did not despair, for in the many trials of her faith, which
had led her pathway through thorns and sorrows, she still
cherished that "hope" which is "the companion given
the unfortt~uate by pitying Heayen," and her trusting heart
always found some object for gratitude or praise. And'
even now, she was grateful that she had been able to
make her mother's last days comfortable ; and that as her
willing spirit had bent affectionately to her filial task, it
had not been hindered by the' iveakness of the flesh.
She wondered if she could have done anythii~g more for
her mother during the long, weary illness, and then she
looked hopefully to that blessed place of rest, where trials
and changes con~e no more.
Mrs. Elmer clasped her daughter's hand with a faint
smile of welcome, and held it long in silence; and though
few words were spoken, each felt how strong was the bond
of affection and 'sympathy which united them.
Little Johnnie soon came bringing up the little basket
of apples.
Aint these real beauties?" said he, as he selected the
fairest for his mother. "And just see what lots 'of'
cakes."
"Put them on a plate, Johunie, and offer some to the
ladies down stairs," said Mips. Elmer.
Johnnie hastened to obey the instructions, and soon re-
turned saying, "Oh, there's the funniest-looking gi~i
down-stairs, and she wants to see yiu, to tell you about
Mary, she said."
"I think it's Jerusha," said Mary, starting quickly to
meet her faithful friend.


250

MARY ELMER, 01?

Whatever might have been the enthusiasm of the meet-
ing between the two girls, out of that house of bondage,
in. other circumstances, there was i~ne now.
"I'm so glad you got 'away ro~ there," said Jerusha.
"You see I did not know you ha~ come, and so I thought
I would stop and tell your mother about matters and
things. I've been to Mrs. Lee's, and the colored man
says she is expected ' home to-night, but I must hurry
along, for I have ,hired 'to the Eagle Tavern for a fort-
night; so good-by, Mary," and the 'poor homeless crea-
ture started back to fulfil the duties of her new engage-
ment.
Mrs. Maddock,' who had been very much occupied in
assisting to prepare Mrs. Grant for her last repose, had
gone to her own rooms to discharge the domestic
duties of her household; but as soon as she learned that
~Mary had come, she came in with Martha and Ann, to
welcome her home again.
The funeral was 'appointed for the next afternoon, and
passed. off so quietly, that many living very near, and in
The same street, had. not even heard of a death in the
neighborhood. Mrs. Lee had not been able to reach her
home as soon as she had anticipated, and arrived 'only at
the hour appointed for the funeral.
Mrs. Squires had heard of it through the clergyman,
of whom she 'had made inquiries after the family, and had
taken some pains to inform those whom she thought might
remember Susan Grant'and her mother in better days.
Still. it was only a small, quiet, funeral. Mrs. Lee had
kindly sent her carriage and some' money for the sexton's
fee; although too much overcome by her journey and
grief at the loss of her only sister, to leave her own room.

David Grey had engaged the hearse and the bearers, and
his own wagon with the carriages of Mrs. Lee and Mrs.
Squires, formed the little procession. Yet in her heart,
Susan Elmer was thankful to give her mother so respect-~
able a burial; and when the poor old woman had been so
feeble, and helpless, and troublesome, that some had said,
"It was strange God's providence did not remove her,"
the devoted daughter had toiled, and waited, and prayed,
that her mother's life might be spared until something
should occur to enable her to show her mother the respect
of a proper sepulture; and her trials ~iad never yet founa
the limit of her faith and patience; for even when the
aged mother's words had become almost* inarticulate, their
last 'utterances were of ho~pe and encouragement, and she
had even tried to join in the chorus of the shining star,
when her faculties showed many sad symptoms of decay-
jflo' nature.
0
When the few who had come to attend the funeral had
again dispersed, and the little family were once more
alone, Susan's mind wandered to the little ba~nd in Para-
dise. That beautiful portion of Psalms, which t~he Rev.
Mr. Bingham had chosen as the text for his hopeful dis-:
course on the resurrection of the just, came again and
again to her mind, with new significance, as she repeated,
",My heart* and my flesh faileth,, but, God is .the strength
of my heart, and my portion forever." And as she re-
membered how her mother had by faith and prayer, and
Works of charity and love, made God her portion on
earth, she trusted that he would now strengthen and re-
store the weak spirit, so long bowed by the infirmities of~
the flesh. Then~ she thought of her dear father, who had

TRIALS AND cHANGES.               251.

251


262            MARY ELMER, OR                                                                    253
TRIALS AND CHANGES.

long ago passed from the earth, and how blest and happy
* they would be to be separated no more forever.
And in the midst of her loneliness and sorrow came a
gleam of joy, that those who are limited on earth, in that
holy bond which God has blest, can be sejj~rated only by
Death, and that even his power is but temporary.
Then. she tried to think George would be there, but her
thoughts of him were so much associated with their last
parting, when he had declared that he should be back
again all right in a year or so, that she involuntarily ex-
claimed, "What if George should come back just as he
said, alive and well., and rich!"
She had never set her heart upon riches, even when her
husband's prospects for success had seeiiaed fairest, and
she had watched with solicitude his disappointment and de-
pression at the failure of his cherished plans, while her
heart turned more and more to the treasures which are
incorruptible and fade not away. She had often made
the humble prayer of Agar her owi~, and though pov~
erty a~d sickness had been suffered to remain very near
her, she had never, denied her Lord or been tempted to
~steal, and take the name of her God in vain.
The children nestled more closely beside their mother,
as the shades of evening closed around; and as the little.
group united in the supplicating petitions of, "Our
Father who art in heaven," Susan's heart found a new
cause for gratitude, that little Mary's voice again mingled
with the rest. The little ones were soon lost in the calm
sleep of infancy; but Susan Elmer was unusually wakeful
that night, and her mind still turned to those she had
Joved and lost; i~nd remembering how her mother had en-

courage Mary's prayers for her father, even when Smith
had declared him to be dead, her last waking thoughts
were a prayer " that God would be with and protect them
till the great day of his final coming."

CHAPTER X.

HE cares, the faticrues
'few weeks, had ~ ~ and anxieties of the last
worn upon Mrs. Elmer more
~'I' than she had been aware of, and she~slept much
~ later than usual the next niorning~ and when she
arose and tried to discharge er household duties, a
strange and ill-defined presence seemed to linger about
her. A something which she could neither throw off nor
account for, and when in the afternoon Mrs. Maddock.
came in with her sewing to beguile the loneliness, she yen-
tured to tell her of a strange dream which had often vis-
ited her pillow. She had spoken of it once, she said, to
her mother, but as neither of them Were superstitious be-.
lievers in signs and omens, the subject had soon been
dismissed from their conversation; but now as it had again
returned to her, she confessed she could not whoiJy dispel
its influence from her mind, nor could. sh~ wantonly stifle
the faint hope born of that dream, even though it pos..
messed no apparent foundation in probability; and she felt
inclined to relate to Mrs. Maddock, "That she had ~
many times dreamed of seeing her husband, 'always in a
22

I

252

253


* strange place, and sometimes sick and in bed, and some-
time8 engaged in one or another of the occupations which
he had followed before leaving home; and that on every
occasion he had failed recognize her, or only spoken
with the indifference of a. stranger."
"That dream is as plain as day to me," replied Mrs.
Maddocl~, "you may mark my word for it, George Elmer is
not dead. I don't, believe in witcheries ~nd superstitions,
my mother did not before me; but my mother believed in
some dreams, and so do I. Don't you remember Scripture
tells us that Daniel had understanding in all visions and
dreams? and don't you know how Joseph interpreted
Pharaoh's dreams?
~' If you had dreamed of seeing him here, I should say
it was only natural, and could be accounted for on the
ground of your thinking about him so much; but your
* dreaming that way so many times, of seeing him in a
strange place, makes me think he aint dead.
"But, Susan, what proof did you ever have that he was
dead?' who told you he was?"
anj
"I never heard anything about it from one but
binith," replied Susan.
"What; Jonathan Smith the shoemaker!" exclaimed
Mrs. Maddock in evident astonishment, "I don't mean to
say ~that it necessarily ruins a man's veracity to make shoes
for a living,' but mercy on us 'I I should sooner think of
believing a dream, than of taking his word' any dine. I
should not be a bit surprised if you heard from George
right off
"My Uncle William Barber went to the Patriot war,
and was gone for years and'years, everybody gave him up
for dead; but Aunt Lavina always said, he would come

y

254             XARYL'LMER, 01?                                              TRIALS AND cifANGES.           '255

back, she knew it just by a dream; and sure ~enough he
did come back, after serving ten years at Van Dieman's
Land. Every body was as much astonished as if one had
arose from the dead, except Aunt 'Lavina; she went round
smiling and smoothing out her cap-strings and saying, 'I
told you so!' I don't want to raise any expectations that,
aint to be realized, but you may 'depend upon it~ George
Elmer is alive."
Martha and Ann Maddock came in during the evening,
and each expressed satisfaction and pleasure that Mary was
safe home again. "I hope you will never have her go
back again," said Martha, "if I had known how shabbily
she was treated, I'm sure I would have gone after her my-
self."
"I should be very glad, to keep the children together,"
replied Mrs. Elmer, "but everything is so dear in the
market, and we have not any garden you know."
"But," continued Martha, "it won't take a single hod
more of coal if she stays at home, Than 'if she goes, and as
for vegetables, we always get our winter supply of Uncle
James; and I know mother will engage some from him for
you. We do all the sewing for him and the boys, and of
course it don't come so high as if they went to the shop
with their work, and then they bring us good measure of
apples and vegetables."
.It was all satisfactorily arranged. Ann suggested that
Mary could sometimes go, down to 'the village 'foi thread
and needles for them, besides holding the skeins of silk,
and both The girls felt a gratification in trying to make
amends for their former hastiness to the child.
As the fall sewing came in, and the hope of keeping her
little family together and supporting them comfortably


2~O.          MARY ELMER, OR                                       TRIALS AND CIIANGPS.      257

seemed about to be realized, Susan applied herself to her
dail5r' tasks with renewed energy; and as Mrs. Maddock
and her daughters; by their continued kindness, did all they
could to diminish Mrs. Elmer's sense of obligation, a feel~
'ing of cheerful contentment, almost akin to happiness, once
more stole over her.
True their daily needs required her constant labor; their
clothing was of the plainest material, and their table offered
no11e~ of those delicacies which are counted by so many as
necessaries. There were few to sympathize with her lone..
lines, and she might have been. less happy had not neces-
sity compelled her to be always caring for the comfort of
those dependent upon her.
It had been many rx~onths since Susan had thought of
rest or recreation; but one bright Saturday afternoon in
October, her work for the week being completed, Susan
proposed to the children a walk to the village graveyard,
and' a visit to grand ma's grave.
The little on~s were gi~eatly delighted with the plan, and
Were soon ready for a start. Georgie was carefully tucked
up in Mrs. Maddock's little wagon, and Johnnie and Mary
volunteered to draw him all the way, but they began to
show signs of weariness before ~reaching the top of the hill
where {he burial ground ~was situated, and as their mamma
relieved them from the task, they soon began amusing
themselves by gathering the ~bright autumn leaves now
gently falling upon the shaded pathway.
As the little party stopped to rest before climbing the
rustic stile, Mary wove the leaves into bright wreaths, after.
patterns which Jerusha had taught her, while their iYiother
smiled approvingly at their quiet. enjoyment, ~as Mary
placed one of the wreaths. on little Georgie's head.

They soon entered the yard; and the children were
silenced by that' feeling of awe and reverence for the dead
which nature has implanted in the heart of childhood, and
which seems to survive only in proportion as its innocence
is preserved.
Mary walked beside her mother, while Johnnie went
before them , gazing in silence at the bright autumn flowers,*
or the tall monuments, on which his eye rested until they
paused beside thq new"made grave, where Johunie was
first to speak, as he asked "if grandma knew they had
come to visit her?" While Mrs. Elmer was trying to
think of some answer to the question, Mary 8aid quickly, -
"Maybe her spirit knows it up in heaven, if her body
don't know it here. Keep still, Johnnie I"
As Susan Elmer stood beside the grave of her mother, she
wished that she might place upon it some memorial worthy
a spot nLade sacred by her last repose. Then, recollecting
the little bright~eyed violets which grew in Mrs. Maddock's
yard, and her mother's fondness for them, she resolved to
cover the mound with these humble flowers. There seemed
to ~be an appropriateness in placing there those 'humble
wayside blossoms which survive so many of Spring's earlier
flowers, and Susan dwelt with 'pleasure on her little plan.
As they were preparing to leave the ground, Mary'
stopped to repair the little wreath, which had come apart
with Georgie's rough handling, and 'placed it upon the
grave.
"I'm afraid' the wind will blow it ~off," eaid Johnnie, and
he stepped back toward the stile where he had noticed
some short pieces of painted slats lying on the grass beside
~a new inclosure. .
22~

N.


2583

MARY ELMER, OR

"Will any ~ne care if I take these?" he said, handing
them to his mother.
"I think not* my dear," she answered, and placing the
two pieces in the form of a cross, she laid them upon the
little wreath~
The effect of that bright golden wreath lying upon the
rich, deep green grass and surmounted by the little white
cross, was very beautiful; to a practiced artist it might
have suggested the illuminated j/aintings of the early
masters, but Susan's natural taste for beautiful things had
never been heightened by artistic cultivation, and as she
looked admiringly upon it, her greatest pleasure was that
she could leave some token of remembrance upon the
grave of' her earliest and most valued frk~nd.
While they werg passing out ~f the yard, Mary and
Johnnie exclaimed together, "Aint that pretty?" pointing
toward a bright little bed of' immortelles, bordered with
pansies. Mrs. Elmer read the plain inscription and was
pleased to find there the name and age of Dr. Lee, with
the simple V~rsc,

"He is not here; but precious is the dust
Which once enshrined the object of our love;
He is not here, but fondly do we trust
To meet hin~ in a brighter world above."

There was something about that little, gray Italian shaft
and those unpretending flowers which would have pleased
Mrs. Elmer, ha4 she known nothing of her whose taste
had marked the spot or of him whose memory was hero so
tenderly cherished; and Si;isan thought while looking at
these memoi*ls, of the many~ kindnesses of her friend and
felt a degree of self-reproach that she had never been to

I

TRiALS AND CHANCES.

25i9

call upon Mrs. Lee since that lady's return from the East.
True the time had been more than occupied with care and
labor, but there was also another reason, which she
scarcely recognized as such, and it was th~tt feeling of hesi-
tation which any person of true refinement has at the
thought of calling as a friend upon one whose worldly
position is so much above her own as was that of Mrs.
Lee and toward whom she could but feel an embarrassing
sense of obligation.
Then, conscious that the neglect might have the appear-
ance of indifference or ingratitude, she resolved to seek an
early opportunity to express in person the grateful regard
which she had heretofore sent by Peter Jackson.
Presently Johnnie discovered a carriage driving into the
yard, and Mary soon espied the ebony face of' Peter Jack-
son, who was already showing his teeth in answer to her
signs of recognition. And, strange to say, there was
Jerusha, too,, sitting beside Mrs. Lee in the carriage, as if
to support her, for this was Mrs. Lee's first ride since her
illness.
They came directly to the little inclosure, and Jerusha
assisted Mrs. Lee to alight from the carriage, when the
letter approached Mrs. Elmer~and by a gentle pressure of
the hand, and a quiet smile of welcome, expressed the
pleasure which the unlooked-for meeting gave her.
JerusI~ia and Mary were more demonstrative in their
recognition, and Mrs Lee declared the ride had benefited
her so much she would remain there while Peter and
Jerusha took the children a little drive aroun&amp;the ground.
The carriage soon, roiled away, ~nd Mrs. Lee invited Susan
to a seat beside her in the little yard, and as tftcy eat there
alone with the dead, each felt bound to the other by the

1111


260           MARY ELMER, OR                                    TRIALS AND CHANCES.       2431

tender ties, of friendship and ~y'~mpathy as well as the
strong bond of benevolence find gratitude.
Mrs. Elmer: ~soon spoke ~o Mrs. tee of Jolinnie's hard
question and Mary's ready answer and asked what she
thought about the subject.
"I'm afraid we~shall never 1~ave much definite knowl-
edge 'about it;"' said Mrs. Lee, "it is a subject on which
I often talked with Dr. Lee, and I recollect he once said,
there seemed nothing unconnected with revelation which
was so little known: and yet so generally believed. We
are told that the Druids, before Christianity was introduced
into Britain, believed' that the beatified soul retained the
love of its country and its kind, and sometimes returned
~o the earth to assist the brethren by teaching them
heavenly things, and~ to oppose the power of' the E~Wl One.
In later times many- theologians have maintained that it
is this mino'lino'of the pi~ayers and praises of the departed
with those of the living which forms 'the communion of
the Saints,' one article of the' Apostles' Creed.
Ji{:our ~wn times, among the number of     called
spiritualists, a favorite ~theory is, that the souls of the de-
parted are very near find not only take an interest in the
fortunes of their friends on earth, but are anxious to find
means of communicating that interest. While some~ of
a still less cultivated class' believe in ghosts and super..
natural apparitions."
"But, Mrs. Lee, will you please give me your own ideas
about it, if you will not think, me rude. What do you
think about it?"
Mrs.. Lee~'was never anxious to e~pres~ her own ideas,
but she now~ ventured to say that to her it seemed, "that
as jar as human love was unmixed with human passion,, it

might survive the death of the body, and if friendship and
affection be founded on piety, and virtue, and have its s6at
in the soul, it need not terminate with the existence of our
material part.
"One whose judgment we are bound to respect has said,
'Whefi our souls are' placed in Paradise, the cares and
secuhir employment o( time shall cease, and our employ-
ments shall be symbolical, spiritual, holy, and pleasaiit.'
The nature of this subject does not admit of its being
made very plain to the senses, and as not much knowledge
is given it is not probable much will be required, .~and we
might, perhaps, better bestow our thoughts on. subjects .,.
more dii;ectly connected with duty here, and with salvation
- hereafter.
Peter Jackson had now returned with Jerusha and the
children, and at Mrs. Lee's request Mary was permitted to
return home with her, while Master Johunie, with an in-
creased sense of importance, assisted his mother in drawing
Georgie home.
Little Mary could scarce express the delight she felt in
being once more in the well-remembered places, and after
looking about the house awhile she said, "There's that
dear little chair just where it was before, and there is that
pretty picture, but where is Harriet?"
"Harriet is married, and she does not live here any
more," replied Mrs. Lee.
"But where does she live now?" asked Mary.
"In the country near her friends," said Mrs. Lee.
"Well I'm glad I knew where she is. Mamma and I
have often wondered what had become of Harriet, no one
told us anything about her, and we thought that she had
gonewith you."

I


* 202              AIARY ELMER, OR
"Have you never seen Harriet since I went away?" said
Mrs. Lee, with evident surprise as she recollected the
unheard4'roui n6te entrusted to Harriet's care.
"Noma'am, we never saw her after you went away,
and we did not know where you were gone in a long time,
then Peter Jackson told us, and we were very sorry your
sister was so sick, and we missed you a great deal all the
time."
The child had scarcely done speaking when Mrs. Lee
turned again to Harriet's letter, in which sh~ bad sa~id, "iI~
forwarded your note to Mrs. Elmer, before I left town,
and I presrnn.e you have heard from it before this time.""
Mrs. Lee's first thought was to write for further explanation,
for she had many times wondered at the strange silence;
then rememberind Harriet's subsequent intention~ of visit~
ing~ her soon, she determined t~ wait Harriet's intended
'~ visit, for the desired information. And as she did not
knoW Harriet's present address, this seemed the only way
practicable.
Just before little Mary started for home, Mrs. -Lee told
her of a' little school which had recently opened near her
house; and instructed the child to ask her mother's permis-
sion to attend it,~ kindly inviting' her to come there every
* day for dinner, and carefully informing her that she would
provide for the tuition and the necessary books; and the
little girl returned home full of enthusiasm over thee plan.
The"brightness of that October day, the enjoyment of the
children, and the unexpected pleasure of Mrs. Lee's visit,
had . seemed to inspire Susan with new life, to which the
thought of sending the little girl to school,, brought addi-.
tional pleasure. She had often wished that Mary might
have. suc~h advantages, but circumstances had heretofore

~" seemed to forbid, and she therefore set' about m':iking plans
for the improvement of the child's wardrobe, which had
been in no way improved by her stay at the Smiths.
Her motherly affection was stimulated perhaps, by wom-
anly ambition, and long after the little ones were asleep
she grew more and more wakeful in planning for the new
enterprise, and she resolved to rise an hour earlier every
morning, for the purpose of Preparing Mary for school.
But on awaking the next morning, she felt a dull, uncom-
fortable sensation in the head, her arms ached so that she
could scarcely use them at all, and she was compelled to
return to her bed as soon as -the morning meal was finished.
Mary succeeded in putting the room in order, and brought
into practice all her little s-kill in nursing her mother; but.
spite of her efforts Susan Elmer gtew rapidly worse, and
the child went to call Mrs. Maddock's assistance.
The good woman soon answered the summons, and, was
grieved an~l surprised to find 'Susan suffering from a vio-
lent attack of fever. After bathing Susan's head and
applying such simple remedies as were at hand, Mrs. Mad-
dock said, "I'm sure when I come to Think of it, I aint
a bit surprised, in fact I've expected to see you break
down every day. No live woman could endure. it to be
shut up as y-oii have been so long;and working early and
late, it's a wonder you~ did not have to give up b~fore.
You need rest and good nursing up, butyou must not
expect to be well in a day."
" Will my ma 'ever 'get well again?" interposed Mary,
timidly; for she had been frightened, before calling Mrs.
Maddock, whose energetic manner did not tend to dimin~.
ish her alarm.
"0 yes, I hope so, but we must take good care of her; ".

'. 11

TRIALS AND CHANGES.          2t13

263


xx
1'                                                                                                    1'
j
AFARYELATER, OR
q
and turning again to susan, she said, ~' ]I'dgo for a doe-
tor~right off, but the doctors kill more than they cure, and
y~u haven't ai~y money to waste on them."
Mrs. Maddock again y~Aunteered her own services, and
Susan thanked her cordially, when Mrs Maddock returned
to her own room.
In the midst of her own pain Su~an noticed the expres-
sion of sorrow and anxiety upon her - child's face, and she
said,
"Don't be frightened, my dear; I hope I shall~ feel bet-
ter again when tbe fever* goes 6ff: and remember, Mary,
whatever happens, it will only xrake everything worse to
be sad~ and discouraged."
Then the chjld tried harder to summon her courage, and
to put~ in practice those lessons of faith and .patience of
which her mother's life had been a constant lesson, both
t          in example and in precept. It was ~well fo~ the child that
she had learned the lesson thus early.
Mrs. Mj~ddock's fears were realize2l sooner than Mrs.
Elmer's hopes, for Susan suffered long without any signs
of improvement. ~Now that their only means of subsistence
were cut off by the mother's illness, the little nurse's task
V          seemed weary and almost hopeless.
When Martha and. Ann Maddock first keard of Mrs.
Elmer's sickness they expressed a degree of sympathy and
interest in the poor wornax~s misfortune quite consistent
with their late friendly e~nauct toward her; but after a
few days they~began to express a degree of surprise that
no one came to ~assist in~ thee care of her; and a slight im-
patience manifested itself in the oft-repeated wonder why
non:e of the church members came near; for they were not
si~ch 'faultless young ladies as~ we meet with in: stories, but.
such' human ones as are met in actual life.

N,
I
p
*.1
I
1


TRIALS AND CHANGES.        265

I

Deacon Gorliam has "an oncoinmon' polite reception from ]?resident
Maflin Van BurenY-See page Sfl.

Mrs. I addock suggested that like enough none of them
knew anything about Mrs. Elmer's sickness. ~
"The~," &amp;~id Ann, "I'll 'make it my business to inform
them. 'f' think what. with the 'Aid S0oiety' and, the
Wine Mission,' that it is a ~pretty piece~ ~f Work to let a
woman like her suffer from ne~ct, or else be a direct tax
upon us f0r board, and rent; axztl everything.".
Mrs. Maddock ~nade no objection .t~ the plan, and Ann
sfarted ~ut that vei~y afternoon. Stieiitet Mf~ Squires on
her way to the Aid Society, audi soon made known to her
the condition of the ,~Elmer family, which ~seemed almost
incredihie to Mrs. Squires,. f6r it was only a few days since
she hadheard from Mi&amp;s Ludlow ~that' Mrs. Lee had 're~
turned,' and had taken 'the Elmers~~ under, her asp~ciaI
charge again. Miss ~T4dlo.~ ~ ~he h~d? ~ Mary
Eimeriin Mrs.. Lee's ~ ~de~e~of
anxiety for fear *1 family, in ~ge~i~Pa~id t~t chiWzu par..
would'. be Ispoiled by .b~ing~ p~ken too n~ch notice
tioular,
Mrs. Squires~ how~v~r~ made it ~ ~o give them a
short call before going to~ the Ad~~i~t~ ~dAetermi~ed.
to bring the ~a~e 'b~Cor~ ~thetm~t th~pye~y e~ng~.
Arm Maddooki~ontinue4 J~i~ w~y:to ~ Lee'~,~here
both Mm. Lee 'and Jeru~ht~ ha&amp; been~. Wondering] at~' the
noi~ppeai~ance ~f W~ry, ~nd "~aKkegn~i' 1~q~ fear s~rne ill-
ness t~ the child ha&amp;prevente4 ~ from ~oi~j9g~tQsehoql.
Jeru~ha hafi never bee~ zn the h*~Thqf running out eve.~
nings, and Mrs Lee had be~'en very much occupied with
the.$dl house cleaning, and. instructing a new girl... fQr
Jer~i4a had only beei~ wth her a sli'ort tjine~, Mrs. Elmei
had seemed so bright and happy attheir last interview that
Mrs. Lee was grieved ~and surprised to find 'that. she w~
23

''I
'I

I

I
*1
''I
I.
I
I

265


p

266

MARY ELMER, ~OR

now suffering not only the pains of illness, but for the want-
of those necbssaries which that sickness had ren4em~d he~
'unable to ~rocuie. She s9nt to Mrs. Elmer m~x~iy. expres-
sions of~sympathy and regr4~, and that very evening rode
over \With Peter ~Jackson to carry to her friends the ixi~re
substantial tokens of her r~gard.
CHAPTER XI.
ITH th~ return of the cool autumn evenings there
~    came back 1o our busy town many who had been
seeking for health or recreation at the various~
watering-places. The spirit of locomotion which
had led so many from howe, now seemed to keep ~hem
active, and / every local enterprise revived into a new
life. The churches were better filled on the' Sabbath, and
many a stylish outfit which had lost its first lustre at "The
Springs," now aroused bitter heart-burnings among those
who had perforce remained at home.
Miss Eunice~ Ludlow had' also returned, for she too had
been "spending some time at the Springs." The family
alone knew the whys and the hows of the all 'important
though unusual event. A relative who lived at Saratoga
in a style -which in more modern days would have been
called "Shoddy," had' sent for Eunice, who by the way was
an expert needle-woman, to come and assist .them with
their summer's sewing.

'I

Of ~~ourse Cousin John would attend to the expenses of
~" trav~lIing," at least so the letter read, and ~he geiierously
fulfille&amp;~e ~romi8e by proeuripg a pass through the infin-'
mice of a baggage inaster~ And now the visit was over
a~d Eunice had returned home frill of Odusin John's im.
portance and the Saratoga fashions.
'It had, been at' Eunice's suggestion that the Aid Society
was invited to meet at' Deacon Ludlow's again. Every
one knew that the deacon's family h~d declared that they
had done more than their part already; but Eunice felt an
uneasy.desire to inform her friends of the marvellous things
'which she had seen and heard at Saratoga.
As a regular party was deemed quite too expensive, it
was decided to 'have the "Society." "It' will be much
cheaper' than a party," thought .~Mrs. Ludlow, as she
membered the tea regulations; "and we can take a little
extra pains to invite those we want, and those we don't
want can be. left to find it out for themselves."
The appointed day came, and with it came "The Aid
Society." Among the first arrivals ~was Mrs. J. Pixley
Smith arrayed in the stiff silk dress and the same prodigious
amount of jewelry in which she had appeared on the occa~
sion of Mrs. Squires' memorable call. Mrs. Bingham the
minister's wife, wore the same brown alpaca dress and the
same plain linen collar and black velvet bow which Miss
Eunice declared she had stuck to ever since tIiey~ear one.
Mrs. ' Squires appeared in a dark worsted dress and rich
honiton colhw fastened with a cameo pin, which Mrs.
Smith thought was very bad taste for any one tbat~ could
.afford new fashioned jewelry as well as "Miss Squares,"
ass he persisted in calling her.
We shall not trouble you with the details of the dress of'

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

267

N


Mrs. Sh~rpe, Mrs. Brown, and the number of ladies who
are already absorbedd in listening to Miss Eumiice~s "wonder-
ful accounts of ~r travels, ,while she dwells with enthusi-
asm upon the elegance of Cot~sin J'ohn's~establishm~t, and
the rep~arkablehccowplishm~nts of little Consin Una ~who
is studying French arithmetic, alihougli she is only eight
years old.
It could ~6t but be observed, that Miss Eunice became
somewhat less comm~iunicative after the 'arrival of Mrs.
Squires. KnQwing as she did Tthat Mrs. Squires could
easily detect the parts of ber story in' which she had been
wholly indebted to imagination for he~ facts; and as
she thought of the experiences Mrs. Squires might' relate
if ~he were only disposed to appreciate her advantages,
she looked at Mrs. Squires with pitying' wonder~, for her
lost opportunities.
There was not any work of importance on hand. The
last thing the society had 'attempted was a dozen shirts
~,for' Mi $ingham; and these being finished, the question
in order was~ to what they should next devote their.
effo~ts.
"I've' been telling ma," said Miss Eunice, "that I
think' we had 'better labor for. the cause of foreign mis-
sions. I' heard Mr. Simpson, while I was at Cousin
John's. I 'was so much delighted with his farewell ser-
mon;~ he, preached it in several places, and I heard it in
Saratoga, just before they left for the heathen land. His
thitd wife, Miss Stiiiman, was a particular friezid' of' mine;
lie, had pi~inted copies of the s~rm6n 'for sale, and I bo~~ght
6ne. on her account. Some parts of'it w&amp;e very eloquent
indeed." And taking up the pani~hlet8he read aloud: ~
"We are possessed of a common~ o~gin, and a 'common

inheritance; sent into this breathing world to. work out a.
common destiny. Then why should we limit the exercise
of our Christian charities and our activ~sympathies, to
the circumscribed 'limit of our own neighborhood or
county, instead of encompassing in its encircling vastness
the great human family of man.
"I'm very sorry he did not come. here," said Mrs.
Smith, "we could not possibly work for a worthierob-
joct; and to show that we aint narrow minded in 'our
views. What do you think about it, Miss Squares?"
"1 should be very sorry to be in the way of any good
,work, but we should be careful not to overlook the duty
that lies nearest us; and I was intending to suggest that
we give some assistance t~Mrs. Elnier, who is quite sick;.
and both her children and herself are in great need of
assistance.~~
"Aint you mistaken about that?" said Mrs. Ludlow;
"I guess there aint anything serious the matter there, you
can't believe half you hear now-a-days, the world is so
wicked." ~ure I'm not mistaken, for. I called there this
"I am
afternoon, and found her quite sick of a fever," replied
Mrs. Squires.
"Dear we," 'said Mrs. Smith, "then how do we know
but ~6ii have exposed us all to some terrible disease. If
you ~vAs anybody but Miss Squares, and the chief oae of
the ire towers of the society, I should say you'd done a
dretful unprudent thing a going there."
"I think they had better be sent to the poor-hou~e
right off, ~here's no knowing but what it's the scarlet fever
~he has got, a~Td they always ~have that at the poor-.hotise,
23~ ~"

2438          MARY ELMER, OR                                        TRIALS AND CHANGES.        2G9

269

268


270

MARY ELMER, OR

so she could not do any hurt/by spreading it there," said
Mrs. flrown.
"Why *didn't you advise the woman that owns the
house to turn h~r right Qut," said Mrs. Sharpe; "the
rent Will be more uncertain than ever if she is. sick, be
sides, it's never safe to keep sick folks in a house, poor
folks in'particular~, she might die there, and make it harder
to rent the rooms afterward." -
" Yes," said Mrs. Smith; "~we are all taxed enough to
support idleness and poverty there, and I have always
thought they woukl come to it yet."
Mrs. Squires improved the first pause in the excited~
clamor, to explain to the ladies that the sicknesss which
Mrs. Elmer suffered from need not- cause 'them such
alarm, as it was only a low fever, induced by constant toil
and privation; and that with a little assistance and rest,
she night soon be able to return to her employment; for
she knew Mrs. Elmer better than to believe she would
willingly be a burden to her friends. -
"I don't s~e. anything to hinder her resting at the
county-house," ~said Miss Eunice,. " I think she ought to
be grateful - that she lives in a Christiai~i land, where a
place is erected and maintained for the indigent."
"But," continued Mrs. Squires~ "would it not be
cruel to subject a person like Mrs. Elmer, whose only
crime is that of honest poverty, to the odium of being
classed among paupers, at a county poor-house? It does
* not seem Christian, to me, for us, as an Aid Society in a
- respectable church, to suffer it. I should not, perhaps,
express myself so fully, but a&amp; President of the society,
* and for the credit of the 'organization, to s~iy nothing of a
higher motive, I think we ought to help her."

I.

271

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

"I don't* like to differ with a person like you," said
Mrs. Ludlow, "but the sentiments you have just ex-
pressed wound my fe4ings; they remind me, painfully of
the awful doctrines that Mrs. Lee teaches th~~se that come
under her influence. Don't you' remember the Bible
teaches us 'our own righteousness is filthy rags,' but if
you and Mrs. Lee have got so blinded as to think your
own works can save you, I don't see that you can do bet-
ter than improve tho opportunity, and leave the Society to
a wider field of usefulness. If Mrs. Thee knows about
'em, and she ought to I'm sure, why th# ;she must count
this fever a special providence in her behalf."
"Let her try it as long as I have," said Mrs. Smith,
"and I guess she'll get discouraged before she makes any-
thing of them. But we are taking up the Society's time
with all this miscellaneous talk, aid I'm anxious to hear
about Mr. and Miss Simpson."
"I shall be most happy to gratify your wishes," said
Miss Eunice; "but in order to dispose of this question,
I propose that we put it to vote. Those; therefore, who
are in favor of assisting our far distant friends in their
laudable and honorable undertaking of carrying the Chris-
tian light of the gospel into heathenism's -darkest -recess,
will make their wishes manifest by standing up; or by
rising to express so praiseworthy a desire; while giose
who are willing to have their time appropriated for the
benefit of- a certain obscure family, who seem to be in
great favor in certain quarters nearer home, may sit
still."
"Almost unanimous," said Eunice, as she glanced tn-
urnphantly about.the room, and saw every one upon their
feet except Mrs. Bingham~and Mrs. Squires. . -

s


272             MARY ELMER, OR

"Now please to continue," said. Mrs. Smith.
"Well, I was just saying, or rather I was about to ~re~
mark, Mrs. Simpson was a particular friend of mine, and
I thought we ought t~ feel it a privilege to avail ourselves
of such an opportunity to assist in the great cause. The
people in Gambletown made several suits of clothing ito
be sent to little namesakes of theirs in Muffletegawny,
that was the name of the station; and I don't think we
could do better than to follow their example. It's not a
new idea to me, and I have an embroidered handkerchief,
early finished, which I intend to mark in full, 'Eunice
Ludlow, of Saratoga;' you see it would be my name and
Cousin John's little girl's name too, and would be killing
two birds with one stone, you know."
a
"I hope Miss Simpson will teach 'em better than to
a.
throw stones at birds, particularly out of such a nice
handkerchief as that," said Mrs. Sharpe.
Mrs. -' Binghain, who had been a silent listener,
could scarcely repress ~her indignation, and her sense of*
wron , and ventured to repeat the old-fashioned -maxim,
* that % harit# begins at home," and to mention again the
~huinis of Mrs. Elmer; when. Mrs. Smith, feeling very~
sensitive about the family, and sustained, as she thought,
by the popular vote, took occasion to express herself more
full1 in regard to them..
"I~don't want to prejudice nobody, but I've tried 'to
help that family, if anybody ever tried to endeavor to do
anything, and 1 don't mean to let their ingratitude and
unthankfulness affect me, but then it's very trying."
- "Ingratitude is very hard to bear," exclaimed Mrs.
Ludlow.'
"But it does not 'lessen our obligations to be charitable.

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

/     273

The commands and the promises nowhere put in the grat.?
itude of the recipient of favor as a condition of our,
charity. We never find 'He that giveth to the grateful
poor,' lendeth to the Lord,' else we might lose the reward
hereafter, by lowering our motives to the price of human
said Mr
praise and human gratitude,"    ~: l3ingham.
'k Yes," answered Mrs. Smith, "but you can't say -it
aint discouraging to flnd'the objects of our bounty proud
and Xextravagant, besides being low and poor. I don't
want to prejudice nobody, but facts is facts, and what Ii
say is to be depended on. Everybody knows - that family..
got along well enough before~ he went away; but the way
she has managed since, just diows how much she knows.
Miss Ludlow knows aioue it as well as I do, this big blue
velvet chair is bne of her extravagances; it looked just
like new when she sold it here, anSI they just took it out
of charity; "here Mrs. Smith ceased her violent rocking,
and arose for the ladies to - express their horror or their
admiration, as their expressions were divided between the
chair and its former owner.
- "That's nothing at'all compared to the pin that opened
my eyes," continued Mrs. Smith. "After J~ie had be~n gone
a spell, and I heard how she was selling off her fineries, I
knew she had a costly pin, and so I went over prepared to
give her full as much' as it was -worth in old gold.
But I wan't going to buy a cat in a bag, so I just give~ a
good look at it. I knew it was genniwine, because- he sent
it to her from Calaforny, and everything is genniwine that
comes from there. But such a pin you never did see.
"On the front side of it t~ere was a locket lid, and under
it was George Elmer just as natural as life, on1~ his face'
was peekeder than ever, and' his beard longer. It looked


274            MAR r ELMER, OR                                         TRIALS AiND CHANGES.        275

as though he had not shaved sence he went away. On the
outside of the lid was some plain checkered work; but the
inside ~f it boat everything. It was nothing more nor less
than a young one with a night-gown on, . and a pair of
wings on its back. I could not see that it looked anything
like their cubs only, them everlasting' curls. I was glad
they had m6desty enough to put it inside. I shouldn't be
willing to have one of my children taken in such a plight,
it's bad enough to have them look like fury around every
day. But the motto capped the climax. I copied it with
my big gold pencil, it read '~ dieu pour vous.' I did not
ask her what it meant, for I did not want to condescend,
but my niece translated it for me. It's French, and means
'ado for you.' I must say it's rather proper after all,
for she made a fuss about him, after he had gone, and I
s'pose he to~k this way to return the compliment, and make
an ado for her. Of course such a pin would not do for a
person of any taste, and so I did not even make, her an
offer for it."

,'Thre beard of that pin before, nay husband offered to
take it once, on some rent that she wanted to get out of
* paying; he managed to get an old clock and that was all.
I guess she had rather stick to her finery, than to pay her
honest debts," said Mrs. Shax;pe.
The conversation was here interrupted by the entrance
of Dea~on Ludlow and Rev. Mr. Biugharn, who had been
invited to take tea with the ladies Sam Ludlow soon
made his appearance also. He was being got ready for
school in a distant town, and this fact seemed to add so
much to his social importance, that he was now expected~ to
be introduced to company.
* It did not however cause him to' forget any of his old

tricks, for he invariably managed to say or do something
to vex and mortify his sisters.
The conversation seemed to take a more religious turn
upon the entrance of the minister. Mrs. Sharpe began to
express her interest in a revival which was in successful
progress in a neighboring town, and where two of her
nieces had been hopefully converted.
"That's just what we, want here," said Mrs. Smith,
"I've been telling Mr. Smith I did so wish there was an
opportunity for him to gdt religion.
"There was a wonderful awakening at Saratoga, while
I wa~ at Cousin John's. Mr. and Mrs. Simpson's visit
caused a great deal of emotion there; perhaps you would
like to look at his farewell sermon," said Eunice, handing
Mr. Bingham her printed copy.
"Maybe the ladies would like to heai~ some of it read
aloud," suggested Mrs. Ludlow.
"I should so," replied Mrs. Smith.
And Mr. Biugham read from the closing paragraphs : -
"We have now voluntarily banished ourselves from all
the endearments, the attractions and refinements, of a home
in civilized life. Turned our backs upon all these to
become laboring exiles, in that far distant portion of the
lord's vineyard, to which we now pray the gales to waft.
us swiftly ~onward, though at the risk of a watery grave."
"I'm afraid very few of us would be willing to follow
Miss Simpson's noble example, and leave all to follow the
Lord!" exclaimed Eunice, with a patient sigh of unappre~
cited merit.
"That could be decided better if more missionaries come
over after wives;" said Sam, with a significant grin, "I
rather guess there* would be something of a scattering
among the old maids."


Mrs. Smith and Mra. Sharpe'exchanged smiles. Mrs.
Squires directed her eyes more closely to her work. Mr.
Bingharn becazn~e silently interested in the sermon, and a
pause ensued, until Mrs. Ludlow announced that "tea
was ready."
On th~ Society book it was written that there should
always be a plain tea, "Biscuit and apple-sauce, and
only one kind of cake." Some of the guests were therefore
a little surprised, when, on taking seats at the table, they
were served with soda biscuit, ~raised biscuit, buns, and
strawberry shortcake, cider apple-sauce, crab-apple sauce,
pineapple, and apple jelly. Then there were fruit cake,
plain cake, and cookies.
Mrs. Sharpe thought they were liable to a line, for break-
ing the rules of the ~ciety. But Miss Eunice explained
it very satisfactorily, "You aji see there's only biscuit
and apple-sauce, and as for the cake, there is only one kind,
the fruit cake is just like the other, only it has some raisins
and a little citron stirred in, and the cookies are just the
8ame dough with a little more flour, and a few caraways
added."
Mrs. Smith said, that according to her ideas, it was
breaking the rules in the right directiQn, and for her part
she wa~ willing to swallow the offence, as she helped
herself, to .a large slice of fruit cake, laughing audibly at
her own atten4pted wit.
SQOI~. after tea Mr. and Mrs. Bingham expressed their
desire, to, leave, ~. M~. IBingham had promised to make a
sick call, and Mrs. ~4gham was to go to see Mrs. Lee,
whom she had not seen in a long time, and her husband
was to join her a1 Mrs. Lee's, to return home.
There was an imn~ediate lengthening. of faces as Mr.

276

Bingham spoke of going, and such a universal expression
of interest m the welfare of Zion, and such a desire for a
special effort expressed by several, that Mr. Bingham felt
compelled to propose obtaining the assistance of Mr. Phil-
lips, a noted revivalist, to help in the work, and it was
decided that he should write im~nediatelyffor the desired aid.
Miss Eunice expressed her regret at the necessity of the
sick call, and wished the visit to Mrs. Lee could be post-~
poned, the company would regret so much to lose them so
early in the evening.
"Better have 'em find out who that chap at Mrs. Lee's
is," said Sam, with his, usual significant leer at IEunice~
No one replied. Mr. Bingham was called upon to address
the Throne of Grace, and made a short but earnest prayer,
when Mr. and Mrs. Bingham. bade the company good
night. As soon as they were out of hearing, Sam said
"That was a pretty good oration to the Lord." And on
being reproved for his irreverence, very gravely asked his
mother to explain the difference between an "oration to
the Lord," and an "address to the Throne. of Grace."
You see I am going to school and I. want to understand
these things."
24
(

XAL4R Y ELMER, OR                                      TRIALS AND CHANGES.         277

277


278             AfAR Y !4WR, QR

TRJAI2S AND CHANGESS.          279

CHAPTER XII.

T Mrs. Lee's, Mr. Bingham found Dr. Chases
Lee, the person to whom Sam Ludlow had refer-
ence. He is a nephew of the late Dr. ,Lee, and
has stopped ~to pay a visit on his return from Cali-
fornia. 'It is not his first visit to our little town; years before
he bad 'come hither with the intention of studying medicine
with his uncle. The intention, however, had been hastily
overruled by. the sad dispensation, with which our story
begins, ahd after his uncle's lamented death he had com-
pleted. his. course in a neighboring city, and subsequently
practiced in San Francisco, where his earnest efforts had
been rewarded by the esteem and confidence of a large
and thriving practice, as well as by those more material
returns which the world counts as the criterion of success.
The relation of Dr. Lee's pleasant adventures, assisted
no doubt by her own determination not 'to dwell upon sad
or painful memories during his visit, had already told
favorably upon Mrs. Lee's health, and nearly every ple~ant
day found them riding or, walking out in company.
On one of these occasions, as they were passing the
residence Qf the Smiths, the attention of Dr. Lee was
arrested. by the dog Bounce lying near the gate, and w~ilk-
ing more slowly and eying the Aog with increased interest
he said, "I declare, aunty, that dog looks like an old
acquaintance."

I

His interest in the noble fellow increased, as Bounce im~
mediately jumped i~p and running up to them, placed his
left foot immediately upon tbe Doctor's band. "I. really
believe I have found an old patient said the Doctor."
"And so, I am to inti~r that your practice extended to
dogs," said Mrs. Lee, smiling at the rapid progress of
their mutual recognition.
"I don't hesitate to own it did to this fellow," replied.
the Doctor examining a well-defined scar on Bounce's. still
extended foot. "I think there~s no mistake; this is poor
Elmer's dQg, and that scar shows the very spot where hjs
foot was hurt while he was in the mines."
"Was it George Elmer?" asked Mrs. Lee, with~ inter-
est, "the young man who ~went from this place?" -
"I never knew where he was from, I think the name
was George - the man was sick in the hospital, and had a
pretty severe time with a prevailing fever. ~'
"Yes, I believe he died of it, after a time; at least that
was the report which was brought back here."
"Oh no, he did not die of the fever; he was very ill
for a long time, but I remember distimitly that he recov-
ered and went to work again."
"Did you ever see Smith, the shoemaker?"
"I don't know that I did; there were any number of
Smiths there but I don't recollec~ having a particular
acquaintance with any of them."
"Then you never knew what became of Elmer after his.
sickness?" said Mrs. Lee inquiringly.
"I think~he was in the hospital when I left, tind that
i~as some months afterward."
Mrs. Lee was very much interested in what she had
leai~ned of the husband of her friend, and that very even-

/

278

279


280O

4MAR Y ELAIER, OR

ing availed herself of the opportunity, while her nephew
was writing to, his family, of going out to carry to' Mrs.
]lrmer, the intelligence which she was so happy to be the
medium of conveying.
As, she approached the house and was thinking how to
give expression to the good news in store for her friend,
little Mary, who 'had discovered her approach, ran out to
mneet4ier, exclaiming,
"How glad I am you have come! mamma 'has got a
letter and, it made her almost well, and 'my papa, was alive
all the time, and Mr. Smith told a naughty story ; is it not
wonderful?".
Mrs. Lee kissed the little girl in congratulation, and
went into the house, where her tears of sympathy were
soon mingled with the drops of joy that flowed freely down
Susan's face as jhey spoke together words of gratitude to
God for the blessed tidings which had been so long delayed.
We cannot furnish our ,readers a -copy of the letter
wich gave Susan so much pleasure,. for she had not that
vuga ambition of display which might have induced some
to send, it to the newspapers; nor did she circulate it about
for neighborhood commentt .andceriticism. -Those, there-
fore, who wish -to know more of George Ehlmer will be
compelled 'to go with us on the long journey to California.
And as it will only be fair to give our friends a parting
cal before taking leave of them for the long journey, we
will stop at the meeting-house on the way.
The ne* lamps are now in constant use, for while we
hav  l~,n engaged in other matters, the revival has not,
only been fary inaugurated' but is going on with increased
activity and zeal, And as it is the opinion of those ns
interested, that its prosperity is'wholl owlig to the efforts.

'I
K

I

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

281

of Rev. Mr. Phillips, some may wish a more formal intro-
duction to this distinguished revivalist. He is a person
rather above the medium height, with large hazel eyes
which, but for a total lack of expression, might be called
beautiful. His coal-black hair was parted in a fashion which
showed no neglect from its owner ; his manner is affable
and conciliating, and is dress of glossy black broadcloth
-as. faultless as the most fastidious tailor could devise. Some
insinuating person has intimated that a sudden improve-
~ment in his personal appearance is closely connected with
the recent death of his wife; and a facetious friend has
hinted that even his hair has becomed5everal shades darker
to match the new'mourning suit ; but of'the truth of these
'hints we are not personally responsible, although certain
it is, that his popularity has never, suffered in consequence
of the fact that Mr. Phillips is a widower.
His sermons, in the option of some, were mere plati-
tudes, with a faint shadow pf an idea. clothed in one weak
syllogism after another, bt without force or pith, whl
his prayers were only a medley of threatened wrath to
evil doers, a report of neighborhood gossip, and a dispen-
sation of full and free salvation to the elect ; but whatever
of adverse criticism might be bestowed upon these efforts,
there was a charm and sweetness in the melody of his voice
to which not even the most hostile could~ listen without
admiration. The sentiments which he made this heaven-
bestowed talent the means of conveying, may be better.
learned from one of his favorite hymns, than from any
words of ours, and we copy one of them from the printed
sheets which were liberally distributed throughout the
church: -

24*


*1

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

283

282                     MARY ELMER, 01?
JF~$US PAID IT ALL.
Nothing either great or small
Remains for me to do;
J9sus died and paid it all,
Yes, all the debt I owe.
CHORUS.
Jesus paid it all,.
All the debt. I owe,
.~'esus died and paid it all,
Yes, all the debt I owe;
Jesus paid it, paid it, all.
When He from his lofty throne
Stooped d~own to do~ and die,
- Everything was fully done1
Yes "Finished" was his cry.
CHORUS.
Weary, working, plodding one,.
Oh, wherefore toil you so?
Cease your doing, all was done,
Ages inng ago.
CHORUS.
Till to Jesus' work you cling,
Alone by simple faith;
"Doing" is a deadly thing,
Doing ends in death.
CHORUS.
Cast your deadly doing down,
Down at Jesus, feet;
Stand in him, in him alone,
Glorious and complete.
CHORUS.
We will leave the -spirituaL affairs of our friends to the
pastoral care of their musical shepherd, while we make a
hasty trip to Califoriiia for the, purpose of inquiring after

our friends at San Francisco. We shall not ask you to
brave the perils by sea of a voyage around the Cape, nor
the risks and hazards of a railroad trip, because we prefer
the safer ~and more direct line of our own imagination.
It is true that Smith has left George Elmer very sick
indeed, and the fever ha~ long seemed' to defy the physi-
cian's skill and the nurse's care. Before this calamity had
overtaken him, however, he had, while, yet the enthu-.
siasm of a new enterprise lasted, accumulated a thousand
dollars which he had confided to Smith's offered charge for
the little family at home. Elmer was too ill at the time
of the transaction to attend to any legal papers, and the
worse sickness which followed had so impaired his mem~
ory that he had never even wondered why- it was never
heard from. He had lingered ~long, ~conscious only of the
change from intense pain to a languid stupor, and when
the violence of the disease had at last passed away, the
wild expression of the eye and the strange 'incoherence of
speech formed no uncertain indication of the sad havoc of
disease.
Though his mental faculties had suffered n~ucWunder the
painful malady, yet as his strength returned, with it came
back so much of George Elmer's former enterprise that he
was soon ahle to' apply himself to the practice of his old
business of dentistry.
A little office bad been provided in a part of -the hospi~
tal for a former patient, and as such services were in great
demand and George had always been a skilful workman,
he was soon gaining a handsome remuneration ;~ he never
spoke of his family or friends, and was always quiet and
reserved towards every one except the little children, who -
frequently came in to bring flowers or ~dainties to the pa


284

AFAR F ELMER, OR

tents, and on whom he bestowed the curious little devices,
the manufacture of which occupied his leisure.
There was in the same ward with Elmer a man by the
name of Goulding, who had been seriously injured by the
blasting of a rock, and brought in some time after Elmer.
For many weeks each failed to recognize the other as an
old acquaintance, and former partner; yet it was not very
strange, for Goulding bad supposed with many others that
Elmer had died of the fever; and the' effects of that fearful
malady upon the memory of the latter, had prevented his
recognizing any person except those who had been con~
stantly with him.
It was a' matter of surprise to Goulding that after a rec-
ognition had, taken place, Elmer received with such
indifference his accounts of the richness of the claims in~
which they' owned a mutual interest; and not until one
evening when Mrs. Goulding had, come in as usual to
spend an hour' with her husband did Elmer appear fully
to have recovered his former self. Goulding had asked
his wife to sing for him, and as sh~ finished the second
starrza of that sweet little song entitled "Star of the Eve.
ning," noticing the strange effect the words seemed to
have upon his friend, Goulding begged her to stop.
Elmer's face was pale with emotion, and his eyes dim
with unshed tears, as he asked in a tremulous voice,
"Where's my wife? Where's Susan, and why does not
she come and sing the Shining Star to me?"
Some of the attendants were alarmed, and feared a re-
.lapse of the disease, but they soon earned that it was only
the sweet, soothing power of' music that had roused that
hidden chain in 'which the thoughts of those lie loved had
~o long been lulle9~nd he grew calmer as the recollection

A

I

I

TRIALS AND cHANGES.

285

of that far-away fireside, the' worn and wasted form of the
aged grandmother, the earnest but uncomplaining face of
his wife, and the happy voices of his' little children, seemed
to come like a beacon of life and hope to the storm-bound,
ocean-wreckcd mariner. ile soon indicted the letter, of the
safe arrival of which we have learned, and as he intends
very soon to follow it, we will go back'to find what prepara-
tions are being made for his return.
The news of the arrival of a letter from George Elmer
soon spread through the town, where it' shared with the
sayings and doings of the new converts, among whom
Sam Ludlow and J. P. Smith were prominent in being the
principal topics of conversation.
Mr. J. Pixley Smith was among the' first to call upon
Mrs. Elmer to inquire the particulars of the letter; and as,
the fdcts in relation to the money', and also some allusions
to the dog 'came to light, Smith's interest in the affair be-
came decidedly personal,, and he interrupted Mrs. Elmer
before ~she had finished reading, by saying,
"I've been intending this long time to come' in and ex-
plain matters to you. You know we have tried to share
the burden of your children with you, and then we've kept
the dog; dogs 'are great eaters, and it would eat you out
of house and home to have such a voracious fellow as
Bounce around; but if you want 'the critter, you can have
him. Then as to money matters, you ~eemed so comfort-
able I thought it best to ~save what I had for you till a
rainy day; but if you think you need any, Is'pose I must
let you have some, though women folksin general squan-
der it awfully."
Mrs. Elmer might perhaps have been overcome with
indignation at this speech had not her heart been too full

N


286

AfAR Y ELMER, OR

1-
I-
lit

Uf,

of gladness at the thought of her husband's return, and she
replied, "God -has taken care of us so far, and he will not
forsake us now.- You can bring -the .money or leave it to
settle with Mr. Elmer, for II am not anxious to have any
transactions with you."
Mr. Smith felt very angry at the honest indignation
which 1~frs. Elmer had expressed, but as there was now no
apparent benefit to. be derived from delay, he immediately
applied himself to collecting the amount.
- He availed himself of the advantage which his conspicu-.
ousness in the late revival had given him, and as he was
now counted among the "active brethren," and his wife
directress in "The Muffictegawny Missionary Aid Society,"
the brilliant thQught of circulating a subscription paper for
the benefit of that popular institution, occurred to him, and
wishing to show his liberality, his .zeal, and his pecuniary
ability in one bold stroke, he headed the list with a donation
of one hundred dollars. It was soon increased by the addi-
tion of smaller sums, and in a short time he was able to
hand over the .thousand to Mrs~ Elmer, beside leaving a
comfortable sum for his own pocket.
The dog which had been pronounced "a nuisance,"
"a cuss," and "a filthy squadruped," at the Smith resi-.
deuce, was the subject of an excited "family scene" when
Smith declared his intention to give it away. Mrs. Smith
called him a cruel, hard-hearted iiionste~ to give away the
only thing the children ever did care anything about. The
girls pouted, and declared they wouldn't' go to school;
Ferdinand shut Bounce in the bedroom, and placing him-
self against the door, armed with his father's cane declared
"he'd see if the old man dared to touch his dorg." Mean-
time Smith retreated to the back yard and waited till the -

~1

excitement was over,' and then coaxing Bounce with a beef -
bone which he had picked up in the morning at a butchei9s
stall and had been carrying for that purpose all day, he led
the dog in the direction of' Mrs. Elmer's, where he was
soon discovered by Johnnie, who had been some time
watching for his appearance. He was soon joined by
Mary to whom he had conveyed information of the import
tant arrival.
There was a very joyful meeting between the little girl
and her old friend who seemed to forget the ill usage he
bad received from the youthful Smiths so much as to make
every demonstration of friendship to Johnnie and Georgie
to whom she gave him the most flattering introduction.
As the former annoyances were removed, Bounce became
not only the friend and companion of the Elmers, but the
favorite of the neighborhood, where his somewhat unusual
history had made him an object of more than ordinary
interest.
Mis. Maddock was quite overcome with delight at the
good fortune of the Elmers, although she declared it had
all happened just as she had expected ever since she heard
that dream.
Mrs. Lee improved the earliest opportunity which Har-
riet's visit afforded to investigate the affair of the mysterious
disappearance of the note, and had succeeded in settling
it with Deacon Ludlow by giving him a receipt in full on -
his paying the exact amount which had been enclosed in
the letter. The deacon congratulated himself on being
abundantly able to meet the demand, expressing a~ the
same time his satisfaction that Sam was done sowing
his wild oats and had "got religion" now, while it was
evident that the thought of Sam's making any restitution

TRIALS AND CHANGES.

287

ii~


I
~1

MARY ELMER, OR

for the wrong he had done never once occurred to the
deacon's mind. 'The teachers tell me Sam is doing first
rate now, andi am glad we had that revival just in time
to save him.
*Those who wish to be informed of this young gentleman
from his own words, can do so by reading a letter which
has lately been received from him by John Sharpe, a son
of Mrs. Elmer's former landlord.
DEAR JAcK, - It's an awful long time since I heard from
you. I was dreadful sorry YOU got shut up just as I cam~
away, for I wanted to see you desperately. I'm sorry you
want there to get religion when I did; I toll you it's the
best investment I've made lately, for it helps a fellow along
mightily. This is a first rate school; I can stay out as late
as I please, and no questions asked, but if one of the chaps
that hasn't got religion is caught away from his room after
nine, he gets a walking ticket, whew!
I tell youJackwe had a gay old examination. I got ex-
cused from my classes to practise my oration. . I wrote on
"Religious Forms," for I knew all the old dominies and
deacons would be appointed judges, and the fellow that put
in the most piety would get the prize. I took care to put
in a good rouser about the "old dragon and the old seven
hills." You see it's always safe to give popery a death
blow; besides, denunciation suits my style of oratory.
- It took like a molasses fly-trap, and I got a tremendous
big Bible for the first prize. I sold i{ for four fifty, and our
society, the L. A.'s had a gay old spree on that, you may
bet. We have a uniform here for parade days and such
like. ~ It's a grand arrangement, for we wear the old things
that the others leave, and then the money answers lots of
purposes.
There's an ~pisc9pal society here; they've got a real nice

288&amp;.

meetinghouse, and a very polite chap for a minister. They
are ever so popular, and I had quite a notion of joining.
them, but the fellow has taken a pious turn of late and be-
gins to talk about self-denial and alms deeds in a way that
I don't relish. I. like the notion of every-day piety; that
means something you can always make useful. Now's the
present time, and a bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush. This going without your beef-steak and sticking to
codfish and mackerel six weeks in March is what I call a 9
scaly performance. I wish you would Write as soon as pos-
sible and tell me how all the folks are getting along. I won-
der if Eunice will make out to catch Mr. Phillips. Pin
glad you kept dark about that old Elmer affair. I have
never felt just right about it; I knew the old man would
fork over if I only got religion. After all it was not a
mighty sight meaner than his buying her chairs for less than
half they were worth, because he knew sh.e was obliged to
sell them. If ever I make a lift again, it will be on an Ex-
press Office or a bank; there's something mean in robbing a
poor widow, but then if I get as much saving faith as the
old man has, I shan't be so scrupulous. I am going into
the storage and foraging business as soon as I get through
here, and if that don't pay I may come back and marry
Mary Elmer, by way ~f righting old, scores; that is if
Elmer really brings hack the dust.
Yours forever,
SAM LUDLOW.
P.S. Please direct your letter to Miss Sarah Loomis
care of S. Ludlow Esq. You see we are expected to have
our letters sent to the care of the professors, who take.pains
to read them for us, and I want to save them that trouble.
- Yours again,
S.L.
On receiving the sums of money from Mrs. Lee 'and
25

289

1

I
I'

TRIALS AND CHANG ES.


Mr. Smith, Mrs. Elmer's first care was to secure for her-
self and family a home, where they and her expected hus-
band would ~be more comfortable.. And although their
present prosperity, as indicated in George's letter, might
warrant them in selecting some more aspiring locality, it
was Susan's highest ambition to return to the little~ cot-
tage where~ they had first started housekeeping, and from
which George had gone forth on his journey.
-' Here the pleasures of their early wedded years had
been crowned with joy, by the birth of their first-born
child, the darling Mary; and here Johnnie had received a
father's smile of welcome, and a mother's kiss of' love, as
he added new happiness to a home which had. been already
full of light and gladness. And in later years, when the
rough winds of adversity seemed untempered to the shorn
lambs, and the dark, hard hand of poverty seemed ready
to crush them, had little Georgie, brought the smiles of
infant innocence to cheer once more the desolate home,
and to prevent the thoughts of his mother from flQwing
always in the same dark channel.
Here, too, had been learned many a lesson of trusting
hope, and patient, quiet submission, from the example of
that oged mother, whose memory was still embalmed in
the sighs, and dewed with the tears of affectionate reinem-
branee.
The little cottage was soon engaged, and the few prepa-
rations for moving wcr~ quickly completed. Mrs. Mad-
dock, with characteristic liberality, declared that it would
be time enough for her to take the rest, when George
Elmer was safeAlome again.
As ,Susan and the childreit were following their little
stock of furniture to their new home, she was startled by

290.

290           MARY ELMER, OR                                     TRIALS AND CHANGES.       29t

the sight of a carriage at the door, and quite excited at the
thought that her husband had possibly preceded her there.
Her surprise abated, however, when on entering the house
she found her visitor to be Mrs. Bennet Squiree, who had
lately returned from an absence of several weeks9
It had been the surprise and horror of many of her
neighbors, that she could think of going away just in the
midst of the revival; and Mrs. Smith had even gone so
far as publicly to propose her name as a subject for their
prayers.
Certainly the religion of Mrs. Squires was very differ-
ent from that of Mrs. Smith; for she was always ready to
assist the poor by her sympathy and her bounty, witliout
making a catalogue of their faults. While she gave to her
equals or her superiors in worldly things, the offices of
kindness, without taking the census of their virtues; she
never made it her business to censure or find fault with
her clergyman, even though his sermons contained doc-
trines and opinions quite at variance with her own. Nor
did she sneer at, or find fault with those persons who
thought they found aids to piety and excellence in things
which ~to her judgment appeared only the excitement of
passion, or the sway of popular public sentiment; ever
showing a commendable respect for honest differences of
opinion and of belief.
The object of the present visit added another to the
many~kindnesses with whi~Th she had made glad the home
of the Elmers; for she had come to place in its old cor-
ner the little clock, of whose existence she had first heard
at the society at Deacon Ludlow's. She had been anx-
ious to give to Susan some token of the pleasure she felt
at the new turn of-events, and could not have found a
more welcome expression of her kindness.

291


1

11
'I..

MARY ELMER, OR

292

Many other pieces of furniture found their way back;
the blue velvet rocking-chair soon took its accustomed
commanding~ position in the little front parlor, and really
looks almost as bright as before its stay at the Deacon's,
where the hospitality had never been such as to tell unfa.-
vorably upon the parlor furniture. Susan was very glad
to get the chair again; it had been one of her few wed-
ding presents, and was the gift of a liberal and wealthy
friend, in New York City.
Deacon Ludlow had shown considerable reluctance at
Mrs. Elmer's request to repurchase the chair. "I I I
s'pose you know I never offered my furniture for sale,
Miss Elmer," he said ;' but Susan distinctly remembered
the well~f~igned reluctance with which he had paid her the
paltry sum of six dollars for. it. She could almost hear
his words again, as he said, "'Taint everybody that would
want to buy an odd piece of furniture like that, and you
will find it pretty heavy to carry round, if 'you try to sell
it that way."
Remembering these things as Susan did, she gained
courage to urge her request, which the Deacon hesitatingly
acknowledged.
"I don't know,~ but being ii's you, I shall hey to let
you take it for ten'dollars; 'taint a circumstance to what
it's worth; besides you see furniture is riz."
Susan had just got comfortably settled, when George
returned. W~ shall not intrude upon the pleasure of their
first meeting; but several weeks have now passed, since
the scattered members of the loving household were re-
united, and though tender and mournful remembrances of
the past mingle with the pleasures of the present hour,
and give them a subdued and chastened coloring, theirs

25*

293

is a quiet happiness which glittering splendor and dashing
grandeur might covet in vain. -
George Elmer sits beside the work-table, reading the
last number of the Dental Journal, while Susan sits near,
plying her needle as in days of old. Georgie is asleep,
and Johnnie is at. play building a miniature village.
Jerusha sits in a retired corner, where Mary is assisting
her to learn her lesson for the Bible class'. She is still
living at Mrs. Lee's, and frequently comes over to visit
her early friend. Bounce lies upon a comfortable rug
beside the stove, looking contented and happy,. in spite of
all the trials and changes through which ~he had passed,
and watching his master's eyes whenever they turn, while
with an instinct almost human, he makes his master's wel-
come understood.
When George Elmer had finished reading the paper, he
folded it carefully, and laying it upon the table turned to
Susan, and in a tone which brought a smile of recognition
upon Mary's face, said-, -
"Come, Susy, sing The Shining Star."
And soon that cheerful room echoed with the well-
remembered words, as they all united in the chorus, -

.Look upxny soulbe like the lark,
That singing soars afar~
There's not a eIou~,J1OWOYer dark,
But veils a shining star.

TRIALS AND CHANG1~S.


T iJ
~II
V                                                                                          1'
lj
LETTERS FROM TI

[MBERYILLVJ.

ll


LETTERS FROM TIMBER YuLE.
I.
ri HAVE been a full year at Timberville, and'
never yet told you a word aboutit.* And as
ff know nothing concerning it, excepting that it
L~J. not lie on the direct route to anywhere, but o
one side by itself, I'll be bound but you think it a litt
of a quiet, unimportant village, made up of a tave
store, a meeeing4souse, a blacksmith's shop,. and a few s
gling dwelling houses. How mistaken you are. Tin
ville is a large village - a very large village. I shoul
wonder if we should be a city in a few years; for w
a very enterprising people, and there is a deal of bus
done, here. We have ever so many streets, and
quantity of tall, white houses, belonging to no pilrti4
order of architecture, but invariably graced with pia~
adorxied with four huge columns. We have, also, p]
of red brick mansions with a great many green wit
* blinds; and also, now and then, a handsome stone d~
ing. And, like all populous and thriving villages~
* have our complement of forlorn, shabby, rickety
shells, stuffed full of beings as forlorn and shabby as ti
selves. PQverty, vice, and intemperance abound I
No doubt we shall be a city in a few years.
(297)

have
you
does
if on
Le bit
in., a
trag-
aber-
I not
o are
mess
any
~ular
~zas,
[enty
idow
~'elb
we
old
iere.

S


298       LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.

LETTERS PROM TIMBER VILLIL     299

* Timberville is delightfully situated on both sides of~ a
beautiful little strearn, (or, as our enterprising villagers
say, it has fine miW privileges,) and surrounded by tree.
clad hills. I am never weary looking at our hills, beauti-.
ful at all times, but particularly so in the autumn, when
they are arrayed in a robe of every variety of color, from
the most gorgeous crimson to the softest ash~ "What
beautiful hills!" said I, enthusiastically, as I was one day
walking with a worthy gentleman. "Yes - yes fine
timberland,"~, said he.
Our society is very much like the society in all growing
villages. We have good people and bad people; rich
people and poor people; wise people and ignorant.people;
liberal people and stingy people; sharp people and dull
people; cute people and numb people; industrious people
and lazy people. People who mind their~ own business
and people* who mind their neighbors' business. Honest
people and dishonest~ people; literary people and illiterate
people, and soi disant literary people (excuse that French
Word.) We have gay people and serious people; noisy
people and quiet people; people who go to church and
people who stay away from church. We have temperate
people and intemperate people. People ~ho read the
newspaper, and people who have "other fish to fry."
People who take "' Godey," and people who borrow
" Godey." We shall certainly be a city before many
years.
We have all sorts of societies, too. Missionary socie-
ties, Bible societies, tract societies, sewing societies,
maternal societies, mutual improvement societies, sons of
temperance and daughters of temperance societies, odd
fellows' societies,' and an odd ladies' society, composed

chiefly of ancient maidens. We have freemasons~ socie-
ties, literary societies, woman's rights societies, anti-every-
thing societies, benevolent societies for all sorts of objects,
"too numerous to mention," (as the menagerie bills say
when they get down to the monkeys.) In short, we have
every kind of society that you can possibly mention. Are
we not in a fair way of being a city?
As is the 'case in almost all new enterprising villages,
the chief distinction among us is that of "rich and poor."
So soon as a man is able to put up, or even to hire, a large
house with two parlors ~and folding-doors, and furnish it
showily, he tak~s his standing among the first. The one
grand object of the Timbervillians is to get rich. They
are all agog just now about California. Mr. Martin, and
Mr. Crandal, and Mr. Wiggins, have almost made up
their minds to abandon their respective occupations and set
off for the gold country; and their wives are quite de-
lighted with the idea; for Mrs. Martin wants a great many'
things which Mr. Martin, rich as he-is, cannot afford now.
And Mrs. Crandal is very desirous that Mr. Crandal
should go, in order that he may come back able to build a
grander house than Mr. Martin's, with larger columns and
more green blinds. She knows she's as good as Mrs.
Martin, any day, and she'd like to let other people know it.
And Mrs. Wiggins teases her husband from morning till
night to "Go to C~4iforny, where they say you've Qnly
to dig up the gold just as you would potterss" for she
does want a house of her oww, and a sofy and some cuttings
as good as that stuck-up Mrs. Crandal's; and she fears
that ~Mr. Wiggins will never be able to get them as long as
he stays here and delves away at his trade. "Gold!
gold! gold ! "~ is the cry from every mouth, old and young.
Oh, we shall soon be a city.


300       LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.                                                            301
LETTERS FROM TIMBER fILLE~

I would like to introduce you to some of our first, and
let you see in~ what sort of society I have the honor to
mingle. Now do not suppose that I have procured the
ability to present you among the "upper ten," by one of
the aforesaid tall houses with big parlors and folding-
doors.; by no means; I am only a boarder in Timberville.
But where shall we go? to a party? Now, pray, don't
turn up your nose at the idea of a party in Tiznberville.
I assure you, we have our parties, real genuine, ones, too,
as good as any in Philadelphia assemble at ten clock
have supper at twelve or one dance all night, and
"don't, go home till morning" - for the Timbervillians
would think it very ungenteel and countrified to keep
reasonable, hours. We must be a city very soon.
But, on reflection, I think I'll not take you to a party
they are too promiscuous. Nor will I bore you with a.
sociable tea-drinking decidedly one of the most tiresome
things in the world, the world over. And in Timberville
they are just what they are everywhere else, (making
allowance for some few local peculiarities.) The- ladies
collecting in little knots; 'same talkin
innocently discussion the fashions, g scandal, some more
g             but by far the greater
~portion descanting u~on'the various trials and troubles they-
have with their "helps;" while the very small sprinkling
ot the sterner sex ~2 who never talk at such gatherings,
and who go only because their wives insist upon it are
leaning back in their chairs against the wall, half asleep,
and heartily wishing thepiselves at home, or in some place
more congenial with their tastes.
Suppose you go with me to one of our numerous socie-
ties. Don't be alarmed; it's. iiot ~o the "o~1d ladies," nor
the "daughters of temperance," nor the " Woni~ui's rights

society," that we are going., I am not a member of any
of them. But put on your fix-ups, and prepare to accom-
pany me to the "Timberville literary circle," where you
will be sure to meet the elite (another French word
pardon me perhaps, however, you do not dislike to see
French and English mixed together as badly as I do).
We are to meet this ve~ry evening at the hospitable mansion
of Mrs. Bolton, a very literary lady; but you shall see for
yourself- I'll not anticipate. Stop a moment; I must
put" Godey"in my pocket. Not the veritable individual
himself. If his own account is to be trusted, that would
be rather more than I could do. But my "Godey's
Lady's Book" for the month. 1 am one of the readers for
this evening, and I find, by experience,~that I am not half
as welcome when I come armed and equipped with an'
original article as when I bring my "Godey."
So here we go; and as we are on our way, I will 'tell
you something about our "circle," and how I, little I,
came to be a member of so august 'a body. It was on this
wise. The good people discovered that I took the news-
papers; 'not a very common thing in Timberville, where it
'is usually as much as the inhabitants can "afford "ito take
some one of the village papers, of which we have three ~.
organs of the three political parties of the place - and
which blaze away at each other with a zeal ' worthy the
cause, and in a style equal 'to any of the city organs.
Young Mr.. Morgan, the head clerk at the post-office, was
the first person who promulgated the important fact. He
told Miss Carpenter, and Miss Carpenter, who is a member
of the literary circle, announced,~at the next meeting of that
society, that there was a lady boarding at Mrs. Pratt's who
took no less than four papers; Mr. Morgan told her so
28

301

300


~02       LETTERS PRaj~ TIMBER TTILZE.

303

LETTERS FROM TIMBER TTILLE.

himself; and she was sure I must be of a decidedly literary
turn. In fact, she had her suspi~~jons that I was the author..
ess of certain Sonnets signed "Euphrasia," which had
been copied into the "Ti~berville Weekly Gazette and
People's Adi(ocate.' If so, It would be quite an acquisition
to the " circle." (Miss Carpenter herself perpetrates
poetry, and is considered quite blue.) The other members
thought that if I was not a literary character, I must at least
be rick, or I could not afford to take so many papers, not..
withstanding I seemed to be living in such a plain, private
way. In either case, they decided that it would be safe. to
%1fl vite me to attend the circle.
In pursuance of this resolution, I was waited upon by,
Miss Carpenter and Mrs. Stokes, and favored with a very
learned conversation, kept up principally by Miss Car-.
penter. Mrs. Stokes is not particularly literary she
owes her membership to her very large parlors ~and great
skill, in getting up a variety of refreshments.
On rising to take leave, the ladies (as is the custom in
1~naierv~IIe) apologized most veheni~ntly for not having
called before, and urged me very strongly to return their
visit; very soon; and~ Mrs. Stokes, after Miss Carpenter
had winked hard ~at b6r sevei~al times, to indicate tha~ she
was the proper person to perform the office, invited me to
attend a literary sawree at her residence, on the ensuing
evening. Which Miss Carpenter followed up with the re-
mark that she hoped I might find it "a desirable relief
from the undiversified monotony of a boarding life." Or
it might, as in her own case, "afford a relaxation to the
mind after severe application and more profound occupy.
tion, to indulge for a time in the perusal of the Jighter
literature of The day."

I attended the sawree, (as Mrs. Stokes called it,) and
being soon after elected a member, have been quite regular
in my attendance since. And I assure you it is, as Miss
Carpenter predicted, a relief to my mind and an amuse-.
ment to my head, to come in contact with the variety of
characters which I there meet.
But here we are. Sit down beside me on this sofa; the
members are not all here yet, and we shall have a little
time to chat before we are called to order.
That short, dumpy lady, who is bobbing about in a very
stiff silk dress flounced nearly to the waist, is our hostess,
Mrs. Bolton. She is a great patroness of literature, and
herself a personage remarkable erudition, and exces-.
sively fond of reading. As she expresses it, she literarily
devours her favorite authors. It must be confessed that
she knows the names of a good many authors, and a good
many booke, though she does not always match them quite
correctly. She thinks that Dean Swift has some genius;
his "Rasselas" is a proof of it; but it is a gre at pity that
he ever wrote so vulgar a book as "Don Quixote." She
says that Byron's "Deserted Village "interests her sympa-
thies exceedingly, although the majority of critics pro-
nounce his "John, Gilpin" his master-piece. She has a
perfect passion for Milton's "Tasso" and "Dante," and
actually dotes on his "Lady of the Lake."
Such being her acquirements, she, of ~course, is. very
capable of discovering and appreciating literary qualifica-
tion's in others. She delights in drawing ijiodest merit
from obscurity, and in giving bashful genius a boost. It is
through her instrumentality that Mr. Boors, the alarmed
young man who sits in the corner staring so hard at
vacancy, and Miss Quince, th~ young lady with a projecting


'p

~304

LETTERS FROM TLWI~ER WILLI9L

forehe~id and long ringlets, who is bending over the table
as completely absorbed in a volume of Mrs. Ilemans, as
* if it was the first time she had seen the work, have been
introduced to the notice of the Timberville literati. These
two . * *
individuals are great admirers of Mrs. Bolt~11, who
protests that Mr. Boors is a very intellectual young man,
and that Miss Quince has a great deal ~of talent. Neither
of them has as yet made any display of a1~iIity; for Mr.
Boors invariably sits all the evening just as he is now,'
and Miss Quince never speaks excepting in monosyllables.
Probably
they both, like the celebrated owl, keep up a
tremendous thinking.
The tall lady, with a very long neck and little waist, is
Miss Carpenter, our cerulean sonnet writer.
The pretty girl with a white rose in her hair, is Miss
~Jarrol, the sweetest singer in Timberville. She is a belle,
and a wit withal. There is a lawlessness about her which
would hardly be tolerated in any one but a beauty and a
belle. And yet I like the girl for her truthfulness. The
would..be~digni~jed gentleman who sits beside her, is Mr.
Griffin, her warmest admirer and most especial butt. lie
a critic; a ~ery severe one, too. He is never satisfied
with anything produced in the circle. Indeed, I believe
there is but one composition in the world that he admires
without qualification, and that is Poe's "Raven." Die
never writes for us; but he is so~ very fastidious that, of
course, we all think he can do wonders if he will but con-
descend. And Miss Carrol is constantly teasing him to
favor us with something ravenou8.
Those two' gentlemen conversing together are rival
editors. The short, fat one, he who has what a facetious
friend 9f mine calls a vegetable countenance, i. e., turn-up

305

LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE~

nose, reddish complexion, and carroty whiskers, is the
celebrated individual whose voice, thundering through the
columns of the "Thuberville Herald of Liberty and Free-
man's Journal," makes monarchs tremble, thrones totter,
and Old Hunkers shake in their shoes. His tall, thin
neighbor occupies the chair editorial of the "Timberville
Weekly Gazette and People's Advocate." (Our papers,,
like our people, all have double names.) How delightful
to see the urbanity with which they can meet. It seems
hardly possible that they have just been tearing each other
to pieces at such a terrible rate, "through the medium of~
the press."
The gentleman who is just entering the room, with' a
'linen roundabout, and his pants tucked inside of his boots,
is Mr. Bolton, the -worser half of our hostess, and a horse-
dealer by profession. He couldn't spend time to change
his dress; it was as much as he could do to come in at all.
It is true that Mrs. iBolton, who is not very proud of her
unintellectual spouse, has repeatedly assured him that there
was. no necessity for his coming in this evening;' he needn't
trouble himself, &amp;e., &amp;c. Still, Mr. Bolton, who is a
kind-hearted man, thought he would just come in long
enough to say how d'ye do, and let his neighbors know
that he was glad to see them at his house. Poor Mrs.
Bolton I she looks perfectly. constern-ed at his appearance.
Her countenance says very plainly, "Won't he catch it
for 'coming to the sawree. in such a fix! He' might, at
least, have put on hi~ best clothes."~ But he seems wholly
unconscious of her fiery glances, as he makes for a chair,
and poising himself miraculously on one of its legs, begins
to descant to 'Mr. Martin on the excellence of ~" them
houses he sold Snyder."
26*


/
I
Ii
p
~1
~1
1.

306ETTEI~S FR OAf TIMBER JTILLi~
The tall, pale youth, with huge whiskers, who stands
gracefully leaning on the mantel, is Mr;
nader by profession; at least, ~     Fustian, a sere-.
have never heard of his
doing ~anything else, lie has great powers of endurance;
for, IL am told, that he thinks nothing of standing two
h~urs, of a cold night, under Miss Carrol's window,
executing music. ~Miss Carrel thin4~s not/dng of it, too.
She declares that she sleeps through it all,
These two somewhat a~ti~uated young ladies, with liw
neok~ and bare arms, whom he is entertaining, or, rather;
who are entertaining him, are the sisters Caroline and Lucy
Bigelow; or, as they call ea~h other, "Carry and Lute."
They affect ~great juvenility, Though nobody remembers
when they were young, and are fond of talking about
"us girls.'~ They have a Brother Peter somewhere in
New lEngland, who, according to their account, is enor-.
inously wealthy, and lives in princely style. "Brother
Peter's establishment" is the constant and almost only
theme of their conversation. "Brother Peter's garden;"
Brother Peter's conservatory; ""Brotherpeter's library;"
in short, everything at Brother Peter's is on so magnificent
a scale, that "Carry" and "Lute" can neVer see any-
thing that suits them anywhere else. Even Mrs. Bolton,
who admires their taste and refinement exceedingly, thinks
they have almost too much "fastidium." They occasion..
ally write, and their articles are alway
thing at "Brother Peter's."     s descriptive of some-
That tall brunette, in black, is Miss Mary Willis. I
never made up my mind that she was handsome, until she
adopted the "French twist," and really looked well in it;
for, certainly, it must be a handsome face that can stand
the test of a coiffure so universally unbecoming.. She is a

letter1?~ FROA( TIMBER VILLE.       307
very quiet, retiring girl. Many persons think her proud;
but I d~ not, and I think that I have penetrated her char'.
acter quite thoroughly. If Mary Willis is proud, I could
wish that such pride were contagious.
The thin, peakedilooking woman, to whom Mary is talk-.
*ing, is Mrs. Stokes. She is a very nice woman - as the
Timbervililans say. She does not look as if she partook
very largely of the good things which she knows how to
prepare in such perfection, and with which she is always
cramming her friends. As I before remarked, she makes
no pretensions to literary merit hrself, but she isagreat
admirer of it in others, and praises, indiscriminately, every-
thing that is produced or read in the circle., She pro-
nounces all the prose articles "first-rate," and all the
poetry "sublime." Mrs. Bolton has not a very high
opinion of Mrs. Stokes, but hopes that the "sawrees will
be an advantage to her intellect."
But my letter is already unreasonably long. If you are
at all interested in our society, perhaps I may be able ~n
my next to give you some specimens of our productions.-
And I can scarcely entertain a doubt that you will hence-
forth be interested in the sayings and doings of Timber-
vile, since you know that we are a very important people,.
and shall undoubtedly be a city in a few years.

4

f

307


/
/
ll~

LETTERS PRO~v ~TIffBL~R VILL~

309

LETTERS FROM TIMBER TTILLE.

II.     /
TIMBERITILLE.
AM getting tired of boarding there are so many
annoyances connected with it generally. And even
in the best-regulated boarding~houses there is a lack
of that pleasant hQme-feeling which One has in
housekeeping, even though it be in a hired house. If we
were determined, to "locate" (as the Timbervillians say)
permanently in this place, we should have a home of our
own. Until that point is decided, we shall remain with
Mrs. Pratt, for I would rather endure a great many incon~
veniences than to be changing about. I have often been
amused at the frivolous causes which drive some persons
from one boardinghouse to another. I know one gentle~
man who' never stays above a month, and seldom as long
as tha4 at the same house. At one place he had to drink
milk in his tea; he hadn't been used to it, and wouldn't
put up with it. At another, his nose was often offended
at the odor of boiled cabbage; he didn't like cabbage, and
he wouldn't stand it.'
Mrs. Pratt's establishment is conducted on the most
economical scale. She understands to perfection the art of
making much of a little. She knows how to "stretch out,"
and make a very small quantity "go a great ways."
She5' is a widow of some years' standing, but has not yet
ceased to grieve for her worthy husband. She 'is forever

V

expatiating Qfl his perfection. To hear her talk of him,
you would suppose that all the virtues as~ well as talents
that were ever created, were united in the person of" poor
Mr. Pratt." The grand object of her life seems to be to
marry off her two daughters, Ann Maria and Philura, a
brace of young ladies who expend upon their fair persons
the products of their mother's thrift, and who appear to'
serve i~o other purpose in the establishment than that of
entertaining the young gentlemen boarders. They ne'I~r
make their appearance at breakfast,, but at dinner' they
burst upon us in all their glory, looking as if they ,had
spent the whole morning at the toilet. They are rather
pretty girls, and with the exercise of a tolerable taste in
dress, would look very well; but they are always arrayed
in showy frocks, gaudy shes, flaring neck-ribbons, and,
to crown all, some sort of trumpery headdresses, and all
of different colors, so that it really makes my eyes ache to
look at them. The head-dresses~, above all, are my espe-'
cial abomination. I can scarcely keep my fingers off them,
they make me so nervolls. But they are young ladies: to
whom it would not be safe for a plain person like me to
offer a suggestion on the subject of dress. They take but
little notice of me, ~nd make no efforts to render my abode
with them pleasant, but reserve all their attentions for ,the
young men, who always find them "very ea~sy to~ get ac~
quainted with." That part of their time which is not de-
* voted ~to dressing, calling and shopping, is spent indrum-
ming the piano, on which they do great execution, and in
embroidering slippers or netting purses for the gentlemen.
There are, at 'present, six single gentlemen boarding in.
Mrs. Pratt's family - Mr. Wilkins, a rich old widower,
very cross and very asthmatic, - an object of tender solic-

808


3210      LEflZARS FR OH TIMBER 71LLE.                          LETTERS RI? Off TIMBER VILJ2E.  311

itude to Ann Maria, who takes a vast deal of pains to make
him comfortable, though he does aot appear to appreciate
it; Mr Stivers and Mr. Gi~een, a couple of merchants'
clerks, with nothing remarkable about them excepting
standing collars so stiff that they cannot turn their heads
without turning their bodies also; Mr. Hocum, a lumber-
man, ~ho minds his own business and never says anything;
Mr. Bunker, a sort of" Jack at all trades," a dealer in
everything, an inventor of a great variety of useless articles,
for, which he gets. patents he also fills the office of re-
porter to the neighborhood, and brings home every day all
the scaii'dal and gossip afloat in the village; and Monsieur
Laborde, a French teacher, full of whims and oddities,
such as rolling his hair in' papers over night to make them
curl; exercising his lungs out of his window, to the great
alarm of passers-by; cooking all sorts of ridiculous messes
on the top of the parlor stove ~ wearing a great many
brown paper soles in his slippers, and spreading them out
on the rug every evening to dry, and a ~hundred other
peculiarities.
Besides the two daughters, Mrs. Pratt has also a son,
a boy of some twelve years old, who, 'for want of proper
training, had grown to be, when we first came here, a
complete little nuisance., His sisters considered him a
plague and a torment; and his mother declared, with a
rueful shake of the head, that she didn't know what she
should do with Joe, he had got to be so unmanageable
no comfort to her at all, so different from what his poor
father was. These lamentations, which were usually de-
livered in the boy's presence, did not contribute materially
to his improvement. In fact, he was universally di~iked.
The boarders were unanimous in the opinion that he was

destitute of one single redeeming quality. He played all
sorts of tricks upon them, and they never passed him with-
out a kick or an oath. Particularly obnoxious was he to
Monsieur Laborde, who pronounced him "one leetle
doable."
When we came .to Mrs. Pratt's we heard so much about
Joe's precocious wickedness that we almost feared to be
under the same roof with hiri~. One morning, a few days
after oUr arrival, as we were going through the hall to
breakfast~ Monsieur rushed from his room just ahead of us,
and with a ferocious aspect, hurried down the stairs. On
his way, he encountered Nancy, the chambermaid, going
up to "regulate."
"Nancie," said he, showing her something in the palm
of his hand, "what you call dis?"
"That," said Nancy, who has a spice of the wag in her
"oh, that's a pickaxe."
"Peek-axe," said the Frenchman, throwing it down;
and, as he proceeded, he kept repeating -" peek-axe,
peek-axe," so as to impress it firmly upon his memory.
When he reached the breakfast-room, where the rest of the
boarders were assembled, and Mrs. Pratt, at the head of
'the table, was just beginning to make the coffee, he bounced
in, and without any of his usual French fuss, shouted
"' Madame Pratt, I have' suffer one grand insult! Peek-
axe! Sho have insult me in ma chamber. Peek-axe! It is
one miserable shild, dat Sho."
"The dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Pratt, "what shall
I do with that boy? He'll be the death of me yet. What
huts he been doing now?"
"He have insult me ver bad," continued Monsieur. "It
is ~one leetle disable. V I could keel him, I would be sat-
isfait."

[

F'


A

313

LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.

"That I should live ~to see the day!" groaned Mrs.
Pratt. "Pray, what has he done, Mr. Laborde? I'll
punish ~-"
" What~ have he done?" said the Frenchman. "He
have done plentie, te miserable he have trow more as
llxre bondred p~eek-ax.c in te si~rii"dow of ma chambre.
While I shave ma barbe, I understand a noise by the
window; one moment apres, I am convert de peek-axe."
"Picka*es!" exclaimed the distressed mother. "For-
ever and ever! What would poor Mr. Pratt say?"
" Pickaxes r" cried the gentlemen. "Impossible! It
can't be so!"
"Do you not believe that Isay?" demanded Monsieur,
gesticulating violently. " Well; den, come to ma chain-
bre, and you shall' see."
So we all, ei~cepting Mrs. Pratt, whose feelings would
not allow her to move, followed Monsieur to his room,
where we found* Nancy, with a dust-pan and wing, busily
engaged in brushing up a quantity of small shot, with which
Joe had besieged the French fortress.
"There," said ~p?&amp;r1ez-vouz, "you can see for yourselve;
* peek~axe, plentie peek-axe."
The boarders raised a tremendous roar at Monsieur's ex-
pense, in the midst of which Nanny made a rapid exit.
The Frenchman was 'furiously angry at being laughed at,
and fearing that something serious might come of it, I re~
treated to my own quarters. II believe tiiat only two or
three of the boarders returned to the tablet so that Mrs.
Pratt saved a good part of the breakfast t~ warm up the
next 'morning.
After this' performance, my husband proposed seeking
another boarding-house, as there was no telling how soon

312      LETTERS FR OAf TIAWER VILLE.

I;
[I
/ 1
'~1

312

Master Joe might begin to play off his pranks upon us.
But I objected to removing, and begged him to leave me to*
manage Joe. To tell the truth, I had a soi~t of sympathy
for the child, to which, perhaps, certain recollections of
my own juvenile experience contributed in some degree.
Be that as it may, I felt a desire to know more of the tin-
popular boy, an'd to discover, if possible, whether there
was any good in him.
A day or, two after this affair, at the tea-table, Mr.
Bunker pulled out of his pocket a dirty piece of paper, on
which was scratched, in charcoal, a profile considerably re
sembling his own, which is distinguished by a very long
nyse and huge whiskers; and holding it up before Mrs.
Pratt, exclaimed -
"Look o' there, ma'am! -that's Joe's work! I found
it stuck up on my store, right in plain sight. If that boy
ain't a fit subject for the Ji2ouse of Refuge, I don't know
who is!"
"Forever and ever!" cried Mrs. Pratt. "That I
should live to hear of his d6ing such a thing! What' is
that child a coming to, after all my faithfulness too! Why,
I've wrestled in prayer for him hours together, and -a'most
whipped the skin off his back, and all for nothing! * What
would his poor father say?" &amp;c.
While Mrs. Pratt was groaning and lamenting, the work
of art was handed round, and elicited various comments
~from ~the beholders. The young ladies declared th~t, if
they were Mi:. Bunkerf they wouldn't care a cent about it,
for it didn't look a bit like him.
"I don't care a cent about it," said Il3unker; "only I'd
like to have the handling of that boy."
Monsieur, who was still smarting under the pickaxes,
27


/i
I
'p

pronounced it. a "grand insult." But the other1 young
men,.~~always delighted at a chance to tease one another,
thought it ~" a pretty fair likeness." "It's' I~unker," said
Mr. Stivers; "only more so." "Pr&amp;is6ment," said Mon..
sieur, beginning to relish the joke, and glad of an opportu-
nity to laugh at Bunker. "Pr~cis~ment - it is the nose of
Mr~ Bunker a leetle more long,' and the whiskers of
Mr. Bunker ~ leetle more big."
Bunker looked as if he wished he had' not exhibited the
likeness, since it had been the means of" getting the rig
on him," as they call it here. But he was somewhat
mnollifl~ed by Mrs~ Pratt's assurance that she should punish
,Joe severely.
*    In the evening, my ~'oom being very warm, I had thrown
'open the door, and sat meditating upon Joe and his per-
forrnances, when I heard Mrs. Pratt in the dining-room
dealing with that young gentleman in a most summary
manner; .scolding him at a terrible rate, and interspersing
her lecture with frequent cuffs on the ears.
"You miserable young onet" said she. "You'll be
the 'death of me' yet,' I know you will- (cuff) you're
all the time a doing something so ai~rful wicked (cuff.)
What did you go and 'make Mr. Bunker's lik~ness.for,
say?~'- (cuff.)
"'Cause he misused me," said Joe. "He don't treat
me like a huma~i being; and nobody else don't, neither."
"Well, you don't act "like a human being," said hi~
mother,. with another cuff; "and you ought not to be
treated like one. Wbat did you want to draw that shame-'
ful profile for say?" and she administered three succes-
sive cuffs.
"I tell you I did it because he misused me," said Joe.
)  '

"He knocked me off his store steps on to the
gro~d,
when I wasn't a doing anything."
"Yes - I'll warrant you wasn't a doing anything,"
said his mother; "you ain't ,never a doing anything, you
good~for~nothing, lazy, idle little wretch! You'll never
be nobody - you'll grow up a miserable vagabone! And
what would your poor father. say if he knew how you was
a breaking my heart every day ? - (Several cuffs.) So
now, just take off your boots, and go 'long to bed; and if
ever.1 hear of your drawing any more profiles, I'll give
it to you about east!"
The scolding and the cuffs alike seemed to make no
impression upon Joe. flis ears were, doubtless, inured
to both~ As he was passing my door on the way to his
own. dormitory, I called him. He half paused, and was
going on, when -I called him again. He stopped, looked
furtively over his shoulder, and said -
"I h~tin't done anything to you, have I?"
Without noticing his question, '1 repeated, "Come here,
Joe, I want to show you something." He hesitated a mo-
ment, and then, reassured by my ~countenance, with a look
of bewildered astonishment, advanced into the room. A
new magazine, containing several fine engravings,, was
lying by me on the table. I opened it. "Joe," said I,
"I believe i~you are fond of pictures;. here are some good
ones that I think 'you would like to look at." He came
.forward and looked at the "plates;: but it was some ~time
before I succeeded, by talking about the engravings and
pointing out their nmerits, in makiimg him' feel at ease.- After
he bad recovered from his surprise, he became quite inter-
ested in the pictures,, rubbed off his dirty fingers on his still
dirtier trousers, and began to turn over the leaves himself~

314      LETTERS FR 031 TIMBER VILLE.                                                     315
LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.'

1~
t
I"
'I
"Ii
~ I
2

314

315

)


/11
Ii
F
it
II

LETTERS FR OAF TIMBER VILLE.

317

316:       LETTERS FROM TLJiBERTTILLE.
"This book,'~ said he, "looks just like one that Mr.
Green gave Philura; but the pictures are different. She
wouldn't let me look 'at it, but I got bold of it once when
they'd gone away, and looked at it ever so long, and she
don't know it yet."
"'Joe," said I, "you remind me of my nephew Johnny.
You are just about his age and size. Johnny is very fond
of pictures, and he draws them too. Do you ever draw
pictures, Joe?"
"Me!" said Joe. " No, not good ones; I don't know
how."
"Would you like to' learn to draw?" said I.
"Gracious! I couldn't learn~" 'said he.
"Why could you not learn?" I asked.
"0 because) I can't 'learn anything, "replied the child,
with a very decided look.
Do you go to school?" I inquired.
'~' Not now," said Joe. "I've been to school; but the
master turned me out because, he said, I couldn't learn
anything if he:should try to flog it into me till doomsday."
"But would, you like to learn to draw if you could?"
asked I.
"Yes, I would most. plaguily," replied Joel. "I always
thought I should like to."
I knew the boy's capacity, from the " charcoal sketch"
of' Bunker's head, which really possessed a good deal' oP
character; quite' as much as 'the original solsaid---.
"I think you could learn, Joe. If you have a mind to
try, I will 'teach you."
Th~ child looked up suddenly, and after reo'ardin
moment with an expression of wonder, said, ~ *g me a
"Are you in earnest, Mi's. Waters?"

"Certainly," said I. "I used to like, very much to
teach Johnny, and I will be glad to teach you." I then
took from a portfolio one of my drawings, and asked him
if he would like .to draw that. It was a rough sketch of
some children ~and a dog. Joe was delighted with it; and
said he would give anything to know how to make such a
'picture. 'I told him to come to my room every morning,
'and I would give him lessons.
"You will though?" said he. "0 how I wish I
could come - but I darsent - mother'll whale me ~f I do.
She says I sha'nt go into the boarders' rooms at all."
"But if I invite you she'll not object, will she? ~"
"I don't know," said Joe, shaking his head, sorrow-
fully. "I guess she'd whale me anyhow; but no matter
if she does - I'm used to whaling. "
"0 no, Joe," said I; "if your mother were reall?'un-'
willing, I would not have you come on any account. But
I think, that if I ask her. permission to teach you, she will
grant it. I shall g~ down presently and speak to her
about it; and if she consents, yo.u m~y come in to-morrow
rnol'ning at ten o'clock. And remember,~Joe, you must
have very clean hands, so as not to soil the paper
Johnny was always particular to wash his hands very cle~tu
when he was going to draw. And now you may go to
bed. Good-night, Joe."
"Good-night, Mrs.' Waters," 'said Joe. " I hope
mother'11 say I may come.
After Joe had retired, I went down stairs and spoke to
Mrs. Pratt. I told her that I thought' Joe had quite a~
turn for drawing, and with her permission I would like to
give him lessons.~ She was rather alarmed at first, and
said that she wasn't 'in the habit of taking anything but
27*

)' I
I' li

'1

N


II I/i~
I h

money for board. But when I assured her that it was for
pleasu
umed quite, a different aspect in her eye, though her
ter assre~ not for pay, that I wished to teach Joe, the mat-
astonishment was evidently increased. She freely consen..
ted, though she could not imagine what pleasure it would
afford me to try to teach such a child as. Joe. She never
could do anything with him. She was completely dis-
couraged about him. It was the strangest thing in the
wodd, too, that he wasn't a better boy, considering how
faithful she'd been to him. Nobody could say he had been
ruined by indulgence. Very true, nobody could.
As I was returning to my room, I perceived the form of
Joe emerging from a small passage at the end of.the hall,
He was partially disrobed, (as the novels say), 'and hold..
ing up his trowsers with both hands.
"~Vhat did she say?" inquired he, eagerly.
"She says that you may cpme," I replied.
"Good!" shouted Joe, clapping his hands, quite for-
getful of the office they were performing. "Good!
* then she ,can't whale we.;. ~and when I cam get along with~
out being whaled, I'd rather." -
The next morning, at ten o'clock precisely, came Joe,
with a pair of hands that fairly shone from the effects of
the scouring which he had given them.
." Good-morning, Joe," said 1;" I'm glad to see you
punctual: a great deal depends upon punctuality."
It was a rare thing for poor Joe* to be praised, and his
eyes sparkled with pleasure. To shorten my narrative,
Joe's progress in drawing was rapid beyond my anticipa-
tions; never* was pupil more docile. Gradually,~ I added
a few more branches, and~ he has entered with alacrity into
* every study that I propQsed, though he seems to prefer

I.

LETTERS FROM DUMBER VZLLE.

319

drawing' to anything else. Unbounded was th~ astonish-
ment of his worthy mother at my success. She wished
that poor Mr. Pratp was alive to see it. The boarders too,
when they had discovered that I had taken Joe under my
patronage, ceased to abuse him, and he has consequently
left off his amloying tricks. Even Monsieur allows that
there is a "grand changement in Sho.' And I find the
hour which I daily devote to him more than repaid by the
affection of the hitherto neglected child for me - his first
friend - the first one who 'taught l~im that he was neither
a fool nor a wretch. In short, Mrs. Pratt begins to think
that her faithfulness will he rewarded, her prayers will be
answered, and that Joe will be something after all.
Evening - Mary Willis has sent me this afternoon a
little piece for our next literary circle. I am one of the
appointed readers for the occasion, and Mary is too diffi-
dent to read her own productions. Here is an extract
from it:
"I love to be alone - alone in the morning with* the
trees, and the* flowers, and the birds. I am not alone
then - they are all so friendly to me, and talk more
l~indly with me than any human friend. The* waving
trees whisper to me. The flowers turn up their bright
faces pleasantly to greet me. And the sweet birds seem
to be~singing soklyfor my pleasure.
"I love to be alone* in the night -alone with the
clouds, and the stars, and the beautiful moon. The won-
drous stars ~ how gently they look down on me. The
clouds, too -they arefor me so many good and wonder..
ful sermons, full of ever new and ever varying thoughts.
Often, I watch them gradually folding, leaf after leaf, over
the face of the moon in soft and dreamy beauty. But

318

~i i
II
I

LETTERS FROM TIMBER TTILLE~


7111
I
~I ~f
1/

LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.
)

*   darker and heavier they grow, till her light is completely
hidden; .and I watch and wait in the darkness and long to
see again the face of the fair planet.
"Thus, 6ften the joys and the loves of earth come between
us and the haven on which our eyes should ever be fixed.
Very beautiful they are at first, like the light clouds before
* the moon, -and the face of our Father is not wholly hidden
from us. But gradually they fill our vision. They shut
out the light of the better world, and we are 'left in dark-
ness, to grieve and think how much dearer than all earthly
* delights is one ray from the Sun of Rio'hteousness."
Mrs. Bolton, also, has sent me an article for the circle,
accompanied by a note, saying, that, "my distinct enunci-
ation would enable me to do better justice to her produc-
* tion than she coul(l' herself." I will give it to you entire,
as I know she would not object to being extensivelyy pe~
rused."
"How delightful to the satiated mind in an ungenial
soil is converse with a. kindred literary spirit! This
remark is promulgated by the recollection of a circumstance
which transpired to me once while I was sojourning at
Saratoga Springs for the establishment of my health, which
had become undermined by excessive reading.
"'It was on a resplendent day in August, that I was
meandering in a delicious gt~ove of pines in the vicinity of
Congress Spring, when I perceived converging towards me
a tall and elegant young man, with ~ rifle under his arm.
* When' he' perceived the fair occupant of the forest, he
bowed. gracefully kind. was diverging onwards. But being
excessively struck whh 'his highly intellectual countenance,
I whs desirous of entering into conversation with him, and
remarked

LETTERS PROM TIMBER VILLE.

-321

"'Seeing you, sir, with your rifle in hand amid this
wilderness of trees, reminds me forcibly of that celebrated
line of Shakspeare
~~6 Just as the trigger's bent, the tree's inclined.'"
"lie paused, and regarded me with evident astonisii-
ment. It was obvious that I was the first literati he had
met at the Springs. After a moment he smiled, and re-
marked
"'And II am here, as the same poet farther observes
"'To teach the young idea how to shoot."'
.,~' "From this commencement, our conversation very nat-
urally fell into a highly intellectual strain. I never was
more delighted, and the bewitching *stranger appeared
equally so. He drew out my conversational powers on a
great variety of subjects. I think I was 'never more ani.-
mated. I talked enthusiastically of my favorite authors,
and he asked me a multitude of . questions - I regret that
I disremember the most of them at this remote period.
His conversation~ clearly evinced that he was deeply liii-
brued with a poetic temperature. He was evidently
quite carried away with me, and actually laughed outright
several times in his delight at encountering ant individual
of' a kindred spirit. He repeated several stanzas of exqui-.
site poetry; highly complimentary to me, which were
evidently suggested impromptu on the spur of the moment.
Our interview was prolonged until the concentrating shades
of evening warned us to return to our respective abodes.
When we reached the 'United States Hotel,' he bowed
* with superhuman grace, and was turning to ascend the

320

tl
~ti~

j


~I I I ~1'
it
II ~
I I
ill
4%
If
I

LETTERS PR OAt TiMBER VILLE.

piazza, when 'I remarked' that it would be a source of in~~
tense satisfaction to me to possess his card. lie turned
his refulgent eyes upon me, and laying the forefinger of
his right hand gracefully beside his nasal organ, said, with
an expression which I shall never forget, '*Madam, I am
incog.' And bowing again~ with redoubled elegance, he
receded up the long 4ista of the piazza. I had never be.'
held ,the unknown literati since; but I have always labored
under a firm 'persuasion that he was none other than a well
known celebrated poet."
I fear greatly that~ I cannot "do justice" to Mrs. Bob
ton's article. I have half a, mind to get up a cold and sore
throat for the occasion, which will enable me to decline the
honor. But in that case I must. decline Mar 's too.
Wha1~ shall I do? I'm in a quandary.. ,
Joe and I are going to have a fine 'ramble over the hills
this evening. He is waiting for me on the piazza below,
and I know, by a sort of shtifluing stamp which he~ per-
forming, that he' begins to grow impatient. So I'll e'en
close my long-enough letter and relieve him.

LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.

323

III.
TIMBERVILLE.
KNOW' you will pardon my long silence, when
you, learn the important fact that I am at house-
keeping. If you have experienced the trials and
vexations which usually attend the setti~ig up 'of
an establishment, surely I shall have your hearty sym-
pathy. But I do not believe you know anything about
the enormity of such an undertaking in the country. In
the city, you are free' from a thousand annoyances and
hindrances, which we have 'to endure in a place 'like,' Tim-
berville, busy, bustling, noisy, and growing; a place
rie.ither city nor country, but,. as it were, in a state of be-.
tweenity, aping the former, yet pos~es~ing~ many of the
peculiarities of the latter, but in nothing resembling those
old-fashioned, stationary country villages, in one of which
.1 had the happiness to be born and reared. ' Dear old
Greenvalley I It has been in 'appearance just what it now
is, ever since my earliest recollection. There was un-
doubtedly a~ time when it was new and growing, but that
time has faded' from the memory of ~ian. The only ex-
ternal changes which I remark, as I return from time to
time to the peaceful shade of its majestic old elms, ate,
that here and there a roof has been' newly shingled, a
fence repaired, and occasionally an entire house has gone

322


324       LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.

LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.     32~

ff1

'ill
I,
4
k'     d
I'

~1I
I

up in the place of one that had fallen quite to decay.
One by one, the white-haired patriarchs of th&amp;hamlet have
been gathered to. their final rest, while those of their de-.
scendants who have caught this age's restless spirit of
adventure, have gone to "seek their fortunes" elsewhere.
Only such remain as are content to pursue the tranquil
tenor of their fathers' way. Heaven forbid that Green-.
valley should ever " take a start and grow."
Here, there is no such thing as doing anythingg quietly.
The whole village must know all your proceedings; every-
body must " have a hand in it;" and unless you receive
with a good grace the proffered assistance, you are forever
undone. I resolved to take warning from the unhappy
fate of a certain Mrs. D., who came here to reside about
*two years ago, and not render myself unpopular, as she
had done. Unfortunate ivoman! She declined the offi-
cious offers of the Timberville ladies, to help her "get to
rio'hts,. and chose rather, with the assistance of the mern.
bers of her own household, to fit her carpets herself, ar-
range her furniture, and, what was the most aggravating.
of all, to. unpack her trunks and bureaus, without so much
as allowing any of the ~foresaid.ladies a peep at their con-
tents. Mrs. 1~hil~ott, animadverting to me upon Mrs.
D.'~ conduct, remarked, "We don't. 'know to this day
what was in them boxes,'7
Asi did not desire the repistatiQn, of being." stuck up,"
I surrendered, with apparent' cheerfulness, my house and
furniture to the mercy of some ten or dozen of the Tim-
berville ladies, for the space of about a week. My hns-
,band retreated in alarm from the scene of action, and
remained quietly a~ Mrs. Pratt's, until the house was pro-
pounced tQ be "to rights." Joe Pratt. said he thought it

might with more propriety be called to wrongs; a very
just remark of Joes; for actually we were occupied' a full
week longer in undoing the greater part of what the ladies
had done. Everything had to be re-arranged. The car-
pets, which they had insisted upon making, had been
sewed together in such a mnanmwr that the seams burst
open and the bindings gave out during the process of'
nailing down, which was accomplished so crookedly, that
one would have imagined every person who assisted threat
to have ~differed from. the rest in her opinion respecting the
manner in which they ought to lie. Of course, they had
all to be taken up,~ re-sewed, and put down straight.
But, after the siege which the house had undei'gone, I
thought I had reason to congratulate myself that the de-
struction of property had been no greater than it was.
When they unpacked the crockery, and I saw half-a-dozen
pulling and hauling at it, I certainly expected to see it
nearly all go to pieces. Consequently, I was thankful to
escape with the loss of a few pieces of china, just enough
to spoil a set, the demolition of a large lamp-shade, which
Mrs. Harris had smashed in her eagerness to draw it from
its concealment, and the ruination of a valuable framed en-
graving, which Mrs. Bolton (our literati) accidentally
dashed against the corner of the stove, thereby breaking
the glass into numberless atoms, and bursting a hole
through the middle of the picture. The good lady fancied
that she made more than ample compensation by sending
me the next day a daub of a painting a couple of
women leading a donkey, and t~o or three hutsin the dis..
tanc6. She accompanied this gift with a note, wherein
she stated that the painting was ~one of a number which
she had recently purchased in Philadelphia; it was "~
28


326       LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLkJ~

I
I
~ll

LETTERS FROM TI2~!BER VILLE.   327

Ii ~

I

view of Switzerland, an oriental village near Paris;" Mr.
*    Milligan,~ the great traveller whom she had iriet in the city,
pronounced it to be a perfect representation.
During the readjustment of affairs, my friend, Joe
*   Pratt, was very useful to us. The little fellow was con-
stantly, on hand, ready to assist in a thousand ways. We
continued to take our meals at his mother's, until every-
thing was arranged at our new abode. When, finally,
that time arrived, and I ~aid, ".Well, Joe, I believe we
are all fixed at last," the poor boy looked anything but
pleased~ He would no longer have any excuse for run-
ning back and forth. lie must ~tay all day at home, with
no relief from his mother's fretfulness and his sisters' re-
buffs. His daily visits to my. room, his lessons, and our
pleasant rambles together, they must all
Joe was sad.                        be given up, and
"Joe," said II, reading his thoughts, "I shall miss you
very much."
"And I shall be so lonesome," said he, stretching his
eyes open very wide, to prevent the tears from running
out; "and mother talks of moving away to Ohio, too,
and then I shall never see you again."
The idea of parting with Joe was painful to me; for I
had become greatly attached to him. A thought struck
me of keeping him i~rith us. I, however, said nothing to
Joe about it at that time, wi~hihg first to consult my hus-
band on the subject. When Mr. Waters came in I men-
tioned it to him; he approved the plan; and we accord-
ingly proposed to Mrs. P~att, that, in case of her removing
from Tixnberville, she should leave ~Joe with us for at .least
a year or two. At first, the worthy woman did not ap-
pear much inclined to~ accede to the proposal, and dwelt

with great. emphasis upon the pain of parting with her
only son. But as soon as she fairly understood that we.
wished to relieve her from all expense on his account, her
feelings underwent a modification; her objections van-
ished, and she consented. And so it is settled. Mrs.
Pratt is to remove to Ohio next month, accompanied by
her daughters, and Joe is to come and live with us; an
arrangement highly satisfactory to that young gentle-
man.
The greatest trouble which I have experienced thus far
in housekeeping here, has arisen from the difficulty of
procuring servants that are good for anything. During
the first two months I had four different ones. Our first
specimen in this ~line was a girl from the~ wilds of Penn-
sylvania, whom Mrs. Stokes procured for me, and pro-
nounced to be " excellent help." She rejoiced in the
euphonious cognomen of "Rowena Ruggles." I had been.
expecting her for several days, but she did not come until
the second evening after we were settled in our new home.
Her approach was announced by the rattling of a very noisy
lumber wagon,' which stoppedNn- the middle of the road
in fronp of our house~ I looked up and beheld an over-
grown, raw-boned girl, accompanied by a gawky boy who
* drove. The girl was seated on a huge pine box. She
rose* up in the vehicle, and, after taking a comprehensive
view of the house, exclaimed: "Wal, I guess this ere's
the sittiwation. Jeems, I'll hold the horse,' while you git
out and go see'f the Waterses lives here, if they do , you
tell 'cm that Miss Ruggles has arriv'." Just then a boy,
who was passing, gave them the desired information, and
,the girl alighted and came in. She entered the front door
without taking the slightest notice of the bell, and walked

326


LETTERS~ FROM TIMBER WILE.       329

into the parlor where I was sitting. "How do ye do?"
said she; then casting herself down on the sofa with na-
tive ease and freedom of manlier, remarked: "This is
Miss Waters, ain't it?" I assented. " Wal, I'm Miss
iRuggles," said she, "the young lady you was suspecting. "
After communicating this piece of intelligence, she took
off her tawdry pink silk bonnet, and white gauze long
shawl, and, laying them on the centre-table, inquired:
"Hain't you no men folks round'? I guess Jeems'll want
some resistance about fetching' in my chist." But she un
derrated Jeems's abilities, for at that moment he came drag~.
* ging up the steps the enormous pine box.
Having, by this time, recovered in a measure from the
astonishment into which the unceremonious entrance of Miss
Ruggles had thrown me, I advanced and met the young
gentleman in the ball, and, having directed him where
to %estow his sister's box, returned to the parlor and re-
quested Rowena to bring her bonnet and shawl, and I
would show her where her room was. She complied;
and,. on the way, inquired "whether we'd been to sup-
per?" I answered in the affirmative; whereupon she in~.
formed me. that she "hadn't had none; and Jeems would
want some 'fore he went back with the surveyance." I
got them supper, after which Jeems returned home; and,,
after giving Rowena~ some instructions in. regard to her
work; I retired with some misgivings, and left her to wash
up the dishes.
Upon further acquaintance with Miss IRuggles, I dis-.
covered that she understood housework much better than I
at first supposed. She could bake, and wash, and do
plain cooking very w~l1; but her notions of equality, and
her. utter ignorance of the proprieties of her station, ren-

dered it very difficult to get on with her. She seemed to
expect me to be in the kitchen at work as 'long as she was
there, though in our little family there was not eh~iigh
work to occupy nearly all of her own time. Every after-
noon, she arrayed herself in a very stiffly starched petti-
coat, and blue muslin dress, and "joined me in the parlor"
(as novels say). Her dress, which fastened in the back,
she could only hook a little way up, so she bawled out, as
she entered, "Miss Waters,~ I'll get you to hook up my
frock.". After I had performed this service for her, she
was wont to complete her toilet before the parlor glass.
After having adjusted a broad, yellow ribbon around her
neck, put ona l)air of lace cuffs decorated with pink bows,
and stuck an immense red and green plaid rosette in her
mud-colored hair, she threw herself on 'the sofa; or, if I
did not happen to be occupying it, in my large rocking-
chair, and began to converse without restraint. She gen-
erally entertained me with an account of the various
"ways" of the various ladies with. whom she had. lived,
occasionally diversified with remarks like the following:
"I like the way you do up your hair, Miss Waters. I
guess I'll git you to fix mine for me some time. I ain't
no great hand to do . up hair myself. Sister Batsey -
she's married a Brigham now, and live to the Flatts out
here she's quite a hand to do up hair; hem's almost as
black as your'n. That frock o' your'n looks jest like one
Batsey's got; shouldn't wonder if 'twas off the same. piece.
What did you hef to give a yard for that?"
No matter what I was' doing, ~ reading, writing, what-
ever might be my occupation, - it was no die4 upon Miss
IRuggles's volubility. It, was a dreadful annoyance, and I
resolved to get rid of it; but not liking to offend her by
28*

328      LETTERS FROM TIMBER fTILJ9E.

328

329


,~~1

330

LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLEL

telling her that I would prefer her "room to her com-
pany," I tried various expedients to induce her t~ spend
the afternoon elsewhere. I offered her useful books to
read in her own room; but she wasn'tt no hand for
books." I discovered, on investigation, that she could
bai~ely speii out a fe~ words, and had never learned to
writeK~tall. I offered to teach her, and told her that I
1i~       had a ~spare writing~desk, which she might keep in h~r
room and practise every afternoon. But she declined,
saying that "she didn't see no use o' much dedication;
her brother Brigham was eddicated, and that answered for
'em all." I asked if she had.no sewing that she v~'oiAd
like to do, and hinted *that her room possessed great con-
veniences. for such employment. But "she wasn't no
hand to sew; sister Ba~tsey generally made her things for
her." At length my patience was exhausted, when, on
returning one evening with Mr. Waters from a walk, we
found Rowena in the parlor, seated in 'my rocking..obair,.
with her feet on an ottoman,' my Cologne bottle in her
hand, and playing the hostess to Monsieur Laborde, Mr.
Grimn, and Mr. Bunker, who had called upon us. The
gentlemen had evidently been highly entertained with her
easy manners and conversational powers. I was thor..
roughly vexed, and told her emphatically to leave the room.
her surprise was equalled only by her indignation. She
went out in high dudgeon, slamming the dodr behind her,
to the great amusement of the gentlemen. M. Laboido
remarked that "Miss Roogle was very divertissante." Her
proceedings were anything, but amusing to me, whatever
they might have been to Monsieur and his companions.
When Rowena retreated from the parlor, she went out,
by way of compeiisation, to call upon Mrs. Crandal, the

LETTERS PROM TIA(BER VILLE.

331

baker's wife, our next door neighbor, with whom she had
struck up an intimacy, and to whom she carried a daily re-
port of "Miss Waters's curus way~." No doubt she
received that lady's sincerest sympathy in her affliction.,
and probably acted upon her advice; for the next morn~
ing, as Mr. Waters and I were sitting in the library, she
came in abruptly and demanded her wages. It was
Thursday. I had hitherto paid her on Saturdays.
"Why do you want your money to-day, Rowena?"
asked I.
"Because I'm a goin' to go," said she, angrily.
"What is the matter, Rowena?" said I. "Why ~tre
you going off so suddenly?"
"Pay her, Fanny, and let her go," said my husband,
who is decidedly opposed to "having words" with ser-
vants.
I therefore went to a drawer and got the money for her.
But Miss Ruggles was not disposed to depart without a
few last words.
"I'm a goin'," said she, causee you've made an un-
derlin' of me ever sence I come here. . You ain't axed
me to set down to the table and take a meal o' vittels with
ye ouct; and Miss Crandal's help callers eats to the table
with 'em, and Miss C~andal's as good as you be, tiny day;
and she, says it's an impersition; and my sister Batsey
lived a year and a half to Squire lli~er's, to the Flatts,
and she callers eat to the table with 'em; and they was re-
spectabler'n you be; and lived in enough sight 'grander
house. And. then, to cap all, you told me I wasn't wanted
in t'other room last night, and I ain't a goin' to put up
with it no longer; and so and you may git yer work did
the best way ye ken, for all I care."


332       LETTERS FROM TLWBER 1'ILLE.

Having thus relieved her mind, she retired, ba~iging all'
the doors, and knocking down several chairs in her exit.
In the afternoon, Jeems came with the surveyance and took
away her dkist. A few days after her departure, my hus-
band received by mail the following note, the production
of her dedicated brother-in-law.
To mister fillip Wotters. sir
ef you Think that you and
your Stuck up wife is a gem' to Sale to hevven in a
grander bote than the one your help goes in, your Mistaken
i gess. That interesting young Lady roweny ruggles That
you Treted so shameful is kalkulated to Be a ornament to
Society and would Be ef it want for such Stick ups as you
And miss otters is. i rite to let you know what i And
all rite minded gentlemen And ladis Thinks of such karac..
t6rs as you Be. '~o no more Prom yours contemptably.
SILAS BRIGIIA1~[.
On the evening after Rowena left in disgust, Joe Pratt
came ro~nd to see me, and he undertook 'to procure us
another ~girl. He knew, he said, one Polly Baily, who
had 'occasionally worked~ at his mother's when they had a
great deal of company. He believed she was not very
bright, but he~ knew her to be good-natured. She was
now out of a place, and lived at a brother's. I thought I
would at least make~ a trial of her. I therefore desired
Joe to go and tell her to come-to me for a few days. He
readily complied, and soon returned with the information
that Polly would be over in the' morning. She would
have come with. him, but ~he wanted to mend her things
and make a new 9~lico apron that evening.
The next morning, while I was preparing breakfast,

LETTERS FROM TIMBER yuLE.

333

Folly arrived. 'She came in at the 'back door, and hailed
me with -
" Good morning , Miss Waters. I s'pose that's you?"
"' Yes," said ii; "and I suppose you are Folly Baily?"
"'Tain't nobody else," said she, depositing a small
bundle on the table' and taking off her bonnet, e~hibiting
thereby a most unique coiffure. Her hair, which was very
thin, was all drawn together at the summit of her head,
tied with a tape string,: and twisted into a funny little pig-
tail. In person, Miss Baily was short and stout, her eyes
were set bias in her head, and her mouth was entirely on
one side of her face. If she lacked the dignity and state-
liness of her predecessor, Miss RuggJes, she fully equalled
that young lady in ease and self-possession..
"I should a come last night," continued she, "only
my things needed mendin' and fixin', and I bad a new cal-
jeer apron to make. You' see, sister-in-lIi~w's baby's ben
sick, and I've had so much to do, I hadn't had a minnit's
time to ~ew lately. But I didn't git at the apron last
night, after all, for sister-in-law went to meeting , and the
baby waked up and 'cried, 'and I had to tend it till she got
back. So I fetcht my apron along: s'pose I shall git any
time to make, it here?"
"0, yes," replied I; "you will have some time to
yourself every afternoon, unless something unusual hap-
pens; and you wiU find a drawer in the table in your
room, where y6u can keep your work."
"Wal, if that ain't clever!" exclaimed Folly. "I
shouldn't wonder if you was a goin' to be a real good
woman to live with'; though Miss Crandal' says ~ -
"It is nearly breakfast-time, Folly,"' I said; "there
are some mutton steaks to be broiled: do you know how
to do them?"

N.


334       LETTER'S FROM TIMBER TTiLLE.                         LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.       335

III

"Pity if I don't," she answered. "It takes me to
cook mutton steaks. Why, when I lived~ to Miss "-
"Well,. ihere is 'the gridiron; the coffee is already boil-
ing, and will soon be done. Do you understand making
coffee?"
"Pity if I don't! Why, I've made coffee ever sence I
was so high. Jest tell me where things is, and I can go
ahead, as you'll find out 'fore I've lived with ye long. I
ain't afeard but what I shall suit ye; everybody that has
me once wants me agin."
So I ~gave her the iiecessary information, and telling her
to ring the bell when breakfast was on the table, was going
out, when she called to me
"Miss Waters! I've heerd say how't you don't have
your help eat to the table with you; is it so?"
"Yes, Polly," said I; "I always allow my girls the
privilege of eating by themselves; they feel so much more
at liberty to eat*as much as they want, you know."
now, ther is something in that," said Polly.
"And don't you take off none o' the vittel8 after you git
through?"
Certainly not; the girls always have the same that
Mr~ Waters and I have."
*     "Wal,,I say for't; I~ don't see why that 'ain't ~ good
idee. Miss Crandal needn't ~aw about it tis she ~es; for,
after all, it's enough better'n the wa~r she in~nages. I
lived there a spell Qnce, and I used to eat t6 the table with
7
em, and, it's a fact, I was half starved; for she used to
be forever tellin' the children 'twa'n't perlite to take any-
thing nior'n once, and so ye see I darsen't do it; and then,
the mi nuit' ihey got through, she ketcht off the vittels and
stuck 'em away under lock and key."

"I am glad you are satisfied with my arrangements,
Polly," said I, escaping from the kitchen, and rejoicing~at
having 'thus disposed of one grand difficulty.
But that breakfast! The mutton steaks were burnt to
a coal, and quite uneatable. And the coffee ! what could
be the matter with it? At the first taste~ of it, Mr.
Waters turned pale with consternation, and rushed to the
door to "make restitution" 6f it (as M; Laborde say~).
I took a sip, and was obliged to follow his example~ I
never Listed anything so perfectly horrible. I called
Polly, and asked her what she had done to the coffee.
Why, nothing, " said she; "only, when I took it up,
I throw'd in a tablespoonful o' salt to settle it."
I went out and made a cup of tea, not daring to trust
Polly to do it; and this, with the, bread, which was cut in
pieces an inch' thick at one end, and slivered up as thin as
a wafer at the other, constituted our breakfast. Mr.
Waters thought it but a sorry begihnifig for our new func-
tionary;' but I told him that these were evils which, with
proper training, could, I hoped, soon be remedied. I
spent the whole morning in instructing Polly, giving her
the minutest directions about everything in her department
of labor; in fact, doing* all that related to the prepara-
tion of dinner myself7 in order to show her how I wished
it done; while she kept *constantly asserting that "she
lcnow'd she'd always been used to doing - but then
everybody liked their own way~ best, ald she was per~.
feetly willing' to. be teacht my ways, for she wanted to suit
me," &amp;c. &amp;c.
After dinner' I was 'in the library., when Polly came
bolting in, with a look of extreme satisfaction on her face,
and holding in each hand a broken tumbler; the bottoms
were gone.

t

N

334


336      LETTERS FRO~~t TIMBER JTILLE.                        LETTERS FR Oil TIMBER VILLE.   337

ii
II I

"Look' o' there, Miss Waters!" she said. "Ain't you
astonished?"
*' I am, indeed. How did you break those, Polly?"
"0, law!" said she, "thiLt ain't it. I m~an, ain't you
astonished to see me come and tell on't? 'Tain't every
girl 'twould own up so when' they broke a thing; but Ido;
you won't never ketch me a breaking' crockery anti then
sticking' on't away, out o' yer sight. I'm honest, as you'll
find out 'fore I've lived with ye lono'"
*       On inquiry, I found that she had poured boiling water
on the tumblers to wash them. I told her never to do so
again; though, at the same time, I commended her hon-
esty in' telling me of the accident. ~After she bad got the.
kitchen "to rights," she came again.
"Wal, Mi~s Waters, the worlCs all did up now; and
i'm ready to go at that apron, if you'll lend me a needle
and Some thread.; I didn't think to fetch none.~7
I furnished her ~vith these requisites, and she retired. to
her room. When it was nearly time for tea, she came
running'in~ again, quite out of breath, exclaiming -~.
"Don't ye think, Miss Waters, I ain't took a stitch in
that apron lyet!"
"Why, Polly," 'said I, "how comes that? I thought
you had been sewing these two hours."
"Wal., that was what I meant to do," replied Polly;
"but, ye see, I hadn't more'n got seated by my winder,
ready to go at ,it, whel\Miss Crandal she spied me from
her parlor winder, and she called to me to come over there;
s6 I throwd dawn my work, ye know, and went over to see
what she wanted,~ and there I've ben ever sence; and Miss
Capers and Miss Rennet was there a. visiting , you know.
and they all three sot to and axed me n~ore'n forty.

thousand questions about you, and all how I got along here,
and what wages I got, and whether I eat to the table with
you. I told 'em no; I had the privilege of eatin' by
myself, without bein' watched every mou'ful I took, and I
told 'em I had enough to eat, too; and a real nice room,
besides, to sleep in, with a good clean bed, and a table,
and a lookin'-glass in it. That made Miss Crandal feel
rather shamed, I guess; fur when I lived them, I had to
sleep up garret, in an old ~trundle-bed, you know, right
where all the old truck was kept, you know," &amp;c. &amp;c.
My hopes of Polly's improvement were doomed to be
disappointed; for I found it utterly impossible to impress
anything upon her mind. She could not remember from
one hour to the next, much less from one day to another.
Daily and hourly did I go through with the same process
of training and directing. Daily and hourly did Polly pro-
test that "she would remember that time, I'd see 'f she
wouldn't," and as constantly did she continue to make the
very same blunders over and over again. She would act-.
ually have salted the coffee again the second morning, if I
had not discovered her intention in time to prevent such a'
catastrophe. And the tumblers would have 'be~n broken
every day, had I not superintended the dish-washing.
The day after she came, the fastidious sisters Bigelow
(Carry and Lute) called upon me. I had just gone up
stairs to dress, having been engaged longer than usual with
my household duties, by reason of Polly's awkwardness.
My maid of all work answered the summons of the bell,
and admitted the ladies with a very vociferous "Why,
girls, how do you do? Come in.
" Is Mrs. Waters at home?" said Miss Carry, with
great dignity.
29

0

N

336


~38       LETTJ&amp;RS FROM TIMBER VILLE.

LETTERS FR OX TIMBER VILL F.   339

"0 yes; she's to hum," responded Polly; "she's jest
went up stairs to put on her t'othex~ things. You step in
the parlor; take some cheers; now take off yer things."
The ladies declined. "What, can't ye stay? I know
~4j~ Waters would like to hey you, and I'm sure 1 should."
"Carry our names to Mrs. Waters," said Miss Bigelow,
commandingly.
"Your names!" said 'Polly, "less see, they're Canine
and Lucy, ain't they?"
"Tell her the Miss Bigelows are here," replied Cari'y,
with 'a great accession of dignity to her tone and manner.
Volly was puzzled; but, without asking further ques-
tions, she tame to the foot of the stairs, which is close to
the parlor door, and bawled out to me
"Miss Waters! the Miss Bigl'ows is here. They told
me to tell you their~ names I b'l'eve they're Carline and
Lucy. They hadn't come to stay to tea; so you hurry and
come down as quick as you kjn."
'I was distracted! I rushed out half dressed, and, bend..
ing oyerbthe banister
"Polly," said I, "don't stay there any. I'll lie
down in a moment."
0 law," replied the pertinacious Polly, "I'd jest ,as
lWes stay with 'em till you git ready as not."
So she returned to the parlor, and entertained the ladies
with an ~count *of the advantages of her new place; and I,
knowing. that to call to her again would only prolong the
ridiculous scene, finished dressing with all possible expedi..
tiOD and hastened down, whereupon Polly withdrew, with-
out waiting, to be sent, saying, "she guessed she'd go at
that apron now." I apologized to the ladies for Polly's ig-
norance, and said that I hoped .to be able to teach her

something in the course of time. Miss Bigelow trusted
that I would succeed in the attempt. Miss Lute remarked
that such scenes were excessively annoying, and they both
declared that the impertinence of the Timberville servants
was quite intolerable to them, particularly after being~ at
Brother Peter's, where the domestics were under such per-
fect control, notwithstanding their number. They. then
went' into a highly edifying description of the domestic
economy of brother Peter's establishment, which occupied
the remainder of the visit.
After they. had gone, I spent an hour in teaching Polly
her duty on such occasions. She promised faithfully to ob..
serve, my directions. The next day, Judge Conway and
Mrs. Conway called; and Polly, will you ~believe it?
went through with the very same performance which she
had enacted with the Bigelows! She was incorrigible, but
so really desirous. to please me, that I was unwilling to
give her up until I had taxed my ingenuity, to the' utmost
to make something of her. But it was a fruitless task, she
could not remember; unless I was with her all the time,
everything went wrong. I kept her two weeks, and then
gave up in despair. The poor girl felt very badly when I
told her that I must discharge her. She said "she liked
me better than anybody she had ever lived with; if I would
only keep her, she would remember my ways and try to suit
me." But I knew too well her utter incapacity~ to fulfil.
this' promise 'to trust ~o her good intentions. One source
of regret with Polly at leaving me, was, that "she hadn't
finished 'that apron' yet, and she shouldn't have' a 'minute's
time to sew at her sister-in-law~s.~~ You can ~therefore
imagine her delight when I presented her a black silk apron,~
ready made, and her ecstasy at the addition of a collar and
pair '~of cuffs to this gift. ~.


340      LETTERS FROM TIMBER VILLE.                           LETTERS FROM TIMBER rILLE.    341,

III

" Why, Miss Waters!" said she, ~" you don't mean to
give me these right out and out, do you?"
"Certainly, Polly," I replied.
"And ain't they 'ducted from my wages?"
By no means; they are a present; and here is your
mone~r, too."
"Wal, I say for't!" exclaimed she, "you be a clever
woman and no mistake! I'll show these to Miss Crandal,
you see 'f I don't. She used to 'make me take m~r'n half
my wages in old clus."
In real Tizuberville s~y~e, Lan~ boring you to death with
a history of my "helps." I will not ent6r j~nto any more
particulars on this inexhaustible theme, but merely -state
that of the two whom I bave tried since Polly's departure,
the first was a thievish, intemperate Irish woman, whom I
dismissed at the end of a week; and the last, a lazy, saucy
black girl, of whozut you may form a correct idea by this
remark of hers. She one day saw two of our most respec-
table citizens taking a drunken, black rioter to jail.
"Miss Waters," said she, "what you s'pose dem two
white fellers is gwine to do wid dat colored gent?" This
sable functionary eludeded to trabel,~' and accordingly set
out a few weeks ago for Avon Springs. Since then I have
been without a domestic, and, by dint of putting out the
* washing, and having "old Sammy," an honest, faithful
negro man, to come every morning and "do up the
chores," I am getting on very well - nay, I enjoy it thor-
oughly. In fact, Ii did not know, the extent of my own
*   powers, until necessity forced the discovery upon me; and
as every day strengthens my confidence in my own abilities,
and my husband declares that he never was so happy in
his life, I think I shall give myself no further trouble about
"helps," as long as we reside at Timberville.

x

Mrs. Crandal, having now no other means of espionage,
has struck up a back-door acquaintance with me; and, I
believe, begins to think me not so proud, after all, since I
am willing to "take right hold and do" myself. She ac-
tually brought in to me, yesterday, a present of some very
nice "turnpike cakes," (did you ever hear of them
before?) to raise bread with, and also gave me directions
for using them, which I intend to put into practice next
baking-day.
But there comes Mary Willis. The dear girl's frequent
and unceremonious visits constitute a great share of my
enjoyment. I have but lately learned something of Mary's.
early history. I intend to give it to you at some future
time; perhaps in my next. M. W.
29*

340


AUNT MAG WIRE'S ACCOUNT
OF TILE
1~ILSSLON TO MUFFLETEGAWNY.
N

*


* AUNT MAG WIRE'S ACCOUNT
OF TH~
MISSION TO MUFELETEGAWNY.
'VE ben very lonesome ~at~ly. Jefferson's gone off
to attend lecters, and I sha'n't see nothing' of him in
several months; but one thing comforts me.: when
he comes back, I guess it'll be for good. He's about
made up his mind to settle down here, and everybody
thinks he'll do well her&amp; a doctorin'. There ain't but one
person that's advised him to leave Scrabble Hill, and that's
Samson Savage. He met Jeff one day when he was home
last, and he says, to him in his patronizing' way, " Well,
young man, they say you've nearly finished your studies.
Where do you caldilate to locate?"
"I've about concluded to stick out a shingle here," says
Jeff.
"What!" says Mr. Savage, says. he, "you surprise
me! Why, you'd lieu a born fool to do that a born fool,
take my word for it!"
"Why?" says Jeff. "Don't you think I'll succeed
here?"
"As to that matter," says Mr. Savage, "I s'pose you'll

V


347'

346     A lINT HAG WIRE'S A CCO lINT OF THE                            MISSION TO MUFFLETEGA TFNY~

do well enough here in p'int of practice, but you'll always
be called Jeff to your dyin' day, if you stay here."
"That is rather aggravatin'," says Jeff, "but X guess~ I
must ~rin and bear it, and depend on posterity to do me
justice."
*" Hang posterity!" says Mr. Savage; "now's the
present time."
I'm very glad Jeff don't take a notion to go clear off
to ~ahforny, or some other place away out of the land of
the Jivin'; wouldd nigh about kill me if he should. The
fact. i~, he'd ratherr be with his father and mother than
anywhere else, and he's a genniwine comfort to us. Most
folks think he'll get a good run of practice here after a
spell. Dr. Pratt's gittin' old, and Dr. Tinkom ain't much
anyhow; so Jeff stands a good chance to get along. I'm
8orry for oni thing; the Fusticks are Put out with him.
He's got a way of blurting' out, you know, a good deal like
his father; he don't mean notbin' by it, but he made the
F~sti~ks mad. I hope he'll do his best to mend the mat-
ter when he comes back, for I can't bear that anybody
should feel ~hard towards my son: I'd ruther they'd be mad
at me. 'Twas a little time before Ann Eliza was married
the last time Jeff was home.
What! didn't you know Ann Eliza~d popped off?
Well, she has; she s married a missionary, and gone away
off to convert the heathen in the island of Mufiletegawny.
I d~n't know as that's exactly the name, but it's ~as nigh as
I can come to it, anyhow. Ain't it sing'lar that such a
highty-tighty, ~6irtii~' thing should ketch a missionary?
She ain't much like Mr. Parson's wife; she 'twas Urainy
Slammerkin, old Slarninerkin's daughter. I know'd her;
she was raised in Wiggletown, where I was brought up.

* She was quite a religious, sober-minded young woman,
Married Reuben Parsons, from Tuckertoivi', a good sort
of a critter, but rather softy. They went on a mission to
the- the what~domye~~Calb'ems. I never can remember
names. Their letters used to be published in the G6syet
Trumpet. 'Twas an awful hot country where, they went,
and' the people was dreadful savages - didn't wear n~
clothing . Some of "em went to Mr. Parson'8 ineetins,
though' they couldn't understand a word he said.
Well, the Wiggletown and Tuckertown ladies read the
accounts in the Gospel Trumpet, and they was wonderfully
scandalized to think the poor critters hadn't* nothing' to
wear to meeting ; so they clubbed together, and made up a.
great box of clothing , and sent over to 'em all sorts of -
things, ever so many frocks, and petticoats~ and hoods,
and pantaloofl5~ and so forth. The Parsonses distributed
'em, and made the savages understand they was to wear
'em to meeting . , So the next time Mr. Parsons preached,
in come the barbarians rigged out in high snuff. The men
was sweltering' under the hoods, with the sweat all streamin'
down their faces, and the wimmin had thepantaloons round
their necks, as if they'd been kiig shawls. The frocks and
petticoats they fetcht along, and spread 'em out to sit ofl.
After the Parsonses had been there about ten yeai~s, I
~aw a notice in the Gospel Trumpet - I'd left Wiggletown
then ~- sayin' that" the Reverend Reuben Parsons and his
wife, our devoted missionaries to the the thingumb6bs,
(I wish I could ever remember names) had left their
fkld of labor,' and returned to this country, for the purpose
of bringin' over their eight children, to leave 'em here. It
was their intention to dispose of the. ,children .here and
there, and then ret~irn to theiF interesting' portion of the

I

346


348      AUYT A~ WIzu~'s ACqOU~T~ OF Thu!
Lord's vineyard." I thought there must be some mistake
about it. "1 can't be possible," says I, "that any
mother would be willing' to give up her children in that
way. I'd as soon tear out my eyes as do it." Well, I
happened to meet Mr. Parsons and his wife when they
was in this country. I was over, to Wio~ a visitin',
and they came there to see their friends and bring a couple
of their daughters to give away. Miss Major Coon took
one she hadn't no children and Parson Potter's wife
took t'other; she had nine of her own already. I says to
Miss Parsons,,' 'Urainy," says I, " 'taint, true, is it, that'
you to a gwine to lea'~re your children scattered 'round, and
go back' to heathen lands ~"
'.' Certingly," says she.
"'Well, I'll give it up, now," says I: "I thought it
must be a mistake. Why, what's your object in leavin'
your children, if you must go back yourself?"
"Oh,". says she, "I want to devote the hull of my
time and -energies to the 'heathen."
"Well," says 1, "I should think if you did your duty
by them eight children, you couldn't 'a haj much time' to
attend to the savages. See! you've ben there ten years;
you. must 'a got 'em to a pretty high state of civilization by
this' time, for I remember hearing , when you'd ben there
only six months, that the wimmin had larnt what their
'rights' was, and put on the pantaloons."
Miss Parsons looked at me with the greatest astonishh.
nient, and says she, "You don't seem to understand the
'Bubject, Miss Magwire."
"1 guess I don't," says I, "for I confess it's an onac~
countable mystery to me how you can be ~illi~' to o'i
your own chil4iren ~                         ~ ye up

MISSION TO MLTFFLETEGAW'NY.         349'
"I never regarded 'em as my own," says she; "I look
upon 'em as 6uly lent to me by the Lord."
"So much the worse, then," says I. ~" If they belong
to the Lord, and He's .only lent 'em to you, of course
you'd ought to be all the more careful of 'em, so's to be
able to give a good account of your stewardship."
"But you know," says she, "Scripter commands us to
leave all and fuller the Lord."
"Well," says I, "I never s'posed that meant we was
to give away our children and go off to heathen lands,
though I don't pretend to be much of a hand at interpreting'
Son pter."
"But you know," says she, "the great work of con-
vertin' a world lyin in wickedness has got to be ~done.
The Apostles was commanded to go preach the gospel to
every cretur."
"I know it," says I, "but the wimmin wa'n't corn-
manded to go. We don't read that the Apostles took
wives along. And them seventy that was sent out -
s'posen they'd all had wives with 'em, how much good do
you think they'd,'a done? And after a few years what if
they'd 'a sent home eight times seventy children - granting
they'd each had your number -.- the church to take
care of? I guess they'd 'a had to found an orphan asylum
to put 'em in.
"Well," 'says she, "I can truly say that i1'in perfectly
willing' and resigned to part with every one of my children,
trustin' that the Lord will take care of 'em."
"It's time enough to exercise resignation when the
Lord calls for 'em;" says I; "but as long as He spares
'em to you, it seems to me you'd ought 'to consider it your
80

U


850    AUNT AlA G WIRE'S ACCOUNT OF THE

greatest duty and privilege to stay with 'em, and do foi~
'em as nobody but a mother'can."
"I see," said she, "you don't understand the subject at
all, Miss Magwire."
"I guess I don't," says I.
Whether Miss Parsons was mistaken or not, I know she
meant to do~ right, for she was a' good woman, a good,
pious woman, enough better than I be, though I wouldn't
'a done as she did for all the world.
But I was gwine to tell about Deacon Fustick's daughter
gittin', married. I was surprised, and, I must say,
amused, at the performances. her mother's a dreadful
manuverin' woman, you know, always figuring' round to
get beaux for her daughters, in an awful hurry to get 'em
married off. Singular, ain't it, that, any mother can feel
so? Why, when Nancy was married and left me, it eny
most broke my heart, though she was only an adopted
child. I didn't want .to oppose it, you know, for she got
a very likely young man. But Miss Fustick don't seem
to care much who nor what her~gir1s get, if she can only
marry 'em' 'off. Amanda wa'n't but sixtee~i when she was
married; her mother made the match entirely, and the
man's a nuuiserable sti' ~. There's no tellin' the trials poor
Amanda's underwent since she took him. But it didn't
seem to 'be no warning' to Miss Fustick at all. She went on
manuverin' and flourishin' round, pokin' her girls forward
into the face and eyes of all the young men, till she suc-
ceeded in getting' rid of 'em all but~ Ann Eliza, and she
done her best for her too; but somehow she didn't seem to
take. She's rather a pretty-lookin' girl, but she was so
lazy, and so fond of dress, and so' eternally in the streets,
laughin', 'and hollerin', and bawlin' at everybody she met,

11

MISS.10N TO MLTFFLETECATfNY.        351.
and doin' everythi~~ she could to attract attention, that she
overshot the mark. Nobody didn't seem to take a fancy
to her; the young men seemed willin? enough to beau her
round, but they didn't want her for a wife. At length,
her mother begun to get discouraged about her; so last
fall she packed her off to spend the winter in Gambletown,
where they've got' some rich elbow cousins.. The theologi-
cal sirninary's located there, you know, and I s'pose she
thought wouldd be a good place to. try her luck.
She called to' our house one day in the winter, and told
me she'd had such a gratifyi~'~letter from Ann Eliza, she
wished she'd a thought to fetch it along with h~r and i~ead
it to me. Ann Eliza had become so very much interested
in the cause of foreign missions, and felt to regret that she
hadn't hitherto entered more fully into her ma's views and
feeling's on that subject. "You know," says Miss Fustick,
"that's a cause that lies very near my heart."
I was surprised enough to hear it of Ann Eliza; but I
knowd there was something behind the' curtain, and waited
patiently to see what 'twas. The next time I saw Miss
Fustick she told me that Ann Eliza had got so exercised
view of the dreadful condition 'of the heathen, especially
the Muffletegawnys, that she'd mad~e up her mind to go
on a mission to 'em~ if pa and ma was willing . "Of'
course we esteem it a privilege to have her go," says Miss
Fustick. Well, I was surprisder than ever; and couldn't
help tellin' her so; but she didn't seem to consider it any-
thin' strange at all. And it never once entered her head
to think but what Ann Eliza was a very suitable person
for such an undertaken".
"Law nie 1" says I, "if she's in such distress to go on
a mission,' send her up here to Puddenbag Lane; 'taint


.11

352 AUNT Z~fAG WIRE'S ACCOUNT OF TilE'
far off, and she couldn't desire to see a more heathenish set
than the folks that live there; wouldd be a first-rate field
of labor." Miss Fustick gin me one of her looks, and
walked off without sayin' another word.
A few weeks after that, Ann Eliza got, home, and then
the mystery was all explained. She'd got a beau! a Mr.
Simpson, 'a missionary to the Muffletiegawnys (I guess
that's the name). He'd lost his wife about six months
before, and come back to get another, and fetch his six
children over to make this country a present of 'em. He
wa~ dedicated at the Gambletown Siminary. So he
went there to look round ,got acquainted with Ann Eliza.
She was wonderfully interested in his accounts of Muffle-
tegawny, and he was wonderfully interested in her. In
short, they got engaged about a week after they first saw
each other. He was to sail in a few weeks, and Ann
Eliza came home to make preparations for leaving .
I declare I couldn't help laughin'to see how bard she
tried to look dignified and solemn. I called to see her a
few days after she got home. Jeff went with me; he and
she was old cronies; they'd had many a frolic together.
She was wonderful stately to us, had her face drawd down
about half a yard~long.
"So, Ann Eliza," says Jeff, "it seems you're 0 PH
for Muffletegawny!"
"Yes," says she, with a doleful kind of' a look, "I'm
about to enlist in the ca~ise of missions. Oh, Jefferson?
how rejoiced I should be if you'd become a missionary!"
"Should 1" says Jeff, say8 he, "do you think I could
cut out Mr. Simpson?"
Ann Eliza skewed the corners of her mouth and tried
to look dignifider than ever, but she had hard work to
make it out.

MISSION TO MUFFIJETEOA WNY       353

.1

1

"I've a notion to try," says Jeff, cockin' up his eye.
"You hold on a spell and give me a chance,"
Ann Eliza snicLered out, and says she, "Git along,
Jeff Magwire! you make me laugh in spite of myself."
The next'~day Deacon Peabody's wife come to our house
and told me that the congregation was gwin to make up a
box of clothing' for Ann Eliza, and said she s'posed I'd
esteem it a privilege to contribbit my share towards it.
Well, I didn't, view it as any great privilege to be sure,
but I thought I'd ought to give soinethin', so I said I'd
send a piece of bleached muslin. Miss Peabody said that
Ann Eliza had received a good many presents, articles for
housekeeping' and so forth, from her friends in Gamble-
town, and she hoped there'd be enough contribbited in
Scrabble Hill to make up her outfit. She said that the
ladies that wished to avail themselves of the privilege of
assistin' in this great object would meet at Deacon Fus-
tick's the nex~t Friday afternoon and sew for Ann Eliza;
of course I .~ouldn't miss of comm', and I might fetch
my contribution along. I told her I'd come if I. could.
And she went home.
I'd gin up attending' the sewin' society since Parson
Tuttle was sent off, for I'd made up my mind~ there was
more hurt than good come of 'em. I held a meeting' at
home, alone by myself, went into a committee of the hull,
and past a unanimous resolution of disgust at sewin' socie-
ties in general, and the Scrabble Hill sewin' society in
particular, a~etarmined never to attend it agin.
But aft~ Miss Peabody went away I thought it over,
and, concluded to go, for 'twan't a regular meeting' of the
society, and, to tell the truth, I had some curiosity to see
what would be done. So when Friday came, I takes 'my
30*


AUNT AlA C WIRE'S ACCOUNT OF IJHE

MISSION TO Al UFFLETECA WNY

I

piece of muslin and starts off for Deacon Fustick's. I
told Mr. Magwire to come after me in the evening , but he
said he'd be hanged if he would.; so Jeff asked if he
mightn't come. "You may if you'll promise to behave,"
says I. "Of course P11 do that," says he.
When I got there, I found quite a number of ladies
collected, old and young. The old ones were knitting'
stockin's for Mr. Simpson, and the young ones was makin'
all sorts of things for Ann Eliza capes, collars, cuffs,
and what not. The Skinners was working' a pair of foot-
stools with woost~d. Liddy Ann Buill was makin' a
fancy. head-dress. Polly Mariar Stiliman was embraw..
derin' a morning' cap. Jo Gipson's wife and "Miss Brews-
ter was sewin' lace on to a number of pocket~han'kerchers.
Ann Mariar Lippincott was working' a pair of slippers for
Mr~ Simpson. Gloriann Billins was makin' him a green
velvet smokin'-cap, figuring' it all over with gilt cord.
And Ann Eliza herself was working' him a pair of fancy
suspenders. The Peabody girls was makin' a blue muslin
sack. Miss Samson Savage wus there, too, picking' her
teeth, and eiercisin' a general supervision over the rest,
orderin' this one and commanding' that; as for sewin', she
said they needn't expect her' to do any, for she'd eat such
a hearty dinner she couldn't. ~liss Fustick and Miss
Peabody ~had none over to ilarristown to buy Ann
Elza's carpets, and engage a. dressmaker to come over
and make her new dresses. She's got three very nice silk
ones, and a number more, and there want no dressmaker
in Scrabble Hill that ~vas fashionable enough to rig out a
missionary's lady..
~For a spell after I got there, I sot and looked with all
the eyes I had. I didn't know what to make on't. Thinks

F

354

me this ain't, much such an outfit as Miss Parsons had.
How the times is altered! I guess they niean to astonish
the natives. After a spell, Miss Samson Savage spoke
up and says she -
"Well, Miss Magwire, do~you want some work, or do
you calculate to set and hold your hands all *he after-
noon?"
"No," says 1, "1 want to help if' there's anything I
can do, but I aint no hand at fancy work. Ii fetcht along
some muslin I thought would do for shirts and such;
if there was some things out out of that, I could sew
on 'em.~~
So I went into the hail and brought it in. Ann Eliza
got up and ~examined it, and said 'twas altogether too
coarse for such purposes, but she guessed wouldd do for
very common kitchen-chamber sheets. If I was a mind
to, I might tear off some and make 'em. I was kind
of hurt, for I'd took pains to pick out what I thought was
a nice fine piece. But I didn't say nothing. I tore off
the sheets and went to work at 'em; Margaret Pettibone
took hold and helped me. She kept a-tradin' on my toe
all the afternoon. IM~g's pretty keen; there's a good deal
of the "white horse" in her; she's a good hearted-girl,
too.
Bymeby Miss Fustick and Miss 1?eabody got back.
They was in high spirits, for they'd made some first-rate
bargains in carpets and hearth-rugs. The merchant had
throw'd off considerable when they told him the things
was tQ go on a mission. "I says to him," says Miss
Fustick, "that no doubt, under the circumstances, he'd
esteem it a privilege to let us have 'em as low as possible.
He said, 'Certingly,' and I think we got 'em very reason-
able indeed."


353   AUNT AFAC WiRE'S ACCOUNT OF THE

MISSiON TO MUFFLETEGAMWY

IlL

35;7

In the evening' there was several young men come in.
And the new minister, Parson Pulsifer, he was there too.
He's a single, man; ben here since about the middle of
winter. Capped Smalley, and a few more of the richest
men in the congregation, after they'd got rid of Parson
Tuttle, determined they'd have a single man; they come
cheaper than mariAed ones, you know. Of'course all the
wimmin that had daughters to peddle off, and all others
that was willing' to dispose of themselves, fell in 'with the
plan, and so they gin Mr. Pulsifer a call. He was
preaching' in Punkin Hook on trial ~t the time, and accepted
the call. He's wonderful popular with 'em ~dl, more so
than any 'minister they've had before. He's quite a young
man, and very good looking . He was brought up a few
miles out of Boston, I forget the name of the place. They
think he's terrible eloquent here, especially the young
folks. But, for my part, I don't consider him nigh so
deep a man as Parson Scrantum was; and in p'int of
plain, practical sarmonizin' he doesn't come up to Parson
Tuttle by ~ good deal. I try to make the best of him
though.
I always try to like' my minister, ibr. I do hate to hear
folks, especially wimmin, forever finding" fault with their
minister, complaining' about his' style, and' manner, or his
want of this, and too much of that, saying they aint edi.-
fled, and all that sort of stuff. II don't often see a minister
that I can't lam something from, if I'm a mind tobe teach~
able and take home to myself what they say. But, some-
how, Mr. Pulsifer puzzles me. ii listen just as close as
ever I can; I. give my hull attention to him when he's
preaching , but I can't make head nor tail o~n't. His lan-
guage is so kind of double-and-twisted, that I can't for the

life of me make out what he's driving' at. He might as
well preach in Dutch, for all the good it does me.
Once in a while he has a sentence that sounds some like
other folks, and I begin to feel encouraged, and hope he's
a comm' down to the level of my comprehension. But
the next minute he's away in the hyasticks ag'in, stringing
it off 'about the "great All-soul of creation," and so on,
and I give it up in despair. But I never say nothing about
it, for I won't talk about my minister, nor discuss his qual-
ities with nobody; 'taint right.
It's amusing' to hear the remarks made about him by the
young folks, especially the girls. "What a delightful
preacher!" says one. " Did you ever bear such a ser-
mon?" says another. ~' How animated!" says another.
"I never could go to sleep under his preaching. " The
Skinners come up aside of Jeff and me one Sunday as we
was gwine home from meeting . "Don't you think Mr.
Pulsifer treated the subject in a very original manner?"
Says Almira.
"Very!" says Jeff, "entirely original "-
I hunched him, for I saw he was gwine to say something'
he hadn't ought to.
"Don'.t you think him very sublime?" Bays Sophrony.
"Well ," says Jeff, "it's a great deal to. call a man
sublime, but I think we may safely say our minister ain't
but a step from it; for you know Burke says"
I gin him another hunch, and so he stopt short; for I'd
heard him quote that remark before. Jeff's quite inclined
to make fun of Parson Pulsifer, but I never encourage him.
When we got home, I told him never to, say nothing' dispar-
agin' of his minister, and he promised he wouldn't.
Mr. Pulsifer writes poetry, too, and the girls go into

lu.

Hflu

356


358     A UNT MA C WIIiE'S ACCO UNT OF THE                      MISSION TO ALUFFLETEGA W'NY      359

fits over it. To my mind, it's dreadful singular poetry. I
never saw nothing' to beat it. Full of wrong-end-foremost
words, and gqes hitchity-hitch along. Sounds to me like
~awin' through a board full of rusty nails. Jeff says the
inh~ister's got a high-.dutch muse, but. I tell him to hold his
tongue. You'd laugh, 'though, to see what a time there is
a-settin' caps at him. The young girls have all got tobe
wonderful stiddy, go-to-meetin' characters since he came.
They wouldn't miss the Wensday evening' letter for nothing .
The Skinners think Polly Maria Stillman acts like a fool
over Mr. Pulsifer; and Polly Mariar thinks the Skinners
are desperit pious all of a sudden. Charity Grimes thinks
Liddy Ann Buill's conduct is ridiculous for a person of her
age; and Liddy Ann thinks Charity Grimes had better
get a wig, if sbe wants to ketch Mr. Pulsifer. And so
they 'have it, back and forth, all over town. I can't help
hem' amused, and Jeff has lots of fun out on't.
But I was tellin' about the meeting' at Deacon Fustick's.
Well, in the evening' Miss Samson Savage said she wanted
to see 'the rest ~of~ the presents that Ann Eliza'd received;
~o Miss Fustick brought 'em out, and spread 'em on the
table. Grammnany! it almost dazzled my eyes to look
at 'em. There was a dozen silver forks, presented, by a
rich lady in Gambletown; a splendid tea-pot from another;
a lot of napkin-rings from some young ladies in that village
Miss Fustick said that the Gambletown folks was deeply
interested in the cause of missions; then there was a couple
of elegant butter..knives from Miss Samson Savage she
launches out once in a while, and does~ something' grand
and quite a- number of articles 'for the table that I don't
know the names nor the use of; and there was no end to
the capes, and collars, and neck-ribbons, and flummydiddles
'of all sorts 'that had been gin to her.

I"

While we was a-lookin' at the things, Jeff came in. He
jest glanced at 'em, and then sot down by the stove and
went to talking' with Deacon Fustick. I felt relieved1 for I
was afraid he'd be makin' some of his speeches. There,
was a number more young men come in, arid after a spell
Mr. Pulsifer arriv. When he made his appearance, we
all sot down, and there was a general time of puckerin'
and primmin' among the girls. Almira Skinner draw'd
her chair up to the table, and went to reading ' in a Bible
that laid there, as if there wan't nobody in the room but
herself. - The conversation turned on to the subject of
missions before long, and Miss Fustick said she hoped
Ann Eliza'd have grace to sustain her in her great under.
takin'."
"I hope so too, ma," says Ann Eliza. She sot twirling'
a napkin-ring on her fingers.
The deacon remarked that "'twas a gi'eat thing to gke
up all for the sake of carrying' the Gospel to heathen lands
- a very great thing."
"It is, indeed," says Ann Eliza, glancing' at the butter-
knives.
Parson Pulsifer said something about " heart devotion
and world~wide~influeflCe,' and then Charity Grimes begun
to talk away about the duties and responsibilities of a mm -
ister's wife, both at home and in foreign lands; she's got
a long tongue. Miss Samson Savage winked at the Still-
mans, and the Stillmans winked back agin. Liddy Ann
]3uiil.was setting' beside me, and says she, "Did you ever!
that's to let Mr. Pulsifer know how well she understands a
minister's wife's duty."
Polly Mariar Stiliman said she intended to propose to
the ladies, at the next nieetin' of the sewin' society, to pay

359

358


360    AUNT MA~ WJIW~S ACCOUNT OF THE

MISSION TO MUFFLIjJTECA IITNY.     361

for the dedication of one of the Muffletegawny boys, to be
named "' Jeremiah Pulsifer." Mr. Pulsifer bowed, and
thanked her for the compliment. I couldn't help pityin'
the poor little savage, whoever he might be, that had got
to have such a name.
Jeff spoke up, and says he, "I don't know much about
these Muffletegawnys; desperate heathen, I s'po~e, though,
ain't they, Ann Eliza?"
"0 yes," says she, "they're victims of idolatry."
"Poor lxmighted barbarians !" says Jeff, with a groan,
"howlpity'emt"
Miss Fustick was sitting' t'other side of Liddy Ann Buill,
and she reached across, and hunched me, and says she,
"Has Jefferson experienced religion?"
"Not in particular," says I.
"I didn't know but he had, from the way hespoke,"
says she; "Thought perhaps tbey'd had a special effort in
Coonville, and he'd ben brought in."
"Hereafter," says Jeff, very solemnly, "I shall take a
great interest in the Mufiletegawnys:'
Miss Fustick reached accost agin, and says she, "De-
pend on't, Miss Magwire, he's exercised in his mind, any-
how. I shouldn't wonder if Ann Eliza's mission had set
him a-thinkin'."
Jeff groaned agin. "Poor critters!" says he; and he
lookt at the wall and shook his head. You'd 'a thought
his hull soul was wrapt up in the heathen. The young
men stared and didn't say nothing ; Parson Pulsifer lookt
surprised, and I confess I wondered myself what Jeff was'
upto.
"It's. a great work, Brother Pulsifer," says Deacon
Fustick, "a great and glorious work, this mission to

Mafiletegawny, and I feel to rejoice that a daughter of
mine is about to take her life in her hand and go forth to
engage in it."
"Dear me 1" says I, "I don't see how you can bear
the idea of martin' wiffi her to go so far off; like enough
you neve~"ll see her agin."
"Oh, Miss Magwire," says Deacon Fustick, "you
haiu't got the right kind of feeling' about it; we'd ought to
rejoice"
Miss Fustick interrupted him, and says she: "For my
part, if I had half a dozen daughters left, I should esteem
it a privilege to have 'em all devoted to such a work."
" Well," says I, "I can't feel so, nor I can't see how
anybody can."
"'Mother," says Jeff, very seriously, "you don't under-
stand it all; you don't view it in the right light."
"You're right, Jefferson," says Ann Eliza; "your
ma's views are peculiar; I hope you'll convince her of her
error."
"I shall try," said Jeff, and, he gin another dreadful
groan.
Miss Fustick poked over to me agin, and says she,
"Take my word' for't, Jeff's under consairn, and he'll
come out before long."
"Mother," ~says he, "jest consider the condition of the
Muffletegawnys; think how deplorably ignorant they are.
Why, they never saw nor heard of napkin-rings, butter-
knives, silver forks, and so forth! and I don't s'pose they
know a smoki~-cap from a stage~driver's jockey! Now,
ain't it important that they should be taught the use of
such articles as soon as possible, and learn how Christians
live? It's a great work, mother, a very great work."
81

N


362     AUNT ilIAC WJRE'S ACCOUNT OF THE
For a spell after JeX had fveed his mind, there wasn't a
word said by nobody. Deacon Fustick ham'd and haw'd,
Miss Fustick, lookt perfectly stumpt, and Ann Eliza didn't
seem to know what to make on't. Bymeby, Margaret
Pettibone whispered to me, ~and says she, "I guess Jeff's
come out rusher sooner than Miss Fustick expected."
After a spell, Deacon Fustick requested Mr. Pulsifer to
"address the ~throne of grace." Somehow I don't like to
~hear that; it sounds too mach like sayin' "make an ora~
tion to the Lord!" When the prayer was ended, we all
went home.
After Jeff and I got out of hearing , I scolded him
soundly. "Jeff," said I, "I'm ashamed of you. How
could you sarve me such a trick, after promising' not to cut
up'?
"0, no, mother dear," says he, "you're mistaken; I
didn't' promise so. I said I'd bekave, and didn't I?"
Ann Eliza was married a few weeks~ after. They had
quite a wedding . Husband and I was invited, but Jeff
ZVU~st't; and, on the hull, I was glad on't, for if he'd 'a
ben there, like enough he'd 'a let out another link. Hus-.
ban4 went with me; he was cur'us to see Mr. Simpson,
and so was I. He was quite a spruce, good-lookin',
youngerly man, with big whiskers and gold, spectacles.
His riggin' throughout was all in the latest fashion. The
girls all thought his manners was very polished, but there
was rather more bow and scrap~ about him than I like;
I'm old-fashioned, though.
Parson Pulsifer married 'em, and I tell you' he did it
high' snuff. After the cake was past round there was a
great time about a ring that they pretended was in it, and
the one that got it would be married next. Of course

I

AIIS~ION TO MUFFLETtGA WYY. -    363

'twas all hurraw boys, and giggle and titter for the rest of
the evening . But Ann Eliza sot still on the sofy, and
lookt as interesting as she could. I didn't see her stir all
the evening . A short time before we broke up, Miss Fus-
tick went round and brought 'em to order, and we had
several " addresses to the throne of grace." Deacon Fus-
tick led, Deacon Parker and Deacon Peabody hollered,
and Mr. Pulsifer closed. After that they sung "From
Greenland's icy mountains," for a winding' up. Then we
bid Ann Eliza good-by, and went home.
They left the next day. There \vas quite a number of
wagging loads of young folks went over to ilarristown with
'em to see 'em take the cars. Jeff went too; he didn't
lay it up not being invited to the wedding . Margaret Pet-
tibone said that when Jeff went up to bid Ann Eliza good-..
by, he gin her a good smack, and says he, "Now, Ann
Eliza, if Mr. Simpson don't use you well, let me know,
and I'll come over." Mr. Simpson didn't know who Jeff
was, and he stared over his gold specs in perfect astonish-
ment.
Parson Pulsifer ~writ a piece of poetry on the occasion.
'Twas printed in the Gospel Trumpet and copied into the
Scrabble Hill' Luminary. I saved the paper that had it in.
i'll get it, and you 'nay read it; read it out loud, and see
if it doesn't kind of make yer jaws ache.
THOUGHTS ON THE FAR-GOING OF THOSE TWO DEVOTEn SOULS
TO THE MISSION-LAND OF MUFFLETEGAWNY.
Got haste, great-hearted pair I
The big, heaven-sent message bear
To heathenism's wildernesses
The night-dark regions where
Superstition's demon hisses.
Over darkness' realm forlorn
Up-raise the gos~e1 horn.


364         THE MiSSION TO MUFFLETE~A WNY
ugh! high ax~d blow! blow! blow!
A blast, loud, long, earth-sundering1
Which roaring, rumbling, thundering,
From pole to pole shall go!
Till the black, sky-high throne,
Which the dire all-fiend uprears,
Tumbles down, stone after stone,
As a huge skeleton bone after bone
Crumbles to demolition,
In the down depths of perdition,
And world-wide disappears.
REFISLUP.       \
GOING TO SEE 'TilE FIRE

SILENT.
/


GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.
'OThER evening' the Deacon and I was a setting' by
the stove ('twas rather a chilly evening) , I a nittin'
and he a reading' the Paris Hill Dimocrat (my
husband's a terrible democrat, jt's all there is agin
him) when Ic and behold, our Zebidee cum in (he's the
deacon's son, my step son) a clappin' his hands, and kicking'
up like all possess.
"What's to pay now?" interrigoried I.
"ilooraw," says he; "I've ben warned."
"The dragon," says I, "who's had the audacity to
warn you agin sin and temptation, when yer father's ben
deacon risin' twenty year?"
"Don't ye know nothing, " says he, "I've~ ben warned
to train, and I've got to go down to Skeeterburrer next
Monday to muster."
"Ograndfer gracious," says. I,. "I didn't make no
fuss when Jabez had to train, ~cause there wasn't no signs
o war then; but seems to me in these ere days it's awful
dangerous to be a trainer."
"What for," saysithe Deacon, says he.
" Why," says I, "my fust husband use to say how't if
Van Buren ever got to be President, ther'd carting be war.
So now he's appointed, I suspect ev'ry day when the storm
(367)


368      GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.

o' war'll. bust over our beads; and 0, dear suz it's awful,
to think of Jabez and Zebidee a fight in' in the midst of
combatlin' hosts."
'~ 0, 'shaw," says Zeb, "what do you know about
war?"
"Qr pollyticks, eyetber," says the Deacon.
"About wa'r, you sarsebox!" says I to Zebidee. "I
rather gess I know as much about it a~ you do, for my
grander fit in the revolutionary tussle, and I've heern him
disoribe it time and agin. A&amp;. to pollyticks," continyd I,
glancing' at the deacon; "I know as much about 'em as I
want tew~ my fust husband was quite a pollyticker, and
what's n~ore, he was on the right side. He bated old
Jackson; a~nd all the democrats, like pison, and I gess if
he'd a lived a spell longer, Van Buren uever'd a ben pres-
iden~, for he. wouldn't a voted for him, even if he'd a ben'
sure o' bein' made supervisor for't."
"Missis Gorum," says the Deacon, says he, "I hope
you don't mean to cast no reflexions."
"0, dear," says I, "do you s'pose you'd a ben made
supervisor if you hadent a quit the whigs, and jined the
democrats?"
",Permilly," says the deacon, says he, edgin' his cheer
up to me, and tapping' of me under the chin. "Per-
znilly," says he, "don't never say no more about that are,
that's a purty creetur."
"Isemme alone," says I, shovin' off. "What do I
know about pollyticks?"
The deacofr he lookt kinder grieved, and took up his
paper and went to reading' agin. Zebidee be cleared out,
and we tew was left alone by ourselves. Arter a spell, I
begun to feel rather unpleasant, and thinks me, I showed

369

GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.

rather tew much spunk about that are speech o' the Dea.
con's seem' it's the fust disagreeable thing he ever said to
me. Well, we sot so much as an hour, and feeling my-
self entirely QnUble to endure the hiding of the Deacon's
countenance any longer, I jumped up all of a sudding,
run up to him, huv' my arms round his neck, and bust into
a terrible flood o' tears. The Deacon was' dretfully af-
fected; he embraced me tenderly, exclamagatin, -
"Milly, darling , you do know suthin' about pollyticks;
certingly ye know enough to cum over onto the right side,
when you've ben on the wrong. Don't ye, blessing ?
"0, Deacon dear," says I, "don't never illude to the
dizagrecable subjick of pollyticks. in my presence agin."
"Well, I won't," says he.
Jest that minnit sumbody knock to the door, and' says
II, "Walk in," and in cum Squire Jones.
"Ilooraw! hooraw!" says he, and then he up and
danced a jig in the middle o' the floor.
"What in nature's to pay," says the Deacon and me,
says we.
"Why," says he, "the President's a guayne to be to
Utica day arter to-morrer."
"You don't," says the Deacon, says he.
"Jest' so," says the Squire; and we're all a guayne
down to meet him; all the democrats of this ere stiff dim-
ocratic town; and you must go 'long, you know the
papers tells about the staunch yomandery of the entry;
the backbone o' the nation turning' out to meet the presi-
dent in their lumber x'~aggins, in rael republican stile.
Well, that's jest the way we're 'a guayne. He's suspected
to Whitestown about ten o'clock, and there he's a guayne
to got off ~the cars, and the hull town of Utica's a cum-
nun' up to carry him down to their place."

368


370       GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.
"On a rail?" says I.
"No, by jolly," says the Squire. "On a fust rnt~

i1v~.
"Massy sakes," says I, "if they don't have a rail,
seenis to me they'd or'to have a jackass, or sum sich cree-
tur for him, so's to look republican, and corrispond with
the flambergast~d wagging that's a cummin' to meet him
from all directions."
"Oh, shaw I " says the Squire, "what do you know
about"'-
Stop, Squire," says the Deacon. "Don't talk up to
my wife that way."
So the Squire didn't eend what he begun to say, but
says he: "My wife's beset to go long, and I tell'd her
how't if your wife would go, she mu
ye say to't?"                   t go tew, so what do
"Why, it depends on circumstances~" says I. "Sha'nt
I have to hooraw nor nothin'? 'cause wouldd go awfully
agin my conshence to hooravv for Van Buren."
"The oldboy!" says the Squire, -" who ever heerd of
the wimmin's hoorawin? on sich a 'casion?"
"Well," says 1, "1 didn't know but what they did,
'cause I never went to no sich doin's.. Well, Ile accompa-
nate ye.
"That's you," says. the Squire, and. then he went hum,
and jest then Zebidee cum hum, and right afterwards my
Amandy. Malviny returned from singin'-school, and Kier
Simpson with her. (Kier's ben takin' arter her risin' tew
year.) Well, Amandy and Zebidee was beset to go, so
we coneludid to let 'em. And Kier said he'd take Amandy
in his surveyance. Well, the Deacon, and me and Zebidee,
we went into the pitching and left Kier and Amandy alone,

I

GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.    371.

A'

(weve ben in hopes he'd cum to the pint and ax her to have
him, for sum time; and it's high time he did for he's went
hum with her from singin'-school and conference meeting'
risin' tew year, and rm sure I don't know what the creetur
means by putting' off so, for he's evidently very much be..
smitten with her, and no wonder, for she's an uncommon
interesting' young woman, looks very much as I did when I
was a gearl; there ain't a feller in our place but what
would be glad to git her. But she's evidently more pleased
with Kier, than with ary other feller, and I wi~sh to
gracious he'd suppose himself to her.) Well, the next day,
we was all day a gittin' in a state of reddyation, and the
Deacon he tell'd me to dew up his ruffled shirt, for he said,
"seem' he was a guayne to eat dinner with the President,
'twas recumbent upon him to look as slick as possible."
"So," says I," yer a guayne to eat dinner with him, hay?"
"Certingly," says he, "what else should I go to Utica
for."
Well, thinks me, if the Deacon wants to eat dinner with
the creetur, he may, and I won't say nothing' agin it, tho' I
druther be hanged than to go lqng with him, but I will
neverstandin'.
Well, the next morning' we all got reddy very airly.
Zebidee he harnessed the hoses, and Amandy and me we
habiliated ourselves as follcrs. She put on that are yalr
figgerd silk gownd o' hem, and her black silk mankiller
with white fringe round it, and her pink slurred bunnit
with a master sight of artifishel roses and chany asters on't,
and if she dident look purty it's no matter.. I put on my
cinnamon cobrA canton crape, 'cause I ~cckon it's more
becoming' to my figger than ary gownd I've got. Then I
wore my red meryno shawl, and my green silk bunnit sur~


372      GOING TO ES~EE TILE PRESIDENT.

G~O INC TO SEE THE PRESIDENT      373

mounted by one long black ostridge fetber; and I must
say I lookt uncommon well. But goody grievous! how
Misdis Squire Jones did look! Missis Jones is a master
nice woman and persessed of considerable intellectitude, but
she haint no more taste in the arrangement of her attire
thaii an old cow. But I can't spend time to describe her
twilight.
Well, Rier he cum in his one horse wagging, and
Amandy got in with him, and the Deacon and me, and
Zebidee, we got into our surveyance and purty soon all the
rest of the folks cum nlong, and by seven o'clock the hull
sivileade sot out. Well,, by ten o'clock we ariove to
Whitestown and druv, up to Capting Clapp's ilotell, and
arter takin' sum pie and cheese we sot out to go to the rail..
road, the Deacon and - me and Zebidee fust, Squire Jones
and lady next, Kier Simpson and Amandy next, and arter
them the rest of the remainder of our townsfolk; and in
that manner we plummenaded down to the railroad, and I
sonny, I b'l'eve we extracted as much attention as the
president himself. There was thousands and millions o'
folks in the streets and they did stare at us con sairnedl~, at
me pertickilerly, for I must say I was the most ~tinguished
individual in our party in pint o' looks. I never was in sich
a crowd in my born days.
Me and Amandy and the Squire's wife, was the ony she.
males to be seen. And arter a standing' there as much a~ an
hour, and the President dident come, I says to the Deacon
says I, "Deacon, dear, I feel kind o' timersonae about
5t~ndin' here among sich a mess a' men folks."
Well, I don't," says Missis Jones, "1 ain't afeard of
their bitin' of me.7' (Missis Jones is awful bold.)
'0 Kier," says Amandy, "I wish Ide a wore my vail,
the men folks stare so."

"0," says Kier, "that's 'cause they aiti't use to seem'
sich honsotne faces." i' 0 lawful suz !" 'says Amandy says
she, "yer a blaggardin' of me." Jest then the folks hol-.
lerd out "the cars is cuminn'" and sure enough purty
soon the injine cum a smoking' and buzzin' and clattering'
along, and the Deacon amid ~ebidee they hosted me ont&amp;~'
the fence soJ could see over the folks.
"Do ye see him?" says the Deacon.
"No," says IL
"Why," says he, "that are gentleman with gray riches
on that they're jest a hystin' out 's him."
"0," says II, "do ye mean that are short old feller,
rather corputent, with gray and ~aller hair a sticking' out
so consairnedly."
"That's him," says he.
"0 lawful sakes," says I, "-we might a seen enough
better looking' men without cumin' so fur."
"True," says .the Deacon, says he, "b~~t they wouldn't
a ben all presidents."
Jest that minnit there was a pusey man cuni puffin' and
blowing , through the crowd, leading' a very franticc hoss, for
the President to ride on; and a number o' men took hold
and boosted Marting up. As soon as he was fairly sur-
mounted, he spied. me, and he took of his hat and begun a
bowin' to me at an all killing' rate. I no doubt he Was very
much struck with my appearance, for it did seem as if he'd
stare me thro'. Well, he kept a bowin' and I kept a cur-
\chyin on the fence, till I begun to feel rather frustrated.
"0 dear," says I, "1 feel terrible dashed to be stared
at and bowed at so, Line a blushin' like all natur. Deacon
dear, do take me, 6ff this ere pre-eminence.
"0 lawful suz," says Missis Jones, "I wouldn't be
afeard a' the face o' Clay."


374     GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.

GOING TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.    375

"Nor me nyther," says I, "for I don't bleve Clay's
got sich plagy sharp eyes as Van Buren has."
Well we went back to the tavern to reassume our
waggins and perceed to Utica. It had bid thir to be rainy
all day and jest as we got to the eating's, it clouded up
wuss than ever, and lookt as if wouldd pour every minnit,
and Missis Jones~ said for her part she want a guayne a
step furder, she'd no notio~ o' gittin' as wet as muck
for all the presidents betwext here and Passarnaquoddy
Bay.
"Me nyther," says Amandy Malviny, "I aint so
anxious to ride behind the President as to spile my bunnit
for't."
"Well," says I, "I aint no frind o' Van Buren. My
fust husband was a stain, uncountermisin whig, and he
always, endeevord to distill his sentiments into me, but
neverstandin' that, line a guayne to Utica, and it's jest to
gratificate my dear husband the Deacon. I aint afeard of
a little rain. line nyther sugar nor salt, and line a
guaype to Utica, I don't ker if the Dragon stands in the
doQr.'~                                       /
"That's you, wife," says the Degeon, squeezing' my hand.
* So he and me and Zebidee, we got in our wagging and rid
off, leaving' Missis Jones and Amandy' and Kier to the
Casting's, where they said they meant to stay till the
shower was over.
We had to drive ainazin' tight to ketch up with the
republican rottenow, but at last we got tew 'em and druv
into the citty at the hindmost eend of 'em. Instid o'
stopping' at the botch, Van Buren went hum to eat dinner
with the gentleman that brung up the hoss for him, and
I heerd (tho' I didn't see it) that when he rid up to the

1

door, there was a couple o' very genteel young wimmen
cum out o' the house and carried him in on a lady's dicer.
"Well," says the Deacon, says he, "1 aint a cummin'
clear to Utica to eat dinner with the ~President, and then
be cheated out on't,"~ so we left our surveyance to the
tavernand the Deacon and me and Zebidee, we walkt
over to the man's house. Well we knock to the door,
and nobody didn't cum, so Zeb he gin a thundering' kick
and then there was a nigger wench cum.
"Is the President here?" says the deacon.
Yis, sir," says she.
"Well then, show us into yer settin'-room, we've cum
to dinner." The nigger stared and didn't offer to stir.
"Don't ye hear, you black creetur," says I, "show us
into yer settin'-rOoIfl."
So she opened a door and ushered us into a terrible
nice room. "Now," says I, "go tell yer Missis to set
three more additional plates to the table." So she went
off and purty soon the man that fetcht the boss up to
Whitestown, he cuin in mighty fierce with a wonderful
genteel looking' woman behind him.
'~What's the meaning' o' this?" says the man.
"Why, we've curn to eat dinner with the President,"
says the Deacon, says he.
"Have hay," says he. "Well, Ile tell ye another
story. My house aint a tarvern."
The Deacon he was bethunderstruck and darsent say
another word. So I up, and says I, "Mister, I gess if
you knowd who you was a-talkin' tew, you'd be rather
perhiter; this ere's Deacon Gorum; and he's not ony
deacon, but supervisor to boot, and line his pardner, and
this ere's our son, and ~we've cum better iirteen mild a
purpose to eat dinner with the President."


376      GO~NC TO SEE TILE PRESIDENT,

C OINC TO SEE THE PRESIDENT.    377

"Have hay," says he. "Well line sorry to say we
can't accommerdate ye. My wife haint cookt more'n
enough dinner for she and I and the President, and Mr.
and Missis Boneset, have ye, my dear?" says he, turning'
to his wife. (She stood there with her honkercher up to
her f1~ce a'.gigglin'.y
"My! flQ~'~ says she, "and line fearful we shall cum
short as it is, if Mr. and Missis Boneset is very hearty to
eat."
"Whose Mr. ~nd Missis Boneset?" says L
"Lawful sakes!," says she. "Don't ye know, why
it's the Secretary and Secretaryess of War."
"There, Deacon," says I, didn'tt 1 tell ye there'd be
war? Now I reckon the sooner we git hum the better."
Jest then I happened t9 spy Van Buren a peeking' thro' a
crack in the door, so thinks me, lie giv him a stirrin' up,
"so," says I, castin' a look of suvering contempt at the
man and his wife, " Ye may go to the Dragon with yer
dinner. I don't want nun on't. I aint no Vanburenite,
and my fust husband wouldn't a wiped his old shoes on
Martin. He was 'as stiff a whig as ever trod shoe
leather, and so be I and so was the Deacon, till Satan
tempted him to go over to t'other side. I s'pose the evil
one reckoned they needed one decent man among 'em."
"Git out o' my house," says the man.
"Withall the pleasure on airth," says I, aaakin' an all
sufficient low kurchy, 'and walking' c~ff with Oncoinmon dig-
nitude, the Deacon an4 Zebidee follerin'. Well, it was a
raining~ considerable smart, so we went as fast as we could
to where we left our wagging, and got in and rid over to
Elihu Slocum's (he's an intimit frind o' the Deacon's,
moved from our place ~ve years ago; his wife's a very

genteel woman). Well, we went there, and, they was ter-
rible glad to see us; got dinner for us, and treated us
very perlite. But the Deacon was dretfuL sober - he felt
awful cheap about ~bein' used so by that democrat and
his wife. But he didn't say nothing' about it afore Mr.
Slocum, and he winked to 'me not tew, 'cause Slocums a
whig, and the Deacon know'd he'd bother him to everlastin
about it if he heerd on't. Well, arter dinner Zeb he
went out, and purty soon he cum back, and says he,
"Father, the President's down to the hotel a shaking' hands
with his finds, don't ye want to go down and see him?"
So the I)eacon he said he'd go, and he axt Mr~Slocum
to go~ Slocum said he wouldn't give a. darn to shake
hands with the President, but seem 'twas the Deacon axt
him he'd go.' So they went, and byrne by they cum
back, and the Deacon lookt considerable chirker'n he did
afore h~ went; and thinks me, I wonder what's the reason.
Well, it ~Iackt up rainin', and arter urgin' Missis Slocum
to cum and see us, we started for hum. And arter we
was in the wagging and fairly agoin, the Deacon he says to
me, says he, "Well, if I didn't eat dinner with the Presi-
dent, I've had an uncommon perlite reception f~pm him.
We went into the hotel, and purty soon we war intro-
ducted. As soon as the President heerd my name, he
says, says he,
"'Ah, Deacon Gorharn, I'm delighted to see you ; ,set
down here a minnit.' So I sot down, and he whispered
to me, and says he, 'Deacon, that was a scurvy trick they
sairved ye at my friend's down here. I hope ye don't think
Ii had any hand in it. Rea~y, when I peeked into the
door and see how they used ye, and reflected that sittyated
as I 'Was, it was unproper for me to interfere, my suffering


378       ~OING~ TO SEE TilE PRESIDE1~rT.

was intolerable. You must cum to Washington next
winter and eat dinner with me at my own table, and bring
yer wife. fly the way, she's a~ splendid woman, I was
very much struck with her appearance; and that son.o'
yourn, smart feller that, he'll make a man one o' these~
days, and no mistake. Sorry I can't convairse a spell
longer with ye, but I've said more to you than I ha~ve to
ary one individdyal to-day. Good-by, Deacon,' 'Good-
by, President,' says I; then we shook hands agin, and I
cum off." Well, we went home, and I tell ye, the Deacon
never told nobody about tryin' to eat dinner with the Pres-
ident, b~t he's told rnore'n a hundred times how h&amp; had a
long conversation with him, and what he &amp;~iJ about me
and Zebidee. For my part, line a whig, my first hus-
band was a thoro' guayne whig, and I don't think I shall
ever be anything else; ~butarter all .taint in natur for me
to feel so hard agin the President sence what he said about
m~, as I did afore; and I haint made up my mind yit
whether I shall oppose the Deacon's votin' for him next
election or not.

NEW BOOKS
And New Editions Recently Published by
G. W. CARLflTON &amp; CO.,.
1~EW YORK.

BWIF W. OARLRT'~iN.

HENRY 8 ALLEIN

N.E -Tm~ PUBLISHER, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send ..ny of
the following Books by mall, POSTAGE FREE7 to any part of the United States. ThIs
convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Booksellers
are not supplied with the desired work. State name and address In full.
:4
Victor Rugo.
L~s M1SARA1~LES.-TAe best edition, two elegant 8vo. ,ols.,
beautifully bound in cloth, ~ half calf, ~io.oo
LES MIstRABLES.-Tkg ~5o~uar edition, c tie large octaZ~e vol-
ume, paper covers, z.oo; cloth bound, $2.50
LES MI5~tABLES.-~-ln the Spanish language. Fine Svo. eOition,
two vols., paper covers, $4.00; cloth bound, $~.oo
JAIIGAL.-A new novel. Illustrated. . i2mo. cloth, $i.75
THE LIFE OF VICTOR IIUGo.-By himself. Svo. cloth, $x.7~
JOHN HALIFAX.-A novel. With illustration. 12m0. cloth,
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.-      .        do.           do.
Charlotte Bronte (Currer Bell).
JANE EYRE.-A novel. With illustration. i~mo., cloth, $r.75
THE PROFESSOR. -do.      .    do.       *       do.
SHIRLEY.       * do.     .    do.       .       do.
VLLLETTN.-~--  . do.     .    do.       .      do.
Hand-Books of Society.
TH~ HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; with thoughts, hints, and
anecdotes, concerning nice points of taste, good manners,
and the art of making oneself agreeable. The most vnter-
taming work of the kind ever published. I~mo. cloth, $i.75
~HE ART OF coNvERsATIoN.-~With directions for self-culture.
A sensible and instructive work, that ought to be in the
hands of every one who wishes to be either an a~r~eable
talker or listener.  .    .    .     .    121110. cloth, $i.~o
~E ART OF AMUSING.-A collection of graceful arts, games,
tricks, puzzles, and charad~is, intended to amuse everybody,
and enable all to amuse everybody else. With suggestions for
private theatricals, tableaux, p~trlor and family amusements,
etc. With nearly i ~o illustrative pictures. 121110. cloth. $2.00


a~~~ir LZTo N oaPULS

lb..  ar.... J .  -
'LENA RIVERs.--.      .         oe.Im.coh          I5
* DARKNESS .AND DAYLIGHTT. *  *  o.e. do. doth     1-0
TEMPEST AND SUNSHIINE~.-.  .  do-        do'.     1.
MARIAN GREY.-.                   *    .o   do.    $1.50
MEADOW BROoK.... -        .   do.         do'.     150
BNGLiSHj ORPHANS..-  .        d.-o                $1.50
DORA DEANE.-.-'.  *        .   do'         d0o~'.-5
COUSIN MAUD.---..  .                         - do.d5.
DOMESTEA~D ON THE HILLSIDE~    do'        do.     $ 1.50
flUGir WORTHINGTON.-  *   -    do.        do      $1.50
THLE CAMERON PRIDE.-.-7us/ 5ubihe* do              $i-5 o
Artexus Ward.
HIS BOOK.--Thel first collection of hurous wrtig  by A
Ward. Full of comic illustrations.  l2mr1 gs  .(
HITS TRLAVELS.--A COmic volume of Indian and Miormconh a-5e
tures. With laughable illustrations. 2mor coth adve.0
letN LoNI/N...- Anew book containing Ward's comic PiI.
leters an oterpapers. .Illustrated.  I2mo, cloth, $5

BEULAH..-.-A novel of great power. -  as.     coh$.7
1IACARA.-- o.        do.                   d 2 o. Clt$1.75
ST. ELMO.--.  do..     do. Yustf Published. ~do'   $2-750
By the Author of "RUtege9      -    $2o
RUTLEDGE..,-.A deeply interesting novel.  210.coh$.7
HENSUTHERLANDS.--     do          - .2do. clt,$1-75
~'K WARRINGTON--   do.             -    do.     $1-75
RT. PRILIP'.-..       do.       -          do.     $-5
(.OUE's LAST TER  Al 5' MRY'S. ,  -        do.     $1.75
RIOUNDHEAITS AND OTHER STORIES.-.-For children  do  $1.75
A ROSARY FOR LENT.--.~DeVOtional readings . do-.      -5
zM ~   ze(ua       oaMwi)

FAIRY FINGERS---A caia nwnvl
THE MUTE SINGER..--C  do. ne  ov .  .      dco.
THIE CLERGYMAN' WIFE-.--and other stories.  d
New English Novels.
DtEYISEND. o v0ry interesting novel -   O (
AICEN UPON TRUST.--' do * - do.
OUR  RTIS INGo-      . Carleton,    -~
fifty comic illustrates byntheoauthor.m ofmorav
OUR ARTIST INg PRRU--.o.               12o

cloth, $1-75
-.  $1-75
$1.75
~els ; witi
loth, $150

PUBLISHED BY 6k W. CARLETON ~ CO.    5
A. S. ~ Works.

I20 LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.- d0. .
TIME AND TIDE.--         do. ,
I'VE BEEN THINKING.--  ,- do. .
THE STAR AND THE CLOUD.- do. .
TRUE TO THE LAST.-       do. .
110oW COULD HE HEiLP IT ?- do. ,
LIKE AND UNLIKE.-dO.do.
LOOKING AROUND.-          do. -
WOMAN, OUR ANGEL.-7US1 jfublished.

12

W S HE SUCCESSFUL.--    A novel.         12
-   UNDEROURRENT.-            do.  .*   .
SAINT LEGER.--             do. '.     .
ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE.- do.    .    .
[N THE TROPlC.--  -       do.   .   .
TIHE PRINCE OF KASfiNA.- do. ..

Orpheus 0. Kerr.
THE ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS.-ComiC letters and humorous
military criticisms. Three series.  . 12mo1. cloth, $1-50
AVERY GLIBUN.-A powerful new novel.-     -.    $2.00
Josh Billings.
HIS BOOK.-Rich comic sayings. Illustrated. izmo. clo., $x-50
Thos. A. Davies.
HOW TO MAKE MONEY, and how to keep it.--A, practical and
valuable book that every one should have. 12mo. clo., $1-50

mo. cloth, $r-5o
do.     $1-50-
do.     $1 50
do.     $.5
do. $1.50
do.     $-5
do. $1-50
'do.      -5
mo. cloth, $'.75
do.. $I-75
do.   $1-75
do.   $1.75
do.   $1.75
do.   $1.75

T. s. Arthur~s New W
LiGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS.-A novel.
OUT IN THE WORLD.--       do. ..
NOTHING BUT MONEY.-       . do. .
OUR NEIGHBOR    D          - *~lihe.
Robinson Crusoe

Joseph Rodmian Drake.
IRE CULPRIT FAY.--A faery poem . ,  ,  2mo.-cloth, $1.25
AN ILLUSTRATED EDITION.-With 100 exquisite illustrations on
wood. . '. Quarto, beautifully printed and bound, $5 .o6
Algernoni Charles swinburnle.
LAts VENERIS-and other Poems and Ballads. I2mo. cloth. $1.73

orks..
Izmo. cloth, $I-50
.  do.       -5
d o.       $5~
*     do.   $1-50

A novel.

r


I              LIST OF BOOKS PUBLJSIIKD
Cuthbert Bede.
VERDANT GREEN.-A rollicking, humorous novel of English stu-
dent life; with 200 comic illustrations. I2mo. cloth, $1.50
Private itliles O'Reilly.
EAKED MEATS OF THE FUNERAL.-.A comic book. x2mo. cloth, $1.75
LU'E AND ADVENTURES-With comic illustrations, do. $i.~
iVi. ltlichelet's Remarkable Works.
LOVE (L'AMouR).-FrOm the French..  . I2flio. cloth, $ i.~i
WOMAN (LA FEMME).-.-.  do.  .  *   *.     do.1   $1.50
3. Sheridan Le Fanu.
WYLDER'S HAND.-A powerful new novel. 12m0. cloth, $1.75
THE HOUSE BY THE CHURCHYARD..- do. do. $1.75
Rev. John Cununing, DI)., of London.
THE GREAT TRIBULATION.-.Two series.   12mo. cloth, $i.~o
THE GREAT PREPARATION.-   do.      .      do.    $1.50
THE GREAT CONSUMMATION-. do.       .      do.    $1.50
TILE LAST WARNING CRY.-    ~.     -      do.
Ernest Renan.
THE LIFE OF JESUS.-.--From the French work. I2mo. cloth, $1.75
TIlE APOSTLES.-.---    .    do.      .    do.    $1.75
Popular Italian Novels.
LIOCTOR ANTONIO.-A love story. By Ruffini. I2mo. cloth, $1.75
VINCENZO.-          do.         do.       do.    $1.75
EFATRIOJI OENOI.-By Guerrazzi, with portrait.  do.  $x.75
Charles Reade.
TILE QLOISrr~R AND THE HEARTR.-A magnificent new novel-
the ,bestthis author ever wrote.  .  - Svo. cloth, $2.00
The Opera.
TALES FROM THE OPERAS.-A collection of clever stories, based
upon the plots of all the famous operas. 12m0. cloth, $1.50
Robert B Roosevelt.
THE GAME-FISH 01' THE NORTH.-Illustrated. I2mo. cloth, $2.00
SUPERIOI~ FISHING.-        I  do.         do.    $2.00
TEN GAME-BIRDS 0? THE NORTH.-              do.   $2.00
John Phu~uix.
i us SQUIBOB PAPERS.-A new humorous volume, filled with
comic illustrations by the author.  I2mo. cloth, $i.~o
IIatthew Hale Smith.
-I
MoEmT OALVAR~r.--Meditations in sacred places. I2mo. $2 ~q
F. T. Barnum.
TRE RUMBUGS OF THE WORf~D.-TWO series. 12mG. cloth, $r.~v;

BYG~ W. CARLETON &amp; CO., NEW YORK          2
Alice Carey.
THE BISHOP'S SoN.-A new American novel. i 2mo. cloth, $1.75
Edmund Kirke.
AMONG THE PINES.-Or Life in the South. I2mo. cloth, $i.~o
MY SOUTHERN FRLENDS.-   do.   .    .     do.
DOWN IN TENNESSEE.      do.   .    .     do.
ADRIFT IN DIXIE.-       do.    .   .     do.
AMONG THE GUERILLAS.    do.   .    .     do.
1~Irs. C. A. Warileld.
BEAUSEINCoURT.-"'~A deeply interesting novel. I 2~0. cloth, $1.75
HOUSEHOLD OF BOUVERIE.-   do.            do.     $2.00
~Jrs Whiteher.
WIDOW SPRIGGINS.-'-A comic work, author "Widow Bedott," $1.75
F. Bret Harte.
CONDENSED NOVELS-and other comic papers. i2mo. cloth, $i.~o
Dr. 3. 3. Craven.
TILE PRISON-LIFE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS.-Incidents and con-
versations connected with his captivity. i~mo. cloth, $2.00
Captain Raphael Semmes.
THE CRUISE OF THE ALABAMA AND SUMTER.--12m0. cloth, $2.00
Walter Barrett, Clerk.
TILE OLD MERCHANTS OF NEW YORK.-Personal incidents, sketches,
bits of biography, and events in the life Qf leading merchants
in New York. Four series.  .   .    i~mo. cloth, $i.75
Illadame Octavia Walton Le Vert.
SOUVENIRS OF TRAVEI~.-New edition. Large i2mo. cloth, $2.00
Julius Brutus Booth.
MEMORIALS OF THE ~~ELDER BOOTH."-The actor. l2mo. cloth, $1.50
H. T. Sperry.
COUNTRY LOVE 'VS. CITY FLIRTATION.A capital new Society tale,
with 20 superb illustrations by Hoppin. 12m0. cloth, $2..oo
Epes Sargent.
P1~CULIAR.-A remarkable new novel. . . i2mo. cloth, $ 1.75
Cnyler Pine.
MARY BRANDEGEE.-A very powerful novel. izmo. cloth, $i.~5
RENSHAWE.- do. do. $1.75
Elisha Kent Kane.
LOVE-LIFE OF DR. KANE and Margaret Fox. i2mo. cloth, $r.75
itlother Goose for Grown Folks.
HUMOROUS RHYMES for grown people. . . l2~O cloth, $1.25


8      BOOKS PLQII2J&amp;IED RY 6'. E CARLETON ~ Co.
lUiseJlaneous Works
JOHN s. MOSBY.-HLS Life and Exploits, portraits. 12~O. $1.75
THE SHENANDoAH.-History of the Conf. steamer. do. $1.50
HELEN COURTENAY.-Author "Vernon Grove."    do.  $1.75
BALLADS.-By Amelia B. Edwards.    .   .    do.  $1.50
STORMCIAIFF.-A novel by M. T. Walworth.  .  do.  $x.is
MAN7 and the Conditions that Surround Him.  do.  $i.7~
?ROMETHEUS IN ATLANTIS.-A prophecy. . . do. $2.00
THE PAPACY EXPOSED.-Introduction by Bishop Coxe. do. $1.75
PULPiT PUNGENOIES.-A rich comic book.  .   do.  $i.75
CHoLERA.-A Handbook on its treatment and cure. do. $1.00
KATE MARSTONE.-~-An American story.  .  .  do.  $1.50
WHO GOES THERE 7-By "Sentinel."   .   .    do.  $i.~o
ALICE OF MoNMoUTH.-.By Edmund C. Stedman.  do.  $1.25
LYRICS ANDJDYLLS.-   do.         do.       do.  $1.25
NOTES ON SHAKsPEARE.-By Jas. H. Hackett. x2mo. cloth7 ~I.50
rIIE'MONTANAS.-A novel by Mrs.1 S. J. Hancock.  do.  $i.75
PASTiMES WITH LITTLE FRIENDS. -Martha H. Butt. do.  $i.~o
A SPINSTER'S STORY.-A hew noveL  .   .    do.   $ 1.7.5
A LIFE OF JAMES STEPHENS.-Fenian Head-Centre. do.  $1.00
FREE GOVERNMENT IN ENGLAND AND AMERICA.- do. '$3.00
A~7TOBIOGRAPHY OF. A NEW ENGLAND FARM-HOUSE.- do.  $1.75
NEPENTHE.-AneW novel.   .    .   .   .    do.   $i.~o
TOGETHER.- do. . . . . . do. $1.50
PoEMs.-By Gay H. Naramore. . . . do. $i.~o
GOMERY OF MONTGoMERY.-By C. A. Washburn. do. $2.00
VICToIRE.-A new novel. . . . . do. $1.75
PoEM~-By Mrs. Sarah T. Bolton. . . do. $z.~o
JOHN GU1LDERSTR1NG'S SJN.-A novel     .   do.   $1.50
CENTEO~A.-By author "Green Mountain Boys." do. $i.so
RED TAPE AND PIGEON-HOLE GENERALS.-.. do. $1.50
TREATISE ON DEAFNESS.-.--By Dr. E. B. Lighthill. do. $1.50
AROUND THE PYRAMIDS.-J3y. Gen. Aaron Ward.  do.  $i.~o
CHINA AND THE CHINESE.-By W. L. G. Smith. do.
EDGAR POE ANJ~ HIS ORITICS.-By Mrs. Whitman. do. $1.00
MARRIED OFF.-IlluStrated. Satirical Poem.  do.  5octs.
THE RUSSIAN BALL.-Illustrated satirical poem. do. 50 cts.
THE SNODLACE BALL.- do. do. do. do. ~o ets.
AN ANSWER TO HUGH MILLER.-By T. A. Davies. do. $i.~o~
QOSMOGONY.-By 1Thomas A.. Davies. . . 8vo. cloth, .$2.oo
TWENTY YEARS around the world.-J. Guy Vassar. do.  $~.75
RURAL ARCHITECITURE.-By.M. Field. Illustrated, do.  $2.00

L


  
             
         
       
   
