
    ----CITATION----
        White, Richard Grant, (1821-1885). The New Gospel of Peace According to St. Benjamin, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8284
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The new gospel of peace according to St. Benjamin, vol. 2 
            
                  THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE, L. ACCORDING TO ST. BENJAMN.  BOOK SECOND,  NEW YORK: THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY "9 & 121 NASSAU STREET.    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1883, by SINCLAIR 'TOUSEY, tIn the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern DIstrict of New York.  THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE ACCO0EDING TO ST. BEYAW Me  BOOK SECOND. CHAPTER I. 1 Benjamin the Scribe beginneth the Second Book of the New Gospel of Peace. 3 The Ephephvees. 4 They buy their wives. 5 And their concubines. 6 Tarry not for their purfiation woith  sweet odors. 8 The Kopur-hedds. 10 Robbutleeh marcheth  northward. 13 Entereth the Ptovince of Schaddbellee. 17 The Tytchmen or tesh-Hus. 24 They compromise unto Robbutleeh. 25 The Chief Ruler of Iawrc. - 28 A- Captain of the Tshivulree maketh proclamation. 30 That he respecteth private property. 35 Commotion among the Kopur-hedds.  1. HERE beginneth the second book of the mystery of the new gospel of peace, whereof I, Benjamin the Scribe, the brother of Phernandiwud, wrote in the former book which was published unto the people of Gotham and unto the people of all nations. 2. In the- day when Phernandiwud declared the new gospel of peace in the hall of Peter the Barrelmaker, Rob- butleeh, the chief captain of the Tshivulree, was in the land of Diksee (for so is called the land of Unculpsalm when thou goest - south of the border of Masunandicsun), even in the province of Pharjinnee, which is the country of the Ephephvees. 3.- Now the Ephephvees had been patriarchs from the (8)    4      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PACE. beginning, and like them of old had bought their wives for a price. 4. For aforetime the men of the land of Jonbool, mer chants who bought slaves in Ethiopia, and carried them across the great sea and sold those of them that were left alive, had taken of their women them which stole, and them which railed in the streets and upon the housetops, and instead of putting them to death or into prison, they had sent them by ship-loads unto Phaljinnee, and sold them for wives unto the men of that land. And thus did the men of Jonbool rid their land of pestilent women and turn an honest penny, after their manner. 5. So these women became wives and mothers unto many of the Ephephvees that they might live after the manner of the patriarchs. But there were some which bought not their wives; but they bought their concu- bines. So they still lived after the manner of the pa- triarchs.               . . 6. And because these concubines were Ethiopian women, even Niggahs, and their ill-savor.'went up, it behoved the Ephephvees that their days of purification should be accom- plished, to'wit: six months with oil of myrrh and six months with sweet odors and other things for the purify- ing of women, even as it was unto Esther before she went in unto Ahashuerus. But the Ephephvees tarried not for these things.    '  7. And when Phernandiwud declared the new gospel of peace, Robbutleeh marched northward with all his host into the land of the Iangkies; and as he marched the new gospel prevailed more and more. 8. And there was great joy among the followers of Phernandiwud, and among all the faction of the Phlun. kees among the Dimmiehrats, which were called Kopur- hedds.  9. For in the land of Unculpsalm there is an evil beast and a venomous, which crawleth upon his belly in the 4ust,   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.      5 and compromiseth himself humbly until there is good occa. sion, and then he stingeth unto death without warning and in silence. And the name thereof is kopur-hedd. 10. And Robbutleeh marched northward with a mighty army, even an army of an hundred thousand chosen men. And the Tshivulree and the Phiretahs of the South boasted after their manner that the armies of Unculpsalm could not withstand or hinder him, and that he would lay waste the country of the Iangkies, and minister the gospel of peace unto them in such manner as would delight the heart of Phernandiwud and of the Kopur-hedds, his fol- lowers. ". Moreover, they prophesied that he would break up their government and dissolve the bonds of their union, so that they would be no more a nation, but a gathering together of provinces at variance among themselves, each one doubting, fearing, and hating the other, and so the war would come to an end and the gospel of peace pre- vail forever. 12. And the captains which were under Robbutleeh boasted mightily; for they had overcome one of the cap- tains of Unculpsalm, and driven him out of the province of Pharjinnee. So they were mightily puffed up. And when they entered the province which is called the land of Mary, and had taken a city called after Hagar, because she was the concubine of- Abraham, and handmaid unto Sarah, his wife (for the land of Mary is a patriarchal land), n hi die f the people of the city would have fled away, the cap- tain of the Tshivulree said unto them, Flee not away in hope to return again when we are departed; for we have taken this city to dwell in it. So the people remained. 13. But Robbutleeh still marched northward with his host, leaving garrisons, behind him in the cities which he book, until he entered the province of Schaddbellee, which, being interpreted, is the country of the Cooacdes. ". And he sent the chief captains which were under   6      THE NEW GOL PEL OF PEACE o him, each captain with his company, northward toward the city in which dwelt the governor of the province of Schaddbellee, and eastward toward the chief city of the province, which is called Cooacre city. And the great merchants of the province of Schaddbellee dwelt in that city. 15. And Robbutleeh took the little cities upon the southern border of the' province of Schaddbellee, and put a captain with his company in each of them; and he threatened to take the city of the governor of the pro, vince of Schaddbellee and the chief city of the merchants, even Cooacre city; and hs soldiers scoured the country and carried off corn and cattle and raiment, even much spoil. And great fear fell upon the men of Cooacre city and of Gotham, and upon all the people throughout the land of Unculpsalm, which is beyond Masunandicsun, because of Robbutleeh and his Tshivulree and his Phire- tahs.  - 16. But the Kopur-hedds and the Dimmichrats of their faction feared not, but rejoiced min their hearts. For they said within themselves, Now shall the armiesof Abraham be scattered and his government be destroyed; and we shall have a new government; and the corner-stone thereof shall be the everlasting Niggah. And they gave Rob- butleeh to know secretly that they rejoiced:.  1 i 7. Now in the province of Schaddbellee, in the middle country thereof, were - many Tytchmen, even a great mul- titude, sons of Hesh, 'which by them of old time were called Hesh-Huns.           - 18. For when the king of' the landof Jonbool, who himself was a Tytchman, and the son of a Tytchman, made war upon the men of Unculpsalm, be bought' Tytch- men, sons of Hesh, of their king, and sent them under his captains and under his officers to fight with the men of Unculpsalm, even the langkees. 19. And when the sons of Hesh had been well beaten   THs NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.  by the Iangkees, of them that were left of them many re- mained in the land of Unculpsalm, in the province of Schaddbellee. For they saw that it was a rich land and a goodly, even a land in which they might get gelt, which, being interpreted,-is lucre. 20. And they sent letters to their friends and their kins- men which dwelt in the land of Hesh, saying to them, Come unto this land and live, for there is W elt here. And they came. 21. And these Tytchmen learned not for a long time the language of the Iangkies, nor followed they their cus- toms, even for two generations, but they spake their own language, and their scribes wrote in it, and, they fol- lowed their own customs. And they lived slowly, so that whereas the Iangkies lived ten days in one day, the Tytchmen did not live ten days in one year. And they learned only one thing of the Iangkees, to worship the great ruler Jah Xunn, and to believe in him. And they believed in him, and obeyed him, and gave their voices that he should be chief ruler of the land of Unculpsalm many years after he was gathered to his fathers; and they do so even unto this day.  22. And like Jeph, the chief ruler of the Tshivulree, they were repudiators; and it was by their voice that the province of Schaddbellee was numbered for a little time with the repudiators. For the Cooacres, though they do look after lucre, yet do they not repudiate. 23. And the Tytchmen did nothing and thought of nothing, night and day, but to get gelt; and when they got it they put it into pots and into stockings and hid it away. And their cattle were better lodged than they. 24. And when Robbutleeh marched into the province of Schaddbellee, into their country, the Tytchmen bowed themselves down before him, and compromised themselves unto him, and said, What will my lord that his servants shall do that he may be gracious unto them? For they     8   '   THE NEW GOSPEL Of PEACE. hoped to save their gelt and their cattle, and to put more gelt into their pots and into their stockings; but for the nation and its honor and its power, and the freedom of its people, and the justice of its counsels, cared they nothing. 25. And there was a certain man of Iawrc, a little city, which was chief ruler thereof, who, when he heard' that one of the captains of the Tshivulree was drawing nigh unto his city, mounted his horse and rode forth to find the captain, that he might be in. haste to compromise unto him and to render him up the city. And he was of the sect of Smalphri among the Dimmichrats. 26. And he rode many miles and wandered far into the open country, until the night was passed and the dawn appeared, but he found not the Phiretah captain. And he returned home sad and very sorrowful because he had not been able to compromise unto the Tshivulree, and give up his city! 27. But -Robbutleeh and his captains, though they were Tshivulree, thought scorn of the chief man of Iawro and of the Tytchmen, and spat upon their compromising, and took their cities like conquerors.  28. And the captain which took the city of Iawrc made a proclamation to the inhabitants, saying, 29. Men of Iawrc, ye deserve that I should burn your city and cast you out, even ye and your wives and your little ones into the wilderness: because'ye are of the accursed race of Iangkies, which when the people of our cities have made war upon them and killed them, have destroyed the cities and driven out the people, even the Tshivulree, which is an abomination. 30. Behold now also how we of the Tshivulree are not like the Iangkies, in that we respect private- property. I shall not take from you your property, I, nor my officers, nor my soldiers. But ye shall bring unto' me speedily one hundred thousand pieces of silver, and six hundred miasures of fine flour, and thirty thousand measures of . .   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.       9 corn, and forty thousand pounds of the flesh of fat beeves, and one thousand changes of raiment, even of shoes and coats and of nether garments, which are unmentionable, and ye shall deliver the fth tale thereof unto officers that I shall appoint, or I will lay waste your city and destroy it with fire. 31. And when the chief man of Iawrc and the Tytch- men had read the proclamation their hearts sank within them. But they confessed it not even among themselves, but said one to another, Behold how pleasant and good and profitable a thing it is to compromise unto the Tshiv- ulree. For if we had not compromised unto them they might not have respected our private property. But now we have only to bring unto them, speedily, silver, and fine flour, and corn, and flesh of beeves, and changes of raiment, with the nether garments, which are unmention- able, or to have our city laid waste and burned over our heads. Let us, therefore, bring up the gelt, and the corn, and the cattle, and the unmentionable raiment, speedily. 32. And they did so. And in three days they brought money and  meat and raiment, even to the sum of thirty thousand pieces of silver. And they could pay no more. So they compromised themselves yet more unto the Phire. tab captain, and said unto him, Forgive thy servants the' residue. But he answered them, I will not forgive you the residue: see that ye pay the full tale thereof in twenty days, or I  will destroy your city, which I have not yet done because we do respect private property. 33. And when these doings were noised abroad in Coo- acre city and in Gotham, there was amazement and con- sternation, and chiefly among the Kopur-hedds, many of which were rich and had great possessions. 34. For they said, Lo, the people of Iawrc and the Tytchmen round about, have compromised  unto the Tshivulree, and the chief ruler of Iawrc sought out the captain of the Phiretahs diligently, that he might render  1   THE NAiW GOSPEL OF PEACE.  10      THE NEJ W GOSPEL OF PEACE. him up the city; and yet they, who respect private pro- perty, have levied upon the people of Iawrc a contribu- tion which valueth three hundred thousand pieces of silver. 35. Behold, now, Iawrc is a little city, and the people thereof are of small wealth and few possessions. What, therefore, must we give, even we who compromise our. selves, when Robbutleeh cometh unto our cities. In Coo- acre city it will be twenty millions of pieces of silver, and in Gotham it will be fifty millions, and peradventure, one hundred millions. We like not this manner of com- promising; for now we begin to see that it is all upon one side. (For this sort of men have their understandings in their pockets.) And, there was great commotion. CHAPT'E!U II. 1 The Governor of the Province of Gotham seeketh to be Chief Ruler in Unculpsalm. 2 Ee is called Say-More and See-More. 9 The Cooacres. 12 The Hesh-Huns avenge their fothers of the Iang- iaes. 18 They woll get gelt and hate Jah Xunn for Chief Ruler. 21 The City of the Furnace and of Swine-sin-naughty. 22 Which sinneth with the unclean beast. 1. Now, the governor of the province of Gotham sought to be Chief Ruler of the land of Unculpsalm. 2. And of the Pahdees he was called Say More, because that he could say more and mean less than any other man in that country. But of the Kopur-hedds, which were tiot Pahdees, he was called See More, because that there was no man who could see more ways of making trouble for other folk and getting out of it himself. v 3. Wherefore, among the Pahdees and the Kopur-hedds he was thought to be the fittest man to rule the land of Uncuipsalm in the place of Abraham the Honest. 4. Aid when Robbutleeh marched into the province of   Schaddbellee, Abraham sent messages unto the governor of Gotham and unto the governor of Jarzee, saying, The Phiretahs be upon you! Arouse, and send men south- ward to meet them, ere they march upon your cities. 5. And the governor of Gotham then showed that he should be named See More. For he said within himself, Behold, if that cometh to pass for which I am looking, will'it iiot be better that the soldiers of Gotham be south- ward in the province of Schaddbellee, and in the province which is called the land of Mary? 6. For Robbutleeh will surely be victorious, and then shall the city of Gotham and the province of Gotham be without defence against him, and the end shall come the more quickly, and the gospel of peace shall prevail, and the bonds of this nation shall be dissolved, and I shall be a satrap in my province; and so likewise shall the other governors be in their provinces, and we shall make a league together not like unto the Great Covenant, but like unto the league which was before the Great Covenant, and the corner-stone thereof shall be the everlasting Niggah. For it is better that this nation should be dqe- stroyed than that the slaves I should go free, and the ever; lasting Niggah should cease from off the land. 7. Wherefore he sent southward speedily all the soldiers of Gothamn and the country round about, even twenty thousand men. And they marched into the province of Schaddbellee, into the southern and middle parts thereof. 8. And the men of this country, even the Tytchmen, sons of Hesh, had fled, some of them, from before the Tshivulree, and others had remained and compromised unto them; but there were none which remained and de- fied them and took up arms against them. 9. But such were not all the men of the land of the Cooacres. For they had sent forth many mighty men to the war, footmen and horsemen, which had fought valiatly for Unculpsalm; and a part of the army of Un.  12      THE NEW GOSPEL -OF PEACE. culpsalm which had gotten great renown, had come out of the province of Schaddbellee, and was called after the name of that province' 10.- Likewise also did the Cooacres furnish many men, even a great multitude, unto another army in the service of Unculpsalm; even the noble army of Counteractors, which did continually praise Abraham. ". And when the soldiers of Gotham came into the province of Schaddbellee, nigh unto the places where the hosts of Robbutleeh were, they looked to be received with favor and with thankfulness by the men of that country. 12. But the Tytchmen said, Now can we do like the men of the land of Jonbool, for whom our fathers came to fight. We can avenge our fathers of these langkies for the defeat our fathers suffered from their fathers; for we can spoil them and get gelt. And so shall we do like unto the men of the land of Jonbool, when they avenge themselves against theI langkies, and turn also every man an honest penny. -13. For these Iangkies be come hither from Gotham in great multitudes, and they will need food and drink and lodging. Wherefore they are at our mercy, and we will make them pay fourfold for all that they require of us. And they did so. ". And the men of Gotham were astonished, and said, Is it thus that ye do unto them which come to,.protect you against the Phiretahs? 15. And they ,answered and said, Yea, verily. For if ye come to protect us against the Phiretahs, how shall we be protected unless we get from you the gelt which the Phiretahs have taken away from us?  16. Go to, then: for a loaf of bread ye shall pay thirty pennies, and for an egg ye shall pay six pennies, and for a cup of water three pennies y and so on in like manner for all that ye may require of us. 17. And if ye be foolish, and will not compromise unto \ ' '     .   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.      13 the Phiretahs, and entreat them humbly, but will go into battle against them, and any of you be wounded, as ye shall deserve, behold, we will bind up your wounds and pour in oil and wine, like unto the Samaritan of old; and for the bandage ye shall pay a piece of silver, and for the oil three pieces of silver, and for the wine five pieces of silver, even of the pieces which are almighty and which we wor- ship. And for your lodging while ye are sick, ye shall pay in like manner. 18. And fol the Tshivulree and the Phiretahs against whom ye come, ye are no more welcome than they. We care nothing for your quarrel. Get you gone, both of you, and leave us to our farms and our merchandize, that we may get gelt and put it into pots and into stockings. Let us alone, and give us Jah Xunn for chief ruler. 19. Thus did the Tytchmen of the province of Schadd- bellee. But in the land of Unculpsalm were other Tytch- men, not sons of Hesh, which did not so, but fought valiantly against the Phiretahs. Likewise also came Tytchmen among   the soldiers of Gotham; and their cheeks burned with shame and with anger because of the doings of their brethren in the land of the Cooacres, and they reviled them in their own tongue. 20. And the men of the province of Schaddbellee, which were Cooacres, and which were of the blood-of the Iang- kies, did not thus, but made ready to do battle with the Phiretahs, and cast up mounds around their cities, and set thereon engines of war, which sent forth fire and smoke and iron.  21. Thus did the men of the city of the Furnaces, which lieth on the north of the river of Strong Waters, which is at the beginning of the great river of the debtors, even the Oh-I-owe, which is the way to the country of the Re. pudiators, by which thou descendest unto the city of Swine-sin-naughty. 22. For that city was entirely given up to sinning with (-   "   -  THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE., the unclean beast. So that the people did notlhing else, night and day, but slay and eat the abominable creature, and make ready for others to eat thereof. Wherefore when they of the circumcision, like unto Augustus the money-changer, passed through that city, they washed themselves, and were unclean until the evening. And it is called the city of Swine-sin-naughty unto this day. 23. And the chief ruler of Iawrc and the Tytchmena of Schaddbellee, were held in scorn, and the men of the city of the Furnaces, and they which did like unto them, were held in honor throughout the land of Unculpsalm. CHAPTER   III. 1 Robbutleeh still marcheth northward. 5 George the Mede. 7 The land trembleth. 8- But the Kopur-hedds rejoice. 16 George the Mede maketh a Proclamation. 20, A battle beginneth at Gettingsburg. 23 The battle continueth on the second day. 25 The Phiretahs are astonished. 26 The battle beginneth on the third day. 27 Hew-hell, a Phiretah Captain, blasphemeth. 81 Robbutleeh] reneweth the battle. 33 But the Army of Uncul psalm is victorious. 38 And Robbutleehfleeth back into Phar jinnee. 1. Now, when Robbutleeh marched northward into the province which is called the land of Mary, Joseph of Kalaphorni, whom Robbutleeh had driven out of the Wil- derness of Pharjinnee, was yet chief captain of the army of Unculpsalm, which aforetime had been led by Litulmak the Unready, and by John the Boaster, and by Ambrose the Faithful. 2. And this army was, an army of chosen men, and valiant, which had borne the heat and burden of the war, and which had been thrice turned back with great slaugh- ter, but could not be conquered, no, not even by calamity. 3. And Joseph of Kalaphorni was a valiant man, and a  ,        THE -:xV GOSPEL OF PEACE.      1b trusty. And when Robbutleeh marched northward, Jo. seph marched after him to give him battle. 4. But, so it was that Joseph saw that Abraham's coun- sellors of war distrusted him, because that he had been driven out of the Wilderness of Pharjinnee, and that they worked not with him to obtain the victory. And he said, What am I, that my honor and my glory should peril the land of Unculpsalm? Let another be made chief captain in my place; and let me be a soldier in the armies of my country. 5. And Abraham and his counsellors made George the Mede chief captain in the place of Joseph. 6. Now, George the Mede, was of the city of the Cooa. cres. And he was a meek man, and had been for a long time a captain in the armies of Tlnculpsalm, serving faithfully and eschewing flatterers. And the people of Unculpsalm, save his own soldiers, the Cooacres of the province of Schaddbellee, knew not his name. 7.' Wherefore the land was astonished, and trembled when it saw that he was set up against Robbutleeh, who  had discomfited Litulmak, and John the Boaster, and Ambrose the Faithful, and Joseph of Kalaphorni. 8. But the Kopur-hedds rejoiced in their hearts, and said within themselves, Now shall the armies of Abraham be utterly put to rout by Robbutleeh, and the people will say, Abraham is unfit to rule over us. 9. And the scribes of the Kopur-hedds wrote in the books which they sent out day by day, such things as would prepare the people for the defeat of George the Mede, and the destruction of the government of Uncul. psalm. 10. And George the Mede& said, Who am I, that this great office should be laid upon me? But he halted not, neither doubted, but marched straight forward by swift marches Upon Robbutleeh. ". And when Robbutleeh beard that the army of the   THE, NEM GOSPEL OF PEACE. Iangkies (for so the Tshivulree called all the men of Unculpsalm who did not buy and sell the Niggah, and get their bread by the sweat of his face), and that George the Mede was its chief captain,  12. He said, What-be these Iangkies, that they dare to withstand their masters? and who is this Mede, that he cometh with a thrice defeated army between me and my great purpose? Behold, I will scatter him and his host to the four winds of heaven, and give their flesh to the fowls of the air and the beasts of the field, and they shall perish from off the earth,- and the land of Unculpsalm shall be purged of the Iangkies and their rule forever. 13. Likewise also, said the other captains of his host; for such had been the manner of the Tshivulree from the beginning. ". And Robbutleeh called his army together from the cities of Schaddbellee round about, a mighty host, to fall upon George the Mede suddenly, and destroy him. For the host of Unculpsalm was scattered, and weary by rea- son of its long marching; and Robbutleeh said, I shall fall upon it piecemeal, and grind it to powder. 15. And George the Mede saw that the battle drew nigh, and that the host of the Phiretahs was greater than the army of Unculpsalm, and that those were rested, and well fed anid high hearted,-because they had come together by short marches, and that they were puffed up with con- ceit of the might of their valor, and that these were weary and worn with the length of the way and with Watching, and that they remembered how they had three times turned back before the sword of Robbutleeh.' 16. So he made a proclamation to all the captains of his host, even the captains of hundreds and the captains of fifties, saying, 17. Speak unto the men, and say unto them, The hour of deliverance or of captivity is at hand. Choose ye, therefore, whether this nation shall be destroyed, or  TH N EW GOSPEL OF PEACE,      1 whether it shall be saved by the might of ycur arms and the stoutness of your courage. Choose ye, whether ye will live or die for this land in honor, or die before your people in dishonor. For as I live, he that turneth his back this day, shall be slain by them of his own company. Behold, the hearts of all this people are stayed upon you, and ye fight each one of you for a thousand, for your fathers, and your brethren, and your wives, and your little ones. Be valiant, therefore, as ye have before been val- iant, and ye shall be worthy of the victory. 18. But George the Mede promised them not the vic- tory, neither boasted he of what he would accomplish. 19. And so it was, that as the men marched swiftly through the darkness before the dawn, they communed together with low voices in their ranks, and said one to another, Let us dle together this day, my brother, but let us not turn back. And afterward they were silent, and their hearts went homeward, and they said within them- selves, God help us, and this people. 20. And it came to pass, that as the vanguard of the army of George the Mede pressed forward, and got far before the main body, the host of the Phiretahs fell upon it in great numbers, and drove it back, and  its captain was slain.  But it fled not, but went backward fighting, so that the Phiretahs left pursuing. And they pitched a camp, and fortified it in the burial-ground of a city, called Gettingsburg. 21. For in the language of that land burg meaneth a city; and the men of this city were altogether occupied in getting, even in getting gelt, so that for the honor and the glory and the freedom of the land of Unculpsalm -cared they nothing. Wherefore their city was called Gettingsburg. 22. Yet was there c ne man of Gettingsburg, a poor man, who took his weapons and went out to fight the--Phiretahs. 23. And on the morrow, Robbutleeh set his army    in battle array to attack the army of George the Mede before   THE NEW GOSPEL OF rJoA  . it was well brought together. And-about the fourth hour of the evening he came down upon the men .of IUncul- psal withal his host, and, fell furiously upon them, and threws  gre at slaughter. Ai-d the men of Unculpsalm, were outnumbered; 'yet fought they valaty an  se of their enemies more than there fell of- themselves. And they went. a little backward fighting, and the Phie- tahs followed hard after.  24. Then came up succor, even a great company of the army 25. Adore the Mede, which had been m-achinal ee wothe night, and which now moved swiftly tow hoise of the battle. And they came up running, and went into :the fight without halting. Then the sen of VnculPsalm stood fast-again, ae drove the Phiretao s backwarde . And Ythisewaabout they going dcown of the sute 25. Ande oasthers     wetahs andthe captains of the Tshivul 2.anxiusy o the Phorr.    ree wondered, and saidt among themselves, Who it s  this George the ost ofthat he thus withstandeth the great Robbutleeh? and what men be these that do battle under him? Is this the host that was tooflee like sheep before us? Yet they were not dismayed; for although they were boasters, yet were they valiant. And theylooked anxiously for the morrow.    ?       g 26. And early in the morning hiei wsyt an inge the host of the Phiret hs was set in battle array and m hed ouls pn the lost of .Unculpsalm even upon. amarne ofil b upo wo wa osse  ftee-   rthem one wing thereof. For they said, So shall we erush te unawares. But the. men of UntulPsalm fell back a little, "hting, and George the Mede sent them suedor, and again they -stood fast, and drove off the Phiretahs, with great Fief, slaughter.    - 27. henwerethecapains of the Phiretahf3 perplexed intheir souls, and waxed very wrothe idoefthm a Manof blood, who was possessed of the, ev .piritBls tah, and which was called of the men o obo e-el took ana oath in .the nlame of his. god, and blasphemed   after the manner of the Phiretahs, and swore that he would break through the ranks of the men of U nculpsalfa that day. 28. And Robbutleeh sent unto George the Mede,9 saying, Let there be peace between us for a time, that I may bury my dead and that we may exchange our prisoners. 29. And George the Mede sent back the messenger, saying, There cannot be peace between thee and me. For thy dead, I will bury them even -as my own, and my men whom'thou bast taken I mean to take from thee again. For he saw the craft of Robbutleeh, that he would have given up the battle and escaped, even, as he had done afore. time with Litulmak. 30. Then was Robbutleeh astonished at the subtlety and at the boldness of George the Mede, and he addressed his army again to battle, for he saw that his case was desperate. And he set all his men in- array with their banners, and marched them forward with pomp and great majesty, even as on a feast-day. In two ranks they marched, so that the second might finish the work which the -first begun. For still they were confident and high-hearted. 31. And they went forward in order, terrible and beau- tiful, shouting as they went. But the men of Unculpsalm answered them not; for the footmen all lay flat upon the ground, and the horsemen and they that worked the great engines of fire, held their peace craftily. 32. And when the first ranks of the Phiretahs -came near, the men of Unculpsalm rose and fell upon them; and the two fought together, but neither prevailed. Yet fell there more of the men -of Unculpsalm, for they were outnumbered, and the Phiretahs were valiant and had waxed desperate. 33. Then came on the second ranks of the Phiretahs, running fiercely upon the remnant of the men of Uncul- psalm, who fell where they stood in their ranks or went backward fighting. But so it was that when the Phiretahs  20     THE NEW GOSPEL' OF PEACE. looked to fall upon the men of Unculpsalm and put them all to the sword, the engines of George the Mede poured out fire upon them, and out of the fire came thun. derings and bolts of iron that swept way the foremost of their second array, and of the residue some fled back. ward, and some threw themselves down upon the ground and gave themselves prisoners. For theysaw that they could not pass into that fire and live. And they said one to another, Behold we be all dead men. And again this was about the going down of the sun. 34. And all theenight George the Mede made ready to pursue the Phiretahs in the morning. 35. ,But when Robbutleeh looked upon the field he saw that the day was lest, and that if he tarried until the morning hle wouldbe destroyed and cut off. So he gath- ered his army together and fled in the night (for he was a wary man and a prudent); and in the morning the men of Uiiculpsalm foAnd that their enemies had vanished away from before them. 36. Then they pursued the host of the Phiretahs, but they could not come up with them; for those had the start of these, and both alike were weary and suffering from the battle, 37. So the Phiretah captain who was called of the men of Jonbool Hew-hell, brake not through the ranks of the men of Unculpsalm, in'spite of his oaths and his blasphe- mies, nor did he wait to receive from the men of Iawrc the rest of the money and the corn and the unmentionable raiment, neither did he sojourn in the city which is called after the name of Hagar, the concubine of Abraham, but gat him out of it speedily. And George the Mede and the men of Unculpsalm pursued after him. And this was the end of his oaths and of his boasting and of his respecting of private property. ^ ; 38. So Robbutleeh fled back again into the land of Pharjinnee.   THE!NJRW GOSIEL OF PEACE.      21 CHAPTER IV. ! T'l victory iS noised abroad. 2 iTe Kopvr-hedd are dJibayed 7 See More becometA Seemer. 9 The Kopur-.eds take counsel in taeis extremity. 10 Assohkald Edditah. "Phernandiwud ormeth not to the assembly. 27. A dayof fasting and rayer. 28 Which pleaseth not Hiram the publican. 29 The king of the PaMivoos. 36 The Knsuvutivs. 40 KInsuvutiv -ezzleooshns. ". Benjamin proposeth to sell Assokald Edditah. 52. The assembly cemeth to naught. 54 Ulysses taketh Wickedsburg Nathaniel taketh another city. 71 Wherefore Phernandiwud proposeth'a new ministration of the Gospel of Peace. 1. AND on the next day, which was the fourth day of the seventh month, which was held as a solemn festival in memory of deliverance from the king of the land of Jon- bool, this was noised throughout allthe land of Unculpsalm. 2. And the Kopur-hedds were astonished and dismayed; but all the rest of the men of Unculpsalm, even of the Dimmichrats, rejoiced greatly. For they said, Behold the end of this war beginneth to appear; and now we see hope that this nation shall not be destroyed and brought to naught. 3. Likewise were even they of the merchants of Goth- am and of Cooacre city, and of the new Athens which cared more for their gain than for the freedom s- . honor of their nation exceeding glad, and the noble armn, of Coun- teractors in the province of SchaddbeUllee which did con- tinally praise Abraham, were triumphant, and the  people of the city of Swine-sin-naughty gave themselves yet more unto the  killing and eating of the unclean beast, and mak. ing ready for the armies of Unculpsalm to eat, until their faces shone  and their eyes stood out with fatness. 4. A nd A ugustus the money-changer and all they 'of the circumncision which were of his faction were w roth   22.     THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. and said, Behold the abomination which followeth the vice tories of the armies of Unculpsalm. v 5. And likewise on that day the Kopur-hedds and cer- taiu other of the Dimmichrats were gathered together in the great hall of the men singers and women singers of Gotham, which sang unto the Gothamites music that they comprehended not, in a language that they understood not, that the Governor of the province might make a speech unto them. 6. And he spake unto them, and said many things, which indeed were one thing in many shapes, to wit, that Abra- hiam and his counsellors were tyrants, that Clement and the others of his sort whom the officers of Abraham had taken in custody were martyrs, that the Phiretahs should be compromised unto, anda that the land was the inheri- tance of the Dimmichrats. But he condemnec not them who set at naught the Great Covenant by making war! upon the rulers of the land, neither stirred he up: any man to strive for ,the honor andi the glory and the freedom of the land, nor spake he one word of cheer or, of thankful- ness for the victory of George the Mede which fthec the land with joy on that great day of the nation. 7. And from that day because of his speech, and be- cause. he yet made great pretence of love unto the land of Unculpsalm, they that were not Kopur-hedds or Pahdees called him not See MKore y ore, but Seerer. For they sald,He would seem to be that which he is not. 8. Likewise also did Phernandiwud, and Benjamin the Scribe, and all the straitest of the sect of the new gospel of peace. For. they said, He speaketh with us, yet he striveth also for the friendship of them who prefer war and the nation to peace and the everlasting Niggah' Be- hold he is a seemer and not a doer. Wherefore his name thereafter became Seemer. 9. And soon after the chief men of the Kopur-hedds met together in Gotham t0 kee what they should do for they   THE NEW GOSEL   OF PE ACE. 2* were in  great extremity. And they came sorrowfully and with their countenances cast down, all of them. And they that were of this assembly were only they that had em- braced the new gospel of peace. 10. And they suffered among them Assohkald Eddittah the scribe, who, to gain the World, had lost his own soul. ". Now they suffered him to come among them be- cause they had bought him to use him as they would, to publish their doctrine to the people of Gotham. For afore. time he had sought to make himself serviceable unto Abra- ham and his counsellors, but they regarded him not. 12. Wherefore he said unto the Kopur-hedds, Buy me, and I will serve you. And they bought him.- 13. And Augustus the money-changer lent the money wherewithal to buy him. For he said, Mayhap the gos- pel of peace shall prevail throughout the land; and then mnay Assohkald Eddittah change his name, even as I have done, like unto my forefathers, and become Areel Eddit- tah. Then shall I own Areel Eddittah; and he shall write that which shall make a market for my'moneys, and I shall receive mine own with usury. Thus was it that the chief men of the Kopur-hedds suffered Assohkald Eddittah among them. ". But Phernandiwud came not into this assembly. 15. For there was variance between Phernandiwud and the men of Tammunee, and between Phernandiwud and some of the chief men of the Kopur-hedds. Because Pher- nsndiwud had claimed for the men of his following the chief offices in the city of Gotham and in the province-of Gotham. 16. And many had been given unto them, but he claimed yet the more. And of them that received the places many got only a part of the wages'-thereof. And when it was brought before the judges no man could tell what was be- come of the residue. 17. But the men of TanmmTnunee said, Peradventure Pher *    I * I   q 24      THE mEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. nandiwud, he knoweth; for his walk is slantindicular. And when they said peradventure, they thrust the tongue into the cheek and pointed with the thumb over the left shoulder. For such is the manner of the men of Tamunnee. 18. Wherefore Phernandiwud came not into this assem- bly. Yet he was not cast down but rejoiced in secret for he said, Behold there are but two ways in this matter; and the way of Abraham is one way, and my way is-an- other. For he was a crafty man, and wise in his genera- tion. 19. And when the chief men of the Kopur-hedds saw that they were all assembled, they shut to the door and sat down to take counseltogether. 20. And each man turned to his'neighbor and looked that he should have spoken. But no man spake; for their hearts were troubled and they were sorely perplexed. And silence fell upon them. 21. But after a long time the chief man among them arose and said, My brethren, our case is very desperate. Had the Lord pleased to defeat the army of George the Mede, we were prepared therefor, and could-have meekly borne that dispensation. 22. In defeat we could have found some comfort; but what shall we do with a victory? And he sat down. 23. Then each man turned to his neighbor and said, What shall we do with a victory? But no man answered. And again great silence fell upon them; and they looked vainly each in the face of the other. 24. Then arose a scribe whose surname was Primus, (not he whose beard was like Aaron's, and who dwelt among the merchants,) and he opened his mouth and said, 25. For the wickedness and the iniquity of this people we do suffer- victory this day, in that they have listened unto the ministers of Beelzebub, who preached deliverance to the captive, and have declared that no more of the land of Unculpsalm shall be blessed with slavery, and in the !   THE fat W  GOSPEL OF PEACE. , perversity of their hearts and the wickedness of their imaginations have sought to take away the everlasting Niggah.  26. Yea, verily, and have gone after strange gods, hon- )ying Charles the Summoner, rather than Prestenbruux, mand Philip of Athens rather than Isaiah the Hittite, who is I man of peace and who loveth free speech; and moreover iave fought foolishy that their nation might not be des- royed, as it deserved to be for all their transgressions. 27. Wherefore let there be a day appointed of fasting, if humiliation, and of prayer, to make atonement for the ins of this people, and peradventure it shall be that their "quity shall be forgiven, and that there shall no more rievous victories afflict the land. 28. And again there was silence for a little while, and ien there was heard a voice, (and it was the voice of Hiram ie publican,) saying, Let not the people fast, for it is un- rofitable. Let there be humiliation and prayer; for after amiliation men need wine to make their hearts glad rain; and he that prayeth thirsteth. But fasting is an )pression unto me, and moreover we shall offend them at sell meat in Gotham, and the people of Swine-sin. tughty, so that they shall turn away from Jeph and serve braham.  So they consented not to this counsel.       i 29. Then arose another, who said, Can we not entreatthe .   i ag of the Pahvoos, Nah Pohon, whom  all the world ireth, to help us, even as he hath helped the people of  eesichoh?  For he hath sent an army into Mecsichoh,    i d he  hath overcome the people of Mecsichoh, and hath' iven out the rulers whom they had chosen, and put to     I sword all them that resisted him, and hath been gra- us unto them, and given offices unto them that submit-  I to him and compromised themselves unto him. 30. Might we not then compromise ourselves unto him.  i win him to enter our land-with an army; and then  ,ht he join himself unto our friends the Phiretahs and - 2..    ,        '.             . ,    A   26      THE NJEW GOSPEL JF PEACE. be victorious over the armies of Unculpsalm, and delve out the rulers which the men of Unculpsalm have chosen, even Abraham and his counsellors, and be gracious unto us, and give offices unto us, as it hath been in Mecsichoh, and so should we attain unto our hearts' desire. 31. But Elijah who smelleth the battle afar off in the tents of Tammunee answered and said, Thou speakest even as a fool speaketh. This people feareth not the king of the Pahvoos; for the men of the land of Unculpsalm are not as fthne men of Mecsichohb; 32. Moreover they know that he is the nephew of-his uncle, and that he hath sworn to do in all things even as his uncle. And did not his uncle bone a part of every land wherein he entered'? Think ye that this people will suffer the king of the Pahvoos to do this thing? 33. (Now to bone, being interpretedis to rob, and to rob land is the speech of the men of Jonbool, to colonize, and in the speech of the men of Unculpsalm, though they be the same tongue, to annex.) 34. And Elijah spake thus; for because that he was not a Kopur-hedd. Yet they admitted him to their coun- cil; for he was a great man among the Dimmicrats, and they feared him. 35. Moreover they remembered the wrath of the people against them when they went privily unto the ambassador of the land of Jonbool that he might help them to bring about the ceasing of the war without the putting down of the rebellion. And they said, Alas I this may not be, and we cannot ask the king of the Pahvoos to help our friends the Phiretahs with an army. For this people is a stiff-necked people, and daily more and more it is given over unto the accursed spirit Bak Bohn, so that it will not suffer the kings of other nations to help us. And our scribes must no more praise the doings of the king of the Pahvoos in Mecsiphoh, as they have done thus far, or we shall destroy our faction.   THUB JSNW GOSPEL OF PEACE.      7 36. Then arose another which was a chief man among the sect which called themselves Knsuvvutivs. 37. Now the Knsuvvutivs were they, which when they had got into hot water, stayed there that they might not be scalded.  38. And there have been Knsuvv'utivs from the begin. ning of the world, yea though they have all been scalded; and there shall be for ever; and they will remain in hot water and suffer no man to pluck them out thereof. 39. And this Knsuvvutiv opened his mouth and said, It is because this war is not waged'according to the doctrine of the Knsuvvutivs that we are afflicted with this grievous victory this day, and because Abraham and his counsellors and the men of their inclining do continually struggle and strive to get out of hot water when they ought to remain quietly therein. 40. Now, therefore, let there be rezzleooshns issued ac.' cording- unto the doctrine of the Knsuvvutivs, ". (For it was the custom of the men of Unculpsalm when they were not sure that that which they desired was so, to declare solemnly that it was so  and this they called a rezzleooshn.) 42. And let the rezzleooshns be two. And let the first rezzleooshn be, That this people is a Knsuvvutiv people, and that the Knsuvvutivs are in favor of the war. 43. And let the second rezzleooshn be, That the Knsuv- vutivs are opposed to all means of carrying on the war. ". So shall the doctrine of the Knsuvvutivs prevail; nd the war shall be conducted according to the doctrine )f the Knsuvvutivs, and we shall remain in our hot water, amd no more grievous victories shall afflict the land. 45. And this counsel  was well pleasing unto the assem. ly; which being immediately filled with the spirit of Insuvvutism, sat still and did nothing. ". But Benjamin the scribe, the brother of Phernandi- uda, felt that he was in hot water, he and his faction; and   8 ,THE NEW GOSPEL OF IEA. h was not yet sufficiently a Ensuvvutiv to remain 'therein. So he opened his mouth and saidt  47. Behold this nation is ingreat peril o i  t the case is desperate, and something must be done. Let us therefore sell Assohkald Eddittah Unto Abraham the honest and to his counsellots, and let him serve them and George the Mede even as he hath served Jeph the Repu diator and Robbutleeh, and mayhap this sore calamity may be Iaverted. 48. And when Assohkald Eadittah heard that there was question of somebody buying him, he arose quickly and said, Yea, verily, let'Abraham and his counsellors buy thy servant; for the case- of this nation and of thy servant is desperate. Yet Augustus the. money-changer, an H-iram the publican and Samuel, whose surname is Brinnz- maid, must be content to lose thereby. For because that mad muo. be- conto^ his case is desperate thy servant will sell himself cheap, yea, even cheaper than he did aforetime.  v49. Then Benjamin the scribe was wroth, and arose and "Then Ba   soadAdta     thysel cheapeRrn said, How is this that thou wilt sell thyself cheaper? Didst thou not sell thy soul or promise of the World? C  ould less have been given or less have been received? (For he, was a just man anffa holy, and eschewed the World, the Flesh and the Devil.) Go to, now; have I not bought thee and sold thee, and do I not know thy value and thy price? 50. Then was Assokald Eddittah cast down, and shrank within himself. But Samuel, whose surname was Brinnz- maid (it was'he who ministered unto the Phiretah woman and showed her the nakedness of the land), took compas' sion on him, and'went to him, and said unto him, Be com- forted. Thou canst not be sold aga'* for Abraham will not buy thee, neither will his counsellors, nor George the Mede. But thou shalt still be Assokald Eddittah, and mayhap thou mayest become Areel Eadittah; and thou shalt have thy wages.   THE NEW GOSPE L OF PEAC.     29 51, And when he heard that he should have his wages he was comforted, and he thought that the calamity had passed away from the nation. But after that no man re- garded him. 52. And it came to pass that after this assembly had continued a long while, and the Kopur-hedds had taken m uch counsel together, ther y came to no oconclusion; o:' their devices slipped from them even as water slippeth through the fingers of him that dippeth it with his hand; and they were in sore perplexity. And they dissolved the assembly until another day, when they hoped that wisdom might show herself among them. 53. And when Phernandiwud heard thereof he rejoiced secretly; for he said, Behold, there are but two ways in this matter; and the way of Abraham the honest is one way, and the way of Phernandiwud, who walketh slant- indicularly, is the other way. And he knew that in the end they must admit him to their counsels. 54. Now at the time when Phernandiwud declared the new gospel of peace unto the men of Gotham one of Abraham's chief captains, whose name was Ulysses, but whom his soldiers had called Unculpsalm, because of the great service that he had done unto that land, had sat down before a city in the south, and was laying siege to it. 55. And the name of the city was Wickedsburg; for the people thereof were men of blood, and they passed their time in casting lots with dice for gold, and in boast. ing for gold on pieces of paper spotted with many colors, and in disembowelling each other with knives, and in slay- ing each other with shooting-irons. 56. And this city stood upon the great river of the land of UTnculpsalm, which is called the Father of the Waters, so that ships could not go up or down that river unless they that dwelt in Wickedsburg suffered thenm- 57. And-Ulysses, which was called Unculpsalm, had de. feated the armies of the Phiretahs which withstood his   80      1HEIB W GOSPEL OF PEAC. march to Wckedsburg, and had scattered them abroad, so that he marched up against the town, and he laid great siege thereto.  58. And the Phiretahs boasted that the city could not be taken, after their manner; and Ulysses took it, with- out boasting, after his manner. And this was also upon the fourth day of the seventh month, which was the solemn festival of the land of Uneulpsalm. 59. And it came to pass, that on the day before that on which the Kopur-hedds had appointed for the assembling of themselves together again, news was brought to Gotham that Ulysses, who was surnamed Unculpsalm, had taken the city of Wickedsburg, and that the host of the Phire. tabs therein, with their arms, and their engines of war, and all their spoil had fallen into his hands. 60. And agai there was great rejoicing throughout all the land of Unculpsalm, save in the land of the Phiretahs, so that even the Kopur-hedds rejoiced with their lips be- cause they feared the people; but in their hearts they were cast down and exceeding sorrowful. ". And when the chief men of the Kopur-hedds assembled themselves together to take counsel as they had appointed, so it was that their lips were sealed again, and they sat silently looking upbn each other, for they were in great extremity, and were at theirwits' end. And after a time they arose and went out one after another, saying nothing. - ,               ,  62. And they appointed yet another day for their assem bling. For they said, Peradventure some disaster may  yet be vouchsafed unto us. ' 63. But it came to pass that before the day of this third assembling was come, another of the chief captains ofAbra ham, whose name was Nathaniel, had taken another city, which was upon the Father of the Waters, even the city which is called after the great river Hutzoon. And this was the last city which was held by the Phiretahs on the   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.      31 banks of the Father of the Waters; so that after they were driven out thereof the ships of the men of Uncul- psalm, even their ships of merchandise, and their ships of war, could go up and down that river through the whole breadth of the land of Unculpsalm. ". And the news thereof came quickly unto the city of Gotham; and when the chief men of the Kopur-hedds assembled themselves together for the third time, they came as men having no hope. 65. And again they sat each man looking in the face of his neighbor, and they said nothing. ". Then after they had sat a long while, suddenly there appeared among them Phernandiwud, who was not bidden unto their assembly. And they were astonished. 67. And Phernandiwud said unto them, Why sit ye here silent, doing nothing? 68. And looking up they could answer him but one word, 69. Knsuvwutiv. 70. Then said Phernandiwud, Give knsuvvutism unto Beelzebub. Ye cannot serve two masters (for he had searched the scriptures and found therein something more to his advantage): ye cannot be for the war and against the means of carrying on the war. Ye cannot serve Jeph and Abraham. 71. Go to, then: there needeth now a new ministration of the gospel of peace, and it shall not be wanting; even such a ministration as there hath not been before this day; a ministration unto which the ministrations of Presten- bruux unto Charles the Summoner, and of Isaiah the Hit- tite unto Philip of Athens, and my ministration unto the watchmen which be now-the watchmen of Ken Edee, were as nothing; even as knsuvvutism Go to. Do not the Pahdees govern Gotham? 72. And her turned and left the assembly. And they wist well what he meant, and they rejoiced in their hearts:   832    TliHE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. but they said, We wash our hands of this matter. 73. Now even so did Pilate likewise wash his hands Af that other matter. 74. For he also was a knsuvvnttiv. CHAPTER Y. 1 How Seemer was made governor. 2 The Oueecnees. 8 Abraham harkeneth unto Seemer. "And decreeth the lot. 15 The Kopur-hedd scribes stir up the people. 22 The Pahdees and the schyndee. 29 They whowl about giving wages unto the Niggah. 80 Ouaics. 1. Now  it came to pass that for a time before the Kopur-hedds set up Seemer for governor of the province of Gotham, the war in the land of Unculpsalm had lan- guished; and it seemed as if the Tshivulree might prevail against the Iangkies, and the land of Utnculpsalm might be divided, and its government brought to naught. 2. So that many which were not Kopur-hedds, but which wavered in their purpose, joined themselves unto the sect of the Oueecnees; for so were they called which could not stand up like men to the work which was before them. 3. And Seemer saw this. Wherefore he said, Behold Abraham and his counsellors are slothful, and the land will be ruined because of their slothfulness. Why do they not send officers throughout the land, and let lots be cast for men to fill up the armies of Unculpsalm, that it may be done speedily, and that with a high hand 'and a mighty arm. 4. And the Kopur-hedds said, Yea, verily, Let the lot be cast, and let the men be taken. Behold Abraham  and his counsellors are feeble. Let the war be waged with a high hand and a mighty arm.. /  \   THE -sW GOSPEL OF PEACR.      33 5. But in all this they were crafty (for they were wise in their generation), and sought only to get the govern. ment into the hands of their faction.- And they prospered for the time. For all of their .own faction, and all of the sect of Oueecnees gave their voices for Seemer, so that he was made governor. 6. Now the Knsuvvuttivs forgat nothing, neither learned they anything; wherefore it was that they remained in hot water lest they might be scalded. 7. And Abraham   remembered how it had been with rulers, which were Knsuvvuttivs, in the olden time, how they had either brought their nation to ruin or themselves; and how two rulers, kings, even the king of the land of Jonbool, before it became the land of Jonbool, and while the men of Unculpsalm, even the Iangkies, dwelt therein, and the king of the land of the Pahvoos, which were good men, but Knsuvvuttivs, and forgot nothing, neither learned anything, but got themselves into hot water and remained therein lest they should be scalded, were solemn- ly beheaded for their Knsgvvuttism. 8. And Abraham considered the matter in his heart, and he said within himself, The wise man remembereth the teachings of the past, but he turneth not away from the cry of the present; neither stoppeth he his ears against the chiding of his adversary, for it may profit him. So, al- though Abraham was not numbered among the Knsuvvut- tivs, he hearkened unto their counsels. 9. Now  there were others, chief men of the Dimmi. chrats, which did likewise. And these were Benbuttlah, who first discovered that the everlasting Niggah was con- traband; (Now, contraband, in the language of all the gen- tiles, is everything which doeth harm  unto him  that maketh war, and helpeth his enemy to war upon him;) and D anie, surnamed Scripturdic, because he searched the eScripture not to find somethinm to his advantage, but that he might expound   them unto the people; and Jembray   34      TH SNEW GOSPEL OR PEACE. Dee, a great lawyer of Gotham who would take no office, and who was the son of a Pahdee. (Now there be no better men than the sons of Pahdees that are born and -bred- in the land of Unculpsalm.) Likewise were there many others of this sort among the Dimmichrats. 10. And Abraham said, Let the lot be cast who shall serve inthe armies of Unculpsalm. And, whereas, by te  reof olden time, even by Moses it was said that only he who' had taken a wife should not go to warlet now every man who is the only son of a widow, and who is t otnly support of his wife and his little ones and every man whose going shall be a hardship and a calamity, save that which men ought to bear, not be taken. ,.:-And if any man's heart fail him or if his business demand him, let him pay another that he may go in his place; let it be declared that whosoever, upon whom the lot falleth, and who will pay into the treasury three hun- dred 'pieces of silveli shall have another provided for him to go to the war in his place; for so shall the extortioners not grind the faces of them that be both poor and faint hearted. -1t2. Now when Phernandiwud heard that this was done, he rejoiced greatly. For he said, Abraham hath again ministered occasion unto us; and this occasion is even better than that when he gave u s Clement for a martyr. 13. For Clement hath made little for us by his martyr dom.                       h i ". And immediately Phernandiwud, and Benjamin his brother, and James the Scribe, and Erastus his brother, and Primus - the Scribe, and Assokald Edditah, being bidden thereunto by his owners, and all the Scribes and the orators of the Kopur-hedds throughout the land of Unculpsalm, forgetting the counsel of Seemer, and that they did declare the same, did set themselves to stir up the people against the lot.  15. For t-ey said, Thus shall we hinder Abraham and   THE -NEW OSPEL OF PEACE.      35 his counsellors in their government, and thus shall we stop the war, so that no more grievous victories shall afflict the land, and the armies of Unculpsalm shall be driven firom the field, and the gospel of peace shall prevail, and the land shall be divided, and the nation destroyed, so that we can build it up again, and its foundation shall be the everlasting Niggah, who endureth from generation to generation. 16. And openly they declared against the lot, because, as they said, it was contrary to the Great Covenant. 17. For, in the land of Unculpsalm, whatever a man was loth to do he would say was not according to the Great Covenant; so that men began to hope that it might be found contrary to the Great Covenant for the husband to walk up and down with a child that crieth in the night. (For such was the custom in that land.) Wherefore the children would have been suffered to cry until the judges had delivered judgment, but that the women had whereof to say about that matter. 18. But in secret the Kopur-hedds said unto the poor men, Behold, Abraham lieth in wait for the blood of the poor. For the rich man who can pay three hundred pieces of silver need not go to the war; but the poor man, who cannot pay, must go if the lot fall upon him. Saying not that every man must serve God and his country according to his ability. 19. And to the rich they said, The three hundred pieces of silver will not be paid to the men who -go into the army in your places, but even unto that other army, the noble army of Counteractors which do continually praise Abra- ham, 20. Thus the Kopur-hedds made confusion, and stirred. up the people to murmur throughout the land; but chiefly in the city of Gotham, which was governed by the Pah. dees, the followers ofPhernarndiwud. 21. Now the Pahdees are ready to fight, and they love   ) -36     }THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. fighting for fighting's sake; and so do not the Iangkies, which do never fight, save against oppression and for right. eousness' sake. 22. And the Pahdees do like best that fight which is called schyndee. (Now a schyndee is when each man breaketh the head of his neighbor and asketh no questions.) And without schyndees the Pahdee pineth away and life is a burden unto him. 23. But before the beginning of the war the Pahdees of Gotham had been almost altogether deprived of schyndees by reason of the straitness of Ken Edee and his watchmen. 24. And when the war began, besides that many of them stood idle and had neither work nor wages, they all thought that the war would be like unto a great schyndee, even great enough to make up unto them the loss of all the schyndees whereof they had been deprived by the watch- men of Gotham. So they went many of them to the war; but after a season they came home, and having been filled with fighting for a time, and finding both work and wages, they returned not again, but gave themselves to govern- ing Gotham. 25. Now when the decree went forth that the lot should be cast, Phernandiwud and the chief of his disciples who were apostles of the new gospel of peace went among the Pahdees and said unto them, 26. What is this that Abraham and his counsellors would do unto you? They are tyrants and would take away your rights and your privileges. Foris it not the right and the privilege of the Pahdees to come from a land of famine and oppression unto the land of Unculpsalm, which is a land of plenty and of freedom, and to be paid for their labor four-fold what they received aforetime, and while the bog is yet upon their feet to become rulers in that land, and to take unto themselves all the benefits for which the langkies have done battle and stat in council, and to have fat offices, and above all, to rule in Gotham?   THE iSW GOSPEL OF PEACE.      37 27. Wherefore, then, goeth forth this decree from Abra- ham and his counsellors, that the lot shall be cast in Goth- am, where be many Pahdees, even a great number like unto the locusts for multitude, save that Abraham thirst- eth for the blood of the Pahdees, and would take them away from ruling Gotham, and deliver the city into' the hands of the Iangkies, which have no right therein, and unto men who would take away the everlasting Niggah and let him go a free man over the land, and get both work and wages? 28. And when the Pahdees heard of giving wages unto the Niggah they all howled with an exceeding long and piercing howl. For the Pahdees do hate the Niggahs; and for them to hear that the Niggah is to have wages like unto them is an exceeding soreaffliction. So they howled with a howling like unto that of a ouaic. 29. Now   in the tongue of the Pahdees a ouaic is a gathering together by night over the body of a dead Pah- dee. And forasmuch as it is one of their solemn ceremo- nies, they do pour out drink offerings, and also make sac- rifices. For after they have well poured out drink - offer- ings they"do have a schyndee and slay one of their num- ber as a sacrifice for him that is dead. And then straight- way there is another ouaic over him that is slain; and so on forever, so that each ouaic produceth another; and thus the howling of the ouaic and the pouring out of drink offerings and the schyndee never cease throughout the country of the Pahdees. 30. And Phernandiwud and the scribes and orators of the Kopur-hedds did continually day by day thus stir up the Pahdees and all them of the baser sort among the men of Gotham. '                    .a -   88    THE bitW GOSPEL OF PEACE. CHAP"EI  VI. J,             , 1 The Pahdees and the BiAdees declre against the lot. 3 Seema seeketh to stay the lot. 5 But Abraham refuseth. 8 The Pah- dees begin the ministration of the Gospel of Peace, and make schyndees. 12 And stand by the Great Covenant. 21 One of the Tshivulree smelleth the smell of burnt Niggah. 23 And be- cometh gracious. 57 Seemer cometh. 60 The Pahdees set him' at naught. 61 The Fleece. 63 The reasons of the ministration. 1. Now when the day of the casting of the lot drew nigh the Pahdees and the Bihdees (for so were called the women of the Pahdees which were maid servants unto the Iangkies) declared that they would not suffer the lot, but would make a great schyndee, and that in this they would do the will of Seemer, whom they called Say More, and of Phernandiwud. 2. But the Iangkies heeded them not, saying, This is all bhlahknee, which being interpreted is bungcome. For the bhlahknee of the Pahdees is the bingcome of the Iangkies. 3. But Seemer was told of this thing in such manner that he knew it to be true. And he took no means to pre- vent the Pahdees, neither did he summon any of the sol- diers of the province back to Gotham. But he sent one of his officers unto Abraham and unto his counsellors, say- ing, 4. Behold now the Pahdees will resist the lot. Let it therefore be stopped until the judges can say whether it is according to the Great Covenant. 5. But Abraham answered him and said, Hear me, See- mer. This nation standeth up to the lips in hot water, and the pot hath been heating now these thirty years; and as I live, this nation shall no longer remain in hot water with- out striving to get ,ut thereof, because it is not according   THE NEW GOSPEL OFP PEACE.      89 to aKnsuvvutism. Let the judges deem; bat let the lot go forward. 6. So the lot went forward. And Seemer washed his hands; for like Pilate he also was a Knsuwutiv. 7. Now the first day of the casting of the lot was the seventh day of the week: wherefore the Pahdees refrained themselves, lest Augustus and they of the circumcision should be offended. And the day after was the Sabbath of the Gentiles. 8. But on the next day,-even on the second day of the week, certain of the Pahdees gathered themselves together about the eleventh hour. and fell upon the officers which cast the lots, and drove them out of the house wherein they were, and destroyed their writings, and set the house on fire. And they beat the watchmen of Ken Edee which were sent against them (for the watchmen were but an handfuD, and went about the streets armed with clubs and staves, shouting and making schyndees. 9. And straightway the whole city near the quarters where the Pahdees dwelt, which was called Ashantee, was in an uproar. 10. And the tumult grew and spread throughout Goth- am among the Pahdees. But of the Iangkies only a few of the baser sort of the Hittites and the Hammerites joined therein. Yet did certainof the Kopur-hedds inflame the Pahdees with their words. ". And Ken Edee went to see what the tumult was. And the Pahdees said, Lo, this enemy of Phernandiwud cometh, and he that stoppeth schyndees is delivered into our hands. Let us slay him therefore; for we stand by the Great Covenant. And they beat him nigh unto death. 12. And they were more and more inflamed by their own doings, and by the orations of the Kopur-hedds. And they began to shout for Jeph the Repudiator and to sack and to burn the city. For they stood by the Great Cove- nant.   40     THE JNEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. i3. And they entered into the houses of the officers of Abraham and the houses of the rich men, men of lelial, which strove to set the Niggah free and to pay him wages for his labor, even as the PI'ahdees were paid; and they took the household stuff and the furniture, and cast it into the street, and some they carried off, and they burned the houses. TFor they stood by the Great Covenant. ". And foaming in anger against the Niggahs, lest they should be se,t free and get wages, they fell upon them which were already free m Gotham, and some they beat, and some they hanged, and some they slew, and some of the bodies of them that they slew they burned while the breath-was yet in them. For they stood by the Great Covenant. 1 15. And they drave the Niggahs out of their houses and set them on fire. For they stood by the Great Covenant. 16. And they went in the night and set on fire an alms house for little Niggahs which were orphans, and turned them, half naked, out into the darkness; for they said, Lest they become men and receive wages for their labor. For they stood by the Great Covenant. 17. And some Niggahs they cast into the water, and some into the fire; and they slew the child in the arms of his mother. For they stood bythe Gr6at Covenant. ' 18. And they robbed in the highways of Gotham, even in every part thereof; and they cast stones into the houses of the scribes that taught not the gospel of peace and the everlasting Niggah. For they stood by the Great Covenant. 19. And they fought against the officers of Unculpsalm, and slew some of them; and the Pahdee women, even the Bihdees, did cut them that were slain with knives, even as they did the Niggah men, so that they could not come into the congregation. For they stood by the Great Cov- enant.     - 20. And it came to pass that a man of the Tshivulree satin the house of Hiram the publican; and certain PhTui an- s,   THE NSJWN GOSPEL OF PEACE.     41 keos were there also, compromising themse ves unto him. 21. And the man said, Behold, I do smell a smell as of wool burning, a smell as of the land of the Epheph vees, and the land of Diksee, which is the home of Tshiv ulree, and it is sweet unto my nostrils. 22. And the Phlunkees, which were Kopur-hedds. bowed themselves down before him, and compromised unto him, and said, Yea, verily, thy servants are burn- ing Niggahs that it may be pleasant unto my lord, to show their good will unto my lord, and that my lord may see that the home of Tshivulree is coming north- ward. 23. And he said, Is it even so? It is well. And- if ye will indeed offer up the Free Niggah unto us as a burnt of- fering, an offering of a sweet savor, behold we may ac- cept you and be gracious unto you, and when we do smell the smell of the burnt Niggah, we may no longer hold our noses when ye do bow yourselves down unto us, and speak unto us, and sell us your merchandise. And if ye continue in well doing, and will buy and sell the Niggahs, and make them your hewers of wood and draw- ers of water forever, and beat them with stripes, and roast them with fire, and get sons and daughters of their women and sell them for bondsmen and bondswomen, and if ye will persecute the men of Belial who say, Do ye unto all men as ye would have all men do unto you, and will beat them, and hang them, and roast them with fire, and pour hot pitch upon them, and ride them upon sharp beams, very grievous to bestride, and make this country like unto the land of Diksee, the home of Tshivulree, 24. Behold then we may be yet more gracious unto you, and come into your provinmces and take.-them and rule them and you. 25. And the Phlunkees whichwereKopur-hedds bowed themselves down again, and compromised themselves yet   42      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. the more, and said, Be it unto thy servants even as thou wilt. 26. Now when Seemer had sent his officer-to Abraham because he knew that there would be a tumult, he re- mained not in Gotham, but went down to the seaside. 27. And when the tumult broke out they sent for him; but he came not. But on the second day even the Kopur- hedds sent unto him, saying, Come over and help us erc we be destroyed. And he came. 28. But the Pahdees, although they were slaying and burning and destroying, fled not from before his face although he was governor of the province, whose office it was to execute judgment upon transgressors. But when theysaw him they thronged upon him, and shouted wel- come unto him. And he spake unto them and compro- mised himself unto them, and said unto them, 29. Hear me, O my friends. I mean that the wrongs which ye do suffer in being made to bear your part of the burdens of the land of Unculpsalm, and to obey the laws thereof, shall be abated. And I have sent an officer to demand that the law against which you have made this tumult shall not be enforced. But my friends, I beg you, O my uoble friends, I do entreat you, that ye will respect pri- vate property (fordo not our noble friends the Tshivulree, whom we all serve this day, respect private property?) else I cannot deliver you from your oppression. 30. Yet on the morrow he issued a proclamation to the people that they should obey the laws of the province. But he said nothing about the laws of Unculpsalm. But the Pahdees regarded not his proclamation, and went on with their schyndee. 31. Now the watchmen'of Ken Edee, which were called Fleece, which were valiant men and goodly to look upon, and which found favor in the eyes of the women of Gotham  ; fought stoutly under the lieutenant of Ken Edee whose name was Kahpen Turr. Likewise also did a handful !     TEE 3OW GOSPrr OF PEAC. '      48 of the soldiers of Unculpsalm. So that in three days the tumult began to abate. 32. And it came to pass that a man in Gotham met some of the Pahdees, and they suffered him to talk to them. 33. And he asked them, Why do ye fight the Pleece? And they answered and said, Because the Pleece began the riot by withstanding us when we would have driven out the officers who east the lots against us. For if we may but do our own will, we indeed would trouble no man. 34. And he asked them, Why do ye slay the officers of Unculpsalm? And they answered and said, Because they turn their swords upon the people. For have not the scribes of the Kopur-hedds and the Phlunkees and' the Oueecnees told you that we are the people? 35 And again he asked them, But why do ye slay the Niggahs, which are meek and lowly, and withstand no man, but flee before you? And they said unto him, 36. Confess now, is not the Niggah the cause of the war? And, he said, Yea, verily. And they answered him, Be- hold thou hast said it. We slay the Niggah because he is the cause of the war, and we are apostles of the new gos- pel of peace, which we do minister unto you with fire and sword this day. 37. And if the Niggah chooseth to submit, he hath the right to submit. For we have vowed a vow that no man shall fight against his will; and this is the right of theo 'Niggah under the Great Covenant. And if he resisteth, then all the more will we put him to death. For we stand by the Great Covenant. 38. And after five days the tumult was ended. But for five days there were murderings and burnings and de- struction. And the smoke of that city went up day and night like the smoke of a furnace; and the air was filled with groanmngs, and with the cry of women and of chil- dren to whom was ministered the new gospel of peace. was miia-ope      fpa   - )V "    *THE SHW GOSPEL OF PEACE. 39. And it was a great ministration.; and the like had not been in that land, neither shall be. For if men see not their wickedness and turn not from the error of their ways through such mninistration, how shall they be con. verted?    .     , CHAPTER   VII. 1 raftiness of Phernandiwud. 4 Be' endeavoreth to stay the zeal of the Pahdees. 9 But cannot. "Seemer is discomfited. 14 Tshawltn. 18 Gil Moah. 20 DeStroyeth the great fort of Tshawlstn. 23 The spirit of tMe Great ,Father of the land filleth the hearts of the men of Unculpsalm. 1. Now in all this the Pahdees did the will, of their master Phernandiwud, the great apostle of the new gospel of peace. 2.: But he appeared not in the matter, nor was he heard of in Gotham during the mninistration; for ha was a sub- tle man and a crafty, and his walk was slantindicular. ' 3. So that Elijah who smelleth the battle afar off in the tents of Tammunee, and whose walk is straight forward, said, What manner of man is this Phernandiwud, that he raiseth such a tumult among the people, and then straight- way taketh himself into the wilderness, where'no man can find him? 4. And Phernandiwud was not well pleased with his followers the Pahdees, and he said unto their ringleaders, (for although he appeared not he held communication with them), What mean ye that ye act thus without discretion? What ye do is well; but ye do too much thereof; and by your over-much zeal ye bring reproach upon the gospel of peace among a people which is yet in the darkness of a false dispensation. 5. It is meet and right that the officers of Abraham   THE NVEW GCSPEL OF 1EACE.      45 should be slaim, and the Niggahs hanged and burned, and they despoiled who would set them free and pay them wages, and that men should be put in terror of the mystery of the new gospel, which yet they comprehend not. For we stand by the Great Covenant. But the time is not yet -come. 6. Cease, therefore, to slay the officers of Abraham, and to hang and burn the Niggahs, and to lay waste the city. But continue to withstand the lot, which only I meant that ye should do; that from the province of Gotham, and from all the other provinces, there should go no more men into the armies of Unculpsalm, and so the war might cease without the putting down of the rebellion. 7. For in this Seemer would have helped us. But now by your overmuch zeal ye have compelled him to declare' himself against us, though in heart he is with us. Cease, now, therefore, to slay, to hang and to burn any more than is prudent, or ye will hinder the propagation of the new gospel of peace. Have ye not read how it is written, The zeal of thy house hath eaten me up? 8. (For again, as in his business with Marahvine, he had searched the scripture that he might find something to his advantage.) 9. Now this was on the second day of the ministration. But the Pahdees then would not heed the words of Pher- nandiwud, and went on with their slaying and their hang- ing and their burning. 10. Then did Phernandiwud and the Kopur-hedds see that again their case was desperate, and that seeking to let out a little water, they had opened the floodgates, and could not close them again. Wherefore they gave up this matter, and the watchmen of Ken Edee, even the Pleece, and the soldiers, of Unculpsalm took possession of the city of Gotham, and then all men, even the Niggahs, slept in peace, and ate tl eir bread in quietness. ". Nevertheless, Seemer and all them that were dis- :mr ndg   "     THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. ciples of the new gospel of peace, and which said that no man, not even the Niggah, should be made to fight, de- dclared that they would resist the lot by the law, and that they would do by the judges that which they had failed to accomplish through the overmuch zeal of the Pahdees. 12. But they could not, for they found that their own judges whom they glorified, and who expounded the Great Covenant only' as a great compromising, which should endure forever, had declared against them, and that the law of Unculpsalm was supreme in the land. 13. So the lot was cast, and the men taken, and the war was not hindered. And the armies of Unculpsalm moved forward. And in the west they marched into the heart ) of the land of Diksee, and the army of the Phiretah cap- tain in that country, who was surnamed the Braggart, fell back before them.           , '14. Now upon the south-eastern coast of the land of Diksee, on the shore of the great sea, as thou goest down unto Joarji where Robert dwelt among the tombs, was a little city, which they who dwelt therein called Tshawlstn, which was full of Phiretahs. And the people thereof did nothing and thought of nothing but to be Tshivulree. And being mere cumberers of the ground, and doing noth- ing but be Tshivulree, they yet were eaten up with con- ceit of themselves and their glory; and they boasted more than any other of the boasters south of the border of Masunandicsun; and their only boast was that they were the real Tshivulree. Wherefore even in the land of Diksee men laughedthem to scorn. 15. And as the people thereof did nothing but boast and be Tshivulree, Tshawlstn fell into decay, and year by year as it decayed, it became more and more stiff-necked and rebellious. And it was in Tshawlstn that the men of the South first rose up against the government of Uncul. psalm; and 'it was from the fort before the city, which guarded the passage to the sea, that the Phiretahs, with   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.       4' an army of five thousand men, drove out one of the cap- tains of Ullculpsalm, with a band of ninety at the begin- ning of this war. 16. Wherefore, although the men of the North hated not the men of the South as the men of the South hated them, yet their anger was hot against Tshawlstn, and they sought to crush it as men crush the copkatrice's den. For they said, It is the nest of the rebellion. And thus did all them throughout the land of Diksee-which had respect unto the government of Unculpsalm, according to the Great Covenant, and longed to see the banner of Uncul- psalm, under which their fathers had fought, again in tri- umph in their land.  17. And the armies of Unculpsalm laid siege to Tshawlstn, and to the great fort which stood before it guarding the passage to the sea. But the Phiretahs had made the place strong by casting up mounds and building other forts, so that it resisted long and stoutly. And three cap- tains had sat down before it in vain. 18, Then Abraham sent against it a captain whose name was Gil Moah. And he was a young man, but he was cunning to fight with great engines of war; and he had taken and destroyed another strong fort which the Phire- tabs had wrested from the government of TUnculpsalm. 19. And Gil Moah sat down before Tshawlstn, and cast up banks against the- forts around it, and took some of them, and set up great engines of war, very mighty and very marvellous, the like of which had not been seen be- fore in any land. 20. And he drave the Tshivulree out of the strong places which were before the great fort; and he set up his engines against that fort, and he battered it to ruins. Moreover he turned his engines against Tshawlstn, and threw iron balls into the city, and fire that ran along the ground and could not be extinguished. 21. Whereat the Phiretahs were in great indignation; I   : 48     THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. for they said, that according to the laws of Tshivulree, even their laws, Gil Moah should throw fire which could be extinguished, But he answered them that, he came not to obey their laws, but to compel them to obey the laws of Unculpsalm, and that he did not throw the fire only that it might be put out. 22. And when the news went about that Gil Moah had destroyed the great fort of Tshawlstn, the men of Uncul- psalm heard thereof with solemn joy. 23. And it came to pass that immediately the spirit of the Great Father of that nation, even he who was first in peace -and first in war among that people, descended and filled the hearts of all of them, saying unto them, 24.. Hear me, my children, and give ear unto me ye who are- the only fruit of my being.- The first triumph of trea- son is brought low by the power which I nourished; and before the banner which ye first uplifted by my hands the stronghold of iniquity is fallen. 25. Now, when ye do receive the same, and it is de- livered into your hands, ye shall in no wise rebuild it. Ye shall not suffer one stone to be laid aga'm upon another. 26. But it shall remain before your eyes a heap and a desolation from generation to generation, to be a sign and a memorial unto you, and unto your children, and you, children's children forever, 27. Anid it shall come to pass, that when your sons and your daughters say unto you, What are these stones, and wherefore are these ruins? that ye shall answer unto them,     ' 28. Thus shall it be unto all them which seek the de. struction of the land that doeth justice and loveth mercy, and that dealeth righteously without respect of persons, and giveth freedom unto all them that dwell therein. END OF THE 'SECOND BOOK.    
         
       
   
