
    ----CITATION----
        Wise, Isaac Mayer, (1819-1900). The Combat of the People, or, Hillel and Herod .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8353
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The combat of the people, or, Hillel and Herod 
            
               THE
COMBAT OF THE PEOPLE
OR
HILLEL AND HEROD.
A HISTORICAL ROMANCE
-                      OF
/.
BY ISAAC M. WISE
Copyright Secured.
CINCINNATI, OHIO. *
Printed and Published by BLOCI &amp; CO., at the Office of The Israeil e and Debo
-       1859.
/*-


TI COMBAT OF THE                             *
CHAPTER         1.            earlyinthe morn
Borwt and harnaniots was the merry song oty.              M
of the"Winged minstrels, of the air greeting  Outside the'Fishgate,tm  t
the t adiant herald of the rising queen of pet of nature, under thepalr
the day. The sweets perfume of tropical number of peasants were e1
flowers, of the palms and olives environing sed in gay and varigated
the ancient city of Jerusalem, impregnated laid beside their animals, an
the calm air and, like the incense from the f l baskets of palm  bni
utimmit of Moriah, rose gratefully to the the frst fruits of the land;
thrd if 'the Majesty on high. The serene flowers, to each of which, t
sky-of a bright summer morning, the gold, were fastened. These were
'    6 3f the. Teniple, and the White tow- the district of Jericho, who
I   Nr dallif ~ ~len ereiiebted athou- the first fruits to the Temph
r  dtold the4f    ii  t ef ys of the rIsing  bies, and waitedhfeis for
unrtichestat        diaited tbr6gh the   11.l reception cestonary o
roe boadet' ef 44w tarn sky  ftlji*. TNbfte peasdats'espeo
ing Aurora' t  tls'to cl w a the -pth for  tonafimda aiM  Jon
the geen eftligh . Ow, Koriah's exalted were'deesed likethireep t
head theLeistblS sung thepidfise of -the Ore- sarethiy iouded abtik~
ator of Light,tefiestsprepared the nddrn. of the others; ad6
ing sacrifice and incense in silent devotiea  girdle, set with'Phoe
yhile the Highpriest, in the opulent attire olors, hung i biea44
t his eaoei'dotal office, lit the golden can- their appearancedah toni
-tfestik,*itlts seven laTnps, ad"the cho- teIr hearing l4ftietmthV
sda bif Israel prayed to Jeshurun's Everlast- peasants. Snea was.talle
Ing Rock. The- sentinels on the walls of ed yoth, of about four and
the 'itaple and at its gates, on hearing the with black eys: full of ruct
seotenin strains of sacked' music stopped in ance beautified with 'dke
ot' awe, and joined the worshipping mul- tellect. Jonathan wi of u
- b, in the courts and cloisters of the age. In fgure be wa abtca
ule, in the homage and adoration they but was more maputer; dtill
p1  to the Lord of Hosts. The lanes and ance wasdelicate 4many
eveties-dfJerusalem were gradually flled melancholy ineliatin his
wiib   ite and.flowers offered for sale, sur-  These youdg heaJt, sia
roundedd with sellers and buyers. Mechan- somedistance frdriiibe other
los of all kinds resumed their tasks before sed alniost inaudibi.
g  tholtlaouses, in the open air, qnder a lnen  a SpeaktChaldean,"said Je
roof, cording to the tasages of those days.~ Eb, nt dierheai-d. Do~ yes
4                         ~Pedestrians, riders and vehicles, with their pykof ZBered do e                   gi

ti "s  4 4%  t     r{
the erdant oar.
iicakn~ed, dry:-
Icloth:' ' They
d theft  sU
tee ;AfhIed!}' i t
~y t     tie
ii vthisoeeasi.
R,         f ltu rb t s et
he -semafien
.ll4roarloa.
'ealy thEaW"t 4
I, his . o~ e-
ar defeatt ii O~f
,m,
- p   fi


Tun CotasAT 01
"very man, coming from the vi-
Issuspected to be an ene-
Ei.,:, d, unustsubmitto the turmoil
{ A ; s" ry of a thousand spies. - The
'  At obulus, the youthful High-
th iZol raoe of the Asmoneans,
$*      U1  ofg     gipated servant of
t  wries~': a tn estens from the pool
:J1h    where the despot's hirelings ex-
g  nI,  d his pure lamp of life. Ah, the
$bie rloodf Aristobulus haunts
the.     ei eal/'the 1 oselyte ruler. He
sees drops of this blood on every man's gar-
sent coming from Jericho, orits environs,
Mdhreforeo,.his spies are 'after every one
coming from thence.
1Ah, my good natured fellow," Jonathan
sald'.yog suppose, every man has a con-
epn e, that revolts against crime and in-
~ppsa ly haun its perpetrator. If Herod
pconslence, he could have no rest, no
kotur of happiness; remorse and self-con-
Ae  t, n'ust overawe him day and night,-
J'ola Amsoeh the blood of the heroic Anti-
goss tries. for vengeance; from Galilee
-ound, like specter's music in midnight
beur, the voices of the hundreds, murdered
y Herod and his hirelings. Jerusalem, the
otyof peace, thehabitation of our God, is
red with the blood of ,thgpillars of larael,
0"   Sephedrin,:.our great luminaries.-
,gd Assassination and,, violence cry from,
ateywrner of$ tlb blessed land; still you
bel ve Herd A;  sn onseiepee ? Herod is
,bausted byhip conscience, because one per-
:    awslain.n? I rather believe, he has in-
$ ormation of our friends' doings in Jericho.
He mostlkely knows, that the heads of the
Phrseesoongregate in that city and devise.
sans to.throw off the intolerable yoke, to
resg* ;law and- justice to Israel. - There-
fore(be suspects every  psn housing from
Jerioho, or its environs.
You may be right, Jonathan,"" said Si-
" "Usiel's sacious son      never errs
restly~If JIerod ;s a'are of the breth-
rio b's le us watcedo  ey     eis
4lier or mess p.to te op       of Jeru-
*Jewin sp  'yxlance itself ; 1Sut we'
maste sef l         we by our* going to'
4.st hcounsiI bet6a7'bRthe spies."
,.                  ,  .

P TRE PEOPLE,
"Our disguise will protect us," ald Joa
than.  "I walked yesterday thre0    il
parts of the.city, and everywhere I .sta-
ken for an Amhaarez.* Let as only be
careful to sustain our assumed character
well."
" How little knowledge of man must the
people of Jerusalemr ltive," said Simon, "If
they could take you for a simple and %50it-
orate peasant. But T fear the spies of He.
rod are better judges.of human countenan.
ces than the unsuspecting community.- We
must, before we go to the eouneil, aseert a
that we are not suspected at alt; for, if wp
are, we betray the place of meeting to the
vigilant spies, and this would bring misery
on our friends, and frustrate our schemes."
" But how will- you ascertain it ?" Jona-
than asked..                     '
" I do not know yet," said Simon;, "b  I
will see Abba Shaul and confer wi bj p-9
the subject."
The messenger of the Hjighpriest  ie
among -the. peasants, and informed ;
that they could not be received to-day k h
due honors, as.a partyfrpm the digiet :of
Bethlehem had agrivedilefore they:with
the first fruits, who wouldgday be, e'eiv-
ed, it being contrtry to thesaesablished usa-
ges to receive.$wo, parties :he same day.-.
The day next following, however, was set-
ppart for their solemn reeepfion,
,Jonathan cast a significant nor on Sipon,
and when t 4e,messenger was gone and the
peasantq ach went his way to amuse  ip
self, Simon whispered to Jonathan: 41I un-
derstand. the import of this measure.  It
would no$ do to arrest or molest oneo f those
whNrqme to Jerusalem to bring thef iret
fruits:; hence, before receiving as in solemn
procession, they want to ascertain, whether
no dangerous character is among the crowd;
[understand them well.'.
- "But this gives us also ample time to4
examine our path carefully," said Jonathafn.
" Let us, each for himself, wander through
the city and learn as much as we can."
While this occurred on one side of the
city, another meeting of interesting ehar-
4$ Ln ignorant peasant.

On HILLEL AND HEROD.,
.actors took place at the opposite side, at a . "Have -you indeed forgotten, g ygg #"
moklrate distance. from the city.  There she continued asking     ,,
was the place of repose to 'the dead, and . ." Ihave tried to forge .all that i 1 g
sepglhres and -stones, of all descriptions, said, "as the memory of the past is $b j
marked, the last abode of thousands of ha- obnoxious, crime of the present. ajq
ia beings, An Mumble cottag,tie home in our days, dare remember of te  tptx9
of the grave digger, was the only Habitation than the last six years. Bietsp e  -
of theliving among the dead, found in this ing to the graves,) these are the si:e A i
vicinity. Before the cottage door stood a nesses of a terrible pasty. To forget the  s
man, tall, muscular and robust, as few in- a magnanimous virtue;, present.";
habitants of cities, especially in the torri  "You speak in riddles, I do not nde-
climate, are.  His dark colored f' ce was stand you, Abba Shaul," the female sail.
coveted with a bushy, black beard.  His  "Yes, yes, I speak in riddles," said he;
small grey eyes were overshadowed with "if words plain and intelligible ie no long-
heavy brows. The furrows of his forehead er-tolerated, men must speak in riddles."
betokened the storms of life that had passed  "Do you speak of our king and'his last
over; his. pead. The features of calm in :mandates?" she asked naively.
difference, which marked his countenance,  "Like others, I most always speak of my
contrasted peculiarly with the, melancholy self," Abba ShAul said, drily.  "A grave
smile that appeared to play around his lips, digger never must speak of a king, such is
and the stern resoluteness marking his tem- the la* of decency in our days."
ples and looks. - The scars in his muscular "Tell your young man to lead myanttend-
face told a story of many a hot battle fought, anti to the, family viults"of Sabio, 'king
and hpis gigantto form testified to his being a Iierod's illustrious friend," the female said,
terrible antagonist in the combat. It was "and while they fum4igate, the vault, I will
Abba Shaul ben Botnith, the gigantic grave speak a few words more to"you."
digger, the tallest man of his age, the terror ~ "It is, true, the vaults of the.mighty and
of his enemies, and a trustworthy rock to wealthy also need fumigation,, aliout,as
his friends. Abba Shaul prayed as the sun much as those of the poor," said Abba
rose,, with countenance turned toward. the Shaul, while going away to call his, young
sanctum sanctorurn on Mount Moriah.     nan. When returned, theyoung man with
Two females, richly dressed and thickly the attendants went away; gbba Shaul wAs
veiled, followed by a man servant, riding Qn. alone with the female.. Shi lifted her veil,
white asses, came up the road from the city,f and a countenance of exquisite coham ,one of
and alighted before the cottage of the grave these indescribably luxugient'beautiestlie
digger.  The salutation of peace, uttered Orient, especially of the daughters i  ion,
with a musical voice, by one of the females became visible to, Abba .$haul.- She' fixed
was returned by Abba Shaul in an unintel- her fiery looks on the man ,before.her when
eligible mrurmur.                       asking: "Do you now know me, Abba
"Load me to tile sepulchre of my beloved Sakig:"D yo   nwkowmAb
mother," the same female said, "and I will  "Do I know Sabion's fairest daughter?
pay you well fo your trouble." Do I recognize sweet jieen, I so often
"Many beloved mothers lie beneath the rocked on my .lap?" said Abba Shaul.
frigid sod," Abba Shaul remarked, mono- "What a question .Once your father aso
tonously; "also those who died in the agony knew me, and I knew him, you, and your
of despair and bereft of their children."'  deceased mother.  But now the mighy
"Do you no knowmme, Abba Shaul ?" she Sabion knows not the vulgargrave diger.
as4 supried                           It would be a disgrace on you, if it should
is"" Boly know what I dare know, and this
very little i our days," he replied. "How transpire that I know you, or you recognize
)date a vulgar grave digger know an aristo- me. Therefore, I did not kinow you in the
) eratic lady, in R~ome's richest attire ?"  presence of your attendants,"


THE CoMnAT C
at*I ie, Abba Shaul,'; she said hastily,
")ate you heard from Jericho? have you
'% t'dg of'Hillel's son ? I have heard
year Jericho have come to pre
i   heir first fruits in the Temple.. Did
'heiotimprove this opportunity, to come in
pea ea t  disguise with them, to see me
eil ae r 'atsy moons of painful separa-
ib6? ' peak ' Abba Shaul, is he dead?
has he forgotten poor Helen ? or is he here
to renew the covenant of love? 0,I pray
you, speak, tell me all you know."
"Simon, Hillel's son lives," Abba Shaul
said; "he has not forgotten Helen, for his
love for her is imperishable as the powerful
'mina is that conceived it. I know of the
peasants' arrival, but whether Simon is
among them I can not tell. To morrow I
will know it. But, behold! there a peasant
comes from the city; so early, a peasant
from the city,,he is clad in his festive garb,
he weats a verdant wreath on his turban, it
is undoubtedly one of the men of Jericho.
Go to the vault and pray. I will ask him
and you shall have the answer. Sa you
are tired, wish to rest in my cottage, leave
your attendants outside, and I will tell you
all I learned."
She hastily threw the veil over her face,
and went to the vault. She was but a few
minutes gone when Simon ben Hillel alight-
ed from his ass, and was received, by Abba
Shaul, with a kiss impressed on the young
man's forehead.
" J9Iathan bent Uziel and I," said Simon,,
belittle louder than a whisper, "have come
among the peasants of Jericho with a mes-
sage of the scribes to the people's council of
Jerusalem. Can we deliver it without ap-
prehension ?"
" They watch closely every person coming
from Jericho,"'Abbar Shaul replied.  " It
would be marvelous, should they not regard
you among the .multitude, and none must
wait for miracles. Go back, and tell Jona-
than to be cautious. Go   about the city
till after the solemn rece . Keep your-
selves close to the other pasarits till dusk.
When the Temple closes, to-morrow,go down
to Besetba to the house of Baba ben Buta;
there you will be received by our secret

)F THC PEOPLE,                                                         OR HILLEL
, friends, who will ask you, 'Is the house of friend and counsellor, and 1 am the poor son
the Lord closed?' then you answer, 'Wht    4, a poor Babylonian emigrant? Are you
I night sets in, the house of the Lord clods'  not aware, that my father split wood in this
They will then lead you to the right place "  oelt for a scanty pay, to support his family
After a pause, Abba Shaul invited, Simoh  and pay his admission to the academy, while
to his house, and told him, he would cal in  Sbion was the favorite of kings and queens?
some body who was able to give bim a full  You nuet know, that your father, like Jeph-
account of the intentions of Herod and'his  tah of. o, rather would sacrifice you with
spies,  en       ehis owir hands than allow you to be mine.-
Simon entered the house, and, after hehad  There is no hope for us, none for our love.
partaken of a repast, Abba Shaul left the 1 can not, I dare not tie your fate to mine;
room ad after a few minutes Helen oam'    for your prospect is bright, the sons of the
in. Simon, surprised by the approach of a  noblest of our people look on you with ani-
veiled lady so costly dressed, rose, but could ious hopes, you are the favorite of a noble
say nothing. Helen also was unprepared     queen, the pride of the court, the object of
to say anything, and so they stood for some contention to the richest and noblest, and I
time silently opposite each other. Helen am. the'- poor son of a poor and insignii-
composed herself first and asked with a  -t't Babylonian emigrant, the meek, hum-
tremulous voice, " Are .you not Sinlon beki ble, unpretending HilleL. We must part
Hillel?" 'now and forever. Had 1 known when first
"Helen, only beloved, dearest, sweetest  I met you under yonder palm trees, when
Helen," Simon cried, passionately, " iti   first love, irresistible love to you, chained me
your voice. If it is you, speak, speak, my to your footsteps, that you were Sabion's
only hope, remove this heartless veil, and daughter,never would Ihave given utterance
let me gaze once more in your angelic cou-  to my glowing passions. But, it is not too
tenancy. Once more, 0, dearest 'beloved, late yet; let us part now and forever." 
let me have the paradisian rapture of read-  "Simon, e like yourself," she said in a
ing love and fidelity in your starry eyes.. If  calm, composed manner; "be honet, up-
you are Helen, still mine, still the kind, af- right and sincere as your heart is. You
fectionate, beloved dove, torture me no Ion-  -know, that this is a poor exnse for your
ger" alleged- determination. Play not cruelly
She removed the veil and sank, speechless,  with my heart, when you know that I can
in the embrace of the passionate youth, who not live without your love; the love I bear
pressed her with unutterable delight to his  to you, is the essence and  ause of my very
enraptured breast. The excitement of the   existence   Tell me, what ails you? I am
unexpected meeting, however, soon gave wiy the favorite of a noble queen, it is true, and
to melancholypresentiments. Simon's arms, she loves me better than any of her ladies.
almost paralcfed, sunk down as though he   One word from her lips and Simon ben il-
had no strong h to press the beloved,.longer  1t occupies that envied position, in which
to his heart. His head dropped to his be-  Sabion must consider him worthy to be his
som, his countenance pale and his voice hiol- 'on-in-law."
low, he said, "It is over, it is all over.-  "I accept no favors of a monarch's hands,"
It is the will of God, that it should be   said Simon, hastily and determinedly.a
so. Helen, we must part, now and forev-      "I know it well," said Helen, "therefore,
or."  The pale countenance of Simon gave   I sever asked for any in your behalft But
his words an unusual force. It was only af- , f I offer you my hand with the consent of
ter long hesitation, that Helen could ask as' ny father, would you not, accept it? And,
to the cause of this sudden change of mind, if the queen wills it so, can my father re
" Have you forgotten, good Helen," said Si-  fse it? Simon, if i tell the nueen of my
men, "that you are the daughter of the   love, I am sureshe will favor me with her
proud and wealthy Sabion, Herod's righty  successful interference. You know this; I

AND HEaoD.                           7
have told you so, frequently; hence it can
not be this. Let me know, I prithee, let me
know what ails you ?"
"You know, dearest Helen," said Simon,
with much embarrassment, "you know, I
can not deceive you. It is indeed not thii
alone, there is yet something. I scarcely
know how to say it without giving you of-
fence."
"Speak, my friend, I must, know your
heart," Ijelen said.
"My father stands high in the estimation
of those who know him," said Simon; "he
is the most respected among the Pharisees
and is a firm Pharisee himself. You know
the hatred and bitterness existing between
the Pharisees and Sadducees, especially
since the latter have sworn allegiance to
Herod. Your father, Sabion, noble Helen,
is an influential leader of the Sadduceea
who hates and despises the Plebian multi-
tude of Pharisees. _ It is next to an impos'
sibility for him thus far to condeseond, as to
give his daughter  in marriage, to an insignia
ficant Plebian, the son of an emigrant, an
obscure Pharisee. Do not deceivg your-
self, noble Helen, do not believe that your
father, the queen or any body else thinks,
feels and would act by your generous im-
pulse. I would only set you at war with
your father, with the queen, with all your
friends, without the least hope of a favor-
able result.- Helen, magnanimous virgin,
stainless soul, the ravine between you and
me is .too deep; the daughter of the Patri-
cian Sadducee and the son of the Plebian
Pharisee stand too far apart from each oth-
er. I feel my heart will break, joy will nev-
er smile on me again, love and happiness
are forlorn to me; but it must be. Better
now,when we alone know it,than after I have
caused you the painful misery of severing
your heart from your father and your
friends. Take this parting tear, as the ex-
pression of my breaking heart, hundreds
more will flow; but forget not, we have no
dominion over the unfortunate causes which
tear asunder the families, the most, sacred
ties of our country. Farewell, farewell,
Helen, forget me."
The tears glittering in Simon's black eyed


8                      THE COMBAT OF THE PEOPLE,
w    :ot calculated to calm Helen's pas- able of doing. I can not forget you, I can
itPW   "Leave me not, desert me not, Si- not love another woman, my love to you is
moni" she cried, vehemently, "plunge this boundless, omnipotent, eternal.  But, tell
dagr in my aching heart, before thou me Helen; could you love the murderer of'
abandonest ine. God knows, I can not livo your own father? Why do you thus stare
tltioetsthee."-" And if all this is true," in my countenance? Not yet; I am not yet
she said after a pause, "if the queen and the assassin of Sabion, but I swore by the
my father can not be moved in my favor, Almighty God to perform this -horrid duty
then, I swear it by the spirit of my depart. at the first opportunity that offers, at the
ed mother, then I go with thee to Arabia, risk of my own life. Tremble not, Helen,
beyond the Euphrates, beyond the Tigris, condemn me not till I have spoken. When
to distant India, to any part of the world, I first learned your father's name, he was a
wherever thou goest. An oasis in a howl-- Pharisee, and a sworn friend of the un-
ing l'deser, n humble tent in the wilder- happy Asmoneans, the favorite of Mariam-
ness, anything will satisfy me that pleases ne, Alexandra, and of the generous- and
thee.: Simon, stay and let us scheme our harmless Iyrcanus. But he turned t trai-
flight, if I fail in my attempt with the tor, a foul and heartless traitor to his oaun'
queen?;                               try; he betrayed the flight of Hyreanus;bthe
"I dare not leave my country," said Si- lent his bloody hand to Herod, to assasesln-I
mon. "Whoever deserts his people in days ate the youthful highpriest Aristobalus; he
of'fieioloin, shall not behold Israel's'salva- stands now at the head of a thousand spies
tto.u  I 'can not, I dare not leave this un- who daily deliver someoff the best men to
hippy land, even to save my life, not even for the sailor's ruthless hands, or to the scaffold.
the prize of the unutterable  happiness He is the. right hand of Herod, the foul
smiling in your embrace. Helen! it is easy murderer of his own people, the teacheroua
to' descend from the proud palace to the hireling of Rome. The council of the'peo-
shephe'rd's tent, when love urges; but, for- ple condemned him to ignominous death,
get act, my good Helen: Life is long, pov. thousands of young men swore to cute
eft, is a cruel master, the affections of the decree, and one of these thousands is
Youth soon give way to sober sentiments, Simon ben Hillel. With this dagger, it is a
and repentance is a gnawing monster in the sanctified instrument; with this steel, I will,
heart. One look of dissatisfaction from you wherever I see him, pierce his heart, mine,
would make me miserable beyond descrip- if necessary, in the name and in -behalf of
tion. Helen, my: only love, we must part my downtrodden, outraged people. Helen,
forever, tie happiness of all your lifetime do not look so angry, so desperate;,bethink
demands it."                     .     thyself, an outraged people speak from my
"Nso, no, no, I can not be happy, I can lips, and very other sentiment in my heart
not live without you," she exclaimed, with must be dumb as the grave,"
tearsin her eyes. "It can not be, it must  "It is enough, gracious God in Heaven, it
not be. But, Simon ben Hillel;" she said is more than enough, it is more than wo-
resolutely'after awhile, "if you are tired of man can bear," Helen exclaimed with a hol'
my love, if boor heart is no longer 'mine, low voice.  "Simon,. hear me pray; see, 0
and. ach   J ppears to be the case, then say it behold the agony of this tortured heart. If
without faltering, say it and"-here a flow blood must flow, murder me, for I feel that
of tea 'interrupted her speech.        I can not live much longer. Simon, break
Simon clasped both her hands and, over- asunder the terrible bonds which' chain yous
powered with love and tenderness, he ex- to treason, conspiracy and assassination i nd
claimed, in frantic accents, "Helen, idol of flee with me-to a desert land. But if shoti
mny heart,' queen of my soul, thou fairest eanst not break them, have- mercy with-me,
and most. amiable of Zion's daughtere,"I first murder me, before theu thinkest of as-
prithee, accuse me not of what I am  neap- sassating my* fahe.

OR 1IrLLIEL AND HEItoD.- 9
"Farewell, Helen!" Simon cried, in ac- o n returning to the canmp of the peasants,
cents of madness, and ran toward the door. and lie had to travel many furlongs before
"Not.one step further!" Helen exclaimed he reached it-Simon found Jonathan anx-
powerfully, with wild looks flashing from iously waiting for him.
her large, black eyes. "You are mal, and  "We are lost, if we do not act speedily,"
it is my duty to protect you, my father, my- .Jonathan whispered. "When walking the
self and other people against the rash acts Upper Market a peevish boy stept up to me
of a madman. You are a member of the and most impertinently told me: 'Jonathan
secret conspiracy of Jericho, I know it, and ben Uziel and Simon ben Hillel are detected
you are arrested in-the name of the kin." ed, notwithstanding their disguise. Toward
4- Simon crossed his arms over his breast, evening they will be arrested.' Hooked,
fixed his looks on Helen and responded, amazed, at my voluntary companion, and
calmly: "I am not mad. I know no king closely scrutinized the pevish countenance,
in Israel. Herod is an usurper, the vilest but made no reply. H" t   continued
assassin in-this country. I am no one's with a pertinent smile, 'I am no spy,' and
prisoner, as long as a sword hangs from my left me. For -some time I was undeeided
girdle. Your attendants, madam, can not what course to pursue, when a Ronan' sol-
arrest me.- You must go home, tell your dier asked me, 'How many peasants-in your
father the secret I have broached to you, and place are called Jonathan ben'Uziel?' I mar-

you and he might be avenged."
Helen fell down upon her knees, lifted
up her hands to Simon, and prayed him
vehemently not to consider her a traitor.
Again and anon she prayed him, to change
his determination; but, when she found out,
that words were wasted in vain, she rose,
and with a manly resoluteness she stated:
"I can not, God witness, 1 can not leave
you; still I must hate him who schemes the
death of my father. I am determined to
die or to prevent -you from committing the
horrid murder. Simon, here in the pre-
sence of these graves I swear that .1 will al-
ways love you, never for a moment shall a
faithless thought defile my heart; but I
will have resort to extreme measures, if ne-
cessary, to prevent you from the perform-
ance.of an act, which would forei er sever
us. I swear it, by the spirit of my depart.
ed mother."
She was gone before Simon could reply,
leaving him in the most wretched condition,
tormented, tortured between-love and duty,
an. indomitable affection and a glowing .pat-
riotism. He had not much time to reflect
on his condition, for Abba Shaul- came in
and advised him, not to return to the city,
but to choose by-ways to reach his compan-
ions encamped outside the Fishgate. Simon
obeyed, silently. Thoughtfully he mounted
his ass and pursued the by-ways around thea
city as Abba Shaul had told him.

veled long after the soldier had gone, and
can not tell yet what all this means; but I
know we are betrayed and in imminent
dagger."
"This is marvelous, indeed," said Simon.
"We must take proper care to evade deted-
tion, and 1 have a good plan to do so. I
have a wealthy uncle, a brother of my fith-
er, whose co ntry residence is a few fur-
longs from ere. He has plenty of Babf-
lonian cost mes, and we have false beads,
which baffle detection. We speak well all
dialeAts of the  ramees and Chaldees.' Nat
far from here, a Babylonian caravan is en-
camped. Lee us dress at my uncle's, join
the caravan, hand be Babylonians for some
time. You know Herod favors all foreign-
ers, especially the Babylonians."
The plan was agreed upon. Both men
went away, unobserved, to carry out their
scheme. When scarcely gone, several 'fl-
core arrived among the peasants, and in-
formed them oftwo young men having come
up with them from Jericho, who must be
presented to the governor of the city. The
peasants were all assembled, every one's
name was asked, but none called himself
either Simon or Jonathan. On iuiry
whether any-was missing the officer' were
told, that all were present; none of the peas-
ants would have betrayed the two young
men, whose secret mission they appeared te


10                     Tan ConAT o
have guessed. The officers took two young
mew 'along, answering best to the descrip-
tion of the persons wanted, notwithstanding
the loud protests of the arrested and the
other peasants. The assurance that no
harm should be done to them, pacified the
agitated multitude, and they patiently await-
ed the result.  When, however, the next
morning the messengers of the Highpriest
care to array them in a solemn procession
to enter! the city, and the two peasants had
not returned; it took the whole influence of
the priests to pacify the agitated minds,
who considered, it an unpardonable sin,
that their two neighbors were prevented
kc    paying obedience to the law.
The procession was headed by the musi-
cians who, with their flutes, trumpets, cor-
nets, harps, cymbals and other instruments,
discussed Davidian music. Then were led the
sacrifices, the bullock first, his horns gilded,
on his head the olive crown, and the whole
animal was covered with fruits and flowers.
And then came the smaller animals, as ev-
ery comer thought proper to offer. One
brought a calf, another a lamb, the third a
young goat, as a peace-offering, a thank-offer-
iog, or to pay a vow, while others brought
their first born animals along to the priest.
All the, animals were more or less orna-
mented with fruits and flowers, each led by
a boy, who came up to see the city. Then
came the peasants, with their baskets of
gold, silver or palm branches filled with the
finest tropical fruits and ornamented with
Rowers, each carrying a pair of pigeons as
the requisite sacrifice. In the midst of the
procession was carried a large banner with
the shield of David and Judah's lion on it,
surrounded by palm trees, as Jericho was
commonly cal led the city of palms.
As they slowly moved toward the gate of
the city they sung, to the sound of music,
the one hundred and twenty second Psalm ;
'I am glad, I am glad
'in my soul, in my heart,
When they say: For the house
Of the lrd we'll depart.
Jeraatlem!I Jerusalem!
- Within thy gates our feet shall stand-.
Compaot and strong thou art, our gem,
Our joy, the queen of Judah's land.-

F THE PEoPLE,,
And to thee flock the tribes,
Come the tribes of the Lord--
Come with dance and with song,
And with thanks to the Lord.
For there the thrones of judgment stand
The Lord rules from this loved place;
And there the throne of Israel's land
Once filled by David's royal race.
Do bid hail, greet with peace
Jerusalem's towers.
They prosper who do wreathe
With sweet love thy bowers.
May peace within thy walls abide,
And plenty in thy mansions be,
In thy Temple our God reside--
Jerusalem 1 be peace with thee."
. Arrived at the city gate, the procession
was received by the officiating priests, Le-
vites, treasurers of the Temple, and the re-
presentatives of the Israelites at the sanc-
tuary, all clad in their sacerdotal vestments,
bearing the banners and ensigns of the city
and the sanctuary. Before them went the.
Levites, with their cornets and trumpets,
and after them came the curious multitude.
Also, a deputation of the city bearing the
standard with the Ariel, a deputation of the
Sanhedrin carrying a representation of the
scroll of the Law, and the messengers of the
King, before whom a Roman standard, uni-
ted with Judah's lion, was carried, came
among the rest, to receive the strangers.
After lie deputy of the Highpriest had
spoken the blessing over them, the King's
messenger had promised them his protec-
tion, and the city authorities had offered
them the hospitality of the capitol, the re-
presentatives of the Sanhedrin admonished
them always to obey the will of God with a
willing heart. Then the procession organ-
ised again, and, with music and song, with
floating banners and standards, with numer-
ous ensigns and go    emblems, the gay
and delighted proc moved through the
city, through tl'een  crowds of' Jerusa-
lemites, country people, Egyptians, Ethiop-
ians, Arabs, Syrians, Babylonians, Persians,
Greeks and Romans, each in the peculiar
costume of his country. All the mechanics
rose from their seats, and each' greeted the
passing: "Our brethren, men of Jericho
welcome in peace."

On HILLEL AND HERoD.                            I
Arrived in the crowded court of the Tem- and music of the Levites, the prayers of the
ple, the music ceased and al), taking their people's representatives, and the devotion
baskets on their shoulders, listened with of the worshipping multitude.
sacred delight to the currents of music re- When the solemn service was over, the
sounding from the outer apartment of the peasants repaired to the cloisters, to eat the
Temple. The Chorus of the Levites sung sanctified meat, and then prepared for the
the thirtieth Psalm to the powerful orches- banquets. following the sacred ceremonies.
tre of their brethren. On each side of the I A man dressed in white, with a girdle and
fourteen steps leading to the second court apron of white leather and an axe on his
stood the officiating priests to assist the shoulder, an Essebee of the first degree, ad-
comers in making their sacrifices. And asIdressed the peasants As they passed the out.
they ascended the steps they were saluted ermost court of the Temple. "Not all sacri-
by the full orchestre and chorus, and every flees are acceptable to God," said he, "the
heart was filled with heavenly harmonies, sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination.
and every eye was directed toheaven. Ev. God ha given us ears, that we hear his
ery soul soared aloft on the pinions of sacred commands, and do them; he asks neither
psalmody, every mind felt the presence of fire-offering nor sin-offering of us. Whoev-
Israel's God. From  the golden gates, the er kills an animal, without repentance of
onix and sapphire, from the thousand gems sins, commits murder on that animal; but;
set in the wall, the light of the Lord was a the Lord never despises an humble and co-
thousandfold and brilliantly reflected, and trite heart. His are the first fruits and the
fell enlightening and warming in every last, the first born animals and the last;
heart. The gorgeous columns with the glit. Ilis are the beasts of the forests and -the
tering capitulars which run in double rows animals of the meadows, the gold and silver
around the cloisters and supported the arch- are his. Hunger troubles him not and be
ed roof, were ornamented to-day with fruit suffers not by thirst; for God is no man,
and flowers of all sorts which the land pro. and the infirmities of the mortal ones befall
duces, and proclaimed, in a powerful Ran- him not. Repent, repent of your sins; let
guage, the bountiful goodness of our God.  your garments always be white, and let the
When, however, the procession ascended oil not bed wanting on your head; wash
the twelve steps leading from the court to away your guilt and clothe in innocence;
the holy house itself, silence ruled supreme; this is the sacrifice which pleases God."
not a sound, scarcely the palpitation of the A dense crowd surrounded the fantastic
hearts .was audible. All, priests, Levites, man as he spoke, and listened to-him with
musicians, singers and worshippers appear- profound attention and silence. "A sacred
ed overawed by the sacredness of the place, angel stands in the midst of heaven," the
where the Most Holy of Israel throned Essence continued, "Israel is his name.
among Cherubim.    Arrived at the altar, The heavenly host look on him, to-know
each took the basket on his hand, the priest wfien night sets in and when the 'day
waved it before God and the multitude read breaks, in order to render praise to God on
the word of Scripture: "I wish to say be- high when Israel chants His praise; when
fore God thy Lord, that I came in the land the day breaks, the sacred angel has the
which God has sworn to our fathers, to give word, "Truth," on his forehead, and when
it to .s."  The priests then took the bask- night sets in he bears the word, "Faith,'
et. and set them down before the altar, and upon his brows. The angel teaches you a
the multitude continued to read the scrip- sacred lesson: As long as the bright sun of
tural' passage, thanking God for his good- life and happiness shines on you, let truth
vess, and praying as every heart dictated. be the highest aim of your endeavors; listen
When this was done the sacrifices were to truth, and walk in its path; for truth Is
brought under the solemn performances ap- the sig'net of our God----in order that taith
pertaining t'o it, accompanied by the song~ and confidence in God justice and good-


Tun CoMBAT OF TH      PvrorE,
Mess be your guiding startbrouglh the night a boy with such a beauteous countenance,
of misery, pain and death. Wherever God's so 'peevish, still so chaste a look? I must
glorious sun of revelation illuminates our be much mistaken if the boy is not a girl."
mind, let,us search after truth as after hid-  Jonathan made 'no reply. Both entered
den treasures, and love it as our life; for it the house, and were welcomed by a man,
is costlier than fine gold, more precious than ! with the question: "Is the 'T'emple of the
the treasures of Ophir; it elevates to honors; Lord closed ?" Simon answered according
those who honor it, and watches over those to instructions, 11When night sets in, the
who trust in it--in order that faith, thit Temple of the Lord closes?"  The maan
faith. which is the offsprig of troth, guide then asked them, "Which side of the Tem.
us safely through the night of ignorance, ple is dark ?"-"The north, the north, the
and protect us against the dangers of dark- north," was the monotonous reply. This
ness. Trust in the truth and faith which appeared to satisfy the man, and he bid
are inscribed on Israel's forehead, and fol- them follow him.  Long after sunset the
low not after strange gods. Be not led astray party arrived in the valley of Iinom and,
either by the philosophy of the Greeks or walking through it they reached, at its ex.
the learning of the IRomnans; mind neither treme, a low hut. On entering this a man re-
the wisdom of the Orient nor the erudition ceived them and the above questions were
of the Alexandrians. Israel's truth and faith repeated and answered as before, when their
alone be your guide."                 i eyes were bandaged and they were led down
By ,this time the attention of all was at- many, many steps, then again onward and
tracted by the Essenee, the multitude .lis-j down agaia, then again forward on a level.
tened in silent suspense. A lad of superior After a long and winding walk, they were
beauty, whose delicate limbs were covered stopped, the bandage was removed from
with a black cloak of coarse material, slow- their eyc and they stood in a large and
ly-and cautiously made his way through the high hall,'in which a flood of light fell upon
crowd,.and on reaching a bearded B-bylon- gigantic stone columns, on which the stony
ian, he whispered: "'The Philistines are roof rested, and upon several hundred man-
on thee, Samson. Follow me to Baba ben ly figures, wrapped in black, cloaks and
Iluta," Jonathan ben Uziel, for he 'was the blank swords in 'their hands. The band-
Babylonian in disguise, found no time to ages being removed ten swords were swung
ask an explanation; for when the Essenee above each head, when a rough and power-
spoke again, the lad pressed its way through ful voice asked thea: "What can save your
the crowd, fpllowed by the two Babylonians life?" - "The liberty of Israel," was the
in disguise-Jonathan and Simon. The lad immediate reply. The swords were return-
went so fast, that theywthout attracting ed to their sheaths, and the strangers wel-
particular attention by fast running, could comed and invited to a seat in the hall.
not overtake him. Before a low building in A man yet. young, still bent as with old
Besetha, the lad stopped, and when the two age, his hair half grey, his countenance fur-
men had reached him, he said: " Here is rowed and painstricken, a blind man sitting
thp house"-"And who are you ?" Jona- on an elevated chair rose, after a moment of
thn, asked, hastily. "Now, I am your an- silence, and every eye in the hall looked on,
gel, 'fter awhile, you will be mine," he said him who could see none of them. It was
with   peevish smile, and turned quickly Raba ben Buta, formerly a senator in Israel
qy'pwd a corner.                       and a wise judge, now a hapless blind mau,
y"; ado not know what to make of the ofli- who was deprived of his sight by order of
giouo boy," said.Jonathan, "it is the same lHerod,when after he, supported by Sosias, a
who met me yesterday at the Upper Mar- general of Antony, and a Rloman army, had
ket." taken Jerusalem, he massacred the senators
"I suspect the boy to be a girl," Simon who were opposed to his claims upon the
replied, wth a smile. "Ihave you ever seen throne. Baba ben lhuta being an admirer

devise means for the salvation of Israel.--
Tell us from whence you come, who you are,
and what tidings you bring us."
When lHaba ben Buta had resumed his
seat, Simon rose and replied: " Israelites,
almen and brethren, your servants, Jonathan
ben Uziel and Simon ben Hillel, the pupils
of my illustrious father, come messengers
from the council of the Scribes, of Israel's
wise men, in the vicinity of Jerieho, thel
place where once the prophet Eliahm held his
councils. They desire us to tell you, your
cause is also theirs, your grievances are
theirs also; therefore, they desire to act in
unison with you, to redress our grievances,
break asunder the shameful yoke, the bonds
-of slavery and subjection weighing down to
the dust the virgin daughter of Israel. Your
servants come to receive instruction from
you, as to the best and safest mode of speedy
operation, and convey word to those who
sent us."
"And how did the wise men of Jerieho
know of the existence of the people's coun.
cil," Baba ben Buta-asked.    '
" Abba Shaul ben Botnith knows, that
both your servants are members of the peo-
ple's council in Bethlehem. We have sworn
the same oath as you have. We are ready

the fearful words, in a tone frantically wild ;
" My second duty is to slay proud Sabion."
A shriek, shrill and painful, resounded
from another pirt of the hall; every look
turned in ' that direction. "'Treachery !-
Treachery! " several exclaimed, simultane-
ously, "it is not haruch ben Menahem, it is
a "-
"A woman'! " said Helen, throwing cf'
her mask and cloak, " a woman in the dis-
guise of Baruch ben Menahem, who has in-
structed her in the secrets of this place."
" Death to the intruder ! " several men
cried, and rushed toward her. Simon and
Abba Shaul protected her. " None shall
kill her as long as A bba Shaul lives," the
powerful man   thundered, swinging  his
sword. " Shed no innocent blood," Simon
cried, vehemently. "None shall die in Is-
rael without a trial, before the tribunal of
law and justice: none shall die in Israel, un-
less the law commands his death," Baba ben
Buta calmly said. The swords were return-
ed to their cases, and Helen was led up to
the chair of the blind m in, to stand a lawful
trial for her intrusion.
'1'rmbling and amazed, Simon looked on
the beloved maiden, as she stood at the brink
of death, on account of a rash act, to whioh

.q

ORn HIL.LEL AND hIEnou.                          L
of Herod (Josephus calls him Pollion,) but alto act whenever you command. We advised
strong opponent to his violent usurpation, ,the Scribes and the wise men of Israel to
was not massacred ; he was deprived of his unite with you. They sent us, because it
eye sight, to render him harmless and unfit was easy for us to gain admission to your
to sit in the Sauhedrin.                wise council."
Baba ben Buta rose and addressed the    "I witness," said Abba Shaul, with his
strangers with a clear and powerful voice:1 powerful and monotonous voice.
" Peace be with you, brethren. In the name  Baba ben Buta examined the strangers
of Israel's God and in behalf of my mortified thus: " What is your first duty?"
and tyranized people, 1 bid you welcome in  "To restore justice, liberty, independence
the people's council. You stand here in the and peace to Israel?" was the reply.
hall of King Solomon, here are kept the im.  " What is your next duty?' Baba ben
plements and tools with which the first Tem.  uta continued.
ple of the Lord was built. This is a sacred  Simon faltered. " Speak, speak, strang-
place. It islocated beneath the Temple on ers," the blind man urged, "you put your
Mount Moriah, known traditionally to a few. lives in jeopardy." Simon  hesitated. A
Here, the prophets of the Lord assembled hundred swords rushed from their sheaths
when idolatry and corruption held their and the metallic sounds reverberated like the
sway over the throne and the people. 'T'his herald of death through the subterranean
is the place where the royal child .Joash was hall. " Speak or die," it roared like thunder
hidden for six years and escaped the bloody from hundred throats. A deep sigh escaped
hands of Athaliah. Here we meet again to the tormented bosom of Simon, on uttering


14                      THn COMBAT OF THE PROPEL,
love and filial affection prompted her. He lence. We ascend themarble stairs, and
couldsearcely breathe, nor could he turn his passing by the sentinels'and servants, leav-
gash from her.   Now, she descried him ing unnoticed their tokens of respect, we
among the multitude, her eyes darted forth open the doors and enter one of those spa-
looks of love and affection, no fear was visi- ciou3 saloons, the walls glittering with the
ble in her countenance ; she stood firm be- richest mosaic, and the floor covered with
fore her judge. Simon, overpowered with the heavy silk carpets of Damascus. The
feelings he could repress no longer, fell upon windows are replaced by Egypt's finest in-
his facebefore the chair of the blind man,and en, and metallic mirrors reflect the brilliant
prayed vehemently: " Baba ben Buta, spare, gems set in the walls.-

spare her. In behalf of Hillel, I pray spare
her, my life as a pledge for her generous in-
tentions."
CHAPTER         II.
A SCENE IN THE ROYAL        PALACE.
Passing through the rows of palaces north
west of the theater, which stood nearly in
the center of Acra, or the Lower City, as one
part of Jerusalem was called-we stop before
a large park, in which nothing is omitted
which nature and art combined produce to
charm and captivate even the over-irritated
sensualist of tropical lands. The verdant
carpet variegated with Flora's blooming
children was intersected with shady walks,
while the palm tree, the cedar and the fig
tree stood peaceably together. There the
rich foliage of the vine protected an artesian
well from the heat of the sun ; here the olive
and Jericho's balm shrubs were intimately
crowded together, upon which the pomegran-
ate and the golden orange appeared to look
down with elated pride. Aloes and myrtles
by the side of lemon trees impregnated theI
air with their sweet scent, in rivalry with
their precious neighbors, the narcissus and
the clove.
We pass these shadowy ways, up the slight
declivity, and arrive before a magnificentI
palaceof Tuscan structure. Passingthrough
the- marble portal, we step into a square
Court surrounded by colossal columns, upon
which the front of the upper story rests.--
Under it, upon the mosaic floor, low chairs,
rich sofas, and little round tables are
placed. Sentinels and servants haste to and
fro, courtiers and high dignitaries in their
state costume come and go continually. Ev-
ery where, Grecian art and taste appear com-
bined with oriental luxury and royal opu-J

In the center of the saloon, on a platform
several steps high, covered with red velvet
interwoven with flowers of gold and silver,
there rested the rich sofa, on which the most
beautiful, Inost virtuous and at the same
time most unfortunate of Queens,Mariamne
the last daughter of the heroic family of the
Asmoneans sat. Her head reclined upon
her white; round arm, on which fell a profu-
sion of black tresses, contrasting beautifully
with the three strings of Persian pearls
around the head, to keep uncovered a prom-
inent and lilly white forehead. Her eyes
which, like two solitary stars glittered under
the dark brows, were fixed on her mother,
Alexandra, who sat on the sa e sofa, and
spoke to her on matters of mo entous in-
portance. None, beside the two ladies, wah
in the saloon. They spoke little louder than
a whisper, still we must know part of the
conversation.
" He is the father of my children," said
Mariamne, with much feeling, " I can not
consent to his destruction."
"And the murderer of your race," said
Alexandra, in a tone of bitterness, "the wil.
ful and malignant assassin of your brother,
Queen. Do you know, daughter, the heart,
the love, the inexpressible affections of a
mother, for her children ? Why, then,
would you not comprehend the pain, the un-
utterable affliction of a mother bereft of her
only Pon by the assassin's vile schemes, by
foul and cowardish intrigues, by a despotic
and self-deifying King? Why, then, would
you not understand the mother's intense de-
sire, to avenge her murdered child ?"
" Because it is ignoble and impious," said
Mariamne, briefly. "God who knows man's.
motives, God alone can judge man's actions,
and le, only He, has a right to punish a

f

On hILLEL AND HERD.                             15
King. I believe, mother, Herod is my broth- you. I recollect now, his furious conduct
er's assassin, but I do not know it, I can when he assailed you with tho.;infamous
not condemn him because I believe him con- charge, to have enjoyed a prohibited inter-
demnable: for he is the father of my chil course with his brother-in-law. I recollect
dren."                                  the passionate love he bears to you. Thbis
"eshaw, a King I" Alexandra ejaculated, very passinate love, I apprehend, willuone
with a contemptuous sneer. " Who, besides day be the pretext to effect your and our-de-
the Romans, ever said, Antipater's son was struction ; for Herod does nothing without a
a King ? A King must be the favorite of his wise and judicial pretext."
people, else he is a monster. Herod's inten-  "Then, let it be so, in the name of God,
tion to exterminate a race of heroic Kings who elevates and dethrones Kings," Mari-
which he has partly realised already, is all amne exclaimed, with a solemn emphasis.
the claim he has, upon the royal title. What "Let any misfortune come on me, the con-
else has he done, becoming a King ? You sciousness of spotless innocence, of a stain-
believe, and I know, Herod is your broth- less character, of an unexoeptionablo ad-
er's assassin. I know he designs the death herence to duty and justice will sustain me
of all whose veins contain the royal blood.-- on the scaffold, in the dark prison, in any
Now, ask yourself, what is your duty ?- and every scene of misery. God guard me,
Must you, your mother, your grandfather, that I perpetrate no wrong. I shall not be
your own children, the last hopes of our fam- auxiliary in any crime. I would blush be-
ily, and of Israel-I say, must you patiently? fore my own sons, before my people, nay,
and inactively, wait for the fatal blow; it before the light of God's sun. should I have
may fall any day -or must you save your- wronged my children's father, my people's
self, us, your children, the hope of our fam- 'King."
ily and of Israel? Tell me, Queen, which is "Who wants you to perpetrate or be aux-
nobler, to die cowardly and foolishly, or to iliary in committing any crime ?" Alexan-
live and act bravely and usefully ? Or do dra asked. "None wants your support in

you believe Herod can enjoy an undisturbed
night's rest, as long as an Asmonean lives?
Or did the assassination of your brother,
God's Highpriest, not convince you, that he
is capable of any crime, any outrage, before
which hell and Satan themselves would,
blush ?" -'
"Mother, mother, I prithee," Mariamne
supplicated," berena e me not of the last
spark of affection I bear to the father'of my
children. No, lie can not be so monstrous,
so diabolic as to slay his own children. You
know how passionately he loves me."
Alexandra laughed angrily, on saying:
"Yes, yes, my magnanimous daughter ; I
recollect how passionately he loves you, so
passionately, indeed, that on being summon-
ed to appear before Mare Antony $ clear
himself of the.charge of having murdered my
son, the Highpriest, he commanded Joseph,
his brother-in-law to slay all of us, even you
and your children, in case he should be pun.
ished for his crime. 0 yes, t'recollect now,
that he killed Joseph, his brother-in-law, be-
cause he broached the secret command to

committing regicide.  till uthe man who
murdered hundreds, who killed his own
brother-in-law and two of his brothers, the
man who assassinated the Lord's High-
priest, the exterminator of your race, you
must affirm, deserves an ignominious death.
But it is not this which your mother, in be-
half of your royal family, of your own chil-
dren, in behalf of your life and your people's
wish and hope, asks of you. I wish you to
embrace this favorable opportunity, and See
with your children to the King of Arabia,
flee with your mother and your aged grand.
father .and ask the protection of the King
against the violence, bloody and treacher-
ous intentions. of a slave, whom you have
made a King. Cleopatra promised me her
intercession with Marc Antony, in our be-
half. Our people will rise in you' favor.
You must return as Queen of Judea, to se-
cure the throne of the Asmoneans to your
children, the lawful heirs thereof, and He-
rod must return to that obscurity from
which he emerged by violence and blood-
shed. Queen! this is your sacred duty,and


16                      THE CosBAT oF THEP 'EoPLE,
this is the proper time to effect your escape.  "Be merciful, my God, be merciful and
While Herod, with his army is engaged punish us not in thy just wrath, for the in-
near Cans, opposed by the Arabian army nocent blood, shed in this unholy war,'"
and watched closely by the Egyptians, we Mariami.e cried.  " Mother, this is a fbul
can make good our escape. Iositheus, the scheme, a vile treachery, which costs more
governor of the palace, has not forgotten human lives than I would wish to be made
the death of his three brothers. He is our Iresponsible for, before the throne of ever-
friend, because he hates Herod, and lie fa- lasting justice. Mother, my hands have not
vors our schemes."                     spilt that innocent blood, and 1, even if
* Mother, I caution you against the ser- death was certain to my children, my family
vile Desitheus," said Mariamne."- he is txo and myself, as you suppose, I would take
sereile to be honest, and too proud upon no advantage of this criminal scheme.
being a relative of Herod to be of a, Tser- Mother, I stay, let the consequences be as
vice to you. Dositheus may he the con- God pleases. If I must die, I shall die wor-
scious or even unconscious tol of ierod, thy of the last daughter of the Asmoneans,
instructed to favor your escape, in order to consoled and sustained by a stainless con-.
gain a pretext to your destruction."    science
"I have positive proofs of his fidelity.'  The Qreen observing the painful effect of
said -Alexandra.                       her rebuke on her mother, and unwilling to
"So yon had of Sabion, still he betrayed continue the unpleasant conversation, call-
yois,'Mariamne remnarked.--"ut:it is not ed for her ladies. Helen, Sabion's beaute-
this alone, 1 wished to say. You advise me ouS (laugh ter. whose acquaintance we made
to seek protection with the enemy of my at the cottage of Abba Shaul, stepped into
country against my own hursbanl. Aratb s the sk'On. " Bid my servant, fair Helen,
King in war Wth Judea on aeunt of' Geo to bring my sons.- the Queen said; "I have
patra, to whom he refuses the payuent or not seen them to day." Helen obeyed, and
tribute, to become my protector, and there returning to the saloon she told the Queen
with one in rebellion against Cieop&amp;atra and secretly , that Menahem's son urgently wish-
Rome, 1 should wait for the favor of both ? e I to see her. Alexandra, observing the
It is both wrong and foo'lish. Youan not. secret conversation withdrew from the sa-
after mature reflection, advise me to such a !'oon. Tihe Queen requested Helen to admit
hazardous step."
hrdu tep ue.fJdaap'a~ntd         the man, and withdraw herself, as she wish-
of Jadesaapper; not  sed to be alone with him. After Helen was
posed to understand this scheme, said Al ge    aruch ben Menahem was ushered
exandra, smilingly. Now. suppose for a into the presence of the Queen. Without
to appoint Herod to collect her tribute in 'iving him time to go through the usual
Arabia; suppose she advised the Kin- of formalities and ceremonies the Queen urg-
Arabia to refuse payment, in order to in- ed  "e short, my friend, tell me as quick
rolbe H~erd in this war, and offer us an as possible what you have to say. These
opportunity to escape, and a place of safety; walls have ears and treacherous lips."
suppose, furthermore, she sent her troops to  " My gracious Queen, I bring you sad
Cans for the purpose of enraging Herod so news," Baruch said. "Salome. the King's
long, if the Arabs fail. until we have effect- malignant sister, sends me to Cana, to de-
ed our escape, could you then call this liver t1is letter to Herod  This letter says,"
schemer foolish? Evilently not.  As re- -Here he paused, as though he could find
gards the wrong, only the alternative is left no words to express the criminal contents
you, either expose .ourself, your children of the letter.-
and your royal family to certain death. "- Speak, speak, my friend," Mariamne
which will eventually come, or escape and~ urged, with a smile, " I am prepared to
secure the throne of your fathers to your hear the worst."
c~hildren.'             '                 This letter contains an ignominious and

OR HILLrL.Aw HEROD.17
false, utterly false charge against you," Ba- rights upon her, for. she is childless. He
uonh resumed.. "It says, you, my gracious must die before she can marry you. This
Queen, you had yielded to the impure re- is the whole secret.  But how will you
gueste ofDositheus."                   prove the innocence of poor Dosithes be-
The Queen laughed. " Do not trouble fore the enraged King?"
yourself about that," she said, kindly, Sa-  "Very easily, indeed," said Baruch. "Be-
lome has done so once before. Having then fore delivering the letter to him, I shall re-
charged me with the same crime with her veal to him the 'shameless conduct of'his
own husband, of wlom she appeared to be sister. I will also tell him, that she,iny
tired, the consequence was the death ofse., wanted Dositheus to write, a syimi
her husband by the hands of the King. This presenclar letter to-the King against you and the
is not a plot against me, it is one against Nassi, the son of Bethera. When Dositheis
poor Dositheus.' It is better you deliver the refused, she became so yinraged, that she
letter in the hands of the King, than any slapped him in his face.g Had 1 ot stepped
body else, for I know your faithful hoar  between them, the ofended man would havs
" I will deliver it, and I will say all I massacred her, on the spot. I will tell him
know about the letter," said Baruch. ,
"Adwhtdoyu.nw          'buti?" the all this, and then deliver this letter."
"And what do you know about it ?te               .
aked.                            "Has that ignoble woman also a grudge
"1 offered my services to Herod's sister, on the Nassi, that blind and obedient tool
because you, my noble Queen, desired me of Herod?" the Queen said, astonished.
to do so," said Baruch. "My surprise about " This is a novel discovery. I did not know
my easy success with her was soon explain- that. He was, indeed, several times with
ed to me. From that very hour she spared me, asking my advice in important matters.
no trouble, all her beguiling and lubric-arts But he is an old man, the King would
were employed, to win me for her sensual scarcely have believed the scandalous re-
propensities. It did not require the virtue port."
of Joseph to resist her, as she is far from A noise in the reception room interrupted
being Potiphar's beautiful wife. She wax the conversation. The doors were thrown
ed daily more arrogant and shameless, and open and, without any ceremony,, Herod,
I more disgusted with her. She begged, followed by Dositheus, armed to the teeth,
promised, menaced; I was deaf to her rushed into the saloon. Without payig
words. Still, Lgfattered her, because you any respect to his Queen he harshly asked
wanted it so. I gave her some hopes and the young man, "Who are you?"   With a
when she pressed me to the utmost, I told tremIulous voice be replied, "My royal mas-
her that I never would accede to her wish- term's servant, Baruch ben Menahem."
es, unless united with her in lawful mar-  The King laughed so savagely, that it
riage. Wishing, as I did, for your sake, to frightened his own attendants. "What
have her entirely under my control, I threa- means this letter?" he said, snatching it
tened to reveal her conduct to the people out of Baruch's hands.
and scandalise her name, publicly, if she  "Mercy, mercy, my royal lord!" lEaruch
refuses to be mine. . She reflected several cried, falling upon his face, "read not this
days and the result was, that she promised damnable letter, before you have heard me."
to be mine, if I would stand this trial, to  Herod kicked him away with .hip foot,
deliver this letter to the King and tell him opened the letter and cast a hasty glance
this was no secret at court. ,I consented. o it. Then he turned to llositheus. "So-
She wrote the letter, I read it, she sealed it cure this traitor?" he thundered. Baruch
carefully in my presence, and bid me hase." was immediately led away, and Herod was
" I think I understand these intrigues," alone, with Mariamne. At this painful me-
said the Queen, deliberately. " Dositheus ment Helen with the two little sons of. He-
is the only remaining brother of her de- rod entered the saloon. The children ha.
eased husband. None can contest hisi tened to embrace their father, but he push-
3


18                     THE COMnA? O      THn PEOPLE,
ed them away, with a curse on his lips, need it doubly. -Speak, my lord, without
They sought refuge with their mother, who restraint. Your children understand only
pressed them affectionately to her heaving your anger, but not your words. "E
bosom, and with a tear in her eyes, she  This appeared to pacify the excited King,'
said, ."Be content, my darlings, father is for lie spoke calmly. "Mariamne, Queen of
cross."  Helen fel down before the King my heart''--
and prayed, "Do no harm, my royal lord, "Asmonean princess and Queen .of Ju-
to Bieruoh ben Menahem. lie is the son of dea, you inean to say," Mariamne proudly
the lkseneo Menahem. le is harmless as interrupted.S
a doe."        ra                       ."Any title you please to claim," Herod
"Is he also your lover, young lady ?"the said, "but tell me, what this young man
Kiz1 asked, ironically. "Begone, I must had to do in your private apartment, alone;
be alone with the Queen."              all alone with you."
"Mercy, mercy fir the young man," Hel- "Important business, concerning none but
en, cried, and refused to leave the saloon.  myself," the Queen replied. "Did not your
"Call Sabioni," the King commandedsister's letter inform you-you read it-of
Helen, refusing to rise, she continued suing the nature of aruch's business?"
for mercy, until her father came.        "The letter? which letter ?"  ierod ask-
"It appears that also your daughter con-
spires against me," Herod said. "Get her ed, feigning calmness.
o  '                        " Well, the letter you hold in your hands,"
SHelef obeyed, silently, the command of- Mariamne said, "accusing me of a criminal
her father, and went awy with him. The connection with the aged D-sitheus, your
followed them to the anti-room, where obedient tool."
King f   W                               "ow do you know the contents of this
he  asked Sabion,  W'Vhat news do you lette
have?--" Nothing important, said Sab- .r," the King asked, with increasing e-
ion, "The peasants of the district of Jeri- citement.
ch ae'Wn ome  fr    "irfrs   rut.     Your treacherous sister ;race it to Ba-
eho have cme to offue their first fruits. ch ben Menahem," the Queen replied,
Thy are  encamped outside the Fishgate. and lie being her favorite was acquainted
I have made the proper arrangements.     .
-ilelen blushed, on hearing the peasants th tscherons annfamous p  of   o
of Jericho mentioned, but none observed .t   er agns , isn
her.                                    "sHetoldyouHerod thundered; "then
"Be careful," the King said, and return- -l. .     '.   . .    d.      t
ed to the saloon, where he found his chil- your intimacy with him is evident. Confess
dren were yet in. the embrace of their your crime, Queen, and bear witness, that
mother.                                my wrath is deserved."               '
"I must be alone with you, Queen," He-  "I do not understand you, King," she
rod said, in a harsh and agitated tone.  said, contemptuously. "Tell me what you
"4My children a:e the most proper wit. mean, and I will give you an explanation, if
nesses' to every thing King Herod has to honor permit it."
say to' his consort," the Queen responded, "Hear then, and be convinced, that noth-
in a calm tone.                        ing remains a secret to Herod,",he said has-
"Will it benefit them to hear of the faith- tily.
lessness of their mother? " the King asked, "Ia Cana, I met the Arabian army. I
trembling with excitement.            attacked them and they fled. They could
" They are innocent children and under- not stand the charge of my well-drilled
stand little of the Crimes and follies of the arnmy. Athenio, the general of Cleopatra,
world," Mariamne said; " but they are sen- commanding a corps of observation, said
sitivehenough to feel the frigid conduct of he came to support me, if I should not be
their -father ; they can not do the whole able to repulse the Arabs. I mistrusted
day without the love of their mother. They his words. No sooner were the Arabs do-

On 1IL.LEL AND HEROD.                          19
feated than he supported them. The uni-  "I shall not stay, quarreling with a mad
ted armies of Cleopatra and Arabia fell on man," she replied, calmly. " Your morbid
my men.   They stood their ground like conscience is your interpreter of events.
giants; but they were overwhelmed by su- You see all things in a delusive light."
perior numbers, and were defeated, defeat- She again attempted to leave the room, but
ed by treason, by the treachery of Cleo- Herod seized her and dragged her back.
patra, roused against me by the members of The children cried violently. Mlariainne si-
your family. Cursing and trembling with leneed them. " Do not cry," said she, "it
rage, I returned to my quarters. Here I is nothing; your father was beaten by the
found a letter of my sister. Read it, read Arabs and wants now to make good his
it, yourself."                         courage with his defenceless wife and chil-
Mariamne read: "Baruch ben Menahem   -ren.
is the suitor of your Queen. This is no se-  Herod gnashed his teeth, and roared lion-
cret to any one at court. Their relations like. Helen and the other ladies of the
are most intimate, thus much is known to Queen rushed into the room andsurround-
every body. 1, wishing to prevent the sean- ed the Queen, who sunk half-fainting in
dalHelen's embrace. " What is it, my                             ra-
dal and deliver the young sinner into yourHy g
hands, attracted him to myself, promised to cious Queen?" the ladies asked. "Noth-
marry him, if he convey a letter to you, say- ing, nothing; the King told me our army
ing that Dositheus courts the Queen; be. was defeated," she sail with a faint voice.
cause I knew he would open the letter, and "Conduct me to my private chamber. Take
you would scarcely believe such a crime of care of my sons.
The Queen, the children a'nd the ladies
Dositheus. When delivering the letter to w      en, le  erd a    n     as
you h i inyor otier  Yur ise.   went away, leaving Herod alone in a state
you, he is in your power. Your ster, ,,  of fury.  He plucked the, hair from his
SALO.1='   beard, in his violent rage, rushed his head
"Foul, diabolical lies!" Mariamne ex- against the wall, ani struck his breast'with
claimed, violently. "All is an invention, a his own fists; then,,he cried furiously, "She
malignant, despicable invention."     is faithless, she betrayed me."  Opening
."Do not rage in vain, fair Queen," Herod the door he called out the name of Sabion.
said, with a sneer. "I at once ascribed the The man appeared.  Herod seized him,
treason of Cleopatra's General to your arts, and, infuriated with 'rage, he cried in a
and thought there must be some truth in hoarse and depressed voice, "Take that
my sister's letter. I hastened home to my young man, that Baruch ben Menahem,
capital, to my palace, to my wife's private torture him with all possible instruments.
apartment, and here I find the identical Ba- Tear his limbs slowly from his body, burn
ruch ben Menahem, alone with you, having his eyes out with hot iron, tear the flesh
in a moment of repentance told you the Con- from his breast, with sharp tongs, until
tents of this letter. Queen, you are guilty, he confesses his crime, then let himdie,
according to the best of my judgment. Con. and tell me his confession."
fees your crime, and yield to the arm of jus- "My lord," said Sabion with a faltering
tice."                                 voice, "he is the son of your best friend,
" Father is very cross to day," the oldest Menahem the Essenee."
of the children said, pressing himself timid  "Traitor,' do you also conspire against
ly to his mother.                      me ?" the King roared. " Do what I told
is Yes, my child," Mariamne said, proud- you."
ly, "your father is very cross to day, and  When Sahion was nearly out of the room,
misinformed. Let us go, and return when the Ring called him back. "The Queen and
.hia anger is over." She went toward the her children, her mother and grand father
door, but Tiered stopped her, and cried furn must be closely watched."
ously, " You shall not go from here before The trembling courtier bowed, submis-
I know the truth in these matters." sively, and turned to withdraw. " Stay!i"


20                      THE COMBAT OF THE PboPLE,
the King thundered. " Who are the pens-  "Die! Baruch, the innocent, harmless,
ents from Jericho?"                    pious youth must die 1" Helen exclaimed,
" Peasants who come to offer 'their first lkwildered. "Father, you must be mistaken,
fruits, I believe," said Sabion.       he is gentle as a dove, kind as a lambkin,
"Be careful," the King said, in a milder he can have done no wrong, why should he
tone. "You know, Sabion, Jericho is the die?"

property of Cleopatra and the refuge of-con
spirators and rebels.  Take care that n
spies are among the comers."
Sabion again bowed submissively, and
withdrew. When Herod was .alone he
cursed, wept, raged, and wept again, for
many hours.
Sabionreturned late at evening to his fath-
er's house,humiliated and disgusted with the
ruthlessdespotism of his royal master. Helen
Waited impatiently for her father's return,
and'when he care he first of all things went
to her apartment and kissed her affection-
ately.
"Helen, my daughter, my only child,"
said he, "you are my only joy in this world.
Since your mother has returned to mother
earth, I have none beside you to console me."
- " Mother returned to our Father in hea-
'een,' Helen said; " after awhile we shall
mees her again."
"Nonsense, nothing but supreme non-
sense," Sabion. ejaculated, " the dead are
dead and rest in the bosom of eternal peace.
This is the belief of all Saducees, and is also
mine.. But let this be as it is. How is the
Queen?"
"The Queen is sick," said Helen, quickly,
"asd the dead live, my mother lives. I feel
#&amp; spite of all the Saducees in the world.
WIhatever the yearning hearts of all good
s   .es proclaim, can be no delusion. My
mother lives and hears me, when I remem-
her her in my prayer."
"You are a good, pious soul, my darling,"
the father said, smilingly, " and I dislike to
dispute your pious opinions. But do tell me
what she Queen said after the meeting with
the King.'
"Nothing in. the world," said Helen, "she
is too unwell to say anything. But allow
sse, dearest father, allow me also a question,
.wlat did Baruch ben Menahem shy, when
you saw him last?"
" Do not care, my child, for the peculiar
youth," Sabion said, "he must die."

-  " You are foolish, Helen," Sabion gain-
o said, with a smile. "In our days, the most
unpardonable crime is to displease theKing,
l and this is the very crime of which Baruch
eis guilty; therefore he must die, breathe his
r last under the tortures of modern invention.
They have imported quite new tortures from
Rome, as Antony, Augustus 'and Lapidus
invented them to establish their power and
secure their dominion over Rome."
"God, merciful God, must Baruch die ?"
Helen lamented." "It can not be, it must
not be. How the poor youth will struggle
with the torments of death I"
" Who cares in our days about death 1"
Sabion vociferated. "It is something so
common, so much of every-day occurrence,
that none cares for it, except nervous wo-
men and cripples. Men have become indif-
ferent to life and death."
" Father this is a sinful time," Helensaid.
"1I will go, early in the morning, and pray
at the tomb of my mother."
" What good will it do you, foolish child?"
Sabion asked.
"It will relieve my heart," said Helen,
feelingly. " It will sustain me,that I be not,
infected by the raging vices of the day. It
will invigorate me, that Idespairnotof man's
humanity, and of God's godliness."
" The King, sir, wishes to see you imme-
diately," a servant entering said hastily, and
retired.
" So late at evening, it must be impor-
tant," Sabion murmured between his teeth.
"Father! one requestIhave tomake,do not
refuse it to your child ," Helen prayed. "Let
no harm be done to Baruch, till I have seen
him in his prison. Early in the morning, I
will go and pray at the tomb of my mother;
then I will go to see him."
"1I will, my child," Sabion - replied, and
left her room.
Early in the morning Helen, in company
with her friend Elvira, whom" she regarded

.

On HILLEL AND HEROD.                            21
as a sister, and an old servant, went out to earnestly, "nor is it right of you to suspect
the tomb of her mother. She intended to my motives. I tell you, I have those two
consult Abba Shaul, in whom she placed men arrested, because they are in imminent
mueh confidence, in regard to the fateof Ba- danger."
ruch ben Menahem. But finding there Si-  " Danger ?" Elvira repeated, thoughtful.
mon ben Hillel, and having with him theex- ly. ,"And you entrust those you wish to
citing conversation, which we noted before, save in the hands of your father's muspi-
she forgot all about Baruch, and returned to cious servants ?"
the city 4n- a stateof intenseexcitement. On "Are my father's servants suspicious ? "
her way home she spoke very little to El- Helen asked, with no little surprise.
vim. After a long silence, she asked her, "They are suspicious to the people," Ee-
" Who io the steady companion of Simon vira'said, " but to those who know them
ben Hillel ?"                          well, they are acquainted as a ruthless and
Elvira replied, "Jonathan ben Uziel." reckless band of spies and assassins, who
Notwithstanding the hundred questions of lurk in dark places and listen after every
the lively and active Elvira, Helen could secret word, to provide the scaffold with
not be induced to speak again. Having ar- new victims and the prisons with afflicted
rived* at her residence, her servant was im- hearts, to bring misery into peaceable fami-
mediately dispatched to call two of her fath- lies and tear asunder, the most sacred and
er's secret .men. They came. Helen mas- dearest ties of endeared companions."
tered her temper and, in the calmest man- "Gracious God I Elvira what do you
ner, she told them of the peasants, encamp- say ?" Helen asked, " Do we live in a den
ed outside the Fishgate, gave them a deserip- of murderers?"
tion of the two young men she wished to  "Worse, much worse than this," Elvira
have arrested forthwith and locked up in a said.  "And you entrusted two innocent
room which she pointed out. The two men young men into such reckless hands."
grumbled, but a handful of glittering gold "Fear naught, dearest," Helen said, "they
going to their pockets, and the promise of promised to bring them to me, and there is
more, if her orders were well attended to, an honor also among thieves."
silenced the bearded and sun burned spies.  "There may be an honor among thieves,"
They promised to do their best, and went Elvira said, " but not among hirelings and
out on-their errand.                   spies; certainly none among Herod's cruel
Elvira was more curious and inquisitive tools, who are feared, hated, despised by
to day than ever before. After she had every body and tyrannized over with an un-
proposed a hundred questions, in a joking bending, iron rod, by Herod and Sabion.
and laughing manner, peculiar to herself, They will certainly inform your father of
she asked, "Tell me, fair Helen,why do you your command before they obey it. In a
have arrested TWO young men, when I few hours you and the two young men are
scarcely can arrest the attention of oNE?" in the hands of your father."
f That none else arrest them," Helen re- "There is yet no cause of alarm," Helen
plied drily, apparently not having under- said. "I am my father's only child, and he
stood the wit of her companion. "They loves me affectionately. I can do a great
play a hazardous game which I must pre- deal with him."
vent."                                   "You are decidedly mistaken," Elira
" Would not you allow me to arrest one contended. " No affection is too-holy, no
of them?" Elvira asked, peevishly. " The ties are too sacred to Herod. If he bids,
description you gave of them is so charming, your father must obey, whatever his objec-
indeed, that 1 would like to arrest one of tions might be. If the two young men die-
them."   ,                           , please Herod, they or you must die, and
-Helen was not well disposed to day. your own father must be your executioner."
" This is no time for jokes," she said, " You are terrible to day," Helen said.


22   'Tuw COMBAT OF T HE PaOILE,
"Your imagination is fraught with evil de-  "I am Portubius Samonius Hervasto, a
mons. There is no such %a thing.-  must soldier of the fifth legion," the fellow said,
now go to Baruch ben Menahem, and you stretching his figure.
stay and take proper care of the two young " And I am Saltulis Antonio Pompius, a
Weit When they are brought, that no harm wealthy patrician," she said, haughtily, "who
befall them." She kissed Elvira, and left. lives at present in Jerusalem. You know it
" Not so hasty, young lady," Elvira said now ?"
to herself; "you shall not arrest Jonathan - "To be sure I do," the man said, and
bensUsiel. I shall not entrust his fate to both went out on an errand already known
such hands." She went away, and in a few to us.
moments she returned dress, d in boy'sj "Baruch ben Menahen, beloved compan-
clothes, and her servant in the disguise of a ion of my childhood," Helen said, with two
Roman soldier.                        large tears in her eyes, " are you of a good
"How do I look ?" she asked her ser- spirit?"
vant,                                   " I am," said he, smilingly. " I know my
"Amiable, upon my honor, amiable," the doom is sealed, I must die. Ilerod the King,
servant ejaculated.                   by the will of Rome, wills it so. But 1 have
"Fool; why do you say this ?" Elvira no crime on my soul. My conscience is free
scolded; "Is there a young lady in Jerusa- of every guilt. Helen, I am happy now, that
lem who does not know that she is amiable? I lived with God and according to His will.
And if she should happen not to know it, I can now look fearlessly into the very jaws
are there not plenty of men here to tell of death. Helen, I thank you that you de-
her? I wish to know, whether I look pre- scended to this prison, to see me once more.
eisely like a naughty, peevish, saucy boy; Go back to my companions, and tell their
for that is the part I am going to play."  Baruch ben Aienahem has lived long enough
" You look so, exactly so," said the obli- to die happily, if God has so decreed. Fare-
ging servant,                         well, Helen, forever, farewell"
"Ah, you fool, dare you say to a lady, She could make no reply; she could not
that she looks like a naughty, peevish, saucy even clasp the outstretched hand of her
boy?" Elvira rebuked. " If I look so, in- friend. " Can I not save you?" she asked,
deed, you are the first man in Jerusalem after a long pause. "Speak, my friend, can
who has the impudence to tell truth to a I do nothing for you ?"
young lady. If you say so to another, she "Nothing for me,I believe," Baruch said'
will slap you in your face. How do I look, after some reflection; " but you may be of
Mare?"much service to somebody whom I love bet-
"To be sure, young lady-young gentle-:ter than my life."
man, I was going to say," the servant stain-' "Tell me, Baruch," she said, hastily, " 0
merged, "you look exactly a4 you please,"- tell me, what can I do to please you. Let it
"You are a stupid ass," she scolded, "I do cost my life, I will gladly do it."
not wish to look as I please ; I wish to look  "Noble Helen," the young man exclaim-
as others please to imagine a naughty boy. ed, much moved. " Look out doors and
No young lady pleases to please herself, but see that none overhears our conversation."
to please others. I see you are a foolish  "My old and faithful servant watches,"
Babylonian, a ridiculous Greek, a stupid she said, "we are undisturbed. Speak my
Samaritan, you do not know much. Marc, friend, that I may act speedily."
how do I look ?"                        "Do you love our Queen ?" he asked.
"By the beard of the highpricst," the  " With all my heart," she responded.
pohr fellow ejaculated, "I do not know how " Swear by your God, by your hopes of
youi look."                           e ternal salvation, swear by your life and
" Who are you, Marc ?" Elvira said. love," he said, "that you will never desert,
" Stand straight and answer."         never betray her, and I will speak."  :

OR HILLEL AND HERoD.                            3
"I do solemly swear," Helen said, having of Baruch, and her desire to save the Queen.
laid her right hand upon the heart and hav- In a few moments she was again in her
ing lifted up her left hand to heaven.,  private apartments, where one of-her fath-,
"Hear me, Helen, and then tell me what er's servants informed her of the arrest. of
you will do," he said, with increasing emn the two strangers who wore-seured in an
phasis. " No mortal being ever has loved a adjoining apartment. Helen blushed. Hav-
woman so affectionately, so passionately, so ing paid the man for his services, she die-
sincerely, as I have our Queen. No mortal missed him, and thought of the bost way to
ear has ever heard this confession; this bro- pursue, to bring Simon out of the city and
ken heart alone knew it; and I alone felt prevent him from coming in conflict witis
the nameless torments of a hopeless raving her father. After some deliberation she
passion. I enbracedevery opportunity to went to the apartment described to her by
serve her, and so I ingratiated myself into the servant. Her heart beat more violently
the confidence of her deadly enemy, the with every step she progressed toward the
Queen's malignant sister. You know din- room. Modestly and-blushingly she opened
bolic Salome. Hell itself dare -not boast the door, but two peasants, entire strangers,
upon a more degraded, more satanic woman stood before her. She stood ,paralysed at
than she is. She plots incessantly the des- the door, and was for a good while, unable
truction'of the Queen and of every member to speak.
of the Asmonean family. She knows that I  "Who are you, and what do you want
learned her satanic schemes and revealed here ?" she asked, feigning calmness.
them to the Queen; so I must die, and the  "We have been arrested," one of the
next victim of her malignity is either the peasants said, " we know not why or where-
Queen. or her aged grandfather. She knows fore. We are kept here in close confine-
the passionate love of Herod for his royal ment, we can not tell to what end."
consort, and, behold jealousy is her ally ;  "It .is a mistake," Helen said. Giving
Satan can make no better plots-She says, each of them a hand full of gold coins, .sh
that Dositheus and myself, as I just rjow requested them to be silent on the matter,
learned, prostituted the Queen.         leave the palace and join their friends.
"Speedy assistance only can save her, or  The peasants, glad of the easy escape, cor-
else she is lost, lost probably in a few hours," dially thanked her and att lmpted togo$
Baruch continued; " speedy assistance is when a secret door in the wall opened, and
necessary, energetic action alone can save Sabiun, with several servants, entered. Hel-
her."                                   en looked with consternation on her father,
"'Tell me, what shalt I do for her," Helen when he calmly and imperatively sai4l, "Si-
urged, "tell it quickly, I am prepared to mon ben Hillel and Jonathan ben Usiel,you
4ie for her, if I can not save her otherwise." are my prisoners." Waving with his hand,
"'Go down to Bezetha," Baruch said, "in the officers were called to their duty and,
my father's house you will find my clothes notwithstanding the protests and petitions
and a'false face, looking exactly like myself. of the peasants they were Ied away. Sabion
Go to the valley of Hinom, and with the in- eyed his daughter closely when saying'elow-
struction I hereby will give you, you will ly and emphatically, "My daughter is well
find admission into the people's council. instructed in'the functions of her father, she
There you tell all you know about the Queen can effect arrests in the best way. She has
and myself, and tell them, I hope they will also studied the art of courts, and feigned
act speedily, and energetically in behalf of not to know the strangers, when she perceiv-
the Queen"    -ed the presence of her father. You are
Baruch having instructed her in all she quite a promising child. I ought to be proud
should know, she left him resigned to his of you." Helen attempted to speak, but
unhappy fate and prepared to die. The tears Sabion would not let her. "Not neoetsary,"
of Helen were dried by the calm resignation he said, in a bitter tone, "I know enough of

.6


24                     THE CoMAr o
yotir affairs. It is a pity that the affection-
ate meeting was frustrated, quite an officious
and imposing father you have, but it so hap.
pens, that ofieial duties required my pres-
enc hereabout. But, young lady, I must
know two things before hand. Do you know
the charter of these two men, and what
connection have you with them ?"
"I do not know these two men, nor do I
knuow their characters ; I have no connee-
tions with them," Helen. said, calmly and
composedly; "they are innocent peasants
whom I know not."
"Perfectly well," said Sabion, sneeringly;
" ninterly perfect. My daughter perfectly
sustains the character of a lady at court.-
She looks innocent, harmless and sweet as
though nothing wrong, nothing strange had
happened. She pleads a total denial of all
facts, and it is for me to prove them. Sa-
gacious, very sagacious, indeed. But the
evidence is in my hands and it shall not es-
cape."
"I do say here, in the presence of my God
- and my father," Helen said, solemnly, " that
the two men you have arrested are strangers
to me, I' know them not. Their very coun-
tenances prove them to be innocent and
harmless peasants."
Sabion smiled cunningly, when saying,
"Very good. A Queen could not do any
better. They are all innocent, my daughter,
her secret friends and all mankind besides.
It is a capital joke. But my innocent
daughter should know, I believe, that Hil-
e'rs son and his pupil are sworn and avow-
#d'enemies of Herod and her father. If she
does not know it, I do hereby inform her.
f. .lo inform her that she having secret
ediuneiations with the enemies of the
King and her Father, is a traitor"-
" Father, for God's sake continue not I"
1elen cried vehemently, "do not accuse
your only child of crimes she is incapable of
committing. I do declare, that the two pea-
santsyou just now have arrested are perfect
strangers to me. I know them not, nor do
they know me. l only then will give you
ani explanation, when the peasants are res-
toted to liberty."
"You shall not foolsa man, I say," Sabion

P THa P8oPLE,

remarked. "The two prisoners remain in
my power, till I know the truth about this
affair.. Woman's tears and her persuading
voice are insufficient to make me forget the
duties I owe to my King."
" And your only child's petitionY' Helen
asked.
" Is of no avail," Sabion replied. "I am
the King's servant"-
" And the peoples opponent," Helen re-
marked, imprudently. But, frightened by
her own words, she added, "Baruch ben
Menahem, the innocent Essenee, the son of
your King's friend, is my testimony."
Sabion scrutinized her sharply, with his
piercing look, which darted arrowlike from
his small black eyes. "Do you know this ?"
he asked, slowly and shrewdly. "Ah, I be-
lieve Simon ben Hillel told you. Therefore
he must die."
Helen trembled, when her father articula,
ted the last words, so firmly and resolutely,
that no doubt could be entertained as tp
their meaning. She quickly recovered her
self-possession, and asked, smilingly, her
father, " Would you have Simon ben Hillel
die, if he is my lover, if-U must die on his
grave ?"
"Your lover, unhappy child ?" Sabion
asked, in a tone of consternation, "You do
not mean this, in earnest, my child,do you?"
"Whenever your anger will be over, I
will tell you truly, what knoww" Helen said.
"I speak not to Herod's.stern officer, I shall
gladly and sincerely speak to my father."
" Speak, my child," Sabion said, half smi-
ling, " but speak the truth and nothing but
the truth."
"I do my father," said Helen. "I lonv
but one man, I will ever love him only, and
he is indeed, Simon ben Hillel. But neither
of the two men arrested is Simon ben Hi-
lel."                                s
1 " Treacherous child, unnatural daughter,'
Sabion exclaimed, angrily, "you love the son
of our archenemy; for Hillel is the head of
the Pharisees. Never shall you be his wife.
Never shall you be the partner of a despised
Pharisee, aspoor Babyloniian, a foe of King
Herod. Never will I give.my consent to this
unnatural union." After a while, he con-

11

from the commission of an act which sure-
ly would forever render me most misera-
ble."
After some reflection, she called Elvira.-
The girl came. " You are right, my good
Elvira,"- Helen said. " My father's servants
informed him of my orders, and I despair."
"No cause for it," said Elvira, "I do not
know what interest you take in the two
young men; but I know themout of Sabion's
reach. "
" Where, my beloved sisterly friend, where
are they," Helen inquired anxiously, "I
will, I must know it."
"I can not tell you, beloved Helen," El-
vira said, "I can not tell you."
"0 behold the anxiety of my trembling
heart," Helen said, " behold me pray, be-
seech you, dearest Elvira. Know the secret,
that Simon ben Hillel is the friend of my
heart, I must know where he is, the whole
4

gone.
CHAPTER         III
THE TRIAL AND THE SCHEME
" Save the Queen, ye men, with the wus-
cular, sunburned countenances," Helen
cried in the subterranean hall of the peo-
ple's council, after she was detected; .sase
the Queen, she is in imminent danger. He-
rod returned enraged from Cans. Ha cony
Riders his wife and her familythe eiicient
cause of his defeat. His treacheromss and
malignant'sister Salome conspired and plot-
ted against my gracious Queen.. She made
the King believe Baruch ben Menahee,was
the lubric favorite of the Queen. Both ,$a-
ruch and the Queen are in close confine-
ment, both expect torture and death with
every moment."
Profound silence reigned supreme, in the
wide, subterranean hall. Simon ben Hiil

OR HILLEL AND URRoD.                             g4
posed himself and, in a milder tone, he ask- happiness of all my life depends on it. My
ed, " Who are the two men, I found with life and his, my happiness and his, Elvira,my
you ?"                                 paradise and his depend on it, $0st I see
"Two innocent peasants," Helen said, him, speak to him ere the nent morning
"you can see it in their countenances." dawns. Tell me, hesitate not, I beseech you,
"And how did they come to you," Sabion I conjure you in the name of thy God an4
inquired, " when you ordered my servants, mine."
to arrest Simon ben Hillel and Jonathan ben  "If I tell you, good Helen," said EIvira,
Uziel ?"T                              "you do not know the place, you can not
" Your servants missed the right men," findhim."
said Helen. "On entering this room, I per-  "Speak, only tell me the place," said Hel-
ceived the mistake."                   en.  If it is in the highest heaven, my love
Sabion opened the door, some of his will furnish me with wings and 1 will reach
servants were called and came in. "Take him. If it is in the lowest regions of the
the two prisoners," said he, "and go with nether-world, my affections will safely guide
them about in search of Simon ben Hillel me through the terrible gates of hell. 0
and Jonathan ben Uziel. They can point tell me, where is he ?
them  out to you. Whenever those persons  "If I tell you, beloved, you will not uin-
are in my power, thsee prisoners are dismis. derstand me," said Elvira. "Still I will tell
sed."                                  you, just to satisfy you. Simon ben Hillel
The servants withdrew. Helen fell down, will be this evening in the people's council."
embraced the knees of her father, praying  Helen seized her violently and cried pas-
him to do no harm to Hillel's son ; but the sionately, " This is the voice of God speaking
hard man turned away his face. He left the through you, Elvira. You are the oracle of
room, leaving Helen in tears and resting the Almighty. Tell my father, I want to
upon her knees. When lie was gone she pray all night on the grave of my mother.
rose slowly and cried vehemently, "Am I Tell him I am mad, 1 am sick, I ain enrap-
not the unhappiest woman, placed as I am tured, no, I am deadly sick in my brains.
between two bitter enemies, both of whom I Farewell, farewell."
love ? God assist me, that I prevent both  Before Elvira could speak Helen was

1


26                      Tas CoIKIA? oF THE PEOPLE,
breathed again; his heart was somewhat re- Queen, on account of which both their lives
lie&amp;ed. - The men, with the bearded, rough are in jeopardy. Before the morning dawns
edefutensiees, looked amazed on the coura- he most likely will be among the dead ; for
geo culprit.  Her vehement voice and in the silence of night Herod executes his
heart-piereing clamor appeared to inspire opponents, and none knows how they came
the stoutest hearts with sympathy for her, to their death, when in the morning they
"Who sends you here, the Queen or Ba- are found slain in the lanes of Jerusalem.
ho sbenMenahemQ?" Baba ben Buta ask- To morrow probably, the Queen is no more,
ed, in his usually solemn tone.        for the wrath of Herod is indomitable. I
"Baruch ben Menahem in behalf of the beseech, 1 entreat youk to save the Queen
Queen," -A Helen. "e knows as I do and young Baruch, if it is in your power,"
through my father, that bowh are in the Helen prayed vehemently, and a current of
most imminent danger."                tears gushed from her eyes.
"And who is your father, that he knows  "How do you know the method of Herod
the secrete of Herod ?"  Baba ben Buta to assassinate his victims ?" Baba asked.
asked.                                   "By my father," the damsel said.
father is Sabion, DIing Herod's con-  "Who is the chief executioner," one of
Identalfriend," Helen responded, boldly.' the multitude interrupted her.
"Yo  wrong him, he is not the man who   "My father is the King's confidential
leads Herod, he is the mere servant, a tool friend," Helen said, "but not his execu-
ol the King, his death would not benefit tioner."-
you."                                    "And his spy," one added, " his cunning,
"Enough heard," one of the multitude vo- heartless adviser, and the people's villanous
oaferated. "She is Sabion's daughter. This assassin."
is foul treachery, to which Baruch ben Me-  "Gracious God, Thou kdolwest it can not
nahem has given his aid."              be, it dare not be so," Helen exclaimed,
"it is not for you alone to decide," Baba with painful emotions. " He is my father,
ben Buta admonished. "There are many of I love him, affectionately, he can not be as
us, and all of us claim equal rights on every bad as you imagine him. It is a malignant
question. First, 1 will hear, then we will invention of slanderous souls, my father is
judge."  Turning to Helen he continued, not guilty of such hideous crimes."
"Is not Baruch ben Menahem your hus-     "Spare your words, woman," Baba ben,
band, your groom, or your lover?"      Buta rebuked her,, earnestly, " your plea
Helen blushed, she was not prepared to for your guilty parent, however much honor
i*er 'this question. At this instance Si- it may do to your generous heart, only ren-
non-rose and, lifting up his right hand, he ders you suspicious in our eyes, as we know
exclaimed, solemnly, "1 witness, that he is Sabion too well. Speak no more in his fa-
not." -"I witness that he is not," Abba vor. Answer me one more question. Are
Shaul repeated, in a monotonous voice, you prepared to take a solem'i oath in sub-
sounding like distant thunder. Helen re- stantiation of what you have said, in regard
warded them with a look more eloquent to the Queen an4 Baruch ben Menahem ?"
and affectionate than Homer and Virgil ev-  "I am, I am," she responded, solemnly.
er were.- All eyes were directed to the two "And are you ready to die without a mur-
emphatic witnesses, so Helen was unobserv- mur," the blind man continued, in a gutter-
ed and won time to regain her self-pos- al tone, "if your statements regarding the
s#eipn. - " No, emphatically no!" Helen Queen and Baruch ben Menahemn are not
exclaimed. "Baruch ben Menahem is no true?"
more to me than 'the playuimate of my child- "I am, I am," said Helen firmly.
hood. 1 know his generous heart is incap- "Then lead her into, one of the secret
able of any crime. I know that Herod ac- chambers," said Baban, " and secure her,
enuses him of a criminal connection with the that we, in due time, might call her back."

m

a

OR hILLEL AND EROD.                             27
Helen was' led away.  One more affec- repay part of the debt, you must save them'
tionate look she cast on Simon, and disap- Or have you not long enough been trodden
feared.                                under the feet of a bloodthirsty tyrant? are
"I witness," said Baba ben Buta, "that you not tired yet of the insuferable -yoke
the woman who stood before you, spoke the which Antipater's son imposes upon your
truth. I was informed of his defeat near neck? Ah, the lashes upon out back do
Cana by the joint attack of the Arabs and not pain us, the blows do not harm us. We
Egyptians; of his hasty return toJerusalem, can wait yet. If we are trampled upon,
and his suspicions on the Queen and her have we not manly patience? If our breth-
family. I am informed, that on returning, ren are murdered in the darkness of the
unexpectedly, he found Biruch ben Miena- night in the royal palace, and like ,dogs
hem alone with the Queen in her private, thrown into the street; dare we not bury
saloon; the unfortunate youth was instantly them and weep a tear upon their graves ? If
arrested, and is most likely doomed to death, the King sends away our treasures to foreign,
while the Queen was so ill treated, that she heathen temples,.are we not still an opulent
lays sick on her bed and is closely watched people ? If he by his spies prohibits us to
by Herod's servants. Also, her mother and speak, can we not think ? If he drinks our
grandfather are closely watched."      warm  hearts blood, have we not still suffi-
"I witness," said Abba Shaul, "I have cient thereof? iia, ha, ha, we are a rich,
learned all these things, and say we must act patient and virtuous peoples-Why do you
speedily."                             thus gaze at me? You think I am mad?
" And what kind of action do you pro. Yes, I feel my brains glow, my blood boils,
pose?" one asked Abba Shaul.           a blast of fire is in my heart. My patience
" Herod's army stands discomfited and dis- is consumed, I can stand it rib longer."
couraged near Chna," said Abba Shaul.-   "Long live Abba Shaul l" it thundered
" The queen of Egypt is his bitter adversary, from a hundred lips and the swords rushed
hence our friend and ally, if we need her from the sheath. "Let him lead us, we will
assistance. Marc Antony expects daily the follow," they cried.
approach of the Roman army under the com- It took the whole influence of Baba ben
mand of his powerful adversary. He can Buta to pacify the agitated multitude.-..-
not assist Herod. This isan opportune time When he succeeded in obtaining a hearing,
to shake off the intolerable yoke. Let us, he said, "Men and brethren, your heroic de.
before the morning dawns, take possession termination is laudable, but your impatience
of the Temple. Let us, early in the morn- might cost all your lives and administer the
ing, give the signal to a general insurrection fatal blow to the very cause which we intend
in the city. Ten thousand brave hearts are to carry victoriously through this beautiful
ready instantly to join us and die with us, if land. We have just commenced to deliber-
God so decrees. I call this speedy action." ate. We are not prepared yet for 'the out-
After the powerful voice of the gigantic break. We stand in opposition to a power-
man had subsided, silence reigned supreme. ful and cunning tyrant Both power and
None appeared sufficiently prepared to ap- prudence must be united to defeat and' de-
preciate the merits of the bold and danger- throne hint. It is noble to act by the gener-
ous scheme. Abba Shaul looked about him- ous impulse of a heroic heart. It is brave
self as though lie was to press his-looks into and valorous to fight where dangers most
every heart, and when none spoke, he re- imminent, and death mostcertain. But it
sumed, "Why are -you silent, ye men with is wisest and most advisable to have a plat
the iron muscles, are your hearts not bold of action, y which success is likely tobe
enough to strike the fatal blow ? The Inst attained, before we advance one step. (Ian
of the Asmoneans, the offspringof those who any one of you give us such aplan? And If
saved you from the hands of Antioches Epi- we are defeated our cause is lost."'
phanes, are in imminent danger; you must " I have but one plan," Abba Shaul said,


28                     Tu CoMBAT oF THE PEOPLE,
' and this is to start the insurrection, and .it redemption. When the ten thousands of Is'
will roll like a ball of wild fire all over the rael come to Jerusalem, to offer the Paschal
city, all over the land and re-kindle the fire sacrifice, let us be ready for energetic action,
of liberty and bravery in the hearts of .lu. and strike the blow with united strength. If
dah's heroic sons. Never a just cause ap- you think proper to do as our wise men said,
pealed in. vain to the sons of my people.--. I promise, and my life be pledged to you for
Those who defeated the armies of Syria and its faithful execution, that I shall protect the
of Rome are men of iron hearts. Those Queen against every violence; I shall savq
who obey the Law of the Lord love liberty Baruch, if he lives by to morrow. All this
and independence. It is their ve-y element, I will do, if Abba Shaul supports me and
In which only they can live. It is the air you are satisfied."
which they breathe, the sustenance which  " Believe him, for he is wiserthan Herod,"
keeps them  alive. Antipater's son has de said Abba Shaul. "If the wise men and the
prived us of our element, our air, our suste- scribes of Jericho do think as their messen-
nance, we can stand it no longer. We ap- gers state, I submit."
peal to our suffering brethren from the bight  Long and lively was the 'ebate of the se-
of the Temple; will they not hear us, not cret council. Still finally the plan of the
hasten.to our support? 0 do not thus slan- men of Jericho was adopted. The feast of
der the-sons of Israel, say not they will not Passover was appointed the time of the in-
come and go with us."                  surrection. Simon ben Hillel and Abba
" Allow a young man and a stranger Shaul were commissioned to protect the
among you to say a word or two," said Jona- Queen and rescue Baruch ben Menahem.-
than ben Uziel. "We must not forget, that They swore a solemn oath to obis effect, and
at the first voice of open rebellion,that reach- were given on hand all the means they re-
es the ear of Herod, the heads of all the As- quired. Simon was absolved till the day of
moneans must fall victims to his rage; for passover from his duty to slay Sabion. Jon.
any and every rebellion, as every misfortune athan ben Uziel was sent back to Jericho to
that befalls him, he would ascribe t' the in- announce to the wise men of Jericho the
trigues of the Queen and her relatives. If resolutions of the people's council.
the Queen is not dead yet, if Baruch ben  " I can not perform my duties," Simon
Menahem lives yet, we kill them by our in- said, " which you entrust to my care, without
surrection. The kingdom shall fall forever, the assistance of the damsel you have in
but the A smoneans shall live happy among your power. She must assist me and she
us. We owe them a debt for their father's will do it."
sake ; we must pay it, Let us adopt a wise " Will you entrust so important a secret
plan to save the Queen and her relatives, to Sabion's daughter ?" one of the men asked.
them let us appoint a day for a general insur-  ",My life and my honor as a pledge," Si-
rection to proclaim the republic, under the mon said, "for her fidelity and honesty of
.goneruaent of the Sanhedrin and the High- purpose. Behold, she came here, risked her
priests, as we had it heretofore."     life, exposed herself to the gaze of strangers,
"Listen to the advice of Uziel's sagacious only to save the Queen. Why should we
son,"-1said Simon ben Hillel, "for it is the doubt her fidelity? Let her be sworn to per-
couigsel of the wise men and scribes of Jeri- formt her duty and keep secret what she
ehol 'dell our brethren in Jerusalem, they knows, and if she violates her oath can snot
did*y, toi appoint the feast of passover as your daggers reach her in time?"
*osproper time for the great work of Is-  " Women are cunning," another said,
rael's-redemption. Onceredeemed that day "and she might out-manoeuver us before we
LNda the bondage of Egypt, let it be the day would be aware of it,"
of: owr-redemption from the yoke of Herod, " Are you afraid of a woman?" AbbaShaul
Rome and. the royal power. Till then, let asked, contemptuously. " I guarantee for
ua'pfdpse the people for the great day of{ her."

OR HILLEL:AND HEROD.                           29
The conclusion to which the council came  "He is dispensed from that duty for a her.
was immediately carried out. Helen, be- tain period of time," Baba ben Buta said.
ing again brought before that body, and af- "Then I am ready to support and assist,
ter- having been instructed in the dangers in the glorious work of rescuing the Queen
threatening her if she violate her .oath and from the iron grasp of danger," Helen ex-
betray their secret assemblies,a terrible oath claimed joyfully. "Your life, Simon ben
was administered to her, which she affirmed Hillel is at stake, but I shall die with you,
with a loud and strong, Amen. Next she if I can not rescue you."
was made acquainted with her duty to sup-          -
port Simon bet Hillel and Abba Shaul in         C H A P T E R  I V.
all things they would do to save the Queen.   A DAY I N JERI0 H o.
She turned toward Simon, and requested In the outskirts of Jericho there stood a
him not to engage in this dangerous enter- solitary, humble cottage, debarred of every
prise. Simon telling her he must do so, she
tol hi, tat e rsk hi liert an prb-ornament, stripped of all luxury, and -poor
told him, that he risks his liberty and prob- in its appearance. The garden in which it *
ably also his life, if he was detected. Si- stood, was not diversified with the variega-
mon insisted upon his determination and ted colors of Flora's blooming children; it
Helen incessantly remonstrated, but in vain was a plain kitchen garden, in which the
-'Simon had taken an oath, that he would common vegetables grew, supplying the
perform this task, and his resolution was poor man's table. Two she-goats, feeding
unalterable.                          po     a'   al.-Tosegas edn
"Know it then," Helen said, "two peas- upon the shrubs in the rear of the cottage,
ants were arrested instead of you and Jona- completed the whole wealth about the poor
eman's home. Every thing about the cot-
than ben Uziel.  When the mistake was tage, as the small building itself was neat
discovered the spies were charged to go a   le   sall  building   f, was nan
about in search' of you, the two peasants and clean, like the homestead of poor and
being able to identify you must go with  stping people
themandreman s lon  inthe  and ofStepping into the low cottage our look
first meets a small room filled with scrolls
the spies until you are found. They will of parchment and Egyptian papyrus, in the
most certainly identify you, then your liber- midst of which, at a small table, sits an old
ty and life are in jeopardy."          man. His long beard and the looks of his
Simon laughed when saying, "that iSca. head are grey, still luxuriant and long.
bion's abominable scheme," but then lie re- Under a  rominent forehead two brown
membered the presence of Helen, and con-
tinued in a mild tone, "Care not for me, fair Ieyes cet in a bushy frame of grey hair, ani-
damsel, I am Herod's master in cunningness. mated with almost a youthful fire, rest on
I will successfully deceive him, 1 will save the parchment. A smile plays softly around
wit s his lips which contrasts peculiarly with the
the Queen. You must co-operate with us solemn seriousnessof thewhole countenance,
ai er promise you, n"harm shall befall which, pale as it is, bears no furrows of old
"And my father," Helen asked, anxiously. age, and its muscular strength presents no
"Your father's head is forfeited to the marks of the gnawing teeth of decay. That
people's council," Baba ben Buta answered, peculiar luster, that nameless and unfading
solemnly and seriously.               beauty of the human face which is the affius
" Mercy, mercy for my father," Helen of a strong intellect, illuminates the whole
cried, "he is but the tool of the King, be countenance of the old man before us and
not too severe against him."          commands veneration. He sits as motion-
"Your, father's head is forfeited to the less as a marble statue and it appearsas
people's council," Baba ben Buta repeated. though none had the impudence to disturb
"Then let not Simon ben Hillel return to him in his silent meditation which occupies
the city," Helen prayed, "let not him be the his whole soul. Still q tall man dressed in
executioner."                         Greek costume most unceremoniously opens


80                     Ta   COMAT OF Tan PEorLE,
the door hastily, and, without saluting the heaves its mighty treasures, and the earth
old sage, he ejaculates: " Are you Hillel ?" reels on command of the Great Unknown ?
"I am Hillel, so may God bless thee."  Can they tell us how man thinks, feels or
The stranger interrupts him, "1 am a lives, and why he is conscious of his fon-,
Greek who has heard much of the religion sciousness? The Greeks are very wise, still
of thel barbarians who dwell between the can they tell us the ends of the world, the

sea and the Jordan river. They say, yo
know the laws of the gods and the path o
happiness to man. I have no time to spenc
with you. I am a Greek who learns very
fast. I came to your brother Shamai and
requested him to teach me his religion in a
short a time as 1 can stand on one foot.-
But he pushed me aside with the measuring
* rod in his hand, and in his indignation bid
me leave directly. I left and through the aid
of others, I come to you, Hillel and ask you,
can you teach me your religionwhile I stand
on one foot?"
"Why art thou so in haste my son ?" Hil-
lel asked.
" Because I dislike to be much longer
among barbarians," the Greek answered,
saucily.
Hillel was silent for a moment, he appa-
rently reflected on a proper answer to the
insult offered him. Then he said in a mild
tone, "Thou mayest be right. I hear the'
Greeks are very wise, and it behooves thee
to live in a land of learned men."
" Is this all you have to tell me ?" the
Greek asked, somewhat embarrassed.
"If this is all thou wisheet to know, yes,"
Hillel responded, quietly,
"But, 1 wish to know your religion," the
Greek said.
"The Greeks are very wise, why should
they learn anything of barbarians ?" saidI
Hillel.
" Yes, indeed, they are very wise," said
the Greek, " but in Religion, it appears tome
they are quite foolish. Therefore I come to
learn of the barbarians."
"In what are the Greeks wise?" Hillel
asked.
"Ineverything, except Religion," theGreek
replied.
"Can the Greeks tell us, why and how we
andtbethingsaround us exist?" Hillel asked.
" Can they tell us, how the sun shines, the
thunder rolls,the hurricane roars, the oceanI

size of the heavens, the depth of the ocean
f or the compass of the air? And if they can-
not tell this in any time, why wouldet thou
assume to know the will of the Creator
I and Great Cause of all these things in
so short a time as thou canst stand on
one leg?"
"I am foolish, pardon me my venerablemas-
ter," the Greek said, overcome by the kind-
I ness of Hillel. "But I vowed a sacred vow
to Minerva, that if I could not learn the re-
ligion of the eastern Barbarians in as short
a time as I can stand on one leg, I would re-
turn and bring incense to her shrine. I
must keep my vow."
"Speak, I prithee," said Hillel; "If I had
vowed to my table to return to it and do
homage to it, must I do it ? Still this table
exists and Minerva exists nowhere."
"Minerva exist nowhere ? " the Greek
asked, astonished, " also not in Olymp?
Speak ! old sage. But no, speak not, I dare
not learn anything of you unless you can
teach me everything concerning your reli-
gion, while I can stand on one leg. I shall
not violate my vow."
" Before I do so," said Hillel, "let us un-
derstand each other what religion is. Is it
not to worship God or the gods, as He or
they wish it? and is not to do the will of God
or the gods, to worship Him or them ? Speak,
myAon, is it not so?"
"So it is," said the Greek, "I agree."
" Then, stand on one leg and hear my re-
ligion," said Hillel, solemnly, while rising.
The Greek looked with, surprise at the
straight, colossal figure of the ancient sage,
on assuming his position.
"Whatever hurts thee, thou shalt not do
thy neighbor," Hillel said, slowly. "This
is the principle part of my religion, the rest
is a mere explanation. Go and finish thy
studies."
The Greek stood awhile as though rooted
to the ground, gazing aghast into the open

On HILLtL AND HROD.                            g1  '
and manly countenance of HilleL Then he sinful deed. Vengeance and punishment
drew forth a dagger from under his cloak, belong to God alone, thou must commit no
and, laying it on slle table, he said : " You crime."
are my lord and master, yours is that dagger Surprised to the utmost, the Greek embra.
and this arm. Command and I obey."     ced the old saint. "Thou art the god of vir-
" Neither thy dagger, nor thy arm is any tue," he exclaimed, "I am  thy child, thy
way available to me," Hillel said. " Re. servant, do with me, as thou pleasest--But
member, my shield is the arm of God, and forget not, magnanimous man, that it is in-
my weapon is my confidence in Him."    dipensably necessary that you should know
" And your God is truly a marvelous God the name of the man who, for no cause
who watches over his saints," the Greek known to me, desires after your life and also
said, " for I was sent here to assassinate you, hunts after your son to do hinm, as I was
but I can not. 'Whatever hurts thee, thou hired to do you.

shalt not do thy neighbor,' " the Greek re-
peated, slowly.
"Dust thou repent now thy sinful con-
duct and wicked thoughts ?" the old saint
asked, mildly.
".I do sincerely and truly," the Greek re-
plied, much humiliated.
" Then God will forgive thee," Hillel said,
" if all men thou hast offended will do the
same."
" You first, noble, generous demi-god," the
Greek supplicated, kneeling before Hillel,
"you must first forgive the villain who has
been hired to execute a foul villany, a hor.
rid outrage."
"Rise, my son," Hillel said, "and remem-
ber my religion 'Whatever hurts thee thou
shalt notdo thy neighbor.' Would it not hurt
me to pray thee for pardon, and not obtain
it? I have no grudge against thee, there is
nothing to be pardoned, rise and be hence-
forth a good man. So may all men thou
hast hurt forgive thee, as I do with all my
heart."
The Greek rose, clasped his dagger and
listed it up exclaiming enthusiastically,
"noneshalloutdome in magnanimity Great
Hillel, I will avenge thee and let it it cost my
life. I will assassinate him who sent me to
assassinate you. Know it, venerable man,
the mpan who sent me is"---.
"Not one word more shalt thou speak, my
son," Hillel interrupted. " Would it not
hurt thee to hear the name of thy enemy
mentioned? It might hurt me, therefore
thou shalt not tell me. Would it not hurt
thee to be murdered? Therefore thou shalt
not murder him who hired thee to do the

" That is Sabion," said Hillel, "none else.
lut tell me where is my son?"
" In Jerusalem, most likely by this time,
in the hands of-Sabion, " said the Greek,
" and there he is in the v ry worst hands."
" God will protect him," illel said, calm-
ly. "I know not why he went to Jerusa-
lem, where danger now lurks in every cor-
ner ; but God will protect him,"
"Are you so sure of God's protection?"
the Greek asked.
"Sure, quite sure, my son," the sage re-
plied. "I hurt none, why should God hurt
me? God is the All-just. If He inflicts pun-
ishment,it must be deserved. There,in yon-
der rivulet, I once saw a skull floating, and I
said 'As thou hast thrown others in the wa-
ter, thou wast thrown in thyself, and finally,
also he will float who caused thee to perish
in the water,' and the wise men approved of
my doctrine. God will do me no harm,' o
wrong."
" But tell me, my master," said the Greek,
" is it enough in the sight of your God, if
man does no wrong ? If all of us do no
wrong, none will do any good, and virtue
will have no patron."
" Do harm to none, and thou wilt certainly
do good to all with whom thou comestin con
tact," said Hillel; " for man must be active
God gifted him with an active soul. The
great lesson he is commanded to study is to
hurt none, harm none. He must do some-
thing, so he can do but what is good."
"Did you not say God protects you ?" the
Greek asked ; " If so, how does he protect
you?"
"I know not how," said Hillel, "but I

I


Tsn 'OosfsAT OF fTN  PEOPLE,

kew he protects me. God has many me-
songer.".
"And I will be one of them," said the
Greek, "I will practice the first lesson I
have received. I will goto Jerusalem, harm
none, hurt none, and protect your son. Then
Will return with him, and learn of you
my second lesson."
"Go with God, my son," said Hillel, "but
never forget my first lesson." He took a
spade from a corner of the room and went
to the door with the Greek, who asked him,
"What will you do with this spade Y"
"I will work in the garden " said the
sage. .,
"You will work ? no, you shall not," said
the Greek. "Here ii the money I was paid
for your life Itis enough tosupportyou and
your family one year."
"Whoever despises gifts will live," said
the sage, "so the wise King said; because
the poor only takes gifts, and the poor
is esteemed like the dead. I am not poor,
I can work."
.The Greek finding his repeated attempts;
togive Hillel the money a vain and fruitless
task, asked again: " Why should not your
wife and children work for you ?"
"Because it is my duty to support them,"
said Hillel. "My wife and my children are
my best friends, the partners of my joy as
of my aMiction; why should I not work with
them ?"
"You should not work at all," said the
Greek, "you are so wise and learned in your
Jaw, that others should work for you while
you study for them."
"None can study for his neighbor," said
Hillel. "If thou knowest much, do not
think more of thyself on that account; for
thouart created to this- very purpose. De-
grade wisdom not to a stepping stone to
wqlth and honors, or to a spade to dig for a
sausen ce.. Whoever wears the Toga chang-
N (pr the worse; for honors and wealth are
dggerous companions."
By that time they had come to the end of
thq garde. A clamor of wo was heard in
thl, neighborhood. The stranger turned
quickly round, looking toward the cottage.
Hillel- smiled. " Fear not, stranger, the

noise is not in my house," said he, "for
God protects it, and my wife and children
cry not if a misfortune befall them. They
know that no actual evil can befall them."
Astonished and heartily admiring the man
of a thousand virtues, the Greek leaving Hil-
lel wished to return to Jerusalem.
"Let us go and see what this noise means,"
said Hillel.
" I will go and inquire," said the Greek,
"you must'not leave your study ; for you
are a wise man, every moment you spend
outside of your study is a loss to you and to
your people's literature."
" Would I like to cry for help, or lament
over my misfortune, and none come either
to assist or console me?" Hillel asked. "If
you are wiser than the rest, you are expect-
ed to do more than they do; for if wisdom
is not a prompter to 'noble actions, it is a
dead treasure in the hands of an avaricious
man. He, whose wisdom is greater than
his virtuous actions, compares to a tree with
wide.stretched branches, a rich foliage and
small roots, the slightest storm will up-
set it.  He, whose virtuous actions pre-
dominate over his wisdom compares to a
tree with small branches, a thin foliage and'
powerful roots, all the hurricanes may rage
against it, still they will not move it from
its place. Let trunk and branches be strong
and large, the foliage rich, and the root$
powerful, and stand fearless in the storm.--
Come,my son, let us see whence the calamity
comes. Let us help them if we can, or con-
sole them, if help is impossible."
The Greek kissed the garment, of the old.
sage, and followed him silently. In the
central market space of Jericho, under the
palm trees, a large concourse of people met,
clamors of grief and woe were heard among
them, and the name of Baruch ben Mena-
hem was connected with the accents of la-
mentation.
"The dead body of Baruch ben Menahem
was fodnd in a street of Jerusalem," said
one, in reply to Hillel's inquiry ; "they
brought it home to the woe-stricken parents.
He was Menahem's only son."
" The lanes of Jerusalem are soiled with
blood," one exolalmed, "the holy oity is de-

fled by'the .hands of assassins. The best
and nadstgodly are daily killed and thrown
in :the street as the 'mud, the nuisance of
the houses."
Meanwhile the multitude had rapidly in-
ereased, the murmurs and the lamentations
had become louder and more painful, and
.the indignation of the populace had grown
into fierce wrath.  Their etump of' an old
palm tree was mounted by  a young man
who, waving with his hands, bid'silence.
"Be silent here and listen," one admon-
ished the other, "Jonathan, Uziel's sagaci.
eus son wishes to speak to you." The mul-
titude listened, when he said: " Men, and
brethren, Menahem'e only son, 'Barueh,
among the good and noble the best and
most'-generous youth, Jericho's pride, a
wretched mother's only love, has been,
found slain in the streets of Jerusalem.
How could she become.a harlot, the faith,
ful fortress, justice once dwelt in her, and
now murderers."
' Accents Of weeping and lamentation, pro-
ceeding from the agitated-multitude, inter-
rupted the speaker, who continued after
awhile: " Tell it not in- Gath, bring not the
terrific tidings to the market spaces of~sca-
Ion, unless Our enemies would rejoice over
our downfall, our adversaries laugh at our
degradation.' Let the daughters of Zion
dress 'in mourning and weep over their
loss; fdr Menahem's son, the faireft of men,
has 'been found slain in the streets of Jeru-
.salem."
'Again, the voices of lamentation and
weeping interrupted the speaker; but he
resumed after awhile: "Know ye, men and
brethren, no 'heifer's neck will be broken,
no judges will - wash their: hands over the
spot where the corpse was found and say:
'Ouia hands have not spilt this blood, and
our eyes have not seen it;' none will ever
search after the assassin,; for'none dare do
so.- Justice has deserted-us, honor is exiled|

from Israel, God is no longer_ enthroned in
Jerusalem; for the city isfilled with mur-
derers. Her princes are slaves, her judges
are blind tools, and her rulers are men of
violence and injustice who thirst after their
people's blood, and' fatten themselves with
5

t the, substance of their'had  biEsbtett
Know it, ye mert of feeI'Hetod a 4 Sei'
f bion'ate the urdeaHof ! itlbbIndeM
nahem."                 " "" "" ,
Like distant thunde  in silent tigt
murmur arose- among the nit itudte, veibb
gradually increased into a road of -  tih
and fierce anger.  Curses and M4 o   ef
were heard 'among the voices of lainenta-
tion, and, as Jonathan proceeded *iell he
story of Baruch's'fate, as he hpad '  e.
in tho People' dCouncil, the ,.ry to fv
geance waxed louder with 'each mo d
The lamentations gave'waf to the o  frte-
ing fire fif inflamed passion{hiid'  ti1et6
lie sound of. swords, and the.cry o " o' own
with the tyrants !-T.  he scaffold bltt the
murderers!" werg the 9nly  j elte unds,
that could be distinguIbed, andAt  i
pared to find a re-eew in eye    pa
breast,
Menahem, bent;'with grief, bad ;$e) s
appearance amang his syrpglai     ea
His appearance calmed ,tqecit9d   pos
of the populace. Every eyeawas direel.
ward the mourning father, hisgrie a p -
ored by an awful silence. He loane'upon'
the multitudefirstthenhp litedup
the skies, and, in a voice of painfulr -
tion, he said: "God hatl given and
bath taken away, the name of te
praised."  Then. he looked O  5) b
friends, while saying, "As we 0p9p t
the good from the Lod,-should we 1ot
so receive the evil? Men and Brethrp
thank you, for, your kipd syzpath a
bereft father,. a childleep mother.
shalt honor thy father and thy motap  4
thy days be prolonged: upon the lapdwho
the Lord thy God.Kati -given thee,' is the
commandment of the Lord., My sonhaving
been sent to.the Essenees to be iuitiated in
theirmysterie's,violated theexpregscoppapd
of his parents, and went to theit-y of
salem. Behold ! God is striot~witht iefigbt

eous ones even upon a 4airsbreadth, My
son immediately found the puni uset, be
cause he was righteous before ,GocIa0dman,
I acquiesce in the justice of  pd. O paieve
not, men and brethren, the w  sq  szI'e
son; his affections for my unfortunatauoss

t:.

09 llntnt ANi ll tob. _ ;

a


Tn ,Cousp eoP knit  PzoPLu,

a &amp;1pists     ag   s Herod lead him
a       Love;  disturb. the balance of the
slad, ad blmetd disturb. its Be not led
astsay, not ineeised to rash and imprudent
4e0by * -featedereetions of a sensitive
yi 1    4osekow Herod and Sabion to be
syi  Ids; they cannot have slain my only
,,I{ onerase them."
prod's officers arrested two peasants,"
oe of $the crowd interrupted, "who came
$ '.    to 'ulfl the Law concerning the
i$fut.He prevented them from wor-
~pgod in His sacred Temple, and noth-
lng    bepI .ard of them as yet. Herod
a           s~wded  , and the wicked is apt to
wickednesss."
S   it" said Jonathan. "But the ven-
frble enahem should know, that the man
who 'f    red lis sister's husband,the mon-
e whose r the $ihpriest, his own wife's
only brother=-its apable of any and every
etisne,  9e has no friend, because he loves
nolfe; be deserves the friendship of none,be-
ensu he can not reciprosate it. Menahem's
songeIdo say, because I know it, was slain
Mi10:1 command of Herod, and by the hands
fibom. iTbe crime is double, tenfold: he
t Wan ,inocent youth, beloved by all who
ne hdi ,the son of his friend and advocate;
1.'l hi In the darkness of, night, and, too
4ewsrdish to defend his own terrific crime,
i   hs he oe thrown into the street to make
the nisu6p1eibus believe, Baruch fell by the
idW,' t'h1ad,that he might double the num-
beri1his spies and heartless slaves, to en-
sasre the free-born sons of Judah. The law
and justice ai God's, and we are God's pe-
$ef Ilis servane and messengers. Herod
.   &amp;, n violate the law, trample it under
4heifrfet, enslave the people, rob us of our
rights, and it behooves us to execute judg-
ment In the name and in behalf of our God."
"Whoappointed you the avenger of my
son' 'ble df" Menahem asked. " Has he
no I642b persecute the assassin ? None
has eslupon you to judge a King-"
H'e is Iome's King, Rome's creature,"
the multitude cried, "we may 'judge a hire-
ling, a spy, an assassin."
"&amp;Hi1Ie1 speaks, be silent, Hillel speaks,"
they admonished ssh other, and all were
silent.

"-The;King is no less subject to the Laws
of God, than the humblest of his subjects,"
I said hillel. 49If the King is a criminal, the
t laws prescribe his punishment. The mur-
derer'should be taken even from God's a-
ored altar, if he be the Highpriest and woi
ship God in behalf of Israel -and receive
the punishment due to him. Whoever spills
the blood of man, his blood will be shed by
man, such is the wise decree of Providence.
If you know Herod and Sabion to be guilty of
this crime, you may condemn them, but you
can not execute your judgment on the cul-
prits. You are weak and they are powerful,
you are a few and they are many, you are in
Jericho and they are in Jerusalem. There-
fore let us not waste words. Mournover the
dead, console the bereft parents, and return
each to his house, God will judge and pun-
ish the guilty. -Wait, my people, wait pa-
tiently until the day of divine vengeance
comes, then the wicked will be punished,
and the righteous will be-triumphant."
A body of Egyptian soldiers arrived at the
spot to disperse the crowd, the eloquence of
Hillel and his influence over Jonathan ben
Uziel prevented the outbreak of serious dis-
turbances.,,
" Woe unto thee, Judah," Jonathan ben
Uziel cried, on entering the hall of Gurion,
where the sages held their meetings, " woe
unto Israel, that Egyptians rule over thee
and disturb thy councils. Let every patriot
clothe in sack and ashes and cry woe, that
the birds stop their merry melodies, Tabor
and Hermon pour down currents of tears to
drown the beauty of the valleys. Let Jor-
dan's waters be congealed with shame, and'
the hot springs of Tiberias be frozen with
consternation, on account of the strangers
who set their feet on the neck of Israel, and
trample the daughter of Zion in the duet."
The sages and scribes assembled in the
hall listened with much sympathy to the
outpouring of offended and wounded senti-
ments, and none interrupted the young man.
Apparently overcome by his painful emo-
tions, he stopped awhile, then he resumed:
"if this is the will of Cleopatra, if she
has taken possession of Jericho, that we be
not allowed to speak out what we think,

/

On IILLL Aa    Has e.                     .
What profit have we by not, being under the while dressing Its nzmerOus oum : We
Immediate dominion of Herod? Let us, my unto him who stirs up theen slgedhi n
lords and masters, let us forthwith send- de- his refreshing, slumber, to tear and deorur
puties to Egypt's Queen and complain of and run roaring and raving thimtngh the'40
the injustice- committed in her name on a populated forests. Let tha peOple e"e 4
loyal people, who hate their enemies only. few .years, when rest is granted them;let
I most respectfully submit to your wise con- them recover from the mournful misfry
sideration, my humble opinion, not to stand they have' suffered for years passed ' 'Haie
thisoutrage."                        mercy with the wretchedness of my bretr
Shamai, the mighty antagonist of Hillel ren, and be silent yourselves. But :, o
and his school, rose gravely and, looking all do not think ; patriots, wise Kand emeel-
about in the hall as though his looks in- lent, like Jonathan ben Usiel, w kanUbe

tended to subjugate every heart, he said
slowly and sonorously: " Are you not glad
to be protected by Cleopatra against the
will of Herod, who massacred as many of
your colleagues as fell in his hands, why
would you trouble her with complaints ?
Or do you wish to occasion her to withdraw
her protection from this city ; where will
you meet, where live, where maintain and'
promulgate the sacred traditions of our na-
tion ? Uziel's sagacious son is beyond the
venomous eye of suspicion, his motives are
undoubtedly pure and patriotic, his pur.
poses pious and godly ; none dare question
the wisdom of Hillel's most renowned pu-
pil, and none should oppose his opinions.
But, my hair begins to be grey, stored away
in my memory lies the history of half a een-
tury, au 'bloody, unfortunate and disastrous
to Israel, as the days of Syrian oppression.
I have seen a King who committed fratri-
cide, and a prince who appealed to a for.
eign power, to slaughter his own people and
secure him the throne of his fathers. I
have seen the brother in arms against his
own brother, and cruelties. and inhuman
outrages, innumerable almost, committed by
the combatting parties, who soiled the earth
with blood, and filled the la  with misery
and sre affliction. Still, very party ap-
pealed to the people, and each found its
zealous supporters. The people are wither
ing leaves, every wind can carry them off to
any direction. The people are slumbering
sparks, harmless and unconscious of their
monstrous strength. My people bleed from
a thousand wounds and Jonathan ben Uziel
pours vinegar into the aching bruises. Woe
unto him, I say, who disturbs my people

people from their benevolent repose, 'to b-
hold their own misery and rui-deeper pet
into the mire of wretchedness. ,Men, seui
ous audgatriotic, excite the ilormant pas-
sions of the populace against those who
brought us a few years of release. They.g?.
tate against Herod in Jericho and In=gr.-
salem against Cleopatra to shake of the4
minion of strangers and tyrants, as they
say, when we know that the Kings offotr
own race could not bring us either rest or
peace. Therefore I say, let' the pbbple
alone, undistu1rbed, calm the agitated 'ps
sions, and pour no oil in the blasting ase-;
let my people rest a few years aid, reve
its heartpieroing losses. We have aspowl
Jericho where to preserve, dishes asnd ype-
mulgate the laws and' traditions of Israeli
and none disturbs us. We haveapla in
Jerusalem where the priests worship .the
Most High, and none interferes witlh teen.
We have a King who-is epable of main
training the peace and tranquility of this
country, and none can hinder him. Pob.
parity and happiness gradually return to Is-
rael, and none should prevent it. Whoever
wishes to study the Law, let him come to
.Jericho. Whoever desires to worship in 6.
rael's glorious house, let him go to Jerusa-
lem. Whoever values his life, let him not
go near the rdyal palace. Let every polit-
cal ambition slumber a few;years, and let
us wait patiently for the help of6#r(Iod.
He redeemed us from the Egyitian bend-
age, smote Sissera and his hoest,alew Sanbe-
rub and his powerful army; with a-mighty
hand He smote powerful Babylon and re-
stored Israel's faithful children; behold he
vanquished Syria and its presumptuous r-


.               'rTs&amp;#5W r    opt 'u :PEOPI.E,
krbd      oer fatbare, .and  hastised yon- saow fell fastfi;mthe clouds ,and covered
4dvQAAe eoa40euasen  of'her sine: Wait the benumbed form of the inquisitive stran-
(9   ,09muen teti1 the.wrath is passed, and ger.. --When the morning dawned, and light
ors wiiL)tise gain, God, will be again penetrated through all windows except onei
wWisrae gnd be gracious of His faithful the disciples being:sent opt to discover the
Abildrn '                              cause broughb;the benumbed nan into the
nWhen Shamai resumed his seat, every hall of the academy. By the application of
eyailooked onJonathan ben Uziel, who was the proper remedy the frozen limbs of the
pb    ayned to refute the arguments of the poor man were restored, and I heard She-
sgaoionumastet. But none observed the maiah say, 'This man is worthy to be Nessi-
prandmrof  iel in a.retired corner of the 'n Israel, he is worthy that all Israel should
MhlLyJonatban did, in.whose presence the iolate the Sabbath to spare his life.' That
yo:g pan would not speak without his per- very man you appear not to know, never to
esIos   enoe none could account for the have heard of him, that very mantis Hilleil,
painful ailenoe reigning forsome time in the whose advice we want."
hll 4Akablah ben Mahalalel broke the si- -When Akabiah mentioned the word N1a-
levee ethus: "When - yesterday I. walked si, (prince, president.of the Sanhedrin,) the
og  tho lades of Jericho, I heard the friends of Shamai murmured audibly, as
p        r,; :# There'is, one in this city who they considered only Shamai and Menaheni
l&amp;s0      $s 0 serthy to communicate with capable and worthy to the high positions in
tydoo y SpiAit were his generation worthy the nation's supreme council. Therefore
9(It.e 4vory wise man in this city whom I the Shamaites appeared much displeased.
t9l444iisvgies of the people, casts his look When Akabiah was done, one of them
eRieWOldho great Babylonian, the meekest rose to give utterance to the opinionof all
ofpetskqand the most learned of Shemaiah of them. He.said : " Akabiah ben Mohala-
se4 44tbtien's academy. Let us consult lel is entirely too partial in the appreciation
isa; ,i; the friend and favorite of the of Hillel's virtues. Meekness and poverty
p   i;4 er kiowlt, yesages of Israel, Who- combined with fortitude and self-denial .int
4W   Ia;balovedigtfife sight of the people is spire respect and sympathy.- We appro-
elae1byedibitesight of God, and whoev- elate the humane and Charitable sentiments
at dipyseio4r'walso disliked by the peo- of Akabiah ben Mehalalel. But the good-
ple. gj4I6people'sevoice is God's voice, the ness of his heart is no valid reason, why the
wi~Itf4 spressed by this medium. Let sages of Israel should consult an obscure
os endfor fillel and hear his opinion."  stranger."
; Who f  t Hillel, the unknown stranger,  "An obscure stranger!" Akabiah exclaim-
thetlIsreel's sages should ask his advice !" ed, amazed and offended. " Is the master
ose of the friends of Shamai stated, haught- and teacher of Jonathan ben Uniel, Simon
-ly.                                    ben Hillel, and seventy eight more renown-
''A'le inoffensive, unpretending and meek ed disciples, of whom Israel is justly proud,
00lpylonien,".,said Akabiah, "who left his an obscure stranger? Verily, the disciple's
hone lan4, with his wife and children came wisdom is the. master's crown of glory.-
toJ    e alei to hear the Law of God ex- Take back your offensive words."
pingle lyy :hemaiah. and Abtalion. The  "Will Akabiah understand me right,"
pooriMiles, who split wood for a scanty pay the answer of the Shamaite was, "I meant
in thesetreats of Jerusalem, to support his no harm in what I said. I think, in com-
family ;aid;pay the admission to the acade- parison to Shamai and Menahem, Hillel can
mywban the King ordained it so. When be regarded merely an obscure stranger"
one iter day-he could obtain no work and *The Hillelites evinced much dissatisfac-
could not pay his admission to the academy, tion at this explanation, and harsh words
he sat all night before the window, to listen would have followed, had not Shamai in
tthe words of sagacious masters. The proper time given the debate a favorable

OR HILLEL AND HEtOD 037
turn. .lIe rose and said, 14Whoever seeks among the people of Jerusalem, -as our
to acquire honor by the shame of his  eigh- learned master Shamai thinks," Joiathan
bor, is no man,. and can find no favor in. the said, "the people, feeling the burden of des-
sight of God. As my friends have gone so potism imposed on them, the people behold,
far in depr'eciatibn of Hillel, it becomes my ing the crimes perpetrated daily by the
duty to say,.-that none can raise a valid ob- King and his co-adjutors, the people -revolt,
jeetion to the proposition of hearing the ad- because they would stand it no longer. We
vice of a man, whose heart and soul is with did not agitate this state of things,-nor-is is
his people, whose eminent wisdom must be in our power to change it. The only ques-
acknowledged by every impartial mac, and tion here is, shall we chooseisides with the
who is too meek and unpretending to raise revolution, or submit to lerod's tyranny.
his voice in the council of Israel's sages. Must we desert the people and coincide
Why should we not hear his opinion? 1 tacitly and inactively with its tyrant; or
say, let him  come and be requested to must we lend a helping hand to ourbroth-
speak."                                ren, to justice and liberty, and we insist
A storm of applause, in approbation of on the restoration of the Sanjiedrin, our
Shamani's words, stopped the debate. Mes- courts of justice, our laws and our rights.
sengers were dispatched to bring Hillel in, Herod will not and dare not grant those
who after a painful search was found in i things to us, the people will and must. The
deserted corner of the large hall, and, not- question, therefore, is easily decided. Bu
withstanding his objections, was introduced it is not for me, it is for you to deeide-opota
to the council and received with much en- the course to be adopted. Let us firstrhear
thusiasm. He was given a seat at the right the advice of our venerable master, let Hit,
hand side of Shamai, who received him with lel speak, and then let us decide."
marked tokens of profound respect.       It was only after the request to give ut,
Silence and quietude being restored, Jon- terance to his opinion was repeatedly ad-
athan ben Uziel rose and, after having paid dressed to Hillel, that he rose, and after
his respects to Hillel and Shamai and others having humbly asked the permission of all
superior to himself in age or authority, he that were wiser or older than himself,'ho
said, " I come to you, men and brethren, said : " Who am I, that I should lift up' my
greeting from the people's council of Jeru- voice among the wisest of Israel? I am the
salem. But before I speak, I desire to least of my family who is the least regarded
know, whether none is among us who is in Israel. But you ask and I must answer;
capable of betraying us."              you command and I will speak. I saw the
After a few minutes of recognition it was bloody contest of two royal brothers for the
admitted on all hands, that none was among dominion over my people. I sow them":de-
them capable of being a traitor. Jonathan liver my people into the hands of Pompey,
resumed, and in a most eloquent strain he the haughty Roman who murdered and
communicated what he was charged with, plundered thousands, and the blood of the
by the People's Council., He depicted, in bravest soiled the ruins of the 'defended
words glowing with eloquence, the indigna- walls. I wept over the house of the Lord
tion of the people, the agony of every man- thus desecrated, and over the people of ls-
ly heart on hearing of the Queen's life be- rael slain and hunted like wild beasts."
ing in .jeopardy. le then communicated  After a pause Hillel continued:: "I saw
the fact, that the people's council charged Antipater- reiterate the brother's unhappy
competent men with the duty of protecting quarrel, to satisfy his own'ambitien. 1 saw
the Queen,'and that the Passover week was the bloody catastrophe of the Asmonean
appointed for the final action of the people, house, the return of Herod from Rome, the
as they would suffer no longer the intoler- barbarity of the Roman hirelings, the fill
able despotism of Herod and his hirelings, of Jerusalem, the massacred multitude of
-"Not we, indeed, agitated the revolution my brethren, the slain Senators, the muV--

i


38    .'               TRUanOOMnAeoYrI       PEOPLE,
deredatmhers of Israel; I saw the man, to the peoples will, to the law of God. Be-
wha defled Israels- Sanhedrin, mount the hold !*the dead heroes, the revolution has
throne of Judea over the corpses of the slain them; beholdsI the mourning parents,
thousand patriots slain without mercy ; I the weeping children, the lamenting wives
heard thesavagetriumph of our enemies and and brides, the revolution I ha, the revolu-
wept-ever our misfortune; but no thought tion killed our beloved, the crown, the hope,'
of resistance entered my mind, as the pen- the joy of our life-who must not shudder
ple were, divided in their sentiments, and I at the very thought of a bloody revolution ?
thought 'it was the will of Providence. I But there, there the graves open, and be-
hpaed:Herod would restore peace and jus- holdI Israel's thousand sons, the noblest
ties to this country. The hyena itself drinks and wisest of my people, rise and show the
- no more blood than to satiate his appetite, wounds inflicted by Herod. A King and a
why should Herod not cease feeding on ha- Higbpriest, Matathia's noble sons lead the
man blood? .The barbarians, our fiercest dreadful procession, who in the silence of
enemies, themselves respect the laws of Is- night move through' the cities and cry, ven-
rael,, why should not Herod do it, after his geance ! vengeance ! vengeanceI Behold
Serne; anger be gone? So I thought, but, the thousands of afflicted parents, weeping
behold! we are deceived. There is neith- children, despairing wives and brides, be-
e peace nor justice in our land.. The San- hold ! they like the howling wilderness re-
hedrin and the judges are the King's crea- echo in accents of madness, vengeance!1
tes, The wise men are prohibited from vengeance! vengeance! There lie the pros-
enstring the city of our pride. The schools rated people of Israel, deprived of every
of the learned, our pillars and our hope, are right and might, its crown trampled in the
closed. The blood of the slain, both High- dust, its laws, justice, religion, its valiant
priest and people, cries for vengeance from men and its heroic defenders-ha, wretch-
*very corner of this land, and there is none ed Israel, thy voice is impotent, thou art
de listen. The tyrant rages against his own helpless. Who conjured me up here, that
wife, spares not the beloved of his bosom; I see death, blood, destruction here and
who ,an expect mercy or justice from his there? Who called me up to delight in my
hands? He is Rome's hireling, to extermi- hot tears, and scoY at my bloody grief?
nate Israel's laws and religion, and the hire Away, away,ye specters, away ye bloody
he receives, are crown and scepter. On shades of my assassinated nation ! I feel,
thee one side then a King pleads for his that I stumble, I fall; revolution, revoln-
rights, with which Rome invested him, and tion alone can save thee, Israel, and revolu-
en the other band an outraged, down-trod- tion is bloodshed, misery and wretchedness.
den and strangled people, bleeding from a Still God commands the revolution through
thousand wounds, cries before the throne the voice of his people."
of justice.-the decision is easily given; if 1  The thunder of enthusiastic applause
an not for myself, who should be for me? If which resounded through the hell was in-
I am only for myself, who am I? If I am terrupted by the voices of the extreme Sha-
not now for myself, when should I be it ?" maites who exclaimed: "Hillel is no longer
'The loud murmurs of the Shamaites and like himself, he is no longer the pious, meek
the cheering hurrahs of the Hillelites inter- and submissive Hillel. His words are fire,
iepted the speaker for a moment, But an his sentiments are bloody. He is another
ardent enthusiasm  appeared to-have seis- man."
ed on him,and 'with a voice which sounded " Verily, I am not I, I know myself no
powerfully through the hall he continued: more," said Hillel, "my soul is sore, my
"Two dreadful scenes open to our vision, heart is wounded, my breast is 'tortured,
Here, behold! here stand the indignant men tormented most cruelly. The affliction of
with the arms of destruction in their hands my people, the tears and blood of my na,-
to attack the tyrant and compel him to yield tion, the enemy's scoffing at our sacred re-

0$R fILLHL AND    IRoD.n.%
ligion,. our laws, our hopes, at justice itself, ben Menahem under the torturers' hkads.
turns me into an agitated lios. I feel that He said the last words of the expiring youtfW
it is our duty to countenance the rev9lu- were, "The Queen is innocent." This sett
tion."                                 Herod completely crasy. He ran aboutin
" Then let us complain to Cleopatra about the palace like a madman, and when the
the conduct of her servants," Jonathan pro- physician again told him on his own in-
posed.                                quiry, that the sickness of4the Queen was
"The revolution,the revolution I" it sound- dangerous, he struck thephysician adgave
ed through the hall, "send to Cleopatra and orders to set all those "Greek dogs" qfe
let her know that we would not stand such doors, and call Essence physicians. Thia
a treatment,"                         was done immediately.  Among ,the live
The revolutionists being in the majority Essence physicians at the bed side of the,
prevailed ; Shamai withhis friends being Queen was also Simon ben Hillel, dressed
overruled left the hall, angrily; but the in white garments with a leather apron.
Hillelites .completed their plan and acted After some consultation ! they deteraied,
accordingly.                          upon the treatment they thought best -ap,
ply. Toward the dawn of morning the feer
C H A P T E R  V.           subsided, and the Queen'slept. He  i. de-
THE KING AND TH E E s E N E E .     sired to .see one of the Essenee ;physicians
The consistent assurances of Baruch ben and Simon ben Hillel was ushered into his
Menahem in torture and death, that the presence. The exquisite beauty of the
Queen was innocent and spotless, diminish- young man, his open, manly and inteilia
ed not the jealqosy of Herod, nor did the gent countenance, his fiery an4 pe4etting
sickness in which the Queen suddenly fell looks, and his proud and firm bearing
after the King had treated her, as we have made a surprising and favorable impression.
already seen,-disarm his suspicion, that his on the King. He regarded the young phy.
wife with her family conspired against him sician for several moments with ,IpparenA
with Cleopatra. He passed a night of in- delight, "Are you one of the Essoee  pys
tense excitement. The servants were scarce- sicians ?" the King asked, somewl$ egg
ly allowed to sit down and breathe. "Is the prised by the youth of the man Ibeforq~imk,
Queen indeed sick?"-" Is the Queen very  "I am, my lord," was the short answer.
sick?"--"Does the Queen's health improve?"  " What do your colleagues thinlofl, Alh.
-"Has Baruch ben Menahem confessedhis disease of the Queen?" ,Herod inquired;,.
crime ? "-" What degree of torture have  "The disease was dangerous," Simon; s-
)hey applied ?" and similar questions he plied, "but is so no longer. Silence, repose,
proposed every minute of the night, and a careful diet and the right degree of warmth
kept his servants always busy. He cursed, will cure it in a few days."
raged against every body, then again wept  "What medicine do you give?" the
and lamented his and the Queen's fate, so King asked.
that it sometimes appeared, he had lost his "None, my lord," was the reply of Si-
senses. Toward morning tht Queen's dis- mon.
ease became alarming, In a delirious state  "Do you mean to cure the Quees $th
she repeated the best part of the conversa- amulets and- prayers?" the King asked,
tion she had with her mother, every word smilingly.- "I must inform you, that eish-
of which'was brought to the ears of Herod. er the Queen, nor myself believe nuoh:4i
The physicians said the disease of the Queen those things."
was alarming, as the rushing of the blood  "Prayer cures wounded.hearts, and amu.
to the head could not be stopped, notwith- lets heal the morbid imagination," Simon
standing all the means applied, replied. " My colleagues can not think for
Sabion stepped into the cabinet of the a moment, that Herod's rgyal consort suffer.
King and announced the death of Baruch of either of iose maladies,"


40                     Tua COMBAT OP TS PEOPLE, .
-lHernd was visibly embarrassed, and walk- upon the unguarded man," Simon respond-
Ad the room, in rapid strides, his arms cross- ed, earnestly, "none of which should -ever
edover his breast,to hide hisemotions. "B'ut trouble a Queen."
how do your colleagues know, where and   "Either of which is enough to derange a
when to apply those peculiar remedies?" he man's sound brains," Herod said, wildly
asked, without looking on Simon.      laughing. "The Queen is troubled with an
"Besides the numerous symptoms of the evil demon. Go and tell it to your col-
patient," said Simon, " and the information leagues, that their treatment be shaped ac-
*egain by the attendants, we look into the cordingly."
eye, the mirror of the soul, to read the suf-- Simon bowed and was about retiring,
ferings-of the heart, or the aberration of the when Herod stopped him. "Not so hasty,
mind. The eye 'of the patient, who die- young man, I desire to speak one 'word
cards every etiquette and forced appear- more to you."  Simon bowed, and Herod
ance, and allows human nature to operate continued: "You have told me the symp-
on itg wn laws, seldom if ever deceives the toms of a wounded heart or a morbid imagin-
phyeinian."                            ation, together with the remedies for those
This reply was not calculated to relieve maladies. I wish now to learn of you the
Herod'from his embarrassment. He tried to same in regard to evil demons."
give the conversation another turn, and ask- "-A man's words and' actions, besdes his
ed, " Who are you, that you speak such an looks and the features of' his countenance,"
elegant Grecian dialect, and that your old Simon responded, "are the- yinptoths of his
and renowned colleagues introduce you to being possessed by either or all of those de-
the.Queen?"                            mons. The name of God, the word of God,
"I" am a Babylonian, my lord," said Si- and the counsel of'true wisdom are the only
Mon, "the son of a family little known be- remedies."
yond the limits of our village on the Habor,  Herod looked penetratingly into the eyes
river. I my early youth I studied the wis- of Simon, and after an emphatic pause, he
ddia of Palestine's wise men, then went to said, "Speak, young man, am I postesaed
Aaideia, to the Egyptian Therapeuts, to by either or all of those demons? Speak
Athend and Rome, and learned as mjpch of truth, and nothing but truth."
science as I' could retain. Now I return to " The anger of a King is the angel of
Babylon, to' make use of my knowledge. death," said Simon.
Being' known to my colleagues here, they  "But a wise man can appease it, says the
donferred on me the distinguishing honor, to same wise King," Herod added.
introduce me to the Queen of Judea."     "Life and death are in the power of the
Meanwhile Herod composed himself, and tongue," Simon continued,
turning again to Simon, he said, " Your  " Righteousness saves from death, says the
learning might be useful to us in Judea. same ruler of Israel," the King remarked.
Why should you return to Babylon? But    "If God gives freedom to the destroyer,
tell me 'iirst, do- you not believe an evil de- he distinguishes not between the' good or
mon has seized the Queen, which, by the the evil one, Israel's sages said," Simon ob-
pow~r if'pious men, could be driven out ? " served.   -
=I know of but four evil demons," said  "I am Israel's King, and no destroyer,"
Simon, slowly and significantly, "none of I said Herod.
*hioh'ahould ever trouble a Queen."      "And Kings hate to hear the truth," Si-
"Yes, yes, they say the _Essenees know mon responded.
the names of the' angels aid the evil de-  "ButI insist to hear it now, just now and
mons," Herod said, hastily, "let me know of you," Herod said, impatiently.
the names of those four."                " Listen, ilerod to the words of truth," Si-
"Ambition, passion, avarice and supersti- mon said, int a sonorous tone. From Jiis
tion are the ,four cruel demons which seize eyes, looks of fire darted forth, his counten-

to grow coder thme *eye
psset~is tie dust u   "
*    R4Q            i "     c    ,
Lor am theOm 'o
r~4i~iats4yip~g  ~tILI-, 803to~
- .al t    Y ' 4 r"1  i %   j$  W  4W ?  s'r  't"ge
-9#  -1         5  0/ r  , F  } "J 0  L 5  ,     .
GOAL-              "-        "  ,,"* i ts
hois tIhe arm7i p        b.y
" 4ty A dx ~    p~e      4
1, R~044 4  .
an nsg  Q ~4ldensan       I
staedint te o",ne sof iep ho.Iouban  ~e
8Ir,                t-14i eti~  ,


4I
d% Ma. I hhonly so
a efeigebio6nonI
that     d   e hiils
inhiis'hitsN,
* r~lU&amp; rMi
pliteed its tents:'"'Tllet
9Eth 4110 oftsstIid"WVh
BeaIeOS tho' e lu6t
mi,"MMb6' e   task mm
n
aif    do reesion  and  aj
o.a n  f aeted laws and'
5 !,*ey dediaie 'the
d"     pe wa   e for
o     ne 'ed' juu
only people on earth, that
'  irtue 'as the Millof
li    igh,'Its bdoyaimy,
foundation on ilt
behold thee rgf,
Idtle spfititf ei
i       d 4and'mig  Sy
a detoralised p
3'liires of bravely?
T  6  rtot
$$ of our lore
" ju    *   earthy ken,
,toar'upt
desoralisa ion has yet not
A    gAnlhitude, that the
rst s the appeal t6 the
offa  ,ii y owda eho, hav
of 'o imke,'itt npt to jus
! st  '   lsoin the days
#ry cort(
' an's oim, clcula
the abalvi
t~int; bat''he
a uts of hislii
f   iadea: the w
~i~braUaedemorallsatio
earena lIar test of
sete'. I~hoeatlony
I sa you, I ah our resa

try,'th~t &amp; $, he% iit  eMk0idu    if 'Judal The gele
h MAgfseitb th I#dVW           b ith'6,Wddidrot be e d-
owhit'dh. "fsuscl p e dsear hilijkk."      '
{ 'dNdfart. '"To6 'a oe nos it W ol i %hW4eiet
Tit retireWaleys, ae"6f iige,"'sil d ferd' maha 1a6611.
O8re 'inlceneb ted.' "StilY r'*ish t  spea&amp;  Goric to fil.
ade its ot hie. In But ftrst promise me to be 1yif'du&amp;
gesaed Niee' has esay'with %&amp;".   '''''            "'
igeI  fe  the 'dust  "1A Ial'who rules' over all can liae 6
a'tlie'ibountain." ffie td i t6h dtisletest ' eiie 6e -thet"
k greedy of 'power Simon refiled coolly, "I  t sotatter .i
ktd'hohor,"  moa  '"Aa'ftyont ail Ilae 'naiV, 'itd.es Is 'a
a mbt ahdxliary Mendship ofyou King?" IHerod adhel.d
twell in the cities,  "If I was insane," "'id emon, +'tMi 'i
udtie, by their vi- Hrod  nbuld iit ittenpt to dptivt v   of
setting bad extin- my muatahdod athte of kie 'toot"  dfe.
eohimanity.-Sir, pings, especially those who itad'In  r zie-
any centuries thi lateon 'to their people as youidd, 'eecnot e-
tce. It *as the poet, d' ant' 'wi h to'have 'A en.
mospeoted justice they aced many tools. fMoney,tboibra  4
the Mos Tigh.- fear w-f '          V' i e"th athany, ti t 'wife e
piids its fpiler of those'means would ndt wb*'#&amp;  amif'!end -
t in thefght path aip you thik, Wduld operate  dry elf.-
l iaedestructible Sir, I cahi be toi tOl."
hiet Its hypes and  "Stay with'ie'and r will teach yod 'to be
aik but one aen. my friend," taid Wer6d, mudh  notified;
national bobyancy " tay, I have Mne'Ilhe you;among dri
armies Who rotued o ireu dd set nWe.' I *anta ma h*bt it-
rian, and tell us ters freelywhat life heart feels."
people can perform  "I eonsent'to remain with you," said $i-
^ lht evil demons son, " if yo'ikegree,:whbeever'we atealbn
ds sid rules, our not to play my syeriot, for -I at not yout
and they epeit'all sdbject, lam a Babylonlan,aid not to
ouf peopI-eitIll inte the tights of truth itnejirliserad."..:
attained'sch'asi  " I agree and give you my i nfal wbirno
cities ire as cor- to do," said Herod. "But now,' sit dsWn
'morbid ambition here, and I will gret convince you of:
ing no better ox. erroneous conceptiols of the people" -
tify their conduct  A ehaimberlaift stepped in. i'abioa stye,
ton of the eom- he must see my royal matter iaediatel,"
of King Solomon, satd'the man. "''he business at'A esnr-
ed th people, and gens," said the King; *for this is iiddes-
ting upon a total al hour for himto appearbefore me. Amit
goi, attempted to him."  The ehambetlain retired and Sabida
wat mistaken, it entered. Helooked bewildered andsor6d -
nadom. Be care- fal. "I wish to seeyou alone, ay tofl ase-
eakness of your ter," said Sabion.              . ~~   y
n of your wealthy "t have no secret before this stranger,"
the people's real'said lHerod. "I wish you to notice, that
on,and nothe who this man whose name will be told yet hews-
friend. I repeat after, isamy friend'

On    e   r.jiEL A&amp;"  I1noD.4
uSmip. uqwdub issieY.          gafn in the da icp.-N9 , 0?yr  u1dI guq
his report: "For several weepgestia e you, not to 4 are me wth
r.I a m no4enat. Abe     17
q   "pes,seg rettement apgsown sus- daughter.I m     ngi
iipebrA tm     Iwas, onangur and closely and safel! condoned, andere U
qaed4 iP destgng their plae of nQotur- lay the matter at you, c I4ecas t"
i   t      i .siothegvalleyof, lIDQma.piereyour pardon former, Aiusjgoni ! O   U
}pM,  l y d ughter eIley, whQfa I 194Iy be done.-  have dispahgd tn men 
vog  nf cherished,.sent out to of y ser- rest Abba Shaul and others whoIt
ste4bipg to her tyo young mene of Cpusmasd, mymroyspl   ter, wb t   J.
Ti          than bep. U sie isthe une of done;with,my daughter l
p       SpnIi en. HiJRIoththeser. The  "You  i k copr 'me t.
aeryauto by  istj e er4esteg twopgtheranm  . y of Hinou, $a a igh  bork
).   iefgreed of pl th; Igave the two   gd, Thi being ,4Orwd9l oo$
2 q ehprgeof my servants and-bid them "Where was Helen before she went
stjp4ssiise them, ustil they~have arapted " That morning she ws~ at tb
the wo young menwho ,belong to.the eon- her mother," said Saluo, "were. Abbp
sptI-s of Jericbo, They foppyed thejr fhavl syst harp. .meher. ilen ,io1l
t        oa ta the valley of Uinom where they td Baruch ben Mengh  is an his .
filed for, them. After midnight both The res of the, tigio she epeut at ale
young men came out from a low but, my side. of the gracious 9uqen, and in e
.ervante attempted to arrpet them, butabody house,,
of armed men interfered, killed two of my -Herod laughed savagely, and ru, upp
seryasts, Royu4ed several an4 the rest were down the ro4gm, "I understand  bths
ebljgsj to flee. Tlpe two, peasants also took lie sehemq," he said. "theQeen a  B -
s4vantage of the attack and made good their ruch knew of the secret conspit.
eecpe.. This morning Ireceived the rport, seat your daughter to infora tie e
tha. among. those who attacked them was their perilous position, and, ,sp Jred
Abba $ u4 ;the notorious grave digger, and up to hep them if possible. 4h, ye h
my owp ~snd only daughter IIelen,"    'venomous serpents, you are in my pow
Here Sabion stopped apparently incapa- the host of hejil itselfcan not sAveyou.
ble to continue. The iging looked'scrutini- Sabios, be vigilant, something great wil .
singly on Lonbut no feature of ha equnte- undertaken against us. Tellmy  taiins'
nance was changed.                     meet me within one hour is the pv4
Sahiop continued, alter a pause : "gelen chamber. Keep your daughter inaos cop
was missing all evening, and her old servant fg ement, my -honest S446oo, Your 1 i 'p
could be fouzd nowhere.. Iinquired, after favor and best will are well deserved.  -
her, but none could tell her whereabouts-- gope, and perform your duy.'{
She confessed her foolish love for one Simon  Sabion bowed aggi and anon, and tbsp
b0en ,i el, and, having beard me giving or- disappeared. "speak, visionary Lieenee"
ders to my servants to arrest that rebel, I ex- said Herod, " is there a angel a this, I
peestse went out in search of him, to cau- if the wife conspires against her hua ,
tiop hbi . When she returned'I examined the daughter segainst her own father,
hersharply,;but nothing could be learned people against their King ? 0 you good-
fro  hei., I examined the servant, but it matured, deceived' philo4pher, yAt "dWiot
also"Ias' in vain.  When I received this know the wickedpess and baseness of D
morning  the above report, I examined the! as I do, or you mst admit, that thlteftl-
grey sinner upon the torture, and he confes- erous and malignant race t'ust be ryaied
med 'to' have been with his mistress in the val- with an iron band. mlood and tety~or~ol
ley of Hinom, where she disappeared, then can bend their proud neckand matei&amp;
returned in company of many armed mien, submit to lagr and order. gea14, ff+o'i ,
who attacked others, he could not distinguish jcan this nation of rebellious ,sep,' j)5


4                     Tnu ConkA't o '1113 '3lar"LB
i4   f ietrn be i verned without an frok anfeofdenee are the Very fBrst cotnditions
Sas,, yu'relimb, eonvined, of friendship."'
on see out owa Folly."         Hetod again peed his alo'i&amp;  Wetd
enee   i$erd d ill have regained steldes. A legit of combtting thougbtWa-
Pe    ni&amp;n "sid Simon,"      will tpear, eared to ti bte his ind. After g*hile
fa  (r a"en. Nloar should  ainan" rule Ie et f ped asai before Siion, and' addir".
ves a  atiorIf he ean ndt faaste's him- eked'hinit ihu:" I do not know -yodgets1i
'    ,                 S~e iuyeatsattracted by Y60.- 1"fiykto
kWd ttesettiee d lip between his ave "a Irend. 1 is':o great and plednt
teeth and struggled +fiibyto Aikudoinifitn anidsa to have oe it" this  1Idw p j9t-
4967*i1idder .*He napip ted to be ashamed ee in o prdsperit, weeps brobia l o -
Wde"   lm; in Pbitbtt Eskesee.' "Speak, ti6 , sysmpa thies ith our distress, b  ka
R:    4  dud'1 I ilheatyou without Inter ho estsmile ined tear for us.' 'It iithe pride
ra    .                                and prime of humanity 'But!~ *111 liar
''4tot1tfeni are slaves and cowards, who some othet'tine' the eauses,'*hy 6u et'adt o
0 bl 'I6u.I look cross, Herod said of  his be my friend. Now, I- will teach you, that.
o ,    Wi'non said; "Still you place  Im have confidence in those*ho deserve it.-
Ti    oIdd nce in the words of the 'courtier I wish to teach you, that Herod deserves an
rato uabnow retired. lierod, is it patriot- honest and upright friend.IWhat IS jour
is, ighedleit rriendvhip or cowardice, name?"
that causes a man. to betray his own daugli-  "Call me Aurion my lord," said Siatinm,
ier, c adtas  said his only daughter I ''f it "it is my gentiised name." )'y
E' "     hte *oeird you place Implicit '"Then you hear Well," said Herod bmi-
Aoidensithe words of a Coward, will he lingly,""so hear me, Aurion ; I contnsionm
'o        sba   betray bheKing as he will you, and -give you all the power you need,tai
~eeMy liislhild? how' do you' kno* that investigate into 'the  cause oftSabion's-daugli'
!kk"b(on'inds any other 6bjeet'in vie ter, the fight of last bnght'and'the esupps
h      rtain ' four"full confidence, In order to conspiracy. I will 'issue orders t'le etis d
ruin do, and to carry this' he sacrifices his Now, I must see my captains. Pa'-swelJ.
S      id if bhe plats not a part of the  "My lord, I am a stranger at your court,"
a w   h her father at'ranged?-A body Simon stammered, taken with sqrise.
armedmen rescued some prisoners from  " A wise man is nowhere a stx  ger," baid
of their captors, and Herod sees in the King, bowing Simon' out of 'the saoo.'
t     Onspyracy'of his royal consort with  " But. what means do you'place at my die-
h  enemies ,ethaps a gang of robbers position," Sinqn asked.
he d a nocturnal rendetrous in that abomili- "Any you want," said the King, and di.-
able valley and'thouyht to find a rich 'booty? appeared through another door.
ror lrohbly the very servants of Sabion's  Simon, when alone involuntarily fell upo
daughter attacked those who arrested her his, knees and exclaimed, "Iord, my God,
oveer Y 'There is more probability for the relieve me from this intolerable torture, this
ii'ui ofymy hypothesis, than for yours, my damnable mask, I can bear it no longer."--
14 orel.'                          Then he rose suddenly, and looked', about
on paused 'here, for he saw the King hiielf, as though be was afraid the walls
wish  to say something. Herod again ask- would betray him.  "Helen ! Quee! I I
4 "   n you be my friend, young Essenee?" come, I save you or 'die with you," be ox-
s .legcas you suspect your own wife, claimed, loudly, overwhelmed with enthusi-
tgparar of your bosoin, no!" Simon re- am, and went away to think of a proper
~d4 romptly. " It is impossible for'plan of action.
~git~aeconfldence in a friend, who dis- jHaving told his colleagues that the King
we hyou on many essential questions, desired him to stay with him, for some tispe,
You only'listen to your slaves. Equality Jhe managed it to approach the Queen elose

OR- ITILtu. Aof Hmmnoti

enough, that he, without attracting particu-
1ti' notsce;sild whisper in her ear: "'Fear
notyd tz people awateh at your bedside," and
*lth6 tt wilting for an, answer, he left the
apttteeit; went down staire,to breathe fresh
affinthe court. Walking about the park
he bkeied a Greek who followed his every
sep. He aon ideed him one of Sabion's
spies and went out of his way, but every
.here the Greek *as after him. Finally] ii
the dark shade of a' cypress walk he inur-
inUre&amp; half' audibly, "What thou wishest
not to be done thee, do not to thy neighbor."
Simon 'still fearful that the man might be
one of Sabion's spies, took no notice of what
he 'said; but he knew, that he was either de-
tedted or' at'least suspected. This had its
good effect. The Greek believing he was
mistaken in his man, bent his steps to nnath-
or side of the park, and sat down at a retired
oarnto think of a plan of operation.
- I aave done my duty, let the'cnsequen-
ct be as' God pleases," Helen said tg her-
Sef, alter fier fatter had'seoured her behind
tesan d bars, and she had felt the whole
eruehing weight of his wrath. "God save
tieQooen and Simon, and let there be done
with me 'as the Lord pleases," she murmu--
ed then, and resigned her fate into the hands
of Providence. Her father had treated her
's unkindly, that she could not pray for him.
$he felt' mortified and disgusted, and even
against her own' inclination, she commenced
to beleve- beie father's enemies knew him
uuh better than she did. Not long, how-
eer,dld'she yield to these angry emotions
of 'oer'blieart. Filial' affection, the noblest
em I' the diadem of humanity, moved her
heart again,  and she stretched out her arms
after he ft her, determined' upon a full con-
fesion of"her adventure and to pray his for-
givenees. "' I will move his heart," she so-
liloquized. "I am his only child, he can
not abandon me. For my beloved mother's
sako he  must forgive mo"-here she paused
for, a1Isoment. "My mother? My mother?"
she their continued ; " did she not die with
a hioken heart, because my father betrayed
the old' 1ing, deserted the Pharisees, and
turned a friend. of Ilerod ? '0, he did 'not
ove her, he does not love me ; he has no

heart for his ehild."  Them she thought of
all the kindness he had shown'her avereinoe
she could remember, and again she lidte.0
her hands, and begged her father's paedonb
that she could for one moment wrongie.,
" Aly love, my passionate love for .Simo;"'
she soliloquised, "makes me blind to4he love
of my father, and I harbor the erikinali de
sire to see him guilty, that .myIo Wgbys
deadly enemy, be right, and'I have aweess
before Godsand man, to love the vIont ed'
emy of my father, who is s orn to'takehit
life. 1 am revoltingly wicked, Ikdisobeye4
and mortified my. affectionate parent,'asnd
now I am angry because he adminisates to
me the well 'deserved punishment, A, will
not murmur. 1 will confess may guiltand
sue for pardon  He will, he must forgive
me.",
Helen had not slept much for tw  njglq.
She was exhausted by the occurrences.:jia
passed. Her agitation gave way torela t
tion. Her eyes were half closed,whez 49
door opened, and Elvira in company o
other servant stepped in and brought JHei
the news, that she would be reutovedfp4
bore to a prison, and they had pom $o see
her once more, pa none is allowed to ssee3 @r
hereafter.
Helen embraced Elvira, and asked who
had given them permission to seedher once
more. " Your father," said Etyira, "Tour
father heard my ardent prayer , and allow-
ed me to see you before you ls removed
a solitary prison."
"0, my father is so kind s" Helen exclaim.
ed. -'But why must I be removed to a pxis-
on? A prison ?--f leavenl! Barush afs ' was
in a prison ! Elvira, my beloved souw r$y
must I be removed to a prison?"
"Your father is so very kind," said ENI.
ra, sarcastically, "he is' afraid you TM!4i
meet with any harm, therefore, I supgg
he will keep you safe. O, the king, klndesy
father!"
"Suspect not the motives of my iatr,"
Helen replied, imperatively, "the falhermust
know beet, what he must do with hiils e
1y father loves me, fondly, he willido
no wrong. I hare disobeyed 4Wbh te,
and am ready and willing to receive my pain.
ishment Vitlidut a nurmur


46                      TIa. CgsaAnT QF  I- PEOPLE,
":Aadyou will receive a full. neasureef itan ty~a , rperjes sitti s: .9
- itisaWId  vira, 'P for he is enraged4t you.,- his friends beig afrai g g,     r
11enM      thi word of death is iuspend- siqped to betray th sfenr  a  a la
edadmj hairhover yoer head, every:noment and knowing thatpr ureort dd o  t
t&amp;ta    blew s may fall, and you are yet eon you, they absolve4 you, of your blig  ,
Int    year lather's love? I$e baa inform- stay here any longer, and oherge4WdimW'
edKthaing of your adventure, With your the duty to effect your escape  ,  Be ie
lhi hewill-demonstrate his patriotisma and longer, my beloved Helaaeu  e or. you,
bhit4.ity 4t.the King, and you are still con- lost,,lost anyhow; iflyou confess,4hpe sqp la
I1 &amp; 4a, your'fatber's love? 0, my good daggerswill reaoh you, andif you 4a4  i
lhe.eybeloved friend of my heart, prepare the King's anger ia certain death ,tqy.
f=wey,my for aaeless agiietion, for death  Helen,.after eI long pause said, caIn
0r1-aIe   , lam done, I told you the whole resolutely,. "SEivira wy love, tell Baba; hen
erep'                    ,Buts, 1 fdee not, and, although I am a 4b4
"- aAnd why, beloved Elora, why do you woman, I violate not my oath, let .iteo$4a
uiltesie my{miserable fate," Helen asked, life. Rere = remain, here where 1uop
4deeIt not lean it in due time yet? spurns periland danger, here,:I trust, 41ri.01
-  'i'atapproached heir closer and-a little assist in saving the Queno, end no e sl I
louder than a whisper she said, "Because I take me from this place...
'af, sh~escue fou frown' certain death.  All being *i vain Elvimfa wept a.parting
Ir* afaed 'men were sent out' this morning tear, and after affestotate'embrabe5s beWf
tithetAbba Sbaul,'but'the bold mat offer' Ilelen..The door wad looked, Helop was
64  i 'xdapeeted resistataee.' Hk killed alone with her oee, grief and apre benpoen.
' sd and' fi ed' the rest to flight. Your She nas satisaed that she acted rig h&amp;n sip,
ir enraged at'this took forty ot'the royal ing where she was. She could'nqt4uml4the
gti~a Ilnd'eht out tostrest the-herole man. loye of her,fatlier, still the words of p
The 'Kidg holds a secret meeting with his who was so dear to her e rt; geS
iaggtahs. I, taking'advantage of 'the favor- painfully in every receoflh ersoul : e
able apoapent, bribed the guards at your door, struggled powerfully against every acessa-
eMole thekey from'yOtir father's Secret apart- tion, that rose in her hearing bosom, ag,
nent, and.lere t am. Every thing is pre- her father. She subdu  them  all except
parel; Helen, flee this moment, the males one-his order to arrest Simpon. 'This wa
ae,rlidg, i have clothes for you, that none in her eyes a crime for which the taero
know you. Flee this moment, and in a few heaven itself could s-L no forgiremes
hours you are in Jericho and out of Herod's mon appeared to her' pure and iuoetas
renh."the Angels who sing the praise of te. 21
""o, my good hlvira, I shall not flee," mighty. Remembering aw te i nipept
s1  aelen, comsposed. "I dare not gee, not danger in which $ineom was  see  ad by
only eeause my confidence in the love of ing disable herself to assist and catio or
myaaher ia unlimited, hbAt also because an d ie with him, ahp altogether forgother ;QW'f
bel sacredand inviolsble, forbids mte to perils, and her sighs followed the belov4
l   e'thise prac  I' thnk you my beloved friend whom she imagined in the ha yaofr
Nthgym are a true and warm friend: but his energies.
I must stay, let the consequences be as God  Again she heard a noise before hrdqor
pleases,"                       -       The heavy steps of warriors re-hoeA
'virarptaypd ith tears ts her eyes, but through the hall, an attempt ,was, nje.to
i" l'; f eli's- detei'niton to stay was open the 4oor. "They c me to remo 'e i
*ria aida un teittable.  "Know it then," to a prison,".she thought, and shrank a  e
Wl~irs lpai, "'if so it must be, I heard the recollections of the dim cell in whIh i p
oalh yWa I~w4 sworn Yest' night in the Peo- had seen Baruch'ben ?afenahem.. The door
$illa "ih'dfl, andh 1ufortned Bab eu luta opened, her father, attended by five men or

(On lxIiLt L ANDHEROD.

EhO ting's'guard entered. "Thi. re^nean
ihib b     eyed:to -onder pison,sand well
' ei   of, .that none hava access to her,".
t k 8kbih1 t6 the gtdards, Without looking
" My :hther wounded," Helen cried in
idbl hccetts. -'1 tell me who dated lay
t nd   thy beloved father?"
"YoUr friend and co-adjutor Abba Shaul,"
eid abingdtahing- his teeth.  "These
men saed my life. Abba Shaul escaped;-
but you are i nmy power, you and your e-
8tsdd loter, andyou shall pay for the reb-
elwdatfng conduct."
$ten hastened toward the guards and kis-
sing Ivery one's sword, she thanked them
wity tears in her eyes for having saved the
life of' her father. Then in a state of anfec-
tionate ecstaey she stretched out her' arms
and went to embrace her father. "Away,
sliamdful abtrese," Sabion roared, "treacher-
d   iAnfaidus woman I I know the serpent's
eiofnons hiesdng. You go to prison and
a*raty inr trial before the ,King's authori-
i '"l  Ite pushed her violently to one side
qt the room, nd bid the guards to conduct
hIr to the prison he had told them. * The
"M4rdsiorever, struck with the beauty and
ni of Helen, hesitated. Sabion
bid agjp, and none appeared to be disposed
to obey.', teen recovered her presence of
isnd.  Dismayed, mortified and tortured
she iookd frigidly on her fa.ther. "You
h    &amp;'d #   alln ," she'said, calmly, "if Sa-
orisoned's it necessary to accuse his own
and.o 1'hi'ld of any crime before the
kI f  ug+gs, Heleunknows how to obey her
fa iei oenatmnd, without'the assistance of
tbo4 a 6gers. Let them go out of this
boi,'that I may speak one word more alone
-tbky'fasher, and without a murmurI follow
you ( the prison, to the gates of hell, if so
you desire."
dablon laughed furiously, and said,
"'Bb  ione with fou, that it be said I was
awaft bf yoUr'treacherous designs, that your
iMadl'on mty head ? No, woman, I am no
loi  our father, and unless the King ea-
oates you, I never shall be. You are
,t~is child, Sabion nourished a poisonous
soorbidn.' Iegone to yonder prison."

4

"I 'must speak a few *ords alone tdl
father," Helen said, r+esoltedl, "otheresi
the Iig's'armies cannot convey  ie alvd
to yonder prison."
' No defiance, degraded woma," Sabioa
baid, "'Soldiers, do your duty."
Ieluetarntly the soldiers siteinpted t lay
hands on her, b'ut, with the strength of aw
enraged lioness, she pushed nr  w sie
other from her. " Not alive, I say,"Ieen
cried, " not -ative shall you move me/fi
here, unless my request be granted."
" No violence," Sabion taid,with ahdiao
bolie smile on his lips. He advented toward
her, graspedboth her hands, and tied' thm
together-with a cord. Helen, dthtb adinio
tionless like a marble statue, ofeetd ibotet
distance. When her hands et lied,4bhe
said, slowly and monotonously; ."Ihn1tet
ties the hands of his own andolejlyehl,t
deliver her without a. hearling,-ibto the heads
of the executioner.- Mother, beloved, dbxd
mother, thou hast seen it, I ofered'no irdsis-
tance."  Two large tears glittered, '1bl
eyes. "Remove her," Sabien eomibtadsdj
and the soldiers went to do' their d:t.M
Again the door opened, and in the =nmdtof
a royal guard,Slmion hen Hillel enterhbe
room. A screamshrill and pieroing,eoaped
Helen. Simon fearingt4heoconsquenfisfrbf
unguarded words, sMid, "Fear not *oanj
although my clothes are white, yet I s abe
dead man. I live. I ate theKiag e phys
cian and friend, an humble esenee. 'My
lord," he said to 0abion, "you ses requested
t6 withdraw. This signet and t44le ohhain
sir, are the evidence of my-authority. 'N6
harm shall be done to your daughter lesss
justice so demand it."
"The King is very gracious,"-sid daitokI
meekly and being pr6foundiybebtehmob,
" I gladly obqy. I am relieved of a peifl~
duty."  He left' the oom with hltgead;'
"Stand outside, guard the doo,a   t
none, and wait for my orders," SeI4
to his guards, which was immedfately"b e
He untied Helen's hands,and quige lfi{wY
excitement she sunk into the embra of
mnon, who pressed her close to his bsa,-
A long kiss was the whole io&amp;lili o
which passed between them theiOrsi fti


Tun CoMBAT O1 TIs   aROPLX,
get, tiwas profusion of presentiments, of. Simon, who eputinued.i n .l  . phatin
thbla In tha t llenteloquence wbich-baff- tone : "Uf you, dearesAIsles, Wh her!k$
Iedescription. Thebkeart of the offended I say, speak-and st eactly and lte sI
and mortified daughter, the tormented bosom I tell you, and yow have sworn a sossgg q+k
e4;tbe airetionate child heaved again wth so to do-you are free and exonerate d3f
love and unutterable bliss, on~the high beat- the sun rimsagain over Zion'e.,twere p Ab-
' beastao nthe loving friend. The frigid ba Shaul will be declared a patriotant
15s3mrpesed lnte her aI'ectionately glow- worthy of the King's l best con4wsi4
iegoro,by sahertese and cruelfather, took the Queen is saved.: Herod's anger,.r v-
wigand-gawe way to the shouting joy of or, falls with crushing weight .upon.,th gal'
hasdies h  apiness, engendered by the love ty head of him whomour whole nation er-
and fidelity of . him whom she loved best on see, and it shall Annihilate him." .
a  ,   Closer:and still closer Helen clung  "Siunoa ! Simon!I. dearest friend of ay
40gou who, liberated of the hated mask heart," Helen interrupted, in painful accents,
beheose long, joyful to be free of, the up- "Do tell me, I pray, I beseech you,wh. is
mps'es and cold etiquette and eternal vigil- the wretched object of your fierce displea-
asse,asd elated with the idea, that he could cure ?" *
aye   c the beloved of his heart from the ruel  "Sabion, your murderer and the foul ep-
ea4Werolless hands of her unnaturalfather, sassin of your nation," Simon responded,
presseher in silent rapture to the stormy firmly.
bati and for a long time he had no word to  "Away from me, beguiler," fielecrieN
passionately, "he is my father. Away wit
Aseenwbose heart was never, moved by thy smooth, murderous songua I say. 1 staf
e* tsuonesand powerful passion, can hardly here and die, if so it must e, but .I shaldl
lmagiethe bliss of the two levers be. never, never be auxiliary or evsn safer, that
forejas. Imagine the first blossoms of spring my father be wronged."  .  .
atrtea dreary winter, the rising sunafter a  " 0, the dear father, whose hands are i
dreadful and stormy night, the first words of ed with innocent blood," said Simon," "iwh
" beloved patient who laid dumbin the cold sacrifces his own daughter, for the  oer
enbrae qIdeath, imagine you hear the hat- ary favqr of a despotic  ing. 0, th
aayqof the spheres after the roars of a hur father, whose hands, yet red w  '
rame over aestorn-tossed ocean subsided, blood, murder his affectionate chlld. 1  a.
the 4WageciS  rd. of the seraphic lyre re- present when he, accused you before he
seandiug through a night of darkness and King, of treason and conspiracy. X,,I m pa
pal, Iemagine tenfold:all these various emo- unnatural exertion to restran a  efr t oq
t eaudyou approach the paradisian rap. trample his black heart out pf his  -
tare of Simon and Helen.               This lear father must be spared, 96r Qe
Fear"'t beloved Helen," said Simon must fall and Israel wrnce itself ini5its'w
first recovering his full presence of -mind, reeking blood.  Helen, Rele p, our
"Berod and your father are more in my pow- tions 'make you blind., Not you -.wilt '
er taryou or I am in theirs. I have tried the work of justice and it is for you, ypur
th:e;proent of -confronting wickedness oath dictates it--to support me in saying the
ant4epruption withthe bold countenance of Queen."
jace and innocence, supported by cunning  "Simon, 0 hear me pray," Heles.;said,
w   om in the service of a good cause, and "behold me weep and, tremble before you,
ire.found verified what I always suppo- like a wretched sinner. 0, thap you .09 04
est be the case, wickedness is a sneak- feel the nameless torment which apies upon
ing o~ward. Herod and Sabion are my my heart. Simon, my father is not as wgh,
sla es.." ed as you, in your boundless hatred, imuse
H Ielenstayed, delighted and amazed, into him. Spare, 0 sparc his life. 13id age
th going eountenance and radiating eyes through the shadow of death, throgg4 tire

0: H    rLLrLnr AND Hano,.                     *d
ire streams of the nether world, and"I will maintaisthe-appearaus of slan  s
cheerfully obey, because I love you with erg onee. .Hepeaks when he .:-ia  ea
ery fiber pf my heart, and I have sworn to word of his i sagacious ad to the oeit,
assist you. But spare my'poor, wretched and appears to be theedutofkthefom en,
father.. I am his only, only child, probably the result of a natural impulsa withmtfoe
is only friend on earth. Let God judge and thought or secondary pOrpose.. None ihbl
none else."                            companion, still he knows every body's .m
&amp;imon.-And your oath ?               and function. This is a studied and asueed
Helen--And myfather character, my lady. But the man *bo suo-
Simen.--And your love?               ceeds so well in an assumed char ytew, that
Helen.-And my filial duties !        he deceives Herod, is not easily wwuaeke&amp;a
"And still we must unmask hire" Salecite
C H A P T E R   V 1.          ejaculated, passionately. "Who has "alied
COURT INTRIGU S.              him hitherto governadmastterall?  l ekib
"Who is the strange wizard, that he so an agent of- the King's antagonists, but the
quickly captivated the heart of the King ?" King is smitten with blindness. We' '4
Salome, the King's intriguing sister, said' to see, and we feel it our duty to expose the ae
the servile Sabion, who stood before her in tor to the impartial gale of our-lerd. I am
a most humble attitude.                the King's sister, it behooves -mo, to watoh
" I know not, my lady," said Sabion, bow- over him. Sabion, sagacious man, think of
ing deeply. "He came into the palace I proper means."
know not how. He was ushered into the   Sabion's bow and smile were significant,
King's presence I know not why or by whom. they appeared to tell, thathe had-done se al-
He captivated the royal heart in one hour. ready. "You are very kind, my lady," fora
He rules over all in the palace. His com- he. "Itf I should proposes means to ep se
manding and' penetrating looks are every- the real character of the yetaageknes it
where."                                would be to rouse his dormant pasions.-A
"He spoils the King," said Salome. "The young man with so muehBre in theaye asust
King begins to be pious, virtuous and hum. have powerful passions. They aetsubduid
ble like a Pharasean scribe. He appears to by a sontroling intellect, but will hemtely
forget altogether, that the Asmoneans and break forth with increased vloleneed I g
their friends plot against him, and leave no meet with an adequate irritaties. Let obs
means untried to ruin him, This Essenee the passions have the-sway over bis-imslleet,
is an agent of the conspiracy. He came to -and he stands exposed to -our gase.  he
rock the King into a careless sleep. So it studied and assumed oharaeters explodes,
is, and we must renderthat man powerless." and the man, as he is, appears in words and
Sabion smiled, and bowed as deep as he actions."
could. "So it is my lady," said he, thatt  " Your sagacity is admirable," said S-.
is also my opinion. But who dare tell this lome, smiling complacently. "Butyou have
to the King? lie is in love with the young no opportunity, he studiously avoids it--to
Essence. Still it is our duty to caution the ascertain his infirmities. Which of his poe-
King against the man * who assumes the sone predominatese,which,ifpropery reused
countenance of a saint, personified justice will most likely govern him? This is the
and virtue. 'He plays the Essenee in sim- question you must answer first."
plicity of manners and blunt frankness of  "This is another cause of my supilon,"
language. But there is not a spark of Esse- said Sabion, " he avoids every opportvulty
nean submissiveness about him. He com where his passions might be learned. There
naands where he shoul.l obey, and begs po- is no man without them, and he who hidea
.ltety where he should command. He exam- them most is sorest afraid of their operation.
,ines every person and thing in his way, with In examining the catalogue of-he~msngpss-
scrutinizing aend penetrating looks, still stone, I first thought of ambition --but tho
7 -


Tan 1x3aT OF TE= 'PEOPLE,
yg     nSBh s appease-    kOa4P ter he This iniust beforeIshand re sai a-secret t
y     ih~eafeseseur~agd4 hieap-the Esenee. ;Hei basA free "adesto the
uhe p ee hetewoe4t4he highest posi Quees,andthhtigives me-agoed opportunity
t A l d   AL bou      of avarice '- but toplay twj part in thedrama. -Aftera while
thisb'elulm tbe4omlatisg passion of the your -daughter must be informed of the
ypagp4bo' practies   n- only knows the Queen's intimacy with the Essence, and he.
6lsie@f wealth. - Love] I thought, love must must learn the affections of Helen for his ri-
lbe' *e'ndetpbwerfslrpassion of the young val. This is my path of the play. You un-
maa AiWhere4stheyouth who will effectu- derstand me now ?"
Wlf resistfemle charms? Let him be a   " Perfectly, my lady, and I am'astnished
l anxon , or Socrates, woman's be- at your sagacity,' said Sabion; "but tuy
wte~ ig pa e,#will,.if she desires, make a daughter is a *himsical woman. I fear her
f#pkpf Al que;,.a feeble child of the.other, love to that Simon ben Hillel will be in our
4 itn :pio rean of the last. We must way. She says she can love none besides
tbjpf ,ellh to manage our Samson.-    him.'
j4phpse it wou)d be, if ierod's court could  The lady laughed, excessively, at the
no  gaat pfA Delilah."                 courtier's folly. " Do you, indeed, believe,"
.4alome listened with peculiar delight to said she, " a young woman's love is so con-
th :.words''of I tabion. 0I: see," said' she, sistent ? 0, then you are deceived. A man,
"&amp;biotuneeds no counsellor. Still I must so beautiful as that Essence, and so high in
observe, that he is not sufficiently versed in the King's favor)'is a bait savory enough 40
,psgel~ gs, Great, almost omnipotent catch every' woman's heart in the Roman
i    eku4thke mesk powerful passion, that empire. That is a mistake of- yours, my
t# *V44; its tirqa soeptar: over man, is good friend. Go and conviflce yourself."-
3   i0   , Jelenq..a the mat of the ser- Sabion. rose and went to the door.. "'One'
pkt      .     i W n exreoet, a1d de. moment longer," said the lady, 'KU claim
warkeAbe bleadd in          oof    ,  your kind attention. Tell mue who is Simon
b"    : a  eMsA.getsou,jselousyd seav. ben Hillel?"
kg, m4nel Ir::veat     he haoeonealou-  "He is.the eon of that woodeawyer," the
[AW.P     easi the  liibnaa havingg tiger.-- oourtier stammered, "who, together with Ab-
Wee Lakespreeautious a'd sbrewd,'jealou- be Slaul, the grave digger, are the only hiv.
ayieeks thrnghshe-limits of~wisdom and ng'witnesses of our-
ebsvery ,opposition; for;jealousy has U.ere 'he stopped abruptly, and the lady
tigpoWi" f4oth love4nd hatred."        appeared to understand him; for she asked,
,nAlmie iitadsabion to -be seated at her astonished, " And they live yet?"
ightband aid, then shetold him is an in- " Hillel was out of my reach in Jericho,"
timate tone: " I will tell you my plan, my said the courtier, "but a Greek, was ig-4eri-
good sieit;, and . speot yonuwill approve 4h0 when the body of Baruch ben Menahem
of i&amp; w   e yung  ssuois.giftet witka1v- was broughtthere, and the stupid n ultitude
ery.4hari'atowihawomaa'  ark Atia as congregated around it, iuaatory speeches
eayitksfor dta to engender a, :.p ioeat being made, Iiella attempted to pacify them,
Itferichiedar the heart of. your. deghstet5 the finger of the crowd was excited, and the
eqeuiallyds Ishinow Irequently corea In Greek singledilillel out among the multitude
contact with ,ist,1nd he will:estriat .her and killed hir.: 'the wicked-Greekl ,Abba
faoie hp trout e'of:her last adventure. Love Shaul was among the rebels who attacked
bgsatedey $  elenstoo beautiful not tob.e my servants the other night in the valley of
o   . -he is-Sabiea's only daughter, he is  isom: his head is forfeited to the arm of,
thipEaiads favorite, the math is fine. The justice." -e
psig~oulhav to pirform must be perfectly  "The excited rebels killed Hillel," the lady
elegrttogyod. ' Yerdmghter, youdcM~ me, said, laughingly, "because he exhorted them -
lasdon~ve afiair with one Simon ben:HilLa to peace and justice, and Abba Shaul's head

/

-O3IIL{LL MkX    D  6D.
aeforfeited: Is it not so? O, you-,are a,wise  Sabidf b oed.profoundl}., 4 YmEr st
-man, and the. rebels are very stupid,; they ready the'yfavoriteOf every prnos'utsibl
kill their'own friends.' They must bewatch- court, especiallyAthe ladies .axe very( eagf
4ed.muoh closer, and punished rigorously. Is to cultivate your friendship.' -Ih4 d 'bit
-it, not. so ? Now, go, my wse friend, and !this morning the King'essister sa pthtIh
play your part with due caution and very was very -desirous to seeyou-in her afo  '
gentle, that your daughter detect nothing of  "'I am :sensible of{ the- honors mai4'4b
our plan."  The lady left the room, Sabion { physician, "but Itsearebly dare9t "1reda
looked a. good while at the door through such noble company, as mjv~a smnaet I&amp;
which she left.. Then he murmured, " Yes too impolite, too much likethe ren&amp; fitbi6
Lilah, primitive serpent, I can do all this to first time in the city. --Rit w h etI
get rid of my enemies; but then and nrext charged by the King with a dificlt  ,
your turn comes. You have long enough in which you could'best assist t. ' uat
been the curse of mankind, your death shall bring him a full report 'oft'tb 'o ra
be my sin offering before eternal justice, if which you detected, atd of your dWtiufti
such a being exists."                  part in 'that matter.  Will  fide  f
Sabion went directly to the room, where enough to give'me all the infoiatff '4n
his daughter was still kept confined, with a have on these nattetie."'  a ~'
sentinel at her door and one servant to wait *1f you know the hetttt of a fatf' *#
upon. her., Elvira was the only person be- only child rebels againsthim, T   ,
sides Simon,.who had free access to Helen's in a lamentable tdie, *call me nO  4it
room. Sabin, on arriving at the door, was ness in'this case, I know tonimuch.  *
not a little astonished to be refused admit- me, my lord, tai see ing gh e sf n -
tance.  . bitter, malicious ,smile played ly, remember ny faieieon, lfi9a s4"
.h.y.                                   . ,F,              ,  s
around his lips, on murmuring, "They pro- getherout of the aih-i I om  % 1#a
hibit me from seeing my daughter, -,B-ut antd s'obedien6 servarnt'of'thi clhg/ 16%o
quickly collected, he asked tlje .sentinel alid'ddif amsi  .a cnsbi  eon$6ledV a,
whose orders he obeyed. "The orders'-.f oacriflfed 'mfsetf to: stern d'dty'  1
,'he King's physician," was the short reply, can save my child you can restore': te
Sabion gnashed his teethwhen he had tprn- daughter, the only darling child to
ed his back on the sentinel. Simon stood er; for you know not what I"do,  o
on the upper portico absorbed in thought,'call me, and I wilf be duml as ibe  '
sb that he did not observe Sabion when he  Simon regarded every  Luro       e
stepped up to him.                     speakers countenance ith iarion r    ,
"My lord," said Sabion, several times, be- as' long as be'p oe. \ient heLwasdone
fore Simoon heard him.                 he thr"s se      eeri
htrst suh Ii  enetritin  lo   e
1Iam not your lord," said the young sapient courtier, t      10      -
man, awaking, as it were, from a dream, " must know all the paiculmare of shiair,'
an the King's body physician." .      he said firmly q,.d rest tely;  Ith-ig
"A d ilerod's privy counsellor," the cun- charged:me w:tl  this! piimfil d ty5 d a  I
ning man added, with a smile, "and the fa. shall prove smyselt a strict sommsissioner.
vorit of Antipater's son. But it is only the In yonderroom is yot daughter, you isy
well deserved reward of your wisdom. The see her, whenever you please; butrI Imust
King understands how to choose his friends.' have all the information you can give!"
"Great men have great passions, and are  The sentinel was ordered to admita-
apt to comnit great errors," said the Essenee, bion, and Simon went away. f (Confe tinded
in his usual, calm manner. " I am young, scouncrel," Sabion muttered, "be' woeld
and my good will is much greater thian myjno&amp; eaposo a weak point of character. sitlf
wisdom. I never had the fortune to beI will ruin him."    .        ", ; -  I
among the great men of the country, and .' The door was opened, beled 'beistbido
rneed the forbearance of the wise." embrace her father, who zl'e Iedr htah-


$2                     T an.oNATs oF
4&amp;      gost aleotionatsly  "And-e0 you
-my ,y dear child ?" said Sa.
bia, lessoft and flattering tone. " I wase
bead indaty toU&amp;M a I 41d, but the King,?
psxisingtuiae painful ;position in whieh I
Wa5l 4ed, released me, by the appoint-
asset of his body physician to investigate
lateh**matter. U. appears to be so kind
and Wei intended, that you have nothing to
Ispof him. He will certainly release you
ohoodefend iy character before the
1teuea surprise of her father's unexpect-
g ekseg    mind was equalled only by
the joy she felt aboutthe good opinion her
fIer had of her lover. Again and anon
sh  embase4 her father, and assured him
the she-tever felt the least anger in her
hest, thaher filial affections were not the'
lent Impaired. Her surprise and delight
reebed the highest altitude on hearing her
fahr, say, " My child, we have great cause
tobe gratefi4 to the Essnesan physician.
Is Ia very much inclined in or.favor and
his. iteaea with Herud is very great. I
hav elosely watched the young man and
epavineed myself, the manly beauty of his
exterior is .by far 'inferior to his excellent
qualities of heart and mind."
Helen was all enthusiasm, her whole
hkhrt laid open before her sagacious father
dho, making the best Use of the happy moc.
Ment, continued, after a smile, "If you could
forget ikimon ben Hillel and lavish your af-
ations on the great Essenee, you would at
once atone for all the past follies.  The
King and your bther would be decidedly
pleased with your determination."
"Forget Simon ben Hillel ?-NIo -Love
the young Esseneet -Yes!" said Helen,
somewhat perplexed. " But, my father, d
ybuoior thAt the calm, cool and sagacioul
physielanis capable of love, that he would
ova me?"
"My daughter is so beautiful," he said
smilkag eomplacently, "and her father is s
wealthyy And infiuential,-that no man ear
teeist her bcharms. 1 aIa glad to find yo
:thus dispoed/ Shape your conduct toward
the physician scordingly, without overstep
ping* ie gf etiqiltsite and propriety
pad I wilijhN proper ears of the rest"

: ra :PnoLE,
"If this is your will, my father," said
Helen, " then give me a token, that such is
your. paternal wish, a token which I oan-
show the young physician.. He is meek
and bashful beyond description. He sever
would have the courage to .ask my hand
from you, if I could not encourage him with
some token."
"Here is the ring which I received of
Cleopatra, as a token of her esteem," Bald
the father. "This ring is valuable and' of
particular interest to me. I entrust it into
your hands as a token of my wish, that you
be the wife of Aurion, the King's body phy-
sician."
She grasped the ring so eagerly, and cov-
ered the hand of her father with so many
kisses, that he was baffled with the unex-
pected change in Helen's mind. He 'left
her fully satisfied, that he had carried out
well, his part of the plot. He was scarcely
gone when Simon paid Helen a visit. "Au-
rio, body physician of the King;" said Hel-
en, " what signifies this precious ring? Es-
senee, sagacious and sapient, tell me the im-*
port of this costly jewel."
Simon scarcely knew how to account for
the happy humor of his beloved. He in-
spected the ring closely, then he said, "It is
your father's ring, I saw it on his finger ;
hence it signifies a new trick or trap."
" How unkind you are s" Helen said.
"The ring signifies the wish and will of
my father, that I be your bride, your wife,
yours in life and death, in time and eter-
nity. This is the import of the costly Jew-
"Is it a dream, a fantasy, that makes
you speak thus ?" Simon asked, surprised-
D " Do tell me, beloved .Helen, what do you
mean by all this?"
"I mean, that my father advised me,
earnestly, to love the young physician,
, whose praise he sounds exaltingly," said
o she, "and as a token, of his will and wish
n he gave me Cleopatra's ring, to encourage
u you with it."
d"Do you deceive me with false hopes?"
."No, I only tell you what is literally
', true."
" Helen, my love, this is a new plot; by

ORa HILLeL AND UUROD. -U5

the\Uod of Israel, it is a plot. Either this
is intended to restore his inuence over the
King, by my agency, or to ruin me. Dear-
est beloved Helen, caution, very sagacious
caution is necessary in this affair. I re-
membernow, that he told me of the King's
sister who wished my company. She is the
worst trickster at the court, I must see
her, to ascertain what this means; for your
father had a long conversation with her this
morning. Let them plot as much as they
please, if you will be wise, we will make the
best of it. But at present I advise you, to
tell your father, that I was so cool and dis-
tant, that it is very hard to gain access to
mkt heart. Still, take care of the ring, we
might t need it.
"It is strange, that you suspect every
thing proceeding from my father," said Hel-
en, in an offended tone. "If he is ever so
wicked, has he not a paternal heart?" -
"No, he has not," Simon interrupted, "1
know he has not. He informed Herod of
the supposed crimes of his own child, just
to ingratiate himself in his lord's favor. He
just as easy will dispose of you in any way
to suit his selfish designs. But, we must be
wiser than those corrupted courtiers. Ours
is the sagacity of love, the boldness of jus.
tice, and the firmness of virtue. Helen, they
shall not deceive us. I must now see He-
rod, he called me ; then I will see his plot-
tin sister, and teach her a lesson on plots
and counterplots."
Herod was alone when Simon entered the
saloon. Without giving him time to.utter
one word Herod asked hastily, " Well, my
faithful Aurion, have you ascertained any
thing in regard to the conspiracy ?"
"1I have ascertained more than sufficient
to convince you, my lord, of the hazardous
game you play with your people, by the
wicked advice of your courtiers," said he.
" But, before Ispeak, permit me to ask you,
do you hire an assassin to kihl an old and
inoffensive man on a mere suspicion, or do
your servants do so with your permission ?"
fered looked somewhat displeased about
this direct and perplexing question. Simon
continued not, and Herod was obliged to
say something. " Why do you ask me this
question ?" h~e said.

" Because,,if this is the ease," wtboe
ply, " I must beg your permission  lieat
this court, this city, this country."
"To what particular ease do you have re-
ference ?" the King asked.
" In Jericho,.1 am informed,"saidimosn,
"lives a Babylonian sage, Hillel is b.am,
a man as inoffensive as a child, andhighly
respected by the Pharasean sagk :abios
hired an assassin to slay the old mas,
know not why. But the ruffian couidesat
do it. He came back, deceived Sabionuwho
thinks that man killed, and on inquiry .1
learned the whole story. My Lord- if this
was your will I submit, but I mast.leave
you instantly ; but if it is your friend's pri-
vate enterprise, I must caution you against
him. Had that man, -Hillel, been assassin-
ated, and had it transpired, that ubion4bas
ordained it so, your enemies would hawe ia-
creased by thousands."      -.     ,
"I am ignorant of this affair," said4-.
rod.
"That self-same Sabion," he onti ged,
"sent out your officers, my lord, toFprp
grave digger, called Abba Shaul. He 4og-
ed resistance, and Sabion himself went tAsse
with men of your guard to arrest thebold
warrior, who fought more than one batt,
but succeeded not in his attempt. Abha
Shaul fought them all and escaped.  the
man stands accused of knowing about, and
being himself concerned in the .conspir y.
The truth, however, is that Hillel a4 te
grave digger are the only witnessentl the
shameful and criminal copnectiona of $s-
bion with a lady high at the court of He-
rod, a connection upon, which the laeeels
the penalty of death. The private affira pf
y  r chief spy are the main cause of this
last nslaught of his. His daughter baing
fa en in love with the son of  illel, felg
as Sabion .does the power over hits held
by those two men, and unwilling to give his
daughter to an obscure Babylonian, he found
it necessary to have those two men out f
his way, one by your royal authority, and
the other by an assassin.
"Why do you tell me all this ?" Herod
asked.
" Not to rouse your indignation ainst
*your chief spy ; for you have t'o much


THE COMBAT OF TB     PoPLE,
uewledge of the human aind  oto know to the-King of Arabia. .When L return, I
IitiaSledy. KI oqly iatendl to gi  you the will investigate closely into these -fairs..--
Whole story .of .the.supposed 'conspiracy," You say, the Queen is innocent?."
thepb sician continued. "'I'wo young men  " Like a child, my lord,  he said.
from the vicinity of Jericho, both innocent  " How do you kuowit?" the Kingasked.
p    oswere arrested. Theit-companions  " By the forcible evidence of -the com-
edn indignation in the city which bined circumstances," was the reply, 'and
bounded-on madness.   The ;men came to whenever you please, my lord, 1, will-eon-
'worship the Lord, have done no wrong, still vince you of it.---Can I give those men your
Maby se captives. No sooner were those royal word, that no harm should be done
meg seen in the hands of the officers, than them?"
aneseited multitude with the grave digger  " You may," he said. " During my ab-
folowed them, and at an opportune time sence continue to investigate those matters.
,'cued them. The Queen knew as little Dismiss Helen from her prison, have a care-
.bout:all this, as you did. The son of Hiil- ful eye on the Queen "---
lel und the son of Uziel naturally were  "No, my lord," Simon interrupted, "I hate'
anieg those who went to rescue the two to share the fate of liaruch ben Menahem.
ybang-men arrested in their place. IIelen, ['he Queen is too virtuous to need my watch-
wishlngto caution her lover against the in- ing eye, and too wise to stand in need of my
htiesis Of her father, iolowed his trace to advice."r
the very spot where the fight occurred. Sa-  "You fear the effect of her beauty, Esse-
btea trrified at this demonstration of his nee," said Herod, smilingly.
daughter's indomitable affections for the  "I admire her beauty and love her mag-
"evat-one who is a witness of his shame, nanimity," he replied; "but I fear your
ftMogt best to secure his daughter behind jealousy and the, intrigues of your cotirt-
VIe'ad bars, and make the best use of the iers. Helen, your favorite's daughter, will
ton, so ingratiate himself in your con- on your return tell you the fearful story,
.f4is6i Bat,-in order to prevent any fur- how you were deceived in regard to Baruch
*9r eboimunication of his daughter with ben Menahem, and, sir, you will be surpri-
t + son' of Hillel, he instructed her this sed at the impositio  practiced on you."
y to love me, and attempted to put his " Young man, I bi1' you farewell," said
eemies out of his way. This is the the King, when rising, "and require you to
able story. I have good testimony for ev- collect all the evidence at your command,
,4       ofit."                         necessary to convince me of all your sate-
#  "yenyou say there is no conspiracy in wents. Dositheus, the governor of the pal-
S kite  ?" Herod asked.              ace, Joseph. my treasurer, and S&amp; ion know
l" evidence of one is in existence," said my will to support you in all things, and
8ifdit "still I should not be surprised at they will do so. I will hold a terrific ives-
a1lteonspiracies against you exist."  tigation on my return, and woe unto him
r'xHerod looked surprised on his physician. who has deceived me or made bad use of
4What'makes you think so ?" he asked, my confidence."
ih h i sting emphasis.
4 The conspiracies at your own court, and  Helen laid in the embrace of Elvira and
the outtges committed on the people in rejoiced over her rescue from a perilous state
your name," was the short and significant in which, as she said, her adventurous and
response:                               thoughtless enterprise bad brought her. She
"It is enough, more than enough," Herod believed she had played her part well in the
cried, intensely exited. "You bring intogra drama which she considered t bet at
rmy liresence Hillel, Abba Shaul, the hired its close, as the Queen was safe. "Now y
psassin, and Helen, as soon- as 1 return must go to see the Queen," said she, "and
's.M~Vnk~. I lpust go there to give' battle tell her the story of my adventures."

On HILLEL AND HEoD. 5
"The Queen should not know too much of compassio  , in her countennce.When
it,"said Elvisa' "The less she knows, the Helen opened the doo one of others"
better it is for herself and for us. I fear ran toward her, and clapping his bands, he
the peculiar and sagacious performance off exclaimed joyously, "Mother is w .-againy
Simon will, some time or other, be under-I she will not die! " Helen kissed the chit,
stood by Herod; then his anger will know and approaching the Queen, she kissed the.
no limits.+ Siron and any one of us can end of her garment, and eongratulated her
escape his wrath, or can stand the conse-; on her recovery.
quences if necessary; but the Queen would "And 1 congratulate you, fair Helen, upon
be wretched, miserable, if she was recog- your happy escape," said the Queen, with a
mazed as one of our co-adjutors. She must painful smile.
know nothing of our designs."           Helen blushed. She did not suspect she
"So it is, my beloved Elvira," said Helen, knew anything about her imprisonment, and
"and I will tell her no more than is abso-1 thanked her for her kindness. The Queen
lutely necessary to explain my absence from moved with her hand, kissed her children,'
her. Will you, my sweet sister, answer me and in a few moments she was alone *it
one question, fairly, openly and truly?"  Helen.. "Tell me, good Helen," thewQuee
" I will, my lady, if 1 can."- asked, "why you were kept so closelybehind
"What brings you in the company of those gate and bars?"  Helen stammered. unin-
bearded and rebellious men, my sweet Elvi- telligible words, but the Queenuwbuld notlet
ra," Helen asked, "what brings you in that her off without confession, and encouraged
subterranean abode in a nightly, unfriendly her most kindly to speak. Helen, having
hour?"                                regained her presence of mind fel down
The countenance of Elvira resembled a~ before the- Queen and prayed ai-dently;'
fresh rose in color and a violet in modesty. "Pardon, my gracious lady, pardon the
Perplexed, visibly embarrassed, she cast her weakness of an unguarded heart! If yo.
looks on the floor. Helen waited for an an- will not be angry at my frivolous doings, I
swer which came not for a good while. Still, will confess grery word."
Elvira felt that she owed some answer to  "My good and fascinating Helen," said the
her friend and mistress. She fixed her black Queen, playing with the girl's curls; "is in-
eyes on Helen, when saying, "A mysterious' capable of committing a wrong. Speak, my
fate guides my steps, and I dare not tell pardon is granted you in advance."
whither. I will, answer this question in a "You know, my gracious Queen," said
few Short months, wh en the seal will be bro-' Helen, "you know the power of love. Provi.
ken from my mystery. Now 1 can not, 1 deuce decreed that I should feel its unlim.
dare not. Mistrust me not. I love you bet-! ited force. A young man, in beautyeq
ter than a sister, but I can not yet tell you to Joseph, captivated my heart and its hat
this secret."                         affections. Waking, 1 think but of him, and
"And Jonathan ben Uziel?" Helen asked, sleeping he is the object of my dream  My
smilingly.                            fantasy adorns hint with a thousand graces,
" uowsme not, although 1 love him," and each endears hima thousandfold to
said Elvira. "Still, he is not the cause of; my loving heart. When he irst, in yonder
may acquaintance with those men." Elvira, vineyards, singled me out among the maid.
apparently afraid to betray herself, quickly ens who .celebrated there the fifteentir day.
disappeared through the door, leaving Helen of Ab, first clasped my hand between -his
alone,                                and whispered, 1I love thee,' I imagined I
Helen went to-the Queen, who yet sat pale heard all the melodies of heaven, and saw
and sickly on a sofa of white silk, with silver the charming scenes of paradise. This
embroidery, her head leaning on the bosom1 young man, a Babylonian by birth, ema
of one of her ladies. The two young princes with the pilgrims of Jerieho to this efiy to
sat at her feet and from time to time looked offer the first fruits in God's temple. Witht


Tun COMBAT or
r ye  iEg losing, puting' heart I hAst-
n O Seetim,~ and when I swr him again,:
hven nd earth appeared to change into
t. gers    -of Shdro, the air turned intoI
(1ied'i bam, my heart and  ul turned a
hp,.esending the praise of love. On re.
tornig to my home, I learned of my father
that my lover was suspected of being a mem-I
er of a eret      iracy. I heard orders
gasn for his arrest.. My heart trembled in
e    my bosom, and had he been in the heavens
above, or in the nether world below, beyond
pathless deserts or fathomless oceans, 1
weul4 have hastened to caution him, and my
lpve would have directed me in the right
pM.    $o I did, my gracious Queen; I could
not do otherwise. In the valley of Ilinom,
aarrn'nded by friends, I met him and saw
him persecuted by my father's servants.-
They attacked ,him, he and his friends re-
!eisd: and, defeated my father's men, three
of whom fell, the rest fled. He being safe,
1aetarsed home, but the servants knew me,
informed my father, and I was arrested.-
Kt King, however, through his Essenee
physician, heard my story, restored me to
liberty, and my father has forgiven me.
Now, my gracious Queen, let,, inc not feel
yo   jpt displeasure, pardon a meek, unhap-
py maiden."
"ctnhappy ?" the Queen repeated sever-
al times, ' No, my good Helen, those who
love as ardently as you do, are not unhap-
'After a deep sigh, the Queen offered
h iiht hand to Helen which she covered
wr't ish  es, and bid her rise and be seated
by=beg 'sid: "What is the name of your
friend ?" the Queen.asked
"Simon ben Hillel, a man little known
bondthe limits of his humble home," said
NHten, "stillhis wisdom, integrity and zeal
deserve a better place in this community
ta:hps ban always occupied."
'8ill1'e tae is not altogether unknown
tomne, said-the Queen, "he isa distinguish-
ed. teacher among the Pharasees. But I
asver heard of hison.-ls your father op-
po~s$0 ycurlove ?'
* ~e is, mu bnign lady," said Helen,
ais opposed a~?to Simnon.
"4 un eiates all he Phiarasees, I sup-
ed, said the Queen.

THE PEOPLE,
" No,, my noble dame, much more, nt '
itely more," Helen complained ; " he hates
him deadly, and would certainly have him
killed, could he lay hold on.him."
"That is strange," said the Queen, eon-
siderately. "But Helen. shall not whe#, if
I can dry up her tears. Helen, I mu-see
Simon ben Hillel, and if he is the son of ea
father, I shall be your patron, the. dvocatt
of your love."
"Thank you, gracious Queen, thank you
a thousand times," Helen stammered, and
two tearsglittered in her black eyes. "Tce
God of love will reward you with a tho-
sandfold love."
"aNot toomany words, my good maiden,"
the Queen said, feelingly. " Send him word;
let him know that I wish to see him."
"And my father's deadly hatred ?" Helen
stammered.
"J will protect him against it," the Queen
said, earnestly. " None shall dare to harm-
him"
"My gracious lady, if you pardon nee,
that 1 did not tell you the whole secret,"
said Helen, "I will-I do-I inform you,
that you know him already."
" The Essenean Physician !" the Queen.
exclaimed, suddenly.  "Is it not so, lie!-
en?"

Helen bowed, blushingly, to express af-
firmation, when the Queen continued, " Be
careful, Helen, that man is too shrewd, al-
together too deliberate and sagacious for his
age, to be an affectionate friend, or ardent
spouse. Helen, be careful, I mistrust  that
man. He has too suddenly gained the Zing's
favor and confidence. I apprehend a treach-
ery behind that mysterious man."
" You had no opportunity, my gracious
Queen, to read his heart," said Helen, "or
to study his character.  He is as wise
as he is kind, as shrewd as he is upright,
and as determined and bold as he is true
and, faithful. He is a rock of truth in his
words, and a fiery seraph in his love." -
" The advocate is eloquent but suspected
of partiality," the Queen said, smilingly.
"Helen, you have never been deceived, you
know not, how smooth the tongue, and how
black the heart of some we' is. Tusewho
must hide the moat baseness avail themt

On HILLEL AND HEROD. -                        57
selves not unfrequently of the sweetest not the least improve his ease; Irather still
words.  Integrity is most always plump more suspect his integrity. He want. to
and simple, while deceit, like the venomous learn Sabion's intentions of Salome. Eith-
serpent, chooses the variegated garb, and er he must be on confidential terms with
hides itself in the shade of roses. Helen, Salome, more so than Sabion, then he eer-
good, innocent maiden, your friend is too tainly is dishonest, or he must he aead of
wise, too shrewd altogether, I suspect him." her in, intrigues and cunning; the I cer-
"rDo not, my gracious Queen," Helen tainly suspect him. Still for your sake, I
prayed. "Look first into his great and will observe him closer. If I lears,tbhv4
magnanimous soul, then judge, and you virtue also can assume a mask, if a nphIe
will think of him as I do."           end can be obtained, then I have' profited
A lady came in and whispered a few an entire new lesson." She gave the co-
words to the Queen.  After she had left versation another turn, joked, laughed, teas-
the apartment the Queen again turned to ed Helen with her lover. But after awhile
Helen, "I am informed," said she, "that she asked naively, " Who gave this ring to
he, whom you love so much, is engaged your father ?"
deeply and for several hours too, in a pri.  "Cleopatra, the Queen of Egypt," Helen
vats conversation with Salome, the chief answered, but was afraid of her own, wor4s,
and most unscrupulous authoress of court on observing the scarlet hue which pushed
cabals What means this, if Aurion's inten- over the pale countenance of the Queen.
tions are honest and manly?".       .   "     head-ache troubles me now, more
"  can explain it, said Helen hastily. than ever," the Queen said. "'This is a'
My father contracted a particular affection costly ring for you," she continued, with a
r him, and desired me to urarry him. He smile on her lips. "Give it to me, I will
gave me this ring as a token"-        keep it for you, to be your witness, if your
"   s ring!" the Queen interrupted, muck father should not be willing to keep his
agitated. "Whose is this ring'?"      word."
Helen, somewhat terrified by the agitated  Helen-bowed, and gave the ring in the
oeftheQueent            ee    th   a custody of the Queen.  She examined it
signed the Queen to pacify Helen with a closely, then she requested Helen to call
painful smile on her lips. "Speak,my good the Queen her mother, which Helen did.
Helen," said she, "do not care about my        the Queen   now         coen d
agitation. I had felt again a pain in my  The agitation of the Queen nowcould
head, but it is all over now."        burst forth unobservedly. "My ring to
"My father gave me this ring, to show it Cleopa ra !" she exclaimed, passionately.
to Aurion as a token of his wish concerning " Did  not give him- this ring when he
Aurion and myself," Helen continued. " I knelt before me, the King's daughter, and
told him of my father's words, and on show- swore to love me forever? Ha, treacherous
ing' him the ring he remembered that -my monster, where are thy oaths, thy thousand
father, whose friendship he suspects, had assurances of love; they are all forgotten
told him of Salome's wish to see him, and in the presence of that passionate, beguil-
had himself a long conversation with Salome. ing, lubric wench, that prostitute of An-
He apprehends a plot against himself and tony.  Now, I know, Herod, why not a
went to Salome, to learn my father's real spark of love glows for you in this hapljus
intentions."                          and cheerless heart. Now I know, why no,
The Queen was visibly confused. She sentiment of my soul pleads for the cold-
said little and what she did say had no blooded assassin of my brother. Herod,
meaning. Helen requested her to. rest a slave-born son of Antipater, werest then
little, as she was yet weak. But instantly not the father of my children-O how un-
she recovered. "1 pity you, Helen," she happy Mariamne is I she must -hate the fa-
said, "your father's sudden friendship for thter of her ellildren, or love a traterpmaa
Aurionm and his excuse to visit Saloute, do assassin, a wretch."

S


TaE CoMBAT oF THE PEOPLE,'
M    ae's mother, Queen Alexandra' Mother, I caution you against Dositheus."
a    ."I    -h ppy to see you as well aa  "You are not versed well enough in hu-
yoa are, Queen," said Alexandra, " and man nature," said Alexandra. " Dositheus
MPe you will go down in the park, to is an ambitious, revengeful and treacherous
breashe fresh air."                   knave as well as a thousand others. But he
Mother, do you know this ring?" Mari. hates Herod on account of his murdered
mDne Asked, in a slow and emphatic tone. brother, and his hatred renders him a tool
SaI believe I have seen it an the finger of in my hands without a will, as soon as I
Herod. It is, yes, it is the ring you gave need his services. - The honest man can
whan rst "-                          not be made subservient to other people's
"Yes, yes," Mariamne said, "when first 1 plans; rogues and knaves properly man-
witeed to the courtier's thousand repre- aged will do the best service."
imbdoms, arst I silenced my heart, as a  "Such is not my doctrine, mother," said
invariably must to suit the politics Mariamne. "I would have no dealings with
d0 the court, when first I concluded upon the debased, even not to save my life."
tsreig myself for my family, when first "Yes, it is true, you are admirably hon-
Etde      ' knelt i the dust before me and beg- est, and your patience and forbearance are
god, mplored, entreated, wept, as onl the the demonstration of high virtue," said Alex-
asa of a slave can; then I gave hi this andra. "The ring which Herod gave to
ring and my consent to be his. This very Cleopatra testifies to the contrary of what
ing mark, this pledge of my love, was giv you pretend.-This ring, my daughter, tells
en to your friend, to lubrie Cleopatra; but that our position is most dangerous, nay,
she, most likely afraid her Roman liege lord even that our doom is sealed. As long as
might descry the valuable ring and inquire Herod loved you, we had one angel to plead
amea the price, yes the price-she made Sa- our cause. But now he having betrayed
bien a present with it. So the story runs, your love to another woman, now we stand
and I tell you this only to convince you, exposed to his hatred, ambition and jeal-
that your confidence set in Cleopatra, to ousy. The last time, Queen, I propose to
may the leut, is very foolish."      'you to do your duty to your children and to
"Not quite as you believe," said Alexan- yourself Leave this country, go directly to
dra, somewhat offended.  "She kept her Alexandria, entrust yourself to Cleopatra,
werd, but I could not keep mine."     and I give you my word the throne will be
"tThank Providence, that it did not cost secured to your children, you and all of us
your life," said Mariamne. "IHerod return-. will be safe."
ed frea Cana with the firm conviction, that "if Herod loves me no more," said Mari-
betrayedimto Cleopatra. I bore it pa-amne, "he is no worse thanlam. If he
timiysad would have stood the consequen- has no affections for his children and their
aeeritheat a murmur, had not some one mother, 1 have and 1 will, as much as is in
oesainned Herod of my innocence in this my power, see their father respected. He-
ttetr, some one I know not who."     rod furnishes Antony with men and money
"NDeaitheus, I believe, has done so," said in the great struggle which will take place
Alemanra   "We ought to be grateful to between Nim and Octavius, and Antony, my
himfr his interference. The influence of mother believes would protect me against
Ilhtbes on Herod is considerable, and he the wish of Herod! Cleopatra succeeded
ases it mu*b in or favor."            in obtaining from Herod my ring, and she
"I have i confidence in the cold and should take my part before Antony ! Is
a     curtier," said the Queen. "He the wnld thus out of shape and form?
stdt kde mile., weighs his words and Have reason and understanding thus turn-
*dege Mstm ' He is too palite for an'edi into falsehood, that my wise mother
beaswmaauan too saabmissive fora friend, speaks utterly contrary to them? I should
He could not be my con~lential friend. ,think, put Mariamne out of the way, must

OR HILLIL AND HEROD.

Cleopatra think, and Egypt and Judea
might be united by marriage or treachery.
This is more likely than your supposition."
"Will you not understand me, my daugh-
ter ?" Alexandra asked, impatiently. ",1
see I must be plump. Cleopatra's great-
ness is her influence over Antony, which
she has by her beauty, a beauty that just
begins to fade away. Make your appear-
ance at the court of Egypt, and every eye
will look upon you; you outshine her a
thousand times. You are an enemy too for-
midable for her in the eyes of Antony, that
she should not do any and every thing to get
you away, far away from her lord. He will
anyhow be induced to comply with your
wishes."
Mariamne made no reply.   Displeasure
and mortification were visibly depicted on
her pale countenance. Alexandra, however,
continued speaking on that topic and praised
Mariamne's charms so much, that she ex-
claimed in a tone of disgust, "The daughter
of the Asmoneans, Israel's Queen, the moth-
er of Judah's princes should vie with a har-
lot for the favor of voluptuous Antony? No,
I shall not. I prefer the scaffold to shame,
and the greatest shame is that which we pro-
cure with the charms God has bestowed on
us, at the expense of innocence and purity.
Mother, I caution you, not to bring misery
upon yourself- and my grandfather, and
shame upon your family. A princess should
know how to die honorably and bravely for
the glory of her house, in preference to liv-
ing covered with shame, a stain upon the
name of hei house. Let Cleopatra's name
be handed over to infamy, the Asmonean
sun shall have no spots on account of suffer-
ing Mariamne. Mother, it appears as though
we have changed parts in this tragedy. Let
us. stop here."
The earnest, high toned language of Mari-
amne failed not to impress her mother with
the conviction, that she could not be persua-'
ded ;o leave Jerusalem, or turn a traitor to
her husband. She gave the conversation
another turn by speaking of the unexpected
progress which the Essenean physician made
so rapidly in Herod's favor. "AWe could de-.
rive many a benefit from the young man,"
said Alexandra, after awhile. "It appears to

me, that he stands as high in the etimation
of the people as in the favor of Herod. The
people are our guardians, if they ha4 the
power."
"I remember now," said the Queen ud-
denly, "when sick, lying in a state Qf -derle
urn, he whispered in my ear,' the. people
watch at your bedside.' It is true, there
may be something better iq that man than I
expected of his shrewdness: but, mother, I
fear lie turned a traitor to us and the people,
for he gained too fast the favor of Herod,
Salome and Sabion. If he gained' their fa-
vor by honest means and for upright purpo-
ses, he plays a dangerous game, that Ma
cost him his head. But still, I must uoW
him. This is the advice I takeo(yo , moth-
er; if Herod has evil intentions against the
remains of my family, I will appeal to my
people.. They will hear the daughter of
Matatthia.  They have hearts, souls and
arms. This last resort, this final appeal suits
me. I must see that young Essenee.-Moth-
er, do you know the Pharasee Hillel?
" Pet, mention not the name of a man,"
said Alexandra, "who is a horror to Sabion
and Salome. Besides this," she continued,.
whispering, "he is known as an opponent of
Herod and a friend of the Asmdieans. His
influence, notwithstanding his poverty, is
great, very great. But what makes you ask
this question ?"
"The Essenee Physician is the= son of
Hillel," the Queen answered.
"Then we should, we must see and study
him," said Alexandra. "The son can not
be altogether averse to his father."
"But we must be very careful with him,
for lie is very shrewd," the Queen rema*ked.
"Attempt to form his acquaintance, inquire
into his purposes and intentions, and let us
see what we can do with him."
Simon was. received with distinguishirng
kindness by the King's intriguing sister Sa-
lome. Having inspected the youthful Ado-
nis for some moments, with visible delight,
she invited him to a seat, reclining herself
opposite him on a low sofa under a cano-
py of the finest weaving of Damascede. &amp;
had thrown back her veil and Simon' could
gaze at the profusion of tresses, the pepr1
teeth, the coral lips and the unfaded Sieauay

59


4-                    Tas COMBaT eo
of s yeng widow. Simon, who did not ev-
eut seea that hair and teeth were bor-
m ed *      art, the red and white of the
cheeks were the painter's work, and the lus-+
tW of thie Countenance was the product of
aItlIdui drhgs--wondered that such a beau-
dil form should be the abode of so deep-
dy8 a soul. He almost changed his opin-
se about her, thinking that the faults of+
he gdet and mighty are always magnified,
weajr, on looking deeper into her eye, a ray
of wlie dated forth, which went chilling
through his soul-
8'lonie, on her part, and Castobarus a
uof about forty who sat at her side, in-
Bluton no lest closely, while they
thigh the usual routine of compli-
nasnis md established figures of speech, so
tht'lie felt more than ever the difficulty of
plajing sucessfully before them, another
an than he really was.
The usual phraseology of court chats was
interrupted by Simon with the question,
"You expressed the wish, my lady, to see
me, and I gave myself the pleasure to make
my appearance in your saloon. If you de-
sire me to render you any service, I am at
your command."
"Very polite, sir, and very obliging," said
the lady. " When I wished to see you, it
's not to trouble you with any of my bu-
lnwssiJ only wished to become better ac-
quainted with the man of whom my royal
brother speaks with so much kindness and
regard, and who has, in so short a time,
bewitched every heart at this court. My
friend Castobarus just now told me, how
the. i~ng honors 'you particularly with his
opnence."
' Shan expressed thanks for the numer.
one compliments the lady had made him, in
few words, and attempted to start a conver-
eonof whieh he was not both subject and
oltect but in vain, both the lady and Cas-
toberus continued to laud his wisdom, his
lny beauty, his sublime virtues, his bene-
bo I infuence on the King, oppressed with
care and trouble, and the hopes stored in
his~ future. Disgusted, Simon yielded and
Iteped with aversion to the flatteries with
eril he was overpowered. He looked es-

TI   PEOPLE,
pecially with contempt upon Castobarus,
who appeared to be the re-echo of the royal
dame. The man with his small gray eyes
and ever smiling countenance appeared to
him like an automaton, whose locomotive
power was the will of the lady. He remem-
bered the description which Herod, in a
moment of excitement, gave of his courtiers
and servants; an exact specimen was now
before him.
"1I doubt, my lady," said Simon, "that I
will meet, for a long time, with the favor of
our sovereign.  The novelty of my plain
and simple deportment will not please him
long, I apprehend, and -I doubt that I over
will be capable of acquiring that politeness,
that courtesy and accomplishment, which
distinguishes so eminently the hightoned la-
dies and gentlemen of this court."
" Wisdom and virtue stand aloof of all
forms," said Salome, "because they need
not that embellishment, in which empty
heads and vicious hearts hide themselves.
The King values the diamond but cares lit-
tle for its encasement. He will always res.
pect and.love you, and you can render in-
valuable services to him and our people."-
" The King will appreciate and reward
your services," said Castobarus, with a bow,
"and the people's gratitude will be great
and everlasting; for a people forget' not
their benefactors."
Simon deciphered at once the object of
this conversation, and with the adroitness
of a practiced courtier he responded, quick-
ly, "I am fully satisfied with our monarch's
grace and your kindness, for all the services
I am capable to render. A service render-
ed to a monarch must also be one to the
people, for he is the people's head. The
King's appreciation is the people's praise,
for he speaks for all of them. Allow me,
noble lady, to correct a mistake of your sa-
gacious friend. Short, very short indeed is
the memory of the multitude. The people
but seldom know their true benefactors.
They idolize the impostor and persecute
their best friends. History speaks with a
thousand tongues of the victims which pop-
ular fury demanded of those very men, the
popular enthusiasm idolized. Permit me

4

Ox HILLEL AND HEROD.                            d1
to say, my lady, happy, thrice happy, must which you speak, my lord," said Simon. "I
every man feel who can tell himselfI have would despise myself and attempt to be out
contributed to the weal of my people, have of my own way, if possible, should I feel a
alleviated the sufferings of humanity; but, change of principles in myself."
disappointment is sure to him who expects "That is right, sir," said Salome, with
thanks or appreciation."  i            a feigned smile on her lips. "It is time
It did not escape the attention of Simon enough to think of the unpleasant occur-
that the two persons before him eyed each rences of life, when they force themselves
other occasionally, apparently disappointed upon us; till then, it is best that man should
with the Essenee's eloquence. He, there- please himself in the best way he can, with-
fore, continued with rising emphasis, " The out interfering with the happiness of his
great lesson which I studied, and it is the neighbor.-Iut sir, your conversation is al-
key to the secret of success-is to work and together too serious and profound for a go.
toil in the vineyard of humanity, without man. Let us come to another theme.4 4
the least expectation of reward or praise. was astonished, that you ingratiated your-
Praise, like slander, passes away, traceless- self so quickly in the hearts of our ladies,
ly as yonder shadow, as the moment rushes But, since I have the pleasure to see and
into the bosom of eternity. Victory is the hear you, I am no .longer surprised, that
warrior's prize, wisdom the student's remu- several ladies, especially one, who have uW
neration, the voice of satisfied conscience is happy opportunity to see and hear you fre-
the only reward, of which we can not be quently, are so much enamored with you.
deprived, and must invariably gain by man- You know, my good sir, love is a female
ly and virtuous exertions. If our monarch theme, and so it is most natural, that I
offers me an opportunity to do more for ha. sha was to t  topist."
inanity than I can do in another station, I That was also the topic to suit Sigon,
will be grateful to him, and sureI am of the and,having thanked the lady for the good
entire'reward -which 1 claim."         opinion she had of him, he continued :
"Love is such a pleasant, inspiring theme,
Salome commenced to feel, that she was a topic so amiable and fascinating, that you
in the presence of one who was her superior most naturally must come to it at last. A
in mental powers. The sound principles of kiss, a smile, a whisper of affection is so na-
the Essence, uttered in such a simple-sub- tural to woman, that her lips appear conse-
lime eloquence, and in so solemn a tone, crated to this very purpose. 1 always envy
having become entirely strange to her, fell the happy man who feels the power of love.
heavily upon her heart, and failed not in It must be the golden era of the heart, the
drawing a silent comparison between the paradisian days of the soul. But, I can not
Essence's sublime principles and her own feel it, my heart is too coarse for such emi-
depraved, ambition. She could not continue nent presentiments. Now, more than ever,
the conversation when her guest was silent, I can only admire beauty and magnanimity,
and Castobarus relieved-the company from  but it leaves my heart cold. I believe I am
the painful silence with the remark, " It is a fantastical being."
to be wished to yourself, my lord, and your  "You only believe so," sai4 Salome, "but
fellow men, that you lose not these sublime you will soon~find out the contrary. I know
principles in the tumult of practical life. you have bestowed too much attention 'on
You are yet young, gifted with warm and books, your heart must be refreshed before
generous impulses; but practical life, like it can appreciate the happiness of love,
the winds blowing from Lebanon's snow- Two fiery black eyes often perform mir-
crowned summits, temper the warmth of acles in a short time. I will prove to you
The heart."                      .     that I am right. Yo~u have lately come
Simon cast a contemptuous look upon the much in contact with Sahion's beauteous
man. "May God, in His infinite mercy, pro- daughter; she loves you, I am told by relia-
teot me against experiences like those of Able authority, and in two weeks from now,


62                     Tas COMBAT OF THE PEOPLE,
you shall tell me, whether two fiery black remove her to a subtcrranean apartment
eyes can not work wonders. But, if you of the palace. I accordingly went there
then must confess, that the daughter of my with the intention to examine.-. Leaving
friend taught you the great lesson to love, the guards outside, I entered the apartment,
id so short a time, 1 shall be satisfied with where to my greatest surprise I found, in
your repentance."                     the place of a woman, a young and intelli-
It was clear now to Simon, that Sabion gent Essence. White as alabaster was his
and Salome had plotted together, the scheme garment, his apron was the skin of the in-
to unite him with Helen by the sacred ties nocent lamb. A profusion of black curls
of love, in order to ruin either or both of encased his pale countenance, in which two
them, but he could not yet look through the black eyes, full of fire, betokened life and
scheme. A shock of wrath and indignation emotion. I looked on him, but he spoke
chilled his blood and almost stopped its not. I addressed him, but he answered
course for a moment, on thinking of the not. I stepped up closer to him, and, by
baseness of the father, who thus sacrifices the light of the lamp, I saw the curls soil.
his own child, to ruin his rival in the King's ed, the white cloth bespotted with blood.
favor. He almost forgot the part he acted, 'What ails thee, brother?' I cried, but re-
and the sudden paleness of his counten ceived no answer.  In the name of God, and
ance betrayed the painful emotions which his angels, what ails thee, brother?' I con-
tormented his bosom.                  tinued, and suddenly the Essenee,was trans-
" My God, you are deadly pale !" Salome figured into a skeleton, awful to look upon.
exclaimed. "What ails you ? Speak, can lie stretched out his fleshless arm and hol-
I do anything for you ?"              low as the grave he told me, 'leave this
Simon composed himself. A feigned smile place, death lurks here, in every corner.'
was the only reply Simon could make. Af- I felt that I trembled. Still 1 attempted ,to
tear a short pause he said, " There is an in- speak again. But, behold,.a light, such as
cidence connected with the investigation in- I have never seen, filled the subterranean
to the cause of your friend's daughter, with abode, and suddenly the vision vanished,
which the King charged me, unfit for wo- my lamp was blown out, and I stood in the
man's delicate ear, which makes my blood dark. I called the guard, light was brought,
congeal, as often as I think of it. Permit but I found nothing strange in the room. I
me, My lady, to speak of quite another sub- left the apartment to do my duty.-Since
ject."                                then, I can not think of the strange vision,
This had an electrifying effect on the la- without being subjected to a feeling for
dy, and she desired him to communicate his which.- I have no name.-You have kept
secret. The more Simon hesitated, the more your word admirably, my lady, you did not
curiosity the lady evinced, until he finally laugh. Ah, you are frightened yourself.
said, "You are too enlightened, my lady, to Are you afraid of specters ?
believe in the appearance of spirits and de- " Not exactly," said Salome, hiding her
mons; but I am an Essenee, I do believe emotions, poorly; "your story, however, is
many things which you would discredit. so appalling, so shocking, indeed, that it
You most likely would laugh at the very, makes one tremble." After she attempted
thing which fills my heart with horror."  in vain to give the conversation another
This only increased, the curiosity of the turn, her whole mind appeared absorbed in
lady. " I promise not to laugh," she said, that specter story-she asked Simon, "Who
naively, " whatever strange things you may do you believe that demon was ?"
have to say.           ,"About that time, a young Essence was
"When our monarch charged me with assassinated somewhere near the .royal pal
the painful duty to investigate into the ace," Simonsaid, "Ibelieveit washe that cau-
cause of great Sabion's daughter," said Si- tioned me. Sabion tells me the name of the
uson, " orders had previously been given to slain was Baruch ben Menahem." He saw

OR HILLEL AND IIEROD.LmE
it well enongh, that her face was deadly self-possession, and I am certain he harbors
pale, trembling, he the physician looked be- evil intentions against all of us. Get hm
yond the paint, although it escaped the at-{out of my way."
tention of Castobarus; but Simon let it pass  Castobarus said, this was no easy task,
unnoticed.                             but lie would try his best. He only begged
"1 have heard the story told," she said, for'sorne time,.to reflect on the subject.
after awhile.  "It is unpardonable, that; Ilevent away and Solome immediately dis-
such an outrageous murder should be com- patched a messenger to invite Simon to an-
mitted in the immediate vicinity of the pal- other visit, appointing the hour most con-
ace, The governor of the city should be venient to her.
called to account for it. Was the murderer  "Thank heaven, that I see you again"
not reached by the arm of justice ?"   said Helen, when Simon stepped into her
"Not yet, my lady," said Simon. " The room. " I have heard Castobarus speak to
governor of the city having not succeeded my father, and your name was frequently
in detecting the perpetrator, I sent niessen- mentioned. And 1 hate that man, I know
gers to the most pious of the Essenees with' not why; so I apprehend a misfortune."
the request to ascertain by their secret arts  "Fear not, my sweet, beloved Helen, Pro-
the names of the murderers.",          vidence watches over my unworthy head,"
"I do not believe in their secret arts," said Simon. "I am Hillel's son, and the fa-
said Salome.                           their's piety is not unfrequently the son's pro-
"Also my faith is somewhat lessened," section.  This hated nask which I must
said Simon; "for one says the murderer is bear, these tricks which I must play, this
a man while the other says it was a woman. abuse of God's best gifts, language and in-
One says love while the other maintains tellect, which I must practice-crush me,
deep-rooted hatred was the cause of his cause me to blush at my owh shadow, when
death. One says an old widow seeing her- lI am  alone.  But surrounded by devils,
self refused by the young man hired an as- watched by the messengers of hell, sworn
sassin to take vengeance on the man. So to save the Queen, I must play the man
each tells another story." Simon laughed whom I would have despised but a few
loudly about the contradictory stories, on weeks ago. Ofteh when repentance comes
beholding Salome nearly fainting; and she over my heart and represents me to my-
feigned to laugh with him.            I self a roguish wretch, I think of Matatthia's
"it is amusing, indeed," said Castobarus, daughter and my oath, and 1 think God
" to know how much superstition there is must forgive me. Then I think of the prize
among the people. But I did not believe no'v certain to me, the prize for which the
you, my lord, could believe in such things." angels would leave t'eir heaven and com-
"Can I help believing what my eyes see bat with the demons of darkness; a prize to
and my ears hear ?" said Simon. "There which nothing on earth is equal and noth-
are many things hidden to one and known ing in paradise is better; Helen, my belov
to the other. I could tell you stories, sir, ed, dearest, only Helen, for this prize I
which might cost your wits'; but I am ob- wrestle with Satan's guard, and now t*iis
liged now to leave your pleasant and honor- prize is certain to me. It is certain, that
able company. My duties call me hence " your father and the King's sister, in order
Simon bowed and left the room.   " A to complete a cabal not known yet to me,
hell of shrewdness is in this man's words desire to see us either in love or wedded,
and looks. Castobarus, if it is true what It will not cost them much trouble to carry
you so often told me, that you love me," Sa- this point of the scheme."
lome cried, "get that hated man out of my Helen extended her hand to Simon. " I
way. This be the proof of your love, get thank you for these words,'' said she, feet-
that man out of my way. I hate, I abhor ingly, " you spoke as though you had look-
him. Prudence shipwrecks on his satanic ed into my heart. Just now, I was with the


84                     TuE COMBAT OF THE PEOPLE,
Queen. She, not knowing you, suspects ten to the voice of suspicion, even if the
your sincerity. I advocated your cause. Queen shoulil speak it.
She, however, thought love and sincerity " Then, my beloved, tell your father, that
can not bear such a wise and shrewd mask I paid you a visit by your request," said Si-
as you do. She is afraid you gained too mon, "but I am cold, distant, proud, inac-
fast in the favor of Herod and his particu- cessible, heartless. Tell him you doubt ev-
lar friends, to be considered honest"-  -  er to succeed with me. But, give him a
"It is well, that she suspects me," said glimpse of hope, tell him you would not
Simon, "it will save her much trouble." give up so easy. Tell him that you love
"But, I love you too much and respect me passionately, and implore his assistance
the Queen too highly," said Helen, "that to win my love."
her words should not have some effect on "And what shall I tell the Queen," Hel-
my heart. Your words, Simon are a Balm en asked.
of Gilead -to my heart. In this hazardous "11If, after our first interview, she suspects
game which you play, Simon, forget not my motives," Siqpon said, "and I will at-
Helen's love. 0, do not forget, that death in tempt to deceive her-you need not contra-
your embrace is paradisian joy, in compari- diet her. It is best for her not to be con-
son to life without you."             cerned in our schemes, por to be too inti-
"No, no, no, you can not, you must not mate with me. As soon, however, as she
doubt my sincerity, not doubt my glowing knows my intentions fully, I have cause to
passions," said Simon. "Doubt the purity be less confident of success."
of the angels, suspect the benevolence of  Several times rapping was heard at the
light, but doubt not my love, the paradisian door, but Helen would not open; but now
affections which are my source of life and Simon requested her to do so. Elvira came
happiness. I brithee, my angelic Helen, in and said a Greek wishes to see the King's
be firm in your love, firm in your conhi- physician immediately, The Greek prose-
dence; for we have t' go through many an lyte was ushered in the presence of Simon.
ordeal before this drama will close. I must  " Here is the dagger and here the purse,"
save the Queen, and I will attempt to save he said. "I am hired to kill you."
the King from his friends, if possible, and Helen shuddered back, Simon laughed.
the people from tl~eir tyrants. If Herod lie. " Who hired you, honest Greek ?" Simon
ten to the voice of truth and justice, purify asked.
his court, change his Sanhedrin and alter  '" A gentleman, a friend of yours, a suitor
his system of government, the revolution is of a highborn lady, Castobarus," said the
made and the victory is ours. This is the Greek.
object of my ambition. For this I risk my  " Flee to Jericho and stay there till I call
life, nay, I do still more, I bear this hated you," said Simon. " The dagger and the
mask. But, Helen, I beseech, I implore money must be left with me. I thank you.
you, let me not be tortured with the thought Begone."
thak. you suspect my integrity. It would "Salome sent for me when I was but a
cripple my energies, slothfully would the few minutes gone,"' Simon said, after the
blood fow through the veins, I would be no Greek departed. " Was this done that I
longer myself. Speak, beloved, shall your should not suspect her, if this foul assassin-
confgdence be mine into whatever situations action fails, or was Castobarus driven to this
this drama forces me? Will you always re- by jealousy?  Hypocrisy! be thou my
member, that my heart, my soul, my life are shield, I go to chastise the enemies of God
yours, wdied to you by the most sacred af- and man. This foul, cowardish design de-
fections, a most solemn oath ? 0, speak, livers them into my hands, and, with the
Nelen," help of Providence, I will crush them-.
She sunk enraptured in the embrace of Helen, do you know now the object of
Simon, and solemnly promised never to lis- your'father's conversation with Castobarus?'

On HILLEL
This Greek is your father's bandit. Be
careful, my love, you see with what a class
of nen we have to deal. Farewell, and be
very cautious "
"1Do not go from me and leave me thus
alone with my agony, my fear," Helen
cried; "Simon, I fear, we are lost."
Who fears is lost," said Simon, " Fear
nothing, suspect every thing, and forget not,
that God watches."
Simon went to see Salome at the appoint-
ed hour. He found her in another room
more elegantly furnished than the Queen's
apartments. Thesweetest perfumes impreg-
nated the air. Flowers from the distant

AND IHERoD.                         65
He took the dagger from under his oloik
and exhibiting it to the lady, he'said, "This
dagger was placed in the hands of an assas-
sin, to render me powerless," eyeing Salome
so closely, that she was alarmed, "and year
friend, my lady, I mean Castobarus, paid
the wages."
Here she rose suddenly, and exclaimed,
" Is it possible; that he did ! Are you cer-
tain, sir, that lie did?"
" As certain as I am, that your intrigues,
madam, killed Baraeh ben Menahem," -he
said,. "as certain as I am, that Hillel' and
Abba Shaul know of your criminal connee-
tion with Sabion, and can tell where your

East, and birds distinguished by a gray pln- children are; yes, madam, so morally cer-
mage or a melodious voice, ornamented the tain I am, that Castobarns hired a ruffian
apartment. Salome; herself was so skilful- to render me harmless, and Castobarus is
]v painted, and dressed so luxuriously and your friend."
tastefully, that it dazzled Simon. On open. The woman stood before the dreadful man,
ing the door, when this rich and elegant as the trembling culprit stands before his
scene at once burst upon his soul, ie iuma- stern judge. Simon laid the dagger down
gained he was stepping into the temple o 1 at her feet, and, calm and cold as a hoary-
some goddess, and Salome appeared to him headed priest, he said, " If I am in your
like a being from a fairy world.- With af way, kill me. You need not the agency of
smile fascina ting, pleasing and beguiling on Castobarus and a hired assassin. Kill me,
her lips, with looks half bashful and half and I will die without a groan."
joyful, apparently mute with joy, she exten- "By the mercy of heaven, you are mis-
ded her hand to welcome Simon. He clasp- taken," Salome cried, "I did not tell him
ed it and attempted already to persuade him- to commit this outrageous crime."
self, she must be better than 1 first believed, "I am happy to hear you say this," said
when looks, malicious as a basilisk, mnad he, " but he interpreted your words t4 this
vertently darted from her eyes.. He press- effect. ls it not so? 0, speak, my lady, I
ed her hand passionately when thinking, wsh to know my deadly enemies; speak, is
"You shall be my slave, all your trumpery it not so ?"
and artfulness shall not save you."      "Jealousy was his interpreter," said the
"You have invited me, noble lady," said lady, "I swear that he read in my heart, he
Simon, somewhat perplexed, "and I am hap- detected the affection I contracted for you,
py to report myself to you. I reflected all and misinterpreted my words."
the time on another opportunity to see you,!  "What do I hear? Salome, might Ne-
when your servant brought me your mes- rod's sister, considers an obs'n e stranger
"You need not wait for an opportunity ; worthy of her love ?" he asked, surprised.
you are always welcome to me," said Sa. "Sway, my ears must be sick,I dream, my
lownt, pointing Simon to a seat opposite her brains are deranged ; Salome 'love a nama-
own,                                   less and friendless stranger? It can not be
" You are sa) kind, my lady," said he, true. Herod's wise and shrewd sister wousd
"that I must at once tell you all I have to have me believe, that she who cause the
say, before I can jave the pleasure to listen death of her husband, lived for yu  in a
to your kind words.",                  criminal connection with Sabi*      .
"Speak, sir; I love to hear yce," the la- of Baruch ben Menaheu Auit:. e
dy said, smilingly,, way as of her husband, and is guilty 4Mtt'
9
59PaI


I

6            \         TUs CoauAT OF THE PEOPLE,
'aV4  th erimo, could love, truly love a som, and you, not knowing what this means,
ye   ja4d spotless Essenee, whose every call it love. Love is not for the wicked, not
tiitef ebareceter is a condemation of her for the fallen. So God punishes sin and
nstere offences.. Ala, let us not deceive crime. The heart that abandoned virtue,
csek other, madam, you are in a, dilemma, abandons its paradise. The bosom opened
for I know your crimes, and you are aware to hatred and love deserts. 0, do not pro.-
that I know them, therefore you desired fane the sacred word love."
ypuo.w  uIed to render me harmless. But  Salome sank upon the sofa and cover-
herliko a4a,4e slaves of your-passions and ed her race with both her hands. "True,
whime, is a coward, and a hired assassin just as God is," she exclaimed, in a heart
mudt perpetrate the deep-dyed crime. Thus piercing tone. "I feel the crushing weight
the evilas become worse, and you attempt of your words. It prostrates me in the dust.
toqgtricate yourself by feigning love, and But Aurion, man of iron virtue, be not more
acoueing your suitor of jealousy. ls it not righteous than your God. Condemn not ere
so, madam ? Let us bap open and sincere, you have heard me. 1 never felt so deeply
as falsities would do us no good. Is it not the burning shame of my life as I do now,
so, ,sadiu?"                           and now and on your hands, I will return
"No, it is not so," she cried, violently, to virtue and purity. Aurion, hear me; God
Grasping passionately the hand of Simon, hears the voice of the repenting sinner, re-
sh said, " I feel that I tremble as though 1 fuses not his grace to the contrite heart, er-
seqod before the omniscient judge' I can adicates the guilt from the book of everlast-
nQt deny my faults; I am guilty of this and ing memory. Aurion, here I stand and eon-
tat.orime, although I can not' imagine how fess and repent my guilt. I am ashamed of
you know so much of me. Still I aa not myself; I feel bitter remorse at my own con-
guilty of this last crime, which you lay to duct. Aurion, should there be no mercy
my charge; for I love you passionately, des- for Salome ? I was thrown in a den of vice
p'arately. Like madness it burns in my and crime. I was young, frivolous, unguard-
brains, fury-like it storms in my breast. I ed, and being forced into the embrace of a
could not resist. I must call and tell you, man I hated, I fell deep, very deep, indeed.
let it cost my life. I have hired no assas- But, Aurion, help me rise again ; offer me
sin, I rather would expose my breast to the your hand, 1 will rise, support mc and 1 will
assassin's dagger than yours. Load not that stand as firm and straight in the path of vir-
g iilt Ripon my head; 1 am oppressed enough tue as you do."
already."                         .      Simon was undecided what to say. The
1 "  It possible, that hypocrisy, intrigue, idHus
and delusion should speak in sucum charm- idea of reclaiming Herod and his vicious
and elus ion sain suna        hus sister to the path of righteousness and thus
a isfehood that deception can assume the to free his people from the scourge of des-
a falsehof the heart?"                 potism, and celebrate a decided triumph
l"0,doe o      my ord  T      ,     over the people's enemies, without blood-
"0, doubt not my words, I pthbee,' she
 is on m shed, was so very pleasing to him, that
lP    I feel hat I never felt before, I love he wished its realization, even at the ex-
fo tha-fela tinme in my life."       pense of his own life. The confession of
"No it can not, it dare not be," Simon Salome and her repentance sounded so sin-
respnded,,in a solemn tone, "woman, thus cerely and truthfully in his ear, and corres-
deeply fallemgg can be woman no longer, arnd ponded so entirely to his wishes, that he
ply-alwoman can love. Defile not this sa- was inclined to believe her. M*ill it appear-
rad word, it signifies more, infinitely more, ed so improbable, that a woman as vicious
than the adulterous woman with murder on and corrupt as the one before hin, should
hp  o)can feel, or oven imagine to feel. on a sudden leap into the etnbrace of virtue,
lpild and violent, like tihe benumb. that he suspected her sincerity, Then again
oierpent warmed again, rages in your b'-lihe thought of time heavy responsibility placed

R t ILtIEsL AND tIERoD.                     i7
on his shoulder; how he could save her or" to-morrow. Stand first again at the brink
thrust her down in the lowest mire of vice ; of beguiling sin and turn victoriously  roa
how she would be auxiliary in converting it Stand once more at the gate of shamo
Herod, restoring the peace of the royal fain- and lock it with your own hands. Triumph
ily, and the happiness of the country; how gloriously over vice and crime when bogail-
she could be instrumental in saving the lives ing and flattering they knock at your door.
of hundreds whose blood would flow; if the rhen know that yow have truly repented
revolution must decide between King and your sins and are again heaven's child,
people. All these thoughts with all the God's angel. Then feel the zephyr of peace
doubts connected therewith heaved the bo- from a better w )rld, gently cooling the glow-
som of the Essenee and made him undecid- ing bosom. Then approach the heaven of
ed. During this painful silence Salome sat, love, and be enraptured with the golden
her face covered with a neckerchief. She rays of its thousand suns. Till then, fare-
sobbed audibly, and Simon could not resist. well."
In a voice soft and fascinating as the -notes  " Ah man, leave me not, abandon me not
of the nightingale, he asked, "You weep, again into the dark hell of vice, let me not
cheerless daughter of Antipater?" A heav- alone with my remorse, my repentance, my
en of sympathy, and kindness sounded thro' mortification, my love, my despair," she ori-
this question. She let the neckerchief fall, ed, in accents of madness. "i am too weak
and exclaimed, ""Alh, this is the voice of to walk alone the unknown path of virtue.
mercy, it is a tone warm from the heart. Lead me, for heaven's sake lead me with
0, spea'c it again, my God proclaims for- your love, your wisdom, your virtue."
giveness of sin through your lips. Once  She fell down and embraced the knees of
more, I beseech, I implore you, once more Simon and cried, "Behold, Herod's sister at
let me hear these glad tidings from the seat your feet like a low slave, behold her pray
of mercy, once more and I will shout with ad w             Au      h
the redeemed ones of the Lord."
" if all this is deception, then hell with on the fallen woman, who wishes to rise on
all its denmons are enviably, innocent in, com- your hand. 0, have mercy w:th a wretch-
parison to yourself, madam," said Simon. ed, cheerless heart which yearns after love
"I will not slander human nature, I will not and happiness, after the bliss of innocence
defile woman's name so outrageously, as to and purity.
imagine for a moment, you play one of the /Simon lifted her up, and, in the most flat-
studied parts of common court intrigues. 1 terin;and soothing terms, lie begged her to
believe you are sincere this very moment, be quiet.- lie toll her that he would regard
you are conscious and ashamed of your past and lead her with a truly brotherly love, that
conduct. If this is so the mercy and forgive. he would be at her sido as often and as long
ness of heaven may pour the Bala of Gileal as he could; but he could not promise what
in your wounded heart. If so it is, may h;heart did not feel, he could not deceive
God bless you with new strength t- become her. She was satisfied and dismissed him
a blessing to yourself, to your royal family with much kindness.
and your people.  Behold, heaven weeps   "Ila, ha, ha, young Essenee, you are not
over the fallen angels and rejoices at tlhir practiced enough yet in high life," Saonme
rise. Woman is an angel on earth. Isow- laughed, when he was out of the room.
ever deep she sinks, she is an angel still-a "He is too beautiful not to be a most envia-
fallen angel. Hold yourself not to my fee- ble prize to any woman. My good man,
ble hand but to that of God; rise an I walk you must be my husband or I am deteruia-
in the light of God anid v rtue, limut I must ed to ruin you. Why, with such a hus'
toll you id~o this. Great sins are chronic band, [ believe 1 could be as virtuous aW
diseases, thme cure of which must be radical Susanna and as kind as mother Rteboeal
and requires a long time. Deceive yourself Wisdom, wealth, rank, beauty, nothing It
not. If you repent now, you may relapse appears would catch him; Virtue, vepen.

0


68                    Tun 1COMBA   OF THE- PgoPLIR,
tanCe, a-failen angel attempting to rise, hn,'Simon, "I arm the messenger of a good ease,
as, ha,-that is his passion. He shall have and can not stumble. I must go to Jericho,
it-as often, as he pleases, and I will climb to hear the advice of my father, and ascer-
up the whole ladder of Jacob, if I can reach tain where the people's council now meets.
him. He is too excellent a mnan. that he None at this court must know whither I
should not be a high recompense for my went, or that I am absent. Tell the Queen
trouble to become virtuous."           I will see her, again in a few days, at pre-
imon never was so undecide], as he was sent my duties call me hence. Tell your
when leaving Salome. He could not ima- father "-Here he suddenly stopped . and,
#lit that her repentance and love were not after reflection, he continued, "tell your fa-
sien re; still he could not persuade himself there, you suspect Salome to be passionately
to'believe that his appearance and short con. enamored with me, and 1, therefore ameold
and distant.
versation should have so wonderfully, affect  ,"But this is not true," helen remarked,
ed her, as to change at once her whole course
of life. He considered it impossible to re- quickly.
turn her affections; his love to Helen and  tell you it is true and a good piece
his aversion to the King's sister were too 'of nesehi mad."
powerful, to allow him to think otherwise. wil se'oorfahr"si                ,,on   "I
Helen's wretchedness, if he should violate  "You are mistaken; my father hates her,"
his pledge of love, he thought would fury- Helen interrupted. Then she looked upon
like persecute him through the rest of his Simon so inquiringly and sadly, that he in-
life. Still he was convinced of 'his capabil- stantly understood her. "Fear nothing, my
abys of vice, only love," he said, "Helen is the name of the
1ty to save Salome from ts    sovc,        Iwosalla          eoe the   rugd
reclaim her to virtue and goodness, and thus angel who shall load me over the rugged
t pth of-life. My love fis part of my life, one
alsoturn  Herod  for the better, and  spare  to  pt r ife. wit  the other t  your lf e, 
his people the horrid scenes of a bloody. re- terinates with the other. But your father,
lut                                  good  elen, is lost, as he deserves it. Em.
volution.                              bitter not this parting moment with unkind
In such a dilemma Simon walked about words, my swees love, I must act as I do."
In the park, blind for the beauties of nature  He left the room. Once more she stretch.
and the luxury of oriental vegetation. lie ed her arms out after him, then he was gone.
saw not how profoundly those bowed whom Simon met Castobarus in the hall. " My
he passed, for he was engulfed in a train of lord, your purse and dagger reached me,"
thoughts which appeared to have the mas- said Simon, 1I shall return the compliment
tery over him. Suoldonly he stood still, ga-tat the earliest occasion."
sed, on the artesian well as though he was  "I do not understand you, my lord," said
to ascertain the laws on which it operates. Castobarus.
"I mustsee her first and then to Jericho. "Never mind, I understood you," said Si-
My father's wisdom will guide me," he mur- man, "the Greek, ha, ha, ha, the Greek is a
muted. Quick as lightning he returned to very good interpreter of secret thoughts."
the palace, bid farewell to Helen, and told  He went away leaving, Castobarus alone
her that he immediately must return to e- with his surprise. He went instantly to see
rioho, to be back in a few days. Helen Sahion.
appeared very much displeased with her   Sabion caine into the apartment of Helen
friend's determination. She could not re- and found her in tears. " What ails you,
it-giving expression to her apprehensions; my child ? Why do you weep," he asked,
butimon pacified the apprehensive heart. in a sympathising tone.
Kissing her hand he turned to part, but she helen looked on him for some moments,
agan requested him not to leave her so sud- without knowing what to say. " It the fat-
denly: and unexpectedly, as she had evil ther deceives his own child," she said, after
-oment.                       -awhile, honesty and integrity must no long-
"Be not foolish, my beloved Helen," said er be sought among men."

Ot   ilt.LEL AND IIEROD.                       1!
" What means this, Helen ?" Sabion ask- the Queen, that your father may receive the
ed, " I do not understand you."        punishment due to him,,' Salkion said, with
"Is ill becomes the daughter to admonish a malicious smile on his lips, "so that is he
her father," she continued; "but the wrong not said, the daughter being aware of the
is so great, indeed, that I must speak what I father's guilt was his co-adjutor.
feel, what mortifies, torments me.        -'T'hus you did, but I shall not lo it," aid
"I am curious, indeed,' said Sabion, re- lielen, "voutied my han Is to deliver tne to
suming a seat. "Let me hear, Helen, what the executioner, to ingratiate yourself in the
ails you.                              King's favor; because you are no father. I
Was it not you who directed my atten- am a child, and a child betrays not its fa-
tion to the King's physician, ani taught me tiher."
to love him ?" Helen asked.  ' Did you not  "Then go and tell your lover to do it," said
do so by the advice of Salome, whom you nabion, "that you be free of the guilt."
know to be every body's enemy? And did   .I exercise no influence on him, he is cold
you not hire an assassin, you and Castobarus and distant," said Helen, "and after this oc-
to kill that very nman, you have taught me to currenee, I will most likely see him no muore
love ? You can not deny it; for here, in I can not tell what he will do."
this very room  and in my. presence, the  "Have you said all you know ?" Sahien
Greek ruffian confessed his guilt, confessed asked. "Now I will tell you the contents
still more, that you hired him to slay an old of the story. 'Th e cunning Eseneefading
man in Jericho, which he could not do. Do himself ingratiated in your favor invented
you know now, why I weep ? I weep be- this story for two purposes, I suppose ; t.
cause I have no father."               have an excuse not to pay you his address
Sabion was perplexed. le walked the                     ay     .   .
any Linger, and to carry out his evil inten-
room in rapid strdes. His small eyes roil-            h
ed unusually quick in their sockets. He bit  mains
part of his underlie between his teeth, so  mAurion inents no stories," Heln said,
that agitation spoke from every one of his lie is a man of integrity such as this court
features.  When Helen was done he fre- has nos."
quently exclaimed, " What a lucid iuagina-  nereC"
tionthi gil hs  Se iagies hin  Here Castobarus entered hastily.  ~ I must
which   s ar r hnt even possible."     be alone with you, my lord," he said. Both
" No imagination, truth as clear as heav-. looked most embarrassed on each other.
en," Helen said  "reality is every word 1 [leen observed it and rising from her sofa
say. You denounced your own child to the ! slesaii, "You may speak out, my lord, the
King, and put my life in jeopardy, not a secret is broached, the Greek assassin eon-
word of rebuke passed my lips. But I can fessel every word, your dagger and purse
not stand this outrage.  You yourself, I are in the hands of Aurion. Just speak
have yet your ring, you wanted me to mar- out, what you have to say, I know the se-
ry Aurion, and you yourself hirel an assas- cret.
sin to slay him, slay him after he has res-  " Iunderstand now, you, desirous to ruin
cued me from the executioner's hands, after me, hired a man of whom you knew, that he
he has become so dear to my heart. A fa. would betray me," Castobarus said, rashly.
ther hires an assassin to kill the lover of his "I understand Sabion's tricks and I wil
daughter.-All ties of nature are broken; make up for it. Now, just nox, I go to Sa-
honor, humanity, charity, affection, all that lome anti tell her how faithful her friend Sa-
is dear to man fled to the wild beasts; mon- bion is.
sters, devils in the shape of man, have re.1 "Be dumb. infernal lIar," Nabion er'ed.
mained, andi you can ask me yet, why i "I shall not be dumb, i shall speak," tCas-.
weep? I weep that my mother is no more, Itobarus replied. "I will have you reward-
and I have no father." ed for your kind sorvicec."
"'Go, 'Helen, and tell what you know to " You both deserve the golden medal,"

. t

0


'0                      Tun COMRAT oF TU     PEOPLE,
*aid Salome, on entering the room, "and Wickedness is the nutriment of the pas-
you shall have it,"                     sions, and gives them the superiority over
"You-shool. long ago have been exposed man. Righteousness elevates the mental
tothe contempt of a world," saidSabion,"and powers of man to dominion and superiority.
you shall have it."               .     Herod's unbridled passions demonstrate his
immense wickedness. Not his Creator, but
C II A P T E 1I VX I I.       Herod is accountable for his unlimited wick-
T H E S C II E M  D I S C oV E R E D.  edness. The wicked should not govern a
"Remember, Menahem, I know to a cer- nation whose mission it is to preserve and
tainty," said Abba Shaul ben Botnith, "that promulgate justice an-i virtue. Therefore
Sabion, in executing the orders of IlIero., Herod has forfeited his claims upon the
killed your son Baruch. He was represent- crown of Israel, and the revolution is a sa-
ed to Herod by Isis jister, as the particular cred right, a divine judgment upon the guil-
suitor of the Queen. Jealousy was the cause ty head of an arbitrary ruler, whom every
of his violent death.                   patriot curses."
Neither Menahem nor Shanui was pro "'Thou shalt not curse the prince of thy
pared to answer. It was impossible 'or them people,' sacred scripture says," Menahem in-
to doubt the words of Abba Shaul. "'Thispu
terrupted.
one act, if no other crime could be proved  "'if he acts becoming thy people,' is
on Herod," Abba Shaul continued, " is all-  1,1f hesaddedA    Shulsa'dI asti-"
sufficient to justify the revolution. The raels sages adde," bahauevsaid, hat-
King has no right to condemn a man with- ly. "IHerod acts unbecoming even the notor-
out a hearing before the Sanhedrin. This .ous violence of Roman lords. Trained in
out heaingthe bloody school of the triumvirate of An-
is our security of person opposite our rulers.eoo    o
Herod violated this dearest of our rights. tony, ctavius and Lepidus, whom he saw
The compact between King and people is wading through the blood of their country-
broken. Our lives are in danger, we must men, and passinir recklessly over the muti-
roe    e    s.   a   h     ,astesonoflated bodies of their fellow citizens to pow-
protect ourselves. Bruch was the son offer and dominion--backed by those very le-
Menahem, the particular friend of Hlerod, raddmno-aklb            hs    eyl-
Menahmt ea sla ii enof e, gions who  committed  all those  outrages  in
yet the youn-,.                    net Rome, hired by Rome and hated by all is-
ther our rights nor personal friendship are                         -  '    -e
'  nto agins theviolncerael; he attempts to fortify his tottering
a sufficient guarantee against the violence throne with our corpses. If we can stand
and wicked passions of Hierod. Our arms -hoewt      u   ope.Iw        a   tn
are the ony seurit of person left us, and this, we deserve no longer to be God's eho-
ny  utyopsen people. Therefore the iron dice of the
if we do not make proper use of them, it is revolution shall be east to decide, whether
our own fault; we commit suicide."     this land belongs to Israel or to Rome and
F Abba Shaul, jealousy is a dreadful mon- her royal slave."
stern " said Menahem. "A man is scarcely
responsible for what he does under its influ-  "Two wrongs never made one right," s:ad
onee., As little as the intoxicated man can Shamai. "Revolution is synonymous with
be judged by his doings in that condition, murder and massacre; but God commands,
'Thou shalt not kill.'
so little, indeed, can you judge a man by h       n
whathe does under the influence of jealousy.  " Tell it to your King," said Abba Shaul.
Great men have great passions; hence lIe. " Tell him, morever, that God commands
rod's passions are greater and more violent him to write a copy of the Law, to be per-
than ours. Will you condemn him for his petually before him, that he depart not from
greatness ?"                            its commandlmnents, either to the right or to
" The greater the passions, the more pow  the left. 0, do tell it to your Herod, that
erful is the intellect in man to control them," the Highpriest Joiada also knew the Law,
said Abba Shaul, " So harmoniously, in- when lie commanded thme death of the wick..
deed, and so wisely proportioned the soul led Queen Athaliah. Also the prophets Elija
ceos forth from the hands of its Creator Iand Elisha were godly men, still they preach.-

OR HILLML AND HEROD.
ed rebellion against the house of wicked and of our fie
Ahab, and the prophet Amos was a righte- woe," said A
ous man who advised the people to insur- not, they will
reaction against the second Jeroboam. Tell of Israel, the
your King, Israel is the people of justice, I know that (
and the highest tribunal thereof if the shed, therefo
King is a murderer, the people will try, con- break the arm
demn and execute him, as God has oom- of bloodshed
manded. Those who offer resistance to the of Herod's re
arm of justice, who shelter or defend the  "Your anu
murderer, are guilty of the same crime, and crimes of Her
their-.heads are forfeitel to justice, to the on them from
people. The revolution is the tribunal de- ers choose, an
signed to do justice to the murderous King. ed."
Tell him we come to punish a vulgar assas- $Im-n-
sin as the Law commands."              reduce them
To increase the hatred of Rome against real magnitud
Israel," Shamai said. " You kill the King they are still i
whom Rome has given us, and Rome's le- demned to ign
gions will punish every man who was con- tialSanhedrin
corned in it, and give you a King worse than Was there evi
Herod."                                stood above th
" Worse? I deny it," said Abba Shaul. whom this exi
"The Roman legions are of bone and flesh, ception is fatal
so are we. If they come to fight us, we will ties, is the swo
go to fight them. The death of the brave is on a hair abov
preferable to an inglorious life. If the King sires, demands
which Rome might again impose on us, will  "Do not pro
know that we executed his predecessor, be- terrific pathos
cause he was a murderer, he will respect our every sentimer
laws, and if he does not, we will, and his is fatal to Isra
death is certain. This is my doctrine. But, God's laws are
it is not quite as certain, that Rome can take Let him gover
care of Herod. The two greatest armies the let up worship
world ever saw prepare for a deadly combat, dies except P
in which only one, either Antony or Octavi- and none rule
us can be victorious. If Antony is defeat- so. Ye Phara
ed Herod is lost in Rome, and among us he with the rules
is lost long ago. We must strike the blow, nent of the fo
and trust in God and the justice of our God, and know
cruse."                                to the kingdom
"Say but little, do much, and let all thy do- the yoke of earth
ings be in the name of heaven, is my adage," off the laws of
said Shamai. " Why do you speak of revo- kingdom of ma
lution, if you know, that you can not make and worship G
it? Herod stands with a faithful army near than you do.-
Cant, and the people have no power to op. than do it. 4
pose it. Why do you. speak of revolution, faults by youi
if you know, that God hates violence and ecutive staff ol
bloodshed ?" ~
fiat

" The armies of Herod are of our blood

to marip G
to worship God

71
sh and will hear our cries of
b.a Shaul, "and if they hear
feel the unimpaired strength
power of an outraged people.,
God hates violence and blood-
re I speak of revolution, to
of violence, and make an end
which marks nearly every day
ign"
er and hatred exaggerate the
od," said Shamai. "Look up.
the point of view which oth-
d they will be much diminish-
them as much as you please,
o a thousandth part of their
e," said Abba Shaul, "and
monstrous enough to be con-
onimous death by any impar-
,if the perpetratorwas no King.
er a time when Israel's King
e law? Herod is the first to
ception is granted. This ex-
I to Israel's rights and fiber-
ird of destruction suspended
e our heads. This exception,
a bloody revolution."
nounce these words with such
," said Shamai; "they offend
nt of my heart. But one thing
el, to desert the laws of God.
e not of a political character.
n who is best fitted for it, and
the Lord and be pure. None
rovidence decrees his death,
s unless God tells him to do
sees connect the laws of God
of government, to the detri-
)rmer. Abba Shaul, worship
v, who ever submits faithfully
m of heaven, feels no longer
lhly rulers; but whoever shakes
God, presses on his neck the
n. Let those rule who do so,
od. Better that Herod kills
It is better to suffer injustice
Correct not your neig r'
rown. Assume not t e ex-
f. Providence; for theyhands
I: Man's destiny on Jarth is
and be pure. Who-  vesias

I

R


72                     THE COMBAT oP 'h1E PEOPLE,
worships not, and whoever soils his handscall H erod's creatures by that honorable de-
with the blood of man is impure."       signation," said Abba Shaul. "The mem-
"Such are the sentiments of the Esse-, bers of the lawful Sanhedrin are in Jericho.
nees," said Abba Shaul, " but they are not If the man is a murderer he is now here in
mine. 4 Although I am not capable of refu- the city of refuge, and here he will be tri.
-ting your arguments, still they do not con- ed."
vines me, and so they would none who is   " We must convey him to Jerusalem,"
not an Essenee. Israel's happiness rests on said the men, "if you refuse we must apply
three divine pillars; truth, justice and uni- force."
on are their names. Remove either and the  "Beware, or you ACe lost," 'Abba Shaul
4ld superstructure crumbles to fragments. thundere'l. Drawing his sword, he contin-
Iferod attempts to remove the central pillar ued, "lie is a dead man who touches this
of the. colossal palace, and it must fall. It Greek."
is not the will of God that iian should suf  " He is a murderer."
for injustice, I feel it. It can not be the sole  "Prove it before the Sanhedrin."
object of man to die always in order to live  " We will do it in Jerusalem."
an eternal life; for God taught ub, what man " No, you must do it in Jericho."
muss do to live happy. 0 sires, you move  " He killed Baruch ben Menahem."
in your own sphere of learning and piety,  "It is an infernal lie," Abba Shaul voci-
so that the humble cottage of the plain, com- ferated. " You are the blind or the willing
mon man is unknown to you."           tools of a vile and satanic plot. You stay
Menahem who had been a silent spectators in Jericho to prove your own innocence.','
all this time asked Abba Shaul, "How do He gave a signal with a small whistle, and
you know, that my son was killed by order in a few moments the shrill notes resound-
of Herod ?"                             ed through all the lanes of Jericho. A large
" A sacred oath seals my lips," said Alb number of men immediately surrounded the
ba Shaul, "1 can not tell you the particu- house. Abba Shaul called several in and,
lars; but rest satisfied, that I know it for a told them to take care of these men and this
certainty.".                           Greek, whom they accuse of murder, as all
"Also, Jonathan ben Lziel sid so, and of them must be tried by the lower Sanhe-
many other men, whose veracity is beyond drin. The men were disarmed and, togeth-
doubt," said Menahem. " Let us now go toeay.                        ,.    g
ben  cielbrioen with the Greek, led away.
the academy and hear what news Jonathan
ben Uziel brings from Egypt. Then I will "These are the servants of Sabion," Ab.
go to Jerusalem. 1 must ascertain the fate ha Shaul said, "the very same men who at-
tof  Jry son."                         tempted to arrest me. Desirous to remove
" Help, help me!" the Greek proselyte the suspicion from Herod and his co-adju-
cried, running into the house of Menahem, tors, lie accuses a stranger, who he thinks
pursued by several armed men. The three has no friends, of the foul murder they them.
men- rose from  their seats to protect the selves committed. Is there none in Israel
an. Abba Shaul stepped in between- the whose gall overflows at such schemes? Are
persecutors and the persecuted with the we all heartless slaves ? It must be tried,
question, "What do you want here ?"     we must appeal to our people, let them re-
"In behalf of justice," said one of them, spond to my questions."
" this man'is a murderer, he killed a young  Abba Shaul hastened after the prisoners,
man in Jerusalem."                      while Menahem and Shammai bent their steps
"It is not true, my lords," the Greek to the academy.
cried.                                    The whole city was in a state of intense
"Who in Jerusalem authorized you to ar- excitement when this news spread. " We
rest a man in Jericho ?" Abba Shaul asked. are not safe even in Jericho,'' some vocifer-
" The Sanhedrin," was the short reply. ated. " If he is the- murderer of Baru'ch
" There is none in Jerusalem, except you ben Menahems, he must die," others exclaim-.

OR HILLaL AD HEROD.                          7
ed. "It is one of Sabion's foul plots," salate this law in the least point, and:uhels
third party maintained; but none advoca- of the Lord is desecrated among  M+ -
ted the return of the Greek to Jerusalem, tiles. Therefore I rise in the presodi of
until he was tried by the Sanhedrin of Jeri- these venerable master, to defendth ee
cho. When, therefore, the Sanhedrin open- accused of the murder of Barueb 4- 4-
ed its session the next day, all the doors ceased and lamented friend."
and windows of the building were thrown  Every eye was fied upon the young ugt
open, to satisfy the curiosity of the excited when the chief judge said, *"The'Sanbeda
multitude who filled and surrounded the grants you permission to defend the srt.
house.                                prit."
On an elevated platform sat Akabiah ben "Jericho is nowr the city of refuge," Si"
Mahalalel, the chief judge of the Sanhedrin Jonathan, after bowing to designate bhiges-
of Jericho, with two secretaries on both sides titude. "The law states, plain enoug,ie
of the platform, before which in a semicir- procedure' in this cause. The Greek Is
cle sat twenty two judges, behind them six- among us and claims oar .protectio' ,and
ty nine graduated pupils in three rows, and the law imposes the duty on you to  ide,
around them the curious multitude. Mena- whether the Greek is a murderer. I lain,
hem stepped before the judges and, bowing that he is innocent. But should youtaer-
reverently, he said, "I in the name'of the tain the contrary to be true, you mo re-
God of Israel and in behalf of his holy law, fuse to protect him any longer, and delhe
demand justice of you, venerable Sanhed. him to the officers who claim to be the aven-
rin."                                 ger of the blood of my, deceased friend.
"So may God do unto us now and for ev- This is the meaning of the law, take its let-

ermore, Amen," the judges responded.-
Menahem then narrated the story, how
his sen was found slain in the city of Jeru-
salem, and how several officers came to this
city to arrest a Greek, as being the murder-
er of his son, but the people insisted upon
trying the case before the Sanhedrin of Je-
richo.- He concluded with the considera-
tion, that the Sanhedrin of Jericho had no
right to try a man for crime which he
committed in Jerusalem. He thought the
duty of the Sanhedrin was to ordain that
the Greek be placed before the Sanhedrin
of Jerusalem.
When Menahem had resumed his seat,
Jonathan ben Uziel rose on the opposite
side, and said, "It would not be right for
me to rise and speak in the presence of so
many sages of Israel, so much older and
more learned than myself, if it was not as
the sages of old said, ' Where the name of
the Lord could be desecrated, one may vio-
late the respect due to his superiors.' The
.name of the Lord is desecrated, if it should
be said among the Gentiles, there is no jus-
tice in Israel. Our fundamental doctrine
is, ' There shall -be one law and one statute
for you, the native and the stranger.' Vic-
10

ter or its spirit."
The secretary read the argument of Xe.
nahem, and his colleague read the reply of
Jonathan to the listening judges and M  s1-
lent spectators. This done, Menahem rose
and replied; "Moses pointed on three cities
of refuge, Bese, Ramab in Gilead and Oo-
lan. Joshua, in obedience to the Jaw, ap-
propriated three more cities to thevery e ur-
pose, Kedesh, Sheehem and- Hebron,this
side of the Jordan. Jericho ii not muog
these cities; it is no city of refuge, IfIMo'
sea and Joshua named the cities, hew ean
we add a seventh city of refuge to the six
prescribed by the -law? If this isiao city
of refuge the murderer must be seat to the
place where the crimewas comittedkwkse
the witnesses are found and the air uegt
ces can bost be ascertained. if Jeslois
the altar of learning and piety, our laWienm-
mands the murderer most betakeln hfothe
altar, to die. If justice dwells in Jqibo
she must eject the murderer."
"If he is a murder" -aid J        g
when Menahem had-resUmed hbit -v83
to ascertain this isthe dltrebake-
den. Jerteho, I malatain Is a did soe
tug. by the force of beuiunttaaneeGe6 by


74.                     TEII  CoMPAr OF
atof the auges.. Lou4 into-the+
b           l4,.first it ordains, that cities+
          boidd   iet n Insrael. .Then itI
a        ge  eitieo slougd. exist. And fi-
4 yoqpetpaase4,three ejties and Joshua
three more, in obedience to the law. The+
h exists independent of thenumber and
,the cities. If these cities be de-
sigetheaw is not abolished, and other
cities must be appropriated to this purpose.
Iepd has,. decided that the cities above
nyspe  ould no longer be cities of refuge ;
fo *lvoever of his.opponents escaped to any
oneg   hpse cities, was nevertheless arrest-
ed, egigd away and exeuted.- The cities
of . uge are no more, but the law still ex-
ist .  is the duty of.the Sanhedrin to en-
ffo o'e law, beans they must appoint oth-
er otoes of refuge. . The members of the
le, $aghedrin escaped to this city, and
or, inthis city they have jurisdiction, be-
yonditiidts, Herod and violence rule su-
prgmgp; hence Jericho must be appointed
the city of refuge. If our sages had not de-
ceed go, they have proved by their actions,
tlat such is their will. They sought refuge
in Jeieho and refused obedience to the
sumamons of the King and his Sanhedrin,
where they stand accused of high treason.
Hio* dare they refuse obedience, if they
considered not this a city of refuge ?"
Menahem'attempted to refute the argu-
meetsef Jonathan. When he said the sa-
gesrefusedobedience to Herod and his Saft-
hediba, because they consider them illegal-
ly ,onstituted,:Jonathan told him therefore
no obediencesmust be paid them  in this
case. When both were done end the secre-
taties:had road again both, sides of the argu-
ment;,the' Sanhedrin after a short- debate
decided Jericho was a city of refuge, under
thep vsiing circumemnces, and the cause
of ttheareek must: be tried by them. The
Greek and the odeers from Jerusalem werq.
arragned before the judges. Having read
to them the usal formula of the oath, to
'ic  hy repondad&amp;.4in, and the law
eeneruia false    itsem which ordains.
thE dupiyadhvng~uoihdte sol-

THIE PEoPLE,
emnly to speak the truth before God, at the
sacred seat of justice, all except one were
led into an adjoining chamber, and one af-
ter the other was examined and cross ex-
amined. Aware of the severity of the law,
and knowing the unexceptionable justice of
the Pharasees, the-officers only stated, tlat
they were sent to Jericho by Sabion, in the
name of the lower Sanhedrin of Jerusalem,
who considered the Greek guilty of the
murder of Baruch ben Menahem. Noth-
ing more could be learned of them. When
Jonathan asked the multitude whether there
were witnesses in favor of the Greek, two
peasants came forward and told the story, -
how they when taking the first fruits to Je-
rusalem were arrested by the men now be-
fore the judges, taking them for two other
men, and how they were treated until a
party of strangers rescued them from their
hands in the Valley of Ilinom.
It was evident to the initiated, that the'
officers were the servants and spies of Sa-
bion. The first idea of many was, those
spies came for a double purpose, to arrest
the Greek in order to remove the suspicion
of murder from Herod and his servants,.and
to ascertain the doings of the Pharasees
at Jericho. Abba Shaul's testimony only
confirmed that of the peasants, but threw
no light on the principal point of the case.
When Jonathan asked again, " Are there
any more witnesses among you?" a boy
whom Jonathan instantly recognized as the
one who was his guardian angel in Jerusa-
lem, came up and stated, "I am a servant
of Sabion's daughter. I saw Baruch ben
Menahem in the subterranean room of He-
rod's palace. The men before you tortured
him till he died. They executed the com-
mand of Sabion, which he received of lie-
rod. 1 administered the last drops of water
to the parched lips of the expiring victim of
wickedness. When 1 wept, yonder wretch-
ed man dragged me out of the room, and
there I heard the last groan of Baruch. So
help me God, now and forever."
Two men supported Menahem who sunk,
fainting, from his seat. "1 can tell you
still more," said the bay. "This Greek was
hired to kill Hillel and his son Simon, hi-'

I

On HIBLUL AND HRnoD.                        ,
red by Sabion.  But the Greek informed ed by others?  What -is-it to me or t hit
Hillel and his son of the murderous inten- house-of my father, if a number ef'4IelIl i
tions of the vile and wicked man. There- men worship the chests -ialed with-,,ld
fore, he is desirous to have this Greek in which happen to be nine? I aat netithe
his power. I can tell you still more, but chest, nor am I the gold, both havht'hoKW
this is enough at present."           least affinity to myself. Thert 1 Wa  ly
A shriek of terror and indignation was opinion corroborated; for as long as 'iy
heard like distant thunder, from the multi- neighbor Adoniram was wealthy ,he: had
tude. Akabiah restored order, when Mena- many friends and admirers; but as soonae
hem rose, deadly pale was his countenance, he was poor, he was an object of ridicule to
blue and quivering his lips, dim and nearly those who formerly honored him, and his
breaking were his eyes. "I retract. I take faults were heralded to the world.
back my accusation. The Greek is inno- "Then I thought to study the wants  and
cent," was all he could stammer forth, then wishes of the people and attempt to satisfy
his friends led him out of the hall, a picture them, in order to be elevated to offes and
of calamity.                          high dignity-must be the way to hones'.
The Sanhedrin dismissed theGreekfandre- But then I saw Kings who were murderers,
tained the four officers for a further hearing. a curve upon their people, and the lowest
Then the Sanhedrin adjourned, the in- slaves of their passions and their aecoidpli.

dignation of the people became so loud and
violent, that it was difficult even for Abba
Shaul to conduct the four officers to their
prison. Jonathan searched in vain among
the crowd after the mysterious boy; he had
disappeared.
" I know everything thou cast tell me,"
said Hillel to his son Simon, "The Greek
proselyte has told me, how thou art the phy-
sician and friend of Herod, and of several
of his courtiers. Thou shouldst never have
forgotten the admonition of thy father.
Behold ! my mother was a daughter of the
royal house of David, and my father was a
nobleman of Benjamin, of King Saul, some
maintain. When she died, and she was a
great and good woman, Ahe called me to her
couch, and bid me to bring honor upon our
family. Her voice always re-echoed in my
heart. As Joseph saw the portrait of his
father when sin threatened to beguile him,
so did I see on all occasions the picture of
my dying mother, and heard her last words,
'Bring honor uponour family.' I began to
inquire after the meaning of those words,
but was much puzzled with their ambigui-
ty. To amass wealth, I thought, must 4e
the way to honor; for I saw nearly every
man did bow at the shrine of Mammon and
its lucrative priests. But then I thought, is
it really an honor to see my money respect-

ces. I saw men high in rank and low in
the scale of virtue, eminent in position and
despicably low in the estimation of their fel-
low men, honorable in dignity and disre-
putable in thgir doings. Then I sawn. the
honorable and dishonorable condemned at
once bya thoughtless multitude, and thought,
also this is vanity and windy thought.,
" le poor, and no false friends will-de-
ceive thee, I thought. Govern none and
.none can condemn thee. Let all thy worth
and thy value be in thy heart, so that but
thou and thy God know them, and notae
will envy thee. He humble and live retfred,
gnd none will defame thee. Respect thy
neighbor, and he will respect thee. 'Honor
thyself with virtuous doings- and wiser per.
suits; and rest secured, honor will ultiinate=,
ly come; but if it come not it Is not thy
fault, and thy God knows it. So I4dhdght
I would obey the behests of my dying mo
other, and I have honestly attempted to to
live.
"Are not these the doctrines!I have fin-
planted in thy youthful heart, and"'iit
not my best joy, my only pride;tifytoth-
er's delight and thy sister's and brothe?'e
hope, to see thee walk on the path 'ofAite
ousness ? My son, if thou departed fd*"
it, thou' art guilty of pa(triclde and  i
aide, for both of us taust be' &amp;na Eth
My son, my son, I fear the favorite of Ifl


70                      THE COM4ATOF TA RJEOPLE,
rq4 ,      g Awickedi zmpa orr bepone; np themalioions spirits from the court of He-
Wwrop      is $her council of te wicked, rod, and he might be saved yet. Our p eo-
ss=An    the path of sinners, sits in the ple might be spared the calamity and blood.
cop   y of corners, must he not be or be- shedof a revolution. Justice and internal
u4,;s. of them? My son, my. son, my peace being thus restored, Israel might gain
appre apspans arp dreadful."           new strength, revive, rejuvinate, heal its
10rdo not suspect my motives, my fath- wounds and regain its native buoyancy, to
erR Sion -cried, in accents of acute pain, win its independence of Rome, to be Israel,
"4oenet thus doubt the sincerity of your free and united once more as in days of
Arst born son. The praise or condemnation yore. Is not this sacred aim worthy of an
of a world.besides you is indifferent to me; attempt ? Father, it may cost my life,' but
but I can not bear the thought of being mis- not my virtue."
understood by my own father and great    "Praise and glory be rendered to God
teacher. I thank God every morning, and on high," said Hillel, "that I hear my son
praise him every evening, that you are my speak thus. Death is not the loss of life,
father and my teacher, and your lessons are for endless is the life of the righteous; .the
deeply rooted in my heart. 0 do not sus- loss of virtue is death, irreparable death.
petn ne, I beseech, I implore you. Hear Thank God, my son is determined to live.-
me, I will explain my conduct, then judge. What are the means thou wilt apply to ef-
Correot me, if I am wrong, and your word feet this reform? It is a difficult task and
shall be my law, encourage me if I am right, requires a colossal exertion."
sad your words shall be my pillar of fire " In the presence of Herod but one sort
in the obscure path of life."          of means is effective, and I have applied it
Hillel appeared to be appeased, and, in a with success," said Simon. " Honesty, in-
mild tone, he said, "Speak, my son and I tegrity and uprightness connected with the
will hear."                            natural boldness of virtue and innocence,
" Herod returned from Cana," said Si- are the means to make a man his superior,
mon, withh the firm conviction, that the and this proves, that there is still a spark of
Queen.and her family, together with Cleo- goodness and humanity in him which, if
palraeoonspired against him. Since then I properly nourished, might yet become a sa-
bstv ascertained, that not the Queen but cred flame, to burn out of him all that is vici-
one of her relatives is guilty of this crime. ous and corrupt. But his courtiers, friends,
I  g elected by the representatives of the officers and servants, all who surround him,
peopl !fego and save the Queen and Ba- are irrevocably lost, not a touch of human-
ruo% ben Menahem from the iron grasp of ity, not a trace of goodness is discernible,
Herod.,1 was introduced to him as an Es- in them. Shrewdness, cunningness, avarice
senphysician. I met him as virtue con- and ambition lead them, and no means are
fronts wickedness, and hs submitted, after too low or base to them, if they are subser-
a shrgrgtrggle. The Queen is saved, but vient to their purposes. Shrewdness, cun-
- Barnh beni-enahem was executed before ninguess, adroitness, superior to their out-
I reached the palace.                  worn wits, are the only means to be applied
"While in the palace I came in contact in managing them. It is difficult to poison
wiih the courtiers, counsellors and creatures a serpent, to entangle a fox in his own
of pseod, as also with his sister, Salome, schemes; but I can not master them other-
su4I found Uerod's wickedness to be an- wise."
gelLovague in comparison to his friends and  "This is a dangerous game, my son,"
omoser 1.eople say the Essenees can cast said the old man. "The upright man nev-
ost diri an4 banish malicious demons. 1 er should assume a mask. The mask for
tbse ~th *estning of the Essenees and wickedness, and honesty to the righteous is
tile pantical arts might be well applied in the straight way."
tl4 ease.. Cast out the devils and banish " Truly, my father, so it should be," said

OR HILLEL AND HnRoD.                           77
Simon. "But when it has come so far, that continued, "How good would Herod beand
virtue must hide her face, piety must be how happy Israel, if Hillel occupied the po-
ashamed of herself, and innocence is the sition of Sabion. How great is Israel, it
object of ridicule; then a mask is necessary gave birth to Ilillel I"
to dethrone the despots, east out the devils "Thy filial love and enthusiasm mislead
and banish the malicious demons. A mask thee,"- said Hillel. "I am neither better
woven of shrewdness and cunning, a mask nor wiser than a thousand others in Israel.
to baffle. their feeble heads and dazzle their A thousand other men would tell thee the
dim eyes-will do the work which virtue same, under similar circumstances. --But
fails to accomplish by her usual frankness we are not at the end of our conversation.
and uprightness."                      Tell me all thou hast to say."
"So it must be, my son, so it is the will of " Sabion's only daughter Helen, the fair-
God," said Hillel. "Disguise and cunning est and. loveliest of the daughters of Israel,"
are the crutches of baseness, on which the Simon continued, "is the object of my fer-
vile man, for awhile, passes through the vent love'"--
world, until they break, and he lies prostra- "Beware, young man," Hillel said, rising
'ted in the dust. But virtue makes no use from his seat, "beware, Samson against that
of those crutches, nor can the man with Delilah!"
sound limbs handle advantageously the sup-  " Do not say so, my father, I prithee," Si-
port of the- lame. My son, thou wilt not mon continued. " Helen is worthy to he,
succeed with them on this score, for they, Hillel's daughter. She is pure arid spotless
by the very nature of things, are thy mas- as the blue vault of heaven. The maiden's
terms. David could not smite the Philistine heart is innocent and modest as the rose
with the best arms of the warrior, for he of Sharon, smiling blushingly under the
was not practiced in using them. 'lhe sim- verdant foliage. Her soul is the breath of
ple implements of the shepherd sufficed to heaven, capable-of all that is good, noble
secure him the victory; for his hand was and generous. She is the fairest form, in-
trained to handle them, he smote the lion habited by the noblest soul, wh'ch peeps in
and the bear, why should the Philistine heavenly glances through her eyes. I loved
have escaped his well practiced eyes and her and she knew it and swore to be mine,
hand ! Cast away the disguise and the before I was aware whose daughter she is.
mask, they are the crutches of the base To desert her now would be vile treachery
and depraved, the arms with which thou and a hell of torture to my soul."
canst not smite the Philistines, thou art not "Well do I know what the Law ordains,
practiced in the use thereof. Confront Go- the child should not suffer for the sins of
lia with the shepherd's cane and flat stones, the parent," said Hillel. "God himself vis-
with thy own arms, and if thou canst not its the iniquity of the fathers only on those-
smite him, he will not slay thee."     children who continue to hate Him, abide
" What a contrast, Hillel and Herod, Hil- in the wickedness of theirfathers. No man
del and Sabion !" Simon exclaimed; enthusi- is better than the Law of God. But I fear,
astically. "My heart revives in your pres- my son, love bedims thy vision, thou seest
enee, my glorious father, my great teacher. the beloved inthe soft beams of the moon,
After having heard for weeks the voice of where the beautiful and perfect only are
crime, corruption and depravity, after I near- visible, while the imperfections are in the
ly turned away with disgust from mankind, dark shade hidden to the delighted specta-
it is Balm of Gilead, the light of heaven, the tor."
voice of Seraphs to my heart, to hear you  "You, my father, by your wise and gen-
speak again, so noble, so true, so generous, erous teaching formed my heart, to be a safe
so wise.--How happy a son 1 am, Hillel is touchstone for virtue and wickedness," sai4
my father." He embrae'ed and kissed his Simon. " There is an impulse in me,.that
father. In a state of fervent enthusiasm hej never deceived me, by which I discriminate.


7T                      TRE COe     T ~1OF THE  PePLErr,
t neshewvitons re.m te ricius. There ees designs sre her wrk. Sabion, V s-
are n e   criteria udeniable symptoms, tobarus and Dositheus themeases are her
in te sound of a man's voice, the looks of slave, she is the primitive serpent which
his eyes, the totality of his features, the po-,porisns the heart of Herod. This very wo-
tem of hdis body, the formation of his mouth. man, my father, knelt in the dust before me,
which are the correct expressions of the gave free ntteranee to her repentance and
seul The soul is the cause, the outward remorse, swore that on my hand she would
appearance of man its elect. Do not simi- rise from the mire of vice, walk the path of
har efecta entitle us to think of similar virtue, and become an ornament to uman-
causes ? Yes, sa benign is our iod, that kind. First, I thou bt I must crush the
he gives us eyes to look into the heart of serpent's head at my feet: but then I hesi-
mma. He gives to virtue another visage tated. If she could be reclaimed to God
than t vie. If not al my knowledie of and virtue, lerd s change for the better,
man dee ive me, if my hest belies me not, the fal of his slarea. is a certain fat. The
for the first time, Helen is as kind and pure responsibility thus laid on my shalder is
as IIea   's aneels. She looks so mueh so great, that  couli not deeide without
slk, the deceased Barahben Menahem, your paternal      vicoe. Shall I thust her
that she must be as good as he was."    back into the embrace of triumphing Sa-
"Ass, this philosophy is not without e- tan, and let the revolution 'decide between
opta," said H1el, " but I am inclined to Herod and Israel: or must I ofer her my
trast as tbe impulses of thy heart. The hand to reclaim her, reclaim Herod, heal
similarity of Barach .and Sahin's daughter the breach  between him and his people and
isquite natural, for their matheis were near give to Israel years of peace and happiness?
relatives."                              The strugie in my soul is violent, torment-
"Wi Sabiorn was Ihis murderer !  Simon ing, buraing. I can not decide. Every th't
elaimed, d sidfenty-            A      is a tear, every idea is a painful sigh, I ea
*"Re would ereeute his own child, if it not -decide. Here is Helen. love, happiness,
sres his base purposess' said Hillel.'  paradise, a sacred oath and-a bloody, des-
"Trne, my father, rery true., and Helen operate revohtion : there is Salme, a life
knows it kS sad experience," said Simen. full of hell, torment, despair, a cheerles
"Gat,let as act fIret the trial, my father; and oyless existence, and-pewee and hap-
tie Greek p aseiyte will be tried to-day."  pises to Israel  My father, I a net tiru-
* Do not rare for that," said H ilel, "no onenoughtodecide. Your word al be
a   spice is done i Jericho, where the Law my law, my pillar of fire.
ips s pema, ad no point of law can be .  There is the error under whie tiua-
dis   are   or falsely construed, where forest, my sea,. said Hilel, "t eesb
Jansa     ben Urii plends. and Akabiah to outdo the wicked by disguise and dissim-
bet   eainlel pesides. Both arc there ulatiom and this is the handierait of the
Let this mot disturb thee. re-"in. tell all thou wiced only. I tel thee. Sudaom deceives
haut to camuaieate."                   thee. A woman fallen so deep, so low in-
"lIy lose forB elem is mysaferrnard," said to aduttery. murder and henad~esnes, can
aim', "ta t wo woman w l ever capture rise n more, except God's pun         ,
my         ..ne, omever, aaempts mightily pain, disease, porerty or misery awaken her
to eagquer it. and bis neu is Salome. He. fran the horrid slumber.  She  iwes in
o' we ma     deaed sister"             wealso nsid rabadame. r          dby
"She is aaadserons woman," said Ill the Ixuries and pleasure of a esmt, her
hi.                                       cnsc e i deafened daly by a sa  f in.-
S~i  a denna  Warer esi her soul' tershangisng haiarti. It would bes   - a.
Himm ailee. "I knwe thl Iis ini 'sill mer, indeed, s umdeons as the dakmasif
ums, se is iBe lwment sil tt ie 'court of d  gw    in the Eed N, sa   ab  d
Remed   Themest Moody cabls soi trencit- reea hers em nd fed alamne andel  ee

OE JliLLBL AND HEaErO,.                          79
about her past conduct ; and wanders are  " Besides God, only the three monsters
not wrought every day. D'dst thou do any- and their accomplices know it," Elvira re-
thing there, which should have prompted sponded. "S.bion laments so loudly and
her to so suddea and unnatural a change of :genuline p;ternally, the disappearaneeof Sts
mind ?"                                tJNLY child, that any intuitive mind must
Simon answered this question in the neg- deeypher his guilt at the first glance. I
ative, and Hillel continued, "Then believe went to the Queen and told her all I knew,
me, either that lubrie and voluptuous we- -and her indignatio is unlimited. She has
wan lusts after thy youth and manly beau- immediately issued orders to all officers in
ty, or she intends t- destroy thee, and there- the city and country; but I am afraid it is
fore she feigns repentance.-Thou just bast in vain, Helen is somewhere, where the
told me of Salome's crimes, tell me also, does Queen's power has an end.'
she know of thy knowledge of them?"      Simon regained his pressnee of mind. lie
When Simon affirmed also this Hillel con- looked about himself as the lion before he
tinned, "And still thou believest her sincere ? rushes to the deadly combat. "And if they
still thou supposest she does not intend to have sent her to the end of the world," he
ruin thee? Be wise, my son, and beware roared, "I will find her. And if the shield
of the fallen woman, who must hate thee of Judah Maccabee protects the perpetra-
violently on account of thy knowledge of tors, Ishldl dash it in pieces and punish
her crisess"                          them for their outrages, their satanic crimes.
"Does Hillel live here ?" was beard out- We s all measure our strength in a few
side, and in a few moments the door open- short days, either i crush them, or the arn
ed and Elvira, dressed as a boy, as we have of the people, the hand of justice shall over-
sees her before the Sanhedrin, came in, and reach them and
having bowed respectfully before the old man,  "Not so hasty, young man, not so despeu=
she said to Simon, " I must see you alone. ate,~~ flillel said. slowly. _ "Do not speak
"I have no secret before my father," was what thou knowest not yet to be in thy pow-
the answer,                            er to do."
'Well then, I will speak, said Elvira.   I only see my power in all this," said
"When you scarcely was out of the gate, Simon, ..they are afraid the assassinating
Helen came to me, she was irritated, shock- scheme will enrage lierod against deem,
ed,  I never saw her before. I inquired and they remove the two witnesses Helen
after the cause, and she told me, how she and the Greek out of their way. The on-
secosted her father in an unguarded me- slaught to arrest the Greek failed., and I am
meat, and eslled him to account for all the Helen's' patron, I will bring her back to an-
wrongs he had committed, especially being  ie her monstrous father.-She wold
concerned in the assassinating scheme. The revt believe me, how wilked and mtost aus
thre good feature, Sabion, Vast4aarus and  e is, she defended hieu, advocated his eaue.
Alone met sad accused each other of the +,iere, poer maiden, now she must sf-
mo   shocking crimes and treacheries, in ier for it, for her flil lore and een dane."
pence of Helen, who gave free atteranee -Here, he suddenly stopped, turned slowly
to the disgust she felt, until her father vio. to Eivira, grasped her hand and asked is a
lady pushed her out of the room, when hollow tone, " Ei rira, is she not dead ?"
she  me to me. 1 trembled for her safety  "1 know sot," she miA despoodedy, "I
and advised her to tee instanly to Jerieho, believe not, tat the father  sald murdr
bat shesIuss. Ineer left her, for 1 fear- his own child."
el me ot. Toward evening she was eall-   'I know that le is capable of the wonty"
edt th e Qaea, and since then l have seen Simoen said, slowly, and looked sae hsis fa-
her s. marc."                         ther, i. whae canntenasp he .nppend#
"Whmcsis she?" Simes asked almost pa- read as ehrmuti of the hae S
ralyznd with surprise and aprh  -ia     "IMess me, sg father, thst~mgstre4*fah


80                     TilE COMBtAT o:
not," Simon cried. Hillel' laid his hands
upon his'head and said, solemnly, "God
givth and God taketh away, the name of
the Lord be praised."
C CHAPTER        VIii.
THE DECISION oP THE PEOPLE.
East of the Jordan river, opposite Jericho,
Mount Nebo looks down upon the plain of
Moab, and tells the glorious story of Israel's
victories under the lead of Moses, the last
days of that giant of antiquity, his death
and mysterious burial. There is a cave in
Mount Nebo, in which the prophets held
their secret councils, when the Kings of Is-
rael or Judah went astray; in that cave the
prophet Elija was hid, and the people sur-
rounded it with a thousand marvelous sto-
ries. The cave after many windings, as-
cends and descends, leads to a valley thro'
which the Zered passes, a valley almost in-
aceessible from any other point, as the Ze-
red winds its way to it through perpendiou-
lar rocks and narrow arches, and leaves it
In the same manner. Thealm trees which
crowd the fertile valley of a perpetual
spring gave shelter and food to many fugi-
tives. It was the principal place of meet
ing for secret bodies. It was, therefore,
called the valley of Zanaim, or the.humble.
Many a solitary wanderer at that day bent
his steps toward Nebo, some riding on as-
ses, while others walked slowly over the
plain with rude staffs in their hands. At
she mysterious cave a fire burnt, around
which some fantastical shepherds danced
Whenever a stranger appeared. Then they
would ask him, " Whence comet thou and
whither doest thou go ?" If the stranger
answered, "I come from the mountains and
go to the valley," they would continue ask-
4' lad what seekest thou inthe valley?'
stranger answered, "-Light," and ad-
1it " Nena," which are the initials of
t     RWbrw verse, "The light of the Lofd
is he soul of man," the shepherdsuwould
" to stay, add whenever a party was
oldes'id 'eke&amp;tbrck 'adi ead
-se. n~dsidd mn
esIe                         tisnte

F THE Paort.E,
same questions which Simon and Jonathan
were asked on entering the secret hall un-
f der the Temple of Jerusalem. The answers
being correct they were given another lead-
er to the valley of Zanaim. But if the an-
swers could not be given they were led in-
to a branch of the cave, where they were in-
structed in the secrete and sworn to support
the revolution.
The valley was soon filled with a large
number of bearded men, upon whose coun-
tenances a solemn earnestness was enthron-
ed. They stood or laid together in groups,
and conversed on serious topics.
"Hark! Jonathan ben Usiei speaks," said
some. "He w'as in Alexandra and knows a
great many new things." The crowd con-
gregated around the speaker, who gave a
full description of the grand preparations
making by A ntony to meet the armies of
Octavius. He said that Cleopatra promis-
ed, none should interfere with the people of
Jericho as long as it was under her protec-
tion. She issued orders to give effect to her
words. "She also promised her aid and co-
operation in case of revolution against He-
rod whom she hates violently. But all this
is of no particular consequence to us, "Jon-
athan continued, " for if Cleopatra aids us
she will long after the land of Judah, and
Antony will give it to her, if he is the only
lord of the Roman empire. What pirot is
it to us to serve Cleopatra instead of le-
rod?"
" First let us dethrone Herod," some of
the crowd vociferated, " then let us talk of
the intentions of Cleopatra."
" So it is," said Jonathan, " we are strong
enough to dethrone our tyrant. If An-
tony is victorious, Cleopatra will prevent
him at least from supporting Herod. If Oo-
tavius is the hero of &amp; e day, we have noth-
lag to fear of him; for Herod supports An-
thy: Cleopatra is a woman and resides in
Egypt, she can not be as dangerous to us as
Hetpd is. -Besides this she promises-as to
interfere ,With our laws and religion. Cleo-
p   .trapan bibe dethroned In Jedih at
jan opportune time Her beauty Is her pow-
ertid this wilt sobta fade, then we are agai.
independent"

Otd lliLLEL AND   E oD.                        SI
"We need not wait so long," one ejacula-( "6 The King shall have no right to inte'
ted. " First dethrone Herod, Cleopatra ist fere with the dispensation of justice; nor
not fit to govern Judah, she will soon learn shall he be accountable tn the Sanhedrin.
this and let its alone."                But all his officers shall be subject to the
"Let us have a plan of action," said Aka- law.
hiah ben Mehalalel, " understood by every   "7. None in Israel shall be prohibited to
leader, and let us agree here to act accord- speak, write or teach what he thinbs ?ro-
ingly.' The sages and scribes of Jericho per. None of them shall be accountable to
have agreed upon a plan ; let us examine'it any other than the legal authorities. None
first. Simon ben Hillel is commissioned by shall be'punished for any crime except a
them to infirm you of their scheme of ac- Sanhedrin so ordains. None shall be obli-
tian."                                 ged to go to any foreign land except the
Simon Bien Hillel appeared before the pee- Sanhedrin commands it.
pie, and after having communicated hia ex-  "If Herod agrees to these stipulations,we
periences at the court of Herod, and having swear him the oath of allegiance to be Pa-
given expression to the hopes, to reform He- ered and inviolable, as long as he faithfully
rod and banish his present courtiers and adheres to these points. If he refuses,the re-
officers, he continued, "The wise men of Je volution is an act of necessity and at be,
rioho abiding by the decision of the people's carried into effect, notwithstanding the pre.
council at Jerusalem propose to extend the cius blood that will flow.
time of operation to the Passah week. They ,'Let all be prepared for the Passah
desire Herod to agree and swear to the fol- week, let the thousands of Israel come to
lowing points:                          Jerusalem with their pasehal lambs and be
"1. He must banish from this county all ready for action at any moment's notie.
his courtiers, officers, servants and spies,and rea  aco w t  hn men s    beei
Abby hu      ihhscosnmnwl eI
fill the vacant offices with faithful Pharasees. the hall under ' the Temple. At a given sig-
such as are known to the Sandedrin as aati-ta. nal they will break forth through the secret
be men and friends of the people.r -   entrance, take possession of the Temple-andi
" 2. The present Sanhedri of Jerusalem appeal to the people. Then let every man
to be dissolved and a new one formed under  r              a         veryisan
the presidency of Hillel and Menahem. The Abba Shaul will, make the per prosra.
members of the new Sanhedrin-are written  bbn to  wi thu  e aprp     e p ef-
down  n  is srol whih Ihandyouforlions. to this purpose and appoIe  the ublef"
down on this scroll, which I hand you for ttins of the different divisions. If at that
3. The Sanhedrin must be fully reinsta- time Antony is lord of iteu, we aspi
ted in its functions and powers as the lawsforoe Herod to aocept our terms and oasi
of Israel ordain.                       Antony to withdraw forever allRfimat trgs
"4. Nne oral befrom our territory, [ut If Octavias is lord
"4. None shall be entitled to fill the oficee     ry             ,_..    1

of a judge in Israel, unless he has obtained
this right from the superior officers of the
Sanhedrin.  The people shall elect their
judges from the candidates so qualifed, and
none shall interfere with them. The lower
Sanhedrin shall till its. vacancies from an g
the judges so elected by the people. The
highest 8anhocjrimr shall till its vaaaoeies
from among the most promidet members
of the lower 8auhedrln, without interfere
do of the King.
"5. The deisfons ad laws ot the Sanhet
drin shall be supreme without any other
sanction.
11

of Rome ierod and his ol0eers shaltbe 5i
ed before the new Sanhedrin and  ennihed
according to the mandates of ouat  , #.1a
this case the Sanhedrin shall he permesient
and supreree, util the people hay
upon a government and carried It I
A shout of joy, rewsebliung $
oataraOt, re ndedu     l a  rfe lg
Powerful was she ;ape'*ow
sneataieus ie(,ete andr
was .e p      e4                      ISti
66st Wku89 aal


THE COMB1AT oF TIlE P E3LE,
Iillel," one askc,'"when we know him to  " Why should you have Hillel as your
be no friend of 'he people, but an admirer Nassi of the Sanhedrin," urged one of the
of   red ?'"                           Shamaites, "when you know the man's hu-
"lie was but is no more an admirer of mility and softness of character?  If we
Kered," Jonathan said. "Ever since he is have a republic, that man with his excellent
'o4iesioei '-o the atrocious murder of his virtues would exactly suit to watch over the
'own son, he knows the true character of dispensation of justice, especially as he has
'lieyod. Besides, it is well known, that Me- no ambition, not the least desire after wealth,
iahem and Shamai are the heads of the Es dt the remotest aspiration to appear to his
senses and of a powerful faction among our neighbor any better than he is. Yes, if we
students. One of them must be elevated to have the republic again, Hillel is our best
honor and high dignity to satisfy the rest.-man to preside over the Sanhedrin. But if
Menahem is preferable to Shamnai, being Israel remain a monarchy under Herod with
of a milder disposition and sweeter temper hig iron will and intriguing ways, will Hillel
than the former. Also among the Sanhe- be firm enough to protect the interests of ls -
dirin there are, besides Shamai, many prom- rael ? Would not Shamai be the best man
inept Essenees, especially as they are well to oppose Ierod, t) holI him within the
apqupinted with therapeutics, demonology limits of the lawT Shamai's energy and
and the kindred sciences, which a Sanhe- firmness of will, connected with his eminent
drink must know, as you are all-aware."  piety and excellent virtues, would be a bar-
"Why should we grae   pardon to He- rier to our rights insurmountable to ierol
rod," another asked, "if the revolution be or any other ambitious tyrant. Reflect well
victorious, in ease Antony regain the lord on this point, it isethe most important of the
of Rome"
"Because we are not prepared to fight the programme exposed to your consideration."
Roman legions," said Abba Shaul, "but we  Akabiah ben Mehalalel responded prompt-
can force Herod to subscribe to our terms, ly. "I appreciate the philosophy of my
and send the Roman legion from the coun- neighbor.  The highest virtues make the
try. As long as the dispensation of justice best man of a republic, and the best man
is in our power our rights and liberties are must preside over the Sanhedrin. But in a
aeguied, and Herod can not wrong us. This monarchy where the interests of the people
is the main point in the contest."     must be guarded against the encroachments
" We want to King, we need no King at of a grasping ruler, determination, boldness,
aj," several of them vociferated. "As long firmness of will and purpose must be added
as1Iael lisd a King, there was no end of to the other virtues, to befit a man to the
"g4aaiongi misfortunes. If we are victo- highest civil office in the country. Let any
rious let'us have the republic again. We man come and say, he has discovered a weak
are capable of self-govertunent, we need no trait in Hillel's character, unless he calls
guardian. Down forever with the King; goodness or deliberation a weakness. My
the Sanhedrin and the judge, as in days of neighbor agrees with me, that Hillel is the
yore, sai govern the nation."         best Nassi of a republic we could find. 'I
" Sone of us wants a King," Simon re- will prove, that he is also the bent man for
spended; "but every one of us is convinced that office in a monarchy. First, I must tell
thlit we must have one if' Antony is the lord him a story. A pagan had seen the High-
of Rome; it must be either Herod or leo- priest in his official attire.  He went in-
,-' If IHerod'swears to our terms he is stantly to Shamai and desired him to be re-
prfarable to Cleopatra, because he is a ceived in the covenant of Abraham, provi-
a.n and a heroic warrior. With Oleopatra ded thatho might become Hignest. Sha-
at ont headywe are a dependency of (Egypt, mal indignant at the ambitisse motives of the
setwith herw are the (6il of Rome. II pagan, drove him out of his room. The pa-
Qtheiis vi'otorids we -ate free of our gan went to Hillel and stated his request'.
tytmiat, and may carry out all, our wishes." 'Sit down my son, study the Law, I will ass

t

OR- HIL.rEA, AND HEROD.-                      M
gist thee, and decide thyself, whether thy re- no prophets and no Vierm and Thuminfiany
quest can be granted,' said Hillel. The pa- aore in Israel, God reveals His will thgh
gan studied the Law diligently and became the voice of the people, is his doctrine., He
daily more delighted with its wisdom and pays obedience to the will of the people, if
purity. When he arrived at the passage, they require no wickedness of him, for is
' And the stranger who comes nigh (the al- this latter case God has spoken, 'Thou shalt
tar) shall be put to death,' he asked Hillel, not follow the multitude to wickedness;' God
'does this law also refer to the Israelite?'- has forewarned us, not to listen to the voie
'To every man who is not a son of Aaron,' of prophets, who preach against the Law of
Hillel replied.--' I do not wish to be -better God, 'For the Lord your God trietb you to
than Hillel,' said the pagan, and he became a wit whether you love the Lord your God
pious Israelite. Hillel's humility and kind- with all your heart and all your sot"'
ness opened to the inconsiderate man the  The decision of the council was anani=
gates to the kingdom of heaven, which Sha- mous in favor of Hillel and Menahem. - AI.
main's rashness barred before him. Place' so the rest of the programme was adopted
Shamai in a juxtaposition to Ierod, and with the exception-of one clause. Jonathan
they will quarrel perpetually. Let Hillel ben Uziel, and with him a great many oth-
occupy the same position, and he will mas ers, defended their opinion, in case Antony
ter any despot by wisdom, goodness and become the sole master of Rome, Cleopatra
mild words. He is the man to meet Ie- was preferable to Herod. The arguments
rod."                                 fon both sides were so wise, that the coun-
" With due deference to the excellencies eil could arrive at no decision.  Here a
of the learned Shamai," said .Jonathan ben messenger from Jerusalem was announced.
Uziel, " it must nevertheless be admitted, The man stepped in the midst of the coun-
that Hillel is the favorite of the whole peo- cil, and annouseing himself as a messenger
ple, and every man is convinced he will de of Babah ben Butah, he informed theme
fend our rights at any risk and hazard, as that Herod in battle utterly discomfitted
there is nothing in this world which could the King of Arabia, and now pursues him
bribe or delude him, for he wants nothing. to his very capital. This gave another turn
The bread he eats and the garment-he puts to the deliberations. A shout of enthusi-
on are barely enough to sustain a beggar. astic and patriotic applause .inadvertently
Wisdom and knowledge former the aim of his burst forth from the multitude. The victo-
existence. Virtue and kindness are parts rious arms of Israel, the proud lion of Ju-
of his nature with which he can as little dah, the triumphant warriors of Jacob were
part as with his hands or his legs. The so loudly and enthusiastically applauded,
Nassi of Israel is our representative, the that even Abba Shaul thundered forth his
depositary and bearer of Israel's laws and admiration and joy:
traditions. This is Hillel, and Hillel only.  When the noise subsided, Abba Shaul
Deny it who can. But if none can deny it, said, "If we must have a King, let us have
the question is decided, the greatest man a man who is capable to lead our armies,
niust be our Nassi."                   protect our country, and maintain the hon-
"'There is a time to do for the Lord, they or of oui warriors. If Providence decrees
set aside Thy Law,' said the Psalmist," one that we must have a King, let it be Herod,
called fror. the crowd.               if he swears to our terms."
" Read it right," said Akabiah, "' This is  A thunder of enthusiastic applause was
the time to do for the. Lord, they have set the response of the multitude, and this point
aside Thy Law."'                       was so decided. Abba Shaul having ap-
"Are you sure, that Hillel will accept this pointed his captains and subaltern ooeers,
high dignity ?" another asked. 'the men from the different parts of the oomn,
" None asked him," said Jonathan, " but try were instructed to prepare their *elgh-
we all know his doctrine. Since there are bors for the outbreak of the revolution, let -


$4                     Tuax COBAT OF Tau!Eotr.x,
bem eoae to Jerusalem the week before   The Temple, its numerous cloisters and
Path feast, where plenty of arms would spacious courts, filled rapidly with myriads
be in store for them, and at the first appeal of worshippers from all parts of the eastern
frost the Temple let every man do his duty. lands. The Roman and Grecian costumes,
Thenth.' council adjourned to meet again the wide and white cloak of the Egyptian,
in the subterranean hall of the Temple, Sun- the Persian parti-colorey tunic and gold em-
day night before the Passover.         broidered girdle, the turban, brass helmet
"Abba Shaul, where is Helen?" Simon and scarlet cap with gold tassels, variegated
asked, when they went back to Jericho. A the wailing ocean of human beings. The
sigh, deep and painful wrung from his bo- luxury and gaiety of the orient, contrasted
sam, when he asked this question.      with the simplicity of the Essences and Ga-
"I can not tell yet," said Abba Shaul. lilean peasant, the solemnity reflected on
"Sabion has a private house, now almost every countenance, the silence reigning su-
a eastle in the valley of Sharon, separated preme among the innumerable multitude in-
from the next town by a thicket of Syca- terrupjted only by the occasional strains of
mores.  There he lived for months with sacred music resound ing from an invisible
Salome alone and undisturbed. If she lives, chorus, renflred the se.ne grand and sub-
she might be there. I will go there and lime.
see. You shall hear of me in Jerusalenm." ilerod, Mariamne, the royal family in
"And if she is not there ?" Simon asked the state vestments, preceded by a guard of
in a melancholy tone.                  honor, surrounded by the courtiers, in their
"Then may God help her and console rich costumes, and followed by the Sanhe-
you,"-said Abba Shaul, "then I fear for her drink, the highest dignitaries of the state and
life."                                 the city, the delegations from Rome, Ath-
Simon did not speak one word more that ens, Alexandriaand Babylon, and another
day. He returned to Jericho panting af guard of honor closing the grand procession
tor the consoling word of his pious father. j--entered the court of the Temple. The
There, indeed, there he found the balm of people gave room to the approaching digni-
consolation, as such a father can distil into taries; but none saluted them with a word
the wounded heart of a wise and beloved or mien, for here a higher than a mortal
son.                                  King resided, He before whom all men are
--                     equal, because all are His children. Every

DAY OF ATONEMENT.
The streets and lanes of Jerusalem were
thronged with people at an early hour of,
the morning. A checkered line of human
beings floated through' the avenues, and
rose like gigantic and variegated columns
to Mount Mioriah, where the morning dawn
was greeted with the powerful and harmo-
nious accords of the levitioal chorus and
orchestra. The Hallelujah of the mighty
chorus was borne aloft to the blue vault of
heaven, on the wings of harmonious music,
in which the powerful notes of the trumpet,
cornet, and drum were blended with sweet
* sounds of the flute, the cymbal, harp and
eytrum. Solemnly these currents of mu-
sic re-echoed in the colossal dome, greeted
and invited the thousands of pilgrims who
hatuned toward the sacred spot.

look followed the stately procession, buit
none spoke or bowed.
But when the Highpriest appeared in the
white, sacerdotal vestments of the day, and
approached the sacrifice between the UNam
and the altar, a sacred awe appeared to
electrify the multitude. The chorus and
orchestra were silent, the myriads of wor-
shippers presented a smooth sea untouched
by the wings of the wind, the Highpriest
laid his hand on the head of the sacrifice
and confessing his sins he implored God's
pardon with a loud and sonorous voice, con-
eluding with the scriptural passage, "For
this day I will be appeased unto you to pu-
rify you from all your sins before God,"
here he stopped abruptly;. for as he pro-
nounced the ineffable name of the Lord of
the universe, all the people from the Kipg

.'

OR hILLL AND IHEROD.         -85
to the humble peasant, priest and layman, ple thronged around him to congratulate
men and women, fell down upon their knees, hin, shake his hand or kiss the -bordersof
prostrated themselves in the dust before the his cloak.
Lord of Hosts, each repented his sins and  All rejoiced, every heart appeared fired
transgressions, and worshipped the God of' with delight and gladness, except one, and
grace and unlimited mercy. The thousand- this one was Mariamne, the Queen. She
fold Hallelujahs which now resounded from could  not help remnemebering when her
the levitical chorus, aceonpnied by the grand-father, her uncle, and last her youth-
thunder of trumpets and warbling flutes, ful and admired brother filled that place of
melting gradually into the soft piano of the high honor, which now an obscure etran-
harps-.appeared to announce the pardon of ter occupied. And these reflections on the
God to Israel, seemed to be a greeting voice side of Herod, of whom she was sure he was
from heaven to his children.  When the the murderer of his brother, were the more
people slowly rose the lighpriest with his dreadful and tormenting.  All others re-
hand stretched forth to bless the people joined, but her'eyes were filled with ears,
finished the biblical sentiment, " Ye shall tears of sadness.
he purified," and the multitude in an awful  Meenwhile the grand procession formed,
chorus exclaimed, "Praised for ever and to escort the Tighpriest home to his palace.
ever be the glorious name of Israel's Majes- The man with the ram having left for the
ty on high."  Then the Highpriest conclu- mountain of Azazel, under the salutations
ded, " And Thou extend thy mercy to the and congratulations of the priests, the pro-
congregation of Jeshurun."              session. commenced to move out of the courts
Thrice was this solemn scene repeated. of the Temple. A herald proclaimed, " Thy
The Hlighpriest confessed his sins, the sins sins, Israel, are forgiven, the Highpriest-ye-
of his tribe, and the sins of Israel. During turns to his house. Come, come, do honor
the intervals priests and people sung solemn to the man of God," The descendants of
psalms. But when, after the last confession, the different royal houses of Israel, followed
the Highpriest with the censer of burning by the descendants of David, headed the
intense entered the sanctum sanctorum, a si- procession. The Davidians also had a her-,
lent awe rested upon the multitude, and ev- ald who exclaimed, "Do honor to the house
ery one yielded to the devotions of his heart. of David." Then came the Levites and
Every knee was bent, all hands folded and Priests.  The Chiefs of the former were
every head dropped in prayer and silent dressed in blue silk, and- the chiefs of the
iueditations Then the liighpriest appeared latter were dressed in white silk.  Next
again on the steps of the Temple. His sal- came all the singers and musicians in three
emn words, "Rise Israel. from the dust, God divisions, first the vocalists, next the band
thy Redeemer liveth, lie forgives'sin, ir.iqui- with stringed instruments and last the
ty and transgression," rushed like an elec- orchestra with the trumpets, cornets and
trio stream  through the thousand hearts. Irums. Behind them the sentinels of the
All rose suddenly and the most unbounded Temple-gates, the artists and garrison tol-
enthusiasm broke forth in joyous hymns, in lowed. Next came the treasprers and the
harmonious shouts of happiness and sacred key-bearers. The first division of the pro-
delight. The trumpets, comets and drums cession was followed by the King,' his court
thundered forth the enthusiasm of the-thou- and body guards.  After them came the
sand happy hearts and vied in delightful Sanhedrin followed by one hundred costa-
excbllency with 'the power of the people's bles, hearing silver axes, as an emblm, of
voice, the sweetness of the flutes and harps, their office. They preceded the Higbpriest..
and the notes of the thousand singers in the who was surrounded by the oldest priets
levitical chorus. When the Highpriest had who were followed by the a~uthorities~and
blessed the people and changed the white guards of the city, and the naultitu.depf st
for the usual vestments of his office, the peo- people who chose to follow. The rich men ~


86                     Tn, COMBAT OF TE PnoPr.s,
of Jerualem were dressed in white silk, and arms were ornamented with wreaths of
rede on -white asses and bore white was flowers, blossoms, myrtle and vine leaves,
tapers in their hands.                 which to wind tastefully was a pai'ticulae
As theprocession moved through the city skill of the oriental women
the win&amp;'ws were brilliantly illuminated Early in the morning the young women
and deserted with versicolored banners. left the city in different groups with their
Theeams of music and song were drowned harps, tambarines, cystrums and flutes and
by the powerful voice of the people's enthu- went to a vine-crowned hill, followed by the
atasm, meeting and saluting the returning young men. Arrived on the hills, they sang,
igheriest, and giving free vent to its feel- played and danced in their peculiar style.
i gs as the different divisions passed. Also Forming a group opposite the young men
greensend hisses were beard sometimes amid they sung somewhat like this:
the sheers. " Where is the old King?" sever-  " Rejoice in the grace of God who pours
at shouted at different spots when th, King the Balm of Gilead into the wounded heart.
and his court passed; for the old King, the This is the Day of Atonement. God par-
grand-father of Mariamne was not among dons sins and iniquity; he eradicates Is-
the courtiers. Angry looks and angry words rael's transgressions from the -book of ev-
followed. The officers attempted to arrest erlasting memory. The ,Highpriest enters
some, but it was impossible to do it in the the most sacred apartment, approaches the
dense crowd. "This is not oua Sanhedrin," seat of mercy, and behold God is nigh.
was the cry at some other places, heard in Thy sins, 0 Israel! are forgiven, thy God
the midst of the cheers.  This is not oua looks graciously down upon thee. So strike
Highpriest," some few had the courage to the timbrel, let resound the sweet accords
remark, but were silenced by their neigh- of Judah's harp, proclaim the grace and
bore. The efforts of the officers to silence loving kindness of our God."
the people were in vain, the crowd was too  Then again they played and danced.
dense and unmanageable. The sacredness When again they formed into a group the
of the day was a sufficient guarantee to young men answered in about the follow-
all, that no disturbances would take place. ing words: " he daughter of Israel in hcr
The procession, indeed, moved on without white garb, the fngst symbol of innocence,
ny disturbance, to the palace of the High- praises the grace of our God, heralds the
priest, where the Nassi gave him a golden forgiveness of sin to .Judah's happy sons.
tablet bearing the inscription, "I, Onias, the The heart revives, silent are the sigh;s, joy
figh riest, conducted the sacred eeremo- divinely fills the soul. Shoutglory and joy
nis in the Temple of the Lord, the Day of to the majesty on high. thy sins are forgiv-
Atonement, 3659 years after the creation.' en, thy guilt is forgotten. How pure and
Then she great banquet in the palace of the fair, how beauteous anti dear are GoM's ther-
Highpriest concluded the festivities of the aids of pardon to Israel's sons."
dlay,                                   Then the young men danced andt when
Otherwise the Day of Atonement was cel- they halted again the maidens responded
ebrated in the Synagogues of the Essenees somewhat to this effect: " Look not upon
Iud also otherwise in the Synagogues of the beauty, turn thy eye from female charms.
'harasees. But altogether different the day Beauty like roses fales, the luster of the
was spent on the hills aniI mountains, in the eye like star-light vanishes. A- generous
vineyards and olive-gardens. The daugh- heart with noble virtues adorned like the
ters of Israel borrowed white garments of precious stones on the Iiighpriest's shield,
each other, so as not to put to shame those emanates a light sift an." pleasing, a light
who bad none. AU of them, the princess no that never diams. A soul free from guilt is
tess than the daughter of the humblest citi- a sun that never sets. TIhe heart of woman
sen; were dressed in borrowed white garbs. is a temple of God. Love is the highpriest,
NJo Jewels were worn this day, also on ac- forbearance prepares the sacrifice, innocenee
wount of those who had none. iead, neck is the light that burns on the golden ean"

-1

'O ILE.L AND HERoD.                     87

diestick, affection is the incense rising from
the golden altar to the Lord of Hosts. Look
not upon beauty, turn thy eye from female
charms, look upon the heart, the soul, the
family."
-So the day was spent until the signal was
given from the Temple roof, that the High-
priest left the Temple, when the different
groups and companies returned with song
and music to the city.
Simon and Jonathan went the whole day
from one public place to another, to as-
certain something of Helen's whereabouts.
But in vain, they had discovered no trace,
not even the remotest idea of her place of
existence could be formed. But Jonathan
had seen Elvira'in woman's dress. She ap-
peared so beautiful to him, that he could
not help thinking of her all day. They had
returned to the city. Jonathan went to the
place which Simon had told him to choose,
and Simon went to the palace to see Herod.
Arrived at the palace, Simon was request-
ed to appear instantly before the Queen.
This was a welcome opportunity to him, as'
he expected to learn something about Helen.
He repaired to the Queen's apartment with-
out delay. He was admitted without cere
mony. When he stepped into the brightly
illuminated saloon and cast a shy look on
the great and beautiful woman in the flow-
ing white robe, who received him standing,
a model statue of a model artiot--when his
look met the large black eyes of the Queen
staring obliquely on him, he inadvertently
knelt down before the majestic daughter of
the Asmoneans.
"Rise and stand erect," said Mariamne,
" none must bend his knee before a mortal
being. This homage is due to God only."
Simon rose and looked firmly into the
countenance of the Queen. There wm a
pride and a self-conscious majesty in that
countenance, softened by features of the
most tender goodness, which he had
never observed before. "You are the im-
age of God, my gracious Queen," said Si-
mon in a fascinating tone, "I adore the
Creator in His most perfect'likeness."
The Queen smiled on remarking, "is thisn
the language of the stern Esene or of th
courtieri "

" It is neither," Simon replied, quickly ;
" for truth is not in the extremes."
"Then let Hillel's son speak to me in his
honest, free manner," said the Queen, while
resuming a seat. "I know shit you have
been my savior, when Herod suspected me
of treachery. Elvira, in the anguish of her
soul when Helen was lost, told me more
than I expected. 1 know of your laudable
affection for Helen, her unlimited love for*
you, and the part you played with Sablon.
I am in possession of his ring. Henee an
open' and frank conversation will do good
to both of us. I must first apprise you of
two facts. I can not find Helen, notwitht
stand the most diligent search all over or
domains. Yet I do not despair of eserying;
her prison. The second fact is, that my-
good, unpretending and harmless grand fa-.
ther, the venerable old King and highpriest,.
the man of a thousand misfortunes-is ac-.
cused of treachery, of a secret correspond-.
ence with the King of Arabia, Hered, on
returning from the seat of war, begged par-
don of me in a most fervent eloquence,-beg
ged me to forgive him the error of accusing
me of treachery. But he told me, that he
is certain, he holds the evidence in his
hands, that my good, old grand-father, who
suffered so much, in this world, the hoary
King and highpriest, held a treacherous cor-
respondence with the King of Arabia. 1
beseeched, I implored his,, not to bqeiee,
it; but be insisted upon it, and swor. that
tlie matter should be laid before A. i anhe-.
drin "--
"Then he is lost," Simon, asterruptedj
" for the whole Sanhedrin saq.s tUe reatuges.
of the King, and the presi4pg offier'sare.
weak and pliaWe men."
"O, do not say so, yospg marp" t ceQueen.
lamented, ". I can not bpar the idea. ff he.
is lost, I can not liv .  can not outlive
this sad and cruel injupgee'sanctioned by
the Sanhedrin of lsraeL, Devise measto
save him, and let me finl the means to Ree-
cue Helen. Young men) Helen for my
old grand-fath , If she is beyond the, de..
sertsis the diggtant Giimania 1 WJ Red,
her, and return, her to yip. Deringempa
to says my grppd-fatheI will love yeu a


88                     Tax COMBAT OF THE PiOPLE,
any brother, the savior of my family. My friend, and recommended you highly to my
wealth is yours, your wishes shall be mine. particular attention."
You have risked your life to save mine, do,  "Still I must request you, noble lady,"
not stop at a work half done, devise means'said Simon, " not to speak favorably of me
to save ivy grand-father."             to your royal consort. I have good reasons
"I know not, my gracious Queen, that I to prefer this humble request to you."
have the power to devise such means," said  Mariamne blushed. " Do you speak of
tSiwon; "but, if I have, no promises are Baruch ben Menahewn?" she asked some-
negessary to prompt me. ' Who saves one, what perplexed.
.human life has observed the whole Laws of  I know that Salone's intrigues killed
(od,' say our sages. This is enough of pro- him," said Simon, "I fear no intrigues.
unise, y sufficient reward to ins. ro prevent There are certain things of which ignor-
so hideous a crime, so burning a shame to
. . ance is bliss. My gracious Queen, I beg
rest upon, our country, is a stimulus which this favor of you, do not speak favorably of
must prompt every patriot to risk his life.  .
Whatever my humble abilities allow I shall me in presence of your royal consort.
u p p v"pI do not understandyo"saidisari.
eIeerfullydo. But, my gracious Queen, [Hel                   you,"
e0Q where is Holed ? I can not think, am amne, "you hide a terrible secret in your
incapable to concentrate my thoughts on bosom, it appars.-But I do not wish to
any subject."                          know it. I have full confidence in your
" Therefore I tell you, let me have the honesty of purpose, and promise you to be
care and pleasing duty, to find Helen," said careful with my words, when speaking of
the Queen. "Let my grand-father be your you in the presence of Herod."
only thought, and entrust your love to my  Simon bowed, designating his intention
care." The Queen extended her hand to Si- to leave; but the Queen askea him, " Have
won, "Give me your hand and your word," you seen Salome since you returned from
said she, imploringly, "that you will do so." your journey ?"
"Icean not," said Simon, " 1 can not prom-  "Not yet, my noble lady," he answered,
ise, my gracious lady, that which I am not "I suspect her of co operation in the abdue-
certain of performing.  I can not master tion of Helen, and determined upon not see-,
my affections, they have dominion o-er my lg her before I am certain of it."
thoughts. I think of Helen, when I wake,  This gave no satisfaction to Mariamne,
I dream of her when I sleep. My soul is she could not discover Simon's secret; still
engulphed in the wounds of my heart. I a knowledge thereof appeared important to
can not yet think. But 1 promise you, my her. She attempted sveratiines to learn
noble Queen, that I will attempt, manfully something of Simon, but in vain, he was
will I attempt to do my duty, to regain mute on this point, and answered every
dominion over myself. I will honestly at- question with so much frankness, that the
tempt to devise means; but I can promise Queen caine to the conclusion, that noth-
nothing."                             ing could be learned of him, and dismissed
"I am satisfied," said the Queen. "When- him with tokens of kindness and particular,
ever you desire to communicate with rne, grace.
you are the Kin's body physician, you may  Simon thought this was a proper time to
at any time enll on me."               see Herod. He was at the highpriest's ban-
" I thank you, my gracious lady," said quet, wine and hilarity may have rendered
Simon; " but at the same time I must beg him more communicative than usual. He
you to remember, that Herod dislikes "  went to th  ing's reception room where he
" He *as delighted to hear of me, that met Sabioh. Without returning his com-
you did not speak to me of his suspicion," plimients, Simon said, in a tone of bitter sar-
said the Queen. " He called you the most easm, " The great Sabion watches at the
iagrIght ia of his acquaintance. He said King's door that he be not abducted, like
you, mndre than all, were capable to be a his only daughter."

On HILLELL   nI HERoD.                         89
" What means this, my lord?" Sabion ask  "My lord, you are again misinformed,'
ed, somewhat perplexed.                said Simon ; "in regard to Helen, you are
"It means the ring, you understand, Cleo- decidedly misinformed."
patra's ring, which you sent me through your  "Again misinformed!" Herod ejaculated.
daughter. It means the assassin's dagger "Who misinformed me?"
which you and Castobarus sent me after-  "lHe who told you Helen run away with
wards. It means that Helen and the ruffi- her lover," said Simon. "I know this affair
an, my witnesses, must be disposed of in much better."
the best possible way," said Simon.  "It  "Her own father, sir, her own father says
means nothing of importance, only plain so," said Herod. "Must not I believe what
things. You know how easy it is to ab the father says of his daughter?"
duct, to assassinate an individual, and you,. "If the father is not Sabion," Simon re-
faithful man, watch at the King's door, that sponlded, dryly.
no harm befall him. 0 you are an honest  "You are no friend of Sabion," said He-
servant."                              rod, "the much more cautious should you be
Observing the embarrassment of Sabion, with your words."
Simon continued. "It was very wise and   Simon bowed reverently; then he said,
truly paternal of you, that you sent Helen " My lord, what is my sin or transgression,
away from this court to a quiet country that I am attacked by an assassin in your
place, so that her young heart be not in- very palace ?"
fected with the reigning vices of the court.  Ilerod looked surprised on Simon, who
You are not only a faithful servant, but al-c ontinued, "I was attacked by a paid asuas-
so a kind father."                     sin, and Helen is my witness; therefore Hel.
"I do not understand a word of what you en disappeared."
say," Sabion ejaculated. "You are terrible  " Have you an idea of him who hired the
in your accusation-"                   assassin ?" Herod asked.
Here the door of t  King's saloon was  "1 have no mere idea, but the positive
opened and Herod c led out, " Is not this knowledge,.that Sabion and Castobarus hi--
the voice of Aurion ?"  Simon bowed re- red the assassin," said Simon. "Their foul
spectfully, and Herod invited him to step play being discovered, Helen was removed
in the saloon,                         to some unknown place, and the- assassin
" I am very happy to congratulate you, was arrested in Jericho by order of the San-
my lord," said Simon, " on your glorious hedrin, through the servants of Sabion, ac-
victory over your enemies."            cuzed of the murder of Baruch ben Mena-
"And why is Aurion so late with his con- hem. That was done to get the second wit-
gratulation ?" Herod asked.            ness out of the way. But there is yet a
"I returned to the city but yesterday," third witness in existence, whom they forgot
said Simon. "To day, being Day of Atone- to silence, and this is Salome, my lord's
meant, I could not have the pleasure to do own sister, she has knowledge of the whole
my duty."                              scheme."
"And where were you so long ?" Herod   "Is it possible! Nay, it is certain, slaves,
inquired,                              yes slaves are cowards, and cowards hire as-
"I went after the witnesses to prove my sassins," Herod cried. "Scandalous, the fa-
report," said Simon. .                 there brings his own daughter into ill repute,
"Is proved already," Herod said, hastily. to cover his shame; and I, how unhappy a
"The Queen is innocent. The conspiracy man is a King, and I must entrust my hon-
in the valley of Hinom was a product of Sa- or, my life into the hands of such slaves.
bion's imagination, and his daughter, who Curse on royalty, it needs slaves. Vile in-
then attempted and failed to run away with strumnents, despicable and disgusting, are no-
her lover, succeeded after all; for gone she cessary to protect thrones. -Curse on royal-
is, and the old father knows not whither." ty, for the crown must perpetually be watch-


90                    Tr C(uSAt oF TEE PEOLR,
ed by unmauly spies. The sword, ha, ha, my is my force, and my spies are my all see-
ha, the sword I Ah, enemies can be chas- ing eye. You can not expect a spy to be
tised with the sword ; but nations must be an upright man, how can you marvel at Sa-
governed with prudence, that is with spies, bion, that he is a rogue, if he is the chief of
soulless tools, saleable hirelings, passionate the spies ? But they shall not molest you.
cowards, who report every secret thought, You have my royal word, none shall molest
every-word to the King, that the royal mas- you."
ter sleep not too well, dream not too sweet  "Do not.speak of me, my lord, speak first
and know his dependence on his own slaves, of yourself," said Simon. "Your armies and
Curse on royalty, for Kings must be the ser- your spies are insufficient to protect you, as
vants of their own slaves.'-Herod run fast long as you change not your system of gov.
up and down the room, gnashed with his ernment. It is a grand mistake of rulers to
teeth, cramped his fists, and his eyes rolled imagine themselves wiser than the people.
wildly in their sockets. "But it is a great All men know all things, but spies know
satisfaction to be a King." he continued, af- very little, and to suit their masters they
ter awhile, "and 1 can not be King without mubt fabricate dangerous plots which they
those slaves, those despicable creatures. I discovered, schemes and conspiracies which
can not lose Sabien nor Castobarus, they only they can defeat, an obstinacy and re-
are my chief spies. But they shall give you bellious spirit which can be governed by
satisfaction.'                         their shrewdness only. In fact, however,
"Not I, but the offended majesty of jus- they only render themselves and their mas-
tices demands satisfaction," Simon replied. ters odious in the eight of the people, and
" But here is the mistake, my lord. You the people is made suspicious in the estima-
curse royalty, because you misapprehend its tion of its ruler. They destroy that mutual
mission and duties. Cast away the eurse confidence and regard which makes nations
attending royalty, cast out the devils of your happy and Kings enviable. My lord, this
court, let justice govern, and be governed is the true picture of things. A nation of
by it yourself, and you need neither slaves republicans, as you call yours, gifted with
nor spies."                            strong passions, a fanatic zeal, an acute in-
Herod laughed violently, when Simon was tellect, a reckless bravery, with whom reli-
done. "Do you know this nation of republi- gion and liberty are synonymous terms, bids
cans, young man?" Hered asked with much defiance to your armies and laughs at the
emphasis. "Do you think a-people with the sagacity of your spies. Whenever your sys-
strongest passions and a cutting and dissec- tem of government will bear too heavy on
ting intellect can be governed by good words your people, they will break the yoke, be
and sweet sentiments? Are you informed sure they will break the chains, and then it
of the idiexible character of the Pharasees, will be too late for you to listen to the ad-
with whom religion and liberty are synony- vice of better men than your courtiers."-
mnous terms? Are you acquainted with the  The emphasis which Simon laid upon his
fanatic zeal of that party, their reckless and words and the uncommon animation of his
self-denying bravery, when they see only a voice roused the suspicion of Herod. He
glimpse of hope to establish their delusive scrutinized him with his shrewd and piere-
.-orm of popular government? Ah, you do ing looks, on asking him, " How do you
,ot know the people. None can rule them know all this ?" a
*erwise than with an iron rod; they sub-  "By the little wisdom God has been pleas-
ait to superior force only. If they detect ed to grant me," said Simon, "and by daily
the least weakness in the government, they experience. Or should sagacious Herod not
are eure to overthrow it by laying hold on have heard to-day the groans of a dissatisfied
-ta weak point with a remarkable shrewd- people? Should his spies not have inform-
aesssand power. Crushipg force and an all- ed him that, notwithstanding the saeredness
waiing eye alone can govern them. My ar- of the day, some of the people exclaimed,

On  ILLEL AND flERoD.                        91
This is not our lighpriest'-'This is not member it, this evening concluding the Day
our Sanhedrin'-' Where is the old King'- of Atonement,t [caution 7ou against your-
and similar exclamations of their dissatis- self and your vile friends.'
faction? But if they should not have told  " Are you my friend ?" Herod asked.
you, I do."                              " No 1" Simon responded, promptly, "ty-
" Carpenters, tanners, sandal makers, rants have no friends, want none, and de-
wood sawars, and other such rebels," said serve none. They may be feared but not
Herod. " Who cares for such brainless fel- loved; they may strike terror into the
lows."                                 hearts, but can not inspire them with noble
" They have the fists and the bold hearts, affections; self-interest, fear, vain ambition
Sire, to strike the blow, after the scheme is may procure slaves for them, but no friend.
ripe for execution," said Simon. " A na- There again is your error, you flatter your-
tion of such an intellectual superiority, as self one on earth might love you, when you
you say yours is, has plenty of men, to make know well enough, that you can love none.
good schemes. They must have the very Poor Herod, who loves none is loved by
rebels of whom you speak, and these very none."
rebels have hearts to feel when they are  "Therefore I must rule, therefore I must
wronged; but they seldom speak, they most be aKing," said Herod. "You speak against
always act.  The words of those carpen- yourself. If I can not govern by terror, by
ters, tanners, &amp;c., arc the echo of a pride so love I can certainly not; for none loves me.
wounded, an ambition so depreciated, and a If 1 show them less rigor, the very cowards
consciousness so disregarded, that even they will turn lions, you say yourself, and tear
feel and utter it."                    first myself. Their groans do not disturb
"Induction, nothing but induction," said me. Let them bow down to their lord and
Herod. "Ten of my soldiers are sufficient King and be happy. Their exclamations do
to fight one hundred 'of them."        not frighten me, I am prepared for all even-
"You are not sure, however, that your tualities. Let them hate one, but they must
soldiers will kill their own fathers, brothers obey me. Obedience is a virtue which is a
and friends," said Simon. "You are not stranger to a large number of my people;
sure that you can send ten soldiers to fight terror teaches them this duty of a loyal sub-
every hundred rebels, that might rise against ject. You are a physician and a wise man,
you. You are not positive, that ten soldiers but you would be a poor King. But lot us
will fight one hundred agitated and despsr- speak of another topic. Where have you
ate men. A man in a moment of passion,Ibeen all this time?"
when he fights for his rights, hi~s family, his "Among your enemies, Sire," said Simon,
.country, is no coward. His blows are heavy, dryy, "a place where you never go, still are
his sword is sharp. You are mistaken in always there. I heard them speak as they
the nature of man. He who is submissive feel, and you never do. Still it is true, that
to servility when his passions slumber, be- we must learn our deficiencies and demerits
comes a lion, a bloodthirsty tiger, when his of our enemies."
passions are aroused. He who suffers wrong,  "Aurion, Aurion, yourwords are too bold,"
because he can not help himself, becomes said Herod, rebukingly. "Cunningness and
dowardish, malicious and servile. Give him deception also sometimes assume the mask
a spark of hope, and vengeance, the venom- of plump honesty. If you go among my en-
ofis passion of vengeance, renders him at emies, are you not one of them ?"
once a giant, a reckless and fearless hero. "Can I go among your friends, where are
Such is the fact of human nature, no induc- they ?" Simon asked. "I act the friend to
tions.- Those groans of to-day which fell you, that is more than your courtiers do,
on my ears, not only are the expression of and, therefore, I went to your enemies, I
suffering wrong but of a determination to mean to those who speak, in order to .ere#s
avenge it. -I caution you, Herod, against you with plqin trush, such as you ras#e~
your spies and your system of slavery. Re hear. No wonder that flerod, suerroM

*


9                      TuE COMBAT OF THE. 'PEoPts,
bgvile servants, sees a rogue in every man, not a traitor, and wish not to turn one, I
hU  e not always in the right place, But must leave you. Forget not, 1 have your
you sent me to Jericho, to bring Hillel and royal word, that under four eyes we are
Abba Shaul before you, and there your en- equals.  My moral feelings.are so much
emies speak. But I shall not deprive you of wounded, I feel the Deity himself so wick-
your sleep to night by telling you what they edly outraged by your impious words, that
say                                    I can stay no longer. Once I thought, I can
" Nor do I wish to know it," Herod said. reform Hlerod, and it was a pleasing idea--
"Did you also hear of a conspiracy there, a but here I stand ashamed and corrected.
meeting somewhere near Mount Nebo ?" Your wickedness is incurable."
"I did, Sire," said Simon, slowly. " But  " Let a thousand thunderbolts crush thy
you do not call the thing by the right name. infamous tongue," Herod raged.
'he.dissatisfied portion of your people met  "God hears not the curses of the wick-
soroewhere in the desert, to be unmolested, ed," Simon replied.
stated their complaints, and devised means  " Forget not, young' man, that you are in
to ameliorate their condition. There is nei- my power," Herod continued, furiously. "I
there plot, conspiracy nor secrecy about this might forget my royal word, and you are
in Jericho. -Your spies, desirous to make lost."
themselves important in your eyes, undoubt- ."You are lost, irrevocably lost," Simon
edly speak of' shrewd conspiracies which said. "I am not in your power. Provi-
they discovered."                      dence watches over the messengers of truth."
"And why did you not apprise me of the  ,"1 will prove you this is a lie," Herod
fact?" Herod asked.                    cried, and with a dagger in his hand he
"Because you do not wish to know what quickly advanced toward Simon, who tore
your enemies say," Simon responded. "j the clothes from his breast, and with a lion's
am not hired as a spy. 1 speak and act from power cried, "Strike the fatal blow if you
a free impulse."                       dare!"  Like marble statues, the two men
"To morrow, I will hear it," said Herod. stood opposite each other, each eyeing the
" I am tired. To morrow, I must hear you. other with looks of fire. "You are a man,
One word more. What do you wish to prove I swear by the living God," said Herod,
by those two men from Jericho ?"       "not a feature of your countenance chang-
" That Sabion is guilty of adultery, mur- ed, not an idea of fear in your face. Auri-
der and high treason," said Simon. -   on, your confidence in truth is great. The
Then I do not wish to see them." said trial was hard, but you stood it manfully.
Herod. "I know the crimes of Sabion, but It is not your life 1 want, but I wished to
Z also know his usefulness."           read in your heart, and I have read in it
"Then I will go and tell those men to my own condemnation. Go! serious and
return to Jericho and say, there is no jus stern disciple of truth, and remember, if
tiee in Israel," Simon said ; " tell them any thou canst not be Herod's friend, he will al-
crime is pardonable if the perpetrator is ways be thine  To morrow, more. Good
useful to Ilerod, or only understands the night to you."
art to make him believe so."             When Simon had left the saloon of He.
" Yes, yes, tell them Herod reigns in Is. rod he met Sabion again. "I told the King,
rael," he said; "and the greatest crime is that your daughter did not run away with
not to obey him."                      her lover. Next week by this time your
" I will," said Simon.  " Farewell, my spies must be able to tell where she is.
lord."                                 You hear, my lord,--next week. I know
"Stay,traitor," TIerod thundered. "None you will oblige me." Without waiting for
date, leave this saloon without my permis. an answer Simon went away. He was ac.-
uson" ,costed by the servants of Saleo.e who told
"'If I was a traitor, I would be Hierod's him, that she wished to see him immediate-.
tvritel' Simon responded. '9 ut as I am ly. lie hesitated for a moment, but then

I

On Hir.r.r. A  IIEROn.                       9.
he followed the servant to the apartment of your accusation before the Kir' and he re-
the princess who received him with distin- moved your witnesses. His daughter Helen
guishing kindness, and smilingly rebuked is gone, none knows whither, and the Greek
him for his long absence.              ruffian is arrested in Jericho for the murder
"I love the blossoming carpet of nature," of Baruch ben Menahem. Be cautious, said
said Simon, ' the orchards studded with gold- the young man, every step of yours is watch.
en fruit, the vine-covered hills on the side o: ed. Then he went away without satisfying
silvery streamlets. I love to hear the con- my curiosity as'to his name or position."
cert of merry birds, the bleating of the lamb, "Do you believe all this?" Salome asked.
and the whistle of the wind when it plays  "It is not all, I believe," said Simon, ear-
musingly with the verdant leaves. I love nestl. "I know, that you yourself, my 1p-
all this, and still better do 1 love the pee- dy, directed my attention to Helen ; hence
ple with their rosy cheeks, black eyes from an understanding to this esect must have
which health, happiness, courage and inno- existed between you and Sabion. I know
cence speak in open and amiable mien. I that Helen, in an unguarded moment, spoke
feel so happy and satisfied among the pure too much in presence of her father, Casto-
children of nature, that I could always be bars and yourself, my lady, so that her fa-
with them."                            there forcibly ejected her from the room.
"Your description, sir, makes them de- This violence was the voice of a revolting
lightful," said Saleme, "although naturally heart with which the father presumptuous-
they would not appear so to me. But tell ly played. You took it to be love. Was it
me, what did you see and hear whilst roam- not so, my lady ? Helen must be put out
ing over the land? I like to listen to your of the way, thought Sabion and Castobarus,
descriptions, they are charming indeed."  not to betray their villanies, and you gladly
" When walking one sultry day in the consented to it. Is it not so, my lady? You
dark shade of a palm grove near Jericho," must know it best, and I beg you to tell me
said Simon, "yielding to the amusing rever- the truth in this matter."
ies of a playful fantasy, I was approached " What do you care for that girl ?" Sa-
by a tender lad, whose fantastic costume lome asked. "You told me, you can not
and piercing looks attracted my attention. love, hence that girl can have no interest
To my surprise he called me by name and! for you."
invited me to sit down by his side. I did "She has much interest for me," said Si-
so. ie told me a story without an intro. mon.  I must prove by. her, that Sabion
duction, which I must repeat to'you, my la- and Castobarus hired a ruffian to assassinate
dy; you might give me an interpretation to mg. It is with her, that I must prove sever-
the waking dream."                     al other villanies of those two men, whom
" am all ear for you," said Salome.  t am determined to expose.b  will and I
"Sabion, said he, has bad tricks in his head! must know where she is; but as I believe
against you," Simon continued. "First he you could tell me, and I wish to know you
wanted to catch you in his net by the love upright and honest, I come to ask you.
of his only daughter. le gave her a ring, Your jealousy which cooperated in this
even the ring of Cleopatra, as a token of his matter, you must comprehend, my lady, is
wish, that she should love and marry you. too flattering to myself, that I should not be
But when he discovered your intimacy with inclined to look on it with much pleasure,
Salome, and saw you rise steadily in the as a proof of your love. But truth, my Ia.
King's favor, he became so jealous and so dy, I expect of you stern and unexeeption-
apprehensive, that his crimes be exposed to able truth. This is the eve concluding the
the King and the people, that he resorted, in Day of Atonement. ,To day you~ and all le-
company with Castobarus, to the foul means rael expected the remIssion of sins. You,
of assassinating you. But this failed and so my lady, if it was true what you toI4 ee
the evil had grown worse. Now he dreads last, especially must 'nave expected to.4c


94                     THE COMBAT OP THE PEOPLE,
the grace efrour God. Will you this very demption of fferod from the clutches of the
night soil your soul with a lie?  Where is devil. Whether you assist me or not, Sa-
Helen, my lady ?"                  -    ion will fall, and Helen will be found to
A painful pause ensued. Salome's looks testify before the King against her'own fa-
were east to the floor. Simon, standling be- ther. But it is not Herod alone, I am anx-
fore her, eyed her with the firm determina- ious to serve, it is also you, my lady, to
tion, not to let her escape by any trick.Jwh $my best will is devoted. Sabion, the
Neither of them appeared to be inclined to witness of your shame, the man who pos-
speak another word. Salome, observing the sesses the dreadful secret, that might ruin
painful silence must be broken, stammered you-must be banished to a foreign land, to
in a perplexed tone, "Speak, sir, what else some distant province of the Roman empire,
have you to tell me ?"                to a solitary island. He must be deposed
"I have spoken," said Simon, in a tone and deported so suddenly and unexpected-
which penetrated every recess of Salome's ly, thr-t his words can not injure you. This
heart. Finally, she broke the silence by man gone, and you will again breathe free-
accents of acute pain, "I can not, I dare ly, the crushing weight of guilt and crime
not betray Sabion. Fettered by the chains will be moved from your head, and you will
of vice to his fate, I dare not offer my as- commence a new life, a life over which the
sistance to his ruin. In his fall he will ex- purest angels will rejoice, and make you for.
pose me-and I am lost."                get its ignominious part. Remember the
" Ah, is it thus, my lady," Simon said, hour of repentance, and the promises you
"are you still kept in the bondage of vice made me. Forget not the delight, the infi-
and corruption? Then allow me to leave nite pleasure you felt, when you thought
you, and weep a tear for the hapless daugh- your sins were forgiven, the past was drown-
ter of Antipater who, thus deeply sunk in ed in oblivion. Salome, first be true and
the mire of vice can rise no more. I dream- faithful to yourself!"
ed a glorious dream, 1 hoped to see you re- "And will you then love me, be mine, on-
stored to virtue and happiness; but your ly mine?" she asked in a passionate tone.
evil demon says, it shall not be, and no " Do tell me, I prithee, can you assure ae,
man is stronger than fate. Once, and if it that then''-
should be in the moment of death, once you  "Where is Helen, my witness? Shall Sa-
will remember the hour when I offered you bion fall and be banished ?" Simon inter-
the Balm of Gilead, and you refused it; rupted.
when I offered you my assistance to break  "I am your witness," said she. "But tell
the horrid fetters which tie you to vice and me, speak, may I hope ?"
vicious men, but you would not accept it.  " First convince me, that you can love,"
This remembrance will oause more agony said Simon, "then speak of sacred affec--
to your wounded heart than all your sins. tions. As long as your honor lies in Sn-
I am done. Farewell."                  bion's hands, we are too far apart to speak
" Do you so hastily eotdemn me ?" Sa- of love. As long as you heap vice upon
lome asked. "0 do not, I prithee. If you crime, I do not, I dare not know you. You
should know the real causes of my silence, lent Sabion a helping hand to dispose of his
you would pity me. But be sure, sir, I dare own daughter, such is the fact. First you
not be-auxiliary to the fall of Sabion."  must make this good, then you must assist
" He hired a ruffian to dispose of me, he to ruin Sabion, then we will speak of love.
is my deadly foe," said Simon, "and if I can. Once more, I ask you, madam, where is Hel-
.1 will avenge myself  I will render Herod en ? Shall Sabion fall ?"
*the invaluable service of releasing him from " Tyrant, reckon not too much uponi the
is false friends. My lady, Sabion's fall, weakness of a loving woman?" she exclaim-
would be a blessmig to your royal house, ed ; " I can not, I dare not do it. I am the
and to this country. It would be the re- mother cf Sabion's children, I dare not be-

5

On IILLEL AND IlERoD.
tray him. Here is the terrible secret of a slightest move-on my part, s he throws
woman frantic with love. Go and use it, if himself upon the mercy of Herod, who has
your honor allows."                     an excuse for every crime, if the perpetrator
This emotion in the debased heart of Sa- is a useful instrument in his hands. This
lome had a violent effect on Simon. Ile was would only expose me to the anger of my
almost paralized. He changed his tone al- brother, and my children to certain death.
together, and in a compassionate manner he Herod would not have a bastard in our fai-
grasped the hand of Salome, and said, " I ily, and my children-0, 1 can not, 1 dare
honor this maternal affection in you. But not move."
why do you wish to deceive yourself and  "And you can not even tell me where
me ? If your affections for Sabion are still Helen is ?" Simon asked.
living, why do you wish to make me believe  "No, she knows the whole secret and is
that you love me ?"                    so enraged, that she would betray it," was
" 1 hate, I despise him who robbed inc of the answer.
my innocence," said Salome. " 1 am his    "IfI promise you to make her silent on
deadly enemy, with every fiber of my heart, this point, will you not tell me ?" Simon
every thought of my soul. I abhor the man asked.
who has placed the Cherub with the fia-   ""No, because it is not in your power to
ming sword between myself and the tree of silence an enraged woman," she said.
life. But I am the mother of two children  "But your terrible secret is known to two
who are known now as the offspring of hon- competent witnesses," said Simon, "two be-
est parents in Israel. My wealth and my sides me."
tears bought them an honest name. If Sa-  "You will not betray me, and the two
bion is driven to the utmost, he will betray men are dead," she replied.
the secret, and n  children, the innocent "Sabion said so, but it is not true," said
offspring of sin and crime, will be stigmati- Simon. "I saw them and knew the fact be-
zed as bastards. Do you feel the crushing fore you told me."
weight of this word, bastards, who dare not "Then he spared them as his witnesses
come in the congregation of the Lord, from to ruin me and my children, if necessary,"
whom every honest man turns with abhor- Salome lamented. " But they shall die, as
rence?  "No, no, no, do not ask of me, what sure as God lives."
I can not do, I can not expose Sabion. 1,"Do not blasphemo the MostHighSi-
in an unguarded hour, revealed all these se-mon
.ih    e    ee                     monrebuked. "I tell you they shall not
crete in the presence of Helen, therefore she die by the hands of the assassin. Is this
was sent away, that my children be no bas- y
tards."                                yur repentance ? this your idea of virtue
"I am Sabion's deadly enemy as he is Ah, my lady, let us part forever, you deoeiv-
mine," said Simon. "Your honor is placed ed me. We have entrusted each other with
at his mercy. The fate of your children terrible secrets, which each of us must eon-
is in his hands. You must eradicate one ceal in his bosom, conceal for ever."
name from your romenclature--Sabion's or  "Ihave not deceived you, I love you mad-
mine. Such is the case.   You say, you ly, passionately, as furiously, indeed, as I
love me and hate Sabion, then the choice is hate Sabion," she cried. "I can not live
easy. Depose and deport Sabion before he without your love. The secrets I entrusted
can speak, send him to a place where his to you, are the evidence of my boundless
voice can not be heard, and the right reme- love and confidence. But 1 tremble for my
dy for your malady is found. Assist me, innocent children, I turn an enraged lioness
honestly and earnestly, and I will bring it whenever danger threatens them. Rui, de-
about."                                stroy, annihilate foul, vile Sabion, if you can,
" You are mistaken in all this," said she. [ will thank you for it; but I dare not isk
"Sabion is a cunning fox and too useful to my own honor and the happiness 4gsy il-
my brother to he easily disposed of. The dren. Helen must speak no mo inhils


96                      TuE CoMBAT OF THE PEOPLE,
country, anbhe two men of whom you speak her servant came in and brought her an in-.
can save their lives by silence only."  vitation to come early this morning to Re-
Like a madman, Simon left the saloon rod in his private apartment.
of Salome, without saying one word more.
"Helen is lost," was all he could think or CH      A P TER   X.
feel. Forthe restof the night heiran about  THE CASTLE IN THE FOREST.
the park like a midnight specter, and cursed Where the southern end of the Valley of
the hour when he first set his foot in this Sharon is bounded by the softly rising hills,
royal den of vice. A thousand schemes there in the midst of a Sycamore grove was
to save Helen flashed through his excited the country seat of SIbion.  It was the
brains, but neither of them was practica place of his birth; but since he rose so high'
ble. When the morning dawned again on at court, the little cottage had given way to
Mount Moriah, it found Simon as undeci- a fine structure in the midst of a luxuriant
-ded as the night had made him. He sat park. The house was occupied by an old
like a mummy at the artesian well, and ga- steward, his wife and two children, beside
sod at the spouting stream, as though he three servants. The oldest of the two chil-
was to count its drops, when Elvira stepped dren was a girl of about sixteen to eighteen
cautiously to him and whispered "Baba ben years old, and the youngest was a lad of
Buta must see you."  Without giving him six years. The old couple were simple and
time for reflection or question, she disap- good natured peasants and appeared to know
peared.                                n1o harm.
" Yes, I must see him," Simon murmur- Besides the usual inmates of the house,
ed to himself, and lefAhe park.        which had not been visited for several years
Salome was indignant at the strange con- by its proud owner, several bearded men, of
duct of Simon. He left her without any a martial appearance, fnd some ladies of
ceremony, left her excited as she had nev delicate visages were visible about the
er seen him before. She understood him house, who apparently had no other busi-
wrong.  She believed he loved her, but ness than to while away their time with dif-
could not bear the idea of seeing the hon- ferent games. In a shadowy arbor which
or of his bride or wife in the hands of so afforded shelter against the rays of a tropic
vile a man as Sabion. " Yet you shall be sun pouring down currents of heat at the
mine," she exclaimed, several times, "in noon of the day, Helen sat with the old
defiance of every thing, you shall be mine. stewards wife, and conversed a little loud-
The world will envy me the possession of or than a whisper.,,.
such a husband. I gladly sacrifice Sabion,  "I can not by any means," said the wo-
Castobarus and ten more such vile creatures man, "convey your letter to Jericho, nor
for this young Adonis." Like Simon, she dare I do any other thing for you, against
walked her room all night to discover a pro- the express command of your father. Our
per plan, to put Sabion out of the way, with. orders are to watch you closely, and allow
out giving him time to betray her and her no stranger to see you, or communicate with.
children. Then again she embraced the! you directly or indirectly."
phantom of Simon which deluded her exci-  "Have these strict orders been explained
ted imagination, and swore to do any and to you ?" Helen asked. Why should I be
every thing for the one prize, and that prize thus buried alive in this lonely forest, where
was Simon. She did not imagine, for a mo- the hours grow into years and the days ap-
snent, that Simon cared for Helen more than pear to last an eternity? Why must I be
because she was his best witness, and the separated from all who are dear to my heart,
best instrument to ruin Sabion, To ruin and pine away in this dlark grove ? If you
him without the aid of Helen was, after all, ever reflected on this subject, tell me the
-thea in~hg, she thought. So she reflec- reason of all this and I will bear it patient-
AMd'ani'chemed till morning dawn, when ly, Blut if yoa know no more than my-fa-

'i

5

On HI.LEL   AND HEtoD.
ther's command, then believe me, I am guil- I will not complain, but do me this one fa'
ty of no crime, I suffer for no fault of mine, vor, let my friends in Jericho know where
and assist me in escaping from this place, I am, so that they bewail 'me not as among
where I see but strange and suspicious coun. the dead. I am Queen Mariamne's favorite
tenances, and every one regards me with a lady; she will search after me, through the
watchful eye. Help me, good woman, and length and breadth of the country, and be
I will be grateful to you."            sure, she will find me. Whenever I arrive
" I eut the bread of my lord Sabion,-and back at court, I will richly pay your servi-
shall obey his behests," said the woman. ces. My diamonds are worth more than
4This place is not half as lonely as it ap- ten times this house and grove. You shall
pears to you, nor the people half as bad as have half of them, if you carry this letter to
you imagine them. Be first used to there Jericho."
and soon you will find them tolerable. You  "You can not bribe an honest woman,"
speak against your own father who is a was the reply. "I gat the bread of Sabiou
great man at the King's court, and that is and obey Iis behests, because such is my
wrong of you, it is wickd. I was told the duty."
cause of your being sent hither to lead a  "Haveiyou no duty to your God, none to
solitary life; but I hav3 no reason to tell your neighbor?" Helen asked, indignantly.
you your own faults."                  "Know it, I am innocent and suffer for no
"Myfaults?" Helen saidsurprised. "Tell fault of mine. But I will bear patiently my
me what kind of faults did they invent to unfortunate lot. In Jericho, innocent peo-
sully my name? 0, 1 prithee, do tell ue, o ple weep for me, because they think I am
what misconduct am I guilty, to merit this dead. Have you no heart to sympathize
painful seclusion from my friends? If your with the pain-stricken neighbor? Have you
mouth is not sealed by the piece of bread no duty to fulfil to those who suffer inno-
which you eat, let me know what you have gently ? If you have, then do as I request
heard of  e, let me hear it, that I might you, convey this letter to Jericho."
judge."                                  "You wish to inform your lover where
"It illy becomes me to speak of the faults you are," she said, " and this is not neces-
of great Sabion's only daughter," said the sary at all. He must forget you and you
woman. "I obey his behests, because such must forget him. You are here, that all
is my duty. I eat his bread and do his communications between you and him might
work."                                 cease. None shall convey your letter, to
I am Sabion's daughter, mark," said Jericho, till your father bids so to do."
Helen, with much pathos, "I command you  '"The Queen will find me, and home I
to tell'me, what faults of mine you know." will go," said Helen. "I will have oppor.
"I know that you are a disobedient child tunity to ray you for your unshaken fideli-
who loves not her parent," the woman said, ty, which I am forced to admire."
angrily. "I know that you attempted twice  "I fear no menaces," the woman said.
to run away with your lover, a vulgar shep- "The father will protect me against all the
herd. But you were caught and restored to harm the daughter might contemplate."
your father.  N'ow you are here to improve  " Will you go down with me to the nest
your conduct, become better and wiser."  village, that I may gaze again on human
" I do tell you by the honor of a virgin countenances who are not the slaves of umy
woman, by the grave of my deceased m )th father ?" Helen asked with better earosep..
or, by the shield of the Highpriest do I as-  " No, 1 can not do that," said the womes,
sure you, all you said is a malicious inven- "it is against my orders  You must sve
tion," Helen said. "I do tell, that dirty no communications with anybody."
court intrigues required my absence and so- " Also not with your children ?'' Hlen
tal disappearance; therefore I was deluded asked, with a peculiar emphasis.
to this place, and am kept a prisoner here,  The woman looked sosewhb igisp
13


T n  CoMIAT  JTL Tuy  POg  ,g
Collecting herself, she said, " You do not and there was a commanding dignity in her
intend to seduce my children to disobedi. attitude, drew a dagger from its conceal-
enee against their own parents ?"     ment, " I plunge this steel in your coward-
"No, you need not fear that," said Helen. ly heart, if you do not leave immediately,"
" But whenever I should return to court, I she thundered. The Syrian laughed rudely,
might take care of them, and do them much and casting a contemptuous look on her, he
good." .                              left.
"They stand in need of no favors," the  " A m 1 thus sold a slave to slaves !" Hel-
woman said.                           en cried. "Oh, my God, why have I so
"1I believe:not," llelen remarked, "they wicked a father, why am I the child of a
have a mighty patron there. But I feel'so monster ?"
much sympathy for your little boy, who, The Syrian returned with several other
looks exactly like my father. When i re- ,men, and demanded the dagger of Helen.
turn I should like to take him with me."  She refused, indignantly. "'Then 1 must
The perplexity of the woman was so visi- use force," said the man, and on a given
ble, that Helen easily observed it. She con-1signal one pressed Helen in his arms, an-
tinued to tease her with the question, "Why other held her hands, and the third took
does. that boy favor my father so exactly?" her dagger. " Tie her hands," the Syrian
"I know not, surely, I know not,' the wo- commanded, andthey were tied fast. Laugh-
man stammered.                        ing loudly, all left, also did the old woman,
"But I do know," Helen said, angrily, "1I leaving Helen alone in a state of consterna-
know it, adulterous, fallen woman, why it is tion and mortification. She could not even
so. Now I understand your doggivh servi- weep. For the first time in her life she felt
tude to my father. Now I know why you the weakness of a frail woman, and the full
believe me to be a fallen woman. Go, scan- wickedness of her father.
dalous woman, my mother curses you in her  The little boy who looked so much like
grave. Your own bastard child will curse her father cane toward her from the grove,
his mother, when lie will become conscious she felt the blood rushmingr to her counten-
of, her crimes. Go, and let me see you no ance on beholding him. "Why are your
more."                                hands tied, lady ?" the little boy asked, in-
Deadly pale and quivering, the woman nocently.
stood before Helen, and stared aghast. "It  "I know not," was Helen's short reply.
is not true, so help me God, it is not true," " Shall- I untie them ?" lie asked. " Y ou
she exclaimed, pain-stricken and with a shrill can not," said Helen, "you must take the
voice. The noise attracted the attention of large slaughter knife of your father, and cut
several men who came and inquired, " What the cords."
is the matter here? What ails you ? "   The boy ran away, brought the large
"Nothing that concerns you," Helen re- slaughter knife and cut the cords. Helen's
plied, harshly. The woman also recovering hands were free again. She embraced and
from her perplexity uttered some excuse; kissed the child. " It is not thy fault, thou
but the bearded men evinced no disposition child of sin," she murmured, and kissed the
to leave. Helen bid them leave and let her, child again. "Tell none, that you did cut
alone; but the Syrian Adarmelech stammer- these cords," she said to the child, "your
id, in his broken dialect, that he would not! father would whip you "
geobeforehe knew what had happened. Hel-  The child appeared much frightened, but
;eiabid him again leave, but he refused. "1 Helen gave him a few coins which made
am here to watch you," the man said, "and him forget the cords, knife and whipping.
I will do my duty."                    Helen took the knife, retired to her apiart-
Blten felt so mortified by the ruthless ment which she kept locked for the rest of
eenduct of the rude man, that she could the day, reflecting on the sad and perilous
intanmtly, After awhile she rose,1 condition in which she was placed,

1

Iy

On lIr Lrr. AND IlERoD.                          99
Adarmelech walked through the grove     Adarmeleek looked on the gigantic man
with a man, whose rich dress was unusual before him, and after awhile he answered
in that part of the country. "Are we alone in the affirmative. "Whither do you go?"
and undisturbed here ?" the man asked.    " 1 go to Alexandria to enlist in the Ho=
" You may speak," was the reply ; when man army," said the man. " I last fought
the stranger said: "You know the reward against the Arabs, in the ranks of Herod,
that awaits you, if you do precisely as you now\ I desire to fight a few scores of Ro-
are instructed."                        mans. Dogs, cowards, they are, those Ro-
" Only one kind of reward will satisfy mans, I will teach them to fight."
me," said the Syrian, "vengeance, bloody  Adarmelech smiled about the foolish brag-
and black vengeance on Sabion.'         ;n; of the stranger. Returned to the house
"You shall hve it," said the stranger he intro luced him to his comrades. "In
" and besides this your reward shall be honor of our gnest," said Adarmelech, "let
great. Your duty now is to disgrace, de- us have the best wine from the cellar."
file the daughter of Sabion, then let her  Plenty of wine wa brought and drank so
escape and return to her father with her rapidly, that the whole company was half
despair, and let him  always see the pale drunk in a few minutes. Every body in the
and withering countenance of his disgraced house was invited, the steward, his wife and
daughter."i children were called, and every body was
.                                forced to drink. The women no less than
the Syrian asked.                       the little boy were made beastly drunk.
"It is her wish," said the stranger.   the    boyferet maden bastly drund
" I do not understand that," Adla'rmelech     refused to drink was force to o
e.aculated.  Is not h        .e St.ion' intimate When the night began to advance, a
friend?'                              violent storm swept over the plain. The
es o       t   y       s," sd      trees groaned heavily, as shaken by the
Yt es or no, jusf, as you please," said the wn.
stranger. "i'he daughter of abion is hei wid. Thick clouds overhung the horizon.
rival, and she must be ruined. - You have'Not the veice of a hym  creature was au-
seen 'the King's bodp'hysician, that young dible in the vicinity. But the drunken com-
Apoelo, te Kin's boeyca hysifan that toung pany inside sang, screamed, laughed, shout.
Apollo, he is the cause of all these troubled most hideously.  he stranger among
Salome is passionately enamored with him,eo             .nrm                g
.m.,.them appardto be the most savage. Hie
and he is supposed to he in love with Hel-    appeared   b
drunk, sung and cursed without interanis-
en. The first plan was to get her out of the so and broke one cu after the other, l.
way; but this would enrage the lover andw.
. ways upbraidi-ng Adarmelech, that he could
make the evil worse. Let her be dishonor- noe drink like a man and warrior. Still
ed, and the young physician will court het wilder and noisier the- company roared ;
no longer. Thus a double purpose is achiev- still he
ed, the romance has an end, and you are       avier grew the atmosphere, and the
avengedrom    a   s" aedo           storm had increased into a hurricane.
"It is enough," said Adarmelech. "Give  Up stairs, Helen sat on a low sofa, morti-
me the money and the letters. To morrow flied, disheartened and weeping. She ima-
she will escape, dishonored, disgraced, defi- gined the agony of Simon and Elvira, and
led, despairing, and return to her diabolic her tears flew rapidly. The howling storm,
father. I go to Egypt to enlist under thea strange muttering, sounding like distant
Roman eagle."                          thunder, and the groaning of the trees in
Adarmelech, having received what lie the grove, sounded through the dark of a
wanted, the man went away, and lie return- starless night. The rude voices of the in.
ed to the house.i ebriated multitude from below sounded to
" God bless you, brave warrior," a man' the wounded heart of Helen like a scoffing
saluted Adarmelech.. " Can you give shel- hell. Her agony gave way to the terror
ter and a morsel of bread to a tired warrn- with which time hurricane-like stozda sew'
or ?"                                  |rounded the solitary room. The  M

nI Q~i 


100                   Tai: f'o.usa r oi, THI P :oi'i.
the lower part of the house filled her soul the execution of Us iillish plan. lie sne-
with disgust.                 .eeded la carrying her to the couch, when
She sat and yielded to the most unhappy a voice well known to her sounded like thun-
reeries. She frequently clasped the long der through the dark room, "Coward, hell-
knife before her, asthough shehad an omenof ish villain, light for your life."  Adarme-
approaching danger. Again, she clasped it. lech turned round and the stranger stood
for she heard' knocking on her door. The before him with flaming eyes, varied to the
knocking was repeated and Helen's name teeth and apparently ready to grind him to
called,                               atoms. But a few clashes of the sword had
" Who comes so late at night ?" Helen been heard, when another shock of earth.
asked, with a tremulous voice.         quake threw them all on the floor  A eur-
"Open; it is Adarmeleeb," a coarse voice rent of fire issued from the troubled bosom
responded outside.                     of the earth, and lit the room for a moment.
Helen trembled on hearing the voice of   - It is Abbahaul, my s, ior," Helen en-
that rude and gigantic man, her courage ed, frantic with joy. '"Flee, immediately
failed, she was undetermined what to do. flee down to the village," Abba Shaul coim-
Again, Adarmelech knocked and threaten- manded, when both men wrestled on the
ed to break the door, if it was not opened in- floor. "I hall not leave you alone," she
stantly. Helen clasped the knife with one cried, " I rather will die with you." Adar-
hand, and a chair with the other, took a po- melech tried for help, but Abba Shaul rut
sition near the door and thus was ready to his knife through the throat of the coward.
receive the fiend. The door gave way, Ad When the drunken multitude came with
armeleoh reeled into the room, and on be- lights Adarmelech wrinced himself in lia
holding Helen in a position of defence, he l 'ood  .                ,  seized Adarmelech's sword
laughed so diabolically wild, that Helen and, with Abba Shaul, confronted the drunk-
shuddered. "Poor little thing," said he, en
"your knife and chair are no arms against ,ha            y
tIhe clash of arias re-echoed awfully from
tt man; lay them down, be amiable, capitu- the hulls of the house. They had reached
latp with honor, and I will treat you right." t.e lower floor, the fury increased on both
"You leave this room instantly,  Hi  sides. Helen had succeed in opening the
en cried, "or I will teach you the strength outer door. 'Fear not,  eleni"AbbaShaul
of a desperate woman." A slight shock ofroutedortItert  ele , bahou
earthquake was felt. Helen trembled. The roared, so that the pillars trembled, "Yoi
drunken host below burst forth in a roar of are safe.  Downt h  ilgh   re,
wild laughter, Adarmelech laughed at the and again the clash of swords was heard,
wild lau hter   Ad rmel ch  augh d  a   th  furiously  blow  fell upon  blow , curses, shouts'
threats of Helen. " You are in my power, of arsbwellnupongbowtenrse, he
beautiful Helen," said he, "and I am deter-  anger, the gnashing of the teth, the
mir.ed to enjoy the prissy of the happy o- goans of the wounded and dying and the
ment."         .                       howling storm sounded through the night
"First, I will cleave thy intoxicated head," like the awfulvoices of the condemnedin hell.
Helen cried.. Adarmelech di-ew his sword, Again a shock of earthquake, the house
adv eed upon her, laughing at her weak- trembled, was shaken to its foundation---
sess. Helen fought and screamed with all and another fearful shock, and its inmates
her strength. The chair fell from her trem- were buried under the ruins of the castle,
blind  hand, a blow of Adarmelech's sword A current of fire swept rapidly over the
broke the knife in two pieces. le clasped scene, smoke and a sulphuric smell follow-
hqr right arm, threw his right arm round ed then the silence of the graveyard pre'
her waist, lifting her up high. "You shall valed.-
not espape me," he cried, mad with passion.-
ate agitation, and dragged her toward the
eag Aothner shock of earthquake was
felt, bat It did not interrupt the fiend in

'4.

On Hiir.gR. LND IJaop.                        101
C I A P T E 1  X 1.          Hyrcan's death.  Hyrean is sighty years
Tile a    o'5 'T nhA    E RY.     old, he is known to be a quiet, mild and
The secret council in the private cabinet ofpeaeable man who loves you as well as his
Herod lasted many hours. Sabion convin- own son. The people know the numerous
ced iorod that the dissatisfied portion of blow of misfortune which fell on the head
the people prepared a heavy blow upon the of that old prince, and sympathise with him.
government; but the conspiracy was kept They know how you distinguished and hon.
so secret that it baffled detection. He fur- ored him, how you called hin your fath-
thermore convinced the King, that the revo- er and venerated him as such. His death
lutionists intended to dethrone Herod, and must produce an immense insurrection. It
dlace the old and weak iyrean on- the is inevitable "
throne, with whom the Pharisees could do is  rea   r      hw"
as they chose.He said the republican por-  Herod regarded Soliemunswith serutini-
Sthey.czing looks and replied, with immensepride,
tion of the rebels would yield to the Asmo-  I  okadrpiwthmenerd,
nean party, as Ilyrcan and no King was  Iam not afraid of my people. Hyrean
identical with theui.                  has received a present of Malehus, my dead-
This having become clear to the mind of ly foe. He intends to fly to Petra, and re-
Herod, he came to the conclusion that theurn to this country at the head of an Ara-
death of Hlyrcan would rescue him from the bianyarmy, to support the rebels. We will
dilemma, and deprive the Asmonean party prove this before the Sanhedrin, and this
of the last hope to realize their wishes. body must pronounce the sentence of death
They must then cling to Mariamne, whose ova Hyrean. We are not concerned in the
interests were too closely united with his   Thdrin.
to be dangerous to him. To all this there  he question was discussed for several
came the moral conviction, that one of the hours. Sahion was victorious. . The death
Asmoneans stood in close connection withJof the old King was resolved upon, and the
the Queen of Egypt and the King of Ara- I couns-llors of the Kin: were dismissed.
.                                     Only Sabion remained in the saloon. the
an, helie  cnderedponiae  innohent, e King clasped his hand and said to him:
and held Hyrcan responsible for the alleg- -
ed treachery.                          "Omniscient man, are you sure, that we
"Then Hyrcan must die," said Herod, af- are in possession of all the evidence we
ter a long pause. These words produced a need before the Sanhedrin?"
panic in the whole cabinet. Even the ha.  "I am, my lord," said Sabion. "The
h itual rogues who counselled him to every Arabs who brought the animals to Hyrean
wickedness, were amazed at the terrible are in our power. Threats and promises
thought, that the hoary King and high- will prompt them in communicating to the
priest, the last son of the Asmonean heroes, Stnhedrin the verbal messa ie of .the King
who just walked at the brink of the grave, of Arabia. The letter of Hyrean to Match.
should die by the hands of the executioner. us and the testimony of Dositheus must con-
A breathless silence brooded heavily upon viet'him. The captive Egyptian also will
the assembly, which was awrul also to He-do is good services."
rod. With looks of fire he regarded every  " What will the Queen say, if her grand-
man in the room, and then he said," Why father falls!" Hero( exclaimed, painfully.
are you so astonished ? I or Hyrcan maust "i apprehend the family feuds will alarm-
fall, let it be him and not me who takes ingly increase."
leave from Israel and the world."        "She will not deny her feminine natnre,"
A savage joy flashed in the countenance Isaid Sabion, with a smile on his lips. "First
of Sabion, when he said, "1Herod is Israel's'she will weep and scold, then she will point,
King," after which again a painful silence and look sullen, one week over and all is
followed. Sohemus was the only man who forgotten."
ventured to say, " My lord, an insurrection " I hope it will be so," Her'od said. " I
of the people will and must be the result of fear much less my people than tii fauily.


102                    THE CoMBAT or THE PEoPLE,
134t, Sabion, are you positive, that our evi- dies were called, Salome was conveyed to
deuce is sufficient to convict Hyrcan ?"  her room, and Simon followed.
"More than sufficient, my lord," he repli-  "This man is a magician," said Ierod,
ed, "to convince this Sanhedrin of the guilt' after the others were gone. "He is an ex-
of any man we dislike. Be of good cheer, nellent man."  Looking on Sabion, he found
my lord; I will conduct the matter to your him standing yet in a state of consternation,
entire satisfaction."                   which was so foreign to his nature, that He-
"When Hyrcan is no more, the hopes of rod asked, astonished, " What ails you ?"
his party are gone," said Herod, " and with  " I fear the worst has come to pass," said
the hope the enterprise also expires. The Sabion. "My only child,,Helen, I fear "=-
Republicans must know well that they are here lie stopt, abruptly.
unpopular in Rome, and dreaded by the Sa-  " Let me know fully what you fear," Ie-
ducees, hence can not succeed. Let Ilyr- rod bid.
can be no more, and I sit in peace on m11y  Sabion was again himself. lie hiadaready
throne. Let me have peace, and I wilJ give lie to tell. "Before I came to this session,'
it .to my people and my family." A noise he said, "Ireceived an account of my daugh-
at the door interrupted Ierod. The door ter. She absconded with one of my lord's
was hastily opened and Salome rushed 'in, officers, the Syrian Adarmeleclh. Fearing
pale, quivering, distracted and exhausted; my anger, both returned to my country sent,
she fell down on a sofa. Both ilerod and and from thence they sent mue a messenger
Sabion hastened to her assistance, and in- to pray pardon of me."
quired after the cause of her alarm, but  " And now you fear both were killed by
she could not answer till after a good while, the earthquake," 1erod inquired, "and you
when she stammered forth the words, "Sh1a- Are left a childless man; is it not so ?"  Sa-
ron "--" Earthquake " -" 'T'housands kill- bion answered in the affirmative, and Ilerod
ed."                                   continued, " le consoled, bereft father. it
Herod finally succeeded in getting out of, is better your daughter is dead than that she
her, that a et-urier arrived from the plain should tell us the stories of the assassin hi-
of Sharon,.who brought the dreadful news red to kill my body physician, and several
of an earthquake. The courier was ushered other amusing stories. Sabi'n, you are a
into his presence, and told the terrific story great liar and villain, but your head is lost
of Sharon, wherer in a few minutes about i iyou otter rtt We t? ntt'y in my own mat-
thirty thousand people were buried under ters. I know that you have gen t your daugh-
the roofs of their houses. " Also the castle ter away with A darmelech I1 know that
of Sabion lies in ruins," the courier contin- you are a scoundrel; but you are a faithful
ued, " and none of its inmates escaped."  servant. Remain so or you are lost. Now
A shrill cry escaped the lips of Salkme, go and weep for your daughter.",
while Sabion stood mummy-like before the  "One word more, my lord, and then I go,"
King, and stared aghast. It appeared that said Sabion. " I am Ilerod's most faithful
none was prepared to say one word to the servant, and his instrumitient in the execution
other. The courier was dismissed and lie- of all his plans-N:inne me the crime I have
rod called his body physician to attend to not committed on your account, and I will
Salome. Simon came. His presence exer-1 he silent. Why then do you call x-u a liar,
cised a magic influence on Salome. Invi-; villain or scoundrel?  Know it, my lord;
ting him to a seat by her side, she changed your body physician is a spy of your ene-
her visage at once, and when he extended' mies, a tool of the rebels. lie has entrap.
his hand to her, she clasped it, passionate- ped you and Salotne in his artful net, and
Jy, and rose from lher seat as Simon did. none of you observe it; therefore 1 thought
" You need rest and consolation, my Jady," best to render him harmless. I failed, and
said the physician, " I will call your ladies you set it to the account of my sins. Ihad
and tell $mem to attend to you." The Ia- I succeeded, you woul have set it to the ac-

0

"I

On HILLEL AND lH'RoD.                          103
count of my best services; for he is a spy." brother,-she will tell you her secrets, if she
"You lie again," Herod thundered,  he considers them fit for your ears."
is an unpracticed, visionary man ; but he is  "I am the King, and she would not tel
as virtuous as you are vicious. He is as me, what she nust reveal to her physician,"
useless to me as you are useful; but he is said Ierod-; " therefore I ask you."
as honest as you are roguish; he is my only  "Therefore 1 must observe profound si-
source of amusement; let him alone and lence," said Simon.
unmolested. He lacks your prudence and   "1 pray," said Ilerod.
shrewdness, but you lack his upright, bold "I have no right to grant," was the reply.
and manly conduct. He is my man, when    "I command," the King thundered.
1 wish to muse away an hour with a veraci-  "And I obey not," was the brief response.
ous man, and wo unto him, who molests my  " I will apply force," said Herod.
body physician. Now, go and weep for your  "Have you anotherdagger concealed some-
daughter."                          -"where, with which you intend to frighten a
" My lord, remember I have experience man ?"  Simon asked. " Ah, try, it with
enough to distinguish between the genuine, your Sabions and your other creatures. 1.
plain man of high virtues, and the comedian fear neither force nor violence."
who plays the honest man for a certain pur. "Because you know me to be your friend,"
pose," said Sabion, " I caution you against -said Herod smilingly
your body physician."                    " Because I know I am right," 'Simon re-
"Go and weep for your daughter," said plied
Hierod, " I must think of the hapless people  " Is my sister very sick ?" Herod inquir-
otf Sharon."  Sabion bowed and left, He- ed.
rod stared after him.. " What a contempti-  "She will recover in a few days; she is
ble fellow this is," he uttered, slowly, and not actually sick," said Simon.
after a pause he continued. " What a con-  " How is the Queen ?" Herod asked.
temptible man must I appear to him, that I  " I know not, my lord," he answered.
suffer him to be imy counsellor."  Running  " Why do you not?" lerod continued.
up and down the rooms for some time in ra-  " Because 1'have not seen her for some
pid strides, and soliloquizing unintelligible time," was the reply.
words, he rung the bell, a chamberlain en-  " Why do you neglect the Queen," said
turned. "Call my body physicians" was the lierod, "when originally you were called to
order. The man left, and Ilerod continued attend upon her ?"
running about the room half mad with agi- "Neglect a Queen?" Simon remarked.
nation. "If he also is a traitor," lie burst " A Queen is not neglected, if I do not wait
forth, "then all mankind is a nest of ser- upon her. 'Whenever she should need my
punts, a heap of' basilisks, whom to kill with services she will call mae, till then I am of
one blow is a virtue." Here Simon opened no use to her. Man's time must be applied
the door. " You have called me, my lord," usefully either to himself or to his fellow
said Simon, " called me away from the sick men."
bed of your sister. It mut, be important."  "It appears you fear the scrutinizing looks
Very important," said llerod. "First of the Queen," said Herod; "for Sabion saya
I wish to know the cause of my sister's agi- you are a spy of my enemies."
nation. The mIere information of an earth-  "Then permit me to leave you," said Si.
quake in Sharon could not excite her so vio- mon, " and command re to return no more,
lently." .my lord. Why should you have a spy about
"Your supposition is undoubtedly cor- yon? You have so many excellent friends,
rect," said Simon; " but little as it behooves Sabion, Castobarus, Sehemaus and a host of
the physician to broach the secrets of his1 others who are very faithful servaunts, wherp-
patient., still less it becomes a man to be- fore should you be encomabered byg spy, 9
tray his neighbor. You are your sister'5 dry and serious  ase who is dlstisAed


104                    THE COMBAT OP THE PEOPLE,
with your system of government, and con- then, "if be must part with everything dear
demns your doings from the beginning to jto the heart ?" He crossed his arms over
the end ? Bid me go, and I will obey."  his breast, dropped his head and walked the
"I will do so forthwith," said Herod. "I room in silent meditation, from which the
will send you away, and you shall return clash of arms woke him. A clash of arms
only on your own account. A urion, it be- in the royal palace is something so strange,
hooves Kings to be magnificently charitable. that Herod could not pass it unnoticed. He
I wish to be so, especially this time, beyond went in the direction from which the sound
all comparison with former Kings, and youlcame, until he stood before a barred door.
shall be my agent in this work of benevo- Herod drew his sword and in a few moments
lence. Go to Sharon, carry comfort and the door was broken in. To his greatest
consolation to every destitute widow and or- surprise he found Simon and Sabion in a
phan. Carry aid and support to whomsoev- deadly combat. Sabion bled from several
er needs it. Heal every wound and distil wounds, and Simon swung his sword with
healing balm in every sore, in the name and unabated fury. The King stepped between
in behalf of the King. My treasury is open the combatants and stopped them. " Mad-
to you."                               men, what do you do!" the King thunder-
Simon, overcome by this great and mag- ed., The trembling and bleedingSabion bow-
nanimous offer of the King, fell down upon ed deeply before the King; Simon made no
his knees before him and stammered his'reply.
thanks. This was a proposal too congenial " Will you speak, sir ?" the King asked
to the nature of Simon, and too highly hon- Simon, angrily.
orable, that he should not consider it a to-  "I made use of my sovereign rights," said
ken of the King's most distinguishing re- Simon. " If two Kings can not agree, and
gard and kindness. "Rise and go," said supose to be wronged by each other, they
Herod, "and when you are in Sharon let appeal to arms. We' appealed to arms to
your actions be guided entirely by your gen- settle our difficulties "
erous impulses. Be a kind benefactor to  "And so also Aurion is a weak man," said
the unfortunate of my people." .",Herod," I thought he can not thirst after
"Herod is a great King," said Simon, he vengeance. I thought justice, and nothing
understands the great art to place the right vegac.  . thuh  jutie an  ohn
hman at the right spot. Sire, you could notbut justice and virtue are his guiding stars;
c  aa . but he breathes revenge.. Go to Sharon, go.
confer on me a greater honor than this. 1All men are weak.
thank you for it. I will do honor to the mag-
nanimity and generosity of him who sends  "And why should I he betterthan a
me." "'Farewell, farewell!" said Herod, and King ?" Simon asked, proudly. "Yet 1 am
bowed Simon out of the saloon.         no worse than a King. This monster oc-
"Thank God that I have thus disposed of! casioned his own daughter, his only child,
him for several weeks," Herod soliloquized, to love me best of all men, and she did love
after Simon was gone, "and so I have none me. Scarcely had he been convinced of her
in my way, to rid myself of my last rival. af'ections.to me, when he sent her away in the
As long as that young man is about me, I silence of night and hired an assassin to slay
feel too virtuous to slay old Hyrcan"-" Hyr- the lover of his daughter. All ties of nature
can! IIyrcan ! I must be King, and thou are dissolved. The sacredness of all affec-
must die!" Herod exclaimed several times, tions is defiled. The evil demons, the envi-
running up and down the room like a mad- ous devils of the lowest hell have taken pos-
man. "Ah foolish . Aurion," he then ex- session of the human heart. He sent Jer to
claimed, "you can not govern a nation, you Sharn, to his own country set and kept her
can only be a good citizen and a happy man; a prisoner there. But ha, ha, ha, a host of
but the King of a republican nation must be,-malicious devils smile over the victory, the
a bloody and reckless despot "-" And why earthquake shook the house and buried He!-
should a man be a King," he soliloguized, en under it. I must send this monster to

./
f
{

a1 1        P

thle:?;  aldato   'getice l e dspa
dfgi ew titifii     inet $      ss$n. tbe  la n i  ai  u  :        n=
j.iee in Israel. 4But   snot all yet. mess.
This onste in human    kpe seducedthe  4 iss
wife of an honestgan, placed a ragin:dell gas adn4t1.
in her bosoas , ejosed her to the toirmes  "My fortthis s aIigly im    u
of Satan in a wounded conscie ce. Two for long mek'atio s," saidthesoldia
yro the offspring of that black crimejiiecb have assunedhathreatening aspe$.t
:C9Bt the life o ie honest husband. Tii " 'What u'ews do yo  brings ?"
fm trmedted, degraded wogen lies in, asked. "Be br#. I am agin the hji
the a.plutcbes of tiis devil, for -she fears he to hear long gtions,
zp gW posee her and her hapless children.  "TIen Ih 'fhger not begin atelf  sid
*'-,.rthquake killed those two childt-en, hey " f4 ihaveto say a gre  del. Tk
the  o mn is ravingly mad, and he laughs intggduction is the threat   as   t of
aj,$he despair of a mother, at the torment of events."
hinoewn victim. I am the avenger of four   " sgeak, man of the swor4 '
innocent beings. Give way, my lord, I must plied. "Is there no war, no eoso.*
slay the villain, that mankind be noglonger tie on hand ?"~
outraged by such an accursed ineai-nnaior, "Plenty; more than required,"' 1 8o-
of Satan. Eternal justice itself strengthens hems  Malchus, at the'g
my arm to punish the fiend. Give way, army, has appeared beyond         a
my lord, Sabion is ripe for hell."      ders, sacks, devastates and kills. They:o
"Your swords, gentlemen, I want young sengers from beyond .orda        the   g
swords," the King commanded.     Sabion of Saul, y for help. The r inowsre
obeyed, Simon hesitated.  "Your sword, in Arab , that half of our country wa  j
sir, or you are my prisoner," the King com- stroyed by the late earthquake, so the A r  x ,
manded.                                 come to take the regt,"                .   ;
"Here is my sword and my solemn pro-    " Then we will cross the J rdas and g   w
test" said Simon. " I have gpt yielded my them another defeat Herod' ten *4, n
rights to anybody."                     differently.  "Go, Se qus, giv.rte  to
"Makes no difference," said Herod. "You my captains to be readyt leave tie city to-
d notfight in my palace. I wish to know -morrow. You go with    . I follow you.
tl  wnaqni is of whom you speak."  Concentrate an army of          norh of=
otray udne,- said Simon.           the Jabok creek. We will show      e Ae
.~i~ who is the woman of whom he abs, that we a   notgead yet,
Ape4 ?"iie King thundered. "You speak      "One wor    6 nile  I go to do  ' '
ita 0*       you havesbreathed your last." ty,' said Sohemu.  a  e n
S       $, ,ion   taminered, and fell up- ient *un s     -ahe c'i     '
s      e; bfore the King.    .-nga            eerg that all -Atl.r:
S   pAsed him back with a terrible ot us o  account of you* a.-
cut       . ra y , he  9tfmy sight," he .ra- nm f  andId iplo ~
w"Ay   Ar,~ to,
y,  '             s  r it  .  t   ti A"    i r s  :'ed  4 'd s  .   I  _ I'


Te aap           'tn  PEoGI.E,
g pf 4vogrjevQusin,"said  h   "       dYog wi  eoe(orth le j  to atpge for
pi t h6 rimes of,              n,       old s oimesf   fence you fm ust grts ov6'
tiH        frendord. Riso, Sabfn, and receive my Fkedlaf-.
Va&amp;    " kg#ep     d eg iq ine quay+4uthear.a4 the same time, and-always bear
tors with o a*oweIintention.to move 'imin mind, your life is mine."
Sog   3~   way."  .abion rose and bowed reverently, as a to.
geiinterrupted  io lDing, "I un- ken.of affirmation, when the King continu-
derstn    the plot."  Walkingthe room for ed,,"Are you informed of'the state of af-
;,    l "-ne, kheastoppA  before his general fairs ?"
,          a sprio onbis Is  he said, "So-  "I am, ji lord," said Sabion, "arrap
omus, you ire pan excellent sadier, but a certain that the invasion of Malohus nd
peoort $espan, if you oanpii see through  he movements of the revolutionists stand in
this spider  b of a plot."             closa connection. The object in view is to
efoeg ,utter inability to discoer dethrone and exile you, and set Hyrcean on
any plot;n th  "occurregpes," said Sofie- the throne."
"I must defeat Malehus," said Hepud,
" said Herod. "Malehus came "let it cost my throne, my life.. None shall
with a      to restore Hyrean to the throne boast upon having attacked me without be-
But Sabiouthe most cunning man in Israel in g chastised for it. Meanwhile, two h'b-
is   t      ,of the rebelsand they .Kant jets must be accomplished. The city n.ust
X e Wem     mlim. Then 'hey want the old be kept quiet and ilyrcan must be condemn.
J;y    to appear before the people to in- ed and executed. Can you accomplish this,
the ex!mont in his favor. An in. during my absence ?"
section  itN usalem, an Arabian army   " It is a difficult task, my lord," Sabion
beyondJordab, the Romans are, Lerwise said, "but I believe I can accomplish it.
eged. The pot is well laid, but' they One thing I promise you for certain, either
)roahed it too early, that is all. Give my I carry out your wishes to the very letter,
; ers to my captains. Five thousand men or I die in your service."
and Sabion $re sufficient to keep those  "We are no:at that point yet," said Ha.
suoundre  in their mees. Go, give my or- rod. "Tell me how many men you want to
dprs."                                  keep the city quiet?"             Y
8ohemus went away, and Herod sent forth- "Five thousand soldiers, beside my secret
withior Sabien. He appeared apparently officials," said Sabion, " are sufficient.".
bentdown wih grief, and fell down on his  " And how will you proceed against Iyr-
knee before the King. " Pardon me, my can ?" was the next question. ,
k I" beprsed, " I lave brought disgrace " As soon as the first tidings of you vie-
enaylselfgad-your sist; but none knows tory over Malchus reash4heqfty," aid/" -
i0.    ,t have totd the adecret to Atari- bion, "I will have the trial of Hyrep b9r
ashe, and while  , e eileieq of gun. Reports from the seat of warr fll9u
; now;embraces the innocent off' nations and festivities celebrating yourik
aYy rimke, while God-has 8ogore- liant victories, rep io yourcharites 'ra
andha s bereftme of all my Sharoa, and accounts  m 1A    e
o       w,,etpispot feel $eqad:gehal be ubservient        q
Aladlyrcan                             llhe
-                 t~    froutpi-
S$ms.ad#a~ be                         "?jr$ {. r:Y  Thv1  '.["'e  ;   iiaypl
J $ * paMr~t1 ^' "  " ,' ,v  . fSi  r ' Su   +;.(  , 5reza"  *r

OR IIL .LEL AND ftEkOD.
they will resign in, preference of giving a . "Let.is not go from here before 4y-
verdietagainst flyrean. What- mustI do break," tier prayed, '" let us render assist-
iethle ease ?"                        - ance to4ht unfortunate creatures, buried
" Other of eers 'must be appointed forth- alive uinder yo  house. Let us return
with," said Herod, "such as will best suit and try t6 ahsist them."4
our purpose. Think of the best men."      " Not I indeed," said AbbaShaul, "ur
"I will, my lord," said Sabion.  "The shall I permit you to return to those hellish,
governor of the city, the governor of the pal- beastly hirelings. They are dead, weatesi
- ace and my treasurer will be instructed to do them no good." He seized Helen'; erin
obey you," said Ilerod. " Pirent every and dragged her forward through the frag-
conlmuication of the people with the As- meats of shattered trees and broken rooks,
moneans, also with the Queen. No harm and shefollowed reluctantly. Having reach-
shall be done to them. If my body physi- ed the end of the grove, they saw the next
clan returns from Sharon send him with a village and many others on fi. 'The shrieks
safe escort to my head quarters; but be of woe rent the air in all di etions, stil thb
careful not to do him any harm."        uttering and violence of the earthquake
Sabion was dismissed, arrangements were and the rage of the hurricane ha4 not sub-
r.ade accordingly, and in a few days the sided. Helen fell down upon her -knees and
King followed his captains to the seat of cried, "Lord, this is a picture of thg fierce
war.                                    anger. Lord, destroy them not all, sate the
'                      innocent."  Abba Shaul also appeared to be
CIH A P T E IR  XII.          overawed, for he halted a good while.ALe~
T HI EEs C A P E).  .         "Lhet us make haste," sai&amp;Ihet " the i
Dumb, terror-stricken and overawed, Helen the village we could probably be of some
looked on the terrible scene, whOn before use." They proceeded in rapid strides and
her eyes the edifice was crushed and bur- reached the next village, where consterna.
ed its inmates. She heard the terrific tion ruled supreme. The presence of mind,

S
4 ,
f
i
F
ij

shrieks, then the heavy groans, she felt the,
violent shock which threw her almost sense-'
less to the earth, she saw the pillars of fire
rising from the nether world and sweeping
over the terrible scene; but she was incapa-
ble of uttering a sound or recognizing her
position. Abba Shaul first recovered his
sense, and several times, he called Helen,
before   r-ecelve~d an answer. When fia-
ly shesave an answertie bold man grd9d
through- e dark of the night and supceg.
ing' finding Helen. "Rise and follow dij
asifast as you can," he4'aid, and raised her,
from the earth: She .trembled, could not
stand  rect and fell'again. "We are lost;
hif ygdoo  at-master yourself," =be  i  g
ing ber         i finding her ineapabi
1iefinstiaraim ~s  stsyl
gajr

the powerful voice and the natural strength
of-Abba Shaul rendered important services
to the distracted villagers. "The'sls of
Herod and his vicious accomplices bring the
punishment of the Lord on us," Abba Shaul
vociferated, and in a few minutes it re-echo
ed from every breast of the wretched men,
of'whom one lamented the loss of his.next
relatives, while another groaned with bodily
pain, a third lamented the loss of his hothj
his barn in which the provisions for leiIa.
ter were stored away, and againianothemat
dumb with grief at the, earthly remainioe
his children.
While Abba Shaul _was. engaged l4    !;
during aaslsinoe where h    ne o a
es tin g  th e  Nri    elet"  if tk.   '


TILE COM BAT OF THE PIOPL E,

ocned his eyes, and, beholding ihelen, he
sighed heavily and trembled v'atlently: He
closed and opened his eyes several times in
quick succession, and, seeing Helen always
before him, he cried with all his strength,
"Away, spirit of vengeance, and let me die
in peace."
"I am no spirit," Helen said, kindly lay-
ing her hand upon his forehead. "Can I do
nothing for you?"
Again he opened his eyes and stared at
her. Then he clasped her hand and asked
her, "Did you escape ?"
" I did, God rotected me," said Helen.-
"And Adarmelech did not succeed ?"--the
man asked, eagerly.
Helen, blushed. " How do you know the
schemes of that man ?" she inquired.
" I brought him the command from Sa
lome," the man stammered. "She insisted
upon the violation of your person. She loves
hint who loves. you. God has punished us
al. ' The eahtbquake saved you. Return
not to Jerusalem. Your ruin is inevitable.
Pray for me, I die. I am a loathsome sin-
ner." These were his last words, a few mo
ments more and he was dead. Helen shud-
dered at the gold-blooded wickedness of Sa-
lome. A chill of terror and disgust coursed
through'her blood on looking at the dead
man before her. She remembered the scene'
of scandal between her father, Salome and
(astobarus, which nearly cost her liberty
and life. She also remembered the wicked-
ness of her father, and;wretehed, mortified
ani disgusted she pressed -her hands upon,
her eyes, as though she oould prevent herself
fr'lIpoking at all the scandal and 'wicked-
ness, just passing before her agitated soul.
Two arms suddenly twined around her,
Seek apd a kiss pressed on her lips, roused!
'Hea from her reveries. It waa a female
p4ing herself closely to Helen's heart,
w #h her face buried in theboson4 of the
BOW   ned maiden. "   len, n7  beloved .
d      sweetest     n," the girl cried,
frtgt iitohdjliream,.I hve

father, I have no mother," Helen cried, "but
I have dear, beloved, faithful friends. My
Elvira, faithful soul, how did you find'your
way to this solitary village ?"
"I saw yonder monster =prepare to leave
the city," said Elvira, " and his preparations
were so secret, that I knew he must be ap-
pointed to'a wicked errand. I told it to the
Queen, she gave me leave and protection to"
pursue the chamberlain of Salome. I fol-
lowed his track unobserved, to this village.
Here I learned that he went to the country
house of your father, and intended to follow
him instantly, when the earthquake grew so
furious, that we could not leave: In the
confusion here, I heard the voice of Abba
Shaul, and he told me that you were here."
After an exchange of the fondest senti-
ments, Helen first communicated the story
of the last day. Then she spoke of the for-
mer part of her story  On coming to the
wife of the steward, Elvira interrupted her,
" Is she alsodead ?" When Helen aflirned
this, Elvira could not restrain her tears. On
inquiry df Helen she said, that the woman
was her nurse when she was quite young,
hut she remembered distinctly her kindness
and fondness of her.
There was no time left for further explana-
tion, for Abba Shaul came and urged them
both to leave, which they did instantly. El-
vira urged that all should return to Jerusa-
lem, as the Queen would protect them against
every harm. Abba Shaul, however, insisted,
that Helen should go .to Jericho, and wait
there until Simon be infornned of lier fate,
and he should tell where- she shloul4 go.-
Helen preferred the latter. Elvira vs sent
to Jerusalem with the instruction to inform
none except the Queen and Simon of Helen's
escape, and Helen;followed Abba Shaul to-
ward Jericho.
Tie sun rose that morning over a'sad and
qmnlaneholy scene. The whole pin 9fs Sha-
ron presented an awful piotmrersof "destrue-
jiion ,death and wre shed ess  $roni e  y
corner of the rich plain tghpjoi ef la4ihn-
[ tatipn sounded:4  4espaiag ,eete.  : A

and before tire evening shade again covered body of I len. " They had a fight before
the wide plain, every child repeated the ter- they were buried under these ruins," some
rifie sentence over Herod and his counsel- of the workmen exclaimed, on raising two
lors. In a few days the words -of Abba dead bodies with their swords'in their hands
Shaul, like the voice of an oracle, sounded and several wounds on their -bodies. They
from one end of the country to the other.- finally succeeded in excavating the whole bo-
And as it traveled on the rushing pinions of- dy of men as we left them that memorable
rumnor,it grew rapidly into a voice from heav- night. The combat was evident,.but Simon
en, into words spoken by terrific demons had no mind to think. of the causes. He
through the roar of the hurricane, and be- looked eagerly at every stone they removed,
cane an indisputable fact with all the oppo- and whenever a human form became visible
nents of Herod.  I t made its wdy to the he turned his eyes shily in another direction,
humble cottage of the shepherd, to the tem- fearing to see the mutilated body of Helen.
pie and the royal palace in Jerusalem, and " Females killed by the fall of the 'eiling,"
grew perpetually in its onward course.  said one of the workmen.. Simon felt that
When Simon left Jerusalem betiding his his blood suddenly stopped'its course and. a
steps toward the plain of Sharon, that voice cold perspiration forced itself through the
of accusation almost arrested his progress ; pores. "An elderly woman and a young
but his natural kindness maintained the su- one and a little boy," said another of the
periority, and he proceeded to the place of ( workmen. His words pierced Simon's heart
his destiny. Wherever he came the same like a two-edged sword. He attempted in
voice of complaint was heard. His elo- vain to move from the spot Wherehe appear-
quence was spent in vain, thousands said ed to be rooted to the ground. 'In vain did
the same words, and thousands refused to he try to direct his eyes to the group of the
accept anything of him in behalf of Herod. excavated dead. His will was not strong
Still wherever he left, the blessings of the enough to move his limbs, he was paraly-
multitude followed him. Thousands of des- zed. "And here is a man with a knife in
titute widows and orphans enjoyed the gifts his throat. They must have had a deeper-
which -he had brought them. He banished ate fight," said one of the workmen , They
want and famine from the troubled plain of brought the body so near to Simon, that he
Sharon, brought consolation to many a cheer- recognised Adarmelech, one of the infamous
less heart, and his name was soon associated tools of Sabion. He examined the knife and,
with those of the greatest benefactors in Is- recognizing it as belonging to Abba Shaul,
rael; he appeared to many a grateful heart it fell from his lands. In the most painful
to be an angel sent by God in a human form accents he then exclaimed, "He kept -his
to bring relief to the destitute and suffering. word and met with a horrible death."  Nore
None thought of Herod, few believed that of those present understood a word ofW hat
Simon was the messenger of the King.-   Simon sail. They continued digging andlre-
Some said, he was a rich man who disliked moving the ruins.
to do such charity under his own name, - It is with grief as with joy;' if the heart
therefore he said the. King sent him. 0th- is too full thereof, it becomes lndiffer ih of
era could not be caused to believe him a either. The' supposition thatA baeShu
man, they spok him to be an angel in the also found his deathifd this houselip  t
formn'of a =On                          wrelmedfthetadr      i with    :t   a
Simon had   died the ruins of Nabion@ ib1  ief,hb ie iis4ifeentli
Wiihe.    itdtears inihis eyes he odimand- 4eird bod  It waslVident tol
ed the wrkmenle had brought to removed 1I aSisl  eds eres ad:*h    u
-th e ahattierfrig niemts, aids bi tthede }  4a at .
bild~estirie&amp;  tart  t.  it     a igle       9thfLi

/

OR HILLiL AND IIEROD.

109

108g


110

Tin COMBAT OF THE FE3PLE,

tides found among the ruins were faithfully to the best advantage. Then lie found anoth-
collected and deposited in a boa. One of the erletter of the same man, informing the wo-
workmen brought s ebadle of manuscripts man that the girl is at Herod's court, in the
teSiina,bwhich he gave. to hie servartt fortittimediate vicinity of Sabioti and Salome ;
saf*ikeeping, supposing something might be but they know not that she is their daugh'.
in It to serve his own purpose. The whole ter.
hone  eing made accessible, the dead bo.  " Then one of Salome's children lives,"
dies were buried, and Simon with the work- said' Simon, " is at court, and she does not
men hastened away, from the scene of de- know it. What had Baba hben Buta to do
struction tormented by uncertainty about with this affair ?"  Everything was a mys-
the fate of Helen and Abba Shaul.       tery to him. . He looked over the other let-
iteturmued to the village, Simon was iedi- ters and 'found one of Salome's first husband
ved with the greatest enthusiasm by the in- threatening the woman with death and de-
habitants. The multitude crowded around struction,if she did not kill Salome'sehild-
him -eager to catch a glance of the distin- ren. Then he found one of Salome inform-
guished benefactor, or speak a word or two ing the woman ofthe death of Joseph, Sa-
of praise to him, while the more supersti- lome's husband. Searching among the cost-
tious portion, taking him to be a supernatu- ly things which were found in the house,heo
ral being, brought their children and prayed discovered a bracelet which he had seen on
for a blessing. The sick waited impatiently the arm of Helen, a purse and the letters of
for the marvelous physician, and not a- few recommendation for Adarmelech signed by
uttered the supposition, that the stranger Salome, directed to Mark Antony. Then he
was the Messiah, who had come to dethrone discovered a copper box which he opened
Herod and re-instate the golden age.    with difficulty. lie was not a- little surpri-
sed to find therein letters of Cleopatra to Sa-
Simon had    rhd prepared    which bion, proposing to make him the lord of Jer-
the grateful villagers had prepared for him. icho and several other cities, if he succeeded
Desiring to'rest he begged his friends to ad- in getting Herod out of the way. It appear-
mit node to his room, until lie would permit ed from the tenor of the letter that he had
it. $ifg alone he opened the bundle of agreed to do so, and a written grant signed
manuscripts and began to examine its con- by Cleopatra and sealed with the grand seal
tents. Letters to the steward's wife by Sabi- of the Egyptian kingdom laid in the same
9n forined part of the contents. A letter box.
about Helen, that she ran away twice with  o    lifted up    moments and ex-
lier lover, a sutpple shepherd, and must, there-  Simon lfeupthdouesanox
rer lovekept in close confinement, was the claimed enthusiastically, " Now, infernal
arst be repd infernal line"mn     te scoundrel, now thy doom is sealed.--How
F " ederod.   he lr o the   be- cunningly e did hide this precious parch-
 Sed, throwing the letter on the tab e  mentabut  earthquake brought it to light,"
Next hee read a correspondence between the ememere the rn of Cleoptra, which
e sm   parties about the boy, which the wto- lie remembered the ring ofCepatra,whc
me patI adopts her ownhicht      - he gave to Helen. If Helen and her uncer-
omio's hould,"ota her olilownie.  "t stain fate bad not occurred to his mind, he
thee'a~t children, where did he place would have shouted with joy. B1t "where
there s.  twoer"  bilr nerd e   p  illelen?"-" Where is Abba Shaul?" these
theother,".aofu             ete    wo   questions produced a melaohly impression
thega/ a                ot       n his mind.          f
'i;.4  pT.{",om!' ng her Y T . L P t JJ  .   'e ere Jonathan benUzielopened tbe or,
Peowe'       a              "            diotwithstanding theioudrtiitadten0of the
_Iy..ad             h e t   f i  s e t  e e ch-'
.' y  L  .     w t} ' fM. M  , f ^  ,rtheNa                     'i

K

OR I1ILLEL
where you are and whither you go. They
say you, are the Messiah, an angel, or at
least anangelic iran."
" I am grateful to Herod fir this opportu-
nity,' said Simon. " These are the greatest
days of my life. But tell me what brings
you to this place ? "
' "Baba ben Buta sends me to tell you, that
Herod, on leaving Jerusalem appointed Sabi-
on to manage his business. Sabion reigns
supreme in Jerusalem," said Jonathan; "ev-
ery honest man trembles. Such a reign of
terror never was felt in Jerusalem. Hlyrean
is accused before the Sanhedrin, in the name
of the King, of high treason. According to
o::: advice Hillel, our great teacher is his
'ounsellor, and will appear for him before
the Sanhedrin. Herod sent a written-grant,
that under no consideration should Hillel be
harmed, and after the trial he should go
back unmolested to Jericho. Although they
have no men to oppose effectually the argu-
ments of Hillel, we still apprehend fatal con-
sequences, as almost the whole Sanhedrin
consists of Herod's creatures. Still we shall
be watchful on this point. The most impor-
tant point of my mission is to inform you,
that Sabion has dispatched a body of men
to bring you to Jerusalem alive or dead.-
You are lost if you come to Jerusalem."
":l fear nothing for myself," said Simon.
" I am prepared for all eventualities. But.
my friend, laaIae you no tidings of Abba
Shaul, none of Helen?"
None,' said Jonathan with a sad look.-
"None can imagine whither Abba Shaul has
gone."
The conversation was interrupted by a
noisy dispute a Simon's door. lie opened
to ascedrtain the cause. "The men of Sabi-
on- are here," Simon remarked. "Be ready
for defence."
Bothyoung men stepped out and attempt-
ed to o the noise.. " I must see the King's
physician, "onp of :he-'trangers said. "That
e    atIf,""spid $infogt4what do you wish?"
du" o a uafllfa* 4i,-to Jerusalem. The I
ri*frecalayofrom this-mission, You ge
acusid of ,hightten, Here is the rW
we   hedt-in of .  stnal'
S   io 4  'i l he  O d_ _ . '"aa _.f't ; e _l,

AND ISROD.                         Al
and found all correct. "I am not an inhab-
itant of Jerusalem," said Simon, " that-San.
hedrin has no jurisdiction over me. I shall
lay down my commission in the hands of the
King, who entrusted me with it. At my ear-
liest convenience I will appear before the
King in his camp. You are dismissed, sir,
you have done your duty."
"Then you refuse to go with me?" the of-
ficer asked, significantly.
" You understood me right," Simon repli-
ed. Meanwhile hundreds of people had
gathered about the house, listening impa-
tiently to the conversation.
"Then it becomes my painful duty to ap-
ply force," said the officer; but seeing his
men surrounded by a dense crowd, his cour-
age failed, to assault Simon. le summoned
him again to pay obedience to the laws of
the country, but Simon insisted upon -ap-
pearing first before the King. The officer
then commanded the crowd to give way,
that he might do his duty, in arresting a
man who was accused of high treason, and
place him before the tribunal of justice.-
Hisses, groans and menaces were the replies
of the people.
Simon retired to his room. Jonathan said
to the people, " Know it, ye sons of "Abra-
ham, this is a treacherous design of Sabion,
the King's vile spy, the bloody enemy of 4s-
rael. He wants to tear your benefactor
from your midst and drag him to certain
death."
like the mutte-ing of distant thunder an
angry voice sounded from thercrowd, Itap-
peared as though the whole multitude had
burst forth in one threateningcurse. The
officer remonstrated ; but an old man step-
ped forward from the midst of the crowd
and advised the officer to leave wi  his
men, and not to.irritate the poopla to the t.
mnost
('After the King has ien so graiiouslj
disposed   sir vo. andoared fu'


112                   Taw Coxaa     o1 TUES PEOPLE,
theaingse wrath upon your heads and de'in several ambushes. Every body was rea-
tugw  ewnlve?" -tudy for action. A line of salliers arrived
"Away wish him, instantly let him bewithin sight. They were commauded bya,
gauet!" the multitude cried, nmarily.  stern voice to haL  The older asked after
T   a ooer made soya soothing remarks-the authority of the man who dared to con-
and wentJelf with his men. followed by the mand the Kinis troops, and he was told in
jsisses, cue, and grsins of the multitude- a dignified !uanly tone: "I, sir, am the mes-
Wihen Jonathan stpped into Simon's senger of the Elders of this villas and cir-
reom, he led him to the window, and, point- euit  I, the chief authority of this district
ing in a certain direction, he said to Jona- command you not to invade this villa e-
than, "Thoe men there come from the-de- The people are agitated, they stand under
tyd onstr-seat of Sabion. When they arms. Every step you g forward will cost
eoaey the tidings to that offer, that the human blood, most likely human lives. Er-
doeuments of Sabion'(nos in my hands) are eryr op of the blood thus shed will fall up-
gone, they manis return and try their utmost on your consiezne
to obtain theua. Such must be their order.  In the name of the Kinz. I eommend
Besiden this Sabion hates half work. They you and your people to desist." said the oi6-
will return to night with a strong foree to eer.  am sent hither to arrest a manwh
surprise s-"                           is accused of higb treason. and place him be-
imaouiaving shown the Eyptian eorres- fore the proper authorities. Whoever inter-
pondeuce to Joathan, the latter left the fees with me in the discharge of my duty
nm and apprised the crowd of Simon must bear the conseluences. I command
far,                                  you and your people to retire."
When the people. outide of the boue-   "The pePle w1il n  listen to viur woris,
w e informed of the probable return of the if' you sp  in the na u of the Kine;"- said
oleer wsih an increased force, they ins ant- the man.  T:e knw., that Jerun'!ew is
ly aispatched messen:ers to the neighbor- demed with innocent bbol . I e'ion you
iag vinaes,ad apprized their nei bbers of          . Y      r ,st if yeo  -
whea t  maed and what midt yet occur "he pole ar fe       -y enqe     ainst
Refines ight had set in upon the plain, an ,  and i'ur mzste. an I wdl armed. I
arml multitude surranied the house in caution you nt to advance.
which Smom tarried, and every oeappe r   "-Te yo r peope ~"ail the o  eer." am
ed to be rady for a deadly combat at any prov I  witha a ien=      c ofI mer
m     'esis utice- They hal eome so can and arms, to bring another  e over
tisei  nad feOm dierent sidei that their the pain of Shar.a. I enrmana them to
amser could atbe esiated. The hoUrs desist er seand the consequence of their mis-
of afg sdseed agy and without inter- placed rieal
mlitio. 4fhp eale began todoIt the r  "Tehen f t  ijf the Iard bedone said
tarn of the o e. umv, hewere, in   te   a  and turned t, g
e timesisaer m   t calymurant i      a     he ry re   the oeer   d"as
a        4t%sey him to Jesaem        are My prw    and my bs       'Ye. Tou bias-
the Kingan  ot
orAq                             - Go  n
me to a
skim i--] inO .sede
i    J ,,',  .','  t ,  rr'"5  ')  '  "  ; ,+il     ,~m'"  ;.ry  )m. , r
Win~Oadis~i~~aar

Oz HILLEL AND HEatoD.                          113
s"Take him!" the officer commanded.   that you live!" Simon exclaimed, enthusias-
A shrill whistle was the answer of the tieally, on approaching the warrior. "As
man who, having drawn his sword moved you live Helen is not dead."
not one inch.t A volley of arrows was show  "She waits for you in Jericho, in the
ered on the soldiers from three different house of your mother," Abba Shaul said.
sides, and with the loud cries, " Down with Simon's joy was boundless. He embra-
Herod and his hirelings ! " three different ced Abba Shaul many times.. His eyes ra-
parties stormed upon the soldiers with fur- diated with rapture. "She lives, she lives!".
ous vigor, and the man before them sudden- he burst forth. "Hear it-thoo -midnight
ly turned a military commander.        sky, hear it silvery moon, glittering stars,
Those posted at the house and in the dif-j she lives, she was not buried under yonder
ferent ambushes were not a little astonish- ruins. My God, I thank thee for this grace,
ed to see the soldiers fight, as they thought the mercy thou hast bestowed upon me.-
among themselves. Anyhow the signal was She lives, I defy Herod and his wrath, the
given and all rushed to the attack. The prayer of that angel will shield me, shield
voice of Abba Shaul was beard above all as thee, Abba Shaul, shield all Israel. Abba
he commanded his men; for none else but Shaul, you are a great man, I am your debt-
him was the man who confronted thedvan- or. I have no words of thanks good enough
being troops of the King. The combat ,was; for you. Command me to go to death for
brief and sanguinary. The soldiers were you and Iwill cheerfully obey. My indebt.
surrounded by an armed multitude. Their edness to you is so great, that I fear I most
commanding officer did not yield, but the be ungrateful."
soldiers, one after the other, threw away  "Folly, nothing but folly," said Abba
their arms with the exclamation, "No hon- Shaul. "A friend must be willing to do
eat man fights against his brothers." Abba something for a friend without expecting
Shaul summoned the officer again to yield, thanks."
but he refused.  "Better one dies than' "But how in God's name did you come
many," the gigantic man cried, and swing- here at such an opportune time?" Jonathan
ing his sword with rare vigor be cut asked.
his way through the remaining troops, and  "On bearing that Sabion is lord' in the
reached the officer who was again summon- absence of Herod, 1 knew that it must result
o':'16. field, and on refusing again, Abba so," said Abba Shaul. "I knew that bloody
Shi$gPi sword fell su heavily upon the hell man's schemes. I left Jericho .instantly to
metofheiapilier, that he fell bleeding from follow Simon. By the way, I collected a
severalwoids. Inafew minutes the King's small body of men around me. To-dayI
troops capitulated. The wounded were re- met the -messenger sent out from this vil-
moved to the houses'and the dead were pla- lage. I ascertained the whereabouts of the
bpd on'a bil, and sentinels left with them. enemy, when night set in I took my posi-
"'Mn and brethren," said Abba Shaul, to; tion, and when they came I Tas prepared
bthe p+ple, " the cup of Herod's sin is full for"them."
to its very brim. His iniquities brought  After the necessary conversation wtp had,
asery on our, country, such as our fathers the three men spoke-of the steps to be takha
mveerkngw. Now is the time to chastise nen. "Sabien must receive false report, of
the#  knt  )Oganize forthwith-into a con th's affair," was the opinion of dil.J  z
pa"rofooa       4fraharon 1untee4 t bn and severalothers were appo
ae-ehdfor 544by nestPassover "        assume     uniforms of the solde.     .
-~   K~~te~~ere dispteboe4 do sae~           o the revol gr
* a ~      m        a        b         '    ferret.       n.~b~


"h
. R
sy T '
F
I
J
c
',.  ,
i
t
re
t 'Qe.
t  r . _ +  .
+       i
4f
I^L
N
S
+  . ,
l     ~
h ",a. ,
"eV:'    .ti

114                    TnHE COMBAT OF T11U PEOPLE,
hid .the manuscripts' he had -found, that he were in lain, she refused, most unceremoi-
be convinced of the character of Sabion.- ly, to give hits any hope.
All the others remopstrated, they attempted " The King, my gracious lady, the King
to. convince Simon,'that he would expose pro aised ine your hand, in grateful remem-
1imself to almost certain death, especially brance of, my humble services," Castobarus
if Herod should learn the attack made on imprudently remarked.
his troops; but in vain, Simon insisted on  " Then goo the King and accept what he
his plan to ruin Sabion, save Herod if possi- promised you," she said, and turned from
bledad convince him of his own innocence him.
andSabion's scandalous wickedness. "I   "And you do not hear me ?'" Castobarus
can not stand it, that Herod should consid- asked.
or me a traitor. Let him kill me, but first  " Nor do I wish to see you," she replied,
be must .Confess, that I am right and he is' firmly.
wrong with his slaves."                  "And let me despair?" he continued.
The words of his friends were wasted and  "If you choose, yes," was the answer.
in' vain, Simon insisted upon going to He-  "I feel that I must venture the utmost,"
rod, notwithstanding threatening dangers. said Castobarus.
He was the first to leave the plain.     " An zing to suit yourself, when you are
" Yet he is right," said Jonathan, after gone," she replied, d :ily.
Simon was gone.   "ilerod entrusted him  Castobarus went off, Salome laughed at his
with this commission which he must appear ugly face, ill-shaped body, and coarse man-
to have used against the King. It looks too ners.-" I would not have him for my ser-
much like a breach of confidence, Simon vant," she ejaculated. "He and Aurion !-
must do as he says."                   Nature is fond of contrasts, but 1 love him
only." Again she cast a glance over the lines
C H A P  ' E    X   1 I .       she had written, and then she smiled compla-
UNEXPECTED vI SITS.          cently. "You can not escape this time," she
Salome eat before her writing desk, reading soliloquized, "You must yield, you must, be
over thbines which she had written on a mine.
nieat piece of parchment. "So, that will set "A Greek, my lady, insists upon a private
him ightj' she soliloquized. "S He is ace- interview with you," said the chamberlain,
sed of high treason, can not escape the "he says, he brings important news from tho
grasp of Sabion. He is lost if I do not help plain of Sharon."
him  But I will help him only on the one  "Admit him," she replied, hastily, "and
condition, that in his very prison we met guardithe door of the anti-room, that none
be married. He can rot escape this time..- listen"
He must become a great man, the King's   The chamberlain retired, a tall Greek was
brother-in-law." While still contenplating ushered into her presence, who bowed rev-
over her scheme, she was surprised with, a erointly, but said nothing. "Whosent you
visit by Castobarus. 'She welcomed him to me?" she asked, quickly.
coolly,nd listened, apparently absent-mind:.  " Myself," was the answer. .Peard and
# to-khis Sattering words. Castobarus con-. wi being~alken off,Sizison stood beroregbe
lyued     ir sienee toasuit himself best. He surprised lady. Salome strchdead,uanr
Ie9dh*aupon; his .knbes before her, ad arms and gan toembrace him. -
bha any ionirto hear'( .1aquestagered and .unk t        naont     e
+ i{.1 ab BaJrme J**ghed uor teozdya' "We are strangers Ii o kt dlr  d Ttr
t ler    told' him tit  ulh wghal1 remain~ so."
ib~ve'y  ngivhgEs i         "Oruel, monstrous mant " sha eiedivg-
g2tly. "For weeks past the japn                          e
E~L$1! h    ftliae W                    tOmenit Ws my yonlya

Ox HILLUL ArD HEoo.11
now--begone, air. Who told you, you to She stared about the room like a -smili,
come in?"                  -            then she struck herself with her owi  ,sts,
" My duty, madam," was the reply. "In and cursed herself and all mankind. "My
two minutes, I am done, then I shall ." own daughter dishonored, and he is gone,'
"Nay, nay, stay, I prithee I 1et me gaze were all the *ords she could utter In her
one moment longer at that heartless, still be. rage, for a long time. But finally love tri-
loved countenance," she said, anatears gush- -umphed over all other sentiments of her
ed 'from her eyes. "I am so lonely, so des-' black heart. Again her eyes glowed with
olate, so utterly forsaken and forlorn when passion and her bosom heaved violently.-
you are gone. Stay a little while longer, I "Mine he must be, let it cost half of my
prithee."                               days," she cried, "mine he must be or dien
" As you command, madam," Simon said. wretched, miserable death." Then sherang
" But now to my business. Here, I give you the bell so violently, that the chamberlaIn
the letters whicirI found. You, Sabion and came hurrying into the saloon. "The G1reek
your adeceased'husband wrote them to the who was here just now," she said, "must be
woman who was the nurse of your children, arrested forthwith and conducted to Sabion.
These, letters, in other hands, might be injn. He is a spy. Do you hear, you arrest him,
rious to you." She grasped themnagerly. or you will leave this palace forever."
"I know one important fact, to which Imust  The chamberlain left; carried the orders
call your attention. Only one of your child- of his lady to the proper office -b, and start-
ren is dead, your daughter lives."      ed off in search of the Greek.
" Speak, by the love of your own mother.  "Helen a lastard, the daughter of Salome
I entreat you, speak. What do you know of and Sabion ! It can not, it dare not be, ana-
my daughter?" she asked.               ture can not so contradict itself," was all Si-
"I ascertained beyond the shadow of a mon gpuld think, and this was almost suffi-
doubt," Simon continued, "that your daugh- cient to break his heart in agony. He reel-
ter was taken from that nurse, )laced under ed into the private apartment of Elvira, and,
the care of a man who brought her to this almost mad with excitement, he asked her,
court the first month after Hlerod had taken "How can ; reach the house of 40a ben
Jerusalem."                             Buta? he must know all about, it."  She
" Then it is Helen, and none but Helen," could not understand these words, and her
Salome exclaimed, "For she was born the questions remained unanswered. In two
same hour and in the same house where 1 minutes Simon was changed into a soldier
was confined. 0 speak, where is she ! she of the guard, with a long beard and long
is my daughter. Where, where is she?- lucks, and started off as Elvira directed
Speak, in the -name of God and his mercy, him.
speak."                                   Simon had reached the summit of Mount
Simon laughed so furiously that Salome Olive. Here he stood and gazed down up-
shuddered. ' "Adarmelech would not let her on the proud city of the greats Kings with
die before he had violated her person, as her its hundred palaces, overtowered by the gi-
unnaturalraven mother commanded," Simon gantio temple on Mount Moriah. He cast a
voierate ,;ith gnashing teeth. "Despair look upon t te picturesque eceneries uare-
in avingmadnest, satanic woman, thoz art led under his feet,,s it were. A  V "1M
ripe for bell."'                        tall of villages, towl, garden, oreas 4
gleshiteriuanudumb, Salome reclined vinrds and rito laMs
on the{ofCs,        aher eyes with both     esert stretched befortik
hrhangso' he wsg  perfectly paralysed, a4ga    p anoramasU4 lea
'that she 'eout4 ut mve her hands from her     course of h    dznQ       *ie
oyes fro    yhiule; when she again re        veia
ged dominonR over herself and iamv   j6Idengthe     n.ta4        .
hfg ans    om h~r eyes,8$afonesgata' )a tesje        '    "ikK       $


16                    TU   Cosaa eOVTHa PsOPLE,
paisgpted minstrels of the air. There he closer; considered it best to be careful with
Bsooamd gazed on one side on the proud his words. "I mean, since Sabion is the
Queen of Palestine, the inest specimen of principal man in the absence of the King,"
%sma architects; while on the other hand he mid, "it is his duty to prevent such at-
the work of the Supreme architect excited trocities; but he does not."
his admiration.                          "Permit me, my friend," said another of
"How beautiful and blessed is this land!" the company, "is not your name Aurion ?"
Simon exclaimed.  ' Nature and nature's  " My name is Simon," was the answer.
God, ar4 and industry have lavished on it  "Anyhow, I believe it is best, you return
heir costliest treasures. 0, thou art the with us to the city," said one of them to Si-
most precious jewel of all landal" Here he mon, "if your name is not Aurion, no harm
stopped abruptly, as though an evil omen shall be done you."
had crept over his soul, and casting a look "l have long been desirous," said Simon,
heavenward he cried, "God! must this beau- "to form the acquaintance.of Sabion's spies.
tiful land be the prey of ravens that feed on I see, I have now-unexpectedly the honor.
our living bodies? So beautiful a land, and I am altogether disappointed; .for you-look
so misruled by a despotic hand; so fine a like other human beings. I thought you
country, and so exposed to a system of es- must look like foxes, hungry wolves, blood-
pionage, such as God has not destined it to thirty tigers, or something like it. I am al-
bear. Land of my fathers, graves, of our togeher disappointed; for I believed you. are
prophets, I feel your woe, I weep your tears." shrewd, cunning devils, but, I see you are
Again he stopped, overpowered with painful fools, since you think I would return to Je-
emotions. "And must. thy dust be again rusalem with you."
hallowed by the blood of thy champions,"  " Makes not the slightest difference how'
he continued, after awhile with a sobbing we look or how wise we are,"'said one of the
heart, " this shall be my last essay to pre- three, " we will convey you back to Jerusa-
vent it-thea the will of the Lord be done. lem, and there-we will teach you courtesy."
Better a few of us die than all be dead.-  " And I say you will not," said Simon.--
Better our blood flows, than our liberty, our "I am going to the King to tell him, how,
law take wings. . It is by far better that the you catch people and butcher them in the
number of our widows and orphans be in- dark of night, and throw them in the street,
creased, than all of us be demoralized and that they be found in the morning. Ah, ye
deadetted by this system of oppression and hissing scorpions, murderous, vile tools of Sa-
espionage. Thy will, 0 God, be done."  tan, I am about exposing your hellish work
"What ails you, Essenee, that you pray to the King, to the people if he refuses to
so seriously and devoutly at this unusual hear me."
hour of the'day?" one of-the three peasants  One of the three evinced a disposition to
asked,who had,unnptieed,approached Simon. attack Simon. " Beware, heedless man, or
"My father remained behind in Jerusa- it will cost your life," Simon 'said, calmly.
lem," said Simon, "and Jerusalem is a dan- SIe pointed back on the road toward the
gerous plane in our days, I prayed for city, and to their dismay theyisW- several
him."                                  men driving their animals very fast behind
"Truly, a dangerous plate," the peasant them. ." These are our frqidiss o nbey
sjaenlad. "Alaost every day somebody them exclaimed. -Yoansreimissaken,$hey
s4Ala in    th.treet, and the p 1ps- are mine,"4aid Simongstingly.  they
a             as are scoscely cedetected,"  came to a stand still, them nbehinathe
is:5 s'swork s-Simon inadver- drove furiously and rsme  wit lightning
speed upon them.  - -
~~  4* yes     ssense? tapaa-M - (t off their hair and beerdi," saldi-S
~  Mesug        .ce io en     --mens "that they utter nole#   nld
~  ~   irlisuiug thIrgest0 anoes 4 Jot thm return to Jerusader to 'be a

O  HILLELAND, IIEROD.                          117
reproach to every man who serves'i the If I beg leave to defend myself against those
rank of Sabion."                       reports, it is only not to let you belie*au1I
"Why should not we cut their ears off, men are impostors and villains; it is only
and their noses too," said the Greek prose- not to appear as such in your eyes. Here I
lyte, who was among the arriving party, am in your power, sire, helpless like si new
"that it be known for ever, that these scoun- born child in the midst of your army.-
drols were once the servants of a slave, of a Here I am ready to die, if heaves so de-
dog F''                                 crees. But first I will perform a threefold
The stern remonstrance of Simon saved sacred duty. I must orove to you, that there
the poor fellows' ears and noses, but their are also honest men in this world, that I al-
hair and beards were cut so short, that they ways attempt to be one of themand that
could not show their faces for the next four you are deceived, betrayed, sold by your
weeks to any man.                       slaves.--But you are sick, I must not speak
" Let us travel somewhat faster," said the to-day."
Greek, after the spies were dispatched, " or The King stared into the open counten-
else we will be obliged to fight a host of dance of Simon, as though he was to read his
them."                                  own future in it. "What have you to tell
"In one hour we will be bey-nd the reach me ?" he asked, hastily. " Be quick, I am
of Sabion," said Simon; " for the country sick."
people about here, clear to the Jordian, are  "I can not be quick," said Simon, "I have
all antagonists of Herod."             too much to say. But here is a box contain-
The rage of . abion on hearing of the es- ing valuable manuscripts. I found it under
cape of Simon and the treatment of his ser- the ruins of SabIon's house. Read them,
vants was outdone only by the fury of Sa- they.are very important. Meanwhile, I am
lome, who struck her servants, cursed her your prisoner. Then I will speak."
ladies of honor, sent her first chamberlain  "Your word of honor, that you will stay
to jail, accused Sabion of conspiracy with in the camp till I ordain otherwise," said
Simon against herself, and refused to listen the King, harshly.
to anybody. After she was exhausted by    "So it is, sire," Simon replied, bowed and
the furious rage, she reclined, sobbing and retired.
groaning on her sofa, and schemed new de-  Simon was not long gone when an oieer
signs to capture the lover she could not for-'of the guard called him back t the King.
get.                         .He found Herod in a condition in which he
Simon arrived safely in the camp of the never before had seen him, pale with r ge
King, but the King was reported sick, and and madness. He trembled with agitation,
none was admitted into his presence. "Tell foamed savagely, and la ghed at iptervals
the King his body physician has arrived," so furiously, that his servants trembled.-
he said to the chamberlain, " who must see "My lord, you have called me," said nimon,
him on important business."  He was ad- after he stood long etiogh before Herod,
Sted instantly.                         without.hearing an articulate Bound.
:Sreppi g into the tent, the King cast a  "I hve called you to laugh me to scorn,'
lobg    .eor niaing look on Simon. Then said Herod, with nasaing teeth and a hoern
I, i        D'r utdaQoity is nearly as great voioe. "teie 0144 you to *R*ed
as ag     iS yfastits man. How'4ate ye  fool, a maole a or&amp;Ilous boy$  t
apsptqa4eiee (40, e ostnt             l ie aby. Why "do' pg net    ?.44
S broke violently. Go, Idop* ot i           hgk  the sry Is s'
asa e  King."       rid&amp;*louR, so Ledigbabi.   #eh     d1
-  a' J  empe egtg ear you speak $hus e  lgh, that Sats he  uljeh ~   $I
tsei4 liimog so calmly, that iggiJmodf 'l e ggaugh,1 I~ aae sa
~ *&amp;as 7eM. eceived OoQngEriZ g as egtobd digr#w5 ese

,



118                      Tun COMBAT OF 'PE PEOPLE,
uiat: sounds with such a violence, that Si "that.you are not altogether wrong. There
mos*egan to fear for his intellect,   is something self-evident in what you say,
"My lord,do please to .hear tae," Simon although I can not yet account for it. But,
begged; "you are now seriously sick. .I before we continue, you niustrender .me ao-
pray yop, hear me. You must' take some count forlyour own conduct. I sent you to
sedative, and if this will not restore the nor- Sharon to look after the hapless and miser-
mal oirlation of your blood, you must able, but ypu used my kindness for revolu-
bleed. . You are very sick, indeed."    tionary purposes, made the people believe
"Let us have your drugs, but put no pois- they were punished for my sins, and allow-
oi to it," Herod ejaculated. " Let us have led them to deify you almost. This isingrat-
it, I am sick ; but I would not die just now itude, the vileness of a demagogue, a breach
to save-all mankind. Let us have the drug of promise, a violation of sacred obgatiens,
without poison." the 'ile intention to kill a maaf with' the
" My lord, your words are very harsh," very knife which he gave you to cat from his
said Simon, " I am no poisoner. Take this bread for your hungry children. Spedak! if
aM oeee," Simon said on reaching th&amp;4inedi you can, if you dare."
ine to Herod, who immediately swallowed  " I can and I dare," Simon said, calmly.
it. S mon insisted upon the King to be "The dry that your sins were the efficient
aldne and recline.on his couch, and Herod cause of the misery that came over them,
obeyed.  Having slept awhile he awoke was started long before I arrived there, and
very much exhausted. Finding Simon at I have no doubt Sabion himself started it,
his bedside, he asked him where he found with the malicious intention to render your
the manuscripts he brought. Simon descri- benevolence odious and effectless. I oppos-
bed time and place, with the other circum- ed it successfully in one place, and without
stances which brought him in possession of success at other places. But when I was
the manuscripts. He also told the King the 'just""in a f 'ir way to overcome that preju-
story of Cleopatra's ring which was in pos- dice, Sabion sent his troops to arrest me and
session of the Queen, as he ascertained she place me before the Sanhedrin of Jerusalem.
was to magnanimous to speak of it.      This confirmed the people in their precon-
The K ng well comprehended, that the calved notions, and like furies they rose to'
documents before him were no forgery, and protect me.  So Sabion did succeed and
that the intention of Sabion to dethrone him your benevolence is not known, not acknow-
in favor of Cleopatra was evident from the ledged. I could have gone to another place,
doepteiats. ," But how cou1l he, so dog- but I came to you, to convince you, that
glshly'hi hful, do what'I commanded?", the there are also honest men in the world. I
King wa d, "Hw could, he thus lay at came because I could not bear the idea of
my feet like a slave, ardalike an automaton, appearing a traitor in your eyes. I appear-
be moved by aiyf wots?"                ed. before you to hand you these documents
* H rod is so" ie and can not explain and be exonerated; then I will 'go far, far
this !" Situen said, muoh astonished."" I  beyond the reach of your soulless slaves. 'I
attempts ictocetsftilly to render yourgoverri- have done my duty."
.m st sood4)uato the people, tha they must  "There is something in
'Oledpt        snyhdy o yourself   He voice,"'aid the King, Asoioundsoft ad
r ,  iesto  v   ut $ithe asy all the As  uorou, which spealtsi og h arty  hve M
l ~oa l1 ,  lea e  uepoed to Itent;evidesee, 'that wha y   ys    f  yet
A  m dd tr~eidden, deeo.believeW"' i Ia ia e hh-   t  pid
~eel~. *tOledo  ra ian asilfe    strides and as 19  in 99           "I

I

On HILLEL AND HEnOD.                           l
thank you for the conviction that.you are'Let this be,the proof of my confidence in
an honest man, 1 despaired of humanity.,you, and the first step to a high position,
1 was afraid all'are;thieves, robbers, seoun- which you shall occupy hereafter."
drels and traitors. . I am better satisfied  "Shall Hyrcan live ?" was the.answer of
now than I ever-was. Aurion, I  n not be!Simon.
your' debtor. Although I can not pay you  a N'ow, about your office," said the King.
this -service, yet I must pay part of it.-'j"You keep the city quiet, and on s y return
Speakwhat shall kdo for you."          I will dispose of Sabion and elevate you to
*ot mtie?-Nothing," Simon said.' "1I a high position."
am satisfie with my lot."                 " Shall Hyrcan live, my lord ? " Simon'
"TroudDiogenes, do you know nothing asked again.
which appears to you worth possessing?"   "We will speak about this some other'
the' King, said.  "Whatever thou wishest tire," the King said.  "Now, I want to
shall be granted."                      know of you, whether you can keep the city
" Ah, Iwish many things," said Simon. quiet to my return."
" I wish you first to change your govern-  "Iff Ilyrcan lives, yes," said Simon; "but
menti and treat this people becominsr a mag- if Hyrcan dies non, can do it:"
unanimous King, befitting men born free. I  "Consider, young man;" said the King,
wish you to be relieved of your slaves, trai- " I entrust you with an important pommis-
tors and smooth villains who surround ydur sion. If you prove faithful and efficient,
person, fill your court and hold the highest the way to the highest dignities of the state
offices. But above all things I wish just is open and leveled to you."
now, that tjie old, weak still amiable Hyr-  "I am well satisfied with what I am," said
can be saved, saved through your interfer- Simon. " I"would not for any price in the
enee in his favor. Nothing short of this will world be an officer in a state built upon the
satisfy me."                            murdered bodies of innocent men, cemented
" Aurion, you ask what is not in my pow- with the blood of its best citizens, cursed by
er to grant," the King said. " Iyrcan is the thousand widows and orphans, bated by
guilty of conspiracy with the enemies of my' its patriots, and feared, dreaded bylt own
country; the law of my country dare not be King. My lord, I have a conscience of W hich
set at nought by the King."             I can not dispose."
"Hyrcan is innocent," Simon interrupted, "And so you will not accept the appoint-
hastily. "Sabion has a double purpose in meat?" Herod asked.
view in this matter-to render Hyrcan harm-  " If Hyrcan lives, yes," said Simon, "oth-
less to Cleopatra, and conjure up against erwise, no.
you the most .intense hatred of the people.  "Are you a personal friend of Ilyrcan,''
Sabion an'd node else made you believe Hyr- the.King asked.r
Cn, the weak aid peaceable man, conspir  "{ 'never -saw him;" was ,the answer.
ed against you with' the enemies of your  "Why doyou thus pray;fdr hima?" the
cTilntry. My lord, save Hyrcan, and you King ine~ired
save yourself. Hyrcan's life shall be my  " Because. his death will be a depdye&amp;7
rewi4i    4    I must se saved, or you crime, an arlast   ino        t n fu
reda   i me d    otever's"',    ,'  said Simon.      sueu q his death k
"I yeS Maras     On I would consider cite the people t 'fioIns nmadnau=staf
yea ro          t      nand   aliue i  pel you the 'veneavi ; off e    :
thisa4                    g;A.;ts'4  I amie  +aus1  teas  s dt r 'r
din th~  ca          agliessibf maind;iee  your ewra~p      BR~e~V


Tuu 1o9)BAT OF THE PEOPLE,
essn so will be done you. 'Urimo has its "iBe must be stopped. No. He must be
tiosand wngues, idn each cries perpetual- brought back.  o,  that will act do. My
ly. Take Caremy lord, when the cry grows royal word. Now Hyrean must die. Sohe-
too asihy ,none is heard, none seen any muss that Aurion must be detained on. the
longer. The sea breaks its dam and the in- road as log as possible; but none shall do
undstiop is master." ,him the least harm. Do you bear, your
" Bu0 fyrcan is my enemy, and the ene- honor as a fledge,-that he will be detained
my of the copatry," said Herod-.    ,  and not harmed. He must arrive        .
"So Sabion says, and nobody else," said Now, be quick, Sobemus. We m19 Y
Simna, everybodyy else knows the old King to return to Jerusalem with our
is a quiet, peace-loving and kind man, got- shortest time possible. Farew ell!'  arn-
withstanding his weakness of mind. He is ing to Salome, be said, "What do y~u think
old andha'nless. My lord, do not soil your' of' that Aurion, can I entrust him with a hih
name with that blood. My lord, do not in- post in this crisis ?"
serihe your name in history with the blood "My lord, this Aurion is a g t mab,"
offran."                               said Salome, "but 1 know not whethg  eis
Will you keep the city quiet to my re- loyal. Give hizi to me, let him be z dyrtue,
turna?* Herod asked.                  uband, and you are sure of his fidelity.
"If Hyrean lives, yes," said Simon.   "lhis is not your own thought, sister,"
9 The t yrcan shall live,". said Herod, the King cried, "an angel, a God speaks
" you have conquered me."              through you. Yes, let him be my brother-
"Hear it, God and ye angels of pence and in-law, and Iam certain of his faith."
love," Simon exclaimed, "and bring the glad                i o
tiding to the tormented man."  Simon was       C H A P T E R      I V .
about to give utterance to his sentiments;          THE TRIAL.
but the King would not haaraid. "In The city of Jerusalem presented for weeks
half an hour your letters will be prepared," the most peculiar picture of hilarity, excite-
said the King, "Sohemus will hand them to ment, enthusiasm, murder and violence.--
you.      fa ithful, prudent. Your future Such was the policy of Sabion to govern the
depoiids on this first and importr-
geapt itded ton your car. arewellrt people. Every day new triumphs of Herod
r, ant ost~ettedtto your care. Farewell.'' over the Arabs were celebrated by illunin-
Simon was ifot gone more than one hour, aiones, public banqreta, and other festivities,
when Salome reeled into the tent of the of the most exciting nature. Half of the
King. ;  oeI eeived her with much surp se. population was continually held in a state
"The battl*10 Actium is lost. Antoy i of intoxication by false reports and grand
coufpleyudeftie   - Octavjos hogy pur- festivities. Whoever was inthe way f Sa-
sus mhitkE    p           aid, lti bion fell a victim to his blbod-thil y 6iepo-
stion. Daily almost dead bodies were afad
spread wet go e .The friends tof H rcan income part of the city and none ki'W hag
are   e       strke a desperate bl  "   tiey came to their death. Coneternatii
ike a madman. 14e Joegd aand terror reigned tapreme and formed a
but             eg   feelgs. n   broke bloody contrast  ehiiaril, ud  nerri-
tentat"  truok himself andthhI h wet" risibfe i-er      Ev-
Kiv~a'Yk .,{ glj  i  ir ,_ ig  "            hody teenibled             Y &amp;   tn '
*~     ~ituL                     toteiu      iW   ~   -
4                                        t     M"   +,  0              + y _f  r   a   n,1  e f  Jra '1    C  ,   ,h le 
'} "+    ;  , : r                                   : " +1' T t  b'UI;c. ---r    9  a

I

OR HILLEL

was his time to carry out his schemes. He
sat in his easy chair one morning and heard,
the several reports of his servants with a
self-complacent air. After he was through
and the servants were dismissed, he called
Elvira. She appeared. Sabion Basked her,
" Will you now tell me all you know about
Helen and Aurion ?"
"You know more than I do, sir," said
Elvira. " I can tell you nothing. But if I
could, Iwould not do it."
"Ah, I know of proper means to bend the
obstinacy of such creatures," said 6abion.'
" The torture, Miss, the torture will teach
you to speak."  Elvira made no reply.--
" Will you answer my questions ?"
"No," was the brief answer. "Your con-
temptible menaces frighten me nat. Since
you threaten I shall not speak at all."
" Then I will not threaten," said Sabion,
" I will promise. If you tell me what you
know, I will elevate you to the first lady of
the court. The women shall envy, the men'
shall respect you, as the most powerful, most
influential, most happy lady at court. Ev-
ery look of yours shall set a host of servants
in motion. The finest silks of Damascus,
the linen of Egypt, the purple of India, the
pearls of Persia, the costliest diamonds, the
most precious rubies shall be yours. I will
make you my wife."
Elvira laughed so heartily that Sabion'
stopped abruptly. "This is a mast cruel
torture you have invented," she said; "in-
deed if I fear anything, it is certainly this
torture. Your wife ? What a hell there is
in these two words ! 0, do not deceive your-
self, my 'lord, you are so old and ugly, so
despicable and monstrous, that to be your
wife is to be wedded to hell and the prince
of darkness."
" Never mind,. Elvira," Sabion ejaculated.
"First,,tell me what you know of Hel-
en, then you will be my wife. I am lord,
supreme rler of this city, and I am not such
a fool, . a.  igh, groan and beg. I com-
mand, and o must obeyy"
2' Irether would bite off my own tongue
a Rpiti iw your face than tell you ong
6U*   iiU4  "h.Irteroos wi  rdy ,X

AND IEROD.                         121
are too mean a man to know what a woman
can do, if despair drives her .to it."
"You shall stay in your room for three
lays," said Sabion; "some gentlemen and
ladies are appointed to keep you safely. I
have urgent business just now. After three
days, I will marry you. Farewell."
" During three days it might please his
Satanic majesty to recall his representative
on earth to the hellish palace," said Elvira,
when she retired.
" Then I will take you along," said Sabion.
When Elvira was gone he soliloquized, "She
must know more than I do; for she was in
Sharon and that hellish Aurion came with
her, or soon after her from there. They
must know whether she is dead."
Knocking on the secret door was heard ;
Sabion opened and admitted a man.  Ah,
you returned quickly. What news do you
bring from-the plain of Sharon?"
9 Disastrous,very disastrous," said thestran-
ger. "I had a narrow escape. All the peas-
ants are under arms. Not a man of your
soldiers sent there will ever return. Some
are killed, and the rest frat  rnized with the
people."
" And they did not return with you ? "--
Sabion asked.
"Return? there was none there to return,"
said the man; " for their defeat occurred
just when they arrived on the plain and at-
tempted to arrest Aurion."
"A'nd all the reports I received after.
wards ?" Sabion asked.
" Were lies, mere fabrications of your en-
emies," said the man. " The people of Sha-
ron are prepared for a general insurrection.
They talk of marching to Jerusalem."
" Our walls are strong enough, to make us
laugh at a hundred thousand such fools,'
said Sabion. -A But [ will have vengea ie
bloody satisfaction.--How many menareo -
der arms in the plain?"
"I do not know," said the man. "It af
pears-Ao me, that Sharon 10theote oaf
greatoommotiod wl4hip re NaR45~
aa) e       sanidam    4    '
j ne


122                     Te aCoMAT oF THE PKOPLe,
said Sabion. "First we must settle our diffi-! blue eyes under thin eyebrows, looked sad,
culties here, then we go to Sharon."   weary of life, and furrowed by the misfor-
The man being dismissed, Sabion rubbed tunes of many unhappy years. Few were
his hands and ran about the room. "It the white locks which hung from the bald
comes all right," he soliloquised.  "The head. His tall form was bent, leaning on
revolution is at the door. Hyrcan will fall. the arm of a servant; his looks were sad
Is Herod victorious, I am his savior, If he and a melancholy smile played around his
falls,Cleopatra is Queen and I am the richest lips. His faint steps on the marble pave-
man in Judah. Let me have money enough, ment sounded plaintively through the spa-
influence enough, and I am King; let name cious hall. All eyes were directed upon the
and title have who is pleased with such shad- old King as he advanced to the judgment
owe. I am King.-But who are the scoun- seat, where Hillel, surrounded by his most
drels in Sharon, that deceived me? who eminent scholars, among them both Jona-
standsIat the head of that work? I must than ben Uziel and Akabiah ben Mehalalel,
know this. Hum, if I fraternize with them rose to salute the unfortunate King.
in favor of Cleopatra - this is the shortest  The impression made on the Sanhedrin by
way.-But if Herod is victorious and Anto the appearance of Hyrcan was so great, that
ny falls, what then? Now I can not depend none in the hail could speak. After a long
on the whims of Mars. 1 would rather play and painful silence the Nassi rose and ad-
through my safe game.-But then I must do dressed Iyrcan thus: "Hyrcan, son of Al-
something against the rebels of Sharon."- exander, King of Israel, Highpriest of the
Thus soliloquizing he went down to the park Most High, thou art accused before the San-
to scheme new plans.                   hedrin, the supreme tribunal of justice, of
Meanwhile a scene of quite a different high treason against thine own country and
Meawhie ascee o qute  difernther King. Hyrcan, son of Alexander, art
character was enacted in the hall of the San- thu Kg.yrnh sd  lex" a
thuguilty of the said crime?"
hedrin, the Lishath-Hagazith. The Sanhed-i "No," said the faint old uan with a firm
ina were assembled. Each member sat in his voice'
chair in a semi-circle. The Nassi, the Ab-  "Then star and hear the evidence of the
BetA.Din on one side and the Hachan on witnesses who testify against thee;" said the
the ether, with the two scribes, sat on the  assi. "Then let us also hear the witnes-
platform. The officers were posted at a dis- s  who are in thy favor, that this venera-
tance from the chairs, guarded every door ble Sanhedrin be enabled to judge correct-
that no stranger might come in on this sol- ly, and render judgment in justice, for jus-
emn and sad occasion. A silence, painful tie is the will of our God." Turning to-
and solemn reigned in the halL  None ap- ward the Sanhedrin the Nassi continued :
peared desirous to say anything to his "Venerable Sanhedrin, with the permission
neighbor.  Expectation and apprehension of the heavenly tribunal I admonish you to
brooded heavily upon the whole assembly. remember, that you are the agents of God
When the officers opened the door all the Almighty in Israel, to dispense justice in
senators turned to look at the comer. They the manner as Moses our great teacher said:
evidently expected some extraordinary af- 'Hear the cause between your brethren, and
fair this day. The silence was interrupted judge them with justice, between aman, and
by the sound of heavy steps which were between his brother, and between his stran-
bead upon the marble pavement approach- ger. Ye shall not respect any countenane
iajthe prb0ipal entranes to the hail. This in judgment, the small as the great ye
being op S, tweSl men of the royalgward shall hear, ye shall not dread any man;
UtiRhindi themn theO beary and ont for the judgment is God's"' Therefore I
M7~U~ th     and~  B pst    eauayn   a   rtht yonwl also in U
Ias(o the LuinsmsIees, en Wamesaginst Hyrcan,aontof AIt ne bs
al  1miphl eas"'enP   ih- dl the witnemes and rendered judgmhei Ia"
-       u                                 iie aewt )ag  utus God comumands you to do."

On HILLEL AND IIEROD.                          123
"Amen, amen, amen," it resounded from to pierce hearts. Shemaiah and Abtalion in
all lips. Hyrcan on account of his old age a solemn congregation laid their hands upon
and weakness was permitted to sit down.- my head and declared me a judge and teach-
Then a side d9or was opened, the witnesses er in Israel. If my presence is unbecoming
were admitted, and after the law concerning the dignity of this venerable Sanhedrin,'the
false witnesses was read before them, the fault is not mine but theirs who authorized
Ab-Beth-Din read the judicial oath to the me. But judges who advise their culprit
witnesses, which they repeated and conclu- what he must do or omit, violate the law ;
ded with a firm Amen. The witnesses with hence let that man speak no more."
the exception of one retired to'the room from The Ab-Beth-Din looked with admiration
which they came.   Hyrean, being asked on the old sage whose temper was not the
whether he wished to have an advocate, and least roused l'y the insulting remarks of the
whom he would select to this function, point- others. Then he ruled that the defendant
ed to Hillel. This being announced to the!+ was entitled to be represented by Hillel.---
Sanhedrin, Castobarus rose and said, it By his orders the trial commenced. The
would be nothing but justice to give a com-ifirst witness of the .prosecution was Dosi-
petent advocate to Hyrcan, as the importance; theus. He said he was an intimate friend
of the momentous case required a learned, of Ilyrcan and governor of the royal palace.
distinguished and competent man. IlyreanIlyrcan had given him a letter to Malchus,
insistingupon hischoice, Castobaruscontinud King of Arabia, in which Hyrean stated his
ed to oppose it on the ground, that it offended resolution to leave Jerusalem, join him in
the dignity of the late Highpriest and King, Petra, and give him seven cities and their
as well as the dignity of the Sanhedrin, that districts for his services in dethroning Herod
an unknown stranger should act in the capa- and setting him (Ilyrcan) upon the throne
city to which Hillel was thus appointed.-  of Judah. Dositheus said, that a copy of
He considered this an insult to all sages of: the letter was sent to Malchus and the orig-
Israel.                               final was retained. He exposed the original
Next to Castobarus a man rose and said, to the Sanhedrin. It was shown to Hyrcan;
Hillel was not an unknown stranger. He he declared it a skilful forgery. Cross ex-
recollected well when the choice advocate amination was in vain with the shrewd cour-
of Hyrcan did saw and split wood in his tier. le maintained his position to the ut.
cse for a scanty pay. The friends of Hil- most.
I 1 were enraged by the indignity thus offer-  Next an Arab was heard. He said lie was
ed to their great teacher; but he would notan Arabian proselyte to Judaism. When
allow them to demonstrate their displeasure .Malchus, his King, invaded the.country be-
in any shape or form.                  yond Jordan, he was dispatched with fifty
"And what have you to say, Hillel?" the men; dressed like horse traders who go to
Ab-Beth-Din asked in a mild tone.      Egypt, having two hundred horses with them.
" Nothing," said Hillel ; " for our sages of lie was instructed by Malehus to leave the
blessed memory said, 'Those who are insult- horses in Hebron, send ten of them to Hyr-
ed and insult none, who hear their own re- can as a present of his old friend, and accom-
proach and answer not, are understood un. pany him in the dark of night to Hebron,
der the word of God, which says, And His and from thence to Beersheba and over to
beloved are like the sun rising in strength.' Arabia. But he was arrested in Jerusalem
4f this conduct is prescribed in case 'of ac- and confessed all about his mission.
tual ipslt and reproach, I certainly must be  Then an Egyptian and Syrianh were ino-
lauMwhen I hear the truth. I wish to God, duced after each other. - Bothsaid theywere
sp   i but truth were spoken bors on this the 'bdy servants of Bysgean  Hfe rtsI
SOur sages also said, toasaniut one themf to packhi b"e .     esceeith
*e i  irme egnuaitt murder;athrea n. hi Repgrenighed     rwmilez,
believee, it is better to split wepd than their fidelity and bid t ~to say nothing of


124                   Tu     COMBAT OF THE PEOPLE,
his plan, not even to his daughter. After when he still was the reigning head of Isra-
them a host of witnesses were introduced el, and he often thanked God, that he now
who said they had been 'promised high offi- was free of all the troubles and anxiety of
ces by Hyrean, whenever he should be King, public affairs. They testified, that he never
which he promised to be the case in a few evinced the least ambition to be King once
months.                               more, but on the contrary he always expres-
One of Herod's advocates rose and said sed his utmost satisfaction with his present
the testimony on the part of the prosecution retired life.
was closed, because it was considered com- Baba ben Buta, the blind president of the

plete. The crime of high treason could be
made no clearer to the Sanhedrin, than the
present testimony did. The connection of
Hyroan with the enemy of the country in
time of actual war, the acceptance of the
horses sent by Malchus, the orders to his
servants to prepare speedily to leave the city,
the promise of office to so many of his
friends, and the assurance that he would be
King in a few months, leave no room to doubt
the guilt of Hyrcan.
Hillel rose and said, that the argument
just heard would be conclusive, if the prem-
ises were true. He proposed to prove, that
not one of the premises was t. ne. The pri-
vate scribe of Hyrcan testified, that the old
King was incapable to write, more than three
years past, partly on account of his weak eye-
sight, and partly on account of trembling'
hands. The letter to the King of Arabia
must have been written years ago. Upon in-
vestigation it was found by many witnesses
that names and date were skilfully changed
in the letter. Another witness stated, that
the Arab was a horse trader, commonly1
,known as such in Jerusalem, and never was
an agent of the King of Arabia. Next an
'Arabian Israelite was heard who stated that
his 1grethren, residents of Arabia, sent Hyr-
can is present of several horses through the
very man, who says he is an agent of Mal-
chus. The two chamberlains of Hyrcan
stated, that his body servants were suspect-
r.ed'of'evil intentions toward Hyrcan, and be-
is  emved from their fanotions, six months
ago, received a pension, but were never again
admitted into the presence of the old King.
ody servants' now attending on him'
pes. then introduced to the 8nhedrinm-
N    'Idarge number of intita friends of
the o flng tetifiett ;they 'often.Oon-
iitetwith hit on Ii sroi6 i'' lulties,

people's council-was introduced. On exam-
ination he stated, that he was an opponent
of Hyrcan ever since Herod was tried before
the Sanhedrin for acts committed in Galilee.
lUut on being appointed by his friends to as-
certain the sentiments of Hyrcan as to the
future government of Israel, because the wit-
ness and his friends consider the present
government a violent and unjust imposition
on the people, he did not directly offer to
Hlyrcan the aid of his friends in again
mounting the throne of his fathers, but
would first ascertain his sentiments on the
subjects. Hyrcan, however, expressed such
an aversion to public life, and considered
himself so happy that he could conclude his
days in the peace of private life, that wit-
ness could not propose the wishes of his
friends to the old King. Several interviews
leadi ig to the same result, witness advised
his friends to try no inure, as Hyrcan had
grown too old and weak to be a King.
The advocates of Ilerod examined the
blind man for hours. But it was in vein;
he could not be confused. Ile said the same
thing always again. Without the least to-
ken of fear he stated his objections to the
government of Herod and his wish to see
him dethroned. Hillel declared the evidence
on the part of the defence as concluded.-
Every word of the testimony was known in
Jerusalem, notwithstanding the closed doors
of the Sanhedrin.  Baba ben Buta was
borne in triumph from the Temple to his
house. The forged letter, the hired prose-
lytes and -reatgs of Sabion formed the
common theme of 'conversation. There was
an indignation audible in the' community,
which was threatening. "The public feasts
ard lillarities, the rumors of 'Herod's.brilli-
ant'+iotories, of Mark Antony'a nsucess over
his d poihjat, and subsequent ilimUinations

OF. HILLEL AND ,HEROD.                           l2*6
did not silence, the threatening voice of in- tempt, he succeededin -persuading. Hyrcan,,
dignation. The reign of terror was defied, to write a letter to Aretas, then King of Ara.
and Sabion found it extremely -diffiqult to bia, requesting his friendship and protection:.
maintain the peace of the city.         This letter was brought to Aretas by Antipa*
Long and vehement were the debates be- ter, and this is the very same, letter wlch,
fore the Sanhedrin, before Hillel spoke.- dates and- names intentionally changed, is
He hoped the evidence in the case would now laid before you, as being of a repea~
convince the Sanhedrin of Hyrcan's inno date. We have proved that the documep is
cence, and observed profound silence. The several years old and bears traces of eredi,
good 'man could not even think, that the cation just at the spots of nanes an&amp; date;
large majority of the Sanhedria were so so skilful scribes have stated before you.-
much guided by political motives, personal Hence no further evidence is geeessary.to
interest, and the will of Ilerod, that the prove the document a maliciogs4'orgery.
plainest evidence in favor of IIyrcan was " You ask who is capable to commit such
perverted by shrewd sophistry. Mortified, a crime, such a despicable treachery.? Do-
and after a-serious struggle against his own sitheus presented the document to you.-
feelings, Hillel rase, and having obtained Dositheus says Hyrcan handed it to .him
permission to speak he said :           with the direct command to convey it to
"It is probably impertinent that I, an. Malchus. Hence Dositheus is the man who.
humble stranger, should oppose the wise stands accused of this low crime, or at least
judgment of so many learned and distin- of an intimate knowledge of the perpetra-
guished men. I feel my incapacity just tor. But Dositheus is a great man and a
now more than ever before. But there is a favorite of the King; he must not be accus-
God in heaven who commands.that justice ed of a crime so deep-dyed, so villanens ; it
should be done' to the lowest and to the is too great a crime for Dositheus-still it
highest, and here sits a hoary, unhappy and was committed, and the proof is in your
crushed man who demands justice from hands.
your hands, justice for the sake of his life,  "Two servants who have not seen Ilyrcan
of your honor and reputation, of Israel and for the last six months, as the chamberlains
its laws, justice for the sake of justice.- tell us, testify to what they never heard or
There is a God in heaven who has placed a saw; to that which is evidently not true.--
conscience in the heart of 'man which re- Who are those suspected servants? None
volts and prcmpts him to speak and act, knows them, none can tell us why they come
when violence and injustice rear their de- here to testify against their own master.--
structive heads. Man's intellect is so frail, [fired they must have been, for the purpose;
that the wisest and best may err; therefore for they eat the bread of Hyrcan, and they
1 must speak. However crude or childish will eat it no longer. They must have been
my words may be, I must speak.          hired and well paid. Who hired and paid
"To a- better understanding of the testi- those men? The same man undoubtedly
mony before you, I must refresh your mem- who falsified the letter; for the testimony of
ory in regard to historical facts. After the the servants was intended to corroborate the
battle of Jericho between the Asmonoan prin- fact to be ,established by said letter. .an
ces Aristobul and Hyrean, peace returned to you suppose for a moment that a f ifaer, a
-Israel; for Aristobul, according to his incli- base forger would hire honest witn&amp;ses to
nations, was King and Highpriest,.and Iyr- testify to a lie?  Stiff  he shrewd ser'vants
can, according to, his inclinations, retired in would not tell as why theyoame to testify
.to private life. Bat the amhitioa of Antipa- against their own master, or who 14re4  ad
ter tobS King of Israeli leaving to eHyrgoa paid therg.
-the naumetiereof as lie had no inclinatio to "If tiere was a word of trut4' ~akof
goveroaqould not rest, did'nqt care for the sianderitygingthis pc4sation, wij ~  ~  d.
Sweai of Israel After a long eoid artral at- veagris resort to a falsifted 4dnead1


.; 1
1
((p
F/h
X
L ! A
rp4
T  Y
!    Y    1
/'       1
l; ,
.,4
''
,  ,
N, - 
t
,
U
I
1
fir.   t
ti
r
i.
I  .

128                    THE Co fnAT or THE PEoPLE,
to lying witnesses? If one thousand witnes- Phesael and Herod then, governed the peo-
ses and more should now testify against Hyr- ple. Was Hyrcan opposed to their govern -
ean, their words could not be considered; for ing the land in his name, or did he favor it?
the accusers began with a lie, with forgery You know that he wanted it so, defended
and two false witnesses, and the accusers Herod before the Romans against the accu-
must know that the document is falsified, sations of the people, and preferred an easy,
and the servants have not seen their master retired life to all public affairs. He never
within six months.                      had the inclination tQ govern. When the
" But then the prosecution brings a host power was in his hands he gave it to others,
of witnesses who testify, that Hyrcan prom why then should it be 'believed, that now
ised them offices whenever he should be King when he is old and feeble, he should long
which, they say, he thought should be soon. after a troublesome crown ?
They asked no favors of him, they say, but  "And Hyrcan loved Herod, as a father
he, in order to seduce them, promised them loves his son. When Herod executed many
high and remunerative offices. There stands men in Galilee who were accused of rob.
a host of other witnesses opposed to the for- bery, when he executed them without the
mer and testify, that Hyrcan dreads the idea permission of the law, without the verdict of
of public functions, and feels highly satisfi- a Sanhedrin, this body then consisting of
edwith his private'life. Inconclusion,comes other men, summoned him before the su-
the bold man, the blind Baba ben Buta and preme tribunal of justice. le defied the
tells you, that he was sent to Hyrcan to of- highest authority of the country, appeared
fer him the assistance of a powerful faction before the Sanhedrin in purple And state
in Israel; but Hyrcan would not hear any- jewels, girded with his sword and surround-
thing-of public life. If he had the remotest ed by a strong body guard. The Sanhedrin
idea of again mounting the throne of his fa- was dumb, and Hyrcan so fondly loved the
thers, would not he have entrusted his secret son of Antipater, that he would not punish
to the enemies of Herod ? must he not have him even for the defiance of the highest trib-
initiated Baba ben Buta into his secrets, as unal of justice, an open revolt against the
Baba whom Herod deprived of his eyes, is a laws.1
known enemy of the King? Or do you sup-  "Herod and his brother Phesael were ev-
pose the old King has not wisdom enough to ery thing to Hyrcan. He gave them  the
prefer the enemies of Herod to his friends, if best proof of his love. The brighest jewel
he intended hostilities against the King?- in the diadem of the Asmoneans, the most
Or do you believe you can impeach the tes- precious treasure in the gift of the King,
timony of Baba ben Buta, the unbent oak, Mariamne, the wisest, most virtuous and
the gigantic cedar? There is not a man or most beautiful of women, the grand daugh-
woman in Israel who doubts the veracity of ter of two Kings, wats given to Herod.--
B   ;.                                  H Iyrcan gave Miariamne to Ilerod. Can the
"Bat we will suppose the evidence is bal- fondest love invent a clearer demonstration,
anced oly, and this would be enough to a more truthful sabibitlon of itself? Could
dismiss tbe case. But we may justly look Hyrcan more e t4a4ly prove his love of
bat, 4p0n the history of Hyrcan to decide Herod ? 0,1 b  you to consider, is not
the M6fiioting statements of the witnesses this of itself a eehelusive-evidence of the old
you      i$d. Hyrcai's biography proves King's innocence ?
two    g; fBrst that he never wished to be  "The love of a man then nearly sixty
a   i    secondly Chat he fondlyloved years old changes no more. The inconsis-
reiged inlIsrael after Pom. teney of youth being passed, whatever the
pey ~ie4ifavor of INysang    e orAnti- old .aan loves he loves forever. Behold,
paet           eiHye aser- who&amp;Hyrcan had been totaine4 'n IBabylon
cani1          I    b~~iesset ~ ii ?.a- a captivejoa'the Parthiaus, the rIraslips ,of
To Natlibist Persia an&amp; Media as far as India a-td China

OR HILLUL AND HERD.                            12y
honored the old Asmonean as their chief ple; now he is your prisoner. Once he was
and provided for him with royal generosity. the pride of a royal mother, and the hope of
He was happy, respected and beloved.- his nation, now he is accused of treason.-
Knowing as he did that Herod sat upon his lie saw his whole family perish, and the
throne, his love for his favorite prompted husband of his only grand daughter, upon
him to leave his new and happy home ands whom he lavished all his affections, permits
return to Jerusalem. Herod called him his him now to stand like a low criminal before
father, and he called him his son ; because you. There,in Parthia, his own nephewbit
Hyrcan loved Jierod before all men and had olf his ears that he be highpriest no more,
no ambition to be King. When at the pool and here his own friends whom he elevated
of Jericho the youthful highpriest Aristobul, "to the highest offices, testify to a lie to doliv-
the brother of Mariamne, the grand son of er his grey head bloody to the grave. Li-
Hyrcan and his brother, the only legal heir ons, tigers and hyenas must feel compassion
to the throne of the Asmoneans was drown- with the old man. Malice itself, one should
ed, in amanner unknown to you-every man think, must be moved to tears on beholding
suspected Herod to have caused the death the unfortunate man, and must allow him to
of the young highpriest, even Mark Antony conclude his days in peace. A man too old
and Cleopatra suspected him. But not a and feeble to be dangerous to a child,should
word of accusation or suspicion passed the not be accused of a crime which he is in-
lips of Hyrcan. 'Love covers every trans- capable of committing.
gression,' not a word was heard of him; be-  "But worse than all this is the onslaught,
cause Hyrcan loves Ierod as never one man the despicable scheme to turn this Sanhe-
loved another.                          drin into a soulless tool of a political party,
"I need say no more, you can not believe to becon- the dagger in the hands of the
Hyrcan guilty of conspiracy and treason assassin. Israel's Sanhedrin is the defence
against Herod. You must be convinced of our laws, our rights, our liberties. How
that this is a malicious plot.of the enemies mean must the enemies of Hyrcan think of
of a man who should have none. All those this Sanhedrin, if they think their spider.
who now testify against him,-once were his web of lies and forgery should not be expo.
most obedient servants, his echo, his shade sed here? How mean must those men think
ow. They trembled when he spoke, danced of Israel if they thus think of its Sanhe-
when he smiled, and wept when he looked drin ?
sad. Now they sell Joseph for twenty sil- "I caution you in behalf and in the name
ver pieces, and tell the father, a wild beast of the God of justice, not to let tiiose false
has devoured him. For humanity's sake witnesses escape unpunished. Set an exam-
let this foul ingratitude not go unpunished. ple of the wisdom and justice of this Sanhe-
For justice's sake expose this malicious con- drin. Permit none to insult this body with
spiraey. Behold, here sits a hoary man, malicious lies, to depreciate Israel by thus
born a King in the sunshine of happiness, disrespecting the supreme tribunal of jus-
rocked in the cradle of fortune, and nursed tice, to blaspheme God with lies and forgery
with the sweets of life. Here site the son in the presence of His temple, on the sid9
of heroic and glorious ancestors, who re. of the sacred altar, in the hale where Er
deemed Israel from the yoke ofgSyria. His and the prophets sat, here on Mouptioriah
claims on the happiness of life were great where the God of truth is worshiped and
and just, But mild and peaceable as he at- rules supreme,
ways ms, still l'sthe bill ws of misfortune  When Hillel was done i appeared as t p
passed over is head"His family once so the conscienes of altrlvwd; forethe 'z
gloriods#1liadners if'tist,^'His kingdomn lencof te cleraverulei supaee
is is prison. Dkhed M liis rown, and hia But in short timno is delato  wrux4
thiis icceupied by anotier. ()ee hie Te fieafof Ii:trlanpted uptl.
ministak4 ielbre theo living': d is"%f ii te-. of flyedt eoppononte of alro4 g


'18                  T CEOIBAT iOr HE PEOPLE,
}  'eriuled by the majority. When the Nas- him to Jericho. His reception in Jericho
i observed 'the state of affairs, he rose and was princely. The good man was so over-
told the Sanhedrin,thathe was no longer Nas- whelmed with honor and distinction, that he
i, AlII the presiding officers formally and was glad to be again in his humble cottage
'eolernnly resigned, and left the hall  The in the bosom of his family.
'otbatures of Sabion, prepared for the emer- When Sabion received the news of' the
enoy,'filled'the vacancies-immediately,-and verdict given by the Sanhedrin, he immedi-
ordIhlaued the matter. Having the field all ately commanded the arrest of the officers
'or- themselves they rendered the judgment and'senators who had resigned;" but it was
lof "guilty," in the usual solemn manner, too late. They had left the city with Hillel.
and 'prorronnced the sentence of death upon Also Baba ben Buta was gone. The conduct
rthe hoary nan, who listened to it with indif- of the people) terrified him somewhat ; but
'fereneealmost. Hillel rose and exclaimed, he soon recovered and acted with despotic
"Lord! this innocent blood soils not my energy. The whole city was filled with arm-
=hands. Let not thy fierce anger be kindled ed men, and none was permitted to speak a
againstt all thy people." He and his friends loud word. The gates were closed, the forts
'left the hall. Outside they were received locked, terror and dismay ruled supreme.-
by a strong escort of citizens, who followed Immediately Sabion dispatched a courier to
Hillel to the house of Baba ben Biuta.  IHerod, to inform him of the state of affairs
Like thunder, it roared through the whole in Jerusalem and Sharon.
-eity,Uyrean is condemned to die,the best men " We are lost," Castobarus cried, reeling
-of the Sanhedrin have resigned, Hillel is the into the room of Sabion. "Mark Antony is
gettest man in Ibrael, still he could not pre- utterly defeated.  Octavius hotly pursues
dent 'the foul crime. The people ran by him. Rumors are afloat that Antony and
'thousands to the temple; but Hyren had Cleopatra committed suicide."
ball to 'the palace of the Kings. Before the     C IH A P TER    X V.
'iilltary came on the ground in sufficient  A FRIDAY INIGhIT IN JERICHO.
f ree,'several of thetseators who had left The enthusiasm with which Hillel was re-
the temple, 'were' killed, or rather torn in ceived in Jericho would not subside for ma-
-iee bythO elecited populace. The milita. ny days. Hillel should, he must be Nassi
ry made a terrible carnage among the mul- in Israel, was the cry of the vast multitude,
'titude, dispersed them and restored the ap- of which he had not the remotest idea. He
'pearance of quietude and peace. Actually, sat again in his low cabin, attended again to
howeverr the whole city appeared to rest on his garden, and studied in the scrolls before
.iyolcano. Every sense of justice was out- him.  The- Greek proselyte, whom Simon
'raged, every heart rebelled in its bosom.- had sent back home, kept faithful watch at
There-was a defiance, an angry hatred visi- the door of the venerable savan, that no
ble on every' countenance.              harm might befal him.
Hillel by the advice of his friends return-  It was Friday afternoon. The busy and
od-to Jericho. Hundreds of the foremost bustling commotion in the lanes of Jericho
' niu if theecity went with him. As he pas- showed the end ofthe week. Each man ap-
:redr     itbe'streets of thaity the excla- feared t lge yetsome important business
ba idtiooglive      illel,"-.-."Hillel should to transath before the close of the week.-
be Nassi"-"Hille is the friend of th#peo. Egh  p   'eA    thpestreet  s     ur-
,2r  'p      y     an ti' nssaluted  him  rytofi4sh     r wtish ba l  4
r4 H t ud g'alets to Hillele00n             ao tpM,adre-

On HILLEL_
atrange, when a-stout, robust man wth 
strong, shrill and disagreeable tenor voice,
reeled into the house, and notwithstanding
ali the remonstrations of. the 'reek prose
lyte, 'h cried, "Where is Hilll? 'here is
(1illl?" eQ loud ,and shrill, that everybod4j
un the house uaust have heard it. Wrapped
in a cloak Hillel came forth from his -bath-
house. " What wisest thou, my son ?" he
asked, ealemly.
"Art thou Hillel ?" the stranger vocifer
ated, without any demonstration of respect.-
"I am, my son," said Hillel, "what wishest
thou? .i
"Why are the heads of the Babylonians
oval, and not rotnd as ours ? " the stran-
ger asked.
"Thou bast asked a great question, my
son," said Hillel. "This is the fault of their
midwives; but God has made all men alike."
Without another wotd 'the stranger hurri-
ed away; but scaely had Hillel retired to
his bathroom,] when thefantastic stranger's
shrill voice again resounded, "Where i
Hillel? Where is Hillel ? " The Greek pros-
elyte was so angry at the man's total want
of 'cdurtesy-and propriety, that he was just
about scolding him, when the doorof the
bath room opened and Hillel, wrapped -in g
his cloak, came through it. Friendlyand,o
kind as ever he asked, "What wishest'thon 0
"Why have the people of Tadmor eyes so a
weak.and red ?" he-asked.   .           U
-Thou hast asked, a great question, my
eon,,'t e  illel."Becausethe wind blows e
tl4 &amp;sand of the desert in-their eyes.-. t
7gian see  ad admire the beauties of r
tpor4f thanks or exeie, t
-st   4Frppsqe     'nd Jdal l retusrne&amp;y

AND HEROD.
" Thou bhst asked groat qs'stPj '
Hillel, " Beguiasthey =live on  gp     
Stili they can wlk ea. t before &amp;     - i'
"I should have tp   khesen
questions," snidthe stranger; "but$I
provoke thee to sagr."
Hillel sat 4ewn, invited the.at unl
seat epposite.himself, and ebo
to. ask hjin'all the queseionshe
have aupvred-
" Arthou Hillel, whom the peap .
Nassi of Israel.?", the stranger as*
"I am Milll" wa his answe! ' an   I
know not-what'the people egl  e "
" Then I wish that no mer
born in Israe)"; ssid t     eagarjep  ,~
S"Why my'so,"IHillel asked,   X
done thee any harm2"
"Yes,Ayes," thietranger vociferated: "1
wagered foqr hundred Sue, that Iwe  , jro-
yoke thee to anger. lut I see, ca' 'do
it. I lose four hundred'Sus.'"i
" Better thou lowest other fouhrnha
Sus," said hey t*b  illel should e ag
one-mqwont ortly."                .
Th      iger, thus disappoid t    i
boune, dj told his story 'eyer rrhr ~e*
greatest praise of the sweet
ld sage. Hillelsoon appeared
f his family to bless a          asot :
Sabbath approached. 4secUoess     '.  ,
pproached the venerable ana
he also, my father" she said.
Hillel lajd, Ii, hands upon h+        -
did, "May %ded sile  tb           .p
hy tgresa m4dau   prr
et ends $eaphi ;
04men," sai       A
8a* kissed


OR HILLEL AND ITEROD.                  131

A   ' gesatteoas, charming ,ae the color re-
dsted ts glaring  oo light; bntitheI
swtelosesoms wither, tale fragrantaroses
a pd  ebline their heads,"and Flora
msea dver her children. There is 4plen-
dotandeath, ho ey and poison, in one cup.
V nte happiness is enthroned among
Oth  $and innocent, under the.ilent-roof
of tibistinmates. -"You, my goods father,
)ave taught me happiness, real bliss; but my
lhis is uh susceptible of happiness, May
I not mournfor a lost father? net weep a
tear 1 : I'iwho roams over the country
and thswddanrself" in the embrace of dan-
k royamy parent? Is the Sabbath
so     that :may "not mournfor the one,
ad     y for the other?.CanI reconcile my
3.oe with the-voice f nature? -.0, my fath-
er,'1 fti hrow hapy Icould be with youif
I p     h eappy.
- ,    = happy, my daughter, as thou art
virtuous," Hijel said. "Confide in God, and
tds sun of iiappiness will eon return to thy
hat" Hillel would have aid more, if he
had not been interrupted by the unexpect-
e4 arii of Simon. " It is he, g'ife, my
love m  only hope!" Helen exclajd and
s"1 dkht e open arms of Simon, who press-
e&amp;hr i ent.rapture on his high beating
heart Iilinglj' illel said, " the sun of
h   ~ah    e   urned already to her heart.".j
so yyu are yet mine, all mline, so ov-
in7l  , faithfully nine I" Sinon, exclaim-
pnenrapturedly upon the
b1           t p$nanpe and radating black
rpeld 9f happiness, a
Ural thn{-b looks, myonly
1                      ly'' earest life, what
'   *  qti g'Helen stammered
ofdn music, I can speak
" ,ASP':.             .
aanhe  dr'esi SIX r

"My venerable father and teachersaid
Simon, "yoe-taught me, to save a human
life is-a moressacred duty than to observe
all-the-Sabbaths of a lifetime., You taught
nye that even, in cae of. doubt--man may
violate the Sabbath, if he believes thus. to
save the life of a human being."
" I did say so, and this is the meaning of
the Law : ' What-man should do to live by
it,' and not to die.with'it. Self-preservation
is man's first duty. 'Love thy neighbor as
thyself,' implies.first the duty to preserve she
life of our fellow men as well as ours. - Hence
the perservation of life ia man's first duty.
But tell me, my son, whose life art thou to
save ?"
"Hyrcan's, my father," said Simon. " I
prevailed so long on Herod until he appoin-
ted me governor of Jerusalem and pardon-
ed Hyrcan. I bear the documents. I can
save the life of Hyrcan and of many others
who die now in Jerusalem almost every day,
for no offence of theirs."
"Thea go, travel fast, be in time in Jeru-
salem, andamay God speed thee," Hillel ex-
claimed, joyfully. " All good men in Israel
will bless thee, and Herod's name might yet
be saved from perdition." Instantly Hillel
looked serious and deliberating. After a
mormept of reflection, he asked, " But why
didst thou not go the straight rout from Pe-
tra to Jerusalem ? "
"Notwithstanding the decrees of the King,
signed by him, gnd bearing his seal,' haid, i-
men, "nothwithstanding my traveliug4h a
strong escort of the royal guard,  was so
much molested and delayed at-sach taiay
pK etthat I determined upon hoei le y-
y, where no military posts are  I may
aive much sooner at.lerusalem,"  V
.(Thia is suspicion my son,   el said.
( fear thou  rti 4 i(ed. 1' ilow lhe pere
a.k n..ii - HfinaiidiAt lnoksi

men, who evidently obeyed the behests of
Herod. I fear my son, thou art deceived."
Like a flash of lightning it rushed through
the soul of Simon. He rose from his seat
and looked about like one who feels-the ap.
proach of insanity. "Is it possible that He.
rod is do perfidious, so outrageously satanic,
such a feeble, weak, hellish liar I" Simon
exclaimed, furiously. "Yet it appears to be
as my sagacious father says. Herod,-tlien,
dig thy grave, thou art a lost man. This
pardon alone could save him. 0, my fath-
er, my kind father, you know not how my
soul mourns over that Herod, how I dread
the idea of the bloody revolution, that must
ensue. 0, 1 hoped to save him, to spare my
people the lives of the thousand patriots.-
It was. a sweet, pleasant. dream. If Herod
isa-liar,-then the dream is over, and the
sword, the bloody sword will decide the fate
of Israel." Simon covered his face with
his hands and wept so loud, that all in the
room wept with;him. Painful was the si-
lence that followed, and the emotions that
appeared to dominate every heart. Then
he burst forth violently, " Israel, curse the
infamous seducers of Herod ! Israel, curse
Salome, Dositheus, Castobarus, curse Sabi-
on "
The shrill and painful cry of Helen, "Hold
on, for God's sake, hold on, he is-my father!"
directed every look to her. " Simon, save
him, I prithee, save his life, he is my father.
What love can invent to please, to bring
down the -blies-of heaven upon:thee, to en.
rapture thee with feelings divine, I will do,
I will' cheerfully do; nay, nay, nay, it shall
ho-my oly study, my ale thought to make
thee so happy asino other mortal can -be-;
when thou steepest my love shall rock thee
in pardusi4wdreams, when thou wakest i i
4ez f  iiiones hall hsinge the dust under
ti eeteeinr'fgrant'rdes; ITwill-wreisle
wi      s     fozkY" ix  aden oflibI to
e  *6;*st i             pjt    p love
ws-rgi; ,                  thee1
ii.s'. . n.e Yte af oadusave

dence between him and Cleopatra, froma
which it is evident that he conspired witt
her against Herod. I found-the documents
under the ruins of his house ia Sharon,.and
gave them to the King. Hisdoom-fs ele&amp;
If the people or Herod rule, hAidon is
sealed."
"And the beloved of my heart is theaure
derer of -my father," Helen lamented, "how
unhappy a giri am It1 "
" Murderer ? No 1I" Simon said, emphati-
cally. "The man whomurdered thousands,
he who exposed his own childt4oiisgraee
and death, is condemned to- death. -The
King and the people condemned him, d-I
was one of "the witnesses when that .vflain
was tried for his crimes.  elen, my vi'ta-
ous Helen, speat no more, pray no more for
him who happens -to be your father. .ie
is guilty enough to die a thousand death -if
he could, and you know it; hence pray no
more."
Helen embraced Hillel and hiswife. "Be
you my father, be 'my mother, woman With
the great looks," she implored. "I will warm
my soul at the fire of your virtues, and be
worthy to be your child."
" So may God 'bless thee, as I love thee,"
said Hillel. -"Helen, we are thy parents,
thou our child."
" Ah, how it rolls, how it ebbs and floods
through the heart-.like a current of blissI!'"
Helen exclaimed, and embraced herparents.
" Now let us part," said Simoq, "my duty
odlls me htince. Perhaps It a, lt save
Hyroan, and give a 'favorableturnA tel
state bf affairs. If- it is too late, Abba htal
is :just in time. Things'ap wssd to a
fearful'crisis. The ialoent4 i  fro on
is nigh. The Passover     4ikos     :"-
When we meet again tIriae.,         t
The fate of l )  and4 rae nIe-.Z
go  co      rj#e     4Z'1
and sacroi*4 k
t  m  J       7f'PT~

Tns CQMB&amp;T OF sits PEOPLE,


U.

132                     Tus CoaiA'r oP THE PEorj.c,
bsatestbefore me.-- Wild is my fantasy,  Simon, having regained his presence of
hkmyoaenfs, dreadful my presentinuts. mind, brought Helen to his mother who
1Sict, leaveoue not. You cannot save the clasped her in her arms, then turning to his
Kiganddatherevolution -O leave us not, father he stammered, "My time is over, I
fir wre will.see you no more." -        must go. Father, bless me."
A f'I .canen.ot.save the life of Hyr-  Hillel laid his hands upon Simon's head
cau   t rescue IHerod from the claws of his and said, " Remain firm in the path of god-
fi$pad" said Simon, "should he boast upon liness and virtue, true to thy'God and, thy,
my owaiio to carry out mynissios1, and1 people, and the God of Abraham, Isaac and
tell him to his face, tha$ 1 go to those Jacob will watch over thee. He has com-
who will do him justice? If my people ap- handed his-angels to ,guard thee on all thy
pesl arms to redress their grievances, ways. Go with God and return in peace,
d agLetapd aloof and rejoicein the embrace Amen."
of 'love.? This i not your wish ; your" af-, tNow I feel an army in my breast, a host
fetio    Helen, spoke too loudly. II a1 1ll, of heroes in my soul," Simon exclaimed.-
h  4a re your parents; and therein a better "Helen, Fathier, mother, farewell. Israel
world, Helen, we meet again "  He pointed calls,lI come., Israel weeps, I am prepared,
-of", and after a pause, he continued, "But ready to die or be victorious with Israel.--
you shall not remain in this world as the Farewell, farewell"'
da ghter of Sabion, you shall be known as  "Stay, one moment longer, stay," Helen
Hillel's daughter. Here in presence of my cried, but he was gone, and she sunk back
mother and thine, of my beloved ones- and in the embrace of her mother.
thine, our father shall join our hands in the .
sacred bonds of matrimony. Here and now,       C IH A P T-E R  X V I .
Helen,my only love, here and now let us be        T H E Ann EST S.
united for ever. If I return, thy, husband In the royal palace of Jerusalem a sudden
returns; if I return not Hillel is -thy father, change had taken place. The hilarious fes-
and thy husband will stand at the gates of tivities were over. An awful silence, mourn-
paradisegand wait for thy arrival. Suffering ful and eloquent, like heavy and.dark clouds,
here will bp everlasting triumph there. Love overhung the luxurious saloons. It appear-
ad fidelity here will be the glorious crown ed as though suddenly every tongue was Ia-
of victory in the home of angels. Come, med, every smile banished, and happiness
Hn, dear, be mine before God and man." was exiled. ' The servants and courtiers'ran
Helen     ; in the outstretched arms of quickly and dumb through the apartments.
8-p   heL1id. jpot speak, and what wo Herod had returned. from the Arabian expe-
ap up4 ghi c aiuen .of such sentiments dition. Returned from the field of battle
ei&amp;ghave:spoken?" Simon, pressing her as a signal victor, till no voi edof~ enthusi-
Q'   y   his ip rt, a dressed his fathernud, asm received him, no demonsttion of joy.
:     , i     ilii g, words. All rose ani 'remunerated the fatigued and '{vitorious
o lets with wine and pro- ,warr ior. Unregardednotice4ply to go out
lei  benediction over the of his way, the King traveled through the
t      t" ka ;rk sg and placed country, entered the ipitalat d ist lace,
ig,-" Thus andeverywhere gloonysel   tly aAli d'
C'. ui, t             am n' .it. onn  then.tn&amp;      cosa +I4            *

On ITILr.t.L
compliments, the King asked, "And Hyr-
can?"
"Is dead and buried," Sabion replied, with
a malicious smile onhis lips. Herod started
back, like one who dreads his own sliadowv.
He appeared to shudder at his own black
deed. "And the people ?" -he continued,
interogating. " Are quiet," said Sabion,
"I have kept my word."
"Quiet, very quiet," said Herod, "not one
of them has a word of joy to speak to the
returning victor."
" My lord, none knew of your arrival,"
Sabion excused himself, "'or else "--
"You would have hired some criers to
give mean enthusiastic reception," the King
interrupted. " It is well, as it is. What
says the Queen ?"
"i can not tell, my lord," said Sabion,
"none is permitted to see her. She is sick'
I presume."
" Yes, yes, she is sick, I presume," said
the King, "and could not receive her royal
husband in due form. Her children, cham-
berlains, courtiers, officers, servants all sick,
I presume, only Sabion and myself are well.
Ha, ha, ha, this is a sickly season.- But
what is the latest news from Egypt?"
" Melancholy intelligence," said Sabion.-.-
" Antony and Cleopatra are dead, they end-
e4 in suicide."                    ,1
Thunderstruck, Herod looked on Sabion,
witbut saying one word. The wild gestures
of'Fthl ing and his rapid strides were the
only-demonasration of his emotions. Grad-
usillyhe wrought himself into a frantic ex-
em4ennteul4d his head against the wall,
.t ck himself with his'own fists, and made
hedfuld gesticulations. He did not hear
*hat Sabion said, tind raged on for a good
whilee, -oli b ead-eate :to retire, bt
; edejaca _    "i$ .fitaan: ""b, you
o.  oie  notevenaegjju

&amp;--%n IHunon.                       13n
obtain a hearing of the King. He behave
'like a maniac and none could bring him to
his senses. Sabion commenoed to' feel ebat
.it was unsafe to stay anylonger in hiptee
ence, and without,the King's permissio*ghe
went toward the door. "Stay, traitoe,,faih-
less dog, miserable wreto," the King d ried;
madly, "you can not sell me any more to
Cleopatra; that vile woman is dead. Why
are you in such a hurry, your business is
done? 'Call Sohemus and Castobarus."
Both appeared instantly.  ileokimus!
take Jericho as quick as-possible,"the' ing
commanded, "drive out the ,Egyptians and
leave a garrison there." Sohemus .bwed
and left. "Castobarus, 8abion is youf'jris-
oner. Your honor and your head are for-
feited if he escapes."
Sabion fell upon his knees befor the
King. " My lord, my gracious King,' he
begged, "do not abandon your most faithful
servant. I have done my duty at the risk of
my own life."    .
" Yes, yes, you have done your duty, as
well as any other executioner," the King re-
plied ; " but your work is done. Cleopatra
is dead, you can not sell me and Judea to
her. You are at the end of your rae. Be-
gone. To-morrow your trial shall ."
Sabion attempted to speak again, bdt the
King moving his hand, Cast6barus took the
sword of Sabion and bade him follow, wheb
suddenly the door was opened and -Sal e
cameiin. " My lord,:hear your faitblgif so.
ter," she cried, " commit no rea unt ai it
Sabion. The doiomentsbanded toj    ay
be forged after all.  Y    eour enelige
shrewd.: They may have 'pinaed thoit.
mental in the hands 'of- Au  i th t b
knowledge  of  their beiain  j  lse. 'f o
hasty  I suspethe,
who arf n~~
".  u r#.0 n a
To


134                        THn COMBAT
*he documents is my possession are forged."I
Thew ig left the saloon, and Salome assail-
ed.   II like a fu!y,"Speak, satanic mon-
*W     e es-my daughter,,where is Helen?".
,ais jsnot your daughter,"saidSahioh.
f      seq, famous devil, your .life is in
04     ds,.I.alone can save you," said Sa-4
Aurion-found yourtreatherous cor-
rp      aP  with Cleopatra and handed it toi
the King. You are a dead' man. Give me
a y daug ter. and,- shall be your 'advocate
before the King.. Give me my child, and II
wiO*toap to.save you."
"  urihui reu .are dead," said Sabion,
+AN  ,rthquakc illed them."
'Yoiu lie; one of them lives," Salome cri-
ed, andyou .must' know where she is. I
believe Helen is my child. If so, speak, tell
me- where she is,'and 1 will save you."
"You  have promised so much, and kept
so little, that I would not trust you with the
office to plead my cause before the King,"
said Babion. " You- wish to have your
daughter, and then deliver me into the hands
of theexecutioner. No, if I must die, you
shall at least mourn the loss of your child-
t-re'L'~-
"'I entreat, I beseech you, Sablon," she
prayed, give me my daughter, give me my
child, and I will forget all the wrong you
have-done-me.  I will forget that you are a
evil, a traitor, a hangman, my curse, my
hell,:I will forget it and pray upon my knees
to sa  yon.. Monster give me my child."
"'If fC1stobarus swears to send me safely
to Araia," taid Sabion, "'In case the King
O4e m     s p  shallF tell you all I know."
Mine's piryeriadid not move Castobarus.
Si listed pw   bis duty. "It you sweat
he said, finally,' to Salone, "1
lis." After her tears id
' P          ttd l  inSalome Iewor

OF TE PEOPLE,
knowledge of my wife, and gave my other
daughter to another nuise. She died soon
after. Helen is your daughter. But-know
not whether she escaped, or where she is...-
Only two persons can know it, Aurion and
Elvira, they were at the spot right after -the
earthquake. Elvira is in my power. Ex-
amine her, perhaps she will tell youtwhat
she knows."
Castobarus and Sabion left the saldoni-.
Salome stared a good while after them , A
hell If you wish, but Salome you shall not
have for a spouse," she vociferated. "Iwill
send you to my first husband if it must be,
and let Sabion give you company.--But does
that man not tell me a lie to save his life ?
Is Helen my daughter? Is she disgraced ?
knows she that I commanded it? If she is
and knows it, must she not curse, hate, de-
spise me; why do I wish to see her? How
foolish I am. Still I must know it, and if
she is my daughter, I must see and love her.
I am a mother, I can not divest myself of my
love. Aurion knows where she is, he ioves
her, and' I-No, she shall die-Die? my own
child ? I must have certainty on all these
questions, then I will act speedily."
A violent roar, like that of a madman
sounding dreadfully through the arched balls
of the palace, made Salome listen. "Hark!
is this not the voice of Herod ?" she solilo-
quized, when he, like a fury, reeled into the
room with a sword in his hand.' " Leave
me, instantly, venomous serpent," hOried.
"Lost, dead, gone, everything iIlbst,all dead,
gone.  You, hellish monsters; you hre
caused me to slay Hyrcan, y  e poi n,
ed my soul with suspicion'againsthimi.G,.
let me alone with my -grief."
" I go, if you conmand," Salome said..
"But I can not ia ite, whit y6u now, i 
this dangrons gepeut he dth of
I  ih j   y #Y    btlart
} "q ar si w~ i    {t  Ca1,4 s tli14t  P.l;

On HILLEL AND HfnoD.                            Y3
self made but she, and she is the mods beau- feeble, defencelese woman. But ifryoa d
teous of women, she closes her doors, sends not kill me, 1 wil1 pe because IUmat.:-
me-my ring, the token" of.my ive, sends me Antony is dead. Qeisyius is your eaiisy,
mytingg and the message, that she swore a The people are infuriated. Mariawnshatesp
solemn oath never to allow me to see her or abhors you. A revolution in her*igiQr  4&amp;
embee' her children. 'That is your work, your door. Your fall, your death f a
h a h fiend ; for she- says, the blood of almost. lyrcan is disposed of, hetY)
 - eniquenched every spark of love in her ne steps in his place, leads the reroi
h.rt,: she hates and abhors me  Ha, ha, and avenges her brother and grand- on
ha   ion's prostitute! laugh yourself mad, you, while'you sigh after her love. If yotu
thJ ide ir hellish work."            are a man, crush this scheme in tiie., .Send
Salome quivered with anger. Not being her away to a place where the rebels canot
able= ::give vent to her rage, she fainted reach her, and she can not omnaiite
away, falling down senseless before Herod. with them. Sendher away in the 'silence
" Die, worthless creature," he roared, when of night, tinder the veil of darkness, andet
she fell. She groaned heavily and appeared her be there till the- storm is over, anidihie
todie. Herod lifted her up, laid her on a repents her harsh conduct against you. If
sofa, called his servants who administered you are a man, 'reflect and. ant."
restoratives to her. She revived without  " You are rightbi'the honor of a man
Herod'slookingat her. The servants, obey- you are right," said Herod, much 'pacfled,
ing her command, left the saloon; she was "Sister, forgive my harsh words  I know
again alone with Herod. "If you wish me how to value your -sagacity and attachment
to die, kill me," she said, in a cool and cut- to me. Come,filet usspeak wisely What
ting tone; "dispatch me quickly, you are do you think about the present crisis ?"
master in the art of assassination, kill me at  " 1 think it will take all your wisdom and
once," ,                               power to avoid serious consequences," said
"Be dumb, worthless woman," he cried. she, " even if Octavius undertakes nothing
"So every maniac treats his, faithful against you. - Therefore you should not di-
friends," she continued, calmly. " Better vide your forces at present. On-the Lentra-
Hyrcan lives and Herod dies than Herod ry, you should attempt to concentrate allthe
lives and Mariamne plays the impotent des- mental and physical forces atyar command,
pot against him.. It is not worth while to be and. meet your-enemies in full vigor,"
Herod's friend, it is a crime to be his faith-  "I do not understand you," said Herod.--
ful si'tr (9(he is the admirer of his ene- "Speak more intelligibly."
'    :                      eae   "'My advice-is this," she continued  s
doV  0   Jnd you to be silent, and leave riamne and her children, together
thus     the thundered.                mother, must be sent to a castle, x
oqof your obedient slaves," she can.holdno communiati h     r
stdfrst I must tl you what 1 have to Naythey mest not ev6n ki'w  s:s
ey, th e l  iillea ve you.. You are blind S biqw;unningn.  ;k             'or
*ih nenlen.inn d I     ; aa .  Inaw IL RAmr o A v sw.mr


TIRE Vo ,AT -OF 'THE PEOPLE,

,T4   a  taSm must be pa tto the 'plain
4       -e  ie efAs.  this
 y be aepm~fisihed, if the city re-a
ted, you may fear-
before Octavius as the popular
ug, of Judea, and he can not
insluWt you. . This would ie
seq in this crisis"
7"a:e the most sagacious counsellor
,' said Ierod;  l *ill -reflect
en everything you said.  wil'have decided
hgurs, Letme be alone now: ina
few hours I 'ill be decided,"
ulone left' Herod was alone. Looking
nothe ring which Mariamnehd returned
h~m~j#M fell again into a St of violent pas-
o   ne one msager after another to
a e ; none of'them, however, was ad-
his atoherprhde.  Note he wept
; b- Wife andrebildre'n, and ursed his
friends and couneeflors; then again he swore
to *enge biqgself on his disobedient wife
andall the rest of  ;", A&amp;emoreans, So he
r  bd -for several ho4, 4hen, the chamber-
id- came' in and- announced Aurion who
wished to see the King. Being commanded
to adsit him, Simon was ushWed into his
peses.
"Y are a slow messenger," the King
sald. "l o you thus carry out the command
of ourKin ?"
"Of the King? No. - Of Herod ? Yes,"
imon replied, while he laid down all the
doh mtbefore the King.- "I have not
deae  " he continue," I return my
. oyor hauide, with the only
'forthwith. My des-
.ereuse-yourjcloth yob

"Solhimus is an honest man and a warri.
or," Simon said. "Sohemus deals In no
ambiguities, my lord; and Sohemus testifies
that Herod is lost, morally lost, sunk into
the lowest mire of perfidy and corruption.---
You have extorted these words of. me.-.
Farewell. My destiny calls me hence.";
"And my authority commands you. to
stay," Hei4d said. "You add in so     -
glect of duty, and think to extriat O t f
from this dilemma by impertinence  if e
had mueh more patience wi.h you he Ii
would "have with my children. But you
go too far. Yoyz shal-give me full account
of your neglect' of duty, or I 'will let you
feel my authority."
" Ah, I should not wonder if you attempt
to get me out of your way,-as you did with
Hyrcan," said Simon; "for it apors, you
can not bear an honest man aboutjou. 3y
lord, we ire done, 1 have nothing to request
qf you, nothing to fear, nothing to hope.--
The last request I prefer to you is, let me go
from hence, go instantly, without the loss of
another word."
"I am not accustomed to excuse so easily
a, gross neglectof duty," Herod said,"espe-
cially it it- engenders such disastrous  and
sad consequences. You are responsible for
-te deatl of Hyrcan, responsible to me, to
the Queen, the people, to the world you are
responsible for the death of a King. Speak
in your own defence and I will listed."
"Now Iunerstand you," said .imon.-
"You kngw;that'your commtcp!dtin
me on  the rp d  util $itbeto  nupt fall
Sny soul with  indignation, wit 1r: y &amp;  r hr
fnd now you.see thgepgtio  ygr dcr;
nw you fear, you drath          aeque
a.. v     ,9, _ o MR. oAjt# a ~;igg o ~

OR HILLEL AgD HEIOD.J7
martyr. Very noble, but not noble enough  Salome bowed and left the saloon hasten.
for me.. You can not escape with accusa- ing at once into Simon's room. He14'p
tions and offensive words. I hold you to ac- rise when she entet d, and respond
count for the death of Hyrcan."        her salutation. Thee wa4 deterinto
No answer being given, Herod commen- stinacy visible in the stare and obllque 16
ced again and anonto speak, but he could darting like pointed arrows fromni:sTa k
get -no answer of Simon. He was determin eyes. His countenance somewhat
ed to speak no more, and so he did. "You ly pale and, therefore, the moreint
give me your word of honor, that you will was so smooth, and looked so calm  a6t
keep your room till I command otherwise." the slightest emotion of "the heart  b-
'"9 promise nothing," said Simon.    frayed. Only a characteristic furrowinilet
"When I must have you arrested," Herod prominent and white forehead betokenhd
said. Simon made no reply. Herod called profound thought in which he waS disitb-
Dositheus, gave him orders to place a guard ed, and the acute angle of his mouth  -
of honor at the door of:'Aurion. Both re. sed the dissatisfaction he felt at his'unwel-
tired without a word from Simon. Herod come visitor.
informed Salome of Simon's arrest, and then  After Salome had gazed at him for some
sent a message to Mariamne, informing her time without receiving a look in return, she
of Simon's neglect to bring pardon to Hyr- said in plaintive notes, " Has Aurion not a
can in time, and of his arrest in consequence word to say to her who loves him so dear.
thereof.                               ly ?
Salome on hearing of the arrest of Simon
hastened into the King's apartment. "M A sarcastic smile moved his lips. He
Jord, why did you arrest my favorite friend," crossed his arms over his breast, rose..nd
she asked, "who could be so useful to you looked firmly into her eyes. " Do:yon be.
in this crisis ?"                       lieve you can deceive me again ?" he said.
"lHe might become as dangerous as you "The children of darkness know not what
imagine him to be useful," said Herod. "le love is. Wild lust and burning pasigns
is indignant to the utmost at the death of like impetuous billows ebb and flood in your
Hyrcan and my orders to detain him on "the bosom between the rocks of eime, ice and
road. I arrested him to prevent rash acts, .iniquity. You call this wild, unnatural state
and I will keep him in close confinement till of emotion love, I call it animal lusbt  I
he joins our ranks, or till this storm is over. cast a deep glance into your black heart, . I
My friends now give currency to-the report, read an abhorrablo chapter in your benight-
that I dispatched him with a pardon for ed soul. Satan himself must be ashlamedsof
Hyrcan, but he lingered on the road till it yoir fall. Salome, after she knelt bgore
was too late, in order to arouse a rebellion me in profound repentance and  hnieeof
against me. You know what influence this her inhuman crime;alter sh  enys
exercises on the people. Hence one way and his angels to witness hIeiftarui the
or the other Aurion must be useful to tue. path of virtue, again ass
anybo~he inust remain in my haids,;nti 4 l otted withkoM
e    veeiie~tly desIere hlimi tliorNtd  oekf~his ow*an lte


, $YTuR                     CoMa T oF T E PEOPLE,
4 efsand anio: malle4you 'planned she implored, "O, hear an unfortunate, tor-
,theme toaanehate. Hyroad, oented woman who stands begging before
f *   fer  hbadi anted hi pardon you. Only once more d' hear me." Simon
hands you arrived in the camp yielded. ' He turned to her and, in a pacifi-
ted'the King's good design.--- edand solacing tone, lie'told her to speak.
ofibell, you speak of love ?-  "Who told you that I commanded the vio-
i yourself, I hate, I abhor lotion of Helen's chastity?" she asked.
deserve' iftNay, not as you de.  "The chamliberlain, who conveyed your or;
or I an- iot hats so radidilly, so ders to Ada rmelech, confessed it in the ago.
t$ibiusly, so hellishlyr as your deep-dyed ny of death," was the reply.  .    -
ea                             efts deserve it: I have button word  " And does- Helen know it?" she asked,
ar#e''"t l  you, then I am done. Leave eagerly.
m forever,'do not rob me of life's precious  " I can not tell," was the short reply.
aooits'by .your Intolerable presence.-   "Does she live-?" ahe continued, interro-
G(s4e, hate, kill me, if you please, only do gating. No answer followed. She repeated
noidove me. The idea of being loved by so the question several times, but Simon, fear-
rgIgafte awbmanis isfficient to set an hon- ing harm for Helen did not answer. On be-
. ai a lad."                         ing pressed by her urgent requests ~he said,
8imon turned away-from her with looks of " She is dead for you." Salome misunder-
dntnibt'which pierced through her heart. stoodSimon,and on hearing the word"deadj'
Agonised, tormented, crushed, she uttered she covered her face with her hands and
inarictidte sounds like an excited savage, cried violently, " And I am her murderer."
whih .ended in a dewp groan. Simon ap- Siinon was on the point to tell her, that she
penrdstotake no notice of its In her madness was mistaken, when ore of her servants came
shlifted -up her hand to strike him. " Be- in the room and said, "My lady, she died
ware, profligate," Simon tlhundergd, "or you under the torture, but would not, confess
have committed your last crime.'' The roar- where Helen is."
png voiceand tremendous looks of the in-  "Who died ?" Simon asked'hastily, while
dignaniman fell on her heart like a thunder. Salome nearly fainted away.
elgp. 'Shuddering,-she started back several  " That obstinate servant," said the man,
fpaoes, and reaching the sofa she fell back on "they called her Elvira, she was Helen's
it: crying 'violently for help. The guards servant."
4    -rashed in the room and asked after her~com-  Dumb, pain-stricken, pale and motionless,
amand ,Meanwhile she recovered her sen- Simon stooiseveral moments and stared at
s , a observing the stern calmness in the theffurious woman before him, while the
'= intiea tnf4Simon, she said, "It is noth- servant retired. Then his eyes began to roll
Igamte gsad the King's physician con wildly in their sockets. He cried like a
riders mydis iie incurable. 1 was so fright- madman, " Awake, fury, kneel in the dust
aed&amp; Btii   love r.( Got Ido not. eod* crushed, annihilated, and admire the ,pun-
x  r~     threw, angthe   tie 1  a, us tandof    pAhd        u@d
g edat    the rm  lndestinies. enr zi b4 wom,              ,;
..." a' e 8upto tbs., d  .pur . ae*$ re . t  n  ~.t

Oni HILL:EL AND HERD.1S

Without looking on him Simon, pointing
to Salome said,"And to see-his dying sis,
ter."
Herod on observing Salome, asked, sur-
prisedg" What means this 'i"
"Nothing unusual in Herod's palace," Si-
mon, coolly and monotonously, replied.--
"Remorse and shame overpowered her, and
she fainted away. But she willsoon recover
to  dure athousand deaths."  The King bu-
sy     himself to restore her, Simon said:
"or:mercy's sake do not recall her to con-
sciousness. Let her sleep without-a.&amp;dream.
I fyou restore her suddenly her heart might
break under the crushing weight of her guilt.
Behold, King o: Judea, here lies-your sister,
your vile counsellor, here she lies crushed
with remorse; for she killed her own daugh-
ter, and her daughter was an angel. Be-
hold,'King of Judea, she is a'vile, degraded,
dishonored woman, still she is an angel in
comparison with you, even you. She fain-
ted on hearing that shy' murdered her own
child, artd you remained \unshaken when
you heard of the death of tour own fattier,
through your hands."
" Irritate not my anger," Herod roared,
foaming with rage. Salomeigroaned heavi-
ly; and the King attended to her. Simon
continued: "Your anger is quite harmless.
You can only kill me, dispatch me to those
whose blood boils upon your guilty heart.-
Ai, Sire, there are moments in every man's
life when death loses its terror aril life its
charms, before another all-absorbing pas-
sion. I feel now this very inclination.- 1
mutt tell you, what no other mortal can or
dare, so that my voice re-echo in your heart
when I am no more, when this form of clay
decays Ithe dust--that my form haunt you
with ter"nr and diseaay th rough all scenes
of iiit .f :Ietir e, ngoJuda,wretch.
admi be, bent ith   ief, rtno e. tmd'
,'rfle lf-ipt s'yi.istor l ies' here,   ,

phans, an oppressed, outraged nation, an eg-
slaved, fettered people curse yonuw
your name is meant ued, an offended
down trodden angel sweeps overyo     :
Your own children must hate you. It-
morse and despair you wilt die, ia;t*dby
the shadows of those you mus'eeds
ed by the hot tears of your euemia$p.
cated with the sighs of your foes   jou
outraged, and haunted by my apieiit!Time
will be your end, for there is eastic.Ia
heaven, there is a God who avenges the-in-
nocent and oppressed. Now, Herod, L am
ready to die.""-' e
Herod raged furiously; but Saleme have
ving somewhat recovmered clung so closelyto
him that he could not give vent to his wrath.
"Let me go, sister, that I may kill that infer-
nal liar," he ejaculated, hoarse and foaming
with anger;' but Salome minded him not,
she clung so firmly around his neck that he
could not move. Simon hastened to his res-
cue, opened the arms of. Salome and criea :
"Now, Herod, yourthands are free,' ~Kill
me, to filthe cup'of your crimes to its very
brim. Tyrant, despot,.inhuman murderer,
kill me!"a                    s
ilHerod clasped his sword, hesitated, the
cries of Salome, the firmness of Simon, the
fiery looks of the young enthusiast paralised
his arms. They fell straight, his had drop-
ped, his anger was gone. " Aurion, Airion,
you areacruel man," hecried. "'Yourwords
are worse than the fire of hell. I would dis-
miss,you in peace; but I know you will join
the rebels. Therefore I must soeure-your
person, till we are capable to-see each oth-
er in .better humor. Here you inust stay
and expet 'your fate.'
ierod offered his arm to Saloie, and both
lefttl iotnm, before whhdh a double gi 
ways iaced."
C       W  AUh-  f' fiV    ,*'4Y7.  %-r.
a r~      a J W P rK  ' :t  _  j  1  C  Y  #    W H

N

13p    Y,


14                      THn OoMBAT OF Tn PonOPL,*
e&amp; ejit alcolumn of the ancient'imple-  Here Ia Shamaite rose, and, having ve-
:   relics of .the place, which had spectfully bowed to the assembly, he said:
b.       ',itby the ii  f KingSolomon0 I wish to call your attention to a rumor
eibb1 to tinild the temple, beneath current-in Jerusalem, that Simon ken 1i-
l    thdesecret hall was. On the top of les a traitor. He received grant of par.
the a representation of the ark, don for Hlyrcan from the hands of Hierod ;
l biniand the two tables of stone. but he lingered so long on the roaduntil the
the first,-another pillar was con- pardon came too late. ilerod's anger was
.at&amp;     f dtelve large shields, bearing the so great on'thuis occasion, that he threw Si-
a     of the twelve sons of Jacob, said to mon in a prison; but on mature reflection
be'the same shields which the princes of he pardoned him. Simon married the sis-
the twelve tribes bore when coining with ter of Herod, the bloody Salome, and is hov-
dji s to the land of Canaan. The lion of ernor of Jerusalem, and successor to Sabion
fl.hotlm mighty Ariel rested upon this in the King's confidence. Sabion is in pk'is-
illitr i and was represented to watch over on for a treachery of his which Simon dis-
tbsarlled  Moses . Seventy chairs stood in covered.  Every child of Jerusalem  tells
the iid et of the ball in a semicircle before this story. If this is so, we can not elevate
wplaiifrmcovered with significant symbols, Hillel to the  dignity of Nassi in Israel, tis
upon which a ciair resembling a throne must be clear to every unprejudiced- mind.
was Ilaned. The purple robe and the semi- Therefore I say, we must wait, for we must'
crown laid on a velvet-eushion on a table-  be cautious, until we know for certain, that
Tho'echair was occupied by the blind pre- this story is not true; we'can not till, then
sident Baba ben Iuta ho rose and said to appoint Hillel to the highest dignity in Is-
thnmultitude asseinbleMl in the hall: "Bro rael."
there and friends. This is the last time 1  The sensation-excited by these remarks
will preside over your meetings; for you will    and painful. None could contra-
P  ;  s          . ~~~~~~was greatanpanu.N          ecolcnt-
now organize, your Sanhedrin, ovr which diet the rumor, and every one appeared to
the great and learned Hillel and Menahem feel, that under such circumstances, Hillel
will preside. With armed hands you will could not-be elevated to the highest dignity
leave this subterranean sanctuary and take of the people. The father of a traitor could
posseylion of the temple, the city, the throne not be entrusted with the presidency over
and ;the crown. Herod's cup of crimes is the highest juridical and legislative tribu-
lled to its brim, his verdict is rendered, his nal. Still it was the ardent wish of the vast
'doom is sealed. You have resolved to place multitude to place the integral, upright and
ghefo Israel's Sanhedrin and have him lea ned Hillel at the head of that body. Jo-
triface    ng tot  u lays for the usurpa- inathan ben Uziel was the only man in the
frh                    udp      w     i assembly who had the courage to rise and
*prestei      ionof our laws, the oppres- contradict the rumors He said : "Does not
sidst'of oar.sope ~pe, tielegal dissolution of our sacred law ordain 'The parents shall
our Sanhe4in, the protection of Sqme'ssinotdie on accountof their children; and:the
toies  t! % .a   tut own, and ilthie  trodchildren shall {netdie e iaccountof their pa-
d~ae           $t4 eju etomn.t             ,hy then should e punish Iil lfor
-" p,,                   l   h e i o f  S i m o n ?   E v e r y i f' S i t  is   i 4t-
1'  w   'yyI ,e i     et+_-s
' .s                                ne,     iii &amp; " +1Ie  i  } at "er'1'e  #  '1hi
',   !r Mlk ,A" iy i .  1-, 1   d     e  d S5  i    /the  ,44  h  i"  '

ness here, in order to be an angel hereafter. ted her to do so. "Art thou, my daughter
He is incapable of being wicked.--As for Si- the wife of Simon ben Hillel ?" he -eke,.
mon, the son of Hillel, my school mate an  "I am, my graciousirlad," she :lj .--"
friend, hi discredit that rumor, entirely. I "Hillel himself blessed our covenant of
know the generous and patriotic heart of Si- love."
mon. There glows but one passion in his  " And where ir your husba d,: afydaugii-
great soul, all others are subjected to this ter?" he continued, " Speak without fir,
which fills his whole mind--and this pas-  "lie is imprisoned in the royal pala"
sion is to rescue Israel from its tyrants. I Helen lamented,' "and a dreadful endwa its
pledge my life and honor for the integrity him. Rescue my bhysband, save Simon, he
of Simon. I will die the death of a wretch is the.noblest in Israel i"
before your eyes, nay still more and worse  "How do you know of'his fate ?" the
than all tortures, 1 will live an outcast in Is- blind sage asked."
rael, if that rumor is not a falsehood, a base " I remained in Jericho when he came to
invention of Herod and his wicked counsel. Jerusalem with a grant of pardon tos.Hyr-
lore to deceive the people, and counteract can," said Helen. "The soldiers of iercd
the influence of Simon on Israel's myriads." 1 had everywhere detained him on the roid;
None replied. None coup reply; for both so that he should come too late, and too late
the-accusation and the defence were based he came. Dreadful were' my omens, terri-
on mere suppositions. Still every body felt ble my dreams, I could rest no longer in Je-
instinctively that Hillel should not be en- richo  There came Sohemus with 'his host
trusted with so responsible an office, if his to capture Jericho. The men,'of Jericho
sort turned a traitor to the people. One bade all women and children to leave tie
wrapped in a black cloak was admitted in the1 city, as they were determined to resist to the
hall after signs and countersigns were cor- last. I embraced this opportunity 'and in
rectly exchange.d and the passwords given. the garb of a man I hastened to Jerusalem.
The stranger eagerly examined every coun-rin vain Iattempted to enter into the palace,
tenance in the hall, went from one place to as no stranger is now admitted. To day, I
the other and nowhere found the desired heard a rumor in the city, that Simon -pre.
rest. The restless search of the stranr at- ved a traitor to his country and his wife.-
tracted attention, and one asked him, " Do Madness seized me, my brain was heated,
you seek any man?"                     delirious, my eyesight 'was'gone, I "could
" I do," the stranger replied, in a tremu- hear no longer. I ran toward the gat. of
ous, feminine tone, "I seek Simon ben Hi- the palace without knowing what I wished
lel."                            '     to do there.. There ecame Ma enk, the sieir.
"He is not here," was the reply, "nor will vant of my unhappy sister, and told nethut
he come hither; for he is with Herod."  the Queen and her children were e  't atay
"Then it is true,.merciful God," the stran- in tie dark of night to an;Anknown 'abot;
ger cried, so shrill and painful, that every that Elvira, my half sister~was torts red to
body iwathe oapacious hail hooked surprised, 4eati by orders of 'alnme;that Simaon!s
aA    n theran er  a ,H before anyquestion  pro We"in aeubter mannprison, osa-
Foud$  e'kedUein threw of her Alo   'iVbea.   to b     edsoahlte wit  t e
su; t.ek and cria&amp;n heart p ercig   paprdonbut is. _ue bew         I
.  s    T,                   acrato the wsero*t               L

OR. fnLLEL AND IlnnOD.

141

'1
,;

.1.- s
x


142.                   THE .CoMBA.T OF TE PEOPLE,

ieys    ags with n  tears, my trembling
hoara      eiairing soul:. 'erai any .a4d
bas "Aiipo ye     ae:g husband,.give
m#     d elulid     r he skifices himself for1
his piole. Here I kneel'before you, and
in       e oifthe Clod ofcdove 1 beg, I en-
tr4       H~e,* G   my husband!
#      ; tor s the palace," many thun-1
d      siIi  excited tone. "Let ub beat the
}  tyrA ionce."
for Ged's sake do," Helen cried,"and
give me a sword, a heavy sharp sort, that 1
may fight in the ranks of the brave:. Death
and destruction"to the breed of scorpions,
theeldai14ei of hell. Death and destruction
to- a' ants.i no on men,-with the steal.
decked: hearts, fight for your country, and
letMe,fight: among you. Strike :the fatal
blow at once, and return tnrowned with vic-
tory to your wives and children."
Withrlightning speed the swords rushed
frot-the sheathy, under the thunder like ex-
ola*nation:R"Death and destruction to all
tyrants. Forward,tonward to combat and
victoryt"
"Not without me," Abba Shaul roared,
that every one of the excited multitude heard
its                             
enthusiasticc reception of Abba Shaul
subside-not ,for some time. Order being
retired be repprted. himself to Baba ben
1 igta: : "l have carried out the wishes of the
people,"'said Abba Shaul. "I went to Jer-
ico;and there metSohemus with his host,
dispatohed byHerod to take possession of
thet eityw  4h&amp; Egyptian -garrison and the
citizseawei repared o offer strong resist-
W  aneb; adsahema made preparations fbr an
sa1.t. I aMdr in-time. We attacked
them  and they;retreated. The peopl-in.
s: a epportedonrdl1avemente, and ohmia
'',           sint4r
?3",esh /i7,nter
-mot"  ^, " dS  1    '  . u  Y~ t  V si1

the Sakedrin in Jericho, who are here and.
wait. foryour further orders."
While the deafening applause resounded.
in- the subterranean hall, Helen approached
Abba Shaul, and, in the anguish st- her
heart,;addressed him, " Thou, whohast .av
ed me. from infamy and death, rescue my
husband, thy friend, the friend of the peo
ple-.rescue Hillel's son from the iron grasp of
Herod."
" Be of good cheer, Helen," said Abba
Shaul, " 1 knowevery thing, and have dis
patched men of the right cast to rescue Si.
mon."             .
The multitude insisted' on proceeding at
once to the capture of the temple and the
fort of Antonio, and appeal to the people for
aid. But Abba Shaul opposed it. He said :
" Everything is prepared for the attack.-
Fifty thosand of-our brethren are under
armed and posted not far from Jerusalem.-
They approach in forced marches. It would
be extremely easy for us to take the city
and drive Ilerod to despair. But we must
spare bloodshed as much as possible. We
must spare the city. Therefore let us be
wise in all we do. The gates are closed,
none is admitted except unarmed pilgaihas
with their pasebal lambs. But they come
by innumerable' thousands, and plenty of
arms are stored in the city to make them for-
midable to Herod, and force him to surren-
der, without much bloodshed, and without
damage, to the city.
" Before we dispose of the old government,
the abew must be completely organized.-
Thereforefirst of all organize the new San-
hedrin and charge them with the sole gov-
ernment of the people. This done we will
take- possession of the temple and puce- the
Saahedrin; atits proper place, to begin ,its}
dhahtonotafortlith"-  -
A    yginge'  tIsiied and ;reparatliofpperoe
mliwthe       toe~eusitl'the member
wehgrj  sere eatoe4

Ox H aLt L L AND HEoD.                           g
of Israel, not to break but to support them all were led to-their sets amid the exejama-
that they support him. Thou Hillel, art the tions of joy and-eatisfaction.
giant in the,Law of God, thou art chosen by -" Brethren, it is the will of the ntio#,"
Israel's myriads to watch over these pillars said Abba Shaul,' "that this Sanhedrin
that they support thee. and thy people."- should be supreme until, anoer: gyern-
ITben all the senators passed between the meant is organized by the will of tge people,
pillars with their right hands uplifted to a and with the consent of the-Sanhedrin.2--
sacred oath. Undisturbed, silence reigned Therefore let us kneel down and :eata atde-
among the multitude, when Baba ben Buta giance to the Sanhedrin."
- again begun: "Three crowns were given to  All, swords rushed from their sheaths, all
Israel--the King's crown, the crown of the men fell upon their knees, lifting up -their
highpriest, and the glorious diadem of the right hands and, holding up the sword with
Law. The last is the- most sacred, for it is their left hands, thqy exclaimed: "We wiemr
our inheritance from Sinai, it-is ours and allegiance, strict and unexceptional. obe.
our descendants forever. Ye nobles of Is- dience to the mandates of the Sanhedria.-
rael, ye chosen of the Lord, your people en- We swear to fight for our rights and libities
trust you with this holiest of our possession, and protect this Sanhedrin' wite our lives,
to watch over the Law and the people of and enforce its decrees faithfully. In the
God." Two men led Hillel to his chair name of the God of Israel. Amen."
amid the loud exclamations of joy.- One  All rose, and the clash of arms-and out-
clad him in the purple cloak, and when Ba- bursts of enthusiasm only gave way when
ba said, "Behold the prince of Israel," all Hillel rose from his chair and addressed the
exclaimed,"LongliveHillel,Israel'sprince." assembly thus:  4 a
Another placed the diadem upon his head  " I render thanks and glory to the God of
and gave the golden staff in his hand.- Israel'who elevateth the poor from thedust,
"This is the diadem of Israel's law, and this lifteth up the needy from the dung'hilli-to
is the staff of Moses. The people bow be- set himniwith the nobles, even the -nobles of
fore this diadem and, with this staff, 'lead his people.' I wish to express myythanks to
them as their father, teacher and judge,' as my people for the confidence reposed in nw
once Moses led them from Egypt, through humble qualities, the dignity iwhieh they
the wilderness to the land beyond Jordan." have elevated the son of auhunnoticed:asmi.
All bowed before the new Nassi. Then Ba- ly; for my family is the youngestjn Israel.
ba gave the scroll of the Law to Hillel and Not words but my whole life'shall be an el-
said: "This is the Law which Moses laid 'oquent expression of, gratitude tomypeople.
before the children of Israel. This is your You know that I am no man o[;words
sole guide and teacher, and you are its guar- but my heart and my aou  devoteds-
dian and expounder. The eyes of all isra- rael and its sacred Aa,     a0will
et are directed toward you, you must provide speak better than I canm on ent of
thema; ith tly- pure water of the-Law of strongemd unttReo .I
.                                                  ud.t $ ure4 isthe most holy place ofthe  'rthrp:Ir
Ie   l fethefhj    }fih acovernpnas de-  o a itsoi                   awk


144                    THU  CoIEAT or THE PBOPLU,
In}I~a    Two enemies arep abest e, Rome "For o4 and Israel!" it -esounded from
inI   eod. It reqe'   s  g doubleieourage to every mouth, and the mute walls re-ehbed
m.Ia t tt but rights  tours is the sword a solemn Amen. "To arms, companions,"
I*; _lost, ours is theo word and the mor- Abba Shanl commanded, and the multitude
al         our check theprogre of usurp dressed with lightning speed in the ironar-
stiir,  Y tiam  and violence.  You are lament ornamenting the hall. In a few mo-
as      fgpht, conquer or die, we are pre- ments every breast was iron-decked, the he-
pret she, conur r wit oure res-e  rbascvrdee~         head, the shield
a irt   fheld our rightstice and IsraelJus was fastened to the left arm, the spear was
ine, 1he Willf God, must return and re- held with the right. Again the voice of Ab-
tnineh a ilrael, justice at any price, any risk. ba Shaul was heard, and the men formed
"0udrae, f  st  ca ny coene hre .into a column six abreast. Two doors were
sp ' fTetion can not comment e here thrown open, and a wide subterranean pas-
Te 4o     The work of the Sanhedn must sage opened to their gaze. "This is the way
bsvii~n~ands;,for the  read of divine to the temple," said Ablia. "Forward ! fol-
sheds of this body,   o it ins low me."  With a sword in one hand and
alfty frof obsc bodyand its actions the banner in the other, Abba Shaul preced-
law po     fro tobheric wandght.  he ed and the multitude followed in the best or-
na soulmeeout the poae where the SanLed der.
tin should meet, the. spot which the Lord The Sanhedrin left their places to follow
has chosen by His prophets, in the temple last behind the warriors. Hillel observed
next to the altar, the Lihath  agazit   Helen and came up to her. "My daughter,
the presence of God's Hanctuary.  There hy and came up
an hn' oar fun tions beg im.         why are you here?"
andthenng.                               "0 my father, my beloved father," she la-
"But, as your brother, allow me to advse mented,"Simon is in the hands of Herod-
you thus: Send a deputation to Octavms This remolt will cost his life."
who tarries on the mse of Rhodes, and in-  "Associate not with the wicked," H illel
form hiio. the causes that brought about said, "this is the adage of the savans.-But
this revolution. Let him be prayed not to fear not my daughter, no harm will befal
,att sPtn undue interference in Judea.- him. God watches. My heart sells me God
Then let us proceed and take possession of watches. Follow me to the temple, when
the temple, appeal to the people and trust in the morning dawns 1 will care for the rescue
God.                                    of my son."  Helen seized arms, dressed in
k "I need not admonish you to be valorous the warrior's brass habiliment, and followed
and pr mdent, for your past conduct testifies the marching men.
to your  cllent qualities. Obey your lead-
er, Abb    tflir he-is awhole-souled pa-    CH1AP!t       X VI     .
or ;kepromis ee notig       THE CA TASTROP HE.
tridt a4pr     ,n,                               HEe        aTR    EN.
f    a   i       h bleu servant of my God The inmates of the royal palace were in a
r n&amp; 'i. mastobey their orc4ers stt of      onternatio     ihtadsrd
.4 i z  ' dnc Yo Y  's  fe           zrbomiign shade over th  hrth     no,
'. _                   n                    am Ot.
,e. ru

OR HILLaL
the courage to speak to him; but even he'
but seldom received an answer. "Where is
Joseph my treasurer?" the King asked, sud-
denly.
"My lord, you sent him away with the
Queen and the royal princes to Alexandra,"
Castobarus replied. " He is gone as you
commanded."
" Then she is gone ?" he asked.
" The Queen, my lord, her mother and the
royal princes are gone, as you commanded,"
said Castobarus.  " They started exactly
three hours ago."
"Did you see them leave?" Herod asked.
"How did the Queen behave? What did
she say? Did she not inquire after me ?-
Speak, did she not mention my name, not a
word, not a single word did she say ?."
" Not a word, my lord," said Castobarus.
" She mounted the carriage, took her child-
ren in her arms, kissed them and away the
chariot rolled."
"Not a single word she said?" Herod
asked again. "Speak, man, did she not
weep, not sigh, not request you to see me
only for a moment?"
"She said nothing, did not weep nor sigh,"
Castobarus replied. " When I handed' her
your decree she bowed slightly, and said, 'I
am ready to depart.' Since then I have not
heard her speak."
" Castobarus, have you a wife and child-
ren ?" the King as'ced, suddenly. .
"No, my lord," was the courtier's reply.
" Then go, you do not understand me,"
the King said. "Go send me a man who is
a husband and a father. But no, stay. I
have dark omens. Call Aurion, 1 am sick.
-No, call"him not. Give me a cup of wine
-No, I saean call Salome -Hark, what's
tfis?Araed men go through the hall. Pet,
tA e v v     f hedd''y ,
t-  I  .r u.J                'rothi t  ylord,!'said Uaa-a

Aeb IfElon.                         145
Suddenly he turned to Castobarus with
the command " Call Sabion hither, I must
see him." Sabion was ushered into his pres.
ence.
" You are an obstinate sinner," said HE-
rod, "you intended to sell me and Judea to
Cleopatra. But she is dead and you repent.
Is it not so, Sabion ?"
" My lord, I am yours with all my life,"
said Sabion, kneeling before the King.-
" Command and I will die for you, without a
groan."
"Sabion, have you heard of the defeat of
Shemus, by the rebels ?" the King asked.
" I have, my lord," was the reply.
"Sohemus says their number is formida-
ble," the King quothed. " An attack upon
Jerusalem is in contemplation. They can
not take Jerusalem. But they might do us
much harm in the country. What is your
advice, shall I wait until they attack Jerusa-
lem, or shall I go out in person to meet them
in open battle before they concentrate their
forces ?"
"It would not do for the King to fight his
own people," said Sabion. " Your enemies
'n the country are so very few, tat they can
not even bring together men enough to be
called an army. Sohemus went with a few
men to Jericho, and being defeated he con.
ciders the numbers of the enemy formidable.
You are too much feared and respected in
the country to be betrayed by the multitude.
Keep the city safe, concentrate your army
around it, and watch their movements, is my
advice."
"So is my inclination," said Herod.--'
" But f they besiege the city,'what then ?"
" Then you have more than 'the required
forces to drive them to pairs,'' said Sabion.
"Now, theyfare not'think tbeaeging the
for; t8'  1  r -   ' yir      "
SZ,  grjty  om ,, ' . ,1G by  tlf. 5F "o  y hq.

.

lV=
r
' :

I'M

t,  t
" } vI 4, 1ti


146                    Tau  COMBAT oF TEE PEOPLE,
too many women and children among them," dressed in black, Salome, his sister, who went
said Sabion, " besides this they are unarm- slowly and madly singing through the hail.
ed."                                   He seized her by the arm and led her into
"'Sabion, you are a' wise man," said the his apartment. " What ails thee, sister ? "
King. " Your life is forfeited, but no harm he asked, hastily.
shall be done you, you shall have one of the " I sat all night by the dead body of my
cities now belonging to Cleopatra, if you child," she said, monotonously and feebly,
succeed in exciting a counter-revolution "my child Elvira whom I have killed; and
-among the pilgrims. Tell them Sabion and there came the spirits of the murdered men
Aurion-are arrested on account of Hyrean's to me. Do you not see them ? There they
death. The Queen left the city from fear of go; there. they are. I must sing, cry, weep,
the rebellious people. You are the messen- despair. Aurion-said I must despair."
ger of the Queen and complain in her behalf  Herod felt his blood congeal in his veins.
of the conduct of the rebels. Tell them He looked fearful in the direction his sister
yourself or by your agents anything to please pointed, but observing nothing, he said,
them, just excite a counter-revolution, and "You are sick, my sister, you want rest, you
your reward shall be great."            are too much agitated, over-excited. I will
Dositheus reeled into the King's apart- send for a physician. I will send for Auri-
ment pale with excitement. "My lord, the On."
temple and the fort of Antonio-"          " No, for God's sake not," she cried, "let
"What of them?" the King asked.      that man not drive me to despair with his
" Are in the hands' of the rebels, without rigid virtue.-Yes, send for him, his pres-
resistanee-treachery--the garrison, priests, ence will heal me.-No, no, no, let me not
Levites, all must be traitors," Dositheus again see his tremendous, cold, heartless
stammered. gone could speak. Every one looks. Contempt is in his words, eternal
stared aghast. "Did you see and hear damnation darts from his eyes-O, let me
right ?" the King asked.    .    .      see him once more my horrid lover. Elvi-
" I saw too well only," said Dositheus.- ra, my murdered child, thy mother-curse
"The bridge is broken down, no communi thy mother!1 Elvira was an angel, and I -
cation is left between the city and the tem- 0 let him not come, he will drive me to mad-
ie.".ness. King, beware, that man will make a
Herod laughed savagely, and ran about fool, a maniac of you."
like a madman. After a while he turned to  The chamberlain returned with the re-
Sabion and bade him, " Fifty howling Phar- port: "The room of Aurion is empty, I found
isees must be hired to lament over the sin- nothing in it except this letter addressed to
fulness of those who prevent the pious pil- my, lord. Herod eagerly seized the letter
grims from making their paschal sacrifices and read: " Herod, by the power of Rome,
and appear before the Lord. Lamentations King of Judea. I have loved you as none
must be heg4, in every corner of the city, else does, because I admired in you the he-
and inflammatory speeches made against the ro and the man, and pitied you for your vi-
;:the      bels.. Sohemus ant be. ces." I hoped to be of service to youand my
9                         4O/-- ~le#PIuahyu   eoyiten d,, t      ao-

OR HII.LEL AND HE ROD.                        147
The gesticulations and inarticulate sounds bring to you the message of which I inform
of Salome were so wild and disorderly, that you."
Herod nearly wept with her. "Give me     "Who presides ?" Herod asked.
Aurion," she cried, "King of Judea, give  "Hillel and Menahem," was the reply.
me Aurion or speedy death."              " Who appointed them?" was the ques-
Herod called several officers and com- tion.
manded them: "Go immediately, and bring  " The people and the people's- savans,"
me back my physician He ran away. He was the response.
can not be gone far ; for he was here yet  "I have appointed the sons of Bethera to
last evening. Whoever brings him before preside over the Sanhedrin," said Herod.-
me shall be to-morrow one'of the richest "They must be respected as the heads of
men of Judea, he shall have the finest palace that body."
in Jerusalem, and sheworld shall envy him, " The sons of Bethera resigned, Hillel
sound and uninjured he must be brought and Menahem were appointed," said Jona-
before me."                           than.
Every one ,of the officers promised to  " They had no right to resign in my ab-
bring Aurion and place him, before the sence," said Herod.
King. . When they were gone Herod solilo- " Not knowing the law as well as Hillel
quized, "Also Herod had a friend, but he is and Menahem they were obliged to resign,"
gone."                                said Jonathan. "Beside the trial of Hyrcan,
Whenever the door of Herod's apartment where it became evident that Hillel is more
was opened, his question always was: "Did competent than Joshua ben Bethera, anoth-
they find Aurion ?"  When this was an- er question was laid before the old Banhe-
swered in the negative, he sent away other drin, and they could not answer. The eve
officers with the strictest orders to bring of passover being this year on a Sabbath,
Aurion instantly into his presence. Then the question was whether the paschal lamb
again ha paced his room in the most agita- may be brought on the Sabbath-day. Hil-
ted state of mind.                     lei, the pupil of Shemaiah and Abtalion, wad
" My lord, three men with a truce are at the only man who could expound the law in
your door," said Dositheus, " shall they be this particular case. The sons of Bethera
admitted into your presence?"         themselves acknowledge his superiority and
"Where do they come from?" Herod ask- agree, that Hillel and Menahem should pre-
ed. "From the temple," was the answer.  side over the Sanhedrin,"
." Do they sue for mercy ?" Herod asked. " And what is the message you have to
"I know not, my lord," said Dositheus, bring me ?" Herod asked.
"they would not speak; they insist upon  "Herod, son of Antipater, the Sanhedrin
presenting their message to you personally, of Israel assembled in the temple of the
and to none else."                     Lord command thee to appearbefore them,"
"Admit them," said Herod, and Jonathan Jonathan said.
ben 1i3e, in companyof two other men   ," Not a wor more," Herod interruptod.
a        fiasg ot cbi;was ,ushered into "I comand;yua silent1 and the lf
e r sn   : f.of heis :{r            .eopi  t da4        disband f thwt ,
~Inth_ name  f the ' 'od o tf -~Isrwe  o or  eeh y'jI      a
"i a The 6anttednin  r,,n_ ,.session," + e d  r '    N   .    ,          @01.  ''


THD CoMair O
Bat Jonathan continued: " And theft con-
mnittedon the people's property."' Herod's
rage was boundlsei; but Jonathan dii nat
mind it and, after a short pause, he contin,
ued: "Thou shalt appear bofore them forth-'
wits.to be held in custody until the cases
will 10tried."
6'  1 back to the rebels and tell them,"
Herod vociferated, "I give them 24 hours
time to disband in peace. Ilut if they fail
to do so, within the given time, none of tham
shall escape alive."
"11 am the messenger of the Sanhedrin,"
said Jonathan, " I can not and will not con-
vey to them your message.'.
. "Then begone, as quick as possible," said
Ierod. "If you are found here after the
lapse of one hour, death is your penalty."
Jonathan, without showing the least reve-
rence to Herod by either words or motions,
turned to go, when Herod stopped hin with
the question, " What is your namne ? "
"Jonathan ben Uziel," was the answer.
"Your behavigas an official is commen-
dable," said Herod. "Pity, that you are on
the wrong side. Be wise, then come agaii."
"The messenger of the Sanhedrin can not
enter upon any conversation with you," said
Jonathan, and lett the room.
"What a hell of pride there is in the de-
portment of this young man; he is an Auri.
on, numbertwo I" Herod exclaimed, in the
midst of his furious rage. " Let Sohemus
make preparations to take the temple by as-
sault," the King commanded. " Let every
man be on his post. None shall be permit
ted to leave his ranks. The strictest vigil
dance must tkppt. Did they find Aurion ?"
ei asked ~
The commotion in the city was of agex-
tr  inary chaacter.,The de gaen4i$

rP 'Rm PFr.PLS,
sion, and prevent the pilgrims from appear-
ing before the Lord and making the sacrifi-
ces as the law ordains.
"Falsehoods, falsehpods I he utters, false-
hoods," one of the 'multitude cried: "It is
Sabion, the chief of the spies, the satanic
counsellor of Herod."
" Down with him IKill him !" it sound-
ed from a thousand 'manly lips, and down
he'was pulled from the platform, and a thpu-
sand daggers were pointed toward his heart.
" Brethren and frienIs," Sabion cried, i: the
anguish of his soul, " you are mistaken, you
kill an innocent man, I am not Sabion, I am
a friend of the people."
" He is Sabion," it resounded again from
the crowd, " I know him well. I have seen
him often enough."
"Kill him! Tear him in pieces! - Drag
out his satanic heart!" the multitule vocif-
erated, fiercely, an I Sabion fell upon his
knees and prayer I for his life. "I am not
Sabion," he cried desperately.  I an an
innocent man. Have mercy with my wife
and child iron, I have six innocent children
at home."
" A lie, it is a lie," another sail, "he has
neither wife nor children. It is the very
devil who killed a thousand innocent men.
He is the murderer of those who are found
leal in the streets of Jerusalem; he is the
plague of this city, of this lan-; he schemed
-tn- carrie I oitt the death of Iyrcan. It is
black-souled Sabion."
"Death be his penalty," it resounded like
the inattering thunler fro.n the crow1, and
a hundred daggers were lodged in the body
of the terrible man. lie cried desperately,
cursed; 'Herod, himself, and the, world at
large ,'and expired with the m- terrible
ogy tpophis lips. 'When then p iittry.
is  r v dat ti '  i .wastooa'ate.
Ewav        say4.he ro hdi hiet per  '

Ql. HILI1L iAND UnRaO.                        149
hands of the excited populace," the officer  "They must leave the city or die," Herod
said ; "hut it is impossible to catch hi4y-c cried. "It is high time to quench this re-
Wherever a public speak er appears, Aurion volt."
is present, and denounces him as the, slave  "1Blood and despair only can subdue it,"
of Sabion; and several of them were killed Salome coolly added.
already. I hunted. after him from  spot to  "My Lord and King," said Sohemus,"the
spot, but could. not reach him."        rebels appeal to the people. from.the hight
"Let it cost halfof my kingdom," Herod of the temple, and the armed bands appear
cried, "I must have him'to day, I must have to spring from the earth as it were, and en-
him, living ant well, Whoever brings him gage us on all sides,"
to me, brings him living and well, shall have  "Show no mercy, give no quarters," He-
what his heart desires, let it be half of my rod thundred, "kill every one- who is found
kingdom, Go, tell all the officerasthat I corn- with arms, or refuses to leave the city."
mand them to bring my physician before    " The combat is fierce and. doubtful," Do.
ine. Tell them the reward I have promis- sitheus said.  'I fear we have lost the fort
ed. Go, be in a huiry, lose no time."   of Antiochus. Three heavy columns storm
When the officer was gone Herod eri- in from the north, on the three roads from
ed, violently: " No friend, no honest heart Anathoth, Ramah and Gibson, and in the
mourns with a King over the wounds which city the armed rebels are innumerable."
false friends inflict on him. Sabion is ex-  "Castobarus will receive the stormingcol.
ecuted ao he deserved to be; but I stand umns and throw them back," said Herod.-.
alone in this crisis. Where is Salome, where "Keep yourself on the defensive till-I hangede
is my sister?" the King asked, and she was orders. , The garrisbulfrom the House of the.
ushered into his presence. " Brother," she Mighty. support the soldiers in the. fort of
cried, " I fear we are lost; for the revolt has Antiochus."
spread into the very heart of the city. Who  The revolt had assumed such-an'alarming
can manage this immense crowd ?"        aspect that, like wild-fire, it-spread.overtall
" I can and I will," Herod exclaimed.-  parts of the city. The trumpets and horns]
" Dositheus, take as many of my troops as resounded everywhere with martial vigor.
may be necessary and drive every stranger, The commanding voices of officers,'tlhe cries
every suspicious citizen out of Jerusalem. of attacking bands, t'a exolamations'of. fu-
Whoever refuses, let him die, no matter how rious combatants, the cries of rageiand, ha.
many lives it costs. Send my command to trel, the terrific voice of vengean ae, and
my officers who command outside of the ci- death rolled like a roaring ocean over; the.
ty gates, to disperse'the crowd ejected from whole city, and was heard distinctly-in thee
the city, pursue them as far as possible and apartments of the King. Adjutants came .
send them home terror-struck and dismay- and left in the greatest-hurer  $alome#oriod
ed, that they revolt no more." When Dosi- vehemently, for fear; but M$id remamnei
theue was;one, Herod cried, "Terror dgust calm. He appeared to be in his-ri  r ele-.
"eiin ersitent a nd teachthis spiteful meant   ofliercoveredwitk blooddenre
aI~ht Heeoi$ KioginIerae~l        etu   Kin l                ~      9p

.  .


150                   THE COMBAT O1
Salome appeared to be altogether deranged
with fear. One adjutant after 'the other
brought new reports of new defeats and be'
fore thb evening approached Herod was-be-
eie&amp;eon Mountk Zion. A heavy shower of
rain,  dark night and a terrific thunder-
atormamspended the actions of the combat.
ante. ered held a council in his palace,
to determine upon the steps to be taken the
nextday. Theydeliberated forseveral hours
and came to the conclusipn, that Zion could
be efectually defended and the rebels could
be subdued yet, to which end 'a plan was
adopted&amp; The King, however, insisted up-
on commanding in person and be prepared
for all eventualities. He commanded Sohe-
mus to leavathe city with an adequate force
pud go to the fort of Alexandrium, where
the Queen and her children were. He com-
manded Soheugus to hold the fort at any
risk. As soon as he should be convinced of
the King's death, he should kill Mariacnne,
her children ander mother. Soheuaus
knelt down and swore a solemn oath to car-
ry out punctually the command of the King.
Before the morning dawned Sohemnus with
his men had left the city, unobserved by the
enemy.
Then the King called Castobaras and
charged him with the duty to convey his
mother Cyprus and his sister Salome to the
fort of Masado, to keep that fort at any
risk, protect the royal family, and in case of
the King's death to proclaim Antipater, the
King's son by his first wife Doris, King of
Israel.
"I will faith  fly perform my duties,"
~4s rus  " But I pray you, my
rd, yo) have promised me the hard of
ur;  royal sister; now is the timetredeem

F TUE PoEPLg,
so loudly, that she could not safely be con-
veyed awayfrpm the city. When hastily
the arrangements had been completed to
convey the royal family out of the city to
the appointed fort, and Salome continued
raging most furiously and crying most vio-
lently, "Give me Aurion or death," the King,
her mother begged and threatened in vain,
she only became more desperate and furi-
ous with every passing moment. The hours
of the night passing away rapidly, the morn-
ing was fast approaching, no time was to be
lost. Herod commanded to gag her; her
hands tied, her mouth gaged, three men sei-
zed the furious woman, placed her in the
carriage at the side of her mother, and the
whole train, commanded by Castobarus, star-
ted off with the utmost speed, and escaped
without being noticed by the enemy.
Herod almost wept over the agony of his
sister, but he could not help her. Circum-
stances required, that Castobarus should be
tied closely to the royal family, whose chief
interests were plated in his hands. While
he was still lost in a train of painful tho'ts
a servant opened the door and asked shily,
" My lord, what shall be done with the bo-
dy of Elvira, your sister left no orders ?"
Herod shuddered. He covered his eyes
with his left hand and exclaimed, "She is
avenged." Turning after awhile to the ser-
vant he said, " Bury her by the side of Sa-
bion in his family sepulcher." Two large
tears glittered in the eyes of Herod. When
the servant was gone he inadvertantly ex-
claimed, "'There is a God of justice, but He-
rod is lost." : Frightened as it were at his
own words he violently struck the handle of
f his 'word.. Dositheus, understanding this .
t'b.aina,    ered ther     and said,
q4     my cpa x' opre e vey  h ing

On HILLEL AND  EROD.                    151

ed no remark. When the morning dawned
on Mt. Zion, the gates of the city were all
opened, the soldiers fraternized with the
people, and Herod was gone, none knew
whither. The people-shouted with joy, but
the joy was not without tears. In the fort
of Antiochus a guard of honor surrounded
a dead man. He bled from many wounds,
and closing his eyes in death he shouted
yet, " We are victorious."  With awe and
reverence the warriors looked at the dead
Hero, and many a tear coursed down hardy
and sun burnt cheeks.. It was the dead bo-
dy of Abba Shaul, who fell during the storm-
ing of the fort, pierced by the arrows of the
enemy. He died the death of a hero, with
the words of " onward for God and Israel"
on his lips.
In the midst of the excited and joyful
crowds, Helen ran from street to street in
search of Simon, but found him not. De-
spairing and tearless, she arrived at the roy-
al palace where she found the dead bodies
of Elvira and her father. She covered the
countenances of both with tears andkisses,
and lamented over them in mute pain. The
thundering shouts of joy and victory resoun-
ding through the streets disturbed her not.
The warbling of the trumpets to signalize
the people's victory 'alleviated not her pain.
The outbursts of an unlimited enthusiasm
which rent the air of Jerusalem reached'not
Helen's suffering heart. " My father, my
sister," were the only words she could ut-
ter. A voice was heard in the arched halls

of the palace, a voice so well known to Hel-
en. She listened. Again he spoke.. She
opened the door and cried "Simon. Hus-
band, here, heroes your wife," and Simon
heard it, he came and seized her as a hung-
ry lion grasps after the prey. tThen you
live yet, my dearest, only beloved. Helen,"
Simon cried. " In vrain-have I soughtthee,
in vain sent twenty messengers toand thee;
all said you fell on the side of Abba Shaul.
Thank God you live,- you are here, and
mine."
Mute Helen pointed to the dead lying
in the room. Simon pressed Heln on his
heart, and wept with her. Then he com-
manded the servants of Sabion to remove
the bodies to the very sepulchre which He-i-
rod had ordained.
The Passover was a feast of joy and vie-
tory for the people. The happiest days of
Israel appeared to have returned. Also Hel-
en was healed- from her grief by the enthu-
siasm generally prevailing, the love and ten-
derness of: Simon,' who  as overhappy at
the side of his beloved wife, and the pious
consolation of Hillel who, notwithstanding
the numerous congratulations he was obli-
ged to receive, had yet time enough to at-
tend sometimes to his family.
We may meet again with Simon, Helen
and Jonathan ben Uuiel in another story';
but for this time we must part with them,
and bid our readers FAREWELL.
THE AUTHOR


s;  ' j.   y   ~ p     4 .,"   ' "f  N   ' '   V v r   J  '     ''W ;ir
j  i t ; J  RR'+, Y       'l Ata   J  , p K,   ,
"  ~ .6.      y  ~Iyf 1 t   , i''r 1I ,     0 Jr  +.   I
'V ,'
9  i1'              1'.
7                          '' ,  ,,   "    '.    "


  
             
         
       
   
