
    ----CITATION----
        Warren, Israel P. (1814-1892). Chauncey Judd, or, The Stolen Boy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8224
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Chauncey Judd, or, The stolen boy 
            
               -'I

CHAUNCEY JUDD;

I.*

OR,

THE STOLEN .BOY.

A STORY OF THE REVOLUTION.

BY

ISRAEL

P. WARREN.

1a~w~ M~ADOW flROOK~

Page 121.

PUBLISHED BY

W A RRE'N A 24D.

W Y MgA N,

13 BIBLE HOUSE, Nhw YORK..

Ii

I

4

I

I;

Ag0


PREFACE.

Entered,. according toyAct of Congress; in the year 1874,
By ISRAEL P. WARREN,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

"4

Bartford, conn-:
The Cas,' Lockwood &amp; Brainard Co.,
.Prfrntera andamnders-.

Stereotyped at the Boston Stereotype Foundry,
1x9 Spring Lane.

FEW persons, probably,. of the present generation are
aware that in the time of the American Revolution there
was carried on a border warfare between Long Island and
the Connecticut coast, which for romantic incident was
his tales of the Scottish Border. The parties in this war-
fare were mostly the whigs and tories of that day, between
whom there was a bitterness of hostility far greater than
existed between the colonies and the British themselves.
The details of the strife, tragic and comic, the plots and
counterplots, the deeds of wild adventure, of heroism and
endurance, which then occurred, would, if. fully narrated,
filvolumes.
SThe tale we here present to our readers relates' to one
ofthe noteworthy incidents of those times, In all essefttial
rgespects it is strictly true. Every impottant event men-

ii

.4

1'


4                     PREFACE.
tioned is well ai~ithenticated. Many details' as to ti~es,
places, persons, etc.', have been ascertained from the public
records of the county and the state, and may be relied on
as accurate, though differing~ somewhat fr&amp;m other state-
ments whicl have been ~printed, or have been handed down
by tradition The outline of the story has many times
been told to the writer by a near relative, a sister of the
"stolen boy," ivho had herself a personal knowledge of the
facts, and who died a few years ago at the extreme age
of ninety-nine. He, has also received much inf6rrnation
from, other aged persons who were well acquainted with
the actors the events, among whom he. desires particu-
larl to name his venerable' friend, the REV. SMITH
DAYTON, of New Haven, still sui~viving, , with vigorous
step and unimpaired faculties, at the age of ninety, who
has loaned him nianuscripts left him1 by his father, Captain
Ebenezer Dayton, in relation to the transaction.
Though the history of {he Revolutionary period has
/
been so often and so ably written, it is yet comparatively
little known to *many of the present day. A general
acquaintance with its public events, the 'Declaration of
Independence, and the principal. incidents of the war which
established it, may be possessed, but beyond this there is
great vagueness of prehensionn. The people of the cob-

PREFACE.                5

nies were thinly scattered over a vast territory, so that
much that occurred among them was never known out of
the immediate locality, and much that was known was never
recorded. The uUquitous sews-gatherer of modern times
had not then been born. The causes which led to'. e
separation from the mother country, the struggles, priva-
tions, aind sufferings incident to the war, all indeed that
rna~ be called the domestic history of that period, is not
only little known to mo~t of this generation but cannot
easily be conceived of by them.
In carefully gathering up, then, wh'at has been trans-
mitted to us by tradition or otherwise, before it shall be
irrecoverable lost, and while it may still be verified and
illustrated by family manuscripts, and hi some instances by
the personal testh~ony of the very few ~surviving who lived
near those times, we may not only furnish matter to interest
our contemp6raries, but add something to the stock of
materials which shall serve the uses. of the historians, the
artists, and the statesmen of the future.
Nor can we forbear to add that 'the examples of that age
are full of instruction. The poverty and the 'hardships then
endured were a ~evere' school, in which, nevertheless, were
trained many noble characters. It was a school of heroism
which may well be studied by us, who live in these more


4

6               PREFACE.
favored times of ease and plenty.' We cannot pretend to
have delineated it fully in a single sketch like the present,
but we may still hope that, as a glance at the time, and its
lessons both of patriotism and religion, the story we relate
nNfind a welcome in the Sunday schools and the homes
of our land.

.4

-D.

(

C ON TE NT S.
CH A PT ER    I.
RETURNING FROM MILL. .   .   .   .
-         C HA PT ER    II.
TpIE TORIES. . . - .
CH AP T ER II I.
RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF THE WAR.    .'
CH AP T ER    IV.
THE JUDD FAMILY. .   .   .   .   .
C H A PTER V.'
PURITAN TRAINING. ,.     .   .   .
CHAPTER Vi.
A QUILTING PARTY.   .*       .   .
CHAPTER VII.
THE ABDUCTION.  .   .   .   .   .
CH APTER. VIII.
EBENEZER DAYTON.     .   .   .   -.
C H A PTER    IX.
TI E ROBBERS.        . .     .   .
C HA PT ER    X.
THE ROBBERY.     .   .   -       -
C H A PTER    X.j
GUNN'S BARN.     .   .   .   .
C HA P TER    X II.
LONGMEADOW. BROOK. .     .   ,.  .
CHAPTER XIII.
PURSUIi FROM BETHA\TY.  .   .   .

-    e   *   9
.    .   . 29
.    .   . 29
*    -   - 49
. ~. - 6o
*    -   - 6
*    S   e 77
-   . -  .  101
- 109.
1  -     117
*      . 126

7

i

-4


e                                                                                                                                                                                                              4

8               CONTENTS.
CH APFT ER X IV.
ALARM IN JUDD'S MEADOW. . -  .
CH A PT ER XV.
'DAVID WOOSTER'i. .  .  . . .
CH AP T ER XV I.
WOOSTER' S WELL.  .  .  . . i-
CrHAPTER XVII.
SEARCH FOR THE FUGITIVES. . ..
CHAPTER XVIII.
DAYTON'S DEN.  .~  .  . . '..
*CH AP T ER X IX.
CAPTAIN JOHN WOOSTER'S. ' . .
C HAP T ER X X.
TOBIAH AND RACHEL. ..-..
CHAPTER XXI.
WOOSTER'S BARN. .  .  ...
CH AP T ER X X II.
SEIZUtRE OF HENRY WOOSTER. -..
CHAPTER XXIII.-
NEGRO- PATRIOTISM.  .- . .-.
CH APIT ER XX IV.
RESCUE AND FLIGHT. .  ...
CH AP TER XXV.
CAPTURE.  .  .  .  ..
RERIUIO.CHAPTER XXVI.
CH A PT ER XX  I.
NEWGATE. -   -  -.-       -
CH AP TE R XXVIII.
PRISOlN  LIFE.  .'  .  ... . .
CHAPTER XXIX.
AFTERWARD. .  .  .  .  .  .

. . . I43
. . .151
..17
. ..I83
. . . 193
.   .    . 207
.   .   . 223
. . . 237
. . . .246
.   .   .~258
. ~. . 268
. . . 276
283
. . . 293
. . . . 306

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

-*4-

C HA PT ER I.

RETURNING FROM MILL.
ALLOO, youngster ! give me a ride,"
and having a military sash around his
waist, at the same time springing into the Cart, in
vghich a lad of about thirteen was' sitting. '"Been
to mill.?
"Yes," replied the latter, with a flourish of his
whip, and a, word of' Command to the ox-team
which he was driving ;~ " and this is the third time
I've been after this grist. The water is so low in
the river that the mill. runs but half of the time..
Where have you been, Dave ?"-


e

CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                 RETURNING FROM MILL.

"Why, don't you see? I've been up to town,
I'
to training."
"Oh, yes; I forgot. \Have to train pretty often
now; don't you? I wish I was only older ;~ I should
like to~ go too. I belie e I'd go as it is, if father
and the boys were at ome; but our folks can't.
spare me now."
"You! What a pity you can't! A pretty sob
dier you'd make such a whipper-snapper as that;
You couldn't ~~ry a musket all day if you tried';
and as to going into the army, you'd die in a week
of~drying for ~your mammy."
"Well, 'tan't no use talking about it, any ~vay;
for I can't go; 'that's certain. But I wish father
was ~at home, for all that."
"When do you expect him?" a~ked tl~e young
soldier.
"We are looking~for him now every day. Mother
had word~ fr6m him, tlkree weeks ago, that Roswell
could walk about some, arid he hoped~ they'd be
able to start fQr home in a few days."
~ \V~5 been the matter with Rosweli ?"
"Ohd on't you knew that he's been sick? He
took colJ one day when they had been out skir~
missing, and this brought on lung fever and rheu-~

matism. He was dick a long while, and the doctor
said he would not be well enough to join his corn-
pany again very soon, if ever; so they gave him
his discharge. Father went to take care of him.
He is better now, as I told y6u, and we are ex-
pecting him home cvery slay. But tell me, David,
when is your company going ?"
"Don't know; orders haven't, come yet. And
it's my private opinion they won't come very soon.
The whole thing's pretty much played out, I guess."
"Played out! What do you mean by that?"
exclaimed the lad, with much spirit.
"Oh, don't go to firing up before you're hurt. I
mean just .what I say. Your independencee,' as
you call it, is all humbug. That 'ere fight on Long
Island, which happened a few days ago, has finished
that, and, no mistake."
"What fight do you mean?"
* "Why, haven't you heard Qf it yet? It was a
big one, you may believe. The British pitched into
Old Put, and just chawed up about half of his men,
and, if General Clinton hadn't been over careful,
might just as well have had the rest. They were
all cooped up in a corner, with the Hessians behind
them, and ~he general thought h&amp;d keep them.

IO0

II


I,

12

CH AUNCEY JUDD. .

there till he could bring his vessels up the bay,
and take them in front; but Washington, for once,
was too smart for him. That night there came up
a fog so thick that you could cut it with a knife,
and he taok' advantage of it to send over a parcel
of boats,ancd hurry his men all across the river,
before mo ning, into New York. Sergeant Hiickox
was up to the muster to-day, and told us all about
it. He was not ir~ the fight, but with, the troops
on this side, and has come home- to see about get-
ting s me more men sent down there, and stores
for ,the hospitals. He boasts of the affair as a
smart thing, aI so it wa for the fellows that got
away ; but the fact is, the rebels got a good -sound
thrashing, and -served them right too."'
The last words were spoken in a lower tone, and
with a slight pause, as if expressing an opinion
which he cared not to have, reported.. iheg met
an indignant response from the young teamsman.
" Dave Wooster, you are a tory and a villain !
A pretty soldier you'll make to defend the cause of'
liberty. You ought to be reported to the authori-
ties. Guess you'll find there's independence enough
tp take care of sach traitors as you."
"Wel, my pretty'one, you'd better go and tell

V

RETURNING FROM MIL L.

'3

of me yourself, if you want your head broke. But
what's the use of getting mad, Chauncey ? I an't
the only one that thinks so. I've 'heard' lots of
them talk think very dg.y. Parson Scovill himself
was one. Father and he were listening to the
news ; and says the parson, 'What a child's play all
this~ training is ! 'Tan't ofeany use. All the Conti-
nental army is no more account against the British
redcoats than a parcel of squaws. The Assembly
at Hartford has no right to take our time this way,
and -subject the colony to so much expense. Talk
about liberty ! What do, they care T~r it ? Just
see what they did to Captain Bron ont and Ensign
Scovill, cashiering them for speaking -their honest
~entiments on this subject. They are as arbitrary
athe pope of Rome, and he people won't stand it
much longer."
"Did he say that, David ?"
"Yes, he did, for I heard him. He said the
whole trouble was brought on by the rich men of
Boston destroying the tea. 1 Ie thought it a mean
and contemptible thing, that they shouldn't be will
ing to pay a tax of a few shillings to. the king to
help bear 'the expenses of the go ernment. He
has to defend us against the French and Indians

I


4
14             CHAUNCEY JUDD.
and it's no more than fair that we should payour
taxes, like any other loyal subjects."
"tut Squire J-ldtciikiss says he's no right to tax
us without our consent. Besides, I don't believe
anythii~g about h\is defending us, as you call it,
against the Indiai~n s and French. 'Who was it, I
should li k~ to kno x~r, that took Ca ada from them a
few years ago? S ~juire Hbtchkiss~ himself was one
of th~ soldiers in that war, and a great many of his
neighbors, I've he5d hih'~ say, went with him.
'Parson LeavenxVorth, the minister, was chaplain of
the regiment. I think, if anybody ought to be
paid, it's our own people, f6r helping the king get a
province that wasn't hIs before."
"Much you know about it! I'll take my father's
opinion before the old squire's, any day. And~ I
know he thinks much as Parson Scovill does. I
have heard him. say the same kind of things scores
of times. He says, now that we belong to England,
we are somebody; but if xve were independent, and
had to stand~ on' our own feet, we should be just
nobody. We are only a handful of us, put us all
together, and scattered along the shore almost a
thousand' riiiles, ready for France, or Spain, or any
foreign nation that chose to do it, to come and

4 -
-
~RETURNING FRj1\I JL~.
plunder us. We 'have ~io ships o any account to
prevent it, and few soldier~, and each of the colo~
fties is too poor to take care of itself, let alone
doing anything for the rest. Here now in Water-'
bury look at the families. Half of them are starv-,
~ing. You can't get any money; and if you could,~
it wouldn't be good for anything. Father sold a
cow last week, and took his pay in paper dollars,
arid it made a pile so high that he could, not get it
into his pocket-book."
"Well," said Chauncey, plying his whip with
unwanted severity upon the loitering cattle, "'tis
raffier hard times' I know, at~ any rate, ~p~at o~r
house, - but for all that, we an't going to give up
yet. We had a tolerable good harvesting of rye
this summer, though, father and the boys being
gone, it was rather tough on me to get it th r~4~9l.
However, the girls helped me, and I got enou~-h to
make a grist,.and we are going to have some breed.
Father will be here .pretty soon,. and that will be a
comfort. And I tell you what, David Wooster,
the country will never submit to the rascally Brit~
fishers till we haVe had worse times than any that
we've seen yet. Be sure, I'm only a boy now, but
I shall be bigger if P live ~ and when the old folks


/

CHAUN CEY JUDD.

are dead or discouraged, the boy xviii take up the
*   cause, and fight it through. Moth'~r and the girls
haven't niade a cup of tea for months, and' they
would not any more than they wo~ild brew poison.
I believe every one of' them would shoulder a
* miisket, and march into the army to-morrow, if it
were necessary, and shame you stories and cowards.
Depend upon it, Dave, thecause is just and right,
and it'41 come out right by and ; you'll see."
"Oh, blaze away, you young bantam!' I don't
care for what you say. I' than 'you for my ride~
any way. When Roswell gets home, I should like
to see him. HI&amp;ll have a good deal to tell us about
the war, and maybe I'll run over 'some evening,
and have a chat."
So saying, the young man leaped from the cart
as they reached a cornet of th~ street, and turned
down the road 'westward in I~he direction of his
home.
But it is time that we more formally introduce
to our readers the speakers in t~i s colloquy.
David Wooster, Jr., a~nd Chauncey Judd were
members of 'two neighboring families, living in
what was called, after certain of the principal' in-
habitants, "Gunntown," an ont district, in the
)

RETURNING FROM MILL.

'7

southwestern part of the town of Waterbury, in
Connecticut. David was the older of the two,
being of an age.to be enrolled in 'one of the militia
companies of the place, although boys of sufficient
size and, strength were sometimes admi~ted~ into
them under the prescribed age. He was a stout
young man, {h dark eyes ana black, curling hair,
'fearless in his disposition, and with ,a sort of gen-'
erous roughness of manners and speech that made
him a favorite among his companions. We have
not repeated all the terms with which he was wont
to garnish his conversation - terms which, he used~
as many a thoughtless lad beside him has done,
under the mistaken idea that they imparted force
and smartness to his sayings. The two boys had
sometimes' attended the same school, which was
usually kept a few weeks in the winter in that dis~~
trict, ahd had often met in their ordinary employ-
ments, as well as at  ~skiho~s and raising, and the
other occasion m which brought the' people of the
neighborhood t gather, so that a familiar, if not an
intimate, acquaintance existed between them.
The interview above described was in the fail
of the year 1776, one of the most~' gloomy periods
of the war of the Revolution. The declaratiot~of


CHAUNCEY JUDD.'

independence in July, .which stirred to -fresh en-
thusiasm the hearts of the "patriot citizens, had
been .followed, a rew weeks afterward, by the dis-
astrous battle on Loik Island. in which the Ameri-
cans lost five hundred 'men in killed and wounded,
and over eleven hundred prisoners. The latter
were confined in the hulks of old vessels in New*
YorkU~ay, where they endured those fearful suffer-"
ings which made the name of- the " British prison-
ships " a word of terror and indignation throughout
the, land. Requisitions. were immediately made
upon the colonists -or states, as they now began
to call themselves- for fresh- troops, and the busi-
ness of recruiting men, and furnishing ammunition
and commissary stores, was being vigorously pros-
ecuted all over the country.

4
'5

*

C H A PTER I I.

THE TORIES,.

ROM the beginning of the troubles with
~rn our moth r country, there was a consider-
able portion of the people in these colo-
nies- i'some of them even a'. majority- who
were opposed to the popular measures of resistance
against the acts of the British Parliament.. These
were commonly called Tories, a term of reproach
long used in England to designate the upholders of
the arbitrary acts of the king and his ministers. It'
3 is said that the name was first derived from the
wild Irish troops whom James II. enlisted~ into
his army for the purpose of recovering his English
crown ; and hence it came to be employed tq denote
all those who approved and defended the odious
enactments of 'the 'royal government. For them-
selvzes, in likb manner, the patriot colonists claimed
19

p

1'

'2


a

20
C1~AUNCEY JUDD.
the n~ame of Whigs~ originally another term, of ridi-
cule given by the court party to the ~Scotch~ Cove-
nanters. whose favorite drink was said to have been
* wlizqg, or sour whey, and afterward, like many an-
other~ame of repr~ch, it was adopted as a term of
honor by the opposes of arbitrary government.
In the days of which we write, both these' terms
had come to be freighted with the intensest signifi-
'-4
cation. The stories were hated and denounced;
they were regarded as the vilest of men, ready for
any treach'e~ous crime that would bidn g ruin upon
their country. They were often: subjected to per-
sonal violence and abuse. 'One~ of the~ most com-
mon methods of doing this was by tarring and
feathering a process which T'~umbull, i*n his sa-
tirical poem of" McFingal," thus describes -
"Forthwith the crowd proceed to deck
-      With altered noose McFingal's neck,
While he, in peril of his soul,
Stood tied half dangling to. the pole,1
Then, lifting high the ponderous jar,
Poured ~?er hits head the smokiri~ tar.
With less profusion once was spread
Oil on the Jewish monarch's head,
1 The "Liberty Pole," so called - the flag-staff from which
banners and other symbols of liberty were dft~n suspended.

THE STORIES.
That down his beard ,and vestments ran,
And covered all his outward man.
So from the high-raised urn the torrents
Spread down his side their various currents.
His flowing wig,. as next the brim,
First met' and drank the sable stre in.;
Adown his visage, stern and grave,
Rolled and adhered the viscid wave.
With arms depending as he st
Each, cuff capacious holds the flood.
From nos~tnd chin's remotest end
The tarry icicles depend,
Till all o'erspread with colors gay,
He glittered to the western ray,
Like sleet-bound trees in wintry skies,
Or Lapland idol carved in ice.
And now, the feather bag displayed
Is waved in triumph o'er his head,
And clouds him o'er with feathers missive,
And down upon the tar adhesive.
Not Maja's son, with wings -for bars,
Stich plumage round his visage wears,
Nor Milton's six-winged angel gathers
Such superfluity of feathers.
Now all complete appears our squire,,
Lijce Gorgon or Chimera dire, ~
- Nor more could boast, on Platos plan,
To rank among the race of man,
Or prove his claim to human nature,
As a 'two-legged unfeathered creature.'"

21


22            CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                                 TIlE STORIES.             23

As the war wen-t on, a#id the feelings of both par-
ties became morQ and more bitter, severe laws were
enacted agaiAst ~the stories. Persons suspected of
being such might be arrested under a magistrate's
warratit, and tried for their sentiments, and if con-
victed might be banished and sent away to the
enemy, under the penalty of death if they should
ret~irn~' They who absented themselves from their
homes in the country, or withdrew to British pro-
tection, were liable to the con~scation* of their
estates. In Connecticut, the off4se of supplying
provisions to the enemy, or giving them informa-
tion, or aiding in~the enlistment of troops, or har-
boring and countenancing thQse who were engaged
in such "treasonable practices," was punished by
fines, confiscation, and imprisonment. Even to
speak or write, or act in amy way against the doings
of Congress, or the General Assembly, was to incur
disarming, disqualification for office, fines, and im-
prisonment, accord ig to the aggravation of the
offense. Even death itself was added to the other
penalties prescribed, and in some cases was actually
inflicted. A' man named Dunbar, belonging to
Northbury, now Plymouth, Conn., who joined the
British, and received a captain's commission from

the king, was convicted of treason, and hanged
in Hartford, in i777, and the gallows, in a public
place, was kept standing for a long time, as a warn-
ing to others.
In many instances, doubtless,' the stories suffered
great injustice.; Mistaken as they were, and crim-
inal as they often became in their acts of hostility
to the country, there can be no question that not a
few were upright~, and even patriotic~ men. It may
be interesting to glance, for a moment, at some of
the causes which led them to sympathize with the
British side.
Some of them thought that rebellion against the
lawful government was a szn. They could not be-
lieve. there was any deliberate design on the part of
the  ritish ministry to infringe upon the chartered
rights of the colonists, or' to destroy their liberties
as Eiglishmen. But if there were, they held that
it was wrong ~o resist their encroachments by force.
To them the king was the anointed minister of
Heaven, ruling"' by the grace of God," and his sub-
jects were under command by the highest of all
'authority to "honor the king as well as to! "fear
God." Armed resistance to h'is government was
treason and rebellion, crimes justly punishable by
,1

s (

22

23


24           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                          THE STORIES.           *25

all laws, human and divine. Men of this class there'
have ~dways been. In the' time of th~ Stuarts 'they
were believers in the "divine right Qf the king to do'
wrong," and denounced Cromwell and the Puritans
of 1640 as traitors 'and regicides. In our own day
'they upheld the Mexican war and the fugitive ~ lave,
law, because they were "constitutional," ~nd pi;o-
4
bounced the doctrine of the "higher law" fanati-
cism. We will not condemr~ these men. Many of
them were honest and conscientious, and in private
life above reproach. Nay, tbeyhave a valuable part
to play~ in society. Conseiyatism is the 'ballast
which 'often keeps the ship ~f state stead~~ on her
course, and enables her to bear the prop~Usion of
bolder principles an'd more energetic purposes in
safety.
~         Another class, no less honest in their views, were
those who~ were impressed with the hopelessness
of resistance. To such it seemed little short of'
madness in these feeble colonies t think of con-
tending against the entire force' f that empire,
uppn which, it has been so proudly said, " the ~un
~never sets." How often had she humbled the
proudest nations of Europe! Many then living
had. seen the triumphs of her victorious arms in

Canada,. when tIle i' Grand Monarque" of France
had been compelled to cede. ihis provinces to her.
Her armies were composed of veterans, command-
ed by accomplished officers, and in the highest
state of discipline. They looked with contempt
on the raw Yankee militia, and were looked upon
by the latter as in every respect their superiors.
The successes tliese had achieved at Le~ir~gton,
and Bunker Hill, and Ticonderoga, as 9onished
themselves as m~uch as their enemies. On the
sea England had confessedly no rival. Half a
dozen little vessels and a few privateers were all
that the colonies could float to match that irnpe-
rial, navy whose undisputed boast it was, that
"Britannia rules the waves." The sentiments of
the burlesque hero MeFingal' ~were scarcely a
caric~.ture of those which extefisively prevailed
among all classes..
"Have you not roused his force to try on,
That grim old beast, the British Lion?
And know you not, that at a sup
H&amp;s large enough to eat you u~?
Have you surveyed his jaws beneath,
Drawn inventories of his teeth?
Or have you weighed in even balance
His strength and magnitude of talons?"

AK

:25

24


26           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                        THE STORIES.           27

To rebel, therefore, again t ~he mother co u~ntry,
and that, too, on mere senti ental grounds, taxa-
tion without representation, r a, .mi.s'e:rable three-
pepce a pound on t~ea, seem to them suicidal
folly. And indeed, it n~ust be co essed, that, looking
back upon the situati~ n. from o r day, this was by
'far the' most rational view to take The success with
which Providence was pleased to crown our cause
was due quite as much to the blunders of the Brit-
ish Cabinet and Parliament, as to the military skill
and prowess of the colonies.
It must be remembered, too, that at the out-
set nobody dreamed of separation from Great
Britain. The leading patriots of the time, Adams,
Otis, Franklin, Henry, Washington, and others,
are often spoken of as having deliberately planned
the steps leading to that separation, as if by some
prophetic instinct they foresaw the futur~ great-
ness of this country as an empire of powerful
states. But nothing Can be further from the fruth.
They resisted to get rid of wrongs then pressing
upon them, and only advanced to rebellion as they
were pushed to it. England was, in their regard,
still the dear home-land, loved as such and bound
to them by all the associations of a common faith

and a glorious history. The highest boast .of our
fathers x~vas, that they were Englishmen, and their
constant plea, that they were only maintaining
their inalienable English liberties. What they
wanted, then, was not independence, hi~t the equal
enjoyment of those liberties with their British
brethren. D~. Franklin, just before the fight at
Lexington, told the Parliament committee that he
had "more than once traveled almost from one end
of the continent to the other, and kept a variety of
company, eating, drixiking, and conversing with
them freely, and never had heard in any~ conversa-
tion, from any person, drunk or, sober, the least
expression of a wish for separation, or a hint that
such a thing would be advantageous to America.~~
And even John Adams declared afterward, "~ There
was not a moment during the Revolution when I
woPld not have given every thiPg I possessed for a
restoration to th~ state of things before the contest
began, provided we could have had a sufficient se-
curity for its.continuance."
While such, then, had been the common senti-
ments of all classes of the people, it is ,not to be
wondered at that ~o many still adhered to them,
even after the war broke out. The loyalists claimed

4

26

27


28             CHAUNC~X JUDD.
that they simply stood ~on the ground they had
*   always occupied. . "Tb    whigs," says Sabine,'
were willing ~o remain colonists provided they
could have their rights secured to them; the
*   stories were contented thus to continue zuit/Ioz~~
such ~ecurity. Such, as it appeared to me, was'
the only difference between the two parties prior
to hostilities." It xva~in such slight beginnings
that the separation between them originated; which,
under the progress of events, and the mutual prov-
ocati6ns of which both were guilty, at last ripened
into the most bitter enmity.

'American Loyalists, p. 67, xst ed.

F N

CHI&amp;PTER

III.

RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF THE WAR.

LARGE portion of the American colo
nists were decided in their sentiments
by what) may be called their religious
affinities. From the first settlement of the coun-
try, it wa~ well known that the design had been
cherished by a certain party in Englan4 to extend
the national church establishment over the colo-
nies,
"Those who believed in the Alidity of Presby-
terian ordination," says 'Br&amp;nson, "and the inde-
pendence of the Arn~rican churches, who abhorred
prelacy almost as much as they did the pope, were
quick to see the religious bearings of the questions
of the day. They felt that such a meas~ire as the
stamp act' must be resisted at tl~e beginning, as a
dangerous encroachment upon thePr just rights,
29
N      


30

CHAUNCEY- JUDD.

ancA which, if not opposed sucdessfuily, would end
in .the loss -of their' most cherished isi t n,
political and religious. The Church-of-E and
men held different views, and had .different sympa-'
thies. They looked upon theirs as the only true
church, and Congregationalisrn -as a heresy which
had ruled too long in this country., fhey favored
the views and hoped for the triumph of the British9
government." 1
These views were very prevalent in the ton of
Waterbury. " The. two parties were mere evenly
balanced than in most other towns. The Church-
men were in a minority, but they were still niumer-
ous - sufficiently so to excdite the jealousy, and
even the fears, of the majority. When at one tirne
they obtained the ascendency in society meeting in
Northbury,2 the manner in whi~h they conducted'
themselves had, not inspired confidence in .their
IHistory 6f Waterbury, p. 328. 'The succeeding state-
ments as to the royalists of, th'at. town, and'of the attitude .
of the Episcopalians tOward the war, are' given on the au-
thority of that Wvork.
2The north rn ,parish 'of the town, now Plymouth. On
finding themselves the majority in the parish, they took
possession of the meeting-house, voting out the services.
~of the Congregationalist pastor.-Bronson, p. 3To.

RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF THE WAR.

3"

moderation. Religious denominations in' power
are not wont to treat the opposition with peculiar
leniency. Such is the transcendent importance of
-religious truth, and such the wickedness of. unbe-
lief, or a contrary belief, that men are apt to think
any rneans justifiable which tend1 to spread the one
or suppress the other. The Congregationalists
cannot plead guiltless to the charge of attempting,
when in authority, to crush out dissent by'the
exercise of power.
" When at last tl e war of the Revolution broke
out in 1775, the Churchmen of Waterbury, of Con-
necticut, and New England Were seen ranged upon
the side of the parent country, and against the
rebel colonists. They were royalists, or tories.
They had reasons .satisfactory to themselves for
their opinions and conduct. They wished the suc-
cess of the Britilsh government because on that
success depended their hopes of worldly distinction
andc religious privilege. 'On that they supposed
that they must rely for the permanent ascendency
of the Episcopal 'Church in' America -its doc-
trines, its faith, and its worship. To England they
were. bound by the strongest ties. From that
country their parish clergymen had from the, first

If


32           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF THE WAR.  33

received a great part of their support. They owed
it a debt of' gt~titude, which, if they could not
repay, they were u~nxyilling to forget. They had
always been the weaker party, had been ridiculed
in their weakness, and sorn~tirnes voted out o~f
their just rights. Their feelings had not beeii
conciliated, and, they ~ad come to hate the whigs
heartilyl. They now hoped that their wrongs would
be redressed.
"The Epis~bpal clerg~ of Connecticut and of
New England tqok the lead in opposition to the
war. They kept up a correspondence with the
Society [for Propagating the Gos~el1 at home,, of
which they were beneficiaries, in which they ex-
pressed their vicwg freely of the merits of the con-.
troversy, and gave information of th~ state of the
country. The loyalty of their own church was a
subject for frequent comment ahd congratulation.
Dr. Richard Mansfield, of Derby, wrote in Deceit-~
ber, 1775, that he had preached and taught quiet
subjection to the king and parent state, and that he
~was well assured that ~he clergy in general of the
colony of Connecticut ~had done the same. Of the
one hundred and thirty families under his charge,
one hundred aPd~ ten, he continued, are firfri and

steadfast friends to government, and detest and
abhor the present unnatural rebellion, and all those
measures which led to it. Further on, he remarked
that 'the worthy Mr. Scovill [of Waterbury], and
the venerable Mr. Beach [of Newtown] have had
*     still better success, scarcely a single person being
K     found of their congregations but what hath perse-
vered steadfastly in his duty and loyalty.'"'
Among these royalists were sever~i of the prin-
c ipal families of ~ermantown. Mr. Jolamah Gunn
was the largest landholder and richest man in1 the
town. He carried on extensive operations on his
farm, and employed many men to labor for him.
*     In his sentiments, as well as the magnitude of his
business, he resembled an English squire. He did
~ot believe in the doctrines of equality which be-
gan to be so rife in society. He would have the
good old custom of lords and tenants maintained,
and thought that all who were not rich enough to
own land s1~ould be bound to service to those that
were.
K        Near him resided the Wooster family, one mem-
ber of which we have already introduced to our
Y14 ~
1'          n~r~
History, ~. 329, 330, 332.
i                3


.34

CHAUNCEY JUDD-.

readers. David -Wooster, Sen., had twelve chil-
dren, some of whom, in after years, attained dis-'
tinction as persons of respectability 'and piety. He
was irnibued with sentiments of ,opposition to the
war, and became noted among the' leading tories
of the town. His brothers, Dartiel, John, -Thomas,
and Henry lived in Derby, all of whom agreed
substantially in their opinions, and were -highly
obnoxious to their townstnen of the opposite party-.
Numerous other families of like faith-'lived in the
'neighborhobd ; indeed, it becarne known through
all the surrounding region for its disaffection, and
as a place where refugees from the recruiting ser-
vice, an4 those guilty .of offenses against the au-
thorities, were harbored and protected.
This disaffection pervadedieven the militia of the
town. There had been two military -companies in
Waterbury, one of which was commanded by en-
thusiastic 'friends, ofth country. Of the other,
Captain Brown and all the .officers -except- one
sergeant were tories, and were' free in expressing
their sentiments. ''Of course, in the excited state
of feeling then prevalent, such utterances could
not fail to attract attention. A formal complaint
against the captain 'was rnade tothe .General

RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF .THE WAR.'

35

Assembly for disloyalty to. the colonies,. coupled
also with the charge that he had refused to detach
men for service in ;the army when ordered by
the lieutenant-colonel of the regiment. For these
offenses he was summoned before the Assembly,Y
and after a full hearing, was found guilty, cashiered,
and made incapable of holdingg any rnilitary office,
and the company he hadl commanded was dis-
banded., Smarting under the disgrace, he soon
aftei- joined the royal troops in New York, re-
ceived a captain's commission, and, in the follow-
- ing Augtust, died there.
His example was followed by not a few' of the
disbanded company and others, chiefly young men.
"In the course of the year 1776," says Bronson,
" after the defeat of the American forces on Long
Island, when the British army was lying 'in and
about New York, the patriot cause looking des
perate enough, about eighty persons (royalists) left
Waterbury with the intention of joining the enemy.
Some were taken .on 'the way by the Americans,
but most of them'reached their destination. They
did inot, owever,:meet with the reception they
expected. Instead of being welcomed and petted,
.they were treated with superciliousness an neglect.

f

I


36*          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                             .EC2~O
R1~LIGTOUS ASP F THE WAR.

* The discipline of the .army they found almost intol..
enable, and a thorough disgust for their new friends
soon took the place of former admiration. Many,
taking advantage of the proclamations by Congress
of pardon to such as should return to duty, deserted
the royal standard, came home, .and took the oath
of allegiance to the statb. .A part of these entered
the American service. Numbers died or were
killed while 'still With the British army. A few'
served in it till the close of the war. Of the latter
number, a part, after peace was declared, settled in
Nova Scotia. ~Others found a home in the south-
em states, while two or three~ returned to Water-
bury." I
As might readily be sup~os~d, these stories in
the British service were among th~ most dreaded
foes of the inhabitants living i~ the vicinity of the
royal armies. They became' notorious tom their
plundering excursions, in. which they carried off
cattle, hay, fruits,,and stores of all sorts for the use
of the troops. In the neighborhood of New York,
they were named "cow-boys," 'from the frequency
and success, of these raids. Their familiarity With
'the country and its people enabled them 'to plan

C
their excursions successfully, and escape, for the
most part, with impunity. Often they had old
grudges against those who had insulted or prose-
cuted them, and they could now couple with the
plunder they 'carried ,off the sweets of .~evenge. It
is needless to~, say how rapidly the morals of men
thus engaged would deteiviorate, and how soon
many of those who at first were simply honest
royalists became robbers, and murderers, hardened
in every crime.

1 History of Waterbury, pp. 353, 354.

37

6

36


THE JUDD FAMILY.

39

CHAPTER IV.'
THE JUDD FAMILY.

family to which our young friend
1~'Chauncey Judd belonged 'was descended
one of the oldest and most respec-
table 4in the town. His grandfather Joseph was
the son of Thomas, the third in a succession of
Thomas Judds, who were among the colonial mag-
nates, enjoying the highest offices and honors of
the community. The first was one of' the little
band that made their long journey,'in 1635, through
the woods from Massachusetts to the banks of the
Connecticut, carrying the wife of their pastor,
Rev. Mr. llc~bker, in~ a litter upon their shoulders.
Afterward, removing to Farmington, he~ was the
first deacon of the church there, and very often a
deputy t&amp; the Genei~al Court. The second removed
to Waterbury, where he was r~peated1y chosen
38

deputy, also a justice of th~ peace, and lieutenant,
the highest military office permitted in a town
until the number of soldiers it was able to enroll in
its company was sixty-four.~ The third was a coyt-
stable, town clerk and treasurer, schoolmaster, and
"literary oracle of the settlement." We may add
.that the successi~pn of Thomas Judds has continued
unbroken to this day, and has, we believe, per~
petuated. in itself and its collateral branches, t;o a
good degree, the same qualities which so honorably
characterized their Puritan ancestcir~.
At its first settlement, Waterbur}~ was not con-
sidered a very e~ igible spot for a pl~.ntation. The
committee appo~ nted by the colonial legislature to
visit the place, and ascertain its capabilities, re-
ported that~ in their estimation, 'it contained about
six hundred acres of land fit for cultivation, and
that it might support thirty families. This will
excite a smile, in view of the fact that now Water-.
bury alone, without including the towns and parts
of towns which have been set off from it, has a
population of over thirteen thousand souls.
As the lands at the center were 'taken up, it
became necessary for the young men, 4and others
who subsequently removed thither, to find abodes
ii


40          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

TH1~ JUDD FAMILY.            4'

in the remoter districts. Four or five miles down
the valley were broad natural meadows, on either
side of the river, which were annually enriched by
the overflow of its waters. These had belonged to
Lieutenant Thomas Judd, from which circumstance
the spot, with the surrounding district, came to be
called "Judd's Meadow." Afterward, when the
district became a distinct parish, it ~vas designated
"Salem ;" and still later. at the time of its incor-
~oration as a separate town, it borrowed from the
romantic stream which traverses it the name of
"Naugatuck," a word said to be derived from the
Thdian terms naiag, or izaug, signifying a high
point of land or promontory, and tuk', a river,
meaning thus the "river of the high hills," a name
that will be recognized as entirely appropriate by
those who, are familiar with the picturesque moun-
tain valley through which it flows.
Hither Isaac Judd, the son of joseph, removed
with his family a few years before the date of ou~
~s~ory. Hjs farm was situated on' the old road
leading' from "the Bridge" toward Gunntown,
about a mile distant from the present village of
Naugatuck. It was a pleasai~it location, on th~
southern slope of a hill, overlooking the valley of

the "Longmeadow Brook," a tributary of the Nau-
gatUck. But the soil was not rich, the surface of
the ground was stony, and whatever' in the way of
crops was obtained from the farm was extorted by
hard and untiring labor.
They were brave hearts, who, in those old times,
went forth from, the paternal roofio make to them-n
selves new, homes, and to subdue the wilderness.
Young men and maidens both were brought up to
work, and they looked forward to it without dis-
may, as to the one necessary and honorable busi-
ness of life. And by work was meant farm labor,
and its in-door accompaniments of the dairy, the
distaff, and the loom. There were few trades, the.
carpenter, the blacksmith, and the 'shoemaker sup-
plying the chief wants of the people that were not
supplied by home industry. Manufacturing, save
of the simplest kind, had scarcely begun in the
colonies, the mother country having by stringent
regulations suppressed, as far as possible, all at-
tempts in that direction which wouldJtend to spoil
a market foi her wares. The sons of ~the rich only
could aspire to the learned professions. Thus the
choice of an occupation by a young man was, for ~ -'
the most part, a very simple matter, and the only

40

41


~42'         CHAUNCEY JUDD.

THE JUDD FAMILY.       .43

preparation needed for it that which he received
as a matter of course from his own labors on his
father's farm.
Isaac Judd was twenty-five when he took the
young Anna Williams, then in her sevehteenth
year, to be a sharer in his 1&amp;t of toil. Their patri-
mohy on either hand was small. The bride's "set-
ting out" usually consisted of a bed, with its linen
and covering, the work of her own fingers, and
sometimes 'a cow and a calf, or a dozen sheep;
while a young man received his "freedom suit 7
of home-raised and home-made cloth,' and a few
pounds in ~~oney, or a horse or pair of oxen. But
the ~roung couple did not murmur. They were
rich in each other's love, and in that inexhaustible
treasure of hope, which is the priceless heritage of
all who h youth,
ave      good health, and a pure heart;
and th~'y went forth, hahd in hand, to carve o~t
their own fortune, trusting to Him who had been
the God of their fathers to guide and to bless them.~
he farm having been purchased, the next, thing
~4asjo build a house. This was~a more formidable
undertaking in those days than ~t is at present.
Timber Was' indeed abundant, but it was, growing
in the forest, ana rViost of the processes necessary

for converting it into boards, shingle~, and laths
'had to be performed by hand. Nails~, glass, latches,
and other hardware came from England, and were
scarce and expensive. Bricks might be made, of
course, for clay was everywhere abundant; but it
cost labor to ma,1;e them, and there- was eVer' a
convenient substitute in the fragments of granite
which were thickly scattered over the ground.
In due time the house was completed and occu-
pied. It is still standing, thou gh~ now devoted to
menial purposes.' The covering of tone end has
been removed, and the owner stores there his ox-
cart and other farm utensils. The low' attic is an
open harbor for the swallows, which hang their mud
nests upon its blackened rafters, and fly twittering
around in endless convoluti6ns. The~rnassive frame,
sufficient to make half a dozen such as w~ con-
struct in modern times, still hugs the great smoke-'
stained stone chimi~ey, whose, yawr~ing fireplaces
were the cosy retreat of the youngsters in cold.
winter nights. Tl~ ere~ are the rent oaken clap-
boards, unpainted, and weather-beaten by the
storms of a century ahd a quarter; the small wir~-
dows; the doors, with their wooden hinges and
latches; and the naked joists of the, low ceiling,

'42

43


I

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

from which us~d to hang strings of apples. and
sliced pumpkins to dry for pie-making. There is
the bedroom where the little ones were born and
nursed, where soft motherly hands smoothed th6
sick pillow, and whence, alas! some precious ones
were tenderly bQrne away to their cold resting-
place' on the sandy hillock by the river-side.
There'~ is the old " be~ t room," where company
was received, and where,~ from time to time, blush-
ing maidens heard ~he sweet words which wafted
them into the fairy land of lbve and promise. Ah,
it is sad to see these household shrines, conse-
crated by the joys, the tears, the loves, the aspira-
tions pf successive generations, falling into decay,
and s5on, like those' who once dwelt there, to be
known no more forever
But we have been carried beyond our story. The
house 'was completed, at least so far as to be
habitable, and Judd and his young family mox~ed
to their new home. They had lived a few~ years in
the same neighborhood with his 4'ather, at Buck's
Hill, and already nui~nbered some half a dozen as
they met around their household board. Others
came to them 'here, making, in all, the patriarchal
number of twelve seVen boys and five girls; and

THE JUDD FAMILY.

45

when standing in a row across the end of the'
kitchen, as the good father loved to arrange them,
their leads rose in smiling gradation, from the
little toddler Harvey to the manly Roswell, like
notes on 'the, gamut of home love and happiness.
R swell was the eldest, his father's pride, "the
beginning of his strength." He was now, in 'I 776,
absent in the army. Next was Rosanna, a fair,
quiet girl, whose excellences had reached the hear-
ing of Mr. Edward Perkins, a young widox~er 'in
Betii'any, and caused him to ride up to Judd's
Meadow oftener than any apparent business ren-
dered necessary. He was a tall, dignifiect person,
in velvet small clothes and snowy stockings, with.
his jet-b ack hair hanging in a shining queue
from un er his cocked hat the very picture of a
gentleman of the olden time. It was a great won-
derment with some of the younger ones what that
tall man used to come there f5r so qften;' and they
were not much pleased with the solution which
~ sister Rosy" one day gave them, that he "came
to tell them of his four poor motherless children,
that had nobody to take care of them, and how he
had asked her father if she might go down there
and do jt, and he bad said she rn~ght; and so,
'I

44

L1


before- the 'cold weather came, she was going."
But she comforted them by adding that it was not
far away, and, rnay be, father would some day let
them come-down, and see her and the children -
'a suggestion 'which was subsequently verified in a
way which even sister Rosy herself did' not antici-
pate. For one of them, grown to fair maidenhood
not only saw the "children," but one of these also
saw her, and. persuaded her to remain in Bethany,
by which it happened that she beca the daughter
of her own' sister ; and other siin lar relationships
were formed too complicated f r my ingenuity to
unravel. '
As I have sa'd, no young woman, in those days,
of any smartnes , was rnarried till she had provided
her linen for pe sonal wear, bedding, table covering,
towels, etc., wit her own hands. Of course these
were 'busy days for Rosanna. Seated at her spin-
ning-wheel by the west window, which .looked out
upon the valley below,~ with the shining flak hang-
ing upon the distaff before her, she spun daily her
self-prescribed number of "runs," the soft hum of
her instrument rising and falling in gentle cadences,
like the murmur of a busy bee-hive 1on a sunny
bank in June.

Jsaac, the second son, had already taken to him-s
self a.'wife. H&amp; was. barely nineteen, and might,
pne would think, have waited a few years ; but the
sweet-faced Patience Hammond' had beguiled him,
and most impatiently did' he count the days till he
had made her his own. As yet she had not ree
moved ~from her childhood's home, but .she was
~often over at Father Judd's to .see Rosanna, and
help her: in her tasks at the wheel and loom.
There was a great deal of confidential intercourse
between them, and much mysterious and low-toned
talk in the ,aid west room, where these operations
were carried on.
Walter, the third~son, had gone into the army
with his brother 'Roswell. The .next daughter,
Appellina, now sixteen, was emphatically her moth-
er's help. Lively an'd cheerful, she could turn her
hand to anything,~ from the Monday'~ wash and the
Tuesday's ironing to rnaking, a rag baby for little
Milly, or a whistle for the chubby-faced, four-year-
old Reuben. Chauncey came next ; then Anna and
Ruth, the twins. These had a special charge of
out-door~ matters? They knew all the. hens' nests
K. in the barn, and the age and pedigree of. all the
chickens in the coops. They knew where the big-

'I

I

46  CHAI~ CEYJUDD.THE JUDD FAMILY.                                      '4

/j.7

46


48           CHAUNCEY J1JDD.

gest strawberries grew in the meadows, and where
the scarlet winter-green plums hid themselves un-
der the glossy leaves in the woods~ Hand in hand
they were always seen, running over the hills or
racing after the yellow butterflies in the street -
bright pictures of healthy, happy childhood.
It was a busy family; for the mother was a nota-
ble housewife, aAd. all the children were tat~ght to
work. "Come, girls," she would say, if any loitered
at their tasks, "every kit must catch her mouse;"
and she herself set the example , catching more
than any of her daughters. The short gown and
petticoat of checked linen, or in winter of linsey-
woolsey, home-spun and home-woven, were their
usual garments, except on Sunday, when a lighter
stuff was worn, the mother and elder daughters, on
special occasions, displaying the charms of chintz
or calico. If the~ children at home Went bar~foot~d,
even up to womanhood, it did not hurt them; and
if the boys had stubbed toes and stone-bruised
heels, they were tenderly cared for with. rag, and
salve, and the loving word and gentle admonition
to be careful next time soon dried the tear-stained
face.

CHAPTERR V~
PURITAN TRAINING.

N those days the means of education were
scanty. For some years a school had
'been established in Judel's Meadow, to
be kept a few weeks in winter; but while the boys
might brave5 the winds and snow to attend it, the
task was, for the most part, too severe for the girls.
Indeed, the acquisitions of those who did go were
not great. Spelling,' if we, may judge from the
specimens which have descended to us, came, a~
Dogberry ~'ias it, "by nature," for no art could have
taught such achievements in misplacing the a1ph~-
bet. Reading, writing, and a small amount of
arithmetic made up the list of the branches taught.
Grammar, geography, and the higher branches
common to our day were practically unknown.
But if little learning was imparted, little compara-
4                     49~

48


50           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                    PURITAN TRAINING.        51

timely was needed. People lived by the strength
of their arms, not by their stores of book knowl-
edge; and the chief science needed was to know
how to coa,~c from the scanty soil sufficient supplies
for man and beast.
Religion had its appropriate place in Isaac Judd's
family; nay, We had almost said, was indigenous in
every true Puritan home of the early times. The
big'~Bible lay upon the table, ~nd from 'its throne
of authority dispensed instruc1~on and admonition
to the assembled household. Reverently they all
stood as the morning and evening prayer was
offered by the father, and when the bf~ing was
invoked upon the meals. The Sabbath began at
sunset on Saturday night, when all work save that
of the most imperative necessity was laid aside.
Qn the Lord's day, as many of the family as pos-
sible must go to meeting. There was than no
meeting-house nearer than Waterbury Center, the
society at Salem not having been organized till
1781. The distance was six miles, the i~oads rough,
and horseback the only means of conveyance. To
the elders of the family1 of course, it was assigned
~o ride. Reining the steed up to the side of the
horse-block, the father mounted first; then, adjust-

her cushioned billion to the saddle, the mother
sprung up behind him, holding herself in place by
her arm* around her husband's waist. Lastly, the
baby - for there was rarely an interval in that
family when there was not a youngster of this
designation to be cared for - was placed in its
father's arms; and thus amply freighted, the patient
animal to3k its jog-trot journey to the house of
God. The young people accompanied them on
foot with sober and reverent pace, as became the
sacred day, none being allowed to remain at home
unless sick, or having the care of some one else, or
for some indispensable need of the household or
the farm.
The drum, vigorously beaten at the meeting-
house door, announced the hour of worship. En~
tearing the little sanctuary, no cushioned and car~
peted,. pewt i~as seen, but bare benches ranged in
two "teer" before the pulpit; one for the men, the
other for the worsen, and "dignified according ,to
the age anc~l wealth of the worshipers." In 1769,
however, it had been voted that "those who are
seated in the ~eats" should have permission, "it
their own expense; to turn them into pews;" and

t
1


A

'K

52             CHAUNCEY JUDD.
shortly after, "that men and their wives might be
seated together in the pews. -
Furnace or stove there was none, save the small
foot-stove, containing a little pan of coals, which
the wealthier matrons carried with them. No
matter how severe the winter, the people, who per-
- haps had faced the cutting winds, or waded through
the deep snows, on their way, sat the hour and a
half through with hero-ic fortitude. Those who
lix~ed at a distance had, if they were able, small
"Sabbath-day houses," to which they. repaired in
the intermission to warnv their~ stiffened limbs, and
thaw' their bread and cheese, and bottles of cider,
which t1~ey had brought for a lukch. Then another
hour and a half in the unarmed meeting-house
completed the service of the day, and they were -
dismissed to the lbng, cold ride home.
Did they count it a hardship thus to honor God
in his sanctuary? No; it was a service of love, of
unfeigned, heartfelt devotion. We know of noth-
*mg more affecting than the old misspelled records,
in which we may read of the sacrifices endured by
the first settlers of these New England towns to
pro 4ure for themselves and their children the privi-
lege~s of public worship. The people of Waterbur

R

7-

'        PURITAN TRAINING.   -        '53
were poor; the wh6lc property of 'the - township,
real and personal, would not amount to as much as
the cost of- any one of a dozen of the church edifices
now standing within its ancient limits. The little
I
meeting-house in - use at the time of the Revolutioti.
was "forty by fifty 'foot" in dimensions; and when
built, fifty years before, it is said that the entire
population of the town might have found seats
together upon its sills.
We love to linger amid the recollections of
these old- Puritan families. They had their weak-
nesses and their faults, like the rest of mankind.
Petty vices may have existed among the lower
classes the indolent, the shiftless, and the intern-
perate. Poverty, toil, the- w~int of books, and re-
moteness from cultivated society may have caused
a lack of polish, and some coarseness of manners
and habits. But, making all allowance for these
things, they were the salt of the earth. These
hard-working, God-fearing fathers and - mothers
-wer&amp; the founders of the state, and none in all
the family of nations had nobler than they.
When the oppressions of the~nother country
began to be felt in the colonies, there were none
~t~i
more prompt to joinr in resistance to them than


PURITAN TRAINING.      5

54'      CHAUNCEY JUDD.

Isaac Judd and his sons. Three of them -Ros-
well, Isaac, and Walter -were of an age to bear
arms, and at different times all entered into the
army. Roswell was then a member of one of the
militia companies of Waterbury. The British
General Howe, having evacuated Boston, appear,ed
in June, I776, off New York, threatening an attack
upon that city. Congress made a requisition, on
Connecticut for troops, and the legislature, then in
session, authorized seven regiments of volunteers
to be raised in that colony to~ join the Continental
army. A few weeks later, the condition of affairs
became so critical that' General Washington sent
an urgent appeal for help, and the governor. of
Connecticut responded with an order directing the
whole body of the standing militia west of the Con-
necticut River, and two regiments from the east
side, to march forthwith to New York, "until the
present exigency is over." This was substantially
a levy ezr masse for over one half of the colony.
"It is estimated," says Bronson, "that full one half
of Washington's army in and about New York this
year wereConnecticut men ; and that during this
year (1776), the colony had in full twenty thousand
troops in the service, xnhereas her whole available

military force - from -sixteen to fifty years of'age
-- did not exceed twenty-three thousand." 1
The comnpanies from Waterbury arrived in season
to take part in the disastrous battle of Long Island,
and the various skirmishes and 'fights that followed.
Many men were lost, both by casualties and sick-
ness;- indeed, the latter was the more fatal of the
1 It is a fact, of which the sons of Conn~ecticut may well
boast, that this little colony furnished more men,'regulars
and militia, in the war of the .Revolution, than anyt other
of the old thirteen, Massachusetts excepted. The follow-
ing table will show -1 . The, quotas of each, gs fixed and
required by Congress ; arid 2. The actual numbers fur-
nished:-

COLONIES.
New Hampshire.
Massachusetts..-
Rhode Island. .
Connecticut. .
New York. ..
New Jersey. .
Pennsylvania. .
Delaware.. .
Maryland.   ..
Virginia....
North Carolina.
South Carolina.
Georgia. -.--
Totals, ..

QUOTAs
REQUIRED.
10,194
52,698
5,694
.28,336
'5,734
11,396
4o,4i6
S3,974
26,608
48,522
23,994
16,932
3,974

.. .    .288,472

NUMBERS
FOTRNISiHED.
14,589
83,052
10,192
39,277
21,647
16,782
32,965
2,763
17,761
31,101
11,238
6,66o
2,679
290,706

54

55

.
.
.
.
.
-


56           CHAUNCEY JUDD.

PURITAN TRAINING.           57

two. Called suddenly ihto the service in the sul-
triest days of summer, stibjected to the severest
duty in the field, resulting in defeat and retreat,
with no proper commissary or sanitary stores, it is
no wonder that these raw levies were unable to
stand the hardships, and that the hospitals, such
as they were, were speedily filled with disabled
men. I~i these circumstances, the Connectic~t
Assembly directed the~ governor to write to Gene
eral Washingtdn, keq~iesting hi in, as soon as might
be, to discharge the sick in the h~ilitia who should
be judged incapable of further service.
Mr. Judd, rec\~ iving intelligence of Roswell's
sickness anddisc l~ arge under this order; hastened
to the camp to Jo k aftei: him. He was, however~
too ill to be at once removed; but owing to care-
ful nursing, with a naturally vigorous constitution,
he at length sufficiently recovered to warrant the
journey. It was a long and toilsome undertaking.
His father had rode from Waterbury ~on horseback.
There were no railroads then, nor even stage
coaches. Small vessels had been wont to sail, more
or less frequently, from New 'Haven or Derby; but
during these troublesome times, all regular com-
munications of this sort were suspended. Only

one way was left. Roswell was placed upon the
back of the horse, and his father, trudged on foot
b~ his side. ,Their progress' was slow, for the in-
valid was too weak to ride far in a day. ~ It was
nearly a week before they reached home - a trip
which fnay now easily be accomplished in three
hours.
As the war went on, the hardships it occasioned
were more and more felt in the homes of the peo-
ple. As early as 1774, Congress adopted 'a series
of resolutions pledging the delegates and inhabit-
ants of the colonies to a system of non-intercourse
with Great Britain, hoping, by thus depriving her
of a market for her man ufa~tures, to compel her to
redress their grievances. Nothing which was pro~
duced by ,England or her colonies was to be im-
ported or consumed. Tea, coffee, sugar, molasses,
spices, indigo, &amp;c., were to be disused. Home
industries were to be fostered. The rich were to
discard their silks and broadcloths, and appear in
homespun, which, if inferior in texture and 'finish,
was at least the product of free hands.
To enforce this abstinence from imported goods,
one of the resolutions of Congress recommended
the appointment of a vigilance committee in every
I


(AUNCEY JULW.
town, "whose business it shall be attentively to
observe the conduct of all persor~s touching this
association." If any were found violating the corn-
pact, the case was to be "published in the Gazette,
to the end that all such foes to the rights of British
America may be publicly known and universally
condemned as the enemies of American liberty;
and thenceforth we respectively break off all deal-
ings with him or her."
This resolution was secon\ed by a vote of the
town of Waterbury, in which it was agreed that
the people would "faithfully adhere to, and strictly
abide by, the association entered into by said Con-
gress, and appoint the gentlemen hereafter amed
a committee to see the same carried int6 execution
in every article thereof.''
It required no small courage and s~lf-denial .to
comply fully with the terms of thi~s agreement.
The people had few luxuries at the best, and these
swept them all away at a blow. What could fami-
lies do without tea, and sugar, and spices, and a
thousand articles needed for housekeeping and for
personal use? But necessity is the mother of
invention. Substitutes for forbidden articles were
* found or contrived, many of which would excite no

(


k           PURITAN TRAiNING~
little surprise at the present day~ The cider cup
more than ever supplied the place of both coffee
and tea, and the tall maples furnished, to those
who possessed them, their delicious sirup and
sugar. In the farhily of Mr. Judd, who seemed not
to have been thus favored, the necessary "sweeten~
ing" was procured in another way. The Indian
corn is the botanical cousin of the sugar cane, and
its juices, when fresh, are not without' saccharine
qualities. So the cornstalks were cut, their leaves
stripped off, and the stems, bruised and wrung,
were placed in a kettle, and boiled, from which a
coarse sirup was obtained, which helped to make
pies and cakes palatable. 'The writer has often
heard his relative, the venerable lady before men-
tioned, then one, of the younger daughters of the
family, describe this unique process, and say that
sh'e had n'any a time twisted the cornstalks for
sirup-making till her little hands were blistered.

SYRuP MAKINu.

I

8


A QUILTING PARTY.

CHAPTER VI.
A QUILTING PARTY.

EAR after year passed, and still the war
dragged on. The battles Qf Trenton and
Princeton had revived the drooping hop~s
of the patriots, and the capture of Burgoyne had,
gained for them the powerful assistance of France.
Still it ivas~an exhausting struggle. Thousands of
men we ~e called away froiti their homes and occu-
pations, many of them ~iever to return; labor was
interrup ted, the credit of the natio&amp; depressed,
and the prospects of a successful issue seemed as
remote as ever. The courage of the patriots, how7
ever, did flot fail them, and from the very prolo~ga-
tion of the war rose a forlorn hope that the British
cabinet would at length be convinced of the futility
of their endeavor to conquer a people so deter-
mined, and ultimately concede their independence.
6o

I

61

It was a bright 1day in March, 1780. Though
springaccording to the calendar, it was still winter
in fact. Snow yet covered the . ground, the buds
showed no signs of awakening life, and the keen
winds, blowing as only March wind~ can, kept the
world still prisoner under the reigh of the Frost
King.
On the evening of that day, Judd's Meadow was
enlivened with one of those festive occasions char-
acteristic of the times one hundred years ago a
quilting. A young couple of the neighborhood
were sbon to be married, in. anticipation of which
the bride expectant invited her friends to assist her
in completing that most . indispensable article for
housekeeping, a bed-quilt.
Marvelous achievements of industry and skill
were those ancient specimens of patch-work. By
some inexplicable rule of computation, their value
seems to have been estimated in exact proportion
to the number of pieces of which they were com-
posed. The gathering of these had been the work
of years. They consisted lar~e1y of bits of the
materials from which the dresses of friends and
relatives, near and remote, had been made. Such
a piece, you would be assured, was of ~is~er Sally's


62           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                  A QUILTING PARTY.         63

wedding gown, such another was from cousin Han-
nah's. That chintz flower was from the dress' of
the minister's wife, that she wore on the very day
of the ordination. This scrap was from the ward-
robe of Lieutenant Lewis's second wife, who' was
the' rich widow Hopkins, you know. Here was a
bit from Mrs. ,Dr. Bird's wedding gown~ which she
first pieced into a cradle-quilt for her eldest baby,
et4. Of course fragments of bridal robes and baby-
dresses were most precious of all. The fitting and
~ewing of these had been long going on, perhaps
even from childhood; and now, as the eventful day,
so full of hope and promise, draws nigh,, the piecing
is the ,final process of quilting is to
comPThted~\and
~be perform
The invit at~on had been given' on the previous
Sunday, and on this blustering Tuesday afternoon
a merry group ~of girls are assembled around the
quilt frames in the best room. A blazing~ fire in
the wide old fireplace roars,4 and sparkles, and'
snaps, as if to~d&amp; its utmost in adding warmth and
cheer to fh~ occasion* Fingers and tongues move
with equal~ speed 'quaint figures, in circles, and
cresc&amp;its, aiid~ stars, and triangles, grow under the~
needfrwork, and by the time the daylight fails the

task is corn pleated, the quilt cut from its frame, the
room tidied of its disorder, ~nd all is ready to wel-
come the guests of the evening.
I know not how it was that this piece of purely
feminine industry, could never be wholly* finished
without the aid of the young men. But such was
the fact ; and though these did nQt participate in the
actual labor, yet it is unquestionably true that the
expectation ~f th~ir presence led to the production
of many more quilts than would otherwise have been
made. The evening was devoted to merry-making.
Not infrequently a fiddler was engaged to officiate;
but he was not always to be had, and indeed his
presence was not, in the best families, quite ap-
proved~ ~There were' plenty of plays, however, to
supply the, lack. There was "button, button," and
roll the trencher," and " marching to Quebec,"
an~l "oats, peas, beans," and the "cushion dance,"
and" blind man's buff," and not least, if last, "run-
ning round the chimney," for which the structure
of the houses in those days furnished splendid fa-
cilities. And then, at an hour rarely later than
midnight, the party broke up, and the delicious
after-play of" going home with the girls "followed;
in regard to which we have this singl4lar fact to

I'


I

64

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

'4

A QUILTING PARTY.

65

record, that no matter how long or rough the road,
or how dark the night, ~o one either thus attend-
ant or attended was ever known to complain of
either~
At the quilting to which we have referred, the
young people of the Judd, Williams, Hotchkiss,
and other families in the town, were present;
and on this occasion Chauncey Judd, for the first
time in his life, ventured to .offer himself for escort
duty~ to a young lady on her way ~home. Her name
was Ditha Webb, and she lived about half a mile
west from Mr. Judd's; on r the old road leading to
Gunntown. Her father was a day laborer, working
for the most part for ~Mr. jobarnah Gunn, the rich
tory farmer near by. She was a sprightly girl,
beaming with good nature, and something of a fa-
vorite among the young folks. Her mother was
frequently employed by th neighboring families to
assist them on special occa~ ions, aI4d in this capa-
city, as tailor an~ seamstress, sh~ had woilked for
Mrs. Judd in cutting and making garments for her
numerous household. Ditha was quite intimate
with the girls of the family, and often found time
of an afternoon to ramble with Anna or Ruth for
berries and flowers in the fields.

Chauncey was now in his sixteenth year~; tall,
slender, with light~blue eyes and fair, brown hair.
Naturally he had a poetic ~temperament~ though he
knew. little of what poetry was. He felt the beauty
of the landscape as it lay stretched out before him;
of the hills and valleys, and the blue. arch of heaven
above; of1 the green foliage of the summer, 'and the
ermined mantle and hoarse voices of the winter.
Especially did he feel the attractions of a fair face
and a winning smile, though his own timidity made
him repel with ingenuous blushes any1 intimation
from his ruder companions of such~ a weakness
as this.
Therefore it was with a beating heart that he
made up his mind to offer his services ~that * night
as an escort to Ditha. He heard her voice in mer-
ry laughter from the room whither' the girls had
gone 'to don their hoods and cloaks, and when, with
forced courage, he met her at the door as she came
out, and asked, "May I have the pleasure of seeing
you home, Ditha?" and received her prompt reply,
"Th1ank you, Chauncey," at the same time putting
her little mittened hand within his arm, he felt that
he was a lucky fellow, and that Ditha was as good
as she w~s pretty.
5


66           CHAUNCEY JUDD.

A QUILTING PARTY.         67.

They reached ~her home, as Chauncey thought,
in an incredibly short time, and as the hour did not
seem late, he accepted her invitation to go in. Mr.
and Mrs. Webb had retired, for the night, but the
fire stjll smoldered on the hearth, and being replen-
ished with the wood laid in readiness for the morn-
ing, it soon filled the room with its ruddy glow.
Had it been a regular Sabbath e/eni'ng visit, after
the approved mode of courtship, she would have
made the fire in the best room; but as he only de-
signed to remain a few minutes, that was dispensed
with, and the kitchen where the family for the most
part lived answered in its stead.
But he staid longer thap he had expected.
What were the topics of conversation 'be-
guiled those midnight hours we cafinot affirm; we
can only guess. They were both of an age when
the young buds of the sweetest of all, passions
were just beginning to swell ih their bosoms, as
would the germs of life in the vegetable world a
few weeks later. It was this which gave its charm
to the interview, and made him forget both himself
and the hour. True, 'there was no clock to tell
him how l~.te it was, neither had he a watch, for
both clocks and watches were luxuries' possessed

only by the rich, but the full moo4 already past
the meridian, should have sufficiently supplied their
place.
It must have been nearly or quite three o'clock
before Chauncey ro .~ e to depart. Ditha took the
candle and guided him to the back door, the only
one used in the farmers' houses of the country dur-
ing the winter. The good~nights were spoken, and
~he young man started down the road homeward.
With. a bounding step he sped along the snowy
ath. Never did the world look so beautiful; never
was his heart so light.

I

66

67


THE ABDUCTION.         69

K

CHAPTER VII.

THE ABDUCTION.

RESENTLY Chauncey came to a small
5 piece of woods, through which ran a foot
~ path, cutting off' an aiigle of the road, and
shortening ky a few rods the distance to his home.
As he emerged from ~the woods upon the highway,
he suddenly met a party of men, who had come up
the road from the bridge, and were traveling to-
ward Gunntown. They were all armed with mus-
kets or halberts, and most of them' carried heavy
packs, as of merchandise tied in bundles and slung
upon their shoulders.
At first Chauncey hesitated a moment; as if he
would turn back into the woods; but the men had
seen him the same moment that he discovered
them, and he felt that retreat would be useless. He
therefore drew to one side of the path,, and hastily
68

passed them, recognizing as he did so one 6r two,
under the bright moonlight, as persons he knew,
~i~ong whom was the young man wbose conversa-
tion with him we have before recorded, and who as
he passed exclaimed,
'~ Halloo, Chauncey!     yp\~I ?"
"Halloo, David ! "w s~the reply; but Chauncey in
the circumstances desired no further recognition,
and moved rapidly on.
The men halted foi a moment in low conversa-
tion, when another, who seemed to be their leader,
called after him
"Halt there, young man; we want to see you.
For an instant Chauncey slackened his steps as
if about to comply with the summons, but the next
moment he started forward with quickened pace.
"Stop !" cried the harsh voice again, with an
oath. "Come back here, or I'll make daylight
shine through. you." A~ the same time the sharp
click of a gunloc k warned him that it would be no
idle threat. The young man stopped accordingly,
and looked around.
"What dQ you want of me?" he asked.
"Come back here, and we'll tell you," was 'the
peremptory answ~r.

69


70             CIIAUNCEY JUDD.
There was o alternative but compliance, 4and he
slowly retrace d his steps.
"So, Chauncey," said Wooster, "you did not
want to see your friends, it seems. But how came
you to be here at this time of night? Where have
you been?"
"It's none of your business, Dave Wooster. My
errand has been an honest one, at any rate, which
is more, I guess, than you can say of yours."
"Well, whatever it was, it's a pity it did not'keep
you, a little longer, at least till we got by."
By this time several others of the party were
gathered round whom he knew. Most of them
were stories belonging in Gl4nntown, but two or
three were strangers to him. The former called
him by name, but he answered only in monosyl1a~
bles, as ~if feeling anything but pleasure at the in2
terview. Very soon the harsh voice of their leader
broke in' again:
~' Come, young man, you must go with us."
"With you?" exclaimed hauncey, in dismay.
"For what?"
"No matter now; we want you; s6 right about
face, march!"
"But where do you want me to go?"

THE ABDUCTION.

7'

"We've no time to confab about it 'now," cried
the other, with an oath. "Come ~long, and you 11,
find out.''
"The truth is,"~ interposed Wooster, "nobody
knows that we are away from home to-night, and it
wouldn't be quite convenient for us to have them.
Might have too many asking questions about it, you
know. Folks are mighty inquisitive sometimes."
"Oh," said Chauncey, "is that all? I won't tell
of you."
"No, we don't mean you sh4Il," said the leader;
"so, to make sure of it, we'll take you along with
us. Come, b~ quick! Get, into the road here
before us; we can't wait. Daylight will be along
soon, and that is another of our friends that we
don't care to see just now.
It was plain' that remonstrance would be useless;
so the young man took his way with the gang.
The leader, whose~ name was Graham, and whose
accent betrayed him as a foreigner, stepped for-
ward by his side, and they walked on together, the
rest following in the rear.
~' Sorry to cause you ~nconveni'ence," he said,
"and we don't mean you any harm. If you go
along peaceably it will be the better for you, but if


72          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

THE ABDUCTION.          73

you attempt to get away, or if we should meet any-
body and you should betray us, yo~i wouldn't live
three minutes. Here are five loaded muskets, and
you~\can calculate your chances of escape if I give
orders to fire."
"But," said Chauncey, "~ do trust me. ~ give you
my word and honor that I will pever tell any living
soul that I have seen you to-night."
"That's very easy for you to promise," i~eplied
Graham, "but we are too old birds to be caught'
with chaff. We shall, as Wooster says, have peo-
ple inquiring yery affectionately fo~ us in a day or
two, and you could not keep the secret if you tried.
So there's nothing~ more to be said, but come
along."
Thus saying, Graham pulled his slouched hat
more closely over his face, afid bidding his men to
" hurry up," the whole party moved rapidly dbwn
the hill, around the corner of th&amp; woods, in the
direction of Gunntown.
They soon reached the house of Mr. Webb, now
wrapped in darkness and silence. Keenly did
Chauncey feel, as they passed. it, the change in his~
cirQumstances which the last half hour had brought.
How little did she, who had parted from him with

* soft good-bys a few minutes before, imagine that
he had already returned, in far less agreeable
company, and that he was being hurried away, he
* knew not whither.
It w~As but a short mile further when they reached
the abode of Mr. Gunn, where they expected to
make a halt. This wa~ a large two-story house, -
now the residence bf a grandson of his, standing in
a bend or hollow of the hill-side overlooking the
'Longrneadow valley. Around it were the various.
out-hohses usually belonging to, large farmers, for
the kitchen~ the dairy, the wash-room, and the like.
1.
On arriving in sight of the house; the party
halted for con~ultation. They were reluctant to
call up the family at that time of the night, though
not app~r~iitly from any doubt of the friendliness
of the reception they might meet With. But what
They needed just Then was rest. They had been
up all night, had ~traveled a considerable distance'
burdened with' their heavy guns and bundles, and
some of them were greatly exhausted.' After a few
moments' consultation, they decided to enter the
large barn which sto~d by the road-side a few rods
east of the house, and stow themselves away in
the hay until daybreak.


I'

74

CHAUINCEY JUDD.

* Meanwhile the dogs, of which " Uncle Joe'"never
had less than two or three, had discovered the
approach of 'the strangers, and with loud barking
had announced it to the family. The clamor was
,redoubled in violence when some of the party went
to the barn door, and attempted to gaini an en-
trance. Graham tried to sdothe these vigilant cus-
todians of ,the premises, but in vain. Caresses and
friendly tones were unavailing ; ay, had it not been
for the muskets and halberts Which the men car-
ried, they would, doubtless, have been in con idera-
ble danger.
Presently there were indications that the outcry
had made- itself heard' in the house. A window
Was raised, and a he ad thrust out with the inquiry,
"Who's there ?"
" Friends," answer ed Graham.
~"What do you tw nt ?"
" We want the privilege of lying down in your
barn and resting till morning. We have been up
all night, and are very tired. We should have taken
the liberty without disturbing you, if it had not
been for your cursed dogs, and settled with you for
it afterward."
"Come. out here a moment, Uncle Joe," cried

THE ABDUCTION.

75

another voice. " We -are. not strangers, you see ;
you will find us all right."
The window was closed, and a few minutes. after-
ward Mr. Gunn appeared. .As he drew 'near to
the pat-ty, David stepped forward and said,-
"Good morning, Uncle Joe. Just call off' your
;dogs,'and you'll soon see who we are. .You know
me, of course, and my cousin Henry,. and Sam
Doolittle. Cady and Scott are no strangers, I
reckon. Here's one, however, you don't know, -
Captain Graham."
"We are sorry to disturb you, sir, at this unsea-
son able hour," said the latter.
"Well, boys, I didn't think of. seeing you to-
night, I declare. Get down, Lion ! Be still, Tige !
What are -you about, I should like to know ?
Where have you come from, David.?"
"Oh, from down below," said Wooster~ " We've
been doing a little business that may be the rebels
won't thank us for, and we shall have to keep dark'
for a day or two."
"Then I can't say I want you here, if you have
been in any scrape. ..They've got a vigilance com-
mittee, as they call it in town, and are watching us
here in Gunntown pretty sharp. If you are caught,

11

-i


~CHAUNC~Y JUDD.'
they will very likely treat you, as they did Joel
Ilickox, to a term in the old copper mine at Sims-
bury; and that might not be so pleasant. How-
ever, II have no objection to your going ihto my
barn if you want to, but don't get me into any
trouble by it."
"Oh, no; we'll look out for that. I shall go up
to f4 tier's by and by, and see how things are there.
They'll keep us for a clay or two, I know."
B4r this time Mv, Gunn had silenced his dogs and
opened the barn door, a d the travel ers, without
staying for further ceremony, entered, and creeping
under the hay, were soon ~n a deep sleep. Chaufi-
cey was placed. between Graham and Wooster, with
a charge, enforced with an oath, not to stir or make
any noise that would betray them, on pain of hav-
ing ,a bayonet put through him. Even he, over-
come with the night's excitement, soon fell into a
perturbed slumber.

CHAPTER VIII.

EBENEZER DAYTON.

HILL these nocturnal travelers are snatch-,
-~ ing a few minutes' sleep in Mr. Gunn's
barn, let us explain who they are, and
they appear here in these circumstances.
We have already related the reasons which led
so many of the people of Gunntown and vicinity to
espouse the cause of the royalists.
After the disastrous battle of Brooklyn Hights,
and the masterly retreat of General Washingto7n
and his forces to New York, Long Island fell
wholly under British control. It became, in con-
~equence, one of the haunts 'of the stories, and a
general resort for thieves and desperadoes of every
description.
"The engagement of the 27th, of August, 1776,"
77
y


CI1AU~~ICEY JUDD.

EBENEZER DAYTON.

says Thompspn,1 "was followed by an abandonment
of Long Island to the enemy; and the town and
county commissioners) in many instances, either
through fear or necessity, were inclined to repudi-
ate all legislative authQri~y exercised by the Provin-
cial and Continental Congresses. The inhabitants
who continued on the island were compelled to
* subscribe to the oath of allegiance and fideli tyto
the king. General Howe had, immediately on land-
ing at Gravescnd, issued a proclamation promising*
security of person and property to those who should
remain peaceably upon their farms. This island
became, therefore, conquered territory, forts being
erected and garrisons established in different places.
Martial law prevailed, the army became a sanc-
tuary for criminals of every grade, and means the
most despicable were resorted to for increasing
the numerical force of the enemy. Those inhabit-
ants who had heretofore tak~n an active part as
officers of militia and committee men deemed it
most imprudent to remain, and consequently
sought refuge within the American lines, leaving
Ihe greater part of their. property exposed, to the
ravages of an unprincipled foe.
History,. of Long Island, vol. i6 p. 392.

"The enemy took possession of the best rooms
in their houses, and ~obliged their owners to pro-
vide them accommodations and support$ for men
and horses. The property of those who had fled
* from their homes, and esPecially those engaged in,
the American service, was particularly the object
of rapine, and in very many instances the damages
were immense."
Among the person~ who thus fled from the
island was a man named EBENEZER DAYTON. He
was a native of Brookhaven, a descendant of Rev.
Nathaniel Brewster, D. D., one of its first minis-
ters, and connected with some of the most respec-
table families in 'the town. He had long carried
on mercantile business there, not only at his own
store in Brookhaven, but alsd by traveling tours
in adjacent towns, in. consequence of which he
became extensively known throughout the middle
and eastern portions of the island. The following
amusing incident, related by Thompson, will give
us a glimpse of the manner in which the business
of a country tradesman was then carried on, and
the perils to which it was liable -
"Dayton arrived in the village of Easthampton,
on Saturday evening, with a stock of fancy goods

F

78

79


CH4UNCEV IUDD.
for s4e. He w s apparently laboring uhder slight
indisposition res ambling the measles; but for the
pui5pose of apprising the people of his presence,
and against the earnest remonstrance of his land~
lady, he made his appearance next day at church,
and placed himself, of course, in the most cot~spic-'
uous part of the assembly. Meeting was no sooner
dismissed in the afternoon than a rumor of his
ihdisposition was spread through the town ; and
the general indignation was s~ apparent that the
delinquent, considering prudence the better part
of valor, departed early the next morning.
"But the incensed population was not so easily'
satisfied. A few ardent youngsters set off in pur-
suit, and overtaking the peddler on the road, seized
and brought him back to the village, and having
paraded him through .th5 principal streets on a rail,
dren hing him thoroughly in the town pond, and
corn hitting other indignities upon him, permitted
him to depart: The terrors of the law were speed~
ily visited upoii the actoi~s in this ~scene of violence,
through the instrunie utahty of Colonel Burr, then
a young and aspiring practitioner, which es lted
in a verdict of one thousand dollars damages ; ~yet,
strang~ to say, the verdict was never fully apprAved

EBENEZER DAYTON.

8i

by the people, seeing that near one hundred per-
sons took the~ disease, of whom several died. The~
era is still alluded to as the time of the Dayton
measles."
Mr. Dayton espoused the American cause, and
was very active in the measures taken to protect
the towns and villages in that part of Long Island,
and to annoy the British troops and stories. He
was clerk of the Committee of Safety appointed by
Brookhaven, under the authority of the Provincial'
Congress, to apprehend and punish traitors. In'
1776, he was commissioned as quartermaster in
the regiment raised in that county. Of course he
had become exceedingly obnoxioUs tp the royalists,
and when 'Brookhaven fell into~, the hands of the
enemy, he removed, with his merchandise, to Con-
necticut. At that time' the intercourse between
Brookhaven and the main coast was very frequent.
There were family ties connecting' the people of
that town with Derby; indeed, it had formerly'
itself been withiA the Connecticut jurisdiction for
several years. At first Dayton fixed his abode at
Milford, but in view of the exposed position ~f this
place to an attack' by ~ea7 he shortly ~fterWar4
remQved some ten or twelve mile~ inland, to what
6

t


82           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                    EBENEZER DAYTON.          83

is now Bethany, then a part of ~he ancient territory
of New Haven.
But notwithstanding the removal of his family
*   and goods to this supposed place of safety, he did
not personally abandon the scene of conflict. Un-.
*   der a privateer's commission, he raised parties of
men with whom he made frequent incursions upon'
the enemy. Expeditions of this kind were very
common at that time. "Most parts of the island~'~
says Thompson, "and particularly along the Sound,
suffered ~greatly from depredations of little bands
*   of piratical plunderers, designated wludc-bocttrnei,
from the fact of their craft resembling those used
in whaling along the shore. With this they would
make frequent descents under, cover of night, at-
tack detached houses, rifle the inhabitants of thei#~
money, plate, and other valuables, and availing
themselves of the speed of their boats, reach their
lurking-.place3 among th~ islands of th~ Sound, or
upon the main shore, before any effectual means
could be t~.ken to intercept {hem. Indeed, so gre~t.t
was the apj~rehension of these sudden~ attacks that
mapy of the inhabitants had their dodrs and .win-
dows protected by iron~bars, and it became usual

for people to pass the night in the woqds and other
secret places to avoid personal violence." 1
One of these expeditions, in which Dayton was
engaged, is thus described in the New York Gazette
for February i6, 778:-
"At txvo o'clock last Thursday morning, a party
of twelve rebels seized 'at Coram, in Suffolk County
[in Brookhaven], two wagons loaded with dry goods,
the property of Qbadiah Wright, of Southampton.
These marauders had been several days on the
island, visited most parts, and committed man
robberies, especially at the house of Colonel Floyd,
Setau~ket, which they robbed of goods and cash to
*
a considerable amount, and took some property of
Mr. Dunbar, who rides down the island occasionally,
and happened to lodge in the house that night."
Communication between the town~ on the east-
ern part of the island and New York city was then,
for the most part, carried on in small vessels, which
transported provisions, forage, wood, etc., for the
use of the British army, and brought back gro-
ceries, dry goods, aii.d money in payment.. These
vessels, therefore, became a coveted article of plun-
History of Long Island, .vol. i. p. ~


84           CHAUNCEY JUDD.

EJ3ENEZER DAYTON.

der to parties like those above described. Mr.
Dayton had already captured no less than twelve
of them, which were condemned as lawful prize of
war, and had becom known am~g the British
and their adherents under the designation of a
"rebel pirate."
NQr was he held in much better estimation on
the patriot side. It was strongly ~hspected l~hat,
of the large quantities of goods brought by him
from th~ island, no small part was procured by
smuggling, and sometimes even by the robbery of
persons friendly to the American cause. The twd
wagon loads mentioned above ~vere replQvied by
Mr. Wright, their owner, in the Supreme Court
at New Haven, and recoveredon the ground of his
4.
fidelity to his country. Other goods in Dayton's
possession were attached on similar allegation's;
and although he claimed that he had received them'
in payment of a debt' 'due to him, the plea was dis-
e
allowed, and the goods fOrfeit~k
'The result, as a whole, was, that Mr. Dayton' was.1
in ill odor on both 'sides. By. the royalists he was
feared and hated as a "rebel pirate," and by the
Americans suspected as a smuggler and indiscrim-.
inat~ plunderer of friend and foe. So keenly did

he feel this general odium, th~it, while som~ of the
aforesaid cases were pending in the courts, he pre-
pared an elaborate defense ,of 'his conduct, which,
with numerous affidavits from persons in Brook-
haven, Derby, Stamford, etc., ho caused to be pub-
lished' in the Connecticut Journal of April 12, 1780.
It seems due to his reputation, and will ~at the same
time most forcibly exhibit his standing in the 'corn-
munity, to quote a few passages from this state-
ment:
"The parties against me in the eight fore-men-
tinned suits [for smuggling], and the said sixteen
traitors indicted for treason [including the robbers
and their friends mentioned in' .the next chapter],
being a very great number of persons, all imagine
it of great importance to, them in the several trials
depending to slander me, and that their conduct
will appear less dishonorable and not so criminal
if they can~make me appear extremely odious and
detestable in the opinions of the good people of
this state for which purposes they have jointly
employed all their arts of corruption and 'falsehood,
together with their interest and friends, to raise a
popular clamor against me by' propagating and
spreading the following reports, viz., that I am a


IEBENEZER DAYTON.           '87

86           CHAUNCEY JUDD.

tory, and as such have carried immense 'quantities
of pr0x~isi0ns to the enemy.; that I am a pkin-
der~r, and have robbed the people of Long Island
to a ~r~at amouPt; that, before I fled from the
~ island, T was worth nothing; and that all the prop-
erty I have had taken from me, and what I yet
have, was procured by feeding the enemy an4
plundering on Long Island; and that, therefore, it
is just and right for anybody, either whig or tory,
to plunder me of my property; and that I ought to
be considered as outlawed, and not entitled to pro-
tection of person or property. And as I am a
refugee stranger, without friends or connections in
this state, while the parties secretly propagating
these reports are nPmerous, and consistitig of
whigs and stories, they have succeeded so far in
spreading these reports that they are generally
believed wh~re I am not known, and by many of
those who live near me, to that degree that I am in
* constant fear that my life and property are in dan-
ger, and on that' account have been induced to
keep an armed guard many nights fo~ my defense."
Mr. Dayton then proceeds to declare 'solemnly
that, except the capture of twelve vessels and the
seizure of Mr. Wright's goods, - in ~he latter case

acting only as a private of the party, and not the
commander, - he knows of "none the least foun-
dati9n in truth for any . of. the fore-mentioned re-
ports." The affidavits of his friends were to the
effect that they knew him to have been a merchant
at Brookhaven, who had been in the habit of' selling
goods on credit; that he went to the island only to*
collect what was due to him .; also, that they had
never heard that he had plundered anybody of
either party, though they acknoxvledg~d that his
reputation in, this respect is greatly injured among
people ?~ all ranks and denominations, etc.
It is impossible~ at this day to determine the
truth in respect to this matter, nor is it of great
importance in its ration to our story. It is
enough that such were the opinions generally en-
tertained of Dayton at this time, especially among
the stories. These opinions, with the current belief
that he had in his dwelling-house a large amount
of money and valuable goods, undoubtedly led to
the perpetration of the outrage we are now to
record.

187

86


TH]~ ROBBERS.             89

CHAPTER IX.

THE ROBBERS.

PON the high bluff of land, a little east
of the present village of Seymour, stood,
~ in J 780, a tavern of some, celebrity, kept
by a man named Tural Whittemore. This locality'
was, and we believe still is, called "Indian Hill,"
having once been the residence of a remnant of a
tribe of the Milford Indians, of whorri the lands in
this vicinity were purchased. Thejr sachem was
Mauwee, named by the English settlers 'Joe Chuse,
it is said from the manner in which1 he pronounced
the word "choose;" and from him the settlement
was often called "Chuse-town." It was a part of
the ancient town of' Derby, which then included
what is now Derby, Ansonia, Seymour, and the
larger portion of Oxford.
About a mile south of Whittemore's tavern re-
*88

sided Henry Wooster, a brother of David Wooster,
of Gunntown, of John and Thomas Wooster, in
what is now Oxford,. and of Daniel Wooster, of
Derby. Like his brothers, he was a tory, and had
become highly obnoxious to his patriotic neighbors,
not only from his political sentiments, but from
having, like so many others of the royalists, been
ready to harbor and assist those who went from
thence to join the British army.
On the Saturday evening preceding, the events
recorded in chapter seventh, a number of young
men were gathered at the tavern above mentioned.
Among them were a son ~f Mr. Wooster's,' Henry
Wooster, Jr., his cousin, David Wooster, Jr., fr6m
Gunntown, and Samuel Doolittle, belonging in
Litchfield, but then living near by, within the lim-
its of New Haven. Other persons of the neigh-
borhood were 'there also, drawn in by the usual
attractions of a country town. The blazing fire in
the bar-room, with the store of good things in the
bar itself, made it a favorite place for passing the
winter evenings while the progress of the war and
the latest news from the army and from England
were related, and all the petty gossip of the town
indulgedd in. Sometimes, though not often, dis-

- 89


90           CHAIJNCEY JUDD.

THE ROBBERS.             91

putes arose between those of opposite. politics; for
such was the severity 'of the laws and the danger
of expressing sentiments adverse to the popular
side, that the more discreet stories were either v9ry
moderate in the utterance  their opinions, or
altogether silent in the pres nce of others.
In the course of the evei~ ink, there entered a
0
couple of travelers, who asked. for accommodations
for Phe night. Their request was granted; and
after they had had supper, a place was m~de for
them in the circle which surrounded the huge, 'hos-
p~table fireplace. They were strangers to the town,
and one of them, who seemed to be spokesman for
both, was, from his speech, apparently an old-coun-
try man. Neither of them entered much into the
conversation at first, but sat listening attentively
to, what was said by the others, and closely ob-
serving the' persons that spoke.
After a little while, the stranger, who had given
his name to the inn-keeper as Graham, inquired if
any one present knew a Captain Dayton, formerly
of Long Island, who, it was believed, kept a store
somewhere in that vicinity.
The reply, of course, was in the affirmative. No
man, certainly, ~was better ~known to the stories of
Derby,. and none more intensely hated than he..

Without explaining 'the reason of the inquiry,
the conversation 'turned at once upon the exploits
of Dayton in his privateering expeditions.' This
was a subject with which Graham seemed quite
farniliai; and he related 'at length the particulars
of one of the latest of these e4edition~,, in which
he was supposed to have brought home a large
stock of goods procured by plunder on Long
Island. ~raharn affected much admiration at the
adroit manner in which this had been done, and
of the just retaliation thus inflicted upon those
who scrupled not, whenever they had an oppor-
tunity, to plunder the whigs. This drew out from
many of those present a strong, dissent from those~
opinions, "and unmeasured denunciations of the
man and all his proceedings. 'In the 'course of
the evening, the strangers thus obtained full knowl-
edge of the sentiments of all present, while at the
same time managing to cor~ceal their own.
At length one after another of the company de-
parted, ahd the two strangers, with Henry and
David, remained alone. Even the landlord had
retired, leaving his place appliedd by a fellow named
Wooing, who lived 'near by, and was for the most
part employed in the' service of Mr. Whittemore as


92           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                      THE R0BB~RS.            93

b\ar-keeper, hostler, and, general assistant~ in the
establishment. The hour was waxing kite, and the
two Woosters rose, as if to go, when Graham, with
a sudden change of manner, said,
"Don't go yet, friends; let me shave a little, pri-
vate talk with you.
"Oh, certainly," replied Henry, resuming his
seat; "what do you want ~"
"Can I trust you with a secret?"
"Depends upon what it is. You are strangers
to us, and may have many secrets that we'd better
not meddle with. However, xx~e can keep anything,
I guess, that ought to be kept; so go ahead."
~' Be your own judges, then, as to that. I'm not
afraid to trust you, at any rate. If I mistake not,
you are on the loyal side in this war that's going
on, and don't approve o the rebellion. Isn't that
so
"Well, supposi~L~s; what then ?"
~' I want to get a ~xv just such young fellows as
you two are to join~us in a little adventure."
Then dropping his voice to a whisper, and draw~
ing his chair nearer to his auditor, he continued,
"I have a commission from General Howe, as
Iieute2ant in his majesty's service, ~to raise recruits

from among those who are well affected to him.
Here are the enlistment papers. Give me your
names, and those of any others you know of the
right sort, and then I will show you a nice thing
to be done. That young man who was with you
here Doolittle I think he was called - is one. of
that kind -i-- an't he ?"
"Oh, Sam? 1-Ic's my cousin,"' replied David, "and
a first-rate fellow, too, though I do say it. But
what 'is this affair you make so much of? What's
to be done, any way?"
"The barkeeper is listening," whispered Gra~
ham's companion, at the same time pointing over
his shoulder to Wooding, who stood observing the
company. ~,
"Never mind him," said Henry; "he's all right
- an't you, Lem?" he added, turning to the latter.
"Come and sit down here, and hear what this gen-
tleman has to propose to such fellows as we
stories, you know4"
Thus invited, Wooding drew near the party and
listened.
"You know," resumed Graham, "where this
Captain Dayton lives, you say?"
Certainly."


94            CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                      THE ROBBERS.            95

"And it is not far distant from here ?"
"No ; . up in. Bethany a little way - four or five
m4es, perhaps."
"And he's got a houseful of stolen goods carried
off from the island, and any quantity of money,
too not your miserable Continental trash, but
hard coin ~- the real chink?"
Yes; I s'pose so."
"And there's nobody or at least not more
than twd or three - t~gu'ard it ?" -
Oh, that's what you are up to - is it? " in-
terposed David. "But I thoPght just now you
was a friend of th~ old pirate. You seemed to be
a great admirer of him, at any rate." I
"Ah, well ; it isn't always safe to' trust to ap-
pearances, especially in such times as these. We
did not want to 'show ourselves till we were sure
of oiiir men, yoh know. But what do you think
of my proposal, now that we understand one
another?"
" Well, I must *sayj replied Henry, "it might
not be a bad thing to do. We should get a good
haul, I've no manner of doubt, and pay off the old
man in some f his own coin too. Rather a skittish
business tho iiigh. He's smart, you may depend
~'~* 1

on't ;' and besides, a pretty uproar it would make
in all the. region~ about here. Then, what should
we do with the things ? ~'
"Carry them back to the island with us," said
Graham ?"~
"And what object would there be in that? They
would do us no good there, unless. we should go
there ourselves to stay."
"And that's just what you'd better do. Come
now; I am authorized to offer you liberal bounties
if you join the army. We hayc several regiments
of loyal Americans in the service, you know. Of
course King George is going to whip the rebels
yet, even if it takes an age to do it. There will be
plenty of confiscations then, and those who have
sto6d true and loyal, and, much more, they who
have he'li~ed put clown the rebellion, will be re-
warded. Come, landlQrd, make us a good stiff
toddy, all round, of your best okl Jamaica. 'And
while he's doing that, put down your names here,
and we'll drink success to 'the good cause.
"No,~' said David; "we are not quite ready for
that yet. Old folks wouldn't consent. But I'll
tell y6u what we can do. Carry the things up to
Gunntown ; thi'11 be swfe enough there. Day-


CIIAUNCEY JUDD.                                   THE ROBBERS.             97

ton'll believe it's somebody from Long Jsland come
to be revenged on him, and never think of chasing
up there for them. And even if he should, we
could ourselves just come down the other way, by
Hawkins' to the landing~ 1~elow here, and slip
across to the island till the a air should blow over."
It is, not necessary to de ail the conversation
"further. The feasibility of the project wa~ fully
considered, with its difficulties and dangers. The
young men did not believe it would be safe to make
the attempt without a considerable force. Henry
said it was well known that there were other per-
sons from the island stopping~at Captain Dayton's
t
who were doubtless armed, and they could not
hope to succeed without having men enough to
overcome them at once. David only wished that
thi~ee or four of h~5 friends, whom he named, were
there,~and he would haven fear for the result.
The conclusion they finally reached was, that
David should ~go next day to Gurintown, and see
what he could do in raising a sufficient force for
the undertaking. Henry would in the mean time
communicate the scheme to Doolittle, and enlist
his co-operation, and make also such preparatiowas
should, seem necessary. Wooing pleaded that he

could not join them because he could not leave the
tavern, nor his family, but he would do what he
could to, help, and Graham and his companion
might come and stay in his house - a small hut
on a lonely back, street nearly half a mile distant -
till David's return.
Accordingly, next mor~1ing, David hastened
home.! That day was the Sabbath, and a violent
storm from the north-east of" hail, snow, sleet, and
rain," ~ prevailed nearly all day. He, however, con-
trived to see several of the persons he 'desired, and
succeeded in indi~icing two of. them, Jesse Cady,
and Amasa Scott,' to join in the expedition. A
third, William Seeley, offered to do the same, but
the. others objected. Seeley was comparatively an
old maw. He had been a soldier in the French
war twenty years before, and it was feared that he
was i~o longer equal, to the undertaking. It was
foreseen that the attempt would task all their
strength, and they did not wish to be encumbered
with one who, however zealous in intention, might
lack in power of endurance, and possibly prove an
incumbrance rather than a help.
'President Stiles' MS. Diary in Library of Yale College.
7

F

06


98           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                     THE ROBBERS.           99

Itis a part of the wickedness o war, especially a
civil war, that it copfounds all he distinctions of
right and wrong, and both permits and encourages
acts, which, in other circumstances, would' be con-
demned as crime. An outrage committed by an
opposing party is often made a justification for a
similar, or even greater outrage in retaliation.
The necessary violence of regular military opera-
tions is made a pretext for multitudes of acts which
can have no 'bearing on the final issue of the con-
test, and can ~ei~ve only to inflict pain or annoyance
on a foe. We remember the indignant sentiments
expressed by a Confederate officer in4 the late war
at the wanton cruelties inflfrted by some of General
Sherman's troops in their rna~rch through ~Georgia.
A valued family picture, the portrait of an 'officer
of the 'RevoJution, was not onl\~ carried away, but,
*    grown tired of the burden, tl~ e plunderer tore it
from 'the frame and nailed, it ~upon a tree by the
rpad..side as a mark to shoot a~. Such barbarities
are indeed war, but it is~ war against civilization,
and all the sentiments which distingui ~h an honor-
able soldier from an untutored savage.
We are slow to believe that the young men who
were persuaded into this scheme of robbery by the

renegade Graham were deliberate thieves, in their
own understanding of the term. They would
doubtless have revolted from 'perpetrating an ordi-
nary burglary.~ Their friends, too, fop David did
not hesitate, to disclose the scheme to hi~ father
and others at Gunntown, and consult them as to
the course to be pursued in certain contingencies,
-wouldneverhaveencouraged~nordinaryact'of~
1~
crime. But Daytow had been so active in plunder-
ing the British and tl~eir tory sympathizers, that to
plunder 'him in turn was deemed only fair play. It
was, as they phrased it, "paying the old pirate in
his own coin." A few hui~dred pounds apiece, in
money and valuable goods, it x~jild be pleasant to
have; and if ti~ey only escaped the clutches of the
rebel laws, - which for them had no moral force, -
why need they trouble their consciences as to the
way~ they obtained them? We are sorry 'to say
that' not a few articles of value found their way
from southern cities, during the late rebellion,
whose possession was justified on precisely similar
grounds.
On Monday i~ight, the storm haVing abated,
David Wooster and his tx~o associates started for
Derby. Next day they completed their prepara-

98

99


I00       CHAkUNCEY -JUDD.

tions as secretly gs possible, provided themselves
mtiskets, and sack~ for holding the goods, and late
in :the evening repaired to Wooding's residence,
which. they had- agreed to make their. rendezvous.
All but Doolittle were there. .He had been notified
that they-would egll for him on the way, and prom-
ised to be ready when they should come.

CH.A PT E R

X..

THE ROBBERY.

(gi APTAIN DAYTON'S residence was on
,X~the eastern side of the meeting-house
~ ~ Green, about three fourths of a mile south
from the present churches in Betlpany. At a later
period it became. they abode of Colonel Elihu San-
ford, the father~ of Elihu and Harvey Sanford, Esqs.,
long known as among the most respectable citizens
of New Haven. On the other sides of the Green
were the 'houses. of the pastor, Rev. Mr. Hawley,
and the physician,.Dr. Hezekiah Hooker.
The party described in the last chapter reached
their destination a little before midnight. They
Were seven in number, viz.: Alexander' Graham,
their leader, David and Henry Wooster,.Jr., Samuel
Doolittle, Jesse Cady, Amasa Scott, and. Graham's
companion from the island, whom we will call Mary
101

)

I

U

100


102           CRAtJNCEY JUDD.

THE ROBBERY.             103

tin, his real name not being known to us. Graham
was armed with a pistol; two or three of the others
carried muskets. The moon shone brightly, and
the newly-fallen snow, which covered the ground,
rendered the' night almost as light ~s the day.
Lights were still visible ~it the houses across the
Green,, and it was apparent that the work in hand
must be performed as noiselessly as possible, and
without permitting any member of the household to
escape. It was agreed that entrance should b&amp;
effected into the bed-room where Dayton would
probably b~ sleeping, and while two of the party
remained in charge of him, the rest were to pass
directly through into the chambers, and seize upon
the men who might be lodged there. These were
to be secured at whatever cost, while the women
and children of the family should be frightened into
silence, but not otherwise hurt.
The attack, as thus planned, was carried into
execution. Stationing one of their number outsi~1e
to give an alarm in case of danger, Graham pro-
cured a heavy bludgeon from the wood-pile, and
with a single blow dashed in the bed-room window,
sashes and all, through which he instantly sprang,
followed by the rest. Fortunately for them, neither

Captain Dayton nor the other persons supposed to be
staying there were at home. The former had gone
to Bostqn on business, and the latter had, a day or
two before, removed with their effects to Water-
bury. In fact, there was no one in the house at
that time but Mrs. Dayton, three young children,
one an infant six months old, and two young cob
ored servants, a boy and a girl. The robbers were
thus spared the sever e, perhaps bloody, struggle
which they anticipated.
Graham sprang, to the bed, and Jefore Mrs. Day-
ton could recover from her fright, c lapped his hand
over her mouth, commanding her to be silent on
pam of instant death, at the same time assuring her
that if she obeyed no personal violence was intend-
ed to her or her children. The rest of the gang,
meanwhile, searched the chambers above, but found
nobody.
After again charging Mrs. Dayton on her life to
give no ala'rrn, Graham retired from the bed-room,
to afford hdr an opportunity to throw qn her
clothes; but the instinct of fear proved too strong
for her prudence, and, rushing to, the broken window,
* she shrieked, "Murder! Help!" hoping that her
voice might be heard by the neighbors' across the

103

roz


104          CHAIJNCEY JUDD.                                       THE ROBBERY.            105

Green. It was afterward ascertained that such
was the fact, but owing to the distance and the mur-
mur of the rude March wind, the sound was not
heeded. With a terrible oath, Graham burst again
into the room, and seizing tehe frantic lady by the
~arm, drew her into the family room, 4nd placed her
in a chair; then set David Wooster by her side with
a musket pointed at her breast, and orders to fir&amp;
if she moved or made the least noise again. Her
infant child, which had been keepingg by her side,
was now awake and crying, to get rid of which he
carried it out and deposited it. in her arms; then
ordering the sheets tp be torn into strips, he bound
her feet together, and tied her into the chair where
she was sitting. The other children and~ servants
were gathered into the same room and placedunder
* Wooster's surveillance, with the assurance that if
they did not keep still they should have the sharp
bayonet put through them on the spot.
The xyay was now prepared for work, and right
vigorously did they set about it. They were in
high spirits at the success they had achieved, and
* the apparent ease with which the adventure was
* likely to be completed. From cellar to attic th9
house was rans~cked. Large quantities of goods

F

4were found, and the most valuable packed into
sacks and bundles. They were mostly manufac~
tured articles of foreign production coats, cloaks,
ladies' gowns,. laces, worsted hose, silk handker~
chiefs, hollands or linen goods, several pairs of
silver shoe-buckles, a spy-glass, two muskets with
accouterments, four halberds, a sort of pike with a
hatchet near the point, etc. Much that they could
not take away was destroyed. Diligent search was
made for money; chests and closets were broken
open, and every place where it seemed likely to be
deposite~1 examined. Nor was the search in vain.
betweenn . four and five hi~ndred pounds in gold.
silver, and copper coin, and two hundred Continen-
tal paper dollars were obtained.
Nor was this all. Their fatigue and excitement
had given them keen appetites, which they resolved
to appease before they left. The servants weve
ordered to bring upon the table in the ~kitchen
whatever the pantry and cellar afforded, one~ of the
men accompanying them, to make ~ure of their
obedience and silence. Others, seizing .a light,
went below tQ see what they could find. Liquors
hi abundance were discovered, and what was not
wanted was destroyed, the faucets of the casks~

104

105


io6,         CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                      THE ROBBERY.           107

* being opened, so that the earth received their
contents.
During their repast, a brief consultation was
held as to th~ expediency of setting fire to the
* house, and so completing the woi~k of devastation
which they had begun. But there were practical
difficulties in the way. Graham was hard ned
hesitated
enough'for any crime, and would not have
to murder the whole family, and leave them a prey
to the flames. . But the rest were less abandoned
in villainy than he. Whatever was necessary for
the accomplishment of their purpose they would
have done,~ but deliberate and needless cruelty th~y
shrunk from. They concluded, therefore, to leave
Mrs. Dayton and the servants securelybound, with
one of their number to guard' them, until the re-
mainder, with their heavy luggage, had gone out of
sight; when ~'he could follow at a. rapid pace and
overtake them.
Having, at last, satisfied their appetites, the rob-
* bers shouldered their packages and departed, first
charging the lady, with fearful threats, not to at-
tempt giving an ~alarm, or to leave the house till
morning. They did not start in the direction they
intended to go, but set off westward, as if bound

again for Derby; but after a half mile, they turned
northward by a side highway, and soon emerged
upon the main road leading to Wat~erbury.
Meanwhile L~avid Wooster, who had remained
to g~iard Mrs. Dayton, not satisfied with what had
already been accomplished, executed a little swp-
plementary plundering on his own account.. As
she sat bound, in undress, before him, his cupidity
was excited by the personal adornments which she
wore in rather unusual profusion. He stripped the
rings from her fingers, the jewels from her ear~, A
pair of go~d sleeve-buttons from her chemise, and
a string of gold beads, with a locket attached, from
her neck. The lady was highly indignant at this
(    outrage, which she r~gardcd as a person~i insult;
but her anger availed no more than her fright.
Having accomplished this; and deeming his coin-
rades by this time sufficiently adVanced on their
way, he bade her good night, and hastenecj onwar&amp;
to overtake them.
It was now past midnight. The air was sharp,
the road, in some places, blocked with snow, and a
hard two or three hours' journey was before them.
What they most feared was, that they might meet
some person on the way, especially as the bright~.

106

107


io8         C~AUNCEY JUDD.

ness 6f the moon would make it impossible to avoid
eing seen. Two or three times th~y were thus
alarmed; but by keeping a* sharp lookout, and.
hiding in the bushes or behind a fence, they man-
aged to escape notice. Lights wer~e occasionally
visible in the~houses they passed, and several times
they excited a violent barking from the ~dogs; but
silence and speed were their best friends. Passing
through the wild gorge of the Beacon; Mountain,
usually denominated the "Straits," they reached
,/~ t1~ "*bridge" in Judd's meadow, where they turned
westward toward Gunntown, and shortly after met
our young friend, Chauncey Judd, on hi~ way home~
ward from Mr. Webb's, in the manner already re-
lated.

CHAPTER

XI.

GUNN'S BARN. ~

T was full sunrise the next morning, be-
fore the robbers, in Mr. Gunn's barn,
awoke. The severe toil of the preceding
night, coupled with the lack of sleep, had thor-'
oughly exhausted them, and they continued in
those heavy slumbers, which are usual to strong
men overcome by fatigue. At last the broad day-
light, the crowing of the cocks, and the bustle con-
nected with a large farm-house, aroused them. A
man came into the barn to feed the cattle, and care
for the young animals housed there from the severe
weather of the early spring.
Chauncey's first impulse was to call to him for
help; but a motion which he made, as if for such a
purpose, was detected by the vigilant Graham, who
instantly placed his hand over the young man s.
109

108


110'.           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                                    GUNN'S BARN.                III

mouth, and, with a whispered oath, or~lered him to
lie still. The man was recognized by David as an
acquaintance, named Francis Noble, now in the em-
ployment of Mr. Gunn, as a laborer. Indeed, he was
on~e of those whom David had invited t ojoin him
in the expedition, but for some ieasoas of his own,
* he had, declined. He xvas known, however, to be
one of the tory party, and it instantly occurred to
* David th~at he might be. of assistance to them in
* their present circumstances. Accordingly he called
6ut from under the hay, where he lay hid,-
Halloo, Frank ! Is that you ?"
Halloo !" re~p6nded Noble, looking~ round in
surprise, but seeing no one. At length" espying
Wooster, as he threw the h~.y from him and sat up,
he said,
"Oh, it is you-is it ?'
"Yes," said the latter, "what there is left of me.
I 'declare, I was never so tired in my life."
By4his time the rest~ of the party were awake,
and began to disclose 'themselves. Noble at once
comprehended the reason of their presence at the
barn, and a few words of mutual introduction and
explanation between him ~and the strangers of the
party put them all at their ease.

"Sd then," said Noble, "it was you~ that made
that confounded racket in the, night - was it? I
couldn't think what stirred up the dogs so. How
did you manage to get in here without being eaten
up? "'
"Uncle Joe came out, and called them off.~ But
say, Nol~le, how is it here just now? Anybody
round ?"
6
"No ;' I guess not. Webb's going with me over
to the mountain chopping to-day. There's nobody
else here but the women folks."
"Where's the old fnan himself?"
"I don't know.' He was up androff as soon as it
was light; in fact, I don't believe he went to bed
again after you came. His wife says he had ~to go
to town very early this morning, and couldn't stay
for breakfast with the rest 'of us."
"He wouldn't go to make trouble for us - would
he?"
"More likely to leep out of 'trouble for' himself,
I guess. He wouldn't want to have it known, may
be, that he had seen you. But you haven't told
me how you made out with your adventure last
night." I
"No, and we an t going to; at least, not now.

1 . a
e 5


112           CHAUNCEY JUDD;                                         GIJNN'S BARN.           113

Haven't time for long yarns this morning. We
have got to think what to do next, and you must
help us a little. Can't we leave our bundled here,
covered up under the hay, for a while? 'Twon't do
for us to be seen with them."
"Yes; I s'pose so. 'Tan't likely anybody but
me will be coming into the barn to-day. But what
are you going to do with yourselves ?"
"I'm going to run up home for a few minutes,
and see if all is cleax~ there. If' it is, we can stay
there for a while, at least, safe enough. I shall be
just in time for breakfast; and while I am gone,
you must arrange to get something for the rest.
We are all as hungry as bears. Aunt Nabby will
find them a breakfast, I know, with a4ittle coaxing.
Of course Uncl~ Joe told her who we are. I'll be
back here before you are through."
"Better have the captain go in and speak to her
himself. He would have more influence with her
than 'I; and besides, I must be off with Webb.
He'll 'be along now in a few minutes."
"Well, if Captain Graham is willing," replied
David; "onl) it vvon't dp for him or the rest to
seen by anybody, if it can be helped."
* 'Graham, af~er some demurring, consented; and

when Noble had finishe~I his morning work in the
barnhe accompanied the latter to the house. The
dogs still showed some disposition to regard~ the
stranger as an intruder, but the reproving voice of
Noble silenced them, and they p remittedd him to
pass.
Mrs. Gunn as engaged in the usual housework
of the morning, assisted by a stout serving woman
and maid of all work, who was washing' up the
breakfast dishes at the sink. Her husband, as
David supposed, had informed her who their un-
seasonable visitors were, and cautioned her to have
as little to do with them as possible. So it was
rather an ungracious reception which she accorded
to them when Noble introduced Graham~ to her.
"We came rather unceremoniously last night,"
said the latter, "but preferred quarters in the barn
rather than disturb you at that unseasonablehour.'
And now' we propose to leave as soon as possible,
but need some breakfast before we start. We were
up nearly all night, and are very hungry. If you
will get us something, we'll be' really obliged to
you.~~
"I'm very sorry," she said, "to refuse anybody
8


114          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                        GUNN'S BARN.           115

a meal of victuals; but I lI~pe you will excuse me
this morning."
"But we'll pay you well for your trouble."
"Oh, as to that, I don't care for any pay. But
my husband told me who you are, and what you
have been doing; and it will be dangerous for us
to have you here. The rebels are keeping asharii
lookout on us here in Gunntown, and if they could
get hold of anything against us, it 'would cost us
dear."
"Bt~t we can't live without eating, you know.
We'll carry it out to the barn, ~o that you nee~1
not see anybody; and we will take care that no-
'1
body sees us.
"I'd r~ither not," said the lady. "You can get
breakfast somewhere in the neighborhood, I've no
doubt; but Mr. Gunn would not like to have me
get it."
"Then, madam," he replied, tartly, "there's noth-
ing for us to do but to come in and help ourselves.
We don't leave these premises till we have had
something to eat; so there's no use in n~aking any
more fuss about it."
"How many are there of you?" she asked.
"Six, not countingg Wooster, who ha~ gone to

get his breakfast at his father's. Rather seven, I
should say; for the youngster we caught last night
will want something to eat, I suppose.~~
"Who is that?" she inquired.
"His name is Judd, I believe. We met him
half a mile or so below here, in the street, and con-
cluded it would be safest for us to bring him along
with us."
"I hope you don't intend him any harm," she
said.
"Oh, no ; at least we have nothing against him,
except that he happened to meet us as he did.
But excuse me for saying that we haven't time for
anything but breakfast now. Most of oirlr party
are your own acquaintances, living somewhere in
this neighborhood, and you can't run any risk in
giving us a little something to eat."
Then, throwing a couple of silver dollars upon
the table, he added,
"There! that will pay you for your trouble, and
the risk too."
It was not easy to resist persuasions so enforced,
for these ringing coins were anything bkit plentiful
in those ti m~s ; so the good woman yielded at
length) and set abdut het preparations. Several

1


7  II&amp;          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

slices of ham, with a gar~is~ing of eggs and a huge
rye loaf, were soon ready. Noble seized the big
cider pitcher, and went ihto the cellar, whence he
presently returned with it full; and the two, taking
the food n~w prepared, bore it to the barb, where
S
the others were waiting with what patience their
sharpened appetites permitted. Ntble forthwith
returned to the house, and Mr. Webb just then
arriving, he called the dogs ~o accompany them,
and the two set off together to the woods, with
their axes, ~ot their day's work.

CHAPTER XII.
LONGMEADOW BROOK.

HE breakfast in the barn was 'dispatched
speedily and in silence'; abd then, Gra-
ham, drawing his pipe from ~his pocket,
and lighting it by ~ flash 'from his pistol, seated him-
self on an upturned half bushel measure, and called
his men to order ~for consultation. As to their
own movements, ~hey must wait, of course, for''
David's return~ before they could decide~ Mean-'
wl~iIe another inquiry, of no less importance, was,
what should be done' with their captive? They
could not talk of this' very freely in his presence;
so one. of their number was directed to take him
aside to one of the stables, where he would be out
of hearing.
Their meeting with him was the one misfortune I
which threatened to upset all their skillfully devised
"7

4

116


4

plans. They had so arrangedd their proceedings'
4he night before, that ti~i e alarm awakened by the
robbery should be turned in an entirely different
direction, and believed that nobody would think of
looking for the perpetrators of it in this out-of-the-
w~y region. Three, of the party belonged here;
two others had relations in the vic~initv; so that~
their \presence would occasion no suspicion. Gra-
ham and Martin might easily be concealed, it was
thought, till a convenient opportunity should be
afforded for getting 4way. But now that they had
- stumbled upon Chauncey, all this xvent for naught.
If he was released, he would disclose their secret,
and concealment would be impossible. If he was
not released, his disappearance itself would create
an alarm, in that very neighborhood, which would
surely lead to a discovery.
The consultation was earnest, but brief. The
exigencies of the situation were too obvious to need
long consideration. It was very clear that they could
nOt stay in Gunntown, and equally clear that they
must not release their prisoner. But what should
they do withhim? lie might be kept in confine-,
ment at Mr. 'Wooster's, or some other' of the tory
houses, till they could get away; but this would be'

at the utmost peril of their friends, or whoever
should be engaged in it. They might take him
along' with them; but he would encumber their
flight, and expose them every moment to discovery.
To every suoa'estio      could think of, there,'
were insuperable objections.
At last Graham, waxing impatient, exclaimed,
xx~ith an~ oath, -
"What a fuss you make' about the boy! I say;
now, there's only one thing to be done, and if' it
an't pleasant, you have got to come to it. We
vizist put /~im out of tkc way, and then run for it.
'Dead, men tell no tales,' you know. In time of
war, it's kill or be killed; and when it comes to
that, I an't long in choosing which. Probably it is
something worse than that now. It is kill or -
Newgate, or some such 'cursed nonsense as that."
The rest of the party at first stood aghast at this
speech. Bad as they were, they were not yet pre-
pared for downright murder. And yet it was
easier to object than it was to find any other way
out of the difficulty. Graham was resolute, and,
as he was wont to be when opposed, overbearing.
They needn't soil their lily hands, 'he said; he
would do the job himself. Let them show~ him a

LONGMEADOW BROOK.

1 18

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

119-

N


1~

#, \~

LONGMEADOW BlROOK. :

I24

121

place where the body might be safely disposed of,
and he would soon relieve them of .the burden.
He only wished he could get rid of the whole
Yankee race as easily.
At that time the low grounds adjacent to Mr.
Gunn's house, now a beautiful meadow, were cov-
ered with a. thicket of alders and swamp vwillows.
Through this ran the Longmneadow Brook, a good-
sized mill-stream, then, under the melting of the:
snows and c pious March rains, flowing. in full
banks, and -wth a swift and strong current. In
this thicket a deed of crime like that. suggested
might be committed without molestation, and any
one of the numerous eddies of the brook would
afford a place where a body might be sunk out of
sight. After .a little more demurring from some
of the party, it was concluded to take the lad
thither.
The distance from the barn to the swamp was
only a few rods, down a lane, between two stone
walls, which served the cattle as a path to water.
Calling Chauncey and his keeper from the stable,
the men set off down the lane, after, reconnoitering
the house and road, to ascertain that .nobody was
in sight. TIhe young man -perceived, from the

120

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

manner of his .captors, that -something final had
been-decided on as to his fate, and began to beg
for a release. He promised most solemnly that lie
would keep his meeting with them a secret, but 'it:
was without avail. Little was said to him in reply,
.and the whole party only hurried forward as fast
as possible.
An open spot was found among the bushes, near
where the stream made a deep pool of dark water,
flecked with foam from the rapids above. Chaun-
cey was dragged to the brink, and bidden to fall
upon his knees, while Graham, with a loaded
musket, withdrew a short distance from him.
"Young man," he said, in a low,~ but determined
voice, "you must prepare to die ! WSAe are very
sorry it has come to this, -sorry that we. met you
at all, -but it can't be helped now. It's hard,-I
admit ; but you are young, and haven't so much to
answer for as some- that are older, and that' sin
your favor. So you must make the best of it, and
submit. ,Say your prayers as quick as you can.
We have no time to waste, but will give you ten-
minutes to do it in."
-We cannot attempt. to depict the consternation
of the poor lad at this announcement. Dark as

I


122          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                   LONGMEADOW BR00K~         123

0
his forebodings had been, he had not dreamed of
this, and the sudden shock almost deprived him
of reason as well as, speech. Rallying again in a
moment, he instinctively fe on his knees to beg
for his life. He besought them to have pity upon
him. ~-Ie~ protested[ that he had no wish to injure
them, and repeated the most solemn promises, that
if they would release him, he would never reveal
their presence in the neighborhood to any human
being. He turned to the young men with whom
he had been acquainted, and whom he had met at
huskings and merry-makings, a~d entreated them
to save him. All seemed in vain. Graham stood
im n~ lovable, with his watch held forth in his open
hanA, counting off the minutes as they passed.
"Threes four, five!"
"God in heaven !"' cried the boy, frantically,
"help me! Oh, mother, motl~er ! ".~ for in the
hour of mortal anguish, the heart leaps uncon-
sciously to hide itset~ ~upon the bosom which was'
so oft a safe place from infancy's fears "save
me! save your boy!"
"Seven, eight!" said Graham, in unaltered tones.
The agonizing c~y of the lad sank into a low,
inarticulate moan of despair. The robbers stood
t

like statues' in silence, but with faces which re-
vealea some misgivings within. It must have been
a hard heart indeed that could resist such plead-
ings of innocence and helplessness unmoved.
"Nine, ten ! time's up !" exclaimed the captain,
returning the watch to his pocket) and raising the
musket to his shoulder.
At that instant Henry Wooster sprang forward,
aiict ci~yped his hand- over the muzzle.
"No, captain,'~ said. he, "don't fire; it's too bad!"
"Get out of the way!" thundered the ruffian,
"or I'll blow your hand off!"
Almost at the ~same moment both Cady and
$cott interposed, rushing in between him and
Chauncey. ~Wooster seized the gun, and raised
the muzzle into the air. He was; though slender,
~ powerful young man, and once roused to his full
energy, was not to be trifled with. With an oath
that outdid for the 'moment the captain's own, he
said,
"You shan't kill him ! He hasn't done us any
harm, and it's a mean, cowardly trick to shoot an
unarmed boy like him, just to save your precious
carcass. You've gdt to shoot me first!"
"And me !" "And me 'too !" cried the others;

4

122

123


T~A.           CHAUNCEYJUDD.
V
and they planted themselves firmly as a screen
before the kneeling figure of \t he youth.
Graham was pale with rake. I-fe vented his
anger in the most passionate urses. But he saw
that he must desist from his purpose, at least for
that time. Great as was his influence over his
men ordinarily, there was a point, beyond which
they would not go. That point was reached, and
he was obliged sulkily to acquiesce.
Before the altercation had subsided, a rustling
wasTheard in the thicket near by, and suddenly
David Wooster sprang into the open space among
them.
"Are you crazy, men?" he shouted, in a hoarse
whisper. "I heard you swearing clear up to the
barn, and in that way found out where you were.
If you are going to wrangle) like this, we shall have
all the rebels in Waterbury down upon us before
night. What's the row, any way?"
* "Oh, David!" cried the respite boy, "save me!
Don't let them shoot me
"Shoot you? Of course he won't. I sat, Cap-
tam, Judd shan't be hurt. He's an old .~ chooV.
fellow and, neighbor of mine, and I'll stand by him
i he is a rebel."

LONGMEADOW BROOK.

125

"Come, fellows," he added; "I've seen the old
folks, and the coast is clear. W~e dan stay there
safety till night, and then we'll see what'~ to be
done. But don't go back to the karn now. Keep
along here in the swamp, out of sight, till you get
near the house, and then mind your chance, and
yoti will get hi without being seen. Our things
will be safe where they are for a while, and father
will send a team, by and by, to take them home."
So saying, he led the way, by paths with which
he was familiar, through the swamp and the adja-
cent fields, till they all arrived safely at Mr. Woos-
ter's. Henry and David kept Chauncey near to
them, not only to prevent his escape, but to secure
him from harm by Graham, who ffmttered * impreca-
tions upon his soul, if he was going to be foiled by
a set of ~vhite-livered cowards like them.

I


PURSUIT; FROM BETEANY.       127

CHAPTER

XIII.

*A~ PURSUIT FROM BETTIANY.
*  A
9    EARILYA the leaden     hours . of night
dragged themselVes onward, while Mrs.
J~ Dayton and her frightened childm~en sit,
where the robbers had left tli~em, waiting for the
dawn. By the help of her servants, she had suc-
ceeded in extricating herself from the strips of sheet-
ing with which they had bound her,~but she could
do no h ing more. Neither commands nor entrea-
ties x~ uld have imiduced the blacks to venture out in
the ni ht to arouse the neighbors; and Mrs. Dayton
overcome with prost ation from excitement,
fovu~d herself unequal to the exertion. Besides, she
shuddered at the' fearftil thr ats'of vengeance which
'had been heaped on her if she attempted to give
the alarm before morning'; so she composed her...
self as well as 'she could~ and wished for the ~1ay.
126

At ;Th~t a faint blush begaii to spread over the
east, and the noisy fowls, calling to each* other
from the neighboring barns, announced the coming
of the morning. Slow indeed is her approach in
circumstances like these. Does she linger QII her
way; and w~ar t~e blush of shame when she ap-
pears, as if conscious of the A evil deeds that have
b~en donein her absence, but which s~he is now to
meet with oben face?
With trembling hand Mrs. Dayton drew aside
the window curtains, and beheld the smoke from
Dr. Hooker's mansi6n i~hooting up like a slender
pillar in the keen March air. A few minPtes later
the doctor himself appearect on the w~y to his
~.t able as if preparing to set forth on a professional
With
isit.      difficulty~the window was raised, and
the united voices of the lady and her servants
shouted to him for help. So unwanted a sound in
the still morning atmosphere penetrated far, and
the doctor hastened to ascertain its meaning.
Arriving at the unfo~5tunate dwelling, a few words.
of explanation, in~connectio~ v(~ith the broken win-
dow, sufficed to reveal the cause of the alarm.
"Good heavens!" he exclai ed ; "and all this
within sight and hearing of' ~i)\ all! I should ~say

A'1A~A

I2f

i


PURStJIT FROM BETHANY.      129

12&amp;            CHATJNCEY JUDD.

that was a smart piece of bu~iness. However, it's
~no more than I expected. I've told neighbor Day-,
ton fifty times, that it~ was not safe to have ~o much
money ~nd other valuables in his l~ouse. There~
are ever so many stories that wouldn't scruple a
moment to engage in such a job as this."
"I know it," replied Mrs. Dayton; "and I have
worried over it a great deal. But Mr. Dayton
always said there were enough here to protect the
house; an~ indeed our ~men have been here till
yesterday, ,~ when they xMent ~away. My husband,
too, had tq go to Boston,~and leave us alone -just
for once, he said."
"Well, I've no doubt the villains found' it out,
and seized the opportunity. It's very probable
that somebody has been watching a good while for
just such a chance as this. But I must not stay
here gabbling. Something's got to be done, and
right away too. They have had time enough to
get clear off, I'm afraid; a1read~. Do you know
whether the rascals had. horses ?"
"I did not hear of any; but I was in such a
state of excitement that may be I shouldn't if they
had."
"Well, compose yourself as weN as you 'can, and

I'll have the alarm given at once. No time to lose.
K.     St~pid.that I was not to hear the noise.
And the doctor hastened home, muttering at his
own obtuseness in allowing such a crime as this to
be perpetrated, so near them, and not to know it.
Arriving at his house, he sent Scipio, his black
man, to ring the meeting-house bell. The maraud-
ing expedition of General Tryon and his British
troops, the summer before, at New Haven and
along the Sound, had greatly alarmed the coast
towns, and in their apprehension that their ravages
might be renewed, they had agreed that the ring-
ing of the bell, except in the usual way for public
worship and funerals, should be 'the signal of
danger.
"Ring it hard, Scip;" cried the doctor; "make
it fly lively!"
After relating briefly to his family the events of
the night, he next hastened across the Green to the
Rev. Mr. Hawley's.
That gentleman had already risen, and at the
first stroke of the bell, had come to the door to
as~ertaiu the cause of the alarm. He was just in
time to receive the greeting of Dr. Hooker, who
cried, as he approached the door, -
9

N

I
4
I


130            C~1AUNCEY JUDD.                                             PURSUER FROM BETI{ANY.          .131

"A pretty piece of business this, Parson Flaw-
ley done right here under our noses, and we so
stupid as hot to h~~'~a sound!"
Why, what has happened, ~loctor?" inquired
the latter.
In a fe~ words the physician stated in what
condition .he had found Mrs. Dayton. and her fain-
ill, and repeated her account of the robbery during
the night. Mr. Hawley agreed with him in the
opinion 4hat this as the work of the stories, and
thought it likely it as some retaliatory expedition
from Long Island, *rom whence it wa~ well known
Dayton had broug t his goods.
"They that take the sword shall perish by the
sword," said the good man. "Captain Dayton
ought not to expect that on~ who has been so
active and successful in privateering as he. could
escape retaliation, although so far from the coast.
It is a very fortunate thing for him that he wa~
not at home, for he could not alone have resisted
a half dozen of armed ruffians, and would, in all
probability, have been miirdered in his own house."
"No doubt of it," replied the doctor. "If the
r~ascalshad caught him, he xx~ould never have gone
privateering again, you may be sure. However,

I.

it's a pity he is not here now. 1-k knows all the
haunts pf the cow-boys and stories on the island,
and very likely could tell just who the robbers
were, and where to find them."
Meanwhile th~ lively peal of the bell, under the
vigorous demonstrations of old Scipio, sent its sharp,
summons through the clear March morning; and
it was not long before the alarmed townsmen be-
gan to appear. *Some brought muskets with them;
a few, from the more distant dwellings, came. on
horseback. All were in a state of the greatest
excitement, inquiring what had happened.
The doctor, having snatched a morsel of break-
fast, returned to the church door, and explained to
the people, as they assembled, the reason of the
alarm. With one voice, they concurred in the sus-
picions he had already expressed as to the perpe~
traitors of the outrage.
"It is;the work of the. cursed stories " cried one.
We nmjst hang every mother's son' of them."
"Ay,"~ said another ; " and I'll be one to do it.
But we i4ave got to catch them first, and that may
not be s~ easy. They have had time to get half
way to the island already."'
".1 doh't know about that," was the reply. "If


132          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

PURSUIT FROM BETHANY.        133

they have carried off Captain Dayton's goods, they
have got some heavy bundles to lug, .and if we are
smart, we can overtake them yet.
While all agreed, however, that the robbery was
the work of the stories, there was not altogether the
same unanimity of feeling as to the character of
the transaction.
Bethany, like some of the adjacent towns, had a
large sprinkling df stories among its inhabitants;
and these, as well as the whigs, responded to the
call of the bell, so far at least as to ascertain what
was going on. When they learned what had t4ken
place, they were far from expressing the indig-
nation which was felt by tho~e of the opposite
party. 'They were sorry, indeed, to have Mrs. Day-
ton and her children disturbed, but had no regrets
for Dayton himself
~b'One of the most bitter of these stories was an old
fellow named Lines. He was profane and vulgar,
and had an impediment in his speech, which, when
he was excited by drink or passion, often occa-
sioned very ludicrous scenes. He came up to the
Green mounted on an old mare, never of the most
amiable temper, 'but this morning particularly
ruffled at 'being taken from her snug stable, and

'4'
'-1;
I-
I'
'1
'4
z
/4
1/;

.compelled to face the cutting ~March wind. Wh~n
he learned that Captain Dayton's Ipuse had been
broken into and robbed, 'he declared that he was
glad of it.
"S-s-sarved him right," he said, "the old p-pirate!
G-g-guess he'll know how g-good it seems t'other
p-peo-people to have their houses p-p-plundered."
"You think so - do you, Uncle Luke?" said
young Sam Perkins, riding up behind him, and touch-
ing the old mare with his whip under the flank.
The vicious beast, laying her ears back, responded
with a kick which tossed her rider forward upon
her neck. Grasping instinctively at the~ mane, to
save himself from falling, he lost his hold of the
bridle, at the same time crying,
"Wh-wh-whoa!"
Sam, seeing Line s's plight, brought 'his whip
again with a sharp cu.t across the hai~nches of the
irate animal. ' This insult w~s more than she could
bear. Wheeling herself in' the direction of home,
she started off at full gallop, her rider stuttering
curses upon the' mare and the rebels, and crying,
"Whoa! wh-whoa!" But curses and commands
were alike unavailing, and the old man disappeared
over the hill, clinging to the' neck of his 'beast,

4'
~'4'4,

A


A

134

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

while the rest of the company -shouted after
him,
" Go it, you old tory ; three to 'one you'll win
the race !
When the laughter at Uncle Luke's discomfiture
had subsd, the townsmen began to, consult la
good earnest as to the measures they should adopt
for overtaking and capturing the robbers.
Meanwhile a portion of the men, had been exam
ining the premises to see what clew to the robbers,
if any, might be found. Some traces of their foot
-steps Were detected in th 'snow under the broken
window, but- they had been mostly obliterated byj
the winid, nor could they e tracked away from the
house. .No signs of hor es could be discovered,
and it was inferred that they probably had none,
which was a. favorable circumstance, giving hope
that the pursuit wold not be fruitless.
On -inquiring further of the familyl, ,little addi-
tional could, be learned beyond what Dr. Hooker
.had already stated. Mrs. Dayton described the
appearance of the burglars, who seemed to her to
be six or eight in number, mostly young men.
One of them they called " Captain," and another,
who had been set with his musket to guard Mrs.

PURSUIT FROM 'BETHANY.

'35

Dayton, " Dave."  The sacks they used for bun-
dling up the goods were mentioned, and the goods
themselves,.so far as she could recollect them, --at
least those which she -knew they had had. in the
house. From the sound of their voices and 'steps
when they left, sh~e concluded' that they had gone
off westward toward Chuse-town.
After gathering all the information possible, a
consultation was had as to the course to be taken
in pursuit. On this point' opinions were divided.
Some believed that the plunderers had started for
Derby, where it was known many tories lived,
an'd from which frequent communication was held
with the island. Others thought it more likely
that they had gone to, New Haven, or possibly
West Haven, the point where the British troops
had landed the sumrner before, and which would be
several miles nearer Long Island than any other
.within their reach,
By this time, the bell having continued its noisy
clangor, a large number -were~ assembled, and it
wa~s decided to divide into several parties. A por-
tion, who had horses, should take the road through
.Amity parish to New Haven ; others should start
for Derby. Others still should call upon certain

'09
~ 4


136          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                         PURSUIT FROM BETHANY.       137

tory families in Bethany itself, and see if something
could not be learned that would afford a clew to the
perpetrators of the outrage It w~is agreed also
that if these were found, i~2tice should be given by
again ringing the bell, ending with half a dozen
separate strokes, as if tolling on a Sabbath morning.
The pursuit, thus organized, began with vigor.:
The p~art~destined for New Haven rode rapidly
.)forward, making inquiries of all whom they met,
'~but of course learned nothing of the robbers. They
continued their journey, however, toward the city,
~1eeming it important, if these had not already
reached tl~ere, that such information should be
given of the affair as should leac! to their arrest if
they can~e. But though they failed in the imme-
diate object in view, they succeeded in another
scarcely less important, viz., in meeting Captain
Dayton himself, and informing him of what had
taken place in his absence.
Dayton had started from Boston for home on
Monday morning, and reached New Haven on the
evening of Tuesday. At that time the only means
of travel between the two places were on foot or
on horseback. The distance wa~~ about one hun~
dred and twenty-five miles, constituting two hard

days' ride. Such a thing as a regular coach for
passengers was hardly knownin this country. The
first public conveyance .of the kind, established at
Boston, was in 1763, called the" Portsmouth Flying
Stage-coach," running once a week, each way, be-
tween Boston and Portsmouth. It was not till
after the Revolution that so serious an undertaking
was ventured upon as to s~t up a line between
Boston and New York. Having rested in New
Haven on Tuesday night, Dayton had now, on
Wednesday morning, started for Bethany, and had
gone L~it a mile or two, when' 'he was met by the
party of pursuers from that place.
On receiving information of the ,' catastrophe
which had happened to his house and family, Day- j~'
4
ton at once 'confirmed the general belief' that the  '~
perpetra~ors of it were from Long Island, and
added his opinioti 'that they had come ~by the way
of Derby, whither also they had probably returned.
So strong was his conviction 'of this' fact, ~that
the pursuers did not think it worth while to ~go
further toward New Haven, but returned with
him to ]3ethany.
The search in the direction of Derby, though
equally unsuccessful in capturing' the robbers, pro-


138          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

cured, nevertheless, important information concern-
ing them. It was soon made apparent that they
had come from thence. In shelliered places of the
road, the footsteps of several men were discernible
in the snow. At one house, where they stopped to
ii~iquire, it was stated that such a company as the
robbers were supposect to be, had been seen passing
in the night by a watcher in charge of a sick room.
It was not, however, till they reached Whitternore' s
tavern, in Chuse-town, that they got any definite
clew to the men themselves. The landlord recalled
the fact that two strangers had lodged at his house
on the Saturday night previous, and that a consid-
erable number of young men, among whom were
Doolittle and the Woosters, were gathered in the,
bar-room. He observed also that they were en-
gaged in a conversation about Captain Dayton and
his ~privateering expeditions, in which considerable
warriith of feeling was manifested, the strangers
expressing admiration of Dayton's exploits, and the
others mostly condemning and denouncing them.
He said, however, that he had retired early that
evening, feeling somexvhat unwell, leaving Wooding
in charge of the bar-room, and knew nothing more
of what happened.

?UK~Ui1~ FROM BETHANY.        139
Wooing was next questioned, and very soon
betrayed that he knew more of the affair than he
was willing to acknowledge. He said that the
two strangers had left on Sunday morning, and he
had not seen them since; and that the ydung men
who' were 'conversing with them in the bar-room
went away, as usual, at a somewhat late hour.
While this questioning was going on, two of the
pursuers, learning where Wooding lived, went to
hi~ house, and soon obtained evidence of the falsity
of his story, the very strangers whom he professed
to know nothing about having, as his wife con-
fessed, lodged with them for two nights in succes-
sion. Further inquiries were also made at Mr.
Wooster's, and at the place where Doolittle worked,
neither of whom had been at home the past night.
~Sus~iciQns now q~ilckly ripened into conviction
that the culprits, or a part of them, had been ascer-
tained. Wooing was arrested and put under
keepei~s; then, arranging that a sharp lookout
should be kept at the tavern and the vicinity, the
party g~il1oped back to Bethany to report th~ result.
Captain Dayton at once concurred in the belief
that a sure clew had been obtained to the plun-
derers of his house, And the mention of the Woos-


ters suggested the .p robable direction of their
flight. It was well known that several tory famir
lies of that name lived in Gunntown. and nothing
waste more probable than that the robbers, should
have, gone thither with their booty. He immedi-'
ately drew up a.n advertisement, narrating the crime
which had been committed, naming the persons
suspected, and offering the large reward of five
thousand dollars for such information as would
lead to the conviction of the plunderers and the
recovery off the property.
It was now a little past noon, and a fresh party
of men, well mounted, set forth on the road to the r
~uspected neighbof~hoofd. Dayton declared himself
too much exhausted with his jou ney from Bostont
to acco 'pany them, but promi~ ed to come ,the
next day if they did, not succe d in their .quest
sooner.
About 'three miles north from Bethany Ce nte r
was a tavern kept by Mr. Perkins, who, as we have
before related, had on a summer or two before
brouglit horme his young wife, Rosanna' Judd,
Chauncey's eldest'sister. The news that Chauncey
was missing, however, had not as yet reached him.
Stopping here for, a momerit, they received a new

4

and strong confirmation of their belief .that they
were now- on the right frack. Some children on
their way to school that morning had picked up by
the roadside a small marine spy-glass, which they
had brought into Mr. Perkins' as a curiosity. On
examination, this was found to h ve 'tle name "E.
Dayton, Brookhaven, L. I.," engraved upon it, which
at once identified it as a part 'of the propertfstolern
the 'preceding night.
Under the fresh impulse afforded by this discov-
ery the pursuers rode forward at a rapid pace and
in less than an hour .reached the bridge in, Judd's
Meadow. Here they first heard that Chauncey was,
missing, a messenger being'met who had been dis-
patched to Bethany to, inquire for him, under the
supposition that he had for -some reason gone
thither to his' sister's. This intelligence at first
awakened a 'suspicion that Chauncey himself might
have been one, of the robbers. But a little further
consideration of the fact that he had always borne
an irreproachable character, that he was from one
of the best families in the place, distinguished for
their patriotic sentiments, and more than all, that
it had been ascertained where he -had been the pre-
ceding night, at least till long past the time of the

J

140  CHUNCEYJUDD.PURSUIT FROM BETHANY.                                          '4

I4I

I40 '


142         j. CI-IAUNCEY JUDD..
robbery, soon satisfied the persons that their sus~
picions were groundless. But was there not still
some connection between this sudden disappear-~
~ ance and the robbery? Was there not, in short, a
new clew to the perpetrators of the crime?
CHAPTER XI
ALARM IN JUDD'$, MEA
HEY were early risers
El The habits of industry ii
ily were trained, from
youngest, left no room for indol
indulgence. Besides, there were
be done in the morning.- The c~
had to be fed, the calves and yo~
cared for, and the numerous domesi
the farm and the kitchen to receiV(
attention. Ample supplies of wood r
and brought in for the fire, whose
stoves and furnaces were unknown
unceasing. And all this must be ci
fast was preparing, so 1that, aft
morning worship, they might be ~
to the employment of the day. I~

V.
DOW.
at Mr. Judd's.
~ which the fam~
he oldest to the
ence or slothful
many things to
attle and horses
ing lambs to be
:ic dependents of
~ each its proper
nust be furnished
demands, when
~, were large and
lone while break-
~r this ai~id the
eady to go forth
nothingg had ever.
143


K

CHAUNCEV JUDD.

been heard then of what are how so much talked
of as "the rights of labor." A day's work was no
mere eight h ours, but the work of a. whole day,
from dawn to dark, or as late as men could see to
work. Except in the long days of summer, break-
~fast and "chores" must all be completed before
* sunrise.
It 'was, then, with a slight tone of displeasure
that Mrd Judd repeated his call to Chauncey, on
that Wednesday morning, that it was time to get
up. Like the other boys, he had his share of the
morning work to do, and he ought to be about it.
No response, however, was made to the call, and
the father at last, in some misgivings of heart at
small surprise that he found Chauncey's bed not
the unusual occurrence, ascended the attic stairs
to inquire the cause of. the delay. It was with no
only empty, but showing clearly that it had. not
been occupied during the night.
Inquiries were at once made of the other chil-
dren if any of them knew where their brother was,
bt~t the answer from them all was in the negative.
*    The absence was unusual and unaccountable, for
the young man had always been exemplary in his
habits, and was the last one 'that would be 'expected
I ~

ALARM IN JUDD'S MEADOW.

'45,

to stay away from his home over night without
lettingL his parents know of it beforehand. Still
there was nothing very alarming 'in it. Several
families of relatives were living near I~y, and it was
~suggested that he might have been at one of these,
and for~ some unexplained reason have been de-
tained till morning. So the family sat down to
breakfast with the impression that he could not be
far away~ and the expectation that he would very
soon make his appearance.
But th&amp; breakfast was dispatched, the devotions
ended, and the absentee did not return. The
q~iestion at length grew to be a serious one, 'what
had become of Chauncey. A young man could
not as easily go from, his home and come again
'then as now. No railway train waited to carry
hifti a hundred miles and return before night.
Maternal solicitude, ever ready to take alarm, be-
gan to apprehend some evil. It was the time of
war, and the country was full of stragglers, pre-
tending to be going to or coming from the army,
begging cider, and sleeping in barns. The stories
were all the while plotting mischief, and nobody
could. tell what tricks they would be engaged ir~
next. Something certainly had happened to the
I0

'44 /


'6"                        '

146            CHAUNCEY JUDD.
lad to detain him like this. Messengers were sent
to the neighbors to inquire who had seen him last,
~nd what was known of his wh~roakouts the night
before.
Mr. Judd's nearest neighbor was~, his brother-in-.
law, Mr. Reuben Williams, whose wife was a daugh-
ter of Captain Gideon I-Iotchkiss, before spoken 9f
as, one of the. leading men in the town. Captain
Hotchkiss had been a lieutenant in the company
from Waterbury which served in the French war
of 1757, and was now among the foremost in de-
flouncing and contending against the aggressions
of the British n~nist ry. He had represented the
N       town in the General Court for several years, was
one of the committee appointed in 1774 to enforce.
th~ resolutions of non-intercourse with I the mother
country, and was active i~ the work of raising and
equipping men to serve in the pa ~~riot army. After
the organization of the chure in Salem parish, he
was chosenoneof its first dea~or~ s, and at a later
date was a founder and chief supporter of the church
in the parish of Columbia, now Prospect, within
whose limits he resided. He was no less conspic-
uous 'for his large family than for his offices and
honors, having had, by his two wives, no less than
I,
N' N~''~'~~"  'N~,  N

ALARM IN JTJDDS MEADOW.

147

nineteen children, - twelve sons and seven daugh-
ters, - of whom seve1~teen' lived to be tnarried. It
is recorded that, at his death ir~ 1807, his descend-
ants already amounted to dne hundred and five
grandchildren, one hundred &amp;rid fifty-five great~
grandchildren, and four of the fifthh generation.
Two of these seven daughters were Mabel and
PhebQ Hotchkiss, then young girls of sixteen and
fifteen respectively. These were often at the house
of their elder sister, Mrs. Williams, who had a son,
Reuben Williams, Jr., of nearly the same age.
These, with the members of 'the Judd family, con-
stituted a large circle of young people, ~who, 'from
their nearness of age and relationship; were united
by ties of more than ordinary attachment.
It was known, of course, that Chauncey had*
been present at the quilting party the preceding
evening; and on sending to Mr. Williams', it was
ascertained that, at the close of it, he had gone
home with Ditha Webb~ Messengers hastened to
Mr. Webb's, but Ditha could give them no infor-
mation. Ch~uncey had b~en there, she acknowl-
edged, and at her Invitation hald come, into the
house, 'but after a little while he left to return
home. She could not tell at what 'time it was, but
she thought it, was ~not very late.

T


148           CHAWNCEY JUDD.                                      ALARM IN ~UDD'S MEADOW.      I49~

The mystery deepened. The road between
Webb's and Judd's was retraced, and the foot-
path thi4ugh the wood explored. Here his tracks
were visible in the ~snow, but they disappeared
when the road was reached, being obliterated by
the wind, and the passage of oth~r persons and
A      teams. Inquiries were made at all the neighbor-
ing dwellings, but he had not been at any of these.
Suspense grew into alarm; the mystery became a
secret of ominous portent. Had he been waylaid
and iknurdered? But for what cause, and what had
been ~done with the body? Had he been carried
off? But by whom, and whither ~
There is no more appalling cry hat can ring
11cr than that of a child
through the homes of a viabe
lost. That one of the members of the little com-
6 unity should suddenly disappear, no one knowing
how or why, no one knowing his possible fate,
eVery one left to form 'a thousand conjectures, and
conjure up inr~imerable forms of evil, has in it
something to assail the stoutest heart. Sudden
calamity, known and certain, often ~overwhelms;
but the, element of suspense, the hardest to bear
of all, is then withheld. When such a cry is heard,
therefore, every body is aroused. The alarm spreads
'I

from house to house, till, in an incredibly short
time, it has reached the most remote habitation.
Every one feels called to hasten to the search for
the missing one, or to manifest his sympathies with
the bereaved family. And when the lost one is
found, there is joy over his return more than over
all those who " went not astray.~~
Such was the excitement awakened throughout
Judd's Meadow by the news .that Chauncey was
missing, and, as all appearances indicated, that he
had in some 'way been fully dealt with. Inquiries
'and suggestions innumerable were made, and par-
ties set off in various directions in the hope. of
finding some trace of him.
The day wore on, and it was already far in the~
afternoon when a half dozen horsen~en were seen
rapidly galloping, from the direction of the bridge,.
toward Mr. Judd's house. Their errand was quick~
ly promulgated. A great robbery had been com-
mitted in Bethany, and the perpetrators 'of it,
ascertained to be. tries, had, it was believed, fled
to Gunntown, or its vicinity. Copies of the adver-
tisement, ~describing the robbers and offering a
~large reward for their apprehension, were exhibited.
This intelligence at once, threw light on the~ ques-

148

149


~'I5O            CEfAUNCEY JUDD.

~ion of. what had become of young Judd. He had,
oubtiess; fallen into the hands of these plundering
ries. He had not gOne with them willingly; no
ne would believe that. lie had been at Mr.
Webb's till late in the night; he had started to go
home, had met them on the road, and they had
forced him to go with them to prevent being ex-
posed by him. The situation of affairs was evident
to all.
Equally evident was the course to be take~ in
pursuit. The presence of the young Wooster~ in
the party, with Scott, Cady, etc., indicated the
.places to which they had undoubtedly gone. The
road by Mr. Webb's, ih which Chau ncey probably
met thdm, led directl~,r to Gunntown. Doubtless
they were concealed at the houses of some of their
tory relatives or friend's, where immediate search,
before they had time to get away, would probably
discover them.

I

*             CHAPTER XV.
DAVID WOQSTER'S.
had' predicted, he and his com-
es were received at his father's. with
cordiality. Mr. Wooster was that morn-
ing engaged iii threshing in his barn, accompanied
by William Seeley, who was often. eniployed' by
him as a help on' his, farm. Seeley, as before re-
lated, had offered to join iti the expedition,~ but for
the reasons stated he had been refused. Notwith-
standing' this, he was ready to. congratulate them
on their safe return, and impatient to learn the
particulars of the affair. Two or three remained a
few moments in conversation with him, while the
remainder, w'ith their captive, passed on with Mr.
Wooster to the house.
It was one of those large, old-fashioned man-
sions, of which a few remain to this day, capacious
'5'

50


152           CHAUNCEY JUDD.
enough to meet the wants ~of the patriarchal house~  h
holds of those times, and to afford room for the
spinning and weaving, the brewing, and baking,
and dairy'ing connected with an extensive farm.
It was situated on the. eastern side of a broad, deep
ravin ~, through which runs a small tributary of the
Long eadow Brook, upon the road leading from
Gunn~own' to ~vhat is no Middlebury. Under-
neath the house was a large basement kitchen, and ~' 4 ~
a cellar, divided into several compartments for stor-
ing fruits and vegetables, nd the long rows of
cider casks, large and small, supposed in those
days to be as indispensable as the beef and pork
barrels 'to the sustenance and comfort of the family
through the winter.
Behind the big stone chimney, in the' space be-
tween it an~1 the outer wall of the basement, was a
-small apartment, originally designed as a dairy-
room, containing a' deep well, which supplied water
to the rooms ~above by buckets suspended from the
ceiling,, and descending through both floors. A
dun light was admitted by a few panes of glass in
the outer wall. This room was separated from the
'other parts of the basement by brick partitions,
and entered only by a door opening outward into

I" ~
I
'
~
;
t


DAVID BOOSTER'S.           153
the fruit and cider cellar, which in its turn was
entered from the kitchen. It had a stone floor,
and Was evidently constructed for the purpose of
being kept cool and dark, for the storage of the*
milk, butter, and cheese of the dairy. I may add
- Dairy ROOTrL Frhit CeU~rr
JflLoIlerL  .
9-
______ - w
that in all essential respects it remains the same to
this day, except that the well is now covered, and
the room appears only as one of the ordinary ~part~
ments of the old cellar.
Mr. Wooster, having been .ap~rised by the early
visit of his son of the coming of the party, and not
wishing to expose them to, the notice of his numer~
ous family, or of any chance caller or passer-by,

9


CJ~TJNCBY JUDD.
had built for them a fire in this large ba~ment
kitchen, to which he now conducted them, entering
by a back outside door. The' aspect of the room
under the ruddy' glow was most welcome, and they
gathered. around the huge fireplace with treat sat-
isfaction. The day was cold ; the sky, which,
though clear in the morning, now began to be
overcast with heavy clouds, and the damp, chill
atmosphere betokening a heavy stOrm.
At David's request, Seeley was dispatched with
an ox-team and sled to bring their bundles from
Mr. Gunn'sbarn. This was accomplished without
difficulty, a quantity of hay being thrown over
them, under which they were effectually concealed
I from not'
Thoug       Wooster's guests now felt them-
selves measurably ~afe, they were far from being
at ease. The presence of 'the captive, was a re-
straint upon them all., lie' knew nothing as yet,
b&amp;yori~d vague suspicions, of the business in which
they had been engaged, and they wished, of course,
to keep him ~in ignorance as long as 'possible. At
leAgth. David bethought himself of' the dairy-room
behind the chimney,' at that season of the year
little used, as a place at once secure and remote'

DAVID WOOSTE1L S.

135

from hearing; and at his suggestion, Chauncey
was sent in thither, a stool being given him to sit
on, and the big oaken latch of the door fastened on
the outside, so ,that it could not be raised by the
string fron~ within. It was an admirable place of
detention, where, withoi.it being subjected to per-
sonal violence, lie could be 'kept with" absolute
security.
Feeling now free to converse, the story of their
expedition, so far as they chose to give it, 'was
related to theiii host, and their packs having ar-
rived, they were opened to show the booty they
had obtained. David, disregarding prudential qon-
siderations, ran up stall's with his to show it to his
mother. The rich goods - silks, linens, lades, etc.
~-' elicited much admiration, and were freely. dis-
tributed between Mrs. Wooster a~pd her daughters.
There seemed to be no misgiving on their part as~
to the mode in which they had been obtained.
Dayton, they all said, was a thief himself, 'and if he
now lost his goods in the game way he got thdm,
it served him right. No doubt he would make up
the loss in his next piratical cruise, and more too.
It~ w'as now noon, and 'dinner was prepared for
the party in the basement. Mr.' Wooster brought,


CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                      DAVID WO0STFR'S.       157

out, from the old-fashioned beaufet in the corner ~of
the front room, a square bottle of West India run],
"good old Jameeky," he assured them, to
which all helped themselves liberally, drinking
health to his majesty King George and his good
cause, and confusion to all whigs, rebels, and trai~~
tors, Congress and Washington included. The
good cheer of the table, the genial warmth of the
fire, and the success thus far attending their expe-
dition, combined to elevate their spirits, and make
them forget for the moment the critical circum-
stances in which they were placed. Mr. Wooster
sent an ample plate of food to the young man in
confinement, and even added a glass of liquor, but
the poor lad's heart w~is too heavy for an appetite,
and the refreshment was left untasted.
The hour soon passed, and the question returned
to them, with renewed force, what they should do
next, and especially what disposition they should
make of their prisoner. Contrary to all their in-
tentions, it was evident that they could not long
remain in Gunntown. Chauncey's disappearance
would alarm the neighborhood, to say nothing of a
pursuit from Bethany. Again and again did they
curse their luck. in meeting him that morning, and

their still greater folly, as they now saw it, of med-
dling with him at all. Better have run the risk
of letting him go at that time, when the most he_
could have said would be that he had met a com~
pany of unknown men, - for they could easily have
concealed their faces so as not to be 'recognized, -
than to dismiss him now, after he had learned who
they all, were. And yet this, on the whole~eemed
the best thing for them now to do. He might
easily be detained where he was for a day or two,
till they shpub1j have time to reach Derby, and be
safe beyond pursuit.
This suggestion, however, was at once negative
by Mr. Wooster. It might, he said, do. for them,
but it would be fatal to him and his family. He
had done enough already to bring down upon him
the vengeance of the rebel laws, both as an accom-
1~
pice with burglars, and as privy to and a helper of
their intended flight to the British lines, which the
legislature had made a felony. No; they must
take the l~.d with them, and put it out of his power*~
to testify against them. Some time after all these'
things should be settled by the ending of the war,
he might, if he was still alive,'be permitted to
return home.


158,.       CHA NCEY JUDD.

These. consicj!eraitions prevailed, and the idea of
releasing' Chau ncey was abandoned. Graham, how
ever, w~s not satisfied. I-Ic had nothing to fear
from the release,, for he expected.. soon to be out of
the rea9h. of the rebels, any way, but he greatly
disliked the thought of taking the lad with them.
He would be a restraint and an annoyance in all
their movements, and a constant source of danger.
All the goods that Dayton had would be easier to
carry than this one tell-tale Yankee boy.
At length, during the temporary absence of their
host from the room, Graham, in a low voice, but
*      with a tone betokening both disgust and i mpa-
tience, exclaimed, vehemently,
"Well, men, I have made up my mind, and you
can do as you like. When you ~agreed to join in
this, affair, I thought I was enlisting men, and not a
set of white-livered coWards and sneaks. Here We
are shivering in the wind because we are afraid
that boy ,will go and tell of us, when a single cli6k
from one of your old queen's arms would settle the
matter for ever. Who and what is he, I should
like to know, that we should hesitate to shoot him
as we would any other rebel engaged in this war?~
Now, it ant of an~ use to play the fool any longer.

It's got to fe doiw! if you are too soft-hearted to
join me, I'll do it myself without your help; and
if you won't consent to this, I'll leave' you, and
clear for the island ~s quick as I can go; and ifs,
you ever show your heads there,- as yoti've got
to, for you can't stay here, - you may find ~a recep~
tion that you won't altogether fa~'icy." .
A resolute man exerts often an influence upon
others greater than the intrinsic x~eight of his
words. Graham was such a man, and when thor~
roughly in earnest, rarely' failed of carrying his
point. He was elder than most of those under
his leadership - perhaps forty-five. A native of
Ireland, he had resided before the war in the south,
where he first joined the American troops under
General Moultrie. He was daring and ambitious,
and eagerly sought promotion in the army, to
which his talents and services, as he thought, justly
entitled . him. At the same time he was jealous
and easy to take offense; and having on one occa~
sion failed to receive the meed of advancement
which he coveted, in a fit of anger he forswore
the patriot cause, and deserted to the British, by
~whom he was transferred to the army at New
York, where he received lieutenant's commission,

F

'59:

DAVID BOOSTER'S.

C

158


x6o          !CUATJNCEY JtrDD.

and, as we have seen, was employed in the recruit~
service on Long Island, and in the vicinity.
He was a m~n of some address, and from his~
age and e4erience, as well as from his military
rank,, which was held in great honor in those days,
he commanded, for the most part, the ready defer-
ence of those under him. So now his forcible
statement of the necessity of the act proposed.
together with his tauvits and threats, began at last
to work conviction in the minds of his present
comrades. Several, indeed, persisted in opposi-
tion, but this only made him the more determined.'
He jeered at their scrupI~s, he ridiculed their soft-
heartedness, as he 'called it, declaiming that they
were milk-sops and jelly-bags, with numerous other
epithets far from complimentary, and set off with
expletives of the ~choicest Satanic vocabulary, till
at last, silenced, if not convinced, they desisted
from their opposition, and yielded their assent to
his 'proposal.
a

CHAPTER XVI.

BOOSTER'S WELL.

EANWHJLE, how passed the time with
~ their prisoner in his place of confine~
ment?
Let our young readers imagine it, for it is not
easy to depict the reality. It was not the dreari-
ness of the cold, damp apartment, striking a ~sepul-
chral chill through his frame; it was not the lone~
Jiness of his softude, with no l~indly ~face to behold;
and nofriendly oice to rail upon his~ ear, that most
oppressed him. 1t was the terrible conviction that
he was doomed to die! He had not recovered
from the shock of the transaction that morning
among the willows of the swamp; and though for'
the moment rescued from 'the threatened doom, he
felt it was, but a temporary respite. He was in the
power of ruffians that knew no pity ;. or if some of
ii K

160-


5. 1

162

CHAUNCEY JUDP.

them had* relented when in no immin nt danger of
their own, he cotild not doubt that they would 'be
as inexorable as their leader whenever their owi~i
safety' could be secured only by sacrificing him.
He had heard Graham's muttered imprecations
* upon his confederates, and knew that it was his
purpose to have his own way still, notwithstanding
their opposition.
But what was it to die? It is not a thought to
which the youn~ mind accustoms itself, and it re-
*    quired an effort to conceive of sit. It was to leave
home and friends, the father, th~ mother, never
so dear as now when he was about to be torn from
their loving arms; the young brothers and sisters,
playmates and companions of his childhood, bound
rtO his heart by ~. thousand ties. It was to be torn
from the bright world that looked so attractive to
his youthful anticipations. It was t6 have his
young life quenched in the blackness of night, in
the horrors of the dark, cold grave. Nay, more, it
was to go intd the presence of God, his Judge, and,
receive from his lips that sentence which should fix
his destiny in everlasting j ~y or, woe. Let it not
be deemed unmanlj that as e tI~iought of all this
he was overcome with terror, and "lifted up his
voiCe and wept."
/

BOOSTER'S WELL.

163

But the storm of anguish spent itself, and he
was enabled to look more calmly at his situation.
Chauncey, though trained to. the strictest habits of
morality, had never professed a personal experience
of religion. In those days such' a thing was not
expected in the young. Rarely was a person of
either sex found in the membership of the church
under twenty. We owe it chiefly to our Sunday
schools and the increased attention awakened in the
religious instruction of the young that things are.
so changed in our day, and that so large a. propor-
tion of those who are converted and enter the
church are of the youth and children.
In the deep gloom of his prison there came to
him the recollection of Joseph, who was cast into
the dungeon for no fault. of his own, and whose
prayers God heard, and in due time granted him
deliverance. But . could he pray? Had he not
hitherto lived in sin, unmindful of the claims of his
Father and Saviour, and could he hope now, in,
this hour of his necessity, that he would be heard?
Still there remained the example, and it seemed to.
him as if it was written for those in trouble "Jo-
seph prayed and was heard; why rnay~not I ?"
'He threw himself upon the cold stone floor and


164            CHAUNCEIr JUD[).
poured out his soul unto Go\d. He pleaded for
life. He besought some divin ~ interposition which
would deliVer him from the crii~iel men into whose
power he had fallen. Or.i~' this was denied him, he
prayed thatX he might be prepared to die, that his
sins might be washed away in the blood of Jesus,
and that he might be received into that better
worldwher~ there should be no more death, neither
sorrow nor crying.
And God heard his prayer. Eveii as he spoke,
the tempest of anguish and fear subsided, and a
gentle peace stole into his heart. He felt that he
was no longer alone. The darkness of his prison
seemed full of the presence of One who would be
his friend. Hope dawned upon his soul, and he
grew strong to i}ieet and suffer whatever was be-
fore him, for he felt that all would come out right
in the end.
And through all his subsequent life Chaun~cey
never forgot that feeling. The revelation whit~h
God males of himself to the heart of his child in
such an hour as this is an experience which no
after sorrow can' obliterate, ihe earnest and the
pledge of the welcome that awaits him when l~c
shall reach his Father's house at the last.

BOOSTER'S WELL.

165

But while his prayer was heard, God had his
own time and way of answering it. Like that of
Jesus himself in Gethsemane~ the bitter cup was
to precede the deliverance and' the glory.'
Graham, having wrung a reluctant assent to his
deed of blood, seized his pistol, and entered, with
one or two more, the cellar and dairy-room. After
taking a hasty survey of the premises, his eye fell
upon the well, which at once suggested to him the
mode of carrying his purpose into 'execution. The
lad should be shot, and' his body thrown into it, bal-
lasted with a heavy weight Which would sink it 'to
the bottom.
A small Bible was procured from above, and
placed in his hands, and he Was bidden to prepare
for death. It was a fearful mandate, and though
he had become calm in the contemplation sustained
by a sense of the divine presence and sympathy,
yet, confronted again thus suddenly with so awful a
doom, with the dark, deep well yawning:before him,
Nature reasserted her instincts, and he burst anew
into a passion of tears and importunities for mercy.
e begged; he promised silence; he urged this in~
nocence, and the wickedness' of th~ act they wer~ '
about to commit ;~ but to no purpose. Their minds


I

x66

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

were made up. The plea of necessity stifled their
misgivings, and though all but their leader with-
drew from the roorh, it was with no thought: of de-
sisting from their purpose. At last, despairing of
human help, Chauncey threw himself upon his'
knees, and poured out his; anguish jo God; praying*
that he whd delivered Joseph from the pit would
even~ yet interpose to save him.
The pleading, cry of distress rose from the cellar,
and was heard by th~ family above. It was more
thaW Mrs. Wooster could bear. Her sympathies
indeed, 'in political matters,, were those of her hus-
band and her sons. She was willing to render aid
and comfort to those of t~i at party in all ordinary
matters, and did not scrup~ e even to share in the
spoils .of the late    n;. but she was not yet
ready for murder, unprovoked, and in her own special
premises. She was a woman, nay, more, she 'was a
mother. The young~ man whose lot 'it had been tq
fall into these cruel hands was a son, innocent and
amiabIe~\ His mother was 'her
'      neighbor, against
whom the tongue of scandal was never heard to
speak. She could not,' and she would not, let such
a deed o~' shame be done in her house.
Calling to one of her elder daughters to accom-

WOOSTER" S WELL.

167

pany her, she hastened' down stairs, and threw her-
self between the victim and his. murderers, Who
were just preparing to execute their purpose.
"For shame!" she cried. "Are you men, or
wolves, to kill a' poor boy in this way? I tell you,*
it shan't be done, - 'not in this house! Mr. Woos-
ter, for God's sake, come down here and stop this'
villainy!"
"Better not meddle with' what does not cciiacern
you," said he, desce~iding 'the stairs.
"It does concern me," she repeated. "I'll not
have murder committed here. Let him alone, Sam!
Take your hands off him, Captain !"
She was a' large and powerful woman, and once
thoroughly aroused was a match for' any antagonist.
Her husband took her by the arm and bade David
seize the other to drag her away. But she resisted
~th~ir united' strength, and at last, turning at bay,
she cried, -
"David Wooster, 'hear 'me! Stop these proceed-
ings this moment, and spare the* life of that boy, or
by the' God that made you~jUl go this very day \~ ~
and let the whole of it be known, the robbei~y and
the murder both. ' Yes, Captain Graham I'll have
the rebels hold of you before 'night, if you touch a
hair of his head again. See fit I dQn't !"        4
e

4 -


r68           CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                      BOOSTER'S WELL.          169

The loud tones of the excited woman, accom-
panied by the shrieks of her daughter, were irre-
sistible. Wooster himself relented, for he knew
the spirit and resolution of his wife, and saw that
informers from his own family would be more dan-
gerous than the testimony of the young man him-
self, while the added crime of murder would bring
the entire party to the'gallows.
"Well, captains" he said, "a willful woman must
have her own way. You will have to give up to
her. It is a rathe+ hatd case, I own, and you'd
better keep him with you as long as you caqn: If
you get into straits so that you must, why then
you must. But may be you will get away safely,
after all; and if you do yoti~ll be glad you had not
done it."
The robbery sUbmitted, but with an ill grace, and
muttered curses upon "women that couldn't mind
leaving Chauncey with his deliverers. His grati-
their own business," and returned to the kitchen,
tude to them knew no bounds. He said that God'
had sent them to him in' answer to his prayer, and
he poured out ~is thanksgiving both, to them and
his heavenly whose messengers they were.
The reaction from, the intense excitement of the

few minutes before, together with the moving utter-
ances of the youth, were too much for their forti-
tude, and they burst into tears. Chauncey begged
them still to befriend him, but they said they could
do no 'more than to see that he was safe while
there. They did not believe, however, that the
crime would, be attempted again, and encouraged
him to trust that God, who, as he thought, had twice
interfered to save him, would protect him still, and
finally bring him to his friends in safety.
It was but a fe{v minutes after this when the
door from the room above opened, and William,
Seeley appeared at the head of the stairs.
"I've come to tell you," he cried, "th~.t ~ou had
better take care of yourselves. There's a party of
men coming u~ the road 1yond4 that I suspect are
* looking for you; you can see them plainly from the
east window uplere." ~
"There," he continued, as several of the men
* sprang up the stairs to reconnoiter, "look for your-
selves! There are Mr. Judd and two or three of
his sons, Reuben and Daniel Williams, Sam Hickox,
Jude Hoadley, and a dozen: more; Some are on
horseback and some afoot, and it won't be long be~
fore they are here

169

168


CHAUN CEY JUDD.

This announcement threw the party into instant
confusion. Their first impulse wa~ to spring to
their arms and stand upon self-defense, but a mo-
ment's reflection showed then~ that it would be
madness to think of contendir~g with 'many times
their own number equally ~with them-
selves. Happily for them, the road from the Long-
meadoW valley ascer~d9d a long hill, which some-
what retarded their advance and partially concealed
*   the house. Hastily slipping their packs upon their
shoulders and seizing their weapons, they brought
their prisoner from below, and fled through the
wooa-shed into the street westward, where they
were out of sight of the approaching party, and
after running a few rods in that direction, they
sprang over the fence into the woods. Mr. Woos-
ter and Seeley repaired with equal celerity to the
barn, which stood by the road-side in the oppo-
site direction, where they vigorously resumed their
.threshing, expecting that the pursuers would call
first upon them, and might be detained a few mo-
ments in conversation until the fugitives should
have time to escape.

CHAPTER
SEARCH FOR THE

XVII.

FUGITIVES

j~j ET us return briefly, and trace the progress
* of the pursuit.
The party that were in search of the
missing boy, being joined with those who had come
from Bethany upon the track of the burglars, set
forth. from Mr. Judd's with eager expectation.. The
latter were on horseback, the former mostly on
foot, Nearly all were armed, and fully resolved, if
the plunderers m'ade any resistance, to ~shoot them
upon the spot. I
A few minutes brought them to the house of
Mr. Jobamah Gunn. That gentleman had returned
from his early ,morning ride, and professed entire
ignorance as to the men they were inquiring after.
He declared positively that they had not been at
his house, nor did they fi9~d anything there to con-
4              171

170.

I


SEARCH FOR THE FUGITIVES.

tradict his assertions~ At the barn, however, there
were very manifest traces of somebody besides the
usual employees of the farm.. The hay in the bays
j3Ore the appearance of having been tumbled about
*   in an extraord mary manner.  On the barn floor
were found some remnants of a meal - a bit of
bone, a crust of bread, and a fragment of fat sliced
ham; ~nd on one of the 'beams, a short tobacco
pipe, which seemed to have been laidthere and
forgotten.~ The family professed to be unable to
account for these, Mrs. Gunn protesting that' she
knew nothing of what had been done in 'the barn.
The kitchen woman, however, was not skillful
enough to evade their inquiries. Tangled by their
sharp cross-examination, she w~is at last obliged to
confess that some men had slept in that place the
night previous, and that these had compelled her
1
mistress and herself to 'get t~iein breakfast 'that
morning, but they went away early, and where
they then 'Were she did not know.
~Satisfied that they were on the right track, the
pursuers pushed on rapidly, and. soon reached Mr.
Wooster's, as related. A portion, of 2 them stopped
at the barn, where he and S&amp;eley were threshing,
and a part passed on to the house.

Short and uncer~mOniOuS were the greetings
which in those days* were used when persons of~
4                      '
opposite political 'parties met.
"Good 'afternoon,. Uncle David," said the fore-
most; "Isuppose you can guess what we've come
for. Somewhere in this cursed nest of stories thd~e.
robbers are hid that plundered Captain 'Dayton's
house in Bethany last night, and have carried off
Chauncey Judd; and we're going to find them, if
we search all Gunntown. Here's ,a paper describ-
ing the villains, and offering, five thousand dollars
"for their capture. Your David, and Henry Woos-
ter, Jr., from Derby, are said to have been among
them, and others well' known in this neighborhood.
If you know anything about them, you had better
own up, if you don't want' a taste of Old Simsbury."
"I certainly don't know where either David or
Henry is," replied Mr. Wooster. "They havq been
here to-day, but 'they went away some time ago,
~hd didn't sa~ where they were going."
"Was there anybody here with th~m?"
"Well, xve've been threshing here, Seeley and I,
pretty much all 'day, and I have not paid, much
attention to the boys. Sam Doolittle, my wif&amp;s
nephew, was here to dinner, but he left soon after.

'73

172            CHAUNCEy J(JD~.


I

I~74'          CH~AUNCEY JUDD.
you say you are going to search for them
why don't you do it, then, without stopping to ask
me? Have you got a search~ warrant ?"
"Yes; all we want. We can't stand on trifles
now. We are going to see, what we can find on
your premises, and if you don't like it, you. can
prosecute us if you want to."
.So saying, they dispersed themselves 'through
the barn and out~-houses; they looked under the
hay and the grain; peered iiito oat-bins and sta-
bles, and wherever else it was possible the robbers
or their booty might be concealed, but of c~ours ~
they were not successful. Then' they passed on
to the house, where 'a similar work was already
going on.
The chambers and attics were examined; the
~beds overhauled, kitchen; pantries and wash-room
visited. Then th~y went below to the' basement
kitchen and cellar. Nothing positive was found
ere, for the table and dishes used at dinner l~ad
been removed, but the fire still burning on the
hearth, and the' odor of tobacco, suggesting recent
o ccupati~n, excited suspicions.
"Wonder if the old lady washes every day'of
the week," said one.

SEARCH FOR THE FUGITIVES.

175

"And if. she does, wh5e's her wet clothes?"
asked another.
"And I should like to know, too," continued a
third, "whether ~he smokes when she is washing.
Somebody that smokes has been here to-day;
that's certain."
Mrs. Wooster, meantime, played her part to per-
fection. She had seated herself at the kitchen
If
table, working over a painful of newly-churned but-
ter with as much apparent composure as if it was
only a children's. frolic which was going on. To
their questions.' respecting the suspected persons,
she only replied that they were not there, and she
did not know where they were. As to the fire in
the basement, about which they inquired, she said
that she had been doing some kitchen work ther&amp;,
and that Seeley had been in once or twice, who,
like other old soldiers, was an inveterate smoker,
as they very well knew. These representations,
with the evident good order of the house and the
quiet demeanor of ~ts mistress, were already 'pro-.
ducing some misgivings as to the result of their
search, whei suddenly a 'clew was obtained in a
quarter 'least expected.
Mr. Wooster, we .haye before stated, had a latge


* I~76          CHAUNCEY JUDD.
family of children. Two of 'these were of feeble
intellect - not, indeed, wholly idiots, but destitute
of ordinary understanding, and nev~ abl~ to take
care of themselves. Whether, these had any dim
perception of the meaning of the unusual commo-
tion in the house, or were simply captivated by the
finery of the presents which ~David had made to
his mother and sisters, we know not. One ot
them, however, having watched the course of the
Proceedings for some time, drew near to Mr. Judd,
whom she had before seen, as he had called at the
house, and with a meaningless giggle, exclaimed,
"Hannah got a silk gown !"
"Ah, Sally," he replied, "how do you do to-day?
A silk gown, do you say? That must be very
nice.
"Pretty," said she, with' another laugh ; "has got
red ribbons.~~
"Indeed! ribbons too? And where did she' get
them, Sally?"
"Sally I "' e~laimed Mrs. Wooster, sharply, "stop
talking, apdgoo Ut into the wash-room."
"Oh, no, if you please," interposed the visitors;
"wait a pome;t. Where did she get her ni~se
silk gow , I

77

SEARCH FOR THE FUGITIVES.
I

"David gin it, and he didn't gin me none!" and
the voice sunk into a querulous whine.
"Go right along!" cried her *mother, peremp-
torily; "you shan't stay where people are if you
n't keep still."
The poor girl slunk away abashed under the
imperious command. But the clew had been given.
"How is this, Mrs. Wooster?" inquired Deacon
Lewis, who had followed after the younger persons
in the pursuing party, and 'was a justice of the
peace. "What does Sal l)r mean
"Oh, it's one of the poor child's fancies. She
knows just enough to love finery, and when noth-
in g else is uppermost, she talks about that."
"But you know the old saying, 'Children and
fools speak the truth.' Here has been a robbery
committed. A house has been. broken jAto, and
great quantities of silk goods have been stolen and
carried off. Your David is suspected of being one
of the robbers. And here Sally sajs he has given
his sister a new silk gown, which only confirms' the
suspicion. Now, Mrs. Wooster,' if that is so, you
had better own it. We don't want to make you'
any trouble, but we shall not leave the house ~till
we have found out what's in it. If there are silk
12


I z?

CEAUNCEY JUDD. I

dresses here, or any other thing of that kind, they
will certainly be found. The theft cannot be con-
cealed 'long, and the more you attempt it the worse
it will be for ydu. To conceal a crime is just as,
punishable by the law as t9 commit it.'
Mrs. Wooster saw that she was involved in a
dilemma from ~vhich there was no apparent way of
escape. She knew that goods of the description
referred to were in the house, although all the men
but David had carried away their packs with them,
'and from the resolute purpose and increasing num-
ber of the pursuers, she could not doubt' that they
would make ~good their threatening. She began
likewise to see~ 'the dangers to which these pro-
'ceedings were exposing her husband and all the
family, as well as herself. At last she said,
"I don't. know anything about the robbery,' as
you call it, if there 'has been one, or who was
en gaged in it. I am wiWhg to show you the' dress
which HaPinah has, and anything else of the kind
there is 'in the house. We don't intend to counte-
nance robbery, and we~ have no disposition to con-
' ceal crime. iBut these are times of violence, and
there's a~ great de~il that's wrong going on all the
time on both side . I don't think it's all done by
'the stories, as you call us." '

SEARCH\~ FOR THE FUGITIVES.    '79

SQ saying, she departed, but soon returned with
the aforesaid garment, and one or two similar arti-
cles which had been given to herself and others of
the family. These were recognized as answering
to the description contained in the advertisement.
As to any knowledge of wher&amp; David and* his con-
federates then were, she declared positively that
she had none.
A consultation was then held by the searching
party as to the course to be pursued. It was evi-
dent that the gang of plunderers were not there,
and equally evident that they had but recently left.
Of course Mr. Wooster and his wife were both
guilty of harboring and concealing them~ ~De4qon
Lewis, by virtue of his authority as ~. magistrate',
ordered' that the former, together with William
Seeley, should be arrested and put under ~keepers,
and that a sufficient guard should be stationed in
the house to apprehend tfle robbers themselves if
they should return there.
It was now near night. with all the symptoms of
an approaching storm. The raw east wind of the
morning had increased in violence during~he day; &amp;
the dark clouds, which had drifted nor~wvard, set~
tIed in a leaden pall over the sky; and the snoW


I

x8o.

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

flakes began to fall. Squire Lewis, M Judd, and
other~ of the elderly men of the ~ to
return~ home, while the others declared their inte~-
tion o pushing on further.
"They won't, attempt to travel far in such a night
us this, and we shall find them oyer to Noah's, or
D4n Johnson's, or somewhere in that neighbor-
That night was a sleepless one t~.t Mr. Jud 's.
4
He had himself returned from the pursuit sho tly
after dark, and reported the facts which had been
ascertained as to the robbers, confirming the the-
ory they had entertained that Chauncey had been
carried away by them. Jndeed, the elder David
Wooster and Seeley, after their arrest, finding that
* longer denial was useless, confessed that the rob-
bers had been at his house, and that the missing
young man was with them. The intelligence, while
* it relieved the suspense occasioned by their entire
ignorance as to what had become of him, only
turned their solicitude into new channels.
His captors were a set of ruffians who would, not
scruple at anything necessary f~or their, own con-
cealment. What severity or abuse they might
inflict upon him could not ~be known. Their Own

SEARCH FOR THE FUGITIVES.      181
condition must be a hard one, exposed to the driv-
ing storm, obliged to fly from one refuge to another,
and subject to fatigue, loss of sleep, and constant
apprehension of discovery, in all which, except the
last, Chauncey himself was compelled to share.
I-fe was a slender youth, tenderly nurtured, and.
little accustomed to such hardships. So the moth-
er's imagination depicted the sufferings he was
enduring, and with the acute sensibilities of her
own affection, suffering with him in ther~i all.
The neighbors gathered there, both .to manifest
their sympathy and to learn what reports came, from
those who had gone in the pursuit. Ditha Webb
had been there nearly all the afternoon, and' though
the evening was. growing* late, could not persuade
herself to return home. Indeed, she would not
have dared to pass on the road.where that dreadful
party of men had been the night before, and so
accepted the urgent invitation of the family to stay
with Ruth and Anna all night. From time, to
time some of the young men engaged in the pur-
suit returned, bringing word of the progress they
were making, and of the thousand rumors; and
surmises that were flying about, which ministered
fresh fuel to the excitement, and kept all minds in
a state of most painful expectation.


CHAUNCEY JUDD.

*       It is in such an hour as this that the devout
~heart turns instinctively to the diVine sympathy
and help. ~Mrs. Judd sat apart a little from~ the
group of young people that' chattered so inces-
santly, with one or twO of her little ones by her
side, their hands clasping her own, and their heads
nestling upon her knee. Like the mother of Sam-
uel, "she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to
the Lord, and wept sore," not indeed with audible
sobs, but with the inward cry of a mother's break~
ing heart. What could it comfort her to remember
that the others were safe, when this one lamb, the
best beloved, as the lost one always is; was astray
in the wilderness?
And there was given to her the answer which
has so often come on the white wings of peac&amp; to
the distressed - the consciousness of the Saviour' s
presence, bidding her trust in him, and assuring
her that he would care both for her 'and h~r child.

CHAPTER

XVIII.

DAYTON'S DEN.

BOUT a mile and 'a half west of David
Wooster's is a naked bluff of rocks, the
/     extremity of which breaks into a jagged
precipice overlooking the valley below. 13y some
geological convulsion its strata have' been raised
into a nearly vertical position, and having fallen a
little apart, they open into several seams and cr~v-
ices, the largest of which is of sufficient width to
~dmit a man. A few feet from the entrance at the
bottom is a cross crevice of about the same lateral
dimensions, which, extending in~ a tortuous passage
upward, affords, an outlet at the top of the ledge.
Whether the place had, any particular designation
then, we do not know, but at present, by a singular
confusion of names, it is known in that region
as "Dayton's Den," as if Dayton himself, and
i83

182

I


B,

184 -         CHAUN~EY JUDD.
not the plunderers of his house, had made it a
refuge.
The woods into which. the robbers fled, after
their departure from Mr. Wooster's, extended along
~~the slope of the rocky eminence all the way~ to the
den, and by keeping themselves within the thicket,
they reached this hidingplace unperceived.
It was not a very comfortable retreat. There
Was barely room enough to stand within the crev-
ices, and being situated in the eastern face of the
cliff, it was exposed to the bleak wind blowing
from the north-east, with the coming tempest in its
breath. But its lonely position, remote from any
road, and so elevated as to command a view of all
the approaches to it gave them present safety.
They dared not make a fire lest the smoke should
betray them,' but gathering a 'few dry bushes, they
stopped the 'entrance so as partially to exclude~ the
wind, and waited for the night, which would permit
them to pursue their flight.
Near the foot of the hill below them - perhaps
one hundred rods distant lived another of the
prominent stories of the region, named Noah Can-
~ dee. He was a coarse, rough. man, and one of the
most violent of his party. His house was a favor-
4

F
185

DAYTON'S D~N~
N

ite resort for persons of that faith, and many a
scheme of treasonous villainy had been plotted
under his roof.
He was a blacksmith by trade, and besides his
farming operations, was accustomed, especially' in
the winter, to work in his 'shop, where the teams
of the neighboring farmers were brought to be
'shod, their ox-chains mended, their axes relaid, etc.
Such 'a place, almost as much' as the village tavern,
became a center of news. The rumors that were
afloat as to the war, the measures of the Congress
at Philadelphia, 'the depreciation of the currency,
the hard times, and all the usual, sayings and do~
ings of the town were detailed and commented on
by the idlers and loafers, who loved .the cheerful
fires of the forge, and, above all, the cider which he
was as generous in dispensing as he was in 'imbib-
ing himself.
To the refugees in the rocks the minutes moved
on leaden wings. Cooped up in their inconvenient
quarters, and shivering with cold, they were in any-~
thing but an amiable mood.' Finally, Graham sug-'
gested that one~ of them should venture down to
Candee's, to give him information of their where.
about, and see whether th~re 'was not a place of


I

4.

186

CHAUNCEY JUDD,

concealment in his house more comfortable than
the bleak cave where they then were. Nobody
was willing to encounter the 'peril. After a little
wrangling over the matter, however, Scott volun-
teered to go. The rest, from their elevated look-
6ut, were to keep watch, and if the pursuers were
seeii approaching the house, a~ signal should be
given by hanging one of theii~ hats on a stick
thrust into one of the crevices of the rocks.
Cautiously the scout descended the hill toward
Candee's, skulking along behind the trees and
fences. As he drew near the house, he heard the
sound of the anvil in the. shop, and concluding that
Candee was there, he passed on to the rear of 'it,.
and after, examining the interior through a crack in
th~ boards, ventured to enter.
As it happened, nobody was in the shop but
Candee himself, and one of his tory neighbors,
named Daniel Johnson. He had been down to the
bridge in Judd's Meadow that afternoon, where he
had learned of' the events ~vhich were exciting that
region, and had stopped at the shop, in passing, to
relate the news to Candee. The two were engaged
in discussing the affair, and calculating~ the chances
of esc~pe'for the robbers, kvhen Scott made his
appearance.

DAYTON'S DEN.

187

"Good heavens!" exclaimed the latter; "where
on earth have you come from? We have just
heard that all Bethany and Judd's Meadow are
after you."
"I suppose. they are," was the reply. "We got
something of a scare dyer at uncle David Woo~-
ter' s, but leg-baff served us a good turn, and they
didn't catch us. We have just com~ to the rocks
up yonder, bacl~ of your barn, and the fellows sent
me down here to see if we can come to your house
till dark.' It isn't very comfortable there, though
it's better than no shelter this cold day."
"Oh, yes, you may come, and welcome," said
Candee; "but I don't believe you will ~be safe
there."
"Nor I, either," added Jolmson; "you have no
idea what a rumpus you have*stirred up. I verily
believe there are a hundred men out already, and
their number is increasing every minute. I tell
you what, young man"1" you had better get away as
quick as your legs will take you.
"But we can't go now in open daylight. 'We
have got to lie by somewhere till dark."
"Well, then, stay up there in the rocks, if ~you
can," said Candee. "It's a most ni~ht already.


I

I.

CITAtYNCEY JUDD.
There an't a place in all Gunntown that the~ 'rebels
will suspect sooner than my house, and they'll be
here, you may depend, before dark. It'll be about
the same, too, over to your house won't it, John-
son?"
"I've no doubt of it; indeed, they'll search every
place in Gunntown, and Derby too, ahd especially
of those that don't hurrah for Congress. You
can't be safe anywhere about here, or we either, as
to that. But what are you going to do with your-
s elves, ~any way?"
"Wire going to ~steer for Derby Narrows and
Long Island. 'Itwo of our men came from the
island, and they say we, shall be all safe when we
reach there."
"And have you really got Judd's boy with you?"
"Yes' we had to take him. We wanted to
leave him oveV to uncle David's~ till we could get
away, but the old ma'i wouldn't consent to that.
There was nothir~g left for us to do but to kill him
or take him along with us. He's a great 'bother,
however, and I'm afraid he will give out entirely
before we reach the Landing."
"Well, if he does, leave him where he is 'in the
snow; and if he freezes to death there, he'll never
tell any tales."

DAYTON'S DEN.

189

"That's true enough, but it will be rather tough.
He's a good enough sort of young fellow, rather
girlish, and not very 'smart, but he has do neusnQ
harm. I wish to Caesar he was safe ~iome in his
rnoth~r's bed-room, and we were safe o~' the island."
"Well," said Candee, "you've got to scud for it,
and the sooner you d.o it the bet~ter. You are run-
ning a big risk' by stopping here a minute. Better
go back to the rocks' while you can, and, tell your
men to lie still. I'll come up there by and by, and
see what can be done.
Johns~n also promised tl~at he would keep a
lookout in the neighborhood, and as soon as it
seemed prudent, he would come or send' to them,
and help~ them to find a shelter at his own house,
or somewhere else, till the storm was over. So
saying, he mounted his horse, gnd' rode away.
Thus warned ,~ Sc ott left the shop, and succeeded
in regaining his comrades whhout having been dis-
covered.' But he was not a minute too soon, for
he had' hardly disappeared in the woods 'before ~
large party were seen, down ~the road, approaching
the shop.
K Of course Candee denied all knowledge of the
persons inquired after. He was sure, he said, that
4


I

190

CHAUNCEY JUPD.

they had* not passed his shop, as he had been at
work there all the afternoon. But his word was
not sufficient. His character was' too well known
~s that of an unscrupulous tory, and they proceeded
to search his house and barn, but of course with-
out success.
After they left, Candee took a bottle of liquor in
his pocket, and went to his barn, ostensibly for the
purpose of foddering his cattle and putting them
up for the night. But this task having been com-
pleted, he cautiously went up the hill, keeping him-
self out of sight of the house, in the range of 4
barn, to the haunt of the secreted men. He found
them gloomy and despondent, and his own wQrds
did not tend to reassure them. His liquor, how-
ever, was received with great satisfaction. He
advised them to stay where they were till after
dark, a~d even then to wait for word from Johnson
or himself as to when it would be safe for them to
move.
After searching Candee's premises, the pursuers
continued their co3irse as far as Johnson's, whose.
house they treated in a similar manner. Finding,
however, no trace of the fugitives, they concluded
that th~y had not come in this direction, and most

If1

DAYTON'S DENS

F91

* of them returned to prosecute their search north-
ward, toward Middlebury, and also in the direction
of Waterbury Cent~er. They, however, le persons
at both houses, to watch the stories and guard the
roads, with instructions to, let no one pass who
could not give a good account of himself and his
errand..
It was now- a good while after dark, and the
snow was falling very fast. As' soon as, he dared,
Mr. Johnson set forth to fulfill his promise to the
refugees. Without much difficulty he evaded, in
the darkness, the eyes of those on guard, and
taking a circuitous route over the hills and through
the thickets, arrived at the den just as 'the~ men,
grown impatient from waiting, were a1?ou~' to sally
forth, and trust to t P~.eir speed and their guns fo~
escape. His arrival, therefore, was timely, and
after finishing the liq or which Candee had brought
them, they seized their luggage, and set forth,
under Johnson's guidance, on the same circuitous
route by which he had come. Not till they had
passed some distance beyond his' own house did
they venture to emerg&amp; upon any road, and then,
telling them to be silent and vigilant, he bade them
good night, and returned home.  *          .   )
~


19Z       CHAUNCEY JUDD.

Having now got out of Gunntown, they* believed
themselves no longer in danger of immediate pur-
suit, and followed the open road along " Riggs
Street," in the easterly part of what is now Oxford.
After a-tedious march of some four or five rniles,
they espied a light' beaming in the distance, and
drew near to reconnoiter.

C HA PT E R

.X IX.

CAPTAIN JOHN WOOSTER'S.

I'

ii

ONWOOSTER, or " Captain John," as
he was ost frequently called, was one
92, of the e brothers already named, viz.,
David, Henry, Daniel, Thomas, and himself. His
house was on the main road, leading to Derby,
about midway between the present villages. of Ox-
ford and Seymour.. It was a large two-story build-
ing, with a long " lean-to " addition in the rear, and
was standing till within ,two or three years, past.
Captain Wooster kept a tavern .of some celebrity,
and was him self a justice of the peace, and one of
'the leading men of the town.
It was to this house of their uncle that David
and Henry Wooster, Jr., had brought their asso-
ciates. The whole party stopped under the adja-
cent horse-shed, while these two, passing' round to

92

13

193


I

0

'94

CHATJNCEY JUDD.

the back door, lifted the latch of the house and
*1   went in
Captain and Mrs. Wooster were both in bed, in
a room adjoining the long kitchen. The light
which had been seen through the windows was in
the parlor, on the opposite side of the hall from
the bar-room, these two being the front rooms
the house. Here Miss Ruth Wooster, the captain's
daughter, was enjoying the company of Mr. Bar-
timf2us Fabrique; the visit, as was usual in such
cases, having 1~een prolonged till late in the night.
Being familiar with the premises, the young men
drew near to t~.e bed-room door, ~.nd spoke.
"Halloo, aunt Eunice! are you asleep?"
"Who's there?" she cried.
'*' Don't be alarmed,"said the "~Jt's only we, Da~
vid and Henry. Sorry to disturb y~u, but we want
to stay here to-night, and there's five or six others
outside who would like to lodge here with us."
"Well, we can't accommodate them; *All our
beds but one are occupied. Who are they, I
A
should like to know, coming here at such an ~~hour
as 'this?"
"Oh, they are only some friends of ours, with
whom we have been transacting some business;

CAPTAIN JOHN BOOSTER'S.

'95

and we started to go to uncl~ Henry's, at Chuse-
town, but the storm has come, on, and it's terrible,
hard traveling. You must let them come in, aunt,
for it snows awfully, a~nd we can't go any further
to~nioht We'll sleep round the fire on the floor,
rather than stay out, any longer, if you can't find
beds for us all. Besideswe want some supper, and
are sure you have something good that you can
give us. We never knexkr aunt Eunice's pantry to
fail."
Moved by the entreaty and the compliment, the
lady' consented to get up and see to the 'wants of
her unseasonable guests. In a few minutes she
appeared in the kitchen, where the young men had
already kindled a blazing fire. B ~r her permission
the rest of the party were allo~ved to enter and be-
stow themselves around the hearth.
They were, indeed, in need of rest and refresh-
ment. They were weary, and hungry, and cold.
Calling to her daughter, ~in the front room, to help
her, Mrs. Wooster soon set before them a coarse
but ample meal. A huge platter of cold boiled
beef and pork, with veg~ tables, was placed upon
the table, a l6af of rye bread, a plate of~ lusty
doughnuts, and the never 'failing pitcher of 'cider.


'I

/

CAPTAIN JOHN WoOST RS.

They needed no invitation to gather around andJ
help themselves.
While they were eating, Mrs. Wooster scanned
narrowly the faces of the party. She was particu-
larly struck with thge appearance of Chauncey,-vho,
she noticed, partook but 'sparingly, and whose
countenance was so worn by suffering and fatigue
~as to excite her ommiseration. Two or three of
the others, besides her nephews, she recognized as
young men belonging to (Gunntown, whom she had
before seen at the taverh.
The meal finished, the men gathered again round
the fire, where, overcome with their fatigue, several
Qf them, Chauncey included, presently fell asleep.
Two. or three prostrated themselves upon the floor,
and were soon in a heavy slumber. At the same
time, t~e question again arose of a lodgring~ there for
the night, when the larndlady reiterated the fact
that ~e had but ene unoccupied bed; so that- it
would Ibe absolutely impossible to accommodat
more than two of their number.
" Well, then," said David, " two will take the bed,
*  and the rest of us will, do..as we can. There's
*  Cady, xkho ,seems to have settled the matter for
himself on the floor.. If we only had some blan-

I

kets, Aunt Eunice, we might all do the same ; it
would be a great sight better than to turn out into
the snow again, such a night as this."
" But I haven't got spare blankets enough for
you all," she replied. " Besides, to tell the truth, I
don't think you had better stay here any way. I've
a strong suspicion that. you an't in any honest
business. Toby says that he heard just at night
that a great robbery -had been committed some-
where over in Bethany, and that the robbers had,
been tracked to Gunntown. He said, too, there
was a boy or' young rnan missing, whom, ist was
suspected,'they have murdered or carried off with
them. I shouldn't wonder if you were e  vry
rogues!"
" Oh no, Aunt E nice," was the reply, half seri-
ous and half banter, ." you don't think so bally of
us as that, I hope. .The fact is, we have been
drifted into the militia to go into the army, and we
don't mean to go ; so we are just hiding out -of the
way for a few days."
" MiIitia ? Nonsense ! There has not been such
a. thing as a draft lately - you know there ha'n't.
Besides, who is that young fellow nodding in his
chair there ? He looks as if he was ready-to drop.

I!

196

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

97


CHAUNCEY JUDD.

I tell you, David, I believe 'he's the very boy you've
stolen, and that you all deserve a hanging.
"He? Oh, he's all right. Appears to beta little
tuckered out now, and so we all are, but he'll be
wide awake in the morning."
x
"Well, I don't like the looks f things," conti~-
ued the lady. "There's these pa ~ks of yours; what
have you got in them? Stolen ~o~ds ?"
"Oh, a few things that we're going to carry down
I,,
to the Landing. May be 'we can find a nice silk
apron, or something else, in ~them for you; that
is," he added in a 'lower voice, and with a ~ignifi-
cant expression, "if you'll let us stay, and keep your
Zips shut' I"
Mrs. Wooster hesitated, and after a moment's
reflection, went into the bed-room to consult her
husband. While she was there, David said, -
"Come, fellows, she'll let u~ stay but a~ we can't
all have the bed, we'll draw cuts or thai, and the
rest of us will go out to the barn. Not a bad place
to sleep in, in a pold winter night, under the hay.
I've tried it many a time."
This proposal was assented to by all the others
who were sufficiently awake to;give heed to the con-
versatiomv ' Espying his aunt's~ broom st in a

corner of the room, David seized it, and broke off
Several of the fibers'~ of the corn of which it was
made, and cut 'them into eight pieces of unequal
length; then holdi 'g them between his thumband
forefingere~ he bade each m~n draw one out, it be-
ing understood that the~$~o who drew the longest
pieces should have the bed.
They all drew but Chauncey and the two sleepers
on the ~floor. Wooster pushed one of these with
his' foot, exclaiming, "Wake up,. sleepy-head, and
draw for your chance." But the spell in which
the latter was sunk was too deep to be easily
broken', and muttering something about being let
alone; he went off again in a doze.
"Let them sleep," said Graham, "and1 I'll draw
for them. Here, Wooster, hold your hand to me."
The drawing was thus completed, and the' prize
fell to Graham and Doolittle.
Mrs. WoOster related to. her husband her suspi-
cions respecting 1.her unwelcome guests. He re-.
fused to get u~, but sent for David and Henry to~
come to him in the bed-room.
"What *ddes all this mean, boys?" said he.
~' Your aunt says that you pretend to be secreting
yourselves to escape being drafted into the militia.

ig8                                                            CAPTAIN JOHN BOOSTER'S.     '99

4


I

200

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

Of course that is mere pretense. There an't any
draft, and you are in no danger. You've been
about some mischief, If believe. What is th'i~ bur-
glary we've just been hearing of? Do you know
anything about it ?."
"We don't call it any such name as that," they
replied. "Everybody knows that Dayton got his
money by privateering and plundering the loyal
people on the island. His house was full of goods,
which he had brought over from there in that wdy.
What's the harm, we want to know, if we shOuld
just carry some of them back again where they
came from, even if it be done without his consent."
"1 can't say what's the harm," replied the cap-
tam, "but youii are ifl a fair way to find out what's
the consequences. If the rebels catch you, That
plea won't be worth much, y~ou may depend. Bet-
ter clear out at once."
"Well, uncle, we'll go in the morning, but we
can' go to-night. It's awful cold and snowy; and
besh\1 es, we are 'most tired to death."
T~ie conversation continued for some minutes,
dtrrii{i g which the* particu ~ars of the affair were re-
lated, including the abduc ~ion of~ young Judd, and
the most feasible way o~' cQflcealrnent was dis-

CAPTAIN JOHN WOOSTER'S.

20I

cussed. Captain Wooster expressed strong disap~
proval of their conduct, not so much from its crim-
inality as for the danger and disgrace they would
incur, and the trouble they were likely to bring
upon all their friends who should harbor or assist
them, and reiterated his advice that they should
escape from that neighborhood as speedily as pos-
sible. This they promised to do. He advised them,
further, if they could not leave that night, to retire
to a barn bel6nging to his brother Daniel Wooster,
which stbod in the meadow, some sixty rods south
of his house. The driving storm would probably
cover their tracks, and they might possibly be safe
there till the next nigl~t.
Meanwhile, Mr. Fabrique, whom Rath had left
in the front room while she went to assist her
mother, becoming tired of waiting for her return,
followed into the kitchen to see who they were that
made such unusual demands upon the hospitalities
of the inn. Graham and Doolittle for the two
Woosters were engaged witih their uncle, and the
rest were asleep scanned him at first very nar-
rowly; but as he spoke to them in a courteous way,
they soon fell intQ conversation, and presently they
were invited to return with him into the parlor


I

202

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

Graham professed to have recently come from the
army; indeed, Doolittle hinted that he was a Con-
tinental officer. Of course he had much to tell
that would iPter~st his auditors. Finally, the hour
~having. waxed late, Mr. Fakriqu~ drew his watch,
*     and remarked that it was past midnight, and time
for him to go home. He rose to leave, when Doo..
little interposed.
"Don't go yet, sir. You seem to have a fine
watch there.~ Will you let me see it?
Watches were very scarce in those days, and the
possession ~of ~ne marked a person at once as of
more than ordinary distinction and wealth. Mr.
Fa~rique complied with the request, and handed
him the watch, a heavy, old-fashioned silver
"bull's-eye," with ~a showy~ seal and key.,
The watch was examined with much interest.
The case was opeh~d, within which lay a curiously
constructed double heart, made of paper of differ-
ent colors, cut into strip&amp; and woven together, the
-~conventional emblem of true love and lasting union.
The tell-tale blush on Miss Ruth's fair face left it
not difficult to conjecture by whose fingers it had
been fashioned.
It is said that the native born New Englander

CAPTAIN JOHN BOOSTER'S.

203

may be recognized the world over by throne ques-
tion, which is ever on his lips, " What did it cost ?"'
HQwever that may be, Doolittle vindicated his
claim to be a native by making that inquiry now,
adding another equally characteristic: "What will
you take for it?" It would be, he thought, some-
thing very pleasant to possess, ancj the, me ney
which he had obtained at, Captain Dayton's was
just in time to enable him to buy such an expexi-
sive luxury.
"Oh," said Fabrique, "I should not want to part
with it, I think. I have become very much attached
to it, and couldn't think of taking a penny less than
fifteen pounds for' it, seals and all, hard money,
though that may be something more than' it is ac-
tually worth."
The other had placed the 'watch in his pocket, or
rather under his waistband, in th&amp; jiace where the
fob woPld have been if he had had 'one, and was
admiring the graceful swing of the' chain and its
appendages. Its attractions were too great to be
resisted, even though the * price named was e~orbi-
tant. Returning for his pack to the kitchen, he drew
from it a bag heavily freighted with: coin, and cGunt-
ing out fifty Spanish silver dollars, handed them to
Mr. Fabrique, saying, -


I

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

CAPTAIN JOHN WOOSTER'S.

"It's a bargain,'sir. Here's. your money, good
and true, and the watch is mine."'
The latter was taken entirely by surprise, for he
had not supposed it possible that a person of Doo~-
little's appearance coul advance such a sum as
this. At first he demurred to ~the sale, declaring
that he had not made the offer in earnest, but
Doolittle persisted in saying it was a bargain, 'and
the gentleman was. obliged to console himself&amp; as
he best could with the reflection 'that he had re-
ceived for the watch twice its value.
Just at 'this' t inge, two horsemen rode up to the
tavern, and havin hitched their horses in the shed,
came to the door %nd knocked for admittance. Im-
mediately Grahat 'and Doolittle retreated to the
kitchen, where they announced the new-comers, and
called upon their comrades to stir 'themselves, and
hasten to their place of lodging for the night.
The strangers proved to be residents of Betha-
ny, Dr. Jesse Carrington and Mr. Isaab Hotchkiss,,
who had been engaged in the search for the gang
1Rev. Smith Dayton informs me that several years after
this, Mr. F abrique came 'and paid to his mother, Mrs. Day-
ton, the money he had received from the robber for this
watch, with the interest .accruing from it to that time.

of robbers. Seeing a light at, the 'inn, they halted
to make inquiries. -While fastening their horses in
the shed, they had perceived a musket standing~
there, which one of the party had carelessly left ;
'and this excited their suspicions that possibly the
persons they were seeking were in that house.
They were received by' Ruth Wooster, who in-
formed them that her parents 'had retired to bed.
Their object in calling at that late hour, they said,
was to inquire after the perpetrators of the crint~e
just committed, as description of whom was given
'in the .'andbills they ,showed. They inquired' par-
ticularly if she knew anything about the gun they
had found in the horse-shed, or whether' any per-
sons carrying muskets had been there during the
'day before.
She' replied that two men had taken lodgings at
the' house that night, whom. she understood to be
officers in the Continental army, as they were in
military dress ; but .of course these could not be
among the robbers. It was possible that the gun
belonged to one of; them. As to any others, she
felt sure that they could not be in the house (cer-
tain noises which had come from the, kitchen con-
vincing her that they had already departed). These

204

205

i


I

206           CHAUNC1~W JUDD.'
positive assurances seemed satisfactory, and the
presence of the gentleman who was manifestly
"keeping company" with her sufficiently explained
the light they had seen in the house; so, remarking
that it was quite late, and with a sly caution frbm
the doctor not to sit tip too long if she would not
drive the roses from her cheeks altogether, the gen-
tlemen took their departure.
But they had very nearly discovered the persons
of whom they' were in pursuit. The' alarm which
had been given in the kitchen roused the sleepers
on the hearth, but so deeply were they under the
spell of slumber, that their movements were ~
ceedingly clumsy~ Cady' had pulled off his wet
shoes to dry his feet ~t the fire, and ~now found
it difficult to put them on again; indeed, in~ the
haste and' confusion, he did not succeed in so do-
ing, but was hurried away out of the back d&amp;or in.
his stockings. A few minutes later, Graham and
Doolittle were shown up stairs by Mrs. Wooster,
who now re-appeared 'from the bed-room. The rest,
as Captain Woostcr~' had advised, leaped the fence,
and piloted by David, who knew' the way, were
soon snugly ensconced in the hayr in his uncle
Daniel's barn.

CHAPTER

XX.

TOBIAH AND RACHEL.
APTAIN WOOSTER'S most important
helps in 'the management of his farm' and
tavern were a colored man, named To-
biah, and his wife ~Rachel.
At that time slavery was recognized. arid pro~
tected by law in Connecticut. It was ~always of
a comparatively mild type, being. free from most
of those oppressive features which in later years
attached to the institution 'in our southern states.
The marriage of slaves wa~ legal; they might own
property, and, if they could, learn to read and
write; indeed, ~most people felt it to be their' re-
ligious duty to see that their negroes were so far
instructed as to be able to read the Bible. Though
subject to chastisement for petty offenses, they
weye protected by law, an~d by that public senti-
207

4


I

208

CHAVNCEY JtXDD.

ment which is more powerful than law, from the
inhumanities to which the system nearly 'always
gives rise. Indeed, the condition 'of a slave, except
what pertained to his social status, differed from
that of a free man chiefly in that his services were
compulsory, and without' compensation.
Few slaves were, or ever had been, held in'
Waterbury. "The great proportion of the early
settlers," say~ Bronson, "were too poor "to own
that kind of property. 'Luxuries of all kinds were
beyond their reach. They lived in the plainest
manner, and did their own work. Owing to a lack
'of~ tools, machinery, roads, and productive lands'
prepared for tillage, or, in other words, capital, the
~urplus products of labor were small.' Compara-
tively, a man could d little more than maintain
himself. Hence the necessity that all should work
young and old, male \and female. If the addition
of a negro to a family i ~i~ea~ed production, it also
increased consumption, and, if a support in infancy
and old age 5 taken ihto the account, almost in an
equal ratio. ~iei~ce the inducement with 'the early
planters in Waterbury to own slaves could not
have been great, even could they have foi4nd the
means to purchase them."

TOBIAH AND RACHEL.

The few slaves that were held in this town seem~
tQ have belonged mostly to the clergymen. Rev.
Messrs. Southmayd, Leavenworth, and Scovill, of
Waterbury 'Center, and Rev. Mr. Trumbull, of
Westbury, now Watertown;' owned two' each
generally a man and woman. One of these, named
Dick, ~once owned by Mr. Scovilj, died in 1835,
at the age of ninety. Some half a dozen other
persons are' mentioned as holding this species
of property. In Derby, Rev. Daniel Humphreys
had' two slaves, named ~ambridg~ and Kate, his
wife. Dr. Mansfield had several, and many more
were held by other wealthy men of the town. In..
deed, Derby having been a seaport, enjoying,, before
the war, a considerable trade with the West Indies,
had imported numerous slaves from those islands,
so that1 there was comparatively a large colored
population in the town.
In some cases the slaves were Indians. In the
earlier periods of New England, the practice of
reducing the aborigines to bondage' prevailed quite
extensively through all the colonies.
Nor were slaves procured from the colored races
'alone. Not a few emigrants from En gland and
Irekrnd, who were too poor to pay their. passage,
'4

/


I

f

230

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

were sold, with their own consent, on their arrival,
for a limited times In one of the newspapers at
New Haven, under date of 1764, is an advertise-
ment of "a parcel of Irish servants, both men and
women, to be sold cheap." Thieves, vagrants, and
"all single persons who live an idle and riotous
life," might, by prder of any court or a justice of
the peace, be bound out to service for a term of
years, or for life. Our fathers were inveterate foes
to idleness, and the common saying about birds
they applied to men, "He that can work and won't
work, must be made to work."
At the time of the Revolution, the essential
wrongfulness of slavery, except for the punishment
of offenders, began to be commonly acknowledged.
The discussions that were had, as to the inalien-
ak1~ rights of all men, tended to set this matter in
a clearer light than had ever been attained before.
Very many persons voluntarily emancipated their
slaves - some by direct gift, som~ by will, enjoin-
ing it upon their heirs to support comfortably such
as should be unable to take care of themselves.
Indeed, prior to 1777, such support was made .com-
pulsory by law on all who should free their slaves.
The following anecc1o~e, related in Dr. Stiles' His-
/9

TOBIAH i~ND RACHEL.

211

tory of Ancient Windsor, will show in what esti-
m~ition this provision of the law was held by some,
at least, of the colored people themselves:
An aged and infirm Windsor slave, working in
the field with his master, was observed to be very
moody and silent. At length l~e broke the silence
by saying that such a neighbor had given his slave
his freedom, and modestly suggested that "massa
ort to gib me my freedom."
The master quietly replied,
"Well, Tom, yoa may have your freedom."
'May I, massa? When?"
Now," was the reply.
"What! now, massa - right away ? "exclaimed
th~ surprised slave.
"Yes, Tom; you may stick up Your fork where
you are, if you choose, and be free."
T~m stood looking upon the ground more mood-
ily than ever, while his master went on with his
work. After half an hour's consideration, Tom
resumed his labor, remarking, with a knowing
look, -~
"No, massa; you hab de' meat, now you may
pick de bone ; me no go and take care old Tom 4
myself."


I

212

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

in 1777, a law was passed~ authorizing the select-
m~n of th~e towns, upon application of any master,
to grant liberty of emancipation, without such lia-
bility, whenever they were satisfied "that it was
likely to be consistent with his (the slave's) real
* advantage, and that it was probable he would be
able 'to support himself." Under this provision,
* very many blacks were emandpated to become
soldiers in the army, the selectmen gladly con fer-
ring the license, and assuming the risk of the
future dependency, for the sake of thus completing
the quota of the town, and saving the inhabitants
from draft. The surnames of "Freeman," "Free-
dom," "Liberty," etc., .which abound in the lists
of the soldiers; show to~ what extent thks form of
emancipation x~as practiced.
In 1784, the year after the war, an act went into
effect, declaring that no negro or mulatto child,
born in Connecticut subsequent to March i of that
year, should be held in servitude after he or she'
had attained the* age of twenty-five years. Other~'
* laws, frQm timex to time, still further restricted the
institution, and ameliorated the condition of ~those
held under it, and in 1848 it was abolished alto-
~ether..

TOBIAH AND RACHEL.

213

Among the negroes that had been brought to
Derby from the West Indies was a man named
Pero, belonging to Deacon '~{iggs, who lived on
the road, called from him "Riggs Street," leading
from Derby to Gunntown and Wate bury. Pero
was supposed to be a native African; indeed, he
used to boast that he was of royal blo9d.
"My fader," said he, "was king in his' own
country. Tie had plenty of yives, and heap~ bf
soldiers. My mammy she lived in a house in de
bush; she had nice mat and calabash, and was one
great lady. But one day, when my fader and' his
men was hunting ; white man come and burnt all de
houses. Den dey took my mammy and her two
boys, - one younger dan me, - and drove us away
to de, ship. It was a bad tiniie we had on de water.
My poor little brother died; and dey trow him in
de sea. Mammy 'cry and go crazy ~vhen dey takes
him away from her, and when y~e got to Jamaica,
she die too. I's a pickaninny den,, - little feller,
and I feel very bad to lose my mammy. But
de new tings I see made me forget in little while.
Dey sends me 'way to de sugar plantation, where I
fared very ~yelL Massa wa~ kind to me, and I had
little to do but lie in de sun, and suck de sugar-
cane."


I

214'-

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

But this lazy life of indulgence did not last long,
and he was soon made to feel what slavery is. J~
*    kpow not how he came to be sold, but he had
s carcely~ arrived at manhood before he found him-
self removed to Connecticut, under the compara-
*    tively m~ld ownershk and authority of the good
Puritan Deacon i~4gs. In due time, by consent
of his master, he took to himself; as a wife, Hagar,
a slave of Rev, Dr. Mansfield. By her he had two
sons, Tobiah and Laban, ' both noted persons in
their day, and perhaps~ other children.
*       Tobiah had been purchased by Captaih WoQster,
and was, at this time," his man of all work. He
was about thirty years old, of a, mahogany rather
than sable complexion, and his face scarred by
small-pox. He was tall and muscular, lithe of limb
and fleet of foot, bearing the palm-of which he was
not a little proud for runni leaping, and wres-
tling among all the men of t i~egion. He wore
in winter an immense fur cap, ade of the skin of
a wildcat, which he had catt ht in a~ trap in the
woods, the short tail hanging behind his head, and
the grinning teeth fastene~i in front as if about to
spring upon its prey. 1-us brother Laban is re~
membered, also, as having worn a somewhat simi-

TOBIAH AND RACHEL.

215

lar cap, made of the skin of a loon,-'a large aquatic
bird, sometimes caught in this latitude, - which
had been dressed .with its feathers on, and was so
shaped as to resemble the living bird brooding
upon his head. Of these caps the brothers were
proud, both as trophies of their skill in hunting
and as 'specimens of their taste in the fine arts.
A coarse flannel frock, often mended with' parti-
colored patches and bound about his waist with a
rope's 'end, constituted Tobiah's outer garment,
which, if not as gay~ as Joseph's 'coat of many
colors, answered at least as good a purpose for
wear,~ without subjecting him to the. inconvenience,
which the too 'fondly loved son experienced,' of
being the object' of envy from those less' fortunate
,in their possessions.
Captain Wooster was a great hunter, the exten-
sive mountainous region bordering upon the~Nau-
gatuck Valley, and stretching off to Great Hill and
the Housatonic, furnishing a' large variety of game.
Wolves, bears, wildcat, deer, anA many smaller
animals had once abounded 'there, Indeed, he had
enclosed a tract of some hundred acres of land,
running up on to the hill west of his house, ~as a
deer park, within which he claimed the 'exclusive


I

2I6

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

right to keep and to hunt those animals. It is
said that on one side of the inclosure the boun-
dary, for some distance,. ~Vas a natural precipice,
from which the deer, when pursued by hunters in
the adjacent regions, would leap into the fold,
where they would be safe. The place, we believe,
is still called "The Park."
Tobiah's senatorial instincts of course found
much to gratify them in this district, and few men
caught more foxes, and coons, and rabbits, and
squirrels than he. Equally congenial t6 him, like-~
wise, were the duties connected with the tavern,
the care of horses, waiting upon guests, and the
like. He loved to hear the news, to pick up the
small gossip and stories in circulation, and after
his chores were done, to mingle in the sports of
the youngsters, -~ the leaping, and running, and
practical jokes, - in which he rarely came off ~ec-
ond best. His imperturbable good humor, his
strength, and skill, and wit, made him a' general
favorite, not only in the neighborhood, but among
travelers and others who sought the hospitalities
of the inn.
But Tobiah, like many another man more re-
nowned than he, found his destiny and the crown

TOBIAH AND RACHEL.

217

of his happiness in the smiles of a woman. Rachel,
Mrs. Wooster's kitchen drudge, was the daughter
of Peter Hull, an aged negro, who had long been
in the service of the Wooster's. peter's wife was
dead, and he had become decrepitwith years and
toil. He lived in a small hut under the hill,
a short' distance from th~ captain's, which was
reached by a lane crossing the brook in the rear
of the tavern. Here Rachel, with filial affection,
cared for his comfort, nursed his rheumatism, and
did what she could to cheer his lonely days.
Rachel was as frolicsome as a kitten, and de-.,
lighted in playing off her pranks upon Tobiah.
Indeed, it 'might be said that it was by these she
won his heart. She would hide his cap, or mittens
when he was goi&amp;~ out; she would put chestnut
burs into his bed; she would throw her dish-cloth in
'his face if he came near her in the kitchen, or spill~
the salt in hi~ cup of cider, or drop a~i icicle down
his neck, or snatch the chair from behind him as
he was about sitting down. When he attempted
to catch her for retaliation, she would evade his
grasp with the %uppleness of an 'eel, while her
rippling laugh an~l merry crow of exultation corn-
pleted his discomfiture.


I

218

CHAUYNCEY JUDD.

TOB3IAH AND~ RACHEL.

219

At last he could stand it no longer. He vowed
he'd '~ be even with dat gal.;" so one day he asked
her to be .his, wife.
"Yes,'' she cried, "if you 'can. catch me," and,
springing through the open door, darted up the*
lane leading to her father's...
Tobiah was as nimble as she, and set forth gfter
hier at his utmost speed. But Rachel had a inn-
ute's start of him, and notwithstanding his longer
stride,,she reached the cabin, aind shut and fastened
the door behind her, before he could overtake her.
The echo of her laugh might have been heard half
a mile as she appeared at one of the windows, and
cried out to him, -
"Oh, Toby ! don't yer wish yer could ? Got ter
run faster'n dat ter catch dis yer nigger ! Thought
'twas an elemphant coming up de lane; oh, rnassy!"'
and she went off again in a giggle which seemed
to threaten suffocation, and woke old Peter, who
was lying on -atattered bed in his bed-room.
" Ho, chile ~" he cried; "what's de rnatter wid
ye ? S'pects yer in mischief now. Who's'.dat yer
a talkin' to ?"
Rachel did Alot mind the inquiry, but continued
her frolic with her lover. He tried, to open the

*

d

door, but finding it fastened, he appeared at the
window where she had .defied him, and begged to*
be admitted to the house. She refused, and called
hirn all sorts of nicknames, then raised the window
an inch or two, and as he put his hand underneath,
suddenly brought it down again to pinch his fin-
gers. At last, wearied with her fun, and perhaps
with some 'tender relentings at the vexation she
was causing Tobiah, whom in her heart she really
liked, she coyly unfastened the door, and opened it
a little way, taking care, however, to 'brace herself
behind it. But this was of little avail to. stay the
impetuous Tobiah, who, with one strong push,
burst open the door, and caught her securely 'in
his arms.
It was a great day at the tavern when Tobiah-~
and Rachel were married. - Peter, who had given
his ".consent" with tears running down his happy
old face, had had a suit of new clothes given by
his master ,in honor of the occasion. It had been
proposed to the bridegroom that the ceremony
should be performed by~ Captain Wooster himself,
who was~ a magistrate, and would do it for a less
sum than Parson Mansfield,, if he came up from
Derby for that purpose. But Tobiah would not


I
220            CHAUNCEY JUDD.
listen to this. He was able* to pay, he said, and he
was going. to e married just like white folks. For
slaves, as I have stated, were allowed to have
property, and Tobiah, in the course of years, had
laid up quite a little sum of his own. So one
Saturday he borrowed the captain's mare, and rode
down to the Landing to engage the clergyman for
that interesting service.
"Wants yer to come up to Cap'n Wooster's 'next
Moi~iay night, Massa Parson," he' said; "gwine to
be a wedding dar."
"A wedding, Toby?"
"Yes, massa ; and 'here's de publis'ment and de
barns; you'll read 'em in de church to-morrow?"
"Oh, yes; I'll publish the banns ~ but who is it,
Toby?"
"Me, parson, and Rachel. Wants yer, ter come
shuah. Bring yer book wid yer; and marry us just
as you do white folks. What d'ye a~, Massa Mans-
field, for marryin'?"
"Well, Tobiah, white folks usually, give me about
six shillings," said the doctor, highly amused,
"sometimes more, and if y u are going to be
married just as they are, it wil be right that you'
should pay the same fee w '~' it?"


W~EniINa OF Toni~ ~D JiACHELJ.

"Yes, massa, dat's all right ; you' come and
marry uis just like white folks, and I'll gib you just
de same pay.
The " barns " were published according to law,
and on the appointed e vehing, the good parson
presented dihimself in. Captain Wooster's kitchen
for the performance of his official duty. Her mis-
tress had given Rachel a white dress which had
belonged to Miss Ruth, and if there was any lack
of diamonds, it was fully compensated by the, spar-
kie of the laughing black eyes, which could not be
soberyeven in a time of so much importance as "this.
Tobiah was -gorgeous in crimson ~small-clothes and
white stockings, while his woolly head, powdered
after'the fashion of the times, towered a foot above
the red and yellow handkerchief which did duty'as
a turban by his side.
The ceremonies were completed, the festivities
of the occasion were over, and the clergymarn was
about to depart. Topiab had apparently forgoten
the promise which he had made; when the latter
jocosely reminded him of it.
" Come, Tobiah ; you remember the bargain : I
was to marry you like white 'folks, and you was to
pay me like, white folks."

I

221

TOB3IAH AND" RACHEL.,


CHAUNCEY JUDD.

"Yis, massa, sartin. But you hadn't dun it."
"Haven't done it, you rogue? What do you
m~ean ?"
"I means, sar, just what I says. Yer no sing de
psalm, and yer no kiss ~1e bride!"
Amid the loud laugh which followed this speech,
the minister, somewhat disconcerted, replied, -
"But, Tobiah, that's no part of the ceremony.
~ou are married just the same whether the bride
is kissed or .not."
"Don't know about dat, sar; yer don't thiyik it's
'nuff when yer hab purty white gals to t~narry.
Yer said yer'd marry Rachel and me just. de same
way." /~
Argument was unavailing; the joke was too
gbod to be spoiled,~and the continued merriment
of~ the company convinced Dr. Mansfield that he
had better leave th~ matter as it was, unless he
was prc~pared to meet fully 1?6biah's' expectations.
So he~said,-
"Well, we won't dispute about it, Tobiah; you
tire welcome to my services.
"Stands by de bargain, sar," replied the latter,.
with unshaken gravity.

CHAPTER

XXI.

BOOSTER'S BARN.

the morning of Thursday dawned,
0
EHEN
he storm showed no signs of abat&amp;
ent. The wind blew as only' March
winds can blow, piling the fleecy masses in drifts,
and rendering the roads nearly impassable.
Tobiah was up very early in the morning, to start
the fires at the tavern and attend to his numerous
chores. He was engaged in this manner in the
kitchen, and restoi~ing to order the furniture, which
showed signs of a late occupancy the night before,
when th~ chamber door opened, and two m~n with
packs already slung upon their backs, and with
guns~ in their hands, came down. They were at
first startled at seeing.~.4he negro, but perceiving
th4 he was ~ servant of the family, concluded that ~'
they were in no danger of betrayal by hin~\ and
223

222

'I


I
224

passed through the hall into the, bar-room. Pres-
ently one of them, Graham, returned, and began
to, l6ok carefully around the room, under the table
and benches, which served instead of chairs, as if
searching for something.
"Los' anything, massa?" Tobiah inquired.
"I'm afraid so," was the reply. "Something's
gone out of my pack this morning, which I know I
had yesterday. We put down our bundles in the
cor er. there, last night, while we ate supper, and I
likely it dropped out when we took them
"What was it, sar?" s id Tobiah; and he drew
up to, go to bed."
near with his candle, to as ist in the search; for the
room was still quite dark in the thick gloom, after
the stormy morning.
"Ah, here it is !" exclaimed the other, snatching
something fron~ the floor, and hastily thrusting it
into ~his pocket. Rapid as was the motion, the
quick eyes of the negr~ detected what he took to
be a pistol. Graham made no fiwther reply to the
question, but returned immediately to . the bar-
room.
The sight. of the pistol, with the general * appear-
ance~f the strangers, awakened suspicions in the
1'         .\

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

BOOSTER'S BARN.           225
mind of Tobiah. He had h4rd, the ,day before,
*   that a search was going on for somebody accused
of robbery, and it instantly occurred to him~ that
*   these might be the- persons. The arms they car~
ned, together with thek bundles, the distrustful
* look they gave him as they came down, all. tended
t~ confirm his suspicions. He resolved, however,
to say nothing about it at present, but to watch
them very carefully.
Presently Captain Wooster came out from his
~apartment, and passed also into the bar-room.
Tobiah had been there before he came into the.
kitchen, and a brisk fire was a1read~r blazing in the
*   chimney.
The landlord had not met his guests the night
before, but he needed no formal introduction. Doo~
little was slightly known to him, being a relative of
* I~ is brother David's family. The morning saluta..
t ons were exchanged, and the customary transac-
4 on at the bar engaged in by the strangers wilh
ore than usual relish. A~ brief conversation f&amp;I-
lowed as to the events of the clay previous, and
t~e prospect of their being, able tq get away that
day. They inquired where they might find? their
companions, and were manifestly eager to leav&amp;'the
.15

I


t

226'          CHAUNCEY JUDD.
house as ~oon as possible, feeling that they were in
danger there. Mr.. Wo~ster went with them down
to the ho~se~shed, and pointing to a large barn ata
considerable distance in the meadow, bade them
all keep quiet there dl4ing the day. Some men
would probably come there, he said, with their oxen
*      and sled for a load of hay, which fact, if they kept
carefully out of sight, would tend to increase their
safety rather than otherwise, since no one wo~~ld
think of suspecting their presence in a place thus
occupied. Thus advised, the two men sprang ov~r
the fence, and speedily joined their 'comrades in
the barn.
That day was gloomy in the extreme to the fugi~
tives. They had intended to start with the 'first
dawn of light, and thread their way over the hills
and through. the woods 'to Derby Landing, ther~ to
embark at night for Long Island. The severity.of
the weather, however, made them shrink from the
exposure and fatigue. They were witho~tt boots or
overcoats, both 'of which were articles not in common
use in those days. A homespun flannel shirt and
coarse woolen stockings sufficed for warmth, or if
more were needed, it must be. gained' by Vigorous
wor1~ or other exercise. The bottoms of the tron-

BOOSTER'S BARN.

(

227

sers were tjed about the ankles with strings, and
sometimes an old stocking drawn over them, mak-
ing a rude sort of legging. These, at best, were
but a "poor preparation for wading in the deep'
snow.
The barn was open and bre~zy. The boards with
which it was covered had shrunk so that one's fin-
gers might be thrust between them, while the ill-
fitting and broken doors gave free access both to
light, and storm. New England farmers had not
earned then, - as too many, it is to be feared, have
not learned yet, that warmth is~ as necessary to
the thrift of their animals as food, and that close
and comfortable stables save n~any a ton, of hay in
the winter.
The entrance of Graham and Doolittle 'roused
the sleepers in the hay ; but after reconnoitering the
viex~r outside, ar~d receiving the message sent them
from their host, they concluded to remain where
they were until the storm should abate. Desig~
eating one of their number to act as sentinel, and
give notice if anyone approached, they crept anew'
beneath their fragrant covering, and tried to~ go
'I
to sleep again. But the spell was broken and to
some, at least, sleep was impossible. The' stern


5

228

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

realities of their condition pressed t~pon'their
thoughts, and awo~e too deep an anxiety to permit
/
them to slumber a~y longer.
Such was especially the case with our young
friend Chauncey. Under the excitement and fa-
tigue of the preceding day, he had slept soundly
through the night, oblivious alike of the past and
the future. But with th'e return of consciousness
dawned anew the realization of his peril. Never
do the facts of our experience come to us with s~
vivid an impressior(as when we wake to them from
the depths of a dreamless sleep. As they recur to
us one by one, they thrill along our -nerves like sue-
cessive electric discharges, n~aking them seem, if
possible, more real than at the moment of their ac-
tu al experience.
So it~was with the young man. H~ was a ~pris-
oner. He was in the power of those who would
not shrink at any' moment to "murder him. He was
being hLrried away, he knew not whither, t6 some
dark destination; from which the chances were
that he would never return. Then came, too, the.
remembrance of th9 sweet divine peace which h a~i
been granted him in his agony by the side of th
old well iti the cellar. He was in the hands of hi

2'

WOOSTER'S BARN.

229

heavenly Father stil~1 ; ~of him who had twice in-
terposed to save his life, and who in that hour of
mortal terror had revealed himself to him as an
unseen but loving Friend.
The thought was like a benediction to his over-
burdened heart. Silently he poured out the ex-
pression of his thankfulness and trust. He en-
treated the Go~ who had made himself known to
him, the God of Joseph and Daniel, to save him
from bondage and restore him to his home. He
prayed for all the inmates of that home, especially
the ever dear father and mother, who, he knew,
.must be in deep grief on his account. Nay, he
prayed for his captors themselves, that 'they might
be induced to release him; and more, fhatj they
might be caused to see the sinfulness of their ways
and be brought to repentance and a better life. In
the earnestness of his feeling he forgot for the mo~
ment where he was,; the words, which at first were
little more ~than whispered sighs, became audibJbe~.
and his eyes streamed with tears.
The deep emotion of Chauncey awoke some
sympathetic feeling in the mind of David Wooster,
by whose side he was. lying, a little apart from the
rest. Partly out of ' pity,' and partly out of curiosity


I

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

to hear what the former would say to such a ques-
tion, he said to hirn,
'Do you believe praying does any good, Chaun-
cey ? "
" Why, yes, David -don't you ?"         .-
" Well, I don't know. I never knew much good
come of it. Your praying people an't any better
than other folks, sofar as I can see. Besides, how
do you know thkre is 'a God, any way ? You never
saw nor heard him, and nobody living ever did. For
my part, I believe it's all a humbug."
"But 'the Bible says there is," pleaded Chauncey,
" and it says, 'too, that he does hear an4 answer
prayer.'
"Oh, the Bible says so !" sneered David.; " that's
enough, I suppose. But what's the Bible, I'd like
to know ? An old book that. came from nobody
knows where. 'Why should I believe that, because
th'e priests~ swear by it, while' at the same time
there's no. two of them can'agree what it means ?"
"Well, I have rnot learning enough to answer all
yourquestions, but'at the same time I believe the
Bible. My 'father and mother believe it. They
read it every day, and they love it, and it does them
good. tknpw that they who read and obey it are

WOO$TER'S EARN.

231

better men and women than those that don't. And
as to praying, I know it is not useless.
" How do you know it ?"
" Well, for one thing. I believe God heard my
prayer yesterday, when you were going to throw
me into the well. He saved me then, and he gave
me beside a sweet peace and confidence that he
will go with me through all that is before me. I
cannot tell what his will is, or how much I may be
called to suffer, but he has made me feel that he is
my Father, and that he will take care of me.
Somewhere he says that all things work together
for good to them that love him."
In spite of himself, David could not help being
affected by the simple faith and tender earnestness
of his companion, and lie said, -
"I hope it will be so, I'm sure. I don't wish you
any harm. rand it was an unlucky moment when we
fell in with you. However, we must make the best
of it now. Keep up good pluck, and whether your
\prayers are heard or not, I trust you will get back
home by and by, safe and sound."
\As the day wore on, the storm seemed to abate
pmewhat. It grew lighter, as if the sun were
~out to break through the heavy clouds. To-

230

A


if

I

232

CHAIJNCEY JUDD.

Watds noon, a team and sled with its broad rigging
were seen coming from the road into the meadow,
and approaching. the. barn. Mr. Daniel Wooster
had sold a quantity ~f hay stored 'there to, a Mr.
Hazleton, one of his r~ neighbors, and the necessities
of the la~t~~equired ~hat~ it should be taken away.
at once without waiting for a better day. At first,
Captain Wooster had engaged to do the work of re-
* moving it, but this morning, fearing to disturb the
secrecy of his nephews and their companions, and
possibly foreseeing some legal hazard from putting
himself into a position where he could not help
having a knowledge of their, concealment, he had
excused himself to Mr. Hazletoneor~ the plea that
his sled was broken, off to do .the. work the
next day. Mr. ilazieton, however, could not wait,
and procured another man to do it instead.
Warned by Captain Wooster that such a visit
might be made to the barn, the fugitives were al-
ready prepared for it. The hay would be taken
from the large mow in the main bay,(and they sup-
posed there was little probability that the othe~
parts of the barn would be disturbed. On the op/
posited side was a loft above the stables, which
filled with rye straw, the remains of the suInmei~

BOOSTER'S BARN.

233

harvesting which the month before had been
thrashed out. Upon and behind this they had
made spaces between the bundles where they might
stow themselves, the open cracks in the boarding
affording them plenty of air for breathing. Here
they hoped to lie undiscovered during the brief
time requisite for loading the hay. At the same
time they had agreed that, if detected, they would
seize upon the men in charge of the team and hold
them in custody till night, when they mi~ht make,
their escape.
The teamsmen, reached the barn and began their
work. Having cleared the floor of littler, they first
prepared their apparatus for weighing the hay.
Mr. Hazleton ascended the stable loft and crept
over the pile of straw to a scaffolding which rested
on the great beams, to one of the timbers of which
he attached a rope. This hanging directly over the
floor, served to suspend the big steelyard to which
the hay was slung in successive bundles for weigh~
ing. It was an anxious moment for those lying be~
neath the straw, as they felt the weight of the man
passing along over them ; but they lay profoundly
still, and fortunately escaped detection.
'The men worked with a will, for it was very cold~
'I


234            CHAUNCEY JUDD.
xA portion of. the rope was laid in two parallel
lengths upon the floor, upon which the hay was
thrown from the mow. ~ALhen as much was thus
piled ~is the rote would compass, the, loose ends
were gathered and passed through the bight, 'mak-
ing a. slip-noose around the mass, then being lifted.
to the steelyard, its Weight was speedily ascer-
tained, and marked wfrh a bit of chalk upon one,
of the boards of the barn. It was laborious work,"
and the men 'had little time or inclination for
talking.
At length, in a brief-pause in which they in-
dulged for resting, Jiazieton remarked that~ he
thought it singular that Captain Wooster's sled
should have been broken so soon, for it was a new
one, and had never been used before that winter.
"The. I think of it," said he, "the more I
believe it was all an excuse 'to get rid of the job.
He had his old sled, even if the new one was broke.
I don't believe he wanted to come out to-day. T
wonder if he don't know something about this rob-
bery that's' making ~o much noise. 'They say the
Wooster boys were in it, and that David's fatWer
was took last night and put under keepers for har~
boring them,"

I
WOOSTER S BARN.           235.'
"Mebbe so," said his companion, "but where do
you s~pose the rogues be now?"
"I~don't know. They haven't been caught yet,
but they' ~will be, you may depend, for the whole
'region is arter them. The fellows are lurking
around somewhere, and I shouldn't a bit wonder if
the captain knows where."
"Nor I either," said the other; "but we mustn't
stand here talking. ~The day 'is short, and we've
got to pitch in."
So saying, he suited the action to the word, and
plunged his fork into a heavy mass of hay. Just
then, owing probably to the dust arising from the
work, which penetrated every part of the barn, a
suppressed sneeze was heard.
"Hush!" cried Hazieton; "what was that? I
should' almost think there was~ somebody hid here
in the barn: Didn't you hear.it,? a kind of sneeze,
or something!"
"Pshaw, no!" replied the laborer. "Where can
any body be hid here.? Besides, you know there'
wa' n't' any tracks in the snow, and nobody could
get here without leaving his mark.~ Hand,' up th&amp;
rope yonder, an~ let's finish our job.'~
A half hour ore and the loading was completed,

(


I
236            CHAIJNCEY JUDD.
the oxen brought around from under the shed,
where they had had their baiting, and the sled
with its burden moved Sl~Wly away across the
meadow.
CHAPTER XXI
(                 SEIZURE OF HENRY WOOS
I        ~~l4EN       the tearnsmen had
distance from the barn, (
from his hiding-place, and
at the unlucky individual, who, b
sneezing, hac~ so nearly betrayed t
comic aspect of the matter, now t
was passed, soon rose above every
wrath was smothered under the g
They began to feel, too, both cold a
resolved themselves into a council
devise the means of procuring supp
'It was finally agreed that Henry
the house of his uncle, taking care
face where it could be seen, and I:
in a large fireplace, seldom used
~where they might thaw their half-fr

I.
TER.
reached a safe
Z~raham sprang
began to swear
y his ill-timed
:hem. But the
hat the ~danger
other, and his
meral laughter.
nd hungryand
of thewhole, to
lies.
should go up to
not to show his
have a fire made
in the cellar,
ozen limbs, and
237


f :

CHAUNC~Y JUDD.

SEIZUREE OF HENRY BOOSTER.

get something to eat. When all should be ready,
if he found it s.afe,' he was to appear at the rear
~of the house, fro~ri whence the barn was in view,
and swing his ~hat as a, signal. His gun should
be left behind, but 'in place of it, he should take
Gr~ham's pistol, both for se~f-defense. and to give
~the alarm. if there was, serio~i s danger.
ng that dab, intelligent e had been received
captain 'Wooster and his family which greatly~
alarmed them., Mr. Henry Wooster, father of
'Henry Wooster, Jr., with another gentleman, had
been there inquiring after his son. He brought
the news, already mentioned in the conversation
of Mr. H~zleton at the barn, that David Wooster,
Sen., had been arrested the previous evening, and
had confessed 'that his son and Henry were among
the robbers; also that he was then in close custQdy
of keepers, under. the appointment of a magistrate.
Henry's father was ii great anxiety. for his son,
and begged his brother, if he should come thei~e,
or if he to him, to send him home
could get word
at once. This the captain promised to do.
When, therefore, Henry came up from the barn,
his uncle informed him of what he had heard,, and
advised him most urgently to flee. 1-Ic told l~i~~

that all Derby, no le s than Judd's Meadow and
Gunntown, were aroused and engaged in the, se5ch
for them. There was no possibility of the party,
as a whole, escaping. Guards were stationed upon
all the roads and at every bridge, and there was no
chance for any of them but in dispersing,, and each
looking out for himself the best way he could.
Neither was th~re any time to be lost; the pur-
suers might be there at any moment. Just then
the way was clear, and if he seized the opportunity,
he might get off safely, 'but if he waited a single
minute, he did it at his peril.
* Th~ young man was not a little alarmed. He
knew that, if apprehended and brought 'to trial, he
could not hope to escape a heavy punish roent. The
evident anxiety of his uncle moved him, and he saw
the situation in which both himself and his com~
rades stood more clearly than he had ever done
before,
"l3ut, uncle," he exclaimed, "1 cannot leave the
fellows now. They have trusted me to come up
here, and get them someth~ng~to eat, and I can't
r
turn traitor to them."
"Neither can you help them by staying. It
'won't be twelve hours l~fore you will all be, caught,

238

239


I

SEIZURE OF HENRY WOOSTER.

any way, and it can't be any worse .for them if you
an't with theie than if you are."
" May be not, but' it would be, mean to leave
them at such a time. Besides, we are all nearly
starved -haven't had a mouthful to eat to\-day.
Will you let Toby get them something, if I do as
you wish ?"
"I don't care what is done if I am not made
responsible for it. He may make a fire in the. cel-
lar, and by and by, after dark, they may come and
warm, but neither I nor your aunt must know any-
thing about it. We have 'done enough already to
make 'it dangerous for us if we sh'ouldl be found
out."
The arguments and entreaties of Captain Woos-
ter at length prevailed. Henry went out into the
wood-shed, in the rear of the house, where the
negro was busy choppi pg and piling wood.
" Tobiah," he said, "d you want to help a fellow'
when he is in trouble?"
"I' does that, Massa enry," he replied. " Tell'
dis nigger what he can do, an' he's boun' to do it."
'Can you keep it secret too ?.
"Can I?. Takes dis child just to do dat. What
for should Toby tell what's none of his business ?"

" Well, Tobiah, I've got some friends down in*
Uncle Daniel's barn yonddr -
'Yes, massa ; I knows dat."
"You, do - you rogue ?" Who told you? "
"Nobody tole me, but I knows it for all dat. I
seed 'em dis morning when dle cap'n sent 'e~m off
in de snow.
" Oh, you did - eh ? and haven't mentioned it to
any one?"
" No, massa.
" Well, I've come up to make a fire in the cellar,
and get them something to eat, but uncle says I'~d
better not stay till night. He wants me to go
down to father's on an errand for him."
"Yes, sar ; I tinks so 'too. I'se heerd your fader
when he was here in de mornin', tell all about 'it."
7    "All about what, Tobiah ?"
" Oh, yer knows well enough, Massa Henry. He
said yiou and David was 'mong 'em."
" Well, it won't do for me to stay here, but I
can't go away without doing as I promised fot the
fellows. Get; them a good supper down in the cel-
lar, and when all, is ready, go out and swing' your
hat, ahd they'll come for it. But mind, doh't let
your master or mistress know what you are about.

240

CH-AUNCEY JUDD.

24f

jj\


24|3

*And if anybody comes to molest them, just fire a ,
gun, and they'll take warning, and get away."
" Han't got no gun," said the negro. "Gib me
dat pistol I see in .your pocket dere, an' den I fire,
sure 'nuff."
" Well," said Henry, "I don't care. It belongs
to Captain Graham, and you may give it to, him
when he corpes up," .at the same time drawing
the pistol from his pocket, and handing ,it to
Tobiah-
The negro received the weapon with a hand
trembling with excitement. *He had been contriv-
ing all day how he could do something to. aid in
catching these "tory thieves," as he called them,
and -now, very unexpectedly, the means were placed
in his power. He did not know how many there
~were of the party, but he had seen two of them in-'
the morning, and had learned frorn Henry's father
that Henry and David were among them..
" Is it loaded ?" he inquired, as he took the pis-
tol, and carefully examined it.
"Yes."
"Wid a bullet ?"
" No, of course.. It's only to give an alarm, you
know, in case there's danger."

SEIZURE OF H NRY WOOSTER.

" Wonder if de buckshot I went gunnin' wid
t'other day wouldn't fit," said Tobiah, fumbling in
a pocket of his ragged trousers. He took out two
or three, and placed them in the pistol barrel with
a grimace .of delight, then, picking up a small twig
lying at his feet, crowded these down upon the
charge.
" Good fit, Massa . Henry !." he' cried. Then;
straightening himself up to his full highit, and at
the same time cocking the. pistol, he brought it
close to the young man's ear, and said,-
" No, sir ; you no leave here dis night. I knows
you one of dem Dayton thieves, and now I'se got
you, I takes care of you. You sees what's in dis
yer pistol, and if you tries to ruri away, yer feels it
too. Now, yer jess go into massa's kitchen yonder
mighty quick.
".Why, what do you mean, Toby, you rascal, by
all this ? You an't going to turn against us, are
-you ? -I thought you said you wanted to help a
fellow when he is in trouble."
"I means jess what I say. I'se got you, and
now I keeps you. Toby knows what he's 'bout;
and I specs yer'll know, too, if yer don't start
mighty quick."

242       CHAUNCEY JUDD,.


244           CHAUNCEY JUDD.'                                                              245
SEIZURE OF HENRY W&amp;OSTER.

The commanding figure of the African, his flash-
ing eyes and resolute tones, overawed the young
man. He saw that he had placed himself in the
negro's power, and that the latter was in no mood
to be trifled with. Stifling his wrath for the
* moment, he turned and walked ir~to the kitchen
as directed, not doubting that his trncle would in-
ter~ose at once. But he fou~d himself mistaken
in this expectation. To rescue him from Tobiah
* would expose himself~ to the charge~ of being an
accomplice in their crime, an he hastened away
to the bar-room, leaving the two in the kitchen.
"Rachel," said Tobiah to his wife, who was at
work at the sink, "go tell your fader to come here
quick."
Rachel sped away, and presently returned with
old Peter, who came as fast as his' rheumaticz"
would allow.
"Wants yer to help take care 6f dis boy," said
Tobiah. "Bring your clothes line, Rachel."
The order was obeyed, the pistol all this while
being held in suggestive proximity to the head of
the young man. 'The latter was now thoroughly
alarmec~, as well as exasperated. Finding that
curses and threats were unavailing, he tried expos-

tulation, and even entreaty, but with as little efl~ct.
His captors were immovable. With the aid of
Peter, Henry's arms were securely bound behind
him, and then the old man was dispatched to give
the alarm to the neighbors.

A

245


NEGRO PATRIOTISM.

k OBIAMH was a pa Niot. -With the political
principles of his master, and so many
others of the residents of that tory neigh-
borhood, he had no sympathy. lie had, indeed, no
very precise idea of the issues involved in the war.
Books and papers afforded him -but scant informa-
tion, for he had little ability or leisure for reading.
But he was skillful in learning from- others. He
listened attentively to the conversation of persons
who came to the inn, to the stories of soldiers that,
had been in the army, anid even what was said by
the tories themselves in' their denunciations of the
war .and Qf all who were engag d in it. It was
enough that it was a struggle for freedom. Lib-
erty was to Tobiah a word of transcendent import,
and he could not hesitate, when this was the ques-
246-

XX II I.-

I

tion in dispute, on which side to bestow his :sym-.
pathies.
The same thing was true', as a general rule,
with the colored, people throughout the colonies.
Though slavery existed under the colonial laws,
yet it was of a far milder type than that which was
maintained in the West Indies. The slave trade
was carried on in English ships, and upder the
authority and patronage of ,the British crown.
When the colonies had attempted to abolish the
infamous traffic, their enactments were overruled
and annulled by. the acts of Parliament. It was
one of the most stinging charges hurled against
King Geor-ge III., in the first draft of the Declara-
tion of Independence, that he had thus protected
the slave trade ; and though the paragraph was
finally stricken out of that immortal document be-
fore it was adopted, yet everybody knew it was
true. Said Jefferson, its author, -
" For. the most trifling reasons, and sometimes
for no conceivable* reason at all, his majesty had
rejected laws of the most salutary tendency. The
abolition of domestic slavery is the great subject
of desire in those colonies, where it- was, unhappily,
introduced in their infant state. Buit previous to

I,

C H A PT ER

247

NEGRO PATRIOTISM.

F


248          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                    NEGRO PATRIOTISM.        249

the enfranchisextrnnt of the slaves we have,' it is
necessary to exclude all further importation from
Africa. Yet our' repeated attempts to effe t this~
'by prohibitions, and by, imposing duties which
might amount to a prohibition, have been hitherto~
defeated by his majesty's negative; thus preferring
tl~ie immediate advantages of a few British corsairs
to the lasting interests of the~American states, and
to the rights of human nature, deeply wounded by
'this infamous practice." 1
Not only, therefore, on general grounds of politi-
cal right, but also as specially connected with' the
condition of their 'Own race, were the colored people
of that day friends to tl~ie cause ,of independence.
The very leader of the mob that assailed the Brit-
ish troops at the time of the famous Boston Massa-
cre, and the first that was shot down' by them, was
Crispus Attucks, who, twenty years before, had
been advertised in the Boston, Gazette as a runa-
way slave, with a reward of ten pou~ids offered for
his return to his master. At the battle of' Bunker
Hill, one of the most memorable events was the
shooting of Major Pit~airn, of the British army, by
Jefferson's Works, vol. i. p. 135.

the colored soldi'~r, Peter Salem, a fact appropri-
ately commemorated by Colonel Trumbull in his
celebrated painting of that battle.
"The major," said an eye-witness of the affair,
"had passed the storm of our fire~without, and had
mounted the redoubt, when, waving his sword, he'
commanded, in a loud voice, the 'rebels' to surren-
der. Uis sudden appearance and his commanding
air at first startled the men immediately before
him. They neither answered nor fired, probably
not being exactly certain what was next to 'be
done. At this critical moment, a negro soldier
stepped forward, and aiming his musket directl'yx~at
the major's bosom, blew him through."'
Another event in. which a negro bore aconspic-
uous part was the capture of the British General
Prescott, at Newport, in '1777. "The exploit,"
says Livermore, "was much commended at the
time, as its results were highly important, and
Colonel Barton very properly~ received from Con-
gress {he compliment of a sword for ingenuity
and bravery. It seems, however, that it took more
dian one head to execute ~he undertaking.
Livermore's Historical' Researches, p. 119.


I

250            CHANCE V JUDD.
"They landed about fi 6' miles from Newport,
and three quarters of a mi e from the house, which
they approached cautiously, avoiding the' main
guard, which was at some distance. The colonel
went foremost, with a stout, active negro close
behind him, and another at a small distance; the
rest followed so as to be near, but not s~en.
"A single sentinel at the door saw and hailed
the colonel; he answered by exclaiming against,
and inquiring for, rebel prisoners, but kept slowly
advancing.. The sentinel again .challenged him,
and required the countersign. He said he had not
the countersign, but amused the sentry by talking
about rebel prisoners, and still 'advancing fill he
came within reach of the bayonet, which, he pre-
senting, the colonel, suddenly struck aside, and
seized him. He was immediately secured, and
ordered to be silent on pain of death. Meanwhile,
the rest of the men surrounding the house, the
negro, with his head, ~t the second stroke, forced a
passage into it, and then into the landlord's apart-
ment. The landlord at first refused' to give the
necessary intelligence, but on the prospect of pres-
ent death, he pointed to the general's chamber,
which being instantly opened by the negro's head,

NEGRO PATRIOTISM.

25'I

the colonel, calling the general by name, told him
he was a prisoner. . Moore's .Dicv'y."'
These events, and many others in which colored
men, showed their bravery and fidelity to the cause
of the colonies, were much talked of, at the time,
throughout the country, and T iah was very proud
~ f them. The battle of Bunker Hill particularly
excited his most intense enthusiasm. Though it
as apl)arently a defeat' for the patriot troops, yet
in its effects inspiring courage and hope-it
was equivalent to a victory. That the raw Yankee
troops should dare~ to meet tl~e veteran soldiers of
Britain, - the veritable red-coats, - should stand
their fire and return it with such deadly 'effect, and,
but for the failure of their ammunition, should have
had the certainty of victory, was too much almost
for belief. Tobiah loved to repeat the story, with
such embellishments as his own fervid imagination
suggested. Especially did. he' never omit to men-
tion the brave deed of Peter Salem.
"Up he come," said he, "dat Major Pitcairn,
strutting' like peacock, wid his red coat and 'top~
boots, and sword 'a wavin' over his head. 'Peared
"' Hist. Res. p. 143.


252          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                   NEGRO PATRIOTISM.        253

as if he thought dey'd all cut an' run when dey seed
him. But dey didn't, by no means. Oh, no! Pe-
ter, he jess loaded his guI~, an' he up wid it~ and
says he, 'Ho, massa major! git down dar; yer no
wanted inside oh dis.' Den he let fly - bang!
an~ he tumble right off de fort, and never speak.
Golly! don't I wish I'd been dere to see it!"
Tobiah's patriotism at last won for him the boon
which, more than all things else, he craved his
freedom. I have before spoken of the law which
authorized the towns to permit the emancipation
of slaves on condition of their enlistment into the
army. In pursuance of this law, we find, in 'the
records of Derby, that at a town meeting, held
January 8, 1781, it was "voted that the authority
and selectmen be empowered and directed to give
certificates to Captain Daniel Holbrook and Cap-
tain John Wooster to free and emancipate their
servants, negro men, on the condition that the
said negro men enlist into the state regiment, to be
raised for the defense of this state, for the term of
one year." I~tis not known whether Tobiah con-
tinued in ~the service longer th~in the term speci~
fled, but a~ the war was now drawing to a close,
the presumption is, that he did notL ~Still he had

served long enough to win his, own liberty, and
enroll .his humble name in the' list of those brave
men, who, by their heroic endurance as well as,
active efforts, achieved, with the divine blessing,,
the liberty of their country.
From a considerable period before the Revolu-
tion there has prevailed among the negroes a sin-
gular custom, which may not improperly1 be men~
tiqned here. It is that of choosing annually, from
among themselves, a governor of Connecticut.
"Election Day," so called, not because the gov-
ernor and other officials are then voted for by the
people, but because the result of their choice fs
then declared, and th~e persons chosen inducted
into office, thi~ ma king the election complete, has
always been a political holiday in this state. For-
merly it ~was celebrated with more eclat than at
present. The' military paraded, gentlemen of dis-
clergymen
tinction  magistrates, lawyers,           and
others marched in procession to attend divine
service, and hear the election sermon, after -which
a sumptuous dinner was partaken of, and other
festivities continued through the day and evening
All over the state similar rejoicing were indulged
in, and that family must be very poor in purse and

V


S

254

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

patriotism who had not 'at least their "election
cake."
Such a day, of course, would be one of high
account among the colored people. Those who
lived within any moderate distance of the capital
were sure to be there, arrayed in their very best.
~Not a few, from the more distant parts, came also
as sei~vants in attendance upon their masters. It'
followed, therefore, that the colored People of the
~tate were well represented on these occasions,
and in imitation of their superiors, they, too, elected
*r1
a governor, whO ~was ujnnormly treated with g eat
attention, and always adc~ressed by that title.
At the election in May, I 776, Governor C if,
who had held' his office ten years, resigned, and a
successor was appointed. This event was formally
announced to the public in the following proclama-
tion,
HARTFORD, May II, 1776.
I Governor Cuff of the Niegro's in the province
of Connecticut do resign my Govermentship to
John Anderson Niegor man to Gox~ern6r Skene.
And I hope that you will obeye him as you have
Done me for this *ten~ year's past when Colonel
Willis' Niegor Dayed I was the next. But being

NEGRO PATRIOTISM.

255

weak and unfit for that office do Resine the said
Governmentshipe to John Anderson.
I: John Anderson having the Honour to be ap-
pointed Governor over you I will do my ,utmost
endevere to serve you in Every Respect and II
hope you will obey me accordingly;
JOHN ANDERSON, Governor
over th~ Niegors in Connecticut.
Witnesses present,
The late ~Governor Cuff, Hartford.
Ouackow,
Peter Wadsworth,
Titows,
Pomp Willis,
John Jones,
Friday.
It will hardly be believed that this farcical affair
awakened great alarm among the white authorities.
The Governor Skene whose servant succeeded to
the sable gubernatorial dignity was a tory who had
been in command of the forts at Ticonderoga and
Crown Point at the time of their capture by Cob
onel Ethan Allen, and was now a prisoner on
parole a~. Hartford. It was feared that this choice


I

256

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

of his servant had been instigated by him with the
design of bringing the negroes of the colony under
the -in fluency of the tory party. It was a critical
time in public affairs, and the' people were jealous
and alarmed at the rustling of every leaf. Skene
denied having had anything to do with the 4ppdint-
ment, and after a rigid examination of both 'him
and the blacks, it was concluded that there was no
cause for' alarm. Still,.there. was so much appre-
hension of possible evil* that neither the new gov-
ernor nor any of -the suspected tory negroes were
permitted to pay anythirig for the expenses of the
election. A dance and entertainment were held at
the tavern at a cost of fifty shillings, which was
paid. by Majors French and Dermet.
In consequence, doubtless, of the impossibility
of assembling from all parts of the state at the
capital, the practice of choosing a governor for the
whole commonwealth gradually ceased, and differ-
ent localities chose each such a dignitary for'itself.
In Derby andl the vicinity, this has continued to
the, present time. Tobiah was early elevated .to
this high office, and bore its honors and responsi-

NEGRO PATRIOTISM.L

257

bilities with all becoming dignity. Of late years,
we are informed, the election has generally been
bestowed by rotation. .The occasion is celebrated
by a military parade, a procession,. horseback and
on foot, and music, ending with a supper and dan-
cing. Arid though those engaged in it have been
often laughed at* by their' more. fortunate fellow-
citizens of a lighter hue, it may at least .be truly
said that thie day has rarely been disgraced' by
fighting or drunkenness. While never a St. Pat-
rick's Day nor a Fourth of July passes' without
'broken .heads and bloody noses, the blacks, who
have been despised as inferior to Saxon and Celt,
have enjoyed their harmless fun without disturbing
the peace,s or sending new recruits to the alms--
house or peniteniary.

'7

1 Hinman's Historical Collections, pp. 31-33-


RESCUE AND FLIGHT.

CHAP ER XXIV.
RESCUE AND FLIGHT.

HE robbers, who had been waiting for
Henry in Wooster's barN, became impa-
tient at his failure to give the signal
which had been agreed. upon. It was already grow-
ing dark, and they were getting exhausted with
their hunger and cold. As the storm abated there
was more passing in the street, and several persons
were seen on horseback,. who~, they suspected,
might be engaged in the search for themselves.
At last the suspense became too great to be borne.
was evident either that Henry had proved false
to. them, or had been himself arrested, without an
opportunity of giving them the signal by dischar-
ging his pistol. They determined therefore to wait
no longer. As soon as it was dark enough to give
* them some feeling of safety, they slung their packs
258

upon their shoulders, and seizing their muskets
and halberds, made directl)T for Captain Wooster's
house. Approaching it in the rear, they examined.
the kitchen through the window, and finding no-
body there but the negroes and one whom. they
took to be their missing comrade, they opened the
door and walked in.
Their arrival, it may be believed, was most wel-
come to the prisQner. In a word he had told them
what had happened, and was as speedily released
from his bonds. Tobiah afforded them no chance
to retaliate for the indignity, for he had departed,
the moment they appeared, to call help. . Mrs.
Wooster, hearing the noise in the kitchen, came in,
and forgetting the prudential considerations up6ii
which she had before acted, counseled the party to
flee forthwith. "It will be but a few minutes," she
said~ ~' before the negroes will bring men here to
take you. Get away as quick as you can; but
don't go by the road. Every corner has a man
stationed to intercept you. Every bridge is guard-
ed, and it will be little short of a miracle if you es-
cape:
Language can ~but feebly portray the mingled
transports, of anger and fear which these words

I

259


260          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

RESCUE.. AND FLIGHT.

awakened. Famishing as they ivere, they felt that
they must not delay a moment. The cider pitcher
stood* on the table ngar them, and one of them
seized this ~ind, drained it of its contents. Then
opening the door, without staying even to say good
night, they crossed the brook and laid their course
through the Pelds in a circuitousroute by the way
of Great Hill, for the Landing and the Island.
Scarcely had they got, out of sight before Tobiah
and Peter returned with several persons whom they
had chanced to meet that were already out in pur-
suit of the criminals. Foremost among these was
Captain Bradford Steele, one of the most promi.-
nent citizens of the town, and' a zealous patriot.
He learned from the negroes the particulars of the
arrest and rescue of' Henry Wooster, and the advice
their mistress had given them as to their flight.
Others presently came in, and after a brief, consul-
tation; it was resolved to set forth in pursuIt, gath-
ering by the way as many as possible to joiA them.
The race was now fairly begun. The robbers
had the advantage of a few ihinutes' start of' their
pursuers, but the latter were, many of them, mount-
ed on horseback and able to outstrip the fugitives
in speed. The snow was in many places badly

drifted, as it is apt to be .in March, ancL the 'clouds,
still lingering after the storm, covered the sky with
a paIl of gloom. This, however, was~ welcomed by
*1
the fugitives, as it aided them in concealing their
course.
That night march was one of the most formida-
ble character. The extensive ridge of high lands,
which ma~ b~ regarded as a continuation of the
Beacon Mountain, extending south-westwardly to
the Housatonic and beyond, from which the name
of "Great Hill" was derived, was then, for the
ii~ost part, a wilderness, covered with ~~voods pene-
trated by Indian trails and lonely paths known only
to those dwelling in the vicinity. He ~ry and Da-
vid were familiar with the locality, having often
traversed it in hunting, and were enabled to guide
their companions through the intricacies of their
course. The direct distance from Captain Woos-
ter's to the Landing is about six miles; but the
circuitous route taken by the robbers must have
been nearly or quite a~ much again.
Onward they sped in silence, with every sense
awake to their danger, and' with loaded muskets
ready to defend themselves if attacked. After
traveling two or three hours they found themselves

261

260


I

262

-CITAUNCEY JUDD.

utterly exhausted, and coming to a clearing in the
woods, where was a hut and a small barn adjacent,
they crept into tpie latter in the hope of getting a
little rest. .Thcy were note however, able. to: sleep
much, and after struggling for an hour or two more
with cold and fatigue, they set f rth again on their
flight.
At length the morning, began to dawn, and the
weary fugitives found themselves within sight of
'the L-anding at Derby. Hastening forward, they
crossed the Naugatuck by the ,old bridge, where
the road from Great Hill still passes, a little 'below
the village of Ansonia. It was but a short distance
from this bridge to the, house of Daniel Wooster,
uncle of. Henry and David, Jr., which they had
hoped to reach in season to obtain something to
Seat before setting out for the Island. But the un-
welcome light of the morning rendered this unsafe,
and it only remained for them to press on in their
flight as fast as possible.
At that time the Natigatuck River, at and a lit-
tle above its junction with the Housatonic, was
'much deeper than it is now. The diversion 'of the -
water from its natural channel, for the service of
the niills at Birmingham, has allowed its bed to be--

263.

RESCUE; AND FLIGHTS

0

come partially choked with sand and debris. Here,
under the high eastern bank of the stream, were.
kept the boats and small craft belonging to the vil-
lage. This point was reached by tide-water from
the Sound, in consequence of which the river was
seidorii completely frozen over, except in the sever-
est weather. .Just below the junction a ferry-boat
was accustomed to ply, connecting Derby with the
opposite shore, from which a road ran along the
western side of the Housatonic to Stratford.
Rushing down the steep bank of the Naugatuck,
the robbers foun'd an old whale-boat lying in the
stream, partly filled with water. To wrench it
from its fastenings, bail out the water with their
hats, break open a boat-shed near by and steal a
couple of pairs of oars, and push off into the open
current, was. the work of but a few moments.
Graham and the Woosters were skillful oarsmen,
and a few vigorous strokes sent them out into the
broad waters of: the. Housatonidc; and just as the
first rays of the sun shot across the lofty hills that
embosonmed the stream, they rounded the rocky
point called the "Devil's Jump," projecting from
the eastern shore, and laid their course down the
rivei toward Long island.


2~4            CHAUNCEY J DD.
Meanwhile the pursuing party had followed as
rapidly as the night permitted. It was impossible
to keep their track during the darkness and along
the obscure paths they had taken, but their general
course was rightly conjectured, and Captain Steele
and hjs company hastened forward, hoping to inter-
cept them at certain points which it was believed
they must necessarily pass. They, however, missed
tl~eir aim in this respect, and just at dawn, as they
approached the village, they again discovered traces
of the robbers in the path. They galloped rapidly
forward, crossed the bridge, and as they came down
to the Landing had the mortification of perceiving
the objects of their pursuit just going out of sight  4
beyond th~e bend in the river below.
For the moment the pursuit was arrested, and a
consultation was held as to what should next be.
* done. The news of the flight soon spread through
the village; and a large number gathered to join in
the chase.
After a delay which seemed an age to the iri~pa-
tient pursuers, the sleepy ferrynan was aroused,
and transferred them to the opposite shore, where
they set off at full speed on the road to Stratford.
But the fugitives had started first, and did not fail
to use the advantage to the utmost. Both wind


I
RESCUE AND FLIGHT.           26~
and current favored them, ahd under the powerful
strokes. of the rowers they made good speed. The
whale~boats, of which theirs was one, were special-
ly constructed for swiftness. "They were sharp at
each end, the sheathing often not over half an inch
thick, and so light as to be easily carried on men's
holdersr, either to be hid in the bushes or re-
l~u tYched in the South Bay. Some were thirty-two
feet* long, and impelled by from eight to twenty
oars, and wotild shoot ahead of an ordinary boat
with great velocity, and. leave their pursuer~ far
behind."'
The distance from Derby along the course of the
river to Stratford is fourteen miles. *About a mild
below the Landing, the stream makes a1 cqnsidera-
ble bend toward tbe east, and is divided~ bya long,
low island, then covered by bushes. This, with
the wooded banks of the river, concealed the boat
b and 'the pursuers, having the shorter
distance across the chord of the arc, actually got in
advance of the robbers before the latter had com-
pleted the detour. On discovering the position of
things, these halted under a close thicket upon the
river bank, where for the time they were entirely
1 Onderd~nk's Revolutionary Incidents of Queen's Coun-
ty, p. 252.


I

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

RESCUE AND FLIGHT,

lost to view, a/nd it became a question ~vith the pur-
suers what had become of them. The latter, how-
ever, continued on to the tavern, which was then
known as the "half-way ho~se"to Stratford, near
*    wh~re is now Z~ald~yin's Station; and having had no
refreshments since the preceding evening, they
*     concluded to halt here for breakfast, first stationing
~        sentinels by the river-side to give notice if anything
was seen of the boat. For some reason, however,
this duty was but ill performed, and while the party
were at 'the table in the tavern, the fugitives came
silently ~nd swif~iy down the stream, in the shade
of, the opposite bank, and before the alarm was
given had already shot by the house, and were leav-
ing their enemies behind them.,
Jnstaritly the pursuers were notified, and the
race began an w. The road henceforth passed
along the high ~rounds at some distance from, but
in full 'View of the stream and the fugitives, who
clung as closely as possible to' the further shore.
It was an exciting scene for both parties. The
whale-boat was leaky, and required constant bailing
to keep it from filling. There were only four oars
for the whole party; poor ones at best. One of
these, even, was for a while disabled by the breaking
of the thole-pin. There were no mean~ of repla-

cing this on board; and they did not dare to stop to
procure another. One of the men, hoxvever, be-
thought him of his bayonet, which he detached
from the musket and substituted in its place. As
it but ill-fitted the hole, 'Chauncey was ordered to
grasp the socket and hold it firmly, and in this way
it was made to serve as a'p~int of support for the
oar. There is a tradition, also, that two 'others of
their guns were similarly fastened on either side of
the boat, and that one of the silk gowns stolen from
Mrs Dayton was stretched across between them as
*     a sail.                        a
But despite their utmost exertions their pursuers,
now increased to a large party~, gained upon them,
and it seemed an even chance' ~vhich should reach
the Point first. Here, however, die river was
broad, and the boat, still clinging, to the eastern
'bank, was inaccessible to those on the shore. As
they passed the 'Point, they were1 hailed by some
of the foremost and ordered to stop; at the ~same
time several shots were fired at, them, which the
distance rendered ineffective. The only notice
taken of these was a loud hurrah from the boat,
companies by one or two return shots; when, emer-
ging from the river, they came upon the waters of
the Sound, and were so~n far beyond reach.

11
266

267


\ A

CAPTURE.

C HA PT E R

XXV.

CAPTURE.

HE pursu rs were: baffled, but -not dis-
couraged. From- their knowledge of
localities upon the island, they did not
doubt that, 'if immediately followed, the robbers
might still be secured, and their- unfortunate cap-
tive rescued. This could be done, however, only
after suitable preparation. The undertaking would
be difficult and dangerous. Boats must be ob-
tained, and a suitable party enlisted to man 'them,
and to' meet and overcome any force that would be
likely to be ,encountered. It was decided, there-
fore,. t~ return toDry for this purpose ; and,
mneanw ile, persons were sent up into ithe meeting-
house ~el'fry at Stratford, with ~a spy-glass, to
watch thie course of the robbers, and note 'the point.
of ,their landing upon the opposite shore.,
268

, 269

Arnong the- persons who had fled from Long
Island in company with Captain Dayton, on its
coming into possession of the British, was Captain
William Clarke. He had been a townsman and
neighbor of Dayton at Brookhaven, a lieutenant in
one of the militia companies of that place, and
actively engaged in all the measures of annoyance
against the enemy and their tory' allies, including
the privateering expeditions of Dayton and others.'
Of course he was intimatel acquainted with the
island and its shores. He was now- residing at
.Derby, and offered to be a leader of the expedition
in pursuit of the robbers.
Two large whale-boats were promptly fitted out,
with some fifteen men well armed in each ; indeed,
there, were a hundred who were ready and eager to
engage in it. All needed supplies were placed on
board, and by the middle of the afternoon, the two
craft, under the impulse of both sails and oars,
started down the river. Calling again at Stratford
Point, as they passed, they received the report of
the lookout in the belfry, which confirmed them4 in
~their expectation of success.

Onderdonk's Incidents, p. 78.

II

e


271

270          CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                     CAPTURE.

"Come on, men," 'said Captain Clarke; "we can..
not go amiss. They have gone to Brookhaven7
and I know the very house 'where they will be
found. We'll trap them all before morning. Pull
away, my. hearties!"
'Long Island. Sound is here about twenty miles
wide, and the ~passage, even with a favoring wir~d,
requires some' three or four hours. It was, then,
late in the evening before the b9 ats reached their
destination. TI drew up 'in a small cove at
Crane's Neck, about three miles west of Brook-
haven village. Two men were left as a guard.
over the boats, with orders to keep them in readi-
ness for instant departure; and the rest, having
carefully pre-arranged their 'plans, * took up their
march to the village.
At that time, a man named John Bailey kept' a
tavern at Brookhaven. He wa~ a known tory,1 and
his house a somewhat' favorite resort for persons
of that party, andy for British officers stationed in
that vicinity. "Captain Clarke was of The opinion
~hat the men.of whom they were in pursuit would
be found there. He assumed that, having reached.
~ Onderdonk's Incidents, p. 20.

a supposed place of safety under British protection,
they would seek, before all other things, food and
* sleep. For two days they had had nothing to eat,
and for twice that number of nights, little sleep.
The flight from Gunntown, and the labor of rowing
their leaky boat across the Sound,, had been most
exhattsting, and wearied nature must h~.ve impera-
'tively demanded rest. He believed, ti~refore, that
th~ place to look for them was at Bailey's Tavern,
and laid his plans accordingly.
The houses of the ~place were, for the most part,
wrapped in darkness, and the village seemed sunk
in repose. As they. drew near to the tavern, how-
ever, they perceived that there was a light burning
in. one of its front rooms, making 9xtr~K caution
necessary to prevent an alarm. All but two or
three of the men were stationed around the house,
while' Captain Clarke, Captain Harvey, who corn-
man ded the other boat, and Walter Judd,. a brother
of Chaunc-ey, advanced and knocked at the door.
To 'the first summons no answer was returned;
abut soon after, a louder knock brought a person
with the light into the entry, with the incjuiry, -
"Who's there ?"
j' Friends,~~ was the reply, "and on business with
Mr. Bailey."

270 ,


I

272

CHAPNCEY JUDD.

"He's not at home to-night."
"We are sorry for that. Our business is urgent,
and we cannot leave without seeing him."
After an interval of a few moments, as if a con-
sultation was had with another person, the door
was unfastened; and a young woman appeared.
"My father," sh&amp; said, "has gone down to the
city. We expected him to return to-night, but he
has not done so, and from the direction of the
wind, it is probable that he cannot get home before
morning ; perhaps not even then."
Sue h being the case, we must crave a lodging
with you to-night, for we have come too far not to
see hi~ now."
"1 am very sorry," she replied, "that we cannot
accommodate you. Another paity of2~ travelers ar-
rived here to-day, whom we have been obliged to
entertain, and our beds are all full."
This was a confirmation of their suspicions as to
the pres5ce of the, robbers, and without ris1~ing
further parley, Captain Clarke, who had 'hitherto
carefully kept his face in the shade to avoid being
recognized by the lady, dextrously slipped by her
within the door, ~t 'the same moment saying to
her, in a low tone,

CAPTURE.

273

"Give no alarm, on peril of your life !"
At the same moment his companions, fitst sig-
naling to ~~their men, as had been agreed upon,
rushed als6 into the house, where, to their mutual
surpriseahey found a British officer, who had been
enjoying the society, of the young lady. With an
instant command to silence, they assured ,him that
no hostile design was entertained a~inst him or
the family, their sole object being the arrest of a
gang of burglars whom they had tracked to that
house, and that if he made no resistance, he should.
not be molested1, By that time, six or eight more
of their men had entered, and learning from the
lady 'the whereabouts of her guests, they seized the
light, and ascended to the chambers.
The whole proceeding was the wo.rk of. a mo-
ment, and such was the silence of their movements,
and so profound 'the slumber of the robbers, that,
with a single exception, none of 'them were aware
of their peril till the heavy hands of their captors
were u~on them. Chauncey was found sleeping,
as usual, by the side of Graham, and was 'firs
aroused by being lifted bodily from the bed p~ th~
strong arms of his brother, while two' ~th~rs, on
the opposite side, sprang upon the uncopsejous
18


274          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

leader of the gang, and before he had time to make
any resistance, pinioned his hands and his feet.
The others were secured, in like manner, with
little comparative difficulty. Martin alone, hearing
the noise in an' adjacent room, leaped from 'the
window, and fled. He was pursued by one of the
men on guard, who several times snapped his
musket at him, but the old fire-lock refused to be*
discharged, and after a sharp race of half a mile or
more, he succeeded in reaching a thicket of bushes,
where he was lost to view.
We cannot undertake to depict the emotions of
the culprits thus surprised in the midst of their
slumbers. To Chauncey, notwithstanding his wea-
riness, we may well believe it was a joyful awaking.
He was almost dead from fatigue and exposure,
and' was fast sinking into the apathy of despair.
To find himself now out of the power of his cap-
tors., greet ~d by the cheering words of a brother,
and with ~he promise of an immediate return to
his home, ~whi~h he had despaired of ever seeing
ag~dn, was almost enough to rouse' and animate
him had he been literally in ~the grave.
To: the others; and Graham especially, it. was
like the kn~ll ~of doom. After all they had suffered
in their flight, almost in the very first moment

274

CAPTURE.

CAPTURE.               275
when they had dared to feel themselves safe, to be
seized and bound like felons, with the certainty' of
a felon's punishment before them, was more than
they could endure. Graham knew t1~at no mercy
would be shown to him. The part he had acted ~n
this mad expedition,' his relentless cruelty to his
young captive, and behind all this, a long record
of desertion and crime, 'which he could not hope
'to keep from exposure, all rose like specter before,
him, and pointed out to him a swift and ignomin-
ious fate.
Little time, however, was allowed for anticipa-
tion, wh&amp;her joyous or gloomy. Captain Clarke
and his party knew that they were upon the ene-
my's territory, and that, especially ~ince 9ne of 'the
robbers had escaped, they were liable to a return'
surprise at any moment. So, carefully tying their
prisoners, two and two, and securing their arms
aiYd packs of stolen goods, the whole company
speedily set off for the boats. Everything was in
readiness for them. The prisoners were separated,
three in each boat, and Chauncey carefully
wrapped in their loose outer jackets, and' covered'
by a sail, so as to be as much a~ possible out of
the reach of the wind, and a straight course then
laid for the mouth of the Housatonic.


T was past sunrise on Saturday morning
ere the boats were espied, from "Senti-
'nel Hill," rounding the point in the
rivers and approaching the Landing at Derby.
Already some of the people were gathered, and
waiting to hear the news of the pursuit, Loud
shouts from the crews, as they drew nigh, an-
nounced the success of the expedition, and before
they had landed; a joyful peal from the m~eting-
house bell sent th~e glad intelligence throughout
the town. In a cry brief time, hundreds had
assembled to       their pleasure at the result,
and aid, if there was need, in any measures that
I' might be adopted to bri n~ the criminals to justice.
It is a significant testimony to the~ habits of self-
control to which the law-abiding people of Con~
276

XXVI.

.1

I
RETRIBUTION..          277
necticut were' accustomed, that these were not
snatched from the hands of their captors, and
hanged upon the nearest tree.
It being impracticable, from ~the absence of. wit-
nesses and other circumstances, to hold the requi-
site legal examination ~hat day, the prisoner~ were
handcuffed, and placed under a strong guafd until
* after the Sabbath. They w~re then arraigned be-
fore Joseph Hopkins and Thomas Clarke, Esqs., of
Waterbury, justices of the peace for the county,
and with the exception of Graham, were all com~
emitted for trial at the Superior Court, to be held in
New Haven in May following.
Graham was ascertained ,to be both a deserter
from the American army, and under a commission
from General Howe to recruit soldiers. from among
a
the stories .for the British service. On searching
him, fhe commission was found in his pocket ;. and
finding his case desperate, he no longer made a
secret of his career, but. acknowledged his true
character and designs. It was concluded by the
magistrates that the case properly came under the
*   jurisdiction of military law, and they ordered him
sent, under a strong escort, to the headquarters of
the army, then at Morristown, to be tried, under

CHAPTER

RETRIBUTION.


RETRIBUTION.         279

278

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

the orders of Washington, as a deserter and, a spy.
This was acc otdi.ngly done, and he was fo~nd
guilty and executed, agreeably to the iiiles o~wa
We have no information as to the manner Or
the circumstances of his death. The fact, only ~\is
attested by tradition; and agrees with the inherent
probabilities of the case. It is probable, also, that
he died hardened and reckless, as he had lived.
For not in the natural world do the laws of cause
and effect operate more surely than in the moral,
1
ciecreerng the certain connection between a life' of
sin and a death of infamy and hopelessness. 'It is
not alone an enactment of divine justice, but a re-
sult following in the normal workings of his own
nature, that "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall
he also reap.~~
The remaining robbers having been dispatched
to New Haven for confinement in the jail, Chaun-
cey, accompanied by his brothers and other friends,,
was taken to his home. Of the warmth and ten-
derness of his reception there we can have no
doubt. And he needed, all the care which the
most assiduous nursing could afford. He had en-
dured hardships which were enough to crush one*
much stronger than he. , Indeed, he w4 for sev-

eral days, partially insane. The shock to his
nervous system, from the repeated imminent . pros~
pect of death, increased by his severe bodily suffer-
ings, had completely broken him down. Often
would he awake from a sort of stupor in which he
lay, and cry, "Hurrah for King George!" imagin-
ing himself to be in the power. of his abductors
still. During their flight down the river and across
the Sound, he had been wholly unprotected from
the wind, and had almost perished frdm~ cold. His
hands, from holding the bayonet, had been frost-
bitten, and some of his fingers remained stiffened~
and crippled for life. It was believed by his family
that the strength of his constitution was impaired
by these hardships so that he never recovered
from it, but continued in delicate health until his'
death.
On the first Tuesday in May, a special term of
the Superior Court, consisting of the Hon. Mat-
thew Griswold, chief judge, and Eliphalet Dyer,
Roger Sherman, and William Pitkin, assistant
judges, was held at' New Haven for the trial of
the robbers, to which was joined that of six other
persons as accessories, viz., David Wooster, Sen.,
Noah Candee, Daniel Johnson, William Seeley,


280          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

z8i

RETRIBUTION.

K

4

Francis Noble, and Lemuel Wooding. The char-
acter of the offense, the number and prominence
of the accused, and the romantic story of the ab-
duction and maltreatment of young Judd, excited
a profound interest throughout the county, and
the sessions of the court were crowded with spec-
tators. The counts of the indictment were two-
fold first' for burglary, and secondly for treason,
the latter consisting' in joining or attempting to
join the enemies of the state by going to Long
Island, which, by a recent ldw of the state; had'
been expressly declared to constitute that crime.
The accessories named 'were charged with counte-
nancing, harboring, and aiding the active criminals
in so. doing.
In the lack of sufficient independent evidence to
secure the conviction, for it will be remembered
that Chauncey~ could not testify to the fact of, the
~kurglary, two of the accused, Scott and Cady,
who were believed to be least conspicuous in the
transact ion, were permitted to turn witnesses for
the state. All the ot ers 'were found guilty, and
received sentences as llows:
The three burglars, avid and Henry Wooster,
Jr., and Samuel Doolittl , each to pay 'a fine of fifty

pounds, and be imprisoned four years in the New-
gate State Prison.
David Wooster, Sen., and Noah Candee, to pay
a fine each of five hundred pounds, and be impris-
oned nine months in the Hartford Jail.
Daniel Johnson, two hundred and fifty pounds
fine, and imprisonment in th~e Hartford Jail nine
months.
Fraiicis Noble, a fine, of fifty pounds, and impris-
onment in Hartford Jail oneyear.
William~ Seeley, twenty-five pounds, and Hart-
ford Jail nine months.
Lemuel Wooding, twenty-five 'pounds, and Hart-
ford Jail six months.
In addition to these sentences, civil suits fdr
damages ~Vere instituted by Captain Dayton against
,all the responsible parties that had been implicated
in the affair - first for assault and battery upon
Mrs. Dayton and the children; secondly for the
damage done to his 'house and furniture, the de-
strudtion of his liquors, etc.; and thirdly for the
loss of, his goods which they haciL carried away. In
all these suits, but one, he recovered judgment,
awarding him, in the aggregate, many thousands
~f pounds. The excepted case was a suit against


282

Captain John Wooster, his wife and daughter, for
harboring and concealing the robbers, 'which, for
some reason not stated on the record, was decided
against Dayton.
1V~r. Judd also sued David Wooster and his son,
Candee, Johnson, and Jobamah Gunn, for the ab~
auction of Chauncey, and injuries done to him, and
recovered a verdict of eight hundred pounds, lawful
money. ,
These heavy fines and payments for damages,
togetheiv with all the costs of the trial, it may well
be believed, were the pecuniary ruin of many of
the stories. Mr. Wooster, indeed, was stripped of
all his property. His homestead was attached
ai~d confiscated to the state, and he ~vas *reduced
to absolute poverty. Many traditions remain to
this day of the straits to which his, family were
reduced. Candee also, and Gunn, notwithstanding
all the endeavors of the latter to conceal his knowl-
edge of the transaction, suffered heavily. It is
V~A~L, when paying to Mr. Judd the eight hun-
dred pounds awarded for the abduction of Chaun-
cey, he brought out the coin from his house in his
beaver hat, and made delivery of the money in that
mode.

CHAPTER

XXVII.

NRWGATE.
VIE old copper mine in what is now Gran-
by, part of the ancient town of Simsbury,
~ used for about half a centtfry as a state
prison, and named from the more noted debtors'
prison in London Newgate, was long famous ih the
annals of Connecticut.
It is situated on the western slope ofthat green~-
stone mountain range which traverses the whole
breadth of New England, and* separates the Far-
rnington from the C6nn~cticut River Valley. How
early copper was, discovered here is not known, but
it is mentioned in the proceedings of a town meet-
ing of Simsbury in 1705, when a committee was
~appointed to make expLorations, and report to the
town. Two years later a contract was made with'
three persons, named Woodbridge, for working the
283

CEAUN CRY JUDD.

'1


*

284

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

mine and smelting the ore, with the stipulation
that one tenth of the product should belong to the
town. It is a curious fact, as indicating what class
of' persons in that day were supposed to have suf-
ficient knowledge to tarry on such a work, that
the three contractors were all clergymen; also,
that, of the portion that was to come to the town,
two thirds should be applied for the maintenance
"of an able schoolmaster in Simsbury," and one
third to the endowment of the "Collegiate School,"
founded five years before, ftow Yale College.
Mining operations were cQnt'inu~d here, from
time to time, until the Revolution, but probably
without bringing very satisfactory returns to any-
body. The ore was not rich, containing only from
ten to twelve per cent. of metal, and the work of
reducing it, in the existing state of scientific knowl-
edge, very difficult. The same jealousy, before
spoken of, lest there should be any rivalry to the
productions of the mother c6pntry, which restrained
the introduction of manufacturing into the colo-~
nies, operated as a check to successful mining7 the
business of smelting and refining being prohibited
by acts of Parlia~n ent. The proprietors, therefore,'
were compelled o ship their ore to England to be

285

NEWGATE.

reduced, involving, of cOurse, great expense and
risk. One cargo was wrecked in the English
Channel, another captured by the French.
Thee copper produced from these mines was said
to be of a superi4 r quality. Some of i(vas coined
in the shape of money, called, from the name of the
maker; "Higley's coppers," which passed current
in the vicinity. They bore on one side the in-
scription, "I am good copper," and on the other,
Value me as you please." They are said to have
passed for two shillings and sixpence, currency,
about forty-two cents, - which must have exceeded
their real value. These were much sought after,
and used in melting up with gold for the making
of pinchbeck and other base metals, .employed in
the manufacture' of j~eweIry.
At' the time it began to be used as a prison,
the mine consisted of two shafts sunk perpendicu-
larly through the solid rock one thirty-five, the
other seventy-five feet in depth. From the bot-
toms of these, extensive caverns, excavated for ore,
descended several hundred feet into the mountain,
in a sloping direct ion, according to the ~~lay of the
vein, terminating in levels o~ drains, which had
been pierced through to the surface, further down


p

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

NEWGATE~

the mountain~ for the purpose of freeing the mine
from water.
In May, 1773, the, first steps were taken by the
legislature of the colony for the establishment of a
prison at this place. A committee, appointed to
visit and examine it, reported that, in their 'judg-
ment, by an expenditure of about thirty- seven
A
pounds, the caverns could be so' secured that it'
would be next to impossible for any person to
escape from them. Whereupon the same commit-
tee were invested "with full power to agree with
the proprietors of said mines, or the lessees* there-
of, to I~ec.eive, keep, and employ in said mines such
criminals, as may by law be sentenced to such pun-
ishment, or to purchase in the remaining term in
said lease for such purposes, and according to
their. best dis~i-etion, e~ectually to secure said
mines suitably to employ such persons as may be
there confined by order 'of law."' In October fol-
lowing, the committee reported that they-had pur-
chased the remaining term of th~ lease nineteen
years for sixty pounds; that, by blasting rocks,
they had prepared a 'well-finished lodging-room,
Phelps' History of Newgate, p. 'I.

about fifteen feek by twelve, in the cavern, and had
fixed over the west and shorter shaft a large iron
door, etc. The, eastern shaft was left open, its.
depth and bare perpendicular walls of rock being.
judged sufficient to prevent escapes. There were
no buildings upon the premises, nor any~ walls to
prevent external access to the shafts.
Such was the place provided by the c'ok5ny fore-
most on this continent, if not in the world, for its
regard for Christianity, - the home of churches
and schools, for the punishment of her criminals.
Let it be imputed, not to her inconsistency v~ith her
professions, but to her ignorance of what the prison
system of a Christian state should and might be,
that she established one that might, almost without~
a figure, be styled infernal. Thrust down into,
subterranean caverns, dripping perpetually with
water from above, where no ray of sunlight could
ever penetrate; compelled to sleep on, straw in
damp~ and moldy bunks, and left to contaminate
each other by endless recitals of past crimes ~nd
endless plo things of new, it is no wonder'that its
inmates, instead of being reformed, emerged more
hardened in all evil, to become the , scourge and,
terror: of the community.

286

287


288          CHAIJNCEY JUDD.                                        NEWGATE..            289

At that time nothing was known of our modern
prison discipline. Howard, Mrs. Fry~ and other
philanthropists had not disclosed to the world the
horrors of European prisons, an~1 roused the benev-
olent to undertake some measures fpr their reform.
The sole considerations which seem to have influ-
enced the legislature of Connecticut one hundred
years ago, in constructing a prison, were the safe-
keeping of the 'prisoners, and the smallest expense
to the colony.
The first convict received to the mine was sent
there in December, 1773. He escaped three~ weeks
afterward through the eastern shaft, being drawn
up by a rope, assisted, it is said, by a woman to
whom he was paying ~addPesses. In Febituary,
1774, three prisoners were received, all of whom
escaped in less than two months; in April, another
who had been. there but four days. It is to be
remembered, that, besides the open eastern shaft,
there were other parts of the caverns which had
not been properly secured. The men, too, wc~re at
first employed in digging the ore of the mine, and
found their tools not only adapted to that labor,
but to open for themselves the wa~ of escape.
Notwithstanding the proved insecurity of this

prison, it had the reputation abroad of being supe-
rior in strength to any other in.the country. Two
years after its first occupancy, General Washington
sent hither a number of culprits for confinement.
They are, he says, "such flagrant and atrocious
villains, that they cannot by any means be set at
large, or confined in any place in this camp." Con-
gress too, in 1781, applied to Govei~nor Trumbull
(the "Brother Jonathan," so called affectionately
by Washington, from whom the appellation has
passed to. the entire Ameritan peopl~) for th~ use
of the mines as a\ prison "for the reception of
British prisoners o~f war, ahd, for the purpose of
retaliation." Happy was it for all the parties con-
cerned that the war itself came to a. close before
the negotiations for this purpose were completed.
In i 774-5 the eastern shaft was closed, and a
block-house of logs built over the western one,
which admitted entrance to the caverns through a
heavy iron door. This, with the keeper's house
adjacent, was soon burned. New buildings were
then ordered to be erected, among them a work-
shop above ground. These were not completed
till November 1780, the prisoners, meanwhile, be-*
ing confined in Hartford Jail. In 1781 the prem-
19

289

NEGATE.


290            C1~AUNCEY JUDD.
ises were first enclosed ?th a picket fence, with
bastions at the corners fo security. But this and
the other buildings were again destroyed by fire,
and for a time the idea of successfully maintaining
a prison here seems to have been abandoned.- At
last, taught by experience, the legislature passed a
new act, more perfect in its details, providing not
only for the repair of the old fixtures, but the build-
ing of sMitable workshops, a keeper's house, etc., all
to be enclosed within ,a strong stone wall.' The
work was completed at an' expense to the stgte of
over three thousand dollars. The prison was now
found to be/secure, and was thenceforth maintained
until the completion of the new State Prison in
Wethersfield in 1827.
The work of mining was 'subsequently renewed
by parties who had purchased the, premises 'from
the state, the old workshops being used as foun-
deries for smelting the ore. It is now, however,
abandoned, though the old wall, the guard-house,
and many of the other buildings remain. The
whole is worth a visit by those who would get a
full idea of the changes which have been effected
in the half century past in the prison discipline
of N~w England.

NEWGATE.

'291

It was not until November that the work 'of
repairing and refitting at the prison was completed,
so as to be ready for die reception of the conVicts.
Meanwhile, pursuant to their sentence, they were
detained at the jail in Hartford.
Newgate was now in a much better condition~,
than ever before. it was kept under a strong mili-
tary guard, consisting of a lieutenant, a sergeant, a
corporal, and twenty-four privates. The whole
number of prisoners was about twenty, of whom
the greater part were stories. A' law had been
passed, the spring before, authorizing the superior
court to sentence to Newgate persons convicted of
acts of disloyalty to the state. Courts-martial were
clothed with similar power in cases occurring un~
der military jurisdiction. These persons were of a
higher class than ordinary criminals, being fre-
quently men of education and property. One of
them was a clergyman named Baxt~r, who preached
a sermon to his fellow-convicts from Judges xv. i
entitled, "~Tyrarinicide proved Lawful, from the
practice of Jews, Heathens, and Chrj~tians. ~A
Discourse delivered in the Mines at Symsbury, in..
the Colony of Connecticut, to the Loyalists cons
fined there by order of' the Congress, on Septem..
ber 19, 1781', by SIMEON BAXTER, a Licentiate in,


292            C~IAtTNCEV JUDD.

Divinity and voluntary chaplain to those Prisoners
in the Apartment called Orcus."' It was dedicated
to Washington and Congress and the Protestant
rebel ministers in the thirteen Confederated Cob-
flies in America, and printed both in this country
and England. The doctrine it advocated was the
rightful ness and duty of killing all usurping and
rebel magistrates. It is garnished with. Latin and
numerous from Greek and Roman au-
quota~tions
thors, and displays considerable learning and liter-
ary ability.
The confinement of such persons as these with
common burglars, horse thieves, counterfeiters, and
other felons, shows how intense were the feelings
of indignation existing in the minds of the patriots
against those who were regarded as enemies to
~ their country's liberties.
Previous to this time the prisoners had been
kept at labor in digging ore in the mines. A work-
shop. having now been built above ground, they
were henceforth~ employed in mechanical labor,
chiefly in making nails. The machinery by which
nails are now produced had not then been in-
vented; hence all that were used, of every size,
had to be made by hand, in consequence of which
they were scarce and expensive.'

CHAPTER

XXVIII.

PRISON LIFE.

ET us draw a picture~ of daily prison life
in the Newgate of Conne~icut one hun-
E~. dred years ago. At daybreak, summer
and winter, the heavy iron trap-door covering the
shaft is unbarred, and by the united strength of
two men thrown open. A guard of soldiers with
loaded muskets are drawn up in line before it. A
bell is rung, summoning the convicts from the
depths below to their daily toil. Slowly and pain-
fully they ascend the perpendicular iron ladder,
forty feet, iii length, their limbs heavily loaded with
~both handcuffs and fetters. They qome forth iii
squads of three each, followed by a g~uard. Unable
to walk, they hobble along the way to the ~vork~
shop, where they are placed at their work. ' Then
N
another squad follows 'in like manner, 't~ll'all are
293

292 .


*     294            CHAtrNCEY JUDD.
.4
thus disposed of. Some are chained by the leg to
their forges, others to wheelbarrows) and such as
are vicious and refractory have iron collars sus-
pended from the roof locked about their Pecks.
The guards take their stations in the shops, 4he
handcuffs are removed to allow the use of their
hands, and the labors of the day begin.
Twice during the day work is suspended, and an
hour ip assigned for meals. Pieces of.pickled pork
or beef are brought in and distributed one to each
*    man. 'These are washed and boiled by each at his
forge,~ in the water provided for cooling the iron.
One p~und of bread, a few potatoes, and a pint of
cider niake up the idst. of the daPy ration, varied
sometimes by peas or other vegetables. Each one
divides his rations for the day to suit himself, and
they are allowed to exchange with each other, to
barter, buy and sell, at their pleasure.
Regular tasks of labor were assigned the, prison-
ers, and when these were finished they night work
for themselves or for others. In this way some of
them acquired considerable sums of money. The
ingenious made trinketswhich were readily sold to
visitors. * It sounds strangely ~enoug in this day to
state that the warden of the prison kept ~. tavern

PRISON LIFE.
near by, where not only visitors, but the convi
themselves, might procure liquors, cider, tobacco,~
or whatever other luxuries they desired. He who
could muster money enough would prevail on. some
one of the guard to escort him over the way ~o the
inn, where the good-natured Captain Viets would
deal out the coveted refreshment to them both.
For neglect of d~ty and other offenses the men
were punished by flogging, confinement in the
stocks, double or triple nets of irons, hanging up
by the l}eels, etc. Everything of this sort tended
to inflame their anger and revenge, and seldom was
any appeal made to their reason or better feelings.
The men were allowed at all ti~es to converse with
their keepers and with each other.
At four o~c1loqk in the afternoon the tasks of the
day were finished. The handcuffs were replaced,
the collars and fetters unlocked, and with the same
leaping and hobbling the m~n, unless granted the
indulgence of remaining for over Work, as'~ already
stated, made their way back to th~ pit. As they
passed the trap, a tit of candle, one inch long, was
given to each; thc~n, holding up his shackles as he
best could, he crept backward down the ladder to
the ~~egions below. If he had saved anything from

I.


,296(          CHATJNCEY JUDD.
his breakfast or dinner, he was permitted to carry it
with him for supper; if hot, he mu fgo without, un-
less he could buy or beg from oth ~rs till morning.
Arriving below, he might retire at once to his
heap of straw, or join hjs fellow-convicts in what-
ever recreation or work of mischief their inclina-
tion might prompt. There was no restriction of any
kind upon them, except that of confinement~ Con-
versation~ gambling, practical jokes on each other,
'plans for escaping, and schemes of crime and ad-
venture to be executed after their departure, filled
up the dismal hours till weariness compelled them
*    t~ sleep, ~o be aroused again at the inexorable call
of the bell at daybreak the next morning
It must be left to the imagination tp depict the
*    scenes which the walls of those~ deep caverns wit-
nessed during those hours of license. By carefiUly
husbanding their candle-ends they could manage to
hive light most of the time. Not infrequently did
they contrive to. free themselves from their haj-
cuffs by picking their locks, or by using keys ~f
their own manufacture. Their friends were allowed
to visit them freely, and besides supplying them
with ~money, often smuggled among them imple-
ment~ to aid them in effecting their escape.

PRISON LIFE.

297

Henry Wooster was one qf those who had~ suc-
ceeded in i~eleasing his hands from their, fetters
at night, bein~ careful, of course, to replace them
before going up to his work in the morning. One
of the first things he attempted was to make a
thorough exploration of the caverns, to see if there
was any possible way of egress. For this purpose
he forced himself into one of the drains which dis-
charged the waters of the mine. This, after the
occupancy of the niines as a prison, had been care-
fully built up with stone and mortar, leaving only a
narrow channel, which was supposed to be thor-
oughly secur~ d by iron bars. But patient labor
laughs at ob tackles. Watching his opportunities,
Henry contrived to conceal in his clothes frag-
ments of the rods of which nails were made, and
qarry them below. With~these he picked' out, little.
by little, bits of the mortar until the bars were
loosened sq as to permit , their, removal. In the
same way he enlarged the drain in some of its nar-
rowest places, and after many weeks of assiduous
toil found himself near the outer orifice.
Redoubled exertions followed, in which he was
aided, as far as possible, by others who had the use
of their hands. It was a fatiguing and most, dan~


298

CHAUNCEY JUDD.

gerous task. The straitness of the passage barely
permitted him to drag himself along it without the
power of turning, and to get back was still more
difficult. 'Once, indeed, while far within, he gave
himself up for lost. A stone overhead, whidh he
had loosened partially, fell 'into the drain after1 he
had passed, effectually closing it like a porteullis,
and debarring his return. Unable to reverse his'
position, or reach it with his hands, he concluded,
ft~r a time, that his last hour was come, an.d that he
must perish in his terrible prison. His' cries for
help could scarcely be he~ird by the other convicts,
and if heard, it was doubtful whether they could
relieve him. It wa~ an awful; moment for the
wretched criminal, extQrting even from his hardened
heart an ~onizing si4pplication for mercy from
Him to whom he had never prayed before:
At length, on pressing the stone with' his foot,
I-Lenr perceived that 'it w~s loose, and continuing
to work it as fat' as he was ~b1e, it finally fell coin-
pletely through from the p~ ace where it hung sus-
pended iyto the drain. Fu ther effort showed that
he could push it a little along the passage~behind
him. But would it pass 'the whole distance? for
if there was a single place too small for its climen-

PRISON LIFE.

'299

sions, he would be as~ inextricably shut in as if' the
drain had been hermetically sealed.
Bracing himself against the sides of the channel,
and pressing the obstacle with all his strength, ~i
succeeded at length in getting it to a little depres-
sion or hollow on the bottom, which would permit
of his passing over it. With desperate energy he
crowded hirpself by, and at l~st emerged into the
prison a little before the dayl~reak bell sounded to
call the men to their labor. He had been in the
drain all nio~ht and came forth bruised, bleeding,
an&amp; utterly exhausted. It would not do, however,
to let his suffering condition be knoWn, foil this
would inevitably lead to a search and exposure; so,
donning, with the help of his comrades, his parentss
and irons (for he had gone into the drain naked), he
dragged himself up the ladder to his workJ If his
bruised and haggard condition was noticed, it ex-
cited no remark, the evidences of' fighting and
sleeplessness being too common among the wretch-
ed culprits, to awaken any suspicion.
A fe~w nights after this, having recovered some-
what' from the sufferings he had incurred, it was
judged practicable to complete their escape, and
Henry. and a few others made preparations to leave.

4


,300         CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                                      ~3OI

A'mong.these was a man ~named. Prescott, of New
Haven, who had been sentenced to the prison for
smuggling. David Wooster and Doolittle seem
not to have participated in the attempt, for what
reason is not known; possibly being unable to ex~
tricate themselves from their fetters sufficiently to
warrant the attempt. It was an hour before day
when H enry and his associates broke through the
remaining portion of the drain and fled into the
woods. Tlj eir escape w~s sooi~i discovered and
the alarm given. iMost of~ the others were retaken
and conveyed back to prison. Henry, more fort~.i-
nate, concealed himself 'in the 'top of a dark hem-
lock growing on the mountain, iiintil the next night,
~when h&amp; began his flight, and finally succeeded in
reaching the coast at or near New London, and
made his. way on board an English vessel, where he
enlisted in the British service.
Not long after this a general plan of insurrec-
tion and escape was carried through successfully.
About ten o'clock at night, May i8, x78i, when all
the guard but two had' retired to rest,~ the wife of
one of the prisoners applied for permission to visit
her husband in the caverns.' This was not an un-
usual thing at 'the time, and her request was grant-

PRISON LIFE.:

399

. go

ed. The trap-door being raised to 'admit her, the
prisoners, who by arrangement had gathered upon
the ladder, prepared for the encounter, instantly
sprang through , snatched the guns belonging to
the two men on duty, and made themselves map-
ters of the guar4-ro6m before the rest of fhe guard
could be aroused. dne of the officers, named Shel-
don, learning the state df affairs, made a desperate
fight; but the brave fellow was stabbed by a bayo-
net, and died in a few minutes. The other soldiers,
after a short ~struggle, were overcome, a few fled,
and thea remainder were thrust by~ the prisoners into
the caverns and locked in. ~The prisoners, twenty-
eight in number, it is said, all escaped, and being
now well armed, most of them avoided a recapture.
'Such is the statement given in the History of the
Prison. Either, however, there ~s some error in it,
or else David Wooster and Samuel Doolittle were
among those retaken, for it is certain that after this
they were still in confinement.. About a year later
we~ find on the records of' th9 legislature an entry
as follows -
"Upon the petition 'of David Wooster, Jr., show-
ing that being very young and under the influence
of John LAlexanderi Graham, a deserter from the


30Z          CHAUNCEY JUDD.

British army, and some others of much more res pec~
table connections, he was induced to be concerned
in the'villainous conduct of plundering the house of
Ebenezer ~ayton, of New Haven, ~and afterward of'
going over to Long Island, 'and soon after of being
retaken and. brought back, for which he was sen-
tenced to confinement in 'Newgate Prison for the
term of four years, of which he has already suffered
almost two years, and asking that on giving suffi~
cient bondsior his ~ood~conduct hereafter, he may
be released from pri on, and permitted to enlist as
a soldier in the continental army, etc.
"Therefore, be it resolved by this Assembly that
upon getting sufficient bonds to the amount of
150 that he will be of good behavior hereafter ,
he shall be liberated and permitted henceforth to
1' live in some town in this state on the east side of
Connecticut 'River, under the oversight and control
of General Spencer."
Subsequently he was released from his bond and
allowed to return home, under a permit from that
officer.
Doolittle made a similar petition about the same..
time, which,, however, was refused. In January,
I 783, he renewed his application with better.' suc~

PRISON LIFE.             303
cess. It was ordered that upon giving hi~ note to
the state for the payment of all costs incurred, he
might be released from prison, and allowed to re-
side in the town of Woodbury, under the care of
'the selectmen of the town, for, the remainder of his
term.
Seeley and Wooding obtained also some abate-
ment of their respective sentences.. In fact, as th~.
war was visibly drawing to a close, the dangers 're-
sulting from disaffection to the ~zoun try diminished,
and the feelings which had been cherished against
it were much softened.
The estate of David Wooster, having been con-
fiscated, was, after a few years, placed in the care
of the town of Waterbury for the support of Woos-
ter' s children, two of whom; as we have before
stated, were imbeciles. It is believed that subse-
quently it was restored to the family., Till within a
few years past it has been occupied as a residence
by some of his descendants. One of. his sons was
known to the writer as a preacher in the Methodist
church, and another, James D~. Wooster, 'Esq., as a
highly respectable citizen and magistrate.
Four years after the termination of the wgr, a
traveler, one d~.y in the dusk of the evening, came


CHAUNCEY JUDD.

to the house of Henry Wooster, Sen., in Derby, and
asked permission to lodge' there that night. He
was weary and foot-sore, he said, and could go no
further. Hospitality in such cases was a habit of
New England, and his request was granted. Mrs.
Wooster was then engaged in preparing a kettle of
hasty-pudding, for the family supper, and at her in-
vitation the traveler partook of the repast. Jt~ the
course of it he contrived to turn 'the conversation
upon the subject of her own family, and especially
of her absent son. She recounted with a mother's
partiality 'his amiable qualities, his manly agility
and strengths Won by the interest he seemed to
manifest in her story, she bewailed the sad, occa-
sion of his falling in with a stranger, who had per-
suaded him to go off on a mad undertaking of re-
venge on a piratical Yankee captain, in conse-
quence of which he ~had got into prison. After a
while he broke out with others, since which she had
heard nothing from him, and presumed he must be
dead.
At length, when he had sufficiently draWn forth
these reminiscences of the good woman, the trav~~
eler assumed his natural speech ~and manner, and
announced himself as 'her missing son. At first

#4

she was incredulous, and unable to recognize him,
till, opening the bosom of his shirt, he showed her*
a mole on his breast. This well-remembered mark
convinced her of his identity. She fell on his neck,
and, like the father of the prodigal, wept tears of
joy over her long-lost boy.
20

304

PRISON LIFE.

305


CHAPTER XXIX.

AEWERWARD.

we ~writing ~a tale of fiction, we
~ERE
should feel bound, in deference to, the
feelings of our readers, to end our story
with the marriage o Chauncey Judd with Ditha
Webb. For certainly that first unfortunate adt of
gallantry, which occasioned him so much suffering,
and had so nearly cost him his life, deserved to be
crowned with a correspondingly ~1it~u~ resuk.
But we are writing history, not fiction; and his-
tory, though often a maker of romance, ha~ little
regard for that which is prepared for her, by the
schemes of men. The allotments of human' expe-
rience are the prerogative of a higher Wisdom than
our own. In the, beautiful language of 'another,
"Every man's life is a alan of God," who shapes
its progress~and its issues to promote purposes of
306

AI~tERWARD.             307

107

good beyond our linlited vision,' and reaching'down
through unmeasured ages of the future.
Ditha's family early removed from Gunntown
into what was .then the far-off region of Central
New York. Of her subsequent history we are
not informed.
Chauncey resided with his parents after* his res-'
toration. Though the war was prolonged nearly
three years further, yet the circumstances of the
family were somewhat more comfortable than they
had been in its earlier years. The money received
from the stories served to remove the debt which
rested 'on the homesteadd, and complete the "doing
off" of ~the house so far as it ever, was accomplished.
The children were now getting~to be olderthe four
eldest having married and commenced housekeep-~
ing for themseWes, and the younger ones approach-
'ing more nearly the age when their labor was of
substantial value in the kitchen and on the farm.
Chauncey~s slender frame and delicate health,
serving as a constant reminder of the hardships
he '.had undergone, made him rather the favored.
member' of .the family, as they secured for him a
peculiarly tender regard' in the social circle of the
neighborhood.


30&amp;           CHATJNCEY JUDD.

AFTERWARfl.            309

It was at what would now be thought a pr~ina-
ture age that Chauncey took to himself a wife. As
we scan the family records of those times, we are
struck with the prevalence of early marriages.
Why, indeed,~ should there have been delay? A
young man became of age at twenty-one, and could
not well enter upon his life~work as a farmer till he
had a home and a household of his own. Chaun-
cey's mother married in her seventeenth year, and
was not eighteen years older than her oldest son.
It was to such beginnings, coupled with industry
and temperance, that we are to attribute the nu-
merous and healthy families of that day. The
blessing c~f the tull-quivered sire rested upoii many
a patriarchal household.
Among the young people who were intimate in
the family was the young sister of his uncle Wil-
liams~s wife, Mabel Hotchkiss. She was, as before
stated, the daughter of Captain and Deacon Gideon
H~chkiss, the veteran soldier and one of the lead-
ing. men of the town. The houses of the Judds
and Williamses were but a few rods apart. Mabel,
of course, was a frequent visitor at her, sister's, and
SO: it was the most natural thing in the world that
he should have won her regard. Like Desdeniona,
in the play,

'I

"She loved him for the dangers he had passed,
And he loved her that she did pity them."
They were married in September, 1785, a little bed
fore the completion of his twenty-first year.
Little remains to record of his subsequent life.
The religious impressions made upon his mind in
the anguish of his terrible trial never left him. He
became known as a man of exemplary character
and devotedd piety. He, was at one time chosen a.
deacQn in the Ba~~ist church, but his great diffi~
d~nce and self-distrust lead him to decline the office.
His wife died about 1799, after which' he married
9
again.
His 'own death occurred February 24,' 1823, at
the age of fifty-three.
Of the stories who engaged actively in the war
against the independence, of America, the subse-
quent 'history was for the most part a melancholy
one. Probably not more than dne half of those
who went from Waterbury ever returned. Those
who did were mos'tfy broken-down men, reduced to
poverty, laden with -the odium of having made war
upon their country, and in many cases stained with
vice, and addicted to habits which sent them to an
early grave.

C


It was one of the questions which most impeded
the negotiations for peace between the states and
Great Britain in 1783, what shouJd be done with
these stories. Several thousand in the aggregate
had removed to Canada, New Brunswick, an~l Nova
S~otia, the greater part of whom were in circum-
stances of extreme destitution. .Jt was at first
insisted by the British negotiators that Congress
should grant pardons to all political offenders of
this sort, restore4 their confiscated estates, and re-
munerate then~ for the lQsses they had suffered.
This was "refused, on the ground, first, that Con-
gress was without the requisite authority, its sole
power, under the Articles of Confederation, being
to recommend measures to the several states. Sec-
ondly, these men, by their principles, example, and
counsels, had encouraged the British government
to prosecute the war, and many had personally en-
gaged in plundering and ravaging the country, and
ought rather to be made to render compensation
than expect to receive it. Thirdly, that the confis-
cated estates had been sold and resold, often di-
vided, ~nd could not now be restored without open-
ing the way to endless litigation. And finally, that
in the impoverished condition of the country it was

impossible to pay its own ~iieritorious soldiers;
much more those who had done so much to , bring
ruin both upon it and themselves.
The matter was at length compromised by in-
serting three articles into the treaty to the effect
thatxthe loyalists should not be debarred from~ col-
lecting debts clue them before the war; that Con-
gress would recommend to th~e states to restore
confiscated property as far as possible, and that no
future confiscations should be made or prosecutions
begun because of what had been done. These terms,
which were certainly most generous on the part of
the infant states, were finally, though with great re-
luctance, accepted by Great Britain,' and the peace
was concluded on that basis.
The recommendations of Congress to the states
were, however, ineffectual, as it was probably ex-
pected they wpuld. be. Connecticut would not con-
sent to restore 'the property of such ~s had. been
engaged in plundering and burning Danbury, Fair-
field, and other sea-coast towns. The sai~ e was
true in other states. Let England, tijey said, p~y
us for the wanton injuries she has inflicted before
she asks compensatiofl for the traitors by whom it
was done.

~3rO         CHAUNCEY JUDD.                                         AFTERWARD.           311


312'         CHA1JNCEY JUDD.

AI~'TER WARD.           , 313

Failing thus in securing relief from the states
for the refugees, Parliament undertook the duty for
themselves. A commission was appointed to ob~
tam returns of the losses incurred by their friends,
and ultimately a sum amounting to about fifteen
and a half millions of dollars was appropriated
from the British exchequer for their compensation.
"The loyalists then," says Sabine, "were weil
cared for. Whatever were the miseries to individ-.
uals occasioned by delay; whatever the injury. sus-.
tamed by those who were unable to procure suffi-.
* cient evidence of their losses; and whatever Were
the 'wrongs inflicted upon others by the errors in
judgment on the part of the commissioners, the
Americans who took the royal side, as a body, fared
infinitely better than the great bod of the whigs,
whose services and sacrifices were quite as great.
For besides the allowance of fifteen and a half mil-
lions of dollars in money, numbers received corisid-
* enable gratuities, half pay as military officers, large
grants Qf land, and shared with other subjects in
* the patronage of the crown., The rewards of those
who served under Congress, on the other hand,
* were exceedingly limited.; and excepting those who

filled the public offices under the state and after the
adoption of the Constitution of the United States,
under the national government, few who served in
he field, or who suffered by. the ravages 'of the
king's troops obtained considerable or adequate
recompense. In truth, thousands, were allowed
to go down to the grave in abject want and desti-
tution." ~
We must spare room, ere we close, for a single
paragraph respecting our friends Tobiah a~d Ra-
chel, and their descendants. After the war, they
continued to reside in Derby, now .Seymour, main-
taining .a respectable character in th9 humble class
to which they belonged. The advantage of com-
mon schools free to all, .the abolition of slavery,
and the gradual abatement of prejudice against the
colored race, have opened to them possibilities
which were formerly denied them. One of Tobi-'
ah's descendants, a great-grandson, we believe,
the Hon. Ebenezer D. Bas~ett, was appointed
~by President Grant, in 1869, minister resident to
Hayti, and now worthily represents the dignity of
the' United States at that republic.
"Loyalists, p. 112.


/'

314            CHAUNCEY JUDD.
A century has passed, and the feeble colonies
which, at such expense of treasure an~ suffering, in
private and public, planted hcre the germs of a free
government, have become a rich and powerful na~
tion. The wildest dre~tms of our fathers as to thc
future could never have conjectured what haVe now
,~ become realities. The grandchildren and great-
grandchildren of our Revolutionary families live in
homes which would then have been palaces, and
enjoy luxuries which the proudest nobles of the
mother land could not then have commanded. The
blessings of just laws, of universal and free educa~
tion, of unrestricted enterprise in every branch of
industry, and of free, self-administered institutions
of religion, are enjoyed by every citizen. We shall
not have read the lessons of our early history
aright, if we have not learned from then~ a just ap-
preciation of our blessings, a~d a heartfelt gratb
tude for them to Him who gave them.


  
             
         
       
   
