
    ----CITATION----
        Tyler, M. W. (Martha W.). A Book Without a Title, or, Thrilling Events in the Life of Mira Dana .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8130
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            A book without a title, or, Thrilling events in the life of Mira Dana 
            
                 A BOOK WITHOUT A TITLE: OR  THRILLING -EVENTS IN THE LIFE OF MRA DANA. BY MRS. M. W. TYER, OF WORCESTER. "Though The law sleeps, justice wakes, and injured souls Oft do a public right with private wrong, And justify their deeds unto themselves." BOSTON: PRINTED FOR THE -AUTHOR    PREFACE. As I do not claim for my book any literary merit, my only excuse for bringing it before the public is, that I believe it my duty to do so. If a man commits a murder, and the crime is proved against him, a gallows is erected and his own life forfeited. Why?  To deter others from a similar deed. The law not only sanctions, but demands the retributive act. Why be more lenient with criminals worse than murderers? Why not build a scaffold for the hanging of such men's reputations, and suspend them before the public gaze a warning to others following in their foot- steps. I speak that which I know, when I say there are many of my sex suffering worse than death from the hands of men who have sworn before God to love, honor, and protect them. (I thank. heaven that all men are not such wretches!) Perchance they suffer silently, believing that forbearance is the better part, not knowing that by such a course, they are paving the way for con- tinued suffering to themselves and their daughters after them. There are some men who have neither the fear of God or the love of woman in their hearts, that will quail before public investi- gation, when nothing but open exposure will deter them from their brutality.   iv            PREFACE. Some of these gallows have already been erected, and deserv- ing villains suspended therefrom. Here goes another!   But many who merit the same fate as those already undergoing pun- ishment, are yet unmolested, defiant in their wickedness. So up with your platforms, ladies, and weary not in the work till our land is free from these monsters in human form. If this little book should be instrumental in saving a single sister from sorrows like those which befell the heroine of its pages, then my labor is not in vain, and I shall bear contentedly the fault-finding of the critic, and the murmur of dissenting voices. THE AUTHOR.    CONTENTS. II., MRA  DANA       " "..0 ........et fe to a.... . .9 "EAVING HO:ME .........           . 12 ni. FACTORY LIFE .... ...........e................15 IV. SCHOOL DAYS . . ...... .............................. 19 V. TURN OUT ..................  ..21 VI. SEQUEL TO THE TURN OUT. .............................28 vn1. VII. I. "OED A ND LOST.. ..........    ...........3 TRLLLS . . .. .. .. .. .. . ' I..... .... 36a X. THE  SURPRISE ....... . ..................... .. 40 XI* UNCERTAINTY ......... .....47 XII. THE BETROTHAL. ......... .       ..... .   Vi           CONTENTS. XIII. XM. THE WRECK.   .........., ..53 XIV. UNCHANGED ...................... . .... ..... . .   58 XV. FIRST MARRIAGE......................61 XVI. THE PARTING.....   ..................................64 XVII. CAPTAIN GREY LOST OVERBOARD .......................67 XVIIL A STRANGE UNACCOUNTABLE SIGHT ....................69 XIX. VISIT TO MAINE.   ................................  71 XX. A RECITAL OF DREAMS AND VISIONS ..................   74 XXI. A SECOND BETROTHAL.....................    .....  80 XXII. FICKLENESS .........            .......   82 XXIII. HERBERT TYRRELL         ..          . . 86 XXIV. SECOND  ARRIAGE.. .........................88 XXV. "OCATING AT WORCESTER. .....          .......91 XXVI. TROUBLE AT THE OLD HOMESTEAD. ....................94 XXVII. WARNER'S SCHEME ............ .................96 XXVIII. FILIAL LOVE.......  .......   .....       101    CONTENTS.          Vii XXIX. THE SUNNY SOUTH.....  .    .......... . ....... .104 XXX. HOME AGAIN .......  ..............        114 XXXI. XXXII. MR. WOODBURY'S MARRIAGE ........................... 124 XXXIII. MRA'S CONFESSION .................................. 132 XXXIV. BREAKING UP HOUSEKEEPING. ......, ........1....   37 XXXV. SIN TRIUMPHANT.  . ..................  . * ......... . 145 XXXVI. SICKNESS ..........        ..........   151 XXXVII. "ETTERS.. ....................... ..............  162 XXXVIII. THE MANUFACTURER alias COBBLER ....................168 XXXIX. MRA ACCUSED..   . ...  .   ..171 XL. THE MOTHERS GRIEF ..........174 "EGAL COUNSEL .......................   ...... 180 XLII. A DIVORCE ATTEMPTED .............................. 188 XLIII. TREACHERY PROVED ...............................193 XLIV. NEW FRIENDS.   ..      ......   .................197   Vill         CONTENTS. XLV. -PROCEEDINGS AT THE AMERICAN HOUSE .  ................204 XLVL     . REMOVAL FROM THE. AMERICAN HOUSE ................ 210 XLVII. "TTLE STORIZS ......... I  ..E.. ..217 XLVIII. MRA IN BOSTON  ....,..  ........ ,. ..   .219 XLIX.  rR. TRE LL IN MOR TROUB LE.  ..... .. .., **. . .226 L. CGiSTMAS DAY. .. ........... ........... .......... .231 "I. MOReE TROUBLE FOR MR. TYRRELL ...,..  ........  235 PiUSHNG A BOO.    ......................i........ 240 "H. CLARA AN, D WaARNER. .               244 v         LIV. TY'RRELL'S TRIUMPH ............ ; ...,', .. .   249 "V. TYRRELL'S DEPARTURE....... ........  .......255 "VI. DREAMS REAIZED .  .................t............259    CHAPTER I. MRA    DANA. A quaint old farm-house was that of farmer Dana, situat- ed a few miles from Worcester, in the town of L-- . It was a home of the olden time truly, with its low creeper- shaded windows, nicely polished floors, and broad open fire- places. To be sure, its outside walls were a little brown, and its ancient roof covered with the softest moss instead of costly slate. Yet none the less lovely was the blue sky that bent smilingly over it, nor less bright the warm sun- light that crept in through the old-fashioned windows, and lay in great golden waves on the sanded floor. There were .cheerful faces daily gathered about farmer Dana's hearthstone, and clear happy voices ringing through the neat apartments from early dawn to dusky nightfall. What if he was not rich in worldly goods, was he not doub- ly blessed with contentment and cheerfulness around him? Mira Dana, the heroine of my story, was the wildest, merriest being, that ever rambled over clover meadows, or danced gypsy-like through deep tangled wildwoods." 1   10         MRA DANA. The whole town could not boast a wilder romp, yet what cared she? Did she not love the free air, and out-door sunshine? And whose business was it whether she perch- ed on the highest branches of the old pear-tree that shaded the cottage-door, to take a peep at the golden robin in his downy nest, or sat on the rustic seat beneath, where the shadows came and went like watves upon the sea-shore? What cared she if people did smile as she sat on the top- most rail of the old pasture fence? They might call her "Dick," if they wished to, she would act her own pleasure, not theirs. She was very sure she was a romp, and so prided herself on playing wild, roguish games; and, boy- like, working amongst the new made hay, and golden wav- ing grain. She did not know what would become of her, whether she should play away a life-time, or at last become sober and gentle like sister Maria. Would'nt she like to be a Shaker, and live in one of the large nice houses in the midst of the Shaker-village near by. She knew but little of the world, and yet a vague yearning had stolen into her heart, and strange visions of after years came floating through her mind, ere she could herself inter- pret them. And so she worked on, with a great deep working in her soul of which none know, or knowing, could have appre- ciated. Her education was neglected, and the very knowledge of her ignorance increased her awkwardness and embarrass- ment, while mingling among strangers.   MRA DANA.          " Ignorant? nay, not so. Not a flower that blossomed on the green hill-side, in the forest aisles, or on the banks of the silver crested Nashua, but that she knew and loved. Others might pass them idly by, but she could trace up- on their velvet cheeks, smiles imprinted by God's hand. Others might sleep quietly while the silver-footed moon- beams danced over dew-bathed fields, and glided into the heart of the dim old woods. But her soul was then alive, striving it seemed to speak from the earnestly flashing eyes, what the lips could not utter. But morning would come, and Mira's old rounds and duties came also. "I wont always be Dick," she would exclaim, with a toss of her head, and a determined smile playing about her rosy lips.   CHAPTER II. "EAVIN G   HOM E. "Good news, good news, mother," exclaimed Mira Dana, as she danced into the old kitchen with an open letter in her hand. "Only think!" she continued, brother Warner has ob- tained a situation for me in one of the mills at Lowell, and wishes me to go there immediately." Dear Mrs. Dana, there was a great weight of anxiety resting upon her heart at the thought of having her unso- phisticated and unlearned child out alone upon the ocean of life. Was her hand sufficiently firm to steer her youthful bark safely past the sharpened rocks of temptation? Without a mother's counsel, could she breast the great waves of sor- row that ever come to an untried soul? Very low and trembling was her voice that evening, whet she laid her hand upon the head of Mira, -and said, "Yo may go, my child." That was a great epoch in the young girl's life, the morn ing when the little trunk and band-box was placed on the   MRA DANA.          13 top of the old stage-coach, and she was seated inside upon the broad cushioned-seat, gazing at the little group that stood by the cottage door. She had wept upon her mother's bo- som-laid her hand reverentially in the proffered one of her father; and imprinted many a warm kiss upon the pale cheek of sister Maria, and the upturned rosy lips of little Hattie, who clung about her neck, striving to alter her determina- tion of leaving home. "Who'll go after the cows, Mira, when you are gone, and who'll rake hay for father when he is hurrying before a shower?" A triumphant smile played over Mira's ruddy cheek at the idea of some one else being obliged to take the part so long assigned to her. Slowly moved the old stage-coach at last, by each dear object she had known from childhood. The broad meadow field-the laughing brooklet, " fringed with the violets col- ored by the skies ;" the old gnarled oak that so long had stood by the quaint old school-house. There were queer undefined* thoughts creeping through Mira's mind, during that long day's ride. Strongly made resolutions that she would go out into the world, not as a passive being, but as an actor, a real worker upon life's great stage. Then came that wild, vague yearning for education and fame, which evl sweeps over the soul of the young and hopeful. At night-fall the coach neared the city of Lowell. With   "        MRA DANA. anageer heart Mira had watched, till the tall brick build- ings, and neatly arranged corporations appeared in sight. Every thing was so different from the quiet country town, so many new and queer objects came before her wondering vision, that overpowered by seeing, hearing and thinking, she covered her fece with her hands and wept bitterly. "For shame!" she at last exclaimed, wiping away her tears and smoothing back her ringlety hair, "I am a wo- man, what have I to do with tears!" T^   CHAPTER I. FACTORY    LIFE. "Well, Mira, what think you of Lowell?" asked Warner Dana of his sister, the following morning, as they walked toward a large brick mill on the Middlesex corporation. "Think of Lowell, Warner, why I think it is a perfect heap of houses, and people too, if they pile them all away, eight in a room, as they did where I stayed last night. Warner smiled at his sister's reply, and in a lively tone, said, "Well, do you not think you'll like it-plenty of compa- ny all the time?" "Plenty of company," she repeated mockingly. "I do not fancy being packed away among a parcel of' girls, for all the world as father packs away bundles of straw, and all for the sake of having company." "You'll soon get used to that Mira, and in the mean time you must strive and tame down that high, wild spirit of yours, and not be quite as much of a romp as you have ever been at home." "I do not see any place to romp," was the reply in a low   16         MRA DANA. sad tone; for visions of one-storied farm houses and green fields, and dim woods, came between her and the close streets and high brick walls. How strange that old mill seemed to her with its broad white staircase, large creaking doors, and brightly shining machinery. She wondered if she should ever be able to tie the smooth thread so quickly into firm knots, as did the girls whom the overseer designated as " old hands ;" or slip the long paint- ed spools easily upon the shining spindles. A few days and her position seemed pleasanter; very true, she could not move but that twenty pairs of eyes were following after her, anticipating her every thought and motion. But the old diffidence at last began to wear away, and she was as much at home among her companions as when rambling over the green fields of her country home. She was alone as it were, for although her brother War- ner was in the same place, he could not care for her, save by counsellings; yet her keen perception of right and wrong, kept her from going astray. What others might have regarded as unresistible tempta- tion, she passed by without a thought, a desire. What to her were the low, idle words that she daily heard? was she not living for something nobler, purer and better? would she bind her soul to grovelling pleasures and pursuits, when it wrestled and beat against them as a mountain-bird would beat against its prison-bars?   MRA DANA.          17 No! she was a life-worker, not an idle toy, to be tossed about by every hand that cared to grasp hers. "What a fool Mira Dana is!" exclaimed a bright look- ing girl one morning, as she stood by her work before the machinery had started. "Why so, Fanny?" "Because every time any one is sick, she must leave her work to go and take care of them; I'll bet she will not gain much by it, for the overseer don't like these girls that work one day and play the next." "Well, Fanny, you know he likes Mira Dana better than any girl in the room; don't you remember how kindly he spoke to her a few mornings since, when she looked lonely and home-sick." "Oh yes, I remember how fatherly he laid his hand up- on her shining hair, and what an awful air she put on when he lookedI at her; I suppose she thinks she is wonderfully handsome, because every one is saying so." And such a toss as Fanny Ray gave her little head, as she started her work, was not seen every day. Reader, did you ever see a pert little Miss just a mite jealous? Very true, Mira had often left her work to care for the, suffering, when other girls passed thema by without a word, or a thought. It seemed heathenish to her, and so through many a long day and weary night, she watched patiently, striving to make the dim, cheerless rooms pleasant and happy. What was life to her if passed in selfishness and ease? 1*   MRA DANA. Nought but a low, sordid thing, not worth preserving. She had seen but little of the world, yet that little told her of the great remainder. She knew that suffering and want was spread like a heavy pall over it; should not her hand help lift that pall? However little the good she might ac- complish, the thought of its littleness should not discourage her.   Time passed on, and amid the daily rumblings of the dim old factory, Mira laid plans for the future. She would not always be tying knots, and threading shut- tles; the very thought was as disagreeable as was once the name of"Dick." She thought to lay aside a sum of money for the purpose of attending school, when she should grow weary of working.   CHAPTER IV.   SCHOOL DAYS.   At the end of the year Mira left the old boarding-house, and merry mad-cap companions. Once more she saw her trunk placed on the top of the L   stage coach; once more was she seated on the broad cushion, gazing out at the blue sky, that grew fairer and brighter, it seemed, as ; she neared home. Again the old town appeared before her longing vision; the valleys, the meadows, the dimpled shining Nashua; and lastly, the old pear-tree bending over the brown cottage. There were warm hearts to welcome, and kind hands eagerly extended to clasp those of the wanderer. "Oh, Dick, I'm so glad to see you!" exclaimed little Hat- tie, as she twined her arms about Mira's neck. Mira start- j ed-the little prattler was very dear to her, yet she could not bear to-be called that name, even by her; and so in a half injured tone she said, "I am no longer "Dick," Hattie, so if you please, re- member to call me Mira!"    20         MRA DANA. "I am glad of it," laughed Maria, as she listened to Mi- ra's low spoken words. "Perhaps you are," retorted Mira, "but remember if I am not Dick, I shall not do Dick's work." "Oh yes you would darling, for it is natural for you to romp and play out of doors, as it is for the sun to shine, or the birds to sing." "We shall see," replied Mira. "And we shall see," echoed back the lips of Maria. A few days more, and Mira was very pleasantly situated 'a home, attending school. She placed her whole mind, aye, her whole soul, ever upon her studies; she cared but little now for climbing trees, or driving cattle, but when school-hours were over, she wandered out into the woods, and fields searching for her own floral favorites. "Did God place flowers here, to please the sight alone?" she would often ask herself. There must be some use for them, and it should be her aim to study out what that use might be. "Why cannot I be educated, and become a physician, like old Dr. Cutting? I would use roots and herbs, instead of calomel and blisters, and perhaps should do much more good, and be more noted. Then came to Mira the thought that she was a woman! Women! an unfortunate race of articles; without rights, save such as prudish society sees fit to give them. What a trial to Mira, she was a woman'!   CHAPTER V. T HE TURN O U T. "Seventeen years old to-day," murmured Mira Dana in a low tone, as she sat alone in her own little chamber, one autumn afternoon.  "Seventeen years old! and what am I? They say that I have greatly changed since I was 'chore-boy Dick,"' and the young girl rose and paused before the mirror that hung over the dressing-table. ' A pair of large hazel eyes looked earnestly out from under a broad white brow, and a heavy mass of wavy, golden- brown hair was brought plainly back from the round tem- ples and folded in rich braids around the finely-shaped head. There was a bewitching curl to the rose-bud lips, parted just enough, to show a beautiful set of milk-white teeth, but there was a half-sad expression lingering about them as she turned away. Recruited in health and spirits by her few weeks eman- cipation from toil, she was preparing to return to Lowell, but without that old eager feeling that rested in her heart when she first left home. She had learned the lesson once - now it seemed but an easy review.   MRA DANA. She had been working only a short time, when a ru- mor came floating through the mills that the owners had called a meeting and decided to reduce the already meagre pay of the operatives. The report created a great sensa- tion. Groups of girls were seen assembled on every cor- poration discussing the all important question-"what is to be done?" Should they work on, seventeen hours out of twenty-four for less remuneration than they now received? Like cringing slaves should they meekly submit to wear this galling chain of oppression? The answer came from every heart alike - No!" There was something in the firm appearance of Mira, a light in her flashing eyes and a queenliness in her proud step that led hundreds of her companions to look upon her as a leader. All attempts to come to a decision were use- less. Mira watched them with an eager eye and anxious heart, fearing lest the great waves of indignation that had swept over their impetuous hearts would grow calm and still, and when the crisis came they would tamely yield. The very thought urged her to speedy action. "Are you going to work, Mira, for less pay than you are now obtaining?" enquired Caroline May, one morning as they stood together in the little dining-room of their boarding-house. "Work! Carrie, no, I'd starve first." "That is what they all say, Mira, but I am fearful." "Caroline, listen! if I can have any influence over   them, they will never work for the low paltry pay that these little-souled men deal out to them." "Good! good!" laughed Carrie, "I do believe you are in earnest; why, how brightly your eyes flash, and what a pretty flush is on your cheeks!" Yes, in earnest; and ought we not be so, when they are striving to crush our very souls for cursed gold? They'll find there is one girl in Lowell who dares to speak of liberty and act like a true woman." "A capital speech! you would make a grand stump ora- tor. But aside from jesting, I am your 'right hand man in this affair. True, I am fatherless and motherless, but I am not a slave." And Caroline May's soft brown eyes filled with tears. M ira laid her hand in Caroline's, and in a low, deter- mined voice replied, "We will work together." That evening an "indignation meeting" was held on John street, and a committee chosen to act, when their rights should be invaded. Not long were they obliged to wait, for in a few days notices were posted in every mill, of the precise time when they would commence work on reduced ,r pay. No rebellious word or whisper was heard among the girls. The overseers were puzzled, but dared not hope A4 that all would pass on peaceably. They consulted the it  agents and owners, who shook their heads and remarked sagely, a only a calm before a storm." It was a golden morning in autumn that the notice was first carried into effect. The sunlight crept over the dis-    24         MRA DANA. tant hill-tops, tinging- the brocaded trees with a softened light, gilding the silver water of the Merrimac, and resting playfully upon the broad webs of cotton, shining machinery and white floors of nice-looking mills. A clever little man was Mira's overseer, and a faithful workman too, seeking ever to promote the good of his employers. Not much matter about the girls pay, however, if the company did not suffer. But this morning he sat pale and trembling before his desk, watching Mira as she stepped lightly about her work. He thought he could detect a wicked, dare- devil light in her eyes as she glanced from one part of the room to another. His suspense was not long-dontinued, for Mira Dana soon stopped her lively-going work and took from a nail close by, her bonnet and shawl. She twirled her saucy-looking bonnet around her head a few times and started for the door followed by all in the room, save a few cowardly objects who cared more for a few paltry coins, than their own independence and liberty. At the door stood their overseer with quivering lips and trembling frame. How he expostulated with them to go quietly back to their employment. Mira's lip curled at his entreaties, and in a scornful tone she said, "Mr. Washburn, we will never work, while we have our health and senses, unless we can work on our old pay." "But, Mira, there is not much difference." The girls grew desperate and rushed by the little man with such force, as to puzzle him for a moment whether he was, or. was not. Hundreds were gazing from the long   MRA DANA.          25 factory windows, as the girls rushed from No. -. How quickly they followed and continued to follow, until but few were left to keep the heavy machinery in motion. It was a curious sight, that procession of rosy-cheeked, bright- eyed girls. Blue eyes, black eyes, grey eyes, yes, all eyes, were gleaming with triumphant merriment. "Who is the leader?" was the question that echoed from lip to lip. "The one with the dark eyes and slender, graceful form, whom they call Mira Dana." "Spunky girl, that!" That evening a meeting was held, and Mira elected President. She advised that after the necessary measures had been adopted to secure their rights from infringement, all should return quietly to their homes, that the citizens might not be disturbed by any indecorum. Many, friendly to their cause, were present, approving of their course, and so regarding not the idle reports of others, the brave girls worked on with a happy consciousness in their hearts that they did not merit reproach. Twelve professional gentlemen attended this and subsequent meetings, ready to consult and be consulted, though Mira afterwards laugh- ingly said, without wishing to cast any reflections on the gentlemanly Esq.'s and Rev.'s, that if they had followed their suggestions less, and- their own inclinations more, they would have succeeded better. The companies were notified that the operatives would wait a certain length of time for negotiations from them,   26         MtA DANA. and if at the termination of the allotted period none were made, they should leave the city. But if the girls were firm and resolute for the right, not less so were the capi- talists in their selfish tyranny, and the affair remained unsettled. It would be a volume of itself, to relate all the queer incidents attendant upon the excitement that followed, and so the reader must be contented with a few. At one of the meetings, the president proposed taking up a collection to defray the expenses of the hall. A pious old Methodist preacher by the name of Lummus, arose, and desirous of showing his zeal in their cause by deeds, not words, contributed five dollars, urging other citizens to follow his example. The appeal had a good effect, and that afternoon about two hundred dollars were thrown into the treasury. After the audience had retired, the committee of arrangements were surprised to see that the good clergyman still lingered, much to their chagrin, for they had private business to transact. At length he approached the secretary, a shrewd looking girl, and en- quired, "How much money have you received?" "There has been no report made," was the. reply, while she added hintingly, "we are now waiting to investigate our affairs." Still he lingered. The young lady thinking it was for extra thanks that were really due him, expressed her gratitude in behalf of herself and friends. "Ahem," exclaimed the Rev. gentleman, "but you would not have received half so much, had it not been for   MRA DANA.          27 me; therefore it is no more than justice for me to have a share of the profits. I am in want of a little sum, and if you pay me about fifty dollars, I think only justice will be done me." The girls were amazed at this method of transacting business, and retired a moment to deliberate upon the mat- ter. Renewed thanks were offered him; the five dollars he so generously bestowed was returned to him, and the old gentleman bowed out of the hall politely as possible by the laughing girls.   CHAPTER VI. SEQUEL TO THE TURN OUT. A meeting was held by the officers that night in a pri vate house, and resolutions formed and adopted. On the next morning they issued a notice, advising every opera tive to leave the town without delay, promising if theJ would present a bill of their time, to settle all demand, against the companies, who still remained unflinching ir their former determination. The advice was immediately complied with, and such a stampede as took place imme diately, is seldom witnessed in our own New England Mira officiated as cashier on this occasion. She paid out over two hundred dollars of private funds, and aboul five hundred of the money which had been gratuitously proffered them, by the friends of their cause. At the end of that week, they had the gratification of seeing over four thousand of their companions leave the city. The few who remained, were either homeless, or of that order who value the smiles of avaricious capitalists above that of their own, or others interest. They returned to the mills, and all was again quiet in Lowell. "Pay-day'   MRA DANA.          29 came, however, and with it came Mira to the many count- ing-rooms with the bill of each girl that she had paid. "Who are you?" demanded the savage pay-master of the H-- Corporation, and how came you to settle our accounts, and where did you obtain the means? Who authorized you, hey?" "Sir, I thought it my duty to pay the girls, as the com- panies refused to do so, and I obtained the money. hon- estly," replied Mira in a dignified, decisive manner. "But who are you?" he again inquired, as he gazed scrutinizingly upon those bright flashing eyes. "I am President of the "Turn Out," and my name is Mira Dana; will you please to settle those accounts, sir?" "Ah ha!" exclaimed he, his countenance lighting up with this sudden intelligence; " so you are the d---  who has been making all this disturbance, are you? Did you know that the authorities were looking after you, to indite you for disturbing the public peace?" "I did not know it, sir; but if you feel interested, or there is any reward offered for my apprehension, I will remain here while you give them notice of my where- abouts." "You are a very impudent girl, and I advise you to leave town as quick as possible." "I thank you for your compliment, but the advice I must decline to take, at least, until you have settled these bills," replied Mira with quiet firmness. "We are under no obligation to settle them," he said, with a sullen air.   30         MRA DANA. "Very well'" replied Mira; "these, you will understand, are direct orders from the girls, comprising the amount of their wages. If you choose to pay me without farther words, all will be right; but if not, I have a legal friend al the door, who will relieve me of all unnecessary trouble." Finding that there was no retreat, the insolent man opened his books, cashed the accounts, and bade her leave the counting-room immediately. Mira was not daunted, but slowly gathered up her bills, and politely bade him " good morning." The brave girl did not meet with so much insult and derision at the other counting-rooms, but all had something to say, or some advice to proffer, to which she replied in as polite a manner as it was given. One more meeting was held by the spirited officers They met for the, last time at the Gorham Hotel. Afte] disposing of their business satisfactorily, they clasped eacl others hands, solemnly pledging themselves to meet at tht same place yearly, until they exchanged the freedom o girlhood for the sacred duties of wives. Then they bound themselves by another vow --a vow that they would never labor in a factory in Lowell again. That pledge has re mained inviolate. The officers went to their respec;ive homes in the country, with the exception of their fear less leader, who chose to remain in Lowell.   CHAPTER VII. CAPTAIN    GREY. Leaving Mira pleasantly situated in Lowell, we will, for awhile, rest beneath the sunny skies of "vine-clad" France. 'Twas a noble vessel that lay in the harbor at Bordeaux, with an American flag streaming from the mast- head, and mutely telling a tale of liberty, as it waved in the morning breeze. Bright sunbeams stole over the blue waters, until they seemed veiled in silver; then they nestled softly in the folds of the snowy sails as they hung idly over the vessel's side. "A regular Italian morning, I declare," and the speaker's soul seemed to go forth in the long earnest gaze he sent over the sunlit sea. A fine looking man was Merrill Grey, the commander of the fairy-footed Sea Witch.  Smiling black eyes looked winningly out from beneath a broad high brow, and waves of black hair shaded his sun-browned temples. An army of smiles seemed ever hovering about his finely- shaped lips, which were then parted as it were to drink in the morning's splendor and freshness.   32         MRA DANA. "What see you, Captain Grey?" asked a clear voice ir his ear. "What do I see? -home!" "Worth looking for--supposing I take a peep; but] see a vessel in the distance under full sail, with a flag wonderfully like our own. Good! we'll hear from the States." A satisfied expression rested on Captain Grey's counte- nance as, in a rich mellow voice he replied, "I thought I should hear from home this morning, and if I mistake not, something which will strangely connect my future life." "Good, Captain Grey; did I not know you were above superstition, I should say that you had been dreaming, or had been favored with one of my good Aunt Debby's wonderful signs. Why, the old lady knows if she is to lose one of her chickens, and the exact time it will vacate her domains." "Ned Harvey, you are a wag!" and drawing the arm of his friend within his own, he walked to another part of the vessel. In less than an hour, the strange American lay alongside the Sea Witch. Captain Grey's keen eyes wandered over the new comer's graceful form, till he recognized in its gallant commander an old friend. In a few moments he stood on the deck of the Ocean Bird, warmly grasping the hand of Captain Thurston. "What's the news from the States?" asked Captain Grey, after the first few eager salutations had been ex- hanged.   MRA DANA.          33 "Plenty of news, I can tell you, every one is alive in our parts. Why, the factory girls are raising the very duce in old Lowell city." "All right, Captain Thurston; but tell a fellow what they are about." "Why, they have been raising a great rebellion, just because the owners took a fancy to reduce their pay fifty cents on a dollar." "But they did not submit to such meanness?" "No, but rallied their fories and flocked out of the old prison-mills by thousands. Ah, Grey, a trim little craft they had for a leader, who managed affairs with a deal of shrewdness." "Did you see her?" "Only caught sight of her just as she was taking in sail, on entering Merrimac Hall. Her name is Mira Dana." "She's spunky, then?" "Just a bit; they say she'd face the old Nick, and not run; and is only seventeen years old." "A true woman, Captain Thurston. And now, between you and I, and your old wooly-headed steward, ll see this piece of ingenuity ere many months." "Bound for home, then?" "Yes; shall start this afternoon- have been waiting this long while for favorable winds." Ere the night-time had come, Captain Grey's vessel was / skimming lightly over the waters toward home. 2   CHAPTER VIII. LOVED AND LOST. " Captain Grey, I want you to answer me one question truthfully," exclaimed Ned Harvey, a few mornings before they landed in Boston. Are you in love with the little factory girl that Thurston told you about?" " In love ? why, Ned, I never saw her." " Never saw her, and you have been raving about her for the last three weeks like a mad man; what ails you, boy?" " Oh nothing, only I am thinking of paying her pretty self a visit, and if we agree, why, I'll cast anchor and remain by her side for a life-time." " Ha! ha! well said; but I am thinking she'll prove too much of a tiger for you, if she could face those money- hungry capitalists with such a dare-devil air; for nothing is more to be feared than a man who feasts his soul on gold." " Don't you fear a bit, Ned; rll manage her, if I ever get within hailing distance. I am not afraid of the spunk, for I need a smart woman to learn me something.  Why, I am as awkward on land as a big dolphin- fish."   MRA DANA.          35 "I admire your comparison, Captain, because it is so. poetical-for all the world like my little black-eyed sweet- heart at home, who always compared me to a whale, as I floundered about with so much vengeance while on shore." "You got a sweet-heart, Ned? the deuce, I must hear , about her!" "Not a sweet-heart, Captain; only a cousin." "Ah, these cousins are dangerous affairs, Ned; but really, I am inclined to be serious. Now tell me honestly my good fellow, were you ever in love?" The mirth-light faded from Ned Harvey's blue eyes, and a strange quiver broke over his lips. "Do not ask me that question, Captain Grey, it is too bitter, BITTER," and he turned away and looked gloomily over the vessel's side. ( "Do not look so sad, Ned, I asked the question lightly; I but you'll answer me?" Ned looked into the brown eyes of Captain Grey, as he answered, "I did love once with my whole soul, and while I came over the shining waters to obtain wealth for my fair land-flower, she sickened and died. No word came to tell me of the heart-rending news; but when I sought her in her home, with tearful eyes they pointed me to a slender grave in the tree-shaded church-yard. Yes, I have loved, Captain Grey, and love now. Remember, then, when I am so wild and merry, I am not heartless." A sympathetic heart had Merrill Grey, which throbbed with pity for his bereaved friend.!Se, too, loved, and yet he kriew not what. i '   CHAPTER IX. T R I A L S. "Draw your chair closer up to mine, Mira, and tell me your adventures through the two weary years which you passed in the 'factory, said Mrs. Barton to Mira, as they sat together in her nicely warmed parlor one stormy after- noon. "Oh, it has been a perplexing time to me, yet I have ever tried to do right and hope for the best." "A noble motto, and worthy of being .followed by every one," replied the warm-hearted old lady as she looked'. on the youthful countenance before her. "Well, I had some trials which amazed me at the time. You have heard me speak of Sarah Adams, with whom ] roomed so long, and loved as well as I would or could a sister." "Often, Mira. She came here several times with you and I was greatly impressed in her favor." "Well, she served Susan P--   and myself a fin( caper before lea ving us, I can assure you. After I left my boarding-place with her and went to another corpora-   MRA DANA.         37 tion to work, she called on me, saying she was about to leave for home, as her friends were sick and had sent for her. I felt sad to have her go, for I had known her long and. confided in her implicitly. She imprinted a warm kiss on my lips, which was as warmly returned, as we bade each other good bye. One bright morning, about three weeks from that time, Susan called on me, and in a laugh- ing tone ask6d me if I could pay her the ten dollars which I owed her. "' Ten dollars! I don't owe you any ten dollars,' was my reply. You should have seen the surprised look on her 'face." "Don't be joking me- I am in a hurry, Mira." "Don't be joking me, either, but tell me what you mean." "Why, didn't you borrow ten dollars from Sarah Adams, before she went away, and tell her to come to me for the pay?" "Never!" Susan was thunderstruck. "She told me you did, and I gave her the money." "Do you doubt me, Susan," I asked. "I don't know who to doubt. I always trusted you both before." "We cried heartily over it, and at last concluded to i learn the whereabouts of Sarah. On applying to a gen-  tleman who knew her, we discovered that our little pet had been playing a false part, even to wearing an assumed name. We wrote her a letter, threatening an exposal if   38         MRA DANA. she did not refund the money. She answered it immedi- ately, saying she had spent it all but would soon return it. I have never heard from her since, and suppose she is now earning the sum to repay poor Susie. It wasn't a great deal, to be sure; but Mrs. Barton, it troubled me exceed- ingly." "Ah, this life is full of such deceptions, Mira, and one has to possess strong innate principles to ride safely its perilous wave." But deeply as I suffered then, it was nothing in com- parison with my feelings during the late 'turn out.' I can endure to see strangers play the parts of traitors, but when an own brother or sister wrongs me, my very soul is touched. During the 'turn out' brother Martin came to me, and in a hasty, angry tone asked me what I was trying to do, and why I did not go quietly back to my work. I told him I was doing only what was right, and I would die rather than yield. "Then never darken my doors again. You will ruin me, for my boarders are all leaving, and how then am I to live? Go back to your work, or worse will Befall you," was his reply. "How my blood boiled. He was very angry--so was I." "A soft answer turneth away wrath, Mira." "I know it, Mrs. Barton, but brother knew I was right- his own heart must have told him so; yet love of money conquered brotherly affection and admiration for the truth, and so bebause he feared losing a few paltry dollars, he   MRA DANA.          39 sacrificed his principles and turned his sister out of doors. I scorn such- things as I scorn everything that is low and cringing." "Well, never mind it, Mira dear," said Mrs. Barton in a soothing voice. "I know it was wrong and hard to bear, but virtue will triumph at last; never fear! There, there don't cry, darling," and the kind old lady smoothed Mira's brown hair caressingly. "Remember I've a vast deal to do to-morrow, and you'll not be fit to assist me at this rate." J  ,       *.t   CHAPTER X. THE SURPRISE. The morrow found Mira bright and smiling as itself, going about the house with a light step assisting Mrs. Bar- ton. How gaily she laughed as the door-bell kept up an incessant ringing, and she was compelled to throw off the little black handkerchief-from her head and smooth back her shining hair. "I know I shall make my fortune this morning, tending door," exclaimed she, as she returned to the sitting-room, after one of her peregrinations, and donned again the little handkerchief and pinned up the skirt of her neat dress. "Now I'll not make any alteration in my appearance if the king comes," and Mira went to work, looking very bewitchingly. "I suppose you think you look exceedingly homely, but that coquettish head-dress is singularly becoming, and as for your plaid petticoat  "- Ding-a-ding-ding, went the door-bell, preventing the completion of Mrs. Barton's sentence. "I am going," and Mira danced out of the room war-   ^TAlt jSX J . a LJL  bling a light merry song. Quickly she opened the door, and as quickly started back, for a noble-looking man stood before her. "Is Mrs. Barton in?"  "I believe so," stammered Mira, as she led the way to the parlor. "Who is it, Mira?" "Oh, such a handsome man; and how he looked at me or at my petticoat--I don't know which, but he is in the parlor waiting for you now." Mrs. Barton laughed heartily at the joke Mira had played upon herself, and with g roguish smile asked her if she hadn't a bit of word to send to the parlor. "Only my fainting regards," and Mira sank back upon a sofa near by, fanning herself with the corner of her nicely-starched apron. "Why, Merrill Grey, is this you?" and with a warm grasp of his hand and a motherly kiss on his brown cheek, Mrs. Barton seated herself beside the handsome stranger. "What's the news, Auntie," enquired Captain Grey, (for it was he,) after returning her salutations. "No matter about news, until I have heard a little about the old folks at home, so content yourself, Merrill, with being entertainer a short time." "But, Aunt Barton, I have been hearing a queer report, indeed-one that reached me clear across the blue waters. Now like a dear aunt that you are, tell me all about these spunky factory girls." 2*   42          MRA DANA. "Never mind, Merrill, Iwill hear first," said Aunt Bar- ton, as she closed her lips resolutely. It was a comical story he told her,-all about home, the fine " crop of taters," the new dress that mother had bought, and just a bit about a black-eyed cousin, who in childhood had been his playmate, and now in later years remained his firm, true friend. -"But, Auntie Barton," persisted he, as he finished his recital, "just tell me about the little Yankee girl thait raised such a whirlwind in your midst. Say, did you ever see her?" "I believe so," was the indifferent reply. "But I wish very much to see her. I have been sailing over dry land at the rate of ten knots an hour to -reach Lowell to-day." A -mischievous smile played around Mrs. Barton's mouth as she answered, "Oh, then you came to see the little factory girl, not me." "Not so, Aunt, riot so, I came to see both." "Well now Merrill Grey, if you will be as sober and dignified for an hour as you are on the deck of your own vessel, the gallant Sea Witch, Fll promise to show you the wonder of Lowell." "Oh, Aunt, I am anything but dignified in my own 'dear floating home.' The very ocean air, the white- winged songsters that skim over the blue waters, teach us a lesson far above dignity. I am a free son of the waters." "You don't mean it all, Merrill," and so saying Mrs. Barton left the room.   MRA DANA.          43 "Now, Mira," she' exclaimed, "fold back that shining hair from your bonny face, and don your sweetest smile, for I wish to introduce you to the handsome gentleman you 'fancied so desperately." "Impossible! why what would tempt me to see him again after meeting him in such a plight." "But, Mira, he will remain, perhaps two weeks, and you must see him of course. Why not now as well as ever?" "-Do excuse me, Mrs. Barton." "I shall not excuse you. Why, a girl who has bravely faced what you have, shouldn't be afraid to enter a room where a gentleman is quietly seated." "I will go, thought Mira, as she ran up stairs to arrange her dress. She could not tell what made her so particular, about looking her prettiest--why she combed her wavy hair as if her very life depended on its smoothness. "It is all nonsense," exclaimed she, as she tied her velvet- trimmed apron and answered Mrs. Barton's soft call from the parlor, "Come!" Captain Grey stood by the window, looking out upon the mass of people hurrying to and fro. His thoughts weaving themselves into sunny fancies, and as they glided before his mind's eye, he was lost to all around him. M"liss Dana, the President of the turn out, Captain Grey," said Aunt Barton, as Mira entered. "He started, forgetting for the moment that politeness required some return for the easy salutation of Mira,   "4 MRA DANA. whose cheeks grew as rosy as the sunlight that played upon the carpet. Mrs. Barton drew Mira to a seat near her on the sofa, as her keen eye saw the embarrassment of her nephew, caused by so unexpectedly meeting the object of his night and day dreams. "What a simpleton I am to blush so," thought Mira, as her face reddened at every remark of Captain Grey, how- ever slight; While he gazed upon her, satisfied and happy to think the fair reality was all his lively imagination had painted her, and half angry with himself for his diffidence. If he attempted to speak, his words got misplaced and sounded queerly, and he thought he could detect a roguish light in Mira's eyes at his awkwardness. As soon as pos- sible she glided from the room in spite of the admonishing glances of Aunt Barton. Time sped on, and still Captain Grey lingered in Aunt Barton's cottage. Yet making love to Mira he found not a very easy matter. -If he attempted to speak with her alone, she had always some ingenious excuse for leaving the room. "Deuce take that old door-bell," exclaimed he one morning, after she had left him to go to the door. "It always rings at the wrong time -just as I manage to get some where near the laughing gipsy." "What is the matter, Merrill?" asked Mrs. Barton, entering the room at the conclusion of his speech.   ILAAAlA UA N A.       'it "Matter enough; I am getting out of patience." "What do you mean?" "Why, I am desperately in love with Mira Dana, and for the life of me, can't get a chance to speak with her about it. Wont you help me?" and a woe-begone ex- pression flitted over Merrill's features. Mrs. Barton seated herself beside him, and laying her hand in his, asked in a low tone, "Merrill, do you love her? answer me as you mean." "With my whole heart," and there was something so earnestly truthful in the young man's manner, that even his keen-eyed Aunt could no longer doubt him. At last she replied, "Mira is not ignorant of the fact that you admire her looks, but she is not aware that you love her deeply and truly. If she was, she would never treat you with such light indifference. She has too much soul for that." "I am heartily glad of it, Aunt; but I must have the privilege of conversing with her before I leave." "I will arrange the matter--trust me for that." So saying she left the apartment. iFor a long time after her departure, Captain Grey sat with his head resting on his hands, silent and abstracted. He had thought it a fine affair to love, and that nothing but happiness could arise from it. But now he was un- happy, and the consciousness of loving brought with it the fear of being unloved. And Mira, was she in reality so indifferent to him? Ah,   "         MRA DANA. no! there was something in his noble manners that won her respect, while his mellow voice and pleasant eyes had a vast deal to do with the unusual fluttering of her heart when she gazed or listened. , i   CHAPTER XI. UNCERTAINTY. "I do believe she is trying to fool me, Aunt Barton," remarked Captain Grey one morning, as he finished read- ing a delicately written note. "Why so?" "Because she neither says yes or no, but keeps me in the most uncomfortable position possible. Oh, I could manage twenty ships easier than one woman!" "Do not be discouraged, Merrill; you don't understand the business," replied Mrs. Barton, laughing. "No; and a wiser head than mine it must take to under- stand it sufficiently well to insure success. If I could only get the chance, I would be as eloquent before her, as was King Richard before Queen Anne." "Just let me manage for you Merrill, and within twenty minutes you shall have the privilege you so much desire." "Thank you, thank you, Aunt Barton." "Go up stairs to my sitting-room, and take a seat behind the door on the lounge. Go, be confident; Ill manage shrewdly."   48         MRA DANA. Captain Grey did as he was told. He had not been in the room long, ere he heard the light step of Mira upon the stairs. She had been commissioned to go for Mrs. Barton's work-basket, and humming a lively tune she trip- ped into the room. Not seeing the object of her search in its accustomed place upon the table, she turned around to look for it, when she saw Captain Grey. He looked a bit roguish, as he laid his hand upon the door-knob, and closed the door, to prevent Mira from leaving. "Excuse me; I was not aware you were here," stam- mered out Mira. "No; had you known it, you would not have ventured here," replied Merrill in a low sad tone. "Will you let me go?" quickly asked Mira. "I wish very much for you to stay; yet if you do not wish to, I'll not detain you," and he stepped aside to let her pass. He was looking very sad -so sad that the heart of Mira Dana was touched; and in a gentle winning tone she said, "I will stay, Captain Grey, long enough to hear what you wish to say." "I thank you," came from his lips so earnestly, that Mira could but think the soul had spoken. A long while Mrs. Barton waited for' her work-basket, and at last was obliged to go for it herself. She never told why she laughed so heartily as she came. out of the room, or why she sat her basket away quietly in. the parlor without disturbing its contents, when but a few moments before she was heard to say, "I cannot get along without it."   MRA DANA.            49 I never knew how eloquent Captain Grey plead his case, but the evidence was conclusive; for a few weeks after, when he went to "ride o'er the main," he left al affianced bride with good Aunt Barton. I/   CHAPTER XII. THE  BETROTHAL. "He has gone," and Mira turned away from the deep bay window, where she had stood for the last half hour gazing absently down the street. "Yes, he has gone, Mira, and taken your heart captive, in the bargain; so much for tending door that morning." "I shall not forget that very soon, for the jokes I have been obliged to bear from Captain Grey about my fancy garb, have been almost unendurable." "After all, Mira, there is a wish fluttering about my heart, not very favorable to him, for you must know I do not remarkably admire the idea of losing you," and Aunt Barton rocked her chair violently. A few weeks later, Mira bade Mrs. Barton adieu, and with a happy heart went "home again." That was a bright spot in her life-path, lit by love's own smile. Whate'er might be her lot, 'twas sweet to know that it would be shared by Merrill Grey,--"through night to light" he was to be her companion--her own twin soul in the midnight of grief and soft star-shine of joy: How   MRA DANA.         51 eagerly Mira watched every cloud that floated across the blue sky, fearing lest it might prophecy a coming storm. And when the rains fell heavily on the old cottage roof, and the wind roared through the tall old shade-trees, Mira would gaze out into the darkness, as if she was striving to look beyond all, to the dear one away in his floating home. "What a change there is in Mira," Mr. Dana would remark, as she went about the house quiet and still, a silent smile resting on her face. "We no longer hear the wild gay laughter, that once rang out so clearly and freely." "And yet she is improved, husband; she is gentle and lady-like, forgetting the wild old pranks that she once so well enjoyed." "I suppose she is in love," demurely spoke up little Hattie from the corner, where she was sitting quietly, with folded hands. But after Captain Grey came to L  , they learned that Mira's old games were not forgotten, nor the clear silvery laugh hushed forever into the silent smile.- Captain Grey remained but a few weeks with Mira and her friends, but long enough to gain their warmest love and esteem. Even good old grandmother Dana, who always had disliked the sound of a sea-captain, grew strangely prepossessed in his favor, and was heard to say, "These ere sea-capuns are not so bad arter all-I raly like Mira's beau. No matter if he did drive "like witches," over theiugh roads, when he took the old lady out to ride, regardless   52         MRA DANA. of her screams, she would not complain, but seemed the more attached to him. It was a great source of anxiety to her, the "last voyage" he was about'to make. "Now Capun, you'd much better stay at home, than go bouncing about over the water, the Lord only knows where. If you was lost, I know Mira would e'enamost die with cryin' from grief." t'Oh, I shall not be gone long, grandmother-only while -I make my little fortune a mite larger," he would reply, good naturedly. ":Never mind gittin any more property; stay at home and marry Mira, you'll have homes enough," and'the old lady pointed towards her own front room, with a look which seemed to say, "I'll see to you if none else will." "The last voyage!" and Mira laid her hand caressingly on Captain Grey's shoulder. "Yes, Mira, and not a long one either. Oh, I'll be wishing that mine was a fairy ship, that it could dance faster over the water. But eight weeks is not a long time." "No, not a long time, if I could know you were safe; but I'll hope for the best." With a heart beating high with hope, Captain Grey left his friends and his affianced, thinking less of the sad part- ing,- and still more of the meeting beyond, where nought but death should separate him from those he loved.   CHAPTER   XIII. THE WaRE CK. "How do you feel, Captain Grey?" enquired Ned Harvey, after they were a few days sail from land. "You know how I feel, Ned; just as though I was put- ting to sea without a heart," and Captain Grey continued walking backward and forward across the deck, while Ned Harvey quietly seated himself to dream away a few hours. Poor fellow! as he sat there thinking of his friend's hap- piness, from the great ocean of the past came these sunny crested waves, making the present more dark and gloomy. "Why am I doomed to suffer--to live on at such a mis- erable rate," he murmured to himself. "God forbid that you should be miserable, Ned; you have too big a heart to merit suffering. Come, cheer up my boy, better- days are coming." "Yes, for you, Captain Grey." "And for you too, if you'll only let that dark memory float out of your mind. You'll stop on land with me per- haps, and have a different craft to manage than you now anticipate ; do you understand me,?"   54         MRA DANA. Shaking his head mournfully, Ned replied in a low tone, "I anticipate a more glorious future than you speak of. ] may be fanciful, but I hope for heaven, ere many moons' waning." Captain Grey did not answer, but only pressed the hand of his friend still closer in his own. "This is a beautiful world," at last remarked Ned, as he looked up to the clear sky, and down where the rosy- cheeked sunbeams lay, on the snowy-breasted waves. " 1I have been an odd wild boy,", he continued, " but I do hope for happiness in another world; and although I may be a mite Aunt Debbyish, I have a strong impression that that happiness will not be withheld long." "Pooh, pooh, Ned, don't mind impressions, you are get. ting me desperately blue," and Captain Grey danced over the deck as though striving to shake off the mournful feel- ings, that in spite of himself were getting strong hold oi his heart. When they had been nine days at sea, a storm came to take the place of pleasant breezes and smiling sunshine. For several days it continued, before it broke forth in all its wild raging fury. "'Tis a dreadful night, Ned," said Captain Grey, as he stood striving to glance through the dense mist and foam that enwreathed the vessel. "Yes, and I fear not a little for the safety of our ship," replied 'Ned as a wild wave dashed over the spot where they were standing.   MRA DANA.          55 Nobly worked that little crew through the long raging night, but in spite of their efforts, the morning light looked upon the gallant Sea Witch -a wreck. "Where is Harvey?" enquired one of the sailors, after a huge wave had dashed over the wreck, drenching through and through the little party that clung firmly to it. Captain Grey started, when the question fell upon his ear, and a strange nameless thrill of terror crept through and through his soul. "Where is Ned Harvey?" again sounded in his ear, ere he had power to move from the spot where he was standing. Ned Harvey was not to be found! All search was vain, for the storm was raging wildly and a dense mist veiled the wreck. "Ned, dear Ned Harvey sleeps beneath the mad waters!" exclaimed Captain Grey as he bowed his head upon his breast. What cared he if his property was gone? The gallant warm-hearted friend who so long had shared his fate, slept far from friends and kindred. Prophetic indeed had proved his words - the long wished for happiness was not withheld from him. For three days the little crew remained upon the rem- nant of the once noble ship. For three days Captain Grey remained at his post, with pale face, yet firm and unshrink- ing heart. He was not afraid to die,yet he could not keep his soul from skimming over the ocean like a bird, to the little cottage where his heart's own treasure lay. Hope was fast fading from out the hearts of the bxave   56'         MRA DANA. men. All the long forenoon the dismal signal-flag had been hoisted, but none came to their rescue. Not a word was spoken. The vessel was slowly sinking! No cry for mercy came from the pale lips, but instead, every head was bowed in silent solemn prayer. Suddenly in the dis- tance a sail was seen, and in a few moments a signal gun sounded joyfully over the waters -they were discovered at last. Like a cloud before the wind sailing over the smooth sky, came the brig "Amelia" over the sea to the sinking wreck. In a short time the crew were safe on board the friendly ship, where everything was done to make them contented and comfortable. In spite of every effort of the good Captain of the brig Amelia, Captain Grey's spirits seemed greatly de- pressed. The loss of his noble friend, and lastly of his ship and property, caused too much mental anxiety for his wearied frame. Before they arrived on shore he was too ill to go safely about. In spite of every effortAf his friends to the contrary, he started immediately for the home of Mira. A long weary journey it proved, during which he had to strive with all his power to keep from sinking under mental and physical illness. At last the old brown farm-house appeared to his aching sight. He could already feel a sweet gentle influence around him, and start- ing up from the seat in the old stage-coach, something like an olden light played upon his fine features. Reader, he was nearing home, for "'tis home where the heart lies." Mira stood at the window, when the old lumbering vehi-   MRA DANA.          57 cle paused before the door. She caught a glimpse of his pale face and sprang to the door, exclaiming, "Merrill, Merrill! what means this, are you ill?" "So ill, Mira; but thank God I am with you." For long weeks he lay delirious upon the verge of the grave, calling in loud tones for Ned Harvey, then speaking in low soft whispers to Mira, who remained by his bed-side caring only for him. 3 V   CHAPTER XlV. UNCHANGED. It was a beautiful day in soft, hazy August, that Captain Grey was pronounced convalescent. Mira drew a large arm chair in front of the open window, and passing her arm within that of her invalid lover assisted him to it. The cool summer breeze fanned his wan cheek and brow, and playfully toyed with his black silken hair. For a long while they sat side by side watching silently the broad waving green fields that lay in the distance, dotted here and there by stately trees. The old robin who so long had built her nest in the old pear-tree, warbled forth a clear gushing song, as it were to congratulate him on his return- ing health. A faint tinge crept into his pale cheeks and a new light to his loving eyes, as he surveyed the tranquil scene before him. "Mira, darling," said he at last, "I have been wishing to have a little earnest conversation with you." "Well, Merrill, I am all attention." "Mira," and his voice grew low and tremulous, "when I left you a few weeks since I was a wealthy man. For-   MRA DANA.         59 tune has dealt hardly with me since then, and now instead of holding you to your promise, I release you from it, for I love you too well to wish you to link your destiny with any one who is penniless, even though it be myself." "Merrill, I loved you for your true soul and manly heart, and these are left you still.. Talk not of releasing me, unless you desire our separation for other reasons than this." "God bless you, Mira! I am not poor while you, so noble and true, are mine," and Captain Grey bent his lips to the white upturned brow of Mira. "What, are you going to be married?" chimed in little Hattie, creeping from behind her sister's chair where she had been listening to their conversation. "Wont it be so nice? Wont we have such a wedding, with nice pies and cakes, and everything- O-oh" and she clapped her dimpled hands joyfully. "Wedding! why what do you mean?" asked Mira, as the little gipsy danced before her. "Why didn't Captain Grey say he was rich with you? and he wont have you unless you are married, will he?" "What logic!" laughed both. "But, my pretty one, you have been playing the part of a listener; what shall I do with you?" "Oh! Captain Grey, nothing! I didn't mean to hear- I couldn't help listening." The afternoon ripened into sunset ere the young couple cU   60         MRA DANA. left the parlor window, and then they were looking ver smiling and happy. "Wedding! wedding!" rang in Mira's ears as then entered the sitting room where Hattie had been communi eating the knowledge she had gained as an eaves-dropper   CHAPTER XV. FIRST M A   R I A E . That was a golden autumn to Mira in her old home with those she loved about her. The good people of L had it that Mira was going to be married to a sea captain whom no one knew about, and wondered at her indiscre i tion. For once they were right, and for once they were wrong. Mira was going to be married to Captain Grey but many there were that knew about him, ay, and lok him too. That November, found the inmates of farmer Dan cottage making preparation for a wedding. Those were j just the nicest cakes taken from the old brick oven, who set little roguish Hattie half-crazy with delight. A very neat bridal dress made its appearance in the cottage t just fitted Mira Dana's pretty form, and on a bright clear afternoon, Captain Grey, with his nice little craft, as called her, stood before the man of God, and promised "love, honor and obey till death did them part." "Death! how that word sounded in the young wife's dear and crept coldly adown into her warm, trusting hea  62         MRA DANA. There are times when the soul is wild with joy that a word will so chill its gushing fount of mirth as to leave it cold and silent. So with Mira, as she stood beside her husband looking into his love-glancing eyes, the evening after their bridal, when the thought of their speedy separation crossed her mind. "Oh, it is dreadful, Merrill!" w "Why, my little puss, how you do take on; just as though I was going to sea for the express purpose of drowning myself. I never did such a thing yet, even when there was not half the attraction on shore that there is now.." "But, Merrill, you are just as liable to be washed over- board as any one. Only think of poor Ned Harvey!" "I do think of him often, Mira," and the Captain's voice grew low and tremulous./ "Well, Merrill, promise me that you will never go to sea again." "Nay, my sweet pet, not so fast. I'll promise to go only once more." "Once more! I fear you'll follow that dangerous motto till you are lost." "Well, don't mind about it, more, darling. It is no time to borrow trouble. WA should feel glad and happy my bird, just as I do when ring on the mad, foaming waters. We should look out upon our life as on yon tree-decked hill-side bathed in moonlight, or the o'er arching sky witl its myriads of smiling stars and floating cloud-boats."   MRA DANA.          63 "We will be -oh so happy," said Mira, a soft light beaming from her eyes. ' We must be happy, for we so love." They sat there long, with the moonlight drifting in upon them, talking of the future, of happiness and of love. Captain Grey finally persuaded Mira that it was better for him to go to sea once again, to repair in part his shat- ) tered fortune. "There is a dread of your going this time, Merrill, that I never knew before." "But this new fear arises from the dangers I have so lately passed through, and perhaps I am a bit dearer now-- / is it not so?" "I may be nervous about the matter, Merrill, but I can- not conquer my forebodings," and the, young wife turned moanfully away, with a silent prayer upon her lip that all might yet be well. Y   CHAPTER XVI.: THE  PARTING. It was a clear morning in winter, that a sad tearful group gathered about Merrill Grey ere he took his depar- ture for the watery world. "Only one voyage more, Captain Grey," exclaimed little Hattie, and " only one voyage more," echoed from lip to lip. "But Merrill, if you ever should return, you would not be contented without again floating away." "Nonsense, my bird, I'll never go again unless you go with me. How would you like that?" "I'd like it so well, Merrill, for if you died, I could die with you." "Don't talk of dying, Mira, when we have but just begun to live; many a happy year we'll know 'in that cot- tage by the river,'" and Captain Grey sang the last few words, as he looked into the tearful eyes of his bride. "God grant that it may be so, Merrill, but I have sad misgivings about your leaving us this time," and Mira shook her head ominously. "Now, my fairy craft don't prophesy another whit, but   IIRA DANA.         65 wipe away your tears and laugh heartily, a real olden sun- shiny laugh," and Captain Grey attempted to set her an example. "I shall not imitate you, Merrill, for you remind me too strongly of the boy who always whistled in the dark to p up his courage." 'Never mind, Mira, I'll hear you laugh when I return; but I am tarrying too long," and he glanced quickly at his watch. "One more kiss, little one," and he pressed his lips to Hattie's soft cheek. One more pressure of father's and mother's hand, and he turned to Mira. A simple "good-bye " was all he could utter, as he pressed her to his throbbing heart. "Adieu," and Captain Grey walked quickly from the room, never pausing for a moment to glance at those he was leaving. In a moment he was seated in his light sleigh, bounding over the smooth hard road. But the last sad glance of Mira beamed upon him from all he saw,-from the clear sky, the downy clouds, and the rosy sunlight that mantled the silver snow. That glance came to him as he "rode o'er the waters wild," sending a sad happy thrill through his noble heart. Long hours through he would sit on the open deck, looking down into the drifting foam. Gleamed there up a bright fire-side and pleasant home; smiled therefrom bright glances and sweet hopes. Would they ever be realized? He could only hope the answer.  In a few weeks after his departr'e, Mira. received a long cheering letter, and from that time the smile came oftener 5*   "         MRA DANA. to her lip, and the olden hope to her soul. How busy she was, making ready for his coming; how many little surprises she had prepared for him. There was the broad- cloth slippers covered with embroidery; the nice linen shirts with their finely plaited bosoms and richly-stitched wristhands, and such a love of a smoking cap, made of soft downy velvet. She almost saw the smile that would hover about his lips on seeing them, and heard the earnestly spoken "I thank you, darling." While she was dreaming of the love-woven future, she received another letter from Captain ,Grey, telling of his success and speedy return home. AL I -   CHAPTER XVl. CAPTAIN GREY LOST OVERBOARD. A wild storm swept over land and sea a few nights be- fore the anticipated return of Captain Grey. "My God, spare my husband!" broke over the pale lips of Mira again and again, as she pressed her pale face against the window-pane, and looked out upon the wild raging tempest. Then she knelt by her bed-side and prayed earnestly, wildly for his safety. Morning at last floated over the earth, silent, calm and tranquil; but it brought no light to Mira's darkened heart. A seal of sorrow had been set upon her soul, during the shadowy night-time, which nought could remove save the knowledge of his safety. Two long weary days, and sleep- less nights, and no word came. from the absent one. Mira began to hope. "A letter for Mr. Dana," and the man who handed it to Mrs. Dana, looked suspiciously at the black-sealed missive. With trembling fingers Mrs. Dana broke the seal. "God save my child!" she exclaimed, as she let the letter fall from her hands.   68         MRA DANA. Not a word passed Mira's snowy lips; not a tear welled up from her hearts deep fountain; only came there to her soul one, sound, - death, death. "When the land and his much-loved home was nigh," Merrill Grey's eyes closed in the dreamless death-sleep. Came there not mournful visions, when the wild storm raged madly, and the death-angel folded its snowy wings around his throlwhing heart? Sighed he not for one more word from his sweet girl-bride-one more pressure of the fair hand upon his paling cheek and brow? But it could not be; he must tread the " dark valley" without one smile to lighten the gloom, that like a mist enshrouded it. Yet, beyond the darkness he saw a flood of light, where parted friends were again united after long, long separations. Wilder swept the storm, and wilder beat the heart of Merrill Grey, not with fear, (although his feet already pressed the threshhold of death,) for God's smiles and love he well knew and felt, were everywhere. One more rush of the mad waves, one more wild gushing prayer, and Merrill slept the long sleep that "'knows no waking."   CHAPTER   XVIli. A STRANGE UNACCOUNTABILE SIGHT. Mira had had forebodings, and we will tell the reader why. She had had a vision, a strange one, and it fell like a shadow upon her every thought of happiness. We shall copy it from her journal. "I had just retired that night. I had not been asleep, when my attention was directed to someting that appeared to be vapor, rising at the foot of my bed. As I gazed, an object beautiful beyond description-parted the vapor and hovered over the bed. It drew nearer and nearer. I could distinctly see the outlines of all its features, but can describe it only by saying it appeared to be the most beau- tiful female that ever eyes beheld. It gracefully waved its lily hand over my husband, who lay upon the pillow beside me; but fastening its love-lit eyes upon me, and parting its lips, it uttered these words in a voice that fell upon my ear softer than a wind harp, or the voice of the turtle: 'He is mine, enjoy him while thou mayest.' "During the whole time, I did not speak- I could not. I felt perfectly powerless; but as it-receded from my view,   70         MRA DANA. I began to tremble violently, and shook in every limb. My husband was frightened at my agitation and begged to know if I was subject to such fits of shaking., As soon as I could speak, I told him I had seen a strange sight which had affected me. I did not tell him what I heard, fearing, I know not why, to do so. I also told him I believed it must have been an angel -nothing else could have been so beautiful. After my agitation subsided, which did, in a short time, my husband told me with mocked gravity, not to alarm myself or give myself the least uneasiness about the appearance, for it was often the case that faries visited such pets as I was; that he had no doubt but it was one of their tribe." Reader, Mira..never heard of " spiritualism" in those days.   CHAPTER XX. i VI SIT  T O MAINE. While Mira's grief rested heavily on her heart, and every attempt to lessen her great sorrow was made by warm sympathyzing friends, seemed to her like cruel mockery, a brother of Merrill Grey came to visit her., He offered her his care and sympathy, and urged hereto accompany him home to Maine to visit the friends of her deceased husband. With gentle firmness, 1;ira declined going. Still the brother urged her to do so, saying that he had promised Captain Grey to care for her, in cas of any emergency. He seemed greatly pleased with Mir and prolonged his anticipated visit of a few hours, to days. She soon saw that something more than brotherly in- terest or kindness chained him to her side. Nor was she long left in doubt about the matter, for a few days before he left her home, he offered her his heart, hand and for- tune. Mira could but know that a short-sighted love had prompted him to make the proposal, which to her was wicked and cruel. She firmly refused him, while, in oppo-   72         MRA DANA., sition to her wishes, a dread dislike of him crept into her heart..             I After he took his leave, Mira received several invitations from Captain Grey's friends to visit them at their home in Maine. Thinking a change would benefit her health and spirits she consented to do so, knowing that the brother of Captain Grey was then absent. One bright sunny morning, Mira started on her journey. There was a vast tide of emotions creeping over her heart, as she neared the once home of- Merrill Grey. She almost saw him when a roguish rosy-cheeked boy, bounding over the broad old fields, and through the green woods that she was fast nearing. She saw him too, as She last saw him, with the flush of manhood upon his brow and cheek--and then with a hopeless prayer she bowed her head and wept; for the light of her life had faded away. Very warmly was the widowed bride welcomed. Kind hands grasped her cordially, and kind voices greeted her with loving words. "You shall not go from us again, Mira," said Jane Grey, after Mira had been an inmate of their happy home a few weeks. "I'd be very happy to remain with you for his sake," replied Mira, as the tear-drops rolled down her cheek. "And darling, for our Merrill's sake we wish you to remain; yet not for his sake alone. We love you, and would try to drive from your pathway every dark shadow. Say, could you not be happy with us?"   MRA DANA.          73 "So happy; for I know that I am with Merrill's friends. If your hand rests caressingly on my brow, I pause and think the same hand smoothed lovingly his shining hair. If your lips press mine, comes the thought to me, they often pressed his, who now smiles .upon us from his heaven- home," earnestly replied Mira. "God bless you, God bless you. I wish sometimes that Merrill was with us; but still I know that he lingers near in sorrow-time and in joy." "I feel that it is so," and Mira turned away with a new light gleaming from her eyes and a softened expression playing about her lips. She was contented in her new home, and tarried much longer than she at first anticipated.   CHAPTER XX. A RECITAL OF DREAMS AND VISIONS. Jane, Captain Grey's sister, and Mira spent much of their time together. Jane would often spend a whole after- noon in telling Mira about her brother's roguish pranks when a boy, and his, noble, generous deeds when a man. Mira would listen silently to the recital of all with interest, and when the tale was ended she would murmur to herself, "Would I had loved him more." One afternoon, as they were seated on a large old rock beneath a wide elm-tree, viewing the waves that dashed madly against the sharp-pointed rocks, and sending their misty foam high above them, Mira related to her companion the strange sight -she saw soon after she was married. "That was strange indeed," said Jane; but no stranger than what my mother saw just before she died. I did not tell you of it before, because I was afraid you would think us superstitious down here; but since you have told me that strange vision of yours, I think you can't laugh at us much."   MRA DANA.          75 "I shall not laugh Jane, at all; so do tell me all about it," said Mira. "Well, just at the time we heard of Merrill's death, our mother was very sick, and had been for several weeks. We were looking every day when she would leavenus. We did not dare tell her that Merrill had gone to join a brother and sister in the other world, lest it would over- come her so, she would die right away. We all had to hide our grief in her presence. Not one word or look betrayed the fatal secret; yet she called us to her bed-side, her eyes were fixed in vacancy, (so to speak,) and she was pointing upwards. ' What means this?' said she; 'three children in heaven! Merrill there?' ' You are dreaming,' said my father, who was bending over her. 'INo I am not,' she replied; 'my eyes do not deceive me. Merrill is in heaven. I see a crown of light resting upon his brow, and another crown, a garland of roses, is in his hand. His brother and sister are with him bearing garments of pure whiteness. They are coming nearer; I hear their voices; I She said no more, but closed her eyes, never to open them again upon us in this world." "What think you of these things, Jane?" "I know not, Mira, but it does seem as though God would not so deceive his children and show to them any- thing false, when so soon they must stand before Him. What think you, Mira?" "Oh, Jane, I do not know what to think; I would give the world to know, but never expect to in this world." C"   76          iRA DANA. After dismissing that subject, Jane commnenced another one, which perplexed and worried Mira for that time, more than the dreams had. 'She told her she had something of importance to communicate, and said she must first ask her a very important question. "How sober you are about it,- Jane; are you going to ask me if I intend to commit suicide?" said Mira, laughing heartily. "No, it is not that, but- it is next door to it. I wanted to ask you if you thought you should ever marry again?" Mira felt a pang of sorrow at this question, but conceal- ing it she gaily replied,- "Why, Jane, I would not live in this cold world so long as you have, without a bosom friend on any account. I never expect to love any one just as I did Merrill, but perhaps I may, better; they say love in mature years is best. Perhaps I shall captivate some of these 'down east' boys, and bear them home as a trophy of one of my exploits." "You are joking, Mira, but I am in earnest; be serious, and I will tell you all." "Oh, well, H am serious, and my expectation is on tip- toe," she replied, with assumed gravity. "I have to tell you that there is a young gentleman whom you, have seen since you have been here, who is deeply in love with you; he is a fine young man, of excel- lent family and good habits -,he is indeed a jewel." "Why do you not try and get him yourself, Jane, if you know and prize him so high?" replied Mira.   MRA DANA. "Me! I never thought of being married; and he is one of my babies, too-L that is, I have tended him for hours when he was a baby,-so you see I know all about him. He is a fine fellow, and I favor his cause,; not that I wish you to marry him now, but 'at some future time I should like to see you his wife. Will you see him to-night when he calls?" "As your friend, I shallbe happy to do so," replied Mira. Not long afterwards, George Leighton entered the neat sitting-room where the whole family had gathered, and for the first time Mira noticed in particular Uis looks and appearance. Thaik he was deeply interested!n her, she could but know; and perhaps her knowledge of the fact made the color rush to her cheek, when he bent his fine eyes upon her face. A very pleasant evening was spent, and Mira retired to her chamber, well satisfied with the few hours conversation which she had help sustain. A, queer dream came to her during the darkened night-time. It seemed she stood in a very beautiful place where the air was heavy with floral fragrance and rich music. "Why am I here?" she asked of herself, as she gazed about her. While in her own mind she strove to answer the question, she saw in the dis- tance a vapor rising, which while. she gazed upon it, parted like a morning cloud, disclosing to view -three men -that were shrouded in its folds. She :recognized but two of them-the other was still shrouded in the yapor-cloud. She   78         MRA DANA. uttered an exclamation of joy, when the one she knew as her husband gazed upon her; then of surprise when he turned towards the gentleman she had met'the previous evening, and in a low solemn voice, pointing his finger towards him, said, "Beware!" Then smiling sweetly on the one concealed he beckoned her to follow him, and disappeared. Mira was free from superstition, and laughed heartily at the idea of heeding dreams, as though they were the shadows of the coming future, or warning of coming ills- more than she 'would have cared to Aacknowledge. She- reflected upon her vision, and at last, for fear of acting upon her impressions, she resolved to act oppositely. Not because she wag greatly interested in George Leighton, did she allow him to linger by her, side and accompany her in her hitherto solitary walks and rambles. Yet there was something in his voice that almost lulled to sleep the wild grief of her heart while she listened--something in the blue eyes that, while gazing into them, sent the warm blood dashing over her delicate cheeks. "I cannot analyze my own feelings," said Mira in a low tone, one evening after George had told her of his deep, ardent love. "But, Mira, will you not bid me hope that you will sometime love me? I do not expect you to ever lavish upon me the same affection that you did upon Captain Grey--I only ask a second love." "Shall I refuse this to him?" asked Mira, mentally. /9   MRA DANA.         79 "Will it be wronging Merrill, if I try to be happy? No!" and Mira silently laid her hand in that of the young man, who pressed it fondly to his lips. "Thank you, thank you, Mira; you have made me a happy man," and a loving smile beamed from George Leightofi's eyes. "May we both be happy,"' said Mira, as she sadly turned away. \ '   CHAPTER XXT. A SECOND    BETROTHAL. A few weeks after Mira had consented to bestow upo George Leighton a second love, another dream, so strang and portentous that she could but notice it, came to he while she was more awake than asleep. Again it seemed that Merrill Grey stood before he wearing a solemn prophetic look; that he again pointed i George Leighton, and in a low voice murmured, "Be ware." Then he seemed to press an ardent kiss upon he brow. It seemed so real, that on fully waking, Mira place her hand upon her forehead, as if to trace the outlin of its resting-place. Still she' changed not her course, but encouraged tl attentions of him who so warmly professed to love he' After remaining more than a year with her friends, Mir prepared to return home. Before going, she consented 1 the earnest wishes of her friends and betrothed herself t George Leighton. Together they knelt before his parent and received their blessing, and renewed their newly-mad vows. Thus they parted.   MRA DANA.          81 After returning home, an affectionate, kind letter from George, almost dispelled the doubts that shadow-like hov- ered about her mind. He promised to visit her during the following summer, and Mira hushed the inward voice that bade her turn her "thoughts and aspirations in another direction," and anxiously awaited the time of his coming. During that glad summer-time, she first met Herbert Tyrrell, a quiet exemplary young man, to all appearances. Although seemingly indifferent to the generality of wo- men, he became greatly interested in Mira, and after a few meetings, at different places, he proposed marriage to her. Mira could reply only by telling him of her engage- ment and anticipated marriage. A sad look rested upon his countenance at the intelli- gence, and he informed Mira that he had received an offer to go South, which he now should accept. "Will you write to me Mira, as a friend?" he asked, hesitatingly. "I have no friends to write to me," he added, as she waited, a moment before replying. "I will write to you and be your friend," she replied, touched by his words. "But it will be useless to again mention the subject of marriage to me." "Who knows of the future, Mira?" "How strange," she murmured to herself as he left her. "It seems that in some way that man is connected with my future destiny." Reader, who knows of the future? 4   CHAPTER XXIT. FICKL ENESS. "Three weeks more and I shall see George," exclaimed Mira one evening as she sat alone in her chamber. "I wish I could forget the strange voices that whisper audibly to me, 'he is false, false; he will never come to thee.' They are so plain that at times I am half resolved to notice them." After reflecting awhile upon the matter, Mira con- cluded to write to him telling him her fears. She accord- ingly wrote the following:- L   , June 22d, 184-. Dear George,-It is with a disturbed mind that I seat myself to address a few lines to you--not that I am ill, or that friends are false, or that you have given me cause to doubt you by word or deed; - but oh! I have had such dreams; yet too real they were, to so call them. They have troubled me much; yet for fear you would think me foolishy superstitious, I have refrained from speaking to you about them. But now I am lead to believe, by their frequent occurrence, that some great ill is about to befal   MRA DANA.          83 me. A frank avowal from you would remove my heartfelt sadness--an avowal that you are not changed--that you still love me. If you are, do not hesitate to inform me, nor let any fear of my grief deter you from doing so. Whate'er there may be, I'll promise not to be offended. Let me tell you I have dreamed several times, (I will call it dreaming) that you were false hearted-that you would never fulfil your part of our engagement. But I have striven hard to -think them but natural, arising from our long separation. Last night I had a dream, "which was not all a dream."' The same voice which I have ever heard, repeated to me again that you were false. If you can remove the impression from my mind honorably, I beg you to do so. Remember, then, if you are changed, I shall blame you not. Your truly devoted friend, MRA. In a short time she received the following reply: - N   , July 8th, 184-. Dear Mira,-I hasten to answer your letter which came duly to hand. But before dealing much in serious matters, let me laugh at you heartily, at the same time pitying you for your foolishness Dreams indeed!- dreaas without any connection with your future or present life. Let me assure you that I love you as fondly and devotedly noW, as when we first parted betrothed! True, I anticipated coming to you long ere this, but I have ever assigned good   84         MRA DANA. reasons for not doing so. I am very anxious to see you, and if alive, shall be with you the first of August next. I know, in spite of all your suspicions and dreams, I shall be as pleased to see you, as you can be me. I would not tarry so long from you, but my business compels me to stay here until the time just stated. Now, dear Mira, for my sake drive from your mind these unjust thoughts. Believe me, Yours devotedly, GEORGE. After receiving the above letter from George Leighton, Mira blamed herself for writing to him as she had done, although something told her she had not acted without a reason. "But he will be here himself soon, and then every fear will be banished," Mira would repeat to her- self, while anxiously waiting his coming. But another letter came in his stead, which read as follows:-  N   , July 29th, 184-. Dear Mira,--I cannot offer any apology for this letter. I shall. not attempt to make-an excuse for the course I have taken, or try in any way to explain my conduct. All I can say is, that we can never meet again. This must be the last time I write you. God alone knows why. You are not to blame; no one but myself. I speak truly when I again repeat that I love you now fondly as ever; but destiny has marked for us separate courses.  Farewell, forever, GEORGE. J   MRA DANA.          85 Mira did not grieve over the above letteir-she had too long expected, aye, waited its coming. She never more heard from George Leighton, save a passing word from uninterested lips. Her dreams were but shadows of her sorrow.   CHAPTER   Xx ll. HERBERT TYRRELL. His were very beautiful blue eyes-Herbert Tyrrell's- shaded by long brown lashes. A high white brow he could boast of, around which clustered rich waves of chest- nut brown hair. There was always a smile resting on his features. A smile, did I say? and such a smile. A ma- licious affair which would strike down into the heart of the gazer, as something impure and unholy; as though it were -but a thin covering to a' sinful, darkened heart. Had he a mind superior to those around him, it was never employed save about his own world of affairs; beyond, he knew nothing, cared nothing. He had a heart, (all men have hearts,) but not one easily touched. One might as well try to soften a granite block by weeping over it, as his heart. Yet it was not his fault that he could so easily turn away when a tale of suffering or woe fell upon his ear. He was so constituted, so organized by that Great Being who doeth nothing amiss. He possessed a great mechanical genius. No piece of machinery ever so peculiarly fitted or formed, but what he   MRA DANA.          87 could readily understand. His very soul seemed the cast of his powers, for it never shone through the dim mist that enveloped it. "If he ever married," he would say, "it would be to have a wife to wait upon him." What wanted he of a companion to love? All he asked was a wife, as a necessary piece of furniture -a passive being who would never murmur or complain. Yet Herbert Tyrrell loved to look into a pair of bright bewitching eyes, or gaze on a fair cheek and rosy lip: and sometimes he would say, "I'll marry a handsome woman." This, reader, was the man who, on learning that Mira was again free, earnestly sought her hand. There was a vast deal of pride in her heart, and after she was deserted by George Leighton, 'twas no idle affair to conquer it. "I will marry Herbert Tyrrell," she exclaimed to her- self one morning. "I'll show George Leighton that my whole life is not bound up in his love. And yet," she con- tinued, "I would not wrong him, for I have no love to offer; and have I not told him so? and still he urges me to marry him. If he is kind, I can learn to love, as I now respect him. Yes, I'll marry Herbert Tyrrell" and Mira resolutely closed her lips. That he imagined he loved Mira Grey, we will not pre- tend to deny. Love! he knew nothing of that great, holy, pure principle. The feeling that filled his heart was low and sordid.   CHAPTER   Xx IV. SECOND MARRIAGE. Mira was Herbert Tyrrell's wife at last. She was very hopeful, and so hoped that life might be a sunny spot once more. They had not been married long, ere Mira saw that her future was dark and uncertain: her path, at best, a rough one. Herbert Tyrrell, before marriage, with his smiles and promises, changed greatly afterwards. Mira complained not, but tried to think she was wronj in expecting that sympathy and love from him, which before had been so freely lavished upon her. Time passed on and she yearned still more for sympa- thy and kindness; yet she yearned in vain. Every ad- vancement was met and repulsed with coldness. "I don't want to hear so many complaints," Mr. Tyrrell would say, after Mira had confided to him some little trial, that would have been greatly lightened by his sympathy. "I know he has some feeling," she would murmur to herself, as some unkindness wounded anew her heart. b'   MBIRA DANA.          89 Yes, he had feelings; for Mira had watched him as he told her of his dissolute abandoned sister. She had marked even tears in his large dark eyes, when he mourned over her fate, and warned Mira to shun her, should she ever attempt to cross her path. And he must care for her, or why the warning? But let what would ,come, Mira was determined to be very brave. Her friends should never know of her troubles, they were so averse to her marriage; and strange comparisons fell often upon her ear of Merrill Grey and Herbert Tyrrell. They were useless, for in her heart's most sacred temple, the memory of Merrill Grey was enshrined, and now in her sorrow his smiles gleamed upon her from the darkness. At last, Mira folded to her heart a sweet stranger babe. Oh, how earnestly she prayed that it might, like a golden link, bind her husband's heart more closely to her own. Useless prayer! "I do not wish to hear any more complaints," exclaimed Mr. Tyrrell, one morning, after Mira had complained of having a severe headache. "I have heard enough of your foolery, and believe nothing of it. Sick! you are always sick, just like your old mother;" and with a frown resting upon his brow, he left the room, slamming the door vio- lently after him. Such scenes now comprised Mira's everyday life. She would turn to her babe with a bitter sigh, and clasp its form more closely to her aching heart, and press its velvet 4*   90 -        MRA DANA. cheek closely to her own, and with closed eyes would view the great panorama of the past. Could any hand like hers, keep- pure the fresh young bud till it should expand into the open flower? Her own soul answered, "none, none!" Then she did not live in vain.  *,   CHAPTER XXV. "OCATING AT WORCESTER. "How old is this baby," asked Aunt Abby, coming in one morning, and taking the little golden-haired Miny from its mother's arms. "Only six weeks, Aunty," replied Mrs. Tyrrell. "Six weeks," repeated she; "the massy me! it looks more like six months instead. Who ever saw such curls on a six-week baby? They tell me you are going to move to Worcester, soon; is that true?" interrogated she. "It is; we go to-morrow." "Well, I never did see; you an your husband both musthe crazy, to start and go twenty miles in such cold weather as this, with a baby only six weeks old. It does seem to me young folks don't know nothing;" and Aunt Abby trotted the baby violently. "I am afraid I am not strong enough to take such a journey yet; but my husband thinks me very notional about such things. But he is young yet, Aunty; he will learn, after awhile." "Learn; he'll never learn till after you are dead, if he's   92         MRA DANA. no more careful than that now. You'll see my words true, sometime; now you mind." After chatting awhile in the same manner, Aunt Abby took her leave. Mrs. Tyrrell made preparation to leave town next day. The travelling was so bad they were obliged to leave their goods behind for a while. "Herbert, do you not think I had better stay aawhile longer?" said Mrs. Tyrrell, as an uncovered sleigh drove up to the door, and stood waiting for them. "What are your objections to going now?" was his reply. "I am afraid I and the babe both will take a cold, facing this March mind. You know I am not very strong,yet." "I'll venture your freezing. What will you ever be good for, if you are always so fussy?" Mrs. Tyrrell made no reply, but with her babe folded to her bosom, took a seat in the sleigh. Her husband, seat- ing himself beside her, bid the driver "go on." The wirid blew furiously; the snow lay in giant piles on either side of the road, rendering it in some places almost impassable. For a long time, no words were spoken by either of them. At last Mrs. Tyrrell told her husband she believed she and her babe would both freeze, and beg- ged him to leave her at the next public house till the weather should moderate. aI will not be to that expense, I know," was his reply. "You'll feel well enough after you get there." B                   - .   MRA DANA.         93 Mrs. Tyrrell said no more, but folding her babe closer to her bosom, resolved to be silent. It was nightfall ere they reached Worcester. Little Minnie had set upon it she would cry, and in defiance to all mama's efforts, carried her point. Poor Mira, that was a sad night to her. After arriving at their place of desti- nation, she was so benumbed with the cold, and wearied with the cries of her child, she could eat no supper; and the careless boarding woman where they stopped, put them in a cold room where neither the bed or the room had been occupied for a long time. "Do ask the landlady for some wood to build a little fire here, Herbert," said Mrs. Tyrrell, on seeing an open fire-place in the room. You know we have not slept out of a warm room all winter. I do believe I shall never get warm again." Mrs. Tyrrell was then shaking violently with the cold. "I wonder what next you won't want me to do? Get along into bed and,you'll be warm enough," said Tyrrell. Mrs. Tyrrell did get into bed, but sleep had been ban- ished from her eyes by her husband's ungrateful treatment. Little Minnie had fallen asleep on her mother's bosom. "Thyan  God," murmured she, " my babe is happy." For a--while we must leave lMr. and Mrs. Tyrrell in WA  ,keeping house again, -- Mr. yrrell following the pursuits of his genius, and Mrs. Tyrrell trying to please him, and endeavoring to be happy and make the best of what she greatly feared was a bad bargain.   CHAPTER - XXVI. TROUBLE AT THE OLD HOMESTEAD. Mrs. Dana's health was fast declining. Mr. Dana was taken suddenly ill; none thought he would recover. All the children were married and away. The crops were not all harvested, and winter's chill breath already began to be felt through the crevices of the old house that was fast crumbling to decay. What would be done with Mira's father now? Her grandfather, old Mr. Dana, was rich; but none would be benefitted by his broad acres until the treasures of earth were no more to him. Mr. Dana's children heard of the home-trouble, and hastened to gather about the dear old hearth-stone and administer all possible consolation. Warner Dana was naturally kind and generous, but on this occasion his benev- olence seemed to know no bounds. Mira loved him with a sister's true affection, for khe believed his heart was free, from selfishness and cupidity. "Father," said he one day, "father, I think you and mother had better come and live with me this winter. This house is getting too old to inhabit longer, and you   MRA DANA.          95 will not be able to work and take care of things. Don't you think it is a good plan?" "The plan is good enough," replied his father; "but, Warner, this is my home. I have lived here from a child. 'Tis goood enough for me - every shingle upon its ancient roof isldear to me. No, Warner, no; I cannot leave my home."                  ' Farmer Dana sank back upon his' pillow and shaded his eyes with his rough hand. "But mother is willing. to go," resumed Warner, "and thinks it is for the best. You will see it so after you have weighed the subject a little. I have enough and to spare, and you shall want for nothing. You shall be well cared for beneath my roof- here, you must suffer." After much persuasion, Mr. Dana consented to go; and as soon as able to undergo the excitement and fatigue of a removal, found a more comfortable abode- in Warner's cheerful dwelling. Mrs. Dana was herself again, and he slowly recovered. * e,   CHAPTER XXVIL WA R  E RS  S C  E ME. I have said Warner Dana was naturally kind and gen- erous. He was so; but who will not sacrifice principle to an over-weaning love of gold? Echo answers, "who?" He pitied his parents and meant not that they should suf- fer. He meant not to wrong them-he only determined to possess himself of all this world's goods that he could, honestly. He always had been honest, and without knov- ing how much circumstances 'had favored him, or dream- ing, that if tempted, he could fall. He was very kind to his parents, gratifying thcer wishes as far as possible. Indeed, he had so succeeded in ingra- tiating himself into their favor, that they thought he could not err. "Father," said he, seating himself in his cosy little sit- ting-room one day, "I have been thinking that grand- father will live but a short time. I hear he is very feeble; and in case he should die, you will probably share largely in the estate, unless he should cut you off in his will." "Cut me off in his will What do you mean, Warner?   MRA DANA.          97 Have I not always been his slave, so to speak, and is not that the reason why I am poor and in debt?" "Just so, father; and because you are poor and in debt, and he may leave you something handsome, is why I wished to speak with you. I say we cannot tell but what he has cut you off entirely. But don't worry about that, I intend to see you well provided for through life, if I never get a cent for it, as I told you before." Generous man! God saw thy heart; He will reward thee according to thy merits. "Grandfather may leave you a share with the rest of the heirs; but unless it is taken care of previously, your old creditors will filch it from you mighty quick, after it comes into your possession." "And I am willing my creditors should be paid every dollar I owe them, for have I not always dealt honestly with all men?" "Yes, there is no one to say my father is not an honest man, and I am proud to have it so; but, you are feeble now, and unable to control this business yourself. You need all that rightly belongs to you, and I will relieve you of all anxiety and responsibility about the matter, if you will legally authorize me to do so. I would be glad to resign the business to either of the other children, but hardly think they would willingly incur so much trouble without expecting remuneration. I wish for none." "Noble son!" exclaimed both his parents. "May God reward you!"    98         MRA DANA. "Well, then, if you wish it, I will attend to it to-day, as I am at leisure; seeing that justice is done to all, and rid- ding you of all further uneasiness. It is only necessary for you and mother to sign a document giving me power to act in your stead." "We will do so," they replied, and Warner left the room, well satisfied with his artful manceuvreings. I will not attempt to say what was passing in his mind. I only know he went over immediately to Lawyer Whit- man's office and entered with "A top of the morning to you, 'squire. How's business?" "Ah, good morning Mr. Dana," said the person ad- dressed, with one of his blandest smiles, at the sam time handing him a chair and adding, "business is dull 4-not much stirring." "Can you attend to a little affair of mine?" "I shall be most happy to wait on you;" and drawing his chair close to Warner's, and puffing away vigorously the smoke that issued from his "short six," the 'squire listened attentively while his client unfolded his plan. "What I wish, is this: you know that grandfather has a large estate, and father may come in possession of a good share of it soon, as grandsire is failing fast. My father, sir, will need all he can get, and in order to secure it to him so that old creditors may not filch it from him, I have thought it best to have it made over to some one that will do right by him, for he has been a hard-working man always, and strictly honest, as everybody knows."   MRA DANA.          99 "Just so, just so; I understand, I understand. I can arrange the matter for you. Who does your father think of having it made over to?" "The fact is, there is no one to transact this business properly but myself. I should be glad to have brother Martin do the business, but between you and me, he is not a fit person to be entrusted with other people's property. I feel sorry to say it, but it is true nevertheless." "Yes, yes, I know, I understand," replied his auditor, affirmatively. "My oldest sister's husband is one of the 'Crusoe's,' you know. He of course would not attend to such small matters, always having very important business of his own to attend to. Mira and Hattie's husbands are hardly capa- ble of taking care of themselves. So you see stern neces- sity compels me to take the business into my own hands. I never expect to get a cent for it; but still I shall not see my parents suffer while I live." "You are a generous man, Mr. Dana, and will sometime be rewarded for your disinterestedness without doubt." "I desire papers, putting me in possession of all father now, or ever may possess; then, when grandfather's estate is settled, whatever falls to him must be secured to me." "I understand it," said Esquire W  ; and the papers were drawn up accordingly, and duly signed by Mr. and Mrs. Dana without the knowledge of either of the other children. Had old Mr. Dana and his wife, no confidence in their   100         MRA DANA. other children; had they neglected them, that they were not informed of the steps Warner was taking? No, it was not that; each one had been equally kind-each would have willingly shared a part in providing for their wants. But Warner had told them it was not necessary for them to be informed at all, about the matter, therefore, the business was all done without their knowledge, advice, or consent - entirely to the satisfaction of Warner- with none to hinder, alter, or amend. - , ' -   CHAPTER XXVll. FILIAL LOVE. Not many months after the transaction described in the previous chapter, old Mr. Dana died; and by his will, Warner's father was left a goodly estate. After it be- came generally known among his creditors, they asked for their just dues; but Warner informed them that his father, in reality, owned nothing, assuring them that he had been to great expense in supporting his parents, and for that reason had received deeds of all their property. Thus silenced, each creditor left, drawing conclusions ac- cordingly. "I am glad father has a little something left him," said Martin Dana to Warner, one day after the estate was set- tled. "Glad for his own sake, glad for the sake of the creditors. I suppose there will be enough to pay all debts and support the old folks handsomely, will there not? You of course know, as you 'have taken the business into your hands." "Know!" replied Warner; "I know if I had not looked to the matter before grandfather died, there would not   102         MRA DANA. have been a cent left. But I was soon enough for them, and now the creditors may whistle," and he put on a very satisfied air. "I suppose you have given father bonds for a maintain- ance," continued Martin. "Bonds! Is not my word bond enough? Think you I would meaningly wrong any one, above all, a parent?" said Warner, with an aggrieved air and tone. "No, brother, no, I did not think you would intentionally deal unjustly; but you may die, and the law -knows noth- ing about your honest intentions, finless they are in black and white.", "True, very true; I did intend to give bonds, and will do so immediately." Singular fits of abstraction had Warner for a long time, after he possessed the deeds of his father's inheritance. There were times when his brow would knit itself into a scowl, and his whole manners be nervous and irritable, as though he was weighing carefully some important subject. "I have it at last," he exclaimed, after one of his mus- ing fits. A gleam of sunshine lit up his otherwise dull features, as he spoke. "I'l, show folks I an somebody, now. I see no reason why I may not be a capitalist, yet. I know I have talent to be a manufacturer, if I have the means. I could do a big business--perhaps become a 'Boott,' at last; who knows? I have now sufficient prop- erty to establish my credit; I can raise money on these deeds, and borrow some on my reputation. Yes; I'll buy   MRA: DANA.         103 machinery and begin operation at once. The money I borrowed of HaItty will help me amazingly, just now, and I shall put her off about paying it, for the present, though she told me she wanted it. When I become rich, and make some of my poor relatives independent, they will then acknowledge my superiority." Warren did commence operations at once; but it was not long afterward that he found he was a little mistaken in the amount of business talent he possessed, in manufac- turing cotton goods, at least. For a while he buffeted the waves \f adverse fortune, manfully; but cotton would " rise " and cloth would " fall," and soon his bark of speculation was difting a wreck upon the same waters where many a larger one had foundered. His dream of future opulence was suddenly annihilated. How he survived the wreck, or in what way he gathered the fragments of his ruined fortune, I know not. He shortly after removed to the State of Maine, where he entered into the manufacture of the real article of which he had previously made extensive and successful use- "soft soap."   CHAPTER   XXIX. THE  SUNNY   S O UTH. "How would you like to go South, Mira?" enquired Mr. Tyrrell of his wife, one evening, as he sat at the tea table leisurely supping his tea. "Like to go South, Herbert; what do you mean?' exclaimed Mira. ' Why, it means that I have received another offer fron Mr. Goodrich to take an extensive lot of machinery 't Augusta, Georgia, and that it promises to pay very well Now, what do you say?" and Mr. Tyrrell smiled graciously as the thought of making money ran through his head. "Of course, Herbert, if you can do any better that you are now doing, it will be advisable for us to go;" ant Mira turned away to conceal the tears that bathed he pale cheek. Long that night, after her husband and babe were sleep ing eacefully, the young wife thought of leaving thos she lbved, to follow one who had proved himself unworth, her regard or esteem. Had he treated her with the con mon kindness due even a stranger, she would not hav complained; but that was denied her.   MRA DANA.          105 On a cold, stormy day in October, Mr. Tyrrell started with his family for Georgia. A long, dreary journey it was, for Mira, with her helpless babe. The moment they stepped on board the boat, Mr. Tyrrell left her alone, to endure the fatigue of the journey, and care for her babe as best she could. Mira had hoped to leave all the dark storm-clouds behind, but they followed her as did the Octo- ber storm. Mira could but be delighted with the warm, delightful climate of Georgia; it seemed like stepping into another world, so beautiful and fair it was. Her eyes rested on broad fields, carpeted with velvety grass; rich plantations embroidered with foliage and sun-lit flowers. For a while Mira's old feelings returned, as she breathed the warm delightful air, and dreamed olden dreams as she gazed on the clear sky, which was as soft and pure as a Northern June. Hour after hour would she sit by the window, watching the rippling, eddying surface of the proud river, whose light gleamed through the heavily laden persimmon trees like silver-tipped arrows. There was a cluster of trees in front of Mira's home, where, through the long sunny days, warbled and sung the Southern woodland songsters. She tried to be happy, and did indeed enjoy much; yet she pined for something more than these -for sympathy and love. One great trouble weighed heavily on Mira's mind. Her husband had an insatiable love of riches, and engaged extensively in lotteries; hoping thereby to enrich himself 5   106      .  MRA DANA. in a moment. A large amount of money was paid for tickets, and!n the mean time Mr. Tyrrell grew mor un- kind, if possible, than ever. "Herbert," said' Mira, one morning after he had pur- chased a large package of tickets, "I can say no more to you than I have said, about the purchasing of tickets; but if you are determined to spend all you possess, in this manner, do, I beseech you, provide me with money to go home with now." "I suppose you wish to expose me to your friends, or rather try to make them think I am doing something dreadful, when in reality I am only trying to get wealth for your benefit and pleasure."/ "But, Herbert, you are diminishing your property, in- stead of increasing it; say, will you not be content without spending more?" Herbert was silent. He was convinced of his wrong, but it seemed a little too tame, to promise to do better; yet, after some hesitation, the promise was made, and Mira was relieved of alworld of anxiety. For a while all went smoothly, and Mrs. Tyrrell's spirits revived like flowers beneath the summer's rain. "What shall I do with the servants, Herbert?" asked Mrs. Tyrrell of her husband one morning. "Do with them, why?" "They are impudent, and do not mind anything I say to them." Mr. Tyrrell smiled. "You must whip them, Mira."   MRA DANA.         107 "Me whip a human being, whom God has endowed with every faculty that he has you or I? No, never!" ex- claimed Mira, her old Northern education coming vividly before her. "Do as you like, do as you like; but one thing is sure, if you don't whip them, they will whip you. Why, whip- pings are just as necessary to them as their food." Mira held up both hands in mute astonishment. "Well, let them do what they will, I'll not whip them."  "Perhaps not," and smiling doubtfully, Mr. Tyrrell left the room. Bravely she managed for a while, bearing quietly every little rudeness; but at last their impudence conquered her good nature. "What shall I do with you, Pauline?" she asked of a saucy negro girl, who went about the spacious kitchen with a wicked smile resting on her face, and displaying in the meantime a nice set of ivory. "Dunno missus," was the laughing reply. "Well, I think a whipping would do you a vast deal of O good; at any rate, I shall try it," said Mira, expecting to see the girl tremble with fright; but she stood calm and unmoved as a block of marble. With a woe-begone expression upon her face, Mira took. a green hide from a shelf near by, preparatory to com- mencing her dreadful task. Still Pauline grinned on. "Heaven forgive me," she said to herself, as she gave the girl a smart quick blow, which stung her own heart.   / 108         MRA DANA. Again she raised the green hide, frightened lest Pauline should faint beneath the severe lashing. "Yah yah!" broke. over the thick lips of the culprit. "Guess missus arnt ust to liclkin' niggers; don't hurt a mite." Mlira was nonplussed. She had supposed she was nearly taking the life of the slave; but instead, she " didn't hurt a mite." She dropped the green hide, and never attempted to whip a negro again. Mrs. Tyrrell mourned over the low degraded state of the blacks, and wondered not that people call them stupid and witless, bending as they did over their toil, from early dawn to dusky night-fall, without cessation, from one year's end to another. Let what might be passing in their minds, they were not allowed to express it; knowing no other aim in life, save that of laboring, eating and sleeping. They were taught to look upon liberty as something they had no right to know -an institution to be enjoyed only by white people. "But thank God," Mira would exclaim, " that glorious principle does at times creep into their darkened hearts, and then are the sellers of human souls taught that they have'a faint glimmering of what belongs to them as God's children." "Be careful, Mira, be careful and not express your sen- timents too freely; remember in these parts, you can be a 'free thinker, but- not aa -free speaker," Mr. Tyrrell would remark smilingly, as a burst of thoughts came frobm his wife's lips.   ', ,    MRA DANA.          109 , But Herbert, I blush that any spot in free (?) Amer- ica should be so cursed." "Never mind; you are a little bit northernish now, but it will soon wear off." "Yes, when I no longer have regard for right, honor, or religion, this Northern principle will die away; but when that time comes, I shall be as low and debased as the veriest wretch upon the earth." Mr. Tyrrell had spoken truly; if not in -Mira's case, in many others, for that Northern principles do wear of, has been lamented by thousands, when they saw a giant leader favor a law which will ever remain a dark spot in America's history. Yes--Northern principles do wear off." Ere many weeks had passed away, another babe was welcomed to Mira's Southern home. How she had suf- fered during her illness, from her husband's unkindness. He had gone so far as to refuse her a physician at the time of her confinement. She wept in vain for the loved ones at home. A mother's hand could not rest on her aching head, or sisters' words of kindness fall upon her ear.  e "Oh Father, take me home," burst from her lips as she lay upon her bed, the low insulting words of her husband falling upon her ear. "Oh, Herbert, do you not care for my life?" asked Mira, as he refused to let one of the servants go for Dr. Ford.  "Care, you will jog along well enough without my care, I'm thinking," was the low cutting reply. hi   "O         MRA DANA. "But Herbert, do you not realize that if I die now, you will have my life to answer for? Know you not that God reads your heart this moment as I might read an open book?" "Nonsense, Mira; don't try to get up any scenes, you know well that Ido not mind them, and all is, if you tell one of the servants to go for a physician, I'll counteract your orders. So try it if you'd like;" and smiling wick- edly, Herbert Tyrrell left the room, muttering as he went, "all a whim; other women get along without a physician, and she can." For a while, Mira lay upon the bed, her cheek pale as the pillow to which it was pressed. "What care I for life; why should I battle for it?" she murmured to herself. At that moment, a pair of dimpled hands was laid upon her pale forehead, and a warm, rosy cheek laid upon her cold hand; while a soft 'voice asked, "What can Minny do for mamma?" Tears gushed from Mira's eyes, as she laid her hand upon the golden curls of little Minny. In a low voice she called the negro attendant to her bed-side, andbade her go for a physician. Nancy hesitated. "rIm afraid of massa.' "Nancy, hear me. If you do not go, I shall die, and you'll have to suffer for it.. Do you undersand me?" The poor frightened girl did not wait to reply, but bounded away as fast as possible, heedless of Mr. Tyrrell, who called loudly from the piazza for her to stop.   MRA DANA.          1" It was very strange how Herbert Tyrrell could sud- denly change the angry frown upon his face, into a pleas- ant smile; but when Dr. Ford entered the house, he met him kindly and smilingly. Mira gained rapidly, and in a few weeks was able to be about the house, and occasionally to extend her walks in into the rich flower-laid and foliage-guarded gardens. She tried to be happy, while gazing on the beauty that surrounded her, but it was impossible. Mira Tyrrell was happy only in loving and being loved. She would rather have lived in the meanest hovel upon the earth, and been blessed with sympathy and love, than to reign a queen over a princely dwelling, with nothing to satisfy her yearn- ing heart, save the sight of wealth and splendor. Months wore away, and there was no change for the better in Mira's fortune. Her husband treated her with the same cool indifference and carelessness that he ever had done since they made their home in the sunny South. "Herbert," said Mira one evening, as they sat together in the parlor, "I have a question to ask you." "Ah," was the brief reply. "I have been thinking that the warm Southern climate of Georgia does not agree with me, and that if you are willing, it would be better for me to go home." "I am willing," coolly replied Mr. Tyrrell. "I shall not feel right to go, Herbert, if you are not perfectly willing," continued Mrs. Tyrrell. Mr. Tyrrell looked his wife steadily in the face, replying,   "2        MRA DANA. "What do you want me to say more? I think the least said, the better," and he commenced whistling a lively tune. "Does it make any difference when I go?" and Mira's voice grew soft and tremulous, as she turned to her hus- band, anxiously awaiting his reply. Any time that pleases you best, lira," was the answer, his feelings a might softened by her kindness. "Thank you, Herbert; then I'll go in the next boat. "Well, any time you wish to go, you can have plenty of money," was the reply. Plenty of money!  How Mira's heart would have bounded, could she have known that his love would have been bestowed upon her so freely. She did not tell him this; it would have been too much like casting her heart's treasures upon the earth, to be mocked at and trampled upon. A few mornings after Mira had broached the subject of returning home, to her husband, she was taken quite ill, and so was obliged to defer her anticipated journey to some indefinite period. After a few weeks of worried illness, health came again to the tried one; and then she folded the babes to her breast and started for the old Bay State. With her husband's freezing adieu resting upon her heart, she stepped on board the steamboat, wretched, yet happy.. Wretched that her life was thrown away upon one who could not love or appreciate her-one who re-   MRA DANA.          113 pulsed her, if she tried to soften his heart with kindness, or make life to him a bright sunny spell.' Happy that she would ere long be in the dear old home, with those she loved around her. Again would mother's hand rest caress- ingly on her aching head, and mother's soft voice soothe her wearied heart. Oh that the large lumbering boat would fly swifter over the white-crested waters; swifter by the waving fields and rich dim groves; faster away from the balmy air and downy skies, to dear old New England. What cared she, if the passengers did look wonderingly at her, as she looked out upon the waters, with singularly bright beaming eyes, as if she was striving to catch a glimpse of her home beyond. "Who is she?" was asked by one and another, as she walked across the deck. "She is very lovely," they would whisper, as they looked upon her flushed cheek and high white brow. 4* %   CHAPTER XXX. HOME AGAIN.      ( After Warner Dana was well established in his manu- facturing business, he grew weary of the old folks, and so provided them with a few acres of land and a house, not far from their old home. They too were weary, and with joyful hearts entered the new home, where they were to be the master and the mistress. "I wish Mira was at home," remarked Mrs. Dana one morning, as she and her husband sat together at the break- fast-table. That was a pleasant kitchen, with the June morning's light creeping in through the windows, and weaving itself in with the white steam that rolled up from the shining coffee-urn. The little round table was covered with a snowy cloth, on which was set plates of soft creamy biscuit and golden butter. "And I wish Mira was with us;" echoed Mr Dana, as he laid from the white earthen dish a spoonful of crimson strawherries. "I think that she will be here before long, for she writes V.   MRA DANA.         115 that the climate of Georgia does not agree with her. Poor child, how happy we should be to have her with us again,' and a tear crept out of Mrs. Dana's mild blue eye. "Mira was always a good daughter to us, wife; and her light dancing step and clear merry laugh always done my heart good. Oh yes, wife, I wish she was with us," musingly spoke the old man. The following afternoon, when the shadows lay heavy upon the grass, and the sunlight went slowly creeping over the hills, Mira and her babes reached home. She had walked from the village, forgetting her fatigue--forget- ting all, save the one overpowering hope of reaching home. "How you have changed, Mira," was the first exclama- tion of Mrs. Dana, after she had clasped the form of her child to her heart. "What means this? tell me, Mira." "Oh, mother," was the low reply, "the warm sultry climate of Georgia came near destroying my life, as it has my health." "But Mira, why did you stay so long." "Mother, I disliked to leave my husband," and Mira turned away, a faint smile playing upon her face, at the thought of so successfully hiding the real cause of her leaving the South. "Shall I expose my husband's unkind treatment, to my friends?" she would murmur to herself. "No!" the answer crept softly from the depths of her heart. Under the kind care of her mother, Mira's health im- proved rapidly; and in a few weeks a great change was   "6         MRA DANA. visible at the home of the old folks. A nice new porch was added to the cottage, with every convenience and com- fort, ard things began to look lively and happy. Nine months speedily passed away, and still Mr. Tyrrell tarried at the South. Mira received but few letters from him, and these so cold, they chilled her heart. "Did ever wife receive more flattering letter from loved husband?" said Mira to herself, as she held one of her husband's freezing messages in her hand, one morning. An olden smile lit up her eye as she again glanced over it musingly; then she bent her head upon her hand, unde- cided whether to welcome the fast-coming tears, or drive them back upon her heart. "I'll be a woman!" she at last exclaimed, rising from her seat. "I'll live through it all - the same Mira, yes, the same Dick." The April following, Herbert Tyrrell returned to his wife and children. He was kindly welcomed by Mira, who vainly hoped that absence had driven from his heart old feelings, and Athat they should yet be happy. He was not unmindful of his family when he was away; oh no, for on his return he brought rich gifts to his wife and little ones. There was the richly chased gold watch, with a heavy chain of the same metal, for Mira, and an embroidered frock and waxen baby for little Minny, with many a pleasing toy for the miniature Herbert. In a few weeks Mr. Tyrrell. moved his family 'to the city of Worcester, again, and was soon naged in his olden   MRA DANA.          117 business of inventing and fitting machinery. Heavy orders continued to come from the South, and Mira, like a true woman, left all to assist him. Her delicate fingers filled out the many orders, and her busy brain calculated sagely and shrewdly for him. He saw of how much value her services were to him, and adroitly managed to secure them with her whole in- terest, by a softened manner--a new and strange way of proceeding. Yet Mira was contented, if in any way, or under any circumstances, he should be led to show her that attention which every woman has a right to expect, aye, even demand from her husband. That was not the only field in which she labored. Peo- ple saw with wliat skill she administered to the sick, and many came to her for relief. Through her instrumentality. she was grateful to know that many a life was saved- many a heart made glad. -  To -   *#;   - CHAPTER XXXT. FAMLY   AFFAIRS. Time wore away, and another little blue-eyed babe was added to Mr. Tyrrell's little household. For three months, Mira was very ill, and during thai time, her husband treated her with the utmost unkindness The sicker she grew, the more cutting and cruel were the insults heaped upon her; but when she began slowly tc recover, he treated her a little more as a wife should be treated; not daring to do otherwise, for fear of exposure. One day, while lying upon her bed, unable to move, she asked her husband who was standing near by, to assist her in moving. "Nonsense, Mira, 'tis all a whim for you to want some one to move you; people do get along without assistance, after they have had a palsy shock, and you can." Poor Mira! how the cruel words of her husband nerved her to action. Every energy was tasked to the utmost, as she strove to rise from her bed. Her strength failed her, and she sank senseless against the foot-board. When she recovered from   swoon, her husband was   MRA DANA.          119 looking at her with a nonchalent expression upon his face. After standing a while silent, he laid her roughly back upon the pillow. "I'l cure her of these spasms," Mr. Tyrrell would remark, when he saw her cheek paling, and the white lids closing over her dark eyes. "I don't believe in fainting fits myself; I never fainted," and then he would order every attendant from the room, leaving her to recover as best she might. She prayed daily, hourly for death, yet she was spared, she knew not why. One day, after Mira's health was much improved, Mr. Tyrrell entered her room in a very plausible mood. "Would you not like to take a boarder, Mira? I have a friend whom I highly esteem, who wishes to make his home with us." Mira knew that she was not strong enough to care for her own family even, yet she thought the presence of any one might be a restraint upon Mr. Tyrrell's conduct, as he set a high value on the opinion of the world. "Yes, Herbert, any friend of yours shall be made welcome," was the pleasant reply. Mr. Tyrrell left the room looking very well satisfied. In a few weeks, Mr. Jerald Woodbury was domesticated in Mr. Tyrrell's family as one of its members. He was a very pleasant and agreeable man, having a kind word for every one. Something like harmony reigned in the little circle, and Mira was almost herself again, as the olden hope of being happy sprung up in her irt anew.   120         MRA DANA. After Mr. Woodbury had been an inmate of Mr. Tyr. v rell's house six months, an order came from Mr. Goodrich in Georgia, for Mr. Tyrrell to again go South to superin- tend the setting up of a large lot of machinery. He thought best this time to leave his family in W--, in the care of his friend, Mr. Woodbury, who promised to stay with them during his absence. "Herbert," said Mrs. Tyrrell to her husband, a few mornings previous to his departure, "do you not think it will give people a chance to talk, if you leave Mr. Wood- bury here with us?" "Give people a chance to talk; why, Mira, are you in- sane? Talk because I leave Mr. Woodbury here while I go South. Ha, ha, ha! excellent." "But you know there is enough to make stories, Her- bert, and he is a stran ." "Mira," and Mr. Tyrrell's voice was low and stern "Jerald Woodbury is my friend. I would trust him as I would trust a brother, and you can do the same; so throw aside your suspicions, and never breathe them again in my hearing." "I do not distrust him, I was only thinking of what people might say," was the reply. "An idle, nervous suspicion of yours, Mira, which you would do well to banish from your mind." A few days after Mr. Tyrrell started for the South. In the meantime, ira fearing what she had told her hus- band, sent for one of his neices, a bright laughing girl, to come and remain with her during his absence.   MRA DANA.         121 Another boarder was taken, and everything went on smoothly and well-Mr. Woodbury proving himself a true friend and brother. He could but notice that Mrs. Tyrrell had some great grief resting upon her heart, which was slowly wearing her life away. With 'gentle kindness and politeness, he strove to make everything pleasant. All through the long winter evenings he read aloud from interesting books, by the best authors; and would converse, in his quiet easy way, of the world, and in fact of every- thing calculated to divert the mind from sorrow. And when the babe Flora lay for weeks, with the " wave of life heaving to and fro " upon her breast, and Mrs. Tyrrell and Carrie grew weary and faint from watching, a brother could not have been more attentive and kind. "Oh how kind Mr. Woodbury is," Carrie Jameson would exclaim. "Yes, he has been very kind; all that Herbert said of him has proved true," was the reply of Mrs. Tyrrell. The pet of the whole household was Carrie, from the little Flora up to the grave Mr. Williams, who always set silent in the corner She had a very sweet way of "walk- ing into people's affections," no matter whether they were young or old, rich or poor. After everything had regained its wonted composure, Mr. Woodbury was taken suddenly ill, and Mira had an opportunity of returning a few of his many kindnesses. With Carrie's assistance, she acted as both doctress and j nurse, through many long weary weeks.   122         MKA DANA. Mira wrote often to her husband, long loving letters, which ever contained warm entreaties for him to return home; for though cold and indifferent, he was her husband still. After waiting a long while for an acknowledgment to one of her letters, Mira received a missive, which, on reading she burst into tears.  "What's the matter, Mrs. Tyrrell?" Mira started, on seeing Mr. Woodbury standing at her side, for she was not aware that any one was in the room. "Ah, a letter," he exclaimed. "Does it contain bad news?" Unable to reply, Mira pointed to the letter that lay be- side her on the sofa. Mr. Woodbury took it up, and read as follows:-   AUGUSTA, Georgia, March 15th. Mrs. Tyrrell,--Your letter is before me. I am sorry that the babe has been sick; but why tell me of it; did you expect any good would result from so doing? You had better not write so often, as sending letters is attended by considerable expense. You need not expect me home till I get through with my business. ' Love to the children. Yours, respectfully, HERBERT TYRRELL. P. S. I am well and doing well.    MRA DANA.          123 "It is a cold letter," said Mr. Woodbury, as he finished, reading. "Indeed, Mrs. Tyrrfl, I do not wonder that you weep; but there is much to be thought of, and after- wards excused. Mr. Tyrrell's mind is wholly engrossed by his business, and it is hard for him to forget it suffi- ciently long to write a lengthy letter. And then, he is just a bit odd; but beneath the cold exterior, there beats a warm loving heart. "God grant that it may be so," replied Mira. "And believe that it is so, and all will be right;" and with these words, accompanied by a polite bow, Mr. Wood- bury left the room. After an absence of eight months, Mr. Tyrrell returned unchanged.  5 Fz                         CHAPTER XXXIT. MR. WOODBURY'S MARRIAGE. "Mr. Woodbury, lMr. Woodbury," called Carrie Jame- son from the foot of the stairs, where she was standing with one round arm thrown over the polished bannister. "What is wanting, Carrie?"  "Why, Mr. Woodbury, I want to see you a few mo- ments this evening, before you are launched into the dark sea of matrimony. Say, will you come down?" "That I will, my pet," and with a light quick step he descended to the sitting-room. "Any thing of importance to say?" enquired Mr. Woodbury, with mock gravity, as he seated himself beside the madcap, who was striving to appear very dignified. "Nothing, only that I am puzzled to know what I shall do without you." "But will you not go with me, Carrie?" "Go with you? what! and you turn Turk and have any number of wives? Shouldn't I be a turkey to do that, or a goose."  Mr. Woodbury laughed heartily at this lively sally, and   MRA DANA.          125 was joined by Mr. and Mrs. Tyrrell, who sat near b listeniNg to their conversation. "But seriously, now," continued Carrie," I did have earnest intentions of making you my husband, until I learned you were netted for life. I'd make a capital wife, Mr. Woodbury, so handy I'd be about every kind of work, from darning stockings to making plum puddings; to say nothing of the little saucy whippings I'd give my hus- band." "All very fine, very fine, Carrie, this telling what you would do, so long as you cannot get the chance," and Mr. Woodbury glanced laughingly at Mr. Tyrrell. "But I consider myself competent to give you a bit of advice, having seen considerable of the world. Inl the first place, I want you to treat your wife as women shbuld be treated. Confide in her, just as I intend to confide in my husband, (ahem ;) or, more plainly speaking, give her your whole confidence. If she gets angry a bit, and her hands play queer tunes on the side of your head, why, all is, bear it patiently, she'll soon get tired of. it." Carrie paused for want of breath. "Go on, go on," cried each member of the- little circle. "If you should miss a button from your shirt-bosom, do not weary your wife by asking her to sew it on for you, but go quietly and do it yourself. If you are unsuccessful in finding a button, why, justake a pin in its stead, it will do as well. Give your wife just as much spending money as she wants to use; no matter how many rich silks she   126         MRA DANA. can boast of owning, so long as you have plenty of cigars to smoke, and as many pet dickies as you care to sport; and above all things, Mr. Woodbury, learn to dodge broom- sticks and fire-shovels. Carrie hath spoken." "Good, good, my 'pet; don't I envy the man who has you for a guide and guardian through life," exclaimed Mr. Woodbury. "One thing in Carrie's favor is, she -is not much of a talker; and a silent woman is a prize," remarked Mr. Tyrrell.  "Well then, Herbert, you have got a prize," laughed Mrs. Tyrrell. "That I have," was the good natured reply. "If Carrie was my wife, I should do as they did in Eng- land, more than a century ago, with women whose tongues were unruly, viz: provide her with a bridle." "Would you? But, Mr. Woodbury, if a tongue was bridled would it not be more inclined to run?" A merry laugh ran through the circle at Carrie's witty pun. Having some business down town, Mr. Woodbury bade them " good night," and left the house. "But I am really sorry, Uncle Tyrrell, that Mr. Wood- bury is so soon to leave us," remarked Carrie, after he lef the room. "And I am sorry, too, for he is a noble man-not an apology for one; but a man with a heart and soul, re- sponded Mr. Tyrrell, warmly.    Il           MRA DANA.          127 The following evening, Jerald Woodbury was married. All felt sad to have him leave the home, which he had so enlivened during his stay. In a few weeks Carrie bade adieu to her friends, leaving them the sole inmates of their comfortable home. Old feelings were revived, and the same bitter words fell from the husband's lips-the same rush of angry thoughts came to his heart. No change came to relieve Mira; it was the same monotonous routine from one day's end 'to another-the same unchanged cruelty, which stung like an adder the heart of the sensitive wife. In less than one year from the time Mr. Woodbury left the home of Mr. Tyrrell, his wife sickened and died. His own health was very poor, and gladly he accepted the invi- tation of Mr. and Mrs. Tyrrell to again make his home with them. While he was still feeble, he accompanied his host and hostess on a visit to Warner Dana. After remaining with Warner a short time, they returned home, Mr. Wood- bury leaving them to reside with a sister in a town not far distant. Let us look in upon Mira again. She is seated in the parlor, with one foot upon the cradle-rocker,. while her fingers are busily plying the needle, fashioning a frock for the little baby sleeper beside her. Golden-haired Minnie and little Herbert are at school, leaving mamma and Flora to spend the long day! alone. Warm sunbeams creep through the half-closed shutters, and send golden glim-   128         MRA DANA. mering shadows o'er the brow of Mira, and dance adown into her dark eyes, as if to betray the tears which lie folded beneath the downcast lids. What! tears in Mira's eyes? Even so, reader; yet she is frightened, lest she should be seen weeping, and so has driven them back until alone. "Foolish, thus to weep," she at last exclaimed aloud. "Better to be building air-castles, even to see them fall, than give away to sorrow," and she commenced warbling a merry tune. At that moment the doori opened, and Hattie entered the room. "Why Hattie, how you do look!" exclaimed Mira, starting back, after kissing her sister's cheek. "You have been weeping; what has happened? Say, sister, tell me all about it, for you know I am successful in healing others wounds if not my own." "Yes, Mira, I know that you are, and that is the reason why I came to you, replied Hattie. But I dislike to tell you after all, although I do not in the least doubt you, or your willingness to assist me," continued she. "Say no more, Hattie, I know what it is. Your hus- band is in trouble about money; his land bill is due," said Mira. "Yes, that is it, and unless he pays before to-morrow at ten o'clock, he will lose all that he has before advanced. He has tried everywhere, but cannot obtain the money. Oh, if Warner would but pay what he ows me, how much    MRA DANA.         129 good it would do us;" and Hattie fell upon her sister's neck and wept bitterly. "Do not worry about it, sister; all will be right. I think I can get the money for you, of my husband; he never refuses me money," said Mira, in a cheerful tone. Hattie returned home with a light step and lighter heart, and told her husband that the money was coming the next morning at eight o'clock, for Mira had promised it, " and you know that her promises are never idly made," she added. "You are right; Hattie, Mira always keeps her word, for she is a whole-hearted woman; and allow me to say, that you much resemble her. You were very kind to try and obtain the money for me," said the husband. The next morning Mira wended her way joyfully to the home of Hattie, with a face beaming with pleasure. She did not look as though she had ever known sorrow. She had obtained the desired sum of her husband, and now hastened to relieve their anxiety. Herbert Tyrrell never refused his wife money, and was often heard to remark that "she could make twenty-five cents go farther than he could one dollar." All the trad- ing of the family was entrusted to her to do. Tyrrell often alluded to his having to maintain his wife's poor relatives, saying that Warner was not contented with spending all the old folk's property, but wished to get a part of his. "And that is not all," said he to his wife. 6   130         MRA DANA. "You would like to have help me maintain Hattie and her husband." "Why did you not refuse me the money for them, when I asked for it," said his wife, "and not speak so unkindly about it now?"  "Because I did not want a fuss," he replied. "You will probably be repaid every cent you have loaned them." "His answer was a cutting one - so cutting that Mirn left the room immediately, resolving never to apply to him for money again. Not many days after this affair, she said to him, "Her bert, I have thought of a plan which I am sure will meet your approval, besides greatly relieve the feelings of two or three others, to say nothing of my own." "No doubt your benevolence has suggested some new way to appropriate my money for the benefit of your pool relatives," answered he insultingly;" but," continued he "you need not think to 'come it' this time, for I have made up my mind not to let you have another cent, for any purpose whatever; so don't tell me your plan." ' ( But that is not it, this time, Herbert," said Mrs. Tyr- rell, seating herself upon his knee. "You say that you are afraid Hattie's husband will never pay you, but cot- sider Warner perfectly honest, notwithstanding he has spent nearly all of father's property." "Well, he says there is enough to pay all his debts with, left, and I think he'll pay."   MRA DANA.         131 "But Hattie does not think he will ever pay her; now why not change notes? That which you have let Hattie's husband have, is just the amount Warner owes Hattie. Why not take Hattie's note and look to him for the pay? Warner would be glad to change it so, I am sure; then all will be satisfied." "I should be glad to arrange it so,"/was his reply, " if all parties consent; but you must do the business." A short time after this, the necessary transfer of notes - was made, and Mrs. Tyrrell felt that for once she had' pleased Herbert. Not long after, Hattie's husband became prospered in business, paid up all his creditors, and bought him a hand- some house. Warner had grown poorer, and could not pay the note when Tyrrell called for it. Then he told his wife it was through her means he should lose the debt; and if it had not been for her, Hattie's husband would not have thought of changing papers. Poor Mira! she thought she never would attempt to do good again.   CHAPTER   XX X 1. MRA'S   C ONFESSI ON. "Mr. Tyrrell," said Mira one evening after tea, "I have had a letter from mother to-day, stating that she is very ill, and wishing me to come to her immediately, if I can. You know how much she thinks of having me with her in sickness. She says I can take two of the Children with me, and Hattie has just been here and'offered to take care of the other one. What think you, Herbert? Are you willing I should go?" Herbert did not answer for some time, but sat apparently buried in deep thought. At last he replied, "I don't like the idea of your going, unless you can stay long enough to have it amount to something in my favor. You are con- tinually running home, and I am sick of it, if you cannot remain when you get tiere." Mira's countenance grew animated in its expression, at the thought of being released for a little season from un- kindness. The respite had been long needed, for the rose- hue was fast fading from her cheek and the joy-light from her eye.   MRA DANA.         133 "But what will you do in my absence, Herbert!" said she doubtingly. "Oh," replied he carelessly, "I can get along well enough, either by procuring a housekeeper or boarding out." "But, husband, you could not get a housekeeper for any length of time, if I was gone." "There you are mistaken! That little 'French woman' would come, if I could find her; and I think she would suit me to a T." "Why, Herbert Tyrrell!" replied his wife in surprise; "and yet you know her to be a dissolute character."   "I might get my sister," suggested he, in an ironical tone. "And make a bad matter worse, so far as respectability is concerned. Get either or both of them, if you choose," said Mrs. Tyrrell firmly, for she thought her husband was talking rather to tantalize her, than from any idea of doing as he said. Next morning she left her family in care of Grandma'am Crane, a worthy old lady of her acquaintance, and hastened to her mother, to learn the extent of her illness, before making any permanent arrangements; On reaching home, she found her mother much more feeble than she expected, looking forward eagerly to her coming, and shedding grateful tears when Mira told her she would not leave her again, excepting to arrange matters at home. "What will become of your father, after I am gone?   134         MRAX DANA. Warner, poor boy, has been so unfortunate that he can hardly support himself. Had it not been for you and your kind husband; we should most certainly have suffered." Mira burst into a flood of tears, for the word kind grated harshy on her ear, when applied to him.  "What ails you, child? I have long noticed that some- thing worried you; but when I questioned you, you always said it was ill health. -Now I know your heart has some secret sorrow. Tell me, darling; tell your old mother all, before she dies." "Mother,"' replied 5Mira, after she had choked down her tears, "I was in hopes you would go hence without know- ing my troubles. True, I have longed to tell you, but wished not to send another pang to a heart already nearly broken. But to refuse you now, would be impossible. Listen and I will tell you." "Poor, poor child!" exclaimed her mother as Mira finished her recital;- "you have been wrong in bearing such treatment silently. And yet, had you told us this before, I don't see what we could have done," added she mournfully. "If Warner only knew what you had suf- fered on his account, he would die to aid you." "I am glad he does not know," answered Mira, "for the knowledge would only pain him. He thinks my hus- band just what he appears to the world- may he never be undeceived. You remember, do you not, mother, the time when we went to visit Warner a year ago? It was just after Mr z   MRA DANA.                     135 Woodbury's sickness, when he went with us to recruit his health.. For a long time I had been nearly distracted by Herbert's taunts. Warner noticed my pale, haggard looks, and questioned-me as to the cause. I told him I had over- tasked myself in sick rooms and should soon be better. He said no more, bt a few days after, I accidentally over- heard a conversation with Mr. Woodbury, concerning spiritualism, in which he asked him if he did not think it apt to derange people connected with it, "I have not investigated the subject," was the reply. "To be sure, I have heard of one or two being crazed, but that does not argue the reality of there being no- good in it." "I notice my sister is quite interested in it," said War- ner, " and she appears strangely to me. I am afraid it will have a serious effect upon her, if it has not already. You, Mr. Woodbury, have great reasoning faculties, and I wish you would have a little eye to her on that subject. It would be of no use for me to speak with her, for I can- not argue against her ' facts,' as she calls them." Mr. W  - knew very well that spiritualism was no part of the cause of my sorrow, but he answered, "I will talk with her about it, although I think your fears are groundless." Shortly after, he went to live with his sister and there was no one to shield me from the myriad abuses heaped upon me by Herbert.   I wrote to Warner, although pride forbade my telling him, or ask- his advice or sym-   136         MRA DANA. pathy. I simply told him that spiritualism was not the reason of my appearing to him partially insane; that I would rather he should think any thing he chose, than reveal the real cause then; but- at some future time, per- haps he might know all. If he should ever hear what I have revealed to you, he will remember that letter, and know that I spoke truly." Mrs. Dana was well nigh overpowered by her mingled emotions of indignation and grief; but she controlled her- self by an effort, and said, "Mira, I will tell you what is best to be done. You cannot and shall not live thus, longer. You must come and stay with us always. Go back to your husband, arrange matters with him, and then come to us again with your children." "Mother, it does not seem right to forsake my husband forever. Would to God I knew what was right!" Poor Mira! 'tis well you know not the workings of your husband's heart! -*        s   CHAPTER: XXXIV. BREAKING UP HOUSEKEEPING. "Well, Herbert," said Mira, after her return home, "mother does indeed need my assistance, and I am anxious to go to her, provided you are willing." "I have made up my mind to let you go, if you will promise to stay a year." "I promise," said she, eagerly. "Then," remarked her husband, "we will sell our old furniture, except such articles as we feel particular about retaining, and when we commence housekeeping again, we will purchase new. In the meantime I will board out, and visit you occasionally -say once a month." Little dreaming that a dark plot was already matured in Herbert's mind against her future happiness, Mira was perfectly delighted at his willingness to part with her, and made speedy preparations for her journey. She was soon again under her parents' humble roof, and with her patient and skilful nursing, her mother's health began slowly to improve, so that when another spring had kissed the young buds into bloom, she could look out upon the fresh, green 6*   138         MRA DANA. earth, with a delight scarcely equalling the joy of returning health. Warner paid them a visit, and expressed his gratitude to Mira for her kindness in relieving him of so much anxiety. She received his thanks, feeling that they were hardly deserved, knowing, as she did, that self-interest shared largely in prompting her to her benevolence. When Warner returned home he took with him little Herbert, in order to lessen his sister's cares. How swiftly the weeks and months flew by to Mira. The olden smile began to play about her rosy lips, the olden light to beam from her dark eyes. Again she wan- dered through the same old woods and flower-strewn fields that tempted her girlish feet. Again the wild freedom- loving spirit of "Dick" flowed over her, and sometimes, forgetful of the strange changes that had swept across her path, she would listen, half-expecting to be called by her old familiar nickname, till the prattle of childish voices, or the tripping of tiny feet, would call her back to real life. Autumn drew near. In one of Mr. Tyrrell's visits to his family, Mira remarked playfully, "Well, husband, don't you begin to wish the year was nearer gone? Are you not tired of boarding out?" "Not particularly so, though I don't fancy my boarding- place much." "Why, I 'thought you were well pleased; you told me so when I was there to visit you." "Well, my landlady has changed her treatment of me   MRA DANA.          139 lately, for what reasons I cannot say. By the way, Mira, I expect my sister to board with me there soon." "erbert Vrrell, what do you mean?"  . "Just what I si9" "Impossible! you will bring disgrace upon yourself by such a course." "But, Mira, she has repented, and is 'now a virtuous and respected woman - a patern for you." Mira's blood boiled at the base insinuation conveyed in the last part of the sentence. She essayed to -speak,.bu1 her husband interrupted her by saying, "I have been lectured sufficiently by my relatives for neglecting her, and for the future will not lay myself liable to such accusa- tions."  "Herbert," said his wife, "God knows I am willing you should assist her, but you have often forbidden my asso- ciating with her, fearing her influence over me might be bad, till you have so prejudiced mg against her, that I can- not endure the thought of your taking her under the same roof with you." "It will do no good to talk upon the subject; my pur- pose is unalterable. Last summer when I was at Boston, my uncle, the baker on Warren street gave me a sound rating, such an one as I hope never to receive agaipis:" Besides, I have done much to benefit your folks, now I intend to help mine." "Don't talk of helping my folks. Every dollar you have expended for them will probably be repaid, principal   "O         MRA DANA. and interest. But if you see fit to give your friends half you possess, I care not, so that you bring no injury to your own family by so doing." "Care!" echoed Mr. Tyrrell, sarcastically. "You need give yourself no uneasiness; I shall do as I please," and he angrily left the room. For the remainder of his stay among the little group, he seemed less kind than formerly, and when a few hours after the above conversation, he commenced journeying home- ward, it was with a malicious smile curling his lip, as he muttered to himself, "Yes, yes, I thought that would work; she will yet repent the day she dared expose my conduct to her sister. I'll break her to the 'traces' yet, and teach her my purposes are not to be thwarted by such as she." It will be necessary to inform the reader, that previous to Mrs. Tyrrell's return home, during one of her severe illnesses, her husband had treated her with shameful cru- elty, which she had borne with exemplary patience and meekness, breathing no word of complaint to any one, although to unburden her mind to some trusty friend, she felt would be a relief. Herbert knew her pride and sensi- tiveness, and felt secure from exposal. One morning after some of his cutting sarcasms, she pushed him rudely from her, exclaiming at the same time, 6"Herbert, you are a brute to treat me thus; I cannot and will not endure it longer; my friends shall hear of your unmanly conduct." "Tell them as quickly as you wish," he replied, in an   MRA DANA.          141 'insulting tone of incredulity, for she had- been so long sub- missive to his tyranny, he dreamed not she could be other- wise.     / Acting on the impulse of the moment, Mrs. Tyrrell sent immediately for her sister Hattie, And told her in his presence of all his unkindness. "Oh, Mira, why have you so deceived us all?" was Hattie's interrogatory, as the abused wife closed her nar- ration. ( I thought it was enough for me to suffer, without de- stroying the good opinion of people in regard to my hus- band. Even now I would not have the world know it,. and you must never repeat what I have told you." "But, sister, if this is true, you ought not to live with him another day." "I have uttered nothing but truth; yet as God is my judge, the half is not told." This conversation all took place in the presence of Mr. Tyrrell, who, to Hattie's indignant enquiries, made some trivial but sullen excuse for his actions. Shortly after that scene, he asked her if she had not repented exposing him. "No," was Mira's firm answer; "I am only -sorry that I waited so long." "But you shall repent it yet," and Mr. Tyrrell shut his teeth together in spiteful chagrin. Not long after, Mira returned home, as before stated. We will now go back to the time of her departure, and see what her husband has been doing meanwhile.   "2         MRA DANA. "I will get rid of her entirely," muttered he to himself, after she had gone. "I will leave no means untried till I am free from a woman who dares speak of my faults, or attempt to hinder my will." With this determination, he sat about making enquiries for a certain French girl, Victoria Lawless by name, but could learn nothing, though she had formerly been known by many of the, "lawless " boys of the place. Foiled in this attempt he started for his sister, a reckless woman, with whom he had held no intercourse for nearly twelve years. A very satisfied smile his countenance wore as he entered the cars, soliloquising something in this wise, "Well, after all, perhaps my project will work better than as if I had engaged the French girl. Public opinion will certainly favor me more, for if' my sister is abandoned, it will speak creditably for me to pick her up and reform her; and with either of them as housekeepers, Mira will keep a safe distance, and probably when the year expires, refuse to live with me again - a capital idea that!" "Sister," said he, on arriving at his place of destination, "I have heard that you are- very poor and destitute, and need sympathy; that your husband is in the house of cor- rection, and you have to maintain yourself and. child by stitching boots. I have come to see what I can do to help you. Would you be willing to go home with me and take boarders, or try some other employment besides this, which one might know by your pale haggard face, was wearing your life away. If so, I will assist you all in my power."   MRA DANA.          143 "I should be glad to leave this place, brother; God only knows what I have suffered here. My husband is a worth- less wretch, and I would be glad to leave him, but suppose it is impossible. He has just served out his term and returned home. He has no other place to go, and if I remain with him now, perhaps he may reform. As much as I appreciate your kindness, I think I cannot go with you." "But don't you believe he'll go back to his old course, on the first temptation?" "I have little hope to the contrary, but am determined to try him once more." "Well, if he does go to drinking again, I advise you to leave him and come to me, where you shall never want for anything. I, should have assisted you long ago, but my wife is so prejudiced against you, that I have submitted to her whims, rather than displease her. She is now at her father's where I mean she shall stay. She shall never come back' to me if I can help it. If she does, she will come well humbled, that is certain." Much more was said by both, but no definite plan formed for the future; and then, after placing a well-filled purse in his sister's hand, and bidding her send him word of her fortunes, he left her overjoyed with her "good luck," as she termed it, and wondering what change had come over her brother. "I always thought," said she after he was gone, " that it was his wife that made him shun me. I know I have   "4-        MRA DANA. not been what I should, but God alone sees my temptations. Had not my father so heartlessly abandoned his family to poverty and wretchedness-and I so young--I might never have sinned, nor he have now been a disgraced inmate of the alms-house." The poor woman dropped her head upon her hands and wept-bitter tears -such tears as only those can shed who have sinned and suffered.   CHAPTER XXXV. SIN   TRIUMPHANT. After the debased husband of Mr. Tyrrell's sister had again tasted freedom, he appeared for a while truly peni- tent; but an unfortunate affair soon after took place which aroused his old- appetite for the demon, rum, and hindered the fulfilment of his good resolutions. He had worked hard all one day and returned home at night sick and weary, feeling as though his weight of care was growing heavier every hour. There were many debts uncanceled, old friends turned the cold shoulder to- him in his distress, everything looked dark and gloomy to his mind, as he pondered his sad situation. "What shall I do with myself," he muttered despond- ingly. "I wish I had a drink! I do feel- cursed bad! but aint it that which has made me a poor miserable devil? Yes, d-n the drink! I'll never touch it again!" "His wife noticed his looks and said, "Are you sick,. William?" "Yes," was the answer, accompanied by a deep-drawn sigh.   "6         MRA DANA. "Let me get you some medicine, you certainly need it," and she soon brought him a tumbler of brandy, saying, as she presented it to him, " you will feel better after drink- ing it." Thoughtless woman! "Wife, I don't want to take it; the d-d stuff has done me a sorry deed already." "But if taken for a medicine it will not harm you," insisted she, still holding the tempting beverage to his lips. At last appetite prevailed over reason and resolution, and he drank it. The consequence was, a renewal of old habits; and in a short time Mr. Tyrrell was informed by his sister that her husband was back in the house of cor- rection. He hastened to her immediately, and asked her if she would return to W  with him. "I can't get a tenement for you just yet," said he to her; " but as soon as there is one empty, I will procure and furnish it. You can board me and others, if you would like. The articles of furniture that belonged to Mira, I have not sold, and you can take them and use them as your own. I will settle your grocer's, butcher's and landlord's bill, and see that yourself and child are well boarded and clothed for the present, until you have the means of procuring a live- lihood independent of me." "You are very kind, brother; but won't it make trouble with your wife?" "No, oh no, she is perfectly willing it should be so, and told me when we broke up housekeeping, that I might get you or any one else I pleased." "Well, then I will gladly go."   MRA DANA.          147 "Mr. Tyrrell, you and your sister must procure you another boarding-place immediately," said his landlady to him one morning, a few weeks after his sister came to board where he did. "Why, what is the matter?" "Oh, nothing particular, only some of my boarders who knew your sister when she was a resident of L g, say that her reputation is none of the best, and they shall leave the house, unless she does-that's all," she replied with an ironical emphasis on the last word. Mr. Tyrrell was greatly annoyed at the turn affairs had  taken, but he choked down his anger and hired a few rooms in a distant part of the city, and with his sister and her child set up housekeeping, using the household goods which Mrs. Tyrrell had stored away at her sister's. All this time, Mira had been kept in entire ignorance of Herbert's proceedings, with only the knowledge gleaned from the determination he had expressed in his last visit to her. Great was her surprise, therefore, when on visit- ing W   to procure some articles which she thought she might need the coming winter, Hattie informed her of all that had transpired. "Hattie, is it possible? where does he live?" frantically enquired Mira. He did not tell me," was the reply. "No matter," said Mira more calmly. "I never wish to see him again, if he has so far forgot his manhood and integrity as to harbor in his home a woman whom he has taught me to despise and shun. He has often told me I   "8         Mnt DANA. was a burden to him, but he shall see that for the future I can provide for myself and children too." "Well, Mira, don't fret so about it. He will soon be ashamed, when he sees what he has done," and Hattie wound her arms lovingly about her sister's neck. "But I will write to him," said Mira decisively; and soon she had written, sealed, and sent, the following note: Mr. Tyrrell,- I cannot find words to express my indig- nation and contempt at your ungenerous conduct. On coming here to sister's H find my property (I say mine, because I earned it when a factory girl,) in possession of your sister. Your previous treatment of me has been base enough -this surpasses it all. By the remembrance of your unmerited taunts and hateful tyranny, I command you never to enter my presence againm I will trouble you no farther, for I scorn to be maintained by such a villain longer. Your cruelty would have broken a weak heart, I shall never die for such as you. M. TYRRELL. Mira returned to her mother with an aching heart. By outward smiles and light words upon her lip, she prevented her most intimate friends from discerning the inward sor- row. Much she wondered at her husband's conduct, but at last a light began to dawn upon the subject, as she recalled his half-forgotten threat, "You shall repent expos- ing me to your sister." After reflecting on what had hap- pened, she wrote him a second letter. X   MRA DANA.          149 L   , Oct. 10th, 185-. Dear Husband,-My duty to you as a wife, compels me to take my pen and revoke what I wrote a few days since. I was so agitated I scarcely know what I did write, but I am calm now. Then I said, " never'enter my pres- ence again," now I wish you to come to me immediately and explain your mysterious behavior. If you have any love for me or respect for yourself, stop where you% are. But if you are determined to continue a course so detri- mental to my happiness -if you see fit to retain that abandoned woman in your house, whom you have fre- quently assured me was undeserving the slightest confi- dence or the least esteem, why, the consequence will be our eternal separation. Come to me, Herbert, explain your motives, and make me happy again by your affection. I remain, still, Your loving wife, MRA. In a few days Mr. Tyrrell answered this last letter in person. For the amusement of the reader, I wish I could delineate him truthfully as he stood before Mira at the door of her father's cottage. With a consciousness of guilt painted upon his face, he quailed before the searching glance of her clear eye; and when a few hours later she seated herself beside him in the little sitting-room, and told him she waited to hear his defence, if he had any to offer, he only answered sulkily, "I have none, nor do I   150       wMRA DiNA. think one necessary. You left me, and I soon grew tired of boarding out. I discovered my boarding-place to be disreputable, andf was more than ever dissatisfied with my situation -so much so that I would not stay." "But you have always spoken in the highest terms o: your landlady, before." "True; but after my sister came there she acted strange- ly, and I mistrust you told her some of your slanderous trash, as she never treated us decently afterward. But that makes no difference; I am my own master and wil: carry out my designs at whatever risk. You need not try to hinder me." ^ "Of course you will act your own pleasure; but remem ber that 'might is not always right.' How can you, wh( have so long mourned thie disgrace which a worthless father brought upon his family, follow consciously in his footsteps?" Mr. Tyrrell looked black- the appeal was unanswera ble. The next morning he took an early leave, without one conciliatory word to poor Mira, who struggled or alone with her sorrow, for her mother was too feeble to be acquainted with her new trouble, and none else would she entrust it with--not even her brother Martin- or his gentle wife.   CHAPTER XXXVI. SICKN   SS. Sickness began to be prevalent in L--. It was de- cided to send little Flora to Aunt Lucy, a distant -elative s  of the Danas, not only that she might-not disturb grandma' by her childish prattle, but be safe from the prevailing disease. A great favorite with all the children was this same Aunt Lucy. No one else could fashion -doll-baby- dresses so beautifully, or make such  ice, light rolls of  gingerbread, or carry so capacious a poet running over with sugar-plums and raisins. Andgo Flora clapped her chubby hands delightedly, and thought it a fine thing to go. Golden-haired Minnie was the only one of Mira's three darlings left her, for little Herbert was with -Uncle War- ner. Separation from her children'was the bitterest cup of all; but she drank it unrepiningly, with all a true woman's courage and hopefulness. Ah! it is well that the dark mysteries of the future are hidden from our view; that none but an Omnipotent hand may lift the veil that hides its joys and woes! One morning, not many weeks after Flora went away, r   152         MRA DANA. Minnie came home from school with a flushed cheek and aching head, and her mother saw that she was attacked by that terrible scourge to children, the canker rash. For eight weary days and nights she bent over her child, without a thought for self. All this time her father and mother required the same care and attention as usual, and Mira's task was indeed a wearisome one. At the close of the eighth day she had the gratification of seeing her child, as she supposed, out of danger, and sought her couch to enjoy a little long-needed repose. When she awoke, after a short, uneasy slumber, she was weak and dizzy and with every attempt to rise, sank back faint and exhausted. She tried vainly to shake off the disagreeable sensation, and at last yielded despairingly to the conviction that she was a- victim to the same disease that had stolen lIinnie's roses from her cheeks. The neighbors were very, very kind, if one might be allowed to judge by the number of warm baths, hot teas X and steaming poultices that Mrs. Tyrrell Iwas the recipient of for a few weeks following, from their hands. Good old Dr. Cutting's mysterious little black trunk gave out its treasures of pills, and powders, and delectable com- pounds, to facilitate her recovery, and Mira had no occa- sion to complain of neglect from those around her. Minnie, in the meantime, with all a-child's eagerness to taste the happiness of new-found health, had exposed herself carelessly, and taken a severe cold. "What do you think of them, doctor?" said Martin to   MRA DANA.          10; the physician one morning when Mrs. Tyrrell 'seemed more than usually weak. "To speak plainly," replied he with a wise shake of the head, "1the disease has made such rapid progress and taken such strong hold of her, that her recovery is very doubtful. Her child's condition is equally dangerous." Martin waited to hear no more, but started in the next train of cars for Mr. Tyrrell. He told him candidly the danger of his wife and child; but the heartless man heard him without betraying the slightest emotion. A mocking smile stole over his face in spite of his efforts to restrain it, showing a heart incapable of any higher feeling than revenge. "aiOf course, you will go to them immediately," said Martin. "dNo, I think not," was the cool reply. My business will prevent my leaving at present, and I am afraid I might catch the disorder and bring it back and give it to my sister's child. But here," continued he, taking some bank bill's from his pocket-book and handing them to Martiri, "take these and see that they are properly cared for." Martin was too much alarmed about Mira to waste any time arguing with him or spend many thoughts on his un- natural conduct, but left him to inform Hattie of the sad state of affairs at home. She immediately made arrange- ments to return with him, and was almost glad to find Mira insensible to all that passed around her, that she 7    154        MRA DANA. might be spared an additional pang to her already wounded heart by learning her husband's indifference. One week of pain and delirium, and thanks to good medicine and skilful. nursing, she again opened her languid eyes beaming with intelligence. "Oh! what a dream!" she murmured, restlessly turn- ing on her couch, and for the first time becoming aware of HEattie's presence. "You have been sleeping a long while, Mira. Rest a few moments before you speak, and then you shall tell me about it," and Hattie bent over and kissed her sister's pale lips coaxingly. Mira lay silent and motionless, a short time, and then rousing herself, asked for a glass of water to allay her thirst ere she commenced a recital of her dream. "I can hardly think it was all imaginary, it seemed so real,' she commenced. " But where is my husband and Minnie? Oh, have I not slept very long?" "Your husband has not arrived yet, and Minnie is near by you much better. Would you like to see her?" Mira looked an affirmative, and Hattie soon placed her darling beside her. Very closely Minnie nestled to her mother's side, too happy at being with her again to notice her wan features, or to appreciate the anguish that the sight of her own thin little face, shadowed by its wealth of golden curls sent to her heart. Hattie saw her agitation and immediately removed Min- nie, saying to Mira as she did so, "You are too feeble for   exertion now. Remember the dream you are so anxious to tell me, and try to compose yourself for- a short sleep at present. By and by, I will listen." Mira lay quiet, smiling assent to Hattie's command, and was soon in an uneasy slumber, from which she would now and then start, exclaiming wildly, "Oh, my poor husband! save him! save him!" The next morning, Minnie was worse. Her throat had become badly swollen, and none could foretell the result. Toward nightfall there was a light, tap at the cottage- door, and in a few minutes Mr. Tyrrell stood by his child's sick bed. "Why have you not come before, father," said she reaching out her pale, tiny hands to him as he entered the room, and speaking in a choked voice. "Couldn't spare time. I'm sorry you're sick, Minnie. Heie is some candy I brought for you to eat when you are well," said Mr. Tyrrell, placing a package of assorted con- fections on the child's pillow. "Mother is dreadful sick too," murmured Minnie, faintly. "I know it; but don't try to talk, Minnie.' "Mira," said Hattie, gliding- to her sister's bedside, "your husband has come at last, and appears strangely. But don't mind it, sister, you know he cant harm  you, while you are under this roof." She had but just ceased speaking when Mr. Tyrrell stepped to the bedside. "How d'ye do?" said he carelessly, placing his hand on her fevered forehead.   156        MRA DANA. Mira prisoned it in one of her own, and drawing it down to her lips pressed a kiss upon it; but he hastily withdrew it, as though a viper had stung him. "I have been very sick, Herbert," she replied, her heart sinking within her as she spoke, " but I am getting better now, and think I should feel finely to-day, were it not for a hateful vision that I had last night, which has haunted me ever since." "You'll have something besides disagreeable visions to attend to, by and by; so you'd better not let them worry you," answered her husband sulkily. "Well, Herbert, it was about you; sit down and hear it please do, and then I will stop talking." Mr. Tyrrell seated himself, and Mira commenced. "I was standing, as I thought, in a wide old field, alone. -Along the southern portion of it toward which I was gaz- ing, wound a long, dark road, and in the dim distance I saw a strange vehicle drawn by sable horses. As it drew nearer, I knew by the slowness with which it progressed, that it was retarded by some mighty weight-I knew not what. Nearer yet it came, and I discovered a man pin- ioned and uniting his strength with the beasts to hasten its progress. At last his face took a familiar look; there was a well known light in the dark eyes, and the sickening reality of his danger came over me more forcibly than before, when I knet that it was you, husband. I reached -out my hand to you; I explained your situation; I called to you; I threw myself in your path and begged the privi- 1    f   MRA DANA.   157   lege of freeing you from that fearful load: but you looked coldly upon me, saying, 'Hush! 'tis of no avail!' "A giant hill uprose before you, but you scarcely heeded it, and began ascending, exerting all your strength to reach the summit. Your horse began to falter; his limbs trembled, and you too looked weary and death-stricken. Again I called, again I prayed unheeded that you would turn back to me even then; the echo of my own voice alone returned to me. Despairingly I watched your pro- gress, till you had gained the highest elevation. Then the look you gave me sent my blood curdling back to my heart with terror. Your face was thin, and white, and haggard; your garments filthy and torn, and your eyes gleamed like balls of fire. One step farther you ad- vanced-an awful chasm yawned beneath your feet. Your lips moved in momentary prayer--there was one glance of mingled penitence and love cast back to me, and then the fiendish vehicle moved on, on, and oh God! all was over! My shrieks and wailings wakened me to thank heaven it was only a frightful delusion." Mr. Tyrrell laughed scornfully. "I suppose by telling me that, you hope to frighten me from my purpose. But you need tell me no more such tales as that. I shall not be deterred by your made-up stories." Mrs. Tyrrell imagined she caught a look of thoughtful- ness upon his face, as he turned away, that belied his words. "Go to him, Hattie, and ask him to watch with me to-   158         MRA DANA. night. You need rest, and I should be so very glad to have him stay." Hattie soon returned with a message- from Mr. Tyrrell, that he should spend the night with Martin, and then go to Aunt Lucy's to see Flora; that he- was unused to sick rooms, and thought it sufficient to have sent money to pro- cure their nurses without acting in that capacity himself. 4"My father has been here, sir," said little Minnie to the doctor, during his morning visit. "And why did he not come before," enquired he, turn- ing to Hattie.. "Has he not been informed of his family's critical situation?" "Yes; but he was prevented by business," answered Hattie. "Business!" muttered the old doctor. "He must be a d--d c--s, not to yisit his family when death is so near, and he not more than an hour's ride distant from them! the heathen! How cussedly some men do treat their wives," continued he, as other similar cases flitted before his mind's eye. O Old Dr. Cutting was rather uncouth ir his speeches, sometimes, but nevertheless, many were his friends. To be sure, the "Cruso's" did not like him much,-he dis- puted their -claim of being " monarchs of all they sur- veyed," too frequently for that. But they were unable to pluck the laurels from his time worn brow, richly earned as they were by unremiting attention to the sick and suf- fering.   But to return to Mira. It was the morning after Her- bert's return from visiting Aunt Lucy. He was going away directly, and she had been listening for the sound of his footsteps expecting him to come and exchange parting greetings. At last he came, stepped to Minnie's bed, whispered a few words in her ear, and then with a formal ' I bid you good mrning," passed from the room. Thus the strange icy-hearted man parted with his sick wife, with no word of consolation and pity. Just before Minni had been taken sick, Mrs. Tyrrell had written a letter to her husband, the contents of which we give below, togetler with .the answer received on the first day of her illness. ;:        L   , Feb. 16th, 1854. :   Dear Husband,--Prompted by the intelligence that brother Martin gave me, I write you, desiring an explana- tion of what you communicated to him, and asking you to provide a home for myself and the children. Martin says you are going to take the children yourself, and care for them, and that I must live with your sister, or, as you expressed it, shirk for myself." I forgive you for the cruel speech; but brother Warner writes he is coming home, the first of April next, to take care of father and mother--so you see I shall be no longer essential to their comfort. I long to have the time arrive when I may gather my children about me again and give them my immediate attention. We have been long sepa-    160         MRA DXANA. rated, although, under existing circumstances, that seemed the best, if not the only course to pursue. From your indifference to me, since you and your sister went to housekeeping, and the exalted terms in which you speak of her, I presume you prefer to continue your present mode of living. If so, act your own pleasure, for if you do not, we shall be quite as happy without as with you. Nevertheless, if you prefer to reside in your own family, I have no objection to offer, but will try to perform my duty to you as a wife, so far as I am capable. As ever, yours truly, MRA. The following is the reply:-- W   , Feb. 26th, 1854. Dear Wife,--I received your letter of the 26th, asking me for a home. In answer, I will say, you can come and live with my sister.  She will furnish you rooms and board. That is all I can or will do for you-times are hard.              HERBERT TYRRELL. As well acquainted with-her husband's heartlessness as Mira was, yet she was quite unprepared for another so sudden and spiteful a revelation of it. He had made no enquiries as to her welfare, although he had left her dan- gerously ill-had he not sent money? was that not all, necessary to the fulfilment of his duty? The neighbors all wondered at his odd behavior, and  MRA DANA.         1( many knowing winks and queer surmises passed between them. "Martin," said Mira, one day after the reception of the above letter, " if you will believe it, Herbert has provided a home for me with that terrible sister of his. What he intends doing with the children I cannot say, but he will not be so cruel as to rob me of them, will he?" "I don't know, Mira ; if he is -base enough- for the first meanness, I don't know what he might -not be guilty of. Why, he told me himself, that truth was no part of her nature; that she had always kept the vilest of company, and that he had rather suffer almost any penalty than to have any one mention her name to him. For some reason or other, Mira, I think he must have some bad design on you; is he not jealous?" "Jealous! impossible!"' replied Mira. "He is a strange man, anyhow," said Martin. He told me that as soon as you was able, he wished me to take you and little Minnie home and retain you till he called for you. How soon do you think you will be abi to go?" "Oh, I am almost able now; my nurse is going' away Monday. But I must remain until Warnrand his wife comes, then I will accompany you. I will write to my husband, declining his offer, immediately." "Right, sister! no one will blame you in the least, or justify him. But keep quiet, sis, you are too weak to have such trouble now. It will deter you from gaining strength. Good bye," and with a sympathetic pressure of the hand he left her. 7*   CHAPTER   XXXVII, "ETTERS. Disease had worn down Mrs. Tyrrell's physical frame, and now mind and heart were well nigh crushed by their weight of sorrow, and hardly capable was she of banish- ing the black visions of the past, as they swept torrent- like across her soul. Another letter was written and for- warded to her husband. L   , March 10th, 185-. Dear Husband,--I was too sick to talk with you when you was here, but am better now. I do not wish to up- braid you with your seeming coldness and neglect while here, but let me say, now that you are so far away that if your lip curls in scorn, I shall not see it, that one kind word or sympathetic look from you, would have benefitted me more than all the cordials I have taken. May you never suffer what you have inflicted on me. May you in sickness and trouble, never desire a friend without finding many. In answer to my letter, you tell me I can have a home    MRA DANA.          1 with your sister--a woman you have ever, until lately, Shunned as you would a pestilence. Why this sudden and mysterious change of opinions? You told me yourself that she was conscious of the animosity I entertain toward her. Would she, knowing that such a course would cause trouble between us, consent to occupy her present'position, if she were a just and true-hearted woman? t I have only one request to make, which I hope you will think reasonable enough to be civilly replied to, if not will- ingly granted. Will you let me provide a home for myself and little ones together, and then forward me the sum that you would be willing to pay a stranger for our board. If you have ceased to love me yourself, do not rob me of my children, that they may do the same. Oh! Herbert, perplex me no longer by your inconsisten- cies. Explain yourself if possible, And believe me, Sincerely yours,     M. T. That the reader may know the effect of the preceding letter on Mr. Tyrrell's mind, I will record his conversation with his sister, after perusing it. "I have received a letter from Mira, sister." "Is she coming?" was the eager enquiry. "No! she has written a heap of trash, thinking' to per- suade me to alter my plans, and refusing to acceptsthe pro- vision already made for her-I've her handwriting to prove it. 'Tis just what I, above all things else, most desired - she'll be obliged to budge now."   164         MRA DANA. "Oh! brother, don't talk so. I can't endure the idea of having her children come without her. I do not wish to injure her feelings by taking them without her consent, and she is so prejudiced against me, that it can never be obtained. I wish I had never consented to come. I have suffered enough with my own family trials, without having other people's quarrels to trouble me," and the wretched womawn bbed aloud. She now felt what she had never dreamed before, that her brother had drawn her into his affairs, not from the pure, disinterested motives which apparently actuated him, but simply that he might use her as a tool in abusing his wife. Her suspicions were more than ever confirmed when he said to her, "Sister, you are owinmg me a large amount of money, and you are ungrateful to make any remonstrance -to my wishes. To-morrow I will arrange matters so that she can't run me in debt, then I shall go and get my children, and you must take care of them, till I am paid the utmost farthing that you owe me." "I always expected to pay you, but am not so bad as to wish your wife to suffer, all the while thinking me guilty of doing-her an injury." "Say no more," said Tyrrell; I myself will tell her you are blameless--that I alone am concerned in the mat- ter;" and he left the room, shutting the door violently behind hitm. He entered a little dirty lane and pursued his way till it led him to a miserable building, before which swung a  MRA DANA.         1t creaking sign bearing the inscription, ' S. W. Cheetman, Attorney and Counsellor." Tyrrell was not a man to attempt any polishing or smoothing over of the subject before him, so he commenced abruptly his attack on the worthy lawyer who occupied the dingy looking office. "I wish to get something drawn up for publication in the 'Spy,' to prevent my wife from running me in debt." "Oh, yes!" answered the esquire, "your wife has left your bed and board, has she?" "Not exactly," said Tyrrell, feeling a little ashamed of his errand; "but she refuses to accept the provision I have made for her, and she is so provoked about it, I expect she will attemptoto injure me in that way." "Is she in the habit of doing you such injustice?" quizzed the limb of the law. ," Oh, no! but just now she has got the d-1 in her. I can't tell what she may do, and I wish to be prepared for any emergency." "All right. Let me see, you want a notice forbidding any person harboring or trusting your wife, after date, I suppose," said Cheety, looking wise. "Yes; but I guess I wont have her name in, if you can make it read well without." "Certainly, that can be done. Do you wish to signify reasons?" "No, only that they are good and sufficient ones."   166         MRA DANA.  Cheetman took his pen and dashed off the following:- NOTICE!--This is to forbid all persons harboring or trusting any one on my account, as -I shall pay no debts of their contracting after this date, for good and sufficient reasons best known to myself. HERBERT TYRRELL. W   , March, 25th, 185-.   "Just what I wanted!" said Tyrrell, as he affixed his signature to the document. As -he left the office, Cheetman laughed heartily to him self. "Oh, ho, ho," chuckled he, "what a fool that chap must be to put such a notice as that in the ' Spy.' But then his simplicity helps fill my purse; so no matter, for funds are getting desperate low." Let us leave him for a while, and speak of Mira and her friends. That was a pretty but sad party grouped about the hum- ble breakfast-table in grandfather Dana's cottage, one bright sunshiny morning in March. Silver-haired Mr. and Mrs. Dana; Mira, pale and thin from her recent illness, yet wearing on her face an expression of lofty endurance and gentle firmness; and little Minnie with her lily fore- head half shadowed by sunny curls, and eyes in whose clear depths were mirrored nothing but childish purity and glee, made up the picture. "See how the sunlight creeps through the window from    MRA DANA.          16 the old porch, mother;" and the child's rosy finger pointed admiringly to the golden lines that danced upon the floor. "Yes, darling," was the mother's only response, and she prayed silently that even so, joy and hope might steal into her Minnie's guiltless heart and nestle there forever. "Halloo, mother! halloo, Minnie!" exclaimed a happy, boyish voice as the door was flung open, and little Her- bert sprang to his mother's arms. "Why, bub, where did you come from," said Minnie, dropping her half-eaten biscuit; "and who brought you, and where are they?" Before Herbert could answer the three-fold interroga- tory, Warner entered the room, and explained the subject by saying that he arrived in town the night previous; that he had stopped with Martin, who was soon coming for Mira, Minnie and Herbert, and they were to remain with him till Mr. Tyrrell made some permanent arrangements. Minn;ie drew Herbert to one corner of the room and told him in a highly confidential tone, how very sick she had been, and how much she wished he had been there to see all the horrid doses the doctor gave her. Mira commenced making hasty preparations for her departure, and in a short time had taken a tearful leave of her aged parents, and with her children, were soon at Martin's.    CHAPTER    X XvUl. THE MANUFACTURER, alias COBBLER. "Wife," said Warner Dana, "I must make a change some way. Here I have been toiling-beyond my strength in a business no way suited to my taste; and if it was not for the money which you have earned, binding shoes, I should be in debt now, and shall be as it is, if I continue on thus much longer, especially as your brother is senior partner, and is- so reckless and extravagant with the company's money. If I could have the management of affairs, I'd succeed better, I know." "Well," said his quiet wife, "I am glad you have con- cluded to dissolve partnership with him, for I think five years quite long enough to toil without profit beyond' a bare living."  "So do I; but I don't know what's to be done -some- thing must." "Will you allow me to suggest a plan?" "Certainly, wife, you know I always had great respect for your plans." "Well, Warner, you kno your father and mother must ]!               BMRA DANA.         16 f be provided for in some way, and as Mira writes she wishes to gather her little family together again, and Her- bert refuses to let you have any more funds without secu- rity, I think it will be best to move in with the old folks. It will, at least, gain us a shelter." "I like the proposition much, and will adopt it; and as I have made considerable progress in learning the shoe trade, I think I can do well as a cobbler,for the neighbor- hood has been destitue of one since the death of old Mr. Lapstone. I dislike to go abominably, wife, for there's not a soul in the whole village that has any information beyond their barn-yard, excepting a 'few tales of gossip, peddled out by the ' Crankeous,' but I don't see any other way to do." So saying, Warner left his wife, to arrange matters for their departure. In a short time, Warnersf amily was crowded into the small apartments of his father's house. Old Mrs. Dana sighed as one piece of furniture after another was removed to make room for Warner's, till almost every article that she held dear was disposed of. Mr. Dara had become so feeble in mind that he looked upon everything as a child would, wonderingly but not understandingly. "Mother," said Warner one day, I understand how grateful you must be for the sacrifice I have so willingly made. I left a good business where I was prospering finely, for I could not endure the thought of having-you and father suffer. Now I have come to stay with you as long as you both live, although it has been a great sacrifice, as I said before." b*  170         MRA DANA. "You are a. generous son!" exclaimed Mrs. Dana, as she turned away with a silent prayer that she might not live long- that sacrifices for her might soon be ended. As there was but little land to cultivate, Warner could hardly maintain them all from its produce, and right glad was he, one morning, when a curly-headed urchin stood before him with a large pair of boots dangling on either side of his neck. "My father sent me here," said the boy, "to see if you would jest mend these ere boots. He sez you've larnt how to mend boots and kill hogs, and lots of setch chores." This was Warner's first job, but not long after others came; and thus we will leave him for a while. Reader, do you suppose he realized his ideal "Boott" then?   CHAPTER XXXIX. MRA ACCUSED. The next day after Mr. Tyrrell's "Notice" appeare in public print, he went to L , accompaied by Warne The meeting between husband and wife was cold ar awkward, the conversation being carried on for the mo part in monosyllables. At last Mrs. Tyrrell said, "Have you found a home for us, Herbert?" "You can reside with my sister, as I have often to you," was the cool reply. "But I wrote you, giving my reasons for not wishing do so. Did you not receive the letter?" "I did." "Well then, any more talking about it is unnecessai If you have any satisfactory explanations to offer, I shE be most happy to receive them now, that I may know w] I am thus harassed." "That is what you ought to do, surely, chimed in Ms tin and Warner, who had entered the room in season hear the last remark. "If she has done wrong, she doubtless anxious to make amends."   172         MRA DANA. "Yes, God knows I am only waiting to hear where my error lies, that I may ask your forgiveness, and endeavor to improve." "Mr. Tyrrell, are you jealous of your wife," said War- ner, making a desperate effort to hit the mark. "No, indeed I am not," he answered spiritedly, not a little piqued at the question. "Then why all this contention? I imagined that the fact of Mr. Woodbury remaining with her while you went South five years ago, had something to do with the affair." "To be sure," said Tyrrell, with the air of a man who has thoughtlessly yielded a valuable point, "I have over- looked a great many improprieties which a less generous husband would not have done, but my  " "Mr. Tyrrell," interrupted Martin, "you have just stated before these witnesses that you are' not jealous of' her. Will you please tell us plainly, why you refuse her a home excepting with a woman whom you acknowledge to be a prostitute?" "My sister is as respectable as any woman need be," blustered Tyrrell, feigning indignation. "Will you answer my question without evasion?" per- sisted Martin. What is my sister's greatest fault?" "Why, if I must tell," was the dogged answer, "she is a perfect shrew, and torments my life out of me by her sharp tongue." "But that palliates your error not in the least. You might certainly let her keep her children with her."   MRA DANA.          173 Much more was urged to change the obstinate man's resolution, but he remained inexorable. "Do you know, Martin, that. I imagine Tyrrell has much more cause for jealousy than he cares to own," said Warner to his brother, as they were standing together alone not long after. "What do you mean?" said Martin. "Just what I say. I believe Mira behaved in an unbe- coming manner with that Woodbury, and troubled herself much more for his welfare than for her husband's. I tell you I've seen too much of human nature to be easily de- ceived; you can't "pull wool" over my eyes, now I tell you. I believe that woman has wronged her husband much, since knowing the whole case, and if she was my wife, she would not get off so well as he will probably let her off." "How sudden your opinion is changed," replied Martin, surprised at Warner's words. "If that is really what you believe," added, he, doubtingly, "'twill be no use to say one more word to you about it." "I do believe every vord of it," was the reply. Martin turned and left him, amazed, and with wonder at his words. Unsophisticated man! you forget that War- ner's debts had left him so irretrievably in the clutches'of his unprincipled brother-in-law that truth, love, and justice must be sacrificed to retain his favor.   CHAPTER    XL. THE MOTHER'S  GRIEF. "Mira, I wish you to see that the children are in readi- ness to accompany me to-morrow," said Tyrrell to his wife, the evening after the preceding conversation. "God forbid," answered she resolutely, "that I should ever assist you in tearing my children from me. If you take them, it must be by compulsion." "But they must go, compulsion or no compulsion." Minnie and Herbert, hearing their father's threat, sprang to their mother's side and clinging to her neck, besought her tearfully to protect them. There was a fierce scowl on Tyrrell's face, and a fiercer imprecation on his lip, as he tried alternately to coax and frighten them from their loving shelter, but the clasp of their little arms was tightened by fear, and their cries of affright mingled with Mira's sobbings, almost deafened him. Foiled in his revengeful purpose, he turned to leave the house. ' Martin who had been at work in the field, drawn home by the children's shrieks, met him at the door. "What does all this uproar mean? Why, Mr. Tyrrell,    MRA DANA.          1I if you lay any claim to the name or attributes of a man, don't you come to some decent terms with your wife?" "That I have already done;", and he thrust the latest number of the "Spy" into his hands. "Please inform my wife that I have prevented her from injuring me further." "I shall do no such thing, sir," replied Martin, running his eye over the " notice." "My advice to you is, to set- tle with her in some honorable way, and 'f you wish to rid yourself of her, I will promise you she shall trouble you no longer. If you continue this unmanly, inhuman persecution towards a defenceless woman, you may have a warm atmosphere to live in here, if not hereafter." "Well, see that my family tis cared for till I return again, that's all I ask of you, and I will pay you for that and your advice too," said Tyrrell sneeringly, and with a defiant look he took his leave at the top of his speed, placing his hands over his ears to shut out the deafening screams of his children -who were still clinging tigtlky to their mother. Again sickness drooped its heavy wings o'er poor Mira's treasures. This time, its hot breath rested on little Her- bert's brow. "Heavenly Father spare my child, daily pleaded Mira, as she bent low beside his couch; and though she spake no other words, the look of agony upon her features told that death was not the-worst enemy she dreaded. Eight weary days and nights had the mother watched   176          MRA DANA. over her darling boy without relief or rest, save that which Martin rendered her, which was indeed trifling, as his own beautiful boy, a babe of fifteen months, lay at the point of death at the same time. Hannah, Martin's wife, could sympathize only with Mira, and she turned from her own sick child to gaze on the pale cheeks of little Herbert. Not one word had been heard from the father since he left them -so rudely. Mira Tyrrell's anxiety for her child, prevented her from thinking much about her husband's strange conduct. 'Twas well she did not- see the future, for dark deeds were brooding in his heart.   \ "Oh!, wretch, without a tear - without a thought, Save joy above the ruin thou hast wrought- The time shall come, nor long remote, when thou Shall feel far more than thou inflictest now; Feel for thy vile self-loving self in vain, And turn thee howling in unpitied pain. May the strong curse of crush'd affection light Back on thy bosom with reflected blight; And make thee in thy leprosy of mind As loathsome to thyself as to mankind! Till all thy self-thoughts curdle into hate, Black- as thy will for others would create: Till thy hard heart be calcined into dust, And thy soul welter in its hideous crust. Oh, may thy grave be sleepless as the bed - The widowed couch of fire that thou hast spread! Then, when thou fain wouldst weary Heaven with prayer, Look on thy earthly victims - and despair!"    MRA DANA.          1 'Twas a bright morning in early April, Hannah and Mira's faces again beamed with hope, for both children were pronounced by the physician as convalescent. A ray of light spread over Mira's features as she gazed into the loving eyes of little Herbert as he twined his arms about her neck affectionately; but the light quickly faded again, and she turned pale as a snow flake. "What ails you, Mira?" exclaimed Hannah, frightened at her wild look, as she clasped her child frantically to her bosom. Mira could only point with trembling fingers to the window. Hannah went to the window, and soon saw the- cause of Mira's agitation. Mr. Tyrrell and a dark-looking man were fast approaching the house, and soon entered the room below. "What is the matter, mother?" said the sick boy, no- ticing the strange expression of her face. Has father come for us?" "Yes!" came from Mira's white lips, " but he shall not have you," and a look of determined firmness took the place of fear, on her features. "Don't be afraid, mother! rI'll do something to him when I'm a man; and if he does get me now, when I'm a big boy I'll run away from him and come to you again!" Mira scarcely heeded what the child said, for just then Martin entered the room, and apparently unconscious of the presence of Mr. Tyrrell, walked directly to her side. "Your husband," said he, "has come to remove the chil-    178         MRA DANA. dren, and tells me to keep you no longer on his account. I told him that as long as I had a home you should share it if you wished, and that the dangerous condition of little Herbert would forbid his claiming him till the physician granted liberty to do so." "But who has he brought with him?" queried she, pointing to the dark-looking man who stood in a remote part of the room, carrying on a low, muttered conversation With Tyrrell. "Probably an assistant to act in case he is obliged to resort to forcible measures." "Where is Minnie?" at this moment demanded Tyrrell, advancing toward his trembling wife. "Hidden from the sight of her unnatural father, I sup- pose," replied she indignantly. "Oh, husband! spare me my children," she added, her cutting tone of voice chang- ing to one of despairing entreaty. "You needn't make such a fuss-I shall take them this time in spite of you. I've found a man to help me," said he, casting a sidelong glance toward the stranger who doggedly followed at his heels. Mira noticed the direction of his eyes, and turned in- stinctively to her husband's comrade. "Are you a man or a monster?" demanded she. "Surely you must be the latter, for if there was a remnant of manliness or gen- erosity in your heart, you never- would be accessory to so vile a scheme." The dark man looked darker, and shrunk away to one    MRA DANA. ,corner of the room, remaining a silent spectator of the rest of the tragical scene. Minnie had been brought from  her place of conceal- ment, and borne screaming to the wagon, and a costly sera- phine, the gift of. Herbert to Mira in their happier days, stowed away behind her. Then without making any pro- vision for his wife or remaining child, Tyrrell sprang in after them, telling his wife, as he turned his horse's head toward Aunt Lucy's, that he was going for Flora. As the last glimpse of the receding crriage faded from her sight, Mira threw her arms wildly above her head and fell senseless to the ground. Martin lifted her tenderly, and after seeing her properly cared for, started for kind old Dr. Cutting, who was soon bending over the heart-stricken woman, administering qui- eting draughts and soothing cordials, for she had partially recovered from her swoon before his arrival, and her wild incoherent ravings showed that she was delirious, if not a maniac. "Well, Mira, let us wait patiently; wrong must yield its terrible grasp at last, and resign its tear-stained laurels to wreathe the brow of Right."    CHAPTER XLT. "E GAL  COUNSEL. As soon as Mira was capable of exertion, anxiety for her boy's safety urged and stimulated her to immediate action. She felt that so long as one child was left her, she had something to live for if she could by right keep it. Taking Herbert with her, she started for W  to obtain advice of 'Squire Foolsome, a lawyer who had been recommended to her, and the blandest nabob on Main street. She told him her story as well as the excited state of her nerves would let her. Foolsome told her in the blandest possible manner, that it was highly commendable in her to come to him, and that she had a right to furnish her child a home where she pleased; that he had a great interest in the "rights of woman," and his services were at her command.   He advised her to seek out her husband, and if she -chose, to remain with him in spite of All opposition, and if she was treated amiss, to acquaint him of the fact and he would see justice done her. But the fatigue of her journey and the excitement at-     MRA 'DANA.         1 tendant on the recital of her wrongs, brought on another attack of mental derangement, and a number of long, weary days of sickness at sister Hattie's intervened, before she could carry out her plan. "Where are you going, Mira," said Hattie, as she saw her all shawled and hooded foq a walk, the first morning that she had risen from her couch. "To my husband and children," was the reply. I can- not wait longer." "( But we have had quite a furious snow-storm since you' were ill, and you are yet trembling all over with weakness. You must-not go. Wait until noon, at least, and perhaps husband will go with you," "Oh, that is only April snow," replied Mira, forcing a smile and pointing out into the white robed street; and as for your other objections, are you a mother and throw obstacles in the -way of my seeing my children? I will not stop to hear you;" and she dashed out of the house, heedless of Hattie's continued entreaties. Hattie had an infant in her arms or she would have followed her; but, you and I are not so encumbered, so let us go with her and note what transpired. She went directly to the house were her husband and sister formerly lived. A brandy-faced, corpulent old gent answered her summons at the door-bell. "Does Mr. Tyrrell live here?" was her first enquiry. He did not answer for a moment, but stood eyeing his visitor with a curious leer.. At last he took from his    182        MRA DANA. mouth a short, black pipe and answered concisely, "No, he don't. But wont you come in and warm you?" he continued, noticing that Mira trembled with cold. "My old woman has gone out a minute, but she'll soon be here and then perhaps she can tell you something about where -those folks be. Some relation of yours I'm thinking." "Yes sir," answered Mira, drawing the chair that he handed her nearer to the stove; "Mr. Tyrrell is my hus- band, and I have come to see him and my children. Oh, sir, if you could but tell me where they are--I feel that you know." She looked imploringly in his face as she spoke, but he only answered, "Your husband expected you here before long ---" "And so bribed you not to tell me where he was," inter- -rupted Mira. "No he didn't, but ." Here the entrance of a wo- man prevented the completion of the sentence. "This is Mrs. Tyrrell, wife." "-So you've come to find your husband, I s'lRose," said she abruptly. "Wal, I guess you aint no better nor you ought to be, for your sister and husband have done noth- ing but talk about you ever since they came into this house, and such stories I never hearn tell of any decent woman. Now I am a respectable woman and belong to the church, and if I do say it, and am his second wife, my husband never had occasion to say such things of me." She would have gone on, but Mira interrupted her.    MRA DANA. "Madam, my husband has wronged me many times. I doubt not, he has filled your ears with bad reports. I con- Sr him but little better than a brute, and his conduct confirms my belief. But my children are innocent, and even if I am guilty of all he accuses mp, I have still a mother's affection, and by the love you bear a mother or a child, if you have either, I conjure you to tell me where they are, that I may see them once again." "I am a Christian woman as I said before," replied she, "and belong to the church. I've not an enemy in the' world and hate to make disturbance; but I do pity your sister-in-law awfully. Many's the time she has told me that she'd rather die than make any trouble between you and your husband. But she is in debt to him and obliged to do as he says. I'm no mischief-maker, but I'll go and show you where your children are4 but you must promise not to tell what I have said, and also to treat your sister handsomely." i "My sister!" said Mira scornfully; but checking herself, she added, "I will promise anything." "Well, then, I'm at your service," and preparing herself for a walk, she led the way for Mira. "Don't you think my husband's sister has acted wrongly and wickedly in the affair?" said Mira, as they walked along. "No! circumstances are agin her," answered the woman. "Then God forgive her!" was the fervently uttered response.   184         MRA DANA. 18 Well, here is where they live," said the woman, mount- ing three or four rickety wooden steps in front of a dirty looking cottage on S street. Tyrrell's sister met them at the door and turned deadly pale at sight of them. At that moment little Flora ran to the door and was clasped to her mother's bosom. "Where is Minnie?" demanded Mira. "I have come to see my children, and though you have assisted to rob me of them and my husband, I beg of you not to thwart me." "Oh, certainly, if you wish to see them you can do so, but don't accuse me of robbing you of them or your hus- band either. You went off and left them, you wretch! and rll not bear such treatment--you are a liar!" and the excited woman burst into tears. They had entered the house while talking, and Mira had embraced Minnie who came into the room where they were, but as quickly left it, at a wink from her aunt. Mrs. Tyrrell essayed to speak, but the woman who had acted as her guide, stopped her. "You said you would behave yourself if I would let you come. Now just see what a fuss you've made, and how this poor thing is grieved!" Just then Minnie came bounding in, followed by her father. "What means all this disturbance in- my house?" de- manded he, walking boldly up to Mira. "Oh, brother, she has come here and abused me shame-  MRA DANA. fully," sobbed his sister. 4' She accuses me of getting you and the children away from her, and it is a "Lie!" fiercely interrupted Tyrrell. He opened the door, and pointing to it haughtily, said, "be off with- your- self. We wont have you here," "I shall not go," said Mira firmly. "I shall stay with my children.' "We will see, madam," said-Tyrrell, advancing toward her, his face crimson with rage. Mira saw his intention, and clung instinctively to her chair. But Herbert Tyrrell was not -to be foiled by so small an obstacle, and seizing her, chair and all, he dragged them toward the door, despite her struggles and the loud remonstrances of both women. At last he twisted the chair from her hands, and gaining the threshhold of the door, threw her from him down the same steps she had a few moments before ascended, buoyant with the hope of meeting her little ones. In the affray her shawl had fallen from her shoulders, and she lay almost senseless upon the ground, unprotected from the damp snow. Mr. Tyrrell stepped back and locked the door, but seeing some one coming to her assistance, quickly opened it, and forbid him to interfere with her, saying that she had thrown her- self down in a rage purposely. , Mira rose to her feet as quickly as her feebleness would permit, and staggered toward the next house, begging the woman who met her at the door to obtain her shawl. She  186         MRIRA DANA. consented to go for it, but soon returned unsuccessful from her expedition, saying it had been peremptorily refused. Again she sallied into the street. A kind market-man passing by, seeing her exposed to the inclemency of the weather, and taking her for an insane person, considerately asked her to ride, and at her request, carried her immedi- ately to Lawyer Foolsome's office, Yor she thought he would understand what she could not tell. In this she was disappointed; but knowing she had a sister not far off, he sent her there in care of a hackman, waiting an expla- nation of her strange appearance. Once more was unfortunate Mira prostrated upon a bed of sickness. Hattie's husband made all possible enquiries into the matter, while Hattie and Dr. Killem did their best to re- store the poor woman to health. "I don't know," said the doctor, "what may have caused this sad condition, but I never saw a person -more com- pletely prostrated. She could never stand another such a shock." For a long time she hovered between life and death, but a naturally strong constitution and energetic will, were again triumphant. "Hattie, will you hand me the mirror from the dressing- table," said she one morning after the physician had pro- nounced her convalescent. "You wish to see how handsome you have grown lately, eh?" queried Hattie, playfully.   MRA DANA.  "No, sis! It is a long time since I saw my face, and I wish to know if my feelings are expressed there." "i Even your most flattering friends would tell you your beauty has somewhat faded of late." Mira smiled sadly. "Not only is beauty gone, but youth too. Rather a sad reflection truly, but yet I have a conviction that I am yet to be happy. Since I have lain here, new strength of purpose has been given me to act, and I feel almost as happy and hopeful to-day, as before I fell into the hands of that merciless wretch, my husband." She spoke shudderingly. "He has no power to kill, sis, though he may crush, " replied Hattie. "May all your bright expectations be realized, but---." The entrance of her husband prevented further conver- sation on that subject. I "I have been to see your husband," said be, "but I can't get him to do any thing for you. He says he has finished with you forever." "Well, I have not finished with him yet. To-morrow I shall commence a suit against him for a separate maintain- ance, on account of cruel treatment and neglect. Esquire Foolsome said I could procure one without any trouble if I could prove my charges," said Mira. "Easily enough done," said Hattie, and thus the conver- sation ended.   CHAPTER   XTT. A DIVORCE ATTEMPTED. In due time Mr. Tyrrell was notified according to law, that his wife had instituted a bill against him for divorce. Having had some disagreement with his partner, he had just sold out, and placed his money and notes in the care of a friend. So he chuckled over Mira's new attempt to obtain redress. He expected a suit for assault and battery, but that he should be willing to-pay for -it would not cost him much. He had been obliged to pay for beating a woman in Augusta, Georgia, with a club-that was nothing. "Have I not engaged the smartest lawyer round about?" was his men- tal query.  "Has he not once taken care of the whole city, and can he not tell me what to do with my wife?" Writh these reflections he started off to narrate his griev. ances to his friend, Lawyer Renown. "Oh, I can manage your case easily enough," said he; "but you must assist me by providing me the 'essential,' before I can see clearly into the case." Tyrrell immediately acted on this broad hint, and fur- nished his lawyer with the needful.   MRA DANA. "It is an easy matter to throw dirt," he went on to say, "and Foolsome, your wife's counsel, is just the man to have it stick to. I think I have heard you say something about a man being too familiar with your wife, Mr. Tyrrell." "Yes," was the brief reply. "Have you any one to prove your statements?" pur- sued he. 6 Yes, her own brother says he will take oath as to her improper conduct." "Will he state what she did?" "Yes, I s'pose so. I know what she did very well." "Will you state it to me?"        L "Why, the man was a friend of mine who had been sick at my house. Wife had the sole care of him, dosing him with hot teas, and forever worrying lest he should take cold, insisting on his wearing an overcoat or muffler everywhere he went, while she seemed perfectly indifferent to my fate." "Plenty of cause for jealousy, Mr. Tyrrell. I think you had better institute a suit against her for a divorce." "I'll do it," eagerly replied Tyrrell. "Then rll attend to your case immediately. I am con- fident I can make her remove her prosecution. Leave all with me, sir; be very quiet; take no notice of any message she may send you, and leave the result with me. Good day!" In a short time Foolsome was informed by Renown that Tyrrell was going to institute a suit against his wife for  i90         tMRA DANA. improprieties; that he had got her own brother as evidence against her. "I also learn," said he, "that she has been engaged in that miserable humbug, ' Spiritualism,' and no doubt that is the cause of half her trouble. You had bet- ter give up the field to me now." *"If that be the case, I think so too," said Foolsome. Spiritualism! dirty stuff! I'll never have anything more to do with her, I shall lose caste, if I do. "But, never mind," continued he, talking to himself, "I'1 charge her a nice fee for what I advise her;" and 'Squire Foolsome looked quite resigned at the idea of losing a client. But a few days after Renown had so effectually applied the "dirt" to Foolsome, Mrs. Tyrrell called on that wor- thy functionary, informing him that she had heard her husband's property was placed beyond her reach, and con- sequently could not collect anything, even if her suit was gained ; and instructing him to put the case " over." He told her she had better withdraw it entirely, as her husband had instituted a  suit against her of a criminal nature. "Mrs. Tyrrell was amazed.  "What is the charge," said she. "I'd like to know more about the case," said Foolsome to himself. "She's about half a fool--I'll have some fun now. Madam," he spoke very gravely, "Lawyer Renown has been here to see me, and informs me that there have been some improprieties with a gentleman who was sick at your house a  few years ago. He says your brother is   MRA DANA.          1 the principal witness against you, and really, I fear your prospect is rather dark." Mrs. Tyrrell had no time to reflect, but was determined he should have nothing farther to do with her affairs. "You may withdraw my suit, sir," she said, and - would have left immediately, but he detained her by saying, "Mrs. Tyrrell, I feel much interested for you. I think it will be for your interest to tell me just how far those improprieties were carried. I may be able to assist you more by knowing the whole truth about the matter." "'Squire Foolsome," said Mrs. Tyrrell, choking with indignation, "if any one accuses me of ihmproper conduct, Jlet them prove their charge. I scorn to deny it." "One thing more," said he; "when I took your case, I thought it was at least respectable, or I should not have soiled my reputation by meddling with it. You are aware that we must look to the respectability of our profession, and shield, it from calumny. I understand you have had some- thing to do with spiritualism and clairvoyance, and such things are not popular; it is a great pity you should stoop to them. I would advise you to go to your friends, if you have any, and remain till you are a little over your present excitement.  "Wlll you make out my bill, sir? I have no farther need of your services,' said Mira with a.,scornful smile as he ceased speaking. He took his pen, and after scratching his head with his lily fingers, and his paper with his pen, read as follows:-    Y :Z 192 KIRA DA-NA. Fee for serving writ on the husband of Mrs. Tyrrell, $3.00 Advice,   -  -10.00 10.00 Extra charge, for trouble, &c., -        4.00 "Pay me seventeen dollars, if you please," said he, handing her the bill. She glanced over it and returned it, saying, "I think you told me that my husband was responsible for all debts I might contract, before the bill of divorce was obtained. Please collect this of him." I "Oh, no, madam, you would not ask -me to take him as paymaster for such a bill as that. You must pay it," said Foolsome, very much agitated at the idea of getting fooled himself. "You can collect no pay of me, sir, unless you take the body," replied Mrs. Tyrrell as she swept from the office with the air of an insulted queen.   CHAPTER   XLITI. TREACHERY    PROVED. Mrs. Tyrrell was nearly overcome by this last misfor- tune. The information that Foolsome had given her of Warner's willingness to testify against her, struck an icy pang to her heart. That he, whose former treachery she had always forgiven, whose wrong doings she had ever striven to excuse, when others condemned, who knew so well how much she had suffered for his sake, should act so base a part, seemed to her unaccountable. "I will not believe it," she said, " till he himself tells me so." With this determination she wrote to him asking him if he were friend or foe, telling him of Foolsome's statement, and desiring him to acquaint her at once of its truth or falsity. Warner answered her letter without delay, but was quite careful to read his reply to a number of his friends, think- ing from the statements therein contained, to justify his conduct in their view. Here it is. April 30th, 185-. Sister Mira,--I received your line yesterday, and the first question you ask is, am I your friend or not? Why   194         MRA DANA. do you ask that? Have I not always shown myself so? Do you think because I don't take sides I must necessarily be an enemy to you? Were I hostile to him, I should be no TRUE friend of yours, for he has always treated you well and kindly. Why do you go about trying to injure him? Why go to his boarding-place and treat the inmates so badly that he is obliged to turn you out of doors, and then tell your story in a different light. If he has wronged you, (a thing I very much doubt,) take a legal course with him, and if I am called upon to testify, I must tell what I know, and that would be what would make your case look rather black, Mira. Let me ask, what was your behavior when .you came to my home? Do you think it gave me pleasure to see you neglect your husband, and be so anxious about the man that came with you. Mira, I have been satisfied ever since then that you were not what you should be; that you are tired of your husband and like a certain Mr. W   better. Now don't ask me again if I am your friend,'for if I was not, I should never have told you so plainly that your conduct shows you to blame. Take my advice, and if you have instituted a suit against your husband, withdraw it immediately and do not disgrace us by your shameful actions. If you come to town, I advise you to keep away from the neighbors, as they only talk and laugh about you. One other thing more-don't come here to worry poor mother with your stuff. She is too feeble to be troubled by you.   MRA DANA.          195 Please take this letter in good part and never doubt my friendliness again. Very affectionately, Your brother,    WARNER. If Mira had tried to persuade herself of her brother's truth before, she could no longer. She knew he was not honest in his statements, for if he had so long suspected, as he said, that she was not " what she ought to be," would he not ere this have striven for her reformation. She remembered the conversation he had held with Mr. Wood- bury, and seemed again to hear him say, "Mr. Woodbury, you are a man of reason, and I wish you would see that my sister does not get too deeply interested in spiritualism." She remembered well the invitation that Warner and his wife had given the invalid, to again pay them a visit. Letters written by Warner, commencing "Worthy sister," and many other things, came vividly before her, proving his dishonesty. "Oh," exclaimed- Mira, with a burst of indignation, "had my cruel brother but expressed the honest sentiments of his heart, I could forgive him the injustice he has done me. Had he but stated facts instead of base insinuating falsehoods, he would have shown himself a man; but no, with the cowardice of his nature he dares not make an open accusation against me." With flashing eye she con- tinued: "Warner Dana has tried to calumniate his brother Martin, and fling about his good name the base character of swindler and villain. He. has robbed his own father of   196      v  MRA DANA. his birthright and left him without a dollar, while, thank God, I have had the means and the will to relieve and help him. But these deeds, heinous though they be, do not satisfy his insatiate wickedness, and now he is striving to crush a sister to the earth by base insinuations against her purity and virtue! May God forgive him, as I pray I may be yet able to do!" and a flood of bitter, burning tears fell from Mira's eyes as she clasped her hands and sank into a chair beside her. The fearful past lay out- rolled before her: the fierce injustice and treachery of those who were bound to her by the sacred ties of consan- guinity; the cruelty of her husband in rending her beloved children from her embrace; and now, alas, to cap the cli- max of her woe, they had entered into a conspiracy to wrest from her that which was dearer than life- her fair fame. It was more than her over-tasked nature could endure, and partial insanity swept over her brain, holding her in its dreadful grasp during the weary watches of that gloomy night: Her sister Hattie was at this time lying dangerously sick, and the incoherent ravings and burst of agony that fell from poor Mira's lips affected her so fearfully, that for many long hours she hovered tremblingly upon the verge of life. The attending physician will probably never forget the scenes of that night! Oh! could Warner Dana have looked upon that group in their wild agony, he would have shrunk back abashed-- ashamed of the cowardly letter he had written to a sister.   CHAPTER XLIV. NEW FRIENDS. Variable passions through constant woe, As striving which should best become her grief All intertwined each passion, labors so, That every present sorrow seemeth chief. But none is best; then join them altogether, Like many clouds consulting for bad weather." With every new trial, Mrs. Tyrrell gained strength. After calm deliberation upon the matter, she resolved not to attempt farther to make her husband maintain her. She had. written him several letters, but they were still unanswered. He had been notified by his wife's brother- in-law to provide Mrs. Tyrrell with a boarding-place, but he had refused to do so repeatedly. She thought it best to remain away from him, contented if she could but retain little Herbert in her keeping. She knew that God would give her strength to labor for herself and child. She paused not to note"the changes that sickness and trouble had wrought on her once fair face, or to heed the trembling of her attenuated hand, and faltering of her   198         MRA DANA. once elastic step. Her heart was strong, and she could endure all that was in store for her. While visiting at the H   Community, a neighbor- hood of kind and charitable people, Mrs. Tyrrell was offered any assistance that she needed, or might need. Father Burland, the leading man of the "Community," sympathized with her in her sorrows, and bade her put her trust in God, who careth ever for his children. Mrs. Tyrrell was a stranger to them all, yet they had heard of her sufferings, and like "Good Samaritans," came to her relief. Having- business at Worcester, Father Burland took pains to enquire into Mrs. Tyrrell's circumstances. He found they were as unfavorable as represented. On re- turning, he besought his people to do all they could to alle- viate her situation. A plan was laid to relieve her from the, expense of paying the board of little Herbert for the present, by placing him at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Car- penter. She was warmly invited to remain among the good people until her health was recruited. Mrs. Tyrrell could not express to them in words, her deep gratitude, but she earnestly besought the blessing of God upon them, and in the most sacred temple of her heart will be treasured the remembrance of their kindness. Believing her child would be well cared for, Mrs. Tyr- rell left him for a while, to labor for his and her support. She was quite happy when she kissed his upturned lips, the morning she left him, with a promise to return soon.   MRA DANA.          199 " lhen rm a man mother, I'll take care of you, and you wont have to go out to work," and he twined his arms lovingly about her neck. Little did Mira Tyrrell dream, when she left her darling that morning, that a long, long time must elapse ere they again should meet.- She proceeded to a neighborhood, not far distant, and engaged a situation to labor for Herbert's support. The thought was joy to her, so dearly did she love the sole remaining one of her precious flock. She then turned her steps toward her sister Hattie's to obtain her clothing, pre- paratory to entering upon her duties. Hope had once more dawned in her heart, and when she laid her head upon her pillow in her sister's quiet home, an unwonted calm stol6 over' her worn spirit. She was awakened the following morning by hearing her name spoken by a well-known voice. "Hattie, has Mrs. Tyrrell been here lately?" enquired Tyrrell, in an exulting tone, for it was his voice. "She was here yesterday, but I have not seen her to- day," hesitatingly replied Hattie. "Well, I guess she'll show a little temper when she finds out how I have worked her, and be surprised in the bargain. To tell the truth, I found out where little Her- bert was, and took him home with me last night; but the queerest of it all is, how I happened to find him." Mr. Tyrrell laughed maliciously while repeating the last words in a sneering tone.   200         MRA DANA. Hattie grew pale with surprise at the bitter inforiation, and at the thought of Mira's distress on learning it. After a few moments silence, Hattie asked as calmly as she could, how he found the child. "Never mind," said he exultingly, "it is enough for you to know that a gentleman from the 'Community'. sus- pected all. was not right, as he knew that I was a good honest man. He said as much to them, and old Burland came down here and discovered that she had deceived them. She had told that I bribed her lawyer to work against her, and a deal of such trash. They made her believe that they were going to assist her, and coaxed her to let the child remain with them, and then sent for me to come directly and take it." Hattie was confounded, but not more so than Mira, who, unseen, had been listening to their conversation. Tyrrell had no errand with Hattie, only to boast of his success in finding the child. After he had gone, Mira rushed to her sister's side, as she sat brooding over this new calamity, and trying to devise means to break the news softly to her sister. "I know all, Hattie," said she. "Tell me nothing." Only write immediately for me to the friends at the "Com- munity," and ask them to explain the words my husband has just uttered. Oh, I cannot believe them so base, as that statement would make them. If that be true, I have lost all confidence in humanity forever. I shall not return to my place of engagement-I have nothing to stimulate   MRA DANA.    /     201 me to exertion longer. But no! am I a woman, tamely thus to yield? That man shall not crush me; I will yet triumph." "I am glad to see you so courageous, sister," said Hat- tie. "I don't think you need fear what the future holds; you have already borne so much." Hattie, according to Mira's request, soon despatched a letter to the "Community," and another to the people who were to employ her sister, telling them that unfore- seen circumstances had prevented her from fulfilling her engagement. Great anxiety was felt, till return mail brought answers. The letter from the "Community" informed her that Mrs. Tyrrell had their heartfelt sympathy; that the statement respecting any one there betraying her confidence, was false; that no one had informed Mr. T   where the child was; but that a Mr. Whopple of W  came with him and took the boy away much against their wishes and remonstrances. "So much for his story, sister," said Hattie. "'Twill all come right at last." "Well, I have found out the mystery of Tyrrell's find- ing Herbert," said Mira a few mornings after, on return- ing from a walk, "He went to Readum, the penny-post, and asked him if he had brought me any letters lately, and if so, where they were mailed. Not thinking of any harm- resulting from it, he told him he had brought me one mailed from the "Community," a short time since. He 10   202         MRA DANA. forbid him bringing me another one till he had first deliv- ered it to him to read, to see that I carried on no improper correspondence. But you see Mr. Readum did not mind him," continued she, holding up a letter with the seal unbroken. "He told me about it himself, and said my let- ters were all safe to me; that he always delivered missives to their proper owners." "But, that does not explain how he found little Herbert." "Well, he mentioned the state of his affairs to Mr. Whopple, and enlisted his sympathies by telling him a woful tale about me, and also stated I had lately received a letter from the ' Community.' 'Ah! I know all about it. I can find your child in an hour, if you wish it,' said Whopple. You know, Hattie, walls have ears sometimes, and a tongue too. Ears heard and tongue told me. 'It is my duty to help persecute that woman,' continued Whopple, 'for I am a practical spiritualist and she is not of my order.' He spoke so loud that the ears in the wall heard it. On the strength of his declaration, they started offy and enquired unil they found him. That is all Tyrrell had for the origin of his story." "Well, sis, he will be repaid for all his dark deeds yet. Now tell me what your next step will be." "I know not, Hattie. I wish I could compel him to provide for me. I am not yet able to labor." "Mira, I will compel him to provide for you in two hours if you say so," said Hattie's husband, entering just then, overhearing her last remark.   -MRA DANA.         203 "I do say it," said Mira. "Well, after dinner, then, get ready to take a ride." "But how?" aked Hattie and Mira in the same breath. "Do as I say," he replied; trust it all to me, and rest assured it will end right." Y. v   CHAPTER XLV. PROCEEDINGS AT THE AMERICAN HOUSE. At two o'clock Mrs. Tyrrell and her brother-in-law, stepped into a coach and proceded directly to the American House. The brother-in-law engaged the best accomodation that the house afforded, for Mrs. Tyrrell, informing the landlord that her husband was a resident of the city, and refused his wife a home and maintainance. That he was able to provide for her, and during her stay at the hotel, the landlord must look to him for pay. Mrs. Tyrrell -was told to remain there, until she had far- ther instructions, and in the mean time to try and be hap- py as she could. She was quite ill, and had it not been for her resolution and courage, she would have yielded to despair. Still she could hardly realize her position; and at times when she looked back upon the past, it seemed like a strange dream. She tried to be calm and self-possessed, and in readiness for whatever fate might be awaiting her. She could not find anything to amuse, or lure her mind from its great sorrow. Book after book was taken from the large library, and re-   MRA DANA.          205 turned, without perusing. She tried to write--to sew-but in vain; at last she threw herself upon her bed, exhausted, and in a few moments was sleeping sweetly. Mrs. Tyrrell dreamed she was standing alone upon a vast plain, with nothing to shelter her from the rays of the scorching sun. That while gazing wonderingly about her, the sky was darkened by clouds, from which the lightning flashed vivid- ly, followed by loud peals of thunder. A mingled shower of rain and hail fell upon her, it seemed if she remained longer unprotected, death would be inevitable. The storm swept wilder around her, yet contrary to her expectations, she stood firm and unmoved before it. -She became recon- ciled to her situation, knowing that God had given her strength to bear all. At last the storm ceased its wild fury. The sun's bright rays rested caressingly on her pale brow and cheek. She was about to fall upon her knees, to offer a pray of thankfulness to Him who had kept her safe from harm, when there fell before her, brilliant gems, and garlands of fair sweet flowers. She looked about her, to learn from whence they came, when a snow-white dove sailed from the clear blue beyond, and paused not till it nestled noiselessly among the flowers at her feet. "What means this?"' she asked musingly of herself. "It means," replied a low silvery voice, "that the days of your sorrow will soon be ended; that wealth will fall before you, as have the brilliant gems that now lie at your feet. " "And the garlanded flowers?"   206        MRA DANA. "Are but fitting emblems of your future fame, which like wreaths and garlands will crown your brow; while softly in your bosom will the dove of peace, fold its snowy wings." "And the voice?" "Is that of the angel who has shielded you from danger." Mrs. Tyrrell was awakened from her sleep by a loud rapping upon her door, and the voice of her brother-in-law saying, "Open the door quickly, Mira, 'tis no one but me." "Take courage," he exclaimed, on entering the room. "Your lusband has been informed by the landlord, of your whereabouts, and has been ordered to pay your board, which, although he knows he should do, he obstinately refuses un- til after he has consulted Renown. In the mean time Mr. Tyrrell sought Renown, who in- formed him that he "must give in this time; that it would be policy for him to do so." "But what shall I do with her?" asked Mr. Tyrrell. "I am plagued to death; I cannot get any one to take care of the children properly-my sister is not fit to take care of her own child, and I dare not trust her out of my sight. Minnie is unruly, yes, down right ugly; nothing strange in that though, her mother taught her ugliness. I have been to the "Orphan's Asylum, and every other place that I can think of, to get her taken care of, but all to no purpose. If I attempt to get a boarding-place for my wife, people tell me to provide a home for her as I ought; and that I wont do. No I'll do only just what the law compels me to."   MRA DANA.          207 "I do not blame you Mr. Tyrrell, I think you are justi- fied in the course you are now pursuing," replied Renown. "But," continued he, "the law is very hard with us husbands sometimes; it compels us to provide food and clothing for our wives, if they are ever so undeserving. But I intend to have that law brought before the legislature, and altered; until that time we must try and be contented. "Will not your brother-in-law board your wife Mr Tyr- rell?" "Lucky thought, Renown, I'll go and see immediately." Mr. Tyrrell sought his brother-in-law, and broached the subject of his boarding Mira, offering him at the same time a good price to do so. "No I'll not board her, you refused to pay her board what time she did stop with me. But if your wife wants a home, she is welcome to mine; you, I do not wish to have concerned about the matter," was the reply. Mr. Tyrrell thus foiled, turned silently away. "What shall I do," he exclaimed, as he walked down the street, with eyes bent upon the sidewalk, as if he was striving to read an answer therefrom. "I know what I can do," he at last exclaimed. "Aunt Lucy felt sadly to let Flora go from her, and I guess for the sake of getting her back, she will take my wife to board. It will be a capital place for her, it is so far from every body, that she'll have some little trouble in finding out all I do, I'm thinking. It beats everything, her learning about me and the "California widder." But   208         MRA DANA. Aunt Lucy lives a quarter of a mile from neighbors, and three miles from a meeting house or post office; she'll soon get tired of staying there, and leave; then I'll report- her "as leaving my bed and board without reasons." "Yes,' continued Mr. Tyrrell, '"I'll go this very day and see about it." Well pleased with his plan, he proceeded to put it in execution immediately. Aunt Lucy was pleased to have Flora with her again, for she loved the child devotedly; and even when Mr. Tyrrell suggested the idea of her tak- ing his wife to board, she gladly consented to it, believing it to be her duty to assist Mrs. Tyrrell all that lay in her power. She had known and loved -her from earliest child- hood, and did not credit the many rumors that came float- ing to her. The only room that Mrs. Ruggles and Aunt Lucy had for Mrs. Tyrrell, was an old unfinished chamber, which had been used for years, for the storage of old rickety chairs and tables, dried herbs and corn. The rats had been its only tenants, learning to play queer antics with the loose rubbish scattered about the floor. Before taking his leave, Mr. Tyrrell told them that he did not wish his wife to in- terfere with the management of Flora; but he was inform- ed that if Mrs. Tyrrell came there she must manage her own child.       -  Mr. Tyrrell made no further remarks about the matter, but quietly left for Worcester, leaving little Flora once more in good quarters. "How glad I am to come back," she exclaimed, twining her arms about Aunt Lucy's neck.   MRA DANA.        209 "We shall be very happy again Flora, besides your moth- er is coming to live with us, wont you -be glad to see her birdie?" "No I shant, Aunt Lucy, for papa says she is very naughty, and will try to steal me; what is steal auntie?" A long while the good woman labored before she could impress upon the mind of Flora, that her mother loved her, and would do her no harm. Then the little one begged to see her repeatedly, exclaiming, "It will be so nice to have a mamma to love!" 10*   CHAPTER XLVI. REMOVAL FROM THE AMERICAN HOUSE. On returning to W  , Mr. Tyrrell went directly to his brother-in-aw, and tried to persuade him to remove Mrs. Tyrrell from the American House, offering him a sum of money to do so. hime refused, at the same time advising him to go for her himself. "I cannot go myself, she will blow me too hard about being obliged to take care of her, and I can't stand that any way; " so the brave man again started for Renown. ' The obliging lawyer went himself to the American House, and ordered the landlord to give iMrs. Tyrrell to the charge of a coach-driver, to remove immediately to her brother-in law's house, for the time being. The landlord's clerk very politely informed Mrs. Tyrrell, that a "carriage had been sent there to convey her to some place he knew not where, but the coachman without doubt could inform her." Mrs. Tyrrell asked to see him. She was conducted to where he was, surrounded by a gaping crowd, anxiously waiting to learn something which did not concern them. "Who sent you here for me?" asked Mrs. Tyrrell of the man. e   MRA DANA.         2" "No other person than Lawyer Renown, madam, and I suppose he has authority to send; so if you please, put on your bonnet and shawl quickly, I dislike to wait, " was the reply. "' By what authority does Esq. Renown send you here? Who has authorized Mim to put me in the care of such a low piece as you are. " "I know nothing about it," replied the man a little more respectfully. "My husband is the only person who has a right to re- move me I believe, and unless orders come directly from him, I shall not heed them," said Mrs. Tyrrell, and she im- mediately retraced her steps back to her room. The coachman forced his way through the crowd to the carriage, with a chagrined dogged look upon his face; while a chorus of voices exclaimed, " spunky woman that. Can't get much ahead of her." Coachy rode back to Renown, and reported his success, expressing a wish that he might be properly authorized be- fore he again went after a married woman. After being properly authorized, he had no difficulty in conveying Mrs. Tyrrell to her brother-in-law's house. Af- ter Mr. Tyrrell had provided a boarding place for his wife, Renown informed him that he would be obliged to pay her expenses thereto. Mr. Tyrrell counted out what he sup- posed to be the exact amount, and requested Renown to carry it to her; but the lawyer sagely concluded that it was rather small business for hizm, and so refused.   212         MRA DANA. Mr. Tyrrell then proceeded to his brother-in-law on the same errand, but his question was met with such sternness and indignation, that he knew it would be useless to repeat it. "Well I will go myself, if you will go with me and keep that woman from flaming up; I have not seen her since I sent her out of doors, and I'm afraid she'll be for reminding me of it," said Mr. Tyrrell to his brother-in-law. "Not any trouble but what you'll be treated well, Mr. Tyrrell, unless you are the first offender,' was the reply. After mustering up a vast amount of courage, Mr. Tyr- rell sought his wife. Contrary to his expectations she met him kindly. "I have come," said Mr. Tyrrell, addressing his wife, "to inform you that I have succeeded in finding a boarding place for you and Flora, at Aunt Lucy's. I have gained Mrs Ruggles' consent to take the whole charge of the child, so it will not be necessary for you to have any thing to do with her ;" so saying he handed her the amount of her fare, and one and a half cent over. "I thank you for your kindness Herbert; you could not have selected a place to suit me better, it is so quiet and home-like." Mr. Tyrrell looked vexed at the quiet reply of his wife, spoken in a pleasant, satisfied tone, and so, an- grily retorted, "I think you had better be earning your own living, in- stead of remaining inactive in any place, while your hus- band is laboring hard to maintain you."   MRA DANA.          213 "My husband may as well provide me with a home, as other women, " was the meaning reply. "I would support no indolent woman, " said Mr. Tyrrell. "You would be willing then Herbert, to have me go out to work?" "Yes, I do not see why I should'nt be," and the thought flashed through Mrs. Tyrrell's mind that if she should do so he would have a good opportunity to - publish another notice. "Well, as you have given your consent for me to go, before witnesses, I can do so I suppose, without forfeiting my maintainance. " "I did not think of that, " muttered Tyrrell to himself. "Well, " continued Mrs. Tyrrell, " since you have been so very kind to me this time, I'll venture a little farther, and ask your forgiveness, for all real or imaginary wrongs that I have done you. " "I did forgive you once. " "Not so, I asked you once, but you did not reply; again, I ask you. "Tyrrell did not reply, but stood sullenly si- lent. "Herbert, if you have once forgiven Mira, why do you refuse to now?" inquired Hattie. "Because I wish to see how she behaves first, if she stays awhile with Aunt Lucy and Mrs. Ruggles, and gets well humbled, then I'll talk about forgiveness. " "Herbert," said Mrs. Tyrrell, "I can tell you how to humble me: treat me as a wife should be treated; treat   214         MRA DANA. me as you would treat a stranger; give me my children; cease your connection with that sister, who is now boarding a woman of doubtful reputation; yes, cease your persecu- tions, and I shall be a humble woman." Tyrrell remained silent. "I am destitute of decent clothing," continued his wife, "will you not provide me with money to obtain me even a comfortable supply?" Mr. Tyrrell did not heed the last remark of his wife, but left the room, saying, "He hoped she'd go immediately to Aunt Lucy's." Mrs. Tyrrell remained with Hattie a few days, hoping to hear something more favorable from her husband; but she -hoped and waited in vain. She learned, however, that he was preparing as fast as possible to leave town with Minnie. "Where can I   find him?".she eagerly asked of her sister, as the thought of being parted from her child flashed through her mind. "I don't know, Mira," was all Hattie could reply. "But Iwill know, I must know," exclaimed Mrs. Tyr- rell, as she donned her bonnet and shawl. Luckily she proceeded immediately to the depot, where Mr. Tyrrell with Minnie was waiting to take the cars. "Where are you going, Herbert?" was the first eager enquiry of Mrs. Tyrrell, after she had pressed the form of her child to her wildly beating heart. "I have concluded not to let you know any more of my business," was the cool reply.   MRA DANA.          215 "But, Herbert, my child--you cannot refuse to let me know about her. You must know that her life is my life- that I am her mother." '"What do you want, why are you not at your boarding- place?" demanded Tyrrell in a rough voice. "Because I have nothing to wear- not a decent pair of shoes or passable dress." Mr. Tyrrell did not wait to hear more. The cars were ready, and dragging Minnie after him he proceeded to a seat within. The first thought of Mrs. Tyrrell was to throw herself under the car in which her inhuman husband was seated. She started forward for that purpose. A large number had listened to the conversation of Mr. Tyrrell and his wife, and marked her look of wild despair as she saw him enter the cars. Her design was anticipated; as she rushed frantically to the edge of the platform, an old gentleman kindly laid his hand upon her arm and said, "Excuse me, madam, but we fear you are getting too near the cars." Mrs. Tyrrell looked into the mild blue eyes of the old man when he ceased speaking, and burst into tears. What was life to her? Deserted by him who should have been her protector and friend; her children torn from her -at best it could be but a dark stormy passage, unlit by smile or sun-raly. Mrs. Tyrrell W ent back to her brother-in-law. He told her that her husband had been compelled to provide her a boarding-place, and he could be compelled to pur- *   216         M1RA DANA. chase her clothing also. 'He advised her to get what she needed, and if Tyrrell refused to pay the bill, he would pay it. She accordingly purchased a few dollars' worth of Mr. Stow's, a dry goods merchant-the first she ever obtained without the free consent of her husband. In a few days she went to her new boarding-home, where, with little Flora and kind friends, she strove once more to be happy.   CHAPTER   XLVII. "TTLE STORIES. Mr. Tyrrell proceeded on his journey. It will not be necessary to follow him in all his wanderings; suffice it by saying, that he sought out some of his relatives whom he had not seen for years, and related to them his story in a very mournful tone. He wished them to take Minnie, but they obstinately refused, and he returned home dissatisfied and spiritless. His sister's interest in the children's welfare diminished as rapidly as the debt she owed him; and now she declared her intention of providing only their food for them, making but little difference to her whether it was properly pre- pared or not. For want of care and from neglect, Minnie grew very ill. Of course Mr. Tyrrell provided a nurse, but who was she? Perhaps a tall, whiskerado that visited her occasion- ally, might have been able to say; or even Mr. Tyrrell himself, who seemed much pleased with her, and monopo- lized much of her time that should have been appropriated to Minnie.   218         MRA DANA. Think you, Herbert Tyrrell was happy? Did he feel at ease and sleep soundly, with the knowledge that his child was cared only for by such a woman as he must have known her to be? If he was happy, he suffered pain; for, but a few weeks after he had raised his arm against his wife, and so rudely thrust her into the street, a sad accident befell him. He was one morning adjusting some machinery; by accident his chisel slipped, and he received a severe wound in his hand. For want of proper care and attention, he came near losing his arm. For a number of months it was a severe affliction to him. 'Twas not till after Minnie had regained her health that Herbert Tyrrell became sensible that the eyes of the world were upon his conduct. When he became aware of the fact, he immediately dismissed that woman and em- ployed another; for his children must have schooling, and it would not do to let them go to school, or join in the sports of the little ones that gathered around the door. "Oh, and," said Mr. Tyrrell to himself, "they must not mingle with other children-their little tongues must be kept bridled. Besides, will it not tell well on my part to keep a private teacher for my children- a governess?" It was a great source of annoyance to him, that "the divorce" talked about by Renown, was not obtained. And why was it not? There was a good and sufficient reason: there was not one witness to be found to testify against her - none dared to "cast the first stone." Again we ask, was Herbert Tyrrell happy? The pangs of a guilty con- science can be endured with a smile, is the only answer.   CHAPTER XLVIII. MRA IN BOSTON. Bright leafy June once more decked the earth with its foliage; rosy sunlight danced over the hill side with a soft light step. Let us for a moment look in upon Mrs. Tyrrell in her quiet country home. She is seated at a beautiful seraphine, which had been supplied her by a friend, in lieu of the one that Mr. Tyrrell had so ruthlessly taken from her. She looks resigned, yes even happy, as her delicate fingers press the finely polished keys-and she mingled her voice sweet- ly with the melody. Laughing Flora is seated at her feet, her dimpled hands nimbly weaving a wreath of buttercups and daisies with which to deck mamma's head. Mrs. Tyr- rell has made up her mind to bear with patience all that her husband or others may maliciously impose upon her, and be as happy as. possible. She has striven to conform her life to the immutable principles of justice, ever contend- ing for the right-resisting the wrong; but she is human, and therefore liable to err, yes, she has failed in many points when hotly pursued by her unnatural kindred. She   220         MRA DANA. believes it to be her duty to lend a helping hand whenever it is in her power. She is determined yet to triumph over her enemies, by showing to the world that she is" not what she has been represented. Mrs. Tyrrell had just received a letter from a friend in Boston, requesting- her to come there immediately, as one of the family was lying dangerously ill; she was not long making ready to obey the summons, and after taking leave of little Flora for the twentieth time, and promising to re- turn again soon, she started on her journey. She arrived in Boston only in time to look upon the in- animate form of her friend. Cholera had made its appear- ance, and it was the all-pervading dread among the people. Mrs. Tyrrell's sympathies were all in requisition and freely bestowed, also her skill in prescribing for, and assisting the stricken ones. She feared not disease or death. For ten weeks by night and day, she watched in sick rooms, endeav- oring in other's sorrows, to forget her own. Did she forget? No, it was impossible, messages often reached her ears of the neglect and privation of her chil- dren, and also of the low company that surrounded her hus- band, and of his plottings against her. At last her strength to bear more, failed, and she was prostrated again with sickness. Mrs. Tyrrell was this time among strangers, but they were kind, and showed her every attention, even as they would a sister, for they knew she had been kind to others: "I think Mrs. Tyrrell, a short sea voyage would greatly Y   nIIRA DANA.         221 benefit you, and strengthen up your nerves," said her phy- sician, after she began to recover. "Some friends of mine are going East, and if you will consent, I will put you in charge of them, they will show you every attention, and you shall be as welcome to the passage, as if the boat was your own; my wife is to accom- pany them, and she would be very glad to nurse you, in re- turn for your previous care over her and our babe. Say will you go?" In a few days afterwards, Mrs. Tyrrell with the above- mentioned company, were on board the eastern steamer Lilly Bell, gliding swiftly over the blue waters. For a while the " sea was calm and the sky was blue. " Mrs. Tyrrell was much revived by the cool breezes that swept over the waters, and fanned her pale cheek andthrow. All was joy, all appeared happy; but how soon was their joy to be turned to sorrow, their strains of happiness to shrieks of mourning and despair! A dense fog had began to settle over the waters, which was hardly noticed by the passengers, or properly regarded by the managers of the boat, as they still kept up the same speed, without any extra look out for danger, but they were suddenly reminded of their reckless neglect, when they saw a British steamer, twice their own bulk, nearly upon them. A terrible exertion was made by the British steamer, to avoid the Lilly Bell, but it was a vain effort. She dashed on in spite of all efforts to the contrary; in a moment more he Lilly Bell was a wreck, and passengers and seamen all   222         MRA DANA. alike, were struggling in the waters, each to save his own life. It was an awful sight! my pen falters in attempting to portray that scene; but it was only a scene after all, such as too often is permitted to madden and shock the be- holder, by not imposing laws sufficiently strong to guard against such needless outrages. Many ended the voyage there; yes, the great voyage of life was over,--they had reached the shores of eternity. "Where was Mrs. Tyrrell? Had she finally ended her career in life there?" No, reader. Mrs. Tyrrell had yet a mission that must be fulfilled ere she left the great theatre of life, on which she had ever been so active a member. The physician's wife, and the family in company, were all lost. Mrs. Tyrrell was. found floating on a piece of the wreck, to which she clung with one hand, and bouyed up a little child with the other. "Why am I saved, when so many more valuable lifes are lost? Why live longer to endure? is there no way that death will receive me?" broke from her lips when she found she was safe, and realized that so many of her companions were gone forever. Had she forgotten her children then? Only for a mo- ment. Visions of their happy faces, and the sound of their merry voices rang in her ear, bringing with them resigna- tion to the will of "Him who doeth all things well." Tears stole into her eyes-she bowed her head and prayed for strength to bear whatever her lot might yet be. Mrs. Tyrrell returned to Boston, but remained only a short time before she went to visit Hattie; she had not   MRA DANA.         223 been there since she left to make her home with Aunt Lucy and Mrs. Ruggles. She learned by Hattie that Mr. Tyrrell had refused to pay the debt which she had contracted at Mr. Stow's, and to end that trouble she sold her silver spoons which she had earned when a factory girl, and retained on breaking up housekeeping. After that was settled she returned to L. again and once more clasped Flora to her bosom. Her wardrobe by this time much needed replenishing; knowing her husband's obstinacy about providing for her, she thought she would refrain from asking it of him if pos- sible; she wrote a note to Warner, and reminded him of a promise he had made her at a time when she told him she had furnished the old folks with money, clothes, and pro- visions, earned by her own hands in attending upon the sick, that he would refund every dollar she had expended for them. She did not ask for it all, she only asked him to refund any part of the amount he thought proper. This note Warner only noticed by informing Martin that Mira had presented him a false account, that he owed her nothing, but that he did owe her husband for a few articles furnished the old folks; that Miira held the account, and would not give it up-that to prevent anything further on her part he had jumped at the amount, and given Tyrrell a note for the same. Reader, what think you of such a brother? Martin in- formed Mira of Warner's decision. She then wrote to her husband requesting him to furnish her with clothing. He ,   224         MRA DANA. made no answer. Again she wrote, this time demanding it as her right, and assuring him that she would apply to proper authority to obtain what was needed, if he still re- fused her request. "She wont get me to do anything for her till she begs in a little more humble way than that," said Tyrrell on re- ceipt of the last letter. "If she had written me a good letter, showing her sub- mission and willingness to obey my commands, to come and live with my sister, I would send her some clothing, but the haughty creature has got too much spunk; but I'll bring it out of her yet--I have said that she shall live with my sister and she shall-I'll break her, I remember what she dared to tell me-that so long as I maintained other women I should maintain her, whether I was willing or not. We'll see, " and Tyrrell tore the letter in pieces, and tried to whistle. After waiting a long time for an answer and receiving none, Mrs. Tyrrell put her threat into execution. She consulted a lawyer and was informed that she had. a right to purchase any amount of clothing, or any thing else she saw fit to-that the law is this: (a fact all men should know) that when a man turns his wife out of his home, he turns her out with credit. Mrs. Tyrrell was advised by many to contract a heavy debt, but she wished not to injure her husband or invade her right, therefore she only pro- cured articles that were absolutely necessary. In due time the merchant sent Mr. Tyrrell the bill, po-   MRA DANA.          225 litely informing him, that if he would write an acknowl- edgment of the account, he could take his own time to pay it in. "I'll never pay that bill, " said he, on receipt of the mer- chant's letter. "I got rid of paying Stow's bill, and I'll pay no bills that I don't agree to." Luckless man! After waiting a reasonable length of time for an answer, and receiving none, the merchant gave his bill into the hands of lawyer Getsum for collection. Our hero obstinately refused to pay up himself, and so turned the affair over to Renown, who like a gentleman, walked up and settled the affair but poor Tyrrell's purse had to be invaded, and the contents of a good part of it conveyed to Renown, to continue the interest which he felt for him in having such a wife. "   CHAPTER XLIX MR. TYRRELL IN MORE TROUBLE. "I can't stand this any how," murmured Tyrrell to him- self, after he found he must provide clothes as well as board for his wife. "I must and will get rid of that woman, and I will. I won't give up beat. Renown ought to know hoW I can do it. He told me he did not like the appearance of the woman at all; he said he gave her a real talking to one day when she came into his office, because she did not help me reform my sister. I have paid him a good round sum already, and I'll pay him every cent I've got but what I'll fetch her yet." Thus murmuring to himself, he again wended his way to Renown's office, and again besought his aid. "I think," said Renown, after Mr. Tyrrell had asked him to devise some new plan, "I think I have heard you say that your youngest child board*t the same place with your wife." "She does," was the reply. "Well, I would advise you to remove the child from her, as that probably is all that keeps her there. If that   MRA DANA.          227 does not work, you must try and make her commit her- self some way; write to her and see what you can make of the answer. You must use wit about this matter, sir; there is no other way for you to manage, unless you take 'leg bail,' and that you will not do while I remain your friend." "No, no, Renown, that will be my last resort." Tyrrell left Renown with a lighter heart, and resolved to immediately visit his wife. Brave man! He did ni dare to go alone, so he prevailed on a niece to accompany him. Mrs. Tyrrell saw him as he drove up to the door, and smiling, quietly, she stepped into an adjoining room. "Where is Mira," was Mr. Tyrrell's first enquiry. "She has just stepped out," was the reply. "Glad of it. I'll not have any fuss now. I have come to take Flora home with me," continued Tyrrell, "as I wish her to profit by the instructions of a lady whom I have employed for the other children." "But you would not take Flora from her mother?" said Mrs. Ruggles. "Certainly; she need not care for it, the child will be well taken care of." "But it is not right!" chimed in Aunt Lucy, " for you to rob her of all her children; I don't know but what she'll be crazy, if you carry Flora away."' "Do not fear about that; she'll only try to frighten you a little. But crazy or not, I must take Flora."   228         MRA DANA. Mrs. Tyrrell on finding that in spite of Aunt Lucy and Mrs. Ruggles, her husband would take the child, stepped resolutely into the room and confronted him. "Mr. Tyr' rell, if Flora goes I shall go with her." "You cannot go," replied Tyrrell, sufficiently recovering from his surprise to be ab-/ answer. "My sister wil never allow you to enter her doors again, and I advise you not to try it." "I do not fear you or your sister; but one thing is sure I shall go with my child," coolly replied Mrs. Tyrrell. Mr. Tyrrell did not care to vent his anger in words, and so satisfied himself by looking desperately fierce. "Herbert, I do not wish my children to be in low comrn pany, even if you choose it," continued Mrs. Tyrrell "You accuse me falsely. I am not so guilty as you report me," replied the husband. "But the abandoned woman, what of her?" was the enquiry in the same cut ting tone. "Since you know so much about it, I might as well tell you all--I never meant to, though. You know my sister keeps boarders. Well, she came across tha woman some how, and finding she was destitute and de serted by her husband, who had gone to California, she took her in to. board; and one of the gentlemen whc boarded with my sister, (and he is a likely man,). paid foi one half of her board, and I  " "You paid the other half," chimed in Mrs. Tyrrell. "No, I didn't," said he, "but I' did help her some. I let her take care of the children and do sewing for the family, and paid her for it, handsomely too. I pitied her, :   MRA DANA.         229 did. I did not know but what she was a respectable woman, and don't know it now, only one of the boarders saw something one day that did not look right, and we would not have her there another day. We turned her right off; and if she ever comes there again, Ill put her out doors quick." "Just as you did me," said Mrs. Tyrrell. "I've told you all about it now," continued Tyrrell, "and you can make what you are a mind to out of it. We keep a respectable house now." "It will not be necessary for me to try to make much of it, as other people have been very busy about it." "i 'm an innocent man," stammered out Mr. Tyrrell. "I know nothing of your innocence, Mr. Tyrrell--I only know that you have treated me cruelly. I have asked your forgiveness, you have refused it. I have asked you for my children; told you if I could have them with me, I would make any sacrifice - do any thing for you. You do not accuse me of ill-treating you - only say that I have told harsh stories about you. I have only told the truth, Herbert, and why should you fear that more than I. I do not fear it or hesitate to acknowledge all I have done." "I'll forgive you, Mira, seeing you make such a fuss," said Mr. Tyrrell in a changed tone, as Mira ceased speak- ing. "But by all means show that you merit my forgive- ness," he continued. T What would you have me do?" "Go to work and earn your own living, not oblige me to pay your board."   230         MRA DANA. "I am not able to labor, Herbert; and if I was, I should have no disposition to do so, while you are employ- ing other women to take care of my children, when I am both able and willing to do it myself." "That shows you are just as obstinate now as you ever was," said Mr. Tyrrell, growing red in the face. "Herbert, I would like to ask you one question: did you ever state to any person that you were jealous of me?" "I have said you were very imprudent." "That is not a direct answer to my question." "No, I never was; but ought to have been." The com- pany present burst into a loud laugh at this answer, and Mr. Tyrrell adroitly changed the subject, and in a few moments announced his intention of leaving. "Will you write to me, Mira?" he asked, turning to his wife. "Why, Herbert, I have written you repeatedly, and you have never answered me." "You never wrote me anything that pleased me. Try once and write me a good letter, and I will answer it." Mrs. Tyrrell could not imagine what motive prompted him to make the request, but she gave the required promise. "If you will try and conduct yourself as I wish you to, perhaps I shall consent to live with you again I only want proof that you have changed." "The fool! does he for a moment imagine that I would humble myself, sufficiently to live with him again?" said Mira to herself, as Tyrrell closed the door after him and drove away without the child.   CHAPTER L. CHRISTMAS DAY. "'Tis Christmas morn! the earth seems flooded with golden sunlight. Oh, could love divine glide over the hearts of men as does this pure light over the snow-draped earth!" exclaimed Mrs. Tyrrell as she donned her bonnet and shawl, and started to wish "mother," a "merry Christmas." Mrs. Tyrrell was prevented from visiting her mother often, for since Warner had written her so cruelly, she did not care to come in contact with him. The last time she saw him he would have avoided her, had she not first ven- tured to address him. "Are you afraid or ashamed to speak to me, Warner?" was Mrs. Tyrrell's enquiry. "I am afraid," and so saying, he suited action to words and immediately left the room. But to return. With a light, buoyant step Mrs. Tyr- rell walked to her father's cottage. "Why cannot we all 'be happy?" asked Mira of herself, as she gazed on the &ear sky, which cradled so lovingly the white downy 8 X, B   232         MRA DANA. clouds that lay on its surface. "This is such a beautiful world, where all save man and what his sin defiles, is pure. And yet H know," she continued, musingly, "why we are not happier, is because we have perverted all our blessings. How much more I could enjoy to-day, if others felt as I do. Gladly would I say to those who have wronged me, I forgive you as I hope to be forgiven. What would I give if Warner would only treat me dif- ferently? And yet I'll not blame him; he is afraid of my husband because he owes him a paltry sum of money." Mira wiped the tears from her eyes, and smiled pleas- antly before she entered her mother's presence. "A merry Christmas to you, mother," she exclaimed, as she placed her hand in that of her mother. "But where are you going? all cloaked and hooded for a start! I did not think you were able to go out." "We are all going to- Martin's to spend the day; he came down this morning and gave us the invitation, saying that we might never have another opportunity to spend Christmas together. I wished to gratify him if possible, and so am resolved to go in spite of my ll health. I am so glad," exclaimed Mrs. Tyrrell; " we will try and bury old feelings, on this glorious sunny Christmas; try and be forgiving - yes, mother, try and be happy." "God grant that we may be, my child!" was the earnest reply of old Mrs. Dana. In a few moments Martin drove up to the door. They waited a while for Warner's wife; but as she did not come, Mrs. Dana sought her in her own room. @s   MRA DANA.          233 "Are you most ready, Clara?" she enquired. "I am not going," was the reply. "Vhat do you mean?" "I mean that I will not be seen in the company of that detestable creature, who has so disgraced us by her dis- graceful conduct." "Clara-- ." "Don't talk to me mother, I mean all I say-yes, every word of it. If Mira goes there to-day, I shall not. She has disgraced me and my friends enough, without my being seen in her company. No, I'll have nothing to do with her," said Clara angrily. "If I had strength to talk, you would not dare to so abuse my child. Mira has ever treated you kindly. If she has not, the best course you could pursue would be to go to her and frankly tell her where she has erred;" and old Mrs. Dana turned away from the heartless woman and left the room. Meeting Mira, she informed her that she had concluded to stay at home, desiring her to remain with her. But Mira Tyrrell had heard the loud words of Clara, and with a flushed cheek and quivering lip she presented herself before her. "Clara," said she, "never let me hear that again to my mother. If you have ought against me, come to me, not go to her." "Mira," replied Clara, " you are a disgraceful creature, and a great mortification to me and my family. Now shut up your mouth and be a little more calm." "   234         MRA DANA. Mira said no more, but returned to the room of her mother, where Martin was seated, waiting for them. "I will immediately return home," said Mira. "I will mar no one's happiness by my presence." Mrs. Dana, Clara and the other members of her family spent the day at Martin's; but it was a sorrowful day to old Mrs. Dana. Her heart was sadly pained to see Mira so rudely treated. Mira returned to her lonely home. No bitterness toward her cruel kindred mingled with the deep peace that per- vaded her heart. She regarded the deep and undeserved insult she had received, as but another trial for the per- fecting of her spiritual nature, and a sublime joy filled her soul as she exclaimed, "I forgive them, Father in Heaven, do Thou the same."   CHAPTER LI. MORE TROUBLE FOR MR. TYRRELL. With considerable anxiety, Mr. Tyrrell waited to receive a letter from his wife. He had been foiled in his attempts to take the child away, bfit he had accomplished something. He had gained his wife's promise to write him a letter. "She is unsuspecting--she thinks I meant all I said to her. Ah, she'll commit some big blunder in my favor, I am sure," said Mr. Tyrrell to himself. At last the letter made its appearance, and read as fol- lows : L   , Jan. 1st, 185-. Mr. Tyrrell, - According to your request and my promise, I will now attempt to write you a " good letter." What you call such, or how I shall succeed, is more than I can tell; but I shall try to please you. In the first place, let me suggest the idea of our begin- ning with the new year to live differently. The past must remain unaltered; but the future can be made bright and happy if we wish. I have long been willing and ready to 4j' *c'.:   236        MRA DANA. extend the "olive branch" to you, but you have refused to take it. You will never do so while a third person stands between us. You know where the trouble all lies; it is in your power to remove it, will you do so? Will you return my children -provide us with a home where I can bestow upon them my love and care? Herbert, you have long been led by law--long enough to know that it is a hard master. I ask you now to be governed by love a while. Law makes trouble-love removes it. Love weeps over your sorrow and smiles at your joy. Which shall lead you hereafter, law, or love? Be assured, if love reigns triumphant in your heart, I shall be a ready follower, and will return all your affection. You have but to command me in love, and I am still your dutiful wife Affectionately yours, -MRA TYRRELL. P. S. - Please answer soon. "Pshaw! that is not what I wished her to write," said Ir. Tyrell after he had perused the letter.' "I wanted she should commit herself in some way. Renown said she would. But I'll fetch heryet. I'll write a saucy letter that will make her very angry," and Mr. Tyrrell drew a chair before his writing-desk, and wrote as follows:-- W   , Jan. 9th, 185-. My  ONCE dear Wife,--You letter is before me. I seat myself to answer it. I find you manifest the same dispo- siftion as ever, toward my sister. Why so? She is now a   MRA DANA.         237 respectable woman, and all who make her acquaintance love and esteem her. She is very skilful in practicing medicine. She has cured a great many who have applied to her. If you do not treat her -well, I shall not be willing to do much to assist you hereafter. Treat her as you treat those with whom you now associate, and you will have no reason to complain of my treatment to your folks.. Unless you do as I wish, I shall have no encouragement to live with you again. From your once dear husband, HERBERT TYRRELL. "There!" said M1r. Tyrrell, after he had signed his name to the above missive, " if that 'does not bring her to her senses, I don't know what will." The letter was soon sealed and on its way to L For the last six months, Mrs. Tyrrell had ceased to hope that a reconciliation would ever be effected between Her- bert and herself. Still she was more favorably impressed in his favor after he had consented to let Flora remain with her, or she would never. have even written to him. Little could she read the dark plots that were curtained by his seeming kind less. But when she received the letter written in reply to her's, her keen mind readily traced out- his meaning. "1 never would answer that letter," indignantly ex- claimed Aunt Lucy; "it is too much like casting pearls before swine." "I know it ; but since I understand hm perfectly well, I   238      '   MRA DANA. think rll reply merely for the novelty of it, and inform him that he misunderstood my last letter," replied Mrs. Tyrrell. She accordingly sent him the following epistle:- Dear Husband,--On perusing your letter, I find that it is not a reply to my last, but a queer lecture, of which your sister is the subject. I will inform you at once, that my business is not with her, but with you. But if she has so many friends who love and respect her, certainly she cannot care much for my sympathy. You request me to treat your friends as well as I do my own, and you will do the same by mine. All that my friends wish or ask of you, is to treat me well, and leave me unmolested. You say farther, "unless I do as you request, you shall have no encouragement to again live with me." Indeed! I do not ask you to do so. It will be a long while before I shall be willing to again trust myself in such merciless hands, as yours have ever proved. For my children, I have made propositions which I would scorn to make for myself; yet let me assure you I shall not make any more, even for them. If you return them to me, it must be of your own free will--I shall not urge you to do so. If you see fit to place them with low,- contemptible characters, I shall not attempt to prevent it. I defy your power, let you do what you may, Hoping you will yet be humble, As you wish me to be, I remain, MYRA TYRRELL   MRA DANA.          239 The only reply Mrs. Tyrrell received to the above let- ter, was a valentine directed in her husband's hand-writing. It represented a gaily dressed woman, and was entitled- "The Widow."   CHAPTER LII. PUBLISHNG   A BOOK. "What are you writing about, mamma?" enquired little Flora of her mother, as she twined her soft arms about her neck. "It seems to me you are writing a long letter'; who are you going to send it to?- say, mamma, what are you going to do with it?" "Make my fortune, my darling, I expect," replied Mrs. Tyrrell, imprinting a kiss on the white brow of Flora. "God grant that I may, and make your future bright and sunny." The child did not comprehend her mother's meaning: she only looked wonderingly into her face, and begged her to join the play for a while. "What are you writing about?" asked good Aunt Lucy of Mrs. Tyrrell, a few mornings after Flora had vainly asked an explanation of affairs. "For all the world! what a pile," continued she, as Mrs. Tyrrell handed her a pile of manuscript. "I don't see what good it will do for her to write so much, if it is never to be seen," said Aunt Lucy to herself as she closed the door.   MRA DANA.         241 "Nor I either," said Mrs. Tyrrell, as the words fell upon her ear. "But I think this manuscript will be seen," said Mrs. Tyrrell to herself. "Those who have seen what I have written, (and I think they are judges,) tell me this manu- script is worth printing, though I only wrote it because I had nothing else to do. Could I even have been privi- leged to do the sewing for my children, I should not have found time, and if I had had any kind of employment, I should not have thus spent my time. - I have almost lived the scenes over again, in writing this, and now I shall make an effort to turn it to some good account. To-mor- row, I'll know if all my labor is to be lost;" and Mrs. Tyrrell wrapped the manuscript up neatly and laid it away. The following morning found Mrs. Tyrrell in the city of Boston, wending her way to a publishing house. She paused before several large establishments on Washington street, lacking courage to enter.  "I wish to know something of your terms of publishing books," at last she stammered, at the same time laying her package upon the counter before a gentlemanly-looking clerk, in the publishing house of Rush & Co. "That depends much upon the size of the book and style of printing," was the reply. "I have a manuscript that I wish published. There is nothing great or wonderful about it - indeed I have my- self doubted whether a publisher would pronounce it pub- lishable or not." "Have you the manuscript with you " enquired the clerk, glancing at the package upon the counter.   242         M1RA DANA. "Yes sir; would you like to look at it?" "For a moment ma'am; please be seated," and the clerk retired with the manuscript, leaving Mrs. Tyrrell in anxious state of mind. "Excuse me for detaining you so long," said the clerk, on returning; but I thought I would like to show this to one of our firm, who is an excellent judge of such matter. I have done so; and on hastily glancing it over he tells me you will have no trouble in finding a publisher." Mrs. Tyrrell returned to her hotel much encouraged, and fell asleep that night with sweet hopes of success fill- ing her heart. "Will you allow me to look at your manuscript, Mrs. Tyrrell, asked a gentleman on the following morning, who knew something of her past history. "Certainly, certainly, sir; and in return, would be pleased to hear you express your opinion of it," she replied. "I cannot give you my opinion better than by making you an offer," said the gentleman on returning it. - An offer! and pray what?" asked Mrs. Tyrrell, won- deringly. I will give you a check for one thousand dollars on the Merchant's Bank, for that manuscripts and in so doing should feel that my money was well invested," was the reply. "A very generous offer, truly," said Mrs. Tyrrell, mus- ingly. "But if it is worth publishing, I think I had best be the publisher, unless I can obtain a more liberal com- pensation than even that."   MRA DANA.          243 "You are right, Mrs. Tyrrell; I do not blame you," replied the gentleman, On again seeing Mr. Rush, Mrs. Tyrrell made a very satisfactory arrangement with him about the publishing of her book. t     ..   CHAPTER   LTTT. CLARA   AND  WARNER. "Clara, I think your treatment to Mira is wrong. Why do you not go to her and frankly tell her of her faults? The course you are now pursuing will drive her to distrac- tion: I am often afraid that she will commit suicide," said old Mrs. Dana, one morning addressing Clara. "And I hope she will commit suicide; she has been a disgrace to us sufficiently long," replied the affectionate daughter-in-law. "And I wish so too. I don't care in what way or how quick," chimed in Warner. "Warner, it is strange how you can speak so of a sister, and one that has more than once saved you from ruin," said old Mrs. Dana. "I will not hear any thing more about her, any way; so if you please, change the subject," was Warner's reply. Thus silenced, Mrs. Dana returned to her room feeling, as none but a mother could, the injustice done her child. "Warner, I would like to say a word about this matter myself," said Martin Dana who, entering unperceived, had   MRA DANA.         245 listened to their conversation. "I think your treatment to Mira is unjust and cruel, and to me unaccountable, although she thinks you side with her husband because you are his debtor. She feels the injustice done her, and I too, often fear she will destroy herself." "Well, Martin, I can only tell you as I told mother, I hope she'll do it--I don't care how soon. But do not say another word about her," and Warner unceremoniously left the room, and proceeded to his most intimate friend, young Crankum, to talk over the prospect of obtaining the bounty land awarded his father. "Do you think the other children will make a fuss about it?" he asked Crankum, after conversing a while. "None but Martin, and you can easily silence him by offering him one-half," replied the news-carrier of L  "Lucky thought, lucky thought; and more than that, I can get him to go and locate the land on that promise. But if he gets half, he'll have to pay for it well. I'll work him."                      A These words were uttered by Warner Dana, in a low tone of voice; but there were ears beside those of tie swine, in whose habitation he was shovelling, to hear the4 and the rest of his musing words, which were as follow: "I don't see what I am going to do, unless I can raise some money some way. How I shall manage with Tyrrell, I know not. I not only owe him for that note of Hattie's, but that account of the estate, and not a cent of interest is paid yet, besides other obligations which I must meet soon.   246         MRA DANA. Clara thinks her brother owes me enough to settle up every thing. I must try and not have her undeceived about that, some way. I wish Martin would sell his place. The mortgage I had on that place was eight hundred dollars - I had to let it go for six hundred. Now, if Martin would sell and pay up that mortgage, it would help me two hun- dred dollars; but I can't depend upon any thing there. I wish old Hixon would die, I could then make some calcu- lation of what might be done; for without doubt he would leave my wife a cool thousand. The old fool! he might know Clara does not care for him, only as she hopes to get a share of his money. It is a confounded shame that a man of my business talent should have to submit to such menial labor as this " ---and he cast a woe begone look upon his labor--"and such company too, as I have to associate with here in order to obtain a few favors -it is too bad! I'll get out of it, though, just as quick as either of the old folks die. I'll then show 'em my heels." Warner threw down his shovel and proceeded to the house. On entering, he found his wife weeping bitterly, and an open letter lay on the floor beside her. Thinking the letter had something to do with Clara's grief, Warner hastily perused it. It contained an account of the death of Clara's dear friend, Mr. Hixon, by suicide. Warner tried to comfort his wife, by telling her that " he was better off in another world." "But he was such a kind friend, and so highly esteemed by us all. Oh, Warner, it is hard!" replied, Clara.   MRA DANA.          247 "But wife, God is just; we must not doubt him," said Warner, again glancing over the letter. For a number of weeks Clara continued to mourn for her friend; but after she learned that he had left the: whole of his property to an only sister, her grief was not in the least violent, and she has not been heard to mention his name since. Not long after this affair, Martin came in and informed Warner that he had sold his place, but that he should not receive the pay under two years, and that he should start for Kansas with -the next party. "What think you about it?" "I think," replied Warner, " it is the best thing you can do. I am glad you are going. I think you'll do well. I hope we shall part in peace. We have had hard feelings towards each other, and bitter words have passed; but we will forget all old animosities. And now I want to tell you what I'll do. I have father's land warrant for a hun- dred and sixty acres; if you are a mind to locate it, you shall have half of it." There is no witness to the bargain,. thought Warner. "'rll do it," said Martin. After being supplied with the necessary documents for obtaining the land, and every preparation was made for Martin's departure, he informed Warner that he had one thing more to communicate. "You asked me some time ago what I thought Mira was up- to, driving to Boston and about. Then, I could not tell, but now, I am able to inform you."   248         MRA- DANA. "Well, I should be glad to know; she is only making herself more ridiculous than ever by training round so." "You mistake, Warner; she is in a laudible business, and one the public will justify her in--she is publishing a book, stating her wrongs. From what I learn of it, I conclude it is a work containing more 'truth than poetry."' Warner turned deadly pale. "I don't believe one word of it," said he, agitated. "She write a book! She is not capable of it. She would not dare to. She had better keep still," continued he with emphasis. "She has dared to; and I for one justify her course." "If she has- well, we shall see, we shall;" and War- ner dropped the subject, but a scowl rested on his pale brow, as he turned away. A few weeks more, and Martin Dana was traversing the wild territory of Kansas, seeking a desirable spot to locate the bounty land of his father. He at last fixed upon a beautiful place in that fertile land; but while arranging the legal preliminaries he fell a victim to that dreadful scourge, the cholera, and now sleeps peacefully within sound of the musical flow of the Kansas river.    CHAPTER   LIV. TYRRELL S   TRIUMPH. "What stronger breast-plate than a heart untainted, Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel just, And naked he, though locked up in steel Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted." SHAKSPEARE. The bright skies of June were again bending lovingly o'er the green earth - its beaming sunshine fell in cheer- ing radiance upon the worn brow of Mira, as she took her seat in the cars at Boston for L . She had consigned to the hand of the Publisher, the manuscript upon which she had so patiently labored, looking forward with a " true heart of hope" to the dawn of that auspicious day when clasping her children to her breast she could say, "I have a home for you, precious darlings- we will be. separated no more on earth." Well did Mira know that her life- trials were not ended, and that she was now proceeding to the very scene of suffering and danger; but a brave nature like hers must not shrink from the path of duty. She knew that Mrs. Ruggles had requested Mr. Tyrrell to pro- 12   250        MRA DANA. vide her a home elsewhere, as she had informed her kind landlady that she did not wish to remain longer. Her cruel husband had replied by letter, saying, that as soon as a vacancy occurred in his sister's boarding-house he would take her there. "Yes," said Tyrrell to his sister, chuckling with tri- umphant delight, "I always said that I would humble that proud woman, and I cannot do it more effectually than by compelling her to live with you. She shall be a boarder in the house where she has the right to be mistress, and behold my sister in her place, making use of her house- hold appliances and governing her children. If she rebels at any -thing, however annoying or insulting, just report to me, and I will bring you, and Warner and his Wife, to testify that she is insane. Then I will immure her within the walls of a lunatic asylum, which act, I am thinking, will put a stop to the publishing of a book which it is reported she has begun. Sister, you know that there are things 'which she may tell, if not prevented, that I should rather die than have revealed. I will make it my business to place a wholesome check upon her career." "Oh, forbear, my brother!" replied his sister, " this is too bitter a drop in my cup of woe. I have kept house for you two yeams, working like a slave for you and your children, and now, to make me an instrument of torture to your wife, and an assistant to crush her last hope, is more than I can bear. I know that she has a strong prejudice against me, produced no doubt by your own representation,   MRA DANA.         251- but God knows I bear her no ill will. If you possess one drop of human feeling for your wife or me, provide her with a home in some other quarter." "I have said she shall reside beneath this roof, and my purpose is unalterable." The poor woman tried to restrain her tears at this harsh reply, but they fell fast down her faded cheek. She had known much sorrow--had sinned; but was now a peni- tent. Heaven grant her peace! In a few days a room was vacated for Mrs. Tyrrell, and her husband started for the purpose of bringing her to his home. But reader, as we are not dependent upon carriages or cars for a conveyance, let us precede him and gaze upon the scene now passing in Warner's cottage. Old Mrs. Dana is lying upon the couch of death; Mira is bending gently over her, wiping the fearful dew from her wrinkled brow; her aged father is seated by an open window watch- ing the setting sun, thinking how soon his life's sun will sink behind earth's horizon; that ere morning, with its golden dawn rests upon yonder " heaven-kissing hill, " that the loved companion of his youth--the mother of his children, will be speeding onward alone, in Ithe shadowy path that leads to the bright spirit's home. Clara may be seen frequently passing in and out of the hushed room, speaking very blandly to Mira now, while Warner's brow is heavy with the clouds of anger and revenge, and when his sister's low loving tones fall'upon his ear, he starts as if stung by some unspoken maddening remembrance.   '- 252         MRA DANA. Mira's heart craved the mournful privilege of receiving her mother's last sigh--listening to her parting spirit's last adieu; but those angry glances from a brother's eye- those heartless, cruel words falling from a sister's lips, drove her in frenzy from the sublime contemplation of that loving soul longing to be clothed with the robes of immor- tality., So, hurridly pressing that cheek, so soon to be cold in death, and taking one fond look, she departed with the intention of going immediately to Boston where business with the publisher awaited her. On arriving at the depot, a sickening death-like feeling stole over her-her brain-seemed scorched and burning. Not daring to proceed, she repaired with- her baggage to the house of a friend in a neighboring town, and requested permission to remain until able to prosecute her journey. She was welcomed with kindness and found rest for her weary head in .that home of peace. That night, at the solemn hour of midnight, the gentle spirit of old Mrs. Dana was released. She fell asleep in death, with the name of her suffering child, Mira, upon her lips. But let us return to Mr. Tyrrell, whom we left plodding on in search of his wife. He arrived at Warner Dana's home just after Mira's departure, and upon learning that she was going to Boston and had left, word for him to for- ward his wishes and commands, in reference to her, to her boarding-place in that city, he was almost beside himself with rage. But upon making more particular enquiries   MRA DANA.         253 he obtained the information of Mira's detention-- a de- scription of her baggage, &c., which quickly changed his anger into delight. "I shall triumph over her now," he exclaimed. "Vic- tory awaits me. I'll show that woman that though the "church can incorporate two in one," that the husband is her lord and master still, and her rights and wishes must yield to his. Woman's rights indeed! what are they? To bake a johnny cake and nurse a baby!" Flying to Renown--his refuge in trouble-he got a writ of replevin for the purpose of obtaining the trunks containing his wife's wearing apparel which she had taken away. Leaving Renown with the assurance that " all was right," in company with Deputy Shunem, who was author- ized to take the specified property wherever found, he pro- ceeded to the home of Mira's friend. Herbert Tyrrell was so wonderfully elated at the thought of outwitting a woman, that he scarcely knew what lhe was saying or doing, though a, slight damper was cast upon him by a piece of information related to him by- Deputy Shunem, namely: that the California widow who had so largely shared his sympathy and purse, in days that were past, turned out to be no other than the veritable Mrs. Patterson who figured so conspicuously as one of the Nunnery Committee not long since. On reaching the place, Deputy Shunem walked boldly into the house, took out his documents, greatly to the sur- prise of the good lady, informing her that he was author-    254         M1RA DANA. ized to seize two trunks and a bundle-property belong- ing to Herbert Tyrrell, unlawfully detained by her. Mrs. Tyrrell came forward, comprehending the whole at a glance, and informed the gentlemanly deputy that she was the sole offender, if wrong had been done. "I came," said she, "to my friend's house without her previous knowledge, soliciting the privilege of spending the nigl in her home, bringing my wearing apparel with me, sup- posing they were mine. But, sir, if these articles belong to my husband I am willing to give them up, even to the last garment; but let not my friend suffer for my error." The trunks were duly taken and delivered to Mr. Tyr- rell, who was waiting in the yard, having been informed that he could not enter that house. The "bundle " could not be identified; therefore, after leaning word for his wife to follow him to the very house inom which fifteen months before he had thrust her into the street, locking the door after her, he prepared to leave. A "ghost of a grin " flitted over his face as he caught sight of his wife at the open window. She could not resist the fun-loving wish, to ask him - what he intended to do with her clothes, make a present of them to his sister, or send them to Mrs. Patterson, in the care of Joseph Hiss, Esq.?   CT-TAPTER LV. TYRRELL'S   DEPARTURE. "I see a man's life is a tedious one."- Shakspeare. After Mrs. Tyrrell had received the notice from her husband that a home was provided for her with his sister, she resolved to provide for herself in future; and that all interested in her affairs might be duly informed, she issued in one of the daily papers of W , the following NOTICE. - This is to notify my husband, Herbert Tyrrell, and all others interested, that I have left his bed and board with the intention of providing for myself here- after, in preference to submitting longer to a man who has neglected me in sickness, has once turned me from his door and locked it upon me; who has twice obliged me to apply to legal authority to obtain comfortable wearing apparel; who has deprived me for the last fifteen months of the care of my children, and given them in charge of a woman who was of doubtful character, arid now is repre- sented to be the veritable "Mrs. Patterson;" who has by   256         MRA DANA. force taken all my wearing apparel from me to the last change of raiment; and lastly, provided me a home with a woman who, in times past, he has represented to me and others as unworthy confidence or respect, and one he has ever shuned as a pestilence, untilthe commenced open per- secution against me. MYRA TYRREL. W   , June--, 185-. This notice soon came before Tyrrell's eyes. We will not attempt to detail his chagrin; but his features bore marks of deep distress of mind. Not long after, he learned that his wife had sold the "copyright " of her book for a large amount, and secured it to her own purpose. After musing and pondering upon these calamities, he ejaculated as fol- lows: "What shall I do? I cannot stand this; mf money is nearly gone; debts are accumulating; I am plagued to death to get the children taken care of- oh, that woman! I am sick of-living. If she had only been humble and come and lived with my sister when I first commanded her to, all this never would have taken place. I have paid out more money in the law to break her to my will, than would have maintained my whole family respectably- now she has triumphed over me. Oh, I cannot bear to see it! no, I must take to the 'last resort.' To-morrow, I will go where she shall never see me  again. I'll leave the girls for her to take care of, for she has now more money to do it with than I have; but Ill take Herbert with me,  ^   lIMA DANA.          257 that will plague her." The wretched man paused -a flood of tears suffused his eyes. Again he resumed: "I' r go to-night. I will never be seen again." He arose and went to where little Herbert was sleeping, and bent over him and again burst into tears. Little Herbert awoke, and looking up to his father, said, "Has mother come? I thought she had.. I thought she came and kissed me just as she used to when I was sick. Has she come, father?" "No, child ; be quiet," said his father. "You may get up and dress you now," added he. "I am going away, and you may go with me; don't you want to?" "I should like to go and see mother; be you going where she is?" asked the child. "No, Herbert, it will be a long time before you see your mother again - you must forget her." "But I love her, and want to, see her," persisted he. "Dress yourself, dress yourself, my lboy, and don't say any more about it," said his father, petulantly. Ere the sun had decked the earth with its golden rays again, Herbert .Tyrrell had departed, no one knew whither, taking with him little Herbert and leaving Minnie and Flora unprovided for. "God save my boy!" exclaimed Mrs. Tyrrell, when the news of her husband's departure reached her ear. She fell upon her knees and prayed that her precious boy might be shielded from harm and again restored to her bosom. She prayed too for him who had caused the fountain   258         MRA DANA of love in her heart to dry up, and had planted thorns where roses might have bloomed. She prayed that he might yet return to her, as did the prodigal son of old to his father. She was then even ready to forgive. She had tried to bear up bravely under every trial; but the thought that she might never behold her beautiful child again was nearly destracting. Her boy, whose golden locks had so often been pillowed upon her 'bosom--should she never see him again? Who would now watch over him? what would be his mte? Who, like a mother, guide his waver- ing feet up the rugged path of life? None, none.    CHAPTER LVI. D  E A  S R E A LIZED. "Where i; your sister, Mrs. Tyrrell now?" enquired a a gossip of L  , of Warner Dana one day, as he sat upon his bench hammering away on an old boot. "I don't know any thing about her, nor :don't want to. I wouldn't care if the d--1 had her though, for she has stirred up things terribly by writing that book. She could not be satisfied with telling lies, but has published in book form any quantity of them. What she has made out,  don't know- I have not read the book and do not mean to. One thing I know, I never made any thing by telling lies- if she can, she is welcome to; " and Warner Dana, in his earnestness, struck his knee instead of the boot he was hammering. "I heard, don't know how true it is," said the gossip, "that she has made considerable money by her book. I heard yesterday she had bought a cottage in C , about twenty miles from here, and both her little girls were with her going to school." "You heard right," said old Mr. Dana, approaching   260         MRA DANA. them leaning on his staff, his countenance brightening as he spoke, and holding an open letter in his hand. "I have a letter here, corroborating all you have heard. She has triumphed at last, and I thank God for it. Yet, she has not forgotten those who stood by her in her dark hours. I always pitied her, though it was not in my power to help her. She has sent for me to come and share her home. Warner, poor boy, has a hard time to get along with us all; my absence will greatly relieve him, and to-morrow I intend to go to Mira and remain with her till God calls me to join my wife in heaven." Old Mr. Dana was soon quietly situated in the home of his daughter. Mrs. Tyrrell is comfortably situated; Min- nie and Flora are again under maternal protection; many blessings reward them. They are comparatively happy. Hope is still resting in the mother's heart, and with an eye of faith, she is looking forward to the time when her beau- tiful boy will again be folded to her bosom. Reader, is not Mira fast realizing her dreams. "Wait, thou child of hope, for time shall tell thee all things; Yet hear, for my speech shall comfort thee, reverently, but with boldness: I would raise the sable curtain that hideth the symmetry of Providence. Pain and sin are convicts, and toil in their fetters for good; The weapons of evil are turned against itself fighting under better banners."   /" /     
         
       
   
